
This is a digital copy of a book that was preserved for generations on library shelves before it was carefully scanned by Google as part of a project 
to make the world's books discoverable online. 

It has survived long enough for the copyright to expire and the book to enter the public domain. A public domain book is one that was never subject 
to copyright or whose legal copyright term has expired. Whether a book is in the public domain may vary country to country. Public domain books 
are our gateways to the past, representing a wealth of history, culture and knowledge that's often difficult to discover. 

Marks, notations and other marginalia present in the original volume will appear in this file - a reminder of this book's long journey from the 
publisher to a library and finally to you. 

Usage guidelines 

Google is proud to partner with libraries to digitize public domain materials and make them widely accessible. Public domain books belong to the 
public and we are merely their custodians. Nevertheless, this work is expensive, so in order to keep providing this resource, we have taken steps to 
prevent abuse by commercial parties, including placing technical restrictions on automated querying. 

We also ask that you: 

+ Make non-commercial use of the files We designed Google Book Search for use by individuals, and we request that you use these files for 
personal, non-commercial purposes. 

+ Refrain from automated querying Do not send automated queries of any sort to Google's system: If you are conducting research on machine 
translation, optical character recognition or other areas where access to a large amount of text is helpful, please contact us. We encourage the 
use of public domain materials for these purposes and may be able to help. 

+ Maintain attribution The Google "watermark" you see on each file is essential for informing people about this project and helping them find 
additional materials through Google Book Search. Please do not remove it. 

+ Keep it legal Whatever your use, remember that you are responsible for ensuring that what you are doing is legal. Do not assume that just 
because we believe a book is in the public domain for users in the United States, that the work is also in the public domain for users in other 
countries. Whether a book is still in copyright varies from country to country, and we can't offer guidance on whether any specific use of 
any specific book is allowed. Please do not assume that a book's appearance in Google Book Search means it can be used in any manner 
anywhere in the world. Copyright infringement liability can be quite severe. 

About Google Book Search 

Google's mission is to organize the world's information and to make it universally accessible and useful. Google Book Search helps readers 
discover the world's books while helping authors and publishers reach new audiences. You can search through the full text of this book on the web 



at |http : //books . google . com/ 



Con ley, Emma, 

PrJncipf&s of cooking : a textbook in do 

Stanford University Libraries 
3 610S 04930 116fi 



PRINCIPLES 
OF COOKING 

EMMA CON'-FY 






ui3-«'^-iP 



llllli^:^::tltiilMyaajlllli 



, I K f 2 p4t^ 



SCHOOL OF EDUCATION 
LIBRARY 




m 



TEXTBOOK COLLECTION 

GIFT OF 

THE PUBLISHERS 



STANFORD X^g/ UNIVERSITY 
LIBRARIES 




PRINCIPLES OF COOKING 

A TEXTBOOK IN 
DOMESTIC SCIENCE 

BY 

EMMA CONLEY 

STATE INSPECTOR OF DOMESTIC SCIENCE FOR WISCONSIN 

FORMERLY DIRECTOR OF DOMESTIC SCIENCE 

STATE NORMAL SCHOOL, OSHKOSH, WISCONSIN 

AUTHOR OF " NUTRITION AND DIET " 



DKr^RTMl.KT QK 
EDUCATION 

SEP0-1«14 

4 leland ST/.NFORD 
f junior university 




AMERICAN BOOK COMPANY 
NEW YORK CINCINNATI CHICAGO 



\ 



y 



Copyright, 19x4. 
By EMMA CON LEY. 



Copyright, 19x4, in Great Britain. 



CONLEY, PRIN, OF COOKING. 

624633 
C 



PREFACE 

" Principles of Cooking " is intended as a textbook in 
cooking and elementary food study for secondary and 
vocational schools. It is not merely a cook book. So 
many good cook books are on the market that there 
would be no justification for adding another to the list. 
The cook book, however, merely presents hundreds of 
recipes showing innumerable ways in which foods may 
be prepared, without attempting to present the principles 
underlying all cooking. 

The principles of cooking are few in number and are 
easily mastered, if properly presented. Foods may be 
grouped in less than a dozen classes, and when the prin- 
ciples which apply to each class are learned and practiced, 
each pupil will know how to prepare a variety of dishes 
from each food or class of foods. 

After the principles of cooking are fully understood 
and applied in practical lessons, there is no educational 
or practical value in the preparation of isolated recipes 
or in a sequence of lessons on one class of foods. The 
object of domestic science work in schools is that a girl 
may learn how to plan, cook, and serve meals at home, 
calculate the cost, and purchase foods in the best market 
at the lowest price. This includes knowing the nutritive 
value of each food and its place in the diet. 

Unless considerable practice is given in schools in plan- 
ning and preparing meals, a pupil may be able to cook 
one or two single foods, but she cannot prepare all the 

3 



4 PREFACE 

dishes needed for a meal and have them ready to serve at 
a stated time. 

It is with this aim in mind, that all cooking in schools 
should lead to the preparation of attractive, appetizing, nu- 
tritious, well-balanced meals, that " Principles of Cooking " 
and its companion book, " Nutrition and Diet," are written. 
They are intended for pupils who have had cooking in 
the grades or for those who are mature enough to master 
a few important and essential facts, presented in Chapters 
II and III, before proceeding to the practical work of cook- 
ing. Any high school girl can learn these facts as easily 
as she can master problems in algebra or geometry, learn 
a history lesson, or calculate balanced rations for farm ani- 
mals in a class in agriculture. 

High school work in cooking or domestic science must 
include some acquisition of knowledge concerning foods, 
as well as practical work, to make it equivalent in value 
to other high school subjects, and to deserve a credit 
towards college entrance requirements. 

If one year is devoted to the work presented in " Prin- 
ciples of Cooking," and "Nutrition and Diet," the credit 
given in high school for the work should be equivalent to 
the credit given for a year's work in any other high school 
subject. 

Practically all of the recipes in this book are the result 
of class experiments made by varying standard recipes or 
by trying new combinations of foods. A few recipes were 
contributed by friends. All recipes have been tried, many 
times, by classes of students and proved reliable. 

Every school library should contain at least one reliable 
cook book, as the ** Boston Cooking School Cook Book " 
or " Practical Cooking and Serving," and advanced pupils 
should compare recipes grouped together. They should 



PREFACE 5 

note the points of variation from the standard recipe of 
the group and be able to make new and attractive food 
combinations for themselves. All cooking is based on a 
few standard recipes, chang^ed or altered to produce variety. 
If an intelligent study is made of the principles of cook- 
ing and their application, preparing foods will no longer 
be a work of uncertainty, but an interesting, scientific, 
and comparatively easy process, and the preparing of 
nutritious, wholesome, and balanced meals will be a 

pleasure. 

EMMA CONLEY. 
Fond du Lac, Wisconsin. 



CONTENTS 

CHAPTBR PAGE 

I. General Directions for Work. Equipment . . 7 

II. Classes of Foods. Reasons for Cooking . . 22 

III. Methods of Cooking. Development of Principles 

AND their Application. Practice Work in 

Foods 33 

IV. Fruits and Green Vegetables 53 

V. Roots and Tubers. Starch and Sugar ... 73 

VI. Cereals and Leavening Agents .... 87 

VII. Beverages. Planning and Serving a Breakfast . 109 

VIII. Cereals and Leavening Agents {Continued) . .118 

IX. Legumes and Frying Lessons 134 

X. Eggs. Planning a Luncheon 139 

XI. Milk and its Products 146 

XII. Meats and Fish 154 

XIII. Gelatin and Ices. Some Additional Recipes . 179 
Tables showing the composition of common foods used 

in the average home 1 89 

Suggestions for Teachers in Rural Schools . . .194 

INDEX .202 



PRINCIPLES OF COOKING 



CHAPTER I 

GENERAL DIRECTIONS FOR WORK IN A SCHOOL 

KITCHEN 

In a school kitchen each girl has her own place at the 
kitchen table and is responsible for the washing of her 
own dishes, care and proper placing of all her utensils, 
the condition of her table, dish towels, etc. 

The general household duties are assigned to the various 
pupils in turn, so that the kitchen will be left in perfect 
order at the close of the lesson and the pupils will have 
practice in this important part of the work. Practice 
in this work trains each pupil to. do all kitchen duties, 
develops her interest and responsibility in the proper 
care of the kitchen, makes her familiar with the contents 
of the cupboards, and the proper places to keep supplies, 
china, linen, and various utensils. It also trains her in 
the very important duties of caring for the stove, oven, 
sink, and floor, and unifies the work so that it is like 
actual housekeeping. 

The following is an easy arrangement of work in the 
school kitchen : — 

Housekeeper i. Care of supplies used in the daily lesson. 

Housekeeper 2. Building of fire, care of stove and tea- 
kettle, and attending to the oven during baking. 

Housekeeper 3. Care of sink. 

7 



8 GENERAL DIRECTIONS 

Housekeeper 4. Sweeping of kitchen at the close of the 
lesson. 

Suggestions for Pupils. — i. Be sure that hands and 
nails are clean before coming to class. 

2. Wash the hands before the beginning of the lesson 
and keep them clean. 

3. Always keep the hair neatly combed. 

4. Do not wear rings while cooking. 

5. Always wear an apron, and a holder suspended from 
the apron by a tape. 

6. Never use an apron in place of a holder. 

7. Never taste food with a mixing spoon. 

8. Do not leave the spoon in the food while it is cooking. 

9. Keep the tables clean and in order. 

10. Keep the drawers and cupboards closed. 

11. Collect all utensils and supplies needed for work, 
before beginning to prepare the food. 

12. Do not use unnecessary utensils. 

13. Have all materials measured and ready for use be- 
fore beginning to put them together. 

14. Measure accurately, for on that depends the success 
of your cooking. 

15. Do not waste material. 

16. Work quietly, quickly, carefully, and neatly. 

17. Practice at home the things learned at school. 

18. Try each recipe at home. 

19. Calculate the cost of each recipe. 

A list of the foods most frequently used in the home, of seasonable 
vegetables and fruits, and the prices of each, should be posted weekly 
in a conspicuous place in the kitchen so that pupils will leam to 
note cost, calculate the cost of various foods, and know when is the 
best time to purchase and serve certain vegetables and fruits. 



GENERAL DIRECTIONS 9 

Each recipe given in this book will serve six people. 
For school work one fourth of each recipe is taken, unless 
otherwise stated. 

ABBREVIATIONS AND MEASUREMENTS USED IN 
COOKING 

tsp. — teaspoon oz. — ounce 

tbsp. — tablespoon lb. — pound 

c. — cup spk. — speck 

pt. — pint bk. pd. — baking powder 

qt. — quart min. — minute 

3 tsp. = I tbsp. 4 tbsp. flour = i oz. (about) 

16 tbsp. = I c. 2 c. sugar = i lb. 

2 c. = I pt. 2 c. butter = i lb. 

2 pt. = I qt. 3J-4 c. flour = I lb. 

2 tbsp. butter = i oz. 9 large eggs = i lb. 

2 tbsp. sugar = i oz. 2 c. lard = i lb. 

All measures are leveled. 
In leveling dry materials, level with a knife. 
Divide with a knife lengthwise for one half a spoon. 
Divide with a knife crosswise for one fourth spoon. 
Divide with a knife crosswise for one eighth. 

TEMPERATURES USED IN COOKING 

Freezing point of water Fahrenheit 32° Centigrade 0° 

Blood temperature Fahrenheit 98.6° Centigrade 37° 

Simmering point Fahrenheit 185° Centigrade 85° 

Boiling point Fahrenheit 212° Centigrade 100° 

To change a reading of temperature from Centigrade 
to Fahrenheit, multiply Centigrade temperature by 1.8, 
add 32°, which will give the equivalent temperature in 
Fahrenheit. 



10 GENERAL DIRECTIONS 

The coagulation temperature of proteins is from 158°- 
167° F. 

The gelatinizing temperature of starch is from 149°- 
185° F. 

The high temperatures, when used, are to develop flavor. 

Ferments are destroyed at temperatures above 160° F. 

Rules for Dishwashing. — To wash dishes plenty of 
hot water is needed, also a dishpan, rinsing pan, dishcloth, 
wire cleaner for pots and pans, a soap shaker, brush for 
silver and glass, scouring board, cork and flannel, sapolio, 
soap, and clean, dry dish towels. 

After the dining room table is cleared, collect knives, 
forks, and spoons. 

Scrape all crumbs, scraps, and dough into a waste jar. 

Wipe greasy dishes out with soft paper so that they will 
not make the dishwater greasy. 

Dishes with egg adhering should be soaked in cold water, 
as the hot water cooks the egg and makes it difficult to 
remove. 

Rinse with cold water glasses and bottles that have held 
milk. 

Empty the tea and coffee pots. 

Put all pans and kettles to soak in hot water so that they 
will clean easily. 

Pile all dishes of a kind neatly together. 

Have the dishpan half full of hot, soapy water, the rins- 
ing pan half full of clear hot water. 

For ease and rapidity of work, place the soiled dishes on 
the extreme right of the work table, the dishpan to the 
left of the soiled dishes, the rinsing pan to the left of the 
dishpan, and then place the clean dishes to the left of 
the rinsing pan. 



GENERAL DIRECTIONS ii 

Wash the glasses first and dry at once, then wash silver, 
cups, saucers, plates, etc., taking the cleanest first, rins- 
ing and drying thoroughly. 

Scour the knives when necessary. 

Wash the tea and coflFee pots with clean, hot water and 
dry them. 

Lastly, wash the tins and cooking utensils, scouring, if 
necessary, with powdered sapolio applied with a cork or 
flannel. 

Do not put boiling water on glasses or china. 

Do not put wooden handles or the cogs of Dover egg 
beaters into the water. 

Never leave the soap in the sink or dishpan. 

When all the dishes are washed and wiped, pile the dif- 
ferent kinds together and put into place. 

Empty the dishpan, wash the dish towels in warm suds, 
rinse, and hang to dry. 

Wash the table, soap dish, and sink in warm suds. 

Wash both dishpan and rinsing pan with hot suds, 
rinse with clear water, and dry thoroughly with a dish 
towel. 

Wash the dishcloth, rinse, and hang to dry. 

The daily care of the sink consists in keeping it free from 
grease and scraps, scrubbing it thoroughly, and keeping it 
dry when not in use. In addition to this, at least once a 
week, pour a hot, strong solution of sal soda down the waste 
pipe to wash off all the grease that may have cooled and 
settled in the pipe. Follow this with plenty of hot water. 
If this is done, waste pipes will not become clogged with 
grease. All sinks should have a strainer screwed down 
over the waste pipe, and no tea leaves, coffee grounds, 
burnt matches, or potato parings should ever be put in the 



12 GENERAL DIRECTIONS 

sink. A garbage pail should be kept for that purpose. 
This pail should be washed daily with a solution of sal 
soda and dried and placed in the sunshine when possible. 

Fire and Firemaking. — The success of cooking depends 
upon the application of the right amount of heat to the 
right combination of foods, so a study of fire making and 
fire regulation is necessary to produce the best results. 
Cooking at the wrong temperature injiu-es the food and 
often unfits it for use. It is said that the baking of bread 
or cake is two thirds of the making. At any rate, both 
are spoiled by too slow or too fast an oven. Much fuel is 
wasted because the application of the right amount of 
heat is not understood or is neglected. 

To have a good fire we must have a good stove, a good 
fuel, and some means of raising it to its kindling point, 
and must be able to secure a good supply of air to make the 
fire burn. By the kindling point is meant the tempera- 
ture at which a thing takes fire. Some substances, like 
phosphorus, matches, paper, gas, and gasoline, have a low 
kindling point and take fire rapidly. Some, like hard coal, 
have a very high kindling point and some other fuel must be 
used as kindling before a coal fire can be started. The smaller 
the pieces of fuel, and the more loosely packed, so that air 
can surround them, the more easily will the fire kindle. 

Soft wood makes excellent kindling, and in some local- 
ities, where wood is plentiful, both hard and soft wood are 
used as fuel. Gas is almost universally used for cooking 
in cities, at least during the summer months. It is cheaper, 
if properly handled, than wood or coal, cleaner, and gives 
off less heat. Some form of oil is used in riu-al communities 
during the summer for the same reason that gas is used 
in the cities, and denatured alcohol is used in some local- 



GENERAL DIRECTIONS 13 

ities. Both hard and soft coal are used during the winter 
for heating and cooking purposes. Coal makes an excel- 
lent fire for cooking, as it is easily regulated, supplies uni- 
form heat, and requires very little attention when once 
started. Electricity is an important source of heat. 

Parts of a Stove or Range. — Most ranges or stoves are 
so made that they will bum either wood or coal, the only 
change necessary being the adjustment of the grate. 

The parts of a range are : — 

1. A fire box, lined, so as to control the heat and conduct 
it where it is needed. 

2. A grate at the bottom of the fire box, usually reversible, 
so as to bum either wood or coal, and so made as to allow 
the ashes to pass through. 

3. An ash pan below the fire box ; should be emptied daily. 

4. Dampers, checks, and drafts, for the purpose of admit- 
ting air and controlling and regulating its supply. The 
draft in the fire box is for the purpose of admitting air 
when starting the fire, or to make the fire bum faster. 
When closed it checks the fire. The damper in the chim- 
ney should be partially closed after the fire is started to 
prevent loss of heat. It should never be closed so tight 
that the smoke cannot escape. The oven damper partially 
closes the opening into the chimney and forces the heated 
air to pass around the oven, thus heating the oven. 

S' An oven, used for baking purposes. It must be kept 
free from soot, above and below, so that the air can circu- 
late freely. If this is not done, the food will burn on the 
top or bottom or will not bake evenly. 

6. Stovepipe, to allow air and smoke to pass through. 

7. Water front — connected with water tank in kitchen 
to heat water. (Not always used.) 



14 GENERAL DIRECTIONS 

8. Warming oven, to keep dishes warm. 

Pupils should become familiar with all parts of the stove 
and get enough practice in baking so as to understand the 
regulation of the oven and know what temperatures are 
best for the various foods. 

How to Build a Fire. — Remove the covers from the 
top of the stove and brush the soot and ashes into the 
fire box. Clean everything out of the fire box by shaking 
the grate so the ashes will fall into the ash pan. Place 
crumpled newspaper, shavings, or small pieces of soft wood 
in the bottom of the fire box ; then put in some soft wood, 
then hard wood, arranged loosely so that the air can pass 
through. Place the wood so it reaches the comers of the 
fire box and is not massed in the middle. Open the damp- 
ers in the fire box, chimney, and oven, and then light the 
fire. Apply the match to the substance that will kindle 
quickest. The fire should be lighted at the bottom so 
that the flame will ascend. As the fire burns freely, put 
on more fuel, but the fire box should never be more than 
three fourths full. When the fire is well started close the 
front draft, partially close the chimney draft, and if the 
oven is to be used close the oven draft. 

Ashes should be emptied every day. If left in the stove 
until they fill the ash pan and touch the grate at the bottom 
of the fire box, they destroy the grate. 

The oven should be kept clean. If anything has boiled 
over and burned on the bottom of the oven, it should be 
scraped off with an old knife. 

The best time to black the stove is while the fire is start- 
ing. Use very little blacking, but brush it thoroughly 
over all parts of the stove. A steel range requires no black- 
ing, simply washing. 



GENERAL DIRECTIONS 15 

Suggestions for Cooking with Gas. — i. See that the 
stove is kept clean. 

2. Keep the burners free from grease, dust, and dirt. 

3. To light a burner, open the valve leading to the 
burner to be used, allow the gas to flow a second, and then 
apply the match. 

4. To light the oven, apply the lighted match to the 
oven pilot and then turn on the gas. If the gas is turned 
on too long before it is lighted, there is danger of an explo- 
sion. For the same reason the oven door should be 
opened before the pilot is lighted. 

5. Never leave a burner lighted because you are going 
to use it soon ; when the gas is not in use, turn it out, 
and light it again when needed. Matches are cheaper 
than gas. 

6. Never light a burner until you are ready to use it. 
As soon as the food begins to boil, turn the gas as low as 
possible. Food is cooking just as fast when it is bubbling 
slightly as when it is boiling over the top of the kettle, 
and there is less danger that it will burn. Food tastes 
better cooked in this way. After food has started to cook, 
it is almost impossible to use too little heat; foods are 
spoiled by the use of too great heat and gas is wasted. 
When you waste gas, you are burning money that could 
be used to purchase food or clothing. 

7. When baking bread, put the bread in the cold oven, 
light the gas and let the oven heat slowly for the first ten 
minutes, increase the heat for the next fifteen minutes, and 
then finish baking at a moderate temperature. 

8. Learn to read your gas meter, for if properly handled 
and looked after, gas is more satisfactory to cook with 
than wood or coal and more economical. 

CONLEY p. c. — 2 



i6 



GENERAL DIRECTIONS 



Directions for Reading a Gas Meter. — The small dial 
marked two feet is not to be considered. It is used for 
testing purposes. Each figure on the right-hand dial indi- 
cates ICG cubic feet ; on the middle dial each figure indi- 
cates looo cubic feet; and on the left-hand dial each 
figure indicates 10,000 cubic feet. 

When meters are new all pointers are at o, but never 
again are in this position until exactly 100,000 cubic feet 
have been passed. Read from left dial to right, always 




taking the figures which the pointers have passed. For 
example : Suppose you find the pointers on your meter as 
shown by the heavy lines on the above cut, you record 
55,800. At the previous reading, one month before, assume 
that the pointers were as shown by the dotted lines, 54,200. 
This means that during the month your gas consumption 
sent the pointers from 54,200 to 55,800. You have con- 
sumed the difference, which is 1600 cubic feet. Your gas 
bill would then be written as follows : 

State of Meter, last reading 55800 

State of Meter, previous reading . . . 54200 

Amount consumed 1600 

At $1.10 per M $1.76 



GENERAL DIRECTIONS 17 

Temperature of the Oven. — Many ranges and stoves 
now on the market have an oven thermometer or heat 
regulator on the oven door. If the indicator would show 
whether the oven is slow, moderate, or fast, with any 
degree of accuracy, direction could be given in all recipes 
as to the amount of heat needed and it would not be neces- 
sary to open the oven door and test the heat. No oven 
thermometer that is even fairly accurate, or that can be 
relied on, is on the market as yet, and the only reliable 
tests for oven temperature are the old ones, which must 
be learned by experience. Probably the best way to test 
the heat of the oven is the hand test. This is done by put- 
ting the forearm in the oven and holding it there long enough 
to ascertain whether the air in the oven is moderately hot, 
very hot, or what may be termed cool. The terms used 
to distinguish the different oven temperatures are slow, 
moderate, hot or fast, and very hot. Generally speaking 
most foods are best cooked at moderate heat. A good 
general rule is, the smaller the article to be baked the 
hotter the oven, or the larger the article the slower the 
oven. This does not apply in all cases, but the reason for 
it is that it takes a long time for heat to penetrate to the 
center of a large mass. If intense heat be applied, a crust 
forms and the heat does not reach the center readily. 

Another way to test the oven temperature is by the use 
of paper, or bread crumb. The length of time it takes the 
paper or bread to brown determines the degree of heat in 
the oven. In a hot oven a piece of white letter paper will 
turn to a yellowish brown in from three to five minutes, 
in a moderate oven it will turn to a yellowish brown in 
from seven to ten minutes, and in a slow oven it will turn 
to a yellowish brown in from twelve to fifteen minutes. 



1 8 GENERAL DIRECTIONS 

EQUIPMENT FOR A SCHOOL KITCHEN FOR A CLASS 
OF SIXTEEN PUPILS 

I. 8 double or i6 single work tables, with drawers to 
hold the utensils necessary for the average lesson, 
and with molding boards, and attached seats. 
II. 1 6 individual gas stoves or burners attached to 
the tables, or if gas is not in use i6 individual or 
8 double burner oil stoves. (See frontispiece.) 

III. One large gas oven, or range, or a coal or wood range 
with a large oven, so that each pupil may have 
practice in attending to the baking for the class a 
week at a time or longer. In this way she may 
know exactly how to manage the range in her own 
home. She cannot get this practice if nothing but 
the small individual ovens are provided. 

IV. A sink containing hot and cold water faucets. A 
gas heater may be installed or a water front may be 
placed in the range, or hot water may be provided 
by passing water pipes through the furnace and 
placing a storage tank near. Some arrangement is 
necessary for providing hot water because the time 
of teacher and pupils is lost and fuel is wasted if 
dish water is heated in individual tea kettles and it 
is a return to primitive conditions. 

V. A common kitchen table where the day's supplies 
are placed in readiness so that no time is lost in 
getting to work. 
VI. A refrigerator. 

VII. Screens for every window in the kitchen. 
VIII. An arrangement for drying dishcloths and wiping 
towels, as rods on the back of the tables. 



GENERAL DIRECTIONS 



19 



DC. Shelves or cupboards for utensils. 
X. A wheeled supply table, a great convenience, though 
not essential. 

List op Utensils por the Individual Work Tables 



16 paring knives. 

16 spatulas. 

16 plated silver or steel knives. 

16 plated silver or steel forks. 

16 tablespoons. 

32 teaspoons. 

16 small wooden spoons. 

16 Dover egg beaters. 

16 spoon egg beaters. 

16 one-quart mixing bowls. 

16 sieves to fit bowls. 

16 glass measuring cups. 

16 tin measiuing cups. 

16 custard cups. 

16 utility pans. 

16 small tin basins about 5^ or 
6i inches in diameter for bak- 
ing purposes. 



32 smaU enameled basins about 
si or 6J inches in diameter. 

16 small pie plates about 4} or 5} 
inches in diameter. 

16 one-quart double boilers. 

16 one-quart stewpans ; covers. 

16 small rolling pi^s. 

16 small biscuit cutters. 

16 small frying pans. 

16 small bread pans. 

16 small dishpans. 

16 vegetable brushes. 

16 corks. 

16 small boxes for salt. 

16 small boxes for pepper. 

16 boxes for sugar. 

16 boxes for flour. 

16 cans for baking powder. 



Note. — If the work table drawers are small, the utensils not in constant 
use may be kept in the utensil cupboards. 



Additional Utensils for General Use 



16 salad or pie plates. 

16 breakfast plates. 

16 cups and saucers (tea size). 

16' water glasses. 

8 small teakettles. 

8 apple corers. 

8 small graters. 

8 four- or six-cup muffin pans. 



8 two-quart bowls. 
8 mixing bowls. 
8 doughnut cutters. 
8 assorted cooky cutters. 
8 trays, assorted sizes. 
8 pie tins. 

8 two- or three-quart granite or 
enameled pans. 



20 



GENERAL DIRECTIOXS 



« 


►^ 


fL 


JJI 


f» 


t tJ^^ 1 


r 


1 


!^3Bso^D 


■ 


1 Jl 

1 ^1 II 


1 


^^yjlif QJ 


^ 


JwBlB-li.i 






^^^H 

^^^^^H 


PuJ ^ 1 


',^ 


iU^5l 


^^^^^1 


1 


tS 


i 






1 ■ 




^ 


i 


^^^Hi 




j*^ 


. 


sm^ 



"J 

"5- 
ab 
St 

II 

SI 

If 

ii 



111 

ill 



I |i 



§■1 

Si 
s 

ll 

8'2 



::8 

Ota 



6S 



GENERAL DIRECTIONS 



21 



8 small lemon squeezers. 

8 match boxes. 

8 soap dishes. 

4 two-quart enameled pails, with 

covers, for holding scraps until 

they are transferred to the 

garbage can. 
4 one-quart measures. 
4 smaU colanders. 
4 granite kettles. 
4 steamers (size of kettles). 
4 kettle covers. 
4 meat forks. 
4 wire pot cleaners. 
4 broilers. 

4 long-handled skimmers. 
4 dripping pans (size of the 

oven). 
4 roll pans. 

4 angel or sponge-cake pans. 
4 layer cake pans. 
4 sheet cake pans. 
4 loaf cake pans. 
4 small chopping bowls. 
4 small chopping knives. 
2 two-quart ice cream freezers. 
2 large graters. 
2 sink scrapers. 
2 large frying pans. 
2 two-quart coflFeepots. 
2 teapots. 
2 potato mashers. 



I large teakettle. 

I set timbal irons. 

I flour sifter. 

I dipper. 

I butcher knife. 

I bread knife. 

I cake knife. 

I carving set. 

I potato ricer. 

I flour bin. 

I two-quart double boiler. 

I meat knife. 

I pudding mold. 

I quart pitcher. 

I two-quart pitcher. 

I meat chopper. 

I large garbage can. 

I kitchen scale. 

I dustpan. 

I waffle iron. 

I funnel. 

I corkscrew. 

I can opener. 

I small paint brush. 

I brush broom. 

I stove brush. 

I broom. 

I hamper for soiled towels. 

50 yards of crash for dishcloths 

and dish towels. 
16 holders. 
500 paper napkins. 



Articles Needed if Pupils are to Learn to Serve Meals 



Dining-room table. 
Dining-room chairs. 
Tablecloths. 



Napkins. 
Doilies. 
Limch cloths. 



Silverware. 
Glassware. 
A set of dishes. 



CHAPTER II 
CLASSES OF FOOD. REASONS FOR COOKING 

Introductory. — Very few people ever think of the real 
reason why they must eat. Probably the only time they 
are forcibly reminded of it is when they are suflFering from 
some sickness that bums up the tissues and they lose 
weight. At such times they loathe any food, but are com- 
pelled to eat certain foods prescribed by the doctor, so 
that the body may gain strength to fight the disease. 

Boys training in athletic sports learn that they must 
avoid eating too much or they will gain weight and be unable 
to perform their feats with agility. They also learn what 
foods are best to develop muscle. 

Every one knows that children who are underfed or 
improperly fed have no energy for work or even play, and 
that such children are often stunted in mind and body. 

Food, then, must have other uses than to please the 
taste or satisfy the appetite. Important though these 
uses are, they are merely Nature's ways to get us to take 
what we need to keep our bodies strong, healthy, and well 
developed. 

Food Defined. — Food is defined as any substance which, 
when taken into the body, supplies it with heat or energy 
or builds tissue. 

Energy is stored or latent in all organic substances ; and 
when they are burned, the energy is released as heat. Heat 
is a form of energy. 



CLASSES OF FOOD 23 

All foods contain latent energy ; and when they are oxi- 
dized, produce heat. Their energy then may be used to 
keep the body warm or to keep up its various activities. 
In much the same manner the energy in coal heats the 
passenger coaches of a train and furnishes the power for 
the engine which pulls the train. 

The body in health is maintained at its normal tempera- 
ture, 98.6° F., even in the coldest weather, by the oxida- 
tion or burning of the food taken in, and not by stove or 
furnace heat from the outside. In cold weather houses are 
kept warm and warm clothing is worn so that the body 
will not lose so much heat to the surrounding air. In 
summer light clothing is worn so that the body will lose 
heat. 

Energy is needed in the body so that the vital processes, 
such as digestion, respiration, and circulation, may be 
carried on, and also for work and muscular activity. 
Though bodily heat and muscular energy are important, 
they merely result from cell activity. The blood carries 
oxygen and food to the cells and by the process of 
oxidation the old cells are burned. To replace them new 
cells are built up from the food brought by the blood. 
Cells and tissues must be constantly oxidized, then rebuilt 
and replaced, because life results in the continual wearing 
out of the old, and building up of new tissues, from the 
food consumed. 

Oxidation. — Foods are burned or oxidized in the body 
just as wood or coal is burned outside of the body, except 
that they bum without flame. They produce, practically, 
as much heat when burned within the body as they would 
produce if burned outside the body, and because of this 
fact we have a means of finding out just how much heat 



24 CLASSES OF FOOD 

the various foods yield. The burning of foods and cells 
in the body is called oxidation and constitutes the vital 
process called hfe. The old cells are oxidized and new ones 
are built up from the food eaten. The foods, by burning, 
yield heat and energy. Some foods dp not contain the 
substances or elements needed to build tissues, but they 
will burn in the body and produce heat and energy. 

Foods must contain nitrogen to be able to build tissue. 
Foods that contain carbon will yield heat and energy. 

Foods Classified. — Foods are classified into five classes : 
proteins, fats, carbohydrates, mineral matter, and water, 
though some food substances do not properly belong in 
any of these classes. 

Proteins contain carbon, hydrogen, oxygen, and nitrogen. 

Fats contain carbon, hydrogen, and oxygen. 

Carbohydrates contain carbon, hydrogen, and oxygen. 

Water contains hydrogen and oxygen. 

Mineral matter consists of compounds of iron, calcium, 
potassium, sodium, magnesium, sulphur, phosphorus, 
chlorine, and fluorine. These are associated with the 
proteins and carbohydrates in the various tissues and 
fluids of the body. 

Proteins, mineral matter, and water build tissue ; car- 
bohydrates, fats, and proteins yield heat and energy. 

Foods are also classified as animal and vegetable foods 
because of the sources from which they are derived. Ex- 
amples of vegetable foods are potato, carrot, wheat, rice, 
peas, apple. Examples of animal foods are meat, fish, 
eggs, milk, cheese. 

Structure of Foods. — All foods are similar in structure 
in that they are made up of innumerable cells held together 
by some intercellular substance. Each cell consists of 



CLASSES OF FOOD 



25 



two, sometimes three, parts — nucleus, protoplasm, and 
cell wall. Every cell has a nucleus or center of life from 
which the cell grows and produces other cells. Surround- 
ing the nucleus is the protoplasm or nourishment of the 
cell. It supplies the material needed for the growth and 
development of the nucleus. It consists of protein, mineral 
matter, and water, as does also the nucleus. Protoplasm 
is more or less granular 
and forms a sort of net- 
work that may enclose 
other substances, as 
starch or fat. All vege- 
table cells, and some 
animal cells, have a cell 
wall. The walls of ani- 
mal cells consist of a 
substance called connec- 
tive tissue. This sub- 
stance also holds the 
cells together. The cell 
walls of vegetable cells 
cellulose. It is similar 
unlike it in structure, 
turns to wood. 




A Thin Slice of Potato (magnified). 

a, albuminous pockets; b, starch grains in the 
pockets. (From Overton's Applied Physiology.) 



consist of a substance called 
in composition to starch, but 
When it is old, it sometimes 
The human stomach cannot digest cellu- 
lose, and so it must be softened by cooking to allow for the 
digestion of the starch or fat which it encloses. Cellulose 
is of value, however, in that it furnishes bulk. 



Note to Teacher. — If it is possible to secure a microscope, study may 
be made of the starch cell in potato. The amoeba may be studied under 
the microscoi>e to show the parts of the single cell. The yeast cell also 
furnishes a good study. It would be well for pupils to make a drawing of 
what they have observed. 



26 CXASSES OF FOOD 

Expeximent for Pupils. — Scrape the pulp from a small piece of 
round steak until the white fibrous substance shows distinctly. 
This substance is connective tissue. 

Grate a potato, place it in a cheesecloth bag, and wash imtil all . 
the starch is washed out. Dry the substance left in the bag and 
examine it. This substance is called cellulose. 

CLASSES OF FOOD 

I. Carbohydrates. 

1. Starch, as in potato, rice, com, and all vegetable foods. 

Insoluble in cold water. 

2. Sugar — cane, beet, maple, malt, fruit. 

Soluble. 

3. Cellulose — cell walls of plants. 

Insoluble. 

4. Pectin — foimd in fruits and some vegetables. Causes 

juice to gelatinize. Occurs also as pectose which is changed 
to pectin by the action of a ferment. 

II. Vegetable Acids. 

I. Malic, oxalic, citric, tartaric. Decomposition products of 
starch or sugar. They are decomposed in the body, form- 
ing alkaline carbonates, and help to preserve the alka- 
linity of the blood. 
Soluble. 

III. Proteins. 

1. True proteins. 

Coagulated by the heat or acid or ferment. Some are 

soluble in cold water, some in diluted salt, add, or alkaline 

solution; some are insoluble. 
Albumin as in egg. Casein as in milk. Myosin as in meat. 

Fibrin as in meat. Gluten as in wheat. Legumin as in 

peas and beans. 

2. Albuminoids. 

Softened by moist heat and hardened by dry heat. Soluble 
in boiling water. Ossein in bone, elastin in cell walls, 
collagen in connective tissue. 



COOKING 27 

3. Extractives. Soluble in water. They are the flavor in meat 
juice and in some vegetables. 

IV. Fats. 

1. Fixed fats. Softened by moderate heat, separated into 

fatty acid and glycerine by strong heat. Examples : butter, 
lard, olive oil. 

2. Volatile oils. Foimd in orange and lemon skins, onions, 

etc. Soluble and volatile. 

V. Mineral Matter. 

I. Lime in milk, sulphur in eggs, phosphorus in wheat. 
In proteins, sulphur, phosphorus, and iron. 
In vegetables, potassium, sodium, magnesium, calcium. 
Common salt. 

VI. Water. 

Necessity for Cooking. — Nature supplies us with the 
things needed to keep us alive, namely : — air, water, food, 
and heat, but they are not always in the form most accept- 
able to man. 

Air is made impure by factory smoke, by crowding human 
beings so closely together that enough oxygen is not ob- 
tainable, and by disease germs given off in various ways 
from the bodies of those afflicted with disease. Those 
who wish to enjoy health should seek always to work and 
live where there is an abundance of fresh air. 

Water may contain disease germs ; evidences of pollution 
which affect color, taste, and odor ; or organic impurities : 
then sterilization or filtration becomes necessary to fit it 
for use. 

Foods are supplied by nature to us in great abundance, 
but most foods require some cooking before they are ready 
for consumption. Prehistoric man may have lived on 
uncooked foods, but even the savage tribes of to-day 



28 COOKING 

have some means of cooking their food, crude though 
it may be. 

Reasons for Cooking. — Cooking may be defined as 
the preparation of foods for the table by means of heat. 
Several good reasons can be given why food should be 
cooked. 

1. Cooking makes food more attractive and palatable 
because it changes the appearance of the raw food and 
develops flavor. 

2. It kills bacteria present in some foods which would 
bring about undesirable changes in the food itself, or by 
entering the body through the food cause certain dis- 
eases. 

3. Heat brings about physical and chemical changes 
in the food which make it more digestible, such as the 
softening of cellulose in vegetables, connective tissue 
in meats, and the cooking of starch. 

Primitive Methods of Cooking. — Probably the first 
method of cooking used by the savage or uncivilized tribes 
was that of drying the food in the sun. This was also 
a method of preservation so that the food might be stored 
away for use in times of scarcity. The next method was, 
doubtless, that of roasting before the open fire or by baking 
in hot ashes. Then came the construction of some crude 
vessels, the dropping of hot stones into the vessel which 
contained the water in which the food was to be cooked. 
By this method meat was simmered and boiled. Later 
came the construction of vessels that could stand the 
heat and be placed directly over the fire. Lastly, a prim- 
itive oven was made, and from these crude methods of 
roasting, baking, boiling, and stewing, were evolved and 
developed those in use at the present time. 



COOKING 29 

METHODS OF COOKING 

All methods of cooking may be grouped in five classes: — 

1. Cooking Directly over the Fire. 

(a) Broiling : over coals or gas or in a sizzling hot pan. 

(b) Roasting : before the fire. Wasteful of food and fuel. 

2. Cooking by Heated Air. 

(a) Baking: cooking in an oven. Also called roasting. 

3. Cooking in Heated Water. 

(a) Boiling: cooking in water at temperature of 212° F. 

(b) Stewing : cooking in small quantity of water at a tempera- 

ture below 212° F. ; better than boiling. 

(c) Steaming : cooking in vessel surrounded by steam or cook- 

ing food in steam. 

4. Cooking in Heated Fat. 

(a) Frying : cooking in deep fat. 

(b) Saut6ing : cooking in small quantity of fat. 

5. Cooking in a Fireless Cooker. 

Cooking for several minutes on the stove and then placing 
the food in the fireless cooker. Foods are cooked a much 
longer time in the fireless cooker than by direct heat. 

All other methods of cooking are a combination of some 
of the above methods. Braizing is saut6ing, stewing, 
and baking, and is applied to meat. Fricasseeing is 
stewing, and frying or saut6ing. 

Principles of Cooking. — The principles of cooking 
are few in number and easily mastered; their proper 
application controls the success of every article of food 
prepared, from the simplest to the most intricate. Cook- 
ing is a scientific process. It depends for its results on 
the application of principles, and when these are under- 
stood and applied, the results will be as certain as those 
of any other chemical or physical process subject to natural 
laws. 



30 COOKING 

These principles could be grouped as follows : — 

1. Those which govern the cooking of proteins and 
show the effect of heat on them. 

2. Those concerned with fats. 

3. Those concerned with carbohydrates, — starches, 
sugars, cellulose. 

4. Those concerned with extractives, volatile oils, and 
mineral matter. 

5. Those which render foods sterile. 

Solubility and Insolubility. — Substances are said to be 
soluble or insoluble in water. The term soltcble com- 
monly means that the substance can be dissolved in water ; 
if insoluble, it cannot be dissolved in water. Substances 
in foods that are soluble in water may be lost during cook- 
ing. Some soluble substances are hardened or coagulated 
by heat and rendered insoluble. Some food substances 
are insoluble in water, but are soluble in a dilute salt, acid, 
or alkaline solution. 

Ferments. — A ferment is a substance which brings about 
a chemical change in a food, but remains unchanged itself. 
Each ferment acts only as a single substance. It may coag- 
ulate the substance and render it insoluble, as in the action 
of rennin on casein in milk, or it may break the substance 
down and render it more soluble, as in the ripening of 
cheese. Ferments play an important part in the ripening, 
maturing, and decay of foods. They bring about the 
changes in digestion. They change starch to sugar, and 
break down cellulose. They bring about the coagulation 
of milk and blood. We are only just beginning to know 
their importance in all vital processes. Heat destroys 
ferments. A temperature of i49°-i6o° F. renders both 
animal and vegetable ferments inert. 



COOKING 31 

WHY COOKING IS TAUGHT IN SCHOOLS 

Cooking is taught in schools so that pupils may learn to 
plan, cook, and serve meals, and to know the nutritive value 
of the different foods and their place in the diet so that the 
body will be properly nourished. 

Good cooking is important. It is probably the first 
requisite necessary to make a food of value to the body ; 
for though a food may be balanced in nutritive value, if it 
is served in an unappetizing way it will not be eaten. The 
sight and taste of attractively served and prepared foods 
stimulate the appetite and cause secretion of digestive 
juices, which naturally aids digestion. However, foods 
having little nutritive value may look as attractive as those 
of high nutritive value ; and if a study is not made of the 
composition of foods, we might always select those of low 
nutritive value and the body would be deprived of proper 
nourishment. 

Foods are analyzed in chemical laboratories and the 
exact composition of each food is known. United States 
government bulletins contain very complete tables show- 
ing the composition of all common foods.^ 

By examining the tables on pages 189-193 we find the 
percentage of water, protein, fat, carbohydrates, and min- 
eral matter in the various foods. We also find the per- 
centage of refuse in some foods as sold to the consumer. 
It is weU to note the percentage of refuse in foods, espe- 

1 Bulletin No. 28, Office of Experiment Stations, Washington, D.C., 
contains tables showing the percentage composition of all foods in use in 
the average home. Farmers' Bulletin No. 142 also gives the composition 
of many of the common foods. This bulletin may be obtained free of 
charge from the United States Department of Agriculture. The tables 
referred to above are taken from these government bulletins. 
CONLEY p. c. — 3 



32 COOKING 

dally in meats, because a cut which seems cheap may in 
reality be dear because of the amount of bone and fat 
which it contains. 

The composition of any food to be prepared should be 
learned or at least noted, and in this way it will be easy 
to remember the nutritive value of the different foods and 
group them in several classes. 

Cooking affects digestibility ; different methods of cook- 
ing bring out different flavors; foods must be served in 
various ways, as a change in diet is desirable. For these 
reasons the different methods of cooking are taken up in 
a series of lessons which develop and show all principles of 
cooking. When these methods are learned and the princi- 
ples of cooking mastered, foods having equivalent nutri- 
tive values are studied in groups, and the methods and 
principles of cooking learned in Chapter IV are reviewed. 

Methods and principles are few in number, but innu- 
merable applications of these few may be made. 

The mastery of principles is the science of cooking; and 
the serving of foods in attractive, savory, and appetizing 
ways is the art of cooking. 

The price of all foods should be known, and the cost of 
each recipe calculated. Foods should be cooked, in school 
kitchens, in their proper season, just as they would be 
served in the home. Eggs should not be served in Novem- 
ber, December, January, for two reasons, — because of 
prices, and because they are apt to be storage eggs. Can- 
ning should not be taught when peaches and pears must 
be purchased by the dozen. Pupils should try all recipes 
at home, and should have lessons on foods most commonly 
used in the average home. They should know the place 
of each food prepared, in the daily diet. 



CHAPTER III 

METHODS OF COOKING. DEVELOPMENT OF 
PRINCIPLES AND THEIR APPLICATION. PRAC- 
TICE WORK IN FOODS 

BAKING VEGETABLE FOODS. PRINCIPLES WHICH 
APPLY TO COOKING OF CARBOHYDRATES 

All vegetable foods are made up of innumerable cells, 
so small that they cannot be seen except by the aid of a 
microscope. These cells are held together by a substance 





Protoplasmic Structure of a Starch Grains in a Flour Cell. 
Flour Cell. (Farmers' BuUetin, No. 389, 

(Farmers' Bulletin, No. 389, U. S. Dcpt. of Agriculture.) 

U. S. Dept. of Agriculture). 

called cellulose. Each ceU consists of a network of pro- 
toplasm which incloses granules of starch or sugar, mineral 
matter, and water, and is surrounded by a wall of cellulose. 
Cellulose is of the same composition as starch, but is 
unlike it in structure and in appearance; heat and the 
digestive juices have not the same effect on it that they 
have on starch. When cellulose grows old, it becomes 
tough and woody. The human stomach cannot digest 
cellulose; and as it incloses the starch and other sub- 

33 



34 



PRINCIPLES OF COOKING 



stances that can be digested if the digestive juices can 
reach them, these cell walls must be softened by cooking 
so as to set free the inclosed starch, sugar, mineral matter, 
and protein. 

When the cells contain much starch, moisture and heat 
cause the starch grains to swell and burst the walls of 
cellulose which inclose them. Some foods, like potatoes, 




Changes in Starch Cells in Cooking. 

A, cells of a raw potato with starch grains in natural condition; b, cells in a partially 
cooked potato ; c, cells of a thoroughly boiled potato. (From Farmers' Bulletin No. 389, 
U. S. Dept. of Agriculture.) 

contain enough water to cause the starch to swell when 
the water turns to steam, and this causes the bursting of 
the cell wall. Some foods, like rice, corn, and wheat, are 
cooked in water; and the starch absorbs water during 
cooking. When starch is cooked we sometimes say it is 
gelatinized, and the starch in different foods cooks or gel- 
atinizes at different temperatures. The starch in oats gel- 
atinizes at 185° F., corn at 167° F., potatoes at 149° F., 
other cereals at 176° F. Some foods, like lettuce, celery, 
tomatoes, onions, contain so little starch that it is not 
necessary to cook them, because we eat them, not for the 
starch in them, but for the cellulose, mineral matter, and 
acids which they contain, and which have important uses 
in the body. 



PRINCIPLES OF COOKING 35 

In some foods the cellulose is so tough that it must be 
softened, even though the food does not contain much 
starch. The greater the amount of cellulose in a food the 
longer time it takes to cook it. Some foods, like old beets 
and carrots, are so tough that it is a waste of fuel to try 
to cook them. 

Recipe for Baked Potatoes. — Select smooth, medium- 
sized potatoes. Wash clean, using a brush to scrub and 
a knife to remove the specks and blemishes. Place on 
the grate of an oven of moderate temperature and grad- 
ually increase the heat. Bake until soft, about 40 minutes. 
Break or pierce the skin to allow the steam to escape, and 
serve in an uncovered dish. A moderate oven is needed 
in starting to allow the heat to penetrate to the inside of 
the potato. If the heat is too intense at first, it forms a 
hard crust on the outside, keeps out the heat, and prevents 
the potato from cooking evenly throughout. If the steam 
is allowed to remain in the potato, it condenses and the 
potato will be soggy. 

With what would you serve baked potatoes? At what meal? 

Potatoes are the most important of all vegetable foods, 
except wheat, because they are the most extensively used. 
They contain, after they are pared for cooking : — 

Water Starch Cellulose Protein Fat Mineral Matter 
78.3% 18% .4% 2.2% .1% 1% 

Note. — Experiments to show composition of potato will be given in 
Chapter V, page 74, but the teacher may well give the starch test here. 
A solution of iodine turns starch blue, and pupils may test various foods to 
detect the presence of starch. 

The most important principles involved in the baking 

of potatoes are those which govern the cooking of starch 

and the softening of cellulose. 



36 



PRINCIPLES OF COOKING 



U. S. Oepartmcot of Agriculture 
Office of Experimer>t Stations 
A. C. True: Director 



Prepared by 

C. F. LANGWORTHY 

Expert in Charge Of Nutrition investigations 



COMPOSITION OF FOOD MATERIALS. 



Fat:0.6 




II Fuel Value 
/^fcSq.ln.Equali 
1000 Calorits 



NAVY BEAN, DRY. 

Water: 1 2.6 
Protein: 22.5 



Protein Fat Carbohydrates 

SHELLED BEAN, FRESH 

Water-.58.9 
Carbohydratcs:29.l 
Protcin:9.4 -?*WL_--- Ash: 2.0 Carbohydratcs:59.6 



720 CALORICS PER POUND 1560 UIORIES Pik PQUNO 

STRING BEAN,OREEN. 




Carbohydrates: 7.4 



Ash-.O.S 



Water:89.2 




Water75.4 



Fuel value: 

c 

1 90 CALORIES PER POUND 

CORN, GREEN. 

EDIBLE PORTION 

Protein:3,J 




Carbohydrates: 19.7 
Ash: 0.7 



Composition of Vegetables. 



PRINCIPLES OF COOKING 



37 



U. S- Department of Agriculture Prepared ^ 

Office of Eiperlment Stations C. F. LAN6W0RTMY 

A, C. True: Director Expert in Charge of Nutrition Investigation* 

COMPOSITION OF FOOD MATERIALS- 

■ Fuel V«lu« 
^fiSq.ln. Equals 
1000 Calories 

ONION 



Protein 



Cart>ohydr«tes 





Watcr87.6 
Protein: 1 .6 
Carbohydrates:9.9- 
.Wdter:83.0 Fuel value-. 



PARSNIP 

POTATO 

Protein:2.2 




W»ter:94.5 



Carbohydrates: 18.4 ^--Watcr:78.S 

Fu el V4L MC; Protein^ 

I I Ca»-blDhydrflle&;$.1 



375 CALOfilES PfR POUND 




AihI.O 



Fuel valuc; 



80 CALORIES 
PER POUND 



Composition of Vegetables. 



38 PRINCIPLES OF COOKING 

Statement of Principles. 

1. Heat and moisture soften walls of cellulose in vege- 
table foods ; the denser the walls, the longer time it 
takes to soften them. 

2. Heat and moisture cause starch grains to swell and 
burst the walls of cellulose that inclose them, and 
gelatinize or cook the starch. 

Recipe for Baked Apples. — Wash and wipe apples 
and remove core. Place in a granite pan with one table- 
spoon of sugar in each apple and add water enough to 
just cover the bottom of the pan. Bake in a hot oven, 
about 30 to 45 minutes. Apples containing a great deal 
of acid cook much more quickly than those that are 
not so tart. 

Calculate cost. When would you serve baked apples? 
At what meal? 

Vegetables differ in the amount of nourishment which 
they contain. They all contain carbohydrate in some 
form, though the amount and kind varies. Potatoes, 
wheat, corn, oats, rice, peas, and beans contain consider- 
able starch. The carbohydrate in other vegetables and 
fruits is small in quantity, and consists of sugar, pectin, 
cellulose, and some starch. All vegetables contain mineral 
salts; fruits contain vegetable acids also. Some vege- 
tables and fruits contain oil, called a volatile oil, because 
it can be turned to vapor and carried off in steam. All 
vegetables contain some protein. 

Apples contain: — 

Water Protein Fat Carbohydrate Cellulose * Mineral Matter 
84.6% 4% .5% 14.2% 1.2% .3% 



PRINCIPLES OF COOKING 39 

The carbohydrate is in the form of sugar, pectin, and 
cellulose. Apples also contain a vegetable acid. Some 
varieties contain more cellulose than potatoes and hence 
it takes a longer time to cook them. Some varieties con- 
tain much more acid than others, and as the acid helps 
soften the cellulose, those containing the greatest amoimt 
of acid bake quickest. As apples contain practically no 
starch, cooking is not necessary, but cooking softens the 
cellulose and makes it possible to serve apples in a great 
variety of ways. As apples ripen the sugar content in- 
creases, the cellulose becomes less tough, and the acidity 
decreases. For general use the ripe apple is preferred. 

Statement of Principles Involved. 

1. Moist heat softens the walls of cellulose in vegetable 
foods ; the denser the walls the longer time it takes 
to soften them. 

2. Acids soften cellulose. 

3. Heat melts sugar. 

Recipe for Boiled Onions. — Wash and peel about eight 
medium-sized onions. Place them in a stewpan, cover 
with boiling water, and boil until soft, about 40 minutes. 
If the onions have a strong odor, the water may be changed 
once or twice during cooking. When the onions are soft, 
drain the water off and serve with White Sauce. 

Calculate cost. At what meal would you serve boiled 
onions ? 

Onions contain : — 

Water Carbohydrate Cellulose ^ Protein Fat Mineral Matter 
87.6% 9.9% .8% 1.6% .3% .6% 

^ This cellulose is included in the carbohydrate. 



40 PRINCIPLES OF COOKING 

The carbohydrate in onions is mainly in the form of 
cellulose and sugar. (Test may be made for starch.) 
Onions contain a volatile oil which gives to them their 
distinctive flavor. The oil is also soluble in water ; much 
of it is dissolved in the water during cooking as well as 
evaporated with the steam. If the dish in which the 
onions are cooking is left uncovered, much of the oil passes 
off gradually in the steam, and the odor of l^oiled onions is 
not as noticeable as when the dish is kept covered and the 
cover removed occasionally. 

Statement of Principles Involved. 

1. Heat and moisture soften cellulose. 

2. Volatile oil is soluble in water. 

Recipe for White Sauce. — Melt two tablespoons of 
butter, add two tablespoons of flour, and rub them together 
thoroughly. Add one cup of milk and cook until it thickens, 
stirring constantly. Add one fourth teaspoon of salt and a 
speck of pepper. (Thin white sauce is made by using one 
tablespoon of flour instead of two. Thick white sauce is 
made by using from three to four tablespoons of flour.) 

When boiling water or milk is poured over starch, the 
starch grains expand and gelatinize or thicken, and tend 
to stick together and become lumpy. Some substance 
should be mixed with the starch to separate or surround 
the particles so that they will have room to expand when 
boiling water or milk is added later, or when cold liquid 
is added and the mixture is boiled. Melted fat may be 
used for this purpose, and the starch and fat should be 
rubbed together thoroughly so that the fat will surround 
the starch. As starch is not soluble in cold water, a little 
cold water or cold milk may be used to separate the starch 



PRINCIPLES OF COOKING 41 

grains. If the liquid is used, mix the liquid and starch 
thoroughly until there are no lumps left, before adding 
the boiling liquid. In pudding sauces, sugar may be mixed 
with the starch for the same purpose. (As flour contains 
so much starch it is often used instead of cornstarch as the 
thickening agent.) 

Statement of Principles Involved. 

Heat and moisture cause starch grains to swell and burst 

the walls of cellulose that inclose them, hence starch 

is used as a thickening agent. 

Recipe for Stewed Apples. — Wash and peel about eight 
apples. Cut into quarters and remove the cores. Place 
the apples in a stewpan, add a small quantity of water, 
about one fourth cup, simmer slowly until the apples are 
soft. If the apples are tart, it will take 10-15 minutes. 
When the apples are soft, add sugar, a speck of nutmeg or 
cinnamon, and one teaspoon of butter. 

Some apples contain more water and sugar than others, 
so the exact amount of water and sugar to use cannot be 
given. Sugar is added after the apples are cooked because, 
if it were added sooner, the acid in the apples would change 
or invert the sugar to glucose, and some of the sweetening 
power would be destroyed. Glucose is about three fifths 
as sweet as cane sugar. This reduction in sweetness does 
not impair the food value of the sugar, however, for cane 
sugar is changed to glucose in the normal digestive 
processes. 

Statement of Principles Involved. 

1. Heat softens cellulose. 

2. Acid softens cellulose. 

3. Acid inverts or changes cane sugar to glucose. 



42 PRINCIPLES OF COOKING 

STEAMING VEGETABLE FOODS. PRINCIPLES THAT 
APPLY TO COOKING OF CARBOHYDRATES AND 
VEGETABLE PROTEIN 

Recipe for Steamed Rice and Use of Double Boiler. — 

Fill the lower part of a double boiler one third full of 
boiling water. Put two quarts of boiling water in the 
upper part of the boiler, add one half teaspoon of salt and 
gradually add one cup of rice which has been washed in 
cold water. Cook until soft, about 20 to 30 minutes, 
stirring occasionally with a fork. Drain and keep hot 
until ready to serve. Rice may be served as a vegetable 
with meat gravy, or as a dessert with cream and sugar, or 
with sliced fruit, or with date sauce. 

Calculate cost. 

Recipe for Date Sauce. — Wash, clean, stone, and chop 
one half pound of dates, add one fourth cup of cold water 
and one fourth cup of sugar and cook until it thickens, 
about ten minutes. Serve on the rice, with whipped or 
plain cream. 

In the preceding lessons the effect of heat and moisture 
on the carbohydrates in vegetable foods has been con- 
sidered. In addition to carbohydrates, vegetables con- 
tain soluble volatile oils, mineral matter, vegetable acids, 
and a network of protoplasm which is composed of protein, 
a substance which is hardened or coagulated by heat. 
Potatoes contain about 2.2 per cent protein; apples con- 
tain .4 per cent; onions, 1.6 per cent; rice, 8 per cent. 

If vegetables are soaked in cold water, soluble protein, 
volatile oils, starch, extractives, and mineral matter are 
extracted in the water. If they are plunged into boiling 
water and cooked at a temperature about 180° F., the pro- 



PRINCIPLES OF COOKING 43 

tein is coagulated, and this framework aids in retaining the 
starch and mineral matter. 
Rice contains : — 

Water Carbohydrate Cellulose * Protein Fat Mineral Matter 
12.3% 79% .2% 8% .3% .4% 

Unlike potatoes, rice contains but a small quantity of 
water; and as starch absorbs water during cooking, rice 
must be cooked in enough water to allow the starch grains 
to swell. It may be cooked in a small quantity of water 
and all the water wiU be absorbed and no nutrients lost. 
When rice is cooked in this way, it is soft and the grains 
tend to stick together. When rice is cooked in a large 
quantity of water and the excess of water is drained off, 
some of the nutrients are lost in the water, but the grains 
do not stick together, and they are more easily masticated 
than in the soft, pasty form. 

Statement of Principles Involved. 

1. Heat and moisture soften cellulose. 

2. Heat and moisture cause starch grains to swell, and 
burst the walls of cellulose that inclose them. 

3. Heat coagulates the protein and this aids in retaining 
soluble substances. 

4. Starch and mineral matter are lost when foods con- 
taining them are cooked in a large quantity of water 
and the water is drained off. 

Recipe for Steamed Squash. — Place a steamer over a 
kettle of boiling water. Place squash, cut into pieces, 
in the steamer and steam until soft, about 30 or 40 min- 
utes. Scrape the squash from the rind, flavor with butter, 
salt, and pepper, and serve. 

^ The cellulose is included in the carbohydrate. 



44 PRINCIPLES OF COOKING 

Steaming in a steamer is a better method of cooking 
vegetables than cooking in boiUng water, because there is 
no loss of nutrients. 

At what meal would you serve steamed squash? What 
other vegetables serve a similar place in this meal? 

Squash contains : — 

Water Carbohydrate Cellulose * Protein Fat Mineral Matter 
88.3% 9% .8% 1.4% .5% .8% 

Squash contains so much water that it may be baked, 
or steamed, or boiled. It contains very little starch. 

TOASTING BREAD. PRINCIPLE WHICH APPLIES TO 
STARCHY FOODS 

Recipe for Toasting Bread. — Cut bread in even slices 
one half inch thick. Place in a broiler or toaster and hold 
over the fire at a sufficient distance to brown without 
burning; turn once. The dextrin produced by this pro- 
cess is more easily digested than the original starch. 

Statement of Principle Involved. 

Dry heat at 320° F. changes starch to dextrin. 

SAUTEING FOODS. PRINCIPLES WHICH APPLY TO 
FRYING FOODS CONTAINING PROTEIN AND 
CARBOHYDRATE 

Recipe for Codfish Balls. — Remove the skin and bones 
from one cup of codfiish and cut it into small pieces. Wash 
the fish in cold water ; add two cups of raw potatoes also 
cut into small pieces. Put into a saucepan, cover with 
boiling water, and cook until the potatoes are done. Drain, 

^ The cellulose is included in the carbohydrate. 



PRINCIPLES OF COOKING 45 

mash, add a speck of pepper, one tablespoon of butter, 
and one egg slightly beaten. Place enough fat in the 
frying pan to cover the bottom, about one tablespoon, and 
heat imtil smoking hot. Drop the mixture by tablespoons 
into the frying pan and fry until brown, turn once. 

Calctdate cost. At what meal wotdd you serve codfish 



balls? 






Eggs contain : — 






Water Fat 


Protein 


Mineral Matter 


73.7% 10.5% 


14.8% 


1% 



Statement of Principles Involved. 

Heat hardens or coagulates the protein in the egg and 
this holds the different substances together so that 
they form a ball. When protein hardens, it forms a 
crust which aids in retaining juices and flavors and 
prevents the article from soaking fat. 

Recipe for Frying Bacon. — Cut bacon in very thin 
slices. Put it in a moderately hot frying pan and cook 
until crisp. Do not have the heat strong enough to de- 
compose the fat. 

Bacon contains : — 

Water Protein Fat Mineral Matter 

18.2% 10% 67.2% 4.6% 

Bacon is composed mainly of cells of fat. Like all ani- 
mal cells, the cell walls are of connective tissue, — a form 
of protein, — and the cells are held together by connective 
tissue. Moderate heat melts the fat and it escapes from 
the cell walls, the connective tissue remaining. If strong 
heat is used, the fat is decomposed into two substances, 
fatty acid and glycerine. 



46 PRINCIPLES OF COOKING 

At what meal is bacon served? Name some foods fried 
with bacon. Name some foods served with bacon. 

Statement of Principles Involved. 

1. Moderate heat frees fat from the cell walls which 
inclose it. 

2. Strong heat separates and decomposes fat into fatty 
acid and glycerine. 

FRYING FOODS 

Rules for Deep Fat Frying. 

1. The temperature of fat should be high enough to 
prevent the articles from soaking up the fat and hot 
enough to brown a piece of bread in one minute. 

2. Sufficient fat should be used to entirely cover the 
articles to be fried. 

3. Articles should not be wet, nor ice-cold, and should 
be rounding or oval in shape. 

4. Foods which do not contain egg should be dipped in 
egg and crumbs or flour to prevent absorption of fat. 

5. All foods, after frying, should be drained on soft 
paper to absorb the grease. 

6. Fat bubbles when it contains water. It cannot be 
heated higher than 212° F. until all water is evapo- 
rated. When it has ceased to bubble and is smoking 
hot, try it with a piece of bread. 

The best fat for frying is one that has a high burning 
point. The burning point of the various fats are : Olive 
oil, 608° F. ; lard, 392° F. ; drippings, 336° F. ; beaf , veal, and 
mutton, 302° F. ; butter, 265° F. Several good commercial 
products, made from vegetable fats, are on the market. 
They have a high burning point. 



PRINCIPLES OF COOKING 47 

When fat bums, it decomposes and is irritating to the 
walls of the stomach when eaten. 

Recipe for Saratoga Chips. — Wash and pare two 
medium-sized potatoes. SKce lengthwise in thin slices 
and cover with cold water until ready to use. Drain, 
cover with boiling water, and boil two minutes to partially 
cook the starch. Drain again, pour cold water over, and 
then dry as thoroughly as possible because water lowers 
the temperature of the fat. Fry in deep fat and keep the 
potatoes in constant motion so that they will fry evenly. 
Drain on paper that will absorb the excess fat and then 
sprinkle with salt. 

Calculate cost. At what meal do you serve Saratoga 
chips? Are they a cheap food? 

BROILING ANIMAL FOOD. PRINCIPLES WfflCH APPLY 
TO THE COOKING OF PROTEINS — TENDER MEAT 

Meat consists of bone, fat, and muscle fiber. The bone 
and fat form but a small part of the meat as it is prepared 
for the table, though they are purchased with it at the 
market. The part of meat that is usually prepared and 
eaten is the muscle fiber. 

Muscles, or muscle fiber, consist of cells held together 
by a substance called connective tissue. All substances, 
whether animal or vegetable, are made up of cells that are 
alike in structure, but different in composition. An animal 
cell, like a vegetable cell, consists of a network or proto- 
plasm, and a nucleus, or life center. The nucleus and pro- 
toplasm are sometimes surrounded by a cell wall. The 
nucleus grows, divides, and produces other nuclei, and these 
in turn become new cells. The nucleus gets its nourish- 
ment for its growth and reproduction from the protoplasm ; 

CONLEY p. C. — 4 



48 



PRINCIPLES OF COOKING 



the protoplasm gets it from the blood. The protoplasm, 
then, must contam all the substances that are needed for 
the building up and growth of muscles and other tissues. 
The protoplasm and nucleus in animal cells consist of 
protein, mineral matter, extractives, and sometimes fat. 

Animal cells are held together by a substance called con- 
nective tissue. It is called a protein, but it does not build 
tissue, and heat does not affect it in the same way that it 
affects other proteins. 

Extractives are the flavor in meat. They are formed 

by the breaking down 
of proteins during mus- 
cular exercise. They 
are soluble in water; 
and if meat is placed 
in a cool or slightly 
warm pan and allowed 
to heat slowly, extrac- 
tives are drawn out, and 
the meat will be dry and 
tasteless. 

Recipe for Broiling Meat. — To broil steak in a broiler 
it is necessary to have glowing coals without flame or 
smoke. It is nearly impossible to always have such a fire, 
and a pan broil is equally good and always possible. The 
best cuts for broiUng are porterhouse, sirloin, and short 
steaks. The next best are chuck and round steaks. The 
cuts should be at least one inch thick. 

Have the frying pan smoking hot, rub it lightly with a 
piece of suet from the meat, and then remove the suet so 
that no fat remains in the pan. Place the steak in a pan 
and turn it when one side is seared. Turn it often to pre- 




Fat Tissues (magnified). 

Connective tissue cells form pockets in which the 
liquid fat is stored. 



PRINCIPLES OF COOKING 49 

vent burning. Steak is broiled from 8 to 10 minutes, the 
time depending upon the thickness of the steak and indi- 
vidual taste as to rareness. Remove the steak from the 
pan, sprinkle with salt and pepper, and spread with butter 
or pour the juice from the pan over the meat. 

The pan is hot in starting to sear over the outside 
and retain the juices. If the pan is not hot enough, the 
juices will escape, and the meat will be tasteless. Meat 
is turned often to prevent burning, to prevent juice from 
escaping from the exposed side, to secure even cooking 
throughout. 

Calculate cost. How many people would the steak serve? 
Is steak a cheap meat? Give your reason. 

Statement of Principles Involved in Broiling Steak. 

1. Heat hardens or coagulates protein so that it will 
form a crust, and this crust aids in retaining juices , 
and flavor. 

2. Heat and moisture soften and dissolve connective 
tissue, and dry heat hardens it. 

3. Extractives are soluble in water. 

4. Some proteins, as albumin, are soluble in water. 

Experiments to indicate the presence of protein. 

1. Mix egg white with a little cold water. Shake well. Does it 
dissolve? Heat to about 165° F. What change takes place? 

2. Mix egg white and water and add dilute nitric acid. What 
change takes place? 

3. Scrape or squeeze the juice from a piece of round steak and add 
cold water, or soak a piece of round steak in cold water for ten min- 
utes. Heat the juice. What change takes place? 

4. Add a small piece of junket tablet to milk. Heat to about 
100° F. Let it stand in a warm place. What change takes 
place? 



so PRINCIPLES OF COOKING 

Egg white, soluble albumin in meat, and casein in milk 
are forms of protein, and all proteins are coagulated by 
heat, acid or ferment. 

Note to Teacher. — The teacher may give or show the Xanthroproteic 
Test or the Biuret Test for protein. 

PRINCIPLES WHICH APPLY TO THE COOKING OF PRO- 
TEINS—LESS TENDER CUTS 

If certain muscles of an animal are exercised much, the 
connective tissue which holds the muscle fibers together 
becomes strong and tough and a cut of meat from one of 
those muscles would be tougher than one from a set of 
muscles not exercised so much. Such cuts, as porterhouse 
and sirloin, are taken from the back of the animal and they 
are more tender than the round cuts taken from the leg, 
.or chuck cuts from the neck. 

As dry heat tends to harden connective tissue, broiling 
is not so good a method for cooking round or chuck steaks 
as simmering. Simmering, or applying moist heat, softens 
the connective tissue and makes the meat tender. 

Recipe for Simmered Round Steak. — Have the frying 
pan smoking hot. Remove a piece of fat from the steak 
and rub the pan with it, let the fat remain in the pan. 
Place the steak in the pan as for broiled steak, and cook 
until both sides are seared. Remove the steak from the 
pan, season the steak with salt and pepper, and sprinkle 
generously with flour. Pound the steak with a potato 
masher, or the blunt side of the butcher knife, as the butcher 
sometimes does, to cut across the muscle fiber and send 
the flour into the meat. Return the steak to the hot fry- 
ing pan ; pour enough boiling water over to cover the steak. 



PRINCIPLES OF COOKING 51 

Place a cover on the frying pan and cook 30 minutes. Make 
a gravy from the liquid in the pan and pour over the steak. 
Calculate cost. Is simmered steak as expensive as broiled? 
Why? 

Statement of Principles Involved. 

1. Heat develops flavor. 

2. Heat hardens or coagulates protein so that it will 
form a crust, and this crust aids in retaining juices 
and flavor. 

3. Heat and moisture soften and dissolve connective 
tissue. 

SUMMART OF PRINCIPLES OF COOKINO 

Heat does not have the same effect on all foods. It 
hardens and toughens protein, it softens carbohydrates 
and fat, it makes proteins somewhat harder to digest, it 
frees starch from the outer covering of cellulose and gets 
it ready for digestion. Most proteins lose water even 
when cooked in water. Carbohydrates absorb water. The 
main principles of cooking may be summarized as follows : 

1. Heat and moisture soften cell walls, whether it be 
cellulose in vegetable foods or connective tissue in 
animal foods. 

2. Dry heat hardens connective tissue. 

3. Heat and moisture cause starch grains to swell and 
burst the walls of cellulose which inclose them. 

4. Dry heat 320° F. changes starch to dextrin. 

5. Dry heat 420° F. caramelizes sugar. 

6. Heat frees fat from cell walls which inclose the 
globules, and strong heat separates and decomposes 
fat into two substances, fatty acid and glycerine. 



52 



PRINCIPLES OF COOKING 



8 



Heat hardens or coagulates any form of protein 
and makes it harder to digest. 
When protein hardens, it forms a crust which aids in 
retaining juices and flavor. 
9. Mineral matter, extractives, and volatile oils are 

soluble in water. 
10. Acids soften cellulose. 
Acids' invert sugar. 

Heat kills bacteria and other parasites found in foods. 
Heat makes foods more attractive and palatable, 
and while it may lessen their ease of digestion, it 
may by improving their flavor cause an increased 
flow of digestive fluids and in that way balance the 
difficulty. 



II 
12 
13 




Salmon for Canning. 
(From Carpenter's How the World is Fed.) 



CHAPTER IV 
FRUITS AND GREEN VEGETABLES 

Uses of Foods. — Proteins build tissue and yield heat 
and energy. Starch and sugar when oxidized yield heat 
and energy. Cellulose furnishes bulk, which, by stimulat- 
ing the walls of the stomach and intestines, promotes the 
flow of the digestive juices and aids peristalsis. Fats 
when oxidized 3deld heat and energy. Mineral salts and 
acids aid in tissue building, promote osmotic pressure, 
regulate the acidity or alkalinity of the digestive juices, 
and because they are decomposed in the body and form 
alkaline carbonates they help to keep the blood alkaline and 
control the acidity of the excretions. Water aids in tissue 
building, forms the great part of the blood, digestive fluids, 
and excretions. It regulates the temperature of the body 
and aids in the elimination of waste. Extractives stimu- 
late the appetite and aid in digestion. 

Classification of Foods. — Foods are classified for the 
purpose of study into animal and vegetable foods. In 
general it may be said that vegetable foods are mainly 
carbohydrate and animal foods mainly protein. Vege- 
table foods are classed as: — 

1. Fruits 4. Cereals 

2. Green Vegetables 5. Legiunes 

3. Roots and Tubers 6. Nuts 

All vegetables have two things in common. They all 
contain valuable mineral salts which help to keep the blood 

53 



54 FRUITS AND GREEN VEGETABLES 

alkaline ; they contain carbohydrate in the form of starch, 
sugar, and cellulose, and thus furnish bulk to food. 

Roots and tubers are pure, starchy foods containing 
little or no available protein. 

Cereals contain starch and protein in proportion of about 
7:1. 

Legumes contain starch and protein in proportion of 
about 2J: I. 

Green vegetables are valuable mostly for their mineral 
salts and cellulose ; fruits, for their acids and sugar. Nuts 
are similar to the legumes in composition. They are not 
consumed to any great extent as a food, but are merely 
used as a relish or confection. 

FRUITS 

Typical Food : Apple. — All fresh fruits are similar in 
composition and structure and have practically the same 
food value. They contain 75-80 per cent water, .5-1 
per cent protein, 8-20 per cent carbohydrate, 1-3 per 
cent cellulose, .5 per cent mineral matter, and practically 
no fat. They are eaten for their mineral salts, which 
help to preserve the alkalinity of the blood, for their re- 
freshing juices and flavor, and because the cellulose furnishes 
bulk for the intestines and thus stimulates peristalsis. 
Some fruits contain enough sugar so that they may be 
considered valuable carbohydrate foods. In structure 
fruits consist of walls of cellulose inclosing water, sugar, 
mineral salts, and acids, with very little protein and fat. 

Cooking of Fruits. — Most fruits are eaten raw when they 
can be procured fresh. Fruits are also dried, canned, 
preserved, and cooked in various ways. Cooking softens 
the cellulose, and during the process the action of the acid 



FRUITS AND GREEN VEGETABLES 55 

in the fruit on the cellulose hastens the softening. If 
fruits are cooked in water, some mineral salts, acids, and 
sugar are dissolved in the water. If the water is served 
with the fruit, there is no loss of nutrients. 

Fruits are dried so that they may be preserved for use. 
Bacteria and molds which cause the decay of fruits need 
moisture for development and growth. If the moisture 
in fruits is evaporated, the fruits will keep indefinitely. 
When dried fruits are to be used, they must be washed 
thoroughly and soaked for several hours, or overnight, in 
water so as to restore as much water as possible. They 
should be cooked until soft in the same water in which 
they are soaked. Sugar is added about five minutes be- 
fore they are removed from the fire. 

Fresh fruits may be cooked in a variety of ways. The 
commonest ways are : baking, steaming, and stewing. 

Baked Pears. — Wash and core Seckel pears. Put 
in a baking dish. Fill the center of the pear with sugar 
and add enough water in the dish to prevent burning. 
Cover and cook slowly imtil the pears are soft. Remove 
from the baking dish and pour the liquid from the pan 
over the pears. Other varieties of pears are good for bak- 
ing, but the Seckel are the most delicious. 

Note. — In this recipe, and in all redpes which follow, if it is possible, 
find the cost of the prepared food. Learn at what meal it could be served, 
and in a general way its nutritive value. Later learn to calculate the 
nutritive value of each food. 

Steamed Apples. — Wash, pare, and core sound, tart 
apples. Place on a plate in a steamer over a kettle of 
boiling water and let steam until tender. Remove from 
the steamer carefully so as not to break the apples, and 
serve with cream and sugar, or with sirup. 



56 



FRUITS AND GREEN VEGETABLES 



A»h 



Protein Fat Carbohydrates 

GRAPES 

EDIBLE PORTION 

Faf.3. 



Carbo- 
rates: 19.2 



U. S. Department of Agriculture 
Office of Experiment Stations 
A. C. True: Director 



Prepared by 

C F. LAHOWORTHY 

Expert in Charge of Nutrition Investi9atif ns 

COMPOSITION OF FOOD MATERIALS. 




RAISINS 



I Fuel Value 
p<c Sq.ln.Equais 
> 1000 Calories 



GRAPEJUICE 

UHFeRMENTED 




^PfotCiP^lZe 



Carbo- 
hydrates: 
^ 76.1 



Ash 3 + 



Fuel VALUi; 



CANNED 

FRUIT 

Water: 77.2 -^ 



I 560 CALORIES 
PER POUND 

FRUIT 

JELLY 

Carbo- Water:? 1.0 

hydrates :?a3 



>"^sh:0.3 



Carbo 
hydrates: 78.3 



Ash:0.5 
Fuel value; 



405 CALORIES 
PEA POUND 



Carbo- 
hydrates: 2 1.1 




*|^ 1 5 CALORICS 
PER POUND 



Composition of Fruits. 



FRUITS AND GREEN VEGETABLES 



57 



U. S. Department of Agriculture 

Office of Experiment Stations 

A. C. True- Director 



Prepared by 

C. F. UN6W0RTHY 

Expert in Charge of flutrition Investigations 



COMPOSITION OF FOOD MATERIALS. 

Carbohydrates 



Protein 



Water:8+. 



Fat 

APPLE 

EDIBLE MMmON 



Water 



I Fuel Value 
KeSq. In. Equals 
> 1000 Calorits 



DRIED FIO 

COlBLEPOimON 




Protcin:4. 



Water: 18.8 
Faf.0.3 



Carbohydrates: 14.2 Ash-0.3 



CarbohydrateS'.74.2 



Foa 

VALUE: 



C 



285 CALORIES 
PER POUMO 




STRAWBERRY 

EDIBLE PORTION 



Water:90.4 




Fat:0.6 
Car bo hydrates: 7.4 



Water:75.3 



Protein: 1.0 
•AshO 6 Carbohydrates:22.0 



Fuel pi 



175 CALORIES 
PER POUND 




Fuel 

VALUE: 



445 CALORIES 
PER POUND 



Composition op Fruits. 



58 FRUITS AND GREEN VEGETABLES 

Sirup. — Boil one cup of sugar and one third cup of 
water 3 minutes. Pour over fruit. 

Cranberry Jelly or Sauce. — Wash one quart of cran- 
berries, add one cup of cold water, ,and cook slowly until 
tender. Press through a strainer until nothing remains 
but the skins. Add two cups of sugar to the pulp and 
boil five minutes. Turn into molds and let it stand xmtil 
it is firm. Serve with poultry or game. 

Stewed Prunes. — Wash the primes thoroughly. Soak 
overnight in cold water. Cook in the water in which 
they have been soaked, imtil soft. Add sugar and cook 
five minutes longer. The quantity of sugar added depends 
on individual taste, but one fourth cup of sugar to one 
pound of prunes is a good proportion. 

GREEN VEGETABLES 

Green vegetables are the leaves and stems of plants, 
and as the leaves are the means by which the plant takes 
carbon dioxide and gives off oxygen, they contain very 
little nourishment except mineral salts ; their bulk is due to 
the cellulose and water. 

The green vegetables with which we are the most familiar 
are: celery, spinach, asparagus, cress, endive, lettuce, 
cabbage. Because they are similar in composition, squash, 
cucumbers, and tomatoes are usually classed with green 
vegetables, though they are fruits. 

Green vegetables contain 90-95 per cent water, 1-2 per 
cent protein, 2.5-5 P^r cent carbohydrate, 1-2 per cent 
mineral matter, and a trace of fat. They are valuable 
foods because the cellulose furnishes bulk to promote 
peristalsis and because the mineral salts contain a pre- 
dominance of the base-forming elements. Spinach, dande- 



FRUITS AND GREEN VEGETABLES 59 

Kons, cabbage, lettuce, and asparagus contain quite a 
little iron. 

With a few exceptions green vegetables should be eaten 
raw, because the mineral salts, being soluble, are lost in 
the water in which they are cooked, and because the cellu- 
lose serves its purpose best in the crisp form. Spinach and 
asparagus must be cooked. When vegetables are eaten 
fresh and served with salad dressing, they form an agreeable 
and important addition to a meal. 

Green Vegetables — Cooked 

Spinach. — Wash one half peck of spinach four or five 
times in plenty of water to remove all the sand found on 




Spinach with Rice Border. 



the plants. Place the spinach in a kettle and pour a small 
quantity of boiling water over it. Spinach shrinks rapidly 



6o FRUITS AND GREEN VEGETABLES 

and needs but little water on it, and as it contains valuable 
mineral salts, among them considerable iron, that are 
soluble in water, it is best to use as little water as possible. 
When cooked, season the spinach with butter, salt, and 
pepper, and garnish with sliced hard-boiled eggs. 

Asparagus. — Wash one bunch of asparagus, cut into 
inch pieces, and discard the tough lower ends. Place in a 
stewpan, cover with boiling water, and cook 30 to 45 
minutes, or until soft. Thicken the juice as for White 
Sauce, using two tablespoons of butter, two tablespoons 
of flour, one fourth teaspoon salt and speck of pepper. 
Serve on toast or as a creamed vegetable. Asparagus is 
also served in its own liquid, merely seasoned with butter, 
salt, and pepper. Asparagus contains considerable iron 
also, and should not be drained. 

Creamed Celery. — Separate the stalks of celery, and 
save the tender inner parts to serve as a relish. Wash the 
stalks and remove the rusty portions. Cut into inch 
pieces, cover with boiling water, and cook until tender. 
Drain, pour White Sauce over, and serve. 

Creamed Cauliflower. — Soak cauliflower for one half 
hour in cold salted water. Cut the clusters apart, cover 
with boiling water, and cook until tender, about 35 minutes. 
Drain, pour White Sauce over, and serve. 

Spanish Tomatoes. — Peel three large tomatoes and cut 
into slices. Place in a stewpan, add one half cup of cold 
water. Remove the com from two ears of green com and 
add to the tomatoes. Add one half small green pepper 
chopped fine, one fourth cup of celery cut into small 
pieces. Boil 20 minutes, add three tablespoons of but- 
ter, one half teaspoon salt, and one eighth teaspoon 
pepper. 



FRUITS AND GREEN VEGETABLES 6i 

Green Vegetables — Salads 

Salads are made of cold meat or fish, eggs, cheese, raw or 
cooked vegetables or fruits, combined with a salad dressing. 
The green vegetables, often called the salad plants, are 
cress, endive, lettuce, cabbage, cucumber, celery, and 
tomato ; and they make the most attractive salads. They 
are cooling, refreshing', stimulate the appetite and should 
be eaten as frequently as possible because of the mineral 
salts which they contain. They may often take the place 
of a dessert at a meal. 

To make a perfect salad the vegetables should be crisp 
and cold. All ingredients in the dressing should be prop- 
erly proportioned and well blended, and the salad should 
be attractively served. Vegetables should be washed 
and allowed to stand in ice-cold water or on ice, imtil crisp. 
They should then be drained and placed in a cheesecloth 
bag in a cool place until they are served. Dressing is 
added at the table or just before sending to the table. 

If meat or fish is used, free it from bone and fat, and cut 
it in small uniform pieces. Canned fruit or cold left-over 
vegetables may be used for salads. For dinner serve a 
green vegetable or fruit salad. For luncheon serve a fish, 
cheese, or heavy salad, and let it serve as the principal 
dish. Fish, cheese, or meat salad contain all the protein 
needed for a meal. At dinner, when meat is served, the 
salad should not furnish additional protein, but mineral 
salts, cellulose, and relish. 

SALAD DRESSINGS 

Cooked Salad Dressing. — Mix one tablespoon of flour, one 
teaspoon salt, one teaspoon mustard, one tablespoon sugar. 



62 FRUITS AND GREEN VEGETABLES 

and a speck of cayenne pepper. Add two tablespoons of 
melted butter, two egg yolks, and three fourths cup of milk. 
Cook in a double boiler luitil it thickens, stirring constantly. 
Then add three tablespoons of vinegar and boil one minute. 

French Dressing. — Mix one half teaspoon salt, a speck 
of cayenne pepper, four tablespoons olive oil, and beat 
thoroughly. Add one tablespoon yinegar and beat vig- 
orously until thoroughly blended. 

Mayonnaise Dressing. — Beat the yolk of one egg ; add 
one fourth teaspoon each of salt and paprika and beat 
again, then use an egg beater and beat in two tablespoons 
of vinegar or lemon juice ; beat vigorously, then add a tea- 
spoon of olive oil and continue beating ; add oil, a teaspoon 
at a time, three or four times, beating vigorously mean- 
while ; then add the oil by the tablespoon until a cup in all 
has been used. Finish with one tablespoon of boiling 
water, beating it in, in the same manner as the oil. 
{Boston Cooking School Magazine.) 

Garnish for Salad. 

Lettuce Capers 

Endive Hard-boiled Eggs 

Water Cress Riced Eggs 

Peppers Diced Vegetables 

Parsley Nasturtium Leaves and Flowers 

To Serve with Salad. 

Cheese Straws Crackers 

Cheese Wafers Brown, Graham and 

Sandwiches White Bread, sliced very 

Wafers thin, buttered. 

Stuffed Tomato Salad. — Remove skin from tomatoes 
by pouring boiling water over them. Cut a slice from the 



FRUITS AND GREEN VEGETABLES 63 

top of the tomato and remove the interior. Fill the 
tomato with cucumber cut in very thin shces and place 
Cooked Salad Dressing over the top. Serve on lettuce. 

Grape Salad. — Remove the skins and seeds from white 
or red grapes and cut in halves. Take equal parts of grapes, 
sliced peaches, pears, pineapple, or any fruit obtainable. 
Place on leaves of endive or head lettuce and serve with 
Mayonnaise Dressing. 




Grape Salad. 

Cabbage Salad. — Cut one half of a small head of cab- 
bage in very thin slices, or chop it with the chopping knife. 
Mix with one recipe of hot Cooked Salad Dressing. Chill 
and serve cold. 

Waldorf Salad. — Chop equal quantities of apple, celery, 
and walnuts. Mix with Cooked Salad Dressing. Serve 
on lettuce leaves. 

CONLEY P. C. — 5 



64 



FRUITS AND GREEN VEGETABLES 



Banana Salad. — Take ripe bananas, cut them in halves 
lengthwise. Roll in Cooked Salad Dressing. Chop one 
half cup of peanuts. Roll the bananas in the nuts. Serve 
on lettuce leaves. 

Fruit Salad. — Arrange layers of sliced pineapple, 
peaches, or pears on lettuce. Serve with Mayonnaise 
Dressing. 

Cucumber or Tomato Salad. — Remove skin, slice toma- 
toes in thick slices; slice the cucumbers in thin slices. 
Serve on lettuce leaves with French or Cooked Salad Dress- 
ing. 

Potato Salad. — Cut two cups of cold boiled potates in 
one half inch cubes. Add one half teaspoon salt, and 
one tablespoon of chopped onion. Mix with one recipe of 
Cooked Salad Dressing or Sour Dressing, and garnish with 
sliced hard-boiled eggs and chopped parsley. 

Asparagus Salad. — If fresh asparagus is not obtainable 
at a reasonable cost, remove the liquid from a can of 
blanched asparagus tips, and rinse well. Chop one pimento. 

Arrange six or eight 
stalks of asparagus on 
head lettuce leaves. 
Sprinkle with chopped 
pimento and serve with 
French Dressing. 

Combination Salad. — 
Chop, separately, one 
half cup each of cucum- 
AsPARAGus Salad. ^er, tomato, and celery ; 

add one teaspoon of 
chopped onion. Mix lightly with a fork until blended ; add 
Cooked Salad Dressing and serve on lettuce leaves. 




FRUITS AND GREEN VEGETABLES 65 

PRESERVATION OF FOODS 

So much is said and written concerning harmful bacteria 
or germs, that we are inclined to think that all kinds of 
bacteria are powerful and insidious enemies. 

No warning yet issued seems to be strong enough to 
influence all thinking and reasoning people to take means 
to destroy the harmful, disease-breeding, or pathogenic 
bacteria. To this class belong the germs causing typhoid 
fever, tuberculosis, diphtheria, scarlet fever, and other 
contagious diseases. If all people would be vigilant for a 
few years, we could destroy practically all these germs and 
free the world from the preventable sicknesses due either 
to carelessness or ignorance. 

The study of pathogenic bacteria belongs to the subjects 
of sanitation and hygiene in regular school work, and it 
bears but indirectly on cooking. It relates to cooking in 
so far that absolute cleanliness must be the motto for both 
kitchen and cook, and that precaution must be taken that 
water, milk, and other foods, do not contain disease-form- 
ing bacteria. Because public health boards do not attend 
to these problems the housekeeper must. 

Dust and dirt are unsightly, and we must be constantly 
on guard to keep them out of our homes, but that is not 
all. Dust and dirt furnish excellent breeding places for 
disease germs, and for that reason, if for no other, we must 
keep things clean and prevent accumulation of dirt. 

Cooking deals directly with a much more interesting 
class of bacteria, as it deals with molds and yeast. All 
bacteria are not pernicious and harmful ; some are harm- 
less and some are useful. Some of these bacteria feed on 
food, leaves, wood, ^nd other substances, and break them 



66 FRUITS AND GREEN VEGETABLES 

down so that the elements of which these substances are 
composed may again furnish food for new plants. In 
other words, bacteria cause the decay of organic substances 
and return to the soil what plants take from it, and by 
their work they make it possible to raise crops every year. 

Nature protects the little apple, tomato, cherry, and 
other seeds, by covering them with a soft pulp. When the 
seeds are ripe, the pulp begins to decay ; protection is no 
longer needed ; the seeds are able to take care of themselves. 

Man has found a use for these soft, juicy, and deliciously 
flavored seed coverings, and he desires to save them for 
his food. To do this some means must be found to stop 
the growth of those bacteria which cause decay. 

Bacteria need food, warmth, and moisture for develop- 
ment and growth. Most kinds are destroyed at a tempera- 
ture above i6o^ F., though what are called the spore-form- 
ing kinds can resist higher temperatures; even boiling 
temperature does not always kill them. Freezing tempera- 
ture does not destroy bacteria, but they do not develop at 
a temperature just above freezing. When brought from a 
freezing temperature to a higher temperature, they develop 
with astonishing rapidity. 

To preserve foods for use, it is necessary to destroy the 
bacteria present or to prevent their growth. Several 
different methods are used for preservation. Drying takes 
out the moisture needed for development of bacteria and 
preserves foods for indefinite periods of time. Cold 
storage deprives the bacteria of the heat needed for their 
development and retards their growth. Some media, as 
sugar, vinegar, spices, salt, smoke, make it impossible for 
bacteria to grow. We say that they cannot thrive well in 
certain media. Certain chemical preservatives, having no 



FRUITS AND GREEN VEGETABLES 67 

food value in themselves, destroy bacteria, but they should 
not be used in foods because they are harmful to the body. 
Bacteria are present in the air and they may enter foods 
after the foods have been rendered sterile by boiling. For 
this reason foods are canned, or sealed in air-tight, steri- 
lized jars after the food has first been made sterile. If a 
sufficient quantity of sugar, salt, or vinegar has been used, 
sealing is not necessary, because bacteria cannot grow in 
the solution used ; but in canning, a small quantity of sugar 
is used, and that solution is very favorable for the growth 
of certain bacteria. 

CANNING 

With a little care, all fruits and many vegetables can be 
canned and stored for winter use. Many vegetables thus 
prepared taste almost as good as when fresh, and they re- 
lieve the monotony of a diet that must otherwise be limited 
to winter-kept vegetables. All fruits — apples, cherries, 
plums, even melons — may be canned with little expense. 
By canning is meant preserving in sterilized, air-tight cans 
or jars, with or without sugar. 

For small families, the pint jars are best, because that 
quantity will serve for one meal, and if a larger jar is opened, 
the fruit deteriorates before it can be used. In fact pint 
jars are best in all cases where fruit is canned. In pic- 
kling, a larger jar is necessary, because the fruit is whole. 
New rubbers should be procured for the jars every season : 
and if the covers are bent or old, new ones can be purchased 
at a shght cost. If old rubbers or bent covers are used, 
the jar will not be air-tight and the fruit and labor are 
lost. If air-tight, and the work is properly done, not one 
can of fruit should be lost. 



68 FRUITS AND GREEN VEGETABLES 

To sterilize the jars, provide a wooden rack or blocks, 
so that the jars will not come in contact with the bottom 
of the pan or kettle used. Place the jars, filled with cold 
water, on the block in the pan or kettle and then fill the 
kettle with cold water. Place on the stove where they 
will heat gradually, and when the water boils, the jars are 
sterilized and ready for use. Dip the rubbers in hot 
water before placing on the cans, and sterilize the covers 
also. 

Fill the jars to overflowing with fruit, and sirup or boil- 
ing water. Insert the handle of a silver fork or spoon be- 
tween the jar and fruit so that the air bubbles will rise to 
the top. Put on rubbers and covers and screw them tight. 
After the jars have been cooled, tighten the covers again, 
invert the jars, and let them stand in this way, to be sure 
that no juice comes out ; if it does, the jars are not air- 
tight. 

Note. — New styles in fruit jars are constantly appearing on the market. 
Complete directions, for the successful use of these jars, are always given 
by the 'retail merchant. 

Canned Tomatoes. — Place tomatoes in boiling water 
to remove the skins. Tomatoes may be canned whole or 
cut into halves. Fill the cans with tomatoes, and place 
the covers on loosely. Place the jars in a boiler or deep 
pan. The jars should rest on a wooden rack or light 
blocks to keep the jars from contact with the bottom of 
the pan. Fill the pan with cold water up to two inches 
from the top of the jars. Heat to the boiling point and 
boil twenty minutes. Fill the jars to overflowing with 
boiling water, put on rubbers, cover and seal. 

Canned Com. — To nine pints of com add one pint of 
sugar and two thirds of a pint of salt and enough water to 



FRUITS AND GREEN VEGETABLES 



69 



cover the com. Cook fifteen minutes after it begins to 
boil. Fill sterilized jars, to overflowing, with corn, and 
seal. When ready to use, pour boiling water over the corn 
to freshen it, and strain. 

Canned Peaches and Other Fruits. — Peaches, pears, 
cherries, apples, may all be canned in the same way. Fruits, 
like pineapple and quince, should first be cooked in boiling 
water until nearly soft, and then canned as for peaches. 

Allow four cups of water to four cups of sugar for sirup. 
Boil the water and sugar ten minutes and then drop in 
the fruit, a small quantity at a time, so as not to crush it. 
Cook until nearly soft and then fill the jars. The 
hot sirup will finish the 
cooking of the fruit. 

To prepare peaches, 
place them in boiling 
water to loosen the skins, 
and then peel. Peaches 
may be canned whole or 
in halves or quarters. 

Canned Berries. — 
Berries contain so much 
water that very little 
should be added. Fill the 

jars full of whole berries. Make a sirup by crushing some 
of the berries, heating them slightly, and straining the 
juice. Allow one and one half cups of sugar to each cup 
of juice and boil three minutes. Fill the jars with sirup 
and proceed as for canned tomatoes. 

Jelly Making. — The best fruits for jelly making are 
currants, apples, grapes, and quinces. Wild green crab 
apples or wild grapes make deliciously flavored jelly. 




Strawberries. 



70 FRUITS AND GREEN VEGETABLES 

These fruits are best because they contain considerable 
pectin or pectose. Pectin is a carbohydrate found in ripe 
or nearly ripe pulpy fruits and causes the juice to gelatinize. 
Some fruits contain so little pectin that they will not make 
jelly unless some fruit rich in pectin is added. For example, 
red raspberries contain little pectin, while currants are 
rich in it. Red raspberries with currants added make a 
very fine jelly. 

Test Juice for Pectin. — Mix equal amounts of ethyl alcohol and 
boiled fruit juice, and if pectin is present a gelatinous mass will appear 
on the spoon inserted. 

Pectin is most abundant in the skin and core of the fruit, 
and it loses its gelatinizing power when the juice is boiled 
too long. The pectin is at its best when the fruit is just 
ripe or not quite ripe, but if the fruit is overripe, the chances 
are that the jelly will not stiffen. When the boiling has 
been too violent, jelly becomes crystallized after it stiffens. 
If the juice is stirred when boiling, the jelly will become 
coarse and tough. 

Currant Jelly. — Wash and drain the currants without 
removing the stems. Put them in a granite kettle, half 
cover with water, mash them slightly, and allow them to 
cook slowly. Strain through a coarse strainer, being sure 
that all the fruit is crushed, then allow the juice to drain 
through a double thickness of cheesecloth. Do not 
squeeze the bag or the jelly will not be clear. Measure 
the juice and boil five minutes. Add an equal quantity 
of heated granulated sugar and boil five minutes. Boil 
slowly and skim until clear. Then pour into sterilized 
glasses. Place in a sunny window and let it stand until 
it stiffens. Cover with paraflin paper. The length of 



FRUITS AND GREEN VEGETABLES 71 

time for boiling before adding sugar depends on the amount 
of water added to the fruit. 

Apple Jelly. — Wash and wipe the apples and remove 
the stems and blossom end. Cut the apples in quarters, 
place in a granite kettle and add enough cold water to 
nearly cover them. Cook slowly until the apples are soft, 
then crush and drain through a sieve and strain the juice 
through a double thickness of cheesecloth. Measure the 
juice and boil it fifteen minutes. Add an equal quantity 
of heated granulated sugar and boil slowly five minutes. 
Skim and pour into sterilized glasses. 

Grape Jelly. — Wash the grapes and remove them from 
the stems. Place in a granite kettle. Nearly cover with 
water, crush shghtly, and boil untU soft. Strain through 
a double thickness of cheesecloth. Measure the juice 
and boil ten minutes. Add an equal quantity of heated 
granulated sugar and boil three minutes. Skim and pour 
into sterilized glasses. 

Pickled Peaches and Other Fruits. — Six cups sugar, 
three cups vinegar, one ounce stick cinnamon, one dozen 
whole pepper seeds. Boil twenty minutes. Remove 
skins from peaches, place two whole cloves in each peach. 
Cook in the sirup until nearly soft. Fill jars and seal. 
Crab apples are very nice pickled this way. 

Pickled Nasturtium Seeds. — Pick green seeds and soak 
twenty-four hours in salted water. Drain, wash, and let 
stand two hours in fresh water. Pack in bottles and fill 
with boiling vinegar. They may be used in place of 
capers for caper sauce. 

Tomato Catsup. — One gallon strained tomatoes, four 
level tablespoons salt, three tablespoons black pepper, 
three tablespoons mustard, one tablespoon paprika, 



72 FRUITS AND GREEN VEGETABLES 

two tablespoons chopped red pepper, one half tablespoon 
cloves, one half tablespoon allspice, two tablespoons sugar, 
one pint vinegar. Place black pepper, cloves, and all- 
spice in small bags to prevent discoloring the catsup. 
Boil until the required thickness; place in bottles and 
hermetically seal. 

Chili Sauce. — Two quarts of peeled and sUced ripe 
tomatoes, one cup of chopped celery, one chopped red 
pepper, one chopped onion, three tablespoons sugar, one 
tablespoon salt, one tablespoon cloves, one tablespoon 
allspice, one tablespoon cinnamon, one half tablespoon 
paprika, one pint vinegar. Cook slowly about two and 
a half hours. 

Pear Conserve. — Peel and cut into cubes, five pounds 
of pears, add five pounds of sugar. Let stand over night. 
Drain off the sirup and boil it until thick, then add the 
pears, one pound of seeded raisins, one half pound of 
walnuts cut fine, the juice and rind of two lemons, juice 
and rind of three oranges, and boil the mixture five minutes. 
Put into glasses and cover with parafl&n. 

Pickled Beans. — Boil round yellow beans in salted water 
until tender but not soft. Drain and fill cans with beans, 
pour hot sirup over, and seal. Sirup: one quart of 
vinegar, two cups of sugar, whole cloves and cinnamon to 
taste. Boil for five minutes. 

Pickled Cucumbers. — Select medium-sized cucumbers 
and soak over night in a brine which will float an egg. 
Wash and drain pickles and place in cans, add one table- 
spoon each of sugar, salt, and mustard to a quart of pickles. 
Fill the cans with cold vinegar and seal. 



CHAPTER V 

ROOTS AND TUBERS: THEIR CHIEF FOOD 
PRODUCTS 

ROOTS AND TUBERS 

Roots, tubers, and bulbs are either the roots or thickened 
stems of vegetables in which sugar or starch is stored for 
the nourishment of the young plant when it shall need it. 
Because they are storehouses of nourishment, they have 
a higher food value than most fruits or green vegetables, 
although some few fruits equal them in nutritive value. 

They contain from 70-90 per cent water, 8-26 per 
cent carbohydrate in the form of starch, sugar, pectin, 
and cellulose, i per cent mineral matter, less than 2 per 
cent protein, and only a trace of fat. When we purchase 
them at the market they contain about 20 per cent refuse. 
That is, about 20 per cent is trimmed off when we prepare 
them for cooking. 

Roots and tubers are cheap foods and supply almost 
endless variety to the diet, since they are easily prepared 
in many appetizing ways. They furnish 16 per cent of 
the average American diet, potatoes alone furnishing 
12I per cent. Their food value is in the carbohydrates 
and mineral salts which they contain. 

Roots and tubers are usually grouped into two classes, 
— starchy roots and tubers, which include potatoes, sweet 
potatoes, yams, and the starchy foods prepared from roots 
and stems, as tapioca, sago, and arrowroot; and succu- 

73 



74 ROOTS AND TUBERS 

lent roots and tubers, which include beets, turnips, carrots, 
rutabagas, parsnips, salsify, celeriac, radishes, onions, kohl- 
rabi, and garlic. The flavor and odor of these foods are 
due to the presence of volatile oil which may be retained 
or dissipated by proper cooking. 

Typical Root or Tuber, Potato. 

Composition. — 78.3 per cent water; 18.4 per cent 
carbohydrate, of which 16 per cent is starch, 2 per cent 
dextrin, sugar, pectose, .4 per cent cellulose; 2.2 per cent 
nitrogenous matter, of which 1.3 per cent is protein; 
I per cent mineral matter. 

Structure. — The potato consists of a network of cells 
held together by cellulose and surrounded by a brown 
corky skin. The cells contain starch, mineral matter, 
and a very small amount of protein. 

Experiments with Potato to show Content. 

Water. — Let the potato stand in a warm, dry place and weigh 
it occasionally. Note the loss of water by evaporation. 

Starch. — Grate the potato, place in a cheesecloth bag, and wash 
the starch out. Let the water stand until the starch settles, then 
pour the water off and weigh the starch. Starch test : A solution of 
iodine turns starch blue. 

Ash. — Burn potato in a crucible until nothing remains but the 
ash. 

Food Value. — Potatoes are the most important car- 
bohydrate food, and it may be said that they are served 
at every dinner and usually at one other meal in the aver- 
age American home. They generally furnish the main 
carbohydrate part of a dinner and are valuable also for 
the potash and other important mineral salts which they 
contain. 



ROOTS AND TUBERS 75 

Principles involved in Cooking. — Potatoes are 
made up of innumerable cells, having walls of cellulose 
and inclosing starch, mineral matter, water, and a small 
amoxmt of protein. Heat causes the starch grains to 
swell and burst the cell walls, and thus the starch is 
free so that the digestive juices can act on it. Heat 
coagulates the protein. Some starch and mineral matter 
are lost when potatoes are pared and cooked in boil- 
ing water. There is no loss when they are steamed 
or baked. 

Method of Preparation. — Potatoes should be pared 
thin, as much of the protein and mineral salts are directly 
under the skin and are lost in deep paring. When potatoes 
are being prepared, they should be covered with water 
and should remain in water until it is time to cook them. 
If they are exposed to the air, they turn black, because 
certain ferments in them become active in the presence of 
oxygen. Old potatoes may be soaked in water to restore 
some of the lost moisture, but ordinarily nutrients are 
lost if potatoes are left soaking in water for any length of 
time. Potatoes should always be cooked in boiling water, 
not simmering or nearly boiling, so as to coagulate the 
protein and retain all the nutrients possible. 

Methods of Cooking. — Baking, boiling, scalloping, 
frying, etc. 

Grated potatoes are used for puddings, pies, muffins, 
soups, cakes, etc. 

Baked Potatoes. — (See recipe, page 35.) 

Boiled Potatoes. — Wash and pare potatoes, cover with 
cold water until time to cook. Put into boiling salted 
water and cook until soft, about 30 minutes, allowing one 
tablespoon of salt to each quart of water. When done, 



76 ROOTS AND TUBERS 

drain thoroughly, cover with a folded napkin, and set 
where they will dry off and keep warm until served. 

Potatoes boiled " in jackets " are more nutritious than 
those pared before boiling, as there is practically no loss 
of nutrients when they are simply washed clean and 
plunged into boiling water, and cooked. Because of ease 
in serving, potatoes are usually pared. 

Mashed Potatoes. — Mash hot boiled potatoes and to 
every pint of potato add one tablespoon of butter, one 
half teaspoon of salt, and enough milk to moisten. Beat 
thoroughly. 

Escalloped Potatoes. — Slice the potatoes in slices one 
fourth inch thick. Parboil lo minutes. Place the potatoes 
in a baking dish in layers. Pour thin White Sauce over 
them, and sprinkle with buttered crumbs. Bake 20 to 30 
minutes in a slow oven. 

Thin White Sauce. — Two tablespoons butter, one table- 
spoon flour, one cup milk, one fourth teaspoon salt, speck 
of pepper. Prepare as for White Sauce. 

Glazed Sweet Potatoes. — Wash and pare the potatoes. 
Cut into halves lengthwise. Parboil 10 minutes. Dip 
into sirup, put into a buttered pan, bake 15 to 20 minutes. 
Baste occasionally with the sirup. Bake in a hot oven. 

Sirup. — Mix one half cup sugar, four tablespoons 
water, one tablespoon butter. Boil three minutes. 

Potatoes in White Sauce. — Cut cold boiled potatoes 
into half inch cubes. Make a White Sauce. Add potatoes 
and heat. 

Stuffed Potatoes. — Bake large potatoes, cut lengthwise 
through the center. Remove the inside and mash. For 
six potatoes use two tablespoons butter, one fourth cup 
milk, one eighth teaspoon pepper, one fourth teaspoon 



ROOTS AND TUBERS 77 

salt, one fourth cup chopped egg, or parsley, or two table- 
spoons grated cheese. Return to shell, and brown in 
oven. 

Lyonnaise Potatoes. — Cut three medium-sized potatoes 
in cubes. Melt three tablespoons butter in hot pan, add 
one tablespoon chopped onion, cook in butter until brown. 




Potato Salad. 
Garnished with sliced beet, sardines, and boiled eggs. 

Add the potatoes, sprinkle with one fourth teaspoon 
salt, speck of pepper, and stir occasionally until golden 
brown. 

Cream of Potato Soup. — Cook three potatoes in boiling 
salted water; when soft, rub through a sieve, and use 
about two and a half cups of potato. Scald one quart of 
milk with two slices of onion. Add the potato. Remove 
onion. Melt two tablespoons butter, add two tablespoons 
flour, and mix thoroughly. Add one teaspoon salt, one 
eighth teaspoon pepper. Stir into the soup. Boil three 



78 ROOTS AND TUBERS 

minutes, sprinkle with one tablespoon chopped parsley, 
and serve. 

Cream soups are White Sauce with some vegetable added 
for flavor and to increase the nutritive value. 

Croutons. — Cut slices of bread one half inch thick, and 
spread with butter. Cut into inch squares, and place in 
the oven and brown. Serve with soup. 

Potato Salad. — Cut two cups of cold boiled potatoes in 
one half inch cubes. Add one half teaspoon salt, and 
one tablespoon of chopped onion. Mix with one recipe of 
Cooked Salad Dressing or Sour Dressing, and garnish with 
sliced hard-boiled eggs and chopped parsley. A very attrac- 
tive dish is made when this salad is garnished with sliced 
beets, sardines, and boiled eggs. See illustration on page 77. 

Sour Dressing. — Mix one fourth cup of melted butter, 
one half cup of hot vinegar, one half teaspoon salt, one 
eighth teaspoon pepper, one half teaspoon chopped onion. 

SUCCULENT ROOTS AND TUBERS 

Succulent roots and tubers contain more water and less 
nutrients than the starchy roots and tubers, and so have 
a lower food value. They are valuable additions to the 
diet because of their mineral salts, large amount of cellu- 
lose, flavor, and because they furnish variety. They all 
contain carbohydrate in some form. 

Selection. — Old roots and tubers are tough and woody 
and require a much longer time for cooking than the young 
and tender ones. They have a lower food value because 
they contain so much cellulose, are of a coarser texture and 
often are dry and corky. 

Preparation. — Succulent roots and tubers should be 
washed clean, pared as thin as possible, cooked whole when 



ROOTS AND TUBERS 79 

possible, and sliced if so desired, after they are cooked. 
If cooked in a small quantity of water, there is less loss of 
nutrients than when a large quantity of water is used. 
When they are steamed, there is practically no loss of 
nutrients. . 

Methods of Preparing Succulent Roots and Tubers and Green 
Vegetables for the Table. 

1. Creamed. — Boiled and sliced, served with White Sauce. 

2. Diced. — Boiled and cut into small pieces or cubes. 

3. Grated. — Grated and served with Salad Dressing as a salad. 

4. Mashed. — Boiled and mashed and flavored with butter, salt 
and pepper. 

5. Fried. — Boiled and cut into thin slices, and dipped in crumbs. 
or flour, and sauted. May be sliced first, then boiled. Saute in 
bacon fat or half lard and half butter. 

6. Scalloped. — SHced, parboiled (partially boiled), and baked 
with thin White Sauce and buttered crumbs. 

7. Pickled. — Boiled, sliced or whole, with vinegar added before 
serving. All vegetables are best cooked whole and sliced afterwards, 
because there is loss of nutritive ingredients when they are cooked in 
water, and the more surface exposed, the greater the loss. 

The greater the amount of cellulose a vegetable contains, 
the longer the time needed for cooking. Old vegetables 
require longer time than fresh ones because the cellulose 
has become woody. For this reason no time can be given 
in the recipe. 

Lessons on Succulent Roots and Tubers. 

1. Fried Carrots or Parsnips. For method see Number 5. 

2. Grated Carrots. For method see Number 3. 

3. Mashed Rutabagas. For method see Number 4. 

4. Pickled Beets. For method see Number 7. 

CONLEY p. c. — 6 



8o ROOT AND TUBER PRODUCTS 

PREPARED STARCHY FOODS 

In tropical countries, many foods, unknown to us, form 
common and staple articles of diet. Some of these foods 
are prepared for our market and sold to us in the dry form, 
and they furnish variety to our meals. Chief among 
the starchy tropical foods which we enjoy eating are tapioca, 
sago, and arrowroot. Of these tapioca is the least expen- 
sive, the best known, and one most commonly used. 

The tapioca which we use is prepared from the roots of 
bitter cassava plant. These roots are washed, cut, ground 
to a pulp, and the bitter acid which they contain is removed. 
The pulp is then treated so as to separate the pure starch 
from the woody fiber or cellulose. The starch is then dried 
and sold as flake, pearl, or minute tapioca. The flake 
tapioca occurs in irregular pieces, the pearl in round form, 
and the minute is ground to a coarse powder so that it 
will cook quickly. As tapioca is a dried food, it must be 
soaked to restore the lost moisture before it can be cooked. 
Flake and pearl tapioca should be soaked at least an hour, 
preferably two hours. Minute tapioca should be soaked 
at least ten minutes. 

Sago is prepared from the spongy pith or center of the 
trunk of the sago palm tree. The pith of the tree reaches 
its fullest development just before the tree begins to bear 
fruit. At this time the tree is cut and the pith is removed 
and ground to a powder. The powder is mixed with water 
to separate the starch from the fiber. After the starch is 
washed out, it is dried and sold as sago. 

Tapioca Pudding. — Soak one fourth cup of flake or 
pearl tapioca in one half cup of water for at least an hour, 
add two cups of milk, and cook until the tapioca is trans- 



ROOT AND TUBER PRODUCTS 8i 

parent, about 30 minutes. Beat two eggs, add one fourth 
cup of sugar, one eighth teaspoon of salt, one teaspoon 
of vanilla, and mix thoroughly with the tapioca. Bake 
in a moderate oven for 30 minutes. Sago may be used 
instead of tapioca. 

Apple Tapioca. — Soak one fourth cup of minute tapioca 
in one fourth cup of water for ten minutes, add two cups 
of milk, and cook imtil the tapioca is transparent, stirring 
constantly. Add one fourth cup of sugar, one eighth tea- 
spoon of salt, and one cup of thinly sliced or chopped tart 
apples. Turn into a baking dish and bake until the apples 
are soft. Serve with cream or soft custard. 

SUGAR 

Sugar or sucrose is made from the juice of sugar cane, 
sugar beets, and from the sap of the maple tree. Cane, 
beet, and maple sugars are exactly alike, chemically, but 
maple sugar contains certain substances which give it 
its peculiar flavor. Formerly most of the sugar was made 
from sugar cane, but now beets are raised extensively for 
sugar, and much sugar is manufactured from them. While 
there is no scarcity of sugar for the reason that beet sugar 
is supplanting cane sugar, there is a scarcity of molasses, 
sirup, and the by-products of cane sugar. Most of the 
sirup and molasses sold in the country is made directly 
from glucose, which is made from corn, and colored and 
flavored until it looks like the by-products of cane sugar. 
Corn sirup is a good food product, and has its uses in cook- 
ing, but it should be labeled and sold as such so that the 
purchaser will know exactly what he is getting. 

In the making of sugar from the juice of sugar cane the 
stalks are crushed, and the juice is boiled until it is a thick 



82 ROOT AND TUBER PRODUCTS 

sirup. As it boils, part of it crystallizes and is called raw 
sugar, and part of it, containing all the impurities in the 
sugar juice, including potash salts, will not crystallize 
and is called molasses. Improvements are constantly made 
in the process of sugar making, and it is now possible 
to crystallize nearly all the juice, and so less and less mo- 
lasses is left. Molasses is acid in reaction, and because of 
' the impurities which it contains, — impure in the sense 
that they interfere with the crystallization of the sugar, 
— it gives to foods a very pleasing flavor and has a high 
nutritive value. 

After the raw sugar is separated from the molasses, it is 
mixed with water, and milk of lime to neutralize it, 
bleached, clarified, and put into vacuum pans and boiled 
to a thick sirup. This sirup is then put into centrifugal 
machines which separate the sugar from the sirup. The 
sugar becomes fine white crystals, and, because of improve- 
ments in the process, practically all the sirup becomes 
sugar. 

Soft sugars are partially refined sugars. The refined 
sugars are sold as bar, cube, tablet, crystallized, coarse 
grain, medium grain, fine grain, and pulverized sugars. 

Com sirup or glucose is a noncrystalhne sugar, and for 
that reason it has distinctive uses in cooking. All sucrose 
or cane sugar is inverted to glucose during cooking by the 
addition of acid or when sugar is added to fruits contain- 
ing acid, as in the making of cranberry jelly. As glucose 
is only three fifths as sweet as sucrose, if the inversion takes 
place, more sugar is needed than when it is added after 
the fruit has finished cooking. If the sirupy consistency 
is desired, however, the sugar must be boiled with the 
fruit. 



ROOT AND TUBER PRODUCTS 



83 



Prepared by 

C. F LANGWORlriY 

Expert in Charge of Nutrition InvestigatJons 

COMPOSITION OF FOOD MATERIALS. 



U. S. Department of Agriculture 
Office of Experiment Stations 
A. C. True: Director 



BB ffTTTTTl 

Protein Tat 

SUGAR 

SRANULATEO 



Carbohydrates Ash 



Pu«i v«iue 
>f*Sq.ln. Equate 
1000 Calories 
MOLASSES 




Carbohydrates: 100.0 



Protcin:2.4 



Water-^5.1 



Fuel nux-. 



Carbohydrates: ^.3 



STICK CANDY 




1810 CALORICS t Carbohydrates: 96.5 



1300 CALORIES 
PFRPQUNO 



Water: 3.0 



Fuel value; 



Ash: 0.5 



MAPLE SUGAR '745 calories 

PER POUND 



HONEY 



A8h:0.9^ 






Fuel value: 



-Water: 16.3 Waterier 
Protein 0,4^ 



Carbo- Carbo- 

hydrates :82 8 hydrates & \.2\ 




AshO.2 



1 500 calories PER POUND 



1475 CALORICS PER POUND 



Sugars. 



84 ROOT AND TUBER PRODUCTS 

During the making of frostings and fondant, an 
acid, as cream of tartar or vinegar, is added to the 
sugar to change it to glucose and give it a smooth 
consistency. If rightly made, frostings and fondant 
will not crystallize, because acids boiled with cane or 
beet sugar invert or change it to glucose. 

CANDY MAKING 

When sugar and some liquid are boiled together as in 
candy making, different temperatures or different degrees 
of density are closely noted, as they indicate different stages 
or changes in the mixture and produce candies of different 
texture. 

Sugar thermometers are sometimes used to learn the 
temperatures, but expert candy makers can test by drop- 
ping some of the solution in cold water, by the sound while 
boiling, by the appearance of the sirup, or by the finger 
test. 

The tests that are most used in cooking and candy 
making are, the thread stage, 215° F. ; the soft ball, 
238° F. ; the hard ball, 248° F. ; the crack, 290° F. ; 
and the caramel, 350° F. The thread stage is used 
in making frosting, the soft ball for fondant, the hard 
ball and crack for molasses candy, and the caramel for 
peanut brittle. 

Peanut Brittle. — Heat two cups of sugar until melted, 
stirring constantly so that part of the sugar does not 
burn before the rest is melted. When the sugar is 
melted, add one cup of peanut meats and turn into 
a buttered pan. If a porous texture is desired, add one 
fourth teaspoon of soda as soon as the sugar is melted, 
and stir quickly. (Care must be taken that the sugar 



ROOT AND TUBER PRODUCTS 85 

does not boil up too quickly after the soda is added, for 
there is danger that the candy maker may receive a 
severe burn.) 

Molasses Candy. — Place in a large granite kettle two 
cups of molasses, one cup of sugar, two tablespoons of 
butter, and one tablespoon of vinegar or lemon juice. 
Boil until it reaches the crack stage, stirring constantly. 
Pour into a buttered pan until cool enough to handle. 
Pull until it is as light colored as desired. 

Fondant. — Two cups of sugar, one half cup cold water, 
one eighth teaspoon cream of tartar. Mix the sugar and 
water together, and put on the stove to boil. Stir until 
it begins to boil, then add the cream of tartar. Boil 
without stirring until it forms a soft ball when dropped in 
cold water. Turn on to a large plate or platter, and let it 
cool until you can indent it with a finger. Then work back 
and forth with a knife until it becomes white and creamy. 
Take it up and knead it as you would knead bread, until 
it is smooth. Roll in oiled paper, and let it stand twenty- 
four hours. Color and flavor as desired, and shape in 
creams. 

Sea Foam. — Boil together one cup of granulated sugar, 
one fourth cup of hot water, one fourth cup of corn sirup. 
Cook to a hard ball. Beat an egg white stiff and dry. 
Then add one speck of salt. Add the above sirup very 
slowly to the egg, beating it until stiff. Flavor with one 
fourth teaspoon of vanilla. 

Divinity Fudge. — Boil three cups of brown sugar, one 
third cup of corn sirup, two thirds cup of water, to a hard 
ball. Beat whites of two eggs dry, pour hot sirup on 
gradually. Beat constantly until mixture hardens. Add 
one cup of nutmeats. Shape into balls. 



86 ROOT AND TUBER PRODUCTS 

Chocolate Fudge. — Two cups of sugar, two ounces of 
chocolate, one half cup of milk, one tablespoon of butter. 
Boil to a soft ball without stirring. Remove from fire. 
Add one teaspoon vanilla. Beat until thick. Turn into 
buttered pan to cool. 

Chocolate Caramels. — Melt three ounces of chocolate, 
add two cups of molasses, one cup of brown sugar, two 
tablespoons of butter, one third cup of milk and mix 
thoroughly. Boil to a hard ball. Remove from the fire, 
add one teaspoon of vanilla, turn into a buttered pan, and 
when cool, mark into squares. 

Cream Candy. — Mix two cups of sugar, one half cup of 
water, three tablespoons of vinegar, and one teaspoon of 
cream of tartar. Boil until it forms a hard ball, add one 
teaspoon of extract of lemon, and turn into a buttered pan. 
When cool, pull until white, and cut into squares. 

Candied Popcorn. — Mix one tablespoon of butter, one 
cup of sugar, and four tablespoons of water. Boil until it 
threads or forms a soft ball. Pour the hot sirup over 
freshly popped popcorn, being careful to distribute it evenly. 
Mix well so that each kernel is coated with sirup and 
keep stirring until the corn has cooled. Nuts may be 
coated in the same way. 



CHAPTER VI 

CEREALS AND LEAVENING AGENTS 
CEREALS 

Nature has a different purpose than providing food for 
man and animals when she stores nourishment in plants. 
Her purpose is to provide food for the little embryo plant 
when it is ready to germinate. So careful is Mother 
Nature that the germ plant will have just the right kind 
of food needed for its complete development, that she 
stores all the food needed for some time in the part called 
the seed, that surrounds and protects the embryo. To 
show this, all we need to do is to place any seed, as beans, 
peas, com, wheat, between two pieces of cotton flannel, 
wet the flannel, and place it in a shallow pan like a pie plate. 
In a short time the plants will develop. 

All seeds contain considerable nutrition, and they all 
contain all the different kinds of food in varying propor- 
tion, depending on the protection and food needed for 
germination. Cereals, legumes, and nuts contain the 
greatest amount of nutrients, and, because they are so 
well liked, can be used in so many different ways in cooking, 
are cheap, easily digested, and furnish a balanced food in 
themselves, cereals are the most important of all the seeds. 

Cereals are defined as the grains or grasses, the seeds of 
which are used as food. They are, wheat, oats, corn, rice, 
rye, barley, buckwheat. Wheat is by far the most impor- 
tant of all cereals; com ranks next. 

87 



88 



CEREALS AND LEAVENING AGENTS 



U. S. Otfarlment of Aqricultare 
Office of Experiment Stations 
A. C. Trot: Olrectir 



Prtparcdby 
C. F. UN6W0RTHY 
Expert in Charge of Nutritien invcstigatiofts 

COMPOSITION OF FOOD MATERIALS. 

■ PmI Value 
Xi Sq.ln.EqoaU 
1000 Caloric 



■■ iim rvT"! 

Protein Fat Carbohydiates Ash 



WALNUT 

Watcr2l: 




Water 

CHESTNUT 

Protein: 16.6 Protein.lO. 

Carbo- 
hydrates: 74. 
Carbo- 

rates: 16.1 



Fueyjujc: PEANUT 

^^^H Water 9.2 




F uel valu c: 

Carbo- 
|!|^ydrates2f.4| 

3180 CALORIES ^ — ^Wlillljp'^^ 1820 cALomES 

peRPouHO Protem:25.8 ^ Fat: 38.6 peRPOunD 

Purt VALUC! 



Ash:?.2 




PEANUT BUTTER '^''f^^^^ 



WatEr?.J 



ratHb.^ 




COCOA NUT 

OeSlCCATEO 

Water:3.5 



Asht5.a 



Prot^&in.29.3 ProteifiTe^r 

Carbo- 
Carbo- hydrates: 3 1. S 

hydrates: 17.1 

^^^^ Ashi I. 




rat.57.4 



FufL 



FutL VALUE! 



2735 



CALORIES PER POUND 



3025 CALORIES PER POUdO 



Composition op Nuts. 



CEREALS AND LEAVENING AGENTS 



89 



If. S. Departfnent of Agriculture 

Office of Experiment Stations 

A. C. True: Director 



Prepared by 
C. F. UN6W0RTHY 
Expert in Chvge of Nutrition Investigations 

COMPOSITION OF FOOD MATERIALS. 

BHU nrnmn mm mm ^5^ ^■^Fu«ivaiu« 

Protein Fat CJirbohydwtes Ash Water ^■/(•Sq. In. Equals 

^^ 1000 Calories 

CORN WHEAT 

^^^^ Water: 10.8 WatertlO. 

Fat.4.3^'/?ffl8W5!W\. Pr<itciD:IO.O Protein: 1 2.2-^WW^e-FaT: 1.7 

^g^.| 5 \^j^^rbo%dfates:73.+ Carbohydrates: 73. 7 y,^^ 

FUB^UIE: FutL WUlf; 

■jH BUCKWHEAT ■■ 

I685CAL0R1ES Protein: IO.O..^^(C:;Water: 12.6 |625 calorics 

PCRPOuiD Carbo--— -#i^3^ ^Fat:2.? per pound 

hydrates :73.2^'*»--Ash: 2.0 

Fuel value : 

OAT ■■ RICE 





Water: 1 1 .0 1 696 calories Water: 12.0 
Protein: 11.8 ^'^^^ Protein: 8.0 



Fat:5. 



I r^ ^ nwB- Car bo- 

^Iw^T AQP ^^^ hydrates:77.i 
A u^n iJ Hydrates: 69.2 ^ 

Ash:3.0^V ' Jpt ^ Water: tO.5 

Fuel v-lue: ^^^'^'^ ]^J^ Protein: 12.2 p^^^ ^^^^^ 





Fat:2.0 



Ash: 1.0 



^^^H Carbo-' 

■■H hydrates:73.9 \ji Ash:1.9 

1670 CALORIES Fuel value: 

PERP 



1620 calories 

PER POUND 



1620 CALORIES 
PER POUND 



Composition of Cereals. 



90 CEREALS AND LEAVENING AGENTS 

All the cereals are similar in structure. They consist 
of an outer skin which in some cereals includes the bran 
coats; the endosperm or main body of the grain, which 
consists of starch, protein, mineral matter, and varying 
amounts of fat, and which is the stored nourishment of the 
embryo; and the germ or embryo. The endosperm is 
the part that is usually used for food, but in some cases, 
as in the making of breakfast foods, all the grain but the 
tough outer skin is used. 

The typical cereal, wheat, contains 10.6 per cent water, 
12.2 per cent protein, 1.7 per cent fat, 73.7 per cent carbo- 
hydrate, including 2.4 per cent cellulose, and 1.8 per cent 
mineral matter. Its protein is in the form of gluten, a 
substance that is elastic and tenacious. When gas is 
formed within a mixture made from wheat, other sub- 
stances and a hquid, the gluten expands, and when heat is 
applied, the gas expands also, and the result is a light 
porous loaf. No other cereal except rye has a protein 
that possesses this power. For this reason when breads 
are made from corn, the loaf is not so light as wheat 
bread. Usually half wheat flour is used so as to make a 
lighter loaf. 

Of the cereals, wheat and rye contain the most protein, 
oats the most fat, rice the most starch, and oats the greatest 
amount of cellulose and mineral matter, but with the ex- 
ception of rice their composition is very similar. 

It is estimated that cereals furnish nearly one third of 
all the foods consumed by the American people. They 
can be manufactured into a great variety of products, 
and in that way they have a very extensive use. Flour 
enters, in some way, into almost every article of food 
prepared, even in the cooking of meats. 



CEREALS AND LEAVENING AGENTS 91 

The Products into which the Cereals are Manufactured 
are: — 

1. Breakfast Foods — oatmeal, rolled oats, cream of wheat, hom- 
iny, etc. ; also a great variety of prepared and ^' ready to eat " foods. 

2. Starch — com, rice, wheat. 

3. Italian Pastes — macaroni, spaghetti, vermicelli. 

4. Glucose — sirup from corn. 

5. Cereal Coffee. 

6. Flour — wheat, com, rye, buckwheat, rice. 

7. Liquors — malted drinks, beer, whiskey, etc. 

8. Feed for Stock. 

Cooking of Cereal Products 

Cereal Breakfast Foods. — The length of time required 
for the cooking of the breakfast foods depends on the size 
of the particles and the amount of cellulose which the 
cereal contains. Whole kernels of corn, called hominy, 
take a much longer time than corn meal ; steel-cut oatmeal 
takes a longer time than Quaker Oats, because the latter 
has been steam cooked first, and also crushed so that heat 
can penetrate it more readily. Oat preparations, not 
steam cooked when sold, require a longer time than wheat 
or rice preparations, because oats contain more cellulose. 

Directions for Cooking. — Breakfast foods should be 
cooked in a double boiler. Fill the lower part of the 
double boiler one third full of boiling water. Put boiling 
salted water in the upper part of the double boiler, and 
add the cereal gradually, stirring constantly to prevent 
lumping. Cover and steam according to the directions 
given below. If the particles of the cereal are finely ground, 
it is best to mix it with a little cold water first to prevent 
lumping. Keep the lower part of the double boiler one 
third full of water. After the- water begins to boil, turn 



92 



CEREALS AND LEAVENING AGENTS 



Quantity 


Kind 


Amount op 
Water 


Time Requihed 


Served with 


I cup 


rolled oats or 
wheat, steam 
cooked first 


2 cups 


30 minutes 


Baked 
apples 


I cup 


rice 


3 cups 


30 minutes 


Sliced fruit 


I cup 


corn meal 


3icups 


I hour 




I cup 


cream of wheat 


4 cups 


30 minutes 


Chopped 
dates 


I cup 


hominy, flaked 


4 cups 


I hour 


SUced 
bananas 


I cup 


oatmeal, coarse 


4 cups 


3-4 hours 




I cup 


whole hominy, 
soak first 


4 cups 


4-6 hours 





the heat as low as possible. It requires very little heat 
to keep water boiling after it has once reached the boiling 
point. Use one half to one teaspoon of salt for each cup 
of cereal. 

Serving the Breakfast Foods. — Breakfast foods are 
served after the fruit course for breakfast, or with the fruit, 
as suggested in the outUne. They are also served as a 
first course at supper. With fruit, cream, a small amount 
of sugar, and bread and butter, they make a very appetiz- 
ing and nutritious breakfast, and the deficiency in protein 
may be made up at dinner when meat, fish, eggs, or legumes 
are served as the protein food. 



Cereal Products — Starch 

This lesson shows the uses of starch as a thickening agent. 
For this purpose it is used also in sauces and gravies. Flour 
is sometimes used instead, but it lumps more easily and 
does not taste as well as cornstarch. In the making of 



CEREALS AND LEAVENING AGENTS 93 

sauces and puddings, the starch is mixed thoroughly with 
the sugar before the Uquid is added, to prevent lumping. 

Cornstarch Mold. — Mix three tablespoons of cornstarch 
with four tablespoons of sugar in the saucepan, add two 
cups of milk, mix thoroughly, place on the stove and cook 
until it thickens (about three minutes after it begins to 
boil), stirring constantly. Remove from the stove, add 
one teaspoon of vanilla, and turn into molds or cups that, 
have been rinsed with cold water so that the mold will 
slip out easily when cold. Let the molds stand until 
perfectly cold, serve with cream and sugar, or with sliced 
fruit, as a dessert. Vanilla is always added after the food 
is taken from the fire, because it is volatile and would 
evaporate if added while the heat is being applied. In 
that case, most of the flavor would be lost. 

Chocolate Cornstarch Mold. — Melt one half ounce of 
chocolate, or use two tablespoons of cocoa, add the mixed 
sugar and cornstarch and milk as given in the recipe for 
cornstarch mold. Cook and serve in the same way. 

Cornstarch Pudding. — Mix four tablespoons of corn- 
starch with four tablespoons of sugar, add three cups of 
milk, and cook until it thickens, stirring constantly to 
prevent lumping. Beat the yolks of two eggs until 
smooth, add a few tablespoons of the cooked mixture to 
the egg to apply the heat to it slowly, and mix thoroughly 
so that the egg will not be cooked in flakes, then add the 
remainder of the milk and cook one minute. Remove 
from the stove and add one teaspoon of vanilla. Pour 
into a baking dish. Beat the whites of the two eggs 
until stiff and dry, add two tablespoons of sugar, one 
fourth teaspoon of vanilla, and place it over the pudding. 
Bake until the egg whites are brown. Serve cold. 



94 CEREALS AND LEAVENING AGENTS 

When a mixture contains cornstarch and eggs, the corn- 
starch is cooked first with the milk, and the eggs are added 
after the mixture has thickened. The reason for this is 
that all egg dishes should be cooked at a low temperature 
and only enough to coagulate the egg, while starch requires 
longer cooking. 

Cereal Products — Italian Pastes 

The foods called ItaUan Pastes, because they were 
originally made in Italy, though they are made in this 
country also, are macaroni, spaghetti, and vermicelli. 
They are made from a wheat containing a high percentage 
of gluten. The flour is mixed with water and kneaded to 
a stiff dough. It is then put into hollow cylindrical presses 
and forced into tubes of various shapes and then dried. 
The largest tubes are called macaroni, the next spaghetti, 
and the smallest vermicelli. These pastes are nutritious 
foods because the flour has so high a percentage of gluten 
that a dish of macaroni and cheese is in itself a meal. 

Macaroni and Cheese. — Two quarts of boiling water, 
one tablespoon of salt, one cup of macaroni broken into 
inch pieces. Cook in a double boiler twenty minutes. 
Drain, pour cold water over and drain again. Grate or 
chop cheese. Arrange a layer of macaroni in a baking 
dish, sprinkle with cheese, put in another layer of macaroni 
and cheese. Pour one recipe of White Sauce over it. Cover 
with buttered crumbs, and bake until crumbs are brown. 

Spaghetti with Tomato Sauce. — Two quarts of boiling 
water, one tablespoon of salt, about one cup of spaghetti 
unbroken. Cook in double boiler until soft, about twenty 
minutes. Drain and pour cold water over, and drain again. 
Pour tomato sauce over, heat one minute, and serve. 



CEREALS AND LEAVENING AGENTS 95 

Hold the sticks of spaghetti in the hand, place the other 
end of the sticks in the boiling water, and as they soften 
they will coil in the cooking vessel. 

Tomato Sauce. — One pint of tomatoes, one half onion 
chopped fine. Cook ten minutes. Put through a sieve. 
Melt four tablespoons of butter, rub in four tablespoons 
of flour, add one half teaspoon of salt, one eighth teaspoon 
of pepper, add the tomato, and cook until it thickens. 

Cereal Products — Flour 

Some of the cereals, wheat, rye, corn, buckwheat, are 
made into flour. Wheat flour is the only one that is 
used very extensively. In the process of flour making 
the outer or bran coats and the germ are removed, and 
the endosperm is ground into a fine powder. There 
are various grades of flour, depending on the quality of 
the wheat, the fineness of the flour, and the amount of 
bran left in the product. The names mean very little to 
the average person, because each milling firm coins a name 
for its best grade of flour and advertises it extensively. 
The best grades are designated in trade as the fancy patent, 
standard patent, etc. Whole wheat flour is made by 
grinding all the grain except the outer bran coats. Some 
cheap grades of flour are made from the endosperm and 
germ, some have the finer parts of the endosperm removed, 
and are made from the remainder. 

It is poor economy to buy cheap flour. The best grades 
of flour absorb more water during bread making, and so not 
as much flour is needed as when the cheaper grades are 
used. Cheap flour makes poor bread, and sometimes much 
of the bread is wasted because it is not appetizing. Good 
flour is creamy in color, does not hold the impress of the 

CONLEY P. C. — 7 



96 CEREALS AND LEAVENING AGENTS 

fingers if held in the hand, and absorbs about 30 per cent 
its weight of water in bread making. 

Pastry flour contains more starch than bread flour. It 
is made from soft or winter wheat, while bread flour is 
made from hard or spring wheat. Pastry flour is used for 
pies, cakes, etc., but a good substitute for it may be made 
by sifting two tablespoons of cornstarch into each cup of 
bread flour. 

Flour, Leavening Agents, and Shortening 

When flour and water are mixed together and baked, 
the result is a hard, heavy, tough mass that is not appe- 
tizing. Flour contains gluten and starch. Gluten is a 
sticky, tenacious substance that has great expansive power 
when mixed with the water. Starch swells and gelatinizes 
when water is added and heat is applied, and tends to 
become lumpy. To make a light, porous, and tender food, 
some ingredients must be added that will separate the 
starch grains and give them room to expand, without 
lumping, and that will form a gas that can be inclosed in 
the sticky, tenacious gluten. When heated, the gas will 
expand. The gluten also has great expansive power, and 
the heat sets the walls of gluten at the right time, and this 
makes a light and porous product. If the heat is too 
strong at first, the gluten hardens before the gas expands 
it, and the mixture will not be light enough. If the heat 
is not strong enough to set the gluten, the gas forces its 
way to the surface and escapes, and the mixture will con- 
tain large holes, but will not be light. 

Shortening is a fat, as butter or lard, which is rubbed 
into the flour to separate the starch grains. When the 
mixture is cooked, the food is flaky and tender. 



CEREALS AND LEAVENING AGENTS 97 

Kinds of shortening most commonly used are butter, 
lard, one half butter and one half lard, oleomargarine, 
olive oil, and various preparations such as Cottolene, 
Crisco, Wesson's Snowdrift Oil, and butter substitutes. 

LEAVENING AGENTS 

Leavening means to make light and porous. When 
steam or carbon dioxide is formed inside the mixture, or 
when air is inclosed, it expands when heated, and as the 
heat also hardens the gluten, the result is a light and porous 
loaf. The leavening agents are steam, soda and sour milk 
(or any acid), baking powder, eggs and air, and yeast. 

Leavening Agent — Steam 

Popovers. — When water is changed to steam, it expands 
many hundreds of times its volume, and if it can be inclosed 
in walls of gluten so that the substance expands, and yet 
remains intact, the food product so made will be very 
light. If the change from water to steam takes place 
slowly, the expansion will not be very great, for the steam 
will come to the surface and escape. If the change takes 
place very quickly and the steam is produced rapidly, the 
walls of gluten will be stretched to the utmost and the 
product will be a hollow shell. Eggs are used also in the 
product, because the albumin coagulates and holds the flour 
• together, and this helps to form the hollow shell. Very 
strong heat must be used when the steam is utilized as a 
leavening agent, and it must be continued long enough 
so that the product is well dried. Popovers should not be 
soft and moist in any part. Yorkshire Pudding is another 
example of the use of steam as a leavening agent. It is not 
baked as long as popovers, because it should be somewhat 



98 CEREALS AND LEAVENING AGENTS 

soft in the interior. Cream puffs are also made light by 
expansion of water changing to steam. Milk is used instead 
of water in popovers, for it is 87 per cent water, and it 
furnishes flavor and adds to the nutritive value of the food. 
Recipe for Popovers. — Mix one and one half cups of 
flour, and one fourth teaspoon of salt. Make a hole in 
the center of it ; add three unbeaten eggs and one and one 
half cups of milk. Stir until all lumps are out of the flour 
and the mixture is smooth. Turn into mufl^ pans and 
bake from thirty t6 forty minutes in a hot oven. This 
recipe makes twelve popovers. Popovers are made light 
by the water in them turning to steam. The strong heat 
causes the steam to form rapidly, and this produces a 
hollow shell. The egg coagulates and helps to form the 
sheU. 

Leavening Agents — Eggs Inclosing Air 

Whites of eggs are beaten with an egg beater to entangle 
or inclose air. To estimate the amount of air' inclosed by 
beating, note the amount of space occupied in the bowl by 
one egg white before you start to beat it, and then note the 
change in volume after the white has been beaten until- stiff 
and dry. Unlike water, air does not require a great amount 
of heat for expansion. Albumin does not require a strong 
heat for coagulation, — about 170° F., — and it is toughened 
by too high a temperature. When air, inclosed in eggs, 
is used as a leavening agent, the food should be cooked at 
a low temperature. 

Leavening Agents — Eggs and Air 

Omelet. — Three eggs, three tablespoons of water, 
one fourth teaspoon of salt. Separate yolks from whites. 



CEREALS AND LEAVENING AGENTS 99 

Beat yolks until thick. Beat whites until stiff and dry. 
Add water and salt to yolks, and fold in the whites. Put 
one tablespoon of butter in the omelet pan, turn in the egg 
mixture, and cook slowly. When well puffed out, place 
in the oven to finish cooking. Whites and yolks of eggs 
are beaten separately, and the whites are beaten stiff so as 
to inclose as much air as possible. The omelet is cooked 
with slow heat to expand the air and coagulate the albumin 
at as low a temperature as possible (170° F). Intense 
heat toughens the albumin and coagulates it too soon, 
there is no expansion of air, and the omelet is tough and flat. 

Leavening Agents — Soda and Sour Milk 

When two substances like sodium bicarbonate (soda) 
and sour milk are mixed together, a chemical change takes 
place and new substances unlike either of them are formed. 
One of these substances formed is a gas, carbon dioxide 
(CO2), which expands when heated and makes food light 
and porous. When an acid and an alkali are brought to- 
gether, one tends to neutralize or destroy the character- 
istic properties of the other. The acid, sour milk, neutral- 
izes the alkali, soda, and no taste of either is left in the food. 
They are used to form the gas CO2 so as to make the food 
light. This gas is formed as soon as the substances are 
brought together. It expands when heated, and enough 
heat must be applied to set the walls of gluten so that the 
bubbles will not collapse. When hot water is added to 
soda (NaHCOa), the gas CO2 is given off, but the soda is 
not neutralized, and the food to which it is added has a 
bitter taste. It is better to sift the soda into the flour, 
rather than add it to the sour milk, because when the gas 
forms so quickly, some is lost before the mixture is put in 



lOO CEREALS AND LEAVENING AGENTS 

the oven. Just enough alkali and acid are used to neutral- 
ize each other. This can be determined by the use of 
litmus paper. One half teaspoon of soda neutralizes one 
cup of sour milk. Other acid substances may be used in 
place of sour milk, as buttermilk, molasses, and lemon 
juice. 

Batters and Doughs 

A mixture of flour and liquid is called either a batter 
or a dough, depending on the proportion of liquid to flour. 
Batters consist of from one to two measures of flour to 
one measure of liquid, and are named either pour or drop 
batters according to the amount of flour used. Doughs 
consist of from two and one half to three and one half 
measures of flour to one of liquid, and they are classed as 
soft and stiff doughs. Biscuit is a soft dough ; bread is a 
stiff dough. 

Batters contain some leavening agent which is sifted 
in with the flour. They must be beaten thoroughly so as 
to inclose as much air as possible. When equal quanti- 
ties of flour and water are mixed together, the flour tends 
to lump unless some precaution is taken to prevent it. 
For this reason, when mixing a batter, sift flour, salt, and 
leavening agent together, then add about one third of the 
liquid and press out all the lumps by rubbing the bowl of 
the spoon against the side of the bowl. Slowly add the 
remainder of the liquid, and when the batter is perfectly 
smooth, add eggs and melted butter and begin to beat. 
Beat with long, deep strokes which take the spoon through 
to the bottom of the bowl, so as to inclose the air. Never 
stir a mixture after you have started to beat it, because 
stirring breaks up the air bubbles that are already formed 



CEREALS AND LEAVENING AGENTS loi 

and they escape to the surface. When the mixture is well 
beaten, the heat applied will expand the air and the eggs, 
the gluten will coagulate, and the product will be light and 
porous. 

Doughs are usually mixed differently from batters when 
they contain shortening, sugar, and other ingredients. 
The shortening is creamed or softened first so that when 
the sugar is added it will be partially dissolved. Cream- 
ing is rubbing the butter or lard against the side of the 
bowl, with a spoon, until it is soft as cream. The sugar 
is then added slowly, and carefully rubbed into the butter. 

Biscuit dough is mixed in an entirely different way. 
The flour, salt, and leavening agent are mixed first, and 
then the shortening is cut in. 

(Pupils should read a recipe through before they begin 
to work. All ingredients should be measured and ready 
before attempting to put things together. Measure the 
dry ingredients, not including sugar, first, and sift to- 
gether. To add alternately means to add part of the liquid, 
then part of the flour, and beat them in thoroughly before 
adding more.) 

Flour — Leavening Agent — Soda and Sour Milk 

Griddle Cakes. (Pour Batter.) — Sift together two cups 
of flour, one half teaspoon of salt, one teaspoon of soda ; 
add one and three fourths cups of sour milk, and rub free 
from lumps, add one well-beaten egg and two tablespoons 
of melted butter, and beat well. Have the pancake griddle 
smoking hot, grease it with lard or with a piece of fat 
pork, using only enough fat to grease the pan. Drop the 
batter by tablespoons on the hot griddle. Let the cakes 
cook until they are full of bubbles and browned at the 



I02 CEREALS AND LEAVENING AGENTS 

edges, then turn and brown the other side. Pancakes 
should be turned but once. Serve immediately with butter, 
sugar, sirup, or gravy from sausage. 

Com Bread or Johnny Cake. (Drop Batter.) — Sift 
together one cup of corn meal, one cup of flour, one 
fourth teaspoon of salt, one half teaspoon of soda. Add 
one cup of sour milk, and free from lumps. Add four 
tablespoons of molasses, one egg well beaten, four table- 
spoons of melted butter, beat well. Turn into a shallow 
pan that has been buttered, and bake thirty minutes in 
hot oven. 

Ginger Bread (Soft Dough). — Cream one half cup of 
shortening (butter, lard, one half butter and one half lard, 
or oleomargarine), add one half cup of sugar and work the 
shortening and sugar together. Add one cup of molasses, 
two well-beaten eggs, and one cup of sour milk alternately 
with three cups of flour, one half teaspoon of soda, one tea- 
spoon of ginger, and one fourth teaspoon of salt sifted 
together. Beat well. Bake in buttered shallow pan, 
in hot oven, for thirty minutes. 

Baking Powder 

Baking powder is a mixture of the alkali sodium bicar- 
bonate, some acid powder, and starch. The soda furnishes 
the gas, carbon dioxide, which is the direct leavening 
agent. When moisture is added, the acid acts on the soda, 
and liberates the gas. A mixture of soda and acid powder 
reacts slowly in moist air, thus losing strength. Starch 
is added to prevent such interaction, until the baking 
powder is used in cooking. One and one half to two level 
teaspoons of baking powder are usually used to each cup 
of flour. 



CEREALS AND LEAVENING AGENTS 103 

Baking Powder may be grouped in three classes : — 

1. Cream of Tartar Baking Powder. 

2. Phosphate Baking Powder. 

3. Alum Baking Powder. 

Cream of tartar baking powder is made from cream of 
tartar (acid potassium tartrate), soda, and starch. It is the 
best-known baking powder and probably the most wholesome 
to use, because it leaves no harmful products in the food. 
It forms carbon dioxide (CO2), water (H2O), and Rochelle 
salts, — a mild laxative when taken in small quantities. 

Phosphate baking powder is made from acid calcium 
phosphate, soda, and starch. The only objection to its 
use is that the gas is liberated so quickly that much is lost 
before the food can be put into the oven. 

Alum powder is made from potash alum or ammonium 
alum, soda, and starch, and its sale is prohibited in some 
states because of the harmful effects of alum on the human 
system, though the alum is decomposed when soda is added. 

From the accompan3dng table, which shows in what 
proportion to mix the ingredients for the three kinds of 
baking powder, it will be seen why alum baking powder is 
cheap and can be sold for twenty-five cents a pound and 
cream of tartar baking powder is necessarily higher in 
price. Baking powder can be made at home at one half 
the price paid for it in the stores. The ingredients should 
be thoroughly mixed, sifted, and packed in air-tight cans. 

Cream of Tartar Powder 



Cream of tartar 




(acid potassium tartrate) i pound 


$.40 


Soda i pound 


.05 


Starch ^ pound 


.05 



2 pounds $.50 



I04 CEREALS AND LEAVENING AGENTS 

Phosphate Powder 

Soda I pound $.io 
Calcium acid phosphate i^ pounds .45 

Starch i pound ^ 





3i pounds 


«.6s 




Alum Powder 




Soda 
Alum 
Starch 


1 pound 
f pound 

2 pounds 


I.10 
.o7i 

.20 



3f pounds $.37i 

Baking Powder Biscuit and Variations. — These variations 
of biscuit are shortcake, dumplings, fruit pudding, fruit 
roll, pin-wheel biscuit, Dutch apple cake, nut bread, meat 
pie. They are made like a biscuit dough, but differ in the 
amount of shortening, liquid, or sugar used. 

Note. — The teacher may teach as many of these recipes as she has time 
for. The most important at this time are biscuit, apple dumplings, and short- 
cakes, because they give practice in handling the dough and perfecting the 
pupils' knowledge of biscuit making. The other recipes may be worked in 
when lessons that require long cooking are given and the pupils have little 
work to do. Such lessons are those on cooking of legumes and the meat 
lessons. Another reason for giving several recipes that may be used later 
in the work is that a review of a process impresses it on the mind. For 
the same reason more recipes are often included than the teacher can use 
with some classes. Usually one recipe constitutes a lesson, for a ninety- 
minute period, if some time is devoted to recitation. 

Baking Powder Biscuit. — Mix and sift together two 
cups of flour, four teaspoons of baking powder, one half 
teaspoon of salt. Add four tablespoons of butter or lard, 
and work it in with a fork, until it is perfectly blended 
and the flour is flaky. Make a well in the center of the 
flour, and pour in three fourths cup of milk or water. Start 
in the center and stir with a fork, in widening circles, until 



CEREALS AND LEAVENING AGENTS 



"S 




Hot Biscuit. 



all the flour has been gathered in and the result is a soft 

dough. Turn the dough on the floured molding board, and 

roll lightly about one inch 

thick, cut with a small 

biscuit cutter, and bake 

twelve to fifteen minutes 

in hot oven. 

Shortcake. — Mix and 
sift together two cups of 
flour, four teaspoons of 
baking powder, one half 
teaspoon of salt, add six 
tablespoons of butter, 

and work it in as in biscuit dough. When thoroughly mixed, 
add three fourths cup of water or milk and stir from the 
center. Turn on the floured molding board, roll out in one 
cake, and place on a pie tin. Bake twenty to twenty-five 
minutes in a hot oven. When baked, split so as to sepa- 
rate top and bottom, spread with butter and strawberries, 
sliced peaches, oranges, or any other fruit desired. Place 
the upper crust on the fruit, the buttered side up, and 
spread with another layer of fruit. May be served with 
whipped cream. 

Apple Dumplings. — Mix and sift together two cups of 
flour, four teaspoons of baking powder, one half teaspoon 
of salt. Add eight tablespoons of butter, or lard, as in 
biscuit, and one half cup of milk or water. Roll out about 
one fourth of an inch thick. Pare and core six tart apples. 
Cut dough large enough to fold over an apple. Place the 
apple on the dough, fill the center of the apple with sugar, 
and add a speck of nutmeg or cinnamon. Fold the dough 
entirely over the apple, and press it firmly together. Bake 



io6 CEREALS AND LEAVENING AGENTS 

about forty-five minutes in a hot oven ; the time required 
depends on the kind of apple used. To be certain that 
the apple is cooked, pierce with a fork, and if the apple feels 
soft, it is cooked. Serve apple dumplijigs with Vanilla 
Sauce. 

Vanilla Sauce. — Mix thoroughly one tablespoon of 
cornstarch, one half cup of sugar, speck of salt; add one 
cup of boiling water and one tablespoon of butter. Cook 
until it thickens, stirring constantly. Add one teaspoon 
of vinegar and one half teaspoon of vanilla. 

Fruit Roll. — Mix and sift together two cups of flour, 
four teaspoons of baking powder, one half teaspoon of salt, 
and one tablespoon of sugar. Add six tablespoons of butter 
or lard, and three fourths cup of water or milk as in biscuit. 
Roll out one half inch thick, spread with . sliced peaches or 
berries. Roll up as for jelly roll, and bake in a hot oven 
thirty minutes. Serve with Hard Sauce. 

Dutch Apple Cake. — Use the same recipe as for Fruit 
Roll. Roll out one half inch thick. Place in a shallow bak- 
ing pan. Pare tart apples ; quarter and slice in one quarter 
inch slices. Place the apples on top of the dough, arrang- 
ing them in even rows so that they overlap. Sprinkle with 
sugar and cinnamon and bake thirty minutes. May be 
cut into squares and eaten as hot bread, or served as dessert 
with Lemon Sauce. 

Lemon Sauce. — Mix one tablespoon of cornstarch and 
one half cup of sugar ; add one cup of boiling water and one 
fourth cup of butter; cook until it thickens. Add juice 
of one lemon and boil one minute, or add one teaspoon of 
lemon extract after the sauce is removed from the fire. 

Fruit Pudding. — Make one half the recipe for Fruit Roll. 
Place sliced apples, blueberries, or peaches in a baking 



CEREALS AND LEAVENING AGENTS 107 

dish or pudding pan ; add sugar and enough water to cover 
the fruit. Drop the dough on top of the fruit and spread 
smooth. Bake thirty minutes in a hot oven. Serve with 
pudding sauce or cream and sugar. 

Nut Bread. — Mix and sift together one and one half 
cups of graham flour, one and one half cups of white flour, 
four teaspoons of baking powder, one teaspoon of salt, 
three fourths cup of sugar. Add one and one half cups 
of milk, beat well, and add one cup of chopped nuts. Let 
it stand twenty minutes. Bake one hour. 

Dumplings for Meat Stew. — Mix and sift together two 
cups of flour, four teaspoons of baking powder, one half 
teaspoon of salt. Add two tablespoons of lard, and work 
it in as for biscuit dough. Add three fourths cup of water, 
and shape into six dumpUngs. Place on top of meat stew, 
and boil twenty minutes. Some stews require less short- 
ening than others ; the amount used depends on the amount 
of fat on the meat used for the stew. 

Muffins. (Mix as batter.) — Mix and sift together 
one and three fourths cups of flour, three teaspoons of bak- 
ing powder, one half teaspoon of salt, two tablespoons of 
sugar. Add one cup of milk, and press out all lumps. Add 
two well-beaten eggs and four tablespoons of melted butter. 
Beat until very light, bake in greased muffin pans twenty 
minutes in a hot oven. 

Blueberry Muffins. — Mix and sift together two cups 
of flour, three teaspoons of baking powder, one half tea- 
spoon of salt, two tablespoons of sugar. Add one cup of 
milk as in plain muffins, then add one egg well beaten, and 
one tablespoon of melted butter ; beat well. Lastly add 
one cup of blueberries. Bake thirty minutes in a hot 
oven. 



io8 



CEREALS AND LEAVENING AGENTS 



Com Meal Muffins. — Mix and sift together one cup of 
flour, three fourths cup of corn meal, one half teaspoon of 
soda, one half teaspoon of salt, add one cup of sour milk, 
one well-beaten egg, two tablespoons of melted butter, 
and beat well. Bake thirty minutes in a hot oven. 

Whole Wheat Muffins. — Use Whole Wheat instead of 
corn meal in the above recipe. 




Sorting Tea and Drying Coffee. 
(From Carpenter's Bow the World is Fed.) 



CHAPTER VII 

BEVERAGES AND PLANNING AND SERVING A 
BREAKFAST 

BEVERAGES 

Water. — Water is one of the five important classes of 
foods, and though it does not supply heat and energy to the 
body, it aids in all bodily processes and constitutes nearly 
three fourths of the weight of the body. Foods are from 
50 per cent to 90 per cent water. 

Some of the most important uses of water are: to 
dissolve foods so that they can be digested and absorbed, 
to carry away the waste matter, to regulate the tempera- 
ture of the body, and to enter into the composition of the 
blood, digestive fluids, and tissues. 

Two kinds of water are used for drinking purposes, — 
hard water, which contains lime that has been dissolved 
from limestone through which the water passes, and soft 
water. Other mineral substances are dissolved in water, 
and the famous mineral springs of our own country and 
Europe furnish mineral waters used for medicinal purposes. 

Water sometimes contains organic impurities. It is 
then a common carrier of disease germs. The germs of 
typhoid fever are carried in water, and the causes of epi- 
demics of the disease are universally traced to impure 
water and milk supply. The germs of several other 
diseases are also carried in water, and if, for any reason, 

109 



no BEVERAGES 

it is thought that the water supply is contaminated in any 
way, the water should be boiled for twenty minutes and 
then bottled and cooled for use. It is always best to boil 
water that is to be given to infants. In both cases, where the 
water supply is known to contain impurities, and when the 
water is to be given to infants, the precaution of boiling it 
first is a good application of the old adage, *' an ounce of 
prevention is worth a pound of cure." 

Of all beverages, water is the best, and very few people 
drink enough of it. About four pints should be taken 
daily to equalize the loss through the excretory organs. A 
glass of hot water taken the first thing in the morning 
washes the mucus from the stomach and aids excretion. 
The two most common beverages served, tea and coffee, 
have no food value, and if hot water could be used in place 
of them, the nervous system would be greatly benefited. 
Tea and coffee are stimulants, and while they probably 
do no harm to grown people if taken in moderation, they 
are harmful to children. 

Cocoa and chocolate are foods, and when made with 
milk the food value is increased. Lemonade is a refresh- 
ing drink, and furnishes vegetable acids to the body. The 
same may be said of all fruit beverages made from fresh fruit. 

Coffee. — Use two level tablespoons of coffee for each 
cup of boiling water. Put the coffee in the coffee pot 
and add enough cold water to moisten the coffee and make 
it stick together, about a teaspoon of water to each table- 
spoon of coffee. Pour the boiling water over the coffee, and 
let it boil for three minutes. Place it where it will be kept 
hot, but not boil, for five minutes more, and then serve. 

Tea. — Scald a porcelain, earthenware, or china teapot with 
boiling water to thoroughly heat the teapot, and then turn 



BEVERAGES iii 

the water out. Use a level teaspoon of green or black tea for 
each cup of water. Put the tea in the hot teapot. Pour 
boiling water over it, and let it stand two or three minutes, 
and then serve. Never let tea boil. Do not let it stand on 
the hot stove. Tea should be served as soon as it is made. 

Lemonade. — Wash the lemons thoroughly. Use one 
lemon for two glasses of lemonade. Cut the lemons in 
halves, squeeze the juice out with a lemon squeezer, and 
add three tablespoons of sugar to each lemon. Mix the 
lemon juice and sugar thoroughly ; add some chopped ice 
and the cold water. Serv^ice-cold. . Some slices of lemon 
may be added for appearance and because the volatile 
oil in the skin adds to the flavor. 

Cocoa. — Mix one tablespoon of cocoa with one table- 
spoon of sugar, add one cup of boiling water gradually, and 
boil five minutes. Add one cup of milk, and let it come to 
the boiling point, and serve. Some tastes demand more 
sugar, but it may be added by each individual at the table. 

Chocolate. — Melt one square of chocolate slowly so as 
to prevent burning, add two tablespoons of sugar and mix 
together, add one cup of boiling water and boil three 
minutes, add one cup of milk, bring to the boiling point, 
and serve. 

Fruit Punch. (Recipe makes about 3 quarts of punch.) 
— Boil two cups of sugar and one quart of water fifteen 
minutes. Add one cup of orange juice, two cups of lemon 
juice, one half cup of grated pineapple, and dilute with one 
quart of iced water. 

Note to Teachers. — After pupils have learned to prepare fruits, 
cereals, hot breads, and beverages, some practice should be given in plan- 
ning, calculating the cost, and serving breakfasts, so that the work is unified 
and the pupils can practice and apply at home what is learned at school. 
CONLEY p. c. — 8 



112 PLANNING AND SERVING A BREAKFAST 

One of the hardest problems for the young housekeeper is to prepare 
several dishes so that they will all be in proper condition to serve at a given 
period of time. 

Breakfast may first be planned as part of a class exercise, and some day 
following, groups of two or three may prepare simple breakfasts. 

A lesson in table setting, serving, and table manners may be given in 
the regular classroom at the individual tables. After one or two lessons 
are given in the classroom, practice could be given in preparing and serv- 
ing breakfasts during the noon hour. 



SUGGESTIONS FOR PLANNING A BREAKFAST ^ 

A breakfast should consist of : — 
I. Fruit in some form, preferably fresh. 
II. Cereal, best from the whole of the grain, and cheapest 
if purchased unprepared for use. 
in. Some protein dish, as eggs, fish, hash, or a small 
quantity of meat. Unless eggs are very high in price, 
they are always better and cheaper than meat for 
breakfast. 
IV. Some form of bread, as toast, bread, mufl&ns, biscuit, 

popovers, griddle cakes, rolls, etc. 
V. A hot drink, as coffee or cocoa, if desired. 
The cost of food should not exceed eight cents per per- 
son, and the meal may be planned so that the cost will 
not exceed five cents per person. Fruits and eggs should 
be served in season, for then the prices are moderate. 
Uncooked breakfast foods cost less than half what prepared 
foods cost, and they may be cooked in the fireless cooker 
the day before, thus saving time in preparation. Dried 
fruits, as dates, figs, and prunes, may be chopped and added 
to the cereal. 

1 From Conley's Nutrition and Diet. 



PLANNING AND SERVING A BREAKFAST 113 




A Breakfast Table. 

Toast, rolls, and griddle cakes take less time to prepare 
than mufl&ns, popovers, and biscuits. 

A breakfast should not take more than thirty minutes 
to prepare. This should include laying the table and all 
preparatory work. 

SERVING A BREAKFAST 

MENU 

Muskmelon 

Cream of Wheat Cream and Sugar 

Ham and Eggs Bread and Butter 

CofiFee 

Time for Preparation 

I2.CX3 Boil water for cereal. 

12.05 Put cereal on to cook. 

12.10 Lay table. 

12.15 Prepare melon and put in a cool place. 

12.20 Prepare ham and start to fry it. 



114 PLANNING AND SERVING A BREAKFAST 

12.25 Make cofiFee. 

12.28 Pour water and put butter on plate. 

12.30 Serve melon. 

12.35 Serve cereal. 

12.40 Serve ham and eggs, coffee and bread. 

1. 00 Clear table. 



Materials Needed 



3 melons. 

I recipe for Cream of Wheat. 

5 pint of milk. 

i pint of cream. 

I J pounds of ham. 



8 eggs. 

I loaf of bread. 

3 ounces butter. • 

8 tablespoons (level) cofiFee. 

Loaf and granulated sugar. 



Materials for Serving 



I silence cloth. 

I linen tablecloth. 

6 linen napkins. 

I large centerpiece — 2 small 

doilies. 
6 silver knives. 
6 silver butter spreaders. 
6 silver forks. 
18 silver teaspoons. 
I carving set. 
I tablespoon. 
I sugar tong. 
I sugar shell. 



6 water glasses — i water pitcher. 

6 cups and saucers. 

I creamer and 2 sugar bowls. 

6 service plates. 

6 fruit plates. 

6 bread and butter plates. 

6 breakfast plates. 

6 cereal dishes. 

I bread plate. 

I platter. 

3 salt and pepper shakers. 

I flower vase. 



Laying the Table 

Spread a heavy cover of felt or canton flannel over the 
table. Have it long enough so it extends over the sides, 
and allows for shrinkage when it is washed. This cloth 
is to protect the polished table from heat of dishes, to deaden 
the sounds, and to give body to the tablecloth. Spread 



PLANNING AND SERVING A BREAKFAST 115 

the Knen tablecloth over this cover, so that the fold in the 
center of the tablecloth comes exactly in the center of the 
table, and so the cloth overhangs the same distance on each 
end. 

Place a centerpiece in the center of the table, and place 
on it a small growing plant, as a fern, or cut flowers, or, at 
breakfast, place the fruit dish there. 

When laying the table allow at least 25 inches for each 




The Cover. 
X, knife; 2, spoon; 3, water glass; 4, fork; 5, napkin; 6, bread and butter plate; 7, plate. 



" cover.'' By cover is meant the knives, forks, spoons, 
plate, napkin, and glasses needed for each person. 

Place the plate in the center of the cover. At the right 
of the plate, one half inch from the edge of the table, place 
the knives needed for the meal, having the cutting edge of 
the knife toward the plate, and knife which is to be used 
first, farthest from the plate. 

At the right of the knives place the spoons needed, bowls 



ii6 PLANNING AND SERVING A BREAKFAST 

upward. Place in order designated for the knives, the first 
to be used on the outside. 

At the left of the plate place the forks, tines upward. 
Place in same order as designated for the knives. 

Place napkin to the left of the fork. 

Place water glass at the point of the knife. 

Place individual bread and butter plate to the left of the 
fork above the napkin. 

Place carving knife and fork and serving spoons at the 
head of table, in front of the " cover." 

Place the service for tea or coflFee at the foot of the table, 
in front of the cover. Coflfee or tea service consists of 
cups, saucers, sugar bowl, and cream pitcher. 

Individual salt shakers or cellars may be placed in front 
of each plate. 

Waiting on Table 

Fill water glasses three fourths full, place butter on 
bread and butter plates, and cut bread one minute before 
the meal is ready to serve. 

All dishes from which a person helps himself are passed 
at the left side and low enough to be easily reached, as 
sauce, gravy, bread, etc. 

All dishes served in individual portions are placed from 
the right side, as coffee, plates, etc. 

All dishes are removed from the right. 

Water glasses should be kept filled throughout the meal. 

Clearing the Table 

Remove the dishes containing unserved food first, then 
remove everything from each cover that pertains to that 



PLANNING AND SERVING A BREAKFAST 117 

course, then remove all clean silver, dishes, etc. Every- 
thing that pertains to one course is removed before another 
course is served. Do not pile dishes on tray. 

Remove two covers at one time, one in each hand until 
all are removed. 

Brush crumbs from table before serving the dessert. 

ADDITIONAL BREAKFAST MENUS 

Oranges 
Pettijohn's Breakfast Food 

Popovers Omelet CoflFee 

Baked Apples 

Rolled Oats 

Bacon MufBns Doughnuts 

Coffee 

Stewed Prunes 

Shredded Wheat Biscuit 

Creamed Codfish Toast 

Coffee 

Cream of Wheat and Chopped Dates 

Poached Eggs on Toast 

Coffee 

Baked Pears 

Hominy Flakes 

Rolls Coffee 



CHAPTER VIII 

CEREALS AND LEAVENING AGENTS {Continued) 

LEAVENING AGENT — YEAST 

Yeast is a tiny plant which thrives best in warm, moist 
atmosphere at a temperature of 70° to 90° F. Cold renders 
it inert, but does not destroy it, and when it is again put 
in a warm atmosphere it begins to grow. Boiling, or even 
a temperature of 170° F., destroys the plant. 

Yeast contains a ferment which feeds on the sugar in 
the flour and decomposes or breaks up the sugar in carbon 
dioxide (CO2), and alcohol. A small amount of sugar is 
found in flour. The ferment diastase which occurs in 
grains changes more starch to sugar during the fermenta- 
tion. Some sugar is added in bread making, though that 
is not necessary. 

The gluten in the flour has great expansive power, and 
in addition to its elasticity it is very tenacious. The car- 
bon dioxide gas forms in the dough, and the cohesiveness 
of the gluten holds it so that the whole mass becomes im- 
pregnated with gas and increases to several times its bulk. 
It is then said that the dough is light. 

Other ferments are present in the dough also, and under 
favorable conditions they become active. For this reason 
the dough must be watched and kneaded when it has be- 
come light, or the other ferments will act and produce sour 
bread. This is one reason why a temperature over 90° F. 
is not best for bread making. The undesirable ferments 

118 



CEREALS AND LEAVENING AGENTS 119 

thrive best at the higher temperature, and that produces 
a bread not as well flavored as bread raised at 70° to 

When bread is made from milk, the milk is scalded, to 
destroy some bacteria which are present. Salt also delays 
the development of undesirable organisms, in addition to 
flavoring the bread. Salt was used in the old process 
called " salt raising " that was in vogue before compressed 
yeast was made. The Kquid to be used in bread making 
was exposed to the air so that the yeast germs would enter, 
and salt was used to retard the growth of the other organ- 
isms until the yeast started to develop. When froth or 
gas formed, it was a sign that the yeast was at work, and so 
the dough was prepared. 

Experiments with Yeast. — Mix some water and molasses, in pro- 
portion of ten parts water to one part molasses. Add a little com- 
pressed yeast to the mixture. 

1. Place one third of the mixture in a test tube and put it in a cold 
place and note whether there is a formation of gas. After several 
hours heat to a temperature of 90° F., and note result. 

2. Place one third of the mixture in another test tube and keep 
at a temperature of 7o°-9o° F., and note result. 

3. Place one third of the mixture in another test tube and boil 
the mixture and then place in a warm place and note whether gas 
forms. 

What conclusion can be drawn as to the best temperature for the 
development of yeast and for bread making? 

Experiments with Kinds of Yeast. — Mix one fourth cake of com- 
pressed yeast with one tablespoon of lukewarm water, add one half 
cup of lukewarm water, and beat in one cup of flour. Note the 
length of time that it takes the mixture to become light. 

Repeat the same experiment with one fourth dry yeast cake and 
note result. 



I20 CEREALS AND LEAVENING AGENTS 

Bread Judging 

Several points are to be noted in determining the essen- 
tial characteristics of a good loaf of bread. 

1. Shape and Size of Loaf. — A loaf should not be too 
large to bake evenly, and not so large that the slices are awk- 
ward to handle. The best-sized pan for baking is about 
lo inches long, 4 inches wide, and 5 inches high. The loaf 
should rise evenly, be slightly rounded in the middle, but of 
uniform height throughout. It should not spread over the 
side of the pan. This characteristic indicates that the bread 
was allowed to rise too long, or that the oven was too slow. 

2. Color of Crust and Crumb. — The crust should be a 
uniform golden brown, on top, bottom, and sides. The 
crumb should be of a creamy color and should have no dark 
spots or streaks. 

3. Flavor. — The bread should not taste of yeast and 
should have no suspicion of sourness either in smell or 
flavor. It should have a sweet nutty taste. 

4. Lightness, Texture, and Grain. — The bread should 
be uniformly light throughout. It should have fine uni- 
form pores and no large holes. 

5. Doughiness and Moisture. — A good loaf of bread 
should not be dry enough to crumble nor moist enough so 
that the crumb forms a ball when rolled. When a good 
loaf of bread is cut, the crumb should be soft enough so 
that when it is pressed with the finger it dents easily, but 
springs back readily to an even surface. 

To make good bread, good flour and fresh yeast should be 
used, and attention should be given to kneading, raising, 
baking, and care of the loaf after it is removed from the 
oven. No other food is as good as a good loaf of bread. 



CEREALS AND LEAVENING AGENTS 121 

Bread and Rolls 

Bread may be made in two ways, by setting a sponge 
and allowing it to rise overnight and then kneading it, or 
by kneading it to a dough immediately. By using a 
sponge, less yeast is required, as a longer time is allowed 
for the yeast to grow. On the other hand, the disadvan- 
tage of sponge dough is that when allowed to stand over 
night it may become chilled, because a temperature of 
70° F. cannot always be maintained, or it may become 
overripe and hence sour. 

Sponge is used for making rolls, muffins, etc., as the butter 
and eggs will mix more readily in sponge, and the result 
will be a Kghter product. 

Bread. — Mix one cake of compressed yeast with four 
tablespoons of lukewarm water (98° F.). To two cups 
of lukewarm water or milk, or half milk and half water, 
add one level teaspoon of salt, one level tablespoon of 
sugar, one level tablespoon of lard, and the yeast. Stir 
in enough flour (about three cups) to make a batter, and 
beat xmtil smooth and full of air bubbles. Then add three 
or four cups of flour, or enough to make a stiff dough, and 
knead thoroughly. Continue kneading until the dough 
does not stick to the hands or the board, until it rises quickly 
when indented with the hand, imtil it feels smooth, elastic, 
and spongy. When this is satisfactory, place the bread 
in a bowl or bread raiser. Keep it at a temperature of 
from 70*^ to 75°, and let it rise until it doubles its bulk, about 
three hours. Then take it from the bowl and shape into 
two loaves, using no more flour. Place the bread in pans, 
and let it rise until it has doubled its bulk (about one hour), 
and then bake it. When the bread is put into the oven. 



122 CEREALS AND LEAVENING AGENTS 

the heat should not be very great. The bread should 
continue to rise during the first fifteen minutes, because if 
the crust becomes too hard it prevents expansion and the 
bread will be heavy. After the first fifteen minutes the 
heat should be increased so that the bread will brown prop- 
erly, and during the last fifteen minutes it can be decreased 
again. Bread should be baked from 50 to 60 minutes. 
If a crisp crust is desired, do not cover the bread when it 
is taken from the oven. To glaze the loaves, rub them with 
a damp cloth before taking from the oven, and allow them 
to dry. 

Using milk instead of water in bread making adds to the 
nutritive value of the bread and makes a sweeter loaf. 

Bread Recipe II. Sponge Dough. — To set sponge : 
Use one cake of yeast foam or one half cake of compressed 
yeast for two loaves of bread. Mix the yeast with four 
tablespoons of lukewarm water. Use two cups of luke- 
warm liquid, one level teaspoon of salt, one level tablespoon 
of sugar, one level tablespoon of lard, and add the yeast. 
Stir in about three cups of flour, and beat until smooth and 
full of bubbles. Let stand at a temperature of about 70° 
until light. This may be set at. night, and then in the morn- 
ing more flour is added and the bread is kneaded as in 
the previous recipe. 

Boston Brown Bread. — One cup of rye flour, one cup 
of corn meal, one cup of whole wheat flour, or (one and one 
half cups of graham flour and one and one half cups com 
meal), two level teaspoons of soda, two level teaspoons of 
salt, three fourths cup of molasses, one pint of sour milk. 
Sometimes a half cup of raisins is added. Mix and sift 
flour, meal, salt, soda ; add molasses and milk, and beat 
well. Place in a mold and steam three hours. 



CEREALS AND LEAVENING AGENTS 



123 



U.S. Department of Agriculture 

Office of Experiment Stations 

A. C. True-. Director 



Prepared by 
C. F. LAN6W0RTHY 
Expert in Charge of Nutrition Investigations 



COMPOSITION OF FOOD MATERIALS. 



■ Fuel Value 
ToOOCi^or^? 

WHITE BREAD WHOLE WHEAT BREAD 

^g^ Wafer: 35.3 Water: 38-4 

Proteln:9.2 Proteir):9.7 




FmiWLUE: 



Catbo- Carbo 

hjdf3tes:53.l hydrates: 49.7 

OAT 
BREAKFAST FOOD 




FoeiwLUE: 



HBO wLORiEi Water-.84.5 
Protein: 2. 

TOASTED BREAD 

Ash 

Fuel 

, -Waters 24.0 
"Proteioi 11.5 





i i 1 CALORIES 
PER POUND 

Fat:0.5 

Carbohydrates: 1 1.5 

CORN BREAD 



Kydrdtc5t6l.2 



Fuel valuf: 



Carbo- 
hydrates :46.3 

MACARONI 

■COOKED 
Fat:|.5i^ Protein:3.0 .^'Water:78.4 

1 580 CALORIES 
PER POUND 

Ash: 1.3 

Carbo- ^^^^ H I 400 calories 

hydrates: 15.8 ''^^•'^=■-1 «««»"•«> 




Water: 38 
Protein: 7.9' 




Fuel value: 



1175 CALORIES 
per POUND 



Composition of Bread. 



124 



CEREALS AND LEAVENING AGENTS 



Coffee Cake. — One yeast cake dissolved in four table- 
spoons of cold or lukewarm water, one fourth cup of butter 
or lard, or half butter and half lard, one fourth cup of sugar, 
one half teaspoon of salt, one egg, one cup lukewarm milk 
or water. 

Put butter, sugar, salt, and milk into the mixing bowl ; 
stir until melted ; add yeast and one and one half cups of 
flour. Beat until smooth and full of bubbles; add the 
beaten egg and enough more flour to make a bread dough 
(about one and one half or two cups), and knead as for 
bread. Let it rise until double its bulk (about three hours). 
Take from the bowl and knead slightly, and roll with the 
rolling pin until it is about one inch thick. Place in a pan, 
and let it rise one hour. Brush the top with three table- 
spoons of melted butter, one fourth cup of sugar, one tea- 
spoon of cinnamon, and bake about twenty minutes. 

Swedish Rolls. — Use same recipe as for Coffee Cake. 
Roll out as for Coffee Cake ; brush the top with melted 
butter, sprinkle with sugar, cinnamon, and currants. Roll 
the dough and cut pieces one half inch thick. Place in 

pan until light, and bake 
one half hour. When 
baked, brush the top 
with equal parts of sugar 
and milk to glaze. 

Parker House Rolls. — 
Two cups of scalded 
sweet milk, four table- 
spoons of butter, four 

Parker House Rolls. tablespoons of SUgar, One 

teaspoon of salt, one 
yeast cake dissolved in one fourth cup of water, whites of 




CEREALS AND LEAVENING AGENTS 125 

two eggs. Add butter, sugar, and salt to milk ; when luke- 
warm, add yeast and three cups of flour. Beat thoroughly, 
add egg whites, and finally add flour to knead. Let rise. 
Toss on board and knead and roll out one third inch thick. 
Shape with a biscuit cutter dipped in flour. Dip the handle 
of case knife in flour. Crease middle. Brush over one 
half with melted butter. Fold and press the edges to- 
gether. Place in greased pan one inch apart. Bake twelve 
to fifteen minutes. 

Pies 

Pie crust is made from flour, salt, shortening, and a 
very small amount of water. As it contains no leavening 
agent, it needs only enough water to hold the particles of 
flour together. It is made by the same method that 
biscuits are made. The shortening is cut in with a fork, 
though some prefer the method of using two knives and 
chopping it in. Shortening should never be worked in 
with the hands, because the heat of the hand melts or softens 
the shortening. 

Pie Crust. — Mix and sift together one cup of flour, one 
fourth teaspoon of salt. Add six tablespoons of lard, and 
work it in thoroughly with the fork so that the lard sur- 
rounds the particles of flour and separates them. When 
well mixed so that the flour is flaky, add about one and 
one half tablespoons of water, just enough to moisten the 
flour so that it can be rolled, divide the crust into two 
parts, and roll thin. 

Apple Pie. — Line a greased pie plate with crust. Pare 
and core four or five apples and cut them in very thin 
slices. Place them on the pie plate about one fourth inch 
from edge, till the center slightly rounds. Sprinkle one 



126 CEREALS AND LEAVENING AGENTS 

third cup of sugar over the apples, and nutmeg or cinnamon 
to taste. Roll out the upper crust, and cut small gashes 
in it so as to allow the steam to escape. Press the two 
crusts together with a fork or pastry jagger. Place the 
pie in a hot oven for five or ten minutes so that the crust 
will set, then reduce the heat and bake in a moderate oven 
thirty-five to forty minutes. The baking is done in a 
moderate oven so that the heat will reach the apples. 

Lemon Pie. — Line a plate with crust and have it extend 
one half inch above the edge so as to hold the filling in place. 
Pierce the bottom of the crust with a fork, place the crust 
in the oven, and bake until slightly brown. Piercing the 
crust with a fork prevents it from warping in the oven. 

Filling. — Mix three tablespoons of cornstarch and one 
cup of sugar. Add one cup of boiling water ; mix well and 
boil five minutes, stirring constantly. Remove from the 
fire ; add one tablespoon of butter, the juice of one lemon, 
and yolks of two eggs beaten and blended with a tablespoon 
of the cooked cornstarch mixture. Place the filling in the 
crust, return to the oven, and bake until the filling boils 
or bubbles. Beat the whites of two eggs stiff and dry; 
add four tablespoons of sugar and a few drops of lemon 
juice. Spread over the pie and bake until the egg is 
slightly brown. 

Pumpkin Pie. — Line a plate with crust and have it 
extend one half inch above the edge of the plate. Mix 
one cup of pumpkin, one and one fourth cups of milk, one 
third cup of sugar, two tablespoons of molasses, two well- 
beaten eggs, one fourth teaspoon of ginger, one fourth 
teaspoon of cinnamon. Fill the crust with the filling, and 
bake thirty-five to forty minutes, or until the filling is 
firm, like custard. 



CEREALS AND LEAVENING AGENTS 127 

Rhubarb Pie. — Mix one cup of sugar, two and one 
fourth tablespoons of flour, and one well-beaten egg. 
Add two cups of rhubarb cut in small pieces, and mix well. 
Bake with two crusts as for apple pie. 

Cookies 

Sugar Cookies. — Cream one half cup of shortening, 
add one cup of sugar gradually, then add two eggs well 
beaten, and one half cup of sour milk ; add three cups of 
flour, one fourth teaspoon of soda, one half teaspoon of 
salt, one fourth teaspoon of nutmeg, sifted together, and 
one half teaspoon of vanilla. Roll out one fourth inch 
thick, cut, and bake in a hot oven. 

Molasses Cookies, Crisp. — Scald one cup of molasses, 
remove from the fire, and add one half cup of lard, one half 
cup of sugar, one teaspoon of ginger, one fourth teaspoon 
of salt. Let the mixture stand until cool, then add one 
fourth cup of water. Sift one half teaspoon of soda in 
about four cups of flour, and add gradually. Roll one 
eighth inch thick, cut, and bake in a moderate oven. 

Molasses Cookies, Soft. — Mix one cup of molasses, 
three fourths cup of shortening, one cup of boiUng water. 
Place the mixture on the stove, and let it come to the boil- 
ing point. Cool slightly ; add one egg well beaten, four 
cups of flour, one half teaspoon of soda, four teaspoons of 
ginger, two teaspoons of cinnamon, one half teaspoon of 
cloves, sifted together. Mix thoroughly. Drop by table- 
spoons, one inch apart, on a greased pan. Bake in a hot 
oven. 

Oatmeal Cookies. — Cream one cup of shortening; grad- 
ually add one cup of sugar, then add two eggs well beaten, 
and four tablespoons of sour milk. Sift together two and 

CONLEY p. C. — 9 



128 CEREALS AND LEAVENING AGENTS 

one half cups of flour, one teaspoon of cinnamon, one half 
teaspoon of soda, one fourth teaspoon of salt, and add 
gradually. When thoroughly mixed, add one teaspoon 
of vanilla, two cups of raw oatmeal, and one cup of currants. 
Roll out one eighth inch thick, cut in squares, and bake in 
a hot oven. 

Chocolate Cookies. — Cream one half cup of shortening, 
add gradually one cup of sugar, then two ounces of melted 
chocolate, and one egg well beaten. Mix thoroughly, 
and add one fourth cup of milk, one teaspoon of vanilla, 
two and one fourth cups of flour, three teaspoons of bak- 
ing powder, and one fourth teaspoon of salt, sifted to- 
gether. Roll out thin, cut, and bake in a moderate oven. 

Cakes 

All cakes are grouped into two general classes, — those 
made with butter or some kind of shortening, and those 
made without shortening, as sponge, angel, or sunshine 
cakes. 

The directions for mixing butter cakes are practically 
the same for every case. Grease and flour the cake pans, 
and prepare the oven. Measure all dry ingredients first, 
and sift the flour, salt, baking powder, or soda, and spices 
together. Flour raisins or currants, if they are to be used. 
Beat the eggs, beating the yolks and whites together, un- 
less the directions call for the whites and yolks beaten 
separately. In that case beat the yolks until smooth and 
thick, and the whites until they are so dry that the bowl 
in which they are beaten may be turned upside down with- 
out danger of loss of eggs. 

When all is in readiness, cream the shortening ; this is 
done by working it against the side of the bowl with the 



CEREALS AND LEAVENING AGENTS 



129 



mixing spoon until it is soft as cream. Add the sugar 
gradually, and work it into the shortening until it is par- 
tially dissolved. Add the beaten eggs and beat the mixture 
thoroughly so that sugar, shortening, and eggs are per- 
fectly blended. Add the milk and flour alternately so as 
to keep the same consistency throughout the process. 




Cake Making. 



Never stir a cake after the eggs are added, because stir- 
ring breaks the air bubbles. The cake should be beaten, 
using long strokes of the spoon and going through the 
batter to inclose as much air as possible. During baking, 
watch the oven carefully. If the oven is too hot, the cake 
will not rise sufficiently. Small cakes demand a hot oven, 
large cakes a moderate oven, as in the latter case the heat 
must be slow enough to penetrate to the center of the 
cake. 

A good cake is slightly rounded, smooth, and an even 
brown all over. If it cracks, it contains too much flour, or 



I30 CEREALS AND LEAVENING AGENTS 

it has baked too fast. The grain should be fine and uni- 
form throughout. 

When a cake is baked, it shrinks from the sides of the pan, 
it is firm on top, when touched with the finger, or, if a clean 
straw is inserted, it comes out dry. 

A great variety of cakes may be made from the recipe 
for Plain Cake by adding spices, nuts, raisins; chocolate 
or other fillings, and frostings. A cake should never con- 
tain more than half as much shortening as sugar. It 
should contain less than half as much milk as flour. If 
more than two eggs are used in a cake, less baking powder 
will be required than for a two-egg cake. Too much bak- 
ing powder makes a cake dry and crumbly. 

Plain Cake. — Cream four tablespoons of butter, or some 
other shortening ; add one cup of sugar, two eggs well beaten, 
one half cup of milk, and one and one half cups of flour, one 
fourth teaspoon of salt, three teaspoons of baking powder 
sifted together, and one half teaspoon of vanilla. Mix ac- 
cording to directions given. Cover with chocolate frosting. 

Spice Cake. — Cream one cup of butter ; add two cups 
of brown sugar, and yolks of four eggs ; beat well. Add 
one cup of milk and two and one half cups of flour, one tea- 
spoon of cloves, one teaspoon of nutmeg, one teaspoon of 
cinnamon, and three teaspoons of baking powder. When 
thoroughly mixed, carefully add the beaten whites of four 
eggs, and bake in layers. Put chocolate frosting between 
the layers and on top. 

Chocolate Frosting. — Melt two ounces of chocolate ; 
add one cup of sugar, five tablespoons of milk, yolk of one 
egg, and mix thoroughly. Boil until it thickens, stirring 
constantly. Remove from fire, add one teaspoon of va- 
nilla, and stir until thick enough to spread. 



CEREALS AND LEAVENING AGENTS 131 

White Frosting. — Mix one cup of sugar and five table- 
spoons of cold water, and boil slowly without stirring. 
As soon as it begins to boil, add one eighth teaspoon cream 
of tartar to invert the sugar. Boil until it forms a soft 
ball when dropped into cold water or until it threads 
when dropped from a spoon. Beat an egg white until 
stiff and dry. Gradually pour the sirup over it, stirring 
constantly so as not to cook the egg in flakes. Add 




White Frosted Cake, Decorated. 

one half teaspoon of vanilla, and stir until thick enough 
to spread. 

Orange Cake. — Cream five tablespoons of butter ; add 
one cup of sugar, grated rind of one orange, three eggs, 
one half cup of milk, one and three fourths cups of flour, 
three teaspoons of baking powder, one fourth teaspoon of 
salt. Mix as in plain cake. Frost with White Frosting. 



132 CEREALS AND LEAVENING AGENTS 

The cake may be baked in layers and then cut into squares 
or diamond shapes and frosted all over. 

Nut Cake. — Cream six tablespoons of butter ; add one 
cup of sugar, three eggs, one half cup of milk, one and three 
fourths cups of flour, two and one half teaspoons of baking 
powder, one fourth teaspoon of salt, one half teaspoon of 
vanilla. Lastly add three fourths cup of chopped nut 
meats. Mix as for Plain Cake. 

Spanish Buns. — Cream one half cup of butter; add one 
and one half cups of sugar, three eggs, one cup of sour milk, 
two and one half cups of flour, one teaspoon of cinnamon, 
one teaspoon of cloves, one half teaspoon of soda, and one 
cup of raisins. Mix as for butter cake. Bake in mufl&n 
pans. 

Golden Cake. — Cream one half cup of butter; add one 
cup of sugar, yolks of ten eggs, one and three fourths cups 
of flour, three teaspoons of baking powder, one fourth 
teaspoon of salt, one half cup of milk, and one half tea- 
spoon of flavoring. Mix as for Plain Cake. May be baked 
in muflin pans for small cakes and frosted, or baked as a 
loaf cake. 

Sponge Cake. — Beat the yolks of six eggs imtil thick ; 
add one cup of sugar gradually, and continue beating with 
the egg beater. Add one tablespoon of lemon juice or 
one teaspoon of lemon extract. Beat the whites of six 
eggs until stiff and dry. Mix the whites and yolks, and 
when partially mixed cut and fold in one cup of flour and 
one fourth teaspoon of salt. Bake in an unbuttered pan, 
in a slow oven, one hour. 

Angel Cake. — Beat one and one fourth cup of egg 
whites until frothy, add one teaspoon of cream tartar and 
continue beating until the eggs are stiff and dry. Grad- 



CEREALS AND LEAVENING AGENTS 133 

ually add one and one half cups of rolled and sifted sugar. 
Sift one cup of flour and one fourth teaspoon of salt 
four times, and add it to the eggs, being careful not to 
mix it more than is necessary. Add one teaspoon of 
vanilla. Bake forty to forty-five minutes in an unbuttered 
angel cake pan. 

Jelly Roll. — Beat three eggs until light, add one half 
cup of sugar, one half cup of flour, one half teaspoon of 
baking powder, one eighth teaspoon of salt, and one half 
teaspoon of vanilla. Beat well. Bake in a slow oven in 
a pan the bottom of which is lined with greased paper. 
When baked, turn bottom side up on a paper sprinkled 
with powdered sugar. Remove the paper from the bottom 
of the cake. Spread the cake with jelly and roll. 

Chocolate Cake. — Cream six tablespoons of butter, add 
one cup of sugar and mix thoroughly, add two ounces of 
melted chocolate and two eggs well beaten. Add, alter- 
nately, two thirds of a cup of milk and one and one half 
cups of flour, three teaspoons of baking powder, and one 
fourth teaspoon of salt sifted together. Add one half 
teaspoon of vanilla. Bake in a moderate oven, in a shallow 
pan, about thirty-five minutes. Frost with chocolate 
frosting. 

Crispettes. — Beat two eggs thoroughly, add one cup of 
brown sugar, sifted with six tablespoons of flour and one 
eighth teaspoon of salt. Beat thoroughly. Add one cup 
of chopped nuts. Drop by spoonfuls, about three inches 
apart, on greased paper, and bake in a hot oven. 



CHAPTER rX 

LEGUMES AND FRYING LESSONS 

LEGUMES 

Peas, beans, lentils, and peanuts belong to the family 
called legumes. These growing plants have little nodules 
at their roots, which contain bacteria that have the power to 
take nitrogen from the air and put it in a form available for 
food for man and animals. 

Nitrogen occurs in protein foods only, and proteins are, 
generally speaking, the most expensive and the most impor- 
tant foods. Legumes are a cheap food, and they contain 
so much protein that they rank with meat, fish, cheese, 
and eggs as tissue-building foods. 

Legumes should be classed in two distinct classes: the 
fresh form, such as string beans, green peas, and fresh lima 
beans; and the dried beans and peas. Those in the first 
class rank little higher than green vegetables in nutritive 
value, because they are picked long before the seeds have 
reached maturity. The dried forms have been allowed to 
ripen until the seeds have stored enough nutrition to 
nourish the germ of the new plant when it begins to sprout. 
For use as a food they are then thoroughly dried and may 
be kept for an indefinite period of time. When they are to 
be used, they must be soaked in cold water for several hours 
or overnight to restore some of the moisture. 

Dried legimies contain from 18-25 per cent protein; 
from 59-66 per cent carbohydrate in the form of starch and 

134 



LEGUMES 135 

cellulose, the cellulose reaching as high as 4J per cent in 
dried peas. With the exception of peanuts they contain 
scarcely any fat, and must be served with butter or cooked 
with pork for flavor and to make them a better balanced 
food. 

The legumes require long, slow cooking because the starch 
and protein are stored in cells surrounded by thick walls of 
cellulose, and it requires long cooking to soften the walls and 
free the starch and protein. One reason why the process 
is so long is because beans and peas are ordinarily cooked 
whole, and, as they are compact, only long, slow cooking will 
soften them. If the skin were removed and the legumes 
ground into a powder, the cooking process could be 
shortened. 

Legiunes are a cheap, wholesome, and highly nutritious 
food, and should often serve as a substitute for meat in the 
diet. A portion of lentil, pea, or bean soup served with 
bread or crackers forms a perfectly balanced meal and has 
the advantage of being an economical one. Too little 
attention is paid to the methods of preparing and serving 
the legumes, for they should be considered important foods, 
and they are almost universally liked. 

Boston Baked Beans. — Wash one quart of navy beans, 
cover with cold water, and let them soak over night. Drain 
off the water, cover with fresh boiling water, and let them 
cook slowly until the skins begin to burst. Add one tea- 
spoon of soda, stir well, and boil for two minutes. Drain 
off the water and rinse the beans well with fresh boiling 
water. Cut one half pound of fat salt pork in one half inch 
slices. Mix one tablespoon of mustard, one tablespoon of 
salt, two tablespoons of molasses, two tablespoons of sugar, 
with one cup of boiling water. Place beans in the bean pot. 



136 LEGUMES 

distribute the pieces of pork through the pot, pour the 
liquid over the beans, add enough boiling water to com- 
pletely cover the beans, put on the cover, place pot in a slow 
oven and cook from six to eight hours. Add water so that 
the beans are kept covered with it. Cook uncovered during 
the last hour. Beans may be started in the fireless cooker 
and cooked overnight. They should be placed in the oven 
about four hours before they are to be used, and cooked 
slowly. Some cooking in the oven is necessary to bring 
out the flavor. If the fireless cooker has a soapstone plate, 
oven cooking is not necessary. 

Lima Beans. — Soak one pint of lima beans over night. 
Cover with salted boiling water, and cook slowly until soft. 
Add only enough water to prevent burning; season with 
salt, pepper, and butter. 

Salted Peanuts. — Remove shells and skins from raw 
peanuts. Put lard, butter, or olive oil, preferably the latter, 
in a pan on the stove. When melted, add peanuts and stir 
constantly so that they will brown on both sides. Remove 
from fat and drain on soft paper; sprinkle with salt. 
Olive oil or lard is better than butter, because butter burns 
so readily. 

Lentil Soup. — Wash one cup of lentils, cover with cold 
water, and soak over night. Drain ; cook in two quarts of 
water until soft (about two hours) ; add one bay leaf, one 
half teaspoon of salt, one fourth teaspoon pepper. Press 
through a colander and sieve. Add two tablespoons of 
flour, two tablespoons of butter, one grated onion, pre- 
pared as for White Sauce. Boil three minutes. 

Succotash. — Soak lima beans or red kidney beans over 
night. Cook until soft (about two hours) ; ten minutes 
before they are ready to serve, add one can of com, season 



FRYING LESSONS 137 

with three tablespoons of butter, one half teaspoon of salt, 
one eighth teaspoon of pepper. Stir constantly. During 
the summer season when green com is plentiful and beans 
are fresh, succotash may be prepared from lima or kidney 
beans and com cut from the cob. Follow directions given 
above. 

Note. — In the lessons on legumes, much time is consumed in the long 
slow cooking, during which there is but little work to be done in class. For 
this reason the fiying lessons are added, and one may be given with each 
lesson on legumes. For Rules for Fr3ring, see page 46. 

FRYING LESSONS 

Doughnuts. — Mix one cup sour milk with one cup sugar, 
and let stand for 5 or 10 minutes. Add two eggs well 
beaten; add one cup flour, one fourth teaspoon salt, one 
half teaspoon soda, one fourth teaspoon nutmeg, sifted 
together ; add three tablespoons melted butter and one half 
teaspoon vanilla, and beat until smooth. Add enough 
more flour to make a soft dough. Roll out one half inch 
thick, cut with a doughnut cutter, and fry in deep fat. 

Fritters. — Mix and sift together one and one half cups 
flour, one fourth teaspoon salt, three teaspoons baking 
powder. Add three fourths cup milk and one egg well 
beaten. Beat very light. Drop slices of tart apple one 
fourth inch thick into the batter, and stir until the batter 
covers the apple. Drop the pieces of apple into hot fat, 
and fry until brown. 

Croquettes. Meat or Fish. — Melt three tablespoons 
butter; add one third cup flour and rub together until 
blended. Add one cup milk and cook until thick. Add one 
teaspoon chopped onion, one teaspoon salt, one eighth tea- 
spoon pepper, and two cups cold chopped meat or flaked 



138 FRYING LESSONS 

fish. Mix thoroughly and cool. Shape into cones or 
balls, dip in beaten eggs, roll in grated bread or cracker 
crumbs, and fry in deep fat. 

Com Fritters. — Mix and sift together one cup flour, two 
teaspoons baking powder, one half teaspoon salt, one fourth 
teaspoon pepper. Add two eggs well beaten, one third 
cup milk. Beat until smooth; add one half cup canned 
corn. Drop by spoonfuls in deep fat, and fry. 

Com Oysters. — Beat two eggs until light ; add one can 
corn, two tablespoons melted butter, and one half cup flour, 
one teaspoon baking powder and one fourth teaspoon salt 
sifted together. Mix well. Drop spoonfuls on hot griddle 
or frying pan, and fry as for griddle cakes. 

Bacon and Com. — Cut one half pound of bacon in inch 
pieces, fry until brown. Tum off nearly all of the fat from 
the frying pan. Add one can of corn and cook five minutes, 
stirring constantly. Season with one teaspoon of salt and 
one eighth teaspoon of pepper and serve immediately. 



CHAPTER X 

EGGS. PLANNING A LUNCHEON 

Eggs rank with meat and fish as important tissue-building 
foods. They are more nutritious than meat because they 
contain more kinds of protein and more mineral matter, 
and for this reason and because they are easily digested, 
they are served to the sick and convalescing so that they 
may gain strength and weight. 

Eggs when freed from the shell contain 73.7 per cent 
water, 14.8 per cent protein, 10.5 per cent fat, and i per cent 
mineral matter. Because of the high percentage of pro- 
tein, they should be eaten with carbohydrate foods. Eggs 
are valuable foods in themselves, but no other food except 
flour has so many uses in cooking. 

Experiments. 

For Freshness. — Roll a piece of paper until it is the diameter of 
an egg. Put the egg in one end. Hold the other end to the eye 
and face the light. If the egg looks clear, it is fresh ; if cloudy, it 
is stale. 

Place the egg in cold water. If it sinks, it is fresh. 

For Kind of Protein, — Note the effect of cold water on the white. 
Albumin is soluble in cold water. 

Bring the water to a boiling point, and note the effect on the 
albumin. Heat coagulates albumin. 

Boil an egg and let it stand thirty minutes. Separate the white and 
yolk ; note the dark color on the outside of the yolk. What mineral 
present ? 

139 



I40 



EGGS 



U.S. Dtpartmcnt ot Agriculture (Spared by 

Office of Eiperimtnt Stations C. F . LANQWORTHY 

A C. True: Director Expert in Charge of Nutrition Investigatlona 

COIMPOSITION OF FOOD MATERIALS 

■ Fuel Value 
VeSq.ln.Cquais 
1000 Calories 



Protein Fat Carbohydrates 

WHOLE EGO 



Water 




AsK.I.O 



f\i€l VALUe Of 

WHOLE e66t 



Foci 



(yolk) 
Watcr:49.5 
Protein: 16 I 

Fat: 33.3 
Ash: I.I 

I VAlUe or VOLK: 




(white) 
WJtflr-86 2 



605 CALORIES 
PCR POUND 



CREAM CHEESE 

Water: 34 a. 



1 650 CALORIES 
PCR POUND 



^protein: 1 3.0 

Fat; 0.2 
A5h:0.6 

FUTL VALUE OF WMITE*. 

C 

246 CALORIES 
PCRPOONO 



COTTAGE CHEESE 




FVota.n 25.9 Water: 72.0 



Car bo ■ 

hydra tea: 2.4 



Ash: 3.8 




Pro tain: 20.9 



Fue^ALOE: 
id65 CALORICS PER POUND 



Carbo- ^^--^> ^^^g ^~Fat: 1.0 
hydratev4 3 ^tosM^^^^. , g 

FuCL VALUE! 



U CL VAL U 



496 CALORIES PER POUND 



Composition of Eccs and Cheese. 



EGGS 141 

USES OF EGGS 

1. Eggs are a tissue-building food and serve as a sub- 
stitute for meat. They are easily digested, easily prepared 
and served, and are almost universally liked. 

2. Eggs have many uses in cooking. Foods are dipped in 
egg before they are fried because the heat coagulates the 
albimiin in the egg, and it forms a crust over the food so 
that juices and flavor are retained and the fat is prevented 
from soaking into the food. 

3. Eggs are blended with a liquid such as milk, and the 
whole mass is thickened and becomes smooth and velvety, 
as in the making of custards. 

4. Eggs hold particles of flour together so that hollow 
shells are formed, as in the making of popovers. 

5. When the yolks and whites are beaten separately, eggs 
make foods light and fluffy, as in the making of omelet and 
sponge cake. 

6. Eggs are used as a garnish for foods, as salads, soups, etc. 

7. Eggs are used to clear or clarify, as in coffee making 
and the clearing of soups. 

When eggs are used to hold particles of flour together, or 
as a thickening agent, or to form a crust over foods, they 
should not be beaten, but the yolk and white should be well 
blended. When they are used to make foods light, as in 
cake making, omelets, etc., they should be beaten so as to 
inclose as much air as possible. It is the expansion of the 
inclosed air and then the hardening of the protein wall that 
makes the cake light. As the albumin in egg coagulates at 
about 160° F., and as stronger heat tends to make the mix- 
ture tough, all egg dishes should be cooked at as low a 
temperature as possible. 



142 EGGS 

Baked Cup Custard. — Beat two large or three small eggs 
slightly with a fork, just enough to blend the yolks and 
whites. Add four tablespoons of sugar, a speck of salt, one 
pint of milk, and one half teaspoon of vanilla. Mix well and 
turn into custard cups, then grate nutmeg over the top. 
Set the cups in a pan of boiling water, set the pan in the 
oven, and bake the custard at a moderate temperature 
until it is firm. Test with a knife. If, after the knife is 
inserted, it comes out clean, the custard is done. If the 
knife is coated with milk, the custard has not thickened 
sufficiently. 

Baked Caramel Custard. — Melt one half cup of sugar 
to a sirup, stirring constantly to prevent burning. When 
the sugar is a light brown sirup, gradually add two cups of 
milk, and stir until the sugar is melted. Add three eggs 
shghtly beaten, one fourth teaspoon salt, one half teaspoon 
vanilla. Bake as for Cup Custard. 

Soft Custard. — Beat two eggs enough to blend yolk and 
white ; add six tablespoons of sugar, a speck of salt, two cups 
of milk, and flavor with nutmeg. Cook in a double boiler, 
stirring constantly, until the custard coats the spoon. 
Add one teaspoon of vanilla. If the custard is cooked too 
long, it will curdle. It must be removed from the fire as 
soon as it begins to thicken. Serve cold. 

Boiled Eggs. — Pour boiUng water into a stewpan and 
place it over the fire and make sure that the water is actually 
boiling. Put eggs into the water, and let them remain over 
the fire for a few seconds. Cover the stewpan and place 
it where the water will not lose too much heat, but where it 
will not boil, — for 6 to 8 minutes for a "soft-boiled egg," or 
2o to 30 minutes for " hard-boiled." Eggs may be placed in 
cold water and brought to the boiling point. When the 



EGGS 



143 



water boils, the eggs are " soft-boiled." They may be boiled 
five minutes longer for a hard-boiled egg. 

Scrambled Eggs. — Beat six eggs slightly, until whites 
and yolks are blended ; add one half cup of milk or water, 
and one fourth teaspoon of salt. Put two tablespoons of 
butter into the omelet pan, and heat until the butter is 
melted. Turn in the egg mixture, and cook at a low tem- 
perature until creamy, scraping the cooked portion from the 
side of the pan so the uncooked part will reach the bottom. 
Remove from the pan, and serve immediately. Chopped 
ham or bacon or cheese may be added to scrambled eggs 
just before they are removed from the pan. 

Omelet. — (See p. 98.) 

Poached Eggs. — Have a frying pan half full of boiling 
water, and add one half 
teaspoon of salt. Break 
the eggs, one at a time, 
into a cup, and carefully 
slip them into the water. 
Let them remain in the 
water until cooked as de- 
sired. Lift them out 
carefully with a skimmer, 
and serve on buttered 
toast. A pan, specially devised for poaching eggs, is shown 
in the illustration. 

French Toast. — Beat two eggs until yolks and whites 
are blended; add one half cup of milk, two tablespoons of 
sugar, one fourth teaspoon of salt. Mix well and turn into 
a shallow pan. Dip slices of bread into the mixture, and 
fry on one side as for pancakes until brown; turn and 
brown the other side. 

CONLEY p. C. — 10 




Poached Eggs. 



144 



EGGS 



Deviled Eggs. — Cook eggs until hard boiled. Pour 
cold water over to cool rapidly and prevent discoloring. 
Remove the shells and cut in halves crosswise. Remove 
the yolks and mash them with a fork. For four eggs mix 
one fourth teaspoon of mustard, one fourth teaspoon of 
salt, one eighth teaspoon of pepper, with two teaspoons of 
melted butter. Add the yolks, and mix well. Fill the 
whites with the mixture. 

Bacon and Fried Eggs. — Cook bacon until crisp, remove 
from the frying pan, and turn the eggs one at a time into 
the hot fat. When the whites are firm and the yolks coated 
with a film, remove the eggs carefully, and serve at once. 
Eggs are sometimes turned and fried on both sides, but they 
should not be fried brown, because that indicates that they 
are cooked at too high a temperature. Eggs are frequently 
fried with ham in the same manner as with bacon. 




A Luncheon Table. 



LUNCHEON I4S 

PLANNING AND SERVING A LUNCHEON 

Pupils have had enough variety in foods so that they are 
prepared to plan and serve a luncheon, following the plan 
suggested for serving breakfasts. 

Luncheon may Consist of the Following Courses: — 

1. A Cheese Dish i. Salad or Cream Soup 

2. Potato Bread 2. Potato Bread 

3. Sauce Cake Beverage 3. Sauce Cake Beverage 

SUGGESTED MENUS 

I 

Macaroni and Cheese 

Potato Chips Bread 

Berries Chocolate Cake 

Tea 

2 

Cream of Pea Soup 

Croutons Bread 

Baked Apples and Cream Gingerbread 

Tea 

3 

Deviled Eggs Creamed Potatoes 

Muffins 

Stewed Apricots Rocks 

Cocoa 



CHAPTER XI 
MILK AND ITS PRODUCTS 

MILK 

Milk contains 87 per cent water, 3.3 per cent protein, 
4 per cent fat, 5 per cent carbohydrates, .7 per cent mineral 
matter. It is a perfect food for the young calf, because it 
contains all the elements needed for its nourishment up to a 
certain stage of its growth. The milk of all animals differs 
slightly in composition, so the milk of one mammal is not 
a perfect food for others. Cow's milk must have the pro- 
tein diluted, and sugar added, to make it a perfect food for 
the human infant. 

Milk is not a perfect food for an adult because it contains 
too much water, not enough carbohydrate in proportion to 
its protein, and no cellulose or waste matter. It must be 
eaten with bulky foods. 

The most important constituent in milk is protein. The 
protein is in the form of albumin, casein, and compound 
proteins. Heat coagulates the albumin, and it comes to the 
top of boiled milk in the form of a thin skin. The casein is 
not coagulated by heat, but by the ferment rennin, and it is 
precipitated by the presence of lactic acid during the sour- 
ing of milk. The fat occurs in minute globules. When 
milk stands for a time, these globules rise to the surface 
and form cream. Each globule is surrounded by an albu- 
minous covering, and when the cream is churned the cover- 

146 



MILK AND ITS PRODUCTS 



147 



Prepared by 

C. F. LANQWORTHY 

Expert in CtHrge of Nutrition Invtttioaiiona 

COK^POSmON OF FOOD MATERIALS. 



U. S. Oeportmcnt of Agriculture 

Office of Experiment Stations 

A. C. Trur. Director 



Protein 



Fat Carbohydrates Ash 



Water 



Fuel Vaiui 

XeSq.ln.Equals 

1000 Calories 



WHOLE MILK 



SKIM MILK 



Fat:4.0 
Ash:0.7 




Water- 87 



otein:3.3 Fat: 0.3 




Ash: 0.7- 
Carbohydrates:5.0 Carbohydrates:^ i 

FUCL VAUIC: BIdcALOtlfSPCR POUND 



BUTTERMILK 



Fuel value: 165 calories pro MufO 



CREAM 



Fat: 0.5 
Ash: 0.7 




Carbohydrates:43 

Fua VALUE: 160 CALORIES ^R POURD 



-Water: 910 

Protein: 3.0 Fat: 18.5 
Ash: 0.5 




Water: 74.0 
Pfoteir»:2.5 



Carb ohydrates: 4.5 

■ 

Fun v/itur: 880 calorifs pro pourd 



CoiiPOSiTiON OF Milk. 



148 MILK AND ITS PRODUCTS 

ing is broken, and the fat and protein separate. The fat is 
called butter and the remainder buttermilk. Buttermilk 
contains 91 per cent water, 3 per cent protein, .5 per cent 
fat, 4.8 per cent carbohydrate, .7 per cent mineral matter, 
and is a very digestible protein food. Butter is the most 
easily digested form of fat known. The sugar in milk is 
called lactose. It is added to cow's milk for infant feeding, 
as it does not ferment as readily as does cane sugar. 

Experiments with MUk to find Composition. 

1. Boil some milk. The skin which rises to the surface is albu- 
min. It is like white of egg, and like the substance that rises to the 
surface of water when potatoes are boiled ; also like the brown scum 
which forms when meat is boiled. 

2. Add rennet to lukewarm milk. Casein is coagulated. Stir 
with a spoon, and the casein, entangling the fat, separates from the 
whey. The whey contains most of the sugar and mineral matter. 

Add acid, as vinegar or lemon juice to milk, or allow it to sour. 
The casein is precipitated by the presence of the acid. 

3. Test a sample of milk for starch with solution of iodine. 

4. Drop milk on paper, and note the presence of fat. 

5. Slowly turn out the contents from a bottle of milk, and note 
whether there is dirt or sediment in the bottom, or in the last portion 
of milk. If so, it shows that the milk is insanitary and not fit to 
use. This condition should be reported to the State Dairy and Food 
Inspector. 

Pasteurized Milk for Infant Feeding. — Sterilize the 
bottle by boiling it for ten minutes as you would sterilize 
fruit jars. Fill the bottle nearly full with milk, and place 
the cap on the bottle or close with a wad of absorbent 
cotton. Place the bottle in a deep pan which contains 
a small ra<:k or board so that the bottom of the bottle 
will not come in contact with the bottom of the pan. Fill 
the pan with cold water so that the water comes as high as 



MILK AND ITS PRODUCTS 



149 



the milk in the bottle. Heat the water to 158° F., remove 
to the back of the stove, cover the pan, and keep it at that 
temperature for twenty minutes. Cool milk quickly and 
keep in a cool place until ready to use. If it is to be used 
for infant feeding, it must be heated to lukewarm tempera- 
ture just before it is used. 

Cottage Cheese. — Heat sour milk to a temperature of 
about 98° F. and let 
stand until it is uniformly 
warm throughout and 
the curd separates from 
the whey. Drain the 
whey off; add melted 
butter or cream, salt, 
pepper, and serve while 
fresh. It may be fla- 
vored with pimentoes, 
chopped olives, or 
chopped nuts. The curd 
and whey may be sepa- 
rated by pouring boiling 
water over the milk. 

Junket. — Use one 
rennet tablet dissolved 
in one tablespoon of cold 
water. Heat one quart of milk to a temperature of 98° F. ; 
add four tablespoons sugar and one teaspoon of vanilla ; 
add the dissolved rennet and let it stand in a warm place 
until it thickens. Cool and serve with a sprinkling of 
cinnamon or nutmeg or whipped cream. 

Milk Soups or Cream Soups. — Milk soups are White 
Sauce and the pulp of some vegetable that has been 




Pasteurizing Milk. 
(From Hunter's Civic Biology.) 



ISO MILK AND ITS PRODUCTS 

thoroughly cooked and pressed through a strainer so as to 
rid it of seeds, skins, and any coarse particles. The vege- 
tables most commonly used for soups are potatoes, toma- 
toes, celery, corn, peas, beans, and asparagus. 

Milk soups are very nutritious ; in fact, one half recipe of 
potato or lentil soup and one or two ounces of bread form 
a balanced meal for lunch or supper. Milk soups should 
not be served at dinner, as they contain too much nutrition 
to be served with a heavy meal. They may form the main 
dish at lunch or supper. All milk soups may be made 
after the following directions. 

Cook the vegetables imtil soft enough to be put through 
a strainer. If the vegetables contain acid, as in tomato, 
add soda to neutralize it before adding milk. Melt the 
butter, add the flour, and rub them together thoroughly. 
Add the vegetable pulp and cook until the mixture thickens ; 
then add milk and seasoning, cook for a minute or two, and 
then serve. Or, add milk to butter and flour, as for White 
Sauce, cook until it thickens, add seasoning, and then add 
vegetable pulp and cook for two minutes. 

Cream of Tomato Soup. — Cook two cups of canned 
tomatoes with two teaspoons of sugar for five minutes. 
Add one fourth teaspoon of soda and stir well, then add 
one fourth teaspoon of salt and rub the mixture through a 
sieve. Melt four tablespoons of butter, add four table- 
spoons of flour, and rub together until thoroughly mixed. 
Add two quarts of milk and one slice of onion. Cook until 
the mixture thickens. Remove the onion. Add the tomato 
pulp to the milk, and cook one minute. Serve. 

Cream of Pea Soup. — Cook one can of Marrowfat peas 
in three cups of water for ten minutes. Add one slice of 
onion and two teaspoons of sugar. Rub the mixture 



MILK AND ITS PRODUCTS 151 

through a sieve until nothing remains in the sieve but the 
skins of the peas. Melt four tablespoons of butter, add 
two tablespoons of flour, and rub together until thoroughly 
mixed. Add two cups of milk, and cook until it thickens, 
then add one teaspoon of salt, one eighth teaspoon pepper. 
Add the peas and cook three minutes. Serve. 

Com Chowder. — Cook one slice of bacon, or salt pork, 
cut in small pieces, until crisp or brown. Add one sUce of 
onion, cut in small pieces, and fry until brown. Parboil 
three cups of thinly sliced potatoes for ten minutes, drain, 
and add the potatoes to the bacon and onion. Add one 
can of com, one quart of milk, two tablespoons of butter, 
one half teaspoon of salt, and one eighth teaspoon of pepper. 
Cook five minutes. Add half a dozen crackers, and serve. 



Garnish for Soups. 




Chopped Parsley 


Macaroni 


Chopped Celery Tips 


Vermicelli 


Chopped White of Egg 


Spaghetti 


Whipped Cream 


Pearl Barley 


Diced Potatoes 


Rice 


Riced Eggs 


Noodles 


To Serve with Soup. 




Wafers 


Bread Sticks 


Crackers 


Croutons 



CHEESE 

Cheese ranks first among tissue-building foods because 
it contains a higher percentage of protein than any other 
food. American cheese, the kind most commonly pur- 
chased, contains 27.4 per cent water, 27.7 per cent protein, 
36.8 per cent fat, 4.1 per cent carbohydrate, and 4 per 



152 MILK AND ITS PRODUCTS 

cent mineral matter, which is mainly common salt that has 
been added in the process of cheese making. 

Cheese is a concentrated food; that is, it contains no 
cellulose and a small amount of water, and for this reason 
some people find it hard to digest. If it is grated or finely 
divided and mixed with other foods that will increase the 
amount of carbohydrate and bulk, it forms a cheap and 
valuable protein food and is a good substitute for meat. 

A great many varieties of cheese are made. Some con- 
tain more water than others; some are made from milk, 
some from milk to which cream has been added, and some 
are made from skim milk. Some derive their flavor and 
odor from the pecuUar fermentation that takes place 
during ripening. 

Cheese is made the same way that junket is made. The 
milk is heated to lukewarm temperature, and rennet is 
added, and it is allowed to coagulate. The curd is then cut 
so that the whey can be removed, and this water is drawn off. 
Then the curd is pressed into shape and allowed to cure or 
ripen. The process of ripening brings out the flavor of 
the cheese. All American cheese is colored with a harmless 
vegetable coloring. 

Cheese Fondu. — Thoroughly mix one fourth cup crumbs, 
one fourth pound of grated cheese, one fourth teaspoon salt, 
speck cayenne pepper, one cup milk, one tablespoon melted 
butter, and three eggs. Bake in individual dishes. Serve 
immediately. 

Welsh Rarebit. — Mix together one pound of cheese cut 
in small pieces or chopped, one teaspoon butter, one tea- 
spoon salt and speck of paprika, one teaspoon mustard 
mixed with one teaspoon of cream, and heat slowly. When 
the cheese is nearly melted, add one beaten egg. Stir well. 



MILK AND ITS PRODUCTS 153 

and when all the cheese is melted, add one fourth cup of 
cream or more, until it is the desired thickness. Serve 
immediately on wafers or toast. 

Cheese Straws, (a) — One cup flour, one fourth teaspoon 
salt, five tablespoons lard. Mix as for pie crust, and roll 
out thin. Cut into two equal pieces. Sprinkle one piece 
with grated cheese, season with salt and paprika, and a 
small amount of melted butter. Place the other piece over 
this, press them together, and then cut into strips about 
one half inch wide and three inches long. Bake in a hot 
oven imtil crisp and brown. Serve with salad. 

Cheese Straws, (b) — One half cup flour, three fourths 
cup bread crumbs, one cup grated or chopped cheese, one 
tablespoon melted butter, one fourth teaspoon salt, speck 
of paprika, one half cup milk. Rub butter and flour 
together; add crumbs, seasoning, cheese, and milk, and 
mix thoroughly. Roll out one fourth inch thick and cut 
in pieces one half inch wide and three inches long. Bake 
imtil brown in a moderate oven. 

Cheese Souffle. — Two tablespoons melted butter, two 
tablespoons flour, one cup milk, one fourth teaspoon salt, 
speck paprika, three fourths cup cheese, four eggs, white 
and yolk beaten separately. Add flour to melted but- 
ter and rub together thoroughly. Add milk and seasoning 
and cook until it begins to thicken. Add beaten yolks 
and cheese ; mix thoroughly. When it has cooled slightly, 
add whites of eggs beaten stiff and dry, and bake in a 
moderate oven until brown, — about thirty minutes. 
Serve immediately. 

Juno Salad. — Mix one Neufchatel cheese, one half cup 
chopped walnuts, one fourth cup chopped pimentoes. 
Moisten with Cooked Salad Dressing and arrange on lettuce. 



CHAPTER Xn 

MEATS AND FISH 

MEATS 

All meats, including poultry and game, are similar in 
composition and structure, and the same methods of cook- 
ing may be applied to all. The different meats and cuts of 
the same meat vary in flavor ; in the amount of bone, refuse, 
and fat which they contain ; and some are more extensively 
used than others. 

The edible portion of meat is mainly protein, and it fur- 
nishes about one third of the tissue-building food consumed 
by the American people. Proteins are the important food 
substances in meat, and to understand the cooking of them, 
it is necessary to know the kinds found ; where they occur ; 
and the effect of heat on flavor, digestibility, and palata- 
bility. 

Meat consists of bone, fat, and muscle fiber. The bone 
is about one half solids and one half water. The solid 
part consists of mineral matter, fat, and ossein. The 
ossein is not a true protein, but an albuminoid which is 
dissolved by long boiling and gelatinizes when cooled. It 
is not a tissue-building food, but has come to be called a 
protein sparer. Bone is used in soup making to furnish 
the gelatin and some of the fat. It is generally thought 
that if the bone is left in cuts of meat during cooking, the 
flavor is improved. 

154 



MEATS ISS 

Fat differs in different animals. The fat of the hog is 
softer and less highly flavored than that of other animals, 
and, because of this, and because it has a high burning 
point, it is extensively used for frying foods. Beef and 
mutton fats contain more stearin than pork fat; they are 
harder, more highly flavored, and not used much in cooking. 
It could be said that fats are not consumed, to any great 
extent, as meat, but are separated from the muscle fiber 
and prepared for use in some other way. The only excep- 
tion to this is the use of pork as bacon, salt pork, and sausage, 
but even then much of the fat is lost in cooking. 
. The most important part of meat, then, is the muscle 
fiber, and if it is examined closely it will be found to consist 
of bundles of tubes or fibers held together by a substance 
similar to the ossein in bone, called collagen, a form of 
connective tissue. As this substance, collagen, is a form of 
albimiinoid, it is softened and dissolved by moist heat. 

The tubes contain various proteins, — albumin, fibrin, 
myosin, compound proteins, and extractives, — and it is this 
part of the meat which furnishes the tissue-building ma- 
terial for the body. The muscle tubes consist of a sub- 
stance called elastin, another albuminoid. 

The toughness or tenderness of a cut of meat depends on 
the thickness of the albuminoids which form the cell walls 
and which hold the cells together. If the cut of meat is 
from a part of the animal where the muscles have been 
exercised a great deal, the albuminoids are thicker and 
tougher than in those parts which are exercised but little. 
Hence the meat will be tougher and will require long, slow 
cooking to soften the elastin and collagen. That is the 
reason why cuts of meat from the neck and leg are tougher 
than those from the back. 



156 



MEATS 



U. S. Depsrtment of Agriculture 
Office of Experiment Stations 
A. C True: Director 



Prepared by 

C. F. LANGWORTHY 

expert ir> Charge of Nutrition Investigations 



COMPOSITION OF FOOD MATERIALS. 

■ Fuel Value 
^(Sq. In. Equate 
1000 Calories 

PORK CHOP 

eiNBLE PORTION 



Protein Fat Carbohydrates Ash 

LAMB CHOP 

EDIBIF PORTION 



Water 



PfOtefn: I 7 




Water 



Fai:2S2 



Protein: ^6^9 



SMOKED HAM 

Water; 40 3 




r*t:30.l 



Afth:I.O 
FytLWUlf: 



)535cAiORIES 
PCtfM^UND 



Fat; 18.5 



Furt 



Composition of Meats. 



MEATS 



157 



U.S. Deftartmcnt of Agriculture Prepared by 

Office of Experiment Stations C.F. LAN6W0RTHY 

A.C. True: Director it^td in Charge off Nutritioo Investigations 

COMPOSITION OF FOOD MATERIALS. 

warn MTnni f3??i ^m ^^ 

Protim Fjt Cirtjohfdf^tet A»h Water 



■■■ lOOO 



VCGGTABLE OILS, AS 
OLfVE , 

PEANUT. ^^^^^,3g 

COTTONSEED 




Fual Value 

In. Equals 
1 000 Calories 

BACON 

Protei n : 9.4 ^ , F»t;67 .4 




Fat 100 



BEEF SUET 



FuEt WLWE; 



4080 CJtJ.0«l£5 PCH POuPtD 




F^tlSl fi 



fvil V^LUE' 



Fuel valuc; Ash:4.4 



3090 CALORIES PER POUND 

Water: 13.2 
Protein: 4. 7 



-Ash.0.3 



BUTTER 

Fat fl3.0 



;^^' 




34^5 CALOftl££ P£P1 POUWO 

jT^^Water 13.0 



LAUD 



Fat: 100.0 



Ash:3.0 "^Protein; 1.0 

futt V/^LUEi 



3405 CALORICS PER POUND 




Fuel value; 



4080 CALORIES PER POUNO 



Composition op Fats. 



IS8 MEATS 

The true proteins in meat are coagulated by heat, and 
flavor is developed. Albumins are soluble in cold water, 
myosin and fibrin in dilute salt, or alkaline solution, and 
the rest are insoluble. If meat is soaked in cold water, or 
put on to cook in cold water, and gradually heated, albumin 
is dissolved out. It forms the brown scum that rises to the 
surface of the water when meat is boiled, and is usually 
lost during the process. Fibrin and myosin are dissolved 
when meat is soaked in salt solution, as in the corning of 
beef. 

Description of Cuts of Meat 

Beef is the meat most extensively used, and if one 
knows the various cuts of beef and their uses and how 
to select good beef, he will easily learn the cuts in other 
animals. 

In good beef the best cuts are fine grained, well mottled 
with fat and lean, and bright red in color after being ex- 




CuTS OF Beef. 



posed to the air. If there is a thick layer of firm, light- 
colored fat over the loin and rib cuts, the flesh will be juicier 
and better flavored than when there is little or no fat over 
these cuts. In the latter case, what fat there is is dark 



MEATS 159 

colored, and the meat is tough and dry. The animal is old, 
underfed, or losing flesh. 

The loin and rib cuts are finer grained and more tender 
than the other cuts, and require less cooking. They are 
the finest cuts for steaks and roasts. The other cuts are 
not so tender, but are juicier, and some of them contain 
less bone than the finer cuts and when properly cooked are 
as well flavored and equal to the loin and rib cuts in palata- 
biKty. 

The less tender cuts require long, slow cooking to soften 
the connective tissue, and for this reason do not make the 
finest steaks and roasts. As less than twenty-five per cent 
of the beef is contained in the loin and rib cuts, they sell 
for a much higher price than round, chuck, or any of the 
Other cuts, because the profit must come from the finer 
cuts. Many people who cannot afford it buy these ex- 
pensive cuts because they do not know how to cook 
the other parts and make them attractive and appe- 
tizing. The cheaper cuts are just as nutritious as the 
others, and when properly cooked are deHciously flavored 
and more satisfying than the badly cooked steak or dry 
roast. 

Aiter beef is dressed, it is cut into halves. The halves 
are divided into hind and fore quarters by cutting between 
the twelfth and thirteenth ribs, leaving one rib in the hind 
quarter. The flank is cut from the hind quarter, leaving 
the loin, rump, round, and shank. The loin includes the 
porterhouse, sirloin, and tenderloin cuts. 

The fore quarter is cut across the ribs. The lower part 
includes the plate, clod, and shank. The upper part 
includes the rib, chuck, and neck. 

CONLEY p. C. — II 



i6o MEATS 

Cuts Arranged according to Market Value and De- 
sirability, Highest Priced First 

Loin. — This cut includes short steaks, porterhouse, 
sirloin, and tenderloin. The tenderloin is a long muscle 
that may be stripped from beneath the loin, but when it is 
removed, it destroys the value of the porterhouse steak. 
The first few cuts from the loin are called short or club 
steaks because they contain no tenderloin. Steaks cut 
from the beginning of the tenderloin to the beginning of 
the hook bone are called porterhouse. They are the choic- 
est and highest-priced cuts in beef. The remaining cuts in 
the loin are the sirloin. 

The tenderloin, when sold separately, is deficient in fat, 
and hence must be larded and then roasted or broiled. The 
loin is cut into steaks and broiled, occasionally sold as 
roasts, though expensive, and no finer for roasting than 
are the ribs. 

Rib. — This cut consists of seven ribs, called prime ribs ; 
the cut is made close to the shoulder blade and separates it 
from the chuck. It is sold as roasts, being cut into one, two, 
or three rib pieces. One rib piece usually weighs about 
four pounds. The ribs are removed and the piece rolled 
and called a rolled roast. If the ribs are left in, it is called 
a standing roast. Dealers sometimes remove the ribs from 
the cut and sell it as steaks, called small steaks. 

Round. — This cut consists of very juicy, lean muscle 
and but little bone. It is sold as steaks, roasts, and for 
beef tea and beef juice. It is excellent for pot roast, stews, 
braizing or casserole of beef, and for beef loaf. 

Rump, -r- This cut contains the end of the hip bone and 
joint. There is considerable bone, but the remainder 



MEATS 



i6i 





Rib. 



Rib. 





Loin. 



Rump. 




Round. Chuck. 

Cuts of Beef. 

(From Conlcy's Nutrition and Diet.) 



1 62 MEATS 

makes very good steaks and roasts. It is also excellent 
for pot roast, boiling, braizing, stews, and mincemeat. 

Chuck. — This cut is next to the prime ribs cut and 
similar to it, but contains more bone and gristle and is not 
so tender. It makes a very good, though large, roast and 
is sold sometimes as steaks, and by some preferred to the 
round, because it is mottled with fat. It is excellent for 
stews, pot roast, boiling, braizing, and mincemeat. 

Clod. — This cut is back of the brisket and below the 
chuck. It is sold for boiling, stews, braizing, and mince- 
meat. 

Flank. — This cut comes from below the loin. It is 
boneless and coarse, but of good flavor. Flank steak is 
sometimes cut from the lean muscle on the inside of the 
flank. This steak may be scored across the grain and 
broiled. It is also rolled and braized. Flank cut is used 
for stews, boiling, and rolled and corned. 

Neck. — This cut contains juicy, tough meat. It is 
used in stews, soup, and Hamburg steaks. 

Plate. — This cut comes from below the ribs. It has 
layers of fat and lean and the ends of the ribs. It is used 
for boihng and corning. 

Shank. — These cuts are the fore and hind legs. They 
are tough, and contain bone and tendons. They are used 
for soup, cheap stews, and mince meat. 

Principles Involved in the Cooking of Meat 

But three principles are involved in the cooking of all 
meats, and a statement of these principles is made before 
recipes are given which apply them. 

I. Tender cuts of meat are broiled, fried, or roasted. 
The meat is first subjected to strong heat which coagulates 



MEATS 163 

the albumin, and this forms a crust which retains the juices 
in the meat. If the cut is thick enough, the meat will then 
cook in its own juices, and if this cooking is continued long, 
enough, it will soften the connective tissue also. If the cut 
is thin, dry heat will harden the connective tissued Strong 
heat is needed at first, to form the crust and to develop 
flavor, but the heat should be reduced somewhat after this 
is accompUshed or the meat will cook at too high a tem- 
perature and be dry and tasteless. This method of cook- 
ing should not be appUed to tough cuts of meat, because it 
does not soften the tough connective tissue. 

II. Tougher cuts of meat are boiled, stewed, or cooked 
by some method that combines the stewing and roasting. 
Meat is cooked in either a large or small quantity of water, 
at a temperature of 1 70^-180° F. for several hours. This 
long, slow cooking in water softens the elastin and collagen, 
forms of connective tissue which occur in muscle fiber, and 
coagulates the proteins, and this method of cooking makes 
tough meat tender. The meat should be started in boiling 
water, but after the first fifteen minutes the heat should be 
reduced, and the meat allowed to cook slowly. Low heat 
3of tens the connective tissue, while boiling dissolves it and 
leaves a stringy mass of fibers. 

Sometimes the first method and second are combined, 
and meat is subjected to strong heat at first to sear over 
the outside and develop flavor, and then the meat is stewed. 

III. Very tough cuts of meat are used for soup making 
because they are apt to be juicy, and it is more economical 
to use cheap cuts for this purpose. Meat is placed in cold 
water and allowed to stand ; the cold water draws out the 
soluble albumins, extractives, and other soluble compounds. 
The meat is then slowly heated to about 160° F. and al- 



l64 MEATS 

lowed to cook for several hours. The slow cooking dis- 
solves some of the albuminoids and fat. The longer it is 
cooked, the more gelatin and fat are obtained. Soup 
contains soluble albumin, extractives, blood which con- 
tains henioglobin, also gelatin and fat, — these form a 
very small percentage of the nutrients in meat. The nutri- 
tive value of meat soup is in the substances added to it. 
A soup usually stimulates the appetite. 

Experiments with Meat. 

I. Scrape a piece of round steak until you can remove no more 
pulp. The white substance which remains is connective tissue. 
The pulp contains all the proteins in the meat. It is used to make 
beef sandwiches for invalids, and is sometimes fed to children from 
eighteen months to two years old to furnish protein. 

II. Cut round steak in small pieces and soak in cold water. Note 
color of the water. Heat the meat slowly, and press out the juice. 
This is called beef juice and is used for invalids and for infants from 
one year to eighteen months old. It is usually made by adding very 
^b'ttle water. It contains albumin, coloring matter, and extractives. 

III. To show that albumin is present, heat the juice to nearly 
boiling, 1 80° F., and note the brown scum. How would you know 
that extractives are present? 

IV. Soak meat over night in salt water. Note change in color 
and the presence of dissolved myosin and fibrin. 

V. Pour boiling water over lean rotmd steak, and boil ten minutes. 
Note appearance of water, to find whether albumin is present. Taste 
it to find flavor. 

Cooking of Tender Cuts — Principle One 

Roast Beef. Rib RoasL — The best cuts for roasting 
are called the prime ribs. Have the ribs removed and 

^ Pork, lamb, mutton, and veal roasts are cooked in the same way as beef 
roast, but they require a longer time for cooking, as they should never be 
served rare as beef is served. They require at least twenty minutes per 
pound. 



MEATS i6s 

have the meat rolled. This insures more even cooking 
than if the bones are left in, for when they are, the thin 
part is overdone before the rest is cooked. If the meat has 
but little fat, have a piece of suet rolled in with the roast, 
and remove it before the roast is sent to the table to serve. 

Sprinkle salt and pepper on the meat, and dredge with 
flour. This is done so as to form a crust and prevent the 
escape of the juice. Have the oven very hot at first so as 
to sear the outside quickly and retain the juice. After 
ten minutes reduce the heat so as to insure thorough cook- 
ing. If the oven is very hot all the time, the outside will 
bum while the inside is raw. Baste the meat occasionally 
with the drippings. Never add water to a roast unless 
the meat has so little fat that there is danger of burning or 
charring. Never add it until after the first fifteen minutes. 
Allow fifteen minutes' cooking to each pound of meat. 
That is, allow an hour for a four-pound roast, and an hour 
and a half for a six-pound roast. 

Brown Gravy. — Pour off some of the fat from the pan 
in which the roast has cooked. To the remainder of the 
fat add three tablespoons of flour, and rub free from lumps. 
Add one and one half cups of boiling water and cook until 
it thickens ; add one fourth teaspoon of salt and a speck of 
pepper. 

Yorkshire Pudding. — One half cup of milk, one half 
cup of flour, one egg, one eighth teaspoon of salt. Mix the 
salt and flour ; add milk and rub smooth ; add egg well 
beaten. Pour into the pan where the roast beef is cook- 
ing, or cover the bottom of another pan with some of the 
drippings from the roast, and pour the mixture over the 
fat. Bake in a hot oven twenty minutes, and serve with 
roast beef. 



1 66 MEATS 

Lamb Chops. — Select rib or loin chops and remove the 
skin and some of the fat. If all the fat is removed, the 
chops will be dry and tasteless. Have the fr)dng pan 
smoking hot, and place a small piece of the fat from the 
meat on a fork and rub the pan with it. Remove the fat 
and place the chops in the pan. When one side is seared 
over, turn the chops and sear the other side, turn frequently 
to prevent burning, and cook at a lower temperature after 
the first few minutes. Cook long enough so that the chops 
will not be rare, — from eight to twelve minutes, depending 
on the thickness of the cut. When done, season with salt 
and pepper ; serve immediately. Mutton and pork chops 
are cooked in the same way. 

Veal Cutlets. — Cut the cutlets in pieces for individual 
servings. Sprinkle with salt and pepper, dip in crumbs or 
flour, egg, and crumbs, and fry in bacon fat, lard, or butter, 
until well browned. Cook slowly so that the cutlets will 
be cooked throughout. Pour Brown or Tomato Sauce 
over, and simmer twenty minutes. 

Brown Sauce. — Brown one fourth cup of butter ; add 
one fourth teaspoon of chopped onion and brown; add 
three tablespoons of flour and stir until browned ; add one 
and one half cups of boiling water and cook until it thickens. 
Add one fourth teaspoon of salt, one eighth teaspoon of 
pepper. (One half cup of mushrooms or one fourth cup 
of capers may be added.) 

Tomato Sauce. — (See p. 95.) 

Fried Chicken. — Cut a young chicken in pieces ready 
to serve. Sprinkle with salt, pepper, and flour. Place 
in a deep pan ; add one fourth cup of butter, cover the pan, 
place in a hot oven, and cook from twenty to thirty min- 
utes. Turn several times to cook evenly. 



MEATS 167 

Another method is to place the chicken in the hying pan, 
add the butter, and fry slowly for fifteen to twenty minutes. 
Serve with White Sauce made from the butter which 
remains in the pan. 

Tougher Cuts — Principle Two 

Hamburg Steak. — Pass one pound of round steak 
through a meat chopper; add one small onion chopped 
fine, one fourth teaspoon of salt, one eighth teaspoon of 
pepper, and one beaten egg. Mix thoroughly and shape 
into about six balls. Fry slowly in a small amount of 
bacon fat or salt pork, or some of the fat from the meat. 
Cover the frying pan, and cook ten to fifteen minutes, turn 
to prevent burning. 

Boiled Leg of Mutton. — Remove the skin from the 
mutton, as the skin gives the meat a strong flavor if cooked 
on the meat. Place the meat in a kettle, cover with boil- 
ing water, and boil about fifteen minutes. Reduce the 
heat and let the meat simmer from two and one half to 
three hours, depending on the size of the leg. When 
nearly done, add salt and pepper. Serve with mint or 
caper sauce. 

Mint Sauce. — One half cup of mint chopped fine ; add 
two tablespoons of sugar, three tablespoons of vinegar, 
three tablespoons of boiling water, one eighth teaspoon 
of salt. Let it boil for three minutes, and then remove 
from the stove and let it stand for fifteen minutes. 

Meat in Casserole. — Cut round beef steak or shoulder 
of mutton into one and one half inch pieces, and brown in a 
hot frying pan in beef or bacon fat. When the meat is 
seared, place it in the casserole and brown an onion in the 
fat. Add onion and fat to the meat, and cover with water. 



i68 



MEATS 




a 



MEATS 169 

Place the cover on the casserole, put it in the oven, and let 
the meat cook slowly for two hours. Cut one cup of car- 
rots and two cups of potatoes into balls or sUces, add to the 
meat; add one half teaspoon of salt and one eighth tea- 
spoon of pepper, and cook until the potatoes are done. 
Serve from the casserole. 

Mutton Stew and Dumplings. — One and one half 
pounds of mutton from shoulder, cut in small pieces ; add 
one onion and one carrot, sUced ; cover with boiUng water 
and boil fifteen minutes ; reduce the heat and let simmer 
one and one half hours. Turn meat from kettle, season. 
Place potatoes in bottom of kettle, place meat on the 
potatoes, pour liquid over this, and add enough boiling 
water to cover all; place dumpUngs on top of meat, 
and boil twenty minutes. 

Dumplings. — Mix two cups of flour, four teaspoons of 
baking powder, one fourth teaspoon salt. Add two table- 
spoons of lard as for biscuit. Moisten with one cup of 
water. Shape into six dumplings, and cook with meat 
and potatoes. 

Beef Loaf. — Two pounds of beef from round, one tea- 
spoon of salt, one half cup grated bread crumbs, speck of 
dressing seasoning, one fourth pound of pork, one teaspoon 
of chopped onion, one egg. Pass meat through a chopper, 
mix all ingredients, shape into a loaf, sprinkle with flour, 
and bake one hour. Serve with tomato or mushroom 
sauce, or plain. Garnish with parsley. 

Tomato Sauce. — One pint of tomatoes, one half onion 
chopped fine. Cook ten minutes. Put through a sieve. 
Melt four tablespoons of butter, rub in four tablespoons of 
flour ; add one half teaspoon of salt, one eighth teaspoon of 
pepper ; add the tomato, and cook until it thickens. 



170 MEATS 

Mincemeat. — Boil five pounds of lean beef four or five 
hours until it is ready to fall to pieces, remove bone, 
and chop fine. Add two pounds of beef suet chopped 
fine, four pounds of raisins, four pounds of currants, one 
pound of citron, four quarts of chopped apples, four table- 
spoons of cinnamon, four tablespoons of cloves, four table- 
spoons of nutmeg, three teaspoons of allspice, three tea- 
spoons of pepper, three teaspoons of ginger, juice of three 
lemons, one pint of molasses, one cup of melted butter, 
two and one half pounds of sugar, two and one half 
quarts of boiled cider. Mix thoroughly and store in a 
cool place. 

Hungarian Goulash. — Cut a two-inch piece of fat pork 
or beef suet in small pieces, and fry out. Cut one and one 
half pounds of beef from the round into small pieces, sea- 
son with salt and pepper, and roll in flour and then fry in 
the fat until brown. Place the beef in a kettle, add one 
chopped onion, one chopped green pepper, one cup of 
chopped celery, two cups of canned tomatoes, cover with 
boiUng water, and let it simmer about two hours. 

Chicken Pie. — Purchase a chicken about a year old, 
because it is fatter and better flavored for boiUng than the 
young ones. Remove the legs and cut each leg into two 
portions ; remove wings ; cut breast into two parts, also the 
back. Place in a kettle ; cover with boiUng water and boil 
ten minutes, and then simmer until the meat is tender, — 
from one and one half to two hours, depending on the 
toughness of the meat. When half done, add one teaspoon 
of salt and one eighth teaspoon of pepper. Remove the 
chicken from the kettle ; thicken the stock with one fourth 
to one third of a cup of flour which has been rubbed smooth 
in cold water. If there is but Uttle fat on the chicken, add 



MEATS 171 

several tablespoons of butter to the broth. Return chicken 
to the kettle, and let it simmer in the broth for several 
minutes. When ready to serve, add small baking powder 
biscuits broken in two. 

Warmed-over Meats 

Hash. — One cup of chopped cooked meat, one cup of 
cooked potatoes sUced in small pieces, one fourth cup of 
boiling water, two tablespoons of butter, one tablespoon 
of onion chopped fine, one half teaspoon of salt, speck of 
pepper. Cook slowly until it begins to brown; turn, and 
serve hot. 

Creamed Dried Beef. — One half cup of dried beef 
shredded with a knife into small pieces. Soak in cold 
water about five minutes. Make White Sauce, omitting 
the salt; add dried beef, bring to the boihng point, and 
serve with potatoes or on toast. 

Beefsteak Pie. — Remove fat and bone from remnants 
of roast beef or steak. Use about two cups cut into small 
pieces; add one small chopped onion, one fourth teaspoon 
of salt, speck of pepper; cover with boiling water, and let 
it simmer about one hour. Then thicken the liquid with 
two tablespoons of flour, and remove to a baking dish, 
place biscuit dough on top of the meat, and bake in the 
oven until the crust is done. The gravy or juice should 
completely cover the meat, otherwise it will cook dry. 

For biscuit dough use one cup of flour, one and one half 
teaspoons of baking powder, one fourth teaspoon of salt, 
two and one half tablespoons of lard or butter. 



172 MEATS 

Soup — Principle Three 
Soup Stock 

Soup stock is the soluble part of meat and bone, with 
vegetables and seasoning added. It forms the basis of 
all meat soups, of aspic jelly, of some sauces. 

It may be made from the remnants of roasts or steaks 
with some fresh meat added ; from the trimmings of roasts 
that are sent with the meat; from the tougher parts of 
meat not cooked or served. It is made from beef, veal, 
lamb, mutton, and chicken ; sometimes two or more kinds 
of meat are used. The bones of the young animals are 
better for soup making because they contain more gela- 
tin; the meat of the older animals is best because it is 
juicier. For the first reason, bones of veal or chicken are 
sometimes added to the soup kettle. Some of the meat is 
frequently seared over by using some of the fat. This 
gives a dark color to the soup stock and adds flavor. Some- 
times caramel is used to darken it. 

Beef Soup Stock. — Select meat from the rump, shin, or 
neck, and be sure to get about two thirds lean meat and one 
third fat and bone, about four pounds in all. Place some 
of the fat in a frying pan and brown a small portion of the 
meat. Cut the meat, fat, and bone into small pieces. 
Place it in a soup kettle and add four quarts of water. 
Let it stand in the cold water one hour to draw out the 
juices and soluble albumin, then add the browned meat, 
heat slowly, and cook at a low temperature for four or five 
hours. Add one fourth cup each of onion, carrots, celery 
cut into small pieces; a sprig of parsley, one bay leaf, 
one teaspoon of salt, one eighth teaspoon of pepper, and 
simmer one hour. Strain and cool quickly. Let it stand 



FISH 173 

in a cold place untU the fat rises to the top and solidifies. 
The stock will keep so long as the fat covers it. When it is 
to be used, skim off all of the fat, and reheat with whatever 
additional ingredients are desired. 

Tomato soup may be made by adding tomatoes ; or pearl 
barley, macaroni, noodles, or vegetables may be added. 

In the process of soup making the connective tissue is 
softened and dissolved; the soluble albumin, juices, and 
extractives are drawn out, but very Uttle of the nutritive 
value from the meat is in the soup. The remaining meat 
is tasteless because the extractives which give meat its 
flavor have been drawn out and the dissolving of the con- 
nective tissue has left the meat stringy. The albumin 
that is in the soup becomes coagulated by heat and is the 
brown scum that floats on the surface. If the scum is 
taken off, some of the nutrients are lost. 

FISH 

Fish are classified in two classes, — those having a back- 
bone and called vertebrates, and the shellfish. The ver- 
tebrates are classified as fresh and salt water fish, and also 
as white-meat fish, and dark-meat fish. They are classified 
in various other ways, but to apply the principles of cook- 
ing, all vertebrates may be grouped in one general class. 

Fish are similar to meat in composition, structure, and 
nutritive value, in that they are protein foods. They 
take the place of meat in any meal. The muscle consists 
of bundles of fibers bound together by connective tissue. 
There is a marked difference in this tissue from that in 
meat ; the connective tissue in fish is so tender that they 
require but little cooking, and when they are boiled, care 
must be taken or the connective tissue will be dissolved 



174 FISH 

and the muscle fibers will fall apart. For this reason fish 
are best when broiled, baked, or fried. 

Selection and Cleaning. — Care must be taken when 
purchasing fish that they are fresh, because fish decompose 
readily and do not keep for any length of time after they 
are taken from the water. In fresh fish the eyes are bright, 
the gills are bright red, and the flesh is firm. When fish 
are purchased from the market, they are cleaned, though 
the scales are not always removed. They may be removed 
with a knife or a fish scaler sold for that purpose. Begin 
at the tail and work towards the head, holding the fish 
firmly by the tail. Wash the fish inside and out with 
plenty of cold water, and dry with a soft cloth. 

Baked Fish. — Remove the head from the fish; sprinkle 
the inside with salt, pepper ; add a tablespoon of lard, bacon 
drippings, or olive oil, and sew or fasten the sides together. 
Roll the fish in flour, place in a baking pan, add one fourth 
cup of lard, or bacon fat or olive oil, and bake until brown, 
from thirty to forty-five minutes, depending on the size 
of the fish. Serve with Tartare Sauce, Drawn Butter, or 
HoUandaise Sauce. 

Fried Fish. — Fish may be fried whole, or skinned and 
boned and cut into slices. Fish like fresh salmon and lake 
trout are sold sliced and ready for frying. Season with 
salt, pepper, and roll in flour or corn meal, or in egg and 
crumbs. Saute slowly in bacon fat, salt pork, lard, or 
oUve oil until deep brown, or fry in deep fat. 

Tartare Sauce. — Mix one tablespoon of vinegar, one 
teaspoon of lemon juice, one fourth teaspoon of salt, 
one tablespoon of Worcestershire sauce, and heat over hot 
water. Brown one fourth cup of butter, and add it slowly 
to the mixture. Serve hot with fish. 



FISH 



175 



U.S. Department of Aqriculture 

Office of Experiment Stafioos 

A.C. True: Director 



Prepared by 

C.F. LAN6W0RTHY 

Expert in Charge of Nutrition Investiqations 



COMPOSITION OF FOOD MATERIALS. 



Prottin 

COD 

Lean F(6h 



Fat Carbohydr0te& Ash 



FgfL VALUf 

vVaterS?6 I 




Fuel Value 

pTeSq- In. Equals 

1000 Calories 

SALT COD 



c 



100 CALORltS 

pro POUND 
Protein- 15 8 



OYSTER 

Watereii 9 



I |w<»ter:5S 
400 WLOfiFF^ 

Oftt PaUHD : 

Protein ?( 3 

Tat'O y^ 



Carbohydrates- ^.7 
SMOKED HERRING 



.Wdlcr-H.e 
Protein-.364 

FlTIL VALUf 



I 30^ CALORIfS 






MACKEREL 

Fat Fibh 






Ash 13 2^ 




Composition of Fish. 



CONLEY p. C. 12 



176 FISH 

Drawn Butter Sauce. — Melt three tablespoons of butter; 
add two tablespoons of flour, one fourth teaspoon of salt, 
one eighth teaspoon of pepper, and brown the mixture. 
Add one cup of water and stir until it begins to boil, and 
then simmer for five minutes. Add two tablespoons of 
butter, in bits; beat it until it is absorbed, and then serve 
immediately on fish. 

Steamed Salmon Loaf. — One can of salmon, four table- 
spoons of milk, three eggs, four tablespoons of melted butter, 
one half cup of bread crumbs, speck of pepper, one fourth 
teaspoon of salt, one teaspoon of chopped parsley. Rub 
butter into salmon, put crumbs into the beaten eggs, mix 
all together, season, steam one hour, or bake twenty minutes. 

Sauce. — One cup of milk, one tablespoon of cornstarch, 
one tablespoon of butter, juice from the salmon, one egg, 
speck of salt. Cook until it thickens, and serve with the 
salmon. 

Oysters 

Oyster Stew. — Heat one pint of milk and one pint of 
water, or one quart of milk, to the boiling point. Add one 
pint of oysters, three tablespoons of butter, one half tea- 
spoon of salt, one eighth teaspoon of pepper, and cook 
until the edges of the oysters begin to curl. Serve imme- 
diately. 

Fried Oysters. — Purchase large select oysters for fry- 
ing. Wash and drain the oysters, and dry on a soft cloth. 
Season with salt and pepper and then dip the oysters in 
bread crumbs, slightly beaten egg, and crumbs, and saute 
in butter until brown on both sides, or fry in deep fat. 

Scalloped Oysters. — Roll two cups of bread or cracker 
crumbs until fine. Melt one half cup of butter and mix it 



PLANNING A DINNER 177 

with the crumbs. Mix one pint of oysters, one teaspoon 
of salt, one eighth teaspoon of pepper, and one cup of milk. 
Spread one third of the crumbs in the bottom of the baking 
dish, cover with one half of the oysters, put in another 
third of the crumbs and the remainder of the oysters, 
cover with the rest of the cnmibs, and bake 20 to 30 minutes. 

PLANNING AND SERVING A DINNER 

After the meat lessons, the pupils are prepared to plan 
and serve a dinner, following the same method pursued for 
the breakfasts and lunches. 




A Dinner Table. 

Dinner may consist of the following courses : — 

1. Soup I. Meat, potato, and one 

2. Meat, potato, and one other vegtable 

other vegetable 2. Salad 

3. Dessert 3. Dessert 



178 



PLANNING A DINNER 
SUGGESTED MENUS 



Cream of Celery Soup 
Beef Loaf Tomato Sauce 

Creamed Cauliflower 
Lemon Pie 



Mashed Potato 



Veal Cutlets Brown Sauce 

Lima Beans 
Cabbage Salad or 

Chocolate Pudding 



Baked Potato 
Waldorf Salad 



Leg of Mutton 



Riced Potatoes 
Lettuce Salad 
Caramel Ice Cream 



Squash 



Cake 



Fried Chicken 



Cream of Tomato Soup 

Baked Potato 

Banana and Nut Salad 

Bavarian Cream 



Creamed Peas 



CHAPTER XIII 

GELATINS AND ICES. SOME ADDITIONAL 
RECIPES 

GELATIN 

Gelatin is manufactured from the albuminoids in meat, 
— ossein in bone, elastin in cell walls, collagen in connec- 
tive tissue. Bone, tendons, ligaments, and all forms of 
connective tissue are boiled, and the substance extracted 
forms gelatin when cooled. It occurs in greatest abun- 
dance in the bones of young animals. 

Gielatin does not build tissue, but yields heat and energy 
when oxidized. Its food value is not very high, as so small 
a quantity of it is used at a time. It is easily digested 
and furnishes a vehicle for adding nutritious foods to the 
diet, as it makes it possible to serve them in attractive ways. 

General Directions. — One box of pulverized gelatin 
contains four tablespoons of gelatin. It should be soaked 
in one cup of cold water for ten minutes. Add one quart 
of boiling water, but never boil gelatin, or the thickening 
power is destroyed. For thick jelly use less water. Pine- 
apple juice should be boiled before gelatin is added, as the 
fresh pineapple contains a ferment that prevents the 
gelatin from thickening. 

Fruit Salad. — Dissolve one box of Knox pulverized gela- 
tin in one cup of cold water. Boil one pint of canned 
pineapple, remove from the fire, add juice of two lemons, 
three oranges, and one cup of sugar ; add one pint of boil- 
ing water to the dissolved gelatin, the fruit juice, one cup 

179 



i8o 



GELATINS AND ICES 



of celery cut fine, and one fourth pound of shelled and 
blanched almonds split lengthwise. Turn into molds, and 
let stand until it stiffens. Serve with Cooked Dressing 
which has been thinned with whipped cream. 

Aspic Jelly. — Aspic is stock, cleared or uncleared, to 
which gelatin has been added. Four tablespoons of 

gelatin are usually used to 
five cups of stock. Soak 
the gelatin in one cup of 
cold water, and pour the 
boiling hot stock over. To- 
matoes, pimentoes, tongue, 
chicken, deUcate vegetables, 
sweetbreads, are molded in 
aspic. The mold is lined 
with the aspic, and as soon 
as it begins to set, the solid 
food to be molded is added, 
and more aspic is used to 
cover it. If the other in- 
gredients were added before 
the jelly begins to set, they 
would not be evenly dis- 
tributed throughout, but 
would float on top. 

Lemon Jelly. — Soak two 
tablespoons of gelatin 
(Knox) in one half cup cold 
water for ten minutes. Pour 
over this slowly two cups of boiling water, and stir until 
dissolved. Add one cup of sugar and one half cup of 
lemon juice. Turn into mold, and chill. 




Jelly served with Whipped Cream 
OR Fruit. 



GELATINS AND ICES i8i 

Orange Jelly. — Soak two tablespoons of gelatin in one 
half cup of cold water for ten minutes. Pour over this 
slowly two cups of boiling water, and stir until dissolved. 
Add one cup of sugar, one and one half cups orange juice, 
and three tablespoons lemon juice. Turn into molds, and 
chiU. 

Snow Pudding. — Soak one tablespoon of gelatin in 
one fourth cup of cold water, and add one cup of boiling 
water, one cup of sugar, one fourth cup of lemon juice. 
Prepare as for lemon jelly. When mixture has thickened, 
beat imtil frothy. Add whites of three eggs beaten stiff, 
and continue beating imtil stiff enough to hold its shape. 
Mold or pile by spoonfuls on a dish. Serve cold with 
boiled custard. 

Maple Bavarian Cream. — Dissolve one tablespoon of 
gelatin in four tablespoons of cold water. Scald two thirds 
cup of maple sirup, add two egg yolks, and cook until it 
thickens. Add gelatin; stir constantly until it begins to 
thicken. Add one and one half cups of cream whipped 
stiff and one half teaspoon of vanilla. Turn into a mold, 
and let stand until it stiffens. 

Pineapple Bavarian Cream. — Soak one tablespoon of 
gelatin in four tablespoons of cold water. Boil one cup 
of grated pineapple, four tablespoons of sugar, and one 
fourth cup of lemon juice. Add the gelatin, and stir 
constantly until it begins to thicken. Add one and ohe 
half cups of cream whipped stiff. Turn into a mold, and 
let it stand until it stiffens. 

Pistachio Salad. — Soak one half box of gelatin in one 
half cup of cold water. Add one cup of boiling water, 
two tablespoons of sugar, the juice of two oranges and one 
lemon. Color with green coloring. Turn into cups to 



i82 GELATINS AND ICES 

stiffen. After the gelatin begins to set, add one half 
pound of chopped walnuts, two cups of chopped celery, 
and let stand until stiff; turn from cups and serve with 
Cooked or Mayonnaise Dressing. 

ICES 

Frozen Desserts. — Frozen dishes may be grouped in 
two general classes, — those containing cream, as ice 
cream, parfait, and mousse ; and those made from water 
and fruit juice, as ices, sherbet, frappe, and punch. The 
number of combinations of milk, cream, fruit, nuts, fruit 
juice, and flavorings is practically limitless, and many 
names are given to the different combinations. The direc- 
tions for freezing and packing are practically the same in 
every case, except where whipped cream is used. In this 
case the mixture is frozen without stirring. 

Directions for Freezing. — Purchase coarse rock or ice 
cream salt. Place the ice in a bag and tie loosely ; crush 
with the broad side of an ax or wooden mallet until the 
pieces are small and of uniform size. Snow may be used 
in place of ice. Have the mixture to be frozen ready. 
Scald the ice cream can, and rinse and dry just before using 
it. Place the mixture in the can (the can should not 
be more than three fourths full of the mixture to be frozen, 
as it expands during freezing). Place the can in the wooden 
tub of the freezer, insert the dasher, put on the cover and the 
top. Place the cork or plug in the opening in the side of 
the freezer, and leave it there until the mixture is frozen. 
Use three measures of ice to one of salt, and pack the freezer 
soUdly. When snow is used, less salt is needed, as the snow 
is loosely packed. Turn the crank slowly at first, and then 
more rapidly after the mixture begins to freeze. Salt 



GELATINS AND ICES 183 

solution has a lower freezing point than pure water, so when 
the salt dissolves, the salt solution cannot stay solid at the 
temperature of the ice. Any substance going into solu- 
tion absorbs heat. This heat absorbed by the dissolving 
of the salt is taken from the contents of the can. Ice 
melting absorbs heat. This heat is also taken from the 
contents of the can. Care must be taken that the salt 
water in the tub of the freezer does not reach above the 
cover of the can, or it will enter the can. After the mixture 
is frozen sufficiently, draw off the water by removing the 
cork or plug, remove the cover and dasher and pack the 
cream solidly, then replace the cover, and pack the freezer 
again with ice and salt, but do not insert the cork. 

Lemon Ice. — To four cups of boiling water add two 
cups of sugar and the grated rind of two lemons. Boil 
five minutes. Add one half cup of lemon juice, strain, 
cool, and freeze. 

Orange Ice. — Four cups of water, two cups of sugar, 
one fourth cup of lemon juice, grated rind of two oranges, 
and juice of four oranges. Make sirup as for lemon ice ; 
add fruit juice, cool, strain, and freeze. 

Ice Cream. — To one quart of thin cream add three 
fourths cup of sugar and one half teaspoon of vanilla or 
any other flavor desired. Freeze. 

Maple Mousse. — Four eggs, yolks and whites separate, 
one cup maple sirup, one quart of cream, one teaspoon of 
vanilla. Beat the yolks of the eggs very light, stir in one 
cup of maple sirup, and cook until it thickens, stirring 
constantly. Cool. Add one quart of cream and the beaten 
whites of the eggs and vanilla. Strain, cool, and freeze. 

Cranberry Sherbet. — Wash one quart of cranberries, 
cover with one pint of cold water, and cook until soft. When 



i84 ADDITIONAL RECIPES 

soft, press through a fruit press, and add enough water to 
make one quart of juice. Add the juice of two oranges 
and two cups of sugar, and heat to the boiling point. Chill, 
turn into the freezer, and freeze. Serve with turkey, 
chicken, or game course. 

SOME ADDITIONAL RECIPES 

To be used with the meat lessons when not enough work 
is provided to keep the pupils occupied. 

Simple Layer Cakes. — Bake plain cake in two layer 
cake pans, and use any of the following fillings and frost 
the top with White Frosting. 

Marshmallow Cream Filling. — Beat one cup of cream 
until stiff, add one fourth cup of powdered sugar, one half 
teaspoon of vanilla, one egg white beaten stiff and dry, and 
one half cup of marshmallow cut into small pieces. Spread 
between the layers and on top, and serve while fresh. 

Lady Baltimore Filling. — Make White Frosting and to 
one half of it add one half cup of chopped raisins, one half 
cup of chopped nuts, and three chopped figs. Spread 
between the layers, and frost the top with the remainder of 
the frosting. 

Fig Filling. — Chop one fourth pound of figs, add one 
half cup of cold water and one fourth cup of sugar, and boil 
until it thickens. Spread between the layers, and frost 
the top of the cake. 

Chocolate Filling. — (See p. 130, Chocolate Frosting.) 

Blitz Kuchen. — One cup of butter, or one half cup of 
butter and one half cup of lard, creamed until soft, add one 
cup of sugar and mix thoroughly. Add four beaten eggs, 
and beat until thoroughly blended. 'Add alternately three 
fourths cup of milk and two cups of flour in which three 



ADDITIONAL RECIPES 185 

teaspoons of baking powder and one fourth teaspoon of salt, 
one teaspoon of cinnamon, have been sifted. Add grated 
rind of one lemon. Spread in a shallow pan about one fourth 
inch thick. Sprinkle with three fourths cup of nuts, one 
fourth cup of sugar and cinnamon. Bake in a hot oven. 

Cottage Pudding. — Cream one fourth cup of butter, add 
two thirds cup of sugar, one egg, one cup of milk, two and 
one fourths cups of flour, four teaspoons of baking powder, 
one fourth teaspoon of salt. Mix as for Plain Cake. Bake 
thirty-five minutes and serve with Vanilla or Hard Sauce. 

Hard Sauce. — Cream one third cup of butter ; add one 
cup of powdered sugar gradually ; add one fourth teaspoon 
of flavoring, and shape into small balls. 

Rice Pudding. — Cook one half cup of rice in one pint of 
boiling water for twenty minutes, or until soft. Add one 
half cup of sugar, one pint of milk, two well-beaten eggs, 
one half cup of raisins, speck of nutmeg, and bake slowly 
imtil firm. 

Bread Pudding. — Mix one pint of bread crumbs, one 
quart of milk, one cup of sugar, four egg yolks, two table- 
spoons melted butter, and the juice of lemon or one teaspoon 
of lemon extract. Beat until blended. Turn into a baking 
dish and bake three quarters of an hour. Take from oven, 
spread jam or jelly over the top, cover with the whites of 
four eggs beaten stiff and dry, to which has been added four 
tablespoons of sugar and one fourth teaspoon of lemon 
extract. Return to the oven until the eggs are browned. 
Serve with cream. 

Date Pudding. — Wash one pound of dates and remove 
the stones, add one cup of walnuts chopped, one half cup of 
sugar, two eggs well beaten, and one half cup of flour and 
two teaspoons of baking powder sifted together. Mix well. 



i86 ADDITIONAL RECIPES 

and bake slowly about two hours. Pour one cup of cream 
over the pudding while it is warm, and serve with whipped 
cream. 

Fig Pudding. — Wash and dry one pound of figs and cut 
into small pieces. Cream one cup of shortening ; add two 
cups of sugar and three unbeaten eggs. Sift together three 
cups of bread crumbs, one half teaspoon of nutmeg, one 
' teaspoon of cinnamon, and add to the first mixture. Add 
one half cup of milk and the figs, and beat well. Turn into 
two buttered molds, and steam one to one and one half hours. 

Blueberry Pudding. — Cream two thirds cup of butter, 
add two thirds cup of sugar, two eggs well beaten, three 
fourths cup of milk, and two cups of flour, three teaspoons of 
baking powder, one fourth teaspoon of salt, sifted together. 
Mix as for cake. When well beaten, add two cups of floured 
blueberries. Turn into two buttered molds. Steam one 
hour, and then bake one half hour. Serve with Hard Sauce 
and whipped cream. 

Marguerites. — Boil one cup of sugar and one half cup 
of water until it threads. Cut six marshmallows in small 
pieces and add to the sirup. After the marshmallows are 
dissolved, add the sirup to the beaten whites of two eggs ; 
add one fourth teaspoon of vanilla, one cup of chopped nut 
meats, one half cup of chopped figs or dates. Spread on 
crackers, and serve with ices. 

Torte. — Beat the whites of five eggs until stiff and dry; 
add two and one half cups of powdered sugar and continue 
beating until thoroughly blended; add one tablespoon of 
vinegar and one teaspoon of vanilla. Line two shallow 
pans with oiled or greased paper, and bake in a very slow 
oven for at least an hour. Put strawberries, pineapple, or 
peaches between the layers and whipped cream on top. 



ADDITIONAL RECIPES 187 

Cream Pufifs. — Put one half cup of butter and one cup 
of boiling water into a stewpan, and let it come to the boil- 
ing point. Gradually add one cup of flour, and boil two 
minutes, stirring constantly. Remove from the fire, and 
add four unbeaten eggs one at a time, mixing thoroughly 
after each egg is added. Drop by spoonfuls about two 
inches apart on greased paper. Bake one half hour in a 
moderate oven. 

Almond Cookies. — Cream one half cup of butter; gradu- 
ally add one and one fourth cups sugar, one half cup of 
sour milk, one beaten egg, one half teaspoon of almond ex- 
tract, and one fourth teaspoon salt, one half teaspoon soda, 
and two cups of flour sifted together. Mix thoroughly, 
roll thin, and bake in a hot oven. 

Rocks. — Cream one cup of shortening; add one and one 
half cups of sugar, three eggs well beaten, two tablespoons 
of water, one teaspoon soda, one teaspoon cinnamon, one 
fourth teaspoon salt, two and one half cups of flour sifted 
together. Add one cup of chopped walnuts and one cup of 
raisins. Drop by spoonfuls on greased paper one and one 
half inches apart, and bake in a hot oven. 

Molasses Cookies. — Cream three fourths cup of shorten- 
ing; add one cup of sugar, one cup of molasses, and one cup 
of boiling water. Place on the stove, and let it come to the 
boiling point. Remove from the stove and cool. Add one 
beaten egg, one half teaspoon of soda, two teaspoons of 
cinnamon, two teaspoons of ginger, one teaspoon of cloves, 
and three and one half cups of flour sifted together. Mix 
thoroughly. Drop by spoonfuls on greased paper one 
inch apart, and bake in a hot oven. 

Prune Pie. — Wash three fourths pound of prunes and 
soak overnight or several hours in cold water. Cook until 



i88 ADDITIONAL RECIPES 

soft ; add one half cup of sugar, two tablespoons of flour, 
one tablespoon of butter, one half tablespoon of lemon 
juice, one fourth teaspoon of salt. Line a plate with crust 
and cover with an upper crust. 

Raisin Pie. — Mix one and one half cups of chopped 
raisins, one half cup of sugar, one cup of water, one table- 
spoon of flour, and one lemon cut into thin slices. Line 
the plate with crust, and cover with one half inch strips of 
♦ crust. 

Chocolate Pie. — Mix four tablespoons of cornstarch, 
one half cup of sugar, four tablespoons of grated chocolate, 
one eighth teaspoon of salt, add three egg yolks and two 
cups of milk, and cook until it thickens, stirring constantly. 
Add one teaspoon of vanilla. Bake the crust as for lemon 
pie. Fill the crust with the filling, and cover with the 
whites of three eggs beaten stiff, to which two tablespoons 
of sugar have been added, and bake until brown. Serve 
cold. 

Devil's Food. — Cream one half cup of butter, add one 
cup of sugar, mix thoroughly. Add the yolks of two 
eggs, one half cup of sour milk in which one teaspoon of 
soda has been thoroughly dissolved, two cups of flour, and 
lastly the whites of two eggs, and one teaspoon of vanilla. 

Grate three ounces of chocolate, mix with one half cup 
of sweet milk, one half cup of sugar, and the yolk of one 
egg. Boil until stiff, in double boiler, then add to the 
white dough, beat thoroughly and bake in a moderate 
oven, about forty-five minutes. 



CHEMICAL COMPOSITION OF FOODS 



189 



Tables Showing the Chemical Composition of Foods Com- 
monly Used in the Average American Diet 

Taken from Bulletin 28, Office of Experiment Stations, and Farmers* Bulletin 142, 
U. S. Department of Agriculture 



Food 


Water 


Protein 


Fat 


Carbo- 
hydrate 


Cellulose 


Mineral 


Cereals 


Per Cent 


Percent 


Percent 


Per Cent 


Per Cent 


Per Cent 


Wheat . . . 


10.6 


12.2 


1.7 


71-3 


2.4 


1.8 


Com . . 




10.8 


lO.O 


4.3 


71.7 


1.7 


i.S 


Oats . . 




II.O 


II.8 


S-o 


59-7 


9.5 


3.0 


Rye . . 




10.5 


12.2 


1.5 


71.8 


2.1 


1.9 


Rice . . 




12.0 


8.0 


2.0 


76.0 


I.O 


1.0 


Barley 




10.9 


II.O 


2.3 


69.S 


3.8 


2.S 


Buckwheat 




12.6 


lO.O 


2.2 


64.5 


8.7 


2.0 


Legumes 














Fresh Legumes: 














String beans 


89.2 


2.3 


.3 


7-4 


1.9 


.8 


Shelled kidney 














beans . . 


58.9 


9.4 


.6 


29.1 


1.7 


2.0 


Shelled lima 














beans . . 


68.5 


7-1 


.7 


22.0 


1.7 


1.7 


Shelled peas . 


74.6 


7.0 


.5 


16.9 


1.7 


1.0 


Dried Legumes: 














Lima beans . 


10.4 


18.1 


1.5 


65.9 




4.1 


Navy beans . 


12.6 


22.5 


1.8 


59-6 


4.4 


3.5 


Lentils . . 


8.4 


25.7 


I.O 


59-2 




5-7 


Dried peas 


95 


24.6 


I.O 


62.0 


4.5 


2.9 


Peanuts . . 


9.2 


25.8 


38.6 


24.4 


2.5 


2.0 


Roots and 














Tubers 














Potato . . . 


78.3 


2.2 


.1 


18.0 


.4 


I.O 


Sweet potato 


69. 


1.8 


.7 


26.1 


1.3 


I.I 


Beets .... 


87.S 


1.6 


.1 


8.8 


.9 


I.I 


Celeriac . . . 


84.1 


1-5 


•4 


11.8 


1.4 


.8 


Carrots . . . 


88.2 


I.I 


.4 


8.2 


I.I 


1.0 



I go 



CHEMICAL COMPOSITION OF FOODS 



Tables Showing the Chemical Composition op Foods Com- 
monly Used in the Average American Diet — Continued 



Food 


Water 


Protein 


Fat 


Carbo- 
hydrate 


Cellulose 


Mineral 


Roots and 














Tubers 


Per Cent 


Per Cent 


Per Cent 


Per Cent 


Per Cent 


Per Cent 


Parsnips . . . 


83.0 


1.6 


•5 


II.O 


2.5 


1.4 


Salsify . . . 


85.4 


4.3 


.3 


6.8 


2.0 


1.2 


Turnips . . . 


89.6 


1^3 


.2 


6.8 


1.3 


.8 


Rutabagas . . 


88.9 


1-3 


.2 


7.3 


1.2 


I.I 


Onions . . . 


87.6 


1.6 


•3 


9.1 


.8 


.6 


Fresh Fruits 














Apples . . . 


84.6 


.4 


.5 


130 


1.2 


•3 


Apricots . . . 


85.0 


I.I 




13.4 




•5 


Bananas . . . 


75-3 


1-3 


.6 


21.0 


1.0 


.8 


Blackberries 


86.3 


1.3 


1.0 


8.4 


2.5 


.5 


Cherries . . . 


80.9 


I.O 


.8 


16.5 


.2 


.6 


Cranberries . . 


88.9 


•4 


.6 


8.4 


1.4 


1.5 


Currants . . 


85.0 


1.5 




12.8 




•7 


Grapes . . . 


77.4 


1.3 


1.6 


14.9 


4.3 


•5 


Lemons . . . 


89.3 


1.0 


.7 


7.4 


I.I 


.5 


Muskmelons 


89.5 


.6 




7.2 


2.1 


.6 


Olives . . . 


67.0 


2.5 


17.1 


5.7 


3.3 


4.4 


Oranges . . . 


86.9 


.8 


.2 


II.6 




•5 


Peaches . . . 


89.4 


•7 


.1 


5.8 


3-6 


.4 


Pears .... 


80.9 


1.0 


•5 


iS-7 


i-S 


.4 


Pineapples . . 


89.3 


.4 


•3 


9-3 


•4 


•3 


Plums . . . 


78.4 


I 


. . 


20.1 




•5 


Raspberries, red 


85.8 


I 




9.7 


2.9 


.6 


black 


84.1 


1.7 


1.0 


12.6 




.6 


Strawberries 


90.4 


1.0 


.6 


6.0 


1.4 


.6 


Watermelons 


92.4 


•4 


.2 


6.7 


.. 


•3 


Dried Fruits 














Apples . . . 


26.1 


1.6 


2.2 


62.0 


6.1 


2.0 


Apricots . . . 


29.4 


4-7 


1.0 


62.5 




2.4 



CHEMICAL COMPOSITION OF FOODS 



191 



Tables Showing the Chemical Composition of Foods Com- 
monly Used in the Average American Diet — Concluded 



Food 


Water 


Protein 


Fat 


Carbo- 
hydrate 


Cellulose 


Mineral 
Matter 


Dried Fruits 


Percent 


Per Cent 


Percent 


Per Cent 


Per Cent 


Per Cent 


Citrons . . . 


19.0 


•5 


1.5 


78.1 


. . 


•9 


Dates 




154 


2.1 


2.8 


74.6 


3.8 


1-3 


Figs . . 




18.8 


4.3 


•3 


68.0 


6.2 


2.4 


Pears . . 




16.6 


2.8 


5.4 


66.0 


6.9 


2.4 


Prunes 




22.3 


2.1 


. , 


71.2 


2.1 


2.3 






14.6 


2.6 


3.3 


73.6 


2.5 


3-4 


Currants 




17.2 


2.4 


1-7 


71.2 


3.0 


4.5 


Nuts 














Almonds . . . 


4.5 


21.0 


54.9 


17.3 


2.0 


2.0 


Hickory nuts 


3.7 


15.4 


67.4 


II.4 




2.1 


Pecans . . . 


2.7 


9.6 


70.S 


15.3 




1.9 


Walnuts . . . 


2.5 


18.4 


64.4 


13.0 


1.4 


1.7 


Milk and 














Products 














Whole milk . . 


87.0 


3.3 


4.0 


5.0 






.7 


Skim milk . . 


90-5 


3-4 


•3 


51 






.7 


Buttermilk . . 


91.0 


3.0 


.5 


4.8 






.7 


Condensed milk 


26.9 


8.8 


8.3 


54.1 






1.9 


Cheese, Cheddar 


27.4 


27.7 


36.8 


4.1 






4.0 


Full cream 


34.2 


25.9 


33.7 


2.4 






3.8 


Roquefort . 


39.3 


22.6 


29.5 


1.8 






6.8 


Swiss . . 


31-4 


27.6 


34.9 


1.3 






4.8 


Neufchatel 


50.0 


18.7 


27.4 


1.5 






2.4 


Cottage . 


72.0 


20.9 


I.O 


4.3 






1.8 


Eggs ... . 


74.7 


14.8 


10.5 


•• 






1.0 



CONLEY P. C. — 13 



192 



AMOUNT OF REFUSE IN SOME FOODS 



Tables Showing the Amount of Refuse in Some Vegetables, 
AND IN Meats and Fish 





Refuse 


Water 


Protein 


Fat 


Carbo- 
hydrate 


Mineral 
Matter 


Vegetables 


Per Cent 


Per Cent 


Per Cent 


Per Cent 


Per Cent 


Per Cent 


Cabbage . . . 


15.5 


77.7 


1.4 


.2 


4.8 


.9 


Celery . . . 


20.0 


75.6 


•9 


.1 


2.6 


.8 


Cucumbers . . 


15.0 


18.I 


.7 


.2 


2.6 


.4 


Lettuce . . . 


I5-0 


80.S 


I.O 


.2 


2.5 


.8 


Spinach . . . 




92.3 


, 2.1 


•3 


3-2 


2.1 


Tomatoes . . 




94.3 


.9 


.4 


3.9 


.6 


Beef, Fresh: 














Chuck, ribs . 


16.3 


52.6 


15.0 


143 




.6 


Loin, medium 


13.3 


52.5 


15.6 


16.6 




•7 


Ribs ... 


20.8 


43.8 


13.5 


20.0 




.5 


Round, me- 














dium . . 


7.2 


60.7 


18.4 


12.2 




.8 


Shoulder and 














clod . . 


16.4 


56.8 


15-9 


9.3 




.7 


Beef, Dried 














AND Smoked 


4.7 


53.7 


25.6 


6.6 




S'S 


Veal: 














Cutlets, round 


3.4 


68.3 


19.5 


7.1 




.8 


Leg ... 


14.2 


60.1 


15.0 


7.5 




.7 


Mu'iTON : 














Leg ... 


18.4 


51.2 


14.6 


14.0 




.6 


Loin . . . 


16.0 


42.0 


131 


26.9 




•S 


Pork, Fresh : 














Loin chops . 


19.7 


41.8 


13.0 


23.0 




.6 


Ham . . . 


10.7 


48.0 


13.1 


24.6 




.6 


Pork, Salted 














AND Smoked 














Bacon . . . 


7-7 


17.4 


8.8 


S9.I 




3.1 


Ham . . . 


13.6 


34.8 


13.8 


31.7 




3.2 


Salt, fat . . 


•• 


7-9 


1.8 


81.9 




2.9 



AMOUNT OF REFUSE IN SOME FOODS 193 



Tables Showing the Amount of Refuse in Some Vegetables, 
AND IN Meats and Fish — Continued 







Water 


Protein 


Fat 


Carbo- 
hydrate 


Mineral 
Matter 


Poultry: 


Per Cent 


Per Cent 


Per Cent 


Per Cent 


Per Cent 


Per Cent 


Fowl . . . 


25-9 


47.1 


13.3 


II.7 




.5 


Turkey . . 


22.7 


42.4 


15.6 


17.S 




.6 


Fkesh Fish: 














Black bass. . 


46.7 


41.9 


10.3 


.5 




.6 


Cod. . . . 


29.9 


S8.5 


10.6 


.2 




.8 


Mackerel . . 


40.7 


43.7 


II.4 


3.5 




.7 


Perch . . . 


54.6 


34.4 


8.7 


1.8 




•5 


Pickerel . . 


359 


51.I 


II.9 


.2 




•9 


Pike. . . . 


30.5 


55.4 


13.0 


.4 




.7 


Salmon . . . 


23.8 


51.2 


14.6 


9.5 




.9 


Trout, brook . 


37-9 


48.4 


II.7 


1.3 




•7 


Trout, lake . 


35-2 


45.0 


12.4 


6.6 




.8 


Whitefish . . 


43.6 


39-4 


10.3 


3.6 




.9 


Pres'v'd Fish: 














Cod, salt . . 


24.9 


40.2 


16.0 


.4 


•• 


18.S 
(salt) 


Herring, 














smoked 


44.4 


19.2 


20.S 


8.8 




7-4 


Canned Fish: 














Caviare . . 


. . 


38.1 


30.0 


19.7 


7.6 


4.6 


Salmon . . 




63.S 


21.8 


12. 1 




2.6 


Sardines . . 


S'O 


53.6 


23-7 


12. 1 




5.3 


Shellfish : 
Oysters . . 




88.3 


6.0 


1-3 


3.3 


I.I 


Clams . . 




80.8 


10.6 


I.I 


5.2 


2.3 


Lobsters . . 


61.7 


30.7 


5.9 


.7 


.2 


.8 


Shrimps . . 




70.8 


25.4 


I.O 


.2 


2.6 



TEACHING COOKING IN RURAL SCHOOLS 

SUGGESTIONS FOR TEACHERS 

The demand for some simple instruction for work in 
domestic science which can be given in the one-room rural 
school has been so insistent that the following suggestions 
have been added for the high school or normal school student 
who may teach in a rural school. 

The actual work of housekeeping may vary in different 
localities and under different economic conditions, but, by 
the present generation at least, certain fimdamental proc- 
esses will be carried on in the average home. 

These are patching, darning, mending, care, and making 
of clothes ; planning, preparing, and serving meals ; market- 
ing and purchasing the things needed in the home and by 
members of the family ; care of the house, including sweep- 
ing, dusting, and cleaning ; rearing of children and care of 
sick and aged. 

While school instruction in some of these subjects must 
be purely theoretical and hence of little value unless oppor- 
timity can be afforded for practical work, cooking and sew- 
ing may be taught in the one-room rural school with simple 
equipment and no great expenditure of money. 

This work will be of little value, however, imless what is 
learned at school is practiced at home, and for this reason 
girls' clubs should be organized, contests and school fairs 
should be held, and school credit should be given for home 
work. 

194 



TEACfflNG COOKING IN RURAL SCHOOLS 195 

The lessons suggested may be given for one or two periods 
a week, preferably the last hour in the session as the work 
may then extend for a longer period of time without inter- 
fering with school work. 

As this work is for the one- or two-room school building 
and as but little space can be utilized, it is best to provide 
only equipment enough for four pupils to cook at a time, the 
other members of the class may observe those at work, 
criticize, and make contributions to the knowledge ac- 
quired concerning the lesson. Each pupil in the class 
should try the recipe at home, and report result. The 
home work should form the greater share of the work done, 
and credit should be given for it. A careful record of cook- 
ing done at home should be made and kept. It is well to 
post this record in a conspicuous place in the schoolroom. 

EQUIPMENT FOR COOKING IN RURAL SCHOOLS 

For four pupils, two pupils working together. 
Cupboard made with shelves and curtain in front. 
Cans or Mason jars for holding sugar, salt, pepper, baking 
powder, soda, flour, etc. 
A molding board. Board for cutting. 

LIST OF UTENSILS AND PRICES 

Kitchen table with drawer ^1.50 Two paring knives $ .20 

Two burner oil stove 1 ^1.50 to Two steel knives .20 

Oven to fit stove J ?8.oo Two steel forks .20 

Drip pan to fit oven .20 Four teaspoons .20 

Teakettle .50 Two tablespoons .10 

Pail for water .20 One Dover egg beater .15 

Garbage pail .20 One spoon egg beater .10 

Two dishpans .50 Two one-quart bowls .20 



196 TEACHING COOKING IN RURAL SCHOOLS 



One sieve to fit bowl $ 


•OS 


4 cups and saucers $ .40 


Two measuring cups 


.10 


4 white plates, large .40 


Two one-pint tin basins 


.10 


One grater .05 


Two one-quart double boilers 


.70 


2 muffin pans .10 


Two one-quart stewpans 


.50 


I large mixing bowl, 2-quart . 2 5 


Two rolling pins 


.10 


One soap dish .05 


Two biscuit cutters 


.10 


One lemon squeezer .10 


One vegetable brush 


•OS 


One match box .05 


Two corks for scouring. 




One broiler .05 


One utensil pan 


.10 


One corkscrew .05 


Two small frying pans 


.20 


One can opener .05 


Two bread pans 


.20 


One creamer and sugar .25 


One pie plate 


.10 


One water pitcher .15 


One tray 


.10 


Total (excluding stove) 10.00 


One two-quart stewpan 


.30 




One bread knife 


.25 


Flour sacks for dish towels, some 


One butcher knife 


.25 


holders, hemmed dishcloths. 


4 white plates, small 


.40 





SUGGESTED LESSONS 

In addition to actual cooking lessons, have pupils find the 
composition of each food, calculate the cost of each lesson, 
note the length of time which it takes to prepare every 
recipe, find out at what meal each one of the foods prepared 
would be served, and learn to find the nutritive value of 
each recipe. 

With the exception of the bread lesson, the following 
lessons may all be prepared in 60 minutes. 

Creamed Potatoes or Cauli- Poached, Boiled, Scrambled 



flower or Carrots 
Cream of Potato or Tomato 

Soup 
Simmered Beef 
Beef Loaf and Coffee 



Eggs 
Cooked Salad Dressing — 

Cabbage Salad — Potato 

Salad 
Biscuit — Shortcake 



TEACHING COOKING IN RURAL SCHOOLS 197 

Muffins and Gingerbread, Apple Pie 

Johnnycake Custard — Custard Pud- 
Bread dings as rice, tapioca, or 
Plain Cake bread 
Sugar Cookies or Oatmeal Plan, prepare, and serve a 

Cookies simple luncheon. 



SCHOOL LUNCHES 

Another method of teaching cooking in the one-room rural 
school is by having the pupils prepare and serve one warm 
dish to supplement the cold lunch brought from home. 

Object of the Work. — The object of this work is not 
to furnish a meal, but some warm food to supplement the 
cold lunch brought from home ; to make the noon meal- 
time serve as a social hour ; to furnish a pleasanter place 
for eating lunch than the school steps, the wood pile, the 
entry way, or the various other places where pupils have 
been accustomed to eat their lunches; to teach table 
manners, politeness, and common social customs ; to teach 
boys and girls to share work ; to teach some things about 
serving foods and planning meals; to interest pupils in 
cooking, in knowing the nutritive value of foods, the rela- 
tion of foods to health; to interest pupils in gardening, 
raising of foods, — vegetable and animal ; to bring school 
and home more closely together by interesting mothers in 
the work ; to give school credit for work done at home under 
the guidance and direction of mother and teacher ; to give 
to pupils in the rural schools some of the advantages and 
opportunities which all pupils in the city schools enjoy. 

How to make a Success of the Work. — Keep in mind 
that the object of this work is not slum or settlement work. 



198 TEACfflNG COOKING IN RURAL SCHOOLS 

That, except in rare instances, people in the country can 
all afford to furnish good, nutritious meals for their children. 
That the reasons why this work is attempted are social, 
ethical, and educational rather than philanthropic. That 
the work should not be an additional task for a teacher 
already overworked, but should be a pleasant diversion for 
the pupils after they have spent the morning in academic 
work. That the teacher should not be the only one inter- 
ested and responsible, because no pupils remain interested 
unless they share work and responsibility. Insist on parents 
sharing the responsibility. Invite the mothers to school 
on a certain day and plan lunches with them. Have dif- 
ferent mothers provide foods occasionally, — as a pot of 
baked beans, cold potatoes and meat for hash, or loan fat 
for a frying lesson of doughnuts or Saratoga chips. Always 
remember that no community work is worth while unless 
the labor is shared by all, and all share the pleasure. Nor- 
mal children like to work with their hands. 



SCHOOL EQUIPMENT FOR SERVING LUNCH 

An oil stove with oven, unless cooking can be done on the 

stove used for heating. 
A kitchen table or a large box covered with an oil cloth. 
2 dishpans A large spoon and ladle 

Soap A board for cutting bread, 

A frying pan meat, or for rolling out 

A drip pan for oven cookies, doughnuts, etc. 

A paring knife A large kettle 

A butcher knife A garbage pail 

A large bowl A water pail 

A fireless cooker would be desirable. 



TEACHING COOKING IN RURAL SCHOOLS 199 

Dish towels and wiping towels, made out of flour sacks 
which may be brought from home or purchased at the 
bakers, in town, for a very small sum. 
Dishes enough to serve the pupils — each pupil may bring 
his dishes from home, but do not use old, discolored, 
nicked dishes. They tend to make the dishwasher care- 
less and to lower the taste of the pupils in regard to neat- 
ness and attractiveness of table service ; they sometimes 
spoil the appetite. 
A dry goods box may be fitted with shelves and a curtain, 
and placed against the wall. This will hold utensils when 
they are not in use. 

How to Secure Supplies. — Supplies may be brought from 
home by the various pupils in turn. Supplies may be pur- 
chased by the teacher from funds furnished by the school 
board. Supplies may be purchased from funds derived 
from entertainments, school fairs, or prizes secured by pupils 
who enter things made at school at county or state fairs. 
The best method is probably to have the mothers supply 
the food needed, as things can be supplied from farm homes 
at much lower cost than they can be purchased by the 
teacher at city stores. This is the hardest problem for the 
teacher and should be solved by the community. 

Suggestions for Serving the School Lunch. — Pupils 
bring their lunch from home and the school lunch supple- 
ments. Prepare but one dish each day and vary the dish 
from day to day. 

Let pupils know what the dish is to be; plan a week 
ahead. 

Have one or two of the girls make all preparations, before 
school opens (that can be made), so that the lunch work 
interferes but little with the pupils' regular school work. 



200 TEACHING COOKING IN RURAL SCHOOLS 

Have one girl get the food ready to serve when school 
is dismissed, or pupils will start to eat their lunches from 
their limch boxes. 

Have each pupil set his desk with paper napkin for the 
table cloth, and place the knife, fork, spoon, and cup in 
proper position. 

Have each pupil fill his own glass or cup with water before 
the hot food is served. 

Have all pupils seated but the server, teacher included, 
if possible. 

Have the older girls do the serving and preparing of food 
at first, then pupils in turn. 

Have all pupils remain seated at their desks imtil they 
have been excused by the teacher. 

Have some pupils prepared to encourage conversation, 
stories, and laughter at the meal. Make the meal time a 
social hour. 

Have each pupil scrape his own plate and other dishes 
and pile them properly. 

Have the boys scour the knives and utensils, carry the 
water, tend the fire, and empty the dishwater and refuse. 

Have two different pupils wash the dishes daily imtil 
all have shared in the work. 

FOODS WHICH MAY BE EASILY AND QUICKLY 
PREPARED 

Baked apples Mush and milk 

Baked potatoes Tomato soup, pea soup, potato 

Creamed potatoes, creamed car- soup 

rots, etc. Corn chowder 

Scalloped potatoes Cocoa, cereal coffee 

Rice and cheese Bacon and eggs 

Rice and milk and sugar Bacon and com 



TEACfflNG COOKING IN RURAL SCHOOLS 201 

Apple sauce Cookies 

Dried fruits, as prunes Custard 

Cottage pie Hash, meat and cold potatoes 

Macaroni and cheese brought from home 

Brown Betty Doughnuts 

Gingerbread Fritters 

BOOKS TO READ 

"How the World is Fed," Carpenter. 

" How We are Fed, " Chamberlain. 

Bulletins on Foods from the U. S. Dept. of Agriculture. 

LIST OF FARMERS' BULLETINS 
These may be obtained free. 

34. Meats : Composition and Cooking. 

121. Beans, Peas, and Other Legumes as Food. 

131. Household Tests for Oleomargarine and Renovated Butter. 

142. Nutrition and Nutritive Value of Food. 

175. Home Manufacture and Use of Unfermented Grape Juice. 

203. Canned Fruits, Preserves, and Jellies. 

256. Preparation of Vegetables for the Table. 

295. Potatoes and Other Root Crops as Food. 

298. Food Value of Corn and Com Products. 

391. Economical Use of Meat in the Home. 

413. The Care of Milk and Its Use in the Home. 

270. Modem Conveniences for the Farm Home. 

377. Harmfulness of Headache Mixtures. 

521. Canning Tomatoes at Home and in Club Work. 
Comforts and Conveniences in Farmers' Homes. 

389. Bread Making. 375. Care of Food in the Home. 

363. Milk as Food. 359. Canning Vegetables at Home. 

348. Bacteria in Milk. 332. Nuts; Their Uses as Food. 

182. Poultry as Food. 249. Cereal Breakfast Foods. 

293. Fruit as Food. 241. Butter Making on the Farm. 

93. Sugar as Food. 166. Cheese Making on the Farm. 

85. Fish as Food. 128. Eggs ; Their Uses as Food. 



INDEX 



Adds, S3. 

vegetable, 26. ^ 

Albumin, 155. 
Albuminoids, 26. 
Apples, 39, 54. 

baked, 38. 

steamed, 55. 

stewed, 41. 
Aspic, 178. 

Bacon, 45, 138. 

and fried eggs, 144. 
Bacteria, 65, 66, 67. 
Baking powder, 102, 103, 104. 
Batters and doughs, 100, loi. 

griddle cakes, loi. 

muffins, 107, 108. 
Beans, 

Boston baked, 135. 

lima, 136. 

succotash, 136. 
Berries, canned, 69. 
Beverages, 

chocolate, iii. 

cocoa. III. 

coffee, no. 

lemonade, in. 

punch, III. 

tea, no. 

water, 109. 
Biscuit, 104. 
Bread, 121-122. 

judging bread, 120. 
Breads, 

Boston brown, 122. 

coffee cake, 124. 

com, 102. 

gingerbread, 102. 

nut bread, 107. 

Parker House rolls, 124. 

Swedish rolls, 124. 
Breakfast, 112. 

menus, 117. 

serving, 113. 



Broiling, 47, 48, 49. 
Butter, 148. 

Cakes, 128. 

angel, 132. 

Blitz Kuchen, 184. 

chocolate, 133. 

coffee cake, 124. 

devil's food, 188. 

Dutch apple, 106. 

golden, 132. 

jelly roll, 133. 

Johnny cake, 102. 

layer, 184. 

nut, 132. 

orange, 131. 

plain, 130. 

shortcake, 105. 

Spanish buns, 132. 

spice, 130. 

sponge, 132. 

torte, 186. 
Candy, 84. 

chocolate caramel, 86. 

chocolate fudge, 86. 

cream candy, 86. 

divinity fudge, 85. 

fondant, 85. 

molasses, 85. 

peanut brittle, 84. 

popcorn candied, 86. 

sea foam, 85. 
Canning, 67. 

beans, 72. 

berries, 69. 

com, 68. 

fruit, 69. 

peaches, 69. 

tomatoes, 68. 
Carbohydrates, 24, 26. 

m fruits and vegetables, 54. 
Casein, 146. 
Catsup, 71. 
Cells, 24, 25, 33. 



INDEX 



203 



Cellulose, 25, 33. 
Cereals, 54, 87, 90. 

cooking of, 91. 

serving of, 92. 
Cheese, 151, 152. 

cottage, 149. 

fondu, 152. 

souffl^, 153. 

straws, 153. 

Welsh rarebit, 152. 
Chili sauce, 72. 
Chocolate, iii. 
Cocoa, III. 
Co£Fee, no. 
Collagen, 155. 
Conserve pear, 72. 
Cookies, 

almond, 187. 

chocolate, 128. 

crispettes, 131. 

molasses (crisp), 127. 

molasses (soft), 127, 187. 

oatmeal, 127. 

rocks, 187. 

sugar, 127. 
Cooking, 

abbreviations and measurements, 9. 

art and science, 32. 

methods, 29. 

necessity for, 27. 

principles, 29, 51. 

reasons, 28. 

temperatures used, 9. 

why taught, 31. 
Com and bacon, 138. 
Cornstarch, 

chocolate, 93. 

mold, 93. 

pudding, 93. 
Cream puffs, 187. 
Croquettes, 137. 
Croutons, 78. 
Custard, 142. 

caramel, 142. 

soft custard, 142. 

Desserts {see Ices), 

frozen, 180. 
Dextrin, 44. 
Dinner, 

menus, 178. 

plan and serve, 177. 



Doughs {see Batters and doughs), 

apple dumplings, 105. 

doughnuts, 137. 

dumplings, 107. 

shortcake, 105. 
Dressing, salad, 

cooked salad, 61. 

French, 62. 

Mayonnaise, 62. 

sour dressing, 78. 



139-145. 

boiled, 142. 

deviled, 144. 

fried, 144. 

omelet, 98. 

poached, 143. 

scrambled, 143. 

uses of, 141. 
Elastin, 155. 
Energy, 22, 23, 24. 
Experiments, 

cellulose, 26. 

connective tissue, 26. 



139. 
meat, 164. 
milk, 148. 
pectin, 70. 
potato, 74. 
protein, 49. 
yeast, 119. 
Extractives, 27, 48. 
uses of, 53. 

Fats, 24, 27. 

in animals, 155. 

in milk, 146. 
Ferments, 30. 

in dough, 118. 
FiUing, 

chocolate, 130. 

fig, 182. 

Lady Baltimore, 184. 

marshmallow cream, 184. 

white, 131. 
Fish, 173. 

baked, 174. 

codfish balls, 44. 

croquettes, 137. 

fried, 174. 

selection of, 174. 

steamed salmon loaf, 176. 



204 



INDEX 



Flour, 95, 96. 
Foods, 22, 23. 

classes, 24, 53. 

composition, 31, iSg-igj. 

frying foods, 46. 

preservation of, 65. 

starchy foods, 80. 

structure of, 24. 

uses of, S3. 

vegetable foods, 33, 38. 
Fritters, 137. 

com, 138. 

com oysters, 138. 
Frosting {see Filling). 
Fruits, 54. 

baked pears, 55. 

canned, 69. 

fruit punch, iii. 

fruit roll, 106. 

pickled, 71. 

steamed apples, 55. 

stewed prunes, 58. 

why dried, 55. 

Gas, IS, 16. 
Gelatin, 179. 

aspic, 180. 

fruit salad, 179. 

lemon jelly, 180. 

maple Bavarian cream, 181. 

pineapple Bavarian cream, 181. 

pistachio salad, 181. 

snow pudding, 181. 
Gravy, 165. 

Heat, 28. 

destroys ferments, 30. 
Housekeeper, duties of, 7. 

Ices, 182. 
cranberry sherbet, 183. 
ice cream, 183. 
lemon, 183. 
maple mousse, 183. 
orange, 183. 

Jelly! 69. 
apple, 70. 
aspic, 180. 
currant, 70. 
cranberry, 58. 
grape, 71. 



Jelly, lemon, 181. 

orange, 181. 
Junket, 149. 

Kitchen, equipment, 18. 

Lactose, 148. 
Leavening agents, 

eggs and air, 98. 

eggs inclosing air, 98. 

soda and sour milk, 99. 

steam, 97. 

yeast, 118. 
LfSgumes, 54, 134, 135- 
Lemonade, iii. 
Luncheon, 

menus for, 145. . 

plan and serve, 145. 

Macaroni and cheese, 94. 

Marguerites, 186. 

Meats, 47, 154. iS5, 158, 159- 

broiling steak, 48. 

beef loaf, 169. 

beefsteak pie, 171. 

boiled leg of mutton, 168. 

casserole, 168. 

chicken pie, 170. 

creamed dried beef, 171. 

croquettes, 137. 

cuts, 160, 161. 

experiments, 164. 

fried chicken, 166. 

frying bacon, 45. 

Hamburg steak, 167. 

hash, 171. 

Hungarian goulash, 170. 

lamb chops, 166. 

mincemeat, 170. 

mutton stew, 169. 

principles of cooking, 162, 167-172. 

roast beef, 164. 

steak (roimd), 50. 

veal cutlets, 166. 
Menus, 

breakfast, 117. 

dinner, 178. 

luncheon, 145. 
Milk, 146. 

buttermilk, 148. 

experiments, 148. 

pasteurized, 148. 



INDEX 



205 



Mincemeat, 170. 
Mineral matter, 24, 27. 
Mineral salts, 53, 54. 
Molasses, 81, 82. 
MuflSns {see Batters). 

Nucleus, 25, 47. 
Nuts, S3» 54. 

Oils, volatile, 27. 
Omelet, 98. 
Onions, 39. 
Ossein, 154. 
Oxidation, 23. 
Oysters, 

fried, 176. 

scalloped, 176. 

stew, 176. 

Pastes, Italian, 94. 
Peanuts, salted, 136. 
Pectin or pectose, 26, 70. 
Pickles, 

beans, 72. 

cucumber, 72. 

peaches, 71. 

nasturtium seeds, 71. 
Pie, 125. 

apple, 125. 

chocolate, 188. 

lemon, 126. 

prune, 187. 

pumpkin, 126. 

raisin, 188. 

rhubarb, 127. 
Popovers, 97. 
Potato, composition of, 35. 
Potatoes, 74, 75. 

baked, 35. 

boiled, 75. 

escalloped, 76. 

glazed (sweet), 76. 

grated, 75- 

in white sauce, 76. 

Lyonnaise, 77. 

mashed, 76. 

salad, 78. 

Saratoga chips, 47. 

stuffed, 76. 
Proteins, 10, 24, 25, 26. 

cooking of, 50, 51. 

experiments, 49. 



Protoplasm, 25, 47, 48. 
Puddings, 

blueberry, 186. 

bread, 185. 

cornstarch, 93. 

cottage, 185. 

date, 185. 

fig, 186. 

fruit, 106. 

fruit roll, 106. 

rice, 185. 

tapioca, 80. 

Yorkshire, 165. 
Punch, III. 

Rice, steamed, 42, 43. 
Rolls {see Bread and rolls). 
Roots and tubers, 54, 73. 

composition and food value, 74. 

cooking and method of preparation, 
75- 

succulent, 78, 79. 
Rules, 

deep fat frying, 46. 

dishwashing, 10. 

firemaking, 12. 

for care of sink, 11. 

how to build fire, 14. 

Sago, 80. 
Salads, 61. 

asparagus, 64. 

banana, 64. 

cabbage, 63. 

combination, 64. 

cucumber and tomato, 64. 

fruit, 64. 

grape, 63. 

how to serve and garnish, 62. 

Juno, 153. 

pistachio, 181. 

potato, 78. 

stuffed tomato, 62. 

Waldorf, 63. 
Sauces, 

brown, 166. 

chili sauce, 72. 

cranberry, 58. 

date, 42. 

drawn butter, 176. 

hard, 185. 

lemon, 106. 



2o6 



INDEX 



Sauces, 

mint, 1 68. 

tartare, 174. 

tomato, 95. 

vanilla, 106. 

white, 40. 
Shortening, 96, 97. 
Sirup, 58. 

com sirup, 82. 
Solubility and insolubility, 30. 
Soups, 172, 173. 

com chowder, 151. 

cream of potato, 77. 

cream of tomato, 150. 

cream of pea, 150. 

cream or milk, 149. 

how to garnish and serve, 151. 

lentil, 136. 
Spaghetti, 94. 
Squash, 44. 

Starch, 10, 26, 34, 53, 92. 
Stove or range, 13, 14. 

care of gas stove, 15. 

temperature of oven, 17. 
Sugar, 26, S3f 81, 82, 84. 
Suggestions for pupils, 8. 

for teaching in rural schools, 194. 



Table, how to set, 114, 115, 116. 
Tables, 189-193. 
Tapioca, 80. 

apple tapioca, 81. 

pudding, 80. 
Tea, no. 
Temperatures, 9, 10. 

of body, 23. 
Tissue, connective, 25, 26. 
Toast, 44. 

French, 143. 

Vegetables, 38, 58, 59. 
asparagus, 60. 
boiled onions, 39. 
cauliflower, 60. 
creamed celery, 60. 
spinach, 59. 
steamed rice, 42. 
steamed squash, 43. 
tomatoes, Spanish, 60. 

Water, 24, 27, no. 

uses of, 53, 109. 

Welsh rarebit, 152. 

Yeast, 118, 119. 



To avoid fine, this book should be returned on 
or before the date last stamped below 



(f 



fcO 

to 

CD 



O 

o 
o 



mmtm 



/ 




624633 




i^l 



m\ 




This is a digital copy of a book that was preserved for generations on library shelves before it was carefully scanned by Google as part of a project 
to make the world's books discoverable online. 

It has survived long enough for the copyright to expire and the book to enter the public domain. A public domain book is one that was never subject 
to copyright or whose legal copyright term has expired. Whether a book is in the public domain may vary country to country. Public domain books 
are our gateways to the past, representing a wealth of history, culture and knowledge that's often difficult to discover. 

Marks, notations and other marginalia present in the original volume will appear in this file - a reminder of this book's long journey from the 
publisher to a library and finally to you. 

Usage guidelines 

Google is proud to partner with libraries to digitize public domain materials and make them widely accessible. Public domain books belong to the 
public and we are merely their custodians. Nevertheless, this work is expensive, so in order to keep providing this resource, we have taken steps to 
prevent abuse by commercial parties, including placing technical restrictions on automated querying. 

We also ask that you: 

+ Make non-commercial use of the files We designed Google Book Search for use by individuals, and we request that you use these files for 
personal, non-commercial purposes. 

+ Refrain from automated querying Do not send automated queries of any sort to Google's system: If you are conducting research on machine 
translation, optical character recognition or other areas where access to a large amount of text is helpful, please contact us. We encourage the 
use of public domain materials for these purposes and may be able to help. 

+ Maintain attribution The Google "watermark" you see on each file is essential for informing people about this project and helping them find 
additional materials through Google Book Search. Please do not remove it. 

+ Keep it legal Whatever your use, remember that you are responsible for ensuring that what you are doing is legal. Do not assume that just 
because we believe a book is in the public domain for users in the United States, that the work is also in the public domain for users in other 
countries. Whether a book is still in copyright varies from country to country, and we can't offer guidance on whether any specific use of 
any specific book is allowed. Please do not assume that a book's appearance in Google Book Search means it can be used in any manner 
anywhere in the world. Copyright infringement liability can be quite severe. 

About Google Book Search 

Google's mission is to organize the world's information and to make it universally accessible and useful. Google Book Search helps readers 
discover the world's books while helping authors and publishers reach new audiences. You can search through the full text of this book on the web 



at |http : //books . google . com/ 



^1 



PRINriPLES 



OFC 



I M ) 



K1N< 



^1 



n 



,_e,-T~ UloVC^.^M--" «>-a 





l^arbarti College l^iiirat2 

THE GIFT OF 
GINN AND COMPANY 




^'5 



3 2044 102 873 379 



PRINCIPLES OF COOKING 

A TEXTBOOK IN 
DOMESTIC SCIENCE 

BY 

EMMA CONLEY 

STATE INSPECTOR OF DOMESTIC SCIENCE FOR WISCONSIN 

FORMERLY DIRECTOR OF DOMESTIC SCIENCE 

STATE NORMAL SCHOOL, OSHKOSH, WISCONSIN 

AUTHOR OF " NUTRITION AND DIET " 




AMERICAN BOOK COMPANY 

NEW YORK CINCINNATI CHICAGO 






HARVARD COLLEGE LIBRAM 

GIFT OF 

QINM & CO, 

DEC II }»30 



Copyright, X914. 
By EMMA CONLEY. 



Copyright, 1914, in Great Britain. 



CONLEY, PRIN. OP COOKING. 
B. P I 



PREFACE 

" Principles of Cooking " is intended as a textbook in 
cooking and elementary food study for secondary and 
vocational schools. It is not merely a cook book. So 
many good cook books are on the market that there 
would be no justification for adding another to the list. 
The cook book, however, merely presents hundreds of 
recipes showing innumerable ways in which foods may 
be prepared, without attempting to present the principles 
underlying all cooking. 

The principles of cooking are few in number and are 
easily mastered, if properly presented. Foods may be 
grouped in less than a dozen classes, and when the prin- 
ciples which apply to each class are learned and practiced, 
each pupil will know how to prepare a variety of dishes 
from each food or class of foods. 

After the principles of cooking are fully understood 
and applied in practical lessons, there is no educational 
or practical value in the preparation of isolated recipes 
or in a sequence of lessons on one class of foods. The 
object of domestic science work in schools is that a girl 
may learn how to plan, cook, and serve meals at home, 
calculate the cost, and purchase foods in the best market 
at the lowest price. This includes knowing the nutritive 
value of each food and its place in the diet. 

Unless considerable practice is given in schools in plan- 
ning and preparing meals, a pupil may be able to cook 
one or two single foods, but she cannot prepare all the 

3 



4 PREFACE 

dishes needed for a meal and have them ready to serve at 
a stated time. 

It is with this aim in mind, that all cooking in schools 
should lead to the preparation of attractive, appetizing, nu- 
tritious, well-balanced meals, that " Principles of Cooking " 
and its companion book, " Nutrition and Diet," are written. 
They are intended for pupils who have had cooking in 
the grades or for those who are mature enough to master 
a few important and essential facts, presented in Chapters 
II and III, before proceeding to the practical work of cook- 
ing. Any high school girl can learn these facts as easily 
as she can master problems in algebra or geometry, learn 
a history lesson, or calculate balanced rations for farm ani- 
mals in a class in agriculture. 

High school work in cooking or domestic science must 
include some acquisition of knowledge concerning foods, 
as well as practical work, to make it equivalent in value 
to other high school subjects, and to deserve a credit 
towards college entrance requirements. 

If one year is devoted to the work presented in " Prin- 
ciples of Cooking," and "Nutrition and Diet," the credit 
given in high school for the work should be equivalent to 
the credit given for a year's work in any other high school 
subject. 

Practically all of the recipes in this book are the result 
of class experiments made by varying standard recipes or 
by trying new combinations of foods. A few recipes were 
contributed by friends. All recipes have been tried, many 
times, by classes of students and proved reliable. 

Every school library should contain at least one reliable 
cook book, as the " Boston Cooking School Cook Book " 
or " Practical Cooking and Serving," and advanced pupils 
should compare recipes grouped together. They should 



PREFACE 5 

note the points of variation from the standard recipe of 
the group and be able to make new and attractive food 
combinations for themselves. All cooking is based on a 
few standard recipes, changed or altered to produce variety. 
If an intelligent study is made of the principles of cook- 
ing and their application, preparing foods will no longer 
be a work of uncertainty, but an interesting, scientific, 
and comparatively easy process, and • the preparing of 
nutritious, wholesome, and balanced meals will be a 

pleasure. 

EMMA CONLEY. 

Fond du Lac, Wisconsin. 



CONTENTS 

CHAPTER PAGE 

I. General Directions for Work. Equipment . . 7 

II. Classes of Foods. Reasons for Cooking . 22 

III. Methods of Cooking. Development of Principles 

AND their Application. Practice Work in 
Foods -33 

IV. Fruits and Green Vegetables 53 

V. Roots and Tubers. Starch and Sugar ... 73 

VI. Cereals and Leavening Agents .... 87 

VII. Beverages. Planning and Serving a Breakfast . 109 

VIII. Cereals and Leavening Agents {Continued) . .118 

IX. Legumes and Frying Lessons 134 

X. Eggs. Planning a Luncheon 139 

XI. Milk and its Products 146 

XII. Meats and Fish 154 

XIII. Gelatin and Ices. Some Additional Recipes . 179 
Tables showing the composition of common foods used 

in the average home 189 

Suggestions for Teachers in Rural Schools . . .194 

INDEX 202 



PRINCIPLES OF COOKING 



CHAPTER I 

GENERAL DIRECTIONS FOR WORK IN A SCHOOL 
KITCHEN 

In a school kitchen each girl has her own place at the 
kitchen table and is responsible for the washing of her 
own dishes, care and proper placing of all her utensils, 
the condition of her table, dish towels, etc. 

The general household duties are assigned to the various 
pupils in turn, so that the kitchen will be left in perfect 
order at the close of the lesson and the pupils will have 
practice in this important part of the work. Practice 
in this work trains each pupil to do all kitchen duties, 
develops her interest and responsibility in the proper 
care of the kitchen, makes her familiar with the contents 
of the cupboards, and the proper places to keep supplies, 
china, linen, and various utensils. It also trains her in 
the very important duties of caring for the stove, oven, 
sink, and floor, and imifies the work so that it is like 
actual housekeeping. 

The following is an easy arrangement of work in the 
school kitchen : — 

Housekeeper i. Care of supplies used in the daily lesson. 

Housekeeper 2. Building of fire, care of stove and tea- 
kettle, and attending to the oven during baking. 

Housekeeper 3. Care of sink. 

7 



8 GENERAL DIRECTIONS 

Housekeeper 4. Sweeping of kitchen at the close of the 
lesson. 

Suggestions for Pupils. — i. Be sure that hands and 
nails are clean before coming to class. 

2. Wash the hands before the beginning of the lesson 
and keep them clean. 

3. Always keep the hair neatly combed. 

4. Do not wear rings while cooking. 

5. Always wear an apron, and a holder suspended from 
the apron by a tape. 

6. Never use an apron in place of a holder. 

7. Never taste food with a mixing spoon. 

8. Do not leave the spoon in the food while it is cooking. 

9. Keep the tables clean and in order. 

10. Keep the drawers and cupboards closed. 

11. Collect all utensils and supplies needed for work, 
before beginning to prepare the food. 

12. Do not use unnecessary utensils. 

13. Have all materials measured and ready for use be- 
fore beginning to put them together. 

14. Measure accurately, for on that depends the success 
of your cooking. 

15. Do not waste material. 

16. Work quietly, quickly, carefully, and neatly. 

17. Practice at home the things learned at school. 

18. Try each recipe at home. 

19. Calculate the cost of each recipe. 

A list of the foods most frequently used in the home, of seasonable 
vegetables and fruits, and the prices of each, should be posted weekly 
in a conspicuous place in the kitchen so that pupils will leam to 
note cost, calculate the cost of various foods, and know when is the 
best time to purchase and serve certain vegetables ami fruits. 



GENERAL DIRECTIONS 9 

Each recipe given in this book will serve six people. 
For school work one fourth of each recipe is taken, unless 
otherwise stated. 

ABBREVIATIONS AND MEASUREMENTS USED IN 
COOKING 

tsp. — teaspoon oz. — ounce 

tbsp. — tablespoon lb. — pound 

c. — cup spk. — speck 

pt. — pint bk. pd. — baking powder 

qt. — quart min. — minute 

3 tsp. = I tbsp. 4 tbsp. flour = i oz. (about) 

16 tbsp. = I c. • 2 c. sugar = i lb. 

2 c. = I pt. 2 c. butter = i lb. 

2 pt. = I qt. 3i-4 c. flour = i lb. 

2 tbsp. butter = i oz. 9 large eggs = i lb. 

2 tbsp. sugar = i oz. 2 c. lard = i lb. 

All measures are leveled. 
In leveling dry materials, level with a knife. 
Divide with a knife lengthwise for one half a spoon. 
Divide with a knife crosswise for one fourth spoon. 
Divide with a knife crosswise for one eighth. 

TEMPERATURES USED IN COOKING 

Freezing point of water Fahrenheit 32° Centigrade 0° 

Blood temperature Fahrenheit 98.6° Centigrade 37° 

Simmering point Fahrenheit 185° Centigrade 85° 

Boiling point Fahrenheit 212° Centigrade 100° 

To change a reading of temperature from Centigrade 
to Fahrenheit, multiply Centigrade temperature by 1.8, 
add 32°, which will give the equivalent temperature in 
Fahrenheit. 



lO GENERAL DIRECTIONS 

The coagulation temperature of proteins is from 158°- 
167° F. 

The gelatinizing temperature of starch is from 149°- 
185° F. 

The high temperatures, when used, are to develop flavor. 

Ferments are destroyed at temperatures above 160° F. 

Rules for Dishwashing. — To wash dishes plenty of 
hot water is needed, also a dishpan, rinsing pan, dishcloth, 
wire cleaner for pots and pans, a soap shaker, brush for 
silver and glass, scouring board, cork and flannel, sapolio, 
soap, and clean, dry dish towels. 

After the dining room table is cleared, collect knives, 
forks, and spoons. 

Scrape all crumbs, scraps, and dough into a waste jar. 

Wipe greasy dishes out with soft paper so that they will 
not make the dishwater greasy. 

Dishes with egg adhering should be soaked in cold water, 
as the hot water cooks the egg and makes it difficult to 
remove. 

Rinse with cold water glasses and bottles that have held 
milk. 

Empty the tea and coffee pots. 

Put all pans and kettles to soak in hot water so that they 
will clean easily. 

Pile all dishes of a kind neatly together. 

Have the dishpan half full of hot, soapy water, the rins- 
ing pan half full of clear hot water. 

For ease and rapidity of work, place the soiled dishes on 
the extreme right of the work table, the dishpan to the 
left of the soiled dishes, the rinsing pan to the left of the 
dishpan, and then place the clean dishes to the left of 
the rinsing pan. 



GENERAL DIRECTIONS ii 

Wash the glasses first and dry at once, then wash silver, 
cups, saucers, plates, etc., taking the cleanest first, rins- 
ing and drjdng thoroughly. 

Scour the knives when necessary. 

Wash the tea and coffee pots with clean, hot water and 
dry them. 

Lastly, wash the tins and cooking utensils, scouring, if 
necessary, with powdered sapolio applied with a cork or 
flannel. 

Do not put boiling water on glasses or china. 

Do not put wooden handles or the cogs of Dover egg 
beaters into the water. 

Never leave the soap in the sink or dishpan. 

When all the dishes are washed and wiped, pile the dif- 
ferent kinds together and put into place. 

Empty the dishpan, wash the dish towels in warm suds, 
rinse, and hang to dry. 

Wash the table, soap dish, and sink in warm suds. 

Wash both dishpan and rinsing pan with hot suds, 
rinse with clear water, and dry thoroughly with a dish 
towel. 

Wash the dishcloth, rinse, and hang to dry. 

The daily care of the sink consists in keeping it free from 
grease and scraps, scrubbing it thoroughly, and keeping it 
dry when not in use. In addition to this, at least once a 
week, pour a hot, strong solution of sal soda down the waste 
pipe to wash off all the grease that may have cooled and 
settled in the pipe. Follow this with plenty of hot water. 
If this is done, waste pipes will not become clogged with 
grease. All sinks should have a strainer screwed down 
over the waste pipe, and no tea leaves, coffee grounds, 
burnt matches, or potato parings should ever be put in the 



12 GENERAL DIRECTIONS 

sink. A garbage pail should be kept for that purpose. 
This pail should be washed daily with a solution of sal 
soda and dried and placed in the sunshine when possible. 

Fire and Firemaking. — The success of cooking depends 
upon the application of the right amount of heat to the 
right combination of foods, so a study of fire making and 
fire regulation is necessary to produce the best results. 
Cooking at the wrong temperature injures the food and 
often unfits it for use. It is said that the baking of bread 
or cake is two thirds of the making. At any rate, both 
are spoiled by too slow or too fast an oven. Much fuel is 
wasted because the application of the right amount of 
heat is not understood or is neglected. 

To have a good fire we must have a good stove, a good 
fuel, and some means of raising it to its kindling point, 
and must be able to secure a good supply of air to make the 
fire burn. By the kindling point is meant the tempera- 
ture at which a thing takes fire. Some substances, like 
phosphorus, matches, paper, gas, and gasoline, have a low 
kindling point and take fire rapidly. Some, like hard coal, 
have a very high kindling point and some other fuel must be 
used as kindUng before a coal fire can be started. The smaller 
the pieces of fuel, and the more loosely packed, so that air 
can surround them, the more easily will the fire kindle. 

Soft wood makes excellent kindling, and in some local- 
ities, where wood is plentiful, both hard and soft wood are 
used as fuel. Gas is almost universally used for cooking 
in cities, at least during the summer months. It is cheaper, 
if properly handled, than wood or coal, cleaner, and gives 
off less heat. Some form of oil is used in rural communities 
during the summer for the same reason that gas is used 
in the cities, and denatured alcohol is used in some local- 



GENERAL DIRECTIONS 13 

ities. Both hard and soft coal are used during the winter 
for heating and cooking purposes. Coal makes an excel- 
lent fire for cooking, as it is easily regulated, supplies uni- 
form heat, and requires very little attention when once 
started. Electricity is an important source of heat. 

Parts of a Stove or Range. — Most ranges or stoves are 
so made that they will burn either wood or coal, the only 
change necessary being the adjustment of the grate. 

The parts of a range are : — 

1. A fire box, lined, so as to control the heat and conduct 
it where it is needed. 

2. A grate at the bottom of the fire box, usually reversible, 
so as to bum either wood or coal, and so made as to allow 
the ashes to pass through. 

i. An ash pan below the fire box ; should be emptied daily. 

4. Dampers, checks, and drafts, for the purpose of admit- 
ting air and controlling and regulating its supply. The 
draft in the fire box is for the purpose of admitting air 
when starting the fire, or to make the fire burn faster. 
When closed it checks the fire. The damper in the chim- 
ney should be partially closed after the fire is started to 
prevent loss of heat. It should never be closed so tight 
that the smoke cannot escape. The oven damper partially 
closes the opening into the chimney and forces the heated 
air to pass around the oven, thus heating the oven. 

5. An oven, used for baking purposes. It must be kept 
free from soot, above and below, so that the air can circu- 
late freely. If this is not done, the food will burn on the 
top or bottom or will not bake evenly. 

6. Stovepipe, to allow air and smoke to pass through. 

7. Water front — connected with water tank in kitchen 
to heat water. (Not always used.) 



14 GENERAL DIRECTIONS 

8. Warming oven, to keep dishes warm. 

Pupils should become familiar with all parts of the stove 
and get enough practice in baking so as to imderstand the 
regulation of the oven and know what temperatures are 
best for the various foods. 

How to Build a Fire. — Remove the covers from the 
top of the stove and brush the soot and ashes into the 
fire box. Clean everything out of the fire box by shaking 
the grate so the ashes will fall into the ash pan. Place 
crumpled newspaper, shavings, or small pieces of soft wood 
in the bottom of the fire box ; then put in some soft wood, 
then hard wood, arranged loosely so that the air can pass 
through. Place the wood so it reaches the corners of the 
fire box and is not massed in the middle. Open the damp- 
ers in the fire box, chimney, and oven, and then light the 
fire. Apply the match to the substance that will kindle 
quickest. The fire should be lighted at the bottom so 
that the flame will ascend. As the fire burns freely, put 
on more fuel, but the fire box should never be more than 
three fourths full. When the fire is well started close the 
front draft, partially close the chimney draft, and if the 
oven is to be used close the oven draft. 

Ashes should be emptied every day. If left in the stove 
until they fill the ash pan and touch the grate at the bottom 
of the fire box, they destroy the grate. 

The oven should be kept clean. If anything has boiled 
over and burned on the bottom of the oven, it should be 
scraped off with an old knife. 

The best time to black the stove is while the fire is start- 
ing. Use very little blacking, but brush it thoroughly 
over all parts of the stove. A steel range requires no black- 
ing, simply washing. 



GENERAL DIRECTIONS 15 

Suggestions for Cooking with Gas. — i. See that the 
stove is kept clean. 

2. Keep the burners free from grease, dust, and dirt. 

3. To light a burner, open the valve leading to the 
burner to be used, allow the gas to flow a second, and then 
apply the match. 

4. To light the oven, apply the lighted match to the 
oven pilot and then turn on the gas. If the gas is turned 
on too long before it is lighted, there is danger of an explo- 
sion. For the same reason the oven door should be 
opened before the pilot is lighted. 

5. Never leave a burner hghted because you are going 
to use it soon ; when the gas is not in use, turn it out, 
and light it again when needed. Matches are cheaper 
than gas. 

6. Never light a burner tmtil you are ready to use it. 
As soon as the food begins to boil, turn the gas as low as 
possible. Food is cooking just as fast when it is bubbling 
sUghtly as when it is boiling over the top of the kettle, 
and there is less danger that it will burn. Food tastes 
better cooked in this way. After food has started to cook, 
it is almost impossible to use too Uttle heat; foods are 
spoiled by the use of too great heat and gas is wasted. 
When you waste gas, you are burning money that could 
be used to purchase food or clothing. 

7. When baking bread, put the bread in the cold oven, 
light the gas and let the oven heat slowly for the first ten 
minutes, increase the heat for the next fifteen minutes, and 
then finish baking at a moderate temperature. 

8. Learn to read your gas meter, for if properly handled 
and looked after, gas is more satisfactory to cook with 
than wood or coal and more economical. 

CONLEY p. c. — 2 



i6 GENERAL DIRECTIONS 

Directions for Reading a Gas Meter. — The small dial 
marked two feet is not to be considered. It is used for 
testing purposes. Each figure on the right-hand dial indi- 
cates ICO cubic feet ; on the middle dial each figure indi- 
cates looo cubic feet; and on the left-hand dial each 
figure indicates 10,000 cubic feet. 

When meters are new all pointers are at o, but never 
again are in this position until exactly 100,000 cubic feet 
have been passed. Read from left dial to right, always 




taking the figures which the pointers have passed. For 
example : Suppose you find the pointers on your meter as 
shown by the heavy lines on the above cut, you record 
55,800. At the previous reading, one month before, assume 
that the pointers were as shown by the dotted lines, 54,200. 
This means that during the month your gas consimiption 
sent the pointers from 54,200 to 55,800. You have con- 
sumed the difference, which is 1600 cubic feet. Your gas 
bill would then be written as follows : 

State of Meter, last reading 55800 

State of Meter, previous reading . . . 54200 

Amount consumed 1600 

At $1.10 per M $1.76 



GENERAL DIRECTIONS 17 

Temperature of the Oven. — Many ranges and stoves 
now on the market have an oven thermometer or heat 
regulator on the oven door. If the indicator would show 
whether the oven is slow, moderate, or fast, with any 
degree of accuracy, direction could be given in all recipes 
as to the amount of heat needed and it would not be neces- 
sary to open the oven door and test the heat. No oven 
thermometer that is even fairly accurate, or that can be 
relied on, is on the market as yet, and the only reliable 
tests for oven temperature are the old ones, which must 
be learned by experience. Probably the best way to test 
the heat of the oven is the hand test. This is done by put- 
ting the forearm in the oven and holding it there long enough 
to ascertain whether the air in the oven is moderately hot, 
very hot, or what may be termed cool. The terms used 
to distinguish the different oven temperatures are slow, 
moderate, hot or fast, and very hot. Generally speaking 
most foods are best cooked at moderate heat. A good 
general rule is, the smaller the article to be baked the 
hotter the oven, or the larger the article the slower the 
oven. This does not apply in all cases, but the reason for 
it is that it takes a long time for heat to penetrate to the 
center of a large mass. If intense heat be applied, a crust 
forms and the heat does not reach the center readily. 

Another way to test the oven temperature is by the use 
of paper, or bread crumb. The length of time it takes the 
paper or bread to brown determines the degree of heat in 
the oven. In a hot oven a piece of white letter paper will 
turn to a yellowish brown in from three to five minutes, 
in a moderate oven it will turn to a yellowish brown in 
from seven to ten minutes, and in a slow oven it will turn 
to a yellowish brown in from twelve to fifteen minutes. 



i8 GENERAL DIRECTIONS 

EQUIPMENT FOR A SCHOOL KITCHEN FOR A CLASS 
OF SIXTEEN PUPOS 

I. 8 double or i6 single work tables, with drawers to 
hold the utensils necessary for the average lesson, 
and with molding boards, and attached seats. 
IL 1 6 individual gas stoves or burners attached to 
the tables, or if gas is not in use i6 individual or 
8 double burner oil stoves. (See frontispiece.) 

III. One large gas oven, or range, or a coal or wood range 
with a large oven, so that each pupil may have 
practice in attending to the baking for the class a 
week at a time or longer. In this way she may 
know exactly how to manage the range in her own 
home. She cannot get this practice if nothing but 
the small individual ovens are provided. 

rV. A sink containing hot and cold water faucets. A 
gas heater may be installed or a water front may be 
placed in the range, or hot water may be provided 
by passing water pipes through the furnace and 
placing a storage tank near. Some arrangement is 
necessary for providing hot water because the time 
of teacher and pupils is lost and fuel is wasted if 
dish water is heated in individual tea kettles and it 
is a return to primitive conditions. 
V. A common kitchen table where the day's supplies 
are placed in readiness so that no time is lost in 
getting to work. 

VI. A refrigerator. 

VII. Screens for every window in the kitchen. 
VIII. An arrangement for drying dishcloths and wiping 
towels, as rods on the back of the tables. 



GENERAL DIRECTIONS 



19 



IX. Shelves or cupboards for utensils. 
X. A wheeled supply table, a great convenience, though 
not essential. 

List of Utensils for the Individual Work Tables 



16 paring knives. 

16 spatulas. 

16 plated silver or steel knives. 

16 plated silver or steel forks. 

16 tablespoons. 

32 teaspoons. 

16 small wooden spoons. 

16 Dover egg beaters. 

16 spoon egg beaters. 

16 one-quart mixing bowls. 

16 sieves to fit bowls. 

16 glass measuring cups. 

16 tin measuring cups. 

16 custard cups. 

16 utility pans. 

16 small tin basins about 5^ or 
6J inches in diameter for bak- 
ing purposes. 



32 small enameled basins about 
5J or 6J inches in diameter. 

16 small pie plates about 4J or si 
inches in diameter. 

16 one-quart double boilers. 

16 one-quart stewpans ; covers. 

16 small rolling pins. 

16 small biscuit cutters. 

16 small fr3dng pans. 

16 small bread pans. 

16 small dishpans. 

16 vegetable brushes. 

16 corks. 

16 small boxes for salt. 

16 small boxes for pepper. 

16 boxes for sugar. 

16 boxes for flour. 

16 cans for baking powder. 



Note. — If the vyork table drawers are small, the utensils not in constant 
use may be kept in the utensil cupboards. 



Additional Utensils for General Use 



16 salad or pie plates. 

16 breakfast plates. 

16 cups and saucers (tea size). 

16 water glasses. 

8 small teakettles. 

8 apple corers. 

8 small graters. 

8 four- or six-cup muflSn pans. 



8 two-quart bowls. 
8 mixing bowb. 
8 doughnut cutters. 
8 assorted cooky cutters. 
8 trays, assorted sizes. 
8 pie tins. 

8 two- or three-quart granite or 
enameled pans. 



20 



GENERAL DIRECTIONS 





■ 1 


-vtf i 




■i 


1 




^ 


1 






1 


■B '«r=^^, IS 


i 






ii 

1 


1^ 


m 


'ink' ?«^'--'- 


1 

5 ' 


m 


1 'UI^^B^H^^^^I^^^ft 




'"^ 


! mifjm 



.g'2 

•si 

tl 
g| 

go 



SI 
si 



ill 

u 

is 
tl 

d *3 

»? 



» OS 

as 



GENERAL DIRECTIONS 



21 



8 small lemon squeezers. 

8 match boxes. 

8 soap dishes. 

4 two-quart enameled pails, with 

covers, for holding scraps until 

they are transferred to the 

garbage can. 
4 one-quart measures. 
4 small colanders. 
4 granite kettles. 
4 steamers (size of kettles). 
4 kettle covers. 
4 meat forks. 
4 wire pot cleaners. 
4 broilers. 

4 long-handled skimmers. 
4 dripping pans (size of the 

oven). 
4 roll pans. 

4 angel or sponge-cake pans. 
4 layer cake pans. 
4 sheet cake pans. 
4 loaf cake pans. 
4 small chopping bowls. 
4 small chopping knives. 
2 two-quart ice cream freezers. 
2 large graters. 
2 sink scrapers. 
2 large fr)dng pans. 
2 two-quart coffeepots. 
2 teapots. 
2 potato mashers. 



large teakettle. 

set timbal irons. 

flour sifter. 

dipper. 

butcher knife. 

bread knife. 

cake knife. 

carving set. 

potato ricer. 

flour bin. 

two-quart double boiler. 

meat knife. 

pudding mold. 

quart pitcher. 

two-quart pitcher. 

meat chopper. 

large garbage can. 

kitchen scale. 

dustpan. 

waffle iron. 

fimnel. 

corkscrew. 

can opener. 

small paint brush. 

brush broom. 

stove brush. 

broom. 

hamper for soiled towels. 
50 yards of crash for dishcloths 

and dish towels. 
16 holders. 
500 paper napkins. 



Articles Needed if Pupils are to Learn to Serve Meals 



Dining-room table. 
Dining-room chairs. 
Tablecloths. 



Napkins. 
Doilies. 
Lunch cloths. 



Silverware. 
Glassware. 
A set of dishes. 



CHAPTER II 
CLASSES OF FOOD. REASONS FOR COOKING 

Introductory. — Very few people ever think of the real 
reason why they must eat. Probably the only time they 
are forcibly reminded of it is when they are suffering from 
some sickness that bums up the tissues and they lose 
weight. At such times they loathe any food, but are com- 
pelled to eat certain foods prescribed by the doctor, so 
that the body may gain strength to fight the disease. 

Boys training in athletic sports learn that they must 
avoid eating too much or they will gain weight and be unable 
to perform their feats with agility. They also learn what 
foods are best to develop muscle. 

Every one knows that children who are underfed or 
improperly fed have no energy for work or even play, and 
that such children are often stunted in mind and body. 

Food, then, must have other uses than to please the 
taste or satisfy the appetite. Important though these 
uses are, they are merely Nature's ways to get us to take 
what we need to keep our bodies strong, healthy, and well 
developed. 

Food Defined. — Food is defined as any substance which, 
when taken into the body, supplies it with heat or energy 
or builds tissue. 

Energy is stored or latent in all organic substances ; and 
when they are burned, the energy is released as heat. Heat 
is a form of energy. 



CLASSES OF FOOD 23 

All foods contain latent energy ; and when they are oxi- 
dized, produce heat. Their energy then may be used to 
keep the body warm or to keep up its various activities. 
In much the same manner the energy in coal heats the 
passenger coaches of a train and furnishes the power for 
the engine which pulls the train. 

The body in health is maintained at its normal tempera- 
ture, 98.6° F., even in the coldest weather, by the oxida- 
tion or burning of the food taken in, and not by stove or 
furnace heat from the outside. In cold weather houses are 
kept warm and warm clothing is worn so that the body 
will not lose so much heat to the surrounding air. In 
summer light clothing is worn so that the body will lose 
heat. 

Energy is needed in the body so that the vital processes, 
such as digestion, respiration, and circulation, may be 
carried on, and also for work and muscular activity. 
Though bodily heat and muscular energy are important, 
they merely result from cell activity. The blood carries 
oxygen and food to the cells and by the process of 
oxidation the old cells are burned. To replace them new 
cells are built up from the food brought by the blood. 
Cells and tissues must be constantly oxidized, then rebuilt 
and replaced, because life results in the continual wearing 
out of the old, and building up of new tissues, from the 
food consumed. 

Oxidation. — Foods are burned or oxidized in the body 
just as wood or coal is burned outside of the body, except 
that they bum without flame. They produce, practically, 
as much heat when burned within the body as they would 
produce if burned outside the body, and because of this 
fact we have a means of finding out just how much heat 



24 CLASSES OF FOOD 

the various foods yield. The burning of foods and cells 
in the body is called oxidation and constitutes the vital 
process called life. The old cells are oxidized and new ones 
are built up from the food eaten. The foods, by burning, 
yield heat and energy. Some foods do not contain the 
substances or elements needed to build tissues, but they 
will bum in the body and produce heat and energy. 

Foods must contain nitrogen to be able to build tissue. 
Foods that contain carbon will yield heat and energy. 

Foods Classified. — Foods are classified into five classes : 
proteins, fats, carbohydrates, mineral matter, and water, 
though some food substances do not properly belong in 
any of these classes. 

Proteins contain carbon, hydrogen, oxygen, and nitrogen. 

Fats contain carbon, hydrogen, and oxygen. 

Carbohydrates contain carbon, hydrogen, and oxygen. 

Water contains hydrogen and oxygen. 

Mineral matter consists of compounds of iron, calcium, 
potassium, sodium, magnesium, sulphur, phosphorus, 
chlorine, and fluorine. These are associated with the 
proteins and carbohydrates in the various tissues and 
fluids of the body. 

Proteins, mineral matter, and water build tissue ; car- 
bohydrates, fats, and proteins yield heat and energy. 

Foods are also classified as animal and vegetable foods 
because of the sources from which they are derived. Ex- 
amples of vegetable foods are potato, carrot, wheat, rice, 
peas, apple. Examples of animal foods are meat, fish, 
eggs, milk, cheese. 

Structure of Foods. — All foods are similar in structure 
in that they are made up of innumerable cells held together 
by some intercellular substance. Each cell consists of 



CLASSES OF FOOD 



25 



two, sometimes three, parts — nucleus, protoplasm, and 
cell wall. Every cell has a nucleus or center of life from 
which the cell grows and produces other cells. Surround- 
ing the nucleus is the protoplasm or nourishment of the 
cell. It supplies the material needed for the growth and 
development of the nucleus. It consists of protein, mineral 
matter, and water, as does also the nucleus. Protoplasm 
is more or less granular 
and forms a sort of net- 
work that may enclose 
other substances, as 
starch or fat. All vege- 
table cells, and some 
animal cells, have a cell 
wall. The walls of ani- 
mal cells consist of a 
substance called connec- 
tive tissue. This sub- 
stance also holds the 
cells together. The cell 
walls of vegetable cells consist of a substance called 
cellulose. It is similar in composition to starch, but 
unlike it in structure. When it is old, it sometimes 
turns to wood. The human stomach cannot digest cellu- 
lose, and so it must be softened by cooking to allow for the 
digestion of the starch or fat which it encloses. Cellulose 
is of value, however, in that it furnishes bulk. 




A Thin Suce op Potato (magnified). 

, albuminous pockets; b, starch grains in the 
pockets. (From Overton's Applied Physiology.) 



Note to Teacher. — If it is possible to secure a microscope, study may 
be made of the starch cell in potato. The amoeba may be studied imder 
the microscope to show the parts of the single cell. The yeast cell also 
furnishes a good study. It would be well for pupils to make a drawing of 
what they have observed. 



26 CLASSES OF FOOD 

Experiment for Pupils. — Scrape the pulp from a small piece of 
round steak until the white fibrous substance shows distinctly. 
This substance is connective tissue. 

Grate a potato, place it . in a cheesecloth bag, and wash until all 
the starch is washed out. Dry the substance left in the bag and 
examine it. This substance is called cellulose. 

CLASSES OF FOOD 

I. Carbohydrates. 

1. Starch, as in potato, rice, com, and all vegetable foods. 

Insoluble in cold water. 

2. Sugar — cane, beet, maple, malt, fruit. 

Soluble. 

3. Cellulose — cell waUs of plants. 

Insoluble. 

4. Pectin — found in fruits and some vegetables. Causes 

juice to gelatinize. Occurs also as pectose which is changed 
to pectin by the action of a ferment. 

11. Vegetable Acms. 

I. Malic, oxalic, citric, tartaric. Decomposition products of 
starch or sugar. They are decomposed in the body, form- 
ing alkaline carbonates, and help to preserve the alka- 
linity of the blood. 
Soluble. 

III. Proteins. 

1. True proteins. 

Coagulated by the heat or acid or ferment. Some are 

soluble in cold water, some in diluted salt, acid, or alkaline 

solution; some are insoluble. 
Albimiin as in egg. Casein as in milk. Myosin as in meat. 

Fibrin as in meat. Gluten as in wheat. Legumin as in 

peas and beans. 

2. Albuminoids. 

Softened by moist heat and hardened by dry heat. Soluble 
in boiling water. Ossein in bone, elastin in cell walls, 
collagen in connective tissue. 



COOKING 27 

3. Extractives. Soluble in water. They are the flavor in meat 
juice and in some vegetables. 

IV. Fats. 

1. Fixed fats. Softened by moderate heat, separated into 

fatty acid and glycerine by strong heat. Examples : butter, 
lard, olive oil. 

2. Volatile oils. Foimd in orange and lemon skins, onions, 

etc. Soluble and volatile. 

V. Mineral Matter. 

I. Lime in nulk, sulphur in eggs, phosphoirus in wheat. 
In proteins, sulphur, phosphorus, and iron. 
In vegetables, potassium, sodium, magnesium, calciimi. 
Common salt. 

VI. Water. 

Necessity for Cooking. — Nature supplies us with the 
things needed to keep us alive, namely : — air, water, food, 
and heat, but they are not always in the form most accept- 
able to man. 

Air is made impure by factory smoke, by crowding human 
beings so closely together that enough oxygen is not ob- 
tainable, and by disease germs given oflF in various ways 
from the bodies of those afficted with disease. Those 
who wish to enjoy health should seek always to work and 
live where there is an abundance of fresh air. 

Water may contain disease germs ; evidences of pollution 
which aflFect color, taste, and odor ; or organic impurities : 
then sterilization or filtration becomes necessary to fit it 
for use. 

Foods are supplied by nature to us in great abundance, 
but most foods require some cooking before they are ready 
for consumption. Prehistoric man may have lived on 
uncooked foods, but even the savage tribes of to-day 



28 COOKING 

have some means of cooking their food, crude though 
it may be. 

Reasons for Cooking. — Cooking may be defined as 
the preparation of foods for the table by means of heat. 
Several good reasons can be given why food should be 
cooked. 

1. Cooking makes food more attractive and palatable 
because it changes the appearance of the raw food and 
develops flavor. 

2. It kills bacteria present in some foods which would 
bring about undesirable changes in the food itself, or by 
entering the body through the food cause certain dis- 
eases. 

3. Heat brings about physical and chemical changes 
in the food which make it more digestible, such as the 
softening of cellulose in vegetables, connective tissue 
in meats, and the cooking of starch. 

Primitive Methods of Cooking. — Probably the first 
method of cooking used by the savage or uncivilized tribes 
was that of drying the food in the sun. This was also 
a method of preservation so that the food might be stored 
away for use in times of scarcity. The next method was, 
doubtless, that of roasting before the open fire or by baking 
in hot ashes. Then came the construction of some crude 
vessels, the dropping of hot stones into the vessel which 
contained the water in which the food was to be cooked. 
By this method meat was simmered and boiled. Later 
came the construction of vessels that could stalid the 
heat and be placed directly over the fire. Lastly, a prim- 
itive oven was made, and from these crude methods of 
roasting, baking, boiling, and stewing, were evolved and 
developed those in use at the present time. 



COOKING 29 



METHODS OF COOKING 

All methods of cooking may be grouped in five classes: — 

1. Cooking Directly over the Fire. 

(a) Broiling : over coals or gas or in a sizzling hot pan. 

(b) Roasting : before the fire. Wasteful of food and fuel. 

2. Cooking by Heated Air. 

(a) Baking: cooking in an oven. Also called roasting. 

3. Cooking in Heated Water. 

(a) Boiling: cooking in water at temperature of 212° F. 

(b) Stewing : cooking in small quantity of water at a tempera- 

ture below 212° F. ; better than boiling. 

(c) Steaming : cooking in vessel surrounded by steam or cook- 

ing food in steam. 

4. Cooking in Heated Fat. 

(a) Fr3dng : cooking in deep fat. 

(b) Saut6ing : cooking in small quantity of fat. 

5. Cooking in a Fireless Cooker. 

Cooking for several minutes on the stove and then placing 
the food in the fireless cooker. Foods are cooked a much 
longer time in the fireless cooker than by direct heat. 

All other methods of cooking are a combination of some 
of the above methods. Braizing is sauteing, stewing, 
and baking, and is applied to meat. Fricasseeing is 
stewing, and frying or saut6ing. 

Principles of Cooking. — The principles of cooking 
are few in number and easily mastered; their proper 
application controls the success of every article of food 
prepared, from the simplest to the most intricate. Cook- 
ing is a scientific process. It depends for its results on 
the application of principles, and when these are imder- 
stood and applied, the results will be as certain as those 
of any other chemical or physical process subject to natural 
laws. 



30 COOKING 

These principles could be grouped as follows : — 

1. Those which govern the cooking of proteins and 
show the effect of heat on them. 

2. Those concerned with fats. 

3. Those concerned with carbohydrates, — starches, 
sugars, cellulose. 

4. Those concerned with extractives, volatile oils, and 
mineral matter. 

5. Those which render foods sterile. 

Solubility and Insolubility. — Substances are said to be 
soluble or insoluble in water. The term soluble com- 
monly means that the substance can be dissolved in water ; 
if insoluble, it cannot be dissolved in water. Substances 
in foods that are soluble in water may be lost during cook- 
ing. Some soluble substances are hardened or coagidated 
by heat and rendered insoluble. Some food substances 
are insoluble in water, but are soluble in a dilute salt, acid, 
or alkahne solution. 

Ferments. — A ferment is a substance which brings about 
a chemical change in a food, but remains unchanged itself. 
Each ferment acts only as a single substance. It may coag- 
ulate the substance and render it insoluble, as in the action 
of rennin on casein in milk, or it may break the substance 
down and render it more soluble, as in the ripening of 
cheese. Ferments play an important part in the ripening, 
maturing, and decay of foods. They bring about the 
changes in digestion. They change starch to sugar, and 
break down cellulose. They bring about the coagulation 
of milk and blood. We are only just beginning to know 
their importance in all vital processes. Heat destroys 
ferments. A temperature of i49°-i6o° F. renders both 
animal and vegetable ferments inert. 



COOKING 31 

WHY COOKING IS TAUGHT IN SCHOOLS 

Cooking is taught in schools so that pupils may learn to 
plan, cook, and serve meals, and to know the nutritive value 
of the different foods and their place in the diet so that the 
body will be properly nourished. 

Good cooking is important. It is probably the first 
requisite necessary to make a food of value to the body ; 
for though a food may be balanced in nutritive value, if it 
is served in an unappetizing way it will not be eaten. The 
sight and taste of attractively served and prepared foods 
stimulate the appetite and cause secretion of digestive 
juices, which naturally aids digestion. However, foods^ 
having little nutritive value may look as attractive as those 
of high nutritive value ; and if a study is not made of the 
composition of foods, we might always select those of low 
nutritive value and the body would be deprived of proper 
nourishment. 

Foods are analyzed in chemical laboratories and the 
exact composition of each food is known. United States 
government bulletins contain very complete tables show- 
ing the composition of all common foods.^ 

By examining the tables on pages 189-193 we find the 
percentage of water, protein, fat, carbohydrates, and min- 
eral matter in the various foods. We also find the per- 
centage of refuse in some foods as sold to the consumer. 
It is well to note the percentage of refuse in foods, espe- 

1 Bulletin No. 28, Office of Experiment Stations, Washington, D.C., 
contains tables showing the percentage composition of all foods in use in 
the average home. Farmers' Bulletin No. 142 also gives the composition 
of many of the common foods. This bulletin may be obtained free of 
charge from the United States Department of Agriculture. The tables 
referred to above are taken from these government bulletins. 
CONLEY p. c. — 3 



32 COOKING 

daily in meats, because a cut which seems cheap may in 
reality be dear because of the amount of bone and fat 
which it contains. 

The composition of any food to be prepared should be 
learned or at least noted, and in this way it will be easy 
to remember the nutritive value of the diflFerent foods and 
group them in several classes. 

Cooking aflFects digestibility ; diflFerent methods of cook- 
ing bring out diflFerent flavors; foods must be served in 
various ways, as a change in diet is desirable. For these 
reasons the diflFerent methods of cooking are taken up in 
a series of lessons which develop and show all principles of 
cooking. When these methods are learned and the princi- 
ples of cooking mastered, foods having equivalent nutri- 
tive values are studied in groups, and the methods and 
principles of cooking learned in Chapter IV are reviewed. 

Methods and principles are few in number, but innu- 
merable applications of these few may be made. 

The mastery of principles is the science of cooking ; and 
the serving of foods in attractive, savory, and appetizing 
ways is the art of cooking. 

The price of all foods should be known, and the cost of 
each recipe calculated. Foods should be cooked, in school 
kitchens, in their proper season, just as they would be 
served in the home. Eggs should not be served in Novem- 
ber, December, January, for two reasons, — because of 
prices, and because they are apt to be storage eggs. Can- 
ning should not be taught when peaches and pears must 
be purchased by the dozen. Pupils should try all recipes 
at home, and should have lessons on foods most commonly 
used in the average home. They should know the place 
of each food prepared, in the daily diet. 



CHAPTER III 

METHODS OF COOKING. DEVELOPMENT OF 
PRINCIPLES AND THEIR APPLICATION. PRAC- 
TICE WORK IN FOODS 

BAKING VEGETABLE FOODS. PRINCIPLES WHICH 
APPLY TO COOKING OF CARBOHYDRATES 

All vegetable foods are made up of innumerable cells, 
so small that they cannot be seen except by the aid of a 
microscope. These cells are held together by a substance 





Protoplasmic Structure of a Starch Grains in a Flour Cell. 
Flour Cell. (Farmers' Bulletin, No. 389, 

(Farmers' Bulletin, No. 389, U. S. Dept. of Agriculture.) 

U. S. Dept. of Agriculture). 

called cellulose. Each cell consists of a network of pro- 
toplasm which incloses granules of starch or sugar, mineral 
matter, and water, and is surrounded by a wall of cellulose. 
Cellulose is of the same composition as starch, but is 
unlike it in structure and in appearance; heat and the 
digestive juices have not the same effect on it that they 
have on starch. When cellulose grows old, it becomes 
tough and woody. The human stomach cannot digest 
cellulose; and as it incloses the starch and other sub- 

33 



34 



PRINCIPLES OF COOKING 



stances that can be digested if the digestive juices can 
reach them, these cell walls must be softened by cooking 
so as to set free the inclosed starch, sugar, mineral matter, 
and protein. 

When the cells contain much starch, moisture and heat 
cause the starch grains to swell and burst the walls of 
cellulose which inclose them. Some foods, like potatoes. 




Changes in Starch Cells in Cooking. 



A, cells of a raw potato with starch i 
cooked potato ; c, cells of a thoroughly 
U. S. Dept. of Agriculture.) 



rains in natural condition ; b, cells in a partially 
K>iled potato. (From Farmers' Bulletin No. 389, 



contain enough water to cause the starch to swell when 
the water turns to steam, and this causes the bursting of 
the cell wall. Some foods, like rice, com, and wheat, are 
cooked in water; and the starch absorbs water during 
cooking. When starch is cooked we sometimes say it is 
gelatinized, and the starch in diflFerent foods cooks or gel- 
atinizes at different temperatures. The starch in oats gel- 
atinizes at 185° F., corn at 167"^ F., potatoes at 149° F., 
other cereals at 176° F. Some foods, like lettuce, celery, 
tomatoes, onions, contain so little starch that it is not 
necessary to cook them, because we eat them, not for the 
starch in them, but for the cellulose, mineral matter, and 
acids which they contain, and which have important uses 
in the body. 



PRINCIPLES OF COOKING 35 

In some foods the cellulose is so tough that it must be 
softened, even though the food does not contain much 
starch. The greater the amount of cellulose in a food the 
longer time it takes to cook it. Some foods, like old beets 
and carrots, are so tough that it is a waste of fuel to try 
to cook them. 

Recipe for Baked Potatoes. — Select smooth, medium- 
sized potatoes. Wash clean, using a brush to scrub and 
a knife to remove the specks and blemishes. Place on 
the grate of an oven of moderate* temperature and grad- 
ually increase the heat. Bake until soft, about 40 minutes. 
Break or pierce the skin to allow the steam to escape, and 
serve in an uncovered dish. A moderate oven is needed 
in starting to allow the heat to penetrate to the inside of 
the potato. If the heat is too intense at first, it forms a 
hard crust on the outside, keeps out the heat, and prevents 
the potato from cooking evenly throughout. If the steam 
is allowed to remain in the potato, it condenses and the 
potato will be soggy. 

With what would you serve baked potatoes? At what meal? 

Potatoes are the most important of all vegetable foods, 
except wheat, because they are the most extensively used. 
They contain, after they are pared for cooking : — 

Water Starch Cellulose Protein Fat Mineral Matter 
78.3% 18% .4% 2.2% .1% 1% 

Note. — Experiments to show composition of potato will be given in 
Chapter V, page 74, but the teacher may well give the starch test here. 
A solution of iodine turns starch blue, and pupils may test various foods to 
detect the presence of starch. 

The most important principles involved in the baking 

of potatoes are those which govern the cooking of starch 

and the softening of cellulose. 



36 



PRINaPLES OF COOKING 



U. S. Deprntntal of Agriaihure 
Office of Expcrifflcnt SCsliofis 
A. C. True: Dfrector 



cf.lmkworthy 

tipcrt in ClMTflc Of Nutrition liMcstigitions 



COMPOSITION OF FOOD MATERIALS. 



fVotein Fat Carbohydrates 



IFuclValua 
/«Sq.ln.Equala 
1000 Calorics 



SHEULED BEAN, FRESH NAVY BEAN, DRY. 

Water58.9 ^^ Water: 1 2.6 

Fat:0.6 ^ST^ ^ .. . . ^^ . P»'otcin: 22.5 




Protein:9.4 

FutL VALUR 



Carbohydrates:29. 1 

Ash* 2 Carbohydrates: 59.6 




Fuel vauic: 



720 CALORICS PER POUND 1560ULOmESPClk 

STRING BEAN, GREEN. 



Water-.89.2 




Water: 76.4 



Fuel value: 

c 

I90CALOIIIES PER POUND 

CORN, GREEN. 

EDIBLE PORTION 

Protein-.H 




Carbohydrates: 19.7 
Ash: 0.7 



Fat: 1. 1 



Composition op Vegetables. 



PRINCIPLES OF COOKING 



37 



U. S. Department of Agriculture F .rjEWORTHY 

Office of Experiment Stations ^^^'^' . „ ^ . " J I .^•«.*i..«, 

A. C. True: Director Expert in Charge of Nutntion Investigations 

COMPOSITION OF FOOD MATERIALS. 



Protein 



Fat CarboKydrates 



Water 



Fuel Value 

I JfcSq.ln. Equals 
1000 calories 




ONION 




WatcrSTJ 
Protein: 1. 6 
Car bohy drat cs:9.< 
,Wa t e r : 83 . Fue l value-. 



Protein; 1.6 
FfttO.S 
arbohydr<itc&M3.5 



POTATO 

Protein:2.2 




Water:94.5 



Carbo'hydrates: 18.4 ^-Water:78.^ 

Fu el VAL Uf: Pr.oteimJJ 

I I Ca*-btohydrate&:B.+ 

375 CALORIES PUJ POOMO ^^^1 ' 




Composition of Vegetables. 



38 PRINCIPLES OF COOKING 

Statement of Principles. 

1. Heat and moisture soften walls of cellulose in vege- 
table foods ; the denser the walls, the longer time it 
takes to soften them. 

2. Heat and moisture cause starch grains to swell and 
burst the walls of cellulose that inclose them, and 
gelatinize or cook the starch. 

Recipe for Baked Apples. — Wash and wipe apples 
and remove core. Place in a granite pan with one table- 
spoon of sugar in each apple and add water enough to 
just cover the bottom of the pan. Bake in a hot oven, 
about 30 to 45 minutes. Apples containing a great deal 
of acid cook much more quickly than those that are 
not so tart. 

Calculate cost. When would you serve baked apples? 
At what meal? 

Vegetables differ in the amount of nourishment which 
they contain. They all contain carbohydrate in some 
form, though the amount and kind varies. Potatoes, 
wheat, com, oats, rice, peas, and beans contain consider- 
able starch. The carbohydrate in other vegetables and 
fruits is small in quantity, and consists of sugar, pectin, 
cellulose, and some starch. All vegetables contain mineral 
salts; fruits contain vegetable acids also. Some vege- 
tables and fruits contain oil, called a volatile oil, because 
it can be turned to vapor and carried off in steam. All 
vegetables contain some protein. 

Apples contain : — 

Water Protein Fat Carbohydrate Cellulose * Mineral Matter 
84.6% 4% .5% 14.2% 1.2% .3% 



PRINCIPLES OF COOKING 39 

The carbohydrate is in the form of sugar, pectin, and 
cellulose. Apples also contain a vegetable acid. Some 
varieties contain more cellulose than potatoes and hence 
it takes a longer time to cook them. Some varieties con- 
tain much more acid than others, and as the acid helps 
soften the cellulose, those containing the greatest amoimt 
of acid bake quickest. As apples contain practically no 
starch, cooking is not necessary, but cooking softens the 
cellulose and makes it possible to serve apples in a great 
variety of ways. As apples ripen the sugar content in- 
creases, the cellulose becomes less tough, and the acidity 
decreases. For general use the ripe apple is preferred. 

Statement of Principles Involved. 

1. Moist heat softens the walls of cellulose in vegetable 
foods ; the denser the walls the longer time it takes 
to soften them. 

2. Acids soften cellulose. 

3. Heat melts sugar. 

Recipe for Boiled Onions. — Wash and peel about eight 
medium-sized onions. Place them in a stewpan, cover 
with boiling water, and boil until soft, about 40 minutes. 
If the onions have a strong odor, the water may be changed 
once or twice during cooking. When the onions are soft, 
drain the water off and serve with White Sauce. 

Calculate cost. At what meal would you serve boiled 
onions ? 

Onions contain : — 

Water Carbohydrate Cellulose * Protein Fat Mineral Matter 
87.6% 9.9% .8% 1.6% .3% .6% 

^ This cellulose is included in the carbohydrate. 



40 PRINCIPLES OF COOKING 

The carbohydrate in onions is mainly in the form of 
cellulose and sugar. (Test may be made for starch.) 
Onions contain a volatile oil which gives to them their 
distinctive flavor. The oil is also soluble in water ; much 
of it is dissolved in the water during cooking as well as 
evaporated with the steam. If the dish in which the 
onions are cooking is left uncovered, much of the oil passes 
off gradually in the steam, and the odor of boiled onions is 
not as noticeable as when the dish is kept covered and the 
cover removed occasionally. 

Statement of Principles Involved. 

1. Heat and moisture soften cellulose. 

2. Volatile oil is soluble in water. 

Recipe for White Sauce. — Melt two tablespoons of 
butter, add two tablespoons of flour, and rub them together 
thoroughly. Add one cup of milk and cook until it thickens, 
stirring constantly. Add one fourth teaspoon of salt and a 
speck of pepper. (Thin white sauce is made by using one 
tablespoon of flour instead of two. Thick white sauce is 
made by using from three to four tablespoons of flour.) 

When boiling water or milk is poured over stanch, the 
starch grains expand and gelatinize or thicken, and tend 
to stick together and become lumpy. Some substance 
should be mixed with the starch to separate or surround 
the particles so that they will have room to expand when 
boiling water or milk is added later, or when cold liquid 
is added and the mixture is boiled. Melted fat may be 
used for this purpose, and the starch and fat should be 
rubbed together thoroughly so that the fat will surround 
the starch. As starch is not soluble in cold water, a little 
cold water or cold milk may be used to separate the starch 



PRINCIPLES OF COOKING 41 

grains. If the liquid is used, mix the liquid and starch 
thoroughly until there are no lumps left, before adding 
the boiling liquid. In pudding sauces, sugar may be mixed 
with the starch for the same purpose. (As flour contains 
so much starch it is often used instead of cornstarch as the 
thickening agent.) 

Statement of Principles Involved. 

Heat and moisture cause starch grains to swell and burst 

the walls of cellulose that inclose them, hence starch 

is used as a thickening agent. 

Recipe for Stewed Apples. — Wash and peel about eight 
apples. Cut into quarters and remove the cores. Place 
the apples in a stewpan, add a small quantity of water, 
about one fourth cup, simmer slowly until the apples are 
soft. If the apples are tart, it will take 10-15 minutes. 
When the apples are soft, add sugar, a speck of nutmeg or 
cinnamon, and one teaspoon of butter. 

Some apples contain more water and sugar than others, 
so the exact amount of water and sugar to use cannot be 
given. Sugar is added after the apples are cooked because, 
if it were added sooner, the acid in the apples would change 
or invert the sugar to glucose, and some of the sweetening 
power would be destroyed. Glucose is about three fifths 
as sweet as cane sugar. This reduction in sweetness does 
not impair the food value of the sugar, however, for cane 
sugar is changed to glucose in the normal digestive 
processes. 

Statement of Principles Involved. 

1. Heat softens cellulose. 

2. Acid softens cellulose. 

3. Acid inverts or changes cane sugar to glucose. 



42 PRINCIPLES OF COOKING 

STEAMING VEGETABLE FOODS. PRINCIPLES THAT 
APPLY TO COOKING OF CARBOHYDRATES AND 
VEGETABLE PROTEIN 

Recipe for Steamed Rice and Use of Double Boiler. — 

Fill the lower part of a double boiler one third full of 
boiling water. Put two quarts of boiling water in the 
upper part of the boiler, add one half teaspoon of salt and 
gradually add one cup of rice which has been washed in 
cold water. Cook until soft, about 20 to 30 minutes, 
stirring occasionally with a fork. Drain and keep hot 
until ready to serve. Rice may be served as a vegetable 
with meat gravy, or as a dessert with cream and sugar, or 
with sliced fruit, or with date sauce. 

Calculate cost. 

Recipe for Date Sauce. — Wash, clean, stone, and chop 
one half pound of dates, add one fourth cup of cold water 
and one fourth cup of sugar and cook until it thickens, 
about ten minutes. Serve on the rice, with whipped or 
plain cream. 

In the preceding lessons the eflfect of heat and moisture 
on the carbohydrates in vegetable foods has been con- 
sidered. In addition to carbohydrates, vegetables con- 
tain soluble volatile oils, mineral matter, vegetable acids, 
and a network of protoplasm which is composed of protein, 
a substance which is hardened or coagulated by heat. 
Potatoes contain about 2.2 per cent protein; apples con- 
tain .4 per cent; onions, 1.6 per cent; rice, 8 per cent. 

If vegetables are soaked in cold water, soluble protein, 
volatile oils, starch, extractives, and mineral matter are 
extracted in the water. If they are plunged into boiling 
water and cooked at a temperature about 180° F., the pro- 



PRINCIPLES OF COOKING 43 

tein is coagulated, and this framework aids in retaining the 
starch and mineral matter. 
Rice contains : — 

Water Carbohydrate Cellulose ^ Protein Fat Mineral Matter 
12.3% 79% .2% 8% .3% .4% 

Unlike potatoes, rice contains but a small quantity of 
water; and as starch absorbs water during cooking, rice 
must be cooked in enough water to allow the starch grains 
to swell. It may be cooked in a small quantity of water 
and all the water will be absorbed and no nutrients lost. 
When rice is cooked in this way, it is soft and the grains 
tend to stick together. When rice is cooked in a large 
quantity of water and the excess of water is drained off, 
some of the nutrients are lost in the water, but the grains 
do not stick together, and they are more easily masticated 
than in the soft, pasty form. 

Statement of Principles Involved. 

1. Heat and moisture soften cellulose. 

2. Heat and moisture cause starch grains to swell, and 
burst the walls of cellulose that inclose them. 

3. Heat coagulates the protein and this aids in retaining 
soluble substances. 

4. Starch and mineral matter are lost when foods con- 
taining them are cooked in a large quantity of water 
and the water is drained off. 

Recipe for Steamed Squash. — Place a steamer over a 
kettle of boiUng water. Place squash, cut into pieces, 
in the steamer and steam until soft, about 30 or 40 min- 
utes. Scrape the squash from the rind, flavor with butter, 
salt, and pepper, and serve. 

* The cellulose is included in the carbohydrate. 



44 PRINCIPLES OF COOKING 

Steaming in a steamer is a better method of cooking 
vegetables than cooking in boiling water, because there is 
no loss of nutrients. 

At what meal would you serve steamed squash? What 
other vegetables sefve a similar place in this meal? 

Squash contains : — 

Water Carbohydrate Cellulose ' Protein Fat Mineral Matter 
88.3% 9% .8% 1.4% .5% .8% 

Squash contains so much water that it may be baked, 
or steamed, or boiled. It contains very little starch. 

TOASTING BREAD. PRINCIPLE WfflCH APPLIES TO 
STARCHY FOODS 

Recipe for Toasting Bread. — Cut bread in even slices 
one half inch thick. Place in a broiler or toaster and hold 
over the fire at a sufficient distance to brown without 
burning; turn once. The dextrin produced by this pro- 
cess is more easily digested than the original starch. 

Statement of Principle Involved. 

Dry heat at 320° F. changes starch to dextrin. 

SAUTEING FOODS. PRINCIPLES WHICH APPLY TO 
FRYING FOODS CONTAINING PROTEIN AND 
CARBOHYDRATE 

Recipe for Codfish Balls. — Remove the skin and bones 
from one cup of codfish and cut it into small pieces. Wash 
the fish in cold water ; add two cups of raw potatoes also 
cut into small pieces. Put into a saucepan, cover with 
boiling water, and cook until the potatoes are done. Drain, 

^ The cellulose is included in the carbohydrate. 



PRINCIPLES OF COOKING 45 

mash, add a speck of pepper, one tablespoon of butter, 
and one egg slightly beaten. Place enough fat in the 
frying pan to cover the bottom, about one tablespoon, and 
heat until smoking hot. Drop the mixture by tablespoons 
into the frying pan and fry until brown, turn once. 

Calculate cost. At what meal wotUd you serve codfish 
balls? 

Eggs contain : — 

Water Fat Protein Mineral Matter 

73.7% io.S% 14.8% 1% 

Statement of Principles Involved. 

Heat hardens or coagulates the protein in the egg and 
this holds the different substances together so that 
they form a baU. When protein hardens, it forms a 
crust which aids in retaining juices and flavors and 
prevents the article from soaking fat. 

Recipe for Frying Bacon. — Cut bacon in very thin 
slices. Put it in a moderately hot frying pan and cook 
until crisp. Do not have the heat strong enough to de- 
compose the fat. 

Bacon contains : — 

Water Protein Fat Mineral Matter 

18.2% 10% 67.2% 4.6% 

Bacon is composed mainly of cells of fat. Like all ani- 
mal cells, the cell walls are of connective tissue, — a form 
of protein, — and the cells are held together by connective 
tissue. Moderate heat melts the fat and it escapes from 
the cell .walls, the connective tissue remaining. If strong 
heat is used, the fat is decomposed into two substances, 
fatty acid and glycerine. 



46 PRINCIPLES OF COOKING 

At what meal is bacon served? Name some foods fried 
with bacon. Name some foods served with bacon. 

Statement of Principles Involved. 

1. Moderate heat frees fat from the cell walls which 
inclose it. 

2. Strong heat separates and decomposes fat into fatty 
acid and glycerine. 

FRYING FOODS 

Rules for Deep Fat Frying. 

1. The temperature of fat should be high enough to 
prevent the articles from soaking up the fat and hot 
enough to brown a piece of bread in one minute. 

2. Sufficient fat should be used to entirely cover the 
articles to be fried. 

3. Articles should not be wet, nor ice-cold, and should 
be rounding or oval in shape. 

4. Foods which do not contain egg should be dipped in 
egg and crumbs or flour to prevent absorption of fat. 

5. All foods, after frying, should be drained on soft 
paper to absorb the grease. 

6. Fat bubbles when it contains water. It cannot be 
heated higher than 212° F. until all water is evapo- 
rated. When it has ceased to bubble and is smoking 
hot, try it with a piece of bread. 

The best fat for frying is one that has a high burning 
point. The burning point of the various fats are : Olive 
oil, 608° F. ; lard, 392"" F. ; drippings, 336"" F. ; beaf, veal, and 
mutton, 302° F. ; butter, 265° F. Several good commercial 
products, made from vegetable fats, are on the market. 
They have a high burning point. 



PRINCIPLES OF COOKING 47 

When fat bums, it decomposes and is irritating to the 
walls of the stomach when eaten. 

Recipe for Saratoga Chips. — Wash and pare two 
medium-sized potatoes. Slice lengthwise in thin slices 
and cover with cold water until ready to use. Drain, 
cover with boiling water, and boil two minutes to partially 
cook the starch. Drain again, pour cold water over, and 
then dry as thoroughly as possible because water lowers 
the temperature of the fat. Fry in deep fat and keep the 
potatoes in constant motion so that they will fry evenly. 
Drain on paper that will absorb the excess fat and then 
sprinkle with salt. 

Calculate cost. At what meal do you serve Saratoga 
chips? Are they a cheap food? 

BROILING ANIMAL FOOD. PRINCIPLES WHICH APPLY 
TO THE COOKING OF PROTEINS — TENDER MEAT 

Meat consists of bone, fat, and muscle fiber. The bone 
and fat form but a small part of the meat as it is prepared 
for the table, though they are purchased with it at the 
market. The part of meat that is usually prepared and 
eaten is the muscle fiber. 

Muscles, or muscle fiber, consist of cells held together 
by a substance called connective tissue. All substances, 
whether animal or vegetable, are made up of cells that are 
alike in structure, but different in composition. An animal 
cell, like a vegetable cell, consists of a network or proto- 
plasm, and a nucleus, or Ufe center. The nucleus and pro- 
toplasm are sometimes surrounded by a cell wall. The 
nucleus grows, divides, and produces other nuclei, and these 
in turn become new cells. The nucleus gets its nourish- 
ment for its growth and reproduction from the protoplasm ; 

CONLEY p. C. — 4 



48 



PRINCIPLES OF COOKING 



the protoplasm gets it from the blood. The protoplasm, 
then, must contain all the substances that are needed for 
the building up and growth of muscles and other tissues. 
The protoplasm and nucleus in animal cells consist of 
protein, mineral matter, extractives, and sometimes fat. 

Animal cells are held together by a substance called con- 
nective tissue. It is called a protein, but it does not build 
tissue, and heat does not afifect it in the same way that it 
afifects other proteins. 
Extractives are the flavor in meat. They are formed 

by the breaking down 
of proteins during mus- 
cular exercise. They 
are soluble in water; 
and if meat is placed 
in a cool or slightly 
warm pan and allowed 
to heat slowly, extrac- 
tives are drawn out, and 
the meat will be dry and 
tasteless. 

Recipe for Broiling Meat. — To broil steak in a broiler 
it is necessary to have glowing coals without flame or 
smoke. It is nearly impossible to always have such a fire, 
and a pan broil is equally good and always possible. The 
best cuts for broiling are porterhouse, sirloin, and short 
steaks. The next best are chuck and round steaks. The 
cuts should be at least one inch thick. 

Have the frying pan smoking hot, rub it lightly with a 
piece of suet from the meat, and then remove the suet so 
that no fat remains in the pan. Place the steak in a pan 
and turn it when one side is seared. Turn it often to pre- 




Fat Tissues (magnified). 

Connective tissue cells form pockets in which the 
liquid fat is stored. 



PRINCIPLES OF COOKING 49 

vent burning. Steak is broiled from 8 to 10 minutes, the 
time depending upon the thickness of the steak and indi- 
vidual taste as to rareness. Remove the steak from the 
pan, sprinkle with salt and pepper, and spread with butter 
or pour the juice from the pan over the meat. 

The pan is hot in starting to sear over the outside 
and retain the juices. If the pan is not hot enough, the 
juices will escape, and the meat will be tasteless. Meat 
is turned often to prevent burning, to prevent juice from 
escaping from the exposed side, to secure even cooking 
throughout. 

Calculate cost. Haw many people woidd the steak serve? 
Is steak a cheap meat? Give your reason. 

Statement of Principles Involved in Broiling Steak. 

1. Heat hardens or coagulates protein so that it will 
form a crust, and this crust aids in retaining juices 
and flavor. 

2. Heat and moisture soften and dissolve connective 
tissue, and dry heat hardens it. 

3. Extractives are soluble in water. 

4. Some proteins, as albumin, are soluble in water. 

Experiments to indicate the presence of protein. 

1. Mix egg white with a little cold water. Shake well. Does it 
dissolve? Heat to about 165° F. What change takes place? 

2. Mix egg white and water and add dilute nitric acid. What 
change takes place? 

3. Scrape or squeeze the juice from a piece of round steak and add 
cold water, or soak a piece of round steak in cold water for ten min- 
utes. Heat the juice. What change takes place? 

4. Add a small piece of jiuiket tablet to milk. Heat to about 
100° F. Liet it stand in a warm place. What change takes 
place? 



50 PRINCIPLES OF COOKING 

Egg white, soluble albumin in meat, and casein in milk 
are forms of protein, and all proteins are coagulated by 
heat, acid or ferment. 

Note to Teacher. — The teacher may give or show the Xanthroproteic 
Test or the Biuret Test for protein. 

PRINCIPLES WraCH APPLY TO THE COOKING OF PRO- 
TEINS—LESS TENDER CUTS 

If certain muscles of an animal are exercised much, the 
connective tissue which holds the muscle fibers together 
becomes strong and tough and a cut of meat from one of 
those muscles would be tougher than one from a set of 
muscles not exercised so much. Such cuts, as porterhouse 
and sirloin, are taken from the back of the animal and they 
are more tender than the round cuts taken from the leg, 
or chuck cuts from the neck. 

As dry heat tends to harden connective tissue, broiling 
is not so good a method for cooking round or chuck steaks 
as simmering. Simmering, or applying moist heat, softens 
the connective tissue and makes the meat tender. 

Recipe for Simmered Rotmd Steak. — Have the frying 
pan smoking hot. Remove a piece of fat from the steak 
and rub the pan with it, let the fat remain in the pan. 
Place the steak in the pan as for broiled steak, and cook 
until both sides are seared. Remove the steak from the 
pan, season the steak with salt and pepper, and sprinkle 
generously with flour. Pound the steak with a potato 
masher, or the blunt side of the butcher knife, as the butcher 
sometimes does, to cut across the muscle fiber and send 
the flour into the meat. Return the steak to the hot fry- 
ing pan ; pour enough boiling water over to cover the steak. 



PRINCIPLES OF COOKING 51 

Place a cover on the frying pan and cook 30 minutes. Make 
a gravy from the liquid in the pan and pour over the steak. 
CalctUate cost. Is simmered steak as expensive as broiled? 
Wky? 

Statement of Principles Involved. 

1. Heat develops flavor. 

2. Heat hardens or coagulates protein so that it will 
form a crust, and this crust aids in retaining juices 
and flavor. 

3. Heat and moisture soften and dissolve connective 
tissue. 

SUMMART OF PRINCIPLES OF COOEINO 

Heat does not have the same effect on all foods. It 
hardens and toughens protein, it softens carbohydrates 
and fat, it makes proteins somewhat harder to digest, it 
frees starch from the outer covering of cellulose and gets 
it ready for digestion. Most proteins lose water even 
when cooked in water. Carbohydrates absorb water. The 
main principles of cooking may be smnmarized as follows": 

1. Heat and moisture soften cell walls, whether it be 
cellulose in vegetable foods or connective tissue in 
animal foods. 

2. Dry heat hardens connective tissue. 

3. Heat and moisture cause starch grains to swell and 
burst the walls of cellulose which inclose them. 

4. Dry heat 320° F. changes starch to dextrin. 

5. Dry heat 420° F. caramelizes sugar. 

6. Heat frees fat from cell walls which inclose the 
globules, and strong heat separates and decomposes 
fat into two substances, fatty acid and glycerine. 



52 



PRINCIPLES OF COOKING 



7. Heat hardens or coagulates any form of protein 
and makes it harder to digest. 

8. When protein hardens, it forms a crust which aids in 
retaining juices and flavor. 

9. Mineral matter, extractives, and volatile oils are 
soluble in water. 
Acids soften ceUulose. 
Acids invert sugar. 

Heat kills bacteria and other parasites found in foods. 
Heat makes foods more attractive and palatable, 
and while it may lessen their ease of digestion, it 
may by improving their flavor cause an increased 
flow of digestive fluids and in that way balance the 
difficulty. 



10. 
II. 
12. 
13 




Salmon for Canning. 
(From Carpenter^ How the World is Fed.) 



CHAPTER IV 
FRUITS AND GREEN VEGETABLES 

Uses of Foods. — Proteins build tissue and yield heat 
and energy. Starch and sugar when oxidized yield heat 
and energy. Cellulose furnishes bulk, which, by stimulat- 
ing the walls of the stomach and intestines, promotes the 
flow of the digestive juices and aids peristalsis. Fats 
when oxidized yield heat and energy. Mineral salts and 
acids aid in tissue building, promote osmotic pressure, 
regulate the acidity or alkalinity of the digestive juices, 
and because they are decomposed in the body and form 
alkaline carbonates they help to keep the blood alkaline and 
control the acidity of the excretions. Water aids in tissue 
building, forms the great part of the blood, digestive fluids, 
and excretions. It regulates the temperature of the body 
and aids in the elimination of waste. Extractives stimu- 
late the appetite and aid in digestion. 

Classification of Foods. — Foods are classified for the 
purpose of study into animal and vegetable foods. In 
general it may be said that vegetable foods are mainly 
carbohydrate and animal foods mainly protein. Vege- 
table foods are classed as: — 

1. Fruits 4. Cereals 

2. Green Vegetables 5. Legumes 

3. Roots and Tubers 6. Nuts 

All vegetables have two things in common. They all 
contain valuable mineral salts which help to keep the blood 

53 



54 FRUITS AND GREEN VEGETABLES 

alkaline ; they contain carbohydrate in the fonn of starch, 
sugar, and cellulose, and thus furnish bulk to food. 

Roots and tubers are pure, starchy foods containing 
little or no available protein. 

Cereals contain starch and protein in proportion of about 
7:1. 

Legumes contain starch and protein in proportion of 
about 2J : I. 

Green vegetables are valuable mostly for their mineral 
salts and cellulose ; fruits, for their acids and sugar. Nuts 
are similar to the legumes in composition. They are not 
consumed to any great extent as a food, but are merely 
used as a relish or confection. 

FRUITS 

Tjrpical Food : Apple. — All fresh fruits are similar in 
composition and structure and have practically the same 
food value. They contain 75-80 per cent water, .5-1 
per cent protein, 8-20 per cent carbohydrate, 1-3 per 
cent cellulose, .5 per cent mineral matter, and practically 
no fat. They are eaten for their mineral salts, which 
help to preserve the alkalinity of the blood, for their re- 
freshing juices and flavor, and because the cellulose furnishes 
bulk for the intestines and thus stimulates peristalsis. 
Some fruits contain enough sugar so that they may be 
considered valuable carbohydrate foods. In structure 
fruits consist of walls of cellulose inclosing water, sugar, 
mineral salts, and acids, with very little protein and fat. 

Cooking of Fruits. — Most fruits are eaten raw when they 
can be procured fresh. Fruits are also dried, canned, 
preserved, and cooked in various ways. Cooking softens 
the cellulose, and during the process the action of the acid 



FRUITS AND GREEN VEGETABLES 55 

in the fruit on the cellulose hastens the softening. If 
fruits are cooked in water, some mineral salts, acids, and 
sugar are dissolved in the water. If the water is served 
with the fruit, there is no loss of nutrients. 

Fruits are dried so that they may be preserved for use. 
Bacteria and molds which cause the decay of fruits need 
moisture for development and growth. If the moisture 
in fruits is evaporated, the fruits will keep indefinitely. 
When dried fruits are to be used, they must be washed 
thoroughly and soaked for several hours, or overnight, in 
water so as to restore as much water as possible. They 
should be cooked until soft in the same water in which 
they are soaked. Sugar is added about five minutes be- 
fore they are removed from the fire. 

Fresh fruits may be cooked in a variety of ways. The 
commonest ways are : baking, steaming, and stewing. 

Baked Pears. — Wash and core Seckel pears. Put 
in a baking dish. Fill the center of the pear with sugar 
and add enough water in the dish to prevent burning. 
Cover and cook slowly until the pears are soft. Remove 
from the baking dish and pour the liquid from the pan 
over the pears. Other varieties of pears ar^ good for bak- 
ing, but the Seckel are the most delicious. 

Note. — In this recipe, and in all recipes which follow, if it is possible, 
find the cost of the prepared food. Learn at what meal it could be served, 
and in a general way its nutritive value. Later learn to calculate the 
nutritive value of each food. 

Steamed Apples. — Wash, pare, and core sound, tart 
apples. Place on a plate in a steamer over a kettle of 
boiling water and let steam until tender. Remove from 
the steamer carefully so as not to break the apples, and 
serve with cream and sugar, or with sirup. 



56 



FRUITS AND GREEN VEGETABLES 




Composition or Fruits. 



FRUITS AND GREEN VEGETABLES 



57 



U. S. Department of Agriculture 

Office of Experiment Stations 

A. C. True* Director 



Prepared by 

C. F. UN6W0RTHY 

Expert in Charge of Nutrition lnvestloation& 



COMPOSITION OF FOOD MATERIALS 



Protein 



Fat C«rbohydr«tvs Ash 

APPLE 

EDIBLE PORTIOH 



I Fu«l Value 
X«Sq. If). Equals 
1000 Calories 



DRIED FIG 

EDIBLE PORTION 



Watcr:8+.6 




W«ter:l6.& 



Protein:4. 



Carbohydrates: 14.2 

E26b CALOVIES 
PER POUND 



Carbohyclfates:74.2 



Fua 

VALUE: 




Fuel 

VALUE: 



STRAWBERRY 

EDIBLE PORTION 



Water90.4 




Fat:0.6 
Carbohydrates:7.4 



Fuel 

VALUE: 



c 



Watcr:75.3 



Protein: 1.0 
AshO 6 Carbohydrates:22.0 



175 CALORIES 
PER POUND 




445 CALORIES 
PER POUND 



CoMPOsrnoN op Fruits. 



58 FRUITS AND GREEN VEGETABLES 

Sirup. — Boil one cup of sugar and one third cup of 
water 3 minutes. Pour over fruit. 

Cranberry Jelly or Sauce. — Wash one quart of cran- 
berries, add one cup of cold water, and cook slowly until 
tender. Press through a strainer until nothing remains 
but the skins. Add two cups of sugar to the pulp and 
boil five minutes. Turn into molds and let it stand, until 
it is firm. Serve with poultry or game. 

Stewed Prunes. — Wash the prunes thoroughly. Soak 
overnight in cold water. Cook in the water in which 
they have been soaked, imtil soft. Add sugar and cook 
five minutes longer. The quantity of sugar added depends 
on individual taste, but one fourth cup of sugar to one 
pound of prunes is a good proportion. 

GREEN VEGETABLES 

Green vegetables are the leaves and stems of plants, 
and as the leaves are the means by which the plant takes 
carbon dioxide and gives oflF oxygen, they contain very 
little nourishment except mineral salts ; their bulk is due to 
the cellulose and water. 

The green vegetables with which we are the most familiar 
are: celery, spinach, asparagus, cress, endive, lettuce, 
cabbage. Because they are similar in composition, squash, 
cucumbers, and tomatoes are usually classed with green 
vegetables, though they are fruits. 

Green vegetables contain 90-95 per cent water, 1-2 per 
cent protein, 2.5-5 P^^ cent carbohydrate, 1-2 per cent 
mineral matter, and a trace of fat. They are valuable 
foods because the cellulose furnishes bulk to promote 
peristalsis and because the mineral salts contain a pre- 
dominance of the base-forming elements. Spinach, dande- 



FRUITS AND GREEN VEGETABLES 59 

lions, cabbage, lettuce, and asparagus contain quite a 
little iron. 

With a few exceptions green vegetables should be eaten 
raw, because the mineral salts, being soluble, are lost in 
the water in which they are cooked, and because the cellu- 
lose serves its purpose best in the crisp form. Spinach and 
asparagus must be cooked. When vegetables are eaten 
fresh and served with salad dressing, they form an agreeable 
and important addition to a meal. 

Green Vegetables — Cooked 

Spinach. — Wash one half peck of spinach four or five 
times in plenty of water to remove all the sand found on 







I^H 


Hr% 


^ 




V^l 


mm 




^H> '^A 




^^^^^ ^^^^^B 


■t.^ 


"^ 






--. 


Jm^^H 



Spinach with Rice Border. 



the plants. Place the spinach in a kettle and pour a small 
quantity of boiling water over it. Spinach shrinks rapidly 



6o FRUITS AND GREEN VEGETABLES 

and needs but little water on it, and as it contains valuable 
mineral salts, among them considerable iron, that are 
soluble in water, it is best to use as little water as possible. 
When cooked, season the spinach with butter, salt, and 
pepper, and garnish with sliced hard-boiled eggs. 

Asparagus. — Wash one bunch of asparagus, cut into 
inch pieces, and discard the tough lower ends. Place in a 
stewpan, cover with boiling water, and cook 30 to 45 
minutes, or until soft. Thicken the juice as for White 
Sauce, using two tablespoons of butter, two tablespoons 
of flour, one fourth teaspoon salt and speck of pepper. 
Serve on toast or as a creamed vegetable. Asparagus is 
also served in its own liquid, merely seasoned with butter, 
salt, and pepper. Asparagus contains considerable iron 
also, and should not be drained. 

Creamed Celery. — Separate the stalks of celery, and 
save the tender inner parts to serve as a relish. Wash the 
stalks and remove the rusty portions. Cut into inch 
pieces, cover with boiling water, and cook until tender. 
Drain, pour White Sauce over, and serve. 

Creamed Cauliflower. — Soak cauliflower for one half 
hour in cold salted water. Cut the clusters apart, cover 
with boiling water, and cook until tender, about 35 minutes. 
Drain, pour White Sauce over, and serve. 

Spanish Tomatoes. — Peel three large tomatoes and cut 
into slices. Place in a stewpan, add one half cup of cold 
water. Remove the com from two ears of green com and 
add to the tomatoes. Add one half small green pepper 
chopped fine, one fourth cup of celery cut into small 
pieces. Boil 20 minutes, add three tablespoons of but- 
ter, one half teaspoon salt, and one eighth teaspoon 
pepper. 



FRUITS AND GREEN VEGETABLES 6i 

Green Vegetables — Salads 

Salads are made of cold meat or fish, eggs, cheese, raw or 
cooked vegetables or fruits, combined with a salad dressing. 
The green vegetables, often called the salad plants, are 
cress, endive, lettuce, cabbage, cucumber, celery, and 
tomato ; and they make the most attractive salads. They 
are cooling, refreshing, stimulate the appetite and should 
be eaten as frequently as possible because of the mineral 
salts which they contain. They may often take the place 
of a dessert at a meal. 

To make a perfect salad the vegetables should be crisp 
and cold. All ingredients in the dressing should be prop- 
erly proportioned and well blended, and the salad should 
be attractively served. Vegetables should be washed 
and allowed to stand in ice-cold water or on ice, until crisp. 
They should then be drained and placed in a cheesecloth 
bag in a cool place until they are served. Dressing is 
added at the table or just before sending to the table. 

If meat or fish is used, free it from bone and fat, and cut 
it in small uniform pieces. Canned fruit or cold left-over 
vegetables may be used for salads. For dinner serve a 
green vegetable or fruit salad. For luncheon serve a fish, 
cheese, or heavy salad, and let it serve as the principal 
dish. Fish, cheese, or meat salad contain all the protein 
needed for a meal. At dinner, when meat is served, the 
salad should not furnish additional protein, but mineral 
salts, cellulose, and relish. 

SALAD DRESSINGS 

Cooked Salad Dressing. — Mix one tablespoon of flour, one 
teaspoon salt, one teaspoon mustard, one tablespoon sugar, 



62 FRUITS AND GREEN VEGETABLES 

and a speck of cayenne pepper. Add two tablespoons of 
melted butter, two egg yolks, and three fourths cup of milk. 
Cook in a double boiler until it thickens, stirring constantly. 
Then add three tablespoons of vinegar and boil one minute. 

French Dressing. — Mix one half teaspoon salt, a speck 
of cayenne pepper, four tablespoons olive oil, and beat 
thoroughly. Add one tablespoon vinegar and beat vig- 
orously until thoroughly blended. 

Mayonnaise Dressing. — Beat the yolk of one egg ; add 
one fourth teaspoon each of salt and paprika and beat 
p.gain, then use an egg beater and beat in two tablespoons 
of vinegar or lemon juice ; beat vigorously, then add a tea- 
spoon of olive oil and continue beating ; add oil, a teaspoon 
at a time, three or four times, beating vigorously mean- 
while ; then add the oil by the tablespoon until a cup in all 
has been used. Finish with one tablespoon of boiling 
water, beating it in, in the same manner as the oU. 
(Boston Cooking School Magazine,) 

Garnish for Salad. 



To 



Lettuce 


Capers 


Endive 


Hard-boiled Eggs 


Water Cress 


Riced Eggs 


Peppers 


Diced Vegetables 


Parsley 


Nasturtium Leaves and Flowers 


erve with Salad. 




Cheese Straws 


Crackers 


Cheese Wafers 


Brown, Graham and 


Sandwiches 


White Bread, sliced very 


Wafers 


thin, buttered. 



Stuffed Tomato Salad. — Remove skin from tomatoes 
by pouring boiling water over them. Cut a shce from the 



FRUITS AND GREEN VEGETABLES 



63 



top of the tomato and remove the interior. Fill the 
tomato with cucumber cut in very thin slices and place 
Cooked Salad Dressing over the top. Serve on lettuce. 

Grape Salad. — Remove the skins and seeds from white 
or red grapes and cut in halves. Take equal parts of grapes, 
sliced peaches, pears, pineapple, or any fruit obtainable. 
Place on leaves of endive or head lettuce and serve with 
Mayonnaise Dressing. 




Grape Salad. 



Cabbage Salad. — Cut one half of a small head of cab- 
bage in very thin slices, or chop it with the chopping knife. 
Mix with one recipe of hot Cooked Salad Dressing. Chill 
and serve cold. 

Waldorf Salad. — Chop equal quantities of apple, celery, 
and walnuts. Mix with Cooked Salad Dressing. Serve 
on lettuce leaves. 

CONLEY p. c. — s 



64 



FRUITS AND GREEN VEGETABLES 



Banana Salad. — Take ripe bananas, cut them in halves 
lengthwise. Roll in Cooked Salad Dressing. Chop one 
half cup of peanuts. Roll the bananas in the nuts. Serve 
on lettuce leaves. 

Fruit Salad. — Arrange layers of sliced pineapple, 
peaches, or pears on lettuce. Serve with Mayonnaise 
Dressing. 

Cucumber or Tomato Salad. — Remove skin, slice toma- 
toes in thick slices; sUce the cucumbers in thin slices. 
Serve on lettuce leaves with French or Cooked Salad Dress- 
ing. 

Potato Salad. — Cut two cups of cold boiled potates in 
one half inch cubes. Add one half teaspoon salt, and 
one tablespoon of chopped onion. Mix with one recipe of 
Cooked Salad Dressing or Sour Dressing, and garnish with 
sliced hard-boiled eggs and chopped parsley. 

Asparagus Salad. — If fresh asparagus is not obtainable 
at a reasonable cost, remove the liquid from a can of 
blanched asparagus tips, and rinse well. Chop one pimento. 

Arrange six or eight 
stalks of asparagus on 
head lettuce leaves. 
Sprinkle with chopped 
pimento and serve with 
French Dressing. 

Combination Salad. — 
Chop, separately, one 
half cup each of cucum- 
ber, tomato, and celery ; 
add one teaspoon of 
chopped onion. Mix lightly with a fork until blended ; add 
Cooked Salad Dressing and serve on lettuce leaves. 




Asparagus Salad. 



FRUITS AND GREEN VEGETABLES 6$ 

PRESERVATION OF FOODS 

So much is said and written concerning harmful bacteria 
or germs, that we are inclined to think that all kinds of 
bacteria are powerful and insidious enemies. 

No warning yet issued seems to be strong enough to 
influence all thinking and reasoning people to take means 
to destroy the harmful, disease-breeding, or pathogenic 
bacteria. To this class belong the germs causing typhoid 
fever, tuberculosis, diphtheria, scarlet fever, and other 
contagious diseases. If all people would be vigilant for a 
few years, we could destroy practically all these germs and 
free the world from the preventable sicknesses due either 
to carelessness or ignorance. 

The study of pathogenic bacteria belongs to the subjects 
of sanitation and hygiene in regular school work, and it 
bears but indirectly on cooking. It relates to cooking in 
so far that absolute cleanliness must be the motto for both 
kitchen and cook, and that precaution must be taken that 
water, milk, and other foods, do not contain disease-form- 
ing bacteria. Because public health boards do not attend 
to these problems the housekeeper must. 

Dust and dirt are unsightly, and we must be constantly 
on guard to keep them out of our homes, but that is not 
all. Dust and dirt furnish excellent breeding places for 
disease germs, and for that reason, if for no other, we must 
keep things clean and prevent accumulation of dirt. 

Cooking deals directly with a much more interesting 
class of bacteria, as it deals with molds and yeast. All 
bacteria are not pernicious and harmful ; some are harm- 
less and some are useful. Some of these bacteria feed on 
food, leaves, wQpd, and other substances, and break them 



66 FRUITS AND GREEN VEGETABLES 

down so that the elements of which these substances are 
composed may again furnish food for new plants. In 
other words, bacteria cause the decay of organic substances 
and return to the soil what plants take from it, and by 
their work they make it possible to raise crops every year. 

Nature protects the little apple, tomato, cherry, and 
other seeds, by covering them with a soft pulp. When the 
seeds are ripe, the pulp begins to decay ; protection is no 
longer needed ; the seeds are able to take care of themselves. 

Man has found a use for these soft, juicy, and deliciously 
flavored seed coverings, and he desires to save them for 
his food. To do this some means must be found to stop 
the growth of those bacteria which cause decay. 

Bacteria need food, warmth, and moisture for develop- 
ment and growth. Most kinds are destroyed at a tempera- 
ture above i6o° F., though what are called the spore-form- 
ing kinds can resist higher temperatures; even boiling 
temperature does not always kill them. Freezing tempera- 
ture does not destroy bacteria, but they do not develop at 
a temperature just above freezing. When brought from a 
freezing temperature to a higher temperature, they develop 
with astonishing rapidity. 

To preserve foods for use, it is necessary to destroy the 
bacteria present or to prevent their growth. Several 
different methods are used for preservation. Drying takes 
out the moisture needed for development of bacteria and 
preserves foods for indefinite periods of time. Cold 
storage deprives the bacteria of the heat needed for their 
development and retards their growth. Some media, as 
sugar, vinegar, spices, salt, smoke, make it impossible for 
bacteria to grow. We say that they cannot thrive well in 
certain media. Certain chemical preservatives, having no 



FRUITS AND GREEN VEGETABLES 67 

food value in themselves, destroy bacteria, but they should 
not be used in foods because they are harmful to the body. 
Bacteria are present in the air and they may enter foods 
after the foods have been rendered sterile by boiling. For 
this reason foods are canned, or sealed in air-tight, steri- 
lized jars after the food has first been made sterile. If a 
sufficient quantity of sugar, salt, or vinegar has been used, 
sealing is not necessary, because bacteria cannot grow in 
the solution used ; but in canning, a small quantity of sugar 
is used, and that solution is very favorable for the growth 
of certain bacteria. 

CANNING 

With a little care, all fruits and many vegetables can be 
canned and stored for winter use. Many vegetables thus 
prepared taste almost as good as when fresh, and they re- 
lieve the monotony of a diet that must otherwise be limited 
to winter-kept vegetables. All fruits — apples, cherries, 
plums, even melons — may be canned with little expense. 
By canning is meant preserving in sterilized, air-tight cans 
or jars, with or without sugar. 

For small families, the pint jars are best, because that 
quantity will serve for one meal, and if a larger jar is opened, 
the fruit deteriorates before it can be used. In fact pint 
jars are best in all cases where fruit is canned. In pic- 
kling, a larger jar is necessary, because the fruit is whole. 
New rubbers should be procured for the jars every season ; 
and if the covers are bent or old, new ones can be purchased 
at a slight cost. If old rubbers or bent covers are used, 
the jar will not be air-tight and the fruit and labor are 
lost. If air-tight, and the work is properly done, not one 
can of fruit should be lost. 



68 FRUITS AND GREEN VEGETABLES 

To sterilize the jars, provide a wooden rack or blocks, 
so that the jars will not come in contact with the bottom 
of the pan or kettle used. Place the jars, filled with cold 
water, on the block in the pan or kettle and then fill the 
kettle with cold water. Place on the stove where they 
will heat gradually, and when the water boils, the jars are 
sterilized and ready for use. Dip the rubbers in hot 
water before placing on the cans, and sterilize the covers 
also. 

Fill the jars to overflowing with fruit, and sirup or boil- 
ing water. Insert the handle of a silver fork or spoon be- 
tween the jar and fruit so that the air bubbles will rise to 
the top. Put on rubbers and covers and screw them tight. 
After the jars have been cooled, tighten the covers again, 
invert the jars, and let them stand in this way, to be sure 
that no juice comes out ; if it does, the jars are not air- 
tight. 

Note. — New styles in fruit jars are constantly appearing on the market. 
Complete directions, for the successful use of these jars, are always given 
by the retail merchant. 

Canned Tomatoes. — Place tomatoes in boiling water 
to remove the skins. Tomatoes may be canned whole or 
cut into halves. Fill the cans with tomatoes, and place 
the covers on loosely. Place the jars in a boiler or deep 
pan. The jars should rest on a wooden rack or light 
blocks to keep the jars from contact with the bottom of 
the pan. Fill the pan with cold water up to two inches 
from the top of the jars. Heat to the boiling point and 
boil twenty minutes. Fill the jars to overflowing with 
boiling water, put on rubbers, cover and seal. 

Canned Com. — To nine pints of com add one pint of 
sugar and two thirds of a pint of salt and enough water to 



FRUITS AND GREEN VEGETABLES 69 

cover the corn. Cook fifteen minutes after it begins to 
boil. Fill sterilized jars, to overflowing, with corn, and 
seal. When ready to use, pour boiling water over the corn 
to freshen it, and strain. 

Canned Peaches and Other Fruits. — Peaches, pears, 
cherries, apples, may all be canned in the same way. Fruits, 
like pineapple and quince, should first be cooked in boiling 
water until nearly soft, and then canned as for peaches. 

Allow four cups of water to four cups of sugar for sirup. 
Boil the water and sugar ten minutes and then drop in 
the fruit, a small quantity at a time, so as not to crush it. 
Cook until nearly soft and then fill the jars. The 
hot sirup will finish the 
cooking of the fruit. 

To prepare peaches, 
place them in boiling 
water to loosen the skins, 
and then peel. Peaches 
may be canned whole or 
in halves or quarters. 

Canned Berries. — 
Berries contain so much 
water that very little Strawberries. 

should be added. Fill the 

jars full of whole berries. Make a sirup by crushing some 
of the berries, heating them slightly, and straining the 
juice. Allow one and one half cups of sugar to each cup 
of juice and boil three minutes. Fill the jars with sirup 
and proceed as for canned tomatoes. 

Jelly Making. — The best fruits for jelly making are 
currants, apples, grapes, and quinces. Wild green crab 
apples or wild grapes make deliciously flavored jelly. 




7© FRUITS AND GREEN VEGETABLES 

These fruits are best because they contain considerable 
pectin or pectose. Pectin is a carbohydrate found in ripe 
or nearly ripe pulpy fruits and causes the juice to gelatinize. 
Some fruits contain so little pectin that they will not make 
jelly unless some fruit rich in pectin is added. For example, 
red raspberries contain little pectin, while currants are 
rich in it. Red raspberries with currants added make a 
very fine jelly. 

Test Juice for Pectin. — Mix equal amounts of ethyl alcohol and 
boiled fruit juice, and if pectin is present a gelatinous mass will appear 
on the spoon inserted. 

Pectin is most abundant in the skin and core of the fruit, 
and it loses its gelatinizing power when the juice is boiled 
too long. The pectin is at its best when the fruit is just 
ripe or not quite ripe, but if the fruit is overripe, the chances 
are that the jelly will not stiffen. When the boiling has 
been too violent, jelly becomes crystallized after it stiffens. 
If the juice is stirred when boiling, the jelly will become 
coarse and tough. 

Currant Jelly. — Wash and drain the currants without 
removing the stems. Put them in a granite kettle, half 
cover with water, mash them slightly, and allow them to 
cook slowly. Strain through a coarse strainer, being sure 
that all the fruit is crushed, then allow the juice to drain 
through a double thickness of cheesecloth. Do not 
squeeze the bag or the jelly will not be clear. Measure 
the juice and boil five minutes. Add an equal quantity 
of heated granulated sugar and boil five minutes. Boil 
slowly and skim until clear. Then pour into sterilized 
glasses. Place in a sunny window and let it stand until 
it stiffens. Cover with parafiin paper. The length of 



FRUITS AND GREEN VEGETABLES 71 

time for boiling before adding sugar depends on the amount 
of water added to the fruit. 

Apple Jelly. — Wash and wipe the apples and remove 
the stems and blossom end. Cut the apples in quarters, 
place in a granite kettle and add enough cold water to 
nearly cover them. Cook slowly until the apples are soft, 
then crush and drain through a sieve and strain the juice 
through a double thickness of cheesecloth. Measure the 
juice and boil it fifteen minutes. Add an equal quantity 
of heated granulated sugar and boil slowly five minutes. 
Skim and pour into sterilized glasses. 

Grape Jelly. — Wash the grapes and remove them from 
the stems. Place in a granite kettle. Nearly cover with 
water, crush slightly, and boil until soft. Strain through 
a double thickness of cheesecloth. Measure the juice 
and boil ten minutes. Add an equal quantity of heated 
granulated sugar and boil three minutes. Skim and pour 
into sterilized glasses. 

Pickled Peaches and Other Fruits. — Six cups sugar, 
three cups vinegar, one ounce stick cinnamon, one dozen 
whole pepper seeds. Boil twenty minutes. Remove 
skins from peaches, place two whole cloves in each peach. 
Cook in the sirup until nearly soft. Fill jars and seal. 
Crab apples are very nice pickled this way. 

Pickled Nasturtium Seeds. — Pick green seeds and soak 
twenty-four hours in salted water. Drain, wash, and let 
stand two hours in fresh water. Pack in bottles and fill 
with boiling vinegar. They may be used in place of 
capers for caper sauce. • 

Tomato Catsup. — One gallon strained tomatoes, four 
level tablespoons salt, three tablespoons black pepper, 
three tablespoons mustard, one tablespoon paprika, 



72 FRUITS AND GREEN VEGETABLES 

two tablespoons chopped red pepper, one half tablespoon 
cloves, one half tablespoon allspice, two tablespoons sugar, 
one pint vinegar. Place black pepper, cloves, and all- 
spice in small bags to prevent discoloring the catsup. 
Boil until the required thickness; place in bottles and 
hermetically seal. 

Chili Sauce. — Two quarts of peeled and sliced ripe 
tomatoes, one cup of chopped celery, one chopped red 
pepper, one chopped onion, three tablespoons sugar, one 
tablespoon salt, one tablespoon cloves, one tablespoon 
allspice, one tablespoon cinnamon, one half tablespoon 
paprika, one pint vinegar. Cook slowly about two and 
a half hours. 

Pear Conserve. — Peel and cut into cubes, five pounds 
of pears, add five pounds of sugar. Let stand over night. 
Drain off the sirup and boil it until thick, then add the 
pears, one pound of seeded raisins, one half pound of 
walnuts cut fine, the juice and rind of two lemons, juice 
and rind of three oranges, and boil the mixture five minutes. 
Put into glasses and cover with paraffin. 

Pickled Beans. — Boil round yellow beans in salted water 
until tender but not soft. Drain and fill cans with beans, 
pour hot sirup over, and seal. Sirup: one quart of 
vinegar, two cups of sugar, whole cloves and cinnamon to 
taste. Boil for five minutes. 

Pickled Cucumbers. — Select medium-sized cucumbers 
and soak over night in a brine which will float an egg. 
Wash and drain pickles and place in cans, add one table- 
spoon each of sugar, salt, and mustard to a quart of pickles. 
Fill the cans with cold vinegar and seal. 



CHAPTER V 

ROOTS AND TUBERS: THEIR CHIEF FOOD 
PRODUCTS 

ROOTS AND TUBERS 

Roots, tubers, and bulbs are either the roots or thickened 
stems of vegetables in which sugar or starch is stored for 
the nourishment of the young plant when it shall need it. 
Because they are storehouses of nourishment, they have 
a higher food value than most fruits or green vegetables, 
although some few fruits equal them in nutritive value. 

They contain from 70-90 per cent water, 8-26 per 
cent carbohydrate in the form of starch, sugar, pectin, 
and cellulose, i per cent mineral matter, less than 2 per 
cent protein, and only a trace of fat. When we purchase 
them at the market they contain about 20 per cent refuse. 
That is, about 20 per cent is trimmed off when we prepare 
them for cooking. 

Roots and tubers are cheap foods and supply almost 
endless variety to the diet, since they are easily prepared 
in many appetizing ways. They furnish 16 per cent of 
the average American diet, potatoes alone furnishing 
12^ per cent. Their food value is in the carbohydrates 
and mineral salts which they contain. 

Roots and tubers are usually grouped into two classes, 
— starchy roots and tubers, which include potatoes, sweet 
potatoes, yams, and the starchy foods prepared from roots 
and stems, as tapioca, sago, and arrowroot; and succu- 

73 



74 ROOTS AND TUBERS 

lent roots and tubers, which include beets, turnips, carrots, 
rutabagas, parsnips, salsify, celeriac, radishes, onions, kohl- 
rabi, and garlic. The flavor and odor of these foods are 
due to the presence of volatile oil which may be retained 
or dissipated by proper cooking. 

Typical Root or Tuber, Potato. 

Composition. — 78.3 per cent water ; 18.4 per cent 
carbohydrate, of which 16 per cent is starch, 2 per cent 
dextrin, sugar, pectose, .4 per cent cellulose; 2.2 per cent 
nitrogenous matter, of which 1.3 per cent is protein; 
I per cent mineral matter. 

Structure. — The potato consists of a network of cells 
held together by cellulose and surrounded by a brown 
corky skin. The cells contain starch, mineral matter, 
and a very small amount of protein. 

Experiments with Potato to show Content. 

Water. — Let the potato stand in a warm, dry place and weigh 
it occasionally. Note the loss of water by evaporation. 

Starch. — Grate the. potato, place in a cheesecloth bag, and wash 
the starch out. Let the water stand until the starch settles, then 
pour the water off and weigh the starch. Starch test : A solution of 
iodine turns starch blue. 

Ash. — Burn potato in a crucible until nothing remains but the 
ash. 

Food Value. — Potatoes are the most important car- 
bohydrate food, and it may be said that they are served 
at every dinner and usually at one other meal in the aver- 
age American home. They generally furnish the main 
carbohydrate part of a dinner and are valuable also for 
the potash and other important mineral salts which they 
contain. 



ROOTS AND TUBERS 75 

Principles involved in Cooking. — Potatoes are 
made up of innumerable cells, having walls of cellulose 
and inclosing starch, mineral matter, water, and a small 
amount of protein. Heat causes the starch grains to 
swell and burst the cell walls, and thus the starch is 
free so that the digestive juices can act on it. Heat 
coagulates the protein. Some starch and mineral matter 
are lost when potatoes are pared and cooked in boil- 
ing water. There is no loss when they are steamed 
or baked. 

Method of Preparation. — Potatoes should be pared 
thin, as much of the protein and mineral salts are directly 
imder the skin and are lost in deep paring. When potatoes 
are being prepared, they should be covered with water 
and should remain in water until it is time to cook them. 
If they are exposed to the air, they turn black, because 
certain ferments in them become active in the presence of 
oxygen. Old potatoes may be soaked in water to restore 
some of the lost moisture, but ordinarily nutrients are 
lost if potatoes are left soaking in water for any length of 
time. Potatoes should always be cooked in boiling water, 
not simmering or nearly boiling, so as to coagulate the 
protein and retain all the nutrients possible. 

Methods of Cooking. — Baking, boiling, scalloping, 
frying, etc. 

Grated potatoes are used for puddings, pies, muflSns, 
soups, cakes, etc. 

Baked Potatoes. — (See recipe, page 35.) 

Boiled Potatoes. — Wash and pare potatoes, cover with 
cold water until time to cook. Put into boiling salted 
water and cook until soft, about 30 minutes, allowing one 
tablespoon of salt to each quart of water. When done, 



76 ROOTS AND TUBERS 

drain thoroughly, cover with a folded napkin, and set 
where they will dry off and keep warm until served. 

Potatoes boiled " in jackets " are more nutritious than 
those pared before boiling, as there is practically no loss 
of nutrients when they are simply washed clean and 
plunged into boiling water, and cooked. Because of ease 
in serving, potatoes are usually pared. 

Mashed Potatoes. — Mash hot boiled potatoes and to 
every pint of potato add one tablespoon of butter, one 
half teaspoon of salt, and enough milk to moisten. Beat 
thoroughly. 

Escalloped Potatoes. — Slice the potatoes in slices one 
fourth inch thick. Parboil lo minutes. Place the potatoes 
in a baking dish in layers. Pour thin White Sauce over 
them, and sprinkle with buttered crumbs. Bake 20 to 30 
minutes in a slow oven. 

Thin White Sauce. — Two tablespoons butter, one table- 
spoon flour, one cup milk, one fourth teaspoon salt, speck 
of pepper. Prepare as for White Sauce. 

Glazed Sweet Potatoes. — Wash and pare the potatoes. 
Cut into halves lengthwise. Parboil 10 minutes. Dip 
into sirup, put into a buttered pan, bake 15 to 20 minutes. 
Baste occasionally with the sirup. Bake in a hot oven. 

Sirup. — Mix one half cup sugar, four tablespoons 
water, one tablespoon butter. Boil three minutes. 

Potatoes in White Sauce. — Cut cold boiled potatoes 
into half inch cubes. Make a White Sauce. Add potatoes 
and heat. 

Stuffed Potatoes. — Bake large potatoes, cut lengthwise 
through the center. Remove the inside and mash. For 
six potatoes use two tablespoons butter, one fourth cup 
milk, one eighth teaspoon pepper, one fourth teaspoon 



ROOTS AND TUBERS 77 

salt, one fourth cup chopped egg, or parsley, or two table- 
spoons grated cheese. Return to shell, and brown in 
oven. 

Lyonnaise Potatoes. — Cut three medium-sized potatoes 
in cubes. Melt three tablespoons butter in hot pan, add 
one tablespoon chopped onion, cook in butter until brown. 




Potato Salad. 
Garnished with sliced beet, sardines, and boiled eggs. 

Add the potatoes, sprinkle with one fourth teaspoon 
salt, speck of pepper, and stir occasionally until golden 
brown. 

Cream of Potato Soup. — Cook three potatoes in boiling 
salted water; when soft, rub through a sieve, and use 
about two and a half cups of potato. Scald one quart of 
milk with two slices of onion. Add the potato. Remove 
onion. Melt two tablespoons butter, add two tablespoons 
flour, and mix thoroughly. Add one teaspoon salt, one 
eighth teaspoon pepper. Stir into the soup. Boil three 



78 ROOTS AND TUBERS 

minutes, sprinkle with one tablespoon chopped parsley, 
and serve. 

Cream soups are White Sauce with some vegetable added 
for flavor and to increase the nutritive value. 

Croutons. — Cut slices of bread one half inch thick, and 
spread with butter. Cut into inch squares, and place in 
the oven and brown. Serve with soup. 

Potato Salad. — Cut two cups of cold boiled potatoes in 
one half inch cubes. Add one half teaspoon salt, and 
one tablespoon of chopped onioh. Mix with one recipe of 
Cooked Salad Dressing or Sour Dressing, and garnish with 
sliced hard-boiled eggs and chopped parsley. A very attrac- 
tive dish is made when this salad is garnished with sliced 
beets, sardines, and boiled eggs. See illustration on page 77. 

Sour Dressing. — Mix one fourth cup of melted .butter, 
one half cup of hot vinegar, one half teaspoon salt, one 
eighth teaspoon pepper, one half teaspoon chopped onion. 

SUCCULENT ROOTS AND TUBERS 

Succulent roots and tubers contain more water and less 
nutrients than the starchy roots and tubers, and so have 
a lower food value. They are valuable additions to the 
diet because of their mineral salts, large amount of cellu- 
lose, flavor, and because they furnish variety. They all 
contain carbohydrate in some form. 

Selection. — Old roots and tubers are tough and woody 
and require a much longer time for cooking than the young 
and tender ones. They have a lower food value because 
they contain so much cellulose, are of a coarser texture and 
often are dry and corky. 

Preparation. — Succulent roots and tubers should be 
washed clean, pared as thin as possible, cooked whole when 



ROOTS AND TUBERS 79 

possible, and sliced if so desired, after they are -cooked. 
If cooked in a small quantity of water, there is less loss of 
nutrients than when a large quantity of water is used. 
When they are steamed, there is practically no loss of 
nutrients. 

Methods of Preparing Succulent Roots and Tubers and Green 
Vegetables for the Table. 

1. Creamed. — Boiled and sliced, served with White Sauce. 

2. Diced. — BoUed and cut into small pieces or cubes. 

3. Grated. — Grated and served with Salad Dressing as a salad. 

4. Mashed. — Boiled and mashed and flavored with butter, salt 
and pepper. 

5. Fried. — Boiled and cut into thin slices, and dipped in crumbs, 
or flour, and sauted. May be sliced first, then boiled. Saute in 
bacon fat or half lard and half butter. 

6. Scalloped. — Sliced, parboiled (partially boiled), and baked 
with thin White Sauce and buttered crumbs. 

7. Pickled. — Boiled, sliced or whole, with vinegar added before 
serving. All vegetables are best cooked whole and sliced afterwards, 
because there is loss of nutritive ingredients when they are cooked in 
water, and the more surface exposed, the greater the loss. 

The greater the amount of cellulose a vegetable contains, 
the longer the time needed for cooking. Old vegetables 
require longer time than fresh ones because the cellulose 
has become woody. For this reason no time can be given 
in the recipe. 

Lessons on Succulent Roots and Tubers. 

1. Fried Carrots or Parsnips. For method see Number 5. 

2. Grated Carrots. For method see Number 3. 

3. Mashed Rutabagas. For method see Number 4. 

4. Pickled Beets. For method see Number 7. 

CONLEY p. c. — 6 



8o ROOT AND TUBER PRODUCTS 

PREPARED STARCHY FOODS 

In tropical countries, many foods, unknown to us, form 
common and staple articles of diet. Some of these foods 
are prepared for our market and sold to us in the dry form, 
and they furnish variety to our meals. Chief among 
the starchy tropical foods which we enjoy eating are tapioca, 
sago, and arrowroot. Of these tapioca is the least expen- 
sive, the best known, and one most commonly used. 

The tapioca which we use is prepared from the roots of 
bitter cassava plant. These roots are washed, cut, ground 
to a pulp, and the bitter acid which they contain is removed. 
The pulp is then treated so as to separate the pure starch 
from the woody fiber or cellulose. The starch is then dried 
and sold as flake, pearl, or minute tapioca. The flake 
tapioca occurs in irregular pieces, the pearl in round form, 
and the minute is ground to a coarse powder so that it 
will cook quickly. As tapioca is a dried food, it must be 
soaked to restore the lost moisture before it can be cooked. 
Flake and pearl tapioca should be soaked at least an hour, 
preferably two hours. Minute tapioca should be soaked 
at least ten minutes. 

Sago is prepared from the spongy pith or center of the 
trunk of the sago palm tree. The pith of the tree reaches 
its fullest development just before the tree begins to bear 
fruit. At this time the tree is cut and the pith is removed 
and ground to a powder. The powder is mixed with water 
to separate the starch from the fiber. After the starch is 
washed out, it is dried and sold as sago. 

Tapioca Pudding. — Soak one fourth cup of flake or 
pearl tapioca in one half cup of water for at least an hour, 
add two cups of milk, and cook until the tapioca is trans- 



ROOT AND TUBER PRODUCTS 8i 

parent, about 30 minutes. Beat two eggs, add one fourth 
cup of sugar, one eighth teaspoon of salt, one teaspoon 
of vanilla, and mix thoroughly with the tapioca. Bake 
in a moderate oven for 30 minutes. Sago may be used 
instead of tapioca. 

Apple Tapioca. — Soak one fourth cup of minute tapioca 
in one fourth cup of water for ten minutes, add two cups 
of milk, and cook until the tapioca is transparent, stirring 
constantly. Add one fourth cup of sugar, one eighth tea- 
spoon of salt, and one cup of thinly sliced or chopped tart 
apples. Turn into a baking dish and bake until the apples 
are soft. Serve with cream or soft custard. 

SUGAR 

Sugar or sucrose is made from the juice of sugar cane, 
sugar beets, and from the sap of the maple tree. Cane, 
beet, and maple sugars are exactly alike, chemically, but 
maple sugar contains certain substances which give it 
its peculiar flavor. Formerly most of the sugar was made 
from sugar cane, but now beets are raised extensively for 
sugar, and much sugar is manufactured from them. While 
there is no scarcity of sugar for the reason that beet sugar 
is supplanting cane sugar, there is a scarcity of molasses, 
sirup, and the by-products of cane sugar. Most of the 
sirup and molasses sold in the country is made directly 
from glucose, which is made from corn, and colored and 
flavored until it looks like the by-products of cane sugar. 
Corn sirup is a good food product, and has its uses in cook- 
ing, but it should be labeled and sold as such so that the 
purchaser will know exactly what he is getting. 

In the making of sugar from the juice of sugar cane the 
stalks are crushed, and the juice is boiled until it is a thick 



82 ROOT AND TUBER PRODUCTS 

sirup. As it boils, part of it crystallizes and is called raw 
sugar, and part of it, containing all the impurities in the 
sugar juice, including potash salts, will not crystallize 
and is called molasses. Improvements are constantly made 
in the process of sugar making, and it is now possible 
to crystallize nearly all the juice, and so less and less mo- 
lasses is left. Molasses is acid in reaction, and because of 
' the impurities which it contains, — impure in the sense 
that they interfere with the crystallization of the sugar, 
— it gives to foods a very pleasing flavor and has a high 
nutritive value. 

After the raw sugar is separated from the molasses, it is 
mixed with water, and milk of lime to neutralize it, 
bleached, clarified, and put into vacuum pans and boiled 
to a thick sirup. This sirup is then put into centrifugal 
machines which separate the sugar from the sirup. The 
sugar becomes fine white crystals, and, because of improve- 
ments in the process, practically all the sirup becomes 
sugar. 

Soft sugars are partially refined sugars. The refined 
sugars are sold as bar, cube, tablet, crystallized, coarse 
grain, medium grain, fine grain, and pulverized sugars. 

Corn sirup or glucose is a noncrystalline sugar, and for 
that reason it has distinctive uses in cooking. All sucrose 
or cane sugar is inverted to glucose during cooking by the 
addition of acid or when sugar is added to fruits contain- 
ing acid, as in the making of cranberry jelly. As glucose 
is only three fifths as sweet as sucrose, if the inversion takes 
place, more sugar is needed than when it is added after 
the fruit has finished cooking. If the sirupy consistency 
is desired, however, the sugar must be boiled with the 
fruit. 



ROOT AND TUBER PRODUCTS 



83 



U. S. Department of Aqriculture 
Office of Experiment Stations 
A. C. True: Director 



Prepared by 

C. F LANGWORTMY 

Expert in Charge of Nutrition Investigations 

COMPOSITION OF FOOD MATERIALS. 

^^^ HH, ^u«l Value 
Water ■Tf^'r^.'^'* 

MOLASSES 



BB ffrmni r??:ii 

Protein Fat Carbohydrates Ash 



SUGAR 

611ANUIATE0 




Carbohydrates 1 00 



Protein 2.4 ^^^^4 



Carbohydrates 69.3 



Fuel valuC: 



I^H STICK CANDY 

1810 CALORICS {;Carbohydrates:96.5 

pf p POUND /'v^^'!i;ap^y'':^r'.-':i!r''v vga 




1300 CALORIES 
PER POUND 



Water: 3.0 



MAPLE SUGAR 



Fuel value: 



1745 CALORIES 
PER POUND 



Ash: 0.5 



HONEY 



A8h:0.9^ 



ttBia^kxa 



-Water: 16.3 Water: 16,2 
Protein. 0.4 

Carbo* Carbo- 

hydrate8:82-8 hydrates 6^.2^ 



1500 



FJltL VALUt 



CALORIES PER POUND 




Ash. 0.2 



1475 CALORICS PER POUND 



Sugars. 



84 ROOT AND TUBER PRODUCTS 

During the maJdng of frostings and fondant, an 
acid, as cream of tartar or vinegar, is added to the 
sugar to change it to glucose and give it a smooth 
consistency. If rightly made, frostings and fondant 
will not crystallize, because acids boiled with cane or 
beet sugar invert or change it to glucose. 

CANDY MAKING 

When sugar and some liquid are boiled together as in 
candy making, diflFerent temperatures or different degrees 
of density are closely noted, as they indicate different stages 
or changes in the mixture and produce candies of different 
texture. 

Sugar thermometers are sometimes used to learn the 
temperatures, but expert candy makers can test by drop- 
ping some of the solution in cold water, by the sound while 
boiling, by the appearance of the sirup, or by the finger 
test. 

The tests that are most used in cooking and candy 
making are, the thread stage, 215*^ F. ; the soft ball, 
238° F.; the hard ball, 248° F.; the crack, 290° F.; 
and the caramel, 350^ F. The thread stage is used 
in making frosting, the soft ball for fondant, the hard 
ball and crack for molasses candy, and the caramel for 
peanut brittle. 

Peanut Brittle. — Heat two cups of sugar until melted, 
stirring constantly so that part of the sugar does not 
burn before the rest is melted. When the sugar is 
melted, add one cup of peanut meats and turn into 
a buttered pan. If a porous texture is desired, add one 
fourth teaspoon of soda as soon as the sugar is melted, 
and stir quickly. (Care must be taken that the sugar 



ROOT AND TUBER PRODUCTS 85 

does not boil up too quickly after the soda is added, for 
there is danger that the candy maker may receive a 
severe burn.) 

Molasses Candy. — Place in a large granite kettle two 
cups of molasses, one cup of sugar, two tablespoons of 
butter, and one tablespoon of vinegar or lemon juice. 
Boil until it reaches the crack stage, stirring constantly. 
Pour into a buttered pan until cool enough to handle. 
Pull until it is as light colored as desired. 

Fondant. — Two cups of sugar, one half cup cold water, 
one eighth teaspoon cream of tartar. Mix the sugar and 
water together, and put on the stove to boil. Stir until 
it begins to boil, then add the cream of tartar. Boil 
without stirring until it forms a soft ball when dropped in 
cold water. Turn on to a large plate or platter, and let it 
cool until you can indent it with a finger. Then work back 
and forth with a knife until it becomes white and creamy. 
Take it up and knead it as you would knead bread, until 
it is smooth. Roll in oiled paper, and let it stand twenty- 
four hours. Color and flavor as desired, and shape in 
creams. 

Sea Foam. — Boil together one cup of granulated sugar, 
one fourth cup of hot water, one fourth cup of corn sirup. 
Cook to a hard ball. Beat an egg white stiff and dry. 
Then add one speck of salt. Add the above sirup very 
slowly to the egg, beating it until stiff. Flavor with one 
fourth teaspoon of vanilla. 

Divinity Fudge. — Boil three cups of brown sugar, one 
third cup of corn sirup, twQ thirds cup of water, to a hard 
ball. Beat whites of two eggs dry, pour hot sirup on 
gradually. Beat constantly until mixture hardens. Add 
one cup of nutmeats. Shape into balls. 



86 ROOT AND TUBER PRODUCTS 

Chocolate Fudge. — Two cups of sugar, two ounces of 
chocolate, one half cup of milk, one tablespoon of butter. 
Boil to a soft ball without stirring. Remove from fire. 
Add one teaspoon vanilla. Beat until thick. Turn into 
buttered pan to cool. 

Chocolate Caramels. — Melt three ounces of chocolate, 
add two cups of molasses, one cup of brown sugar, two 
tablespoons of butter, one third cup of milk and mix 
thoroughly. Boil to a hard ball. Remove from the fire, 
add one teaspoon of vanilla, turn into a buttered pan, and 
when cool, mark into squares. 

Cream Candy. — Mix two cups of sugar, one half cup of 
water, three tablespoons of vinegar, and one teaspoon of 
cream of tartar. Boil until it forms a hard ball, add one 
teaspoon of extract of lemon, and turn into a buttered pan. 
When cool, pull until white, and cut into squares. 

Candied Popcorn. — Mix one tablespoon of butter, one 
cup of sugar, and four tablespoons of water. Boil until it 
threads or forms a soft ball. Pour the hot sirup over 
freshly popped popcorn, being careful to distribute it evenly. 
Mix well so that each kernel is coated with sirup and 
keep stirring until the corn has cooled. Nuts may be 
coated in the same way. 



CHAPTER VI 

CEREALS AND LEAVENING AGENTS 

CEREALS 

Nature has a diflferent purpose than providing food for 
man and animals when she stores nourishment in plants. 
Her purpose is to provide food for the little embryo plant 
when it is ready to germinate. So careful is Mother 
Nature that the germ plant will have just the right kind 
of food needed for its complete development, that she 
stores all the food needed for some time in the part called 
the seed, that surrounds and protects the embryo. To 
show this, all we need to do is to place any seed, as beans, 
peas, com, wheat, between two pieces of cotton flannel, 
wet the flannel, and place it in a shallow pan like a pie plate. 
In a short time the plants will develop. 

All seeds contain considerable nutrition, and they all 
contain all the different kinds of food in varying propor- 
tion, depending on the protection and food needed for 
germination. Cereals, legumes, and nuts contain the 
greatest amount of nutrients, and, because they are so 
well liked, can be used in so many different ways in cooking, 
are cheap, easily digested, and furnish a balanced food in 
themselves, cereals are the most important of all the seeds. 

Cereals are defined as the grains or grasses, the seeds of 
which are used as food. They are, wheat, oats, corn, rice, 
rye, barley, buckwheat. Wheat is by far the most impor- 
tant of all cereals ; com ranks next. 

87 



88 



CEREALS AND LEAVENING AGENTS 



U. S. Otpartment of Africulture 
Office of Experiment Stitions 
A. C. True: Director 



Prtparedby 
C. F. LAII6W0RTHY 
Expert in Charge of Nutrition Investigations 

COMPOSITION OF FOOD MATERIALS. 



Protein 



Fat Carbohydrates A%h 



WALNUT 

Water 5^ 




Water 

CHESTNUT 

Proteir\:l6.6 Protein: 



Carbo- 
hydrates: 74.2 

CarbO' 

rates: 16. 1 



I Pu«l Value 
>r» Sq.ln.Eqoalj 
lOOOC«lories 



Fuel vAiue: PEANUT 

I Water 9.2 




Fuel VALUE: 



Carbo- 
p^ydrates2f.4| 

3180 CALORIES ^ — ^^ml^^^'^^Ash'.d.O 1820 calories 

peRPouND Proteir^:25.8 ^Fat:38.6 pcrpouiid 

FUCL VALUe? 



PEANUT BUTTER ^^^^,^^0'' 



Water.2.1 



rat:46.5 




Protein. 29.3 p.^Xel^ 

Carfao- 
Carbo- h/dffites^3l.5 

hydrates: 17. J 

Ash: 1.3 



COCOA NUT 

DfSlCCATEO 

„ Watcr:3.5 




fdt'.57.4 



Fuel VALUE? 



2735 



CALORIES PER POUND 



3025 CALORIES PER POUIIO 



Composition op Nuts. 



CEREALS AND LEAVENING AGENTS 



89 



Fat.f. 



U. S. Department of Agriculture 

Office of Experiment Stations 

A. C. True: Director 



Prepared by 
C. F. LANGWORTHY 
Expert in Charge of Nutrition Investigations 



COMPOSITION OF FOOD MATERIALS. 



Protein Fat Carbohydrates Ash 

CORN 




Water: 10.8 



Water 



WatenlO. 



IFu«l Value 
>{«Sq.ln.Equals 
1000 Calorics 



WHEAT 



Protein: lO.O Protein: 12.2 




Far. 1.7 



Ash'T _s ^ \jW ^^^Q^J<J^a^gs:73.f Carbohydrates: 73.7 ^.^ . ^ 

Fue^WUjE: FuE^muf: 

■■■ ■■■ 

I685CAL0RIES Protein: IO.O-.^^(|t;;::Water: 12.6 1525 caiobies 

PERPOWio Carbo — — *^3!^ Fat:2.? perpoumd 
hydrates :73.2^'**^**-Ash: 2.0 
Fuel value: 



OAT 



RICE 




Water: 11.0 1596 calories Water:12.0 
Protein:11.8 '""^""^ Protein: 8.0 



■•J Carbo- 

yj hydrates: 69.2 

Fat: 1.5 



RYE 




CarbO' 
hydrates:77. 

Water: 10.5 
Protein: 12.2 




Fat:2.0 



Ash: 1.0 



Fuel value 



^^^H Carbo-^ 

i^H hydrates:73.9 \i^ Ash:1.9 

1 670 calories Fuel value ; 

PER pound ^^^H 

1620 CALORIES 
PER POUND 



1620 CALORIES 
PER POUND 



Composition of Cereals. 



90 CEREALS AND LEAVENING AGENTS 

All the cereals are similar in structure. They consist 
of an outer skin which in some cereals includes the bran 
coats; the endosperm or main body of the grain, which 
consists of starch, protein, mineral matter, and varying 
amoimts of fat, and which is the stored nourishment of the 
embryo; and the germ or embryo. The endosperm is 
the part that is usually used for food, but in some cases, 
as in the making of breakfast foods, all the grain but the 
tough outer skin is used. 

The typical cereal, wheat, contains 10.6 per cent water, 
12.2 per cent protein, 1.7 per cent fat, 73.7 per cent carbo- 
hydrate, including 2.4 per cent cellulose, and 1.8 per cent 
mineral matter. Its protein is in the form of gluten, a 
substance that is elastic and tenacious. When gas is 
formed within a mixture made from wheat, other sub- 
stances and a liquid, the gluten expands, and when heat is 
applied, the gas expands also, and the result is a light 
porous loaf. No other cereal except rye has a protein 
that possesses this power. For this reason when breads 
are made from corn, the loaf is not so light as wheat 
bread. Usually half wheat flour is used so as to make a 
lighter loaf. 

Of the cereals, wheat and rye contain the most protein, 
oats the most fat, rice the most starch, and oats the greatest 
amount of cellulose and mineral matter, but with the ex- 
ception of rice their composition is very similar. 

It is estimated that cereals furnish nearly one third of 
all the foods consumed by the American people. They 
can be manufactured into a great variety of products, 
and in that way they have a very extensive use. Flour 
enters, in some way, into almost every article of food 
prepared, even in the cooking of meats. 



CEREALS AND LEAVENING AGENTS 91 

The Products into which the Cereals are Manufactured 
are: — 

1. Breakfast Foods — oatmeal, rolled oats, cream of wheat, hom- 
iny, etc. ; also a great variety of prepared and ** ready to eat " foods. 

2. Starch — corn, rice, wheat. 

3. Italian Pastes — macaroni, spaghetti, vermicelli. 

4. Glucose — sirup from corn. 

5. Cereal Coffee. 

6. Flour — ^ wheat, corn, rye, buckwheat, rice. 

7. Liquors — malted drinks, beer, whiskey, etc. 

8. Feed for Stock. 

Cooking of Cereal Products 

Cereal Breakfast Foods. — The length of time required 
for the cooking of the breakfast foods depends on the size 
of the particles and the amount of cellulose which the 
cereal contains. Whole kernels of corn, called hominy, 
take a much longer time than corn meal ; steel-cut oatmeal 
takes a longer time than Quaker Oats, because the latter 
has been steam cooked first, and also crushed so that heat * 
can penetrate it more readily. Oat preparations, not 
steam cooked when sold, require a longer time than wheat 
or rice preparations, because oats contain more cellulose. 

Directions for Cooking. — Breakfast foods should be 
cooked in a double boiler. Fill the lower part of the 
double boiler one third full of boiling water. Put boiling 
salted water in the upper part of the double boiler, and 
add the cereal gradually, stirring constantly to prevent 
lumping. Cover and steam according to the directions 
given below. If the particles of the cereal are finely ground, 
it is best to mix it with a little cold water first to prevent 
lumping. Keep the lower part of the double boiler one 
third full of water. After the water begins to boil, turn 



92 



CEREALS AND LEAVENING AGENTS 





Kind 


Amount of 
Water 


Time Required 


Served with 


I cup 


rolled oats or 
wheat, steam 
cooked first 


2 cups 


30 minutes 


Baked 
apples 


I cup 


rice 


3 cups 


30 minutes 


Sliced fruit 


I cup 


corn meal 


si cups 


I hour 




I cup 


cream of wheat 


4 cups 


30 minutes 


Chopped 
dates 


I cup 


hominy, flaked 


4 cups 


I hour 


SUced 
bananas 


I cup 


oatmeal, coarse 


4 cups 


3-4 hours 




I cup 


whole hominy, 
soak first 


4 cups 


4-6 hours 





the heat as low as possible. It requires very little heat 
to keep water boiling after it has once reached the boiling 
point. Use one half to one teaspoon of salt for each cup 
of cereal. 

Serving the Breakfast Foods. — Breakfast foods are 
served after the fruit course for breakfast, or with the fruit, 
as suggested in the outline. They are also served as a 
first course at supper. With fruit, cream, a small amount 
of sugar, and bread and butter, they make a very appetiz- 
ing and nutritious breakfast, and the deficiency in protein 
may be made up at dinner when meat, fish, eggs, or legumes 
are served as the protein food. 

Cereal Products — Starch 

This lesson shows the uses of starch as a thickening agent. 
For this purpose it is used also in sauces and gravies. Flour 
is sometimes used instead, but it lumps more easily and 
does not taste as well as cornstarch. In the making of 



CEREALS AND LEAVENING AGENTS 93 

sauces and puddings, the starch is mixed thoroughly with 
the sugar before the liquid is added, to prevent lumping. 

Cornstarch Mold. — Mix three tablespoons of cornstarch 
with four tablespoons of sugar in the saucepan, add two 
cups of milk, mix thoroughly, place on the stove and cook 
until it thickens (about thriee minutes after it begins to 
boil), stirring constantly. Remove from the stove, add 
one teaspoon of vanilla, and turn into molds or cups that 
have been rinsed with cold water so that the mold will 
slip out easily when cold. Let the molds stand until 
perfectly cold, serve with cream and sugar, or with sliced 
fruit, as a dessert. Vanilla is always added after the food 
is taken from the fire, because it is volatile and would 
evaporate if added while the heat is being applied. In 
that case, most of the flavor would be lost. 

Chocolate Cornstarch Mold. — Melt one half ounce of 
chocolate, or use two tablespoons of cocoa, add the mixed 
sugar and cornstarch and milk as given in the recipe for 
cornstarch mold. Cook and serve in the same way. 

Cornstarch Pudding. — Mix four tablespoons of corn- 
starch with four tablespoons of sugar, add three cups of 
milk, and cook until it thickens, stirring constantly to 
prevent lumping. Beat the yolks of two eggs until 
smooth, add a few tablespoons of the cooked mixture to 
the egg to apply the heat to it slowly, and mix thoroughly 
so that the egg will not be cooked in flakes, then add the 
remainder of the milk and cook one minute. Remove 
from the stove and add one teaspoon of vanilla. Pour 
into a baking dish. Beat the whites of the two eggs 
until stiff and dry, add two tablespoons of sugar, one 
fourth teaspoon of vanilla, and place it over the pudding. 
Bake until the egg whites are brown. Serve cold. 



94 CEREALS AND LEAVENING AGENTS 

When a mixture contains cornstarch and eggs, the corn- 
starch is cooked first with the milk, and the eggs are added 
after the mixture has thickened. The reason for this is 
that all egg dishes should be cooked at a low temperature 
and only enough to coagulate the egg, while starch requires 
longer cooking. 

Cereal Products — Italian Pastes 

The foods called Italian Pastes, because they were 
originally made in Italy, though they are made in this 
country also, are macaroni, spaghetti, and vermicelli. 
They are made from a wheat containing a high percentage 
of gluten. The flour is mixed with water and kneaded to 
a stiff dough. It is then put into hollow cylindrical presses 
and forced into, tubes of various shapes and then dried. 
The largest tubes are called macaroni, the next spaghetti, 
and the smallest vermicelli. These pastes are nutritious 
foods because the flour has so high a percentage of gluten 
that a dish of macaroni and cheese is in itself a meal. 

Macaroni and Cheese. — Two quarts of boiling water, 
one tablespoon of salt, one cup of macaroni broken into 
inch pieces. Cook in a double boiler twenty minutes. 
Drain, pour cold water over and drain again. Grate or 
chop cheese. Arrange a layer of macaroni in a baking 
dish, sprinkle with cheese, put in another layer of macaroni 
and cheese. Pour one recipe of White Sauce over it. Cover 
with buttered crumbs, and bake until crumbs are brown. 

Spaghetti with Tomato Sauce. — Two quarts of boiling 
water, one tablespoon of salt, about one cup of spaghetti 
unbroken. Cook in double boiler until soft, about twenty 
minutes. Drain and pour cold water over, and drain again. 
Pour tomato sauce over, heat one minute, and serve. 



CEREALS AND LEAVENING AGENTS 95 

Hold the sticks of spaghetti in the hand, place the other 
end of the sticks in the boiling water, and as they soften 
they will coil in the cooking vessel. 

Tomato Sauce. — One pint of tomatoes, one half onion 
chopped fine. Cook ten minutes. Put through a sieve. 
Melt four tablespoons of butter, rub in four tablespoons 
of flour, add one half teaspoon of salt, one eighth teaspoon 
of pepper, add the tomato, and cook until it thickens. 

Cereal Products — Flour 

Some of the cereals, wheat, rye, corn, buckwheat, are 
made into flour. Wheat flour is the only one that is 
used very extensively. In the process of flour making 
the outer or bran coats and the germ are removed, and 
the endosperm is groimd into a fine powder. There 
are various grades of flour, depending on the quality of 
the wheat, the fineness of the flour, and the amount of 
bran left in the product. The names mean very Httle to 
the average person, because each milling firm coins a name 
for its best grade of flour and advertises it extensively. 
The best grades are designated in trade as the fancy patent, 
standard patent, etc. Whole wheat flour is made by 
grinding all the grain except the outer bran coats. Some 
cheap grades of flour are made from the endosperm and 
germ, some have the finer parts of the endosperm removed, 
and are made from the remainder. 

It is poor economy to buy cheap flour. The best grades 
of flour absorb more water during bread making, and so not 
as much flour is needed as when the cheaper grades are 
used. Cheap flour makes poor bread, and sometimes much 
of the bread is wasted because it is not appetizing. Good 
flour is creamy in color, does not hold the impress of the 

CONLEY p. C. — 7 



96 CEREALS AND LEAVENING AGENTS 

fingers if held in the hand, and absorbs about 30 per cent 
its weight of water in bread making. 

Pastry flour contains more starch than bread flour. It 
is made from soft or winter wheat, while bread flour is 
made from hard or spring wheat. Pastry flour is used for 
pies, cakes, etc., but a good substitute for it may be made 
by sifting two tablespoons of cornstarch into each cup of 
bread flour. 

Flour, Leavening Agents, and Shortening 

When flour and water are mixed together and baked, 
the result is a hard, heavy, tough mass that is not appe- 
tizing. Flour contains gluten and starch. Gluten is a 
sticky, tenacious substance that has great expansive power 
when mixed with the water. Starch swells and gelatinizes 
when water is added and heat is applied, and tends to 
become lumpy. To make a light, porous, and tender food, 
some ingredients must be added that will separate the 
starch grains and give them room to expand, without 
lumping, and that will form a gas that can be inclosed in 
the sticky, tenacious gluten. When heated, the gas will 
expand. The gluten also has great expansive power, and 
the heat sets the walls of gluten at the right time, and this 
makes a Hght and porous product. If the heat is too 
strong at first, the gluten hardens before the gas expands 
it, and the mixture will not be light enough. If the heat 
is not strong enough to set the gluten, the gas forces its 
way to the surface and escapes, and the mixture will con- 
tain large holes, but will not be light. 

Shortening is a fat, as butter or lard, which is rubbed 
into the flour to separate the starch grains. When the 
mixture is cooked, the food is flaky and tender. 



CEREALS AND LEAVENING AGENTS 97 

Kinds of shortening most commonly used are butter, 
lard, one half butter and one half lard, oleomargarine, 
olive oil, and various preparations such as Cottolene, 
Crisco, Wesson's Snowdrift Oil, and butter substitutes. 

LEAVENING AGENTS 

Leavening means to make Hght and porous. When 
steam or carbon dioxide is formed inside the mixture, or 
when air is inclosed, it expands when heated, and as the 
heat also hardens the gluten, the result is a light and porous 
loaf. The leavening agents are steam, soda and sour milk 
(or any acid), baking powder, eggs and air, and yeast. 

Leavening Agent — Steam 

Popovers. — When water is changed to steam, it expands 
many hundreds of times its volume, and if it can be inclosed 
in walls of gluten so that the substance expands, and yet 
remains intact, the food product so made will be very 
Ught. If the change from water to steam takes place 
slowly, the expansion will not be very great, for the steam 
will come to the surface and escape. If the change takes 
place very quickly and the steam is produced rapidly, the 
walls of gluten will be stretched to the utmost and the 
product will be a hollow shell. Eggs are used also in the 
product, because the albumin coagulates and holds the flour 
together, and this helps to form the hollow shell. Very 
strong heat must be used when the steam is utiUzed as a 
leavening agent, and it must be continued long enough 
so that the product is well dried. Popovers should not be 
soft and moist in any part. Yorkshire Pudding is another 
example of the use of steam as a leavening agent. It is not 
baked as long as popovers, because it should be somewhat 



98 CEREALS AND LEAVENING AGENTS 

soft in the interior. Cream puffs are also made light by 
expansion of water changing to steam. Milk is used instead 
of water in popovers, for it is 87 per cent water, and it 
furnishes flavor and adds to the nutritive value of the food. 
Recipe for Popovers. — Mix one and one half cups of 
flour, and one fourth teaspoon of salt. Make a hole in 
the center of it ; add three unbeaten eggs and one and one 
half cups of milk. Stir until all lumps are out of the flour 
and the mixture is smooth. Turn into muffin pans and 
bake from thirty to forty minutes in a hot oven. This 
recipe makes twelve popovers. Popovers are made light 
by the water in them turning to steam. The strong heat 
causes the steam to form rapidly, and this produces a 
hollow shell. The egg coagulates and helps to form the 
sheU. 

Leavening Agents — Eggs Inclosing Air 

Whites of eggs are beaten with an egg beater to entangle 
or inclose air. To estimate the amount of air inclosed by 
beating, note the amount of space occupied in the bowl by 
one egg white before you start to beat it, and then note the 
change in volume after the white has been beaten imtil stiff 
and dry. Unlike water, air does not require a great amount 
of heat for expansion. Albumin does not require a strong 
heat for coagulation, — about 170° F., — and it is toughened 
by too high a temperature. When air, inclosed in eggs, 
is used as a leavening agent, the food should be cooked at 
a low temperature. 

Leavening Agents — Eggs and Air 

Omelet. — Three eggs, three tablespoons of water, 
one fourth teaspoon of salt. Separate yolks from whites. 



CEREALS AND LEAVENING AGENTS 99 

Beat yolks until thick. Beat whites until stiff and dry. 
Add water and salt to yolks, and fold in the whites. Put 
one tablespoon of butter in the omelet pan, turn in the egg 
mixture, and cook slowly. When well puffed out, place 
in the oven to finish cooking. Whites and yolks of eggs 
are beaten separately, and the whites are beaten stiff so as 
to inclose as much air as possible. The omelet is cooked 
with slow heat to expand the air and coagulate the albumin 
at as low a temperature as possible (170° F). Intense 
heat toughens the albumin and coagulates it too soon, 
there is no expansion of air, and the omelet is tough and flat. 

Leavening Agents — Soda and Sour Milk 

When two substances like sodium bicarbonate (soda) 
and sour milk are mixed together, a chemical change takes 
place and new substances unUke either of them are formed. 
One of these substances formed is a gas, carbon dioxide 
(CO2), which expands when heated and makes food light 
and porous. When an acid and an alkali are brought to- 
gether, one tends to neutraUze or destroy the character- 
istic properties of the other. The acid, sour milk, neutral- 
izes the alkali, soda, and no taste of either is left in the food. 
They are used to form the gas CO2 so as to make the food 
light. This gas is formed as soon as the substances are 
brought together. It expands when heated, and enough 
heat must be applied to set the walls of gluten so that the 
bubbles will not collapse. When hot water is added to 
soda (NaHCOs), the gas CO2 is given off, but the soda is 
not neutralized, and the food to which it is added has a 
bitter taste. It is better to sift the soda into the flour, 
rather than add it to the sour milk, because when the gas 
forms so quickly, some is lost before the mixture is put in 



lOD CEREALS AND LEAVENING AGENTS 

the oven. Just enough alkali and acid are used to neutral- 
ize each other. This can be determined by the use of 
litmus paper. One half teaspoon of soda neutralizes one 
cup of sour milk. Other acid substances may be used in 
place of sour milk, as buttermilk, molasses, and lemon 
juice. 

Batters and Doughs 

A mixture of flour and liquid is called either a batter 
or a dough, depending on the proportion of liquid to flour. 
Batters consist of from one to two measures of flour to 
one measure of liquid, and are named either pour or drop 
batters according to the amount of flour used. Doughs 
consist of from two and one half to three and one half 
measures of flour to one of liquid, and they are classed as 
soft and stiff doughs. Biscuit is a soft dough ; bread is a 
stiff dough. 

Batters contain some leavening agent which is sifted 
in with the flour. They must be beaten thoroughly so as 
to inclose as much air as possible. When equal quanti- 
ties of flour and water are mixed together, the flour tends 
to lump unless some precaution is taken to prevent it. 
For this reason, when mixing a batter, sift flour, salt, and 
leavening agent together, then add about one third of the 
liquid and press out all the lumps by rubbing the bowl of 
the spoon against the side of the bowl. Slowly add the 
remainder of the liquid, and when the batter is perfectly 
smooth, add eggs and melted butter and begin to beat. 
Beat with long, deep strokes which take the spoon through 
to the bottom of the bowl, so as to inclose the air. Never 
stir a mixture after you have started to beat it, because 
stirring breaks up the air bubbles that are already formed 



CEREALS AND LEAVENING AGENTS lOi 

and they escape to the surface. When the mixture is well 
beaten, the heat applied will expand the air and the eggs, 
the gluten will coagulate, and the product will be light and 
porous. 

Doughs are usually mixed differently from batters when 
they contain shortening, sugar, and other ingredients. 
The shortening is creamed or softened first so that when 
the sugar is added it will be partially dissolved. Cream- 
ing is rubbing the butter or lard against the side of the 
bowl, with a spoon, until it is soft as cream. The sugar 
is then added slowly, and carefully rubbed into the butter. 

Biscuit dough is mixed in an entirely different way. 
The flour, salt, and leavening agent are mixed first, and 
then the shortening is cut in. 

(Pupils should read a recipe through before they begin 
to work. All ingredients should be measured and ready 
before attempting to put things together. Measure the 
dry ingredients, not including sugar, first, and sift to- 
gether. To add alternately means to add part of the liquid, 
then part of the flour, and beat them in thoroughly before 
adding more.) 

Flour — Leavening Agent — Soda and Sour Milk 

Griddle Cakes. (Pour Batter.) — Sift together two cups 
of flour, one half teaspoon of salt, one teaspoon of soda; 
add one and three fourths cups of sour milk, and rub free 
from lumps, add one well-beaten egg and two tablespoons 
of melted butter, and beat well. Have the pancake griddle 
emoking hot, grease it with lard or with a piece of fat 
pork, using only enough fat to grease the pan. Drop the 
batter by tablespoons on the hot griddle. Let the cakes 
cook until they are full of bubbles and browned at the 



I02 CEREALS AND LEAVENING AGENTS 

edges, then turn and brown the other side. Pancakes 
should be turned but once. Serve immediately with butter, 
sugar, sirup, or gravy from sausage. 

Com Bread or Johnny Cake. (Drop Batter.) — Sift 
together one cup of corn meal, one cup of flour, one 
fourth teaspoon of salt, one half teaspoon of soda. Add 
one cup of sour milk, and free from lumps. Add four 
tablespoons of molasses, one egg well beaten, four table- 
spoons of melted butter, beat well. Turn into a shallow 
pan that has been buttered, and bake thirty minutes in 
hot oven. 

Ginger Bread (Soft Dough). — Cream one half cup of 
shortening (butter, lard, one half butter and one half lard, 
or oleomargarine), add one half cup of sugar and work the 
shortening and sugar together. Add one cup of molasses, 
two well-beaten eggs, and one cup of sour milk alternately 
with three cups of flour, one half teaspoon of soda, one tea- 
spoon of ginger, and one fourth teaspoon of salt sifted 
together. Beat well. Bake in buttered shallow pan, 
in hot oven, for thirty minutes. 

Baking Powder 

Baking powder is a mixture of the alkali sodium bicar- 
bonate, some acid powder, and starch. The soda furnishes 
the gas, carbon dioxide, which is the direct leavening 
agent. When moisture is added, the acid acts on the soda, 
and liberates the gas. A mixture of soda and acid powder 
reacts slowly in moist air, thus losing strength. Starch 
is added to prevent such interaction, until the baking 
powder is used in cooking. One and one half to two level 
teaspoons of baking powder are usually used to each cup 
of flour. 



CEREALS AND LEAVENING AGENTS 103 

Baking Powder may be grouped in three classes : — 

1. Cream ot Tartar Baking Powder. 

2. Phosphate Baking Powder. 

3. Alum Baking Powder. 

Cream of tartar baking powder is made from cream of 
tartar (acid potassium tartrate), soda, and starch. It is the 
best-known baking powder and probably the most wholesome 
to use, because it leaves no harmful products in the food. 
It forms carbon dioxide (CO2), water (H2O), and Rochelle 
salts, — a mild laxative when taken in small quantities. 

Phosphate baking powder is made from acid calcium 
phosphate, soda, and starch. The only objection to its 
use is that the gas is liberated so quickly that much is lost 
before the food can be put into the oven. 

Alum powder is made from potash alum or ammonium 
alum, soda, and starch, and its sale is prohibited in some 
states because of the harmful effects of alum on the human 
system, though the alum is decomposed when soda is added. 

From the accompanying table, which shows in what 
proportion to mix the ingredients for the three kinds of 
baking powder, it will be seen why alum baking powder is 
cheap and can be sold for twenty-five cents a pound and 
cream of tartar baking powder is necessarily higher in 
price. Baking powder can be made at home at one half 
the price paid for it in the stores. The ingredients should 
be thoroughly mixed, sifted, and packed in air-tight cans. 

Cream of Tartar Powder 

Cream of tartar 

(acid potassium tartrate) i pound $.40 

Soda I pound .05 

Starch j pound ^ 

2 poimds $.50 



I04 CEREALS AND LEAVENING AGENTS 

Phosphate Powder 



Soda I pound 
Caldiun add phosphate i} pounds 
Starch i pound 

3J pounds 


$.10 

.45 

.10 

$.65 


Alum Powder 




Soda I pound 
Alum J pound 
Starch 2 pounds 


$.10 

.20 



3I poimds $.37^ 

Baking Powder Biscuit and Variations. — These variations 
of biscuit are shortcake, dumplings, fruit pudding, fruit 
roll, pin-wheel biscuit, Dutch apple cake, nut bread, meat 
pie. They are made like a biscuit dough, but di£fer in the 
amount of shortening, liquid, or sugar used. 

Note. — The teacher may teach as many of these recipes as she has time 
for. The most important at this time are biscuit, apple dimiplings, and short- 
cakes, because they give practice in handling the dough and perfecting the 
pupils' knowledge of biscuit making. The other recipes may be worked in 
when lessons that require long cooking are given and the pupils have little 
work to do. Such lessons are those on cooking of legumes and the meat 
lessons. Another reason for giving several recipes that may be used later 
in the work is that a review of a process impresses it on the mind. For 
the same reason more recipes are often included than the teacher can use 
with some classes. Usually one recipe constitutes a lesson, for a ninety- 
minute period, if some time is devoted to recitation. 

Baking Powder Biscuit. — Mix and sift together two 
cups of flour, four teaspoons of baking powder, one half 
teaspoon of salt. Add four tablespoons of butter or lard, 
and work it in with a fork, until it is perfectly blended 
and the flour is flaky. Make a well in the center of the 
flour, and pour in three fourths cup of milk or water. Start 
in the center and stir with a fork, in widening circles, until 



CEREALS AND LEAVENING AGENTS 



loS 




Hot Biscuit. 



all the flour has been gathered m and the result is a soft 

dough. Turn the dough on the floured molding board, and 

roll lightly about one inch 

thick, cut with a small 

biscuit cutter, and bake 

twelve to fifteen minutes 

in hot oven. 

Shortcake. — Mix and 
sift together two cups of 
flour, four teaspoons of 
baking powder, one half 
teaspoon of salt, add six 
tablespoons of butter, 

and work it in as in biscuit dough. When thoroughly mixed, 
add three fourths cup of water or milk and stir from the 
center. Turn on the floured molding board, roll out in one 
cake, and place on a pie tin. Bake twenty to twenty-five 
minutes in a hot oven. When baked, split so as to sepa- 
rate top and bottom, spread with butter and strawberries, 
sliced peaches, oranges, or any other fruit desired. Place 
the upper crust on the fruit, the buttered side up, and 
spread with another layer of fruit. May be served with 
whipped cream. 

Apple Dumplings. — Mix and sift together two cups of 
flour, four teaspoons of baking powder, one half teaspoon 
of salt. Add eight tablespoons of butter, or lard, as in 
biscuit, and one half cup of milk or water. Roll out about 
one fourth of an inch thick. Pare and core six tart apples. 
Cut dough large enough to fold over an apple. Place the 
apple on the dough, fill the center of the apple with sugar, 
and add a speck of nutmeg or cinnamon. Fold the dough 
entirely over the apple, and press it firmly together. Bake 



Io6 CEREALS AND LEAVENING AGENTS 

about forty-five minutes in a hot oven ; the time required 
depends on the kind of apple used. To be certain that 
the apple is cooked, pierce with a fork, and if the apple feels 
soft, it is cooked. Serve apple dumplings with Vanilla 
Sauce. 

Vanilla Sauce. — Mix thoroughly one tablespoon of 
cornstarch, one half cup of sugar, speck of salt; add one 
cup of boiling water and one tablespoon of butter. Cook 
until it thickens, stirring constantly. Add one teaspoon 
of vinegar and one half teaspoon of vanilla. 

Fruit Roll. — Mix and sift together two cups of flour, 
four teaspoons of baking powder, one half teaspoon of salt, 
and one tablespoon of sugar. Add six tablespoons of butter 
or lard, and three fourths cup of water or milk as in biscuit. 
Roll out one half inch thick, spread with sliced peaches or 
berries. Roll up as for jelly roll, and bake in a hot oven 
thirty minutes. Serve with Hard Sauce. 

Dutch Apple Cake. — Use the same recipe as for Fruit 
Roll. Roll out one half inch thick. Place in a shallow bak- 
ing pan. Pare tart apples ; quarter and slice in one quarter 
inch slices. Place the apples on top of the dough, arrang- 
ing them in even rows so that they overlap. Sprinkle with 
sugar and cinnamon and bake thirty minutes. May be 
cut into squares and eaten as hot bread, or served as dessert 
with Lemon Sauce. 

Lemon Sauce. — Mix one tablespoon of cornstarch and 
one half cup of sugar ; add one cup of boiling water and one 
fourth cup of butter; cook until it thickens. Add juice 
of one lemon and boil one minute, or add one teaspoon of 
lemon extract after the sauce is removed from the fire. 

Fruit Pudding. — Make one half the recipe for Fruit Roll. 
Place sliced apples, blueberries, or peaches in a baking 



CEREALS AND LEAVENING AGENTS 107 

dish or pudding pan ; add sugar and enough water to cover 
the fruit. Drop the dough on top of the fruit and spread 
smooth. Bake thirty minutes in a hot oven. Serve with 
pudding sauce or cream and sugar. 

Nut Bread. — Mix and sift together one and one half 
cups of graham flour, one and one half cups of white flour, 
four teaspoons of baking powder, one teaspoon of salt, 
three fourths cup of sugar. Add one and one half cups 
of milk, beat well, and add one cup of chopped nuts. Let 
it stand twenty minutes. Bake one hour. 

Dumplings for Meat Stew. — Mix and sift together two 
cups of flour, four teaspoons of baking powder, one half 
teaspoon of salt. Add two tablespoons of lard, and work 
it in as for biscuit dough. Add three fourths cup of water, 
and shape into six dumplings. Place on top of meat stew, 
and boil twenty minutes. Some stews require less short- 
ening than others ; the amount used depends on the amount 
of fat on the meat used for the stew. 

Mufllns. (Mix as batter.) — Mix and sift together 
one and three fourths cups of flour, three teaspoons of bak- 
ing powder, one half teaspoon of salt, two tablespoons of 
sugar. Add one cup of milk, and press out all lumps. Add 
two well-beaten eggs and four tablespoons of melted butter. 
Beat until very light, bake in greased muflto pans twenty 
minutes in a hot oven. 

Blueberry Muffins. — Mix and sift together two cups 
of flour, three teaspoons of baking powder, one half tea- 
spoon of salt, two tablespoons of sugar. Add one cup of 
milk as in plain muffins, then add one egg well beaten, and 
one tablespoon of melted butter ; beat well. Lastly add 
one cup of blueberries. Bake thirty minutes in a hot 
oven. 



io8 



CEREALS AND LEAVENING AGENTS 



Com Meal Muflhis. — Mix and sift together one cup of 
flour, three fourths cup of com meal, one half teaspoon of 
soda, one half teaspoon of salt, add one cup of sour milk, 
one well-beaten egg, two tablespoons of melted butter, 
and beat well. Bake thirty minutes in a hot oven. 

Whole Wheat Muffins. — Use Whole Wheat instead of 
corn meal in the above recipe. 




Sorting Tea and Drying Coffee. 
(From Carpenter's How the World is Fed,) 



CHAPTER VII 

BEVERAGES AND PLANNING AND SERVING A 
BREAKFAST 

BEVERAGES 

Water. — Water is one of the five important classes of 
foods, and though it does not supply heat and energy to the 
body, it aids in all bodily processes and constitutes nearly 
three fourths of the weight of the body. Foods are from 
50 per cent to 90 per cent water. 

Some of the most important uses of water are: to 
dissolve foods so that they can be digested and absorbed, 
to carry away the waste matter, to regulate the tempera- 
ture of the body, and to enter into the composition of the 
blood, digestive fluids, and tissues. 

Two kinds of water are used for drinking purposes, — 
hard water, which contains lime that has been dissolved 
from limestone through which the water passes, and soft 
water. Other mineral substances are dissolved in water, 
and the famous mineral springs of our own country and 
Europe furnish mineral waters used for medicinal purposes. 

Water sometimes contains organic impurities. It is 
then a common carrier of disease germs. The germs of 
typhoid fever are carried in water, and the causes of epi- 
demics of the disease are universally traced to impure 
water and milk supply. The germs of several other 
diseases are also carried in water, and if, for any reason, 

109 



no BEVERAGES 

it is thought that the water supply is contaminated in any 
way, the water should be boiled for twenty minutes and 
then bottled and cooled for use. It is always best to boil 
water that is to be given to infants. In both cases, where the 
water supply is known to contain impurities, and when the 
water is to be given to infants, the precaution of boiling it 
first is a good application of the old adage, " an ounce of 
prevention is worth a pound of cure." 

Of all beverages, water is the best, and very few people 
drink enough of it. About four pints should be taken 
daily to equalize the loss through the excretory organs. A 
glass of hot water taken the first thing in the morning 
washes the mucus from the stomach and aids excretion. 
The two most common beverages served, tea and coflfee, 
have no food value, and if hot water could be used in place 
of them, the nervous system would be greatly benefited. 
Tea and cofifee are stimulants, and while they probably 
do no harm to grown people if taken in moderation, they 
are harmful to children. 

Cocoa and chocolate are foods, and when made with 
milk the food value is increased. Lemonade is a refresh- 
ing drink, and furnishes vegetable acids to the body. The 
same may be said of all fruit beverages made from fresh fruit. 

Coffee. — Use two level tablespoons of coffee for each 
cup of boiling water. Put the coffee in thie coffee pot 
and add enough cold water to moisten the coffee and make 
it stick together, about a teaspoon of water to each table- 
spoon of coffee. Pour the boiling water over the coffee, and 
let it boil for three minutes. Place it where it will be kept 
hot, but not boil, for five minutes more, and then serve. 

Tea. — Scald a porcelain, earthenware, or china teapot with 
boiling water to thoroughly heat the teapot, and then turn 



BEVERAGES iii 

the water out. Use a level teaspoon of green or black tea for 
each cup of water. Put the tea in the hot teapot. Pour 
boiling water over it, and let it stand two or three minutes, 
and then serve. Never let tea boil. Do not let it stand on 
the hot stove. Tea should be served as soon as it is made. 

Lemonade. — Wash the lemons thoroughly. Use one 
lemon for two glasses of lemonade. Cut the lemons in 
halves, squeeze the juice out with a lemon squeezer, and 
add three tablespoons of sugar to each lemon. Mix the 
lemon juice and sugar thoroughly; add some chopped ice 
and the cold water. Serve ice-cold. Some slices of lemon 
may be added for appearance and because the volatile 
oil in the skin adds to the flavor. 

Cocoa. — Mix one tablespoon of cocoa with one table- 
spoon of sugar, add one cup of boiling water gradually, and 
boil five minutes. Add one cup of milk, and let it come to 
the boiling point, and serve. Some tastes demand more 
sugar, but it may be added by each individual at the table. 

Chocolate. — Melt one square of chocolate slowly so as 
to prevent burning, add two tablespoons of sugar and mix 
together, add one cup of boiling water and boil three 
minutes, add one cup of milk, bring to the boiling point, 
and serve. 

Fruit Punch. (Recipe makes about 3 quarts of punch.) 
— Boil two cups of sugar and one quart of water fifteen 
minutes. Add one cup of orange juice, two cups of lemon 
juice, one half cup of grated pineapple, and dilute with one 
quart of iced water. 

Note to Teachers. — After pupils have learned to prepare fruits, 
cereals, hot breads, and beverages, some practice should be given in plan- 
ning, calculating the cost, and serving breakfasts, so that the work is unified 
and the pupils can practice and apply at home what is learned at school. 
CONLEY p. c. — 8 



112 PLANNING AND SERVING A BREAKFAST 

One of the hardest problems for the young housekeeper is to prepare 
several dishes so that they will all be in proper condition to serve at a given 
period of time. 

Breakfast may first be planned as part of a class exercise, and some day 
following, groups of two or three may prepare simple breakfasts. 

A lesson in table setting, serving, and table manners may be given in 
the regular classroom at the individual tables. After one or two lessons 
are given in the classroom, practice could be given in preparing and serv- 
ing breakfasts during the noon hour. 



SUGGESTIONS FOR PLANNING A BREAKFAST ^ 

A breakfast should consist of : — 
I. Fruit in some form, preferably fresh. 
II. Cereal, best from the whole of the grain, and cheapest 
if purchased unprepared for use. 

III. Some protein dish, as eggs, fish, hash, or a small 
quantity of meat. Unless eggs are very high in price, 
they are always better and cheaper than meat for 
breakfast. 

IV. Some form of bread, as toast, bread, muflins, biscuit, 
popovers, griddle cakes, rolls, etc. 

V. A hot drink, as coflfee or cocoa, if desired. 
The cost of food should not exceed eight cents per per- 
son, and the meal may be planned so that the cost will 
not exceed five cents per person. Fruits and eggs should 
be served in season, for then the prices are moderate. 
Uncooked breakfast foods cost less than half what prepared 
foods cost, and they may be cooked in the fireless cooker 
the day before, thus saving time in preparation. Dried 
fruits, as dates, figs, and prunes, may be chopped and added 
to the cereal. 

^ From Conley*s NutrUion and Diet, 



PLANNING AND SERVING A BREAKFAST 113 




A Breakfast Table. 

Toast, rolls, and griddle cakes take less time to prepare 
than muffins, popovers, and biscuits. 

A breakfast should not take more than thirty minutes 
to prepare. This should include laying the table and all 
preparatory work. 

SERVING A BREAKFAST 

MENU 

Muskmelon 

Cream of Wheat Cream and Sugar 

Ham and Eggs Bread and Butter 

Coflfee 

Time for Preparation 

12.00 Boil water for cereal. 

12.05 Put cereal on to cook. 

12.10 Lay table. 

12.15 Prepare melon and put in a cool place. 

12.20 Prepare ham and start to fry it. 



114 PLANNING AND SERVING A BREAKFAST 

12.25 Make coffee. 

12.28 Pour water and put butter on plate. 

12.30 Serve melon. 

12.35 Serve cereal. 

12.40 Serve ham and eggs, coffee and bread. 

1. 00 Clear table. 



Materials Needed 



3 melons. 

I recipe for Cream of Wheat. 

i pint of milk. 

§ pint of cream. 

I J pounds of ham. 



8 eggs. 

I loaf of bread. 

3 ounces butter. 

8 tablespoons (level) coffee. 

Loaf and granulated sugar. 



Materials tor Serving 



I silence cloth. 

I linen tablecloth. 

6 linen napkins. 

I large centerpiece — 2 small 

doilies. 
6 silver knives. 
6 silver butter spreaders. 
6 silver forks. 
18 silver teaspoons. 
I carving set. 
I tablespoon. 
I sugar tong. 
I sugar shelL 



6 water glasses — i water pitcher. 

6 cups and saucers. 

I creamer and 2 sugar bowls. 

6 service plates. 

6 fruit plates. 

6 bread and butter plates. 

6 breakfast plates. 

6 cereal dishes. 

I bread plate. 

I platter. 

3 salt and pepper shakers. 

I flower vase. 



Laying the Table 

Spread a heavy cover of felt or canton flannel over the 
table. Have it long enough so it extends over the sides, 
and allows for shrinkage when it is washed. This cloth 
is to protect the polished table from heat of dishes, to deaden 
the sounds, and to give body to the tablecloth. Spread 



PLANNING AND SERVING A BREAKFAST 115 

the linen tablecloth over this cover, so that the fold in the 
center of the tablecloth comes exactly in the center of the 
table, and so the cloth overhangs the same distance on each 
end. 

Place a centerpiece in the center of the table, and place 
on it a small growing plant, as a fern, or cut flowers, or, at 
breakfast, place the fruit dish there. 

When laying the table allow at least 25 inches for each 




The Cover. 
I, knife; 2, spoon; 3, water glass; 4, fork; 5, napkin; 6, bread and butter plate; 7, plate. 



" cover." By cover is meant the knives, forks, spoons, 
plate, napkin, and glasses needed for each person. 

Place the plate in the center of the cover. At the right 
of the plate, one half inch from the edge of the table, place 
the knives needed for the meal, having the cutting edge of 
the knife toward the plate, and knife which is to be used 
first, farthest from the plate. 

At the right of the knives place the spoons needed, bowls 



ii6 PLANNING AND SERVING A BREAKFAST 

upward. Place in order designated for the knives, the first 
to be used on the outside. 

At the left of the plate place the forks, tines upward. 
Place in same order as designated for the knives. 

Place napkin to the left of the fork. 

Place water glass at the point of the knife. 

Place individual bread and butter plate to the left of the 
fork above the napkin. 

Place carving knife and fork and serving spoons at the 
head of table, in front of the " cover." 

Place the service for tea or coflFee at the foot of the table, 
in front of the cover. CoflFee or tea service consists of 
cups, saucers, sugar bowl, and cream pitcher. 

Individual salt shakers or cellars may be placed in front 
of each plate. 

Waiting on Table 

Fill water glasses three fourths full, place butter on 
bread and butter plates, and cut bread one minute before 
the meal is ready to serve. 

All dishes from which a person helps himself are passed 
at the left side and low enough to be easily reached, as 
sauce, gravy, bread, etc. 

All dishes served in individual portions are placed from 
the right side, as coflFee, plates, etc. 

All dishes are removed from the right. 

Water glasses should be kept filled throughout the meal. 

Clearing the Table 

Remove the dishes containing unserved food first, then 
remove everything from each cover that pertains to that 



PLANNING AND SERVING A BREAKFAST 117 

course, then remove all clean silver, dishes, etc. Every- 
thing that pertains to one course is removed before another 
course is served. Do not pile dishes on tray. 

Remove two covers at one time, one in each hand until 
all are removed. 

Brush cnunbs from table before serving the dessert. 

ADDITIONAL BREAKFAST MENUS 

Oranges^ 
Pettijoha's Breakfast Food 

Popovers Omelet CoflFee 

Baked Apples 

Rolled Oats 

Bacon MuflSns Doughnuts 

CoflFee 

Stewed Prunes 

Shredded Wheat Biscuit 

Creamed Codfish Toast 

CoflFee 

Cream of Wheat and Chopped Dates 

Poached Eggs on Toast 

CoflFee 

Baked Pears 

Hominy Flakes 

Rolls CoflFee 



CHAPTER VIII 

CEREALS AND LEAVENING AGENTS (Continued) 

LEAVENING AGENT— YEAST 

Yeast is a tiny plant which thrives best in warm, moist 
atmosphere at a temperature of 70° to 90° F. Cold renders 
it inert, but does not destroy it, and when it is again put 
in a warm atmosphere it begins to grow. Boiling, or even 
a temperature of 170° F., destroys the plant. 

Yeast contains a ferment which feeds on the sugar in 
the flour and decomposes or breaks up the sugar in carbon 
dioxide (CO2), and alcohol. A small amount of sugar is 
found in flour. The ferment diastase which occurs in 
grains changes more starch to sugar during the fermenta- 
tion. Some sugar is added in bread making, though that 
is not necessary. 

The gluten in the flour has great expansive power, and 
in addition to its elasticity it is very tenacious. The car- 
bon dioxide gas forms in the dOugh, and the cohesiveness 
of the gluten holds it so that the whole mass becomes im- 
pregnated with gas and increases to several times its bulk. 
It is then said that the dough is light. 

Other ferments are present in the dough also, and under 
favorable conditions they become active. For this reason 
the dough must be watched and kneaded when it has be- 
come light, or the other ferments will act and produce sour 
bread. This is one reason why a temperature over 90° F. 
is not best for bread making. The undesirable ferments 

118 



CEREALS AND LEAVENING AGENTS 119 

thrive best at the higher temperature, and that produces 
a bread not as well flavored as bread raised at 70° to 
90^ F. 

When bread is made from milk, the milk is scalded, to 
destroy some bacteria which are present. Salt also delays 
the development of undesirable organisms, in addition to 
flavoring the bread. Salt was used in the old process 
called " salt raising '' that was in vogue before compressed 
yeast was made. The liquid to be used in bread making 
was exposed to the air so that the yeast germs would enter, 
and salt was used to retard the growth of the other organ- 
isms until the yeast started to develop. When froth or 
gas formed, it was a sign that the yeast was at work, and so 
the dough was prepared. 

Experiments with Yeast. — Mix some water and molasses, in pro- 
portion of ten parts water to one part molasses. Add a little com- 
pressed yeast to the mixture. 

1. Place one third of the mixture in a test tube and put it in a cold 
place and note whether there is a formation of gas. After several 
hours heat to a temperature of 90° F., and note result. 

2. Place one third of the mixture in another test tube and keep 
at a temperature of 70^-90° F., and note result. 

3. Place one third of the mixture in another test tube and boil 
the mixture and then place in a warm place and note whether gas 
forms. 

What conclusion can be drawn as to the best temperature for the 
development of yeast and for bread making? 

Experiments with Kinds of Yeast. — Mix one fourth cake of com- 
pressed yeast with one tablespoon of lukewarm water, add one half 
cup of lukewarm water, and beat in one cup of flour. Note the 
length of time that it takes the mixture to become light. 

Repeat the same experiment with one fourth dry yeast cake and 
note result. 



I20 CEREALS AND LEAVENING AGENTS 

Bread Judging 

Several points are to be noted in determining the essen- 
tial characteristics of a good loaf of bread. 

1. Shape and Size of Loaf. — A loaf should not be too 
large to bake evenly, and not so large that the slices are awk- 
ward to handle. The best-sized pan for baking is about 
lo inches long, 4 inches wide, and 5 inches high. The loaf 
should rise evenly, be sUghtly rounded in the middle, but of 
uniform height throughout. It should not spread over the 
side of the pan. This characteristic indicates that the bread 
was allowed to rise too long, or that the oven was too slow. 

2. Color of Crust and Crumb. — The crust should be a 
uniform golden brown, on top, bottom, and sides. The 
crumb should be of a creamy color and should have no dark 
spots or streaks. 

3. Flavor. — The bread should not taste of yeast and 
should have no suspicion of sourness either in smell or 
flavor. It should have a sweet nutty taste. 

4. Lightness, Texture, and Grain. — The bread should 
be uniformly light throughout. It should have fine uni- 
form pores and no large holes. 

5. Doughiness and Moisture. — A good loaf of bread 
should not be dry enough to crumble nor moist enough so 
that the crumb forms a ball when rolled. When a good 
loaf of bread is cut, the crumb should be soft enough so 
that when it is pressed with the finger it dents easily, but 
springs back readily to an even surface. 

To make good bread, good flour and fresh yeast should be 
used, and attention should be given to kneading, raising, 
baking, and care of the loaf after it is removed from the 
oven. No other food is as good as a good loaf of bread. 



CEREALS AND LEAVENING AGENTS 121 

Bread and Rolls 

Bread may be made in two ways, by setting a sponge 
and allowing it to rise overnight and then kneading it, or 
by kneading it to a dough immediately. By using a 
sponge, less yeast is required, as a longer time is allowed 
for the yeast to grow. On the other hand, the disadvan- 
tage of sponge dough is that when allowed to stand over 
night it may become chilled, because a temperature of 
70° F. cannot always be maintained, or it may become 
overripe and hence sour. 

Sponge is used for making rolls, muflins, etc., as the butter 
and eggs will mix more readily in sponge, and the result 
will be a lighter product. 

Bread. — Mix one cake of compressed yeast with four 
tablespoons of lukewarm water (98° F.). To two cups 
of lukewarm water or milk, or half milk and half water, 
add one level teaspoon of salt, one level tablespoon of 
sugar, one level tablespoon of lard, and the yeast. Stir 
in enough flour (about three cups) to make a batter, and 
beat until smooth and full of air bubbles. Then add three 
or four cups of flour, or enough to make a stiff dough, and 
knead thoroughly. Continue kneading until the dough 
does not stick to the hands or the board, until it rises quickly 
when indented with the hand, until it feels smooth, elastic, 
and spongy. When this is satisfactory, place the bread 
in a bowl or bread raiser. Keep it at a temperature of 
from 70° to 75°, and let it rise until it doubles its bulk, about 
three hours. Then take it from the bowl and shape into 
two loaves, using no more flour. Place the bread in pans, 
and let it rise until it has doubled its bulk (about one hour), 
and then bake it. When the bread is put into the oven, 



122 CEREALS AND LEAVENING AGENTS 

the heat should not be very great. The bread should 
continue to rise during the first fifteen minutes, because if 
the crust becomes too hard it prevents expansion and the 
bread will be heavy. After the first fifteen minutes the 
heat should be increased so that the bread will brown prop- 
erly, and during the last fifteen minutes it can be decreased 
again. Bread should be baked from 50 to 60 minutes. 
If a crisp crust is desired, do not cover the bread when it 
is taken from the oven. To glaze the loaves, rub them with 
a damp cloth before taking from the oven, and allow them 
to dry. 

Using milk instead of water in bread making adds to the 
nutritive value of the bread and makes a sweeter loaf. 

Bread Recipe 11. Sponge Dough. — To set sponge : 
Use one cake of yeast foam or one half cake of compressed 
yeast for two loaves of bread. Mix the yeast with four 
tablespoons of lukewarm water. Use two cups of luke- 
warm liquid, one level teaspoon of salt, one level tablespoon 
of -sugar, one level tablespoon of lard, and add the yeast. 
Stir in about three cups of flour, and beat until smooth and 
full of bubbles. Let stand at a temperature of about 70° 
until light. This may be set at night, and then in the morn- 
ing more flour is added and the bread is kneaded as in 
the previous recipe. 

Boston Brown Bread. — One cup of rye flour, one cup 
of corn meal, one cup of whole wheat flour, or (one and one 
half cups of graham flour and one and one half cups com 
meal), two level teaspoons of soda, two level teaspoons of 
salt, three fourths cup of molasses, one pint of sour milk. 
Sometimes a half cup of raisins is added. Mix and sift 
flour, meal, salt, soda ; add molasses and milk, and beat 
well. Place in a mold and steam three hours. 



CEREALS AND LEAVENING AGENTS 



123 




U.S. Department of Agriculture 

Office of Experiment Stations 

A. C. True-. Director 



Prepared by 
C. F. LAN6W0RTHY 
Expert in Charge of Notrition Investigations 



COiVlPOSITION OF FOOD MATERIALS. 



Protein Pat 

WHITE ftREAD 



Carbohydrates 



I, Fuel Value 
y\6 Sq.in.Equals 
1000 Calories 



Ash VVater 

WHOLE WHEAT BREAD 

Waten35.3 Water^^ 
Protein: 9? Proteln:9.7 



Fuel value: 



Carbo- Carbo _ 

hydrates: 53. 1 hydrates: ^9.7 

OAT 
BREAKFAST FOOD 

COOKED 




IISOcnoRifi water;84.5 

PERPOOMO 1 ^^ 

protein-. 2.8 

TOASTED BREAD 

Ash-.O 

FuFL 

-Water; 24.0 
Proteir^: 11.5 

Carbo^ 
hydratesi6l.2 





Fuel valuf: 



I I 1 CALORIES 
PER POUHO 

.Fat:0.5 

Carbohydrates: 11.5 

CORN BREAD 



Water: 38.9 
Protein: 7.9' 

Carbo- — '^'■'''^■■'vy .1 Ash-, 
hydrates :46.3 \zs2ZZZ2ZZ2^^ZZ 

Fuel value: 




I380CAL0RIES 
PER POUND 

Ash:' 1.3 
Carbo- 



MACARON 

COOKED 

Fat: 1.5^ Protein:3.0 .^\Nater:7&.^ 




I I 75 CALORIES 
PER POUND 



hydrates: 15.8 



FuelBH 

VALUE: ■ I PER POUND 



400 CALORIES 



Composition of Bread. 



124 



CEREALS AND LEAVENING AGENTS 



Coffee Cake. — One yeast cake dissolved in four table- 
spoons of cold or lukewarm water, one fourth cup of butter 
or lard, or half butter and half lard, one fourth cup of sugar, 
one half teaspoon of salt, one egg, one cup lukewarm milk 
or water. 

Put butter, sugar, salt, and milk into the mixing bowl ; 
stir until melted ; add yeast and one and one half cups of 
flour. Beat until smooth and full of bubbles; add the 
beaten egg and enough more flour to make a bread dough 
(about one and one half or two cups), and knead as for 
bread. Let it rise until double its bulk (about three hours). 
Take from the bowl and knead sUghtly, and roll with the 
rolling pin until it is about one inch thick. Place in a pan, 
and let it rise one hour. Brush the top with three table- 
spoons of melted butter, one fourth cup of sugar, one tea- 
spoon of cinnamon, and bake about twenty minutes. 

Swedish Rolls. — Use same recipe as for Coffee Cake. 
Roll out as for Coffee Cake ; brush the top with melted 
butter, sprinkle with sugar, cinnamon, and currants. Roll 
the dough and cut pieces one half inch thick. Place in 

pan until Ught, and bake 
one half hour. When 
baked, brush the top 
with equal parts of sugar 
and milk to glaze. 

Parker House Rolls. — 
Two cups of scalded 
sweet milk, four table- 
spoons of butter, four 

Parker House Rolls. tablespoons of sugar, one 

teaspoon of salt, one 
yeast cake dissolved in one fourth cup of water, whites of 




CEREALS AND LEAVENING AGENTS 125 

two eggs. Add butter, sugar, and salt to milk ; when luke- 
warm, add yeast and three cups of flour. Beat thoroughly, 
add egg whites, and finally add flour to knead. Let rise. 
Toss on board and knead and roll out one third inch thick. 
Shape with a biscuit cutter dipped in flour. Dip the handle 
of case knife in flour. Crease middle. Brush over one 
half with melted butter. Fold and press the edges to- 
gether. Place in greased pan one inch apart. Bake twelve 
to fifteen minutes. 

Pies 

Pie crust is made from flour, salt, shortening, and a 
very small amount of water. As it contains no leavening 
agent, it needs only enough water to hold the particles of 
flour together. It is made by the same method that 
biscuits are made. The shortening is cut in with a fork, 
though some prefer the method of using two knives and 
chopping it in. Shortening should never be worked in 
with the hands, because the heat of the hand melts or softens 
the shortening. 

Pie Crust. — Mix and sift together one cup of flour, one 
fourth teaspoon of salt. Add six tablespoons of lard, and 
work it in thoroughly with the fork so that the lard sur- 
rounds the particles of flour and separates them. When 
well mixed so that the flour is flaky, add about one and 
one half tablespoons of water, just enough to moisten the 
flour so that it can be rolled, divide the crust into two 
parts, and roll thin. 

Apple Pie. — Line a greased pie plate with crust. Pare 
and core four or five apples and cut them in very thin 
slices. Place them on the pie plate about one fourth inch 
from edge, till the center slightly rounds. Sprinkle one 



126 CEREALS AND LEAVENING AGENTS 

third cup of sugar over the apples, and nutmeg or cinnamon 
to taste. Roll out the upper crust, and cut small gashes 
in it so as to allow the steam to escape. Press the two 
crusts together with a fork or pastry jagger. Place the 
pie in a hot oven for five or ten minutes so that the crust 
will set, then reduce the heat and bake in a moderate oven 
thirty-five to forty minutes. The baking is done in a 
moderate oven so that the heat will reach the apples. 

Lemon Pie. — Line a plate with crust and have it extend 
one half inch above the edge so as to hold the filling in place. 
Pierce the bottom of the crust with a fork, place the crust 
in the oven, and bake until slightly brown. Piercing the 
crust with a fork prevents it from warping in the oven. 

Filling. — Mix three tablespoons of cornstarch and one 
cup of sugar. Add one cup of boiUng water ; mix well and 
boil five minutes, stirring constantly. Remove from the 
fire ; add one tablespoon of butter, the juice of one lemon, 
and yolks of two eggs beaten and blended with a tablespoon 
of the cooked cornstarch mixture. Place the filling in the 
crust, return to the oven, and bake until the filling boils 
or bubbles. Beat the whites of two eggs stiff and dry; 
add four tablespoons of sugar and a few drops of lemon 
juice. Spread over the pie and bake until the egg is 
slightly brown. 

Pumpkin Pie. — Line a plate with crust and have it 
extend one half inch above the edge of the plate. Mix 
one cup of pumpkin, one and one fourth cups of milk, one 
third cup of sugar, two tablespoons of molasses, two well- 
beaten eggs, one fourth teaspoon of ginger, one fourth 
teaspoon of cinnamon. Fill the crust with the filling, and 
bake thirty-five to forty minutes, or until the filling is 
firm, Uke custard. 



CEREALS AND LEAVENING AGENTS 127 

Rhubarb Pie. — Mix one cup of sugar, two and one 
fourth tablespoons of flour, and one well-beaten egg. 
Add two cups of rhubarb cut in small pieces, and mix well. 
Bake with two crusts as for apple pie. 

Cookies 

Sugar Cookies. — Cream one half cup of shortening, 
add one cup of sugar gradually, then add two eggs well 
beaten, and one half cup of sour milk ; add three cups of 
flour, one fourth teaspoon of soda, one half teaspoon of 
salt, one fourth teaspoon of nutmeg, sifted together, and 
one half teaspoon of vanilla. Roll out one fourth inch 
thick, cut, and bake in a hot oven. 

Molasses Cookies, Crisp. — Scald one cup of molasses, 
remove from the fire, and add one half cup of lard, one half 
cup of sugar^ one teaspoon of ginger, one fourth teaspoon 
of salt. Let the mixture stand until cool, then add one 
fourth cup of water. Sift one half teaspoon of soda in 
about four cups of flour, and add gradually. Roll one 
eighth inch thick, cut, and bake in a moderate oven. 

Molasses Cookies, Soft. — Mix one cup of molasses, 
three fourths cup of shortening, one cup of boiUng water. 
Place the mixture on the stove, and let it come to the boil- 
ing point. Cool slightly ; add one egg well beaten, four 
cups of flour, one half teaspoon of soda, four teaspoons of 
ginger, two teaspoons of cinnamon, one half teaspoon of 
cloves, sifted together. Mix thoroughly. Drop by table- 
spoons, one inch apart, on a greased pan. Bake in a hot 
oven. 

Oatmeal Cookies. — Cream one cup of shortening; grad- 
ually add one cup of sugar, then add two eggs well beaten, 
and four tablespoons of sour milk. Sift together two and 

CONLEY P. C. — O 



128 CEREALS AND LEAVENING AGENTS 

one half cups of flour, one teaspoon of cinnamon, one half 
teaspoon of soda, one fourth teaspoon of salt, and add 
gradually. When thoroughly mixed, add one teaspoon 
of vanilla, two cups of raw oatmeal, and one cup of currants. 
Roll out one eighth inch thick, cut in squares, and bake in 
a hot oven. 

Chocolate Cookies. — Cream one half cup of shortening, 
add gradually one cup of sugar, then two ounces of melted 
chocolate, and one egg well beaten. Mix thoroughly, 
and add one fourth cup of milk, one teaspoon of vanilla, 
two and one fourth cups of flour, three teaspoons of bak- 
ing powder, and one fourth teaspoon of salt, sifted to- 
gether. Roll out thin, cut, and bake in a moderate oven. 

Cakes 

All cakes are grouped into two general classes, — those 
made with butter or some kind of shortening, and those 
made without shortening, as sponge, angel, or sunshine 
cakes. 

The directions for mixing butter cakes are practically 
the same for every case. Grease and flour the cake pans, 
and prepare the oven. Measure all dry ingredients first, 
and sift the flour, salt, baking powder, or soda, and spices 
together. Flour raisins or currants, if they are to be used. 
Beat the eggs, beating the yolks and whites together, im- 
less the directions call for the whites and yolks beaten 
separately. In that case beat the yolks until smooth and 
thick, and the whites until they are so dry that the bowl 
in which they are beaten may be turned upside down with- 
out danger of loss of eggs. 

When all is in readiness, cream the shortening ; this is 
done by working it against the side of the bowl with the 



CEREALS AND LEAVENING AGENTS 129 

mixing spoon until it is soft as cream. Add the sugar 
gradually, and work it into the shortening until it is par- 
tially dissolved. Add the beaten eggs and beat the mixture 
thoroughly so that sugar, shortening, and eggs are per- 
fectly blended. Add the milk and flour alternately so as 
to keep the same consistency throughout the process. 




Cake Making. 

Never stir a cake after the eggs are added, because stir- 
ring breaks the air bubbles. The cake should be beaten, 
using long strokes of the spoon and going through the 
batter to inclose as much air as possible. During baking, 
watch the oven carefully. If the oven is too hot, the cake 
will not rise sufficiently. Small cakes demand a hot oven, 
large cakes a moderate oven, as in the latter case the heat 
must be slow enough to penetrate to the center of the 
cake. 

A good cake is slightly rounded, smooth, and an even 
brown all over. If it cracks, it contains too much flour, or 



I30 CEREALS AND LEAVENING AGENTS 

it has baked too fast. The grain should be fine and uni- 
form throughout. 

When a cake is baked, it shrinks from the sides of the pan, 
it is firm on top, when touched with the finger, or, if a clean 
straw is inserted, it comes out dry. 

A great variety of cakes may be made from the recipe 
for Plain Cake by adding spices, nuts, raisins; chocolate 
or other fillings, and frostings. A cake should never con- 
tain more than half as much shortening as sugar. It 
should contain less than half as much milk as flour. If 
more than two eggs are used in a cake, less baking powder 
will be required than for a two-egg cake. Too much bak- 
ing powder makes a cake dry and crumbly. 

Plain Cake. — Cream four tablespoons of butter, or some 
other shortening ; add one ciip of sugar, two eggs well beaten, 
one half cup of milk, and one and one half cups of flour, one 
fourth teaspoon of salt, three teaspoons of baking powder 
sifted together, and one half teaspoon of vanilla. Mix ac- 
cording to directions given. Cover with chocolate frosting. 

Spice Cake. — Cream one cup of butter ; add two cups 
of brown sugar, and yolks of four eggs ; beat well. Add 
one cup of milk and two and one half cups of flour, one tea- 
spoon of cloves, one teaspoon of nutmeg, one teaspoon of 
cinnamon, and three teaspoons of baking powder. When 
thoroughly mixed, carefully add the beaten whites of four 
eggs, and bake in layers. Put chocolate frosting between 
the layers and on top. 

Chocolate Frosting. — Melt two ounces of chocolate ; 
add one cup of sugar, five tablespoons of milk, yolk of one 
egg, and mix thoroughly. Boil until it thickens, stirring 
constantly. Remove from fire, add one teaspoon of va- 
nilla, and stir until thick enough to spread. 



CEREALS AND LEAVENING AGENTS 



131 



White Frosting. — Mix one cup of sugar and five table- 
spoons of cold water, and boil slowly without stirring. 
As soon as it begins to boil, add one eighth teaspoon cream 
of tartar to invert the sugar. Boil until it forms a soft 
ball when dropped into cold water or until it threads 
when dropped from a spoon. Beat an egg white until 
stiff and dry. Gradually pour the sirup over it, stirring 
constantly so as not to cook the egg in flakes. Add 




White Frosted Cake, Decorated. 

one half teaspoon of vanilla, and stir until thick enough 
to spread. 

Orange Cake. — Cream five tablespoons of butter ; add 
one cup of sugar, grated rind of one orange, three eggs, 
one half cup of milk, one and three fourths cups of flour, 
three teaspoons of baking powder, one fourth teaspoon of 
salt. Mix as in plain cake. Frost with White Frosting. 



132 CEREALS AND LEAVENING AGENTS 

The cake may be baked in layers and then cut into squares 
or diamond shapes and frosted all over. 

Nut Cake. — Cream six tablespoons of butter ; add one 
cup of sugar, three eggs, one half cup of milk, one and three 
fourths cups of flour, two and one half teaspoons of baking 
powder, one fourth teaspoon of salt, one half teaspoon of 
vanilla. Lastly add three fourths cup of chopped nut 
meats. Mix as for Plain Cake. 

Spanish Buns. — Cream one half cup of butter; add one 
and one half cups of sugar, three eggs, one cup of sour milk, 
two and one half cups of flour, one teaspoon of cinnamon, 
one teaspoon of cloves, one half teaspoon of soda, and one 
cup of raisins. Mix as for butter cake. Bake in muffin 
pans. 

Golden Cake. — Cream one half cup of butter ; add one 
cup of sugar, yolks of ten eggs, one and three fourths cups 
of flour, three teaspoons of baking powder, one fourth 
teaspoon of salt, one half cup of milk, and one half tea- 
spoon of flavoring. Mix as for Plain Cake. May be baked 
in muflSn pans for small cakes and frosted, or baked as a 
loaf cake. 

Sponge Cake. — Beat the yolks of six eggs imtil thick ; 
add one cup of sugar gradually, and continue beating with 
the egg beater. Add one tablespoon of lemon juice or 
one teaspoon of lemon extract. Beat the whites of six 
eggs until stiff and dry. Mix the whites and yolks, and 
when partially mixed cut and fold in one cup of flour and 
one fourth teaspoon of salt. Bake in an unbuttered pan, 
in a slow oven, one hour. 

Angel Cake. — Beat one and one fourth cup of egg 
whites until frothy, add one teaspoon of cream tartar and 
continue beating until the eggs are stiff and dry. Grad- 



CEREALS AND LEAVENING AGENTS 133 

ually add one and one half cups of rolled and sifted sugar. 
Sift one cup of flour and one fourth teaspoon of salt 
four times, and add it to the eggs, being careful not to 
mix it more than is necessary. Add on^ teaspoon of 
vanilla. Bake forty to forty-five minutes in an unbuttered 
angel cake pan. 

Jelly Roll. — : Beat three eggs until light, add one half 
cup of sugar, one half cup of flour, one half teaspoon of 
baking powder, one eighth teaspoon of salt, and one half 
teaspoon of vanilla. Beat well. Bake in a slow oven in 
a pan the bottom of which is lined with greased paper. 
When baked, turn bottom side up on a paper sprinkled 
with powdered sugar. Remove the paper from the bottom 
of the cake. Spread the cake with jelly and roll. 

Chocolate Cake. — Cream six tablespoons of butter, add 
one cup of sugar and mix thoroughly, add two ounces of 
melted chocolate and two eggs well beaten. Add, alter- 
nately, two thirds of a cup of milk and one and one half 
cups of flour, three teaspoons of baking powder, and one 
fourth teaspoon of salt sifted together. Add one half 
teaspoon of vanilla. Bake in a moderate oven, in a shallow 
pan, about thirty-five minutes. Frost with chocolate 
frosting. 

Crispettes. — Beat two eggs thoroughly, add one cup of 
brown sugar, sifted with six tablespoons of flour and one 
eighth teaspoon of salt. Beat thoroughly. Add one cup 
of chopped nuts. Drop by spoonfuls, about three inches 
apart, on greased paper, and bake in a hot oven. 



CHAPTER DC 

LEGUMES AND FRYING LESSONS 

LEGUMES 

Peas, beans, lentils, and peanuts belong to the family 
called legumes. These growing plants have little nodules 
at their roots, which contain bacteria that have the power to 
take nitrogen from the air and put it in a form available for 
food for man and animals. 

Nitrogen occurs in protein foods only, and proteins are, 
generally speaking, the most expensive and the most impor- 
tant foods. Legumes are a cheap food, and they contain 
so much protein that they rank with meat, fish, cheese, 
and eggs as tissue-building foods. 

Legmnes should be classed in two distinct classes: the 
fresh form, such as string beans, green peas, and fresh lima 
beans; and the dried beans and peas. Those in the first 
class rank little higher than green vegetables in nutritive 
value, because they are picked long before the seeds have 
reached maturity. The dried forms have been allowed to 
ripen until the seeds have stored enough nutrition to 
nourish the germ of the new plant when it begins to sprout. 
For use as a food they are then thoroughly dried and may 
be kept for an indefinite period of time. When they are to 
be used, they must be soaked in cold water for several hours 
or overnight to restore some of the moisture. 

Dried legumes contain from 18-25 P^^ cent protein; 
from 59-66 per cent carbohydrate in the form of starch and 

134 



LEGUMES 135 

cellulose, the cellulose reaching as high as 4^ per cent in 
dried peas. With the exception of peanuts they contain 
scarcely any fat, and must be served with butter or cooked 
with pork for flavor and to make them a better balanced 
food. 

The legumes require long, slow cooking because the starch 
and protein are stored in cells surrounded by thick walls of 
cellulose, and it requires long cooking to soften the walls and 
free the starch and protein. One reason why the process 
is so long is because beans and peas are ordinarily cooked 
whole, and, as they are compact, only long, slow cooking will 
soften them. If the skin were removed and the legumes 
ground into a powder, the cooking process could be 
shortened. 

Legumes are a cheap, wholesome, and highly nutritious 
food, and should often serve as a substitute for meat in the 
diet. A portion of lentil, pea, or bean soup served with 
bread or crackers forms a perfectly balanced meal and has 
the advantage of being an economical one. Too little 
attention is paid to the methods of preparing and serving 
the legimies, for they should be considered important foods, 
and they are almost universally liked. 

Boston Baked Beans. — Wash one quart of navy beans, 
cover with cold water, and let them soak over night. Drain 
off the water, cover with fresh boiling water, and let them 
cook slowly until the skins begin to burst. Add one tea- 
spoon of soda, stir well, and boil for two minutes. Drain 
off the water and rinse the beans well with fresh boiling 
water. Cut one half pound of fat salt pork in one half inch 
slices. Mix one tablespoon of mustard, one tablespoon of 
salt, two tablespoons of molasses, two tablespoons of sugar, 
with one cup of boiling water. Place beans in the bean pot, 



136 LEGUMES 

distribute the pieces of pork through the pot, pour the 
liquid over the beans, add enough boiling water to com- 
pletely cover the beans, put on the cover, place pot in a slow 
oven and cook from six to eight hours. Add water so that 
the beans are kept covered with it. Cook uncovered during 
the last hour. Beans may be started in the fireless cooker 
and cooked overnight. They should be placed in the oven 
about four hours before they are to be used, and cooked 
slowly. Some cooking in the oven is necessary to bring 
out the flavor. If the fireless cooker has a soapstone plate, 
oven cooking is not necessary. 

Lima Beans. — Soak one pint of lima beans over night. 
Cover with salted boiling water, and cook slowly until soft. 
Add only enough water to prevent burning; season with 
salt, pepper, and butter. 

Salted Peanuts. — Remove shells and skins from raw 
peanuts. Put lard, butter, or olive oil, preferably the latter, 
in a pan on the stove. When melted, add peanuts and stir 
constantly so that they will brown on both sides. Remove 
from fat and drain on soft paper; sprinkle with salt. 
Olive oil or lard is better than butter, because butter bums 
so readily. 

Lentil Soup. — Wash one cup of lentils, cover with cold 
water, and soak over night. Drain ; cook in two quarts of 
water until soft (about two hours) ; add one bay leaf, one 
half teaspoon of salt, one fourth teaspoon pepper. Press 
through a colander and sieve. Add two tablespoons of 
flour, two tablespoons of butter, one grated onion, pre- 
pared as for White Sauce. Boil three minutes. 

Succotash. — Soak lima beans or red kidney beans over 
night. Cook until soft (about two hours) ; ten minutes 
before they are ready to serve, add one can of corn, season 



PRYING LESSONS 137 

with three tablespoons of butter, one half teaspoon of salt, 
one eighth teaspoon of pepper. Stir constantly. During 
the summer season when green corn is plentiful and beans 
are fresh, succotash may be prepared from Uma or kidney 
beans and corn cut from the cob. Follow directions given 
above. 

Note. — In the lessons on legumes, much time is consimied in the long 
slow cooking, during which there is but little work to be done in class. For 
this reason the frying lessons are added, and one may be given with each 
lesson on legumes. For Rules for Fr3ring, see page 46. 

FRYING LESSONS 

Doughnuts. — Mix one cup sour milk with one cup sugar, 
and let stand for 5 or 10 minutes. Add two eggs well 
beaten; add one cup flour, one fourth teaspoon salt, one 
half teaspoon soda, one fourth teaspoon nutmeg, sifted 
together ; add three tablespoons melted butter and one half 
teaspoon vanilla, and beat until smooth. Add enough 
more flour to make a soft dough. Roll out one half inch 
thick, cut with a doughnut cutter, and fry in deep fat. 

Fritters. — Mix and sift together one and one half cups 
flour, one fourth teaspoon salt, three teaspoons baking 
powder. Add three fourths cup milk and one egg well 
beaten. Beat very Ught. Drop sUces of tart apple one 
fourth inch thick into the batter, and stir until the batter 
covers the apple. Drop the pieces of apple into hot fat, 
and fry until brown. 

Croquettes. Meat or Fish. — Melt three tablespoons 
butter; add one third cup flour and rub together until 
blended. Add one cup milk and cook until thick. Add one 
teaspoon chopped onion, one teaspoon salt, one eighth tea- 
spoon pepper, and two cups cold chopped meat or flaked 



138 FRYING LESSONS 

fish. Mix thoroughly and cool. Shape into cones or 
balls, dip in beaten eggs, roll in grated bread or cracker 
crumbs, and fry in deep fat. 

Com Fritters. — Mix and sift together one cup flour, two 
teaspoons baking powder, one half teaspoon salt, one fourth 
teaspoon pepper. Add two eggs well beaten, one third 
cup milk. Beat until smooth; add one half cup canned 
corn. Drop by spoonfuls in deep fat, and fry. 

Com Oysters. — Beat two eggs until light ; add one can 
corn, two tablespoons melted butter, and one half cup flour, 
one teaspoon baking powder and one fourth teaspoon salt 
sifted together. Mix well. Drop spoonfuls on hot griddle 
or frying pan, and fry as for griddle cakes. 

Bacon and Com. — Cut one half pound of bacon in inch 
pieces, fry until brown. Turn off nearly all of the fat from 
the frying pan. Add one can of corn and cook five minutes, 
stirring constantly. Season with one teaspoon of salt and 
one eighth teaspoon of pepper and serve immediately. 



CHAPTER X 
EGGS. PLANNING A LUNCHEON 

Eggs rank with meat and fish as important tissue-building 
foods. They are more nutritious than meat because they 
contain more kinds of protein and more mineral matter, 
and for this reason and because they are easily digested, 
they are served to the sick and convalescing so that they 
may gain strength and weight. 

Eggs when freed from the shell contain 73.7 per cent 
water, 14.8 per cent protein, 10.5 per cent fat, and i per cent 
mineral matter. Because of the high percentage of pro- 
tein, they should be eaten with carbohydrate foods. Eggs 
are valuable foods in themselves, but no other food except 
flour has so many uses in cooking. 

Experiments. 

For Freshness, — Roll a piece of paper until it is the diameter of 
an egg. Put the egg in one end. Hold the other end to the eye 
and face the light. If the egg looks clear, it is fresh ; if cloudy, it 
is stale. 

Place the egg in cold water. If it sinks, it is fresh. 

For Kind of Protein. — Note the effect of cold water on the white. 
Albimiin is soluble in cold water. 

Bring the water to a boiling point, and note the effect on the 
albumin. Heat coagulates albtmiin. 

Boil an egg and let it stand thirty minutes. Separate the white and 
yolk ; note the dark color on the outside of the yolk. What mineral 
present ? 

139 



I40 



EGGS 



U.S. Otptrtmcnt ot Agriculture 9r9p»ttd by 

Office of Eiperimtnt Stltions C. F. I^NQWORTHY 

A C True: Director Export in Charge of Nutrition Investigations 

COMPOSITION OF FOOD MATERIALS 

I Fuel Value 
VcSq.ln.Cquaia 
1000 Coiorie» 



Protein Fat Cerbohydroteb 

WHOLE EGO 




Protein 

I +.8 
Fat: 10 

Ash: 1.0 
fun VM.UC 0^ 

WHOLE E6«t 

n 

605 CALORIES 
PCA POUND 



CREAM CHEESE 

Wfiter 3*2^ 



Afth 

(YOLK) 
Water!49.5 
Protein: 16. 1 

Fat: 33.3 
Ash: I.I 



FutL VALUe Of YOLK: 



1 650 CALORIES 
PER POUND 



Water ^H 

EGG 

WHITE AND YOIK 




(white) 
Water 86 i 



Protein: 13.0 

at: 0.2 
Ash: 0.6 

FufL VA LUE OF white: 

C 

?45 CALORIES 
PER POUND 



COTTAGE CHEESE 




Prote.-i:25.9W«*r-'^0 



Carbo- 
h:^cJrateft: 2.4 




Protein: 20.9 



CarbO' "-- — ;> ^p]^ — Fat. 1.0 
hydrates: 4 3 ^^^^^k^^^j^. ,3 

Ftiei VALUE; 



495 CALORIES PER PDIMO 



Composition of Eggs and Cheese. 



EGGS 141 

USES OF EGGS 

1. Eggs are a tissue-building food and serve as a sub- 
stitute for meat. They are easily digested, easily prepared 
and served, and are almost universally liked. 

2. Eggs have many uses in cooking. Foods are dipped in 
egg before they are fried because the heat coagulates the 
albumin in the egg, and it forms a crust over the food so 
that juices and flavor are retained and the fat is prevented 
from soaking into the food. 

3. Eggs are blended with a liquid such as milk, and the 
whole mass is thickened and becomes smooth and velvety, 
as in the making of custards. 

4. Eggs hold particles of flour together so that hollow 
shells are formed, as in the making of popovers. 

5. When the yolks and whites are beaten separately, eggs 
make foods Ught and fluffy, as in the making of omelet and 
sponge cake. 

6. Eggs are used as a garnish for foods, as salads, soups, etc. 

7. Eggs are used to clear or clarify, as in coffee making 
and the clearing of soups. 

When eggs are used to hold particles of flour together, or 
as a thickening agent, or to form a crust over foods, they 
should not be beaten, but the yolk and white should be well 
blended. When they are used to make foods light, as in 
cake making, omelets, etc., they should be beaten so as to 
inclose as much air as possible. It is the expansion of the 
inclosed air and then the hardening of the protein wall that 
makes the cake light. As the albumin in egg coagulates at 
about 160° F., and as stronger heat tends to make the mix- 
ture tough, all egg dishes should be cooked at as low a 
temperature as possible. 



142 EGGS 

Baked Cup Custard. — Beat two large or three small eggs 
slightly with a fork, just enough to blend the yolks and 
whites. Add four tablespoons of sugar, a speck of salt, one 
pint of milk, and one half teaspoon of vanilla. Mix well and 
turn into custard cups, then grate nutmeg over the top. 
Set the cups in a pan of boiling water, set the pan in the 
oven, and bake the custard at a moderate temperature 
until it is firm. Test with a knife. If, after the knife is 
inserted, it comes out clean, the custard is done. If the 
knife is coated with milk, the custard has not thickened 
sufficiently. 

Baked Caramel Custard. — Melt one half cup of sugar 
to a sirup, stirring constantly to prevent burning. When 
the sugar is a Kght brown sirup, gradually add two cups of 
milk, and stir until the sugar is melted. Add three eggs 
sUghtly beaten, one fourth teaspoon salt, one half teaspoon 
vanilla. Bake as for Cup Custard. 

Soft Custard. — Beat two eggs enough to blend yolk and 
white ; add six tablespoons of sugar, a speck of salt, two cups 
of milk, and flavor with nutmeg. Cook in a double boiler, 
stirring constantly, until the custard coats the spoon. 
Add one teaspoon of vanilla. If the custard is cooked too 
long, it will curdle. It must be removed from the fire as 
soon as it begins to thicken. Serve cold. 

Boiled Eggs. — Pour boihng water into a stewpan and 
place it over the fire and make sure that the water is actually 
boiling. Put eggs into the water, and let them remain over 
the fire for a few seconds. Cover the stewpan and place 
it where the water will not lose too much heat, but where it 
will not boil, — for 6 to 8 minutes for a " soft-boiled egg," or 
2o to 30 minutes for " hard-boiled." Eggs may be placed in 
cold water and brought to the boiUng point. When the 



EGGS 



143 



water boils, the eggs are " soft-boiled." They may be boiled 
five minutes longer for a hard-boiled egg. 

Scrambled Eggs. — Beat six eggs slightly, until whites 
and yolks are blended ; add one half cup of milk or water, 
and one fourth teaspoon of salt. Put two tablespoons of 
butter into the omelet pan, and heat imtil the butter is 
melted. Turn in the egg mixture, and cook at a low tem- 
perature until creamy, scraping the cooked portion from the 
side of the pan so the imcooked part will reach the bottom. 
Remove from the pan, and serve immediately. Chopped 
ham or bacon or cheese may be added to scrambled eggs 
just before they are removed from the pan. 

Omelet. — (See p. 98.) 

Poached Eggs. — Have a frjdng pan half full of boiling 
water, and add one half 
teaspoon of salt. Break 
the eggs, one at a time, 
into a cup, and carefully 
slip them into the water. 
Let them remain in the 
water until cooked as de- 
sired. Lift them out 
carefully with a skimmer, 
and serve on buttered 
toast. A pan, specially devised for poaching eggs, is shown 
in the illustration. 

French Toast. — Beat two eggs until yolks and whites 
are blended; add one half cup of milk, two tablespoons of 
sugar, one fourth teaspoon of salt. Mix well and turn into 
a shallow pan. Dip sUces of bread into the mixture, and 
fry on one side as for pancakes imtil brown; turn and 
brown the other side. 

CONLEY p. C. — 10 




Poached Eggs. 



144 



EGGS 



Deviled Eggs. — Cook eggs until hard boiled. Pour 
cold water over to cool rapidly and prevent discoloring. 
Remove the shells and cut in halves crosswise. Remove 
the yolks and mash them with a fork. For four eggs mix 
one fourth teaspoon of mustard, one fourth teaspoon of 
salt, one eighth teaspoon of pepper, with two teaspoons of 
melted butter. Add the yolks, and mix well. Fill the 
whites with the mixture. 

Bacon and Fried Eggs. — Cook bacon imtil crisp, remove 
from the frying pan, and turn the eggs one at a time into 
the hot fat. When the whites are firm and the yolks coated 
with a film, remove the eggs carefully, and serve at once. 
Eggs are sometimes turned and fried on both sides, but they 
should not be fried brown, because that indicates that they 
are cooked at too high a temperature. Eggs are frequently 
fried with ham in the same manner as with bacon. 




A Luncheon Table. 



LUNCHEON I4S 

PLANNING AND SERVING A LUNCHEON 

Pupils have had enough variety in foods so that they are 
prepared to plan and serve a luncheon, following the plan 
suggested for serving breakfasts. 

Luncheon may Consist of the Following Courses: — 

1. A Cheese Dish i. Salad or Cream Soup 

2. Potato Bread 2. Potato Bread 

3. Sauce Cake Beverage 3. Sauce Cake Beverage 

SUGGESTED MENUS 

I 

Macaroni and Cheese 

Potato Chips Bread 

Berries Chocolate Cake 

Tea 

2 

Cream of Pea Soup 

Croutons Bread 

Baked Apples and Cream Gingerbread 

Tea 

3 

Deviled Eggs Creamed Potatoes 

Mufl&ns 

Stewed Apricots Rocks 

Cocoa 



CHAPTER XI 
MILK AND ITS PRODUCTS 

MILK 

Milk contains 87 per cent water, 3.3 per cent protein, 
4 per cent fat, 5 per cent carbohydrates, .7 per cent mineral 
matter. It is a perfect food for the young calf, because it 
contains all the elements needed for its nourishment up to a 
certain stage of its growth. The milk of all animals differs 
sUghtly in composition, so the milk of one mammal is not 
a perfect food for others. Cow's milk must have the pro- 
tein diluted, and sugar added, to make it a perfect food for 
the human infant. 

Milk is not a perfect food for an adult because it contains 
too much water, not enough carbohydrate in proportion to 
its protein, and no cellulose or waste matter. It must be 
eaten with bulky foods. 

The most important constituent in milk is protein. The 
protein is in the form of albumin, casein, and compound 
proteins. Heat coagulates the albumin, and it comes to the 
top of boiled milk in the form of a thin skin. The casein is 
not coagulated by heat, but by the ferment rennin, and it is 
precipitated by the presence of lactic acid during the sour- 
ing of milk. The fat occurs in minute globules. When 
milk stands for a time, these globules rise to the surface 
and form cream. Each globule is surrounded by an albu- 
minous covering, and when the cream is churned the cover- 

146 



MILK AND ITS PRODUCTS 



147 



Prepared by 

C. P. UNGWORTHY 

Expert in Clurgc of Nutrition Invesligelions 

COMPOSITION OF FOOD MATERIALS. 



U. S. Department of Agriculture 

Office of Experiment Stations 

A. C. True: Director 



ftrotcin 



Fat Carbohydrates Ash 



Fuel Valut 

XsSq.ln.Equals 

1000 Calories 



WHOLE MILK 



SKIM MILK 



Fat:4.0 
A8h:0.; 




e- Water 87 



rotcln:3.3 Fat: 0.3 




Water: 90.5 



Protein 34 



Ash: 07- 
Carbohydrates:9.0 Carbohydrates:^ I 

c 

FuCL VALUE: 315 CALD«ICS PER POUND 



C 



BUTTERMILK 



Fuel value: 165 calories ptdkhjiio 



CREAM 



Fat: 0.5 
Ash: 0.7 




Carbohydrates: 4.6 

o 

Fua VALUE: 160 CALORIES PER TOMD 



^Water 910 

Protein: 3.0 Fat: 18,5 
Ash: 0.5 




Water: 74.0 
Protein: 2.5 



Carbohydrates: 4.5 

■ 

Fuel value: 880 calories pcr ^urp 



Composition of Milk. 



148 MILK AND ITS PRODUCTS 

ing is broken, and the fat and protein separate. The fat is 
called butter and the remainder buttermilk. Buttermilk 
contains 91 per cent water, 3 per cent protein, .5 per cent 
fat, 4.8 per cent carbohydrate, .7 per cent mineral matter, 
and is a very digestible protein food. Butter is the most 
easily digested form of fat known. The sugar in milk is 
called lactose. It is added to cow's milk for infant feeding, 
as it does not ferment as- readily as does cane sugar. 

Experiments with Milk to find Composition. 

1. Boil some milk. The skin which rises to the surface is albu- 
min. It is like white of egg, and like the substance that rises to the 
surface of water when potatoes are boiled ; also like the brown scum 
which forms when meat is boiled. 

2. Add rennet to lukewarm milk. Casein is coagulated. Stir 
with a spoon, and the casein, entangling the fat, separates from the 
whey. The whey contains most of the sugar and mineral matter. 

Add acid, as vinegar or lemon juice to milk, or allow it to sour. 
The casein is precipitated by the presence of the acid. 

3. Test a sample of milk for starch with solution of iodine. 

4. Drop milk on paper, and note the presence of fat. 

5. Slowly turn out the contents from a bottle of milk, and note 
whether there is dirt or sediment in the bottom, or in the last portion 
of milk. If so, it shows that the milk is insanitary and not ht to 
use. This condition should be reported to the State Dairy and Food 
Inspector. 

Pasteurized Milk for Infant Feeding. — Sterilize the 
bottle by boiling it for ten minutes as you would Sterilize 
fruit jars. Fill the bottle nearly full with milk, and place 
the cap on the bottle or close with a wad of absorbent 
cotton. Place the bottle in a deep pan which contains 
a small rack or board so that the bottom of the bottle 
will not come in contact with the bottom of the pan. Fill 
the pan with cold water so that the water comes as high as 



MILK AND ITS PRODUCTS 



149 



the milk in the bottle. Heat the water to 158® F., remove 
to the back of the stove, cover the pan, and keep it at that 
temperature for twenty minutes. Cool milk quickly and 
keep in a cool place imtil ready to use. If it is to be used 
for infant feeding, it must be heated to lukewarm tempera- 
ture just before it is used. 

Cottage Cheese. — Heat sour milk to a temperature of 
about 98® F. and let 
stand until it is uniformly 
warm throughout and 
the curd separates from 
the whey. Drain the 
whey off; add melted 
butter or cream, salt, 
pepper, and serve while 
fresh. It may be fla- 
vored with pimentoes, 
chopped olives, or 
chopped nuts. The curd 
and whey may be sepa- 
rated by pouring boiling 
water over the milk. 

Junket. — Use one 
rennet tablet dissolved 
in one tablespoon of cold 
water. Heat one quart of milk to a temperature of 98® F. ; 
add four tablespoons sugar and one teaspoon of vanilla ; 
add the dissolved rennet and let it stand in a warm place 
until it thickens. Cool and serve with a sprinkling of 
cinnamon or nutmeg or whipped cream. 

Milk Soups or Cream Soups. — Milk soups are White 
Sauce and the pulp of some vegetable that has been 



ta 


i 


m 


^ 


1 


m 




iWl 


^ 


111 


ffIA * 




r 


> ^ 


i^\y 


m 


1 


I 


9 ■* ], 

■1 


iil 


m 


1 


M 


■ I 



Pasteurizing Milk. 
(From Hunter's Civic Biology.) 



ISO MILK AND ITS PRODUCTS 

thoroughly cooked and pressed through a strainer so as to 
rid it of seeds, skins, and any coarse particles. The vege- 
tables most commonly used for soups are potatoes, toma- 
toes, celery, com, peas, beans, and asparagus. 

Milk soups are very nutritious ; in fact, one half recipe of 
potato or lentil soup and one or two ounces of bread form 
a balanced meal for lunch or supper. Milk soups should 
not be served at dinner, as they contain too much nutrition 
to be served with a heavy meal. They may form the main 
dish at lunch or supper. All milk soups may be made 
after the following directions. 

Cook the vegetables until soft enough to be put through 
a strainer. If the vegetables contain acid, as in tomato, 
add soda to neutralize it before adding milk. Melt the 
butter, add the flour, and rub them together thoroughly. 
Add the vegetable pulp and cook until the mixture thickens ; 
then add milk and seasoning, cook for a minute or two, and 
then serve. Or, add milk to butter and flour, as for White 
Sauce, cook until it thickens, add seasoning, and then add 
vegetable pulp and cook for two minutes. 

Cream of Tomato Soup. — Cook two cups of canned 
tomatoes with two teaspoons of sugar for five minutes. 
Add one fourth teaspoon of soda and stir well, then add 
one fourth teaspoon of salt and rub the mixture through a 
sieve. Melt four tablespoons of butter, add four table- 
spoons of flour, and rub together until thoroughly mixed. 
Add two quarts of milk and one slice of onion. Cook until 
the mixture thickens. Remove the onion. Add the tomato 
pulp to the milk, and cook one minute. Serve. 

Cream of Pea Soup. — Cook one can of Marrowfat peas 
in three cups of water for ten minutes. Add one slice of 
onion and two teaspoons of sugar. Rub the mixture 



MILK AND ITS PRODUCTS 151 

through a sieve until nothing remains in the sieve but the 
skins of the peas. Melt four tablespoons of butter, add 
two tablespoons of flour, and rub together until thoroughly 
mixed. Add two cups of milk, and cook until it thickens, 
then add one teaspoon of salt, one eighth teaspoon pepper. 
Add the peas and cook three minutes. Serve. 

Com Chowder. — Cook one slice of bacon, or salt pork, 
cut in small pieces, until crisp or brown. Add one slice of 
onion, cut in small pieces, and fry until brown. Parboil 
three cups of thinly sliced potatoes for ten minutes, drain, 
and add the potatoes to the bacon and onion. Add one 
can of corn, one quart of milk, two tablespoons of butter, 
one half teaspoon of salt, and one eighth teaspoon of pepper. 
Cook five minutes. Add half a dozen crackers, and serve. 



Garnish for Soups. 




Chopped Parsley 


Macaroni 


Chopped Celery Tips 


Vermicelli 


Chopped White of Egg 


Spaghetti 


Whipped Cream 


Pearl Barley 


Diced Potatoes 


Rice 


Riced Eggs 


Noodles 


To Serve with Soup. 




Wafers 


Bread Sticks 


Crackers 


Croutons 



CHEESE 

Cheese ranks first among tissue-building foods because 
it contains a higher percentage of protein than any other 
food. American cheese, the kind most commonly pur- 
chased, contains 27.4 per cent water, 27.7 per cent protein, 
36.8 per cent fat, 4.1 per cent carbohydrate, and 4 per 



152 MILK AND ITS PRODUCTS 

cent mineral matter, which is mainly conmion salt that has 
been added in the process of cheese making. 

Cheese is a concentrated food; that is, it contains no 
cellulose and a small amount of water, and for this reason 
some people find it hard to digest. If it is grated or finely- 
divided and mixed with other foods that will increase the 
amount of carbohydrate and bulk, it forms a cheap and 
valuable protein food and is a good substitute for meat. 

A great many varieties of cheese are made. Some con- 
tain more water than others; some are made from milk, 
some from milk to which cream has been added, and some 
are made from skim milk. Some derive their flavor and 
odor from the peculiar fermentation that takes place 
during ripening. 

Cheese is made the same way that junket is made. The 
milk is heated to lukewarm temperature, and rennet is 
added, and it is allowed to coagulate. The curd is then cut 
so that the whey can be removed, and this water is drawn oflf. 
Then the curd is pressed into shape and allowed to cure or 
ripen. The process of ripening brings out the flavor of 
the cheese. All American cheese is colored with a harmless 
vegetable coloring. 

Cheese Fondu. — Thoroughly mix one fourth cup crumbs, 
one fourth pound of grated cheese, one fourth teaspoon salt, 
speck cayenne pepper, one cup milk, one tablespoon melted 
butter, and three eggs. Bake in individual dishes. Serve 
immediately. 

Welsh Rarebit. — Mix together one pound of cheese cut 
in small pieces or chopped, one teaspoon butter, one tea- 
spoon salt and speck of paprika, one teaspoon mustard 
mixed with one teaspoon of cream, and heat slowly. When 
the cheese is nearly melted, add one beaten egg. Stir well, 



MILK AND ITS PRODUCTS 153 

and when all the cheese is melted, add one fourth cup of 
cream or more, until it is the desired thickness. Serve 
immediately on wafers or toast. 

Cheese Straws, (a) — One cup flour, one fourth teaspoon 
salt, five tablespoons lard. Mix as for pie crust, and roll 
out thin. Cut into two equal pieces. Sprinkle one piece 
with grated cheese, season with salt and paprika, and a 
small amount of melted butter. Place the other piece over 
this, press them together, and then cut into strips about 
one half inch wide and three inches long. Bake in a hot 
oven until crisp and brown. Serve with salad. 

Cheese Straws, (b) — One half cup flour, three fourths 
cup bread crumbs, one cup grated or chopped cheese, one 
tablespoon melted butter, one fourth teaspoon salt, speck 
of paprika, one half cup milk. Rub butter and flour 
together; add crumbs, seasoning, cheese, and milk, and 
mix thoroughly. Roll out one fourth inch thick and cut 
in pieces one half inch wide and three inches long. Bake 
until brown in a moderate oven. 

Cheese Souffle. — Two tablespoons melted butter, two 
tablespoons flour, one cup milk, one fourth teaspoon salt, 
speck paprika, three fourths cup cheese, four eggs, white 
and yolk beaten separately. Add flour to melted but- 
ter and rub together thoroughly. Add milk and seasoning 
and cook until it begins to thicken. Add beaten yolks 
and cheese ; mix thoroughly. When it has cooled slightly, 
add whites of eggs beaten stiff and dry, and bake in a 
moderate oven until brown, — about thirty minutes. 
Serve inmiediately. 

Juno Salad. — Mix one Neufchatel cheese, one half cup 
chopped walnuts, one fourth cup chopped pimentoes. 
Moisten with Cooked Salad Dressing and arrange on lettuce. 



CHAPTER Xn 

MEATS AND FISH 

MEATS 

All meats, including poultry and game, are similar in 
composition and structure, and the same methods of cook- 
ing may be applied to all. The dijBFerent meats and cuts of 
the same meat vary in flavor ; in the amount of bone, refuse, 
and fat which they contain ; and some are more extensively 
used than others. 

The edible portion of meat is mainly protein, and it fur- 
nishes about one third of the tissue-building food consumed 
by the American people. Proteins are the important food 
substances in meat, and to understand the cooking of them, 
it is necessary to know the kinds found ; where they occur ; 
and the effect of heat on flavor, digestibility, and palata- 
bility. 

Meat consists of bone, fat, and muscle fiber. The bone 
is about one half solids and one half water. The solid 
part consists of mineral matter, fat, and ossein. The 
ossein is not a true protein, but an albuminoid which is 
dissolved by long boiling and gelatinizes when cooled. It 
is not a tissue-building food, but has come to be called a 
protein sparer. Bone is used in soup making to furnish 
the gelatin and some of the fat. It is generally thought 
that if the bone is left in cuts of meat during cooking, the 
flavor is improved. 

154 



MEATS 15s 

Fat differs in different animals. The fat of the hog is 
softer and less highly flavored than that of other animals, 
and, because of this, and because it has a high burning 
point, it is extensively used for frying foods. Beef and 
mutton fats contain more stearin than pork fat; they are 
harder, more highly flavored, and not used much in cooking. 
It could be said that fats are not consumed, to any great 
extent, as meat, but are separated from the muscle fiber 
and prepared for use in some other way. The only excep- 
tion to this is the use of pork as bacon, salt pork, and sausage, 
but even then much of the fat is lost in cooking. 

The most important part of meat, then, is the muscle 
fiber, and if it is examined closely it will be found to consist 
of bundles of tubes or fibers held together by a substance 
similar to the ossein in bone, called collagen, a form of 
connective tissue. As this substance, collagen, is a form of 
albuminoid, it is softened and dissolved by moist heat. 

The tubes contain various proteins, — albumin, fibrin, 
myosin, compound proteins, and extractives, — and it is this 
part of the meat which furnishes the tissue-building ma- 
terial for the body. The muscle tubes consist of a sub- 
stance called elastin, another albuminoid. 

The toughness or tenderness of a cut of meat depends on 
the thickness of the albuminoids which form the cell walls 
and which hold the cells together. If the cut of meat is 
from a part of the animal where the muscles have been 
exercised a great deal, the albuminoids are thicker and 
tougher than in those parts which are exercised but little. 
Hence the meat will be tougher and will require long, slow 
cooking to soften the elastin and collagen. That is the 
reason why cuts of meat from the neck and leg are tougher 
than those from the back. 



iS6 



MEATS 



U. S. Department of Agriculture 
Office of Experintnt Statiorts 
A. C True: Director 



Preparedly 

G. F. LANGWORTHY 

expert in Charge of Nutrition Investigations 



COMPOSITION OF FOOD MATERIALS. 



Prot«in Fat Carbohydrates 

LAMB CHOP 

EtNBLF PORTtON 



Ash 



■ Putt Value 
if,Sq.in.Equal» 
1000 Calories 

PORK CHOP 

COiBLC PORTION 




W»tcf:5a-0 



Fat:2a3 



FVoteirvr 16 



SMOKED HAM 

Water:403 
Protein: 16.1 ^^ - 





F3l:30.l 



FjJfL^LUE: 






BEEF STEAK 

EMBLE PORTION 

Water: 6 1 



< 5 35 CALORIES 
Ptitl 



Ash, 48 



DRIED BEEF 

EDIBLE PORTION 

protein: 
30.0 



Fat: 18.5 



Protein: 1 8.6 
Ash: 1.0 



1090 CALORIES 
PER POUND 




Fuel 

VALUf: 



Composition or Meats. 



MEATS 



157 



U.S. Department of Agriculture Prepared by 

Office of Experiment Stations C.F. LANGWORTHY 

A.C. True: Director Expert in Cftarge of Nutrition Investigations 

COMPOSITION OF FOOD MATERIALS. 
Basaa irTTTTnm mjm ^m ^^ 1^^\^T^ 

Protein Fat Carbohydrates A.h Water ■W^ll^o Catori'e 

VEGETABLE OILS, AS BACON 

OLIVE * Protean :9.4>s^ ^Fat:67.4 

PEANUT, ^^^^, J3^ 

COTTONSEED 

Fuel wluc; Ash:4.^ 




3405 CAlORieS PER POUND 



Fuel vAiiiE; 



4080 CALORIES PER POUNO 



Composition of Fats. 



IS8 MEATS 

The true proteins in meat are coagulated by heat, and 
flavor is developed. Albumins are soluble in cold water, 
myosin and fibrin in dilute salt, or alkaline solution, and 
the rest are insoluble. If meat is soaked in cold water, or 
put on to cook in cold water, and gradually heated, albumin 
is dissolved out. It forms the brown scum that rises to the 
surface of the water when meat is boiled, and is usually 
lost during the process. Fibrin and myosin are dissolved 
when meat is soaked in salt solution, as in the coming of 
beef. 

Description of Cuts of Meat 

Beef is the meat most extensively used, and if one 
knows the various cuts of beef and their uses and how 
to select good beef, he will easily learn the cuts in other 
animals. 

In good beef the best cuts are fine grained, well mottled 
with fat and lean, and bright red in color after being ex- 




CuTS OF Beef. 



posed to the air. If there is a thick layer of firm, light- 
colored fat over the loin and rib cuts, the flesh will be juicier 
and better flavored than when there is little or no fat over 
these cuts. In the latter case, what fat there is is dark 



MEATS 159 

colored, and the meat is tough and dry. The animal is old, 
underfed, or losing flesh. 

The loin and rib cuts are finer grained and more tender 
than the other cuts, and require less cooking. They are 
the finest cuts for steaks and roasts. The other cuts are 
not so tender, but are juicier, and some of them contain 
less bone than the finer cuts and when properly cooked are 
as well flavored and equal to the loin and rib cuts in palata- 
bility. 

The less tender cuts require long, slow cooking to soften 
the connective tissue, and for this reason do not make the 
finest steaks and roasts. As less than twenty-five per cent 
of the beef is contained in the loin and rib cuts, they sell 
for a much higher price than round, chuck, or any of the 
other cuts, because the profit must come from the finer 
cuts. Many people who cannot afford it buy these ex- 
pensive cuts because they do not know how to cook 
the other parts and make them attractive and appe- 
tizing. The cheaper cuts are just as nutritious as the 
others, and when properly cooked are deliciously flavored 
and more satisfying than the badly cooked steak or dry 
roast. 

After beef is dressed, it is cut into halves. The halves 
are divided into hind and fore quarters by cutting between 
the twelfth and thirteenth ribs, leaving one rib in the hind 
quarter. The flank is cut from the hind quarter, leaving 
the loin, rump, round, and shank. The loin includes the 
porterhouse, sirloin, and tenderloin cuts. 

The fore quarter is cut across the ribs. The lower part 
includes the plate, clod, and shank. The upper part 
includes the rib, chuck, and neck. 

CONLEY p. C. — II 



i6o MEATS 

Cuts Arranged according to Market Value and De- 
sirability, Highest Priced First 

Loin. — This cut includes short steaks, porterhouse, 
sirloin, and tenderloin. The tenderloin is a long muscle 
that may be stripped from beneath the loin, but when it is 
removed, it destroys the value of the porterhouse steak. 
The first few cuts from the loin are called short or club 
steaks because they contain no tenderloin. Steaks cut 
from the beginning of the tenderloin to the beginning of 
the hook bone are called porterhouse. They are the choic- 
est and highest-priced cuts in beef. The remaining cuts in 
the loin are the sirloin. 

The tenderloin, when sold separately, is deficient in fat, 
and hence must be larded and then roasted or broiled. The 
loin is cut into steaks and broiled, occasionally sold as 
roasts, though expensive, and no finer for roasting than 
are the ribs. 

Rib. — This cut consists of seven ribs, called prime ribs; 
the cut is made close to the shoulder blade and separates it 
from the chuck. It is sold as roasts, being cut into one, two, 
or three rib pieces. One rib piece usually weighs about 
four pounds. The ribs are removed and the piece rolled 
and called a rolled roast. If the ribs are left in, it is called 
a standing roast. Dealers sometimes remove the ribs from 
the cut and sell it as steaks, called small steaks. 

Round. — This cut consists of very juicy, lean muscle 
and but little bone. It is sold as steaks, roasts, and for 
beef tea and beef juice. It is excellent for pot roast, stews, 
braizing or casserole of beef, and for beef loaf. 

Rtunp. — This cut contains the end of the hip bone and 
joint. There is considerable bone, but the remainder 



MEATS 



i6i 





Rib. 



Rib. 





Loin. 



Rump. 




Round. Chuck. 

Cuts of Beef. 

(From Conley's Nutrition and Diet.) 



1 62 MEATS 

makes very good steaks and roasts. It is also excellent 
for pot roast, boiling, braizing, stews, and mincemeat. 

Chuck. — This cut is next to the prime ribs cut and 
similar to it, but contains more bone and gristle and is not 
so tender. It makes a very good, though large, roast and 
is sold sometimes as steaks, and by some preferred to the 
round, because it is mottled with fat. It is excellent for 
stews, pot roast, boiling, braizing, and mincemeat. 

Clod. — This cut is back of the brisket and below the 
chuck. It is sold for boiling, stews, braizing, and mince- 
meat. 

Flank. — This cut comes from below the loin. It is 
boneless and coarse, but of good flavor. Flank steak is 
sometimes cut from the lean muscle on the inside of the 
flank. This steak may be scored across the grain and 
broiled. It is also rolled and braized. Flank cut is used 
for stews, boiling, and rolled and corned. 

Neck. — This cut contains juicy, tough meat. It is 
used in stews, soup, and Hamburg steaks. 

Plate. — This cut comes from below the ribs. It has 
layers of fat and lean and the ends of the ribs. It is used 
for boiling and corning. 

Shank. — These cuts are the fore and hind legs. They 
are tough, and contain bone and tendons. They are used 
for soup, cheap stews, and mince meat. 

Principles Involved in the Cooking of Meat 

But three principles are involved in the cooking of all 
meats, and a statement of these principles is made before 
recipes are given which apply them. 

I. Tender cuts of meat are broiled, fried, or roasted. 
The meat is first subjected to strong heat which coagulates 



MEATS 163 

the albumin, and this forms a crust which retains the juices 
in the meat. If the cut is thick enough, the meat will then 
cook in its own juices, and if this cooking is continued long 
enough, it will soften the connective tissue also. If the cut 
is thin, dry heat will harden the connective tissue. Strong 
heat is needed at first, to form the crust and to develop 
flavor, but the heat should be reduced somewhat after this 
is accomplished or the meat will cook at too high a tem- 
perature and be dry and tasteless. This method of cook- 
ing should not be applied to tough cuts of meat, because it 
does not soften the tough connective tissue. 

II. Tougher cuts of meat are boiled, stewed, or cooked 
by some method that combines the stewing and roasting. 
Meat is cooked in either a large or small quantity of water, 
at a temperature of i7o°-i8o° F. for several hours. This 
long, slow cooking in water softens the elastin and collagen, 
forms of connective tissue which occur in muscle fiber, and 
coagulates the proteins, and this method of cooking makes 
tough meat tender. The meat should be started in boiling 
water, but after the first fifteen minutes the heat should be 
reduced, and the meat allowed to cook slowly. Low heat 
softens the connective tissue, while boiling dissolves it and 
leaves a stringy mass of fibers. 

Sometimes the first method and second are combined, 
and meat is subjected to strong heat at first to sear over 
the outside and develop flavor, and then the meat is stewed. 

III. Very tough cuts of meat are used for soup making 
because they are apt to be juicy, and it is more economical 
to use cheap cuts for this purpose. Meat is placed in cold 
water and allowed to stand ; the cold water draws out the 
soluble albumins, extractives, and other soluble compounds. 
The meat is then slowly heated to about 160° F. and al- 



164 MEATS 

lowed to cook for several hours. The slow cooking dis- 
solves some of the albuminoids and fat. The longer it is 
cooked, the more gelatin and fat are obtained. Soup 
contains soluble albumin, extractives, blood which con- 
tains hemoglobin, also gelatin and fat, — these form a 
very small percentage of the nutrients in meat. The nutri- 
tive value of meat soup is in the substances added to it. 
A soup usually stimulates the appetite. 

Experiments with Meat. 

I. Scrape a piece of round steak until you can remove no more 
pulp. The white substance which remains is connective tissue. 
The pulp contains all the proteins in the meat. It is used to make 
beef sandwiches for invalids, and is sometimes fed to children from 
eighteen months to two years old to furnish protein. 

II. Cut round steak in small pieces and soak in cold water. Note 
color of the water. Heat the meat slowly, and press out the juice. 
This is called beef juice and is used for invalids and for infants from 
one year to eighteen months old. It is usually made by adding very 
little water. It contains albumin, coloring matter, and extractives. 

III. To show that albumin is present, heat the juice to nearly 
boiling, 180° F., and note the brown sciun. How would you know 
that extractives are present? 

IV. Soak meat over night in salt water. Note change in color 
and the presence of dissolved myosin and fibrin. 

V. Pour boiling water over lean round steak, and boil ten minutes. 
Note appearance of water, to find whether albumin is present. Taste 
it to find flavor. 

Cooking of Tender Cuts — Principle One 

Roast Beef. Rib Roast. — The best cuts for roasting 
are called the prime ribs. Have the ribs removed and 

^ Pork, lamb, mutton, and veal roasts are cooked in the same way as beef 
roast, but they require a longer time for cooking, as they should never be 
served rare as beef is served. They require at least twenty minutes per 
pound. 



MEATS i6s 

have the meat rolled. This insures more even cooking 
than if the bones are left in, for when they are, the thin 
part is overdone before the rest is cooked. If the meat has 
but little fat, have a piece of suet rolled in with the roast, 
and remove it before the roast is sent to the table to serve. 

Sprinkle salt and pepper on the meat, and dredge with 
flour. This is done so as to form a crust and prevent the 
escape of the juice. Have the oven very hot at first so as 
to sear the outside quickly and retain the juice. After 
ten minutes reduce the heat so as to insure thorough cook- 
ing. If the oven is very hot all the time, the outside will 
burn while the inside is raw. Baste the meat occasionally 
with the drippings. Never add water to a roast unless 
the meat has so little fat that there is danger of burning or 
charring. Never add it until after the first fifteen minutes. 
Allow fifteen minutes' cooking to each pound of meat. 
That is, allow an hour for a four-pound roast, and an hour 
and a half for a six-pound roast. 

Brown Gravy. — Pour off some of the fat from the pan 
in which the roast has cooked. To the remainder of the 
fat add three tablespoons of flour, and rub free from lumps. 
Add one and one half cups of boiUng water and cook until 
it thickens ; add one fourth teaspoon of salt and a speck of 
pepper. 

Yorkshire Pudding. — One half cup of milk, one half 
cup of flour, one egg, one eighth teaspoon of salt. Mix the 
salt and flour ; add milk and rub smooth ; add egg well 
beaten. Pour into the pan where the roast beef is cook- 
ing, or cover the bottom of another pan with some of the 
drippings from the roast, and pour the mixture over the 
fat. Bake in a hot oven twenty minutes, and serve with 
roast beef. 



i66 MEATS 

Lamb Chops. — Select rib or loin chops and remove the 
skin and some of the fat. If all the fat is removed, the 
chops will be dry and tasteless. Have the frying pan 
smoking hot, and place a small piece of the fat from the 
meat on a fork and rub the pan with it. Remove the fat 
and place the chops in the pan. When one side is seared 
over, turn the chops and sear the other side, turn frequently 
to prevent burning, and cook at a lower temperature after 
the first few minutes. Cook long enough so that the chops 
will not be rare, — from eight to twelve minutes, depending 
on the thickness of the cut. When done, season with salt 
and pepper ; serve immediately. Mutton and pork chops 
are cooked in the same way. 

Veal Cutlets. — Cut the cutlets in pieces for individual 
servings. Sprinkle with salt and pepper, dip in crxmibs or 
flour, egg, and crumbs, and fry in bacon fat, lard, or butter, 
until well browned. Cook slowly so that the cutlets will 
be cooked throughout. Pour Brown or Tomato Sauce 
over, and simmer twenty minutes. 

Brown Sauce. — Brown one fourth cup of butter ; add 
one fourth teaspoon of chopped onion and brown; add 
three tablespoons of flour and stir until browned ; add one 
and one half cups of boiling water and cook until it thickens. 
Add one fourth teaspoon of salt, one eighth teaspoon of 
pepper. (One half cup of mushrooms or one fourth cup 
of capers may be added.) 

Tomato Sauce. — (See p. 95.) 

Fried Chicken. — Cut a young chicken in pieces ready 
to serve. Sprinkle with salt, pepper, and flour. Place 
in a deep pan ; add one fourth cup of butter, cover the pan, 
place in a hot oven, and cook from twenty to thirty min- 
utes. Turn several times to cook evenly. 



MEATS 167 

Another method is to place the chicken in the fiying pan, 
add the butter, and fry slowly for fifteen to twenty minutes. 
Serve with White Sauce made from the butter which 
remains in the pan. 

Tougher Cuts — Principle Two 

Hamburg Steak. — Pass one pound of round steak 
through a meat chopper; add one small onion chppped 
fine, one fourth teaspoon of salt, one eighth teaspoon of 
pepper, and one beaten egg. Mix thoroughly and shape 
into about six balls. Fry slowly in a small amount of 
bacon fat or salt pork, or some of the fat from the meat. 
Cover the fr3dng pan, and cook ten to fifteen minutes, turn 
to prevent burning. 

Boiled Leg of Mutton. — Remove the skin from the 
mutton, as the skin gives the meat a strong flavor if cooked 
on the meat. Place the meat in a kettle, cover with boil- 
ing water, and boil about fifteen minutes. Reduce the 
heat and let the meat sinamer from two and one haK to 
three hours, depending on the size of the leg. When 
nearly done, add salt and pepper. Serve with mint or 
caper sauce. 

Mint Sauce. — One half cup of mint chopped fine ; add 
two tablespoons of sugar, three tablespoons of vinegar, 
three tablespoons of boiling water, one eighth teaspoon 
of salt. Let it boil for three minutes, and then remove 
from the stove and let it stand for fifteen minutes. 

Meat in Casserole. — Cut round beef steak or shoulder 
of mutton into one and one half inch pieces, and brown in a 
hot frying pan in beef or bacon fat. When the meat is 
seared, place it in the casserole and brown an onion in the 
fat. Add onion and fat to the meat, and cover with water. 



1 68 



MEATS 




MEATS 169 

Place the cover on the casserole, put it in the oven, and let 
the meat cook slowly for two hours. Cut one cup of car- 
rots and two cups of potatoes into balls or slices, add to the 
meat; add one half teaspoon of salt and one eighth tea- 
spoon of pepper, and cook until the potatoes are done. 
Serve from the casserole. 

Mutton Stew and Dumplings. — One and one half 
pounds of mutton from shoulder, cut in small pieces ; add 
one onion and one carrot, sliced ; cover with boiling water 
and boil fifteen minutes ; reduce the heat and let simmer 
one and one half hours. Turn meat from kettle, season. 
Place potatoes in bottom of kettle, place meat on the 
potatoes, pour liquid over this, and add enough boiling 
water to cover all; place dumpUngs on top of meat, 
and boil twenty minutes. 

Dumplings. — Mix two cups of flour, four teaspoons of 
baking powder, one fourth teaspoon salt. Add two table- 
spoons of lard as for biscuit. Moisten with one cup of 
water. Shape into six dumplings, and cook with meat 
and potatoes. 

Beef Loaf. — Two pounds of beef from round, one tea- 
spoon of salt, one half cup grated bread crumbs, speck of 
dressing seasoning, one fourth pound of pork, one teaspoon 
of chopped onion, one egg. Pass meat through a chopper, 
mix all ingredients, shape into a loaf, sprinkle with flour, 
and bake one hour. Serve with tomato or mushroom 
sauce, or plain. Garnish with parsley. 

Tomato Sauce. — One pint of tomatoes, one half onion 
chopped fine. Cook ten minutes. Put through a sieve. 
Melt foxir tablespoons of butter, rub in four tablespoons of 
flour ; add one half teaspoon of salt, one eighth teaspoon of 
pepper ; add the tomato, and cook until it thickens. 



176 MEATS 

Mincemeat. — Boil five pounds of lean beef four or five 
hours until it is ready to fall to pieces, remove bone, 
and chop fine. Add two pounds of beef suet chopped 
fine, four pounds of raisins, four pounds of currants, one 
poxmd of citron, four quarts of chopped apples, four table- 
spoons of cinnamon, four tablespoons of cloves, four table- 
spoons of nutmeg, three teaspoons of allspice, three tea- 
spoons of pepper, three teaspoons of ginger, juice of three 
lemons, one pint of molasses, one cup of melted butter, 
two and one half pounds of sugar, two and one half 
quarts of boiled cider. Mix thoroughly and store in a 
cool place. 

Hungarian Goulash. — Cut a two-inch piece of fat pork 
or beef suet in small pieces, and fry out. Cut one and one 
half pounds of beef from the round into small pieces, sea- 
son with salt and pepper, and roll in flour and then fry in 
the fat until brown. Place the beef in a kettle, add one 
chopped onion, one chopped green pepper, one cup of 
chopped celery, two cups of canned tomatoes, cover with 
boiling water, and let it sinamer about two hours. 

Chicken Pie. — Purchase a chicken about a year old, 
because it is fatter and better flavored for boiling than the 
young ones. Remove the legs and cut each leg into two 
portions ; remove wings ; cut breast into two parts, also the 
back. Place in a kettle ; cover with boiling water and boil 
ten minutes, and then simmer until the meat is tender, — 
from one and one half to two hours, depending on the 
toughness of the meat. When half done, add one teaspoon 
of salt and one eighth teaspoon of pepper. Remove the 
chicken from the kettle ; thicken the stock with one fourth 
to one third of a cup of flour which has been rubbed smooth 
in cold water. If there is but little fat on the chicken, add 



MEATS 171 

several tablespoons of butter to the broth. Return chicken 
to the kettle, and let it simmer in the broth for several 
minutes. When ready to serve, add small baking powder 
biscuits broken in two. 

Warmed-over Meats 

Hash. — One cup of thopped cooked meat, one cup of 
cooked potatoes sliced in small pieces, one fourth cup of 
boiling water, two tablespoons of butter, one tablespoon 
of onion chopped fine, one half teaspoon of salt, speck of 
pepper. Cook slowly until it begins to brown; turn, and 
serve hot. 

Creamed Dried Beef. — One half cup of dried beef 
shredded with a knife into small pieces. Soak in cold 
water about five minutes. Make White Sauce, omitting 
the salt; add dried beef, bring to the boiling point, and 
serve with potatoes or on toast. 

Beefsteak Pie. — Remove fat and bone from remnants 
of roast beef or steak. Use about two cups cut into small 
pieces; add one small chopped onion, one fourth teaspoon 
of salt, speck of pepper; cover with boiling water, and let 
it simmer about one hour. Then thicken the liquid with 
two tablespoons of flour, and remove to a baking dish, 
place biscuit dough on top of the meat, and bake in the 
oven until the crust is done. The gravy or juice should 
completely cover the meat, otherwise it will cook dry. 

For biscuit dough use one cup of flour, one and one half 
teaspoons of baking powder, one fourth teaspoon of salt, 
two and one half tablespoons of lard or butter. 



172 MEATS 

Soup — Principle Three 
Soup Stock 

Soup stock is the soluble part of meat and bone, with 
vegetables and seasoning added. It forms the basis of 
all meat soups, of aspic jelly, of some sauces. 

It may be made from the renmants of roasts or steaks 
with some fresh meat added ; from the trimmings of roasts 
that are sent with the meat; from the tougher parts of 
meat not cooked or served. It is made from beef, veal, 
lamb, mutton, and chicken ; sometimes two or more kinds 
of meat are used. The bones of the young animals are 
better for soup making because they contain more gela- 
tin; the meat of the older animals is best because it is 
juicier. For the first reason, bones of veal or chicken are 
sometimes added to the soup kettle. Some of the meat is 
frequently seared over by using some of the fat. This 
gives a dark color to the soup.stock and adds flavor. Some- 
times caramel is used to darken it. 

Beef Soup Stock. — Select meat from the rump, shin, or 
neck, and be sure to get about two thirds lean meat and one 
third fat and bone, about four pounds in all. Place some 
of the fat in a frying pan and brown a sriiall portion of the 
meat. Cut the meat, fat, and bone into small pieces. 
Place it in a soup kettle and add four quarts of water. 
Let it stand in the cold water one hour to draw out the 
juices and soluble albumin, then add the browned meat, 
heat slowly, and cook at a low temperature for four or five 
hours. Add one fourth cup each of onion, carrots, celery 
cut into small pieces; a sprig of parsley, one bay leaf, 
one teaspoon of salt, one eighth teaspoon of pepper, and 
simmer one hour. Strain and cool quickly. Let it stand 



FISH 173 

in a cold place until the fat rises to the top and solidifies. 
The stock will keep so long as the fat covers it. When it is 
to be used, skim off all of the fat, and reheat with whatever 
additional ingredients are desired. 

Tomato soup may be made by adding tomatoes ; or pearl 
barley, macaroni, noodles, or vegetables may be added. 

In the process of soup making the connective tissue is 
softened and dissolved; the soluble albumin, juices, and 
extractives are drawn out, but very little of the nutritive 
value from the meat is in the soup. The remaining meat 
is tasteless because the extractives which give meat its 
flavor have been drawn out and the dissolving of the con- 
nective tissue has left the meat stringy. The albumin 
that is in the soup becomes coagulated by heat and is the 
brown scum that floats on the surface. If the scum is 
taken off, some of the nutrients are lost. 

FISH 

Fish are classified in two classes, — those having a back- 
bone and called vertebrates, and the shellfish. The ver- 
tebrates are classified as fresh and salt water fish, and also 
as white-meat fish, and dark-meat fish. They are classified 
in various other ways, but to apply the principles of cook- 
ing, all vertebrates may be grouped in one general class. 

Fish are similar to meat in composition, structure, and 
nutritive value, in that they are protein foods. They 
take the place of meat in any meal. The muscle consists 
of bundles of fibers bound together by connective tissue. 
There is a marked difference in this tissue from that in 
meat ; the connective tissue in fish is so tender that they 
require but little cooking, and when they are boiled, care 
must be taken or the connective tissue will be dissolved 



174 FISH 

and the muscle fibers will fall apart. For this reason fish 
are best when broiled, baked, or fried. 

Selection and Cleaning. — Care must be taken when 
purchasing fish that they are fresh, because fish decompose 
readily and do not keep for any length of time after they 
are taken from the water. In fresh fish the eyes are bright, 
the gills are bright red, and the flesh is firm. When fish 
are purchased from the market, they are cleaned, though 
the scales are not always removed. They may be removed 
with a knife or a fish scaler sold for that purpose. Begin 
at the tail and work towards the head, holding the fish 
firmly by the tail. Wash the fish inside and out with 
plenty of cold water, and dry with a soft cloth. 

Baked Fish. — Remove the head from the fish; sprinkle 
the inside with salt, pepper ; add a tablespoon of lard, bacon 
drippings, or olive oil, and sew or fasten the sides together. 
Roll the fish in flour, place in a baking pan, add one fourth 
cup of lard, or bacon fat or olive oil, and bake imtil brown, 
from thirty to forty-five minutes, depending on the size 
of the fish. Serve with Tartare Sauce, Drawn Butter, or 
Hollandaise Sauce. 

Fried Fish. — Fish may be fried whole, or skinned and 
boned and cut into slices. Fish like fresh salmon and lake 
trout are sold sliced and ready for frying. Season with 
salt, pepper, and roll in flour or com meal, or in egg and 
crumbs. Saute slowly in bacon fat, salt pork, lard, or 
oUve oil until deep brown, or fry in deep fat. 

Tartare Sauce. — Mix one tablespoon of vinegar, one 
teaspoon of lemon juice, one fourth teaspoon of salt, 
one tablespoon of Worcestershire sauce, and heat over hot 
water. Brown one fourth cup of butter, and add it slowly 
to the mixture. Serve hot with fish. 



FISH 



1 75 



U.S. Department of Agriculture 

Office of Experiment Stations 

A.C. True: Director 



Prepared by 

C.F. LAN6W0RTHY 

Expert in Charge of Nutrition Investigations 



COMPOSITION OF FOOD MATERIALS. 

I Fuel Value 
pfeSq. In. Equals 
' 1000 Calories 

SALT COD 



Proteir» 

COD 

Le*n Fish 



Fat Carbohydrates Ash 



FufL VALUf 

Water 8? 6 I 




C 



FufL VALUE 

lwater^53.5 



3Q0 CALORIFS 
PFR POUNO 

Prolefr^:l5 8 



Cafbohydrales-3. ? 
SMOKED HERRING 



.Water 3*6 



c> 



400 ULDfflEi 
PfIT POUKD 

Protein:? J 




MACKEREL 

Fat fi^h 




Abh i^2' 







l>05 CALORiti 
Pf 4 POUND 



P(0 C^OUhQ 






Composition of Fish. 



CONLEY p. C. 12 



176 FISH 

Drawn Butter Sauce. — Melt three tablespoons of butter; 
add two tablespoons of flour, one fourth teaspoon of salt, 
one eighth teaspoon of pepper, and brown the mixture. 
Add one cup of water and stir until it begins to boil, and 
then simmer for five minutes. Add two tablespoons of 
butter, in bits; beat it until it is absorbed, and then serve 
immediately on fish. 

Steamed Salmon Loaf. — One can of salmon, four table- 
spoons of milk, three eggs, four tablespoons of melted butter, 
one half cup of bread crumbs, speck of pepper, one fourth . 
teaspoon of salt, one teaspoon of chopped parsley. Rub 
butter into salmon, put crumbs into the beaten eggs, mix 
all together, season, steam one hour, or bake twenty minutes. 

Sauce. — One cup of milk, one tablespoon of cornstarch, 
one tablespoon of butter, juice from the salmon, one egg, 
speck of salt. Cook until it thickens, and serve with the 
salmon. 

Oysters 

Oyster Stew. — Heat one pint of milk and one pint of 
water, or one quart of milk, to the boiling point. Add one 
pint of oysters, three tablespoons of butter, one half tea- 
spoon of salt, one eighth teaspoon of pepper, and cook 
until the edges of the oysters begin to curl. Serve imme- 
diately. 

Fried Oysters. — Purchase large select oysters for fry- 
ing. Wash and drain the oysters, and dry on a soft cloth. 
Season with salt and pepper and then dip the oysters in 
bread crumbs, slightly beaten egg, and crumbs, and saut6 
in butter until brown on both sides, or fry in deep fat. 

Scalloped Oysters. — Roll two cups of bread or cracker 
crumbs until fine. Melt one half cup of butter and mix it 



PLANNING A DINNER 177 

with the crumbs. Mix one pint of oysters, one teaspoon 
of salt, one eighth teaspoon of pepper, and one cup of milk. 
Spread one third of the crumbs in the bottom of the baking 
dish, cover with one half of the oysters, put in another 
third of the crumbs and the remainder of the oysters, 
cover with the rest of the crumbs, and bake 20 to 30 minutes. 

PLANNING AND SERVING A DINNER 

After the meat lessons, the pupils are prepared to plan 
and serve a dinner, following the same method pursued for 
the breakfasts and lunches. 




A Dinner Table. 

Dinner may consist of the following courses : — 

1. Soup I. Meat, potato, and one 

2. Meat, potato, and one other vegtable 

other vegetable 2. Salad 

3. Dessert 3. Dessert 



xj8 



PLANNING A DINNER 
SUGGESTED MENUS 



Cream of Celery Soup 

Beef Loaf Tomato Sauce Mashed Potato 

Creamed Cauliflower 

Lemon Pie 



Veal Cutlets Brown Sauce Baked Potato 

Lima Beans 
Cabbage Salad or Waldorf Salad 

Chocolate Pudding 



Leg of Mutton 



Riced Potatoes 
Lettuce Salad 
Caramel Ice Cream 



Squash 



Cake 



Cream of Tomato Soup 

Fried Chicken Baked Potato Creamed Peas 

Banana and Nut Salad 

Bavarian Cream 



CHAPTER XIII 

GELATINS AND ICES. SOME ADDITIONAL 
RECIPES 

GELATIN 

Gelatin is manufactured from the albuminoids in meat, 
— ossein in bone, elastin in cell walls, collagen in connec- 
tive tissue. Bone, tendons, ligaments, and all forms of 
connective tissue are boiled, and the substance extracted 
forms gelatin when cooled. It occurs in greatest abun- 
dance in the bones of young animals. 

Grelatin does not build tissue, but yields heat and energy 
when oxidized. Its food value is not very high, as so small 
a quantity of it is used at a time. It is easily digested 
and furnishes a vehicle for adding nutritious foods to the 
diet, as it makes it possible to serve them in attractive ways. 

General Directions. — One box of pulverized gelatin 
contains four tablespoons of gelatin. It should be soaked 
in one cup of cold water for ten minutes. Add one quart 
of boiling water, but never boil gelatin, or the thickening 
power is destroyed. For thick jelly use less water. Pine- 
apple juice should be boiled before gelatin is added, as the 
fresh pineapple contains a ferment that prevents the 
gelatin from thickening. 

Fruit Salad. — Dissolve one box of Knox pulverized gela- 
tin in one cup of cold water. Boil one pint of canned 
pineapple, remove from the fire, add juice of two lemons, 
three oranges, and one cup of sugar ; add one pint of boil- 
ing water to the dissolved gelatin, the fruit juice, one cup 

179 



i8o 



GELATINS AND ICES 



of celery cut fine, and one fourth poimd of shelled and 
blanched almonds split lengthwise. Turn into molds, and 
let stand xmtil it stiffens. Serve with Cooked Dressing 
which has been thinned with whipped cream. 

Aspic Jelly. — Aspic is stock, cleared or uncleared, to 
which gelatin has been added. Four tablespoons of 

gelatin are usually used to 
five cups of stock. Soak 
the gdatin in one cup of 
cold water, and pour the 
boiling hot stock over. To- 
matoes, pimentoes, tongue, 
chicken, delicate vegetables, 
sweetbreads, are molded in 
aspic. The mold is lined 
with the aspic, and as soon 
as it begins to set, the solid 
food to be molded is added, 
and more aspic is used to 
cover it. If the other in- 
gredients were added before 
the jelly begins to set, they 
would not be evenly dis- 
tributed throughout, but 
would float on top. 

Lemon Jelly. — Soak two 
tablespoons of gelatin 
(Knox) in one half cup cold 
water for ten minutes. Pour 
over this slowly two cups of boiling water, and stir imtil 
dissolved. Add one cup of sugar and one half cup of 
lemon juice. Turn into mold, and chill. 




Jelly served with Whipped Cream 
OR Fruit. 



GELATINS AND ICES i8i 

Orange Jelly. — Soak two tablespoons of gelatin in one 
half cup of cold water for ten minutes. Pour over this 
slowly two cups of boiling water, and stir until dissolved. 
Add one cup of sugar, one and one half cups orange juice, 
and three tablespoons lemon juice. Turn into molds, and 
chill. 

Snow Pudding. — Soak one tablespoon of gelatin in 
one fourth cup of cold water, and add one cup of boiling 
water, one cup of sugar, one fourth cup of lemon juice. 
Prepare as for lemon jelly. When mixture has thickened, 
beat until frothy. Add whites of three eggs beaten stiff, 
and continue beating until stiff enough to hold its shape. 
Mold or pile by spoonfuls on a dish. Serve cold with 
boiled custard. 

Maple Bavarian Cream. — Dissolve one tablespoon of 
gelatin in four tablespoons of cold water. Scald two thirds 
cup of maple sirup, add two egg yolks, and cook until it 
thickens. Add gelatin; stir constantly until it begins to 
thicken. Add one and one half cups of cream whipped 
stiff and one half teaspoon of vanilla. Turn into a mold, 
and let stand until it stiffens. 

Pineapple Bavarian Cream. — Soak one tablespoon of 
gelatin in four tablespoons of cold water. Boil one cup 
of grated pineapple, four tablespoons of sugar, and one 
fourth cup of lemon juice. Add the gelatin, and stir 
constantly until it begins to thicken. Add one and one 
half cups of cream whipped stiff. Turn into a mold, and 
let it stand until it stiffens. 

Pistachio Salad. — Soak one half box of gelatin in one 
half cup of cold water. Add one cup of boiling water, 
two tablespoons of sugar, the juice of two oranges and one 
lemon. Color with green coloring. Turn into cups to 



i82 GELATINS AND ICES 

stiflFen. After the gelatin begins to set, add one half 
pound of chopped walnuts, two cups of chopped celery, 
and let stand until stiff; turn from cups and serve with 
Cooked or Mayonnaise Dressing. 

ICES 

Frozen Desserts. — Frozen dishes may be grouped in 
two general classes, — those containing cream, as ice 
cream, parfait, and mousse; and those made from water 
and fruit juice, as ices, sherbet, frappe, and punch. The 
number of combinations of milk, cream, fruit, nuts, fruit 
juice, and flavorings is practically limitless, and many 
names are given to the different combinations. The direc- 
tions for freezing and packing are practically the same in 
every case, except where whipped cream is used. In this 
case the mixture is frozen without stirring. 

Directions for Freezing. — Purchase coarse rock or ice 
cream salt. Place the ice in a bag and tie loosely ; crush 
with the broad side of an ax or wooden mallet until the 
pieces are small and of uniform size. Snow may be used 
in place of ice. Have the mixture to be frozen ready. 
Scald the ice cream can, and rinse and dry just before using 
it. Place the mixture in the can (the can should not 
be more than three fourths full of the mixture to be frozen, 
as it expands during freezing) . Place the can in the wooden 
tub of the freezer, insert the dasher, put on the cover and the 
top. Place the cork or plug in the opening in the side of 
the freezer, and leave it there until the mixture is frozen. 
Use three measures of ice to one of salt, and pack the freezer 
solidly. When snow is used, less salt is needed, as the snow 
is loosely packed. Turn the crank slowly at first, and then 
more rapidly after the mixture begins to freeze. Salt 



GELATINS AND ICES 183 

solution has a lower freezing point than pure water, so when 
the salt dissolves, the salt solution cannot stay solid at the 
temperature of the ice. Any substance going into solu- 
tion absorbs heat. This heat absorbed by the dissolving 
of the salt is taken from the contents of the can. Ice 
melting absorbs heat. This heat is also taken from the 
contents of the can. Care must be taken that the salt 
water in the tub of the freezer does not reach above the 
coyer of the can, or it will enter the can. After the mixture 
is frozen sufficiently, draw oflF the water by removing the 
cork or plug, remove the cover and dasher and pack the 
cream solidly, then replace the cover, and pack the freezer 
again with ice and salt, but do not insert the cork. 

Lemon Ice. — To four cups of boiling water add two 
cups of sugar and the grated rind of two lemons. Boil 
five minutes. Add one half cup of lemon juice, strain, 
cool, and freeze. 

Orange Ice. — Four cups of water, two cups of sugar, 
one fourth cup of lemon juice, grated rind of two oranges, 
and juice of four oranges. Make sirup as for lemon ice ; 
add fruit juice, cool, strain, and freeze. 

Ice Cream. — To one quart of thin cream add three 
fourths cup of sugar and one half teaspoon of vanilla or 
any other flavor desired. Freeze. 

Maple Mousse. — Four eggs, yolks and whites separate, 
one cup maple sirup, one quart of cream, one teaspoon of 
vanilla. Beat the yolks of the eggs very light, stir in one 
cup of maple sirup, and cook until it thickens, stirring 
constantly. Cool. Add one quart of cream and the beaten 
whites of the eggs and vanilla. Strain, cool, and freeze. 

Cranberry Sherbet. — Wash one quart of cranberries, 
cover with one pint of cold water, and cook until soft. When 



i84 ADDITIONAL RECIPES 

soft, press through a fruit press, and add enough water to 
make one quart of juice. Add the juice of two oranges 
and two cups of sugar, and heat to the boiHng point. Chill, 
turn into the freezer, and freeze. Serve with turkey, 
chicken, or game course. 

SOME ADDITIONAL RECIPES 

To be used with the meat lessons when not enough work 
is provided to keep the pupils occupied. 

Simple Layer Cakes. — Bake plain cake in two layer 
cake pans, and use any of the following fillings and frost 
the top with White Frosting. 

Marshmallow Cream Filling. — Beat one cup of cream 
until stiff, add one fourth cup of powdered sugar, one half 
teaspoon of vanilla, one egg white beaten stiff and dry, and 
one half cup of marshmallow cut into small pieces. Spread 
between the layers and on top, and serve while fresh. 

Lady Baltimore FilUng. — Make White Frosting and to 
one haK of it add one half cup of chopped raisins, one half 
cup of chopped nuts, and three chopped figs. Spread 
between the layers, and frost the top with the remainder of 
the frosting. 

Fig Filling. — Chop one fourth pound of figs, add one 
half cup of cold water and one fourth cup of sugar, and boil 
until it thickens. Spread between the layers, and frost 
the top of the cake. 

Chocolate FiUing. — (See p. 130, Chocolate Frosting.) 

Blitz Kuchen. — One cup of butter, or one half cup of 
butter and one half cup of lard, creamed until soft, add one 
cup of sugar and mix thoroughly. Add four beaten eggs, 
and beat until thoroughly blended. Add alternately three 
fourths cup of milk and two cups of flour in which three 



ADDITIONAL RECIPES 185 

teaspoons of baking powder and one fourth teaspoon of salt, 
one teaspoon of cinnamon, have been sifted. Add grated 
rind of one lemon. Spread in a shallow pan about one fourth 
inch thick. Sprinkle with three fourths cup of nuts, one 
fourth cup of sugar and cinnamon. , Bake in a hot oven. 

Cottage Pudding. — Cream one fourth cup of butter, add 
two thirds cup of sugar, one egg, one cup of milk, two and 
one fourths cups of flour, four teaspoons of baking powder, 
one fourth teaspoon of salt. Mix as for Plain Cake. Bake 
thirty-five minutes and serve with Vanilla or Hard Sauce. 

Hard Sauce. — Cream one third cup of butter ; add one 
cup of powdered sugar gradually; add one fourth teaspoon 
of flavoring, and shape into small balls. 

Rice Pudding. — Cook one half cup of rice in one pint of 
boiling water for twenty minutes, or imtil soft. Add one 
half cup of sugar, one pint of milk, two well-beaten eggs, 
one half cup of raisins, speck of nutmeg, and bake slowly 
until firm. 

Bread Pudding. — Mix one pint of bread crumbs, one 
quart of milk, one cup of sugar, four egg yolks, two table- 
spoons melted butter, and the juice of lemon or one teaspoon 
of lemon extract. Beat until blended. Turn into a baking 
dish and bake three quarters of an hour. Take from oven, . 
spread jam or jelly over the top, cover with the whites of 
four eggs beaten stiff and dry, to which has been added four 
tablespoons of sugar and one fourth teaspoon of lemon 
extract. Return to the oven until the eggs are browned. 
Serve with cream. 

Date Pudding. — Wash one pound of dates and remove 
the stones, add one cup of walnuts chopped, one half cup of 
sugar, two eggs well beaten, and one half cup of flour and 
two teaspoons of baking powder sifted together. Mix well. 



i86 ADDITIONAL RECIPES 

and bake slowly about two hours. Pour one cup of cream 
over the pudding while it is warm, and serve with whipped 
cream. 

Fig Pudding. — Wash and dry one pound of figs and cut 
into small pieces. Cream one cup of shortening ; add two 
cups of sugar and three imbeaten eggs. Sift together three 
cups of bread crumbs, one half teaspoon of nutmeg, one 
' teaspoon of cinnamon, and add to the first mixture. Add 
one half cup of milk and the figs, and beat well. Turn into 
two buttered molds, and steam one to one and one half hours. 

Blueberry Pudding. — Cream two thirds cup of butter, 
add two thirds cup of sugar, two eggs well beaten, three 
fourths cup of milk, and two cups of flour, three teaspoons of 
baking powder, one fourth teaspoon of salt, sifted together. 
Mix as for cake. When well beaten, add two cups of floured 
blueberries. Turn into two buttered molds. Steam one 
hour, and then bake one half hour. Serve with Hard Sauce 
and whipped cream. 

Marguerites. — Boil one cup of sugar and one half cup 
of water until it threads. Cut six marshmallows in small 
pieces and add to the sirup. After the marshmallows are 
dissolved, add the sirup to the beaten whites of two eggs ; 
add one fourth teaspoon of vanilla, one cup of chopped nut 
meats, one half cup of chopped figs or dates. Spread on 
crackers, and serve with ices. 

Torte. — Beat the whites of five eggs until stiff and dry; 
add two and one half cups of powdered sugar and continue 
beating until thoroughly blended; add one tablespoon of 
vinegar and one teaspoon of vanilla. Line two shallow 
pans with oiled or greased paper, and bake in a very slow 
oven for at least an hour. Put strawberries, pineapple, or 
peaches between the layers and whipped cream on top. 



ADDITIONAL RECIPES 187 

Cream Puflfs. — Put one half cup of butter and one cup 
of boiling water into a stewpan, and let it come to the boil- 
ing point. Gradually add one cup of flour, and boil two 
minutes, stirring constantly. Remove from the fire, and 
add four unbeaten eggs one at a time, mixing thoroughly 
after each egg is added. Drop by spoonfuls about two 
inches apart on greased paper. Bake one half hour in a 
moderate oven. 

Almond Cookies. — Cream one half cup of butter; gradu- 
ally add one and one fourth cups sugar, one haK cup of 
sour milk, one beaten egg, one half teaspoon of almond ex- 
tract, and one fourth teaspoon salt, one half teaspoon soda, 
and two cups of flour sifted together. Mix thoroughly, 
roll thin, and bake in a hot oven. 

Rocks. — Cream one cup of shortening; add one and one 
half cups of sugar, three eggs well beaten, two tablespoons 
of water, one teaspoon soda, one teaspoon cinnamon, one 
fourth teaspoon salt, two and one half cups of flour sifted 
together. Add one cup of chopped walnuts and one cup of 
raisins. Drop by spoonfuls on greased paper one and one 
half inches apart, and bake in a hot oven. 

Molasses Cookies. — Cream three fourths cup of shorten- 
ing; add one cup of sugar, one cup of molasses, and one cup 
of boiUng water. Place on the stove, and let it come to the 
boiling point. Remove from the stove and cool. Add one 
beaten egg, one half teaspoon of soda, two teaspoons of 
cinnamon, two teaspoons of ginger, one teaspoon of cloves, 
and three and one half cups of flour sifted together. Mix 
thoroughly. Drop by spoonfuls on greased paper one 
inch apart, and bake in a hot oven. 

Prune Pie. — Wash three fourths pound of prunes and 
soak overnight or several hours in cold water. Cook until 



i88 ADDITIONAL RECIPES 

soft ; add one half cup of sugar, two tablespoons of flour, 
one tablespoon of butter, one half tablespoon of lemon 
juice, one fourth teaspoon of salt. Line a plate with crust 
and cover with an upper crust. 

Raisin Pie. — Mix one and one half cups of chopped 
raisins, one half cup of sugar, one cup of water, one table- 
spoon of flour, and one lemon cut into thin slices. Line 
the plate with crust, and cover with one half inch strips of 
* crust. 

Chocolate Pie. — Mix four tablespoons of cornstarch, 
one half cup of sugar, four tablespoons of grated chocolate, 
one eighth teaspoon of salt, add three egg yolks and two 
cups of milk, and cook until it thickens, stirring constantly. 
Add one teaspoon of vanilla. Bake the crust as for lemon 
pie. Fill the crust with the filling, and cover with the 
whites of three eggs beaten stiff, to which two tablespoons 
of sugar have been added, and bake imtil brown. Serve 
cold. 

Devil's Food. — Cream one half cup of butter, add one 
cup of sugar, mix thoroughly. Add the yolks of two 
eggs, one half cup of sour milk in which one teaspoon of 
soda has been thoroughly dissolved, two cups of flour, and 
lastly the whites of two eggs, and one teaspoon of vanilla. 

Grate three ounces of chocolate, mix with one half cup 
of sweet milk, one half cup of sugar, and the yolk of one 
egg. Boil until stiff, in double boiler, then add to the 
white dough, beat thoroughly and bake in a moderate 
oven, about forty-five minutes. 



CHEMICAL COMPOSITION OF FOODS 



189 



Tables Showing the Chemical Composition of Foods Com- 
monly Used in the Average American Diet 

Taken from Bulletin 28, Office of Experiment Stations, and Farmers' Bulletin 142, 
U. S. Department of Agriculture 



Food 


Water 


Protein 


Fat 


Carbo- 
hydrate 


Celujlose 


Mineral 


Cerfj^ls 


Per Cent 


Per Cent 


Percent 


Percent 


Percent 


Per Cent 


Wheat . . . 


10.6 


12.2 


1-7 


71-3 


2.4 


1.8 


Corn . . 




10.8 


lO.O 


4.3 


71.7 


1-7 


I.S 


Oats . . 




II.O 


II.8 


S.o 


59-7 


95 


3.0 


Rye . . 




lo.S 


12.2 


i.S 


71.8 


2.1 


1.9 


Rice . . 




12.0 


8.0 


2.0 


76.0 


1.0 


1.0 


Barley 




10.9 


II.O 


2.3 


69.S 


3.8 


2.5 


Buckwheat 




12.6 


lO.O 


2.2 


64.5 


8.7 


2.0 


Legumes 














Fresh Legumes: 














String beans 


89.2 


2.3 


.3 


7-4 


1.9 


.8 


Shelled kidney 














beans . . 


58.9 


9.4 


.6 


29.1 


1.7 


2.0 


Shelled lima 














beans . . 


68.5 


7.1 


•7 


22.0 


1.7 


1.7 


Shelled peas . 


74.6 


7.0 


.5 


16.9 


1.7 


1.0 


Dried Legumes: 














Lima beans . 


10.4 


I8.I 


1.5 


65.9 




4.1 


Navy beans . 


12.6 


22.5 


1.8 


59.6 


4.4 


3.5 


Lentils . . 


8.4 


25.7 


I.O 


59-2 




5.7 


Dried peas 


9-5 


24.6 


I.O 


62.0 


4.5 


2.9 


Peanuts . . 


9.2 


25.8 


38.6 


24.4 


2.5 


2.0 


Roots and 














Tubers 














Potato . . . 


78.3 


2.2 


.1 


18.0 


.4 


1.0 


Sweet potato . 


69. 


1.8 


.7 


26.1 


1.3 


I.I 


Beets .... 


87.5 


1.6 


.1 


8.8 


.9 


I.I 


Celeriac . . . 


84.1 


1.5 


•4 


11.8 


1.4 


.8 


Carrots . . . 


88.2 


I.I 


.4 


8.2 


I.I 


1.0 



IQO 



CHEMICAL COMPOSITION OF FOODS 



Tables Showing the Chemical Composition op Foods Com- 
monly Used in the Average American Diet — Continued 



Food 


Water 


Protein 


Fat 


Carbo- 
hydrate 


Cellxtlose 


Mineral 


Roots and 














Tubers 


Per Cent 


Per Cent 


Per Cent 


Per Cent 


Per Cent 


Per Cent 


Parsnips . . . 


83.0 


1.6 


•S 


II.O 


2.5 


1.4 


Salsify . . . 


85.4 


4.3 


•3 


6.8 


2.0 


1.2 


Turnips . . . 


89.6 


1-3 


.2 


6.8 


1.3 


.8 


Rutabagas . . 


88.9 


1.3 


.2 


7.3 


1.2 


I.I 


Onions . . . 


87.6 


1.6 


•3 


9.1 


.8 


.6 


Fresh Fruits 














Apples . . . 


84.6 


.4 


•S 


13.0 


1.2 


.3 


Apricots . . . 


85.0 


I.I 






13-4 




.5 


Bananas . . . 


75-3 


1.3 




6 


21.0 


1.0 


.8 


Blackberries 


86.3 


1.3 


I. 





8.4 


2.5 


.5 


Cherries . . . 


80.9 


I.O- 




8 


16.S 


.2 


.6 


Cranberries . . 


88.9 


•4 




6 


8.4 


1.4 


1.5 


Currants . . 


85.0 


IS 




. 


12.8 




.7 


Grapes . . . 


77-4 


1.3 


I. 


6 


14.9 


4.3 


.5 


Lemons . . . 


89.3 


1.0 




7 


7.4 


I.I 


.5 


Muskmelons 


89.5 


.6 




. 


7.2 


2.1 


.6 


Olives . . . 


67.0 


2.5 


17 


I 


5.7 


3.3 


4.4 


Oranges . . . 


86.9 


.8 




2 


II.6 




.5 


Peaches . . . 


89.4 


•7 




I 


5.8 


3-6 


.4 


Pears .... 


80.9 


1.0 




5 


15-7 


i-S 


.4 


Pineapples . . 


89.3 


.4 




3 


9.3 


•4 


•3 


Plums . . . 


78.4 


I 




. 


20.1 




•5 


Raspberries, red 


85.8 


I 






9.7 


2.9 


.6 


black 


84.1 


1.7 


I 





12.6 


. . 


.6 


Strawberries 


90.4 


1.0 




6 


6.0 


1.4 


.6 


Watermelons 


92.4 


.4 




.2 


6.7 




•3 


Dried Fruits 














Apples . . . 


26.1 


1.6 


2.2 


62.0 


6.1 


2.0 


Apricots . . . 


29.4 


4.7 


1.0 


62.5 


•• 


2.4 



CHEMICAL COMPOSITION OF FOODS 



191 



Tables Showing the Chemical Composition op Foods Com- 
monly Used in the Average American Diet — Concluded 



Food 


Water 


Protein 


Fat 


Carbo- 
hydrate 


Cellulose 


Mineral 
Matter 


Dried Fruits 


Per Cent 


Per Cent. 


Per Cent 


Per Cent 


Per Cent 


Per Cent 


Citrons . . 


19.0 


•S 


I-S 


78.1 




.9 


Dates 




154 


2.1 


2.8 


74.6 


3.8 


1.3 


Figs . . 




18.8 


4.3 


•3 


68.0 


6.2 


2.4 


Pears . . 




16.6 


2.8 


5-4 


66.0 


6.9 


2.4 


Prunes 




2*2.3 


2.1 




71.2 


2.1 


2.3 


Raisins 




14.6 


2.6 


3.3 


73.6 


2.5 


3.4 


Currants 




17.2 


2.4 


1.7 


71.2 


3.0 


45 


Nuts 














Almonds . . 


4.5 


21.0 


54.9 


17-3 


2.0 


2.0 


Hickory nuts 


3.7 


15.4 


67.4 


11.4 




2.1 


Pecans . . 


2.7 


9.6 


70.S 


15.3 




1.9 


Walnuts . . 


2.5 


18.4 


64.4 


13.0 


1.4 


1.7 


Milk and 














Products 


5 












Whole milk . 


. 87.0 


3.3 


4.0 


5.0 






.7 


Skim milk . 


. 90.S 


3-4 


.3 


S.I 






.7 


Buttermilk . 


91.0 


3.0 


•S 


4.8 






.7 


Condensed milk 


26.9 


8.8 


8.3 


54. 1 






1.9 


Cheese, Chedda 


r 27.4 


27.7 


36.8 


4.1 






4.0 


Full cream 


34.2 


25.9 


33.7 


2.4 






3.8 


Roquefort 


. 39.3 


22.6 


29.S 


1.8 






6.8 


Swiss 


. 31-4 


27.6 


34.9 


1.3 






'4.8 


Neufchatel 


50.0 


18.7 


27.4 


1.5 






2.4 


Cottage 


72.0 


20.9 


I.O 


4.3 






1.8 


Eggs . . . 


. 74.7 


14.8 


10.S 


•• 






1.0 



CONLEY P. C. — 13 



192 



AMOUNT OF REFUSE IN SOME FOODS 



Tables Showing the Amount of Refuse in Some Vegetables, 
AND IN Meats and Fish 





Refuse 


Water 




Fat 


Cakbo- 

HYDRATE 


Mineral 
Matter 


Vegetables 


Per Cent 


Percent 


Percent 


Percent 


Percent 


Percent 


Cabbage . . . 


15.5 


77-7 


1.4 


.2 


4.8 


.9 


Celery . . . 


20.0 


75.6 


.9 


.1 


2.6 


.8 


Cucumbers . . 


15.0 


18.1 


.7 


.2 


2.6 


A 


Lettuce . . . 


ISO 


80.S 


I.O 


.2 


2.5 


.8 


Spinach . . . 




92.3 


2.1 


.3 


3.2 


2.1 


Tomatoes . . 




94.3 


.9 


.4 


3.9 


.6 


Beef, Fresh: 














Chuck, ribs . 


16.3 


52.6 


iS-o 


14.3 




.6 


Loin, medium 


13.3 


52.5 


15.6 


16.6 




.7 


Ribs ... 


20.8 


43.8 


13s 


20.0 




•5 


Round, me- 














dium . . 


7.2 


60.7 


18.4 


12.2 




.8 


Shoulder and 














clod . . 


16.4 


S6.8 


159 


9.3 




.7 


Beef, Dried 














AND Smoked 


4.7 


53.7 


25.6 


6.6 




5.5 


Veal: 














Cutlets, round 


3.4 


68.3 


19.S 


7.1 




.8 


Leg ... 


14.2 


60.1 


15.0 


7.5 




.7 


Mutton : 














Leg . . . 


18.4 


S1.2 


14.6 


14.0 




.6 


Loin ... 


16.0 


42.0 


13.1 


26.9 




.5 


Pork, Fresh : 














Loin chops 


19.7 


41.8 


13.0 


23.0 




.6 


Ham . , . 


10.7 


48.0 


I3-I 


24.6 




.6 


Pork, Salted 














AND Smoked 














Bacon . . . 


7.7 


17.4 


8.8 


S9.I 




3.1 


Ham . . . 


13.6 


34.8 


13.8 


31.7 




3.2 


Salt, fat . . 


•• 


7.9 


1.8 


81.9 




2.9 



AMOUNT OP REFUSE IN SOME FOODS 193 



Tables Showing the Amount of Refuse in Some Vegetables, 
AND IN Meats and Fish — Continued 





Refuse 


Water 


Protein 


Fat 


Carbo- 
hydrate 


Mineral 
Matter 


Poultry : 


Per Cent 


Per Cent 


Per Cent 


Per Cent 


Per Cent 


Per Cent 


Fowl . . . 


25.9 


47.1 


13.3 


II.7 




•5 


Turkey . . 


22.7 


42.4 


15.6 


17.5 




.6 


Fresh Fish: 














Black bass. . 


46.7 


41.9 


10.3 


.5 




.6 


Cod. . . . 


29.9 


58.5 


10.6 


.2 




.8 


Mackerel . . 


40.7 


43.7 


II.4 


3.5 




•7 


Perch . . . 


54.6 


34.4 


8.7 


1.8 




.5 


Pickerel . . 


35.9 


51.I 


II.9 


.2 




.9 


Pike. . . . 


30.S 


55.4 


13.0 


.4 




•7 


Salmon . . . 


23.8 


SI.2 


14.6 


9.5 




•9 


Trout, brook . 


37.9 


48.4 


II.7 


1-3 




.7 


Trout, lake . 


35.2 


45.0 


12.4 


6.6 




.8 


Whitefish . . 


43.6 


39-4 


10.3 


3.6 




.9 


Pres'v*d Fish: 














Cod, salt . . 


24.9 


40.2 


16.0 


.4 


.. 


18.S 
(salt) 


Herring, 














smoked 


44.4 


19.2 


20.5 


8.8 


.. 


7-4 


Canned Fish: 














Caviare . . 


. . 


38.1 


30.0 


19.7 


7.6 


4.6 


Salmon . . 




63.5 


21.8 


12. 1 




2.6 


Sardines . . 


S.o 


53.6 


23.7 


12. 1 




5.3 


Shellfish : 














Oysters . . 




88.3 


6.0 


1.3 


3.3 


i.i 


Clams . . 




80.8 


10.6 


I.I 


5.2 


2.3 


Lobsters . . 


61.7 


30.7 


5.9 


•7 


.2 


.8 


Shrimps . . 




70.8 


25.4 


i.o 


.2 


2.6 



TEACHING COOKING IN RURAL SCHOOLS 

SUGGESTIONS FOR TEACHERS 

The demand for some simple instruction for work in 
domestic science which can be given in the one-room rural 
school has been so insistent that the following suggestions 
have been added for the high school or normal school student 
who may teach in a rural school. 

The actual work of housekeeping may vary in different 
locahties and imder different economic conditions, but, by 
the present generation at least, certain fimdamental proc- 
esses will be carried on in the average home. 

These are patching, darning, mending, care, and making 
of clothes ; planning, preparing, and serving meals ; market- 
ing and purchasing the things needed in the home and by 
members of the family ; care of the house, including sweep- 
ing, dusting, and cleaning ; rearing of children and care of 
sick and aged. 

While school instruction in some of these subjects must 
be purely theoretical and hence of little value unless oppor- 
tunity can be afforded for practical work, cooking and sew- 
ing may be taught in the one-room rural school with simple 
equipment and no great expenditure of money. 

This work will be of httle value, however, unless what is 
learned at school is practiced at home, and for this reason 
girls' clubs should be organized, contests and school fairs 
should be held, and school credit should be given for home 

-rk. 

194 



TEACHING COOKING IN RURAL SCHOOLS 195 

The lessons suggested may be given for one or two periods 
a week, preferably the last hour in the session as the work 
may then extend for a longer period of time without inter- 
fering with school work. 

As this work is for the one- or two-room school building 
and as but little space can be utihzed, it is best to provide 
only equipment enough for four pupils to cook at a time, the 
other members of the class may observe those at work, 
criticize, and make contributions to the knowledge ac- 
quired concerning the lesson. Each pupil in the class 
should try the recipe at home, and report result. The 
home work should form the greater share of the work done, 
and credit should be given for it. A careful record of cook- 
ing done at home should be made and kept. It is well to 
post this record in a conspicuous place in the schoolroom. 

EQUIPMENT FOR COOKING IN RURAL SCHOOLS 

For four pupils, two pupils working together. 
Cupboard made with shelves and curtain in front. 
Cans or Mason jars for holding sugar, salt, pepper, baking 
powder, soda, flour, etc. 
A molding board. Board for cutting. 

LIST OF UTENSILS AND PRICES 



Kitchen table with drawer 


^1.50 


Two paring knives 


$ .20 


Two burner oil stove 


$' 


C.50 to 


Two steel knives 


.20 


Oven to fit stove 




^8.00 


Two steel forks 


.20 


Drip pan to fit oven 




.20 


Four teaspoons 


.20 


Teakettle 




.50 


Two tablespoons 


.10 


Pail for water 




.20 


One Dover egg beater 


.15 


Garbage pail 




.20 


One spoon egg beater 


.10 


Two dishpans 




.50 


Two one-quart bowls 


.20 



196 TEACHING COOKING IN RURAL SCHOOLS 



One sieve to fit bowl $ 


.05 


4 cups and saucers $ 


.40 


Two measuring cups 


.10 


4 white plates, large 


.40 


Two one-pint tin basins 


.10 


One grater 


.05 


Two one-quart double boilers 


.70 


2 mufi^ pans 


.10 


Two one-quart stewpans 


.50 


I large mixing bowl, 2-quaxt 


.25 


Two roUing pins 


.10 


One soap dish 


.05 


Two biscuit cutters 


.10 


One lemon squeezer 


.10 


One vegetable brush 


.05 


One match box 


.OS 


Two corks for scouring. 




One broiler 


•OS 


One utensil pan 


.10 


One corkscrew 


.05 


Two small frying pans 


.20 


One can opener 


.05 


Two bread pans 


.20 


One creamer and sugar 


.25 


One pie plate 


.10 


One water pitcher 


IS 


One tray 


.10 


Total (excluding stove) 10.00 


One two-quart stewpan 


•30 






One bread knife 


.25 


Flour sacks for dish towels, some 


One butcher knife 


.25 


holders, henmied dishcloths 




4 white plates, small 


.40 







SUGGESTED LESSONS 

In addition to actual cooking lessons, have pupils find the 
composition of each food, calculate the cost of each lesson, 
note the length of time which it takes to prepare every 
recipe, find out at what meal each one of the foods prepared 
would be served, and learn to find the nutritive value of 
each recipe. 

With the exception of the bread lesson, the following 
lessons may all be prepared in 60 minutes. 

Creamed Potatoes or Cauli- Poached, Boiled, Scrambled 



flower or Carrots 
Cream of Potato or Tomato 

Soup 
Simmered Beef 
Beef Loaf and Coffee 



Eggs 
Cooked Salad Dressing — 

Cabbage Salad — Potato 

Salad 
Biscuit — Shortcake 



TEACHING COOKING IN RURAL SCHOOLS 197 

Muffins and Gingerbread, Apple Pie 

Johnnycake Custard — Custard Pud- 
Bread dings as rice, tapioca, or 
Plain Cake bread 
Sugar Cookies or Oatmeal Plan, prepare, and serve a 

Cookies simple limcheon. 



SCHOOL LUNCHES 

Another method of teaching cooking in the one-room rural 
school is by having the pupils prepare and serve one warm 
dish to supplement the cold limch brought from home. 

Object of the Work. — The object of this work is not 
to furnish a meal, but some warm food to supplement the 
cold lunch brought from home ; to make the noon meal- 
time serve as a social hour ; to furnish a pleasanter place 
for eating lunch than the school steps, the wood pile, the 
entry way, or the various other places where pupils have 
been accustomed to eat their lunches; to teach table 
manners, politeness, and common social customs ; to teach 
boys and girls to share work ; to teach some things about 
serving foods and planning meals; to interest pupils in 
cooking, in knowing the nutritive value of foods, the rela- 
tion of foods to health; to interest pupils in gardening, 
raising of foods, — vegetable and animal ; to bring school 
and home more closely together by interesting mothers in 
the work ; to give school credit for work done at home under 
the guidance and direction of mother and teacher ; to give 
to pupils in the rural schools some of the advantages and 
opportunities which all pupils in the city schools enjoy. 

How to make a Success of the Work. — Keep in mind 
that the object of this work is not slum or settlement work. 



iqS TEACfflNG COOKING IN RURAL SCHOOLS 

That, except in rare instances, people in the country can 
all afford to furnish good, nutritious meals for their children. 
That the reasons why this work is attempted are social, 
ethical, and educational rather than philanthropic. That 
the work should not be an additional task for a teacher 
already overworked, but should be a pleasant diversion for 
the pupils after they have spent the morning in academic 
work. That the teacher should not be the only one inter- 
ested and responsible, because no pupils remain interested 
unless they share work and responsibihty. Insist on parents 
sharing the responsibility. Invite the mothers to school 
on a certain day and plan lunches with them. Have dif- 
ferent mothers provide foods occasionally, — as a pot of 
baked beans, cold potatoes and meat for hash, or loan fat 
for a frying lesson of doughnuts or Saratoga chips. Always 
remember that no conununity work is worth while unless 
the labor is shared by all, and all share the pleasure. Nor- 
mal children like to work with their hands. 



SCHOOL EQUIPMENT FOR SERVING LUNCH 

An oil stove with oven, unless cooking can be done on the 

stove used for heating. 
A kitchen table or a large box covered with an oil cloth. 
2 dishpans A large spoon and ladle 

Soap A board for cutting bread, 

A frying pan meat, or for rolling out 

A drip pan for oven cookies, doughnuts, etc. 

A paring knife A large kettle 

A butcher knife A garbage pail 

A large bowl A water pail 

A fireless cooker would be desirable. 



TEACHING COOKING IN RURAL SCHOOLS 199 

Dish towels and wiping towels, made out of flour sacks 
which may be brought from home or purchased at the 
bakers, in town, for a very small sum. 
Dishes enough to serve the pupils — each pupil may bring 
his dishes from home, but do not use old, discolored, 
nicked dishes. They tend to make the dishwasher care- 
less and to lower the taste of the pupils in regard to neat- 
ness and attractiveness of table service ; they sometimes 
spoil the appetite. 
A dry goods box may be fitted with shelves and a curtain, 
and placed against the wall. This will hold utensils when 
they are not in use. 

How to Secure Supplies. — Supphes may be brought from 
home by the various pupils in turn. Supplies may be pur- 
chased by the teacher from funds furnished by the school 
board. Supplies may be purchased from funds derived 
from entertainments, school fairs, or prizes secured by pupils 
who enter things made at school at county or state fairs. 
The best method is probably to have the mothers supply 
the food needed, as things can be supplied from farm homes 
at much lower cost than they can be purchased by the 
teacher at city stores. This is the hardest problem for the 
teacher and should be solved by the community. 

Suggestions for Serving the School Lunch. — Pupils 
bring their lunch from home and the school lunch supple- 
ments. Prepare but one dish each day and vary the dish 
from day to day. 

Let pupils know what the dish is to be; plan a week 
ahead. 

Have one or two of the girls make all preparations, before 
school opens (that can be made), so that the lunch work 
interferes but Uttle with the pupils' regular school work. 



200 TEACHING COOKING IN RURAL SCHOOLS 

Have one girl get the food ready to serve when school 
is dismissed, or pupils will start to eat their lunches from 
their lunch boxes. 

Have each pupil set his desk with paper napkin for the 
table cloth, and place the knife, fork, spoon, and cup in 
proper position. 

Have each pupil fill his own glass or cup with water before 
the hot food is served. 

Have all pupils seated but the server, teacher included, 
if possible. 

Have the older girls do the serving and preparing of food 
at first, then pupils in turn. 

Have all pupils remain seated at their desks until they 
have been excused by the teacher. 

Have some pupils prepared to encourage conversation, 
stories, and laughter at the meal. Make the meal time a 
social hour. 

Have each pupil scrape his own plate and other dishes 
and pile them properly. 

Have the boys scour the knives and utensUs, carry the 
water, tend the fire, and empty the dishwater and refuse. 

Have two different pupils wash the dishes daily until 
all have shared in the work. 

FOODS WHICH MAY BE EASILY AND QUICKLY 
PREPARED 

Baked apples Mush and mUk 

Baked potatoes Tomato soup, pea soup, potato 

Creamed potatoes, creamed car- soup 

rots, etc. Corn chowder 

Scalloped potatoes Cocoa, cereal coffee 

Rice and cheese Bacon and eggs 

Rice and milk and sugar Bacon and corn 



TEACHING COOKING IN RURAL SCHOOLS 201 

Apple sauce Cookies 

Dried fruits, as prunes Custard 

Cottage pie Hash, meat and cold potatoes 

Macaroni and cheese brought from home 

Brown Betty Doughnuts 

Gingerbread Fritters 

BOOKS TO READ 

"How the World is Fed, " Carpenter. 

" How We are Fed, " Chamberlain. 

Bulletins on Foods from the U. S. Dept. of Agriculture. 

LIST OF FARMERS' BULLETINS 
These may be obtained free. 

34, Meats : Composition and Cooking. 

121. Beans, Peas, and Other Legumes as Food. 

131. Household Tests for Oleomargarine and Renovated Butter. 

142. Nutrition and Nutritive Value of Food. 

175. Home Manufacture and Use of Unfermented Grape Juice. 

203. Canned Fruits, Preserves, and Jellies. 

256. Preparation of Vegetables for the Table. 

295. Potatoes and Other Root Crops as Food. 

298. Food Value of Cora and Com Products. 

391. Economical Use of Meat in the Home. 

413. The Care of Milk and Its Use in the Home. 

270. Modem Conveniences for the Farm Home. 

377. Harmfulness of Headache Mixtures. 

521. Canning Tomatoes at Home and in Club Work. 
Comforts and Conveniences in Farmers' Homes. 

389. Bread Making. 375. Care of Food in the Home. 

363. Milk as Food. 359. Canning Vegetables at Home. 

348. Bacteria in Milk. 332. Nuts; Their Uses as Food. 

182. Poultry as Food. 249. Cereal Breakfast Foods. 

293. Fruit as Food. 241. Butter Making on the Farm. * 

93. Sugar as Food. 166. Cheese Making on the Farm. 

85. Fish as Food. 128. Eggs ; Their Uses as Food. 



INDEX 



Adds, S3' 

vegetable, 26. 
Albumin, 155. 
Albuminoids, 26. 
Apples, 39, 54- 

baked, 38. 

steamed, 55. 

stewed, 41. 
Aspic, 178. 

Bacon, 45, 138. 

and fried eggs, 144. 
Bacteria, 65, 66, 67. 
Baking powder, 102, 103, 104. 
Batters and doughs, 100, loi. 

griddle cakes, loi. 

muffins, 107, 108. 
Beans, 

Boston baked, 135. 

lima, 136. 

succotash, 136. 
Berries, canned, 69. 
Beverages, 

chocolate, iii. 

cocoa, III. 

coffee, no. 

lemonade, in. 

punch. III. 

tea, no. 

water, 109. 
Biscuit, 104. 
Bread, 1 21-12 2. 

judging bread, 120. 
Breads, 

Boston brown, 122. 

coffee cake, 124. 

com, 102. 

gingerbread, 102. 

nut bread, 107. 
«■ Parker House rolls, 124. 

Swedish rolls, 124. 
Breakfast, 112. 

menus, 117. 

serving, 113. 



Broiling, 47, 48, 49. 
Butter, 148. 

Cakes, 128. 

angel, 132. 

Blitz Kuchen, 184. 

chocolate, 133. 

coffee cake, 124. 

devil's food, 188. 

Dutch apple, 106. 

golden, 132. 

jelly roll, 133. 

Johnny cake, 102. 

layer, 184. 

nut, 132. 

orange, 131. 

plain, 130. 

shortcake, 105. 

Spanish buns, 132. 

spice, 130. 

sponge, 132. 

torte, 186. 
Candy, 84. 

chocolate caramel, 86. 

chocolate fudge, 86. 

cream candy, 86. 

divinity fudge, 85. 

fondant, 85. 

molasses, 85. 

peanut brittle, 84. 

popcorn candied, 86. 

sea foam, 85. 
Canning, 67. 

beans, 72. 

berries, 69. 

com, 68. 

fruit, 69. 

peaches, 69. 

tomatoes, 68. 
Carbohydrates, 24, 26. 

in fruits and vegetables, 54. 
Casein, 146. 
Catsup, 71. 
Cells, 24, 25, 33. 



INDEX 



io^ 



Cellulose, 25, 33. 
Cereals, 54, 87, 90. 

cooking qi, 91. 

serving of, 93. 
Cheese, 151, 152. 

cottage, 149. 

fondu, 152. 

soiiffl6, 153. 

straws, 153. 

Welsh rarebit, 152. 
Chili sauce, 72. 
Chocolate, in. 
Cocoa, III. 
Coffee, no. 
Collagen, 155. 
Conserve pear, 72. 
Cookies, 

almond, 187. 

chocolate, 128. 

crispettes, 131. 

molasses (crisp), 127. 

molasses (soft), 127, 187. 

oatmeal, 137. 

rocks, 187. 

sugar, 127. 
Cooking, 

abbreviations and measurements, 9. 

art and science, 33. 

methods, 29. 

necessity for, 27. 

principles, 29, 51. 

reasons, 28. 

temperatiures used, 9. 

why taught, 31. 
Com and bacon, 138. 
Cornstarch, 

chocolate, 93. 

mold, 93. 

pudding, 93. 
Cream puffs, 187. 
Croquettes, 137. 
Croutons, 78. 
Custard, 142. 

caramel, 142. 

soft custard, 142. 

Desserts {see Ices), 

frozen, 180. 
Dextrin, 44. 
Dinner, 

menus, 178. 

plan and serve, 177. 



Doughs {see Batters and doughs), 

apple dimiplings, 105. 

doughnuts, 137. 

dimiplings, 107. 

shortcake, 105. 
Dressing, salad, 

cooked salad, 61. 

French, 62. 

Mayonnaise, 62. 

sour dressing, 78. 

Eggs, 139-145. 

boiled, 142. 

deviled, 144. 

fried, 144. 

omelet, 98. 

poached, 143. 

scrambled, 143. 

uses of, 141. 
Elastin, iss- 
Energy, 22, 23, 24. 
Experiments, 

cellulose, 26. 

connective tissue, 26. 

eggs, 139- 

meat, 164. 

milk, 148. 

pectin, 70. 

potato, 74. 

protein, 49. 

yeast, 119. 
Extractives, 27, 48. 

uses of, S3. 

Fats, 24, 27. 

in animals, 155. 

in milk, 146. 
Ferments, 30. 

in dough, 118. 
Filling, 

chocolate, 130. 

fig, 182. 

Lady Baltimore, 184. 

marshmallow cream, 184. 

white, 131. 
Fish, 173. 

baked, 174. 

codfish balls, 44. 

croquettes, 137. 

fried, 174. 

selection of, 174. 

steamed salmon loaf, 176. 



i04 



INDEX 



Flour, 95, 96. 
Foods, 22, 23. 

classes, 24, 53. 

composition, 31, 189-193. 

frying foods, 46. 

preservation of, 65. 

starchy foods, 80. 

structure of, 24. 

uses of, 53. 

vegetable foods, 33, 38. 
Fritters, 137. 

com, 138. 

com oysters, 138. 
Frosting {see Filling). 
Fruits, 54. 

baked pears, 55. 

canned, 69. 

fruit pundi, iii. 

fruit roll, 106. 

pickled, 71. 

steamed apples, 55. 

stewed prunes, 58. 

why dried, 55. 

Gas, IS, 16. 
Gelatin, 179. 

aspic, 180. 

fruit salad, 179. 

lemon jelly, 180. 

maple Bavarian cream, 181. 

pineapple Bavarian cream, 181. 

pistachio salad, 181. 

snow pudding, 181. 
Gravy, 165. 

Heat, 28. 

destroys ferments, 30. 
Housekeeper, duties of, 7. 

Ices, 182. 
cranberry sherbet, 183. 
ice cream, 183. 
lemon, 183. 
maple mousse, 183. 
orange, 183. 

Jefly, 69. 
apple, 70. 
aspic, 180. 
currant, 70. 
cranberry, 58. 
grape, 71- 



Jelly, lemon, 181. 

orange, 181. 
Junket, 149. 

Kitchen, equipment, 18. 

Lactose, 148. 
Leavening agents, 

eggs and air, 98. 

eggs inclosing air, 98. 

soda and sour milk, 99. 

steam, 97. 

yeast, 118. 
L€«umes, 54, 134, I3S. 
Lemonade, in. 
Luncheon, 

menus for, 145. 

plan and serve, 145. 

Macaroni and cheese, 94. 

Marguerites, 186. 

Meats, 47, 154, 155, 158, 159. 

1)roiling steak, 48. 

beef loaf, 169. 

beefsteak pie, 171. 

boiled leg of mutton, 168. 

casserole, 168. 

chicken pie, 170. 

creamed dried beef, 171. 

croquettes, 137. 

cuts, 160, 161. 

experiments, 164. 

fried chicken, 166. 

frying bacon, 45. 

Hamburg steak, 167. 

hash, 171. 

Hungarian goulash, 170. 

lamb chops, 166. 

mincemeat, 170. 

mutton stew, 169. 

principles of cooking, 162, 167-172. 

roast beef, 164. 

steak (round), 50. 

veal cutlets, 166. 
Menus, 

breakfast, 117. 

dinner, 178. 

luncheon, 145. 
Milk, 146. 

buttermilk, 148. 

experiments, 148. 

pasteurized, 148. 



INDEX 



iOi 



Mincemeat, 170. 
Mineral matter, 24, 27. 
Mineral salts, 53, 54. 
Molasses, 81, 82. 
Muffins (see Batters). 

Nucleus, 25, 47. 
Nuts, 53, 54- 

Oils, volatile, 27. 
Omelet, 98. 
Onions, 39. 
Ossein, 154. 
Oxidation, 23. 
Oysters, 

fried, 176. 

scalloped, 176. 

stew, 176. 

Pastes, Italian, 94. 
Peanuts, salted, 136. 
Pectin or pectose, 26, 70. 
Pickles, 

beans, 72. 

cucumber, 72. 

peaches, 71. 

nasturtium seeds, 71. 
Pie, 125. 

apple, 125. 

chocolate, 188. 

lemon, 126. 

prune, 187. 

piunpkin, 126. 

raisin, 188. 

rhubarb, 127. 
Popovers, 97. 
Potato, composition of, 35. 
Potatoes, 74, 75. 

baked, 35. 

boiled, 75. 

escalloped, 76. 

glazed (sweet), 76. 

grated, 75. 

in white sauce, 76. 

Lyonnaise, 77. 

mashed, 76. 

salad, 78. 

Saratoga chips, 47. 

stuffed, 76. 
Proteins, 10, 24, 25, 26. 

cooking of, 50, 51. 

experiments, 49. 



Protoplasm, 25, 47, 48. 
Puddings, 

blueberry, 186. 

bread, 185. 

cornstarch, 93. 

cottage, 185. 

date, 185. 

fig, 186. 

fruit, 106. 

fruit roll, 106. 

rice, 185. 

tapioca, 80. 

Yorkshire, 165. 
Punch, III. 

Rice, steamed, 42, 43. 
Rolls {see Bread and rolls). 
Roots and tubers, 54, 73. 

composition and food value, 74. 

cooking and method of preparation, 
75. 

succulent, 78, 79. 
Rules, 

deep fat frying, 46. 

dishwashing, 10. 

firemaking, 12. 

for care of sink, 11. 

how to build fire, 14. 

Sago, 80. 
Salads, 61. 

asparagus, 64. 

banana, 64. 

cabbage, 63. 

combination, 64. 

cucumber and tomato, 64. 

fruit, 64. 

grape, 63. 

how to serve and garnish, 62. 

Juno, 153. 

pistachio, 181. 

potato, 78. 

stuffed tomato, 62. 

Waldorf, 63. 
Sauces, 

brown, 166. 

chili sauce, 72. 

cranberry, 58. 

date, 42. 

drawn butter, 176. 

hard, 185. 

lemon, 106. 



206 



INDEX 



Sauces, 

mint, i68. 

tartare, 174. 

tomato, 95. 

vanilla, 106. 

white, 40. 
Shortening, 96, 97. 
Simp, 58. 

com sirup, 82. 
Solubility and insolubility, 30. 
Soups, 172, 173- 

com chowder, 151. 

cream of potato, 77. 

cream of tomato, 150. 

cream of pea, 150. 

cream or milk, 149. 

how to garnish and serve, 151. 

lentil, 136. 
Spaghetti, 94. 
Squash, 44. 

Starch, 10, 26, 34, S3, 92. 
Stove or range, 13, 14. 

care of gas stove, 15. 

temperature of oven, 17. 
Sugar, 26, 53, 81, 82, 84. 
Suggestions for pupils, 8. 

for teaching in rural schools, 194. 



Table, how to set, 114, 115, 116. 
Tables, 189-193. 
Tapioca, 80. 

apple tai»oca, 81. 

pudding, 80. 
Tea, no. 
Temperatures, 9, 10. 

of body, 23. 
Tissue, connective, 25, 26. 
Toast, 44. 

French, 143. 

Vegetables, 38, 58, 59. 
asparagus, 60. 
boiled onions, 39. 
cauliflower, 60. 
creamed celery, 60. 
spinach, 59. 
steamed rice, 42. 
steamed squash, 43. 
tomatoes, Spanish, 60. 

Water, 24, 27, no. 

uses of, S3, 109. 

Welsh rarebit, 152. 

Yeast, 118, 119. 



f N' 



I ) 



^^I.f 




This is a digital copy of a book that was preserved for generations on library shelves before it was carefully scanned by Google as part of a project 
to make the world's books discoverable online. 

It has survived long enough for the copyright to expire and the book to enter the public domain. A public domain book is one that was never subject 
to copyright or whose legal copyright term has expired. Whether a book is in the public domain may vary country to country. Public domain books 
are our gateways to the past, representing a wealth of history, culture and knowledge that's often difficult to discover. 

Marks, notations and other marginalia present in the original volume will appear in this file - a reminder of this book's long journey from the 
publisher to a library and finally to you. 

Usage guidelines 

Google is proud to partner with libraries to digitize public domain materials and make them widely accessible. Public domain books belong to the 
public and we are merely their custodians. Nevertheless, this work is expensive, so in order to keep providing this resource, we have taken steps to 
prevent abuse by commercial parties, including placing technical restrictions on automated querying. 

We also ask that you: 

+ Make non-commercial use of the files We designed Google Book Search for use by individuals, and we request that you use these files for 
personal, non-commercial purposes. 

+ Refrain from automated querying Do not send automated queries of any sort to Google's system: If you are conducting research on machine 
translation, optical character recognition or other areas where access to a large amount of text is helpful, please contact us. We encourage the 
use of public domain materials for these purposes and may be able to help. 

+ Maintain attribution The Google "watermark" you see on each file is essential for informing people about this project and helping them find 
additional materials through Google Book Search. Please do not remove it. 

+ Keep it legal Whatever your use, remember that you are responsible for ensuring that what you are doing is legal. Do not assume that just 
because we believe a book is in the public domain for users in the United States, that the work is also in the public domain for users in other 
countries. Whether a book is still in copyright varies from country to country, and we can't offer guidance on whether any specific use of 
any specific book is allowed. Please do not assume that a book's appearance in Google Book Search means it can be used in any manner 
anywhere in the world. Copyright infringement liability can be quite severe. 

About Google Book Search 

Google's mission is to organize the world's information and to make it universally accessible and useful. Google Book Search helps readers 
discover the world's books while helping authors and publishers reach new audiences. You can search through the full text of this book on the web 

at http : //books . google . com/| 



Digitized by 



Google 





google 



Digitized by 



Google 



Digitized by 



Google 



Digitized by 



Google 



Cm 

3 
c 



Cu 

o 
u 



u 



Q 
O 



Digitized by 



Google 



PRINCIPLES OF COOKING 

A TEXTBOOK IN 
DOMESTIC SCIENCE 

BY 

EMMA CONLEY 

STATE INSPECTOR OF DOMESTIC SCIENCE FOR WISCONSIN 

FORMERLY DIRECTOR OF DOMESTIC SCIENCE 

STATE NORMAL SCHOOL, OSHKOSH, WISCONSIN 

AUTHOR OF " NUTRITION AND DIET " 




C L 



AMERICAN BOOK COMPANY 
NEW YORK CINCINNATI CHICAGO 



Digitized by 



Google 






Copyright, 1914, 
By EMMA CON LEY. 



Copyright, 191 4, in Great Britain. 



CONLEY, PRIN. OF COOKING. 
B. P. 5 



• • • _• 






Digitized by 



Google 



PREFACE 

" Principles of Cooking " is intended as a textbook in 
cooking and elementary food study for secondary and 
vocational schools. It is not merely a cook book. So 
many good cook books are on the market that there 
would be no justification for adding another to the list. 
The cook book, however, merely presents hundreds of 
recipes showing innumerable ways in which foods may 
be prepared, without attempting to present the principles 
underlying all cooking. 

The principles of cooking are few in number and are 
easily mastered, if properly presented. Foods may be 
grouped in less than a dozen classes, and when the prin- 
ciples which apply to each class are learned and practiced, 
each pupil will know how to prepare a variety of dishes 
from each food or class of foods. 

After the principles of cooking are fully understood 
and applied in practical lessons, there is no educational 
or practical value in the preparation of isolated recipes 
or in a sequence of lessons on one class of foods. The 
object of domestic science work in schools is that a girl 
may learn how to plan, cook, and serve meals at home, 
calculate the cost, and purchase foods in the best market 
at the lowest price. This includes knowing the nutritive 
value of each food and its place in the diet. 

Unless considerable practice is given in schools in plan- 
ning and preparing meals, a pupil may be able to cook 
one or two single foods, but she cannot prepare all the 

3 

»)71'S^''^| Digitized by CiOOglC 



4 PREFACE 

dishes needed for a meal and have them ready to serve at 
a stated time. 

It is with this aim in mind, that all cooking in schools 
should lead to the preparation of attractive, appetizing, nu- 
tritious, well-balanced meals, that " Principles of Cooking " 
and its companion book, " Nutrition and Diet," are written. 
They are intended for pupils who have had cooking in 
the grades or for those who are mature enough to master 
a few important and essential facts, presented in Chapters 
II and III, before proceeding to the practical work of cook- 
ing. Any high school girl can learn these facts as easily 
as she can master problems in algebra or geometry, learn 
a history lesson, or calculate balanced rations for farm ani- 
mals in a class in agriculture. 

High school work in cooking or domestic science must 
include some acquisition of knowledge concerning foods, 
as well as practical work, to make it equivalent in value 
to other high school subjects, and to deserve a credit 
towards college entrance requirements. 

If one year is devoted to the work presented in " Prin- 
ciples of Cooking," and " Nutrition and Diet," the credit 
given in high school for the work should be equivalent to 
the credit given for a year's work in any other high school 
subject. 

Practically all of the recipes in this book are the result 
of class experiments made by varying standard recipes or 
by trying new combinations of foods. A few recipes were 
contributed by friends. All recipes have been tried, many 
times, by classes of students and proved reliable. 

Every school library should contain at least one reliable 
cook book, as the ** Boston Cooking School Cook Book " 
or " Practical Cooking and Serving," and advanced pupils 
should compare recipes grouped together. They should 



Digitized by 



Google 



PREFACE 5 

note the points of variation from the standard recipe of 
the group and be able to make new and attractive food 
combinations for themselves. All cooking is based on a 
few standard recipes, changed or altered to produce variety. 
If an intelligent study is made of the principles of cook- 
ing and their application, preparing foods will no longer 
be a work of uncertainty, but an interesting, scientific, 
and comparatively easy process, and the preparing of 
nutritious, wholesome, and balanced meals will be a 

pleasure. 

EMMA CONLEY. 

Fond du Lac, Wisconsin. 



Digitized by 



Google 



CONTENTS 

CHAPTER PAGE 

I. General Directions for Work. Equipment . . 7 

II. Classes of Foods. Reasons for Cooking . . 22 

III. Methods of Cooking. Development of Principles 

AND their Application. Practice Work in 

Foods • • 33 

IV. Fruits and Green Vegetables 53 

V. Roots and Tubers. Starch and Sugar • . . 73 

VI. Cereals and Leavening Agents .... 87 

VII. Beverages. Planning and Serving a Breakfast . 109 

VIII. Cereals and Leavening Agents (Continued) , .118 

IX. Legumes and Frying Lessons 134 

X. Eggs. Planning a Luncheon 139 

XL Milk and its Products 146 

XII. Meats and Fish 154 

XIII. Gelatin and Ices. Some Additional Recipes . 179 
Tables showing the composition of common foods used 

in the average home . . . . . 189 
Suggestions for Teachers* in Rural Schools . . .194 

INDEX 202 



Digitized by 



Google 



PRINCIPLES OF COOKING 

CHAPTER I 

GENERAL DIRECTIONS FOR WORK IN A SCHOOL 

KITCHEN 

In a school kitchen each girl has her own place at the 
kitchen table and is responsible for the washing of her 
own dishes, care and proper placing of all her utensils, 
the condition of her table, dish towels, etc. 

The general household duties are assigned to the various 
pupils in turn, so that the kitchen will be left in perfect 
order at the close of the lesson and the pupils will have 
practice in this important part of the work. Practice 
in this work trains each pupil to do all kitchen duties, 
develops her interest and responsibility in the proper 
care of the kitchen, makes her familiar with the contents 
of the cupboards, and the proper places to keep supplies, 
china, linen, and various utensils. It also trains her in 
the very important duties of caring for the stove, oven, 
sink, and floor, and unifies the work so that it is *like 
actual housekeeping. 

The following is an easy arrangement of work in the 
school kitchen : — 

Housekeeper i. Care of supplies used in the daily lesson. 

Housekeeper 2. Building of fire, care of stove and tea- 
kettle, and attending to the oven during baking. 

Housekeeper 3. Care of sink. 

7 



Digitized by 



Google 



8 /. : : -: .•: .-.-GENERAL- DIRECTIONS 
••• • . •.• 

Housekeeper 4. Sweeping of kitchen at the close of the 
lesson. 

Suggestions for Pupils. — i. Be sure that hands and 
nails are clean before coming to class. 

2. Wash the hands before the beginning of the lesson 
and keep them clean. 

3. Always keep the hair neatly combed. 

4. Do not wear rings while cooking. 

5. Always wear an apron, and a holder suspended from 
the apron by a tape. 

6. Never use an apron in place of a holder. 

7. Never taste food with a mixing spoon. 

8. Do not leave the spoon in the food while it is cooking. 

9. Keep the tables clean and in order. 

10. Keep the drawers and cupboards closed. 

11. Collect all utensils and supplies needed for work, 
before beginning to prepare the food. 

12. Do not use unnecessary utensils. 

13. Have all materials measured and ready for use be- 
fore beginning to put them together. 

14. Measure accurately, for on that depends the success 
of your cooking. 

15. Do not waste material. 

16. Work quietly, quickly, carefully, and neatly. 

17. Practice at home the things learned at school. 

18. Try each recipe at home. 

19. Calculate the cost of each recipe. 

A list of the foods most frequently used in the home, of seasonable 
vegetables and fruits, and the prices of each, should be posted weekly 
in a conspicuous place in the kitchen so that pupils will learn to 
note cost, calculate the cost of various foods, and know when is the 
best time to purchase and serve certain vegetables and fruits. 



Digitized by 



Google 



GENERAL DIRECTIONS 9 

Each recipe given in this book will serve six people. 
For school work one fourth of each recipe is taken, unless 
otherwise stated. 

ABBREVIATIONS AND MEASUREMENTS USED IN 
COOKING 

tsp. — teaspoon oz. — ounce 

tbsp. — tablespoon lb. — pound 

c. — cup spk. — speck 

pt. — pint bk. pd. — baking powder 

qt. — quart min. — minute 

3 tsp. = I tbsp. 4 tbsp. flour = i oz. (about) 

16 tbsp. = I c. 2 c. sugar = i lb. 

2 c. = I pt. 2 c. butter = i lb. 

2 pt. = I qt. 3J-4 c. flour = I lb. 

2 tbsp. butter = i oz. 9 large eggs = i lb. 

2 tbsp. sugar = i oz. 2 c. lard = i lb. 

All measures are leveled. 
In leveling dry materials, level with a knife. 
Divide with a knife lengthwise for one half a spoon. 
Divide with a knife crosswise for one fourth spoon. 
Divide with a knife crosswise for one eighth. 

TEMPERATURES USED IN COOKING 

Freezing point of water Fahrenheit 32° Centigrade 0° 

Blood temperature Fahrenheit 98.6° Centigrade 37° 

Simmering point Fahrenheit 185° Centigrade 85° 

Boiling point Fahrenheit 212° Centigrade 100° 

To change a reading of temperature from Centigrade 
to Fahrenheit, multiply Centigrade temperature by 1.8, 
add 32°, which will give the equivalent temperature in 
Fahrenheit. 



Digitized by 



Google 



lO GENERAL DIRECTIONS 

The coagulation temperature of proteins is from 158°- 
167° F. 

The gelatinizing temperature of starch is from 149°- 
185° F. 

The high temperatures, when used, are to develop flavor. 

Ferments are des|:royed at temperatures above 160° F. 

Rules for Dishwashing. — To wash dishes plenty of 
hot water is needed, also a dishpan, rinsing pan, dishcloth, 
wire cleaner for pots and pans, a soap shaker, brush for 
silver and glass, scouring board, cork and flannel, sapoUo, 
soap, and clean, dry dish towels. 

After the dining room table is cleared, collect knives, 
forks, and spoons. 

Scrape all crumbs, scraps, and dough into a waste jar. 

Wipe greasy dishes out with soft paper so that they will 
not make the dishwater greasy. 

Dishes with egg adhering should be soaked in cold water, 
as the hot water cooks the egg and makes it difficult to 
remove. 

Rinse with cold water glasses and bottles that have held 
milk. 

Empty the tea and coffee pots. 

Put all pans and kettles to soak in hot water so that they 
will clean easily. 

Pile all dishes of a kind neatly together. 

Have the dishpan half full of hot, soapy water, the rins- 
ing pan half full of clear hot water. 

For ease and rapidity of work, place the soiled dishes on 
the extreme right of the work table, the dishpan to the 
left of the soiled dishes, the rinsing pan to the left of the 
dishpan, and then place the clean dishes to the left of 
the rinsing pan. 



Digitized by 



Google 



GENERAL DIRECTIONS ii 

Wash the glasses first and dry at once, then wash silver, 
cups, saucers, plates, etc., taking the cleanest first, rins- 
ing and drying thoroughly. 

Scour the knives when necessary. 

Wash the tea and coffee pots with clean, hot water and 
dry them. 

Lastly, wash the tins and cooking utensils, scouring, if 
necessary, with powdered sapolio applied with a cork or 
flannel. 

Do not put boiling water on glasses or china. 

Do not put wooden handles or the cogs of Dover egg 
beaters into the water. 

Never leave the soap in the sink or dishpan. 

When all the dishes are washed and wiped, pile the dif- 
ferent kinds together and put into place. 

Empty the dishpan, wash the dish towels in warm suds, 
rinse, and hang to dry. 

Wash the table, soap dish, and sink in warm suds. 

Wash both dishpan and rinsing pan with hot suds, 
rinse with clear water, and dry thoroughly with a dish 
towel. 

Wash the dishcloth, rinse, and hang to dry. 

The daily care of the sink consists in keeping it free from 
' grease and scraps, scrubbing it thoroughly, and keeping it 
dry when not in use. In addition to this, at least once a 
week, pour a hot, strong solution of sal soda down the waste 
pipe to wash off all the grease that may have cooled and 
settled in the pipe. Follow this with plenty of hot water. 
If this is done, waste pipes will not become clogged with 
grease. All sinks should have a strainer screwed down 
over the waste pipe, and no tea leaves, coffee grounds, 
burnt matches, or potato parings should ever be put in the 



Digitized by 



Google 



12 GENERAL DIRECTIONS 

sink. A garbage pail should be kept for that purpose. 
This pail should be washed daily with a solution of sal 
soda and dried and placed in the sunshine when possible. 

Fire and Firemaking. — The success of cooking depends 
upon the appUcation of the right amount of heat to the 
right combination of foods, so a study of fire making and 
fire regulation is necessary to produce the best results. 
Cooking at the wrong temperature injures the food and 
often imfits it for use. It is said that the baking of bread 
or cake is two thirds of the making. At any rate, both 
are spoiled by too slow or too fast an oven. Much fuel is 
wasted because the application of the right amount of 
heat is not understood or is neglected. 

To have a good fire we must have a good stove, a good 
fuel, and some means of raising it to its kindUng point, 
and must be able to secure a good supply of air to make the 
fire burn. By the kindling point is meant the tempera- 
ture at which a thing takes fire. Some substances, like 
phosphorus, matches, pap)er, gas, and gasoline, have a low 
kindling point and take fire rapidly. Some, like hard coal, 
have a very high kindling point and some other fuel must be 
used as kindling before a coal fire can be started. The smaller 
the pieces of fuel, and the more loosely packed, so that air 
can surround them, the more easily will the fire kindle. 

Soft wood makes excellent kindling, and in some local- 
ities, where wood is plentiful, both hard and soft wood are 
used as fuel. Gas is almost universally used for cooking 
in cities, at least during the summer months. It is cheaper, 
if properly handled, than wood or coal, cleaner, and gives 
off less Jieat. Some form of oil is used in rural communities 
during the summer for the same reason that gas is used 
in the cities, and denatured alcohol is used in some local- 



Digitized by 



Google 



GENERAL DIRECTIONS 13 

ities. Both hard and soft coal are used during the winter 
for heating and cooking purposes. Coal makes an excel- 
lent fire for cooking, as it is easily regulated, supplies uni- 
form heat, and requires very little attention when once 
started. Electricity is an important source of heat. 

Parts of a Stove or Range. — Most ranges or stoves are 
so made that they will burn either wood or coal, the only 
change necessary being the adjustment of the grate. 

The parts of a range are : — 

i.\4 fire boXy lined, so as to control the heat and conduct 
it where it is needed. 

2. A grate at the bottom of the fire box, usually reversible, 
so as to bum either wood or coal, and so made as to allow 
the ashes to pass through. 

3. An ash pan below the fire box ; should be emptied daily. 

4. Dampers, checks, and drafts, for the purpose of admit- . 
ting air and controlling and regulating its supply. The 
draft in the fire box is for the purpose of admitting air 
when starting the fire, or to make the fire burn faster. 
When closed it checks the fire. The damp)er in the chim- 
ney should be partially closed after the fire is started to 
prevent loss of heat. It should never be closed so tight 
that the smoke cannot escape. The oven damper partially 
closes the opening into the chimney and forces the heated 
air to pass around the oven, thus heating the oven. 

5. An oven, used for baking purposes. It must be kept 
free from soot, above and below, so that the air cein circu- 
late freely. If this is not done, the food will burn on the 
top or bottom or will not bake evenly. 

6. Stovepipe, to allow air and smoke to pass through. 

7. Water front — connected with water tank in kitchen 
to heat water. (Not always used.) 



Digitized by 



Google 



14 GENERAL DIRECTIONS 

8. Warming oven, to keep dishes warm. 

Pupils should become familiar with all parts of the stove 
and get enough practice in baking so as to understand the 
regulation of the oven and know what temperatures are 
best for the various foods. 

How to Build a Fire. — Remove the covers from the 
top of the stove and brush the soot and ashes into the 
fire box. Clean everything out of the fire box by shaking 
the grate so the ashes will fall into the ash pan. Place 
crumpled newspaper, shavings, or small pieces of soft wood 
in the bottom of the fire box ; then put in some soft wood, 
then hard wood, arranged loosely so that the air can pass 
through. Place the wood so it ]|:eaches the corners of the 
fire box and is not massed in the middle. Open the damp- 
ers in the fire box, chimney, and oven, and then light the 
fire. Apply the match to the substance that will kindle 
quickest. The fire should be lighted at the bottom so 
that the flame will ascend. As the fire burns freely, put 
on more fuel, but the fire box should never be more than 
three fourths full. When the fire is well started close the 
front draft, partially close the chimney draft, and if the 
oven is to be used close the oven draft. 

Ashes should be emptied every day. If left in the stove 
until they fill the ash pan and touch the grate at the bottom 
of the fire box, they destroy the grate. 

The oven should be kept clean. If anything has boiled 
over and burned on the bottom of the oven, it should be 
scraped ofif with an old knife. 

The best time to black the stove is while the fire is start- 
ing. Use very little blacking, but brush it thoroughly 
over all parts of the stove. A steel range requires no black- 
ing, simply washing. 



Digitized by 



Google 



GENERAL DIRECTIONS 15 

Suggestions for Cooking with Gas. — i. See that the 
stove is kept clean. 

2. Keep the burners free from grease, dust, and dirt. 

3. To light a burner, open the valve leading to the 
burner to be used, allow the gas to flow a second, and then 
apply the match. 

4. To light the oven, apply the lighted match to the 
oven pilot and then turn on the gas. If the gas is turned 
on too long before it is lighted, there is danger of an explo- 
sion. For the same reason the oven door should be 
opened before the pilot is lighted. 

5. Never leave a burner Ugh ted because you are going 
to use it soon ; when the gas is not in use, turn it out, 
and light it again when needed. Matches are cheaper 
than gas. 

6. Never light a burner until you are ready to use it. 
As soon as the food begins to boil, turn the gas as low as 
possible. Food is cooking just as fast when it is bubbling 
slightly as when it is boiling over the top of the kettle, 
and there is less danger that it will burn. Food tastes 
better cooked in this way. After food has started to cook, 
it is almost impossible to use too little heat; foods are 
spoiled by the use of too great heat and gas is wasted. 
When you waste gas, you are burning money that could 
be used to purchase food or clothing. 

7. When baking bread, put the bread in the cold oven, 
light the gas and let the oven heat slowly for the first ten 
minutes, increase the heat for the next fifteen minutes, and 
then finish baking at a moderate temperature. 

8. Learn to read your gas meter, for if properly handled 
and looked after, gas is more satisfactory to cook with 
than wood or coal and more economical. 

CONLEY p. c. — 2 



Digitized by 



Google 



i6 



GENERAL DIRECTIONS 



Directions for Reading a Gas Meter. — The small dial 
marked two feet is not to be considered. It is used for 
testing purposes. Each figure on the right-hand dial indi- 
cates ICO cubic feet ; on the middle dial each figure indi- 
cates iocx> cubic feet; and on the left-hand dial each 
figure indicates io,ocx> cubic feet. 

When meters are new all pointers are at o, but never 
again are in this position until exactly ioo,ocx> cubic feet 
have been passed. Read from left dial to right, always 




taking the figures which the pointers have passed. For 
example : Suppose you find the pointers on your meter as 
shown by the heavy lines on the above cut, you record 
55,800. At the previous reading, one month before, assume 
that the pointers were as shown by the dotted Unes, 54,200. 
This means that during the month your gas consumption 
sent the pointers from 54,200 to 55,800. You have con- 
sumed the difference, which is 1600 cubic feet. Your gas 
bill would then be written as follows : 

State of Meter, last reading 55800 

State of Meter, previous reading . . . 54200 

Amount consumed 1600 

At $1.10 per M $1.76 



Digitized by 



Google 



GENERAL DIRECTIONS 17 

Temperature of the Oven. — Many ranges and stoves 
now on the market have an oven thermometer or heat 
regulator on the oven door. If the indicator would show 
whether the oven is slow, moderate, or fast, with any 
degree of accuracy, direction could be given in all recipes 
as to the amount of heat needed and it would not be neces- 
sary to open the oven door and test the heat. No oven 
thermometer that is even fairly accurate, or that can be 
relied on, is on the market as yet, and the only reliable 
tests for oven temperature are the old ones, which must 
be learned by experience. Probably the best way to test 
the heat of the oven is the hand test. This is done by put- 
ting the forearm in the oven and holding it there long enough 
to ascertain whether the air in the oven is moderately hot, 
very hot, or what may be termed cool. The terms used 
to distinguish the different oven temperatures are slow, 
moderate, hot or fast, and very hot. Grenerally speaking 
most foods are best cooked at moderate heat. A good 
general rule is, the smaller the article to be baked the 
hotter the oven, or the larger the article the slower the 
oven. This does not apply in all cases, but the reason for 
it is that it takes a long time for heat to penetrate to the 
center of a large mass. If intense heat be applied, a crust 
forms and the heat does not reach the center readily. 

Another way to test the oven temperature is by the use 
of paper, or bread crumb. The length of time it takes the 
paper or bread to brown determines the degree of heat in 
the oven. In a hot oven a piece of white letter paper will 
turn to a yellowish brown in from three to five minutes, 
in a moderate oven it will turn to a yellowish brown in 
from seven to ten minutes, and in a slow oven it will turn 
to a yellowish brown in from twelve to fifteen minutes. 



Digitized by 



Google 



1 8 GENER.\L DIRECTIONS 

EQUIPMENT FOR A SCHOOL KITCHEN FOR A CLASS 
OF SIXTEEN PUPILS 

I. 8 double or i6 single work tables, with drawers to 
hold the utensils necessary for the average lesson, 
and with molding boards, and attached seats. 
II. 1 6 individual gas stoves or burners attached to 
the tables, or if gas is not in use i6 individual or 
8 double burner oil stoves. (See frontispiece.) 

III. One large gas oven, or range, or a coal or wood range 
with a large oven, so that each pupil may have 
practice in attending to the baking for the class a 
week at a time or longer. In this way she may 
know exactly how to manage the range in her own 
home. She cannot get this practice if nothing but 
the small individual ovens are provided. 

IV. A sink containing hot and cold water faucets. A 
gas heater may be installed or a water front may be 
placed in the range, or hot water may be provided 
by passing water pipes through the furnace and 
placing a storage tank near. Some arrangement is 
necessary for providing hot water because the time 
of teacher and pupils is lost and fuel is wasted if 
dish water is heated in individual tea kettles and it 
is a return to primitive conditions. 

V. A common kitchen table where the day's supplies 
are placed in readiness so that no time is lost in 
getting to work. 
VI. A refrigerator. 

VII. Screens for every window in the kitchen. 
VIII. An arrangement for drying dishcloths and wiping 
towels, as rods on the back of the tables. 



Digitized by 



Google 



GENERAL DIRECTIONS 



19 



IX. Shelves or cupboards for utensils. 
X. A wheeled supply table, a great convenience, though 
not essential. 

List of Utensils for the Individual Work Tables 



16 paring knives. 

16 spatulas. 

16 plated silver or steel knives. 

16 plated silver or steel forks. 

16 tablespoons. 

32 teaspoons. 

16 small wooden spoons. 

16 Dover egg beaters. 

16 spoon egg beaters. 

16 one-quart mixing bowls. 

16 sieves to fit bowls. 

16 glass measuring cups. 

16 tin measuring cups. 

16 custard cups. 

16 utility pans. 

16 small tin basins about 5^ or 
6§ inches in diameter for bak- 
ing purposes. 



32 small enameled basins about 
si or 6§ inches in diameter. 

16 small pie plates about 4i or 5J 
inches in diameter. 

16 one-quart double boilers. 

16 one-quart stewpans; covers. 

16 small rolling pins. 

16 small biscuit cutters. 

16 small frying pans. 

16 small bread pans. 

16 small dishpans. 

16 vegetable; brushes. 

16 corks. 

1 6 small boxes for salt. 

1 6 small boxes for pepper. 

16 boxes for sugar. 

1 6 boxes for flour. 

16 cans for baking powder. 



Note. — If the work table drawers are small, the utensils not in constant 
use may be kept in the utensil cupboards. 



Additional Utensils for General Use 



16 salad or pie plates. 

16 breakfast plates. 

16 cups and saucers (tea size). 

16 water glasses. 

8 small teakettles. 

8 apple corers. 

8 small graters. 



8 two-quart bowls. 

8 mixing bowls. 

8 doughnut cutters. 

8 assorted cooky cutters. 

8 trays, assorted sizes. 

8 pie tins. 

8 two- or three-quart granite or 



8 four- or six-cup muffin pans. enameled pans. 



Digitized by 



Google 



20 GENERAL DIRECTIONS 



^1 



1-3 

O *i 






w c ^ 



o ^ «^ .S 



u 



o J3 r 






^ jaS 



^1 



3-2 



O -o 

si 

C U 

o jq 



Digitized by 



Google 



GENERAL DIRECTIONS 



21 



8 small lemon squeezers. 

8 match boxes. 

8 soap dishes. 

4 two-quart enj^eled pails, with 

covers, for holding scraps until 

they are transferred to the 

garbage can. 
4 one-quart measures. 
4 small colanders. 
4 granite kettles. 
4 steamers (size of kettles). 
4 kettle covers. 
4 meat forks. 
4 wire pot cleaners. 
4 broilers. 

4 long-handled skimmers. 
4 dripping pans (size of the 

oven). 
4 roll pans. 

4 angel or sponge-cake pans. 
4 layer cake pans. 
4 sheet cake pans. 
4 loaf cake pans. 
4 small chopping bowls. 
4 small chopping knives. 
2 two-quart ice cream freezers. 
2 large graters. 
2 sink scrapers. 
2 large frying pans. 
2 two-quart cofiFeepots. 
2 teapots. 
2 potato mashers. 



I large teakettle. 

I set timhal irons. 

I flour sifter. 

I dipper. 

I butcher knife. 

I bread knife. 

I cake knife. 

I carving set. 

I potato ricer. 

I flour bin. 

I two-quart double boiler. 

I meat knife. 

I pudding mold. 

I quart pitcher. 

I two-quart pitcher. 

I meat chopper. 

I large garbage can. 

I kitchen scale. 

I dustpan. 

I waffle iron. 

I funnel. 

I corkscrew. 

I can opener. 

I small paint brush. 

I brush broom. 

I stove brush. 

I broom. 

I hamper for soiled towels. 

50 yards of crash for dishcloths' 

and dish towels. 
16 holders. 
500 paper napkins. 



Articles Needed if Pupils are to Learn to Serve Meals 



Dining-room table. 
Dining-room chairs. 
Tablecloths. 



Napkins. 
Doilies. 
Lunch cloths. 



Silverware. 
Glassware. 
A set of dishes. 



Digitized by 



Google 



CHAPTER IT 
CLASSES OF FOOD. REASONS FOR COOKING 

Introductory. — Very few people ever think of the real 
reason why they must eat'. Probably the only time they 
are forcibly reminded of it is when they are suflfering from 
some sickness that bums up the tissues and they lose 
weight. At such times they loathe any food, but are com- 
pelled to eat certain foods prescribed by the doctor, so 
that the body may gain strength to fight the disease. 

Boys training in athletic sports learn that they must 
avoid eating too much or they will gain weight and be unable 
to perform their feats with agility. They also learn what 
foods are best to develop muscle. 

Every one knows that children who are underfed or 
improperly fed have no energy for work or even play, and 
that such children are often stunted in mind and body. 

Food, then, must have other uses than to please the 
taste or satisfy the appetite. Important though these 
uses are, they are merely Nature's ways to get us to take 
what we need to keep our bodies strong, healthy, and well 
developed. 

Food Defined. — Food is defined as any substance which, 
when taken into the body, supplies it with heat or energy 
or builds tissue. 

Energy is stored or latent in all organic substances ; and 
when they are burned, the energy is released as heat. Heat 
is a form of energy. 



Digitized by 



Google 



CLASSES OF FOOD 23 

All foods contain latent energy ; and when they are oxi- 
dized, produce heat. Their energy then may be used to 
keep the body warm or to keep up its various activities. 
In much the. same manner the energy in coal heats the 
passenger coaches of a train and furnishes the power for 
the engine which pulls the train. 

The body in health is maintained at its normal tempera- 
ture, 98.6° F., even in the coldest weather, by the oxida- 
tion or burning of the food taken in, and not by stove or 
furnace heat from the outside. In cold weather houses are 
kept warm and warm clothing is worn so that the body 
will not lose so much heat to the surrounding air. In 
summer light clothing is worn so that the body will lose 
heat. 

Energy is needed in the body so that the vital processes, 
such as digestion, respiration, and circulation, may be 
carried on, and also for work and muscular activity. 
Though bodily heat and muscular energy are important, 
they merely result from cell activity. The blood carries 
oxygen and food to the cells and by the process of 
oxidation the old cells are burned. To replace them new 
cells are built up from the food brought by the blood. 
Cells and tissues must be constantly oxidized, then rebuilt 
and replaced, because life results in the continual wearing 
out of the old, and building up of new tissues, from the 
food consumed. 

Oxidation. — Foods are burned or oxidized in the body 
just as wood or coal is burned outside of the body, except 
that they bum without flame. They produce, practically, 
as much heat when burned within the body as they would 
produce if burned outside the body, and because of this 
fact we have a means of finding out just how much heat 



Digitized by 



Google 



24 CLASSES OF FOOD 

the various foods yield. The burning of foods and cells 
in the body is called oxidation and constitutes the vital 
process called life. The old cells are oxidized and new ones 
are built up from the food eaten. The foods, by burning, 
)deld heat and energy. Some foods do not contain the 
substances or elements needed to build tissues, but they 
will burn in the body and produce heat and energy. 

Foods must contain nitrogen to be able to build tissue. 
Foods that contain carbon will yield heat and energy. 

Foods Classified. — Foods are classified into five classes : 
proteins, fats, carbohydrates, mineral matter, and water, 
though some food substances do not properly belong in 
any of these classes. 

Proteins contain carbon, hydrogen, oxygen, and nitrogen. 

Fats contain carbon, hydrogen, and oxygen. 

Carbohydrates contain carbon, hydrogen, and oxygen. 

Water contains hydrogen and oxygen.' 

Mineral matter consists of compounds of iron, calcium, 
potassium, sodium, magnesium, sulphur, phosphorus, 
chlorine, and fluorine. These are associated with the 
proteins and carbohydrates in the various tissues and 
fluids of the body. 

Proteins, mineral matter, and water build tissue; car- 
bohydrates, fats, and proteins yield heat and energy. 

Foods are also classified as animal and vegetable foods 
because of the sources from which th'ey are derived. Ex- 
amples of vegetable foods are potato, carrot, wheat, rice, 
peas, apple. Examples of animal foods are meat, fish, 
eggs, milk, cheese. 

Structure of Foods. — All foods are similar in structure 
in that they are made up of innumerable cells held together 
by some intercellular substance. Each cell consists of 



Digitized by 



Google 



CLASSES OF FOOD 2$ 

two, sometimes three, parts — nucleus, protoplasm, and 
cell wall. Every cell has a nucleus or center of life from 
which the cell grows and produces other cells. Surround- 
ing the nucleus is the protoplasm or nourishment of the 
cell. It supplies the material needed for the growth and 
development of the nucleus. It consists of protein, mineral 
matter, and water, as does also the nucleus. Protoplasm 
is more or less granular 
and forms a sort of net- 
work that may enclose 
other substances, as 
starch or fat. All vege- 
table cells, and some 
animal cells, have a cell 
wall. The walls of ani- 
mal cells consist of a 
substance called connec- 
tive tissue. This sub- a Thin Suce or Potato (magnified). 

stance also holds the <*» albuminous pockets; b, starch grains in the 

pockets. (From Overton s Applied Physiology.) 

cells together. The cell 

walls of vegetable cells consist of a substance called 
cellulose. It is similar in composition to starch, but 
unlike it in structure. When it is old, it sometimes 
turns to wood. The human stomach cannot digest cellu- 
lose, and so it must be softened by cooking to allow for the 
digestion of the starch or fat which it encloses. Cellulose 
is of value, however, in that it furnishes bulk. 

Note to Teacher. — If it is possible to secure a microscope, study may 
be made of the starch cell in potato. The amoeba may be studied under 
the microscope to show the parts of the single cell. The yeast cell also 
furnishes a good study. It would be well for pupils to make a drawing of 
what they have observed. 



Digitized by 



Google 



26 CLASSES OF FOOD 

Experiment for Pupils. — Scrape the pulp from a small piece of 
round steak until the white fibrous substance shows distinctly. 
This substance is connective tissue. 

Grate a potato, place it in a cheesecloth bag, and wash until all 
the starch is washed out. Dry the substance left in the bag and 
examine it. This substance is called cellulose. 

CLASSES OF FOOD 

I. Carbohydrates. 

1. Starch, as in potato, rice, corn, and all vegetable foods. 

Insoluble in cold water. 

2. Sugar — cane, beet, maple, malt, fruit. 

Soluble. 

3. Cellulose — cell walls of plants. 

Insoluble. 

4. Pectin — found in fruits and some vegetables. Causes 

juice to gelatinize. Occurs also as pectose which is changed 
to pectin by the action of a ferment. 

II. Vegetable Acids. 

I. Malic, oxalic, citric, tartaric. Decomposition products of 
starch or sugar. They are decomposed in the body, form- 
ing alkaline carbonates, and help to preserve the alka- 
linity of the blood. 
Soluble. 

III. Proteins. 

1. True proteins. 

Coagulated by the heat or acid or ferment. Some are 

soluble in cold water, some in diluted salt, acid, or alkahne 

solution; some are insoluble. 
Albumin as in egg. Casein as in milk. Myosin as in meat. 

Fibrin as in meat. Gluten as in wheat. Legumin as in 

peas and beans. 

2. Albuminoids. 

Softened by moist heat and hardened by dry heat. Soluble 
in boiling water. Ossein in bone, elastin in cell walls, 
collagen in connective tissue. 



Digitized by 



Google 



COOKING 27 

3. Extractives. Soluble in water. They are the flavor in meat 
juice and in some vegetables. 

IV. Fats. 

1. Fixed fats. Softened by moderate heat, separated into 

fatty acid and glycerine by strong heat. Examples : butter, 
lard, olive oil. 

2. Volatile oils. Found in orange and lemon skins, onions, 

etc. Soluble and volatile. 

V. Mineral Matter. 

I. Lime in milk, stdphur in eggs, phosphorus in wheat. 
In proteins, sulphur, phosphorus, and iron. 
In vegetables, potassium, sodium, magnesium, calcium. 
Common salt. 

VI. Water. 

Necessity for Cooking. — Nature supplies us with the 
things needed to keep us alive, namely : — air, water, food, 
and heat, but they are not always in the form most accept- 
able to man. 

Air is made impure by factory smoke, by crowding human 
beings so closely together that enough oxygen is not ob- 
tainable, and by disease germs given off in various ways 
from the bodies of those afflicted with disease. Those 
who wish to enjoy health should seek always to work and 
live where there is an abundance of fresh air. 

Water may contain disease germs ; evidences of pollution 
which affect color, taste, and odor ; or organic impurities : 
then sterilization or filtration becomes necessary to fit it 
for use. 

Foods are supplied by nature to us in great abundance, 
but most foods require some cooking before they are ready 
for consumption. Prehistoric man may have lived on 
uncooked foods, but even the savage tribes of to-day 



Digitized by 



Google 



28 COOKING 

have some means of cooking their food, crude though 
it may be. 

Reasons for Cooking. — Cooking may be defined as 
the preparation of foods for the table by means of heat. 
Several good reasons can be given why food should be 
cooked. 

1. Cooking makes food more attractive and palatable 
because it changes the appearance of the raw food and 
develops flavor. 

2. It kills bacteria present in some foods which would 
bring about undesirable changes in the food itself, or by 
entering the body through the food cause certain dis- 
eases. 

3. Heat brings about physical and chemical changes 
in the food which make it more digestible, such as the 
softening of cellulose in vegetables, connective tissue 
in meats, and the cooking of starch. 

Primitive Methods of Cooking. — Probably the first 
method of cooking used by the savage or uncivilized tribes 
was that of drying the food in the sun. This was also 
a method of preservation so that the food might be stored 
away for use in times of scarcity. The next method was, 
doubtless, that of roasting before the open fire or by baking 
in hot ashes. Then came the construction of some crude 
vessels, the dropping of hot stones into the vessel which 
contained the water in which the food was to be cooked. 
By this method meat was simmered and boiled. Later 
came the construction of vessels that could stand the 
heat and be placed directly over the fire. Lastly, a prim- 
itive oven was made, and from these crude methods of 
roasting, baking, boiling, and stewing, were evolved and 
developed those in use at the present time. 



Digitized by 



Google 



COOKING 29 



METHODS OF COOKING 

All methods of cooking may be grouped in five classes: — 

1. Cooking Directly over the Fire. 

(a) Broiling : over coals or gas or in a sizzling hot pan. 
(J)) Roasting : before the fire. Wasteful of food and fuel. 

2. Cooking by Heated Air. 

(a) Baking: cooking in an oven. Also called roasting. 

3. Cooking in Heated Water. 

(a) Boiling: cooking in water at temperature of 212° F. 

(b) Stewing : cooking in smaU quantity of water at a tempera- 

ture below 212° F. ; better than boiling. 

(c) Steaming : cooking in vessel surrounded by steam or cook- 

ing food in steam. 

4. Cooking in Heated Fat. 

(a) Frying : cooking in deep fat. 

(b) Sauteing : cooking in small quantity of fat. 

5. Cooking in a Fireless Cooker. 

Cooking for several minutes on the stove and then placing 
the food in the fireless cooker. Foods are cooked a much 
longer time in the fireless cooker than by direct heat. 

All other methods of cooking are a combination of some 
of the above methods. Braizing is sauteing, stewing, 
and baking, and is appUed to meat. Fricasseeing is 
stewing, and frying or saut6ing. 

Principles of Cooking. — The principles of cooking 
are few in number and easily mastered; their proper 
application controls the success of every article of food 
prepared, from the simplest to the most intricate. Cook- 
ing is a scientific process. It depends for its results on 
the application of principles, and when these are under- 
stood and applied, the results will be as certain as those 
of any other chemical or physical process subject to natural 
Jaws. 



Digitized by 



Google 



30 COOKING 

These principles could be grouped as follows : — 

1. Those which govern the cooking of proteins and 
show the effect of heat on them. 

2. Those concerned with fats. 

3. Those concerned with carbohydrates, — starches, 
sugars, cellulose. 

4. Those concerned with extractives, volatile oils, and 
mineral matter. 

5. Those which render foods sterile. 

Solubility and Insolubility. — Substances are said to be 
soluble or insoluble in water. The term soluble com- 
monly means that the substance can be dissolved in water ; 
if insoluble, it cannot be dissolved in water. Substances 
in foods that are soluble in water may be lost during cook- 
ing. Some soluble substances are hardened or coagulated 
by heat and rendered insoluble. Some food substances 
are insoluble in water, but are soluble in a dilute salt, acid, 
or alkaline solution. 

Ferments. — A ferment is a substance which brings about 
a chemical change in a food, but remains unchanged itself. 
Each ferment acts only as a single substance. It may coag- 
ulate the substance and render it insoluble, as in the action 
of rennin on casein in milk, or it may break the substance 
down and render it more soluble, as in the ripening of 
cheese. Ferments play an important part in the ripening, 
maturing, and decay of foods. They bring about the 
changes in digestion. They change starch to sugar, and 
break down cellulose. They bring about the coagulation 
of milk and blood. We are only just beginning to know 
their importance in all vital processes. Heat destroys 
ferments. A temperature of 149^-160° F. renders both 
animal and vegetable ferments inert. 



Digitized by 



Google 



COOKING 31 

WHY COOKING IS TAUGHT IN SCHOOLS 

Cooking is taught in schools so that pupils may learn to 
plan, cook, and serve meals, and to know the nutritive value 
of the different foods and their place in the diet so that the 
body will be properly nourished. 

Good cooking is important. It is probably the first 
requisite necessary to make a food of value to the body ; 
for though a food may be balanced in nutritive value, if it 
is served in an unappetizing way it will not be eaten. The 
sight and taste of attractively served and prepared foods 
stimulate the appetite and cause secretion of digestive 
juices, which naturally aids digestion. However, foods 
having little nutritive value may look as attractive as those 
of high nutritive value ; and if a study is not made of the 
composition of foods, we might always select those of low 
nutritive value and the body would be deprived of proper 
nourishment. 

Foods are analyzed in chemical laboratories and the 
exact composition of each food is known. United States 
government bulletins contain very complete tables show- 
ing the composition of all common foods.^ 

By examining the tables on pages 189-193 we find the 
percentage of water, protein, fat, carbohydrates, and min- 
eral matter in the various foods. We also find the per- 
centage of refuse in some foods as sold to the consimaer. 
It is well to note the percentage of refuse in foods, espe- 

^ Bulletin No. 28, Office of Experiment Stations, Washington, D.C., 
contains tables showing the percentage composition of all foods in use in 
the average home. Farmers' Bulletin No. 142 also gives the composition 
of many of the common foods. This bulletin may be obtained free of 
charge from the United States Department of Agriculture. The tables 
referred to above are taken from these government bulletins. 
CONLEY P. c. — 3 



Digitized by 



Google 



32 COOKING 

daily in meats, because a cut which seems cheap may in 
reaUty be dear because of the amount of bone and fat 
which it contains. 

The composition of any food to be prepared should be 
learned or at least noted, and in this way it will be easy 
to remember the nutritive value of the different foods and 
group them in several classes. 

Cooking affects digestibiUty ; different methods of cook- 
ing bring out different flavors; foods must be served in 
various ways, as a change in diet is desirable. For these 
reasons the different methods of cooking are taken up in 
a series of lessons which develop and show all principles of 
cooking. When these methods are learned and the princi- 
ples of cooking mastered, foods having equivalent nutri- 
tive values are studied in groups, and the methods and 
principles of cooking learned in Chapter IV are reviewed. 

Methods and principles are few in number, but innu- 
merable applications of these few may be made. 

The mastery of principles is the science of cooking ; and 
the serving of foods in attractive, savory, and appetizing 
ways is the art of cooking. 

The price of all foods should be known, and the cost of 
each recipe calculated. Foods should be cooked, in school 
kitchens, in their proper season, just as they would be 
served in the home. Eggs should not be served in Novem- 
ber, December, January, for two reasons, — because of 
prices, and because they are apt to be storage eggs. Can- 
ning should not be taught when peaches and pears must 
be purchased by the dozen. Pupils should try all recipes 
at home, and should have lessons on foods most commonly 
used in the average home. They should know the place 
of each food prepared, in the daily diet. 



Digitized by 



Google 



CHAPTER III 

METHODS OF COOKING. DEVELOPMENT OF 
PRINCIPLES AND THEIR APPLICATION. PRAC- 
TICE WORK IN FOODS 

BAKING VEGETABLE FOODS. PRINCIPLES WHICH 
APPLY TO COOKING OF CARBOHYDRATES 

All vegetable foods are made up of innumerable cells, 
so small that they cannot be seen except by the aid of a 
microscope. These cells are held together by a substance 



Protoplasmic Structure of a Starch Grains in a Flour Cell. 



FixmR Cell. 

lers' Bulletin, No 
U. S. Dept. of Agriculture). 



(Farmers' Bulletin, No. 389, 
(Farmers' Bulletin, No. 389, U. S. Dept. of Agriculture.) 



called cellulose. Each cell consists of a network of pro- 
toplasm which incloses granules of starch or sugar, mineral 
matter, and water, and is surrounded by a wall of cellulose. 
Cellulose is of the same composition as starch, but is 
unlike it in structure and in appearance; heat and the 
digestive juices have not the same effect on it that they 
have on starch. When cellulose grows old, it becomes 
tough and woody. The human stomach cannot digest 
cellulose; and as it incloses the starch and other sub- 

33 



Digitized by 



Google 



34 PRINCIPLES OF COOKING 

stances that can be digested if the digestive juices can 
reach theni, these cell walls must be softened by cooking 
so as to set free the inclosed starch, sugar, mineral matter, 
and protein. 

When the cells contain much starch, moisture and heat 
cause the starch grains to swell and burst the walls of 
cellulose which inclose them. Some foods, like potatoes, 



Changes in Starch Celis in Cooking. 

A, cells of a raw potato with starch erains in natural condition; h, cells in a partially 
cooked potato; c, cells of a thoroughly boiled potato. (From Fanners' Bulletin No. 389, 
U. S. Dept. of Agriculture.) 

contain enough water to cause the starch to swell when 
the water turns to steam, and this causes the bursting of 
the cell wall. Some foods, like rice, corn, and wheat, are 
cooked in water; and the starch absorbs water during 
cooking. When starch is cooked we sometimes say it is 
gelatinized, and the starch in different foods cooks or gel- 
atinizes at different temperatures. The starch in oats gel- 
atinizes at 185° F., corn at 167° F., potatoes at 149° F., 
other cereals at 176° F. Some foods, like lettuce, celery, 
tomatoes, onions, contain so little starch that it is not 
necessary to cook them, because we eat them, not for the 
starch in them, but for the cellulose, mineral matter, and 
acids which they contain, and which have important uses 
in the body. 



Digitized by 



Google 



PRINCIPLES OF COOKING 35 

In some foods the cellulose is so tough that it must be 
softened, even though the food does not contain much 
starch. The greater the amount of cellulose in a food the 
longer time it takes to cook it. Some foods, like old beets 
and carrots, are so tough that it is a waste of fuel to try 
to cook them. 

Recipe for Baked Potatoes. — Select smooth, medium- 
sized potatoes. Wash clean, using a brush to scrub and 
a knife to remove the specks and blemishes. Place on 
the grate of an oven of moderate temperature and grad- 
ually increase the heat. Bake until soft, about 40 minutes. 
Break or pierce the skin to allow the steam to escape, and 
serve in an uncovered dish. A moderate oven is needed 
in starting to allow the heat to penetrate to the inside of 
the potato. If the heat is too intense at first, it forms a 
hard crust on the outside, keeps out the heat, and prevents 
the potato from cooking evenly throughout. It the steam 
is allowed to remain in the potato, it condenses and the 
potato will be soggy. 

WUh what would you serve baked potatoes? At what meal? 

Potatoes are the most important of all vegetable foods, 
except wheat, because they are the most extensively used. 
They contain, after they are pared for cooking : — 

Water Starch Cellulose Protein Fat Mineral Matter 

78.3% 18% .4% 2.2% .1% 1% 

Note. — Experiments to show composition of potato will be given in 
Chapter V, page 74, but the teacher may well give the starch test here. 
A solution of iodine turns starch blue, and pupils may test various foods to 
detect the presence of starch. 

The most important principles involved in the baking 

of potatoes are those which govern the cooking of starch 

and the softening of cellulose. 



Digitized by 



Google 



36 



PRINCIPLES OF COOKING 



U. S. Dtpartmcnt of Agriculture 
Office of Experiment Stations / 
A. C. True: Director 



Prepared by 

C. F. LAN6W0RTMY 

expert in Charge of Nutrition Investigations 



COMPOSITION OF FOOD MATERIALS. 



r:-V:>;>-^;^ WM9^ fe^^ 

Fat Carbohydrates A»h Water 



Protoln 
SHELl,ED BEAN, FRESH 

Water.58.9 



I, Fuel Value 
/fiSq.ln.Equalt 
1000 Calories 



Fat:0.6 




NAVY BEAN, DRY. 

Protein: 22.5 



Protcin-.a-t 

Fuel valuf: 



Carbohydrates:29.l 

Ash- 2 Carbohydrate5:59.6 




Fuel valoc: 



720 CALORICS RfR POUND I560CAIOIIIES PCl^ POUND 

STRING BEAN,OREEN. 



Water:89.2 




190 CALORIES PER POUND 



CORN, GREEN. 

EDIBLE PORTION 



Water76.4 



Proteir^:3.l 




Carbohydrates: 19.7 
Ash: 0.7 



Fat:l.t 



Composition of Vegetables, 



Digitized by 



Google 



PRINCIPLES OF COOKING 



37 



U. S. Department of Agriculture 

Office of Experiment Stations 

A. C. True: Director 



Prepared by 

C. F. L/IN6W0RTHY 

Expert in Charge of Nutrition Investigations 

COMPOSITION OF FOOD MATERIALS. 

^H^iSq.i n .Equals 
^B 1000 Calonas 



Prot«ir> 



mm 

Fat Carbohydrates 



Water 



ONION 



Water87.6 
Protein: I j 
irbohydrates:9.9 
r:83.0 

vA.6 




Fuel value 

1 

295 calorie; 
per pound 


PARSNIP 
POTATO 


:s:l3. 


Fat.O.I--^ 


(Protein: 2. 2 


Watei 


I^ 


1 


CarbohydratesTia4^Water:78.3. 


375 


Fuel value-. 

1 

calories pf r pound 


Pre 
Carbohydrate 



Fu6L VAL^E: 

D22a CALORIES 
PER POUND 



n 

) CALORIES 
TR POUND 



Composition of Vegetables. 



Digitized by 



Google 



38 PRINCIPLES OF COOKING 

Statement of Principles. 

1. Heat and moisture soften walls of cellulose in vege- 
table foods ; the denser the walls, the longer time it 
takes to soften them. 

2. Heat and moisture cause starch grains to swell and 
burst the walls of cellulose that inclose them, and 
gelatinize or cook the starch. 

Recipe for Baked Apples. — Wash and wipe apples 
and remove core. Place in a granite pan with one table- 
spoon of sugar in each apple and add water enough to 
just cover the bottom of the pan. Bake in a hot oven, 
about 30 to 45 minutes. Apples containing a great deal 
of acid cook much more quickly than those that are 
not so tart. 

Calculate cost. When would you serve baked apples? 
At what meal? 

Vegetables differ in the amount of nourishment which 
they contain. They all contain carbohydrate in some 
form, though the amount and kind varies. Potatoes, 
wheat, corn, oats, rice, peas, and beans contain consider- 
able starch. The carbohydrate in other vegetables and 
fruits is small in quantity, and consists of sugar, pectin, 
cellulose, and some starch. All vegetables contain mineral 
salts ; fruits contain vegetable acids also. Some vege- 
tables and fruits contain oil, called a volatile oil, because 
it can be turned to vapor and carried off in steam. All 
vegetables contain some protein. 

Apples contain : — 



Water 


Protein 


Fat Carbohydrate 


Cellulose ^ Mineral Matter 


84.6% 


4% 


.5% 14.2% 


1.2% .3% 

Digitized by CjOOQ IC 



PRINCIPLES OF COOKING 39 

The carbohydrate is in the form of sugar, pectin, and 
cellulose. Apples also contain a vegetable acid. Some 
varieties contain more cellulose than potatoes and hence 
it takes a longer time to cook them. Some varietiei con- 
tain much more acid than others, and as the acid helps 
soften the cellulose, those containing the greatest amount 
of acid bake quickest. As apples contain practically no 
starch, cooking is not necessary, but cooking softens the 
cellulose and makes it possible to serve apples in a great 
variety of ways. As apples ripen the sugar content in- 
creases, the cellulose becomes less tough, and the acidity 
decreases. For general use the ripe apple is preferred. 

Statement of Principles Involved. 

1. Moist heat softens the walls of cellulose in vegetable 
foods ; the denser the walls the longer time it takes 
to soften them. 

2. Acids soften cellulose. 

3. Heat melts sugar. 

Recipe for Boiled Onions. — Wash and peel about eight 
medium-sized onions. Place them in a stewpan, cover 
with boiling water, and boil until soft, about 40 minutes. 
If the onions have a strong odor, the water may be changed 
once or twice during cooking. When the onions are soft, 
drain the water off and serve with White Sauce. 

Calculate cost. At what meal would you serve boiled 
onions ? 

Onions contain : — 

Water Carbohydrate Cellulose ^ Protein Fat Mineral Matter 
87.6% 9.9% .8% 1.6% .3% .6% 

* This cellulose is included in the carbohydrate. 



Digitized by 



Google 



40 PRINCIPLES OF COOKING 

The carbohydrate in onions is mainly in the form of 
cellulose and sugar. (Test may be made for starch.) 
Onions contain a volatile oil which gives to them their 
distinctive flavor. The oil is also soluble in water ; much 
of it is dissolved in the water during cooking as well as 
evaporated with the steam. If the dish in which the 
onions are cooking is left uncovered, much of the oil passes 
off gradually in the steam, and the odor of boiled onions is 
not as noticeable as when the dish is kept covered and the 
cover removed occasionally. 

Statement of Principles Involved. 

1. Heat and moisture soften cellulose. 

2. Volatile oil is soluble in water. 

Recipe for White Sauce. — Melt two tablespoons of 
butter, add two tablespoons of flour, and rub them together 
thoroughly. Add one cup of milk and cook until it thickens, 
stirring constantly. Add one fourth teaspoon of salt and a 
speck of pepper. (Thin white sauce is made by using one 
tablespoon of flour instead of two. Thick white sauce is 
made by using from three to four tablespoons of flour.) 

When boihng water or milk is poured over starch, the 
starch grains expand and gelatinize or thicken, and tend 
to stick together and become lumpy. Some substance 
should be mixed with the starch to separate or surround 
the particles so that they will have room to expand when 
boiling water or milk is added later, or when cold liquid 
is added and the mixture is boiled. Melted fat may be 
used for this purpose, and the starch and fat should be 
rubbed together thoroughly so that the fat will surround 
the starch. As starch is not soluble in cold water, a httle 
cold water or cold milk may be used to separate the starch 



Digitized by 



Google 



PRINCIPLES OF COOKING 41 

grains. If the liqjuid is used, mix the liquid and starch 
thoroughly until there are no lumps left, before adding 
the boiling liquid. In pudding sauces, sugar may be mixed 
with the starch for the $ame purpose. (As flour contains 
so much starch it is often used instead of cornstarch as the 
thickening agent.) 

Statement of Principles Involved. 

Heat and moisture cause starch grains to swell and burst 

the walls of cellulose that inclose them, hence starch 

is used as a thickening agent. 

Recipe for Stewed Apples. — Wash and peel about eight 
apples. Cut into quarters and remove the cores. Place 
the apples in a stewpan, add a small quantity of water, 
about one fourth cup, simmer slowly until the apples are 
soft. If the apples are tart, it will take 10-15 minutes. 
When the apples are soft, add sugar, a speck of nutmeg or 
cinnamon, and one teaspoon of butter. 

Some apples contain more water and sugar than others, 
so the exact amount of water and sugar to use cannot be 
given. Sugar is added after the apples are cooked because, 
if it were added sooner, the acid in the apples would change 
or invert the sugar to glucose, and some of the sweetening 
power would be destroyed. Glucose is about three fifths 
as sweet as cane sugar. This reduction in sweetness does 
not impair the food value of the sugar, however, for cane 
sugar is changed to glucose in the normal digestive 
processes. 

Statement of Principles Involved. 

1. Heat softens cellulose. 

2. Acid softens cellulose. 

3. Acid inverts or changes cane sugar to glucose. 



Digitized by 



Google 



42 PRINCIPLES OF COOKING 

STEAMING VEGETABLE FOODS. PRINCIPLES THAT 
APPLY TO COOKING OF CARBOHYDRATES AND 

VEGETABLE PROTEIN 

• 

Recipe for Steamed Rice and Use of Double Boiler. — 

Fill the lower part of a double boiler one third full of 
boiling water. Put two quarts of boiling water in the 
upper part of the boiler, add one half teaspoon of salt and 
gradually add one cup of rice which has been washed in 
cold water. Cook until soft, about 20 to 30 minutes, 
stirring occasionally with a fork. Drain and keep hot 
until ready to serve. Rice may be served as a vegetable 
with meat gravy, or as a dessert with cream and sugar, or 
with sliced fruit, or with date sauce. 

Calculate cost. 

Recipe for Date Sauce. — Wash, clean, stone, and chop 
one half pound of dates, add one fourth cup of cold water 
and one fourth cup of sugar and cook until it thickens, 
about ten minutes. Serve on the rice, with whipped or 
plain cream. 

In the preceding lessons the eflfect of heat and moisture 
on the carbohydrates in vegetable foods has been con- 
sidered. In addition to carbohydrates, vegetables con- 
tain soluble volatile oils, mineral matter, vegetable acids, 
and a network of protoplasm which is composed of protein, 
a substance which is hardened or coagulated by heat. 
Potatoes contain about 2.2 per cent protein; apples con- 
tain .4 per cent; onions, 1.6 per cent; rice, 8 per cent. 

If vegetables are soaked in cold water, soluble protein, 
volatile oils, starch, extractives, and mineral matter are 
extracted in the water. If they are plunged into boiling 
water and cooked at a temperature about 180° F., the pro- 



Digitized by 



Google 



PRINCIPLES OF COOKING 43 

tein is coagulated, and this framework aids in retaining the 
starch and mineral matter. 
Rice contains : — 

Water Carbohydrate Cellulose ^ Protein Fat Mineral Matter 
12.3%' 79% .2% 8% .3% .4% 

Unlike potatoes, rice contains but a small quantity of 
water; and as starch absorbs water during cooking, rice 
must be cooked in enough water to allow the starch grains 
to swell. It may be cooked in a small quantity of water 
and all the water will be absorbed and no nutrients lost. 
When rice is cooked in this way, it is soft and the grains 
tend to stick together. When rice is cooked in a large 
quantity of water and the excess of water is drained oflF, 
some of the nutrients are lost in the water, but the grains 
do not stick together, and they are more easily masticated 
than in the soft, pasty form. 

Statement of Principles Involved. 

1. Heat and moisture soften cellulose. 

2. Heat and moisture cause starch grains to swell, and 
burst the walls of cellulose that inclose them. 

3. Heat coagulates the protein and this aids in retaining 
soluble substances. 

4. Starch and mineral matter are lost when foods con- 
taining them are cooked in a large quantity of water 
and the water is drained off. 

Recipe for Steamed Squash. — Place a steamer over a 
kettle of boiling water. Place squash, cut into pieces, 
in the steamer and steam until soft, about 30 or 40 min- 
utes. Scrape the squash from the rind, flavor with butter, 
salt, and pepper, and serve. 

* The cellulose is included in the carbohydrate. 



Digitized by 



Google 



44 PRINCIPLES OF COOKING 

Steaming in a steamer is a better methcxi of cooking, 
vegetables than cooking in boiling water, because there is 
no loss of nutrients. 

At what meal would you serve steamed squush? What 
other vegetables serve a similar place in this meal? 

Squash contains : — 

Water Carbohydrate Cellulose ^ Protein * Fat Mineral Matter 
88.3% 9% .8% 1.4% .5% .8% 

Squash contains so much water that it may be baked, 
or steamed, or boiled. It contains very little starch. 

TOASTING BREAD. PRINCIPLE WHICH APPLIES TO 
STARCHY FOODS 

Recipe for Toasting Bread. — Cut bread in even sKces 
one half inch thick. Place in a broiler or toaster and hold 
over the fire at a sufficient distance to brown without 
burning; turn once. The dextrin produced by this pro- 
cess is more easily digested than the original starch. 

Statement of Principle Involved. 

Dry heat at 320° F. changes starch to dextrin. 

SAUTEING FOODS. PRINCIPLES WHICH APPLY TO 
FRYING FOODS CONTAINING PROTEIN AND 
CARBOHYDRATE 

Recipe for Codfish Balls. — Remove the skin and bones 
from one cup of codfish and cut it into small pieces. Wash 
the fish in cold water; add two cups of raw potatoes also 
cut into small pieces. Put into a saucepan, cover with 
boiling water, and cook until the potatoes are done. Drain, 

1 The cellulose is included in the carbohydrate. 

Digitized by CjOOQ IC 



PRINCIPLES OF COOKING 45 

mash, add a speck of pepper, one tablespoon of butter, 
and one egg slightly beaten. Place enough fat in the 
•frying pan to cover the bottom, about one tablespoon, and 
heat until smoking hot. Drop the mixture by tablespoons 
into the frying pan and fry until brown, turn once. 

Calculate cost. At what meal would. you serve codfish 
balls? 

Eggs contain : — 

Water Fat Protein Mineral Matter 

73.7% 10.5% 14.8% * 1% 

Statement of Principles Involved. 

Heat hardens or coagulates the protein in the egg and 
this holds the different substances together so that 
they form a ball. When protein hardens, it forms a 
crust which aids in retaining juices and flavors and 
prevents the article from soaking fat. 

Recipe for Ftjring Bacon. — Cut bacon in very thin 
slices. Put it in a moderately hot frying pan and cook 
until crisp. Do not have the heat strong enough to de- 
compose the fat. 

Bacon contains : — 

Water Protein Fat Mineral Matter 

18.2% 10% 67.2% 4.6% 

Bacon is composed mainly of cells of fat. Like all ani- 
mal cells, the cell walls are of connective tissue, — a form 
of protein, — and the cells are held together by connective 
tissue. Moderate heat melts the fat and it escapes from 
the pell walls, the connective tissue remaining. If strong 
heat is used, the fat is decomposed into two substances, 
fatty acid and glycerine. 



Digitized by 



Google 



46 PRINCIPLES OF COOKING 

At what meal is bacon served? Name some foods fried 
with bacon. Name some foods served with bacon. 

Statement of Principles Involved. 

1. Moderate heat frees fat from the cell walls which 
inclose it. 

2. Strong heat separates and decomposes fat into fatty 
acid and glycerine. 

FRYING FOODS 

Rules for Deep Fat Frying. 

1. The temperature of fat should be high enough to 
prevent the articles from soaking up the fat and hot 
enough to brown a piece of bread in one minute. 

2. Sufficient fat should be used to entirely cover the 
articles to be fried. 

3. Articles should not be wet, nor ice-cold, and should 
be rounding or oval in shape. 

4. Foods which do not contain egg should be dipped in 
egg and crumbs or flour to prevent absorption of fat. 

5. All foods, after frying, should be drained on soft 
paper to absorb the grease. 

6. Fat bubbles when it contains water. It cannot be 
heated higher than 212° F. until all water is evapo- 
rated. When it has ceased to bubble and is smoking 
hot, try it with a piece of bread. 

The best fat for frying is one that has a high burning 
point. The burning point of the various fats are : Olive 
oil, 608° F. ; lard, 392° F. ; drippings, 336° F. ; beef, veal, and 
mutton, 302° F. ; butter, 265° F. Several good commercial 
products, made from vegetable fats, are on the market. 
They have a high burning point. 



Digitized by 



Google 



PRINCIPLES OF COOKING 47 

When fat burns, it decomposes and is irritating to the 
walls of the stomach when eaten. 

Recipe for Saratoga Chips. — Wash and pare two 
medium-sized potatoes. Slice lengthwise in thin slices 
and cover with cold water until ready to use. Drain, 
cover with boiling water, and boil two minutes to partially 
cook the starch. Drain again, pour cold water over, and 
then dry as thoroughly as possible because water lowers 
the temperature of the fat. Fry in deep fat and keep the 
potatoes in constant motion so that they will fry evenly. 
Drain on paper that will absorb the excess fat and then 
sprinkle with salt. 

Calcidate cost. At what meal do you serve Saratoga 
chips? Are they a cheap food? 

BROILING ANIMAL FOOD. PRINCIPLES WHICH APPLY 
TO THE COOKING OF PROTEINS — TENDER MEAT 

Meat consists of bone, fat, and muscle fiber. The bone 
and fat form but a small part of the meat as it is prepared 
for the table, though they are purchased with it at the 
market. The part of meat that is usually prepared and 
eaten is the muscle fiber. 

Muscles, or muscle fiber, consist of cells held together 
by a substance called connective tissue. All substances, 
whether animal or vegetable, are made up of cells that are 
alike in structure, but different in composition. An animal 
cell, like a vegetable cell, consists of a network or proto- 
plasm, and a nucleus, or life center. The nucleus and pro- 
toplasm are sometimes surrounded by a cell wall. The 
nucleus grows, divides, and produces other nuclei, and these 
in turn become new cells. The nucleus gets its nourish- 
ment for its growth and reproduction from the protoplasm ; 

CONLEY p. C. — 4 



Digitized by 



Google 



48 



PRINCIPLES OF COOKING 



the protoplasm gets it from the blood. The protoplasm, 
then, must contain all the substances that are needed for 
the building up and growth of muscles and other tissues. 
The protoplasm and nucleus in animal cells consist of 
protein, mineral matter, extractives, and sometimes fat. 

Animal cells are held together by a substance called con- 
nective tissue. It is called a protein, but it does not build 
tissue, and heat does not affect it in the same way that it 
affects other proteins. 

Extractives are the flavor in meat. They are formed 

by the breaking down 
of proteins during mus- 
cular exercise. They 
are soluble in water ; 
and if meat is placed 
in a cool or slightly 
warm pan and allowed 
to heat slowly, extrac- 
tives are drawn out, and 
the meat will be dry and 
tasteless. 

Recipe for Broiling Meat. — To broil steak in a broiler 
it is necessary to have glowing coals without flame or 
smoke. It is nearly impossible to always have such a fire, 
and a pan broil is equally good and always possible. The 
best cuts for broiling are porterhouse, sirloin, and short 
steaks. The next best are chuck and round steaks. The 
cuts should be at least one inch thick. 

Have the frying pan smoking hot, rub it lightly with a 
piece of suet from the meat, and then remove the suet so 
that no fat remains in the pan. Place the steak in a pan 
and turn it when one side is seared. Turn it often to pre- 




Fat Tissues (magnified). 

Connective tissue cells form pockets in which the 
liquid fat is stored. 



Digitized by 



Google 



PRINCIPLES OF COOKING 49 

vent burning. Steak is broiled from 8 to 10 minutes, the 
time depending upon the thickness of the steak and indi- 
vidual taste as to rareness. Remove the steak from the 
pan, sprinkle with salt and pepper, and spread with butter 
or pour the juice from the pan over the meat. 

The pan is hot in starting to sear over the outside 
and retain the juices. If the pan is not hot enough, the 
juices will escape, and the meat will be tasteless. Meat 
is turned often to prevent burning, to prevent juice from 
escaping from the exposed side, to secure even cooking 
throughout. 

Calculate cost. How many people would the steak serve? 
Is steak a cheap meat? Give your reason. 

Statement of Principles Involved in Broiling Steak. 

1. Heat hardens or coagulates protein so that it will 
form a crust, and this crust aids in retaining juices 
and flavor. 

2. Heat and moisture soften and dissolve connective 
tissue, and dry heat hardens it. 

3. Extractives are soluble in water. 

4. Some proteins, as albumin, are soluble in water. 

Experiments to indicate the presence of protein. 

1. Mix egg white with a little cold water. Shake well. Does it 
dissolve? Heat to about 165° F. What change takes place? 

2. Mix egg white and water and add dilute nitric acid. What 
change takes place? 

3. Scrape or squeeze the juice from a piece of round steak and add 
cold water, or soak a piece of round steak in cold water for ten min- 
utes. Heat the juice. What change takes place? 

4. Add a small piece of junket tablet to milk. Heat to about 
100° F. Let it stand in a warm place. What change takes 
place ? 



Digitized by 



Google 



50 PRINCIPLES OF COOKING 

Egg white, soluble albumin in' meat, and casein in milk 
are forms of protein, and all proteins are coagulated by 
heat, acid or ferment. 

Note to Teacher. — The teacher may give or show the Xanthroproteic 
Test or the Biuret Test for protein. 

PRINCIPLES WHICH APPLY TO THE COOKING OF PRO- 
TEINS—LESS TENDER CUTS 

If certain muscles of an animal are exercised much, the 
connective tissue which holds the muscle fibers together 
becomes strong and tough and a cut of meat from one of 
those muscles would be tougher than one from a set of 
muscles not exercised so much. Such cuts, as porterhouse 
and sirloin, are taken from the back of the animal and they 
are more tender than the round cuts taken from the leg, 
or chuck cuts from the neck. 

As dry heat tends to harden connective tissue, broiling 
is not so good a method for cooking round or chuck steaks 
as simmering. Simmering, or applying moist heat, softens 
the connective tissue and makes the meat tender. 

Recipe for Simmered Round Steak. — Have the frying 
pan smoking hot. Remove a piece of fat from the steak 
and rub the pan with it, let the fat remain in the pan. 
Place the steak in the pan as for broiled steak, and cook 
until both sides are seared. Remove the steak from the 
pan, season the steak with salt and pepper, and sprinkle 
generously mth flour. Pound the steak with a potato 
masher, or the blunt side of the butcher knife, as the butcher 
sometimes does, to cut across the muscle fiber and send 
the flour into the meat. Return the steak to the hot fry- 
ing pan ; pour enough boiling water over to cover the steak. 



Digitized by 



Google 



PRINCIPLES OF COOKING 51 

Place a cover on the frying pan and cook 30 minutes. Make 
a gravy from the liquid in the pan and pour over the steak. 
Calcidate cost. Is simmered steak as expensive as broiled? 
Why? 

Statement of Principles Involved. 

1. Heat develops flavor. 

2. Heat hardens or coagulates protein so that it will 
form a crust, and this crust aids in retaining juices 
and flavor. 

3. Heat and moisture soften and dissolve connective 
tissue. 

SUMMARY OF PRINCIPLES OF COOKING 

Heat does not have the same effect on all foods. It 
hardens and toughens protein, it softens carbohydrates 
and fat, it makes proteins somewhat harder to digest, it 
frees starch from the outer covering of cellulose and gets 
it ready for digestion. Most proteins lose water even 
when cooked in water. Carbohydrates absorb water. The 
main principles of cooking may be summarized as follows : 

1. Heat and moisture soften cell walls, whether it be 
cellulose in vegetable foods or connective tissue in 
animal foods. 

2. Dry heat hardens connective tissue. 

3. Heat and moisture cause starch grains to swell and 
burst the walls of cellulose which inclose them. 

4. Dry heat 320° F. changes starch to dextrin. 

5. Dry heat 420° F. caramelizes sugar. 

6. Heat frees fat from cell walls which inclose the 
globules, and strong heat separates and decomposes 
fat into two substances, fatty acid and glycerine. 



Digitized by 



Google 



5 2 PRINCIPLES OF COOKING 

7. Heat hardens or coagulates* any fomi of protein 
and makes it harder to digest. 

8. When protein hardens, it forms a crust which aids in 
retaining juices and flavor. 

9. Mineral matter, extractives, and volatile oils are 
soluble in water. 

10. Acids soften cellulose. 

11. Acids invert sugar. 

12. Heat kills bacteria and other parasites found in foods. 

13. Heat makes foods more attractive and palatable, 
and while it may lessen their ease of digestion, it 
may by improving their flavor cause an increased 
flow of digestive fluids and in that way balance the 
difficulty. 



Salmon for Canning. 
(From Carpenter's Hmo the World is Fed.) 



Digitized by 



Google 



CHAPTER IV 
FRUITS AND GREEN VEGETABLES 

Uses of Foods. — Proteins build tissue and yield heat 
.and energy. Starch and sugar when oxidized yield heat 
and energy. Cellulose furnishes bulk, which, by stimulat- 
ing the walls of the stomach and intestines, promotes the 
flow of the digestive juices and aids peristalsis. Fats 
when oxidized yield heat and energy. Mineral salts and 
acids aid in tissue building, promote osmotic pressure, 
regulate the acidity or alkalinity of the digestive juices, 
and because they are decomposed in the body and form 
alkaline carbonates they help to keep the blood alkaline and 
control the acidity of the excretions. Water aids in tissue 
building, forms the great part of the blood, digestive fluids, 
and excretions. It regulates the temperature of the body 
and aids in the ehmination of waste. Extractives stimu- 
late the appetite and aid in digestion. 

Classification of Foods. — Foods are classified for the 
purpose of study into animal and vegetable foods. In 
general it may be said that vegetable foods are mainly 
carbohydrate and animal foods mainly protein. Vege- 
table foods are classed as : — 

1. Fruits 4. Cereals 

2. Green Vegetables 5. Legumes 

3. Roots and Tubers 6. Nuts 

All vegetables have two things in common. They all 
contain valuable mineral salts which help to keep the blood 

53 



Digitized by 



Google 



54 FRUITS AND GREEN VEGETABLES 

alkaline ; they contain carbohydrate in the form of starch, 
sugar, and cellulose, and thus furnish bulk to food. 

Roots and tubers are pure, starchy foods containing 
little or no available protein. 

Cereals contain starch and protein in proportion of about 

Legumes contain starch and protein in proportion of 
about 2^:1. 

Green vegetables are valuable mostly for their mineral 
salts and cellulose ; fruits, for their acids and sugar. Nuts 
are similar to the legumes in composition. They are not 
consumed to any great extent as a food, but are merely 
used as a relish or confection. 

FRUITS 

Typical Food : Apple. — All fresh fruits are similar in 
composition and structure and have practically the same 
food value. They contain 75-80 per cent water, .5-1 
per cent protein, 8-20 per cent carbohydrate, 1-3 per 
cent cellulose, .5 per cent mineral matter, and practically 
no fat. They are eaten for their mineral salts, which 
help to preserve the alkalinity of the blood; for their re- 
freshing juices and flavor, and because the cellulose furnishes 
bulk for the intestines and thus stimulates peristalsis. 
Some fruits contain enough sugar so that they may be 
considered valuable carbohydrate foods. In structure 
fruits consist of walls of cellulose inclosing water, sugar, 
mineral salts, and acids, with very little protein and fat. 

Cooking of Fruits. — Most fruits are eaten raw when they 
can be procured fresh. Fruits are also dried, canned, 
preserved, and cooked in various ways. Cooking softens 
the cellulose, and during the process the action of the acid 



Digitized by 



Google 



FRUITS AND GREEN VEGETABLES 55 

in the fruit on the cellulose hastens the softening. If 
fruits are cooked in water, some mineral salts, acids, and 
sugar are dissolved in the water. If the water is served 
with the fruit, there is no loss of nutrients. 

Fruits are dried so that they may be preserved for use. 
Bacteria and molds which cause the decay of fruits need 
moisture for development and growth. If the moisture 
in fruits is evaporated, the fruits will keep indefinitely. 
When dried fruits are to be used, they must be washed 
thoroughly and soaked for several hours, or overnight, in 
water so as to restore as much water as possible. They 
should be cooked until soft in the same water in which 
they are soaked. Sugar is added about five minutes be- 
fore they are removed from the fire. 

Fresh fruits may be cooked in a variety of ways. The 
commonest ways are : baking, steaming, and stewing. 

Baked Pears. — Wash and core Seckel pears. Put 
in a baking dish. Fill the center of the pear with sugar 
and add enough water in the dish to prevent burning. 
Cover and cook slowly until the pears are soft. Remove 
from tjie baking dish and pour the liquid from the pan 
over the pears. Other varieties of pears are good for bak- 
ing, but the Seckel are the most delicious. 

Note. — In this recipe, and in all recipes which follow, if it is possible, 
find the cost of the prepared food. Learn at what meal it could be served, 
and in a general way its nutritive value. Later learn to calculate the 
nutritive value of each food. 

Steamed Apples. — Wash, pare, and core sound, tart 
apples. Place on a plate in a steamer over a kettle of 
boiling water and let steam until tender. Remove from 
the steamer carefully so as not to break the apples, and 
serve with cream and sugar, or with sirup. 



Digitized by 



Google 



56 



FRUITS AND GREEN VEGETABLES 



U. S. Otpartmtnt of Agrtculturt 

• Offict of Experiment Stations 

A. C. True: Director 



Prepared ty 

C. F. LANOWORTHY 

D(pert in Charge of Nutrition Investigations 

COMPOSITION OF FOOD MATERIALS. 

I Pu«l Value 
/fsSq.ln.Equals 
> 1000 Calories 



Protein Fat Carbohydrates A»h 

GRAPES 

EMBLE PORTION 

Faf. 



Protein: 1.5 
Fat: 1.6 



RAISINS 



Ash.0.5 



GRAPEJUI^. 

UNFERMENTED 




2.6 



Fuel value*. 



I 560 CALORIES 
PER POUND 



CANNED 

FRUIT 

Water: 77.2 -J 



mmmm^ 



Protein\0-2 



FRUITf 

JELLY 

Carbo- Water:2L0 

hydrates :?0.3 



Fu el valu e; 



UELVALV 

Protein: 1. 1 | | 

m^ e . A I 370 CALORIES Carbo 

^^ -Fat: 0.1 PER pound hydretes:78.3 




Ash: 0.5 ICarbo- 

FuE LVALU E; hydrates : 2 1 . 1 



405 CALORIES 
PEfl POUND 



^Ash:0.7 
Fuel value; 



Ml 5 CALORIES 
PER pound 



Composition of FRmxs. 



Digitized by 



Google 



FRUITS AND GREEN VEGETABLES 



57 



US' Dep«rtment of Agriculture 

Office of Experiment Stations 

A. C. True- Director 



Prepared by 

C. F. LAN6W0RTHY 

Expert in Charge of Nutrition lnvestlgation& 



COMPOSITION OF FOOD MATERIALS. 



PfOtelr* 



Fat Carbohydrates Ath 

APPLE 

EDIBLE PORTION 



IFual Value 
>tcSq.lo.Equai» 
1000 Calorits 



DRIED FIG 

EDIBLE PORTION 



Water:8+.6 




Protcin:4.3- 



Carbohydrates: |4.2^Ash:0.3 



Carbohydrates. 742 



Fuel 

VALUE: 



c 



285 CALORIES 
PER POUND 




Fuel 

VALUE: 



STRAWBERRY 

EDIBLE PORTION 



Water90.4 




Fat:0.6 
Carbohydrates:7.4 



Water:75.3 



Protein: 1.0 
AshO 6 Carbohydrates:22.0 



Fuel 

VALUE: 



D 



175 CALORICS 
PER POUND 




Fuel 

VALUE: 



445 CALORIES 
PER POUND 



CoMPOsmoN OF Fruits. 



Digitized by 



Google 



58 FRUITS AND GREEN VEGETABLES 

Sirup. — Boil one cup of sugar and one third cup of 
water 3 minutes. Pour over fruit. 

Cranberry Jelly or Sauce. — Wash one quart of cran- 
berries, add one cup of cold water, and cook slowly until 
tender. Press through a strainer until nothing remains 
but the skins. Add two cups of sugar to the pulp and 
boil five minutes. Turn into molds and let it stand until 
it is firm. Serve with poultry or game. 

Stewed Prunes. — Wash the prunes thoroughly. Soak 
overnight in cold water. Cook in the water in which 
they have been soaked, until soft. Add sugar and cook 
five minutes longer. The quantity of sugar added depends 
on individual taste, but one fourth cup of sugar to one 
pound of prunes is a good proportion. 

GREEN VEGETABLES 

Green vegetables are the leaves and stems of plants, 
and as the leaves are the means by which the plant takes 
carbon dioxide and gives off oxygen, they contain very 
little nourishment except mineral salts ; their bulk is due to 
the cellulose and water. 

The green vegetables with which we are the most familiar 
are: celery, spinach, asparagus, cress, endive, lettuce, 
cabbage. Because they are similar in composition, squash, 
cucumbers, and tomatoes are usually classed with green 
vegetables, though they are fruits. 

Green vegetables contain 90-95 per cent water, 1-2 per 
cent protein, 2.5-5 P^r cent carbohydrate, 1-2 per cent 
mineral matter, and ,a trace of fat. They are valuable 
foods because the cellulose furnishes bulk to promote 
peristalsis and because the mineral salts contain a pre- 
dominance of the base-forming elements. Spinach, dande- 



Digitized by 



Google 



FRUITS AND GREEN VEGETABLES 59 

lions, cabbage, lettuce, and asparagus contain quite a 
little iron. 

With a few exceptions green vegetables should be eaten 
raw, because the mineral salts, being soluble, are lost in 
the water in which they are cooked, and because the cellu- 
lose serves its purpose best in the crisp form. Spinach and 
asparagus must be cooked. When vegetables are eaten 
fresh and served with salad dressing, they form an agreeable 
and important addition to a meal. 

Green Vegetables — Cooked 

Spinach. — Wash one half peck of spinach four or five 
times in plenty of water to remove all the sand found on 



SpiNAoa WITH Rice Border. 



the plants. Place the spinach in a kettle and pour a small 
quantity of boiling water over it. Spinach shrinks rapidly 



Digitized by 



Google 



6o FRUITS AND GREEN VEGETABLES 

and needs but little water on it, and as it contains valuable 
mineral salts, among them considerable iron, that are 
soluble in water, it is best to use as Uttle water as possible. 
When cooked, season the spinach with butter, salt, and 
pepper, and garnish with sliced hard-boiled eggs. 

Asparagus. — Wash one bunch of asparagus, cut into 
inch pieces, and discard the tough lower ends. Place in a 
stewpan, cover with boiling water, and cook 30 to 45 
minutes, or until soft. Thicken the juice as for White 
Sauce, using two tablespoons of butter, two tablespoons 
of flour, one fourth teaspoon salt and speck of pepper. 
Serve on toast or as a creamed vegetable. Asparagus is 
also served in its own liquid, merely seasoned with butter, 
salt, and pepper. Asparagus contains considerable iron 
also, and should not be drained. 

Creamed Celery. — Separate the stalks of celery, and 
save the tender inner parts to serve as a relish. Wash the 
stalks and remove the rusty portions. Cut into inch 
pieces, cover with boiling water, and cook until tender. 
Drain, pour White Sauce over, and serve. 

Creamed Cauliflower. — Soak cauliflower for one half 
hour in cold halted water. Cut the clusters apart, cover 
with boiling water, and cook until tender, about 35 minutes. 
Drain, pour White Sauce over, and serve. ■ . 

Spauis]?; Tomatoes. — Peel three large tomatoes and cut 
into slices. Place in a stewpan, add one half cup of cold 
water. Remove the corn from two ears of green com an4 
add to the tomatoes. Add one half small green pepper 
chopped' fine, one fourth cup of celery cut into small 
pieces. Boil 20 minutes, add three tablespoons of but- 
ter, one half teaspoon salt, and one eighth teaspoon 
pepper. 



Digitized by 



Google 



FRUITS AND GREEN VEGETABLES 6i 

Green Vegetables — Salads 

Salads are made of cold meat or fish, eggs, cheese, raw or 
cooked vegetables or fruits, combined with a salad dressing. 
The green vegetables, often called the salad plants, are 
cress, endive, lettuce, cabbage, cucumber, celery, and 
tomato ; and they make the most attractive salads. They 
are cooling, refreshing, stimulate the appetite and should 
be eaten as frequently as possible because of the mineral 
salts which they contain. They may often take the place 
of a dessert at a meal. 

To make a perfect salad the vegetables should be crisp 
and cold. All ingredients in the dressing should be prop- 
erly proportioned and well blended, and the salad should 
be attractively served. Vegetables should be washed 
and allowed to stand in ice-cold water or on ice, until crisp. 
They should then be drained and placed in a cheesecloth 
bag in a cool place until they are served. Dressing is 
added at the table or just before sending to the table. 

If meat or fish is used, free it from bone and fat, and cut 
it in small uniform pieces. Canned fruit or cold left-over 
vegetables may be used for salads. For dinner serve a 
green vegetable or fruit salad. For luncheon serve a fish, 
cheese, or heavy salad, and let it serve as the principal 
dish. Fish, cheese, or meat salad contain all the protein 
needed for a meal. At dinner, when meat is served, the 
salad should not furnish additional protein, but mineral 
salts, cellulose, and reUsh. 

SALAD DRESSINGS 

Cooked Salad Dressing. — Mix one tablespoon of flour, one 
teaspoon salt, one teaspoon mustard, one tablespoon sugar, 



Digitized by 



Google 



62 FRUITS AND GREEN VEGETABLES 

and a speck of cayenne pepper. Add two tablespoons of 
melted butter, two egg yolks, and three fourths cup of milk. 
Cook in a double boiler until it thickens, stirring constantly. 
Then add three tablespoons of vinegar and boil one minute. 

French Dressing. — Mix one half teaspoon salt, a speck 
of cayenne pepper, four tablespoons olive oil, and beat 
thoroughly. Add one tablespoon vinegar and beat vig- 
orously until thoroughly blended. 

Mayonnaise Dressing. — Beat the yolk of one egg ; add 
one fourth teaspoon each of salt and paprika and beat 
again, then use an egg beater and beat in two tablespoons 
of vinegar or lemon juice ; beat vigorously, then add a tea- 
spoon of ohve oil and continue beating ; add oil, a teaspoon 
at a time, three or four times, beating vigorously mean- 
while ; then add the oil by the tablespoon until a cup in all 
has been used. Finish with one tablespoon of boiling 
water, beating it in, in the same manner as the oil. 
(Boston Cooking School Magazine.) 

Garnish for Salad. 



Lettuce 


Capers 


Endive 


Hard-boiled Eggs 


Water Cress 


Riced Eggs 


Peppers 


Diced Vegetables 


Parsley 


Nasturtium Leaves and Flowers 


erve with Salad. 




Cheese Straws 


Crackers 


Cheese Wafers 


Brown, Graham and 


Sandwiches 


White Bread, sliced very 


Wafers 


thin, buttered. 



Stuffed Tomato Salad. — Remove skin from tomatoes 
by pouring boiUng water over them. Cut a slice from the 



Digitized by 



Google 



FRUITS AND GREEN VEGETABLES 63 

top of the tomato and remove the interior. Fill the 
tomato with cucumber cut in very thin slices and place 
Cooked Salad Dressing over the top. Serve on lettuce. 

Grape Salad. — Remove the skins and seeds from white 
or red grapes and cut in halves. Take equal parts of grapes, 
sliced peaches, pears, pineapple, or any fruit obtainable. 
Place on leaves of endive or head lettuce and serve with 
Mayonnaise Dressing. 



Grape Salad. 

Cabbage Salad. — Cut one half of a small head of cab- 
bage in very thin slices, or chop it with the chopping knife. 
Mix with one recipe of hot Cooked Salad Dressing. Chill 
and serve cold. 

Waldorf Salad. — Chop equal quantities of apple, celery, 
and walnuts. Mix with Cooked Salad Dressing. Serve 
on lettuce leaves. 

CONLEY p. C. — 5 



Digitized by 



Google 



64 FRUITS AND GREEN VEGETABLES 

Banana Salad. — Take ripe bananas, cut them in halves 
lengthwise. Roll in Cooked Salad Dressing. Chop one 
half cup of peanuts. Roll the bananas in the nuts. Serve 
on lettuce leaves. 

Fruit Salad. — Arrange layers of sliced pineapple, 
peaches, or pears on lettuce. Serve with Mayonnaise 
Dressing. 

Cucumber or Tomato Salad. — Remove skin, slice toma- 
toes in thick slices; slice the cucumbers in thin slices. 
Serve on lettuce leaves with French or Cooked Salad Dress- 
ing. 

Potato Salad. — Cut two cups of cold boiled potates in 
one half inch cubes. Add one half teaspoon salt, and 
one tablespoon of chopped onion. Mix with one recipe of 
Cooked Salad Dressing or Sour Dressing, and garnishi with 
sliced hard-boiled eggs and chopped parsley. 

Asparagus Salad. — If fresh asparagus is not obtainable 
at a reasonable cost, remove the hquid from a can of 
blanched asparagus tips, and rinse well. Chop one pimento. 

Arrange six or eight 
stalks of asparagus on 
head lettuce leaves. 
Sprinkle with chopped 
pimento and serve with 
French Dressing. 

Combination Salad. — 

Chop, separately, one 

half cup each of cucum- 

AsPARAGus Salad. ber, tomato, and celery ; 

add one teaspoon of 
chopped onion. Mix lightly with a fork until blended ; add 
Cooked Salad Dressing and serve on lettuce leaves. 



Digitized by 



Google 



FRUITS AND GREEN VEGETABLES 65 

PRESERVATION OF FOODS 

So much is said and written concerning harmful bacteria 
or germs, that we are inclined to think that all kinds of 
bacteria are powerful and insidious enemies. 

No warning yet issued seems to be strong enough to 
influence all thinking and reasoning people to take means 
to destroy the harmful, disease-breeding, or pathogenic 
bacteria. To this class belong the germs causing typhoid 
fever, tuberculosis, diphtheria, scarlet fever, and other 
contagious diseases. If all people would be vigilant for a 
few years, we could destroy practically all these germs and 
free the world from the preventable sicknesses due either 
to carelessness or ignorance. 

The study of pathogenic bacteria belongs to the subjects 
of sanitation and hygiene in regular school work, and it 
bears but indirectly on cooking. It relates to cooking in 
so far that absolute cleanliness must be the motto for both 
kitchen and cook, and that precaution must be taken that 
water, milk, and other foods, do not contain disease-form- 
ing bacteria. Because public health boards do not attend 
to these problems the housekeeper must. 

Dust and dirt are unsightly, and we must be constantly 
on guard to keep them out of our homes, but that is not 
all. Dust and dirt furnish excellent breeding places for 
disease germs, and for that reason, if for no other, we must 
keep things clean and prevent accumulation of dirt. 

Cooking deals directly with a much more interesting 
class of bacteria, as it deals with molds and yeast. All 
bacteria are not pernicious and harmful ; some are harm- 
less and some are useful. Some of these bacteria feed on 
food, leaves, wood, and other substances, and break them 



Digitized by 



Google 



66 FRUITS AND GREEN VEGETABLES 

down so that the elements of which these substances are 
composed may again furnish food for new plants. In 
other words, bacteria cause the decay of organic substances 
and return to the soil what plants take from it, and by 
their work they make it possible to raise crops every year. 

Nature protects the little apple, tomato, cherry, and 
other seeds, by covering them with a soft pulp. When the 
seeds are ripe, the pulp begins to decay ; protection is no 
longer needed ; the seeds are able to take care of themselves. 

Man has found a use for these soft, juicy, and deliciously 
flavored seed coverings, and he desires to save them for 
his food. To do this some means must be found to stop 
the growth of those bacteria which cause decay. 

Bacteria need food, warmth, and moisture for develop- 
ment and growth. Most kinds are destroyed at a tempera- 
ture above i6o° F., though what are called the spore-form- 
ing kinds can resist higher temperatures; even boiling 
temperature does not always kill them. Freezing tempera- 
ture does not destroy bacteria, but they do not develop at 
a temperature just above freezing. When brought from a 
freezing temperature to a higher temperature, they develop 
with astonishing rapidity. 

To preserve foods for use, it is necessary to destroy the 
bacteria present or to prevent their growth. Several 
different methods are used for preservation. Drying takes 
out the moisture needed for development of bacteria and 
preserves foods for indefinite periods of time. Cold 
storage deprives the bacteria of the heat needed for their 
development and retards their growth. Some media, as 
sugar, vinegar, spices, salt, smoke, make it impossible for 
bacteria to grow. We say that they cannot thrive well in 
certain media. Certain chemical preservatives, having no 



Digitized by 



Google 



FRUITS AND GREEN VEGETABLES 67 

food value in themselves, destroy bacteria, but they should 
not be used in foods because they^re harmful to the body. 
Bacteria are present in the air and they may enter foods 
after the foods have been rendered sterile by boiling. For 
this reason foods are canned, or sealed in air-tight, steri- 
lized jars after the food has first been made sterile. If a 
sufficient quantity of sugar, salt, or vinegar has been used, 
sealing is not necessary, because bacteria cannot grow in 
the solution used ; but in canning, a small quantity of sugar 
is used, and that solution is very favorable for the growth 
of certain bacteria. 

CANNING 

With a little care, all fruits and many vegetables can be 
canned and stored for winter use. Many vegetables thus 
prepared taste almost as good as when fresh, and they re- 
lieve the monotony of a diet that must otherwise be limited 
to winter-kept vegetables. All fruits — apples, cherries, 
plums, even melons — may be canned with Uttle expense. 
By canning is meant preserving in sterilized, air-tight cans 
or jars, with or without sugar. 

For small families, the pint jars are best, because that 
quantity will serve for one meal, and if a larger jar is opened, 
the fruit deteriorates before it can be used. In fact pint 
jars are best in all cases where fruit is canned. In pic- 
kling, a larger jar is necessary, because the fruit is whole. 
New rubbers should be procured for the jars every season ; 
and if the covers are bent or old, new ones can be purchased 
at a slight cost. If old rubbers or bent covers are used, 
the jar will not be air-tight and the fruit and labor are 
lost. If adr-tight, and the work is properly done, not one 
can of fruit should be lost. 



Digitized by 



Google 



68 FRUITS AND GREEN VEGETABLES 

To sterilize the jars, provide a wooden rack or blocks, 
so that the jars will not come in contact with the bottom 
of the pan or kettle used. Place the jars, filled with cold 
water, on the block in the pan or kettle and then fill the 
kettle with cold watei:. Place on the stove where they 
will heat gradually, and when the water boils, the jars are 
sterilized and ready for use. Dip the rubbers in hot 
water before placing on the cans, and sterilize the covers 
also. 

Fill the jars to overflowing with fruit, and sirup or boil- 
ing water. Insert the handle of a silver fork or spoon be- 
tween the jar aild fruit so that the air bubbles will rise to 
the top. Put on rubbers and covers and screw them tight. 
After the jars have been cooled, tighten the covers again, 
invert the jars, and let them stand in this way, to be sure 
that no juice comes out ; if it does, the jars are not air- 
tight. 

Note. — New styles in fruit jars are constantly appearing on the market. 
Complete directions, for the successful use of these jars, are always given 
by the retail merchant. 

Canned Tomatoes. — Place tomatoes in boiling water 
to remove the skins. Tomatoes may be canned whole or 
cut into halves. Fill the cans with tomatoes, and place 
the covers on loosely. Place the jars in a boiler or deep 
pan. The jars should rest on a wooden rack or Ught 
blocks to keep the jars from contact with the bottom of 
the pan. Fill the pan with cold water up to two inches 
from the top of the jars. Heat to the boihng point and 
boil twenty minutes. Fill the jars to overflowing with 
boiling water, put on rubbers, cover and seal. 

Canned Com. — To nine pints of com add one pint of 
sugar and two thirds of a pint of salt and enough water to 



Digitized by 



Google 



FRUITS AND GREEN VEGETABLES 69 

cover the corn. Cook fifteen minutes after it begins to 
boil. Fill sterilized jars, to overflowing, with corn, and 
seal. When ready to use, pour boiling water over the corn 
to freshen it, and strain. 

Canned Peaches and Other Fruits. — Peaches, pears, 
cherries, apples, may all be canned in the same way. Fruits, 
like pineapple and quince, should first be cooked in boiling 
water until nearly soft, and then canned as for peaches. 

Allow four cups of water to four cups of sugar for sirup. 
Boil the water and sugar ten minutes and then drop in 
the fruit, a small quantity at a time, so as not to crush it. 
Cook until nearly soft and then fill the jars. The 
hot sirup will finish the 
cooking of the fruit. 

To prepare peaches, 
place them in boiling 
water to loosen the skins, 
and then peel. Peaches 
may be canned whole or 
in halves or quarters. 

Canned Berries. — 
Berries contain so much 

water that very little Strawberries. 

should be added. Fill the 

jars full of whole berries. Make a sirup by crushing some 
of the berries, heating them slightly, and straining the 
juice. Allow one and one half cups of sugar to each cup 
of juice and boil three minutes. Fill the jars with sirup 
and proceed as for canned tomatoes. 

Jelly Making. — The best fruits for jelly making are 
currants, apples, grapes, and quinces. Wild green crab 
apples or wild grapes make deHciously flavored jelly. 



Digitized by 



Google 



70 FRUITS AND GREEN VEGETABLES 

These fruits are best because they contain considerable 
pectin or pectose. Pectin is a carbohydrate found in ripe 
or nearly ripe pulpy fruits and causes the juice to gelatinize. 
Some fruits contain so little pectin that they will not make 
jelly unless some fruit rich in pectin is added. For example, 
red raspberries contain little pectin, while currants are 
rich in it. Red raspberries with currants added make a 
very fine jelly. 

Test Juice for Pectin. — Mix equal amounts of ethyl alcohol and 
boiled fruit juice, and if pectin is present a gelatinous mass will appear 
on the spoon inserted. 

Pectin is most abundant in the skin and core of the fruit, 
and it loses its gelatinizing power when the juice is boiled 
too long. The pectin is at its best when the fruit is just 
ripe or not quite ripe, but if the fruit is overripe, the chances 
are that the jelly will not stiffen. When the boiling has 
been too violent, jelly becomes crystallized after it stiffens. 
If the juice is stirred when boiling, the jelly will become 
coarse and tough. 

Currant Jelly. — Wash and drain the currants without 
removing the stems. Put them in a granite kettle, half 
cover with water, mash them slightly, and allow them to 
, cook slowly. Strain through a coarse strainer, being sure 
that all the fruit is crushed, then allow the juice to drain 
through a double thickness of cheesecloth. Do not 
squeeze the bag or the jelly will not be clear. Measure 
the juice and boil five minutes. Add an equal quantity 
of heated granulated sugar and boil five minutes. Boil 
slowly and skim until clear. Then pour into sterilized 
glasses. Place in a sunny window and let it stand until 
it stiffens. Cover with parafiin paper. The length of 



Digitized by 



Google 



FRUITS AND GREEN VEGETABLES 71 

time for boiling before adding sugar depends on the amount 
of water added to the fruit. 

Apple Jelly. — Wash and wipe the apples and remove 
the stems and blossom end. Cut the apples in quarters, 
place in a granite kettle and add enough cold water to 
nearly cover them. Cook slowly until the apples are soft, 
then crush and drain through a sieve and strain the juice 
through a double thickness of cheesecloth. Measure the 
juice and boil it fifteen minutes. Add an equal quantity 
of heated granulated sugar and boil slowly five minutes. 
Skim and pour into sterilized glasses. 

Grape Jelly. — Wash the grapes and remove them from 
the stems. Place in a granite kettle. Nearly cover with 
water, crush slightly, and boil until soft. Strain thrbugh 
a double thickness of cheesecloth. Measure the juice 
and boil ten minutes. Add an equal quantity of heated 
granulated sugar and boil three minutes. Skim and pour 
into sterilized glasses. 

Pickled Peaches and Other Fruits. — Six cups sugar, 
three cups vinegar, one ounce stick cinnamon, one dozen 
whole pepper seeds. Boil twenty minutes. Remove 
skins from peaches, place two whole cloves in each peach. 
Cook in the sirup until nearly soft. Fill jars and seal. 
Crab apples are very nice pickled this way. 

Pickled Nasturtium Seeds. — Pick green seeds and soak 
twenty-four hours in salted water. Drain, wash, and let 
stand two hours in fresh water. Pack in bottles and fill 
with boiling vinegar. They may be used in place of 
capers for caper sauce. 

Tomato Catsup. — One gallon strained tomatoes, four 
level tablespoons salt, three tablespoons black pepper, 
three tablespoons mustard, one tablespoon paprika, 



Digitized by 



Google 



72 FRUITS AND GREEN VEGETABLES 

two tablespoons chopped red pepper, one half tablespoon 
cloves, one half tablespoon allspice, two tablespoons sugar, 
one pint vinegar. Place black pepper, cloves, and all- 
spice in small bags to prevent discoloring the catsup. 
Boil until the required thickness; place in bottles and 
hermetically seal. 

Chili Sauce. — Two quarts of peeled and sliced ripe 
tomatoes, one cup of chopped celery, one chopped red 
pepper, one chopped onion, three tablespoons sugar, one 
tablespoon salt, one tablespoon cloves, one tablespoon 
allspice, one tablespoon cinnamon, one half tablespoon 
paprika, one pint vinegar. Cook slowly about two and 
a half hours. 

Pear Conserve. — Peel and cut into cubes, five pounds 
of pears, add five pounds of sugar. Let stand over night. 
Drain off the sirup and boil it until thick, then add the 
pears, one pound of seeded raisins, one half pound of 
walnuts cut fine, the juice and rind of two lemons, juice 
and rind of three oranges, and boil the mixture five minutes. 
Put into glasses and cover with paraflSn. 

Pickled Beans. — Boil round yellow beans in salted water 
until tender but not soft. Drain and fill cans with beans, 
pour hot sirup over, and seal. Sirup : one quart of 
vinegar, two cups of sugar, whole cloves and cinnamon to 
taste. Boil for five minutes. 

Pickled Cuctunbers. — Select medium-sized cucumbers 
and soak over night in a brine which will float an egg. 
Wash and drain pickles and place in cans, add one table- 
spoon each of sugar, salt, and mustard to a quart of pickles. 
Fill the cans with cold vinegar and seal. 



Digitized by 



Googk 



CHAPTER V 

ROOTS AND TUBERS: THEIR CHIEF FOOD 
PRODUCTS 

ROOTS AND TUBERS 

Roots, tubers, and bulbs are either the roots or thickened 
stems of vegetables in which sugar or starch is stored for 
the nourishment of the young plant when it shall need it. 
Because they are storehouses of nourishment, they have 
a higher food value than most fruits or green vegetables, 
although some few fruits equal them in nutritive value. 

They contain from 70-90 per cent water, 8-26 per 
cent carbohydrate in the form of starch, sugar, pectin, 
and cellulose, i per cent mineral matter, less than 2 per 
cent protein, and only a trace of fat. When we purchase 
them at the market they contain about 20 per cent refuse. 
That is, about 20 per cent is trimmed off when we prepare 
them for cooking. 

Roots and tubers are cheap foods and supply almost 
endless variety to the diet, since they are easily prepared 
in many appetizing ways. They furnish 16 per cent of 
the average American diet, potatoes alone furnishing 
12 J per cent. Their food value is in the carbohydrates 
and mineral salts which they contain. 

Roots and tubers are usually grouped into two classes, 
— starchy roots and tubers, which include potatoes, sweet 
p)otatoes, yams, and the starchy foods prepared from roots 
and stems, as tapioca, sago, and arrowroot; and succu- 

73 



Digitized by 



Google 



74 ROOTS AND TUBERS 

lent roots and tubers, which include beets, turnips, carrots, 
rutabagas, parsnips, salsify, celeriac, radishes, onions, kohl- 
rabi, and garlic. The flavor and odor of these foods are 
due to the presence of volatile oil which may be retained 
or dissipated by proper cooking. 

Typical Root or Tuber, Potato. 

Composition. — 78.3 per cent water ; 18.4 per cent 
carbohydrate, of which 16 per cent is starch, 2 per cent 
dextrin, sugar, pectose, .4 per cent cellulose; 2.2 per cent 
nitrogenous matter, of which 1.3 per cent is protein; 
I per cent mineral matter. 

Structure. — The potato consists of a network of cells 
held together by cellulose and surrounded by a brown 
corky skin. The cells contain starch, mineral matter, 
and a very small amount of protein. 

Experiments with Potato to show Content. 

Water, — Let the potato stand in a warm, dry place and weigh 
it occasionaUy. Note the loss of water by evaporation. 

Starch, — Grate the potato, place in a cheesecloth bag, and wash 
the starch out. Let the water stand until the starch setties, then 
pour the water off and weigh the starch. Starch test : A solution of 
iodine turns starch blue. 

Ash. — Burn potato in a crucible until nothing remains but the 
ash. 

Food Value. — Potatoes are the most important car- 
bohydrate food, and it may be said that they are served 
at every dinner and usually at one other mfeal in the aver- 
age American home. They generally furnish the main 
carbohydrate part of a dinner and are valuable also for 
the potash and other important mineral salts which they 
contain. 



Digitized by 



Google 



ROOTS AND TUBERS 75 

Principles involved in Cooking. — Potatoes are 
made up of innumerable cells, having walls of cellulose 
and inclosing starch, mineral matter, water, and a small 
amount of protein. Heat causes the starch grains to 
swell and burst the cell walls, and thus the starch is 
free so that the digestive juices can act on it. Heat 
coagulates the protein. Some starch and mineral matter 
are lost when potatoes are pared and cooked in boil- 
ing water. There is no loss when they are steamed 
or baked. 

Method of Preparation. — Potatoes should be pared 
thin, as much of the protein and mineral salts are directly 
i^inder the skin and are lost in deep paring. When potatoes 
are being prepared, they should be covered with water 
and should remain in water until it is time to cook them. 
If they are exposed to the air, they turn black, because 
certain ferments in them become active in the presence of 
oxygen. Old potatoes may be soaked in water to restore 
some of the lost moisture, but ordinarily nutrients are 
lost if p>otatoes are left soaking in water for any length of 
time. Potatoes should always be cooked in boiling water, 
not simmering or nearly boiling, so as to coagulate the 
protein and retain all the nutrients possible. 

Methods of Cooking. — Baking, boiling, scalloping, 
frying, etc. 

Grated potatoes are used for puddings, pies, muflSns, 
soups, cakes, etc. 

Baked Potatoes. — (See recipe, page 35.) 

Boiled Potatoes. — Wash and pare potatoes, cover with 
cold water until time to cook. Put into boiling salted 
water and cook until soft, about 30 minutes, allowing one 
tablespoon of salt to ea£h quart of water. When done, 



Digitized by 



Google 



76 ROOTS AND TUBERS 

drain thoroughly, cover with a folded napkin, and set 
where they will dry off and keep warm until served. 

Potatoes boiled " in jackets " are more nutritious than 
those pared before boiling, as there is practically no loss 
of nutrients when they are simply washed clean and 
plunged into boiling water, and cooked. Because of ease 
in serving, potatoes are usually pared. 

Mashed Potatoes. — Mash hot boiled potatoes and to 
every pint of potato add one tablespoon of butter, one 
half teaspoon of salt, and enough milk to moisten. Beat 
thoroughly; 

Escalloped Potatoes. — Slice the potatoes in slices one 
fourth inch thick. Parboil lo minutes. Place the potatoes 
in a baking dish in layers. Pour thin White Sauce over 
them, and sprinkle with buttered crumbs. Bake 20 to 30 
minutes in a slow oven. 

Thin White Sauce. — Two tablespoons butter, one table- 
spoon flour, one cup milk, one fourth teaspoon salt, speck 
of pepper. Prepare as for White Sauce. 

Glazed Sweet Potatoes. — Wash and pare the potatoes. 
Cut into halves lengthwise. Parboil 10 minutes. Dip 
into sirup, put into a buttered pan, bake 15 to 20 minutes. 
Baste occasionally with the sirup. Bake in a hot oven. 

Sirup. — Mix one half cup sugar, four tablespoons 
water, one tablespoon butter. Boil three minutes. 

Potatoes in White Sauce. — Cut cold boiled potatoes 
into half inch cubes. Make a White Sauce. Add potatoes 
and heat. 

Stuffed Potatoes. — Bake large potatoes, cut lengthwise 
through the center. Remove the inside and mash. For 
six potatoes use two tablespoons butter, one fourth cup 
milk, one eighth teaspoon pepper, one fourth teaspoon 



Digitized by 



Google 



ROOTS AND TUBERS 77 

salt, one fourth cup chopped egg, or parsley, or two table- 
spoons grated cheese. Return to shell, and brown in 
oven. 

Lyonnaise Potatoes. — Cut three medium-sized potatoes 
in cubes. Melt three tablespoons butter in hot pan, add 
one tablespoon chopped onion, cook in butter until brown. 



Potato Salad. 
Garnished with sliced beet, sardines, and boiled eggs. 

Add the potatoes, sprinkle with one fourth teaspoon 
salt, speck of pepper, and stir occasionally until golden 
brown. 

Cream of Potato Soup. — Cook three potatoes in boiling 
salted water; when soft, rub through a sieve, and use 
about two and a half cups of potato. Scald one quart of 
milk with two slices of onion. Add the potato. Remove 
onion. Melt two tablespoons butter, add two tablespoons 
flour, and mix thoroughly. Add one teaspoon salt, one 
eighth teaspoon pepper. Stir into the soup. Boil three 



Digitized by 



Google 



78 ROOTS AND TUBERS 

minutes, sprinkle with one tablespoon chopped parsley, 
and serve. 

Cream soups are White Sauce with some vegetable added 
for flavor and to increase the nutritive value. 

Croutons. — Cut slices of bread one half inch thick, and 
spread with butter. Cut into inch squares, and place in 
the oven and brown. Serve with soup. 

Potato Salad. — Cut two cups of cold boiled potatoes in 
one half inch cubes. Add one half teaspoon salt, and 
one tablespoon of chopped onion. Mix with one recipe of 
Cooked Salad Dressing or Sour Dressing, and garnish with 
sliced hard-boiled eggs and chopped parsley. A very attrac- 
tive dish is made when this salad is garnished with sliced 
beets, sardines, and boiled eggs. See illustration on page 77. 

Sour Dressing. — Mix one fourth cup of melted butter, 
one half cup of hot vinegar, one half teaspoon salt, one 
eighth teaspoon pepper, one half teaspoon chopped onion. 

SUCCULENT ROOTS AND TUBERS 

. Succulent roots and tubers contain more water and less 
nutrients than the starchy roots and tubers, and so have 
a lower food value. They are valuable additions to the 
diet because of their mineral salts, large amount of cellu- 
lose, flavor, and because they furnish variety. They all 
contain carbohydrate in some form. 

Selection. — Old roots and tubers are tough and woody 
and require a much longer time for cooking than the young 
and tender ones. They have a lower food value because 
they contain so much cellulose, are of a coarser texture and 
often are dry and corky. 

Preparation. — Succulent roots and tubers should be 
washed clean, pared as thin as possible, cooked whole when 



Digitized by 



Google 



ROOTS AND TUBERS 79 

possible, and sliced if so desired, after they are cooked. 
If cooked in a small quantity of water, there is less loss of 
nutrients than when a large quantity of water is used. 
When they are steamed, there is practically no loss of 
nutrients. 

Methods of Preparing Succulent Roots and Tubers and Green 
Vegetables for the Table. 

1. Creamed. — Boiled and sliced, served with White Sauce. 

2. Diced. — Boiled and cut into small pieces or cubes. 

3. Grated. — Grated and served with Salad Dressing as a salad. 

4. Mashed. — Boiled and mashed and flavored with butter, salt 
and pepper. 

5. Fried. — Boiled and cut into thin slices, and dipped in crumbs. 
or flour, and sauted. May be sliced first, then boiled. Saute in 
bacon fat or half lard and half butter. 

6. Scalloped. — Sliced, parboiled (partially boiled), and baked 
with thin White Sauce and buttered crumbs. 

7. Pickled. — Boiled, sliced or whole, with vinegar added before 
serving. All vegetables are best cooked whole and sliced afterwards, 
because there is loss of nutritive ingredients when they are cooked in 
water, and the more surface exposed, the greater the loss. 

The greater the amount of cellulose a vegetable contains, 
the longer the time needed for cooking. Old vegetables 
require longer time than fresh ones because the cellulose 
has become woody. For this reason no time can be given 
in the recipe. 

Lessons on Succulent Roots and Tubers. 

1. Fried Carrots or Parsnips. For method see Number 5. 

2. Grated Carrots. For method see Number 3. 

3. Mashed Rutabagas. For method see Number 4. 

4. Pickled Beets. For method see Number 7. 

CONLEY p. c. — 6 



Digitized by 



Google 



8o ROOT AND TUBER PRODUCTS 

PREPARED STARCHY FOODS 

In tropical countries, many foods, unknown to us, form 
common and staple articles of diet. Some of these foods 
are prepared for our market and sold to us in the dry form, 
and they furnish variety to our meals. Chief among 
the starchy tropical foods which we enjoy eating are tapioca, 
sago, and arrowroot. Of these tapioca is the least expen- 
sive, the best known, and one most commonly used. 

The tapioca which we use is prepared from the roots of 
bitter cassava plant. These roots are washed, cut, ground 
to a pulp, and the bitter acid which they contain is removed - 
The pulp is then treated so as to separate the pure starch 
from the woody fiber or cellulose. The starch is then dried 
and sold as flake, pearl, or minute tapioca. The flake 
tapioca occurs in irregular pieces, the pearl in round form, 
and the minute is ground to a coarse powder so that it 
will cook quickly. As tapioca is a dried food, it must be 
soaked to restore the lost moisture before it can be cooked. 
Flake and pearl tapioca should be soaked at least an hour, 
preferably two hours. Minute tapioca should be soaked 
at least ten minutes. 

Sago is prepared from the spongy pith or center of the 
trunk of the sago palm tree. The pith of the tree reaches 
its fullest development just before the tree begins to bear 
fruit. At this time the tree is cut and the pith is removed 
and ground to a powder. The powder is mixed with water 
to separate the starch from the fiber. After the starch is 
washed out, it is dried and sold as sago. 

Tapioca Pudding. — Soak one fourth cup of flake or 
pearl tapioca in one half cup of water for at least an hour, 
add two cups of milk, and cook until the tapioca is trans- 



Digitized by 



Google 



ROOT AND TUBER PRODUCTS 8i 

parent, about 30 minutes. Beat two eggs, add one fourth 
cup of sugar, one eighth teaspoon of salt, one teaspoon 
of vanilla, and mix thoroughly with the tapioca. Bake 
in a moderate oven for 30 minutes. Sago may be used 
instead of tapioca. 

Apple Tapioca. — Soak one fourth cup of minute tapioca 
in one fourth cup of water for ten minutes, add two cups 
of milk, and cook until the tapioca is transparent, stirring 
constantly. Add one fourth cup of sugar, one eighth tea- 
spoon of salt, and one cup of thinly sliced or chopped tart 
apples. Turn into a baking dish and bake until the apples 
are soft. Serve with cream or soft custard. 

SUGAR 

Sugar or sucrose is made from the juice of sugar cane, 
sugar beets, and from the sap of the maple tree. Cane, 
beet, and maple sugars are exactly alike, chemically, but 
maple sugar contains certain substances which give it 
its peculiar flavor. Formerly most of the sugar was made 
from sugar cane, but now beets are raised extensively for 
sugaf , and much sugar is manufactured from them. While 
there is no scarcity of sugar for the reason that beet sugar 
is supplanting cane sugar, there is a scarcity of molasses, 
sirup, and the by-products of cane sugar. Most of the 
sirup and molasses sold in the country is made directly 
from glucose, which is made from corn, and colored and 
flavored until it looks like the by-products of cane sugar. 
Corn sirup is a good food product, and has its uses in cook- 
ing, but it should be labeled and sold as such so that the 
purchaser will know exactly what he is getting. 

In the making of sugar from the juice of sugar cane the 
stalks are crushed, and the juice is boiled until it is a thick 



Digitized by 



Google 



82 ROOT AND TUBER PRODUCTS 

sirup. As it boils, part of it crystallizes and is called raw 
sugar, and part of it, containing all the impurities in the 
sugar juice, including potash salts, will not crystallize 
and is called molasses. Improvements are constantly made 
in the process of sugar making, and it is now possible 
to crystallize nearly all the juice, and so less and less mo- 
lasses is left. Molasses is acid in reaction, and because of 
the impurities which it contains, — impure in the sense 
that they interfere with the crystallization of the sugar, 
— it gives to foods a very pleasing flavor and has a high 
nutritive value. 

After the raw sugar is separated from the molasses, it is 
mixed with water, and milk of lime to neutralize it, 
bleached, clarified, and put into vacuum pans and boiled 
to a thick sirup. This sirup is then put into centrifugal 
machines which separate the sugar from the sirup. The 
sugar becomes fine white crystals, and, because of improve- 
ments in the process, practically all the sirup becomes 
sugar. 

Soft sugars are partially refined sugars. The refined 
sugars are sold as bar, cube, tablet, crystallized, coarse 
grain, medium grain, fine grain, and pulverized sugars. 

Com sirup or glucose is a noncrystalline sugar, and for 
that reason it has distinctive uses in cooking. All sucrose 
or cane sugar is inverted to glucose during cooking by the 
addition of acid or when sugar is added to fruits contain- 
ing acid, as in the making of cranberry jelly. As glucose 
is only three fifths as sweet as sucrose, if the inversion takes 
place, more sugar is needed than when it is added after 
the fruit has finished cooking. If the sirupy consistency 
is desired, however, the sugar must be boiled with the 
fruit. 



Digitized by 



Google 



ROOT AND TUBER PRODUCTS 



83 



U. S. Oepartmem of Aqriculture 
Office of Experiment Stitkms 
A. C. True: Director 



Prepared by 

C. F LANOVORTHY 

Expert in Charge of Nutrition InvestiQBtions 

COMPOSITION OF FOOD MATERIALS 

■■ ffmrni 1?^=?;^ ^^ ^^ ■■. f'u.i Value 

P^ein Tat Carbohydrates Ash Water | 



SUGAR 

SIANULATtD 



■HkSq.ln.Equab 
1000 Calories 
MOLASSES 



Waterr25.l 




Fuel valued 



1300 CALORIES 
PfR POUND 



MAPLE SUGAR 



Fuel value: 



1745 calories 
per pound 



v^sh.as 



HONEY 



A5h:0.9 



-Water: 16.3 Water: 
Protein 



Carbo- Carbo 

hydrate8:828 hydrates 



RlE^AUJt 
'500 CALORIES PER POUND 



FoE^WUie: 
1475 CALORIES PER POUND 



/^sh0 2 



Sugars. 



Digitized by 



Google 



84 ROOT AND TUBER PRODUCTS 

During the making of frostings and fondant, an 
acid, as cream of tartar or vinegar, is added to the 
sugar to change it to glucose and give it a smooth 
consistency. If rightly made, frostings and fondant 
will not crystallize, because acids boiled with cane or 
beet sugar invert or change it to glucose. 

CANDY MAKING 

When sugar and some Uquid are boiled together as in 
candy making, different temperatures or diflFerent degrees 
of density are closely noted, as they indicate different stages 
or changes in the mixture and produce candies of diflFerent 
texture. 

.Sugar thermometers are sometimes used to learn the 
temperatures, but expert candy makers can test by drop- 
ping some of the solution in cold water, by the soimd while 
boiling, by the appearance of the sirup, or by the finger 
test. 

The tests that are most used in cooking and candy 
making are, the thread stage, 215° F. ; the soft ball, 
238° F. ; the hard ball, 248° F. ; the crack, 290° F. ; 
and the caramel, 350° F. The thread stage is used 
in making frosting, the soft ball for fondant, the hard 
ball and crack for molasses candy, and the caramel for 
peanut brittle. 

Peanut Brittle. — Heat two cups of sugar until melted, 
stirring constantly so that part of the sugar does not 
burn before the rest is melted. When the sugar is 
melted, add one cup of peanut meats and turn into 
a buttered pan. If a porous texture is desired, add one 
fourth teaspoon of soda as soon as the sugar is melted, 
and stir quickly. (Care must be taken that the sugar 



Digitized by 



Google 



ROOT AND TUBER PRODUCTS 85 

does not boil up too quickly after the soda is added, for 
there is danger that the candy maker may receive a 
severe burn.) 

Molasses Candy. — Place in a large granite kettle two 
cups of molasses, one cup of sugar, two tablespoons of 
butter, and one tablespoon of vinegar or lemon juice. 
Boil until it reaches the crack stage, stirring constantly. 
Pour into a buttered pan until cool enough to handle. 
Pull until it is as light colored as desired. 

Fondant. — Two cups of sugar, one half cup cold water, 
one eighth teaspoon cream of tartar. Mix the sugar and 
water together, and put on the stove to boil. Stir until 
it begins to boil, then add the cream of tartar. Boil 
without stirring until it forms a soft ball when dropped in 
cold water. Turn on to a large plate or platter, and let it 
cool until you can indent it with a finger. Then work back 
and forth with a knife until it becomes white and creamy. 
Take it up and knead it as you would knead bread, until 
it is smooth. Roll in oiled paper, and let it stand twenty- 
four hours. Color and flavor as desired, and shape in 
creams. 

Sea Foam. — Boil together one cup of granulated sugar, 
one fourth cup of hot water, one fourth cup of corn sirup. 
Cook to a hard ball. Beat an egg white stiff and dry. 
Then add one speck of salt. Add the above sirup very 
slowly to the egg, beating it until stiff. Flavor with one 
fourth teaspoon of vanilla. 

Divinity Fudge. — Boil three cups of brown sugar, one 
third cup of corn sirup, two thirds cup of water, to a hard 
ball. Beat whites of two eggs dry, pour hot sirup on 
gradually. Beat constantly until mixture hardens. Add 
one cup of nutmeats. Shape into balls. 



Digitized by 



Google 



86 ROOT AND TUBER PRODUCTS 

Chocolate Fudge. — Two cups of sugar, two ounces of 
chocolate, one half cup of milk, one tablespoon of butter. 
Boil to a soft ball without stirring. Remove from fire. 
Add one teaspoon vanilla. Beat until thick. Turn into 
buttered pan to cool. 

Chocolate Caramels. — Melt three ounces of chocolate, 
add two cups of molasses, one cup of brown sugar, two 
tablespoons of butter, one third cup of milk and mix 
thoroughly. Boil to a hard ball. Remove from the fire, 
add one teaspoon of vanilla, turn into a buttered pan, and 
when cool, mark into squares. 

Cream Candy. — Mix two cups of sugar, one half cup of 
water, three tablespoons of vinegar, and one teaspoon of 
cream of tartar. Boil until it forms a hard ball, add one 
teaspoon of extract of lemon, and turn into a buttered pan. 
When cool, pull until white, and cut into squares. 

Candied Popcorn. — Mix one tablespoon of butter, one 
cup of sugar, and four tablespoons of water. Boil until it 
threads or forms a soft ball. Pour the hot sirup over 
freshly popped popcorn, being careful to distribute it evenly. 
Mix well so that each kernel is coated with sirup and 
keep stirring until the com has cooled. Nuts may be 
coated in the same way. 



Digitized by 



Google 



CHAPTER VI 

CEREALS AND LEAVENING AGENTS 

CEREALS 

Nature has a different purpose than providing food for 
man and animals when she stores nourishment in plants. 
Her purpose is to provide food for the little embryo plant 
\vhen it is ready to germinate. So careful is Mother 
Nature that the germ plant will have just the right kind 
of food needed for its complete development, that she 
stores all the food needed for some time in the part called 
the seed, that surrounds and protects the embryo. To 
show this, all we need to do is to place any seed, as beans, 
peas, com, wheat, between two pieces of cotton flannel, 
wet the flannel, and place it in a shallow pan like a pie plate. 
In a short time the plants will develop. 

All seeds contain considerable nutrition, and they all 
contain all the different kinds of food in varying propor- 
tion, depending on the protection and food needed for 
germination. Cereals, legumes, and nuts contain the 
greatest amount of nutrients, and, because they are so 
well liked, can be used in so many different ways in cooking, 
are cheap, easily digested, and furnish a balanced food in 
themselves, cereals are the most important of all the seeds. 

Cereals are defined as the grains or grasses, the seeds of 
which are used as food. They are, wheat, oats, com, rice, 
rye, barley, buckwheat. Wheat is by far the most impor- 
tant of all cereals ; corn ranks next. 

87 



Digitized by 



Google 



88 



CEREALS AND LEAVENING AGENTS 



U- S- Department of Agriculture 
Office of Experiment Stations 
A. C. True: Director 



Prepared by 
C. F. UN6W0RTHY 
Expert in Charge of Nutrition Investigations 

COMPOSITION OF FOOD MATERIALS. 



Protein 



Fat Cart)ohydrates Ash 



IPuel Value 
XfcSq. In. Equals 
1000 Calories 



WALNUT 

Water: 2.5: 



Protein: 166 




^, PEANUT F uel valu e; 

I Water: 9.2 .^mnnm*^^^^^' 

3180 CALORIES ^ — 3SHllljpi*^^^Ash-.2.0 IB20 calories 

ppR POUND Protein:25.8 ^ Fat: 38.6 perpoumd 

FUCL VALUf! 



PEANUT BUTTER ^^Jf^iTo" 



Water.2.1 



rat:46.5 




COCOA NUT 

OeSlCCATEO 

Water-3.5 



Protein*. 29.3 Prote 

Cark 

Carbo- ^y<^r^^ 

hydrates: 17. 1 

A 



2735 



CALORIES PER POUND 



FueL VALUE! 



3025 CALORIES P€R POUND 



Composition of Nuts. 



Digitized by 



Google 



CEREALS AND LEAVENING AGENTS 



89 



U. $. Department of Agriculture 

Office of Experiment Stations 

A. C. True: Director 



Prepared by 
C. F. LANGWORTHY 
Expert in Charge of Nutrition Investigations 

COMPOSITION OF FOOD MATERIALS, 

BB nrfTTTTn mm mm ^s ■.j''?'^*'r* . 

P«rtein Fat Carbohydrates Ash Water ^/^.Sq.ln.Equals 



CORN 




-Water: 10.8 



WatertIO 



Protcin-.IO.O Protein: 122 



' lOOOCaloriis 

WHEAT 



Far. 1.7 




A K-l ?> ^ \.:>-.vy 'Carbohydrates:73.4- Carbohydrates: /o/ N^i^L— Ash- 1 8 

■■■ BUCKWHEAT ^^H 

I685CAL0RICS Protein: IO.O.-.M||g-;:^ater: 12.6 lezs calmies 

PER POUiO carbo- -Hl^ ''^^'^-^ •'^ ^"^ 

hydrates .73.2^^^«4**---Ash: 2.0 

Fuel VALUE: 

OAT m 

■Water: 1 1.0 I698cmo«ies Water: 120 
Fat:5.0-.Jf-Protein:ll.8 '""*» Protein; 8.0-'Ti!Sr-Fat:2.0 

1 -V Carbo*" 

;;/ Carbo- RYE hydrates:77 

Ash:3.0~i »»««*«-«'2 




Fuel value 



Water: 10.5 
Fat:1.5-*^^p^^,^.,^.,2.2 
Fuel value: 

■Carbo ». 7 . 

hydrates: 73.9 \it-^Ash:1.9 

»670cAL0R.ES R^LVALUE: '^^JiSih!?" 

PER POUND Wmm FERPOUND 

1620 CALORIES 
PER POUND 



Ash: 1.0 



Composition of Cereals. 



Digitized by 



Google 



90 CEREALS AND LEAVENING AGENTS 

All the cereals are similar in structure. They consist 
of an outer skin which in some cereals includes the bran 
coats ; the endosperm or main body of the grain, which 
consists of starch, protein, mineral matter, and varying 
amounts of fat, and which is the stored nourishment of the 
embryo; and the germ or embryo. The endosperm is 
the part that is usually used for food, but in some cases, 
as m the making of breakfast foods, all the grain but the 
tough outer skin is used. 

The typical cereal, wheat, contains 10.6 per cent water, 
12.2 per cent protein, 1.7 per cent fat, 73.7 per cent carbo- 
hydrate, including 2.4 per cent cellulose, and 1.8 per cent 
mineral matter. Its protein is in the form of gluten, a 
substance that is elastic and tenacious. When gas is 
formed within a mixture made from wheat, other sub- 
stances and a liquid, the gluten expands, and when heat is 
applied, the gas expands also, and the result is a light 
porous loaf. No other cereal except rye has a protein 
that possesses this power. For this reason when breads 
are made from corn, the loaf is not so light as wheat 
bread. Usually half wheat flour is used so as to make a 
lighter loaf. 

Of the cereals, wheat and rye contain the most protein, 
oats the most fat, rice the most starch, and oats the greatest 
amount of cellulose and mineral matter, but with the ex- 
ception of rice their composition is very similar. 

It is estimated that cereals furnish nearly one third of 
all the foods consumed by the American people. They 
can be manufactured into a great variety of products, 
and in that way they have a very extensive use. Flour 
enters, in some way, into almost every article of food 
prepared, even in the cooking of meats. 



Digitized by 



Google 



CEREALS AND LEAVENING AGENTS 91 

The Products into which the Cereals are Manufactured 
are: — 

1. Breakfast Foods — oatmeal, rolled oats, cream of wheat, hom- 
iny, etc. ; also a great variety of prepared and ** ready to eat " foods. 

2. Starch — com, rice, wheat. 

3. Italian Pastes — macaroni, spaghetti, vermicelli. 

4. Glucose — sirup from com. 

5. Cereal CofiFee. 

6. Flour — wheat, com, rye, buckwheat, rice. 

7. Liquors — malted drinks, beer, whiskey, etc. 

8. Feed for Stock. 

Cooking of Cereal Products 

Cereal Breakfast Foods. — The length of time required 
for the cooking of the breakfast foods depends on the size 
of the particles and the amount of cellulose which the 
cereal contains. Whole kernels of corn, called hominy, 
take a much longer time than corn meal ; steel-cut oatmeal 
takes a longer time than Quaker Oats, because the latter 
has been steam cooked first, and also crushed so that heat 
can penetrate it more readily. Oat preparations, not 
steam cooked when sold, require a longer time than wheat 
or rice preparations, because oats contain more cellulose. 

Directions for Cooking. — Breakfast foods should be 
cooked in a double boiler. Fill the lower part of the 
double boiler one third full of boiling water. Put boiling 
salted water in the upper part of the double boiler, and 
add the cereal gradually, stirring constantly to prevent 
lumping. Cover and steam according to the directions 
given below. If the particles of the cereal are finely ground, 
it is best to mix it with a little cold water first to prevent 
lumping. Keep the lower part of the double boiler one 
third full of water. After the water begins to boil, turn * 



Digitized by 



Google 



92 



CEREALS AND LEAVENING AGENTS 



Quantity 


Kind 


Amount of 
Water 


Time Required 


Served with 


I cup 


rolled oats or 


2 cups * 


1 

30 minutes | Baked 




wheat, steam 






apples 




cooked first 








I cup 


rice 


3 cups 


30 minutes 


Sliced fruit 


I cup 


corn meal 


si cups 


I hour 




I cup 


cream of wheat 


4 cups 


30 minutes 


Chopped 
dates 


I cup 


hominy, flaked 


4 cups 


I hour 


SHced 
bananas 


I cup 


oatmeal, coarse 


4 cups 


3-4 hours 




I cup 


whole hominy, 
soak first 


4 cups 


4-6 hours 





the heat as low as possible. It requires very little heat 
to keep water boiling after it has once reached the boiUng 
point. Use one half to one teaspoon of salt for each cup 
of cereal. 

Serving the Breakfast Foods. — Breakfast foods are 
served after the fruit course for breakfast, or with the fruit, 
as suggested in the outline. They are also served as a 
first course at supper. With fruit, cream, a small amount 
of sugar, and bread and butter, they make a very appetiz- 
ing and nutritious breakfast, and the deficiency in protein 
may be made up at dinner when meat, fish, eggs, or legumes 
are served as the protein food. 

Cereal Products — Starch 

This lesson shows the uses of starch as a thickening agent. 
For this purpose it is used also in sauces and gravies. Flour 
is sometimes used instead, but it lumps more easily and 
does not taste as well as cornstarch. In the making of 



Digitized by 



Google 



CEREALS AND LEAVENING AGENTS 93 

sauces and puddings, the starch is mixed thoroughly with 
the sugar before the Hquid is added, to prevent lumping. 

Cornstarch Mold. — Mix three tablespoons of cornstarch 
with four tablespoons of sugar in the saucepan, add two 
cups of milk, mix thoroughly, place on the stove and cook 
until it thickens (about three minutes after it begins to 
boil), stirring constantly. Remove from the stove, add 
one teaspoon of vanilla, and turn into molds or cups that 
have been rinsed with cold water so that the mold will 
slip out easily when cold. Let the molds stand until 
perfectly cold, serve with cream and sugar, or with sliced 
fruit, as a dessert. Vanilla is always added after the food 
is taken from the fire, because it is volatile and would 
evaporate if added while the heat is being appUed. In 
that case, most of the flavor would be lost. 

Chocolate Cornstarch Mold. — Melt one half ounce of 
chocolate, or use two tablespoons of cocoa, add the mixed 
sugar and cornstarch and milk as given in the recipe for 
cornstarch mold. Cook and serve in the same way. 

Cornstarch Pudding. — Mix four tablespoons of Corn- 
starch with four tablespoons of sugar, add three cups of 
milk, and cook until it thickens, stirring constantly to 
prevent lumping. Beat the yolks of two eggs until 
smooth, add a few tablespoons of the cooked mixture to 
the egg to apply the heat to it slowly, and mix thoroughly 
so that the egg will not be cooked in flakes, then add the 
remainder of the milk and cook one minute. Remove 
from the stove and add one teaspoon of vanilla. Pour 
into a baking dish. Beat the whites of the two eggs 
until stiff and dry, add two tablespoons of sugar, one 
fourth teaspoon of vanilla, and place it over the pudding. 
Bake until the egg whites are brown. Serve cold. 



Digitized by 



Google 



94 CEREALS AND LEAVENING AGENTS ^ 

When a mixture contains cornstarch and eggs, the corn- 
starch is cooked first with the milk, and the eggs are added 
after the mixture has thickened. The reason for this is 
that all egg dishes should be cooked at a low temperature 
and only enough to coagulate the egg, while starch requires 
longer cooking. 

Cereal Products — Italian Pastes 

The foods called Italian Pastes, because they were ' 
originally made in Italy, though they are made in this 
country also, are macaroni, spaghetti, and vermicelli. 
They are made from a wheat containing a high percentage 
of gluten. The flour is mixed with water and kneaded to 
a stiff dough. It is then put into hollow cylindrical presses 
and forced into tubes of various shapes and then dried. 
The largest tubes are called macaroni, the next spaghetti, 
and the smallest vermicelU. These pastes are nutritious 
foods because the flour has so high a percentage of gluten 
that a dish of macaroni and cheese is in itself a meal. 

Macaroni and Cheese. — Two quarts of boiUng water, 
one tablespoon of salt, one cup of macaroni broken into 
inch pieces. Cook in a double boiler twenty minutes. 
Drain, pour cold water over and drain again. Grate or x 
chop cheese. Arrange a layer of macaroni in a baking 
dish, sprinkle with cheese, put in another layer of macaroni 
and cheese. Pour one recipe of White Sauce over it. Cover 
with buttered crumbs, and bake until crumbs are brown. 

Spaghetti with Tomato Sauce. — Two quarts of boiling 
water, one tablespoon of salt, about one cup of spaghetti 
unbroken. Cook in double boiler until soft, about twenty 
minutes. Drain and pour cold water over, and drain again. 
Pour tomato sauce over, heat one minute, and serve. 



Digitized by 



Google 



CEREALS AND LEAVENING AGENTS 95 

Hold the sticks of spaghetti in the hand, place the other 
end of the sticks in the boiKng water, and as they soften 
they will coil in the cooking vessel. 

Tomato Sauce. — One pint of tomatoes, one half onion 
chopped fine. Cook ten minutes. Put through a sieve. 
Melt four tablespoons of butter, rub in four tablespoons 
of flour, add one half teaspoon of salt, one eighth teaspoon 
of pepper, add the tomato, and cook until it thickens. 

Cereal Products — Flour 

Some of the cereals, wheat, rye, corn, buckwheat, are 
made into flour. Wheat flour is the only one that is 
used very extensively. In the process of flour making 
the outer or bran coats and the germ are removed, and 
the endosperm is ground into a fine powder. There 
are various grades of flour, depending on the quality of 
the wheat, the fineness of the flour, and the amount of 
bran left in the product. The names mean very little to 
the average person, because each milUng firm coins a name 
for its best grade of flour and advertises it extensively. 
The best grades are designated in trade as the fancy patent, 
standard patent, etc. Whole wheat flour is made by 
grinding all the grain except the outer bran coats. Some 
cheap grades of flour are made from the endosperm and 
germ, some have the finer parts of the endosperm removed, 
and are made from the remainder. 

It is poor economy to buy cheap flour. The best grades 
of flour absorb more water during bread making, and so not 
as much flour is needed as when the cheaper grades are 
used. Cheap flour makes poor bread, and sometimes much 
of the bread is wasted because it is not appetizing. Good 
flour is creamy in color, does not hold the impress of the 

CONLEY P. C. — 7 



Digitized by 



Google 



96 CEREALS AND LEAVENING AGENTS 

fingers if held in the hand, and absorbs about 30 per cent 
its weight of water in bread making. 

Pastry flour contains more starch than bread flour. It 
is made from soft or winter wheat, while bread flour is 
made from hard or spring wheat. Pastry flour is used for 
pies, cakes, etc., but a good substitute for it may be made 
by sifting two tablespoons of cornstarch into each cup of 
bread flour. 

Flour, Leavening Agents, and Shortening 

When flour and water are mixed together and baked, 
the result is a hard, heavy, tough mass that is not appe- 
tizing. Flour contains gluten and starch. Gluten is a 
sticky, tenacious substance that has great expansive power 
when mixed with the water. Starch swells and gelatinizes 
when water is added and heat is applied, and tends to 
become lumpy. To make a light, porous, and tender food, 
some ingredients must be added that will separate the 
starch grains and give them room to expand, without 
lumping, and that will form a gas that can be inclosed in 
the sticky, tenacious gluten. When heated, the gas will 
expand. The gluten also has great expansive power, and 
the heat sets the walls of gluten at the right time, and this 
makes a light and porous product. If the heat is too 
strong at first, the gluten hardens before the gas expands 
it, and the mixture will not be light enough. If the heat 
is not strong enough to set the gluten, the gas forces its 
way to the surface and escapes, and the mixture will con- 
tain large holes, but will not be light. 

Shortening is a fat, as butter or lard, which is rubbed 
into the flour to separate the starch grains. When the 
mixture is cooked, the food is flaky and tender. 



Digitized by 



Google 



CEREALS AND LEAVENING AGENTS 97 

Kinds of shortening most commonly used are butter, 
lard, one half butter and one half lard, oleomargarine, 
olive oil, and various preparations such as Cottolene, 
Crisco, Wesson's Snowdrift Oil, and butter substitutes. 

LEAVENING AGENTS 

Leavening means to make light and porous. When 
steam or carbon dioxide is formed inside the mixture, or 
when air is inclosed, it expands when heated, and as the 
heat also hardens the gluten, the result is a light and porous 
loaf. The leavening agents are steam, soda and sour milk 
(or any acid), baking powder, eggs and air, and yeast. 

Leavening Agent — Steam 

Popovers. — When water is changed to steam, it expands 
many hundreds of times its volume, and if it can be inclosed 
in walls of gluten so that the substance expands, and yet 
remains intact, the food product so made will be very 
light. If the change from water to steam takes place 
slowly, the expansion will not be very great, for the steam 
will come to the surface and escape. If the change takes 
place very quickly and the steam is produced rapidly, the 
walls of gluten will be stretched to the utmost and the 
product will be a hollow shell. Eggs are used also in the 
product, because the albumin coagulates and holds the flour 
together, and this helps to form the hollow shell. Very 
strong heat must be used when the steam is utilized as a 
leaveniug agent, and it must be continued long enough 
so that the product is well dried. Popovers should not be 
soft and moist in any part. Yorkshire Pudding is another 
example of the use of steam as a leavening agent. It is not 
baked as long as popovers, because, it should be somewhat 



Digitized by 



Google 



98 CEREALS AND LEAVENING AGENTS 

soft in the interior. Cream puffs are also made light by 
expansion of water changing to steam. Milk is used instead 
of water in popovers, for it is 87 per cent water, and it 
furnishes flavor and adds to the nutritive value of the food. 
Recipe for Popovers. — Mix one and one half cups of 
flour, and one fourth teaspoon of salt. Make a hole in 
the center of it ; add three unbeaten eggs and one and one 
half cups of milk. Stir until all lumps are out of the flour 
and the mixture is smooth. Turn into muffin pans and 
bake from thirty to forty minutes in a hot oven. This 
recipe makes twelve popovers. Popovers are made Ught 
by the water in them turning to steam. The strong heat 
causes the steam to form rapidly, and this produces a 
hollow shell. The egg coagulates and helps to form the 
shell. 

Leavening Agents — Eggs Inclosing Air 

Whites of eggs are beaten with an egg beater to entangle 
or inclose air. To estimate the amount of air inclosed by 
beating, note the amount of space occupied in the bowl by 
one egg white before you start to beat it, and then note the 
change in volume after the white has been beaten until stiff 
and dry. Unlike water, air does not require a great amount 
of heat for expansion. Albumin does not require a strong 
heat for coagulation, — about 170° F., — and it is toughened 
by too high a temperature. When air, inclosed in eggs, 
is used as a leavening agent, the food should be cooked at 
a low temperature. 

Leavening Agents — Eggs and Air 

Omelet. — Three eggs, three tablespoons of water, 
one fourth teaspoon of salt. Separate yolks from whites. 



Digitized by 



Google 



CEREALS AND LEAVENING AGENTS 99 

Beat yolks until thick. Beat whites until stiff and dry. 
Add water and salt to yolks, and fold in the whites. Put 
one tablespoon of butter in the omelet pan, turn in the egg 
mixture, and cook slowly. When well puffed out, place 
in the oven to finish cooking. Whites and yolks of eggs 
are beaten separately, and the whites are beaten stiff so as 
to inclose as much air as possible. The omelet is cooked 
with slow heat to expand the air and coagulate the albumin 
at as low a temperature as possible (170° F). Intense 
heat toughens the albumin and coagulates it too soon, 
there is no expansion of air, and the omelet is tough and flat; 

Leavening Agents — Soda and Sour Milk 

When two substances like sodium bicarbonate (soda) 
and sour milk are mixed together, a chemical change takes 
place and new substances unlike either of them are formed. 
One of these substances formed is a gas, carbon dioxide 
(CO2), which expands when heated and makes food light 
and porous. When an acid and an alkali are brought to- 
gether, one tends to neutralize or destroy the character- 
istic properties of the other. The acid, sour milk, neutral- 
izes the alkali, soda, and no taste of either is left in the food. 
They are used to form the gas CC)2 so as to make the food 
light. This gas is formed as soon as the substances are 
brought together. It expands when heated, and enough 
heat must be applied to set the walls of gluten so that the 
bubbles will not collapse. When hot water is added to 
soda (NaHCOs), the gas CO2 is given off, but the soda is 
not neutralized, and the food to which it is added has a 
bitter taste. It is better to sift the soda into the flour, 
rather than add it to the sour milk, because when the gas 
forms so quickly, some is lost before the mixture is put in 



Digitized by 



Google 



lOO CEREALS AND LEAVENING AGENTS 

the oven. Just enough alkali and acid are used to neutral- 
ize each other. This can be determined by the use of 
litmus paper. One half teaspoon of soda neutralizes one 
cup of sour milk. Other acid substances may be used in 
place of sour milk, as buttermilk, molasses, and lemon 
juice. 

Batters and Doughs 

A mixture of flour and liquid is called either a batter 
or a dough, depending on the proportion of liquid to flour. 
Batters consist of from one to two measures of flour to 
one measure of liquid, and are named either pour or drop 
batters according to the amount of flour used. Doughs 
consist of from two and one half to three and one half 
measures of flour to one of liquid, and they are classed as 
soft and stiff doughs. Biscuit is a soft dough ; bread is a 
stiff dough. 

Batters contain some leavening agent which is sifted 
in with the flour. They must be beaten thoroughly so as 
to inclose as much air as possible. When equal quanti- 
ties of flour and water are mixed together, the flour tends 
to lump unless some , precaution is taken to prevent it. 
For this reason, when mixing a batter, sift flour, salt, and 
leavening agent together, then add about one third of the 
liquid and press out all the lumps by rubbing the bowl of 
the spoon against the side of the bowl. Slowly add the 
remainder of the liquid, and when the batter is perfectly 
smooth, add eggs and melted butter and begin to beat. 
Beat with long, deep strokes which take the spoon through 
to the bottom of the bowl, so as to inclose the air. Never 
stir a mixture after you have started to beat it, because 
stirring breaks up the air bubbles that are already formed 



Digitized by 



Google 



CEREALS AND LE A VEmi^ ? AGE>?IS^>.^ :\: liQx 

and they escape to the surface. When the mixture is well 
beaten, the heat applied will expand the air and the eggs, 
the gluten will coagulate, and the product will be light and 
porous. 

Doughs are usually mixed differently from batters when 
they contain shortening, sugar, and other ingredients. 
The shortening is creamed or softened first so that when 
the sugar is added it will be partially dissolved. Cream- 
ing is rubbing the butter or lard against the side of the 
bowl, with a spoon, until it is soft as cream. The sugar 
is then added slowly, and carefully rubbed into the butter. 

Biscuit dough is mixed in an entirely different way. 
The flour, salt, and leavening agent are mixed first, and 
then the shortening is cut in. 

(Pupils should read a recipe through before they begin 
to work. All ingredients should be measured and ready 
before attempting to put things together. Measure the 
dry ingredients, not including sugar, first, and sift to- 
gether. To add alternately means to add part of the liquid, 
then part of the flour, and beat them in thoroughly before 
adding more.) 

Flour — Leavening Agent — Soda and Sour Mn.K 

Griddle Cakes. (Pour Batter.) — Sift together two cups 
of flour, one half teaspoon of salt, one teaspoon of soda ; 
add one and three fourths cups of sour milk, and rub free 
from lumps, add one well-beaten egg and two tablespoons 
of melted butter, and beat well. Have the pancake griddle 
smoking hot, grease it with lard or with a piece of fat 
pork, using only enough fat to grease the pan. Drop the 
batter by tablespoons on the hot griddle. Let the cakes 
cook until they are full of bubbles and browned at the 



Digitized by 



Google 



UD2: :/: vbE}iRiLS: AND .-LEA VENING AGENTS 

edges, then turn and brown the other side. Pancakes 
should be turned but once. Serve immediately with butter, 
sugar, sirup, or gravy from sausage. 

Com Bread or Johnny Cake. (Drop Batter.) — Sift 
together one cup of com meal, one cup of flour, one 
fourth teaspoon of salt, one half teaspoon of soda. Add 
one cup of sour milk, and free from lumps. Add four 
tablespoons of molasses, one egg well beaten, four table- 
spoons of melted butter, beat well. Turn into a shallow 
pan that has been buttered, and bake thirty minutes in 
hot oven. 

Ginger Bread (Soft Dough). — Cream one half cup of 
shortening (butter, lard, one half butter and one half lard, 
or oleomargarine), add one half cup of sugar and work the 
shortening and sugar together. Add one cup of molasses, 
two well-beaten eggs, and one cup of sour milk alternately 
with three cups of flour, one half teaspoon of soda, one tea- 
spoon of ginger, and one fourth teaspoon of salt sifted 
together. Beat well. Bake in buttered shallow pan, 
in hot oven, for thirty minutes. 

Baking Powder 

Baking powder is a mixture of the alkali sodium bicar- 
bonate, some acid powder, and starch. The soda furnishes 
the gas, carbon dioxide, which is the direct leaveniilg 
agent. When moisture is added, the acid acts on the soda, 
and liberates the gas. A mixture of soda and acid powder 
reacts slowly in moist air, thus losing strength. Starch 
is added to prevent such interaction, until the baking 
powder is used in cooking. One and one half to two level 
teaspoons of baking powder are usually used to each cup 
of flour. 



Digitized by 



Google 



CEREALS AND LEAVENING AGENTS 103 

Baking Powder may be grouped in three classes : — 

1. Cream of Tartar Baking Powder. 

2. Phosphate Baking Powder. 

3. Alum Baking Powder. 

Cream of tartar baking powder is made from cream of 
tartar (acid potassium tartrate), soda, and starch. It is the 
best-known baking powder and probably the most wholesome 
to use, because it leaves no harmful products in the food. 
It forms carbon dioxide (CO2), water (H2O), and Rochelle 
salts, — a mild laxative when taken in small quantities. 

Phosphate baking powder is made from acid calcium 
phosphate, soda, and starch. The only objection to its 
use is that the gas is liberated so quickly that much is lost 
before the food can be put into the oven. 

Alum powder is made from potash alum or ammonium 
alum, soda, and starch, and its sale, is prohibited in some 
states because of the harmful effects of alum on the human 
system, though the alum is decomposed when soda is added. 

From the accompanying table, which shows in what 
proportion to mix the ingredients for the three kinds of 
baking powder, it will be seen why alum baking powder is 
cheap and can be sold for twenty-five cents a pound and 
cream of tartar baking powder is necessarily higher in 
price. Baking powder can be made at home at one half 
the price paid for it in the stores. The ingredients should 
be thoroughly mixed, sifted, and packed in air-tight cans. 



Cream of Tartar Powder 




Cream of tartar 




(acid potassium tartrate) i pound 


$.40 


Soda } pound 


.05 


Starch J pound 


.05 



2 pounds $.50 

/Google 



Digitized by ^ 



I04 CEREALS AND LEAVENING AGENTS 

Phosphate Powder 

Soda I pound $.io 
Calcium acid phosphate i^ poimds .45 

Starch i poimd ^ 





si pounds 


$.65 




Alum Powder 




Soda 
Alum 
Starch 


1 pound 
f poimd 

2 poimds 


$.10 

.071 
.20 



3 J pounds $.37i 

Baking Powder Biscuit and Variations. — These variations 
of biscuit are shortcake, dumplings, fruit pudding, fruit 
roll, pin-wheel biscuit, Dutch apple cake, nut bread, meat 
pie. They are made like a biscuit dough, but differ in the 
amount of shortening, liquid, or sugar used. 

Note. — The teacher may teach as many of these recipes as she has time 
for. The most important at this time are biscuit, apple dumplings, and short- 
cakes, because they give practice in handling the dough and perfecting the 
pupils' knowledge of biscuit making. The other recipes may be worked in 
when lessons that require long cooking are given and the pupils have little 
work to do. Such lessons are those on cooking of legumes and the meat 
lessons. Another reason for giving several recipes that may be used later 
in the work is that a review of a process impresses it on the mind. For 
the same reason more recipes are often included than the teacher can use 
with some classes. Usually one recipe constitutes a lesson, for a ninety- 
minute period, if some time is devoted to recitation. 

Baking Powder Biscuit. — Mix and sift together two 
cups of flour, four teaspoons of baking powder, one half 
teaspoon of salt. Add four tablespoons of butter or lard, 
and work it in with a fork, until it is perfectly blended 
and the flour is flaky. Make a well in the center of the 
flour, and pour in three fourths cup of milk or water. Start 
in the center and stir with a fork, in widening circles, until 



Digitized by 



Google 



CEREALS AND LEAVENING AGENTS 105 

all the flour has been gathered in and the result is a soft 

dough. Turn the dough on the floured molding board, and 

roll lightly about one inch 

thick, cut with a small 

biscuit cutter, and bake 

twelve to fifteen minutes 

in hot oven. 

Shortcake. — Mix and 
sift together two cups of 
flour, four teaspoons of 
baking powder, one half 
teaspoon of salt, add six ^^^ ^^^^„ 

tablespoons of butter, 

and work it in as in biscuit dough. When thoroughly mixed, 
add three fourths cup of water or milk and stir from the 
center. Turn on the floured molding board, roll out in one 
cake, and place on a pie tin. Bake twenty to twenty-five 
minutes in a hot oven. When baked, split so as to sepa- 
rate top and bottom, spread with butter and strawberries, 
sliced peaches, oranges, or any other fruit desired. Place 
the upper crust on the fruit, the buttered side up, and 
spread with another layer of fruit. May be served with 
whipped cream. 

Apple Dumplings. — Mix and sift together two cups of 
flour, four teaspoons of baking powder, one half teaspoon 
of salt. Add eight tablespoons of butter, or lard, as in 
biscuit, and one half cup of milk or water. Roll out about 
one fourth of an inch thick. Pare and core six tart apples. 
Cut dough large enough to fold over an apple. Place the 
apple on the dough, fill the center of the apple with sugar, 
and add a speck of nutmeg or cinnamon. Fold the dough 
entirely over the apple, and press it firmly together. Bake 



Digitized by 



Google 



io6 CEREALS AND LEAVENING AGENTS 

about forty-five minutes in a hot oven ; the time required 
depends on the kind of apple used. To be certain that 
the apple is cooked, pierce with a fork, and if the apple feels 
soft, it is cooked. Serve apple dumplings with Vanilla 
Sauce. 

Vanilla Sauce. — Mix thoroughly one tablespoon of 
cornstarch, one half cup of sugar, speck of salt ; add one 
cup of boiling water and one tablespoon of butter. Cook 
until it thickens, stirring constantly. Add one teaspoon 
of vinegar and one half teaspoon of vanilla. 

Fruit Roll. — Mix and sift together two cups of flour, 
four teaspoons of baking powder, one half teaspoon of salt, 
and one tablespoon of sugar. Add six tablespoons of butter 
or lard, and three fourths cup of water or milk as in biscuit. 
Roll out one half inch thick, spread with sliced peaches or 
berries. Roll up as for jelly roll, and bake in a hot oven 
thirty minutes. Serve with Hard Sauce. 

Dutch Apple Cake. — Use the same recipe as for Fruit 
Roll. Roll out one half inch thick. Place in a shallow bak- 
ing pan. Pare tart apples ; quarter and slice in one quarter 
inch slices. Place the apples on top of the dough, arrang- 
ing them in even rows so that they overlap. Sprinkle with 
sugar and cinnamon and bake thirty minutes. May be 
cut into squares and eaten as hot bread, or served as dessert 
with Lemon Sauce. 

Lemon Sauce. — Mix one tablespoon of cornstarch and 
one half cup of sugar ; add one cup of boiling water and one 
fourth cup of butter; cook until it thickens. Add juice 
of one lemon and boil one minute, or add one teaspoon of 
lemon extract after the sauce is removed from the fire. 

Fruit Pudding. — Make one half the recipe for Fruit Roll. 
Place sliced apples, blueberries, or peaches in a baking 



Digitized by 



Google 



CEREALS AND LEAVENING AGENTS 107 

dish or pudding pan ; add sugar and enough water to cover 
the fruit. Drop the dough on top of the fruit and spread 
smooth. Bake thirty, minutes in a hot oven. Serve with 
pudding sauce or cream and sugar. 

Nut Bread. — Mix and sift together one and one half 
cups of graham flour, one and one half cups of white flour, 
four teaspoons of baking powder, one teaspoon of salt, 
three fourths cup of sugar. Add one and one half cups 
of milk, beat well, and add one cup of chopped nuts. Let 
it stand twenty minutes. Bake one hour. 

Dumplings for Meat Stew. — Mix and sift together two 
cups of flour, four teaspoons of baking powder, one half 
teaspoon of salt. Add two tablespoons of lard, and work 
it in as for biscuit dough. Add three fourths cup of water, 
and shape into six dumplings. Place on top of meat stew, 
and boil twenty minutes. Some stews require less short- 
ening than others ; the amount used depends on the amount 
of fat on the meat used for the stew. 

Muffins. (Mix as batter.) — Mix and sift together 
one and three fourths cups of flour, three teaspoons of bak- 
ing powder, one half teaspoon of salt, two tablespoons of 
sugar. Add one cup of milk, and press out all lumps. Add 
two well-beaten eggs and four tablespoons of melted butter. 
Beat until very light, bakfe in greased mufiin pans twenty 
minutes in a hot oven. 

Blueberry Muffins. — Mix and sift together two cups 
of flour, three teaspoons of baking powder, one half tea- 
spoon of salt, two tablespoons of sugar. Add one cup of 
milk as in plain muflSns, then add one egg well beaten, and 
one tablespoon of melted butter; beat well. Lastly add 
one cup of blueberries. Bake thirty minutes in a hot 
oven. 



Digitized by 



Google 



io8 CEREALS AND LEAVENING AGENTS 

Com Meal Muffins. — Mix and sift together one cup of 
flour, three fourths cup of com meal, one half teaspoon of 
soda, one half teaspoon of salt, add one cup of sour milk, 
one well-beaten egg, two tablespoons of melted butter, 
and beat well. Bake thirty minutes in a hot oven. 

Whole Wheat Muffins. — Use Whole Wheat instead of 
corn meal in the above recipe. 



Sorting Tea and Drying Coffee. 
(From Carpenter's How the World is Fed.) 



Digitized by 



Google 



CHAPTER VII 

BEVERAGES AND PLANNING AND SERVING A 
BREAKFAST 

. BEVERAGES 

Water. — Water is one of the five important classes of 
foods, and though it does not supply heat and energy to the 
body, it aids in all bodily processes and constitutes nearly 
three fourths of the weight of the body. Foods are from 
50 per cent to 90 per cent water. 

Some of the most important uses of water are : to 
dissolve foods so that they can be digested and absorbed, 
to carry away the waste matter, to regulate the tempera- 
ture of the body, and to enter into the composition of the 
blood, digestive fluids, and tissues. 

, Two kinds of water are used for drinking purposes, — 
hard water, which contains lime that has been dissolved 
from limestone through which the water passes, and soft 
water. Other mineral substances are dissolved in water, 
and the famous mineral springs of our own country and 
Europe furnish mineral waters used for medicinal purposes. 

Water sometimes contains organic impurities. It is 
then a conmion carrier of disease germs. The germs of 
tjrphoid fever are carried in water, and the causes of epi- 
demics of the disease are universally traced to impure 
water and milk supply. The germs of several other 
diseases are also carried in water, and if, for any reason, 

109 



Digitized by 



Google 



no BEVERAGES 

it is thought that the water supply is contaminated in any 
way, the water should be boiled for twenty minutes and 
then bottled ai^d cooled for use. It is always best to boil 
water that is to be given to infants. In both cases, where the 
water supply is known to contain impurities, and when the 
water is to be given to infants, the precaution of boiling it 
first is a good application of the old adage, " an ounce of 
prevention is worth a pound of cure." 

Of all beverages, water is the best, and very few people 
drink enough of it. About four pints should be taken 
daily to equalize the loss through the excretory organs. A 
glass of hot water taken the first thing in the morning 
washes the mucus from the stomach and aids excretion. 
The two most common beverages served, tea and coflfee, 
have no food value, and if hot water could be used in place 
of them, the nervous system would be greatly benefited. 
Tea and coffee are stimulants, and while they probably 
do no harm to grown people if taken in moderation, they 
are harmful to children. 

Cocoa and chocolate are foods, and when made with 
milk the food value is increased. Lemonade is a refresh- 
ing drink, and furnishes vegetable acids to the body. The 
same may be said of all fruit beverages made from fresh fruit. 

Coffee. — Use two level tablespoons of coflfee for each 
cup of boiling water. Put the coflfee in the coflfee pot 
and add enough cold water to moisten the coflfee and make 
it stick together, about a teaspoon of water to each table- 
spoon of coflfee. Pour the boiling water over the coflfee, and 
let it boil for three minutes. Place it where it will be kept 
hot, but not boil, for five minutes more, and then serve. 

Tea. — Scald a porcelain, earthenware, or china teapot with 
boiling water to thoroughly heat the teapot, and then turn 



Digitized by 



Google 



BEVERAGES iii 

the water out. Use a level teaspoon of green or black tea for 
each cup of water. Put the tea in the hot teapot. Pour 
boiling water over it, and let it stand two or three minutes, 
and then serve. Never let tea boil. Do not let it stand on 
the hot stove. Tea should be served as soon as it is made. 

Lemonade. — Wash the lemons thoroughly. Use one 
lemon for two glasses of lemonade. Cut the lemons in 
halves, squeeze the juice out with a lemon squeezer, and 
add three tablespoons of sugar to each lemon. Mix the 
lemon juice and sugar thoroughly ; add some chopped ice 
and the cold water. Serve ice-cold. Some slices of lemon 
may be added for appearance and because the volatile 
oil in the skin adds to the flavor. 

Cocoa. — Mix one tablespoon of cocoa with one table- 
spoon of su^ar, add one cup of boiling water gradually, and 
boil five minutes. Add one cup of milk, and let it come to 
the boiling point, and serve. Some tastes demand more 
sugar, but it may be added by each individual at the table. 

Chocolate. — Melt one square of chocolate slowly so as 
to prevent burning, add two tablespoons of sugar and mix 
together, add one cup of boiling water and boil three 
minutes, add one cup of milk, bring to the boiling point, 
and serve. 

Fruit Punch. (Recipe makes about 3 quarts of punch.) 
— Boil two cups of sugar and one quart of water fifteen 
minutes. Add one cup of orange juice, two cups of lemon 
juice, one half cup of grated pineapple, and dilute with one 
quart of iced water. 

Note to Teachers. — After pupils have learned to prepare fruits, 
cereals, hot breads, and beverages, some practice should be given in plan- 
ning, calculating the cost, and serving breakfasts, so that the work is unified 
and the pupils can practice and apply at home what is learned at school. 
CONLEY p. c. — 8 



Digitized by 



Google 



112 PLANNING AND SERVING A BREAKFAST 

One of the hardest problems for the young housekeeper is to prepare 
several dishes so that they will all be in proper condition to serve at a given 
period of time. 

Breakfast may first be planned as part of a class exercise, and some day 
following, groups of two or three may prepare simple breakfasts. 

A lesson in table setting, serving, and table manners may be given in 
the regular classroom at the individual tables. After one or two lessons 
are given in the classroom, practice could be given in preparing and serv- 
ing breakfasts during the noon hour. 



SUGGESTIONS FOR PLANNING A BREAKFAST ^ 

A breakfast should consist of : — 
I. Fruit in some form, preferably fresh. 
II. Cereal, best from the whole of the grain, and cheapest 
if purchased unprepared for use. 

III. Some protein dish, as eggs, fish, hash, or a small 
quantity of meat. Unless eggs are very high in price, 
they are always better and cheaper than meat for 
breakfast. 

IV. Some form of bread, as toast, bread, muffins, biscuit, 
popovers, griddle cakes, rolls, etc. 

V. A hot drink, as coffee or cocoa, if desired. 

The cost of food should not exceed eight cents per per- 
son, and the meal may be planned so that the cost will 
not exceed five cents per person. Fruits and eggs should 
be served in season, for then the prices are moderate. 
Uncooked breakfast foods cost less than half what prepared 
foods cost, and they may be cooked in the fireless cooker 
the day before, thus saving time in preparation. Dried 
fruits, as dates, figs, and prunes, may be chopped and added 
to the cereal. 

1 From Conley's Nutrition and Diet. 



Digitized by 



Google 



PLANNING AND SERVING A BREAKFAST 113 



A Breakfast Table. 

Toast, rolls, and griddle cakes take less time to prepare 
than muffins, popovers, and biscuits. 

A breakfast should not take more than thirty minutes 
to prepare. This should include laying the table and all 
preparatory work. 

SERVING A BREAKFAST 

MENU 

Muskmelon 

Cream of Wheat Cream and Sugar 

Ham and Eggs Bread and Butter 

Coffee 

Time for Preparation 

12.00 Boil water for cereal. 

12.05 Put cereal on to cook. 

12.10 Lay table. 

12.15 Prepare melon and put in a cool place. 

12.20 Prepare ham and start to fry it. 



Digitized by 



Google 



114 PLANNING AND SERVING A BREAKFAST 

12.25 Make coffee. 

1 2'. 28 Pour water and put butter on plate. 

12.30 Serve melon. 

12.35 Serve cereal. 

12.40 Serve ham and eggs, coffee and bread. 

1. 00 Clear table. 



Materials Needed 



3 melons. 

I recipe for Cream of Wheat. 

i pmt of milk. 

I pint of cream. 

I J pounds of ham. 



8 eggs. 

I loaf of bread. 

3 ounces butter. 

8 tablespoons (level) coffee. 

Loaf and granulated sugar. 



Materials for Serving 



I silence cloth. 

I linen tablecloth. 

6 linen napkins. 

I large centerpiece — 2 small 

doilies. 
6 silver knives. 
6 silver butter spreaders. 
6 silver forks. 
18 silver teaspoons. 
I carving set. 
I tablespoon. 
I sugar tong. 
I sugar shell. 



6 water glasses — i water pitcher. 

6 cups and saucers. 

I creamer and 2 sugar bowls. 

6 service plates. 

6 fruit plates. 

6 bread and butter plates. 

6 breakfast plates. 

6 cereal dishes. 

I bread plate. 

I platter. 

3 salt and pepper shakers. 

I flower vase. 



Laying the Table 

Spread a heavy cover of felt or canton flannel over the 
table. Have it long enough so it extends over the sides, 
and allows for shrinkage when it is washed. This cloth 
is to protect the poUshed table from heat of dishes, to deaden 
the sounds, and to give body to the tablecloth. Spread 



Digitized by 



Google 



PLANNING AND SERVING A BREAKFAST 115 

the linen tablecloth over this cover, so that the fold in the 
center of the tablecloth comes exactly in the center of the 
table, and so the cloth overhangs the same distance on each 
end. 

Plkce a centerpiece in the center of the table, and place 
on it a small growing plant, as a fern, or cut flowers, or, at 
breakfast, place the fruit dish there. 

When laying the table allow at least 25 inches for each 




The Cover. 
I, knife; 2, spoon; 3, water glass; 4, fork; 5, napkin; 6, bread and butter plate; 7, plate. 

" cover.'' By cover is meant the knives, forks, spoons, 
plate, napkin, and glasses needed for each person. 

Place the plate in the center of the cover. At the right 
of the plate, one half inch from the edge of the table, place 
the knives needed for the meal, having the cutting edge of 
the knife toward the plate, and knife which is to be used 
first, farthest from the plate. 

At the right of the knives place the spoons needed, bowls 



Digitized by 



Google 



ii6 PLANNING AND SERVING A BREAKFAST 

upward. Place in order designated for the knives, the first 
to be used on the outside. 

At the left of the plate place the forks, tines upward. 
Place in same order as designated for the knives. 

Place napkin to the left of the fork. 

Place water glass at the point of the knife. 

Place individual bread and butter plate to the left of the 
fork above the napkin. 

Place carving knife and fork and serving spoons at the 
head of table, in front of the " cover." 

Place the service for tea or coffee at the foot of the table, 
in front of the cover. Coffee or tea service consists of 
cups, saucers, sugar bowl, and cream pitcher. 

Individual salt shakers or cellars may be placed in front 
of each plate. 

Waiting on Table 

Fill water glasses three fourths full, place butter on 
bread and butter plates, and cut bread one minute before 
the meal is ready to serve. 

All dishes from which a person helps himself are passed 
at the left side and low enough to be easily reached, as 
sauce, gravy, bread, etc. 

All dishes served in individual portions are placed from 
the right side, as coffee, plates, etc. 

All dishes are removed from the right. 

Water glasses should be kept filled throughout the meal. 

Clearing the Table 

Remove the dishes containing unserved food first, then 
remove everything from each cover that pertains to that 



Digitized by 



Google 



PLANNING AND SERVING A BREAKFAST 117 

course, then remove all clean silver, dishes, etc. Every- 
thing that pertains to one course is removed before another 
course is served. Do not pile dishes on tray. 

Remove two covers at one time, one in each hand until 
all are removed. 

Brush crumbs from table before serving the dessert. 



ADDITIONAL BREAKFAST MENUS 

♦ Oranges 

Pettijohn's Breakfast Food 



Popovers 



Omelet 



Coffee 



Bacon 



Baked Apples 
Rolled Oats 
MuflSns 
Coffee 



Doughnuts 



Stewed Prunes 

Shredded Wheat Biscuit 

Creamed Codfish Toast 

Coffee 

Cream of Wheat ahd Chopped Dates , 

Poached Eggs on Toast 

Coffee 



RoUs 



Baked Pears 
Hominy Flakes 



Coffee 



Digitized by 



Google 



CHAPTER VIII 

CEREALS AND LEAVENING AGENTS (Continued) 

LEAVENING AGENT— YEAST 

Yeast is a tiny plant which thrives best ii\warm, moist 
atmosphere at a temperature of 70° to 90° F. Cold renders 
it inert, but does not destroy it, and when it is again put 
in a warm atmosphere it begins to grow. Boiling, or even 
a temperature of 170° F., destroys the plant. 

Yeast contains a ferment which feeds on the sugar in 
the flour and decomposes or breaks up the sugar in carbon 
dioxide (CO2), and alcohol. A small amount of sugar is 
found in flour. The ferment diastase which occurs in 
grains changes more starch to sugar during the fermenta- 
tion. Some sugar is added in bread making, though that 
is not necessary. 

The gluten in the flour has great expansive power, and 
in addition to its elasticity it is very tenacious. The car- 
bon dioxide gas forms in the dough, and the cohesiveness 
of the gluten holds it so thai the whole mass becomes im- 
pregnated with gas and increases to several times its bulk. 
It is then said that the dough is light. 

Other ferments are present in the dough also, and under 
favorable conditions they become active. For this reason 
the dough must be watched and kneaded when it has be- 
come light, or the other ferments will act and produce sour 
bread. This is one reason why a temperature over 90° F. 
is not best for bread making. The undesirable ferments 

118 



Digitized by 



Google 



CEREALS AND LEAVENING AGENTS 119 

thrive best at the higher temperature, and that produces 
a bread not as* well flavored as bread raised at 70° to 
90° F. 

When bread is made from milk, the milk is scalded, to 
destroy some bacteria which are present. Salt also delays 
the development of undesirable organisms, in addition to 
flavoring the bread. Salt was used in the old process 
called " salt raising " that was in vogue before compressed 
yeast was made. The liquid to be used in bread making 
was exposed to the air so that the yeast germs would enter, 
and salt was used to retard the growth of the other organ- 
isms until the yeast started to develop. When froth or 
gas formed, it was a sign that the yeast was at work, and so 
the dough was prepared. 

Experiments with Yeast. — Mix some water and molasses, in pro- 
portion of ten parts water to one part molasses. Add a little com- 
pressed yeast to the mixture. 

1. Place one third of the mixture in a test tube and put it in a cold 
place and note whether there is a formation of gas. After several 
hours heat to a temperature of 90° F., and note result. 

2. Place one third of the mixture in another test tube and keep 
at a temperature of 70^-90° F., and note result. 

3. Place one third of the mixture in another test tube and boil 
the mixture and then place in a warm place and note whether gas 
forms. 

What conclusion can be drawn as to the best temperature for the 
development of yeast and for bread making? 

Experiments with Kinds of Yeast. — Mix one fourth cake of com- 
pressed yeast with one tablespoon of lukewarm water, add one half 
cup of lukewarm water, and beat in one cup of flour. Note the 
length of time that it takes the mixture to become light. 

Repeat the same experiment with one fourth dry yeast cake and 
note result. 



Digitized by 



Google 



I20 CEREALS AND LEAVENING AGENTS 

Bread Judging 

Several points are to be noted in determining the essen- 
tial characteristics of a good loaf of bread. 

1. Shape and Size of Loaf. — A loaf should not be too 
large to bake evenly, and not so large that the slices are awk- 
ward to handle. The best-sized pan for baking is about 
lo inches long, 4 inches wide, and 5 inches high. The loaf 
should rise evenly, be slightly rounded in the middle, but of 
uniform height throughout. It should not spread over the 
side of the pan. This characteristic indicates that the bread 
was allowed to rise too long, or that the oven was too slow. 

2. Color of Crust and Crumb. — The crust should be a 
uniform golden brown, on top, bottom, and sides. The 
crumb should be of a creamy color and should have no dark 
spots or streaks. 

3. Flavor. — The bread should not taste of yeast and 
should have no suspicion of sourness either in smell or 
flavor. It should have a sweet nutty taste. 

4. Lightness, Texture, and Grain. — The bread should 
be uniformly light throughout. It should have fine uni- 
form pores and no large holes. 

5. Doughiness and Moisture. — A good loaf of bread 
should not be dry enough to crumble nor moist enough so 
that the crumb forms a ball when rolled. When a good 
loaf of bread is cut, the crumb should be soft enough so 
that when it is pressed with the finger it dents easily, but 
springs back readily to an even surface. 

To make good bread, good flour and fresh yeast should be 
used, and attention should be given to kneading, raising, 
baking, and care of the loaf after it is removed from the 
oven. No other food is as good as a good loaf of bread. 



Digitized by 



Google 



CEREALS AND LEAVENING AGENTS 121 

Bread and Rolls 

Bread may be made in two ways, by setting a sponge 
and allowing it to rise overnight and then kneading it, or 
by kneading it to a dough immediately. By using a 
sponge, less yeast is required, as a longer time is allowed 
for the yeast to grow. On the other hand, the disadvan- 
tage of sponge dough is that when allowed to stand over 
night it may become chilled, because a temperature of 
70° F. cannot always be maintained, or it may become 
overripe and hence sour. 

Sponge is used for making rolls, muffins, etc., as the butter 
and eggs will mix more readily in sponge, and the result 
will be a lighter product. 

Bread. — Mix one cake of compressed yeast with four 
tablespoons of lukewarm water (98° F.). To two cups 
of lukewarm water or milk, or half milk and half water, 
add one level teaspoon of salt, one level tablespoon of 
sugar, one level tablespoon of lard, and the yeast. Stir 
in enough flour (about three cups) to make a batter, and 
beat until smooth and full of air bubbles. Then add three 
or four cups of flour, or enough to make a stiff dough, and 
knead thoroughly. Continue kneading until the dough 
does not stick to the hands or the board, until it rises quickly 
when indented with the hand, until it feels smooth, elastic, 
and spongy. When this is satisfactory, place the bread 
in a bowl or bread raiser. Keep it at a temperature of 
from 70® to 75°, and let it rise until it doubles its bulk, about 
three hours. Then take it from the bowl and shape into 
two loaves, using no more flour. Place the bread in pans, 
and let it rise until it has doubled its bulk (about one hour), 
and then bake it. When the bread is put into the oven. 



Digitized by CjOOQ IC 



122 CEREALS AND LEAVENING AGENTS 

the heat should not be very gr^t. The bread should 
continue to rise during the first fifteen minutes, because if 
the crust becomes too hard it prevents expansion and the 
bread will be heavy. After the first fifteen minutes the 
heat should be increased so that the bread will brown prop- 
erly, and during the last fifteen minutes it can be decreased 
again. Bread should be baked from 50 to 60 minutes. 
If a crisp crust is desired, do not cover the bread when it 
is taken from the oven. To glaze the loaves, rub them with 
a damp cloth before taking from the oven, and allow them 
to dry. 

Using milk instead of water in bread making adds to the 
nutritive value of the bread and makes a sweeter loaf. 

Bread Recipe II. Sponge Dough. — To set sponge : 
Use one cake of yeast foam or one half cake of compressed 
yeast for two loaves of bread. Mix the yeast with four 
tablespoons of lukewarm water. Use two cups of luke- 
warm hquid, one level teaspoon of salt, one level tablespoon 
of sugar, one level tablespoon of lard, and add the yeast. 
Stir in about three cups of flour, and beat until smooth and 
full of bubbles. Let stand at a temperature of about 70° 
until Ught. This may be set at night, and then in the morn- 
ing more flour is added and the bread is kneaded as in 
the previous recipe. 

Boston Brown Bread. — One cup of rye flour, one cup 
of corn meal, one cup of whole wheat flour, or (one and one 
half cups of graham flour and one and one half cups com 
meal), two level teaspoons of soda, two level teaspoons of 
salt, three fourths cup of molasses, one pint of sour milk. 
Sometimes a half cup of raisins is added. Mix and sift 
flour, meal, salt, soda ; add molasses and milk, and beat 
well. Place in a mold and steam three hours. 



Digitized by 



Google 



CEREALS AND LEAVENING AGENTS 



123 



U.S. Department of Agriculture 

Office of Experiment Stations 

A. C. True. Direttor 



Prepared by 
C. F. LANGWORTHY 
Expert if\ Charge of Nutrition Investigations 



COMPOSITION OF FOOD MATERIALS. 



Protein Tat 

WHITE BREAD 



Carbohydrates 



■ Puel Value 
4b Sq In.Eqoals 
1 000 Calories 

WHOLE WHEAT BREAD 




Water: 35 3 Waier:38.4 
Protein: 9.2 Protein:9.7 



1180 CALORICS 
PERPOUHO i 



Carbo- Carbo- 

hydrates; 53. 1 hydrates: 49. 7 

OAT 
BREAKFAST FOOD 




Furi. VALUE; 



Waterv 
Protein: 2.8 

TOASTED BREAD 




:?4.0 
11.5 

1.2 



Fuel valup: 



I I 1 CALORIES 
PER POUND 

Fat: 0.5 

Carbohydrates: 1 1.5 

CORN BREAD 



Water:38.9 
Protein: 7.9' 

Carbo. 'f; .^•■■.v.\:v/Ash: 

hydrates:46.3 xiSBZsazzzim^z.Z 

FUCL VALUE: 




MACARONI 

■ COOKED ^^H 

Fa t: 1.5^^ grotein:3.0 ^^^Wate r:78.4 ■■ 

I380CALORIES mil ' ^ ■ . II W^ggggiggrac ' ^:^^^ ll75cAL0RIES 

PERPOtMD ^ ^- ^Bt^ ' I I H T^^^ ' ^^^^^'^^S^ PER POUND 

Carbo- ^^^^ BTl ^^ calories 

hydrates: 15.8 "^'^^^MA 



PER POUND 



Composition of Bread. 



Digitized by 



Google 



124 CEREALS AND LEAVENING AGENTS 

Coffee Cake. — One yeast cake dissolved in four table- 
spoons of cold or lukewarm water, one fourth cup of butter 
or lard, or half butter and half lard, one fourth cup of sugar, 
one half teaspoon of salt, one egg, one cup lukewarm milk 
or water. 

Put butter, sugar, salt, and milk into the mixing bowl ; 
stir until melted ; add yeast and one and one half cups of 
flour. Beat until smooth and full of bubbles; add the 
beaten egg and enough more flour to make a bread dough 
(about one and one half or two cups), and knead as for 
bread. Let it rise until double its bulk (about three hours). 
Take from the bowl and knead slightly, and roll with the 
rolling pin until it is about one inch thick. Place in a pan, 
and let it rise one hour. Brush the top with three table- 
spoons of melted butter, one fourth cup of sugar, one tea- 
spoon of cinnamon, and bake about twenty minutes. 

Swedish Rolls. — Use same recipe as for Coffee Cake. 
Roll out as for Coffee Cake ; brush the top with melted 
butter, sprinkle with sugar, cinnamon, and currants. Roll 
the dough and cut pieces one half inch thick. Place in 

pan until light, and bake 
one half hour. When 
baked, brush the top 
with equal parts of sugar 
and milk to glaze. 

Parker House Rolls. — 
Two cups of scalded 
sweet milk, four table- 
spoons of butter, four 

Parker House Rolls. tablespoons of SUgar, one 

teaspoon of salt, one 
yeast cake dissolved in one fourth cup of water, whites of 



Digitized by 



Google 



CEREALS AND LEAVENING AGENTS 125 

two eggs. Add butter, sugar, and salt to milk ; when luke- 
warm, add yeast and three cups of flour. Beat thoroughly, 
add egg whites, and finally add flour to knead. Let rise. 
Toss on board and knead and roll out one third inch thick. 
Shape with a biscuit cutter dipped in flour. Dip the handle 
of case knife in flour. Crease middle. Brush over one 
half with melted butter. Fold and press the edges to- 
gether. Place in greased pan one inch apart. Bake twelve 
to fifteen minutes. 

Pees 

Pie crust is made from flour, salt, shortening, and a 
very small amount of water. As it contains no leavening 
agent, it needs only enough water to hold the particles of 
flour together. It is made by the same method that 
biscuits are made. The shortening is cut in with a fork, 
though some prefer the method of using two knives and 
chopping it in. Shortening should never be worked in 
with the hands, because the heat of the hand melts or softens 
the shortening. 

Pie Crust. — Mix and sift together one cup of flour, one 
fourth teaspoon of salt. Add six tablespoons of lard, and 
work it in thoroughly with the fork so that the lard sur- 
rounds the particles of flour and separates them. When 
well mixed so that the flour is flaky, add about one and 
one half tablespoons of water, just enough to moisten the 
flour so that it can be rolled, divide the crust into two 
parts, and roll thin. 

Apple Pie. — Line a greased pie plate with crust. Pare* 
and core four or five apples and cut them in very thin 
slices. Place them on the pie plate about one fourth inch 
from edge, till the center slightly rounds. Sprinkle one 



Digitized by 



Google 



126 CEREALS AND LEAVENING AGENTS 

third cup of sugar over the apples, and nutmeg or cinnamon 
to taste. Roll out the upper crust, and cut small gashes 
in it so as to allow the steam to escape. Press the two 
crusts together with a fork or pastry jagger. Place the 
pie in a hot oven for five or ten minutes so that the crust 
will Sj5t, then reduce the heat and bake in a moderate oven 
thirty-five to forty minutes. The baking is done in a 
moderate oven so that the heat will reach the apples. / 

Lemon Pie. — Line a plate with crust and have it extend 
one half inch above the edge so as to hold the filHng in place. 
Pierce the bottom of the crust with a fork, place the crust 
in the oven, and bake until sUghtly brown. Piercing the 
crust with a fork prevents it from warping in the oven. 

Filling. — Mix three tablespoons of cornstarch and one 
cup of sugar. Add one cup of boiling water ; mix well and 
boil five minutes, stirring constantly. Remove from the 
fire ; add one tablespoon of butter, the juice of one lemon, 
and yolks of two eggs beaten and blended with a tablespoon 
of the cooked cornstarch mixture. Place the filling in the 
crust, return to the oven, and bake until the filhng boils 
or bubbles. Beat the whites of two eggs stiff and dry; 
add four tablespoons of sugar and a- few drops of lemon 
juice. Spread over the pie and bake until the egg is 
shghtly brown. 

Pumpkin Pie. — Line a plate with crust and have it 
extend one half inch above the edge of the plate. Mix 
one cup of pumpkin, one and one fourth cups of milk, one 
third cup of sugar, two tablespoons of molasses, two well- 
beaten eggs, one fourth teaspoon of ginger, one foiu*th 
teaspoon of cinnamon. Fill the crust with the filling, and 
bake thirty-five to, forty minutes, or until the filling .is 
firm, like custard. 



Digitized by 



Google 



CEREALS AND LEAVENING AGENTS 127 

Rhubarb Pie. —Mix one cup of sugar, two and one 
fourth tablespoons of flour, and one well-beaten egg. 
Add two cups of rhubarb cut in small pieces, and mix well. 
Bake with two crusts as for apple pie. 

Cookies 

Sugar Cookies. — Cream one half cup of shortening, 
add one cup of sugar gradually, then add two eggs well 
beaten, and one half cup of sour milk ; add three cups of 
flour, one fourth teaspoon of soda, one half teaspoon of 
salt, one fourth teaspoon of nutmeg, sifted together, and 
one half teaspoon of vanilla. Roll out one fourth inch 
thick, cut, and bake in a hot oven. 

Molasses Cookies, Crisp. — Scald one cup of molasses, 
remove from the fire, and add one half cup of lard, one half 
cup of sugar, one teaspoon of ginger, one fourth teaspoon 
of salt. Let the mixture stand until cool, then add one 
fourth cup of water. Sift one half teaspoon of soda in 
about four cups of flour, and add gradually. Roll one 
eighth inch thick, cut, and bake in a moderate oven. 

Molasses Cookies, Soft. — Mix one cup of molasses, 
three fourths cup of shortening, one cup of boiling water. 
Place the mixture on the stove, and let it come to the boil- 
ing point. Cool sUghtly ; add one egg well beaten, four 
cups of flour, one half teaspoon of soda, four teaspoons of 
ginger, two teaspoons of cinnamon, one half teaspoon of 
cloves, sifted together. Mix thoroughly. Drop by table- 
spoons, one inch apart, on a greased pan. Bake in a hot 
oven. 

Oatmeal Cookies. — Cream one cup of shortening; grad- 
ually add one cup of sugar, then add two eggs well beaten, 
and four tablespoons of sour milk. Sift together two and 

CONLEY P. C. — 9 



Digitized by 



Google 



128 CEREALS AND LEAVENING AGENTS 

one half cups of flour, one teaspoon of cinnamon, one half 
teaspoon of soda, one fourth teaspoon of salt, and add 
gradually. When thoroughly mixed, add one teaspoon 
of vanilla, two cups of raw oatmeal, and one cup of currants. 
Roll out one eighth inch thick, cut in squares, and bake in 
a hot oven. 

Chocolate Cookies. — Cream one half cup of shortening, 
add gradually one cup of sugar, then two ounces of melted 
chocolate, and one egg well beaten. Mix thoroughly, 
and add one fourth cup of milk, one teaspoon of vanilla, 
two and one fourth cups of flour, three teaspoons of bak- 
ing powder, and one fourth teaspoon of salt, sifted to 
gether. Roll out thin, cut, and bake in a moderate oven. 

Cakes 

All cakes are grouped into two general classes, — those 
made with butter or some kind of shortening, and those 
made without shortening, as sponge, angel, or simshine 
cakes. 

The directions for mixing butter cakes are practically 
the same for every case. Grease and flour the cake pans, 
and prepare the oven. Measure all dry ingredients first, 
and sift the flour, salt, baking powder, or soda, and spices 
together. Flour raisins or currants, if they are to be used. 
Beat the eggs, beating the yolks and whites together, un- 
less the directions call for the whites and yolks beaten 
separately. In that case beat the yolks until smooth and 
thick, and the whites until they are so dry that the bowl 
in which they are beaten may be turned upside down with- 
out danger of loss of eggs. 

When all is in readiness, cream the shortening ; this is 
done by working it against the side of the bowl with the 



Digitized by 



Google 



CEREALS AND LEAVENING AGENTS 129 

mixing spoon until it is soft as cream. Add the sugar 
gradually, and work it into the shortening until it is par- 
tially dissolved. Add the beaten eggs and beat the mixture 
thoroughly so that sugar, shortening, and eggs are per- 
fectly blended. Add the milk and flour alternately so as 
to keep the same consistency throughout the process. 



Cake Making. 

Never stir a cake after the eggs are added, because stir- 
ring breaks the air bubbles. The cake should be beaten, 
using long strokes of the spoon and going through the 
batter to inclose as much air as possible. During baking, 
watch the oven carefully. If the oven is too hot, the cake 
will not rise sufficiently. Small cakes demand a hot oven, 
large cakes a moderate oven, as in the latter case the heat 
must be slow enough to penetrate to the center of the 
cake. 

A good cake is slightly rounded, smooth, and an even 
brown all over. If it cracks, it contains too much flour, or 



Digitized by 



Google 



I30 CEREALS AND LEAVENING AGENTS 

it has baked too fast. The grain should be fine and uni- 
form throughout. 

When a cake is baked, it shrinks from the sides of the pan, 
it is firm on top, wheii touched with the finger, or, if a clean 
straw is inserted, it comes out dry. 

A great variety of cakes may be made from the recipe 
for Plain Cake by adding spices, nuts, raisins ; chocolate 
or other fillings, and frostings. A cake should never con- 
tain more than half as much shortening as sugar. It 
should contain less than half as much milk as flour. If 
more than two eggs are used in a cake, less baking powder 
will be required than for a two-egg cake. Too much bak- 
ing powder makes a cake dry and crumbly. 

Plain Cake. — Cream four tablespoons of butter, or some 
other shortening ; add one cup of sugar, two eggs well beaten, 
one half cup of milk, and one and one half cups of flour, one 
fourth teaspoon of salt, three teaspoons of baking powder 
sifted together, and one half teaspoon of vanilla. Mix ac- 
cording to directions given. Cover with chocolate frosting. 

Spice Cake. — Cream one cup of butter ; add two cups 
of brown sugar, and yolks of four eggs ; beat well. Add 
one cup of milk and two and one half cups of flour, one tea- 
spoon of cloves, one teaspoon of nutmeg, one teaspoon of 
cinnamon, and three teaspoons of baking powder. When 
thoroughly mixed, carefully add the beaten whites of four 
eggs, and bake in layers. Put chocolate frosting between 
the layers and on top. 

Chocolate Frosting. — Melt two ounces of chocolate ; 
add one cup of sugar, five tablespoons of milk, yolk of one 
egg, and mix thoroughly. Boil until it thickens, stirring 
constantly. Remove from fire, add one teaspoon of va- 
nilla, and stir until thick enough to spread. 



Digitized by 



Google 



CEREALS AND LEAVENING AGENTS 131 

White Frosting. — Mix one cup of sugar and five table- 
spoons of cold water, and boil slowly without stirring. 
As soon as it begins to boil, add one eighth teaspoon cream 
of tartar to invert the sugar. Boil until it forms a soft 
ball when dropped into cold water or until it threads 
when dropped from a spoon. Beat an egg white until 
stiflF and dry. Gradually pour the sirup over it, stirring 
constantly so as not to cook the egg in flakes. Add 



White Frosted Cake, Decorated. 

one half teaspoon of vanilla, and stir until thick enough 
to spread. 

Orange Cake. — Cream five tablespoons of butter ; add 
one cup of sugar, grated rind of one orange, three eggs, 
one half cup of milk, one and three fourths cups of flour, 
three teaspoons of baking powder, one fourth teaspoon of 
salt. Mix as in plain cake. Frost with White Frosting. 



Digitized by 



Google 



132 CEREALS AND LEAVENING AGENTS 

The cake may be baked in layers and then cut into squares 
or diamond shapes and frosted all over. 

Nut Cake. — Cream six tablespoons of butter ; add one 
cup of sugar, three eggs, one half cup of milk, one and three 
fourths cups of flour, two and one half teaspoons of baking 
powder, one fourth teaspoon of salt, one half teaspoon of 
vanilla. Lastly add three fourths cup of chopped nut 
meats. Mix as for Plain Cake. 

Spanish Buns. — Cream one half cup of butter; add one 
and one half cups of sugar, three eggs, one cup of sour milk, 
two and one half cups of flour, one teaspoon of cinnamon, 
one teaspoon of cloves, one half teaspoon of soda, and one 
cup of raisins. Mix as for butter cake. Bake in muffin 
pans. 

Golden Cake. — Cream one half cup of butter; add one 
cup of sugar, yolks of ten eggs, one and three fourths cups 
of flour, three teaspoons of baking powder, one fourth 
teaspoon of salt, one half cup of milk, and one half tea- 
spoon of flavoring. Mix as for Plain Cake. May be baked 
in mufl^ pans for small cakes and frosted, or baked as a 
loaf cake. 

Sponge Cake. — Beat the yolks of six eggs until thick ; 
add one cup of sugar gradually, and continue beating with 
the egg beater. Add one tablespoon of lemon juice or 
one teaspoon of lemon extract. Beat the whites of six 
eggs until stiff and dry. Mix the whites and yolks, and 
when partially mixed cut and fold in one cup of flour and 
one fourth teaspoon of salt. Bake in an unbuttered pan, 
in a slow oven, one hour. 

Angel Cake. — Beat one and one fourth cup of egg 
whites until frothy, add one teaspoon of cream tartar and 
continue beating imtil the eggs are stiff and dry. Grad- 



Digitized by 



Google 



CEREALS AND LEAVENING AGENTS 133 

ually add one and one half cups of rolled and sifted sugar. 
Sift one cup of flour and one fourth teaspoon of salt 
four times, and add it to the eggs, being careful not to 
mix it more than is necessary. Add one teaspoon of 
vanilla. Bake forty to forty-five minutes in an unbuttered 
angel cake pan. 

Jelly Roll. — Beat three eggs until Ught, add one half 
cup of sugar, one half cup of flour, one half teaspoon of 
baking powder, one eighth teaspoon of salt, and one half 
teaspoon of vanilla. Beat well. Bake in a slow oven in 
a pan the bottom of which is lined with greased paper. 
When baked, turn bottom side up on a paper sprinkled 
with powdered sugar. Remove the paper from the bottom 
of the cake. Spread the cake with jelly and roll. 

Chocolate Cake. — Cream six tablespoons of butter, add 
one cup of sugar and mix thoroughly, add two ounces of 
melted chocolate and two eggs well beaten. Add, alter- 
nately, two thirds of a cup of milk and one and one half 
cups of flour, three teaspoons of baking powder, and one 
fourth teaspoon of salt sifted together. Add one half 
teaspoon of vanilla. Bake in a moderate oven, in a shallow 
pan, about thirty-five minutes. Frost with chocolate 
frosting. 

Crispettes. — Beat two eggs thoroughly, add one cup of 
brown sugar, sifted with six tablespoons of flour and one 
eighth teaspoon of salt. Beat thoroughly. Add one cup 
of chopped nuts. Drop by spoonfuls, about three inches 
apart, on greased paper, and bake in a hot oven. 



Digitized by 



Google 



CHAPTER DC 

LEGUMES AND FRYING LESSONS 

LEGUMES 

Peas, beans, lentils, and peanuts belong to the family 
called legumes. These growing plants have little nodules 
at their roots, which contain bacteria that have the power to 
take nitrogen from the air and put it in a form available for 
food for man and animals. 

Nitrogen occurs in protein foods only, and proteins are, 
generally speaking, the most expensive and the most impor- 
tant foods. Legumes are a cheap food, and they contain 
so much protein that they rank with meat, fish, cheese, 
and eggs as tissue-building foods. 

Legiunes should be classed in two distinct classes: the 
fresh form, such as string beans, green peas, and fresh lima 
beans; and the dried beans and peas. Those in the first 
class rank Uttle higher than green vegetables in nutritive 
value, because they are picked long before the seeds have 
reached maturity. The dried forms have been allowed to 
ripen until the seeds have stored enough nutrition to 
nourish the germ of the new plant when it begins to sprout. 
For use as a food they are then thoroughly dried and may 
be kept for an indefinite period of time. When they are to 
be used, they must be soaked in cold water for several hotirs 
or overnight to restore some of the moisture. 

Dried legumes contain from 18-25 P^^ cent protein; 
from 59-66 per cent carbohydrate in the form of starch and 

134 



Digitized by 



Google 



LEGUMES 135 

cellulose, the cellulose reaching as high as 4^ per cent in 
dried peas. With the exception of peanuts they contain 
scarcely any fat, and must be served with butter or cooked 
with pork for flavor and to make them a better balanced 
food. 

The legumes require long, slow cooking because the starch 
and protein are stored in cells surrounded by thick walls of 
cellulose, and it requires long cooking to soften the walls and 
I free the starch and protein. One reason why the process 
is so long is because beans and peas are ordinarily cooked 
whole, and, as they are compact, only long, slow cooking will 
soften them. If the skin were removed and the legumes 
ground into a powder, the cooking process could be 
shortened. 

Legumes are a cheap, wholesome, and highly nutritious 
food, and should often serve as a substitute for meat in the 
diet. A portion of lentil, pea, or bean soup served with 
bread or crackers forms a perfectly balanced meal and has 
the advantage of being an economical one. Too little 
attention is paid to the methods of preparing and serving 
the legumes, for they should be considered important foods, 
and they are almost universally liked. 

Boston Baked Beans. — Wash one quart of navy beans, 
cover with cold water, and let them soak over night. Drain 
off the water, cover with fresh boiling water, and let them 
cook slowly until the skins begin to burst. Add one tea- 
spoon of soda, stir well, and boil for two minutes. Drain 
off the water and rinse the beans well with fresh boiling 
water. Cut one half pound of fat salt pork in one half inch 
slices. Mix one tablespoon of mustard, one tablespoon of 
salt, two tablespoons of molasses, two tablespoons of sugar, 
with one cup of boiling water. Place beans in the bean pot. 



Digitized by 



Google 



136 LEGUMES 

distribute the pieces of pork through the pot, pour the 
liquid over the beans, add enough boiling water to com- 
pletely cover the beans, put on the cover, place pot in a slow 
oven and cook from six to eight hours. Add water so that 
the beans are kept covered with it. Cook uncovered during 
the last hour. Beans may be started in the fireless cooker 
and cooked overnight. They should be placed in the oven 
about four hours before they are to be used, and cooked 
slowly. Some cooking in the oven is necessary to bring 
out the flavor. If the fireless cooker has a soapstone plate, 
oven cooking is not necessary. 

Lima Beans. — Soak one pint of lima beans over night. 
Cover with salted boiling water, and cook slowly until soft. 
Add only enough water to prevent burning; season with 
salt, pepper, and butter. 

Salted Peanuts. — Remove shells and skins from raw 
peanuts. Put lard, butter, or olive oil, preferably the latter, 
in a pan on the stove. When melted, add peanuts and stir 
constantly so that they will brown on both sides. Remove 
from fat and drain on soft paper; sprinkle with salt. 
Olive oil or lard is better than butter, because butter burns 
so readily. 

Lentil Soup. — Wash one cup of lentils, cover with cold 
water, and soak over night. Drain ; cook in two quarts of 
water until soft (about two hours) ; add one bay leaf, one 
half teaspoon of salt, one fourth teaspoon pepper. Press 
through a colander and sieve. Add two tablespoons of 
flour, two tablespoons of butter, one grated onion, pre- 
pared as for White Sauce. Boil three minutes. 

Succotash. — Soak lima beans or red kidney beans over 
night. Cook until soft (about two hours) ; ten minutes 
before they are ready to serve, add one can of corn, season 



Digitized by 



Google 



FRYING LESSONS 137 

with three tablespoons of butter, one half teaspoon of salt, 
one eighth teaspoon of pepper. Stir constantly. During 
the summer season when green corn is plentiful and beans 
are fresh, succotash may be prepared from lima or kidney 
beans and corn cut from the cob. Follow directions given 
above. 

Note. — In the lessons on legumes, much time is consumed in the long 
slow cooking, during which there is but little work to be done in class. For 
this reason the frying lessons are added, and one may be given with each 
lesson on legumes. For Rules for Frying, see page 46. 

FRYING LESSONS 

Doughnuts. — Mix one cup sour milk with one cup sugar, 
and let stand for 5 or 10 minutes. Add two eggs well 
beaten ; add one cup flour, one fourth teaspoon salt, one 
half teaspoon soda, one fourth teaspoon nutmeg, sifted 
together ; add three tablespoons melted butter and one half 
teaspoon vanilla, and beat until smooth. Add enough 
more flour to make a soft dough. Roll out one half inch 
thick, cut with a doughnut cutter, and fry in deep fat. 

Flitters. — Mix and sift together one and one half cups 
flour, one fourth teaspoon salt, three teaspoons baking 
powder. Add three fourths cup milk and one egg well 
beaten. Beat very light. Drop slices of tart apple one 
fourth inch thick into the batter, and stir until the batter 
covers the apple. Drop the pieces of apple into hot fat, 
and fry until brown. 

Croquettes. Meat or Fish. — Melt three tablespoons 
butter; add one third cup flour and rub together until 
blended. Add one cup milk and cook until thick. Add one 
teaspoon chopped onion, one teaspoon salt, one eighth tea- 
spoon pepper, and two cups cold chopped meat or flaked 



Digitized by 



Google 



138 FRYING LESSONS 

fish. Mix thoroughly and cool. Shape into cones or 
balls, dip in beaten eggs, roll in grated bread or cracker 
crumbs, and fry in deep fat. 

Com Flitters. — Mix and sift together one cup flour, two 
teaspoons baking powder, one half teaspoon salt, one fourth 
teaspoon pepper. Add two eggs well beaten, one third 
cup milk. Beat until smooth; add one half cup canned 
corn. Drop by spoonfuls in deep fat, and fry. 

Com Oysters. — Beat two eggs until light ; add one can 
corn, two tablespoons melted butter, and one half cup flour, 
one teaspoon baking powder and one fourth teaspoon salt 
sifted together. Mix well. Drop spoonfuls on hot griddle 
or frying pan, and fry as for griddle cakes. 

Bacon and Com. — Cut one half pound of bacon in inch 
pieces, fry until brown. Turn off nearly all of the fat from 
the frying pan. Add one can of corn and cook five minutes, 
stirring constantly. Season with one teaspoon of salt and 
one eighth teaspoon of pepper and serve immediately. 



Digitized by 



Google 



CHAPTER X 
EGGS. PLANNING A LUNCHEON 

Eggs rank with meat and fish as important tissue-building 
foods. They are more nutritious than meat because they 
contain more kinds of protein and more mineral matter, 
and for this reason and because they are easily digested, 
they are served to the sick and convalescing so that they 
may gain strength and weight. 

Eggs when freed from the shell contain 73.7 per cent 
water, 14.8 per cent protein, 10.5 per cent fat, and i per cent 
mineral matter. Because of the high percentage of pro- 
tein, they should be eaten with carbohydrate foods. Eggs 
are valuable foods in themselves, but no other food except 
flour has so many uses in cooking. 

Experiments. 

For Freshness. — Roll a piece of paper until it is the diameter of 
an egg. Put the egg in one end. Hold the other end to the eye 
and face the light. If the egg looks clear, it is fresh ; if cloudy, it 
is stale. 

Place the egg in cold water. If it sinks, it is fresh. 

For Kind of Protein. — Note the effect of cold water on the white. 
Albumin is soluble in cold water. 

Bring the water to a boiling point, and note the effect on the 
albumin. Heat coagulates albumin. 

Boil an egg and let it stand thirty minutes. Separate the white and 
yolk ; note the dark color on the outside of the yolk. What mineral 
present ? 

139 



Digitized by 



Google 



I40 



EGGS 



U.S. Otparimtnt ot Agriculture (Spared by 

Office of Eiptrimcnt Stttion« C. F. LANOWORTHY 

A C. True: Director Expert in Charge of Nutrition Investigation] 

COMPOSITION OF FOOD MATERIALS 

IPuei Value 
VcSq.ln. Equals 
1000 Calories 



Protein Fat Carboltydratcfc 

WHOLE EGO 




Protein 

+.8 
Fat: 10 

Ash: 1.0 

FufL v/u.ue 0^ 

WHOLE e6G-. 



(yOlk) 
Water:49.5 
Protein: 16. 

Fat: 33.3 
AsKt I.I 



Water IB 

EGO 

WNITMNDYOIK 



86 a 



.13.0 
.2 



605 CALORIES 
PCPPOUMD 



CREAM CHEESE 



Wa 



Fal 
33. 



A^h- 6.0 



Foj^WLUE: 
Iddd CALORIES PER POUND 



Fuel ^alo^t yoliv: 

1650 CALORIES 
PER POUND 


FUTL VALUE OF WHITE' 

1 

245 CALORIES 
PEPPOOUD 


COTTAGE CHEESE 


25.9 ^**«'' 


:72.0 


2.4 


•20.9 


Carb 
hydrati 


1.0 
1.8 


« 


FUCLVALOE: 


■J 

495 CALORIES PER POUND 



Composition of Eggs and Cheese. 



Digitized by 



Google 



EGGS 141 



USES OF EGGS 



1. Eggs are a tissue-building food and serve as a sub- 
stitute for meat. They are easily digested, easily prepared 
and served, and are almost universally liked. 

2. Eggs have many uses in cooking. Foods are dipped in 
egg before they are fried because the heat coagulates the 
albumin in the egg, and it forms a crust over the food so 
that juices and flavor are retained and the fat is prevented 
from soaking into the food. 

3. Eggs are blended with a liquid such as milk, and the 
whole mass is thickened and becomes smooth and velvety, 
as in the making of custards. 

4. Eggs. hold particles of flour together so that hollow 
shells are formed, as in the making of popovers. 

5. When the yolks and whites are beaten separately, eggs 
make foods light and fluffy, as in the making of omelet and 
sponge cake. 

6. Eggs are used as a garnish for foods, as salads, soups, etc. 

7. Eggs are used to clear or clarify, as in coffee making 
and the clearing of soups. 

When eggs are used to hold particles of flour together, or 
as a thickening agent, or to form a crust over foods, they 
should not be beaten, but the yolk and white should be well 
blended. When they are used to make foods light, as in 
cake making, omelets, etc., they should be beaten so as to 
inclose as much air as possible. It is the expansion of the 
inclosed air and then the hardening of the protein wall that 
makes the cake light. As the albumin in egg coagulates at 
about 160° P., and as stronger heat tends to make the mix- 
ture tough, all egg dishes should be cooked at as low a 
temperature as possible. 



Digitized by 



Google 



142 EGGS 

Baked Cup Custard. — Beat two large or three small eggs 
slightly with a fork, just enough to blend the yolks and 
whites. Add four tablespoons of sugar, a speck of salt, one 
pint of milk, and one half teaspoon of vanilla. Mix well and 
turn into custard cups, then grate nutmeg over the top. 
Set the cups in a pan of boiUng water, set the pan in the 
oven, and bake the custard at a moderate temperature 
until it is firm. Test with a knife. If, after the knife is 
inserted, it comes out clean, the custard is done. If the 
knife is coated with milk, the custard has not thickened 
sufficiently. 

Baked Caramel Custard. — Melt one half cup of sugar 
to a sirup, stirring constantly to prevent burning. When 
the sugar is a Ught brown sirup, gradually add two cups of 
milk, and stir until the sugar is melted. Add three eggs 
slightly beaten, one fourth teaspoon salt, one half teaspoon 
vanilla. Bake as for Cup Custard. 

Soft Custard. — Beat two eggs enough to blend yolk and 
white ; add six tablespoons of sugar, a speck of salt, two cups 
of milk, and flavor with nutmeg. Cook in a double boiler, 
stirring constantly, until the custard coats the spoon. 
Add one teaspoon of vanilla. If the custard is cooked too 
long, it will curdle. It must be removed from the fire as 
soon as it begins to thicken. Serve cold. 

Boiled Eggs. — Pour boiUng water into a stewpan and 
place it over the fire and make sure that the water is actually 
boiling. Put eggs into the water, and let them remain over 
the fire for a few seconds. Cover the stewpan and place 
it where the water will not lose too much heat, but where it 
will not boil, — for 6 to 8 minutes for a "soft-boiled egg," or 
20 to 30 minutes for " hard-boiled." Eggs may be placed in 
cold water and brought to the boiUng point. When the 



Digitized by 



Google 



EGGS 143 

water boils, the eggs are " soft-boiled." They may be boiled 
five minutes longer for a hard-boiled egg. 

Scrambled Eggs. — Beat six eggs slightly, until whites 
and yolks are blended ; add one half cup of milk or water, 
and one fourth teaspoon of salt. Put two tablespoons of 
butter into the omelet pan, and heat until the butter is 
melted. Turn in the egg mixture, and cook at a low tem- 
perature until creamy, scraping the cooked portion from the 
side of the pan so the uncooked part will reach the bottom. 
Remove from the pan, and serve immediately. Chopped 
ham or bacon or cheese may be added to scrambled eggs 
just before they are removed from the pan. 

Omelet. — (See p. 98.) 

Poached Eggs. — Have a frying pan half full of boiling 
water, and add one half 
teaspoon of salt. Break 
the eggs, one at a time, 
into a cup, and carefully 
slip them into the water. 
Let them remain in the 
water until cooked as de- 
sired. Lift them out 

carefully with a skimmer, p^^^^ ^^ 

and serve on buttered 

toast. A pan, specially devised for poaching eggs, is shown 
in the illustration. 

French Toast. — Beat two eggs until yolks and whites 
are blended; add one half cup of: milk, two tablespoons of 
sugar, one fourth teaspoon of salt. Mix well and turn into 
a shallow pan. Dip slices of* bread into the mixture, and 
fry on one side as 'for pancakes until brown; turn and 
brown the other side. 

CONLEY p. C. — 10 



Digitized by 



Google 



144 EGGS 

DevUed Eggs. — Cook eggs until hard boiled. Pour 
cold water over to cool rapidly and prevent discoloring. 
Remove the shells and cut in halves crosswise. Remove 
the yolks and mash them with a fork. For four eggs mix 
one fourth teaspoon of mustard, one fourth teaspoon of 
salt, one eighth teaspoon of pepper, with two teaspoons of 
melted butter. Add the yolks, and mix well. Fill the 
whites with the mixture. 

Bacon and Fried Eggs, — Cook bacon until crisp, remove 
from the frying pan, and turn the eggs one at a time into 
the hot fat. When the whites are firm and the yolks coated 
with a film, remove the eggs carefully, and serve at once. 
Eggs are sometimes turned and fried on both sides, but they 
should not be fried brown, because that indicates that they 
are cooked at too high a temperature. Eggs are frequently 
fried with ham in the same manner as with bacon. 



A Luncheon Table. 



Digitized by 



Google 



LUNCHEON 145 

PLANNING AND SERVING A LUNCHEON 

Pupik have had enough variety in foods so that they are 
prepared to plan and serve a luncheon, following the plan 
suggested for serving breakfasts. 

Luncheon may Consist of the Following Courses : — 

1. A Cheese Dish i. Salad or Cream Soup 

2. Potato Bread 2. Potato Bread 

3. Sauce Cake Beverage 3. Sauce Cake Beverage 

SUGGESTED MENUS 

I 

Macaroni and Cheese 

Potato Chips Bread 

Berries Chocolate Cake 

Tea 

2 

Cream of Pea Soup 

Croutons Bread 

Baked Apples and Cream Gingerbread 

Tea 

3 

Deviled Eggs Creamed Potatoes 

MuflSns 

Stewed Apricots Rocks 

Cocoa 



Digitized by 



Google 



CHAPTER XI 
MILK AND ITS PRODUCTS 

MILK 

Milk contains 87 per cent water, 3.3 per cent protein, 
4 per cent fat, 5 per cent carbohydrates, .7 per cent mineral 
matter. It is a perfect food for the young calf, because it 
contains all the elements needed for its nourishment up to a 
certain stage of its growth. The milk of all animals differs 
slightly in composition, so the milk of one mammal is not 
a perfect food for others. Cow's milk must have the pro- 
tein diluted, and sugar added, to make it a perfect food for 
the human infant. 

Milk is not a perfect food for an adult because it contains 
too much water, not enough carbohydrate in proportion to 
its protein, and no cellulose or waste matter. It must be 
eaten with bulky foods. 

The most important constituent in milk is protein. The 
protein is in the form of albumin, casein, and compound 
proteins. Heat coagulates the albumin, and it comes to the 
top of boiled milk in the form of a thin skin. The casein is 
not coagulated by heat, but by the ferment rennin, and it is 
precipitated by the presence of lactic acid during the sour- 
ing of milk. The fat occurs in minute globules. When 
milk stands for a time, these globules rise to the surface 
and form cream. Each globule is surrounded by an albu- 
minous covering, and when the cream is churned the cover- 

146 



Digitized by 



Google 



MILK AND ITS PRODUCTS 



H7 



U. S. Department of Agriculture 

Office of Experiment Stations 

A. C. True: Director 



Preparedly 

C. F. UN6W0RTHY 

Expert in Charge of Nutrition Investigations 

COMPOSITION OF FOOD MATERIALS. 

PutI Vakit 

X«Sq.ln.£quals 

1000 Calories 



^tein 



F«t Carbohydrates Ash 



WHOLE MILK 



SKIM MILK 




Water- 87 

Protein: 3.3 Fat: 0.3 
Ash: 07 



Carbohydrates :d.O 

c 

FuCL VALUE: 315 CALOftieSPCR POUND 




Carbohydrates: 5 I 

c 

FuCL VALUE: 165 CALORIES Pf» »OUO0 



BUTTERMILK 



CREAM 



Fat: 0.5 
Ash: 0.7 




Water 91 



Protein: 3.0 Fat: 18.5 




Fuel VALUE: 160 CALORICS PCR POUND 



Carbohydrates: 4.8 Carbohydrates: 4.5 



FuFL VAuie: 880 oiLORirs pfr pound 



Composition of Milk. 



Digitized by 



Google 



148 MILK AND ITS PRODUCTS 

ing is broken, and the fat and protein separate. The fat is 
called butter and the remainder buttermilk. Buttermilk 
contains 91 per cent water, 3 per cent protein, .5 per cent 
fat, 4.8 per cent carbohydrate, .7 per cent mineral matter, 
and is a very digestible protein food. Butter is the most 
easily digested form of fat known. The sugar in milk is 
called lactose. It is added to cow's milk for infant feeding, 
as it does not ferment as readily as does cane sugar. 

Experiments with Milk to find Composition. 

1. Boil some milk. The skin which rises to the surface is albu- 
min. ' It is like white of egg^ and like the substance that rises to the 
surface of water when potatoes are boiled ; also like the brown scum 
which forms when meat is boiled. 

2. Add rennet to lukewarm milk. Casein is coagulated. Stir 
with a spoon, and the casein, entangling the fat, separates from the 
whey. The whey contains most of the sugar and mineral matter. 

Add acid, as vinegar or lemon juice to milk, or allow it to sour. 
The casein is precipitated by the presence of the acid. 

3. Test a sample of milk for starch with solution of iodine. 

4. Drop milk on paper, and note the presence of fat. 

5. Slowly turn out the contents from a bottle of milk, and note 
whether there is dirt or sediment in the bottom, or in the last portion 
of milk. If so, it shows that the milk is insanitary and not fit to 
use. Thb condition should be reported to the State Dairy and Food 
Inspector. 

Pasteurized Milk for Infant Feeding. — Sterilize the 
bottle by boiling it for ten minutes as you would sterilize 
fruit jars. Fill the bottle nearly full with milk, and place 
the cap on the bottle or close with a wad of absorbent 
cotton. Place the bottle in a deep pan which contains 
a small rack or board so that the bottom of the bottle 
will not come in contact with the bottom of the pan. Fill 
the pan with cold water so that the water comes as high as 



Digitized by 



Google 



MILK AND ITS PRODUCTS 149 

the milk in the bottle. Heat the water to 158° F., remove 
to the back of the stove, cover the pan, and keep it at that 
temperature for twenty minutes. Cool milk quickly and 
keep in a cool place until ready to use. If it is to be used 
for infant feeding, it must be heated to lukewarm tempera- 
ture just before it is used. 

Cottage Cheese. — Heat sour milk to a temperature of 
about 98"" F. and let 
stand until it is uniformly 
warm throughout and 
the curd separates from 
the whey. Drain the 
whey off; add melted 
butter or cream, salt, 
pepper, and serve while 
fresh. It may be fla- 
vored with pimentoes, 
chopped olives, or 
chopped nuts. The curd 
and whey may be sepa- 
rated by pouring boiling 
water over the milk. 

Junket. — Use one 

Pasteurizing Milk. 
rennet tablet dissolved (From Hunter's C«iV B«,/.,y.) 

in one tablespoon of cold 

water. Heat one quart of milk to a temperature of 98° F. ; 
add four tablespoons sugar and one teaspoon of vanilla ; 
add the dissolved rennet and let it stand in a warm place 
until it thickens. Cool and serve with a sprinkling of 
cinnamon or nutmeg or whipped cream. 

Milk Soups or Cream Soups. — Milk soups are White 
Sauce and the pulp of some vegetable that has been 



Digitized by 



Google 



I50 MILK AND ITS PRODUCTS 

thoroughly cooked and pressed through a strainer so as to 
rid it of seeds, skins, and any coarse particles. The vege- 
tables most commonly used for soups are potatoes, toma- 
toes, celery, corn, peas, beans, and asparagus. 

Milk soups are very nutritious ; in fact, one half recipe of 
potato or lentil soup and one or two ounces of bread form 
a balanced meal for lunch or supper. Milk soups should 
not be served at dinner, as they contain too much nutrition 
to be served with a heavy meal. They may form the main 
dish at lunch or supper. All milk soups may be made 
after the following directions. 

Cook the vegetables until soft enough to be put through 
a strainer. If the vegetables contain acid, as in tomato, 
add soda to neutralize it before adding milk. Melt the 
butter, add the flour, and rub them together thoroughly. 
Add the vegetable pulp and cook until the mixture thickens ; 
then add milk and seasoning, cook for a minute or two, and 
then serve. Or, add milk to butter and flour, as for White 
Sauce, cook until it thickens, add seasoning, and then add 
vegetable pulp and cook for two minutes. 

Cream of Tomato Soup. — Cook two cups of canned 
tomatoes with two teaspoons of sugar for five minutes. 
Add one fourth teaspoon of soda and stir well, then add 
one fourth teaspoon of salt and rub the mixture through a 
siev^. Melt four tablespoons of butter, add four table- 
spoons of flour, and rub together until thoroughly mixed. 
Add two quarts of milk and one slice of onion. Cook until 
the mixture thickens. Remove the onion. Add the tomato 
pulp to the milk, and cook one minute. Serve. 

Cream of Pea Soup. — Cook one can of Marrowfat peas 
in three cups of water for ten minutes. Add one slice of 
onion and two teaspoons of sugar. Rub the mixture 



Digitized by 



Google 



MILK AND ITS PRODUCTS 151 

through a sieve until nothing remains in the sieve but the 
skins of the peas. Melt four tablespoons of butter, add 
two tablespoons of flour, and rub together until thoroughly 
mixed. Add two cups of milk, and cook until it thickens, 
then add one teaspoon of salt, one eighth teaspoon pepper. 
Add the peas and cook three minutes. Serve. 

Com Chowder. — Cook one sUce of bacon, or salt pork, 
cut in small pieces, imtil crisp or brown. Add one slice of 
onion, cut in small pieces, and fry until brown. Parboil 
three cups of thinly sliced potatoes for ten minutes, drain, 
and add the potatoes to the bacon and onion. Add one 
can of com, one quart of milk, two tablespoons of butter, 
one half teaspoon of salt, and one eighty teaspoon of pepper. 
Cook five minutes. Add half a dozen crackers, and serve. 



Garnish for Soups. 




Chopped Parsley 


Macaroni 


Chopped Celery Tips 


Vermicelli 


Chopped White of Egg 


Spaghetti 


Whipped Cream 


Pearl Barley 


Diced Potatoes 


Rice 


Riced Eggs 


Noodles 


To Serve with Soup. 




Wafers 


Bread Sticks 


Crackers 


Croutons 



CHEESE 

Cheese ranks first among tissue-building foods because 
it contains a higher percentage of protein than any other 
food. American cheese, the kind most commonly pur- 
chased, contains 27.4 per cent water, 27.7 per cent protein, 
36.8 per cent fat, 4.1 per cent carbohydrate, and 4 per 



Digitized by 



Google 



152 MILK AND ITS PRODUCTS 

cent mineral matter, which is mainly common salt that has 
been added in the process of cheese making. 

Cheese is a concentrated food; that is, it contains no 
cellulose and a small amount of water, and for this reason 
some people find it hard to digest. If it is grated or finely 
divided and mixed with other foods that will increase the 
amount of carbohydrate and bulk, it forms a cheap and 
valuable protein food and is a good substitute for meat. 

A great many varieties of cheese are made. Some con- 
tain more water than others; some are made from milk, 
some from milk to which cream has been added, and some 
are made from skim milk. Some derive their flavor and 
odor from the peculiar fermentation that takes place 
during ripening. 

Cheese is made the same way that junket is made. The 
milk is heated to lukewarm temperature, and rennet is 
added, and it is allowed to coagulate. The curd is then cut 
so that the whey can be removed, and this water is drawn off. 
Then the curd is pressed into shape and allowed to cure or 
ripen. The process of ripening brings out the flavor of 
the cheese. All American cheese is colored with a harmless 
vegetable coloring. 

Cheese Fondu. — Thoroughly mix one fourth cup crumbs, 
one fourth pound of grated cheese, one fourth teaspoon salt, 
speck cayenne pepper, one cup milk, one tablespoon melted 
butter, and three eggs. Bake in individual dishes. Serve 
immediately. 

Welsh Rarebit. — Mix together one pound of cheese cut 
in small pieces or chopped, one teaspoon butter, one tea- 
spoon salt and speck of paprika, one teaspoon mustard 
mixed with one teaspoon of cream, and heat slowly. When 
the cheese is nearly melted, add one beaten egg. Stir well, 



Digitized by 



Google 



MILK AND ITS PRODUCTS 153 

and when all the cheese is melted, add one fourth cup of 
cream or more, until it is the desired thickness. Serve 
immediately on wafers or toast. 

Cheese Straws, (a) — One cup flour, one fourth teaspoon 
salt, five tablespoons lard. Mix as for pie crust, and roll 
out thin. Cut into two equal pieces. Sprinkle one piece 
with grated cheese, season with salt and paprika, and a 
small amount of melted butter. Place the other piece over 
this, press them together, and then cut into strips about 
one half inch wide and three inches long. Bake in a hot 
oven until crisp and brown. Serve with salad. 

Cheese Straws, (b) — One half cup flour, three fourths 
cup bread crumbs, one cup grated or chopped cheese, one 
tablespoon melted butter, one fourth teaspoon salt, speck 
of paprika, one half cup milk. Rub butter and flour 
together; add crumbs, seasoning, cheese, and milk, and 
mix thoroughly. Roll out one fourth inch thick and cut 
in pieces one half inch wide and three inches long. Bake 
until brown in a moderate oven. 

Cheese Souffle. — Two tablespoons melted butter, two 
tablespoons flour, one cup milk, one fourth teaspoon salt, 
speck paprika, three fourths cup cheese, four eggs, white 
and yolk beaten separately. Add flour to melted but- 
ter and rub togethei thoroughly. Add milk and seasoning 
and cook until it begins to thicken. Add beaten yolks 
and cheese ; mix thoroughly. When it has cooled slightly, 
add whites of eggs beaten stiff and dry, and bake in a 
moderate oven until brown, — about thirty minutes. 
Serve immediately. 

Juno Salad. — Mix one Neufchatel cheese, one half cup 
chopped walnuts, one fourth cup chopped pimentoes. 
Moisten with Cooked Salad Dressing and arrange on lettuce. 



Digitized by 



Google 



CHAPTER Xn 

MEATS AND FISH 

MEATS 

All meats, including poultry and game, are similar in 
composition and structure, and the same methods of cook- 
ing may be applied to all. The different meats and cuts of 
the same meat vary in flavor ; in the amount of bone, refuse, 
and fat which they contain ; and some are more extensively 
used than others. 

The edible portion of meat is mainly protein, and it fur- 
nishes about one third of the tissue-building food consumed 
by the American people. Proteins are the important food 
substances in meat, and to understand the cooking of them, 
it is necessary to know the kinds found ; where they occur ; 
and the effect of heat on flavor, digestibiUty, and palata- 
bility. 

Meat consists of bone, fat, and muscle fiber. The bone 
is about one half solids and one half water. The solid 
part consists of mineral matter, fat, and ossein. The 
ossein is not a true protein, but an albuminoid which is 
dissolved by long boiling and gelatinizes when cooled. It 
is not a tissue-building food, but has come to be called a 
protein sparer. Bone is used in soup making to furnish 
the gelatin and some of the fat. It is generally thought 
that if the bone is left in cuts of meat during cooking, the 
flavor is improved. 

154 



Digitized by 



Google 



MEATS 155 

Fat differs in diflFerent animals. The fat of the hog is 
softer and less highly flavored than that of other animals, 
and, because of this, and because it has a high burning 
point, it is extensively used for frying foods. Beef and 
mutton fats contain more stearin than pork fat; they are 
harder, more highly flavored, and not used much in cooking. 
It could be said that fats are not consumed, to any great 
extent, as meat, but are separated from the muscle fiber 
and prepared for use in some other way. The only excep- 
tion to this is the use of pork as bacon, salt pork, and sausage, 
but even then much of the fat is lost in cooking. 

The most important part of meat, then, is the muscle 
fiber, and if it is examined closely it will be found to consist 
of bundles of tubes or fibers held together by a substance 
similar to the ossein in bone, called collagen, a form of 
connective tissue. As this substance, collagen, is a form of 
albuminoid, it is softened and dissolved by moist heat. 

The tubes contain various proteins, — albumin, fibrin, 
myosin, compound proteins, and extractives, — and it is this 
part of the meat which furnishes the tissue-building ma- 
terial for the body. The muscle tubes consist of a sub- 
stance called elastin, another albuminoid. 

The toughness or tenderness of a cut of meat depends on 
the thickness of the albuminoids which form the cell walls 
and which hold the cells together. If the cut of meat is 
from a part of the animal where the muscles have been 
exercised a great deal, the albuminoids are thicker and 
tougher than in those parts which are exercised but Uttle. 
Hence the meat will be tougher and will require long, slow 
cooking to soften the elastin and collagen. That is the 
reason why cuts of meat from the neck and leg are tougher 
than those from the back. 



Digitized by 



Google 



156 



MEATS 



U. S. Depsrtmt nt of Agriculture 
Office of Experiment Stitions 
A. C True: Director 



Prepared by 

C. F. LANGWORTHY 

f Xpert ir> Charge of Nutrition Investigations 



COMPOSITION OF FOOD MATERIALS. 

BBM imnnnn f:?^ ^^ ^^ ^h, Fu«iv«iue 

Profin Fat Crbohydrates Ath Water ■^•^^'"J,2;;*'s 

LAMB CHOP PORK CHOP 



30.1 



:I.O 



D 



BEEF STEAK 



Fuel I 

VALUe:| 



1875 CALORIES 
PER POUND 



DRIED BEEF 

eOieiF PORTION 



Fai 
in.ldJ 






fun I 

VALUE: I 



i090 CALORIES 
PER POUND 



Fuel 

VALUE: 



810 CALORIES 
PER POUND 



Composition of Meats. 



Digitized by 



Google 



MEATS 



157 



{J.S. Department ot Agrjculture 

Office of Experiment Stations 

A.C. True: Director 



Pre|»red by 

C.F. LANGWORTHY 

Expert in Charge of Nutritioo Investigations 



Water 



■■ 1000 



COMPOSITION OF FOOD MATERIALS 

B9 nnnnni m^ ^^ ^^ ^b. Fueiv*i«6 

Protein Fat C«rbOhydr«tM Ash 

VCQETABLE OILS, AS 
OLIVE , 

PEANUT, ^^^^^.,3 3 

COTTONSEED 




|.|n.E.q(4als 
1000 CaloHts 

BACON 

PfOteln:9.4^ .Fat:67.4 



Fat: 100 



BEEF SUET 




408Q CALOttiES PER POUN( 



BUTTER 

Fat 83.0- 




PUCL VALUE; 



3425 CALORICS PEi 

Water 13.0 

Fat: I 



Ash:3.0 '^Protein. 1.0 

FutL VALUE: 



340^ CAUHtteS PER POUND 



Fuel value! 




4080 CALORIES PER 



Composition of Fats. 



Digitized by 



Google 



IS8 MEATS 

The true proteins in meat are coagulated by heat, and 
flavor is developed. Albumins are soluble in cold water, 
myosin and fibrin in dilute salt, or alkaline solution, and 
the rest are insoluble. If meat is soaked in cold water, or 
put on to cook in cold water, and gradually heated, albumin 
is dissolved out. It forms the brown scum that rises to the 
surface of the water when meat is boiled, and is usually 
lost during the process. Fibrin and myosin are dissolved 
when meat is soaked in salt solution, as in the corning of 
beef. 

Description of Cuts of Meat 

Beef is the meat most extensively used, and if one 
knows the various cuts of beef and their uses and how 
to select good beef, he will, easily learn the cuts in other 
animals. 

In good beef the best cuts are fine grained, well mottled 
with fat and lean, and bright red in color after being ex- 



y^Rump 1 


I 

OF 


Plate 
Beef. 








Cuts 



posed to the air. If there is a thick layer of firm, light- 
colored fat over the loin and rib cuts, the flesh will be juicier 
and better flavored than when there is little or no fat over 
these cuts. In the latter case, what fat there is is dark 



Digitized by 



Google 



MEATS 159 

colored, and the meat is tough and dry. The animal is old, 
underfed, or losing flesh. 

The loin and rib cuts are finer grained and more tender 
than the other cuts, and require less cooking. They are 
the finest cuts for steaks and roasts. The other cuts are 
not so tender, but are juicier, and some of them contain 
less bone than the finer cuts and when properly cooked are 
as well flavored and equal to the loin and rib cuts in palata- 
bility. 

The less tender cuts require long, slow cooking to soften 
the connective tissue, and for this reason do not make the 
finest steaks and roasts. As less than twenty-five per cent 
of the beef is contained in the loin and rib cuts, they sell 
for a much higher price than round, chuck, or any of the 
other cuts, because the profit must come from the finer 
cuts. Many people who cannot afford it buy these ex- 
pensive cuts because they do not know how to cook 
the other parts and make them attractive and appe- 
tizing. The cheaper cuts are just as nutritious as the 
. others, and when properly cooked are deUciously flavored 
and more satisfying than the badly cooked steak or dry 
roast. 

After beef is dressed, it is cut into halves. The halves 
I are divided into hind and fore quarters by cutting between 
the twelfth and thirteenth ribs, leaving one rib in the hind 
quarter. The flank is cut from the hind quarter, leaving 
the loin, rump, round, and shank. The loin includes the 
porterhouse, sirlgin, and tenderloin cuts. 

The fore quarter is cut across the ribs. The lower part 
includes the plate, clod, and shank. The upper part 
includes the rib, chuck, and neck. 



CONLEY p. C. — II 



Digitized by 



Google 



i6o MEATS 

Cuts Arranged according to Market Value and De- 
sirability, Highest Priced First 

Loin. — This cut includes short steaks, porterhouse, 
sirloin, and tenderloin. The tenderloin is a long muscle 
that may be stripped from beneath the loin, but when it is 
removed, it destroys the value of the porterhouse steak. 
The first few cuts from the loin are called short or clubi 
steaks because they contain no tenderloin. Steaks cut 
from the beginning of the tenderloin to the beginning of 
the hook bone are called porterhouse. They are the choic- 
est and highest-priced cuts in beef. The remaining cuts in 
the loin are the sirloin. 

The tenderloin, when sold separately, is deficient in fat, 
and hence must be larded and then roasted or broiled. The 
loin is cut into steaks and broiled, occasionally sold as 
roasts, though expensive, and no finer for roasting than 
are the ribs. 

Rib. — This cut co^isists of seven ribs, called prime ribs ; 
the cut is made close to the shoulder blade and separates it 
from the chiick. It is sold as roasts, being cut into one, two, 
or three rib pieces. One rib piece usually weighs about 
four pounds. The ribs are removed and the piece rolled 
and called a rolled roast. If the ribs are left in, it is called 
a standing roast. Dealers sometimes remove the ribs from 
the cut and sell it as steaks, called small steaks. 

Round. — This cut consists of very juicy, lean muscle 
and but little bone. It is sold as steaks, roasts, and for 
beef tea and beef juice. It is excellent for pot roast, stews, 
braizing or casserole of beef, and for beef loaf. 

Rump. — This cut contains the end of the hip bone and 
joint. There is considerable bone, but the remainder 



Digitized by 



Google 



MEATS i6i 



Rib. Rib. 



Loin. Rump. 



Round. Chuck. 

Cuts of Beef. 

(From Conley's Nutrition and Diet.) 



Digitized by 



Google 



i62 MEATS 

• 
makes very good steaks and roasts. It is also excellent 
for pot roast, boiling, braizing, stews, and mincemeat. 

Chuck. — This cut is next to the prime ribs cut and 
similar to it, but contains more bone and gristle and is not 
so tender. It makes a yery good, though large, roast and 
is sold sometimes as steaks, and by some preferred to the 
round, because it is mottled with fat. It is excellent for 
stews, pot roast, boiling, braizing, and mincemeat. 

Clod. — This cut is back of the brisket and below the 
chuck. It is sold f^r boiling, stews, braizing, and mince- 
meat. 

Flank. — This cut comes from below the loin. It is 
boneless and coarse, but of good flav6r. Flank steak is 
sometimes cut from the lean muscle on the inside of the 
flank. This steak may be scored across the grain and 
broiled. It is also rolled and braized. Flank- cut is used 
for stews, boiling, and rolled and corned*. 

Neck. — This cut contains juicy, tough meat. It is 
used in stews, soup, and Hamburg steaks. 

Plate. — This cut comes from below the ribs. It has 
layers of fat and lean and the ends of the ribs. It is used 
for boiling and corning. 

Shank. — These cuts ?ire the fore and hind legs. ^ They 
are tough, and contain bone and tendons. They are used 
for soup, cheap stews, and mince meat. 

Principles Involved in the Cooking of Meat 

But three principles are involved in the cooking of all 
meats, and a statement of these principles is made before 
recipes are given which apply them. 

I. Tender cuts of meat are broiled, fried, or roasted. 
The meat is first subjected to strong heat which coagulates 



Digitized by 



Google 



MEATS 163 

the albumin, and this forms a crust which retains the juices 
in the meat. If the cut is thick enough, the meat will then 
cook in its own juices, and if this cooking is continued long 
enough, it will soften the connective tissue also. If the cut 
is thin, dry heat will harden the connective tissue. Strong 
heat is needed at first, to form the crust and to develop 
flavor, but the heat should be reduced somewhat after this 
is accomplished or the meat will cook at too high a tem- 
perature and be dry and tasteless. This method of cook- 
ing should not be applied to tough cuts of meat, because it 
does not soften the tough connective tissue. 

II. Tougher cuts of meat are boiled, stewed, or cooked 
by some method that combines the stewing and roasting. 
Meat is cooked in either a large or small quantity of water, 
at a temperature of i7o°-i8o° F. for several hours. This 
long, slow cooking in water softens the elastin and collagen, 
forms of connective tissue which occur in muscle fiber, and 
coagulates the proteins, and this method of cooking makes 
tough meat tender. The meat should be started in boiling 
water, but after the first fifteen minutes the heat should be 
reduced, and the meat allowed to cook slowly. Low heat 
softens the connective tissue, while boiling dissolves it and 
leaves a stringy mass of fibers. 

Sometimes the first method and second are combined, 
and meat is subjected to strong heat at first to sear over 
the outside and develop flavor, and then the meat is stewed. 

III. Very tough cuts of meat are used for soup making 
because they are apt to be juicy, and it is more economical 
to use cheap cuts for this purpose. Meat is placed in cold 
water and allowed to stand ; the cold water draws out the 
soluble albumins, extractives, and other soluble compounds. 
The meat is then slowly heated to about 160^ F. and al- 



Digitized by 



Google 



i64 MEATS 

lowed to cook for several hours. The slow cooking dis- 
solves some of the albuminoids and fat. The longer it is 
cooked, the niore gelatin and fat are obtained. Soup 
contains soluble albumin, extractives, blood which con- 
tains hemoglobin, also gelatin and fat, — these form a 
very small percentage of the nutrients in meat. The nutri- 
tive value of meat soup is in the substances added to it. 
A soup usually stimulates the appetite. 

Experiments with Meat. * 

I. Scrape a piece of round steak until you can remove no more 
pulp. The white substance which remains is connective tissue. 
The pulp contains all the proteins in the meat. It is used to make 
beef sandwiches for invaUds, and is* sometimes fed to children from 
eighteen months to two years old to furnish protein. 

II. Cut round steak in small pieces and soak in cold water. Note 
color of the water. Heat the meat slowly, and press out the juice. 
This is called beef juice and is used for invalids and for infants from 
one year to eighteen months old. It is usually made by adding very 
little water. It contains albumin, coloring matter, and extractives. 

III. To show that albumin is present, heat the juice to nearly 
boiHng, 1 80° F., and note the brown scum. How would you know 
that extractives are present? 

IV. Soak meat over night in salt water. Note change in color 
and the presence of dissolved myosin and fibrin. 

V. Pour boiHng water over lean round steak, and boil ten minutes. 
Note appearance of water, to find whether albumin is present. Taste 
it to find flavor. 

Cooking of Tender Cuts — Principle One 

Roast Beef. Rib Roast. — The best cuts for roasting 
are called the prime ribs. Have the ribs removed and 

* Pork, lamb, mutton, and veal roasts are cooked in the same way as beef 
roast, but they require a longer time for cooking, as they should never be 
served rare as beef is served. They require at least twenty minutes per 
pound. 



Digitized by 



Google 



MEATS 165 

have the meat rolled. This insures more even cooking 
than if the bones are left in, for when they are, the thin 
part is overdone before the rest is cooked. If the meat has 
but little fat, have a piece of suet rolled in with the roast, 
and remove it before the roast is sent to the table to serve. 

Sprinkle salt and pepper on the meat, and dredge with 
flour. This is done so as to form a crust and prevent the 
escape of the juice. Have the oven very hot at first so as 
• to sear the outside quickly and retain the juice. After 
ten minutes reduce the heat so as to insure thorough cook- 
ing. If. the oven is very hot all the time, the outside will 
burn while the inside is raw. Baste the meat occasionally 
with the drippings. Never add water to a roast unless 
the meat has so little fat that there is danger of burning or 
charring. Never add it until after the first fifteen minutes. 
Allow fifteen minutes' cooking to each pound of meat. 
That is, allow an hour for a four-pound roast, and an hour 
and a half for a six-pound roast. 

Brown Gravy. — Pour off some of the fat from the pan 
in which the roast has cooked. To the remainder of the 
fat add three tablespoons of flour, and rub free from lumps. 
Add one and one half cups of boiling water and cook until 
it thickens ; add one fourth teaspoon of salt and a speck of 
pepper. 

Yorkshire Pudding. — One half cup of milk, one half 
cup of flour, one egg, one eighth teaspoon of salt. Mix the 
salt and flour ; add milk and rub smooth ; add egg well 
beaten. Pour into the pan where the roast beef is cook- 
ing, or cover the bottom of another pan with some of the 
drippings from the roast, and pour the mixture ovet the 
fat. Bake in a hot oven twenty minutes, and serve with 
roast beef. 



Digitized by 



Google 



1 66 MEATS 

Lamb Chops. — Select rib or loin chops and remove the 
skin and some of the fat. If all the fat is removed, the 
chops will be dry and tasteless. Have the frying pan 
smoking hot, and place a small piece of the fat from the 
' meat on a fork and rub the pan with it. Remove the fat 
and place the chops in the pan. When one side is seared 
over, turn the chops and sear the other side, turn frequently 
to prevent burning, and cook at a lower temperature after 
the first few minutes. Cook long enough so that the chops 
will not be rare, — from eight to twelve minutes, depending 
on the thickness of the cut. When done, season with salt 
and pepper ; serve immediately. Mutton and pork chops 
are cooked in the same way. 

Veal Cutlets. — Cut the cutlets in pieces for individual 
servings. Sprinkle with salt and pepper, dip in crumbs or 
flour, egg, and crumbs, and fry in bacon fat, lard, or butter, 
until well browned. Cook slowly so that the cutlets will 
be cooked throughout. Pour Brown or Tomato Sauce 
over, and simmer twenty minutes. 

Brown Sauce. — Brown one fourth cup of butter; add 
one fourth teaspoon of chopped onion and brown; add 
three tablespoons of flour and stir until browned ; add one 
and one half cups of boiling water and cook until it thickens. 
Add one fourth teaspoon of salt, one eighth teaspoon of 
pepper. (One half cup of mushrooms or one fourth cup 
of capers may be added.) 

Tomato Sauce. — (See p. 95.) 

Fried Chicken. — Cut a young chicken in pieces ready 
to serve. Sprinkle with salt, pepper, and flour. Place 
in a deep pan ; add one fourth cup of butter, cover the pan, 
place in a hot oven, and cook from twenty to thirty min- 
utes. Turn several times to cook evenly. 



Digitized by 



Google 



MEATS 167 

Another method is to place the chicken in the frying pan, 
add the butter, and fry slowly for fifteen to twenty minutes. 
Serve with White Sauce made from the butter which 
remains in the pan. 

Tougher Cuts — Principle Two 

Hamburg Steak. — Pass one pound of round steak 
through a meat chopper; add one small onion chopped 
fine, one fourth teaspoon of salt, one eighth teaspoon of 
pepper, and one beaten egg. Mix thoroughly and shape 
into about six balls. Fry slowly in a small amount of 
bacon fat or salt pork, or some of the fat from the meat. 
Cover the fr3dng pan, and cook ten to fifteen minutes, turn 
to prevent burning. 

Boiled Leg of Mutton. — Remove the skin from the 
mutton, as the skin gives the meat a strong flavor if cooked 
on the meat. Place the meat in a kettle, cover with boil- 
ing water, and boil about fifteen minutes. Reduce the 
heat and let the meat simmer from two and one half to 
three hours, depending on the size of the leg. When 
nearly done, add salt and pepper. Serve with mint or 
caper sauce. 

Mint Sauce. — One half cup of mint chopped fine ; add 
two tablespoons of sugar, three tablespoons of vinegar, 
three tablespoons of boiling water, one eighth teaspoon 
of salt. Let it boil for three minutes, and then remove 
from the stove and let it stand for fifteen minutes. 

Meat in Casserole. — Cut round beef steak or shoulder 
of mutton into one and one half inch pieces, and brown in a 
hot frying pan in beef or bacon fat. When the meat is 
seared, place it in the casserole and brown an onion in the 
fat. Add onion and fat to the meat, and cover with water. 



Digitized by 



Google 



i68 MEATS 



O ^«o 

as 

a 



Digitized by 



Google 



MEATS 169 

Place the cover on the casserole, put it in the oven, and let 
the meat cook slowly for two hours. Cut one cup of car- 
rots and two cups of potatoes into balls or slices, add to the 
meat ; add one half teaspoon of salt and one eighth tea- 
spoon of pepper, and cook until the potatoes are done. 
Serve from the casserole. 

Mutton Stew and Dumplings. — One a;id one half 
pounds of mutton from shoulder, cut in small pieces ; add 
one onion and one carrot, sliced ; cover with boiling water 
and boil fifteen minutes ; reduce the heat and let simmer 
one and one half hours. Turn meat from kettle, season. 
Place potatoes in bottom of kettle, place meat on the 
potatoes, pour liquid over this, and add enough boiling 
water to cover all; place dumplings on top of meat, 
and boil twenty minutes. 

Dumplings. — Mix two cups of flour, four teaspoons of 
baking powder, one fourth teaspoon salt. Add two table- 
spoons of lard as for biscuit. Moisten with one cup of 
water. Shape into six dumplings, and cook with meat 
and potatoes. 

Beef Loaf. — Two pounds of beef from round, one tea- 
spoon of salt, one half cup grated bread crumbs, speck of 
dressing seasoning, one fourth pound of pork, one teaspoon 
of chopped onion, one egg. Pass meat through a chopper, 
mix all ingredients, shape into a loaf, sprinkle with flour, 
anct bake one hour. Serve with tomato or mushroom 
sauce, or plain. Garnish with parsley. 

Tomato Sauce. — One pint of tomatoes, one half onion 
chopped fine. Cook ten minutes. Put through a sieve. 
Melt four tablespoons of butter, rub in four tablespoons of 
flour ; add one half teaspoon of salt, one eighth teaspoon of 
pepper ; add the tomato, and cook until it thickens. 



Digitized by 



Google 



I70 MEATS 

Mincemeat. — Boil five pounds of lean beef four or five 
hours until it is ready to fall to pieces, remove bone, 
and chop fine. Add two pounds of beef suet chopped 
fine, four pounds of raisins; four pounds of currants, one 
pound of citron, four quarts of chopped apples, four table- 
spoons of cinnamon, four tablespoons of cloves, four table- 
spoons of nutmeg, three teaspoons of allspice, three tea- 
spoons of pepper, three teaspoons of ginger, juice of three 
lemons, one pint of molasses, one cup of melted butter, 
two and one half pounds of sugar, two and one half 
quarts of boiled cider. Mix thoroughly and store in a 
cool place. 

Hungarian Goulash. — Cut a two-inch piece of fat pork 
or beef suet in small pieces, and fry out. Cut one and one 
half pounds of beef from the round into small pieces, sea- 
son with salt and pepper, and roll in flour and then fry in 
the fat until brown. Place the beef in a kettle, add one 
chopped onion, one chopped green pepper, one cup of 
chopped celery, two cups of canned tomatoes, cover with 
boiling water, and let it simmer about two hours. 

Chicken Pie. — Purchase a chicken about a year old, 
because it is fatter and better flavored for boiling than the 
young ones. Remove the legs and cut each leg into two 
portions ; remove wings ; cut breast into two parts, also the 
back. Place in a kettle ; cover with boiling water and boil 
ten minutes, and then simmer until the meat is tender, — 
from one and one half to two hours, depending on the 
toughness of the meat. When half done, add one teaspoon 
of salt and one eighth teaspoon of pepper. Remove the 
chicken from the kettle ; thicken the stock with one fourth 
to one third of a cup of flour which has been rubbed smooth 
in cold water. If there is but little fat on the chicken, add 



Digitized by 



Google 



MEATS 171 

several tablespoons of butter to the broth. Return chicken 
to the kettle, and let it simmer in the broth for several 
minutes. When ready to serve, add small baking powder 
biscuits broken in two. 

Warmed-over Meats 

Hash. — One cup of chopped cooked meat, one cup of' 
cooked potatoes sliced in small pieces, one fourth cup of 
boiling water, two tablespoons of butter, one tablespoon 
of onion chopped fine, one half teaspoon of salt, speck of 
pepper. Cook slowly until it begins to brown; turn, and 
serve hot. 

Creamed Dried Beef. — One half cup of dried beef 
shredded with a knife into small pieces. Soak in cold 
water about five minutes. Make White Sauce, omitting 
the salt; add dried beef, bring to the boiling point, and 
serve with potatoes or on toast. 

Beefsteak Pie. — Remove fat and bone from remnants 
of roast beef or steak. Use about two cups cut into small 
pieces; add one small chopped onion, one fourth teaspoon 
of salt, speck of pepper; cover with boiling water, and let 
it simmer about one hour. Then thicken the liquid with 
two tablespoons of flour, and remove to a baking dish, 
place biscuit dough on top of the meat, and bake in the 
oven until the crust is done. The gravy or juice should 
completely cover the meat, otherwise it will cook dry. 

For biscuit dough use one cup of flour, one and one half 
teaspoons of baking powder, one fourth teaspoon of salt, 
two and one half tablespoons of lard or butter. 



Digitized by 



Google 



172 MEATS 

Soup — Principle Three 

Soup Stock 

Soup stock is the soluble part of meat and bone, with 
vegetables and seasoning added. It forms the basis of 
all meat soups, of aspic jelly, of some sauces. 

It may be made from the remnants of roasts or steaks 
with some fresh meat added ; from the trimmings of roasts 
that are sent with the meat; from the tougher parts of 
meat not cooked or served. It is made from beef, veal, 
lamb, mutton, and chicken ; sometimes two or more kinds 
of meat are used. The bones of the young animals are 
better for soup making because they contain more gela- 
tin;, the meat of the older animals is best because it is 
juicier. For the first reason, bones of veal or chicken are 
sometimes added to the soup kettle. Some of the meat is 
frequently seared over by using some of the fat. This 
gives a dark color to the soup stock and adds flavor. Some- 
times caramel is used to darken it. 

Beef Soup Stock. — Select meat from the rump, shin, or 
neck, and be sure to get about two thirds lean meat and one 
third fat and bone, about four pounds in all. Place some 
of the fat in a frying pan and brown a small portion of the 
meat. Cut the meat, fat, and bone into small pieces. 
Place it in a soup kettle and add four quarts of water. 
Let it stand in the cold water one hour to draw out the 
juices and soluble albumin, then add the browned meat,* 
heat slowly, and cook at a low temperature for four or five 
hours. Add one fourth cup each of onion, carrots, celery 
cut into small pieces; a sprig of parsley, one bay leaf, 
one teaspoon of salt, one eighth teaspoon of pepper, and 
simmer one hour. Strain and cool quickly. Let it stand 



Digitized by 



Google 



FISH 173 

in a cold place until the fat rises to the top and solidifies. 
The stock will keep so long as the fat covers it. When it is 
to be used, skim off all of the fat, and reheat with whatever 
additional ingredients are desired. 

Tomato soup may be made by adding tomatoes ; or pearl 
barley, macaroni, -noodles, or vegetables may be added. 

In the process of soup making the connective tissue is 
softened and dissolved; the soluble albumin, juices, and 
extractives are drawn out, but very little of the nutritive 
value from the meat is in the soup. The remaining meat 
is tasteless because the extractives which give meat its 
flavor have been drawn out and the dissolving of the con- 
nective tissue has left the meat stringy. The albumin 
that is in the soup becomes coagulated by heat and is the 
brown scum that floats on the surface. If the scum is 
taken off, some of the nutrients are lost. 

FISH 

Fish are classified in two classes, — those having a back- 
bone and called vertebra tesj and the shellfish. The ver- 
tebrates are classified as fresh and salt water fish, and also 
as white-meat fish, and dark-meat fish. They are classified 
in various other ways, but to apply the principles of cook- 
ing, all vertebrates may be grouped in one general class. 

Fish are similar to meat in composition, structure, and 
nutritive value, in that they are protein foods. They 
take the place of meat in any meal. The muscle consists 
of bundles of fibers bound together by connective tissue. 
There is a marked difference in this tissue from that in 
meat ; the connective tissue in fish is so tender that they 
require but little cooking, and when they are boiled, care 
must be taken or the connective tissue will be dissolved 



Digitized by 



Google 



174 FISH 

and the muscle fibers will fall apart. For this reason fish 
are best when broiled, baked, or fried. 

Selection and Cleaning. — Care must be taken when 
purchasing fish that they are fresh, because fish decompose 
readily and do not keep for any length of time after they 
are taken from the water. In fresh fish the eyes are bright, 
the gills are bright red, and the flesh is firm. When fish 
are purchased from the market, they are cleaned, though 
the scales are not always removed. They may be removed 
with a knife or a fish scaler sold for that purpose. Begin 
at the tail and work towards the head, holding the fish 
firmly by the tail. Wash the fish inside and out with 
plenty of cold water, and dry with a soft cloth. 

Baked Fish. — Remove the head from the fish; sprinkle 
the inside, with salt, pepper ; add a tablespoon of lard, bacon 
drippings, or ohve oil, and sew or fasten the sides together. 
Roll the fish in flour, place in a baking pan, add one fourth 
cup of lard, or bacon fat or oKve oil, and bake until brown, 
from thirty to forty-five minutes, depending on the size 
of the fish. Serve with Tartare Sauce, Drawn Butter, or 
Hollandaise Sauce. 

Fried Fish. — Fish may be fried whole, or skinned and 
boned and cut into slices. Fish like fresh salmon and lake 
trout are sold sliced and ready for frying. Season with 
salt, pepper, and roll in flour or corn meal, or in egg and 
crumbs. Saute slowly in bacon fat, salt pork, lard, or 
olive oil until deep brown, or fry in deep fat. 

Tartare Sauce. — Mix one tablespoon of vinegar, one 
teaspoon of lemon juice, one fourth teaspoon of salt, 
one tablespoon of Worcestershire sauce, and heat over hot 
water. Brown one fourth cup of butter, and add it slowly 
to the mixture. Serve hot with fish. 



Digitized by 



Google 



FISH 17s 



U.S. Department of Agriculture 
A.C. True: Director 


Prepared by 

C.F. LANGWORTHY 

Expert la Charge of Nutrition lnvesti9Jtions 


COMPOSITION OF FOOD MATERIALS. 


Protein 

COD 


imii mm 

Fit Carbohydrates 
1 VAU 

1 

CAlORi 

158 
Ndter 


Ash Water §■■ ,000 Calories 

SALT COD 




es-3 i 




SMOKED HERRING 






r-.34..6 






)tein-.36^ 




F 
1 

A? 


Fuel valu 

■ 

505 CALORI 

ptn POUN 


M 
2 



Composition of Fish. 
CONLEY P. c. — 12 



Digitized by 



Google 



176 FISH 

Drawn Butter Sauce. — Melt three tablespoons of butter; 
add two tablespoons of flour, one. fourth teaspoon of salt, 
one eighth teaspoon of pepper, and brown the mixture. 
Add one cup of water and stir until it begins to boil, and 
then simmer for five minutes. Add two tablespoons of 
butter, in bits; beat it until it is absorbed, and then serve 
immediately on fish. 

Steamed Salmon Loaf. — One can of salmon, four table- 
spoons of milk, three eggs, four tablespoons of melted butter, 
one half cup of bread crumbs, speck of pepper, one fourth 
teaspoon of salt, one teaspoon of chopped parsley. Rub 
butter into salmon, put crumbs into the beaten eggs, mix 
all together, season, steam one hour, or bake twenty minutes. 

Sauce. — One cup of milk, one tablespoon of cornstarch, 
one tablespoon of butter, juice from the salmon, one egg, 
speck of salt. Cook until it thickens, and serve with the 
salmon. 

Oysters ' 

Oyster Stew. — Heat one pint of milk and one pint of 
water, or one quart of milk, to the boiling point. Add one 
pint of oysters, three tablespoons of butter, oiie half tea- 
spoon of salt, one eighth teaspoon of pepper, and cook 
until the edges of the oysters begin to curl. Serve imme- 
diately. 

Fried Oysters. — Purchase large select oysters for fry- 
ing. Wash and drain the oysters, and dry on a soft cloth. 
Season with salt and pepper and then dip the oysters in 
bread crumbs, slightly beaten egg, and crumbs, and saut6 
in butter until brown on both sides, or fry in deep fat. 

Scalloped Oysters. — Roll two cups of bread or cracker 
crumbs until fine. Melt one half cup of butter and mix it 



Digitized by 



Google 



PLANNING A DINNER 177 

with the crumbs. Mix one pint of oysters, one teaspoon 
of salt, one eighth teaspoon of pepper, and one cup of milk. 
Spread one third of the crumbs in the bottom of the baking 
dish, cover with one half of the oysters, put in another 
third of the crumbs and the remainder of the oysters, 
cover with the rest of the crumbs, and bake 20 to 30 minutes. 

PLANNING .\ND SERVING A DINNER 

After the meat lessons, the pupils are prepared to plan 
and serve a dinner, following the same method pursued for 
the breakfasts and lunches. 



A Dinner Table. 

Dinner may consist of the following courses : — 

1. Soup I. Meat, potato, and one 

2. Meat, potato, and one other vegtable 

other vegetable 2. Salad 

3. Dessert 3. Dessert 



Digitized by 



Google 



178 



PLANNING A DINNER 
SUGGESTBD MENUS 



Cream of Celery Soup 
Beef Loaf Tomato Sauce 

Creamed Cauliflower 
Lemon Pie 



Mashed Potato 



Veal Cutlets Brown Sauce Baked Potato 

Lima Beans 
Cabbage Salad or Waldorf Salad 

Chocolate Pudding 



Leg of Mutton 



Riced Potatoes 
Lettuce Salad 
Caramel Ice Cream 



Squash 



Cake 



Cream of Tomato Soup 

Fried Chicken Baked Potato Creamed Peas 

Banana and Nut Salad 

Bavarian Cream 



Digitized by 



Google 



CHAPTER XIII 

GELATINS AND ICES. SOME ADDITIONAL 
RECIPES 

GELATIN 

Gelatin is manufactured from the albuminoids in meat, 
— ossein in bone, elastin in cell walls, collagen in connec- 
tive tissue. Bone, tendons, ligaments, and all forms of 
connective tissue are boiled, and the substance extracted 
forms gelatin when cooled. It occurs in greatest abun- 
dance in the bones of young animals. 

Grelatin does not build tissue, but yields heat and energy 
when oxidized. Its food value is not very high, as so small 
a quantity of it is used at a time. It is easily digested 
and furnishes a vehicle for adding nutritious foods to the 
diet, as it makes it possible to serve them in attractive ways. 

General Directions. — One box of pulverized gelatin 
contains four tablespoons of gelatin. It should be soaked 
in one cup of cold water for ten minutes. Add one quart 
of boiling water, but never boil gelatin, or the thickening 
power is destroyed. For thick jelly use less water. Pine- 
apple juice should be boiled before gelatin is added, as the 
fresh pineapple contains a ferment that prevents the 
gelatin from thickening. 

Fruit Salad. — Dissolve one box of Knox pulverized gela- 
tin in one cup of cold water. Boil one pint of canned 
pineapple, remove from the fire, add juice of two lemons, 
three oranges, and one cup of sugar ; add one pint of boil- 
ing water to the dissolved gelatin, the fruit juice, one cup 

179 



Digitized by 



Google 



i8o GELATINS AND ICES 

of celery cut fine, and one fourth pound of shelled and 
blanched almonds split lengthwise. Turn into molds, and 
let stand until it stiffens. Serve with Cooked Dressing 
which has been thinned with whipped cream. 

Aspic Jelly. — Aspic is stock, cleared or uncleared, to 
which gelatin has been added. Four tablespoons of 

gelatin are usually used to 
five cups of stock. Soak 
the gelatin in one cup of 
cold water, and pour the 
boiling hot stock over. To- 
matoes, pimentoes, tongue, 
chicken, delicate vegetables, 
sweetbreads, are molded in 
aspic. The mold is lined 
with the aspic, and as soon 
as it begins to set, the solid 
food to be molded is added, 
and more aspic is used to 
cover it. If the other in- 
gredients were added before 
the jelly begins to set, they 
would not be evenly dis- 
tributed throughout, but 
would float on top. 

Lemon Jelly. — Soak two 
tablespoons of gelatin 

Jelly served with Whipped Cream (Knox) in One half CUp COld 

OR Fruit 

water for ten minutes. Pour 
over this slowly two cups of boiling water, and stir until 
dissolved. Add one cup of sugar and one half cup of 
lemon juice. Turn into mold, and chill. 



Digitized by 



Google 



GELATINS AND ICES i8i 

Orange Jelly. — Soak two tablespoons of gelatin in one 
half cup of cold water for ten minutes. Pour over this 
slowly two cups of boiling water, and stir until dissolved. 
Add one cup of sugar, one and one half cups orange juice, 
and three tablespoons lemon juice. Turn into molds, and 
chill. 

Snow Pudding. — Soak one tablespoon of gelatin in 
one fourth cup of cold water, and add one cup of boiling 
water, one cup of sugar, one fourth cup of lemon juice. 
Prepare as for lemon jelly. When mixture has thickened, 
beat until frothy. Add whites of three eggs beaten stiff, 
and continue beating until stiff enough to hold its shape. 
Mold or pile by spoonfuls on a dish. Serve cold with 
boiled custard. 

Maple Bavarian Cream. — Dissolve one tablespoon of 
gelatin in four tablespoons of cold water. Scald two thirds 
cup of maple sirup, add two egg yolks, and cook until it 
thickens. Add gelatin; stir constantly until it begins to 
thicken. Add one and one half cups of cream whipped 
stiff and one half teaspoon of vanilla. Turn into a mold, 
and let stand until it stiffens. 

Pineapple Bavarian Cream. — Soak one tablespoon of 
gelatin in four tablespoons of cold water. Boil one cup 
of grated pineapple^ four tablespoons of sugar, and one 
fourth cup of lemon juice. Add the gelatin, and stir 
constantly until it begins to thicken. Add one and one 
half cups of cream whipped stiff. Turn into a mold, and 
let it stand until it stiffens. 

Pistachio Salad. — Soak 'one half box of gelatin in one 
half cup of cold water. Add one cup of boiling water, 
two tablespoons of sugar, the juice of two oranges and one 
lemon. Color with green coloring. Turn into cups to 



Digitized by 



Google 



i82 GELATINS AND ICES 

stiffen. After the gelatin begins to set, add one half 
pound of chopped walnuts, two cups of chopped celery, 
and let stand until stiff; turn from cups and serve with 
Cooked or Mayonnaise Dressing. 

ICES 

Frozen Desserts. — Frozen dishes may be grouped in 
two general classes, — those containing cream, as ice 
cream, parfait, and mousse ; and those made from water 
and fruit juice, as ices, sherbet, frapp6, and punch. The 
number of combinations of milk, cream, fruit, nuts, fruit 
juice, and flavorings is practically limitless, and many 
names are given to the different combinations. The direc- 
tions for freezing and packing are practically the same in 
every case, except where whipped cream is used. In this 
case the mixture is frozen without stirring. 

Directions for Freezing. — Purchase coarse rock or ice 
cream salt. Place the ice in a bag and tie loosely ; crush 
with the broad side of an ax or wooden mallet until the 
pieces are small and of uniform size. Snow may be used 
in place of ice. Have the mixture to be frozen ready. 
Scald the ice cream can, and rinse and dry just before using 
it. Place the mixture in the can (the can should not 
be more than three fourths full of the mixture to be frozen, 
as it expands during freezing). Place the can in the wooden 
tub of the freezer, insert the dasher, put on the cover and the 
top. Place the cork or plug in the opening in the side of 
the freezer, ^nd leave it there until the mixture is frozen. 
Use three measures of ice to one of salt, and pack the freezer 
solidly. When snow is used, less salt is needed, as the snow 
is loosely packed. Turn the crank slowly at first, and then 
more rapidly after the mixture begins to freeze. Salt 



Digitized by 



Google 



GELATINS AND ICES 183 

solution has a lower freezing point than pure water, so when 
the salt dissolves, the salt solution cannot stay solid at the 
temperature of the ice. Any substance going into solu- 
tion absorbs heat. This heat absorbed by the dissolving 
of the salt is taken from the contents of the can. Ice 
melting absorbs heat. This heat is also taken from the 
contents of the can. Care must be taken that the salt 
Vater in the tub of the freezer does not reach above the 
cover of the can, or it will enter the can. After the mixture 
is frozen suflSciently, draw off the water by removing the 
cork or plug, remove the cover and dasher and pack the 
cream solidly, then replace the cover, and pack the freezer 
again with ice and salt, but do not insert the cork. 

Lemon Ice. — To four cups of bpiling water add two 
cups of sugar and the grated rind of two lemons. Boil 
five minutes. Add one half cup of lemon juice, strain, 
cool, and freeze. 

Orange Ice. — Four cups of water, two cups of sugar, 
one fourth cup of lemon juice, grated rind of two oranges, 
and juice of four oranges. Make sirup as for lemon ice ; 
add fruit juice, cool, strain, and freeze. 

Ice Cream. — To one quart of thin cream add three 
fourths cup of sugar and one half teaspoon of vanilla or 
any other flavor desired. Freeze. 

Maple Mousse. — Four eggs, yolks and whites separate, 
one cup maple sirup, one quart of cream, one teaspoon of 
vanilla. Beat the yolks of the eggs very light, stir in one 
cup of maple sirup, and cook until it thickens, stirring 
constantly. Cool. Add one quart of cream and the beaten 
whites of the eggs and vanilla. Strain, cool, and freeze. 

Cranberry Sherbet. — Wash one quart of cranberries, 
cover with one pint of cold water, and cook until soft. When 



Digitized by 



Google 



i84 ADDITIONAL RECIPES 

soft, press through a fruit press, and add enough water to 
make one quart of juice. Add the juice of two oranges 
and two cups of sugar, and heat to the boiling point. Chill, 
turn into the freezer, and freeze. Serve with turkey, 
chicken, or game course. 

SOME ADDITIONAL RECIPES 

To be used with the meat lessons when not enough work 
is provided to keep the pupils occupied. 

Simple Layer Cakes. — Bake plain cake in two layer 
cake pans, and use any of the following filhngs and frost 
the top with White Frosting. 

Marshmallow Cream Filling. — Beat one eup of cream 
until stiff, add one fourth cup of powdered sugar, one half 
teaspoon of vanilla, one egg white beaten stiff and dry, and 
one half cup of marshmallow cut into small pieces. Spread 
between the layers and on top, and serve while fresh. 

Lady Baltimore Filling. — Make White Frosting and to 
one half of it add one half cup of chopped raisins, one half 
cup of chopped nuts, and three chopped figs. Spread 
between the layers, and frost the top with the remainder of 
the frosting. 

Fig Filling. — Chop one fourth pound of figs, add one 
half cup of cold water and one fourth cup of sugar, and boil 
until it thickens. Spread between the layers, and frost 
the top of the cake. 

Chocolate Filling. — (See p. 130, Chocolate Frosting.) 

Blitz Kuchen. — One cup of butter, or one half cup of 
butter and one half cup of lard, creamed until soft, add one 
cup of sugar and mix thoroughly. Add four beaten eggs, 
and beat until thoroughly blended. Add alternately three 
fourths cup of milk and two cups of flour in which three 



Digitized by 



G6ogIe 



ADDITIONAL RECIPES 185 

teaspoons of baking powder and one fourth teaspoon of salt, 
one teaspoon of cinnamon, have been sifted. Add grated 
rind of one lemon. Spread in a shallow pan about one fourth 
inch thick. Sprinkle with three fourths cup of nuts, one 
fourth cup of sugar and cinnamon. Bake in a hot oven. 

Cottage Pudding. — Cream one fourth cup of butter, add 
two thirds cup of sugar, one egg, one cup of milk, two and 
one fourths cups of flour, four teaspoons of baking powder, 
one fourth teaspoon of salt. Mix as for Plain Cake. Bake 
thirty-five minutes and serve with Vanilla or Hard Sauce. 

Hard Sauce. — Cream one third cup of butter ; add one 
cup of powdered sugar gradually ; add one fourth teaspoon 
of flavoring, and shape into small balls. 

Rice Pudding. — Cook one half cup of rice in one pint of 
boiling water for twenty minutes, or until soft. Add one 
half cup of sugar, one pint of milk, two well-beaten eggs, 
one half cup of raisins, speck of nutmeg, and bake slowly 
until firm. 

Bread Pudding. — Mix one pint of bread crumbs, one 
quart of milk, one cup of sugar, four egg yolks, two table- 
spoons melted butter, and the juice of lemon or one teaspoon 
of lemon extract. Beat until blended. Turn into a baking 
dish and bake three quarters of an hour. Take from oyen, 
spread jam or jelly over the top, cover with the whites of 
four eggs beaten stiff and dry, to which has been added four 
tablespoons of sugar and one fourth teaspoon of lemon 
extract. Return to the oven until the eggs are browned. 
Serve with cream. 

Date Pudding. — Wash one pound of dates and remove 
the stones, add one cup of walnuts chopped, one half cup of 
sugar, two eggs well beaten, and one half cup of flour and 
two teaspoons of baking powder sifted together. Mix well, 



Digitized by 



Google 



i86 ADDITIONAL RECIPES 

and bake slowly about two hours. Pour one cup of cream 
over the pudding while it is warm, and serve with whipped 
cream. 

Fig Pudding. — Wash and dry one pound of figs and cut 
into small pieces. Cream one cup of shortening ; add two 
cups of sugar and three unbeaten eggs. Sift together three 
cups of bread crumbs, one half teaspoon of nutmeg, one 
teaspoon of cinnamon, and add to the first mixture. Add 
one half cup of milk and the figs, and beat well. Turn into 
two buttered molds, and steam one to one and one half hours. 

Blueberry Pudding. — Cream two thirds cup of butter, 
add two thirds cup of sugar, two eggs well beaten, three 
fourths cup of milk, and two cups of flour, three teaspoons of 
baking powder, one fourth teaspoon of salt, sifted together. 
Mix as for cake. When well beaten, add two cups of floured 
blueberries. Turn into two buttered molds. Steam one 
hour, and then bake one half hour. Serve with Hard Sauce 
and whipped cream. 

Marguerites. — Boil one cup of sugar and one half cup 
of water until it threads. Cut six marshmallows in small 
pieces and add to the sirup. After the marshmallows are 
dissolved, add the sirup to the beaten whites of two eggs ; 
add one fourth teaspoon of vanilla, one cup of chopped nut 
meats, one half cup of chopped figs or dates. Spread on 
crackers, and serve with ices. 

Torte. — Beat the whites of five eggs until stiff and dry; 
add two and one half cups of powdered sugar and continue 
beating until thoroughly blended; add one tablespoon of 
vinegar and one teaspoon of vanilla. Line two shallow 
pans with oiled or greased paper, and bake in a very slow 
oven for at least an hour. Put strawberries, pineapple, or 
peaches between the layers and whipped cream on top. 



Digitized by 



Google 



ADDITIONAL RECIPES 187 

Cream Puflfs. — Put one half cup of butter and one cup 
of boiling water into a stewpan, and let it come to the boil- 
ing point. Gradually add one cup of flour, and boil two 
minutes, stirring constantly. Remove from the fire, and 
add four unbeaten eggs one at a time, mixing thoroughly 
after each egg is added. Drop by spoonfuls about two 
inches apart on greased paper. Bake one half hour in a 
moderate oven. 

Almond Cookies. — Cream one half cup of butter; gradu- 
ally add one and one fourth cups sugar, one half cup of 
sour milk, one beaten egg, one half teaspoon of almond ex- 
tract, and one fourth teaspoon salt, one half teaspoon soda, 
and two cups of flour sifted together. Mix thoroughly, 
roll thin, and bake in a hot oven. 

. Rocks. — Cream one cup of shortening; add one and one 
half cups of sugar, three eggs well beaten, two tablespoons 
of water, one teaspoon soda, one teaspoon cinnamon, one 
fourth teaspoon salt, two and one half cups of flour sifted 
together. Add one cup of chopped walnuts and one cup of 
raisins. Drop by spoonfuls on greased paper one and one 
half inches apart, and bake in a hot oven. 

Molasses Cookies. — Cream three fourths cup of shorten- 
ing; add one cup of sugar, one cup of molasses, and one cup 
of boiling water. Place on the stove, and let it come to the 
boiling point. Remove from the stove and cool. Add one 
beaten egg, one half teaspoon of soda, two teaspoons of 
cinnamon, two teaspoons of ginger, one teaspoon of cloves, 
and three and one half cups of flour sifted together. Mix 
thoroughly. Drop by spoonfuls on greased paper one 
inch apart, and bake in a hot oven. 

Prune Pie. — Wash three fourths pound of prunes and 
soak overnight or several hours in cold water. Cook until 



Digitized by 



Google 



i88 ADDITIONAL RECIPES 

soft ; add one half cup of sugar, two tablespoons of flour, 
one tablespoon of butter, one half tablespoon of lemon 
juice, one fourth teaspoon of salt. Line a plate with crust 
and cover with an upper crust. 

Raisin Pie. — Mix one and one half cups of chopped 
raisins, one half cup of sugar, one cup of water, one table- 
spoon of flour, and one lemon cut into thin slices. Line 
the plate with crust, and cover with one half inch strips of 
crust. 

Chocolate Pie. — Mix four tablespoons of cornstarch, 
one half cup of sugar, four tablespoons of grated chocolate, 
one eighth teaspoon of salt, add three egg yolks and two 
cups of milk, and cook until it thickens, stirring constantly. 
Add one teaspoon of vanilla. Bake the crust as for lemon 
pie. Fill the crust with the filling, and cover with the 
whites of three eggs beaten stiff, to which two tablespoons 
of sugar have been added, and bake until brown. Serve 
cold. 

Devil's Food. — Cream one half cup of butter, add one 
cup of sugar, mix thoroughly. Add the yolks of two 
eggs, one half cup of sour milk in which one teaspoon of 
soda has been thoroughly dissolved, two cups of flour, and 
lastly the whites of two eggs, and one teaspoon of vanilla. 

Grate three ounces of chocolate, mix with one half cup 
of sweet milk, one half cup of sugar, and the yolk of one 
egg. Boil until stiff, in double boiler, then add to the 
white dough, beat thoroughly and bake in a moderate 
oven, about forty-five minutes. 



Digitized by 



Google 



CHEMICAL COMPOSITION OF FOODS 



189 



Tables Showing the Chemical Composition of Foods Com- 
monly Used in the Average American Diet 



Taken from Bulletin 28, Office of Experiment Stations, and Farmers' Bulletin 142. 




U. S. Department of Agriculture 






Food 


Watee 


Protein 


Fat 


Carbo- 
hydrate 


Cellvlose 


Mineral 


Cereals 


Per Cent 


Per Cent 


Per Cent 


Per Cent 


Per Cent 


Per Cent 


Wheat . . . 


10.6 


12.2 


1-7 


71-3 


2.4 


1.8 


Corn . . 




10.8 


10.0 


4-3 


71.7 


1.7 


1.5 


Oats . . 




II.O 


II.8 


5.0 


59.7 


9-5 


3.0 


Rye . . 




10.5 


12.2 


1.5 


71.8 


2.1 


1.9 


Rice . . 




12.0 


8.0 


2.0 


76.0 


• I.O 


1.0 


Barley 




10.9 


II.O 


2.3 


69.5 


3.8 


2.5 


Buckwheat 




12.6 


lO.O 


2.2 


64.5 


8.7 


2.0 


Legumes 














Fresh Legumes: 














String beans 


89.2 


2-3 


.3 


7.4 


1.9 


.8 


SheUed kidney 














beans . . 


58.9 


9.4 


.6 


29.1 


1.7 


2.0 


Shelled lima 


■ 












beans . . 


68.5 


7-1 


•7 


22.0 


1.7 


1.7 


Shelled peas . 


74.6 


7.0 


.5 


16.9 


1.7 


I.O 


Dried Legumes: 














Lima beans . 


10.4 


18.1 


1.5 


65.9 




4.1 


Navy beans . 


12.6 


22.5 


1.8 


59.6 


4.4 


3-5 


Lentils . . 


8.4 


25.7 


I.O 


59.2 




5-7 


Dried peas 


9.5 


24.6 


I.O 


62.0 


4.5 


2.9 


Peanuts . . 


9.2 


25.8 


38.6 


24.4 


2.5 


2.0 


Roots and 














Tubers 














Potato . . . 


78.3 


2.2 


.1 


18.0 


•4 


I.O 


Sweet potato 


69. 


1.8 


•7 


26.1 


1.3 


i.i 


Beets .... 


87.5 


1.6 


.1 


8.8 


.9 


I.I 


Celeriac . . . 


84.1 


1.5 


.4 


11.8 


1.4 


.8 


Carrots . . 




88.2 


I.I 


.4 


8.2 


I.I 


1.0 



Digitized by 



Google 



igo 



CHEMICAL COMPOSITION OF FOODS 



Tables Showing the Chemical Composition op Foods Com- 
monly Used in the Average American DiEt — Continued 



Food 


Water 


Protein 


Fat 


Carbo- 
hydrate 


Cellulose 


Mineral 
Matter 


Roots and 














Tubers 


Per Cent 


Per Cent 


Per Cent 


Per Cent 


Per Cent 


Per Cent 


Parsnips . . . 


83.0 


1.6 


•5 


II.O 


2.5 


1.4 


Salsify . . . 


85.4 


4.3 


.3 


6.8 


2.0 


1.2 


Turnips . . . 


89.6 


1.3 . 


.2 


6.8 


1.3 


.8 


Rutabagas . . 


88.9 


1.3 


.2 


7-3 


1.2 


1. 1 


Onions . . . 


87.6 


1.6 


•3 


9.1 


.8 


.6 


Fresh Fruits 














Apples . . . 


84.6 


.4 


•5 


13.0 


1.2 


•3 


Apricots . . . 


85.0 


I.I 




. 


13.4 




•5 


Bananas . . . 


75-3 


1-3 




6 


21.0 


1.0 


.8 


Blackberries 


86.3 


1-3 


I. 





8.4 


2.5 


.5 


Cherries . . . 


80.Q 


I.O 




8 


16.5 


.2 


.6 


Cranberries . . 


88.9 


.4 




6 


8.4 


1.4 


i-S 


Currants . . 


85.0 


1.5 






12.8 




.7 


Grapes . . . 


77-4 


1.3 


I 


6 


14.9 


4.3 


.5 


Lemons . . . 


89.3 


I.O 




7 


7-4 


1. 1 


.5 


Muskmelons 


89.5 


.6 




. 


7.2 


2.1 


.6 


OUves . . . 


67.0 


2.5 


17 


I 


5.7 


3.3 


4.4 


Oranges . . . 


86.9 


.8 




2 


II.6 




•5 


Peaches . . . 


89.4 


.7 




I 


5.8 


3.6 


.4 


Pears .... 


80.9 


1.0 




5 


15.7 


1-5 


.4 


Pineapples . . 


89.3 


.4 




3 


9-3 


.4 


•3 


Plums . . . 


78.4 


I 




. 


20.1 




.5 


Raspberries, red 


85.8 


I 




. 


9.7 


2.9 


.6 


black 


84.1 


1.7 


I 





12.6 


. , 


.6 


Strawberries 


90.4 


1.0 




6 


6.0 


1.4 


.6 


Watermelons 


92.4 


.4 




.2 


6.7 


.. 


•3 


Dried Fruits 














Apples . . . 


26.1 


1.6 


2.2 


62.0 


6.1 


2.0 


Apricots . . . 


29.4 


4.7 


1.0 


62.5 




2.4 



Digitized by 



Google 



CHEMICAL COMPOSITION OF FOODS 



191 



Tables Showing the Chemical Composition of Foods Com- 
monly Used in the Average American Diet — Concluded 



Food 


Water 


Protein 


Fat 


Carbo- 
hydrate 


Cellulose 


Mineral 
Matter 


Dried Fruits 


Per Cent 


Per Cent 


Per Cent 


Per Cent 


Per Cent 


Per Cent 


Citrons . . 


IQ.O 


•5 


1.5 


78.1 


. . 


.9 


Dates 




15.4 


2.1 


2.8 


74.6 


3.8 


1-3 


Figs . . 




l8.8 


4.3 


•3 


68.0 


6.2 


2.4 


Pears . . 




16.6 


2.8 


5.4 


66.0 


6.9 


2.4 


Prunes 




22.3 


2.1 




71.2 


2.1 


2.3 


Raisins . 




14.6 


2.6 


2,-3 


73.6 


2.5 


3-4 


Currants 




17.2 


2.4 


1-7 


71.2 


3.0 


4.5 


Nuts 














Almonds . . 


4.5 


21.0 


54.9 


17.3 


2.0 


2.0 


Hickory nuts 


3.7 


15.4 


67.4 


II.4 




2.1 


Pecans . . 


2.7 


9.6 


70-5 


15.3 




1.9 


Walnuts . . 


2.5 


18.4 


64.4 


13.0 


1.4 


1.7 


Milk and 














Products 


J 












Whole milk . 


. 87.0 


Z'2, 


4.0 


5.0 






•7 


Skim milk . 


. 90.S 


3.4 


•3 


5-1 






•7 


Buttermilk . 


91.0 


3.0 


•5 


4.8 






•7 


Condensed milk 


26.9 


8.8 


8.3 


541 






1.9 


Cheese, Chedda 


r 27.4 


27.7 


36.8 


4.1 






4.0 


Full cream 


34.2 


25-9 


33.7 


2.4 






2>^^ 


Roquefort 


• 39.3 


22.6 


29.5 


1.8 






6.8 


Swiss 


. 31.4 


27.6 


34-9 


1.3 






4.8 


Neufchatel 


50.0 


18.7 


27.4 


i.S 






2.4 


Cottage 


. 72.0 


20.9 


I.O 


4.3 






1.8 


Eggs . . . 


. 74.7 


14.8 


10.5 








10 



CONLEY p. C. — 13 



Digitized by 



Google 



192 



AMOUNT OF REFUSE IN SOME FOODS 



Tables Showing the Amount of Refuse in Some Vegetables, 
AND IN Meats and Fish 





Refuse 


Water 


Protein 


Fat 


Carbo- 
hydrate 


Mineral 
Matter 


Vegetables 


Per Cent 


Per Cent 


Per Cent 


Per Cent 


Per Cent 


Per Cent 


Cabbage . . . 


15.5 


77.7 


1.4 


.2 


4.8 


.9 


Celery . . . 


20.0 


75-6 


.9 


.1 


2.6 


.8 


Cucumbers . . 


15.0 


18.1 


•7 


.2 


2.6 


.4 


Lettuce . . . 


150 


80.5 


I.O 


.2 


2.5 


.8 


Spinach . . . 




92.3 


2.1 


•3 


3.2 


2.1 


Tomatoes . . 




94.3 


.9 


.4 


3.9 


.6 


Beef, Fkesh: 














Chuck, ribs . 


16.3 


52.6 


I5-0 


14.3 




.6 


Loin, medium 


13-3 


52.5 


15.6 


16.6 




.7 


Ribs ... 


20.8 


43.8 


13-5 


20.0 




•5 


Roimd, me- 














dium . . 


7.2 


60.7 


18.4 


12.2 




.8 


Shoulder and 














clod . . 


16.4 


56.8 


15.9 


9-3 




.7 


Beef, Dried 














AND Smoked 


4.7 


53.7 


25.6 


6.6 




5-5 


Veal: 














Cutlets, round 


3.4 


68.3 


19.5 


7-1 




.8 


Leg ... 


14.2 


60.1 


15.0 


7-S 


.. 


•7 


Mutton : 














Leg ... 


18.4 


51-2 


14.6 


14.0 




.6 


Loin . . . 


16.0 


42.0 


I3-I 


26.9 




.5 


Pork, Fresh : 














Loin chops 


19.7 


41.8 


13.0 


23.0 




.6 


Ham . . 


10.7 


48.0 


131 


24.6 




.6 


Pork, Salted 














and Smoked 














Bacon . . . 


7.7 


' 17.4 


8.8 


59.1 




3.1 


Ham . . . 


13.6 


1 34.8 


, 13.8 


31.7 




3.2 


Salt, fat . . 




7.9 


'-^ 


' 81.9 


i 


2.9 



Digitized by 



Google 



AMOUNT OF REFUSE IN SOME FOODS 



193 



Tables Showing the Amount of Refuse in Some Vegetables, 
AND IN Meats and Fish — CotUinued 





Refuse 


Watek 


Peotein 


Fat 


Carbo- 
hydrate 


Mineral 


Poultry : 


Per Cent 


Per Cent 


Per Cent 


Per Cent 


Per Cent 


Per Cent 


Fowl . . . 


259 


47.1 


13.3 


II.7 




.5 


Turkey . . 


22.7 


42.4 


15.6 


17.5 




.6 


Fresh Fish: 














Black bass. . 


46.7 


41.9 


10.3 


.5 






.6 


Cod. . . . 


29.9 


58.5 


10.6 


.2 






.8 


Mackerel . . 


40.7 


43.7 


II.4 


3.5 






.7 


Perch . . . 


54.6 


34.4 


8.7 


1.8 






•S 


Pickerel . . 


35-9 


51.I 


II.9 


.2 






.9 


Pike. . . . 


30.5 


55.4 


13.0 


•4 






./ 


Salmon . . . 


23.8 


51.2 


14.6 


95 






.9 


Trout, brook . 


37-9 


48.4 


n.7 


1.3 






.7 


Trout, lake . 


35-2 


45.0 


12.4 


6.6 






.8 


Whitefish . . 


43.6 


39.4 


10.3 


3.6 






.9 


Pres'v'd Fish: 














Cod, salt . . 


24.9 


40.2 


16.0 


.4 


.. 


18.5 
(salt) 


Herring, 














smoked 


44.4 


19.2 


20.5 


8.8 




7A 


Canned Fish: 














Caviare . . 




38.1 


30.0 


19.7 


7.6 


4.6 


Salmon . . 


. . 


63.5 


21.8 


12. 1 


. . 


2.6 


Sardines . . 


5-0 


53.6 


23.7 


12. 1 




5.3 


.Shellfish : 














Oysters . . 


. . 


88.3 


6.0 


1.3 


3.3 


I.I 


Clams . . 




80.8 


10.6 


I.I 


5.2 


2.3 


Lobsters . . 


61.7 


30.7 


5.9 


.7 


.2 


.8 


Shrimps . . 




70.8 


25.4 


i.o 


.2 


2.6 



Digitized by 



Google 



TEACHING COOKING IN RURAL SCHOOLS 

SUGGESTIONS FOR TEACHERS 

The demand for some simple instruction for work in 
domestic science which can be given in the one-room rural 
school has been so insistent that the following suggestions 
have been added for the high school or normal school student 
who may teach in a rural school. 

The actual work of housekeeping may vary in diflferent 
localities and under different economic conditions, but, by 
the present generation at least, certain fundamental proc- 
esses will be carried on in the average home. 

These are patching, darning, mending, care, and making 
of clothes ; planning, preparing, and serving meals ; market- 
ing and purchasing the things needed in the home and by 
members of the family ; care of the house, including sweep- 
ing, dusting, and cleaning ; rearing of children and care of 
sick and aged. 

While school instruction in some of these subjects must 
be purely theoretical and hence of little value unless oppor- , 
tunity can be afforded for practical work, cooking and sew- 
ing may be taught in the one-room rural school with simple 
equipment and no great expenditure of money. 

This work will be of little value, however, unless what is 
learned at school is practiced at home, and for this reason 
girls' clubs should be organized, contests and school fairs 
should be held, and school credit should be given for home 
work. 

194 



Digitized by 



Google 



TEACHING COOKING IN RURAL SCHOOLS 195 

The lessons suggested may be given for one or two periods 
a week, preferably the last hour in the session as the work 
may then extend for a longer period of time without inter- 
fering with school work. 

As this work is for the one- or two-room school building 
and as but little space can be utilized, it is best to provide 
only equipment enough for four pupils to cook at a time, the 
other members of the class may observe those at work, 
criticize, and make contributions to the knowledge ac- 
quired concerning the lesson. Each pupil in the class 
should try the recipe at home, and report result. The 
home work should form the greater share of the work done, 
and credit should be given for it. A careful record of cook- 
ing done at home should be made and kept. It is well to 
post this record in a conspicuous place in the schoolroom. 

EQUIPMENT FOR COOKING IN RURAL SCHOOLS 

For four pupils, two pupils working together. 
Cupboard made with shelves and curtain in front. 
Cans or Mason jars for holding sugar, salt, pepper, baking 
powder, soda, flour, etc. 

A molding board. Board for cutting. 



LIST OF 


UTENSILS AND PRICES 




Kitchen table with drawer 


^1.50 Two paring knives 


$ .20 


Two burner oil stove 
Oven to fit stove 


^] 


[.50 to Two steel knives 


.20 




^8.00 Two steel forks 


.20 


J)rip pan to fit oven 




.20 Four teaspoons 


.20 


Teakettle 




.50 Two tablespoons 


.10 


Pail for water 




.20 One Dover egg beater 


.15 


Garbage pail 




.20 One spoon egg beater 


.10 


Two dishpans 




.50 Two one-quart bowls 


.20 






Digitized by VJ 


ooqIc 



196 TEACfflNG COOKING IN RURAL SCHOOLS 



One sieve to fit bowl $ 


.05 


4 cups and saucers $ 


.40 


Two measuring cups 


.10 


4 white plates, large 


.40 


Two one-pint tin basins 


.10 


One grater 


•05 


Two one-quart double boilers 


.70 


2 muffin pans 


.lO 


Two one-quart stewpans 


.50 


I large mixing bowl, 2-quart 


.25 


Two rolling pins 


.10 


One soap dish 


.05 


Two biscuit cutters 


.10 


One lemon squeezer 


.10 


One vegetable brush 


.05 


One match box 


.05 


Two corks for scouring. 




One broiler 


•05 


One utensil pan 


.10 


One corkscrew 


.05 


Two small, frying pans 


.20 


One can opener 


.05 


Two bread pans 


.20 


One creamer and sugar 


.25 


One pie plate 


.10 


One water pitcher 


.15 


One tray 


.10 


Total (excluding stove) 10.00 


One two-quart stewpan 


.30 






One bread knife 


.25 


Flour sacks for dish towels, some 


One butcher knife 


.25 


holders, hemmed dishcloths 




4 white plates, small 


.40 







SUGGESTED LESSONS 

In addition to actual cooking lessons, have pupils find the 
composition of each food, calculate the cost of each lesson, 
note the length of time which it takes to prepare every 
recipe, find out at what meal each one of the foods prepared 
would be served, and learn to find the nutritive value of 
each recipe. 

With the exception of the bread lesson, the following 
lessons may all be prepared in 60 minutes. 

Creamed Potatoes or Cauli- Poached, Boiled, Scrambled 

flower or Carrots Eggs 

Cream of Potato or Tomato Cooked Salad Dressing — 



Soup 
Simmered Beef 
Beef Loaf and Coffee 



Cabbage Salad — Potato 
Salad 
Biscuit — Shortcake 



Digitized by 



Google 



TEACfflNG COOKING IN RURAL SCHOOLS 197 

Mufl&ns and Gingerbread, Apple Pie 

Johnnycake Custard — Custard Pud- 
Bread dings as rice, tapioca, or 
Plain Cake bread 
Sugar Cookies or Oatmeal Plan, prepare, and serve a 

Cookies simple limcheon. 



SCHOOL LUNCHES 

Another method of teaching cooking in the one-room rural 
school is by having the pupils prepare and serve one warm 
dish to supplement the cold limch brought from home. 

Object of the Work. — The object of this work is not 
to furnish a meal, but some warm food to supplement the 
cold limch brought from home ; to make the noon meal- 
time serve as a social hour ; to furnish a pleasanter place 
for eating lunch than the school steps, the wood pile, the 
entry way, or the various other places where pupils have 
been accustomed to eat their limches; to teach table 
manners, politeness, and common social customs ; to teach 
boys and girls to share work ; to teach some things about 
serving foods and planning meals; to interest pupils in 
cooking, in knowing the nutritive value of foods, the rela- 
tion of foods to health; to interest pupils in gardening, 
raising of foods, — vegetable and animal ; to bring school 
and home more closely together by interesting rnothers in 
the work ; to give school credit for work done at home under 
the guidance and direction of mother and teacher ; to give 
to pupils in the rural schools some of the advantages and 
opportunities which all pupils in the city schools enjoy. 

How to make a Success of the Work. — Keep in mind 
that the object of this work is not slum or settlement work. 



Digitized by 



Google 



198 TEACHING COOKING IN RURAL SCHOOLS 

That, except in rare instances, people in the country can 
all afford to furnish good, nutritious meals for their children. 
That the reasons why this work is attempted are social, 
ethical, and educational rather than philanthropic. That 
the work should not be an additional task for a teacher 
already overworked, but should be a pleasant diversion for 
the pupils after they have spent the morning in academic 
work. That the teacher should not be the only one inter- 
ested and responsible, because no pupils remain interested 
unless they share work and responsibiUty . Insist on parents 
sharing the responsibility. Invite the mothers to school 
on a certain day and plan lunches with them. Have dif- 
ferent mothers provide foods occasionally, — as a pot of 
baked beans, cold potatoes and meat for hash, or loan fat 
for a frying lesson of doughnuts or Saratoga chips. Always 
remember that no community work is worth while imless 
the labor is shared by all, and all share the pleasure. Nor- 
mal children like to work with their hands. 

SCHOOL EQUIPMENT FOR SERVING LUNCH 

An oil stove with oven, unless cooking can be done on the 

stove used for heating. 
A kitchen table or a large box covered with an oil cloth. 
2 dishpans A large spoon and ladle 

Soap A board for cutting bread, 

A frying pan meat, or for rolling out 

A drip pan for oven cookies, doughnuts, etc. 

A paring knife A large kettle 

A butcher knife A garbage pail 

A large bowl A water pail 

A fireless cooker would be desirable. - 



Digitized by 



Google 



TEACHING COOKING IN RURAL SCHOOLS 199 

Dish towels and wiping towels, made out of flour sacks 
which may be brought from home or purchased at the 
bakers, in town, for a very small sum. 
Dishes enough to serve the pupils — each pupil may bring 
his dishes from home, but do not use old, discolored, 
nicked dishes. They tend to make the dishwasher care- 
less and to lower the taste of the pupils in regard to neat- 
ness and attractiveness of table service ; they sometimes 
spoil the appetite. 
A dry goods box may be fitted with shelves and a curtain, 
and placed against the wall. This will hold utensils when 
they are not in use. 

How to Secure Supplies. — SuppUes may be brought from 
home by the various pupils in turn. Supplies may be pur- 
chased by the teacher from funds furnished by the school 
board. Supplies may be purchased from funds derived 
from entertainments, school fairs, or prizes secured by pupils 
who enter things made at school at county or state fairs. 
The best method is probably to have the mothers supply 
the food needed, as things can be supplied from farm homes 
at much lower cost than they can be purchased by the 
teacher at city stores. This is the hardest problem for the 
teacher and should be solved by the community. 

Suggestions for Serving the School Lunch. — Pupils 
bring their lunch from home and the school lunch supple- 
ments. Prepare but one dish each day and vary the dish 
from day to day. 

Let pupils know what the dish is to be; plan a week 
ahead. 

Have one or two of the girls make all preparations, before 
school opens (that can be made), so that the lunch work 
interferes but little with the pupils' regular school work. 



Digitized by 



Google 



200 TEACHING COOKING IN RURAL SCHOOLS 

Have one girl get the food ready to serve when school 
is dismissed, or pupils will start to eat their lunches from 
their limch boxes. 

Have each pupil set his desk with paper napkin for the 
table cloth, and place the knife, fork, spoon, and cup in 
proper position. 

Have each pupil fill his own glass or cup with water before 
the hot food is served. 

Have all pupils seated but the server, teacher included, 
if possible. 

Have the older girls do the serving and preparing of food 
at first, then pupils in turn. 

Have all pupils remain seated at their desks until they 
have been excused by the teacher. 

Have some pupils prepared to encourage conversation, 
stories, and laughter at the meal. Make the meal time a 
social hour. 

Have each pupil scrape his own plate and other dishes 
and pile them properly. 

Have the boys scour the knives and utensils, carry the 
water, tend the fire, and empty the dishwater and refuse. 

Have two different pupils wash the dishes daily until 
all have shared in the work. 

FOODS WHICH MAY BE EASILY AND QUICKLY 
PREPARED 

Baked apples Mush and milk 

Baked potatoes Tomato soup, pea soup, potato 

Creamed potatoes, creamed car- soup 

rots, etc. . Corn chowder 

Scalloped potatoes Cocoa, cereal coffee 

Rice and cheese Bacon and eggs 

Rice and milk and sugar Bacon and com 



Digitized by 



Google 



TEACHING COOKING IN RURAL SCHOOLS 201 

Apple sauce Cookies 

Dried fruits, as prunes Custard 

Cottage pie Hash, meat and cold potatoes 

Macaroni and cheese brought from home 

Brown Betty Doughnuts 

Gingerbread Fritters 

REFERENCES FOR STUDY 

" How the World is Fed," Carpenter. 
" How We are Fed," Chamberlain. 

FARMERS^ BULLETINS 

These may be obtained free from the Department of Agricultm-e, 
Washington, D.C. 

34. Meats : Composition and Cooking. 

121. Beans, Peas, and Other Legumes as Food. 

131. Household Tests for Oleomargarine and Renovated Butter. 

142. Nutrition and Nutritive Value of Food. 

175. Home Manufacture and Use of Unfermented Grape Juice. 

203. Canned Fruits, Preserves, and Jellies. 

256. Preparation of Vegetables for the Table. 

295. Potatoes and Other Root Crops as Food. 

298. Food Value of Com and Corn Products. 

391. Economical Use of Meat in the Home. 

413. The Care of Milk and Its Use in the Home. 

270. Modem Conveniences for the Farm Home. 

377. Harmfulness of Headache Mixtures. 

521. Canning Tomatoes at Home and in Club Work. 

389. Bread Making. 375. Care of Food in the Home. 

363. Milk as Food. 359. Canning Vegetables at Home. 

490. Bacteria in Milk. 332. Nuts; Their Uses as Food. 

182. Poultry as Food. 249. Cereal Breakfast Foods. 

293. Fruit as Food. 541. Farm Butter Making. 

93. Sugar as Food. 166. Cheese Making on the Farm. 

85. Fish as Food. 128. Eggs ; Their Uses as Food. 



Digitized by 



Google 



INDEX 



Adds, 53. 

vegetable, 26. 
Albumin, 155. 
Albuminoids, 26. 
, Apples, 39, 54. 

baked, 38. 

steamed, 55. 

stewed, 41. 
Aspic, 178. 

Bacon, 45, 138. 

and fried eggs, 144. 
Bacteria, 65, 66, 67. 
Baking powder, 102, 103, 104. 
Batters and doughs, 100, 10 1. 

griddle cakes, loi . 

muflfins, 107, 108. 
Beans, 

Boston baked, 135. 

lima, 136. 

succotash, 136. 
Berries, canned, 69. 
Beverages, 

chocolate, 11 1. 

cocoa. III. 

coffee, no. 

lemonade, in. 

punch. III. 

tea, no. 

water, 109. 
Biscuit, 104. 
Bread, 121-122. 

judging bread, 120. 
Breads, 

Boston brown, 122. 

coffee cake, 124. 

com, 102. 

gingerbread, 102. 

nut bread, 107. 

Parker House rolls, 1 24. 

Swedish rolls, 1 24. 
Breakfast, 112. 

menus, 117. 

serving, 113. 



Broiling, 47, 48, 49. 
Butter, 148. 

Cakes, 128. 

angel, 132. 

Blitz Kuchen, 184. 

chocolate, 133. 

coffee cake, 124. 

devil's food, 188. 

Dutch apple, 106. 

golden, 132. 

jelly roll, 133. 

Johnny cake, 102. 

layer, 184. 

nut, 132. 

orange, 131. 

plain, 130. 

shortcake, 105. 

Spanish bims, 132. 

spice, 130. 

sponge, 132. 

torte, 186. 
Candy, 84. 

chocolate caramel, 86. 

chocolate fudge, 86. 

cream candy, 86. 

divinity fudge, 85. 

fondant, 85. 

molasses, 85. 

peanut brittle, 84. 

popcorn candied, 86. 

sea foam, 85. 
Canning, 67. 

beans, 72. 

berries, 69. 

com, 68. 

fruit, 69. 

peaches, 69. 

tomatoes, 68. 
Carbohydrates, 24, 26. 

in fruits and vegetables, 54. 
Casein, 146. 
Catsup, 71. 
Cells, 24, 25, 33 



202 



Digitized by 



Google 



INDEX 



203 



Cellulose, 25, 33. 
Cereals, 54, 87, 90. 

cooking of, 91. 

serving of, 92. 
Cheese, 151, 152. 

cottage, 149. 

fondu, 152. 

souiH6, 153. 

straws, 153. 

Welsh rarebit, 152. 
Chili sauce, 72. 
Chocolate, m. 
Cocoa, III. 
Coffee, no. 
Collagen, 155. 
Conserve pear, 72. 
Cookies, 

almond, 187. 

chocolate, 128. 

crispettes, 131. 

molasses (crisp), 127. 

molasses (soft), 127, 187. 

oatmeal, 127. 

rocks, 187. 

sugar, 127. 
Cooking, 

abbreviations and measurements, 9. 

art and science, 32. 

methods, 29. 

necessity for, 27. 

principles, 29, 51. 

reasons, 28. 

temperatures used, 9. 

why taught, 31. 
Com and bacon, 138, 
Cornstarch, 

chocolate, 93. 

mold, 93. 

pudding, 93. 
Cream puffs, 187. 
Croquettes, 137. 
Croutons, 78. 
Custard, 142. 

caramel, 142. 

soft custard, 142. 

Desserts (see Ices), 

frozen, 180. 
Dextrin, 44. 
Dinner, 

menus, 178. 

plan and serve, 177. 



Doughs {see Batters and doughs), 

apple dumplings, 105. 

doughnuts, 137. 

dimiplings, 107. 

shortcake, 105. 
Dressing, salad, 

cooked salad, 61. 

French, 62. 

Mayonnaise, 62. 

sour dressing, 78. 

Eggs, 139-145. 

boiled, 142. 

deviled, 144. 

fried, 144. 

omelet, 98. 

poached, 143. 

scrambled, 143. 

uses of, 141. 
Elastm, 155. 
Energy, 22, 23, 24. 
Experiments, 

cellulose, 26. 

connective tissue, 26. 

eggs, 139. 

meat, 164. 

milk, 148. 

pectin, 70. 

potato, 74. 

protein, 49. 

yeast, 119. 
Extractives, 27, 48. 

uses of, 53. 

Fats, 24, 27. 

in animals, 155. 

in milk, 146. 
Ferments, 30. 

in dough, 118. 
Filling, 

chocolate, 130. 

fig, 182. 

Lady Baltimore, 184. 

marshmallow cream, 184. 

white, 131. 
Fish, 173. 

baked, 174. 

codfish balls, 44. 

croquettes, 137. 

fried, 174. 

selection of, 174. 

steamed salmon loaf, 1 76. 



Digitized by 



Google 



204 



INDEX 



Flour, 9St Q^- 
Foods, 22, 23. 

classes, 24, 53. 

composition, 31, iS^igs. 

frying foods, 46. 

preservation of, 65. 

starchy foods, 80. 

structure of, 24. 

uses of, 53. 

vegetable foods, 33, 38. 
Fritters, 137. 

com, 138. 

com oysters, 138. 
Frosting {see Filling). 
Fruits, 54. 

baked pears, 55. 

canned, 69. 

fruit pimdi, iii. 

fruit roll, 106. 

pickled, 71. 

steamed apples, 55. 

stewed prunes, 58. 

why dried, 55. 

Gas, 15, 16. 
Gelatin, 179. 

aspic, 180. 

fruit salad, 179. 

lemon jelly, 180. 

maple Bavarian cream, 181. 

pineapple Bavarian cream, 181. 

pistachio salad, 181. 

snow pudding, 181. 
Gravy, 165. 

Heat, 28. 

destroys ferments; 30. 
Housekeeper, duties of, 7. 

Ices, 182. 
cranberry sherbet, 183. 
ice cream, 183. 
lemon, 183. 
maple mousse, 183. 
orange, 183. 

JeUy, 69. 
apple, 70. 
aspic, 180. 
currant, 70- 
cranberry, 58. 
grape, 71. 



JeUy, lanoQ, 181. 

orange, 181. 
Junket, 149. 

Kitchen, equipment, 18. 

Lactose, 148. 
Leavening agents, 

eggs and air, 98. 

eggs inclosing air, 98. 

soda and sour milk, 99. 

steam, 97. 

yeast, 118. 
L^umes, S4, i34, US- 
Lemonade, in. 
Luncheon, 

moius for, 145. 

plan and serve, 145. 

Macaroni and cheese, 94. 

Marguaites, 186. 

Meats, 47, 154, i55» 158, i59- 

broiling steak, 48. 

beef loaf, 169. 

beefsteak pie, 171. 

boiled leg of mutton, 168. 

casserole, 168. 

chicken pie, 170. 

creamed dried beef, 171. 

croquettes, 137. 

cuts, 160, 161. 

experiments, 164. 

fried chicken, 166. 

frying bacon, 45. 

Hambiug steak, 167. 

hash, 171. 

Hungarian goulash, 170. 

lamb chops, 166. 

mincemeat, 170. 

mutton stew, 169. 

principles of cooking, 162, 167-172. 

roast beef, 164. 

steak (round), 50. 

veal cutlets, 166. 
Menus, 

breakfast, 117. 

dinner, 178. 

limcheon, 145. 
Milk, 146. 

buttermilk, 148. 

experiments, 148. 

pasteurized, 148. 



Digitized by 



Google 



INDEX 



205 



Mincemeat, 170. 
Mineral matter, 24, rj. 
Mineral salts, 53, 54. 
Molasses, 81, 82. 
Muffins {see Batters). 

Nucleus, 25, 47. 
Nuts, sz, 54. 

Oils, volatile, 27. 
Omelet, 98. 
Onions, 39. 
Ossein, 154. 
Oxidation, 23. 
Oysters, 

fried, 176. 

scalloped, 176. 

stew, 176. 

Pastes, Italian, 94. 
Peanuts, salted, 136. 
Pectin or pectose, 26, 70. 
Pickles, 

beans, 72. 

cucumber, 72. 

peaches, 71. 

nasturtium seeds, 71. 
Pie, 125. 

apple, 125. 

chocolate, 188. 

lemon, 126. 

pnme, 187. 

pumpkin, 126. 

raisin, 188. 

rhubarb, 127. 
Popovers, 97. 

Potato, composition of, 35. 
Potatoes, 74, 75. 

baked, 35. 

boiled, 75.* 

escalloped, 76. 

glazed (sweet), 76. 

grated, 75- 

in white sauce, 76. 

Lyonnaise, 77. 

mashed, 76. 

salad, 78. 

Saratoga chips, 47. 

stuffed, 76. 
Proteins, 10, 24, 25, 26. 

cooking of, 50, 51. 

experiments, 49. 



Protoplasm, 25, 47* 4B. 
Puddings, 

blueberry, 186. 

bread, 185. 

cornstarch, 93. 

cottage, 185. 

date, 185. 

fig, 186. 

fruit, 106. 

fruit roll, 106. 

rice, 185. 

tapioca, 80. 

Yorkshire, 165. 
Punch, III. 

Rice, steamed, 42, 43. 
Rolls {jsee Bread and rolls). 
Roots and tubers, 54, 73. 

composition and food value, 74. 

cooking and method of preparation, 
75. 

succulent, 78, 79. 
Rules, 

deep fat frying, 46. 

dishwashing, 10. 

firemaking, 12. 

for care of sink, 11. 

how to build fire, 14. 

Sago, 80. 
Salads, 61. 

asparagus, 64. 

banana, 64. 

cabbage, 63. 

combination, 64. 

cucumber and tomato, 64. 

fruit, 64. 

grape, 63. 

how to serve and garnish, 62. 

Juno, 153. 

pistachio, 181. 

potato, 78. 

stuffed tomato, 62. 

Waldorf, 63. 
Sauces, 

brown, 166. 

chili sauce, 72. 

cranberry, 58. 

date, 42. 

drawn butter, 176. 

hard, 185. 

lemon, 106. 



Digitized by 



Google 



2o6 



INDEX 



Sauces, 

mint, 168. 

tartare, 174. 

tomato, 95. 

vanilla, 106. 

white, 40. 
Shortening, 96, 97. 
Sirup, 58. 

com sirup, 82. 
Solubility and insolubility, 30 
Soups, 172, 173. 

com chowder, 151. 

cream of potato, 77. 

cream of tomato, 150. 

cream of pea, 150. 

cream or milk, 149. 

how to garnish and serve, 151. 

lentil, 136. 
Spaghetti, 94. 
Squash, 44. 

Starch, 10, 26, 34, 53, 92. 
Stove or range, 13, 14. 

care of gas stove, 15. 

temperature of oven, 17. 
Sugar, 26, 53, 81, 82, 84. 
Suggestions for pupils, 8. 

for teaching in rural schools, 194. 



Table, how to set, 114, 115, ii6. 
Tables, 189-193. 
Tapioca, 80. 

apple tapioca, 8^1. 

pudding, 80. 
Tea, no. 
Temperatures, 9, 10. 

of body, 23. 
Tissue, connective, 25, 26. 
Toast, 44. 

French, 143. 

Vegetables, 38, 58, 59. 
asparagus, 60. y 
boiled onions, 39. 
cauliflower, 60. 
creamed celery, 60. 
spinach, 59. 
steamed rice, 42. 
steamed squash, 43. 
tomatoes, Spanish, 60. 

Water, 24, 27, no. 

uses of, 53, 109. 

Welsh rarebit, 152. 

Yeast, 118, 119. 



Digitized by 



Google 



Digitized by 



Google 



Digitized by 



Google 



^ 




igitized by 



Google 



Digitized by 



Google 



■ ^ ■ Mi i' j T w >i | i i i MHjin w' mijjm ii m[^mmint-jjt ii jj. i iLJjjiwii. i - ' j i i jj ! 



PRINCIPLES 
QFGQQKIMG 

EMMA CONLEY 



LIBRARY 

ANNEX 



2 




HsXt QJolUge of Agriculture 
3Vt O^acnelt UniuerBitH 

Htbrarg 



Cornell University Library 

TX 663.C5 



Principles of coolcing; a textbooic in dome 




3 1924 003 576 984 




Cornell University 
Library 



The original of tliis book is in 
tlie Cornell University Library. 

There are no known copyright restrictions in 
the United States on the use of the text. 



http ://www. arch i ve . o rg/detai Is/cu31 924003576984 



PRINCIPLES OF COOKING 

A TEXTBOOK IN 
DOMESTIC SCIENCE 

BY 

EMMA CONLEY 

STATE INSPECTOR OF DOMESTIC SCIENCE FOR WISCONSIN 

FORMERLY DIRECTOR OF DOMESTIC SCIENCE 

STATE NORMAL SCHOOL, OSHKOSH, WISCONSIN 

AUTHOR OF " NUTRITION AND DIET " 




AMERICAN BOOK COMPANY 

NEW YORK CINCINNATI CHICAGO 



Copyright, 1914, 
By EMMA CONLEY. 



Copyright, 1914, in Preat Britain, 
conley, prtn. of cooking. 

u. r. 2 



PREFACE 

" Principles of Cooking " is intended as a textbook in 
cooking and elementary food study for secondary and 
vocational scHools. It is not merely a cook book. So 
many good cook books are on the market that there 
would be no justification for adding another to the list. 
The cook book, however, merely presents hundreds of 
recipes showing innumerable ways in which foods may 
be prepared, without attempting to present the principles 
underlying all cooking. 

The principles of cooking are few in number and are 
easily mastered, if properly presented. Foods may be 
grouped in less than a dozen classes, and when the prin- 
ciples which apply to each class are learned and practiced, 
each pupil will know how to prepare a variety of dishes 
from each food or class of foods. 

After the principles of cooking are fully understood 
and applied in practical lessons, there is no educational 
or practical value in the preparation of isolated recipes 
or in a sequence of lessons on one class of foods. The 
object of domestic science work in schools is that a girl 
may learn how to plan, cook, and serve meals at home, 
calculate the cost, and purchase foods in the best market 
at the lowest price. This includes knowing the nutritive 
value of each food and its place in the diet. 

Unless considerable practice is given in schools in plan- 
ning and preparing meals, a pupil may be able to cook 
one or two single foods, but she cannot prepare all the 

3 



4 PREFACE 

dishes needed for a meal and have them ready to serve at 
a stated time. 

It is with this aim in mind, that all cooking in schools 
should lead to the preparation of attractive, appetizing, nu- 
tritious, well-balanced mqals, that " Principles of Cooking " 
and its companion book, " Nutrition and Diet," are written. 
They are intended for pupils who have had cooking in 
the grades or for those who are mature enough to master 
a few important and essential facts, presented in Chapters 
II and III, before proceeding to the practical work of cook- 
ing. Any high school girl can learn these facts as easily 
as she can master problems in algebra or geometry, learn 
a history lesson, or calculate balanced rations for farm ani- 
mals in a class in agriculture. 

High school work in cooking or domestic science must 
include some acquisition of knowledge concerning foods, 
as well as practical work, to make it equivalent in value 
to other high school subjects, and to deserve a credit 
towards college entrance requirements. 

If one year is devoted to the work presented in " Prin- 
ciples of Cooking," and " Nutrition and Diet," the credit 
given in high school for the work should be equivalent to 
the credit given for a year's work in any other high school 
subject. 

Practically all of the recipes in this book are the result 
of class experiments made by varying standard recipes or 
by trying new combinations of foods. A few recipes were 
contributed by friends. All recipes have been tried, many 
•times, by classes of students and proved reliable. 

Every school library should contain at least one reliable 
cook book, as the " Boston Cooking School Cook Book " 
or " Practical Cooking and Serving," and advanced pupils 
should compare recipes grouped together. They should 



PREFACE S 

note the points of variation from the standard recipe of 
the group and be able to make new and attractive food 
combinations for themselves. All cooking is' based on a 
few standard recipes, changed or altered to produce variety. 
If an intelligent study is made of the principles of cook- 
ing and their application, preparing foods will no longer 
be a work of uncertainty, but an interesting, scientific, 
and comparatively easy process, and the preparing of 
nutritious, wholesome, and balanced meals will be a 

pleasure. 

EMMA CONLEY. 
Fond du Lac, Wisconsin. 



CONTENTS 

CHAPTER PAGE 

I. General Directions for Work. Equipment . . 7 

II. Classes of Foods. Reasons for Cooking . 22 

III. Methods of Cooking. Development of Principles 

AND their Application. Practice Work in 

Foods • • 33 

IV. Fruits and Green Vegetables S3 

V. Roots and Tubers. Starch and Sugar 73 

VI. Cereals and Leavening Agents ... 87 

VII. Beverages. Planning and Serving a Breakfast . 109 

VIII. Cereals and Leavening Agents {Continued) 118 

IX. Legumes and Frying Lessons . . . 134 

X. Eggs. Planning a Luncheon . . 139 

XI. Milk and its Products . . . .146 

XII. Meats and Fish 154 

XIII. Gelatin and Ices. Some Additional Recipes . 179 
Tables showing the composition of common foods used 

IN the average home 189 

Suggestions for Teachers in Rural Schools . . .194 

INDEX 202 



PRINCIPLES OF COOKING 

CHAPTER I 

GENERAL DIRECTIONS FOR WORK IN A SCHOOL 
KITCHEN 

In a school kitchen each girl has her own place at the 
kitchen table and is responsible for the washing of her 
own dishes, care and proper placing of all her utensils, 
the condition of her table, dish towels, etc. 

The general household duties are assigned to the various 
pupils in turn, so that the kitchen will be left in perfect 
order at the close of the lesson and the pupils will have 
practice in this important part of the work. Practice 
in this work trains each pupil to do all kitchen duties, 
develops her interest and responsibiUty in the proper 
care of the kitchen, makes her familiar with the contents 
of the cupboards, and the proper places to keep suppUes, 
china, linen, and various utensils. It also trains her in 
the very important duties of caring for the stove, oven, 
sink, and floor, and unifies the work so that it is like 
actual housekeeping. 

The following is an easy arrangement of work in the 
school kitchen : — 

Housekeeper i . Care of suppHes used in the daily lesson. 

Housekeeper 2. Building of fire, care of stove and tea- 
kettle, and attending to the oven during baking. 

Housekeeper 3. Care of sink. 



8 GENERAL DIRECTIONS 

Housekeeper 4. Sweeping of kitchen at the close of the 
lesson. 

Suggestions for Pupils. — i. Be sure that hands and 
nails are clean before coming to class. 

2. Wash the hands before the beginning of the lesson 
and keep them clean. 

3. Always keep the hair neatly combed. 

4. Do not wear rings while cooking. 

5. Always wear an apron, and a holder suspended from 
the apron by a tape. 

6. Never use an apron in place of a holder. 

7. Never taste food with a mixing spoon. 

8. Do not leave the spoon in the food while it is cooking. 

9. Keep the tables clean and in order. 

10. Keep the drawers and cupboards closed. 

11. Collect all utensils and supplies needed for work, 
before beginning to prepare the food. 

12. Do not use unnecessary utensils. 

13. Have all materials measured and ready for use be- 
fore beginning to put them together. 

14. Measure accurately, for on that depends the success 
of your cooking. 

15. Do not waste material. 

16. Work quietly, quickly, carefully, and neatly. 

17. Practice at home the things learned at school. 

18. Try each recipe at home. 

19. Calculate the cost of each recipe. 

A list of the foods most frequently used in the home, of seasonable 
vegetables and fruits, and the prices of each, should be posted weekly 
in a conspicuous place in the kitchen so that pupils will learn to 
note cost, calculate the cost of various foods, and know when is the 
best time to purchase and serve certain vegetables and fruits. 



GENERAL DIRECTIONS 



9 



Each recipe given in this book will serve six people. 
For school work one fourth of each recipe is taken, unless 
otherwise stated. 

ABBREVIATIONS AND MEASUREMENTS USED IN 
COOKING 

tsp. — teaspoon oz. — ounce 

tbsp. — tablespoon lb. — pound 

c. — cup spk. — speck 

pt. — • pint bk. pd. — baking powder 

qt. — quart min. — minute 

3 tsp. = I tbsp. 4 tbsp. flour = i oz. (about) 

i6 tbsp. = I c. 2 c. sugar = i lb. 

2 c. = 1 pt. 2 c. butter = i lb. 

2 pt. = [ qt. 3^-4 c. flour = i lb. 

2 tbsp. butter = i oz. 9 large eggs = i lb. 

2 tbsp. sugar = i oz. 2 c. lard = i lb. 

All measures are leveled. 
In leveling dry materials, level with a knife. 
Divide with a knife lengthwise for one half a spoon. 
Divide with a knife crosswise for one fourth spoon. 
Divide with a knife crosswise for one eighth. 

TEMPERATURES USED IN COOKING 

Freezing point of water Fahrenheit 32° Centigrade 0° 

Blood temperature Fahrenheit 98.6° Centigrade 37° 

Simmering point Fahrenheit 185° Centigrade 85° 

BoUing point Fahrenheit 212° Centigrade 100° 

To change a reading of temperature from Centigrade 
to Fahrenheit, multiply Centigrade temperature by 1.8, 
add 32", which will give the equivalent temperature in 
Fahrenheit. 



lO GENERAL DIRECTIONS 

The coagulation temperature of proteins is from 158°- 
167° F. 

The gelatinizing temperature of starch is from 149°- 
185° F. 

The high temperatures, when used, are to develop flavor. 

Ferments are destroyed at temperatures above 160° F. 

Rules for Dishwashing. — To wash dishes plenty of 
hot water is needed, also a dishpan, rinsing pan, dishcloth, 
wire cleaner for pots and pans, a soap shaker, brush for 
silver and glass, scouring board, cork and flannel, sapolio, 
soap, and clean, dry dish towels. 

After the dining room table is cleared, collect knives, 
forks, and spoons. 

Scrape all crumbs, scraps, and dough into a waste jar. 

Wipe greasy dishes out with soft paper so that they wiU 
not make the dishwater greasy. 

Dishes with egg adhering should be soaked in cold water, 
as the hot water cooks the egg and makes it difficult to 
remove. 

Rinse ^vith cold water glasses and bottles that have held 
milk. 

Empty the tea and coffee pots. 

Put all pans and kettles to soak in hot water so that they 
will clean easily. 

Pile all dishes of a kind neatly together. 

Have the dishpan half full of hot, soapy water, the rins- 
ing pan half full of clear hot water. 

For ease and rapidity of work, place the soiled dishes on 
the extreme right of the work table, the dishpan to the 
left of the soiled dishes, the rinsing pan to the left of the 
dishpan, and then place the clean dishes to the left of 
the rinsing pan. 



GENERAL DIRECTIONS 1 1 

Wash the glasses first and dry at once, then wash silver, 
cups, saucers, plates, etc., taking the cleanest first, rins- 
ing and drjdng thoroughly. 

Scour the knives when necessary. 

Wash the tea and coffee pots with clean, hot water and 
dry them. 

Lastly, wash the tins and cooking utensils, scouring, if 
necessary, with powdered sapolio applied with a cork or 
flannel. 

Do not put boiling water on glasses or china. 

Do not put wooden handles or the cogs of Dover egg 
beaters into the water. 

Never leave the soap in the sink or dishpan. 

When all the dishes are washed and wiped, pile the dif- 
ferent Idnds together and put into place. 

Empty the dishpan, wash the dish towels in warm suds, 
rinse, and hang to dry. 

Wash the table, soap dish, and sink in warm suds. 

Wash both dishpan and rinsing pan with hot suds, 
rinse with clear water, and dry thoroughly with a dish 
towel. 

Wash the dishcloth, rinse, and hang to dry. 

The daily care of the sink consists in keeping it free from 
grease' and scraps, scrubbing it thoroughly, and keeping it 
dry when not in use. In addition to this, at least once a 
week, pour a hot, strong solution of sal soda down the waste 
pipe to wash off all the grease that may have cooled and 
settled in the pipe. Follow this with plenty of hot water. 
If this is done, waste pipes will not become clogged with 
grease. All sinks should have a strainer screwed down 
over the waste pipe, and no tea leaves, coffee grounds, 
burnt matches, or potato parings should ever be put in the 



12 GENERAL DIRECTIONS 

sink. A garbage pail should be kept for that purpose. 
This pail should be washed daily with a solution of sal 
soda and dried and placed in the sunshine when possible. 

Fire and Firemaking. — The success of cooking depends 
upon the application of the right amount of heat to the 
right combination of foods, so a study of fire making and 
fire regulation is necessary to produce the best results. 
Cooking at the wrong temperature injures the food and 
often unfits it for use. It is said that the baking of bread 
or cake is two thirds of the making. At any rate, both 
are spoiled by too slow or too fast an oven. Much fuel is 
wasted because the application of the right amoimt of 
heat is not understood or is neglected. 

To have a good fire we must have a good stove, a good 
fuel, and some means of raising it to its kindhng point, 
and must be able to secure a good supply of air to make the 
fire burn. By the kindhng point is meant the tempera- 
ture at which a thing takes fire. Some substances, like 
phosphorus, matches, paper, gas, and gasoline, have a low 
kindhng point and take fire rapidly. Some, like hard coal, 
have a very high kindling point and some other fuel must be 
used as kindhng before a coal fire can be started. The smaller 
the pieces of fuel, and the more loosely packed, so that air 
can surround them, the more easily wiU the fire kindle. 

Soft wood makes excellent kindling, and in some local- 
ities, where wood is plentiful, both hard and soft wood are 
used as fuel. Gas is almost universally used for cooking 
in cities, at least during the summer months. It is cheaper, 
if properly handled, than wood or coal, cleaner, and gives 
off less heat. Some form of oil is used in rural communities 
during the summer for the same reason that gas is used 
in the cities, and denatured alcohol is used in some local- 



GENERAI. DIRECTIONS 13 

ities. Both hard and soft coal are used during the winter 
for heating and cooking purposes. Coal makes an excel- 
lent fire for cooking, as it is easily regulated, suppUes uni- 
form heat, and requires very little attention when once 
started. Electricity is an important source of heat. 

Parts of a Stove or Range. — Most ranges or stoves are 
so made that they will burn either wood or coal, the only 
change necessary being the adjustment of the grate. 

The parts of a range are : — 

1. A fire box, lined, so as to control the heat and conduct 
it where it is needed. 

2. A grate at the bottom of the fire box, usually reversible, 
so as to burn either wood or coal, and so made as to allow 
the ashes to pass through. 

3. An ash pan below the fire box ; should be emptied daily. 

4. Dampers, checks, and drafts, for the purpose of admit- 
ting air and controlKng and regulating its supply. The 
draft in the fire box is for the purpose of admitting air 
when starting the fire, or to make the fire burn faster. 
When closed it checks the fire. The damper in the chim- 
ney should be partially closed after the fire is started to 
prevent loss of heat. It should never be closed so tight 
that the smoke cannot escape. The oven damper partially 
closes the opening into the chimney and forces the heated 
air to pass around the oven, thus heating the oven. 

5. An oven, used for baking purposes. It must be kept 
free from soot, above and below, so that the air can circu- 
late freely. If this is not done, the food will burn on the 
top or bottom or will not bake evenly. 

6. Stovepipe, to allow air and smoke to pass through. 

7. Water front — connected with water tank in kitchen 
to heat water. (Not always used.) 



14 GENERAL DIRECTIONS 

8. Warming oven, to keep dishes warm. 

Pupils should become familiar with all parts of the stove 
and get enough practice in baking so as to understand the 
regulation of the oven and know what temperatures are 
best for the various foods. 

How to Build a Fire. — Remove the covers from the 
top of the stove and brush the soot and ashes into the 
fire box. Clean everything out of the fire box by shaking 
the grate so the ashes will fall into the ash pan. Place 
crumpled newspaper, shavings, or small pieces of soft wood 
in the bottom of the fire box ; then put in some soft wood, 
then hard wood, arranged loosely so that the air can pass 
through. Place the wood so it reaches the corners of the 
fire box and is not massed in the middle. Open the damp- 
ers in the fire box, chimney, and oven, and then light the 
fire. Apply the match to the substance that will kindle 
quickest. The fire should be lighted at the bottom so 
that the flame will ascend. As the fire burns freely, put 
on more fuel, but the fire box should never be more than 
three fourths full. When the fire is well started close the 
front draft, partially close the chimney draft, and if the 
oven is to be used close the oven draft. 

Ashes should be emptied every day. -If left in the stove 
until they fill the ash pan and touch the grate at the bottom 
of the fire box, they destroy the grate. 

The oven should be kept clean. If anything has boiled 
over and burned on the bottom of the oven, it should be 
scraped off with an old knife. 

The best time to black the stove is while the fire is start- 
ing. Use very little blacking, but brush it thoroughly 
over all parts of the stove. A steel range requires no black- 
ing, simply washing. 



GENERAL DIRECTIONS 15 

Suggestions for Cooking with Gas. — i. See that the 
stove is kept clean. 

2. Keep the burners free from grease, dust, and dirt. 

3. To Hght a burner, open the valve leading to the 
burner to be used, allow the gas to flow a second, and then 
apply the match. 

4. To hght the oven, apply the lighted match to the 
oven pilot and then turn on the gas. If the gas is turned 
on too long before it is lighted, there is danger of an explo- 
sion. For the same reason the oven door should be 
opened before the pilot is hghted. 

5. Never leave a burner lighted because you are going 
to use it soon ; when the gas is not in use, turn it out, 
and hght it again when needed. Matches are cheaper 
than gas. 

6. Never light a burner until you are ready to use it. 
As soon as the food begins to boil, turn the gas as low as 
possible. Food is cooking just as fast when it is bubbling 
slightly as when it is boiling over the top of the kettle, 
and there is less danger that it will burn. Food tastes 
better cooked in this way. After food has started to cook, 
it is almost impossible to use too little heat; foods are 
spoiled by the use of too great heat and gas is wasted. 
When you waste gas, you are burning money that could 
be used to purchase food or clothing. 

7. When baking bread, put the bread in the cold oven, 
light the gas and let the oven heat slowly for the first ten 
minutes, increase the heat for the next fifteen minutes, and 
then finish baking at a moderate temperature. 

8. Learn to read your gas meter, for if properly handled 
and looked after, gas is more satisfactory to cook with 
than wood or coal and more economical. 

CONLEY P. C. — 2 



i6 GENERAL DIRECTIONS 

Directions for Reading a Gas Meter. — The small dial 
marked two feet is not to be considered. It is used for 
testing purposes. Each figure on the right-hand dial indi- 
cates loo cubic feet ; on the middle dial each figure indi- 
cates looo cubic feet; and on the left-hand dial each 
figure indicates 10,000 cubic feet. 

When meters are new all pointers are at o, but never 
again are in this position until exactly 100,000 cubic feet 
have been passed. Read from left dial to right, always 




taking the figures which the pointers have passed. For 
example : Suppose y,pu find the pointers on your meter as 
shown by the heavy lines on the above cut, you record 
55,800. At the previous reading, one month before, assimie 
that the pointers were as shown by the dotted lines, 54,200. 
This means that during the month your gas consumption 
sent the pointers from 54,200 to 55,800. You have con- 
sumed the difference, which is 1600 cubic feet. Your gas 
bill would then be written as follows : 

State of Meter, last reading 55800 

State of Meter, previous reading . . . 54200 

Amount consumed 1600 

At $1.10 per M $1.76 



GENERAL DIRECTIONS 17 

Temperature of the Oven. — Many ranges and stoves 
now on the market have an oven thermometer or heat 
regulator on the oven door. If the indicator would show 
whether the oven is slow, moderate, or fast, with any 
degree of accuracy, direction could be given in all recipes 
as to the amount of heat needed and it would not be neces- 
sary to open the oven door and test the heat. No oven 
thermometer that is even fairly accurate, or that can be 
relied on, is on the market as yet, and the only reliable 
tests for oven temperature are the old ones, which must 
be learned by experience. Probably the best way to test 
the heat of the oven is the hand test. This is done by put- 
ting the forearm in the oven and holding it there long enough 
to ascertain whether the air in the oven is moderately hot, 
very hot, or what may be termed cool. The terms used 
to distinguish the different oven temperatures are slow, 
moderate, hot or fast, and very hot. Generally speaking 
most foods are best cooked at moderate heat. A good 
general rule is, the smaller the article to be baked the 
hotter the oven, or the larger the article the slower the 
oven. This does not apply in all cases, but the reason for 
it is that it takes a long time for heat to penetrate to the 
center of a large mass. If intense heat be applied, a crust 
forms and the heat does not reach the center readily. 

Another way to test the oven temperature is by the use 
of paper, or bread crumb. The length of time it takes the 
paper or bread to brown determines the degree of heat in 
the oven./^In a hot oven a piece of white letter paper will 
turn to a yellowish brown in from three to five minutes, 
in a moderate oven it will turn to a yellowish brown in 
from seven to ten minutes, and in a slow oven it will turn 
to a yellowish brown in from twelve to fifteen minutes. 



1 8 GENERAL DIRECTIONS 

EQUIPMENT FOR A SCHOOL KITCHEN FOR A CLASS 
OF SIXTEEN PUPILS 

I. 8 double or i6 single work tables, with drawers to 
hold the utensils necessary for the average lesson, 
and with molding boards, and attached seats. 
II. 1 6 individual gas stoves or burners attached to 
the tables, or if gas is not in use i6 individual or 
8 double burner oil stoves. (See frontispiece.) 

III. One large gas oven, or range, or a coal or wood range 
with a large oven, so that each pupil may have 
practice in attending to the baking for the class a 
week at a time or longer. In this way she may 
know exactly how to manage the range in her own 
home. She cannot get this practice if nothing but 
the small individual ovens are provided. 

IV. A sink containing hot and cold water faucets. A 
gas heater may be installed or a water front may be 
placed in the range, or hot water may be provided 
by passing water pipes through the furnace and 
placing a storage tank near. Some arrangement is 
necessary for providing hot water because the time 
of teacher and pupils is lost and fuel is wasted if 
dish water is heated in individual tea kettles and it 
is a return to primitive conditions. 

V. A common kitchen table where the day's supplies 
are placed in readiness so that no time is lost in 
getting to work. 
VI. A refrigerator. 

VII. Screens for every window in the kitchen. 
VIII. An arrangement for drjdng dishcloths and wiping 
towels, as rods on the back of the tables. 



GENERAL DIRECTIONS 



19 



IX. Shelves or cupboards for utensils. 
X. A wheeled supply table, a great convenience, though 
not essential. 

List of Utensils for the Individual Work Tables 



16 paring knives. 

16 spatulas. 

16 plated silver or steel knives. 

16 plated silver or steel forks. 

16 tablespoons. 

32 teaspoons. 

16 small wooden spoons. 

16 Dover egg beaters. 

16 spoon egg beaters. 

16 one-quart mixing bowls, 

16 sieves to fit bowls. 

16 glass measuring cups. 

16 tin measuring cups. 

16 custard cups. 

16 utility pans. 

16 small tin basins about 55 or 
6| inches in diameter for bak- 
ing purposes. 



32 small enameled basins about 
55 or 65 inches in diameter. 

16 small pie plates about 4 J or 55 
inches in diameter. 

16 one-quart double boilers. 

16 one-quart stewpans ; covers. 

i6 small rolling pins. 

16 small biscuit cutters. 

16 small frying pans. 

16 small bread pans. 

16 small dishpans. 

16 vegetable brushes. 

16 corks. 

16 small boxes for salt. 

16 smaU boxes for pepper. 

16 boxes for sugar. 

16 boxes for flour. 

1 6 cans for baking powder. 



Note. — If the work table drawers are small, the utensils not in constant 
use may be kept in the utensil cupboards. 



Additional Utensils for General Use 



16 salad or pie plates. 

16 breakfast plates. 

16 cups and saucers (tea size). 

16 water glasses. 

8 small teakettles. 

8 apple corers. 

8 small graters. 

8 four- or six-cup muffin pans. 



8 two-quart bowls. 
8 mixing bowls. 
8 doughnut cutters. 
8 assorted cooky cutters. 
8 trays, assorted sizes. 
8 pie tins. 

8 two- or three-quart granite or 
enameled pans. 



20 



GENERAL DIRECTIONS 







•5& 
S E 



" 60*0 









5E 






^ s 

a w 

<3S 



GENERAL DIRECTIONS 



21 



8 small lemon squeezers. 

8 match boxes. 

8 soap dishes. 

4 two-quart enameled pails, with 

covers, for holding scraps until 

they are transferred to the 

garbage can. 
4 one-quart measures. 
4 small colanders. 
4 granite kettles. 
4 steamers (size of kettles). 
4 kettle covers. 

4 meat forks. * 

4 wire pot cleaners. 
4 broilers. 

4 long-handled skimmers. 
4 dripping pans (size of the 

oven). 
4 roll pans. 

4 angel or sponge-cake pans. 
4 layer cake pans. 
4 sheet cake pans. 
4 loaf cake pans. 
4 small chopping bowls. 
4 small chopping knives. 
2 two-quart ice cream freezers. 
2 large graters. 
2 sink scrapers. 
2 large frying pans. 
2 two-quart coffeepots. 
2 teapots. 
2 potato mashers. 



I large teakettle. 

I set timbal irons. 

I flour sifter. 

I dipper. 

I butcher knife. 

I bread knife. 

I cake knife. 

I carving set. 

I potato ricer. 

I flour bin. 

I two-quart double boiler. 

I meat knife. 

I pudding mold. 

I quart pitcher. 

I two-quart pitcher. 

I meat chopper. 

I large garbage can. 

I kitchen scale. 

I dustpan. 

I waflSe iron. 

I funnel. 

I corkscrew. 

I can opener. 

1 small paint brush. 

I brush broom. 

I stove brush. 

I broom. 

I hamper for soiled towels. 

SO yards of crash for dishcloths 

and dish towels. 
i6 holders. 
500 paper napkins. 



Articles Needed if Pupils are to Learn to Serve Meals 



Dining-room table. 
Dining-room chairs. 
Tablecloths. 



Napkins. 
Doihes. 
Lunch cloths. 



Silverware. 
Glassware. 
A set of dishes. 



CHAPTER IT 
CLASSES OF FOOD. REASONS FOR COOKING 

Introductory. — Very few people ever think of the real 
reason why they must eat. Probably the only time they 
are forcibly reminded of it is when they are suffering from 
some sickness that burns up the tissues and they lose 
weight. At such times they loathe any food, but are com- 
pelled to eat certain foods prescribed by the doctor, so 
that the body may gain strength to fight the disease. 

Boys training in athletic sports learn that they must 
avoid eating too much or they will gain weight and be unable 
to perform their feats with agility. They also learn what 
foods are best to develop muscle. 

Every one knows that children who are underfed or 
improperly fed have no energy for work or even play, and 
that such children are often stunted in mind and body. 

Food, then, must have other uses than to please the 
taste or satisfy the appetite. Important though these 
uses are, they are merely Nature's ways to get us to take 
what we need to keep our bodies strong, healthy, and well 
developed. 

Food Defined. — Food is defined as any substance which, 
when taken into the body, supplies it with heat or energy 
or builds tissue. 

Energy is stored or latent in aU organic substances ; and 
when they are burned, the energy is released as heat. Heat 
is a form of energy. 



CLASSES OF FOOD 23 

All foods contain latent energy ; and when they are oxi- 
dized, produce heat. Their energy then may be used to 
keep the body warm or to keep up its various activities. 
In much the same manner the energy in coal heats the 
passenger coaches of a train and furnishes the power for 
the engine which pulls the train. 

The body in health is maintained at its normal tempera- 
ture, 98.6° F., even in the coldest weather, by the oxida- 
tion or burning of the food taken in, and not by stove or 
furnace heat from the outside. In cold weather houses are 
kept warm and warm clothing is worn so that the body 
will not lose so much heat to the surrounding air. In 
summer Ught clothing is worn so that the body will lose 
heat. 

Energy is needed in the body so that the vital processes, 
such as digestion, respiration, and circulation, may be 
carried on, and also for work and muscular activity. 
Though bodily heat and muscular energy are important, 
they merely result from cell activity. The blood carries 
oxygen and food to the cells and by the process of 
oxidation the old cells are burned. To replace them new 
cells are built up from the food brought by the blood. 
Cells and tissues must be constantly oxidized, then rebuilt 
and replaced, because life results in the continual wearing 
out of the old, and "building up of new tissues, from the 
food consumed. 

Oxidation. — Foods are burned or oxidized in the body 
just as wood or coal is burned outside of the body, except 
that they burn without flame. They produce, practically, 
as much heat when burned within the body as they would 
produce if burned outside the body, and because of this 
fact we have a means of finding out just how much "heat 



24 CLASSES OF FOOD 

the various foods yield. The burning of foods and cells 
in the body is called oxidation and constitutes the vital 
process called life. The old cells are oxidized and new ones 
are built up from the food eaten. The foods, by burning, 
jaeld heat and energy. Some foods do not contain the 
substances or elements needed to build tissues, but they 
will burn in the body and produce heat and energy. 

Foods must contain nitrogen to be able to build tissue. 
Foods that contain carbon will yield heat and energy. 

Foods Classified. — Foods are classified into five classes : 
proteins, fats, carbohydrates, mineral matter, and water, 
though some food substances do not properly belong in 
any of these classes. 

Proteins contain carbon, hydrogen, oxygen, and nitrogen. 

Fats contain carbon, hydrogen, and oxygen. 

Carbohydrates contain carbon, hydrogen, and oxygen. 

Water contains hydrogen and oxygen. 

Mineral matter consists of compounds of iron, calcium, 
potassium, sodium, magnesium, sulphur, phosphorus, 
chlorine, and fluorine. These are associated with the 
proteins and carbohydrates in the various tissues and 
fluids of the body. 

Proteins, mineral matter, and water build tissue ; car- 
bohydrates, fats, and proteins yield heat and energy. 

Foods are also classified as animal and vegetable foods 
because of the sources from which they are derived. Ex- 
amples of vegetable foods are potato, carrot, wheat, rice, 
peas, apple. Examples of animal foods are meat, fish, 
eggs, milk, cheese. 

Structure of Foods. — All foods are similar in structure 
in that they are made up of innumerable cells held together 
by some intercellular substance. Each cell consists of 



CLASSES OF FOOD 



25 



two, sometimes three, parts — nucleus, protoplasm, and 
cell wall. Every cell has a nucleus or center of life from 
which the cell grows and produces other cells. Surround- 
ing the nucleus is the protoplasm or nourishment of the 
cell. It supphes the material needed for the growth and 
development of the nucleus. It consists of protein, mineral 
matter, and water, as does also the nucleus. Protoplasm 
is more or less granular 
and forms a sort of net- 
work that may enclose 
other substances, as 
starch or fat. All vege- 
table cells, and some 
animal cells, have a cell 
wall. The walls of ani- 
mal cells consist of a 
substance called connec- 
tive tissue. This sub- 
stance also holds the 
cells together. The cell 
walls of vegetable cells consist of a substance called 
cellulose. It is similar in composition to starch, but 
unlike it in structure. When it is old, it sometimes 
turns to wood. The human stomach cannot digest cellu- 
lose, and so it must be softened by cooking to allow for the 
digestion of the starch or fat which it encloses. Cellulose 
is of value, however, in that it furnishes bulk. 




A Thin Slice of Potato (magnified). 

ti, albuminous pockets: b, starch grains in tlie 
pocltets. (From Overton's Applied Physiology.) 



Note to Teacher. — If it is possible to secure a microscope, study may 
be made of the starch cell in potato. The amoeba may be studied under 
the microscope to show the parts of the single cell. The yeast cell also 
furnishes a good study. It would be well for pupils to make a drawing of 
what they have observed. 



26 CLASSES OF FOOD 

Experiment for Pupils. — Scrape the pulp from a small piece of 
round steak imtil the white fibrous substance shows distinctly. 
This substance is connective tissue. 

Grate a potato, place it in a cheesecloth ba^, and wash until all 
the starch is washed out. Dry the substance left in the bag and 
examine it. This substance is called cellulose. 

CLASSES OF FOOD 

I. Carbohydrates. 

1. Starch, as in potato, rice, corn,, and all vegetable foods. 

Insoluble in cold water. 

2. Sugar — cane, beet, maple, malt, fruit. 

Soluble. 

3. Cellulose — cell walls of plants. 

Insoluble. 

4. Pectin — found in fruits and some vegetables. Causes 

juice to gelatinize. Occurs also as pectose which is changed 
to pectin by the action of a ferment. 

II. Vegetable Acids. 

I. Mahc, oxalic, citric, tartaric. Decomposition products of 
starch or sugar. They are decomposed in the body, form- 
ing alkaline carbonates, and help to preserve the alka- 
linity of the blood. 
Soluble. 

III. Proteins. 

1. True proteins. 

Coagulated by the heat or acid or ferment. Some are 

soluble in cold water, some in diluted salt, acid, or alkaline 

solution ; some are insoluble. 
Albumin as in egg. Casein as in milk. Myosin as in meat. 

Fibrin as in meat. Gluten as in wheat. Legimiin as in 

peas and beans. 

2. Albuminoids. 

Softened by moist heat and hardened by dry heat. Soluble 
in boiling water. Ossein in bone, elastin in cell walls, 
collagen in connective tissue. 



COOKING 27 

3. Extractives. Soluble in water. They are the flavor in meat 
juice and in some vegetables. 

IV. Fats. 

1. Fixed fats. Softened by moderate heat, separated into 

fatty acid and glycerine by strong heat. Examples : butter, 
lard, olive oil. 

2. Volatile oils. Found in orange and lemon skins, onions, 

etc. Soluble and volatile. 

V. Mineral Matter. 

I. Lime in mUk, sulphur in eggs, phosphorus in wheat. 
In proteins, sulphur, phosphorus, and iron. 
In vegetables, potassiiun, sodium, magnesium, calcium. 
Common salt. 

VI. Water. 

Necessity for Cooking. — Nature supplies us with the 
things needed to keep us alive, namely : — air, water, food, 
and heat, but they are not always in the form most accept- 
able to man. 

Air is made impure by factory smoke, by crowding human 
beings so closely together that enough oxygen is not ob- 
tainable, and by disease germs given off in various ways 
from the bodies of those afHicted with disease. Those 
who wish to enjoy health should seek always to work and 
live where there is an abundance of fresh air. 

Water may contain disease germs ; evidences of pollution 
which affect color, taste, and odor ; or organic impurities : 
then sterilization or filtration becomes necessary to fit it 
for use. 

Foods are supplied by nature to us in great abundance, 
but most foods require some cooking before they are ready 
for consumption. Prehistoric man may have lived on 
uncooked foods, but even the savage tribes of to-day 



28 COOKING 

have some means of cooking their food, crude though 
it may be. 

Reasons for Cooking. — Cooking may be defined as 
the preparation of foods for the table by means of heat. 
Several good reasons can be given why food should be 
cooked. 

1. Cooking makes food more attractive and palatable 
because it changes the appearance of the raw food and 
develops flavor. 

2. It kills bacteria present in some foods which would 
bring about undesirable changes in the food itself, or by 
entering the body through the food cause certain dis- 
eases. 

3. Heat brings about physical and chemical changes 
in the food which make it more digestible, such as the 
softening of cellulose in vegetables, connective tissue 
in meats, and the cooking of starch. 

Primitive Methods of Cooking. — Probably the first 
method of cooking used by the savage or uncivilized tribes 
was that of drying the food in the sun. This was also 
a method of preservation so that the food might be stored 
away for use in times of scarcity. The next method was, 
doubtless, that of roasting before the open fire or by baking 
in hot ashes. Then came the construction of some crude 
vessels, the dropping of hot stones into the vessel which 
contained the water in which the food was to be cooked. 
By this method meat was simmered and boiled. Later 
came the construction of vessels that could stand the 
heat and be placed directly over the fire. Lastly, a prim- 
itive oven was made, and from these crude methods of 
roasting, baking, boiling, and stewing, were evolved and 
developed those in use at the present time. 



COOKING 29 

METHODS OF COOKING 

All methods of cooking may be grouped in iive classes : — 

1. Cooking Directly over the Fire. 

(a) Broiling : over coals or gas or in a sizzling hot pan. 

(b) Roasting : before the fire. Wasteful of food and fuel. 

2. Cooking by Heated Air. 

(o) Eaking: cooking in an oven. Also called roasting. 

3. Cooking in Heated Water. 

(a) Boiling: cooking in water at temperature of 212° F. 

(b) Stewing : cooking in small quantity of water at a tempera- 

ture below 212° F. ; better than boiling. 

(c) Steaming : cooking in vessel surrounded by steam or cook- 

ing food in steam. 

4. Cooking in Heated Fat. 

(a) Frying : cooking in deep fat. 

(6) Sauteing : cooking in small quantity of fat. 

5. Cooking in a Fireless Cooker. 

Cooking for several minutes on the stove and then placing 
the food in the fireless cooker. Foods are cooked a much 
longer time in the fireless cooker than by direct heat. 

All other methods of cooking are a combination of some 
of the above methods. Braizing is sauteing, stewing, 
and baking, and is applied to meat. Fricasseeing is 
stewing, and frying or sauteing. 

Principles of Cooking. — The principles of cooking 
are few in number and easily mastered ; their proper 
application controls the success of every article of food 
prepared, from the simplest to the most intricate. Cook- 
ing is a scientific process. It depends for its results on 
the application of principles, and when these are under- 
stood and applied, the results will be as certain as those 
of any other chemical or physical process subject to natural 
laws. 



30 COOKING 

These principles could be grouped as follows : — 

1. Those which govern the cooking of proteins and 
show the effect of heat on them. 

2. Those concerned with fats. 

3. Those concerned with carbohydrates, — starches, 
sugars, cellulose. 

4. Those concerned with extractives, volatile oils, and 
mineral matter. 

5. Those which render foods sterile. 

Solubility and Insolubility. — Substances are said to be 
soluble or insoluble in water. The term soluble com- 
monly means that the substance can be dissolved in water ; 
if, insoluble, it cannot be dissolved in water. Substances 
in foods that are soluble in water may be lost during cook- 
ing. Some soluble substances are hardened or coagulated 
by heat and rendered insoluble. Some food substances 
are insoluble in water, but are soluble in a dilute salt, acid, 
or alkaline solution. 

Ferments. — A ferment is a substance which brings about 
a chemical change in a food, but remains unchanged itself. 
Each ferment acts only as a single substance. It may coag- 
ulate the substance and render it insoluble, as in the action 
of rennin on casein in milk, or it may break the substance 
down and render it more soluble, as in the ripening of 
cheese. Ferments play an important part in the ripening, 
maturing, and decay of foods. They bring about the 
changes in digestion. They change starch to sugar, and 
break down cellulose. They bring about the coagulation 
of milk and blood. We are only just beginning to know 
their importance in all vital processes. Heat destroys 
ferments. A temperature of i49°-i6o° F. renders both 
animal and vegetable ferments inert. 



COOKING 31 

WHY COOKING IS TAUGHT IN SCHOOLS 

Cooking is taught in schools so that pupils may learn to 
plan, cook, and serve meals, and to know the nutritive value 
of the different foods and their place in the diet so that the 
body will be properly nourished. 

Good cooking is important. It is probably the first 
requisite necessary to make a food of value to the body; 
for though a food may be balanced in nutritive value, if it 
is served in an unappetizing way it will not be eaten. The 
sight and taste of attractively served and prepared foods 
stimulate the appetite and cause secretion of digestive 
juices, which naturally aids digestion. However, foods 
having little nutritive value may look as attractive as those 
of high nutritive' value ; and if a study is not made of the 
composition of foods, we might always select those of low 
nutritive value and the body would be deprived of proper 
nourishment. 

Foods are analyzed in chemical laboratories and the 
exact composition of each food is known. United States 
government bulletins contain very complete tables show- 
ing the composition of all common foods. ^ 

By examining the tables on pages 189-193 we find the 
percentage of water, protein, fat, carbohydrates, and min- 
eral matter in the various foods. We also find the per- 
centage of refuse in some foods as sold to the consumer. 
It is well to note the percentage of refuse in foods, espe- 

1 Bulletin No. 28, Office of Experiment Stations, Washington, D.C., 
contains tables showing the percentage composition of all foods in use in 
the average home. Farmers' Bulletin No. 142 also gives the composition 
of many of the common foods. This bulletin may be obtained free of 
charge from the United States Department of Agriculture. The tables 
referred to above are taken from these government bulletins. 
CONLEY P. c. — 3 



32 COOKING 

daily in meats, because a cut which seems cheap may in 
reahty be dear because of the amount of bone and fat 
which it contains. 

The composition of any food to be prepared should be- 
learned or at least noted, and in this way it will be easy 
to remember the nutritive value of the different foods and 
group them in several classes. 

Cooking affects digestibility ; different methods of cook- 
ing bring out different flavors; foods must be served in 
various ways, as a change in diet is desirable. For these 
reasons the different methods of cooking are taken up in 
a series of lessons which develop and show all principles of 
cooking. When these methods are learned and the princi- 
ples of cooking mastered, foods having equivalent nutri- 
tive values are studied in groups, and the methods and 
principles of cooking learned in Chapter IV are reviewed. 

Methods and principles are few in number, but innu- 
merable applications of these few may be made. 

The mastery of principles is the science of cooking ; and 
the serving of foods in attractive, savory, and appetizing 
ways is the art of cooking. 

The price of all foods should be known, and the cost of 
each recipe calculated. Foods should be cooked, in school 
kitchens, in their proper season, just as they would be 
served in the home. Eggs should not be served in Novem- 
ber, December, January, for two reasons, — because of 
prices, and because they are apt to be storage eggs. Can- 
ning should not be taught when peaches and pears must 
be purchased by the dozen. Pupils should try all recipes 
at home, and should have lessons on foods most commonly 
used in the average home. They should know the place 
of each food prepared, in the daily diet. 



CHAPTER III 

METHODS OF COOKING. DEVELOPMENT OF 
PRINCIPLES AND THEIR APPLICATION. PRAC- 
TICE WORK IN FOODS 



BAKING VEGETABLE FOODS. PRINCIPLES WHICH 
APPLY TO COOKING OF CARBOHYDRATES 

All vegetable foods are made up of innumerable cells, 
so small that they cannot be seen except by the aid of a 
microscope. These cells are held together by a substance 





Protoplasmic Structure of a 
Flour Cell. 

{Farmers' Bulletin, No. 389, 
U. S. Dept. of Agriculture). 



Starch Grains in a Flour Cell. 

(Farmers' Bulletin, No. .389, 
U. S. Dept. of Agriculture.) 



called cellulose. Each cell consists of a network of pro- 
toplasm which incloses granules of starch or sugar, mineral 
matter, and water, and is surrounded by a wall of cellulose. 
Cellulose is of the same composition as starch, but is 
unlike it in structure and in appearance ; heat and the 
digestive juices have not the same effect on it that they 
have on starch. When cellulose grows old, it becomes 
tough and woody. The human stomach cannot digest 
cellulose; and as it incloses the starch and other sub- 

33 



34 



PRINCIPLES OF COOKING 



stances that can be digested if the digestive juices can 
reach them, these cell walls must be softened by cooking 
so as to set free the inclosed starch, sugar, mineral matter, 
and protein. 

When the cells contain much starch, moisture and heat 
cause the starch grains to swell and burst the walls of 
cellulose which inclose them. Some foods, like potatoes, 




Changes in Starch Cells in Cooking. 

A, cells of a raw potato with starch grains in natural condition: b, cells in a partially 
cooked potato; c, cells of a thoroughly boiled potato. (From Farmers' Bulletin No. 389, 
U. S. Dept. of Agriculture.) 

contain enough water to cause the starch to swell when 
the water turns to steam, and this causes the bursting of 
the cell wall. Some foods, like rice, corn, and wheat, are 
cooked in water; and the starch absorbs water during 
cooking. When starch is cooked we sometimes say it is 
gelatinized, and the starch in different foods cooks or gel- 
atinizes at different temperatures. The starch in oats gel- 
atinizes at 185° F., corn at 167° F., potatoes at 149° F., 
other cereals at 176° F. Some foods, like lettuce, celery, 
tomatoes, onions, contain so little starch that it is not 
necessary to cook them, because we eat them, not for the 
starch in them, but for the cellulose, mineral matter, and 
acids which they contain, and which have important uses 
in the body. 



PRINCIPLES OF COOKING 35 

In some foods the cellulose is so tough that it must be 
softened, even though the food does not contain much 
starch. The greater the amount of cellulose in a food the 
longer time it takes to cook it. Some foods, like old beets 
and carrots, are so tough that it is a waste of fuel to try 
to cook them. 

Recipe for Baked Potatoes. — Select smooth, medium- 
sized potatoes. Wash clean, using a brush to scrub and 
a knife to remove the specks and blemishes. Place on 
the grate of an oven of moderate temperature and grad- 
ually increase the heat. Bake until soft, about 40 minutes. 
Break or pierce the skin to allow the steam to escape, and 
serve in an uncovered dish. A moderate oven is needed 
in starting to allow the heat to penetrate to the inside of 
the potato. If the heat is too intense at first, it forms a 
hard crust on the outside, keeps out the heat, and prevents 
the potato from cooking evenly throughout. If the steam 
is allowed to remain in the potato, it condenses and the 
potato will be soggy. 

With what would you serve baked potatoes? At what meal? 

Potatoes are the most important of all vegetable foods, 
except wheat, because they are the most extensively used. 
They contain, after they are pared for cooking : — 

Water Starch Cellulose Protein Fat Mineral Matter 
78.3% 18% .4% 2.2% .1% 1% 

Note. — Experiments to show composition of potato will be given in 
Chapter V, page 74, but the teacher may weU give the starch test here. 
A solution of iodine turns starch blue, and pupils may test various foods to 
detect the presence of starch. 

The most important principles involved in the baking 

of potatoes are those which govern the cooking of starch 

and the softening of cellulose. 



36 



PRINCIPLES OF COOKING 



Prepared by 

C. F. LANGWORTHY 

Expert in Charge of Nutrition Investigations 

COMPOSITION OF FOOD MATERIALS. 



U. S. Department of Agriculture 
Office of Experiment Stations 
A. C. True: Director 



Protein Fat Carbohydrates 

SHELLED BEAN, FRESH 



Afb 



I Fuel Value 
/faSq.ln.Equals 
1000 Calories 



Fat:0.6 




NAVY BEAN, DRY. 

Wa.ter.58.9 i^§'~Water:l2.6 

Protein: 22.5 



Protein ;9.+ 

Fuel Miurs 



Carbohydrates;29.l 

Ash-2 Carbohydrates:59.6 




Fuel value-. 



720 CALORIES pen POgHD I 560 CllORIES PER POUND 

STRING BEAN, GREEN. 



Water;89.2 




Water:75.+ 



Fuel value; 

i90calories perpouko 
CORN, GREEN. 

EDIBLE PORTION 

Protein. 3.1- 




Carbohydrates: 19.7 
Ash: 0.7 



Fat: 1. 1 



Composition of Vegetables. 



PRINCIPLES OF COOKING 



37 



U. S. Oepartment of Agriculture Prefwred by 

Office of Experimer,! Stations C. F. LAN6W0RTHY 

A. C. True; Director Expert in Cftarge.of Nutrition Investigations 

COMPOSITION OF FOOD MATERIALS. 

■ Tuel Value 
■^fiSq, In. Equals 
1000 Caforres 



Fuel valuc: 

c 

295 CALORIES 




POTATO 

Pro-teiniZ.Z 




Carbohydrates: 18.4 ^-Water;78.3 

Fu el. VAL UE; Protein 

I Carbohydrates: 3. 



375 CALORIES PfR POUND 



Composition of Vegetables. 



38 PRINCIPLES OF COOKING 

Statement^ or Principles. 

1. Heat and moisture soften walls of cellulose in vege- 
table foods ; the denser the walls, the longer time it 
takes to soften them. 

2. Heat and moisture cause starch grains to swell and 
burst the walls of cellulose that inclose them, and 
gelatinize or cook the starch. 

Recipe for Baked Apples. — Wash and wipe apples 
and remove core. Place in a granite pan with one table- 
spoon of sugar in each apple and add water enough to 
just cover the bottom of the pan. Bake in a hot oven, 
about 30 to 45 minutes. Apples containing a great deal 
of acid cook much more quickly than those that are 
not so tart. 

Calculate cost. When would you serve baked apples? 
At what meal? 

Vegetables differ in the amount of nourishment which 
they contain. They all contain carbohydrate in some 
form, though the amount and kind varies. Potatoes, 
wheat, corn, oats, rice, peas, and beans contain consider- 
able starch. The carbohydrate in other vegetables and 
fruits is small in quantity, and consists of sugar, pectin, 
cellulose, and some starch. All vegetables contain mineral 
salts ; fruits contain vegetable acids also. Some vege- 
tables and fruits contain oil, called a volatile oil, because 
it can be turned to vapor and carried off in steam. .\11 
vegetables contain some protein. 

Apples contain : — 

Water Protein Fat Carbohydrate Cellulose * Mineral Matter 

84.6% 4% -5% 14-2% 1-2% .3% 



PRINCIPLES OF COOKING 39 

The carbohydrate is in the form of sugar, pectin, and 
cellulose. Apples also contain a vegetable acid. Some 
varieties contain more cellulose than potatoes and' hence 
it takes a longer time to cook them. Some varietiej con- 
tain much more acid than others, and as the acid helps 
soften the cellulose, those containing the greatest amount 
of acid bake quickest. As apples contain practically no 
starch, cooking is not necessary, but cooking softens the 
cellulose and makes it possible to serve apples in a great 
variety of ways. As apples ripen the sugar content in- 
creases, the cellulose becomes less tough, and the acidity 
decreases. For general use the ripe apple is preferred. 

Statement of Principles Involved. 

1. Moist heat softens the walls of cellulose in vegetable 
foods ; the denser the walls the longer time it takes 
to soften them. 

2. Acids soften cellulose. 

3. Heat melts sugar. 

Recipe for Boiled Onions. — Wash and peel about eight 
medium-sized onions. Place them in a stewpan, cover 
with boiling water, and boil until soft, about 40 minutes. 
If the onions have a strong odor, the water may be changed 
once or twice during cooking. When the onions are soft, 
drain the water off and serve with White Sauce. 

Calculate cost. At what meal would you serve boiled 
onions ? 

Onions contain : — 

Water Carbohydrate Cellulose '■ Protein Fat Mineral Matter 
87.6% 9-9% -8% 1-6% -3% -6% 

^ This cellulose is included in the carbohydrate. 



40 PRINCIPLES OF COOKING 

The carbohydrate in onions is mainly in the form of 
cellulose and sugar. (Test may be made for starch.) 
Onions contain a volatile oil which gives to them their 
distinctive flavor. The oil is also soluble in water ; much 
of it is dissolved in the water during cooking as well as 
evaporated with the steam. If the dish in which the 
onions are cooking is left uncovered, much of the oil passes 
off gradually in the steam, and the odor of boiled onions is 
not as noticeable as when the dish is kept covered and the 
cover removed occasionally. 

Statement of Principles Involved. 

1. Heat and moisture soften cellulose. 

2. Volatile oil is soluble in water. 

Recipe for White Sauce. — Melt two tablespoons of 
butter, add two tablespoons of flour, and rub them together 
thoroughly. Add one cup of milk and cook until it thickens, 
stirring constantly. Add one fourth teaspoon of salt and a 
speck of pepper. (Thin white sauce is made by using one 
tablespoon of flour instead of two. Thick white sauce is 
made by using from three to four tablespoons of flour.) 

When boiling water or milk is poured over starch, the 
starch grains expand and gelatinize or thicken, and tend 
to stiqk together and become lumpy. Some substance 
should be mixed with the starch to separate or surround 
the particles so that they will have room to expand when 
boihng water or milk is added later, or when cold liquid 
is added and the mixture is boiled. Melted fat may be 
used for this purpose, and the starch and fat should be 
rubbed together thoroughly so that the fat will surround 
the starch. As starch is not soluble in cold water, a Uttle 
cold water or cold milk may be used to separate the starch 



PRINCIPLES OF COOKING 41 

grains. If the liquid is used, mix the, liquid and starch 
thoroughly until there are no lumps left, before adding 
the boiling liquid. In pudding sauces, sugar may be mixed 
with the starch for the same purpose. (As flour contains 
so much starch it is often used instead of cornstarch as the 
thickening agent.) 

Statement of Principles Involved. 

Heat and moisture cause starch grains to swell and burst 

the walls of cellulose that inclose them, hence starch 

is used as a thickening agent. 

Recipe for Stewed Apples. — Wash and peel about eight 
apples. Cut into quarters and remove the cores. Place 
the apples in a stewpan, add a small' quantity of water, 
about one fourth cup, simmer slowly until the apples are 
soft. If the apples are tart, it will take 10-15 minutes. 
When the apples are soft, add sugar, a speck of nutmeg or 
cinnamon, and one teaspoon of butter. 

Some apples contain more water and sugar than others, 
so the exact amount of water and sugar to use cannot be 
given. Sugar is added after the apples are cooked because, 
if it were added sooner, the acid in the apples would change 
or invert the sugar to glucose, and some of the sweetening 
power would be destroyed. Glucose is about three fifths 
as sweet as cane sugar. This reduction in sweetness does 
not impair the food value of the sugar, however, for cane 
sugar is changed to glucose in the normal digestive 
processes. 

Statement of Principles Involved. 

1. Heat softens cellulose. 

2. Acid softens cellulose. 

3. Acid inverts or changes cane sugar to glucose. 



42 PRINCIPLES OF COOKING 

STEAMING VEGETABLE FOODS. PRINCIPLES THAT 
APPLY TO COOKING OF CARBOHYDRATES AND 
VEGETABLE PROTEIN 

Recipe for Steamed Rice and Use of Double Boiler. — 

Fill the lower part of a double boiler one third full of 
boihng water. Put two quarts of boiling water in the 
upper part of the boiler, add one half teaspoon of salt and 
gradually add one cup of rice which has been washed in 
cold water. Cook until soft, about 20 to 30 minutes, 
stirring occasionally with a fork. Drain and keep hot 
until ready to serve. Rice may be served as a vegetable 
with meat gravy, or as a dessert with cream and sugar, or 
with sKced fruit, or with date sauce. 

Calculate cost. 

Recipe for Date Sauce. — Wash, clean, stone, and chop 
one half pound of dates, add one fourth cup of cold water 
and one fourth cup of sugar and cook until it thickens, 
about ten minutes. Serve on the rice, with whipped or 
plain cream. 

In the preceding lessons the effect of heat and moisture 
on the carbohydrates in vegetable foods has been con- 
sidered. In addition to carbohydrates, vegetables con- 
tain soluble volatile oils, mineral matter, vegetable acids, 
and a network of protoplasm which is composed of protein, 
a substance which is hardened or coagidated by heat. 
Potatoes contain about. 2.2 per cent protein; apples con- 
tain .4 per cent^ osions, 1.6 per cent; rice, 8 per cent. 

If vegetables are soaked in cold water, soluble protein, 
volatile oils, starch, extractives, and mineral matter are 
extracttd in the water. If they are plunged into boiling 
water and cooked at a temperature about 180° F., the pro- 



PRINCIPLES OF COOKING 43 

tein is coagulated, and this framework aids in retaining the 
starch and mineral matter. 
Rice contains : — 

Water Carbohydrate Cellulose ' Protein Fat Mineral Matter 
12-3% 79% -2% 8% .3% .4% 

Unlike potatoes, rice contains but a small quantity of 
water ; and as starch absorbs water during cooking, rice 
must be cooked in enough water to allow the starch grains 
to swell. It may be cooked in a small quantity of water 
and all the water will be absorbed and no nutrients lost. 
When rice is cooked in this way, it is soft and the grains 
tend to stick together. When rice is cooked in a large 
quantity of water and the excess of water is drained off, 
some of the nutrients are lost in the water, but the grains 
do not stick together, and they are more easily masticated 
than in the soft, pasty form. 

Statement of Principles Involved. 

1. Heat and moisture soften cellulose. 

2. Heat and moisture cause starch grains to swell, and 
burst the walls of cellulose that inclose them. 

3. Heat coagulates the protein and this aids in retaining 
soluble substances. 

4. Starch and mineral matter are^lost when foods con- 
taining them are cooked in a large quantity of water 
and the water is drained off^ 

- Recipe for Steamed Squash. — Place a steamer over a 
kettle of boihng water. Place squash, cut into pieces, 
in the steamer and steam until soft, about 30 or 40 min- 
utes. Scrape the squash from the rind, flavor with butter, 
salt, and pepper, and serve. 

' The cellulose is included in the carbohydrate. 



44 PRINCIPLES OF COOKING 

Steaming in a steamer is a better method of cooking 
vegetables than cooking in boiling water, because there is 
no loss of nutrients. 

At what meal would you serve steamed squash? What 
other vegetables serve a similar place in this m^al? 

Squash contains : — 

Water Carbohydrate Cellulose ' Protein Fat Mineral Matter 

88.3% 9% .8% 1.4% .5% -8% 

Squash contains so much water that it may be baked, 
or steamed, or boiled. It contains very little starch. 

TOASTING BREAD. PRINCIPLE WHICH APPLIES TO 
STARCHY FOODS 

Recipe for Toasting Bread. — Cut bread in even slices 
one half inch thick. Place in a broiler or toaster and hold 
over the fire at a sufficient distance to brown without 
burning; turn once. The dextrin produced by this pro- 
cess is more easily digested than the original starch. 

Statement of Principle Involved. 

Dry'heat at 320° F. changes starch to dextrin. 

SAUTEING FOODS. PRINCIPLES WHICH APPLY TO 
FRYING FOODS CONTAINING PROTEIN AND 
CARBOHYDRATE 

Recipe for Codfish Balls. — Remove the skin and bones 
from one cup of codfish and cut it into small pieces. Wash 
the fish in cold water ; add two cups of raw potatoes also 
cut into small pieces. Put into a saucepan, cover with 
boiling water, and cook until the potatoes are done. Drain, 

' The cellulose is included in the carbohydrate. 



PRINCIPLES OF COOKING 45 

mash, add a speck of pepper, one tablespoon of. butter, 
and one egg slightly beaten. Place enough fat in the 
frying pan to cover the bottom, about one tablespoon, and 
heat until smoking hot. Drop the mixture by tablespoons 
into the frjdng pan and fry until brown, turn once. 

Calculate cost. At what meal would you serve codfish 
halls? 

Eggs contain : — 

Water Fat Protein Mineral Matter 

73.7% 10.5% 14-8% 1% 

Statement of Principles Involved. 

Heat hardens or coagulates the protein in the egg and 
this holds the different substances together so that 
they form a ball. When protein hardens, it forms a 
crust which aids in retaining juices and flavors and 
prevents the article from soaking fat. 

Recipe for Frying Bacon. — Cut bacon in very thin 
slices. Put it in a moderately hot frying pan and cook 
until crisp. Do not have the heat strong enough to de- 
compose the fat. 

Bacon contains : — 

Water Protein Fat Mineral Matter 

18.2% 10% 67.2% 4-6% 

Bacon is composed mainly of cells of fat. Like all ani- 
mal cells, the cell walls are of connective tissue, — a form 
of protein, — and the cells are held together by connective 
tissue. Moderate heat melts the fat and it escapes from 
the cell walls, the connective tissue remaining. If strong 
heat is used, the fat is decomposed into two substances, 
fatty acid and glycerine. 



46 PRINCIPLES OF COOKING 

Ai what meal is bacon served? Name some foods fried 
with bacon. Name some foods served with bacon. 

Statement of Principles Involved. 

1. Moderate heat frees fat from the cell walls which 
inclose it. 

2. Strong heat separates and decomposes fat into fatty 
acid and glycerine. 

FRYING FOODS 

Rules for Deep Fat Frying. 

1. The temperature of fat should be high enough to 
prevent the articles from soaking up the fat and hot 
enough to brown a piece of bread in one minute. 

2. Sufficient fat should be used to entirely cover the 
articles to be fried. 

3. Articles should not be wet, nor ice-cold, and should 
be rounding or oval in shape. 

, 4. Foods which do not contain egg should be dipped in 
egg and crumbs or flour to prevent absorption of fat. 

5. All foods, after frying, should be drained on soft 
paper to absorb the grease. 

6. Fat bubbles when it contains water. It cannot be 
heated higher than 212° F. until all water is evapo- 
rated. When it has ceased to bubble and is smoking 
hot, try it with a piece of bread. 

The best fat for frying is one that has a high burning 
point. The burning point of the various fats are : Ohve 
oil, 608° F. ; lard, 392° F. ; drippings, 336° F. ; beef, veal, and 
mutton, 302° F. ; butter, 265° F. Several good commercial 
products, made from vegetable fats, are on the market. 
They have a high burning point. 



PRINCIPLES OF COOKING 47 

When fat burns, it decomposes and is irritating to the 
walls of the stomach when eaten. 

Recipe for Saratoga Chips. — Wash and pare two 
medium-sized potatoes. Slice lengthwise in thin slices 
and cover with cold water until ready to use. Drain, 
cover with boiling water, and boil two minutes to partially 
cook the starch. Drain again, pour cold water over, and 
then dry as thoroughly as possible because water lowers 
the temperature of the fat. Fry in deep fat and keep the 
potatoes in constant motion so that they will fry evenly. 
Drain on paper that will absorb the excess fat and then 
sprinkle with salt. 

Calculate cost. At what meal do you serve Saratoga 
chips? Are they a cheap food? 

BROILING ANIMAL FOOD. PRINCIPLES WHICH APPLY 
TO THE COOKING OF PROTEINS — TENDER MEAT 

Meat consists of bone, fat, and muscle fiber. The bone 
and fat form but a small part of the meat as it is prepared 
for the table, though they are purchased with it at the 
market. The part of meat that is usually prepared and 
eaten is the muscle fiber. 

Muscles, or muscle fiber, consist of cells held together 
by a substance called connective tissue. All substances, 
whether animal or vegetable, are made up of cells that are 
alike in structure, but different in composition. An animal 
cell, like a vegetable cell, consists of a network or proto- 
plasm, and a nucleus, or life center. The nucleus and pro- 
toplasm are sometimes surrounded by a cell wall. The 
nucleus grows, divides, and produces other nuclei, and these 
in turn become new cells. The nucleus gets its nourish- 
ment for its growth and reproduction from the protoplasm ; 

CONLEY P. C. 4 



48 



PRINCIPLES OF COOKING 



the protoplasm gets it from the blood. The protoplasm, 
then, must contain all the substances that are needed for 
the building up and growth of muscles and other tissues. 
The protoplasm and nucleus in animal cells consist of 
protein, mineral matter, extractives, and sometimes fat. 

Animal cells are held together by a substance called con- 
nective tissue. It is called a protein, but it does not build 
tissue, and heat does not affect it in the same way that it 
affects other proteins. 

Extractives are the flavor in meat. They are formed 

by the breaking down 
of proteins during mus-' 
cular exercise. They 
are soluble in water ; 
and if meat is placed 
in a cool or slightly 
warm pan and allowed 
to heat slowly, extrac- 
tives are drawn out, and 
the meat will be dry and 
tasteless. 

Recipe for Broiling Meat. — To broil steak in a broiler 
it is necessary to have glowing coals without flame or 
smoke. It is nearly impossible to always have such a fire, 
and a pan broil is equally good and always possible. The 
best cuts for broiling are porterhouse, sirloin, and short 
steaks. The next best are chuck and round steaks. The 
cuts should be at least one inch thick. 

Have the frying pan smoking hot, rub it lightly with a 
piece of suet from the meat, and then remove the suet so 
that no fat remains in the pan. Place the steak in a pan 
and turn it when one side is seared. Turn it often to pre- 




Fat Tissues (magnified). 

Connective tissue cells form pockets in which the 
liquid fat is stored. 



PRINCIPLES OF COOKING 49 

vent burning. Steak is broiled from 8 to 10 minutes, the 
time depending upon the thickness of the steak and indi- 
vidual taste as to rareness. Remove the steak from the 
pan, sprinkle with salt and pepper, and spread with butter 
or pour the juice from the pan over the meat. 

The pan is hot in starting to sear over the outside 
and retain the juices. If the pan is not hot enough, the 
juices will escape, and the meat will be tasteless. Meat 
is turned often to prevfent burning, to prevent juice from 
escaping from the exposed side, to secure even cooking 
throughout. 

Calculate cost. How many people would the steak serve? 
Is steak a cheap meat? Give your reason. 

Statement of Principles Involved in Broiling Steak. 

1. Heat hardens or coagulates protein so that it will 
form a crust, and this crust aids in retaining juices 
and flavor. 

2. Heat and moisture soften and dissolve connective 
tissue, and dry heat hardens it. 

3. Extractives are soluble in water. 

4. Some proteins, as albumin, are soluble in water. 

Experiments to indicate the presence of protein. 

1. Mix egg white with a httle cold water. Shake well. Does it 
dissolve? Heat to about 165° F. What change takes place? 

2. Mix egg white and water and add dilute nitric acid. What 
change takes place ? 

3. Scrape or squeeze the juice from a piece of round steak and add 
cold water, or soak a piece of round steak in cold water for ten min- 
utes. Heat the juice. What change takes place ? 

4. Add a small piece of junket tablet to milk. Heat to about 
100° F. Let it stand in a warm place. What change takes 
place ? 



50 PRINCIPLES OF COOKING 

Egg white, soluble albumin in meat, and casein inr milk 
are forms of protein, and all proteins are coagulated by 
heat, acid or ferment. 

Note to Teacher. — The teacher may give or show the Xanthroproteic 
Test or the Biuret Test for protein. 

PRINCIPLES WHICH APPLY TO THE COOKING OF PRO- 
TEINS—LESS TENDER CUTS 

If certain muscles of an animal are exercised much, the 
connective tissue which holds the muscle fibers together 
becomes strong and tough and a cut of meat from one of 
those muscles would be tougher than one from a set of 
muscles not exercised so much. Such cuts, as porterhouse 
and sirloin, are taken from the back of the animal and they 
are more tender than the round cuts taken from the leg, 
or chuck cuts from the neck. 

As dry heat tends to harden connective tissue, broiling 
is not so good a method for cooking round or chuck steaks 
as simmering. Simmering, or applying moist heat, softens 
the connective tissue and makes the meat tender. 

Recipe for Simmered Round Steak. — Have tlie frying 
pan smoking hot. Remove a piece of fat from the steak 
and rub the pan with it, let the fat remain in the pan. 
Place the steak in the pan as for broiled steak, and cook 
until both sides are seared. Remove the steak from the 
pan, season the steak with salt and pepper, and sprinkle 
generously with flour. Pound the steak with a potato 
masher, or the blunt side of the butcher knife, as the butcher 
sometimes does, to cut across the muscle fibter and send 
the flour into the meat. Return the steak to the hot fry- 
ing pan ; pour enough boiling water over to cover the steak. 



PRINCIPLES OF COOKING 51 

Place a cover on the frying pan aind cook 30 minutes. Make 
a gravy from the liquid in the pan and pour over the steak. 
Calculate cost. Is simmered steak as expensive as broiled? 
Why? 

Statement of Principles Involved. 

1. Heat develops flavor. 

2. Heat hardens or coagulates protein so that it will 
form a crust, and this crust aids in retaining juices 
and flavor. 

3. Heat and moisture soften and d/ssolve connective 
tissue. 

SUMMARY OF PRINCIPLES OF COOKING 

Heat does not have the same effect on all foods. It 
hardens and toughens protein, it softens carbohydrates 
and fat, it makes proteins somewhat harder to digest, it 
frees starch from the outer covering of cellulose and gets 
it ready for digestion. Most proteins lose water even 
when cooked in water. Carbohydrates absorb water. The 
main principles of cooking may be summarized as follows : 

1. Heat and moisture soften cell walls, whether it be 
cellulose in vegetable foods or connective tissue in 
animal foods. 

2. Dry heat hardens connective tissue. 

3. Heat and moisture cause starch grains to swell and 
burst the walls of cellulose which inclose them. ' 

4. Dry heat 320° F. changes starch to dextrin. 

5. Dry heat 420° F. caramelizes sugar. 

6. Heat frees fat from cell walls which inclose the 
globules, and strong heat separates and decomposes 
fat into two substances, fatty acid and glycerine. 



52 



PRINCIPLES OF COOKING 



7. Heat hardens or coagulates any form of protein 
and makes it harder to digest. 

8. When protein hardens, it forms a crust which aids in 
retaining juices and flavor. 

9. Mineral matter, extractives, and volatile oils are 
soluble in water. 

10. Acids soften cellulose. 

11. Acids invert sugar. 

12. Heat kills bacteria and other parasites found in foods. 

13. Heat makes foods more attractive and palatable, 
and while it may lessen their ease of digestion, it 
may by improving their flavor cause an increased 
flow of digestive fluids and in that way balance the 
difficulty. 




Salmon for Canning. 
(From Carpenter's How the World is Fed.) 



CHAPTER IV 
FRUITS AND GREEN VEGETABLES 

Uses of Foods. — Proteins build tissue and yield heat 
and energy. Starch and sugar when oxidized yield heat 
and energy. Cellulose furnishes bulk, which, by stimulat- 
ing the walls of the stomach and intestines, promotes the 
flow of the digestive juices and aids peristalsis. Fats 
when oxidized yield heat and energy. Mineral salts and 
acids aid in tissue building, promote osmotic pressure, 
regulate the acidity or alkahnity of the digestive juices, 
and because they are decomposed in the body and form 
alkaline carbonates they help to keep the blood alkaline and 
control the acidity of the excretions. Water aids in tissue 
building, forms the great part of the blood, digestive fluids, 
and excretions. It regulates the temperature of the body 
and aids in the elimination of waste. Extractives stimu- 
late the appetite and aid in digestion. 

Classification of Foods. — Foods are classified for the 
purpose of study into animal and vegetable foods. In 
general it may be said that vegetable foods are mainly 
carbohydrate and animal foods mainly protein. Vege- 
table foods are classed as : — 

1. Fruits 4. Cereals 

2. Green Vegetables 5. Legumes 

3. Roots and Tubers 6. Nuts 

All vegetables have two things in common. They all 
contain valuable mineral salts which help to keep the blood 

S3 



54 FRUITS AND GREEN VEGETABLES 

alkaline ; they contain carbohydrate in the form of starch, 
sugar, and cellulose, and thus furnish bulk to food. 

Roots and tubers are pure, starchy foods containing 
little or no available protein. 

Cereals contain starch and protein in proportion of about ■ 

7:1- 
Legumes contain starch and protein in proportion of 

about 2I : I. 

Green vegetables are valuable mostly for their mineral 

salts and cellulose ; fruits, for their acids and sugar. Nuts 

are similar to the legumes in composition. They are not 

consumed to any great extent as a food, but are merely 

used as a relish or confection. 

FRUITS 

Typical Food : Apple. — All fresh fruits are similar in 
composition and structure and have practically the same 
food value. They contain 75-80 per cent water, .5-1 
per cent protein, 8-20 per cent carbohydrate, 1-3 per 
cent cellulose, .5 per cent mineral matter, and practically 
no fat. They are eaten for their mineral salts, which 
help to preserve the alkalinity of the blood, for their re- 
freshing Juices and flavor, and because the cellulose furnishes 
bulk for the intestines and thus stimulates peristalsis. 
Some fruits contain enough sugar so that they may be 
considered valuable carbohydrate foods. In structure 
fruits consist of walls of cellulose inclosing water, sugar, 
mineral salts, and acids, with very little protein and fat. 

Cooking of Fruits. — Most fruits are eaten raw when they 
can be procured fresh. Fruits are also dried, canned, 
preserved, and cooked in various ways. Cooking softens 
the cellulose, and during the process the action of the acid 



FRUITS AND GREEN VEGETABLES 55 

in the fruit on the cellulose hastens the softening. If 
fruits are cooked in water, some mineral salts, acids, and 
sugar are dissolved in the water. If the water is served 
with the fruit, there is no loss of nutrients. 

Fruits are dried so that they may be preserved for use. 
Bacteria and molds which cause the decay of fruits need 
moisture for development and growth. If the moisture 
in fruits is evaporated, the fruits will keep indefinitely. 
When dried fruits are to be used, they must be washed 
thoroughly and soaked for several hours, or overnight, in 
water so as to restore as much water as possible. They 
should be cooked until soft in the same water in which 
they are soaked. Sugar is added about five minutes be- 
fore they are removed from the fire. 

Fresh fruits may be cooked in a variety of ways. The 
commonest ways are : baking, steaming, and stewing. 

Baked Pears. — Wash and core Seckel pears. Put 
in a baking dish. Fill the center of the pear with sugar 
and add enough water in the dish to prevent burning. 
Cover and cook slowly until the pears are soft. Remove 
from the baking dish and pour the liquid from the pan 
over the pears. Other varieties of pears are good for bak- 
ing, but the Seckel are the most delicious. 

Note. — In this recipe, and in all recipes which follow, if it is possible, 
find the cost of the prepared food. Learn at what meal it could be served, 
and in a, general way its nutritive value. Later learn to calculate the 
nutritive value of each food. 

Steamed Apples. — Wash, pare, and core sound, tart 
apples. Place on a plate in a steamer over a kettle of 
boiling water and let steam until tender. Remove from 
the steamer carefully so as not to break the apples, and 
serve with cream and sugar, or with sirup. 



S6 



FRUITS AND GREEN VEGETABLES 



U. S. Department of Agnculfure Prepared by 

Office of Experiment Stations C. F. UNOWORTHY 

A. C. True: Director Expert in Charge of Nutrition Investigatrens 

COMPOSITION OF FOOD MATERIALS. 

I Fuel Value 
^feSq-ln. Equals 
1000 Calories 



Protein Fat Carbohydrates Ash 

GRAPES 



EDIblE PORTION 



Water 

RAISINS 



EDIBLE PORTIOn 



Wate 



Protein: 2.6 



hydrates. 
-^ 76,1 



-Ash: 3.+ 




FRUIT 

JELLY 

Carbo- Water,? 1.0 

hydraies-.ZOi 



Ash:0.3 



FUELHLUE 

□ 

370 CALORIES Carbo- 

PER POUND hydrates:78-3 



Ash.O.S Carbo- 

FuEL WLUE: hydrates : 2 1 . 1 



c 

405 CALORIES 
PER POUND 




HIS CALORIES 
PER PDimO 



Composition op Fruits. 



FRUITS AND GREEN VEGETABLES 



57 



U.S. Department of Agriculture 

Office of Experiment Stations 

A. C. True- Director 



Prepared by 

C. F.LAN6W0RTHY 

Expert in Charge of fJutrition investigation^ 



COMPOSITION OF FOOD MATERIALS. 



Protein 



iMM 



Fat Carbohydrates Ash 



I Fuel Value 
^IfiSq. In. Equals 
1000 Calories 



APPLE 

EDIBLE PORTION 



DRIED FIG 

EDIBLE PORTION 



Water.-8+.6 




Protein-.0.4 
-Fat;0.5 



Protein:4 3 



Carbohydrates: iTz^Ash.O.a 



Carbohydrates.7't 2 



Fuel 

VALUE: 



c 



285 CALORIES 
PER POUND 




Fuel 

VALUE; 



STRAWBERRY 

EDIBLE PORTION 



BANANA 

EDIbLE PORTION 



Water90.4 




Fat;0.6 
Carbohydrates:?.^ 



Water:75.3 



Protein: 1.0 
AshO 6 Carbohydrates:22.0 



Fuel 

VALUE: 



c 



1 75 CALORIES 
PER POUND 




Fuel 

VALUE: 



445 CALORIES 
PER POUND 



Composition of Fruits. 



5& FRUITS AND GREEN VEGETABLES 

Sirup. — Boil one cup of sugar and one third cup of 
water 3 minutes. Pour over fruit. 

Cranberry Jelly or Sauce. — Wash one quart of cran- 
berries, add one cup of cold water, and cook slowly until 
tender. Press through a strainer until nothing remains 
but the skins. Add two cups of sugar to the pulp and 
boil five minutes. Turn into molds and let it stand until 
it is firm. Serve with poultry or game. 

Stewed Prunes. — Wash the prunes thoroughly. Soak 
overnight in cold water. Cook in the water in which 
they have been soaked, until soft. Add sugar and cook 
five minutes longer. The quantity of sugar added depends 
on individual taste, but one fourth cup of sugar to one 
pound of prunes is a good proportion. 

GREEN VEGETABLES 

Green vegetables are the leaves and stems of plants, 
and as the leaves are the means by which the plant takes 
carbon dioxide and gives off oxygen, they contain very 
little nourishment except mineral salts ; their bulk is due to 
the cellulose and water. 

The green vegetables with which we are the most familiar 
are: celery, spinach, asparagus, cress, endive, lettuce, 
cabbage. Because they are similar in composition, squash, 
cucumbers, and tomatoes are usually classed with green 
vegetables, though they are fruits. 

Green vegetables contain 90-95 per cent water, 1-2 per 
cent protein, 2.5-5 per cent carbohydrate, 1-2 per cent 
mineral matter, and a trace of fat. They are valuable 
foods because the cellulose furnishes bulk to promote 
peristalsis and because the mineral salts contain a pre- 
dominance of the base-forming elements. Spinach, dande- 



FRUITS AND GREEN VEGETABLES 



59 



lions, cabbage, lettuce, and asparagus contain quite a 
little iron. 

With a few exceptions green vegetables should be eaten 
raw, because the mineral salts, being soluble, are lost in 
the water in which they are cooked, and because the cellu- 
lose serves its purpose best in the crisp form. Spinach and 
asparagus must be cooked. When vegetables are eaten 
fresh and served with salad dressing, they form an agreeable 
and important addition to a meal. 

Green Vegetables — Cooked 

Spinach. — Wash one half peck of spinach four or five 
times in plenty of water to remove all the sand found on 




Spinach with Rice Border. 



the plants. Place the spinach in a kettle and pour a small 
quantity of boiling water over it. Spinach shrinks rapidly 



6o FRUITS AND GREEN VEGETABLES 

and needs but little water on it, and as it contains valuable 
mineral salts, among them considerable iron, that are 
soluble in water, it is best to use as httle water as possible. 
When cooked, season the spinach with butter, salt, and 
pepper, and garnish with shced hard-boiled eggs. 

Asparagus. — Wash one bunch of asparagus, cut into 
inch pieces, and discard the tough lower ends. Place in a 
stewpan, cover with boiling water, and cook 30 to 45 
minutes, or until soft. Thicken the juice as for White 
Sauce, using two tablespoons of butter, two tablespoons 
of flour, one fourth teaspoon salt and speck of pepper. 
Serve on toast or as a creamed vegetable. Asparagus is 
also served in its own liquid, merely seasoned with butter, 
salt, and pepper. Asparagus contains considerable iron 
also, and should not be drained. 

Creamed Celery. — Separate the stalks of celery, and 
save the tender inner parts to serve as a relish. Wash the 
stalks and remove the rusty portions. Cut into inch 
pieces, cover with boiUng water, and cook until tender. 
Drain, pour White Sauce over, and serve. 

Creamed Cauliflower. — Soak cauUflower for one half 
hour in cold salted water. Cut the clusters apart, cover 
with boiling water, and cook until tender, about 35 minutes. 
Drain, pour White Sauce over, and serve. 

Spanish Tomatoes. — Peel three large tomatoes and cut 
into slices. Place in a stewpan, add one half cup of cold 
water. Remove the corn from two ears of green corn and 
add to the tomatoes. Add one half small green pepper 
chopped fine, one fourth cup of celery cut into small 
pieces. Boil 20 minutes, add three tablespoons of but- 
ter, one half teaspoon salt, and one eighth teaspoon 
pepper. 



FRUITS AND GREEN VEGETABLES 6i 

Green Vegetables — Salads 

Salads are made of cold meat or fish, eggs, cheese, raw or 
cooked vegetables or fruits, combined with a salad dressing. 
The green vegetables, often called the salad plants, are 
cress, endive, lettuce, cabbage, cucumber, celery, and 
tomato ; and they make the most attractive salads. They 
are cooling, refreshing, stimulate the appetite and should 
be eaten as frequently as possible because of the mineral 
salts which they contain. They may often take the place 
of a dessert at a meal. 

To make a perfect salad the vegetables should be crisp 
and cold. All ingredients in the dressing should be prop- 
erly proportioned and well blended, and the salad should 
be attractively served. Vegetables should be washed 
and allowed to stand in ice-cold water or on ice, until crisp. 
They should then be drained and placed in a cheesecloth 
bag in a cool place until they are served. Dressing is 
added at the table or just before sending to the table. 

If meat or fish is used, free it from bone and fat, and cut 
it in small uniform pieces. Canned fruit or cold left-over 
vegetables may be used for salads. For dinner serve a 
green vegetable or fruit salad. For luncheon serve a fish, 
cheese, or heavy salad, and let it serve as the principal 
dish. Fish, cheese, or meat salad contain all the protein 
needed for a meal. At dinner, when meat is served, the 
salad should not furnish additional protein, but mineral 
salts, cellulose, and reHsh. 

SALAD DRESSINGS 

Cooked Salad Dressing. — Mix one tablespoon of flour, one 
teaspoon salt, one teaspoon mustard, one tablespoon sugar. 



62 FRUITS AND GREEN VEGETABLES 

and a speck of cayenne pepper. Add two tablespoons of 
melted butter, two egg yolks, and three fourths cup of milk. 
Cook in a double boiler until it thickens, stirring constantly. 
Then add three tablespoons of vinegar and boil one minute. 

French Dressing. — Mix one half teaspoon salt, a speck 
of cayenne pepper, four tablespoons olive oil, and beat 
thoroughly. Add one tablespoon vinegar and beat vig- 
orously until thoroughly blended. 

Mayonnaise Dressing. — Beat the yolk of one egg ; add 
one fourth teaspoon each of salt and paprika and beat 
again, then use an egg beater and beat in two tablespoons 
of vinegar or lemon juice ; beat vigorously, then add a tea- 
spoon of olive oil and continue beating ; add oil, a teaspoon 
at a time, three or four times, beating vigorously mean- 
while ; then add the oil by the tablespoon until a cup in all 
has been used. Finish with one tablespoon of boiling 
water, beating it in, in the same manner as the oil. 
{Boston Cooking School Magazine.) 

Garnish for Salad. 



Lettuce 


Capers 


Endive 


Hard-boiled Eggs 


Water Cress 


Riced Eggs 


Peppers 


Diced Vegetables 


Parsley 


Nasturtium Leaves and Flowers 


To Serve with Salad. 




Cheese Straws 


Crackers 


Cheese Wafers 


Brown, Graham and 


Sandwiches 


White Bread, sliced very 


Wafers 


thin, buttered. 



Stuffed Tomato Salad. — Remove skin from tomatoes 
by pouring boiling water over them. Cut a slice from the 



FRUITS AND GREEN VEGETABLES 



63 



top of the tomato and remove the interior. Fill the 
tomato with cucumber cut in very thin slices and place 
Cooked Salad Dressing over the top. Serve on lettuce. 

Grape Salad. — Remove th,e skins and seeds from white 
or red grapes and cut in halves. Take equal parts of grapes, 
sliced peaches, pears, pineapple, or any fruit obtainable. 
Place on leaves of endive or head lettuce and serve with 
Mayonnaise Dressing. 




Grape Salad. 



Cabbage Salad. — Cut one half of a small head of cab- 
bage in very thin slices, or chop it with the chopping knife. 
Mix with one recipe of hot Cooked Salad Dressing. Chill 
and serve cold. 

Waldorf Salad. — Chop equal quantities of apple, celery, 
and walnuts. Mix with Cooked Salad Dressing. Serve 
on lettuce leaves. 

CONLEY p. c. — s 



64 



FRUITS AND GREEN VEGETABLES 



Banana Salad. — Take ripe bananas, cut them in halves 
lengthwise. Roll in Cooked Salad Dressing. Chop one 
half cup of peanuts. Roll the bananas in the nuts. Serve 
on lettuce leaves. 

Fruit Salad. — Arrange layers of sUced pineapple, 
peaches, or pears on lettuce. Serve with Mayonnaise 
Dressing. 

Cucumber or Tomato Salad. — Remove skin, slice toma- 
toes in thick slices ; sKce the cucumbers in thin slices. 
Serve on lettuce leaves with French or Cooked Salad Dress- 
ing. 

Potato Salad. — Cut two cups of cold boiled potates in 
one half inch cubes. Add one half teaspoon salt, and 
one tablespoon of chopped onion. Mix with one recipe of 
Cooked Salad Dressing or Sour Dressing, and garnish with 
sliced hard-boiled eggs and chopped parsley. 

Asparagus Salad. — If fresh asparagus is not obtainable 
at a reasonable cost, remove the liquid from a can of 
blanched asparagus tips, and rinse well. Chop one pimento. 

Arrange six or eight 
stalks of asparagus on 
head lettuce leaves. 
Sprinkle with chopped 
pimento and serve with 
French Dressing. 

Combination Salad. — 
Chop, separately, one 
half cup each of cucum- 
ber, tomato, and celery ; 
add one teaspoon of 
chopped onion. Mix hghtly with a fork until blended ; add 
Cooked Salad Dressing and serve on lettuce leaves. 




Asparagus Salad. 



FRUITS AND GREEN VEGETABLES 65 

PRESERVATION OF FOODS 

So much is said and written concerning harmful bacteria 
or germs, that we are incHned to think that all kinds of 
bacteria are powerful and insidious enemies. 

No warning yet issued seems to be strong enough to 
influence all thinking- and reasoning people to take means 
to destroy the harmful, disease-breeding, or pathogenic 
bacteria. To this class belong the germs causing typhoid 
fever, tuberculosis, diphtheria, scarlet fever, and other 
contagious diseases. If all people would be vigilant for a 
few years, we could destroy practically all these germs and 
free the world from the preventable sicknesses due either 
to carelessness or ignorance. 

The study of pathogenic bacteria belongs to the subjects 
of sanitation and hygiene in regular school work, and it 
bears but indirectly on cooking. It relates to cooking in 
so far that absolute cleanliness must be the motto for both 
kitchen and cook, and that precaution must be taken that 
water, milk, and other foods, do not contain disease-form- 
ing bacteria. Because public health boards do not attend 
to these problems the housekeeper must. 

Dust and dirt are unsightly, and we must be constantly 
on guard to keep them out of our homes, but that is not 
all. Dust and dirt furnish excellent breeding places for 
disease germs, and for that reason, if for no other, we must 
keep things clean and prevent accumulation of dirt. 

Cooking deals directly with a much more interesting 
class of bacteria, as it deals with molds and yeast. All 
bacteria are not pernicious and harmful ; some are harm- 
less and some are useful. Some of these bacteria feed on 
food, leaves, wood, and other substances, and break them 



66 FRUITS AND GREEN VEGETABLES 

down so that the elements of which these substances are 
composed may again furnish food for new plants. In 
other words, bacteria cause the decay of organic substances 
and return to the soil what plants take from it, and by 
their work, they make it possible to raise crops every year. 

Nature protects the little apple, tomato, cherry, and 
other seeds, by covering them with a soft pulp. When the 
seeds are ripe, the pulp begins to decay ; protection is no 
longer needed ; the seeds are able to take care of themselves. 

Man has found a use for these soft, juicy, and deliciously 
flavored seed coverings, and he desires to save them for 
his food. To do this some means must be found to stop 
the growth of those bacteria which cause decay. 

Bacteria need food, warmth, and moisture for develop- 
ment and growth. Most kinds are destroyed at a tempera- 
ture above i6o° F., though what are called the spore-form- 
ing kinds can resist higher temperatures ; even boiling 
temperature does not always kill them. Freezing tempera- 
ture does not destroy bacteria, but they do not develop at 
a temperature just above freezing. When brought from a 
freezing temperature to a higher temperature, they develop 
with astonishing rapidity. 

To preserve foods for use, it is necessary to destroy the 
bacteria present or to prevent their growth. Several 
different methods are used for preservation. Drying takes 
out the moisture needed for development of bacteria and 
preserves foods for indefinite periods of time. Cold 
storage deprives the bacteria of the heat needed for their 
development and retards their growth. Some media, as 
sugar, vinegar, spices, salt, smoke, make it impossible for 
bacteria to grow. We say that they cannot thrive well in 
certain media. Certain chemical preservatiAcs, having no 



FRUITS AND GREEN VEGETABLES 67 

food value in themselves, destroy bacteria, but they should 
not be used in foods because they are harmful to the body. 
Bacteria are present in the air and they may enter foods 
after the foods have been rendered sterile by boiling. For 
this reason foods are canned, or sealed in air-tight, steri- 
Uzed jars after the food has first been made sterile. If a 
sufficient quantity of sugar, salt, or vinegar has been used, 
sealing is not necessary, because bacteria cannot grow in 1 
the solution used ; but in canning, a small quantity of sugar 
is used, and that solution is very favorable for the growth 
of certain bacteria. 

CANNING 

With a little care, all fruits and many vegetables can be 
canned and stored for winter -use. Many vegetables thus 
prepared taste almost as good as when fresh, and they re- 
lieve the monotony of a diet that must otherwise be limited 
to winter-kept vegetables. All fruits — apples, cherries, 
plums, even melons — may be canned with httle expense. 
By canning is meant preserving in sterilized, air-tight cans 
or Jars, with or without sugar. 

For small families, the pint jars are best, because that 
quantity will serve for one meal, and if a larger jar is opened, 
the fruit deteriorates before it can be used. In fact pint 
jars are best in all cases where fruit is canned. In pic- 
kling, a larger jar is necessary, because the fruit is whole. 
New rubbers should be procured for the jars every season ; 
and if the covers are bent or old, new ones can be purchased 
at a slight cost. If old rubbers or bent covers are used, 
the jar will not be air-tight and the fruit and labor are 
lost. If air-tight, and the work is properly done, not one 
can of fruit should be lost. 



68 FRUITS AND GREEN VEGETABLES 

To sterilize the jars, provide a wooden rack or blocks, 
so that the jars will not come in contact with the bottom 
of the pan or kettle used. Place the jars, filled with cold 
water, on the block in the pan or kettle and then fill the 
kettle with cold water. Place on the stove where they 
will heat gradually, and when the water boils, the jars are 
sterilized and ready for use. Dip the rubbers in hot 
water before placing on the cans, and sterilize the covers 
also. 

Fill the jars to overflowing with fruit, and sirup or boil- 
ing water. Insert the handle of a silver fork or spoon be- 
tween the jar and fruit so that the air bubbles will rise to 
the top. Put on rubbers and covers and screw them tight. 
After the jars have been cooled, tighten the covers again, 
invert the jars, and let them stand in this way, to be sure 
that no juice comes out ; if it does, the jars are not air- 
tight. 

Note. — New styles in fruit jars are constantly appearing on the market. 
Complete directions, for the successful use of these jars, are always given 
by the retail merchant. 

Canned Tomatoes. — Place tomatoes in boiling water 
to remove the skins. Tomatoes may be canned whole or 
cut into halves. Fill the cans with tomatoes, and place 
the covers on loosely. Place the jars in a boiler or deep 
pan. The jars should rest on a wooden rack or light 
blocks to keep the jars from contact with the bottom of 
the pan. Fill the pan with cold water up to two inches 
from the top of the jars. Heat to the boiling point and 
boil twenty minutes. Fill the jars to overflowing with 
boiling water, put on rubbers, cover and seal. 

Canned Corn. — To nine pints of corn add one pint of 
sugar and two thirds of a pint of salt and enough water to 



FRUITS AND GREEN VEGETABLES 



69 



cover the corn. Cook fifteen minutes after it begins to 
boil. Fill sterilized jars, to overflowing, with corn, and 
seal. When ready to use, pour boiling water over the corn 
to freshen it, and strain. 

Canned Peaches and Other Fruits. — Peaches, pears, 
cherries, apples, may all be canned in the same way. Fruits, 
like pineapple and quince, should first be cooked in boiling 
water until nearly soft, and then canned as for peaches. 

Allow four cups of water to four cups of sugar for sirup. 
Boil the water and sugar ten minutes and then drop in 
the fruit, a small quantity at a time, so as not to crush it. 
Cook until nearly soft and then fill the jars. The 
hot sirup will finish the 
cooking of the fruit. 

To prepare peaches, 
place them in boiling 
water to loosen the skins, 
and then peel. Peaches 
may be canned whole or 
in halves or quarters. 

Canned Berries. — 
Berries contain so much 
water that very little 
should be added. Fill the 

jars full of whole berries. Make a sirup by crushing some 
of the berries, heating them sHghtly, and straining the 
juice. Allow one and one half cups of sugar to each cup 
of juice and boil three minutes. Fill the jars with sirup 
and proceed as for canned tomatoes. 

Jelly Making. — The best fruits for jelly making are 
currants, apples, grapes, and quinces. Wild green crab 
apples or wild grapes make deliciously flavored jelly. 




Strawberries. 



70 FRUITS AND GREEN VEGETABLES 

These fruits are best because they contain considerable 
pectin or pectose. Pectin is a carbohydrate found in ripe 
or nearly ripe pulpy fruits and causes the juice to gelatinize. 
Some fruits contain so little pectin that they will not make 
jelly unless some fruit rich in pectin is added. For example, 
red raspberries contain little pectin, while currants are 
rich in it. Red raspberries with currants added make a 
very fine jelly. 

Test Juice for Pectin. — Mix equal amounts of ethyl alcohol and 
boiled fruit juice, and if pectin is present a gelatinous mass will appear 
on the spoon inserted. 

Pectin is most abundant in the skin and core of the fruit, 
and it loses its gelatinizing power when the juice is boiled 
too long. The pectin is at its best when the fruit is just 
ripe or not quite ripe, but if the fruit is overripe, the chances 
are that the jelly will not stiffen. When the boiling has 
been too violent, jelly becomes crystallized after it stififens. 
If the juice is stirred when boiling, the jeUy will become 
coarse and tough. 

Currant Jelly. — Wash and drain the currants without 
removing the stems. Put them in a granite kettle, half 
cover with water, mash them slightly, and allow them to 
cook slowly. Strain through a coarse strainer, being sure 
that all the fruit is crushed, then allow the juice to drain 
through a double thickness of cheesecloth. Do not 
squeeze the bag or the jelly will not be clear. Measure 
the juice and boil five minutes. Add an equal quantity 
of heated granulated sugar and boil five minutes. Boil 
slowly and skim until clear. Then pour into sterilized 
glasses. Place in a sunny window and let it stand until 
it stiffens. Cover with paraffin paper. The length of 



FRUITS AND GREEN VEGETABLES 71 

time for boiling before adding sugar depends on the amount 
of water added to the fruit. 

Apple Jelly. — Wash and wipe the apples and remove 
the stems and blossom end. Cut the apples in quarters, 
place in a granite kettle and add enough cold water to 
nearly cover them. Cook slowly until the apples are soft, 
then crush and drain through a sieve and strain the juice 
through a double thickness of cheesecloth. Measure the 
juice and boil it fifteen minutes. Add an equal quantity 
of heated granulated sugar and boil slowly five minutes. 
Skim and pour into steriHzed glasses. 

Grape Jelly. — Wash the grapes and remove them from 
the stems. Place in a granite kettle. Nearly cover with 
water, crush slightly, and boil until soft. Strain through 
a double thickness of cheesecloth. Measure the juice 
and boil ten minutes. Add an equal quantity of heated 
granulated sugar and boil three minutes. Skim and pour 
into sterilized glasses. 

Pickled Peaches and Other Fruits. — Six cups sugar, 
three cups vinegar, one ounce stick cinnamon, one dozen 
whole pepper seeds. Boil twenty minutes. Remove 
skins from peaches, place two whole cloves in each peach. 
Cook in the sirup until nearly soft. Fill jars and seal. 
Crab apples are very nice pickled this way. 

Pickled Nasturtium Seeds. — Pick green seeds and soak 
twenty-four hours in salted water. Drain, wash, and let 
stand two hours in fresh water. Pack in bottles and fill 
with boiling vinegar. They may be used in place of 
capers for caper sauce. 

Tomato Catsup. — One gallon strained tomatoes, four 
level tablespoons salt, three tablespoons black pepper, 
three tablespoons mustard, one tablespoon paprika, 



72 FRUITS AND GREEN VEGETABLES 

two tablespoons chopped red pepper, one half tablespoon 
cloves, one half tablespoon allspice, two tablespoons sugar, 
one pint vinegar. Place black pepper, cloves, and all- 
spice in small bags to prevent discoloring the catsup. 
Boil until the required thickness ; place in bottles and 
hermetically seal. 

Chili Sauce. — Two quarts of peeled and sliced ripe 
tomatoes, one cup of chopped celery, one chopped red 
pepper, one chopped onion, three tablespoons sugar, one 
tablespoon salt, one tablespoon cloves, one tablespoon 
allspice, one tablespoon cinnamon, one haK tablespoon 
paprika, one pint vinegar. Cook slowly about two and 
a half hours. 

Pear Conserve. — Peel and cut into cubes, five pounds 
of pears, add five pounds of sugar. Let stand over night. 
Drain off the sirup and boil it until thick, then add the 
pears, one pound of seeded raisins, one half pound of 
walnuts cut fine, the juice and rind of two lemons, juice 
and rind of three oranges, and boil the mixture five minutes. 
Put into glasses and cover with paraffin. 

Pickled Beans. — Boil round yellow beans in salted water 
until tender but not soft. Drain and fill cans with beans, 
pour hot sirup over, and seal. Sirup : one quart of 
vinegar, two cups of sugar, whole cloves and cinnamon to 
taste. Boil for five minutes. 

Pickled Cucumbers. — Select medium-sized cucumbers 
and soak over night in a brine which will float an egg. 
Wash and drain pickles and place in cans, add one table- 
spoon each of sugar, salt, and mustard to a quart of pickles. 
Fill the cans with cold vinegar and seal. 



CHAPTER V 

ROOTS AND TUBERS: THEIR CHIEF FOOD 
PRODUCTS 

ROOTS AND TUBERS 

Roots, tubers, and bulbs are either the roots or thickened 
stems of vegetables in which sugar or starch is stored for 
the nourishment of the young plant when it shall need it. 
Because they are storehouses of nourishment, they have 
a higher food value than most fruits or green vegetables, 
although some few fruits equal them in nutritive value. 

They contain from 70-go per cent water, 8-26 per 
cent carbohydrate in the form of starch, sugar, pectin, 
and cellulose, i per cent mineral matter, less than 2 per 
cent protein, and only a trace of fat. When we purchase 
them at the market they contain about 20 per cent refuse. 
That is, about 20 per cent is trimmed off when we prepare 
them for cooking. 

Roots and tubers are cheap foods and supply almost 
endless variety to the diet, since they are easily prepared 
in many appetizing ways. They furnish 16 per cent of 
the average American diet, potatoes alone furnishing 
12I per cent. Their food value is in the carbohydrates 
and mineral salts which they contain. 

Roots and tubers are usually grouped into two classes, 
— starchy roots and tubers, which include potatoes, sweet 
potatoes, yams, and ^e starchy foods prepared from roots 
and stems, as tapioca, sago, and arrowroot; and succu- 

73 



74 ROOTS AND TUBERS 

lent roots and tubers, which include beets, turnips, carrots, 
rutabagas, parsnips, salsify, celeriac, radishes, onions, kohl- 
rabi, and garlic. The flavor and odor of these foods are 
due to the presence of volatile oil which may be retained 
or dissipated by proper cooking. 

Typical Root or Tuber, Potato. 

Composition. — 78.3 per cent water; 18.4 per cent 
carbohydrate, of which 16 per cent is starch, 2 per cent 
dextrin, sugar, pectose, .4 per cent cellulose; 2.2 per cent 
nitrogenous matter, of which 1.3 per cent is protein; 
I per cent mineral matter. 

Structure. — The potato consists of a network of cells 
held together by cellulose and surrounded by a brown 
corky skin. The cells contain starch, mineral matter, 
and a very small amount of protein. 

Experiments with Potato to show Content. 

Water. — Let the potato stand in a warm, dry place and weigh 
it occasionally. Note the loss of water by evaporation. 

Starch. — Grate the potato, place in a cheesecloth bag, and wash 
the starch out. Let the water stand until the starch settles, then 
pour the water off and weigh the starch. Starch test : A solution of 
iodine turns starch blue. 

Ash. — Burn potato in a crucible until nothing remains but the 
ash. 

Food Value. — Potatoes are the most important car- 
bohydrate food, and it may be said that they are served 
at every dinner and usually at one other meal in the aver- 
age American home. They generally furnish the main 
carbohydrate part of a dinner and are valuable also for 
the potash and other important mineral salts which they 
contain. 



ROOTS AND TUBERS 75 

Principles involved in Cooking. — Potatoes are 
made up of innumerable cells, having walls of cellulose 
and inclosing starch, mineral matter, water, and a small 
amount of protein. Heat causes the starch grains to 
swell and burst the cell walls, and thus the starch is 
free so that the digestive juices can act on it. Heat 
coagulates the protein. Some starch and mineral matter 
are lost when potatoes are pared and cooked in boil- 
ing water. There is no loss when they are steamed 
or baked. i 

Method of Preparation. — Potatoes should be pared 
thin, as much of the protein and mineral salts are directly 
under the skin and are lost in deep paring. When potatoes 
are being prepared, they should be covered with water 
and should remain in water until it is time to cook them. 
If they are exposed to the air, they turn black, because 
certain ferments in them become active in the presence of 
oxygen. Old potatoes may be soaked in water to restore 
some of the lost moisture, but ordinarily nutrients are 
lost if potatoes are left soaking in water for any length of 
time. Potatoes should always be cooked in boihng water, 
not simmering or nearly boiling, so as to coagulate the 
protein and retain all the nutrients possible. 

Methods of Cooking. — Baking, boiling, scalloping, 
frying, etc. 

Grated potatoes are used for puddings, pies, muflSns, 
soups, cakes, etc. 

Baked Potatoes. — (See recipe, page 35.) 

Boiled Potatoes. — Wash and pare potatoes, cover with 
cold water until time to cook. Put into boiling salted 
water and cook until soft, about 30 minutes, allowing one 
tablespoon of salt to each quart of water. When done, 



76 ROOTS AND TUBERS 

drain thoroughly, cover with a folded napkin, and set 
where they will dry off and keep warm until served. 

Potatoes boiled " in jackets " are more nutritious than 
those pared before boihng, as there is practically no loss 
of nutrients when they are simply washed clean and 
plunged into boiling water, and cooked. Because of ease 
in serving, potatoes are usually pared. 

Mashed Potatoes. — Mash hot boiled potatoes and to 
every pint of potato add one tablespoon of butter, one 
half teaspoon of salt, and enough milk to moisten. Beat 
thoroughly. 

Escalloped Potatoes. — ■ Slice the potatoes in slices one 
fourth inch thick. Parboil lo minutes. Place the potatoes 
in a baking dish in layers. Pour thin White Sauce over 
them, and sprinkle with buttered crumbs. Bake 20 to 30 
minutes in a slow oven. 

Thin White Sauce. — Two tablespoons butter, one table- 
spoon flour, one cup milk, one fourth teaspoon salt, speck 
of pepper. Prepare as fpr White Sauce. 

Glazed Sweet Potatoes. — Wash and pare the potatoes. 
Cut into halves lengthwise. Parboil 10 minutes. Dip 
into sirup, put into a buttered pan, bake 15 to 20 minutes. 
Baste occasionally with the sirup. Bake in a hot oven. 

Sirup. — Mix one half cup sugar, four tablespoons 
water, one tablespoon butter. Boil three minutes. 

Potatoes in White Sauce. — Cut cold boiled potatoes 
into half inch cubes. Make a White Sauce. Add potatoes 
and heat. 

Stuffed Potatoes. — Bake large potatoes, cut lengthwise 
through the center. Remove the inside and mash. For 
six potatoes use two tablespoons butter, one fourth cup 
milk, one eighth teaspoon pepper, one fourth teaspoon 



ROOTS AND TUBERS 



77 



salt, one fourth cup chopped egg, or parsley, or two table- 
spoons grated cheese. Return to shell, and brown in 
oven. 

Lyonnaise Potatoes. — Cut three medium-sized potatoes 
in cubes. Melt three tablespoons butter in hot pan, add 
one tablespoon chopped onion, cook in butter until brown. 




Potato Salad. 
Garnished with sliced beet, sardines, and boiled eggs. 

Add the potatoes, sprinkle with one fourth teaspoon 
salt, speck of pepper, and stir occasionally until golden 
brown. 

Cream of Potato Soup. — Cook three potatoes in boiling 
salted water; when soft, rub through a sieve, and use 
about two and ,a half cups of potato. Scald one quart of 
milk with two slices of onion. Add the potato. Remove 
onion. Melt two tablespoons butter, add two tablespoons 
flour, and mix thoroughly. Add one teaspoon salt, one 
eighth teaspoon pepper. Stir into the soup. Boil three 



78 ROOTS AND TUBERS 

minutes, sprinkle with one tablespoon chopped parsley, 
and serve. 

Cream soups are White Sauce with some' vegetable added 
for flavor and to increase the nutritive value. 

Croutons. — Cut slices of bread one half inch thick, and 
spread with butter. Cut into inch squares, and place in 
the oven and brown. Serve with soup. 

Potato Salad. — Cut two cups of cold boiled potatoes in 
one half inch cubes. Add one half teaspoon salt, and 
one tablespoon of chopped onion. Mix with one recipe of 
Cooked Salad Dressing or Sour Dressing, and garnish with 
sliced hard-boiled eggs and chopped parsley. A very attrac- 
tive dish is made when this salad is garnished with sliced 
beets, sardines, and boiled eggs. See illustration on page 77. 

Sour Dressing. — Mix one fourth cup of melted butter, 
one half cup of hot vinegar, one half teaspoon salt, one 
eighth teaspoon pepper, one half teaspoon chopped onion. 

SUCCULENT ROOTS AND TUBERS 

Succulent roots and tubers contain more water and less 
nutrients than the starchy roots and tubers, and so ha^'e 
a lower food value. They are valuable additions to the 
diet because of their mineral salts, large amount of cellu- 
lose, flavor, and because they furnish variety. They all 
contain carbohydrate in some form. 

Selection. — Old roots and tubers are tough and woody 
and require a much longer time for cooking than the young 
and tender ones. They have a lower food value because 
they contain so much cellulose, are of a coarser texture and 
often are dry and corky. 

Preparation. — Succulent roots and tubers should be 
washed clean, pared as thin as possible, cooked whole when 



ROOTS AND TUBERS 79 

possible, and sliced if so desired, after they are cooked. 
If cooked in a small quantity of water, there is less loss of 
nutrients than when a large quantity of water is used. 
When they are steamed, there is practically no loss of 
nutrients. 

Methods of Preparing Succulent Roots and Tubers and Green 
Vegetables for the Table. 

1. Creamed. — Boiled and sliced, served with White Sauce. 

2. Diced. — Boiled and cut into small pieces or cubes. 

3. Grated. — Grated and served with Salad Dressing as a salad. 

4. Mashed. — Boiled and mashed and flavored with butter, salt 
and pepper. 

5. Fried. — Boiled and cut into thin sMces, and dipped in cnunbs. 
or flour, and sauted. May be sliced first, then boiled. Saute in 
bacon fat or half lard and half butter. 

6. Scalloped. — Shced, parboiled (partially boiled), and baked 
with thin White Sauce and buttered crumbs. 

7. Pickled. — Boiled, sliced or whole, with vinegar added before 
serving. AH vegetables are best cooked whole and shced afterwards, 
because there is loss of nutritive ingredients when they are cooked in 
water, and the more surface exposed, the greater the loss. 

The greater the amount of cellulose a vegetable contains, 
the longer the time needed for cooking. Old vegetables 
require longer time than fresh ones because the cellulose 
has become woody. For this reason no time can be given 
in the recipe. 

Lessons on Succulent Roots and Tubers. 

1. Fried Carrots or Parsnips. For method see Number 5. 

2. Grated Carrots. For method see Number 3. 

3. Mashed Rutabagas. For method see Number 4. 

4. Pickled Beets. For method see Niunber 7. 

coNLEY p. c. — 6 



8o ROOT AND TUBER PRODUCTS 

PREPARED STARCHY FOODS 

In tropical countries, many foods, unknown to us, form 
common and staple articles of diet. Some of these foods 
are prepared for our market and sold to us in the dry form, 
and they furnish variety to our meals. Chief among 
the starchy tropical foods which we enjoy eating are tapioca, 
sago, and arrowroot. Of these tapioca is the least expen- 
sive, the best known, and one most commonly used. 

The tapioca which we use is prepared from the roots of 
bitter cassava plant. These roots are washed, cut, ground 
to a pulp, and the bitter acid which they contain is removed. 
The pulp is then treated so as to separate the pure starch 
from the woody fiber or cellulose. The starch is then dried 
and sold as flake, pearl, or minute tapioca. The flake 
tapioca occurs in irregular pieces, the pearl in round form, 
and the minute is ground to a coarse powder so that it 
will cook quickly. As tapioca is a dried food, it must be 
soaked to restore the lost moisture before it can be cooked. 
Flake and pearl tapioca should be soaked at least an hour, 
preferably two hours. Minute tapioca should be soaked 
at least ten minutes. 

Sago is prepared from the spongy pith or center of the 
trunk of the sago palm tree. The pith of the tree reaches 
its fullest development just before the tree begins to bear 
fruit. At this time the tree is cut and the pith is removed 
and ground to a powder. The powder is mixed with water 
to separate the starch from the fiber. After the starch is 
washed out, it is dried and sold as sago. 

Tapioca Pudding. — Soak one fourth cup of flake or 
pearl tapioca in one half cup of water for at least an hour, 
add two cups of milk, and cook until the tapioca is trans- 



ROOT AND TUBER PRODUCTS 8 1 

parent, about 30 minutes. Beat two eggs, add one fourth 
cup of sugar, one eighth teaspoon of salt, one teaspoon 
of vanilla, and mix thoroughly with the tapioca. Bake 
in a moderate oven for 30 minutes. Sago may.be used 
instead of tapioca. 

Apple Tapioca. — Soak one fourth cup of minute tapioca 
in one fourth cup of water for ten minutes, add two cups 
of milk, and cook until the tapioca is transparent, stirring 
constantly. Add one fourth cup of sugar, one eighth tea- 
spoon of salt, and one cup of thinly sliced or chopped tart 
apples. Turn into a baking dish and bake until the apples 
are soft. Serve with cream or soft custard. 

SUGAR 

Sugar or sucrose is made from the juice of sugar cane, 
sugar beets, and from the sap of the maple tree. Cane, 
beet, and maple sugars are exactly alike, chemically, but 
maple sugar contains certain substances which give it 
its peculiar flavor. Formerly most of the sugar was made 
from sugar cane, but now beets are raised extensively for 
sugar, and much sugar is manufactured from them. While 
there is no scarcity of sugar for the reason that beet sugar 
is supplanting cane sugar, there is a scarcity of molasses, 
sirup, and the by-products of cane sugar. Most of the 
sirup and molasses sold in the country is made directly 
from glucose, which is made from corn, and colored and 
flavored until it looks like the by-products of cane sugar. 
Corn sirup is a good food product, and has its uses in cook- 
ing, but it should be labeled and sold as such so that the 
purchaser will know exactly what he is getting. 

In the making of sugar from the juice of sugar cane the 
stalks are crushed, and the juice is boiled until it is a thick 



82 ROOT AND TUBER PRODUCTS 

sirup. As it boils, part of it crystallizes and is called raw 
sugar, and part of it, containing all the impurities in the 
sugar juice, including potash salts, will not crystallize 
and is called molasses. Improvements are constantly made 
in the process of sugar making, and it is now possible 
to crystalKze nearly all the juice, and so less and less mo- 
lasses is left. Molasses is acid in reaction, and because of 
" the impurities which it contains, — impure in the sense 
that they interfere with the crystallization of the sugar, 
— it gives to foods a very pleasing flavor and has a high 
nutritive value. 

After the raw sugar is separated from the molasses, it is 
mixed with water, and milk of lime to neutralize it, 
bleached, clarified, and put into vacuum pans and boiled 
to a thick sirup. This sirup is then put into centrifugal 
machines which separate the sugar from the sirup. The 
sugar becomes fine white crystals, and, because of improve- 
ments in the process, practically all the sirup becomes 
sugar. 

Soft sugars are partially refined sugars. The refined 
sugars are sold as bar, cube, tablet, crystallized, coarse 
grain, medium grain, fine grain, and pulverized sugars. 

Corn sirup or glucose is a noncrystalline sugar, and for 
that reason it has distinctive uses in cooking. All sucrose 
or cane sugar is inverted to glucose during cooking by the 
addition of acid or when sugar is added to fruits contain- 
ing acid, as in the making of cranberry jelly. As glucose 
is only three fifths as sweet as sucrose, if the inversion takes 
place, more sugar is needed than when it is added after 
the fruit has finished cooking. If the sirupy consistency 
is desired, however, the sugar must be boiled with the 
fruit. 



ROOT AND TUBER PRODUCTS 



83 



Prepared by 

C. F LAN6W0RTMV 

Espert in Charge of Nutrition Investigations 

COMPOSITION OF FOOD MATERIALS. 



U. S- Department of Agriculture 
Office of Experiment Stations 
A.C. True: Director 



Protein 



mm ^ 

fat Carbohydrates Ash 




■ Puel Value 
VfeSq. In- Equals 
1000 Calories 

MOLASSES 



Carbohydrates; 100.0 



Protein: 2.4 



Fuel value: 



Carbohydrates :69.3 



STICK CANDY 




Fuel value.- 




Water: 3.0 



Fuel value: 



Ash: 0.5 



MAPLE SUGAR '7+5 calories 

PER POUND 



-Water: 16.3 Water: 18.2. 
Protein-.0.4 



HONEY 



Ash:0.&5 



Carbo- Carbo- 

hydrates:828 hydrates.8l.2|, 



FuELVAlUE: 
1500 CALORIES PER POUHD 




^^Ash-.Oa 
Fuel value: 



1475 CALORIES PER POUND 



Sugars. 



84 ROOT AND TUBER PRODUCTS 

During the making of frostings and fondant, an 
acid, as cream of tartar or vinegar, is added to the 
sugar to change it to glucose and give it a smooth 
consistency. If rightly made, frostings and fondant 
will not crystallize, because acids boiled with cane or 
beet sugar invert or change it to glucose. 

CANDY MAKING 

When sugar and some Hquid are boiled together as in 
candy making, different temperatures or different degrees 
of density are closely noted, as they indicate different stages 
or changes in the mixture and produce candies of different 
texture. 

Sugar thermometers are sometimes used to learn the 
temperatures, but expert candy makers can test by drop- 
ping some of the solution in cold water, by the sound while 
boiling, by the appearance of the sirup, or by the finger 
test. 

The tests that are most used in cooking and candy 
making are, the thread stage, 215° F. ; the soft ball, 
238° F.; the hard ball, 248° F. ; the crack, 290° F. ; 
and the caramel, 350° F. The thread stage is used 
in making frosting, the soft ball for fondant, the hard 
ball and crack for molasses candy, and the caramel for 
peanut brittle. 

Peanut Brittle. — Heat two cups of sugar until melted, 
stirring constantly so that part of the sugar does not 
burn before the rest is melted. When the sugar is 
melted, add one cup of peanut meats and turn into 
a buttered pan. If a porous texture is desired, add one 
fourth teaspoon of soda as soon as the sugar is melted, 
and stir quickly. (Care must be taken that the sugar 



ROOT AND TUBER PRODUCTS 85 

does not boil up too quickly after the soda is added, for 
there is danger that the candy maker may receive a 
severe burn.) 

Molasses Candy. — Place in a large granite kettle two 
cups of molasses, one cup of sugar, two tablespoons of 
butter, and one tablespoon of vinegar or lemon juice. 
Boil until it reaches the crack stage, stirring constantly. 
Pour into a buttered pan until cool enough to handle. 
Pull until it is as light colored as desired. 

Fondant. — Two cups of sugar, one half cup cold water, 
one eighth teaspoon cream of tartar. Mix the sugar and 
water together, and put on the stove to boil. Stir until 
it begins to boil, then add the cream of tartar. Boil 
without stirring until it forms a soft ball when dropped in 
cold water. Turn on to a large plate or platter, and let it 
cool until you can indent it with a finger. Then work back 
and forth with a knife until it becomes white and creamy. 
Take it up and knead it as you would knead bread, until 
it is smooth. Roll in oiled paper, and let it stand twenty- 
four hours. Color and flavor as desired, and shape in 
creams. 

Sea Foam. — Boil together one cup of granulated sugar, 
one fourth cup of hot water, one fourth cup of corn sirup. 
Cook to a hard ball. Beat an egg white stiff and dry. 
Then add one speck of salt. Add the above sirup very 
slowly to the egg, beating it until stiff. Flavor with one 
fourth teaspoon of vanilla. 

Divinity Fudge. — Boil three cups of brown sugar, one 
third cup of corn sirup, two thirds cup of water, to a hard 
ball. Beat whites of two eggs dry, pour hot sirup on 
gradually. Beat constantly until mixture hardens. Add 
one cup of nutmeats. Shape into balls. 



86 ROOT AND TUBER PRODUCTS 

Chocolate Fudge. — Two cups of sugar, two ounces of 
chocolate, one half cup of milk, one tablespoon of butter. 
Boil to a soft ball without stirring. Remove from fire. 
Add one teaspoon vanilla. Beat until thick. Turn into 
buttered pan to cool. 

Chocolate Caramels. — ^Melt three ounces of chocolate, 
add two cups of molasses, one cup of brown sugar, two 
tablespoons of butter, one third cup of milk and mix 
thoroughly. Boil to a hard ball. Remove from the fire, 
add one teaspoon of vanilla, turn into a buttered pan, and 
when cool, mark into squares. 

Cream Candy. — Mix two cups of sugar, one half cup of 
water, three tablespoons of vinegar, and one teaspoon of 
cream of tartar. Boil until it forms a hard ball, add one 
teaspoon of extract of lemon, and turn into a buttered pan. 
When cool, pull until white, and cut into squares. 

Candied Popcorn. — Mix one tablespoon of butter, one 
cup of sugar, and four tablespoons of water. Boil until it 
threads or forms a soft ball. Pour the hot sirup over 
freshly popped popcorn, being careful to distribute it evenly. 
Mix well so that each kernel is coated with sirup and 
keep stirring until the corn has cooled. Nuts may be 
coated in the same way. 



CHAPTER VI 

CEREALS AND LEAVENING AGENTS 
CEREALS 

Nature has a different purpose than providing food for 
man and animals when she stores nourishment in plants. 
Her purpose is to provide food for the little embryo plant 
when it is ready to germinate. So careful is Mother 
Nature that the germ plant will have just the right kind 
of food needed for its complete development, that she 
stores all the food needed for some time in the part called 
the seed, that surrounds and protects the embryo. To 
show this, all we need to do is to place any seed, as beans, 
peas, corn, wheat, between two pieces of cotton flannel, 
wet the flannel, and place it in a shallow pan like a pie plate. 
In a short time the plants will develop. 

All seeds contain considerable nutrition, and they all 
contain all the different kinds of food in varying propor- 
tioii, depending on the protection and food needed for 
germination. Cereals, legumes, and nuts contain the 
greatest amount of nutrients, and, because they are so 
well liked, can be used in so many different ways in cooking, 
are cheap, easily digested, and furnish a balanced food in 
themselves, cereals are the most important of all the seeds. 

Cereals are defined as the grains or grasses, the seeds of 
which are used as food. They are, wheat, oats, corn, rice, 
rye, barley, buckwheat. Wheat is by far the most impor- 
tant of all cereals ; corn ranks next. 

87 



88 



CEREALS AND LEAVENING AGENTS 



U S. Oepirtmenl of Agriculture 
Office of Experiment Stations 
A. C. True; Director 



Prepared by 
C. F. LAHGWORTffY 
Expert in Cfiarge of Nutrition Investigations 



COMPOSITION OF FOOD MATERIALS. 



Protel 



Fat Corbohydrates Ash 



Water 



I Fuel Value 
^{'eSq.ln.Eguals 
1 000 Calories 



WALNUT 

Water: 21; 




Protein: 166 ProteintlO. 



Carbo 
hydrates: 74.2 
Carbo- 
hydrates: 16.1 



FuELwujE_ PEANUT 

^^^H Water: 9.2 



CHESTNUT 

Water. 5.9 

Faf.7.0 



Ash:?.2 




FuBl VALUE: 



Carbo- 
-hydrates 2+41 

3180 CALORIES ,...._-^*™iP^^^^Ash:2.0 1820 mlobies 

pfRpouno Protein:25.8 ^Fat:38.6 perpound 

TufL VALUE: 




PEANUT BUTTER 2485«lo^«ie5 



Water.2. 1 



Fat: 46.5 




COCOA NUT 

DESICMTEO 

Water.3.5 



Protein. 29.3 Protein: 6.3 



Ash:5.0 



Carbo- 
Carbo- hydrates: 3 1. 5 

hydrates; I7.J 

"^ — ^ Ash 



Fuel value; 




Fat-.57.4 



2735 



calories kh pound 



3025 CALORIES PER POUKD 



Composition of Ntrrs. 



CEREALS AND LEAVENING AGENTS 



89 



U. S. Department of Agriculture Prepared tiy 

Office of Experiment Stations C. F. LANGWORTHY 

A. C. True: Director Expert in Charge of Nutrition Investigations 

COMPOSITION OF FOOD MATERIALS. 

irmmn m^^ mm ^^ M^rueivaiue 

Fat Carbohydrates Ash Water ^■^itSq.ln.Equals 

^^ 1000 Calorics 

CORN 



Protein 



WHEAT 



Fat .4.3 




Water: 10.8 



Water:10.6 



Proteir):IO.O Protein;12.2 



rbohydrates:73.+ Carbohydrates:73.7 




Fat: 1.7 



Ash-.l.5-.^^„^ ' / \U— Ash: 1.8 

FuE^juiE: Fuel valuc: 

jj^^l BUCKWHEAT HH 

I685CAL0I11ES Protein; lO.O-j^^— Water: 12.6 |625 calories 

PEBpouHO Carbo-— ~*&-5iii-^ ~Fat:2.2 pebpouno 

hydrates :73.2^*^*~A sh : 2 .0 

Fuel value : 

OAT HH RICE 

-Water: 11.0 IB98cALO»its Water:IZ.a 
Fat:5.0-Hj|f— Protein: 11.8 """""" Protein: 8.0^7«'^f-Fat:2.0 




y Carbo- 

^ hydrates: 69.2 

Fat: 1.5 



RYE 




CarbO'^ 
hydrates:77 

Water: 10.5 

Protein: 12.2 




Ash: 1.0 



Fuel 



^^^H Carbo-' 

■■ hydrates: 73.9 \J, — Ash: 1.9 

1670 CALORIES FuELMLUE: 

1620 CALORIES 
PER POUND 



1620 CALORIES 
PER POUND 



Composition of Cereals. 



go CEREALS AND LEAVENING AGENTS 

All the cereals are similar in structure. They consist 
of an outer skin which in some cereals includes the bran 
coats; the endosperm or main body of the grain, which 
consists of starch, protein, mineral matter, and varying 
amounts of fat, and which is the stored nourishment of the 
embryo ; and the germ or embryo. The endosperm is 
the part that is usually used for food, but in some cases, 
as in the making of breakfast foods, all the grain but the 
tough outer skin is used. 

The typical cereal, wheat, contains 10.6 per cent water, 
12.2 per cent protein, 1.7 per cent fat, 73.7 per cent carbo- 
hydrate, including 2.4 per cent cellulose, and 1.8 per cent 
mineral matter. Its protein is in the form of gluten, a 
substance that is elastic and tenacious. When gas is 
formed within a mixture made from wheat, other sub- 
stances and a liquid, the gluten expands, and when heat is 
applied, the gas expands also, and the result is a light 
porous loaf. No other cereal except rye has a protein 
that possesses this power. For this reason when breads 
are made from corn, the loaf is not so Ught as wheat 
bread. Usually half wheat flour is used so as to make a 
lighter loaf. 

Of the cereals, wheat and rye contain the most protein, 
oats the most fat, rice the most starch, and oats the greatest 
amount of cellulose and mineral matter, but with the ex- 
ception of rice their composition is very similar. 

It is estimated that cereals furnish nearly one third of 
all the foods consumed by the American people. They 
can be manufactured into a great varietj' of products, 
and in that way they have a very extensive use. Flour 
enters, in some way, into almost every article of food 
prepared, even in the cooking of meats. 



CEREALS AND LEAVENING AGENTS 91 

The Products into which the Cereals are Manufactured 
are; — 

1. Breakfast Foods — oatmeal, rolled oats, cream of wheat, hom- 
iny, etc. ; also a great variety of prepared and "ready to eat '' foods. 

2. Starch — corn, rice, wheat. 

3. Itahan Pastes — macaroni, spaghetti, vermicelli. 

4. Glucose — sirup from corn. 

5. Cereal Coffee. 

6. Flour — wheat, corn, rye, buckwheat, rice. 

7. Liquors — malted drinks, beer, whiskey, etc. 

8. Feed for Stock. 

Cooking of Cereal Products 

Cereal Breakfast Foods. — The length of time required 
for the cooking of the breakfast foods depends on the size 
of the particles and the amount of cellulose which the 
cereal contains. Whole kernels of corn, called hominy, 
take a much longer time than corn meal ; steel-cut oatmeal 
takes a longer time than Quaker Oats, because the latter 
has been steam cooked first, and also crushed so that heat 
can penetrate it more readily. Oat preparations, not 
steam cooked when sold, require a longer time than wheat 
or rice preparations, because oats contain more cellulose. 

Directions for Cooking. — Breakfast foods should be 
cooked in a double boiler. Fill the lower part of the 
double boiler one third full of boiling water. Put boiling 
salted water in the upper part of the double boiler, and 
add the cereal gradually, stirring constantly to prevent 
lumping. Cover and steam according to the directions 
given below. If the particles of the cereal are finely ground, 
it is best to mix it with a little cold water first to prevent 
lumping. Keep the lower part of the double boiler one 
third full of water. After the water begins to boil, turn 



92 



CEREALS AND LEAVENING AGENTS 



Quantity 


Kind 


Amount of 
Water 


Time Requked 


Served with 


I cup 


rolled oats or 
wheat, steam 
cooked first 


2 cups 


30 minutes 


Baked 
apples 


I cup 


rice 


3 cups 


30 minutes 


Sliced fruit 


I cup 


corn meal 


35 cups 


I hour 




I cup 


cream of wheat 


4 cups 


30 minutes 


Chopped 
dates 


I cup 


hominy, flaked 


4 cups 


I hour 


SUced 
bananas 


I cup 


oatmeal, coarse 


4 cups 


3-4 hours 




I cup 


whole hominy, 
soak first 


4 cups 


4-6 hours 





the heat as low as possible. It requires very little heat 
to keep water boiling after it has once reached the boiling 
point. Use one half to one teaspoon of salt for each cup 
of cereal. 

Serving the Breakfast Foods. — Breakfast foods are 
served after the fruit course for breakfast, or with the fruit, 
as suggested in the outline. They are also served as a 
first course at supper. With fruit, cream, a small amount 
of sugar, and bread and butter, they make a very appetiz- 
ing and nutritious breakfast, and the deficiency in- protein 
may be made up at dinner when meat, fish, eggs, or legumes 
are served as the protein food. 

Cereal Products — Starch 

This lesson shows the uses of starch as a thickening agent. 
For this purpose it is used also in sauces and gravies. Flour 
is sometimes used instead, but it lumps more easily and 
does not taste as well as cornstarch. In the making of 



CEREALS AND LEAVENING AGENTS 93 

sauces and puddings, the starch is mixed thoroughly with 
the sugar before the liquid is added, to prevent lumping. 

Cornstarch Mold. — Mix three tablespoons of cornstarch 
with four tablespoons of sugar in the saucepan, add two 
cups of milk, mix thoroughly, place on the stove and cook 
until it thickens (about three minutes after it begins to 
boil),' stirring constantly. Remove from the stove, add 
one teaspoqn of vanilla, and turn into molds or cups that 
have been rinsed with cold water so that the mold will 
slip out easily when cold. Let the molds stand until 
perfectly cold, serve with cream and sugar, or with sKced 
fruit, as a dessert. Vanilla is always added after the food 
is taken from the fire, because it is volatile and would 
evaporate if added while the heat is being apphed. In 
that case, most of the flavor would be lost. 

Chocolate Cornstarch Mold. — Melt one half ounce of 
chocolate, or use two tablespoons of cocoa, add the mixed 
sugar and cornstarch and milk as given in the recipe for 
cornstarch mold. Cook and serve in the same way. 

Cornstarch Pudding. — Mix four tablespoons of corn- 
starch with four tablespoons of sugar, add three cups of 
milk, and cook until it thickens, stirring constantly to 
prevent lumping. Beat the yolks of two eggs until 
smooth,, add a few tablespoons of the cooked mixture to 
the egg to apply the heat to it slowly, and mix thoroughly 
so that the egg will not be cooked in flakes, then add the 
remainder of the milk and cook one minute. Remove 
from the stove and add one teaspoon of vanilla. Pour 
into a baking dish. Beat the whites of the two eggs 
until stiff and dry, add two tablespoons of sugar, one 
fourth teaspoon of vanilla, and place it over the pudding. 
Bake until the egg whites are brown. Serve cold. . 



94 CEREALS AND LEAVENING AGENTS 

When a mixture contains cornstarch and eggs, the corn- 
starch is cooked first with the milk, and the eggs are added 
after the mixture has thickened. The reason for this is 
that all egg dishes should be cooked at a low temperature 
and only enough to coagulate the egg, while starch requires 
longer cooking. 

Cereal Products — Italian Pastes 

The foods called ItaHan Pastes, because they were 
originally made in Italy, though they are made in this 
country also, are macaroni, spaghetti, and vermiceUi. 
They are made from a wheat containing a high percentage 
of gluten. The flour is mixed with water and kneaded to 
a stiff dough. It is then put into hollow cylindrical presses 
and forced into tubes of various shapes and then dried. 
The largest tubes are called macaroni, the next spaghetti, 
and the smallest vermicelli. These pastes are nutritious 
foods because the flour has so high a percentage of gluten 
that a dish of macaroni and cheese is in itself a meal. 

Macaroni and Cheese. — Two quarts of boihng water, 
one tablespoon of salt, one cup of macaroni broken into 
inch pieces. Cook in a double boiler twenty minutes. 
Drain, pour cold water over and drain again. Grate or 
chop cheese. Arrange a layer of macaroni in a baking 
dish, sprinkle with cheese, put in another layer of macaroni 
and cheese. Pour one recipe of White Sauce over it. Cover 
with buttered crumbs, and bake until crumbs are brown. 

Spaghetti with Tomato Sauce. — Two quarts of boiling 
water, one tablespoon of salt, about one cup of spaghetti 
unbroken. Cook in double boiler until soft, about twenty 
minutes. Drain and pour cold water over, and drain again. 
Pour tomato sauce over, heat one minute, and serve. 



CEREALS AND LEAVENING AGENTS 95 

• Hold the sticks of spaghetti in the hand, place the other 
end of the sticks in the boiling water, and as they soften 
they will coil in the cooking vessel. 

Tomato Sauce. — One pint of tomatoes, one half onion 
chopped fine. Cook ten minutes. Put through a sieve. 
Melt four tablespoons of butter, rub in four tablespoons 
of flour, add one half teaspoon of salt, one eighth teaspoon 
of pepper, add the tomato, and cook until it thickens. 

Cereal Products — Flour 

Some of the cereals, wheat, rye, corn, buckwheat, are 
made into flour. Wheat flour is the only one that is 
used very extensively. In the process of flour making 
the outer or bran coats and the germ are removed, and 
the endosperm is ground into a fine powder. There 
are various grades of flour, depending on the quality of 
the wheat, the fineness of the flour, and the amount of 
bran left in the product. The names mean very little to 
the average person, because each milling firm coins a name 
for its best grade of flour and advertises it extensively. 
The best grades are designated in trade as the fancy patent, 
standard patent, etc. Whole wheat flour is made by 
grinding all the grain except the outer bran coats. Some 
cheap grades of flour are made from the endosperm and 
germ, some have the finer parts of the endosperm removed, 
and are made from the remainder. 

It is poor economy to buy cheap flour. The best grades 
of flour absorb more water during bread making, and so not 
as much flour is needed as when the cheaper grades are 
used. Cheap flour makes poor bread, and sometimes much 
of the bread is wasted because it is not appetizing. Good 
flour is creamy in color, does not hold the impress of the 

CONLEY p. C. — 7 



96 CEREALS AND LEAVENING AGENTS 

fingers if held in the hand, and absorbs about 30 per cent 
its weight of water in bread making. 

Pastry flour contains more starch than bread flour. It 
is made from soft or winter wheat, while bread flour is 
made from hard or spring wheat. Pastry flour is used for 
pies, cakes, etc., but a good substitute for it may be made 
by sifting two tablespoons of cornstarch into each cup of 
bread flour. 

Flour, Leavening Agents, and Shortening 

When flour and water are mixed together and baked, 
the result is a hard, heavy, tough mass that is not appe- 
tizing. Flour contains gluten and starch. Gluten is a 
sticky, tenacious substance that has great expansive power 
when mixed with the water. Starch swells and gelatinizes 
when water is added and heat is applied, and tends to 
become lumpy. To make a light, porous, and tender food, 
some ingredients must be added that will separate the 
starch grains and give them room to expand, without 
lumping, and that will form a gas that can be inclosed in 
the sticky, tenacious gluten. When heated, the gas will 
expand. The gluten also has great expansive power, and 
the heat sets the walls of gluten at the right time, and this 
makes a light and porous product. If the heat is too 
strong at first, the gluten hardens before the gas expands 
it, and the mixture will not be light enough. If the heat 
is not strong enough to set the gluten, the gas forces its 
way to the surface and escapes, and the mixture will con- 
tain large holes, but will not be light. 

Shortening is a fat, as butter or lard, which is rubbed 
into the flour to separate the starch grains. When the 
mixture is cooked, the food is flaky and tender. 



CEREALS AND LEAVENING AGENTS 97 

Kinds of shortening most commonly used are butter, 
lard, one half butter and one half lard, oleomargarine, 
olive oil, and various preparations such as Cottolene, 
Crisco, Wesson's Snowdrift Oil, and butter substitutes. 

LEAVENING AGENTS 

Leavening mfeans to make light and porous. When 
steam or carbon dioxide is formed inside the mixture, or 
when air is inclosed, it expands when heated, and as the 
heat also hardens the gluten, the result is a light and porous 
loaf. The leavening agents are steam, soda and sour milk 
(or any acid), baking powder, eggs and air, and yeast. 

Leavening Agent — Steam 

Popovers. — When water is changed to steam, it expands 
many hundreds of times its volume, and if it can be inclosed 
in walls of gluten so that the substance expands, and yet 
remains intact, the food product so made will be very 
light. If the change from water to steam takes place 
slowly, the expansion will not be very great, for the steam 
will come to the surf ace. and escape. If the change takes 
place very quickly and the steam is produced rapidly, the 
walls of gluten will be stretched to the utmost and the 
product will be a hollow shell. Eggs are used also in the 
product, because the albumin coagulates and holds the fiour 
together, and this helps to form the hollow shell. Very 
strong heat must be used when the steam is utilized as a 
leavening agent, and it must be continued long enough 
so that the product is well dried. Popovers should not be 
soft and moist in any part. Yorkshire Pudding is another 
example of the use of steam as a leavening agent. It is not 
baked as long as popovers, because it should be somewhat 



98 CEREALS AND LEAVENING AGENTS 

soft in the interior. Cream puffs are also made light by 
expansion of water changing to steam. Milk is used instead 
of water in popovers, for it is 87 per cent water, and it 
furnishes flavor and adds to the nutritive value of the food. 
Recipe for Popovers. — Mix one and one half cups of 
flour, and one fourth teaspoon of salt. Make a hole in 
the center of it ; add three unbeaten eggs '&,nd one and one 
half cups of milk. Stir until all lumps are out of the flour 
and the mixture is smooth. Turn into muf3&n pans and 
bake from thirty to forty minutes in a hot oven. This 
recipe makes twelve popovers. Popovers are made light 
by the water in them turning to steam. The strong heat 
causes the steam to form rapidly, and this produces a 
hollow shell. The egg coagulates and helps to form the 
shell. 

Leavening Agents — Eggs Inclosing Air 

Whites of eggs are beaten with an egg beater to entangle 
or inclose air. To estimate the amount of air inclosed by 
beating, note the amount of space occupied in the bowl by 
one egg white before you start to beat it, and then note the 
change in volume after the white has been beaten until stiff 
and dry. Unlike water, air does not require a great amount 
of heat for expansion. Albumin does not require a strong 
heat for coagulation, — about 170° F., — and it is toughened 
by too high a temperature. When air, inclosed in eggs, 
is used as a leavening agent, the food should be cooked at 
a low temperature. 

Leavening Agents — Eggs and Air 

Omelet. — Three eggs, three tablespoons of water, 
one fourth teaspoon of salt. Separate yolks from whites. 



CEREALS AND LEAVENING AGENTS 99 

Beat yolks until thick. Beat whites until stiff and dry. 
Add water and salt to yolks, and fold in the whites. Put 
one tablespoon of butter in the omelet pan, turn in the egg 
mixture, and cook slowly. When well puffed out, place 
in the oven to finish cooking. Whites and yolks of eggs 
are beaten separately, and the whites are beaten stiff so as 
to inclose as much air as possible. The omelet is cooked 
with slow heat to expand the air and coagulate the albumin 
at as low a temperature as possible (170° F). Intense 
heat toughens the albumin and coagulates it too soon, 
there is no expansion of air, and the omelet is tough and flat. 

Leavening Agents — Soda and Sour Milk 

When two substances like sodium bicarbonate (soda) 
and sour milk are mixed together, a chemical change tak.es 
place and new substances unlike either of them are formed. 
One of these substances formed is a gas, carbon dioxide 
(CO2), which expands when heated and makes food light 
and porous. When an acid and an alkali are brought to- 
gether, one tends to neutrahze or destroy the character- 
istic properties of the other. The acid, sour milk, neutral- 
izes the alkali, soda, and no taste of either is left in the food. 
They are used to form the gas CO2 so as to make the food 
light. This gas is formed as soon as the substances are 
brought together. It expands when heated, and enough 
heat must be applied to set the walls of gluten so that the 
bubbles will not collapse. When hot water is added to 
soda (NaHCOs), the gas CO2 is given off, but the soda is 
not neutralized, and the food to which it is added has a 
bitter taste. It is better to sift the soda into the flour, 
rather than add it to the sour milk, because when the gas 
forms so quickly, some is lost before the mixture is put in 



lOo CEREALS AND LEAVENING AGENTS 

the oven. Just enough alkali and acid are used to neutral- 
ize each other. This can be determined by the use of 
litmus paper. One half teaspoon of soda neutralizes one 
cup of sour niilk. Other acid substances may be used in 
place of sour milk, as buttermilk, molasses, and lemon 
juice. 

Batters and Doughs 

A mixture of flour and Hquid is called either a batter 
or a dough, depending on the proportion of liquid to flour. 
Batters consist of from one to two measures of flour to 
one measure of liquid, and are named either pour or drop 
batters according to the amount of flour used. Doughs 
consist of from two and one half to three and one half 
measures of flour to one of liquid, and they are classed as 
soft and stiff doughs. Biscuit is a soft dough ; bread is a 
stiff dough. 

Batters contain some leavening agent which is sifted 
in with the flour. They must be beaten thoroughly so as 
to inclose as much air as possible. When equal quanti- 
ties of flour and water are mixed together, the flour tends 
to lump unless some precaution is taken to prevent it. 
For this reason, when mixing a batter, sift flour, salt, and 
leavening agent together, then add about one third of the 
liquid and press out all the lumps by rubbing the bowl of 
the spoon against the side of the bowl. Slowly add the 
remainder of the liquid, and when the batter is perfectly 
smooth, add eggs and melted butter and begin to beat. 
Beat with long, deep strokes which take the spoon through 
to the bottom of the bowl, so as to inclose the air. Never 
stir a mixture after you have started to beat it, because 
stirring breaks up the air bubbles that are already formed 



CEREALS AND LEAVENING AGENTS loi 

and they escape to the surface. When the mixture is well 
beaten, the heat appUed will expand the air and the eggs, 
the gluten will coagulate, and the product will be light and 
porous. 

Doughs are usually mixed differently from batters when 
they contain shortening, sugar, and other ingredients. 
The shortening is creamed or softened first so that when 
the sugar is added it will be partially dissolved. Cream- 
ing is rubbing the butter or lard against the side of the 
bowl, with a spoon, until it is soft as cream. The sugar 
is then added slowly, and carefully rubbed into the butter. 

Biscuit dough is mixed in an entirely different way. 
The flour, salt, and leavening agent are mixed first, and 
then the shortening is cut in. 

(Pupils should read a recipe through before they begin 
.to work. All ingredients should be measured and ready 
before attempting to put things together. Measure the 
dry ingredients, not including sugar, first, and sift to- 
gether. To add alternately means to add part of the Kquid, 
then part of the flour, and beat them in thoroughly before 
adding more.) 

Floxje — Leavening Agent — Soda and Sour Milk 

Griddle Cakes. (Pour Batter.) — Sift together two cups 
of flour, one half teaspoon of salt, one teaspoon of soda; 
add one and three fourths cups of sour milk, and rub free 
from lumps, add one well-beaten egg and two tablespoons 
of melted butter, and beat well. Have the pancake griddle 
smoking hot, grease it with lard or with a piece of fat 
pork, using only enough fat to grease the pan. Drop the 
batter by tablespoons on the hot griddle. Let the cakes 
cook until they are full of bubbles and browned at the 



I02 CEREALS AND LEAVENING AGENTS 

edges, then turn and brown t}ie other side. Pancakes 
should be turned but once. Serve immediately with butter, 
sugar, sirup, or gravy from sausage. 

Corn Bread or Johnny Cake. (Drop Batter.) — Sift 
together one cup of corn meal, one cup of flour, one 
fourth teaspoon of salt, one half teaspoon of soda. Add 
one cup of sour milk, and free from lumps. Add four 
tablespoons of molasses, one egg well beaten, four table- 
spoons of melted butter, beat well. Turn into a shallow 
pan that has been buttered, and bake thirty minutes in 
hpt oven. 

Ginger Bread (Soft Dough) . — Cream one half cup of 
shortening (butter, lard, one half butter and one half lard, 
or oleomargarine), add one half cup of sugar and work the 
shortening and sugar together. Add one cup of molasses, 
two well-beaten eggs, and one cup of sour milk alternately, 
with three cups of flour, one half teaspoon of soda, one tea- 
spoon of ginger, and one fourth teaspoon of salt sifted 
together. Beat well. Bake in buttered shallow pan, 
in hot oven, for thirty minutes. 

Baking Powder 

Baking powder is a mixture of the alkah sodium bicar- 
bonate, some acid powder, and starch. The soda furnishes 
the gas, carbon dioxide, which is the direct leavening 
agent. When moisture is added, the acid acts on the soda, 
and liberates the gas. A mixture of soda and acid powder 
reacts slowly in moist air, thus losing strength. ^ Starch 
is added to prevent such interaction, until the baking 
powder is used in cooking. One and one half to two level 
teaspoons of baking powder are usually used to each cup 
of flour. 



CEREALS AND LEAVENING AGENTS 103 

Baking Powder may be grouped in three classes : — 

1. Cream of Tartar Baking Powder. 

2. Phosphate Baking Powder. 

3. Alum Baking Powder. 

Cream of tartar baking powder is made from cream of 
tartar (acid potassium tartrate), soda, and starch. It is the 
best-known baking powder and probably the most wholesome 
to use, because it leaves no harmful products in the food. 
It forms carbon dioxide (CO2), water (H2O), and Rochelle 
salts, — a mild laxative when taken in small quantities. 

Phosphate baking powder is made from acid calcium 
phosphate, soda, and starch. The only objection to its 
use is that the gas is liberated so quickly that much is lost 
before the food can be put into the oven. 

Alum powder is made from potash alum or ammonium 
alum, soda, and starch, and its sale is prohibited in some 
states because of the harmful effects of alum on the human 
system, though the alum is decomposed when soda is added. 

From the accompanying table, which shows in what 
proportion to mix the ingredients for the three kinds of 
baking powder, it will be seen why alum baking powder is 
cheap and can be sold for twenty -five cents a pound and 
cream of tartar baking powder is necessarily higher in 
price. Baking powder can be made at home at one half 
the price paid for it in the stores. The ingredients should 
be thoroughly mixed, sifted, and packed in air-tight cans. 

Cream of Tartar Powder 

Cream of tartar 

(acid potassium tartrate) i pound $.40 

Soda ' J pound .05 

Starch j pound ^ 

2 pounds $.50 



104 CEREALS AND LEAVENING AGENTS 

Phosphate Powder 
Soda I pound $.io 

Calcium acid phosphate 15 pounds -45 

Starch i pound .10 



35 pounds 


$.65 


Powder 




1 pound 
f pound 

2 pounds 


$.10 
.20 



Soda 
Alum 

Starch 

3f pounds $.375 

Baking Powder Biscuit and Variations. — These variations 
of biscuit are shortcake, dumpHngs, fruit pudding, fruit 
roll, pin-wheel biscuit, Dutch apple cake, nut bread, meat 
pie. They are made like a biscuit dough, but differ in the 
amount of shortening, Hquid, or sugar used. 

Note. — The teacher may teach as many of these recipes as she has time 
for. The most important at this time are biscuit, apple dumplings, and short- 
cakes, because they give practice in handling the dough and perfecting the 
pupils' knowledge of biscuit making. The other recipes may be worked in 
when lessons that require long cooking are given and the pupils have Uttle 
work to do. Such lessons are those on cooking of legumes and the meat 
lessons. Another reason for giving several recipes that may be used later 
in the work is that a review of a process impresses it on the mind. For 
the same reason more recipes are often included than the teacher can use 
with some classes. Usually one recipe constitutes a lesson, for a ninety- 
minute period, if some time is devoted to recitation. 

Baking Powder Biscuit. — Mix and sift together two 
cups of fiour, four teaspoons of baking powder, one half 
teaspoon of salt. Add four tablespoons of butter or lard, 
and work it in with a fork, until it is perfectly blended 
and the flour is flaky. Make a well in the center of the 
flour, and pour in three fourths cup of milk or water. Start 
in the center and stir with a fork, in widening circles, until 



CEREALS AND LEAVENING AGENTS 



los 




Hot Biscuit. 



all the flour has been gathered in and the result is a soft 

dough. Turn the dough on the floured molding board, and 

roll lightly about one inch 

thick, cut with a small 

biscuit cutter, and bake 

twelve to fifteen minutes 

in hot oven. 

Shortcake. — Mix and 
sift together two cups of 
flour, four teaspoons of 
baking powder, one half 
teaspoon of salt, add six 
tablespoons of butter, 

and work it in as in biscuit dough. When thoroughly mixed, 
add three fourths cup of water or milk and stir from the 
center. Turn on the floured molding board, roll out in one 
cake, and place on a pie tin. Bake twenty to twenty-five 
minutes in a hot oven. When baked, split so as to sepa- 
rate top and bottom, spread with butter and strawberries, 
sliced peaches, oranges, or any other fruit desired. Place 
the upper crust on the fruit, the buttered side up, and 
spread with another layer of fruit. May be served with 
whipped cream. 

Apple Dumplings. — Mix and sift together two cups of 
flour, four teaspoons of baking powder, one half teaspoon 
of salt. Add eight tablespoons of butter, or lard, as in 
biscuit, and one half cup of milk or water. Roll out about 
one fourth of an inch thick. Pare and core six tart apples. 
Cut dough large enough to fold over an apple. Place the 
apple on the dough, fill the center of the apple with sugar, 
and add a speck of nutmeg or cinnamon. Fold the dough 
entirely over the apple, and press it firmly together. Bake 



io6 CEREALS AND LEAVENING AGENTS 

about forty-five minutes in a hot oven ; the time required 
depends on the kind of apple used. To be certain that 
the apple is cooked, pierce with a fork, and if the apple feels 
soft, it is cooked. Serve apple dumplings with Vanilla 
Sauce. 

Vanilla Sauce. — Mix thoroughly one tablespoon of 
cornstarch, one half cup of sugar, speck of salt; add one 
cup of boiling water and one tablespoon of butter. Cook 
until it thickens, stirring constantly. Add one teaspoon 
of vinegar and one half teaspoon of vanilla. 

Fruit Roll. — Mix and sift together two cups of flour, 
foui* teaspoons of baking powder, one half teaspoon of salt, 
and one tablespoon of sugar. Add six tablespoons of butter 
or lard, and three fourths cup of water or milk as in biscuit. 
Roll out one half inch thick, spread with sUced peaches or 
berries. Roll up as for jelly roll, and bake in a hot oven 
thirty minutes. Serve with Hard Sauce. 

Dutch Apple Cake. — Use the same recipe as for Fruit 
Roll. Roll out one half inch thick. Place in a shallow bak- 
ing pan. Pare tart apples ; quarter and slice in one quarter 
inch slices. Place the apples on top of the dough, arrang- 
ing them in even rows so that they overlap. Sprinkle with 
sugar and cinnamon and bake thirty minutes. May be 
cut into squares and eaten as hot bread, or served as dessert 
with Lemon Sauce. 

Lemon Sauce. — Mix one tablespoon of cornstarch and 
one half cup of sugar ; add one cup of boiling water and one 
fourth cup of butter; cook until it thickens. Add juice 
of one lemon and boil one minute, or add one teaspoon of 
lemon extract after the sauce is removed from the fire. 

Fruit Pudding. — Make one half the recipe for Fruit Roll. 
Place sliced apples, blueberries, or peaches in a baking 



CEREALS AND' LEAVENING AGENTS 107 

dish or pudding pan ; add sugar and enough water to cover 
the fruit. Drop the dough on top of the fruit and spread 
smooth. Bake thirty minutes in a hot oven. Serve with 
pudding sauce or cream and sugar. 

Nut Bread. — Mix and sift together one and one half 
cups of graham flour, one and one half cups of white flour, 
four teaspoons of baking powder, one teaspoon of salt, 
three fourths cup of sugar. Add one and one half cups 
of milk, beat well, and add one cup of chopped nuts. Let 
it stand twenty minutes. Bake one hour. 

Dumplings for Meat Stew. — Mix and sift together two 
cups of flour, four teaspoons of baking powder, one half 
teaspoon of salt. Add two tablespoons of lard, and work 
it in as for biscuit dough. Add three fourths cup of water, 
and shape into six dumplings. Place on top of meat stew, 
and boil twenty minutes. Some stews require less short- 
ening than others ; the amount used depends on the amount 
of fat on the meat used for the stew. 

Muffins. (Mix as batter.) — Mix and sift together 
one and three fourths cups of flour, three teaspoons of bak- 
ing powder, one half teaspoon of salt, two tablespoons of 
sugar. Add one cup of milk, and press out all lumps. Add 
two well-beaten eggs and four tablespoons of melted butter. 
Beat until very light, bake in greased muflSn pans twenty 
minutes in a hot oven. 

Blueberry Muffins. — Mix and sift together two cups 
of flour, three teaspoons of baking powder, one half tea- 
spoon of salt, two tablespoons of sugar. Add one cup of 
milk as in plain mufhns, then add one egg well beaten, and 
one tablespoon of melted butter ; beat well. Lastly add 
one cup of blueberries. Bake thirty minutes in a hot 
oven. 



io8 



CEREALS AND LEAVENING AGENTS 



Corn Meal Muffins. — Mix and sift together one cup of 
flour, three fourths cup of corn meal, one half teaspoon of 
soda, one half teaspoon of salt, add one cup of sour milk, 
one well-beaten egg, two tablespoons of melted butter, 
and beat well. Bake thirty minutes in a hot oven. 

Whole Wheat Muffins. — Use Whole Wheat instead of 
corn meal in the above recipe. 



SSBS ^ 




rir 




Bi^Mi 


.-J 




Sorting Ti:a and Drying Coffee. 
(From Carpenter's Bow the World is Fed.) 



CHAPTER VII 

BEVERAGES AND PLANNING AND SERVING A 
BREAKFAST 

BEVERAGES 

Water. — Water is one of the five important classes of 
foods, and though it does not supply heat and energy to the 
body, it aids in all bodily processes and constitutes nearly 
three fourths of the weight of the body. Foods are from 
50 per cent to 90 per cent water. 

Some of the most important uses of water are : to 
dissolve foods so that they can be digested and absorbed, 
to carry away the waste matter, to regulate the tempera- 
ture of the body, and to enter into the composition of the 
blood, digestive fluids, and tissues. 

Two kinds of water are used for drinking purposes, — 
hard water, which contains lime that has been dissolved 
from limestone through which the water passes, and soft 
water. Other mineral substances are dissolved in water, 
and the famous mineral springs of our own country and 
Europe furnish mineral waters used for medicinal purposes. 

Water sometimes contains organic impurities. It is 
then a common carrier of disease germs. The germs of 
t3T)hoid fever are carried in water, and the causes of epi- 
demics of the disease are universally traced to impure 
water and milk supply. The germs of several other 
diseases are also carried in water, and if, for any reason, 

109 



no BEVERAGES 

it is thought that the water supply is contaminated in any 
way, the water should be boiled for twenty minutes and 
then bottled and cooled for use. It is always best to boil 
water that is to be given to infants. In both cases, where the 
water supply is known to contain impurities, and when the 
water is to be given to infants, the precaution of boiling it 
first is a good appKcation of the old adage, " an ounce of 
prevention is worth a pound of cure." 

Of all beverages, water is the best, and very few people 
drink, enough of it. About four pints should be taken 
daily to equaHze the loss through the excretory organs. A 
glass of hot water taken the first thing in the morning 
washes the mucus from the stomach and aids excretion. 
The two most common beverages served, tea and coffee, 
have no food value, and if hot water could be used in place 
of them, the nervous system would be greatly benefited. 
Tea and coffee are stimulants, and while they probably 
do no harm to grown people if taken in moderation, they 
are harmful to children. 

Cocoa and chocolate are foods, and when made with 
milk the food value is increased. Lemonade is a refresh- 
ing drink, and furnishes vegetable acids to the body. The 
same may be said of all fruit beverages made from fresh fruit. 

Coffee. — Use two level tablespoons of coffee for each 
cup of boihng water. Put the coffee in the coffee pot 
and add enough cold water to moisten the coffee and make 
it stick together, about a teaspoon of water to each table- 
spoon of coffee. Pour the boiling water over the coffee, and 
let it boil for three minutes. Place it where it will be kept 
hot, but not boil, for five minutes more, and then serve. 

Tea. — Scald a porcelain, earthenware, or china teapot with 
boiling water to thoroughly heat the teapot, and then turn 



BEVERAGES iii 

the water out. Use a level teaspoon of green or black tea for 
each cup of water. Put the tea in the hot teapot. Pour 
boiling water over it, and let it stand two or three minutes, 
and then serve. Never let tea boil. Do not let it stand on 
the hot stove. Tea should be served as soon as it is made. 

Lemonade. — Wash the lemons thoroughly. Use one 
lemon for two glasses of lemonade. Cut the lemons in 
halves, squeeze the juice out with a lemon squeezer, and 
add three tablespoons of sugar to each lemon. Mix the 
lemon juice and sugar thoroughly ; add some chopped ice 
and the cold water. Serve ice-cold. Some slices of lemon 
may be added for appearance and because the volatile 
oil in the skin adds to the flavor. 

Cocoa. — Mix one tablespoon of cocoa with one table- 
spoon of sugar, add one cup of boiling water gradually, and 
boil five minutes. Add one cup of milk, and let it come to 
the boiUng point, and serve. Some tastes demand more 
sugar, but it may be added by each individual at the table. 

Chocolate. — Melt one square of chocolate slowly so as 
to prevent burning, add two tablespoons of sugar and mix 
together, add one cup of boiling water and boil three 
minutes, add one cup of milk, bring to the boiling point, 
and serve. 

Fruit Punch. (Recipe makes about 3 quarts of punch.) 
— Boil two cups of sugar and one quart of water fifteen 
minutes. Add one cup of orange juice, two cups of lemon 
juice, one half cup of grated pineapple, and dilute with one 
quart of iced water. 

Note to Teachers. — After pupils have learned to prepare fruits, 
cereals, hot breads, and beverages, some practice should be given in plan- 
ning, calculating the cost, and serving breakfasts, so that the work is unified 
and the pupils can practice and apply at home what is learned at school. 
CONLEY P. c. — 8 



112 PLANNING AND SERVING A BREAKFAST 

One of the hardest problems for the young housekeeper is to prepare 
several dishes so that they will all be in proper condition to serve at a given 
period of time. 

Breakfast may first be planned as part of a class exercise, and some day 
following, groups of two or three may prepare simple breakfasts. 

A lesson in table setting, serving, and J;able manners may be given in 
the regular classroom at the individual tables. After one or two lessons 
are given in the classroom, practice could be given in preparing and serv- 
ing breakfasts during the noon hour. 



SUGGESTIONS FOR PLANNING A BREAKFAST' 

A breakfast should consist of : — 
I. Fruit in some form, preferably fresh. 
II. Cereal, best from the whole of the grain, and cheapest 
if purchased unprepared for use. 

III. Some protein dish, as eggs, fish, hash, or a small 
quantity of meat. Unless eggs are very high in price, 
they are always better and ' cheaper than meat for 
breakfast. 

IV. Some form of bread, as toast, bread, muffins, biscuit, 
popovers, griddle cakes, rolls, etc. 

V. A hot drink, as coffee or cocoa, if desired. 
The cost of food should not exceed eight cents per per- 
son, and the meal may be planned so that the cost will 
not exceed five cents per person. Fruits and eggs should 
be served in season, for then the prices are moderate. 
Uncooked breakfast foods cost less than half what prepared 
foods cost, and they may be cooked in the fireless cooker 
the day before, thus saving time in preparation. Dried 
fruits, as dates, figs, and prunes, may be chopped and added 
to the cereal. 

1 From Conley's Niilrilioii and Diet. 



PLANNING AND SERVING A BREAKFAST 113 




A Breakfast Table. 

Toast, rolls, and griddle cakes take less time to prepare 
than muffins, popovers, and biscuits. 

A breakfast should not take more than thirty minutes 
to prepare. This should include' laying the table and all 
preparatory work. 



SERVING A BREAKFAST 
MENU 



Cream of Wheat 
Ham and Eggs 



Muskmelon 

Cream and Sugar 
Bread and Butter 
Coffee 



Time for Preparation 

12.00 Boil water for cereal. 

12.05 Put cereal on to cook. 

12.10 Lay table. 

12.15 Prepare melon and put in a cool place. 

12.20 Prepare ham and start to fry it. 



114 PLANNING AND SERVING A BREAKFAST 

12.25 Make coffee. 

12.28 Pour water and put butter on plate. 

12.30 Serve melon. 

12.3s Serve cereal. 

12.40 Serve ham and eggs, coffee and bread. 

1. 00 Clear table. 



Materials Needed 



3 melons. 

I recipe for Cream of Wheat. 

5 pint of milk. 

5 pint of cream. 

15 pounds of ham. 



8 eggs. 

1 loaf of bread. 

3 ounces butter. 

8 tablespoons (level) coffee. 

Loaf and granulated sugar. 



Materials for Serving 



1 silence cloth. 

1 linen tablecloth. 

6 linen napkins. 

I large centerpiece — 2 small 

doilies. 
6 silver knives. 
6 silver butter spreaders. 
6 silver forks. 
18 silver teaspoons. 
1 carving set. 
[ tablespoon. 
I sugar tong. 
I sugar shell. 



6 water glasses — 1 water pitcher. 

6 cups and saucers. 

I creamer and 2 sugar bowls. 

6 service plates. 

6 fruit plates. 

6 bread and butter plates. 

6 breakfast plates. 

6 cereal dishes. 

I bread plate. 

1 platter. 

3 salt and pepper shakers. 

I flower vase. 



Laying the Table 

Spread a heavy cover of felt or canton flannel over the 
table. Have it long enough so it extends over the sides, 
and allows for shrinkage when it is washed. This cloth 
is to protect the polished table from heat of dishes, to deaden 
the sounds, and to give body to the tablecloth. Spread 



PLANNING AND SERVING A BREAKFAST 115 

the linen tablecloth over this cover, so that the fold in the 
center of the tablecloth comes exactly in the center of the 
table, and so the cloth overha,ngs the same distance on each 
end. 

Place a centerpiece in the center of the table, and place 
on it a small growing plant, as a fern, or cut flowers, or, at 
breakfast, place the fruit dish there. 

When lajdng the table allow at least 25 inches for each 




The Cover. 
i, knife; 2, spoon; 3, water glass; 4, fork; s, napkin; 6, bread and butter plate; 7, plate. 



" cover." By cover is meant the knives, forks, spoons, 
plate, napkin, and glasses needed for each person. 

Place the plate in the center of the cover. At the right 
of the plate, one half inch from the edge of the table, place 
the knives needed for the meal, having the cutting edge of 
the knife toward the plate, and knife which is to be used 
first, farthest from the plate. 

At the right of the knives place the spoons needed, bowls 



ii6 PLANNING AND SERVING A BREAKFAST 

upward. Place in order designated for the knives, the first 
to be used on the outside. 

At the left of the plate place the forks, tines upward. 
Place in same order as designated for the knives. 

Place napkin to the left of the fork. 

Place water glass at the point of the knife. 

Place individual bread and butter plate to the left of the 
fork above the napkin. 

Place carving knife and fork and serving spoons at the 
head of table, in front of the " cover." 

Place the service for tea or coffee at the foot of the table, 
in front of the cover. Coffee or tea service consists of 
cups, saucers, sugar bowl, and cream pitcher. 

Individual salt shakers or cellars may be placed in front 
of each plate. 

Waiting on Table 

Fill water glasses three fourths full, place butter on 
bread and butter plates, and cut bread one minute before 
the meal is ready to serve. ' 

All dishes from which a person helps himself are passed 
at the left side and low enough to be easily reached, as 
sauce, gravy, bread, etc. 

All dishes served in individual portions are placed from 
the right side, as coffee, plates, etc. 

All dishes are removed from the right. 

Water glasses should be kept filled throughout the meal. 

Clearing the Table 

Remove the dishes containing unserved food first, then 
remove everything from each cover that pertains to that 



PLANNING AND SERVING A BREAKFAST 117 

course, then remove all clean silver, dishes, etc. Every- 
thing that pertains to one course is removed before another 
course is served. Do not pile dishes on tray. 

Remove two covers at one time, one in each hand until 
all are removed. 

Brush crumbs from table before serving the dessert. 

ADDITIONAL BREAKFAST MENUS 

Oranges 
Pettijohn's Breakfast. Food 

Popovers Omelet Coffee 

Baked Apples 

Rolled Oats 

Bacon Mufhns Doughnuts 

Coffee 

Stewed Prunes 

Shredded Wheat Biscuit 

Creamed Codfish Toast 

Coffee 

Cream of Wheat and Chopped Dates 

Poached Eggs on Toast 

Coffee 

Baked Pears 

Hominy Flakes 

Rolls Coffee 



CHAPTER VIII 

CEREALS AND LEAVENING AGENTS (Continued) 

LEAVENING AGENT— YEAST 

Yeast is a tiny plant which thrives best in warm, moist 
atmosphere at a temperature of 70° to 90° F. Cold renders 
it inert, but does not destroy it, and when it is again put 
in a warm atmosphere it begins to grow. BoiUng, or even 
a temperature of 170° F., destroys the plant. 

Yeast contains a ferment which feeds on the sugar in 
the flour and decomposes or breaks up the sugar in carbon 
dioxide (CO2), and alcohol. A small amount of sugar is 
found in flour. The ferment diastase which occurs in 
grains changes more starch to sugar during the fermenta- 
tion. Some sugar is added in bread making, though that 
is not necessary. 

The gluten in .the flour has great expansive power, and 
in addition to its elasticity it is very tenacious. The car- 
bon dioxide gas forms in the dough, and the cohesiveness 
of the gluten holds it so that the whole mass becomes im- 
pregnated with gas and increases to several times its bulk. 
It is then said that the dough is Hght. 

Other ferments are present in the dough also, and under 
favorable conditions they become active. For this reason 
the dough must be watched and kneaded when it has be- 
come light, or the other ferments will act and produce sour 
bread. This is one reason why a temperature over 90° F. 
is not best for bread making. The undesirable ferments 

118 



CEREALS AND LEAVENING AGENTS 119 

thrive best at the higher temperature, and that produces 
a bread not as well flavored as bread raised at 70° to 
90° F. 

When bread is made from milk, the milk is scalded, to 
destroy some bacteria which are present. Salt also delays 
the development of undesirable organisms, in addition to 
flavoring the bread. Salt was used in the old process 
called " salt raising " that was in vogue before compressed 
yeast was made. The liquid to be used in bread making 
was exposed to the air so that the yeast germs would enter, 
and salt was used to retard the growth of the other organ- 
isms until the yeast started to develop. When froth or 
gas formed, it was a sign that the yeast was at work, and so 
the dough was prepared. 

Experiments with Yeast. — Mix some water and molasses, in pro- 
portion of ten parts water to one part molassesj Add a little com- 
pressed yeast to the mixture. 

1 . Place one third of the mixture in a test tube and put it in a cold 
place and note whether there is a formation of gas. After several 
hours heat to a temperature of go° P., and note result. 

2. Place one third of the mixture in another test tube and keep 
at a temperature of 70°-9o'' F., and note result. 

3. Place one third of the mixture in another test tube and boil 
the mixture and then place in a warm place and note whether gas 
forms. 

What conclusion can be drawn as to the best temperature for the 
development of yeast and for bread making? 

Experiments with Kinds of Yeast. — Mix one fourth cake of com- 
pressed yeast with one tablespoon of lukewarm water, add one half 
cup of lukewarm water, and beat in one cup of flour. Note the 
length of time that it takes the mixture to become light. 

Repeat the same experiment with one fourth dry yeast cake and 
note result. 



I20 CEREALS AND LEAVENING AGENTS 

Bread Judging 

Several points are to be noted in determining the essen- 
tial characteristics of a good loaf of bread. 

1. Shape and Size of Loaf. — A loaf should not be too 
large to bake evenly, and not so large that the slices are awk- 
ward to handle. The best-sized pan for baking is about 
lo inches long, 4 inches wide, and 5 inches high. The loaf 
should rise evenly, be slightly rounded in the middle, but of 
uniform height throughout. It should not spread over the 
side of the pan. This characteristic indicates that the bread 
was allowed to rise too long, or that the oven was too slow. 

2. Color of Crust and Crumb. — The crust should be a 
uniform golden brown, on top, bottom, and sides. The 
crumb should be of a creamy color and should have no dark 
spots or streaks. 

3. Flavor. — The bread should not taste of yeast and 
should have no suspicion of sourness either in smell or 
flavor. It should have a sweet nutty taste. 

4. Lightness, Texture, and Grain. — The bread should 
be uniformly Hght throughout. It should have fine uni- 
form pores and no large holes. 

5. Doughiness and Moisture. — A good loaf of bread 
should not be dry enough to crumble nor moist enough so 
that the crumb forms a ball when rolled. When a good 
loaf of bread is cut, the crumb should be soft enough so 
that when it is pressed with the finger it dents easily, but 
springs back readily to an even surface. 

To make good bread, good flour and fresh yeast should be 
used, and attention should be given to kneading, raising, 
baking, and care of the loaf after it is removed from the 
oven. No other food is as good as a good loaf of bread. 



CEREALS AND LEAVENING AGENTS 121 

Bread and Rolls 

Bread may be made in two ways, by setting a sponge 
and allowing it to rise overnight and then kneading it, or 
by kneading it to a dough immediately. By using a 
sponge, less yeast is required, as a longer time is allowed 
for the yeast to grow. On the other hand, the disadvan- 
tage' of sponge dough is that when allowed to stand over ; 
night it may become chilled, because a temperature of 
70° F. cannot always be maintained, or it may become 
overripe and hence sour. 

Sponge is used for making rolls, muffins, etc., as the butter 
and eggs will mix more readily in sponge, and the result 
will be a lighter product. 

Bread. — Mix one cake of compressed yeast with four 
tablespoons of lukewarm water (98° F.). To two cups 
of lukewarm water or milk, or half milk and half water, 
add one level teaspoon of salt, one level tablespoon of 
sugar, one level tablespoon of lard, and the yeast. Stir 
in enough flour (about three cups) to make a batter, and 
beat until smooth and full of air bubbles. Then add three 
or four cups of flour, or enough to make a stiff dough, and 
knead thoroughly. Continue kneading until the dough 
does not stick to the hands or the board, until it rises quickly 
when indented with the hand, until it feels smooth, elastic, 
and spongy. When this is satisfactory, place the bread 
in a bowl or bread raiser. Keep it at a temperature of 
from 70° to 75°, and let it rise until it doubles its bulk, about 
three hours. Then take it from the bowl and shape into 
two loaves, using no more flour. Place the bread in pans, 
and let it rise until it has doubled its bulk (about one hour), 
and then bake it. When the bread is put into the oven. 



T22 CEREALS AND LEAVENING AGENTS 

the heat should not be very great. The bread should 
continue to rise (luring the first fifteen minutes, because if 
the crust becomes too hard it prevents expansion and the 
bread will be heavy. After the first fifteen minutes the 
heat should be increased so that the bread will brown prop- 
erly, and during the last fifteen minutes it can be decreased 
again. Bread should be baked from 50 to 60 minutes. 
If a crisp crust is desired, do not cover the bread when it 
is taken from the oven. To glaze the loaves, rub them with 
a damp cloth before taking from the oven, and allow them 
to dry. 

Using milk instead of water in bread making adds to the 
nutritive value of the bread and makes a sweeter loaf. 

Bread Recipe II. Sponge Dough. — To set sponge : 
Use one cake of yeast foam or one half cake of compressed 
yeast for two loaves of bread. Mix the yeast with four 
tablespoons of lukewarm water. Use two cups of luke- 
warm liquid, one level teaspoon of salt, one level tablespoon 
of sugar, one level tablespoon of lard, and add the yeast. 
Stir in about three cups of flour, and beat until smooth and 
full of bubbles. Let stand at a temperature of about 70° 
until light. This may be set at night, and then in the morn- 
ing more flour is added and the bread is kneaded as in 
the previous recipe. 

Boston Brown Bread. — One cup of rye flour, one cup 
of corn meal, one cup of whole wheat flour, or (one and one 
half cups of graham flour and one and one half cups corn 
meal), two level teaspoons of soda, two level teaspoons of 
salt, three fourths cup of molasses, one pint of sour milk. 
Sometimes a half cup of raisins is added. Mix and sift 
flour, meal, salt, soda ; add molasses and milk, and beat 
well. Place in a mold and steam three hours. 



CEREALS AND LEAVENING AGENTS 



123 



U.S. Department of Agriculture 

Office of EKpenment Slations 

A.C. True-, Director 



Prepared fcy 
C,F. LANGWORTHY 
Expert in Charge of Notrition Investigations 



COMPOSITION OF FOOD MATERIALS. 



H 



Protein Fat Carbohydrates Ash 

WHITE BREAD 



Water 



I, Puel Value 
ki6 Sq In. Equals 
1000 Calories 




WHOLE WHEAT BREAD 

Water: 35.3 Water; J8.4 

Protein: 9 2 Protein-.9.7 



Fuel value 



Carbo- Carbo . 

hydrates:53. 1 hydrates;49.7 

OAT 
BREAKFAST FOOD 




Fucj. VALUE'. 



COOKED 



IISOwioRits water-8+. 

PER POUND 1 ■ 

Protein: 2.8 

TOASTED BREAD 

Ash:0 



Fat 
1.6 

Ash: 
1.7 





I I 10 CALORIES 
PER POUND 

.Fat: 0.5 

Carbohydrates: 1 1.5 



CORN BREAD 



Fuel 

VALUE! 



280 CALORICS 
PER POUND 



-Water: 24.0 Water:38.9 
Protein: 1 1 .5 Protein: 7,9' 

Carbo- n^^iv-v ■■■:■/:■;■/ Ash: 

hydrates:6l.2 hydrates:46.3 VM'mvAymj&^z . 2 

MACARONI f^^^^^-- 

COOKED ^^H 

Fa t: 1.5^^ grotein:3.0 ^^^Wate r;76.4 !■ 
l380cALORiES tjll ■ - ; . ."[ | |^J-5JL^:^g^l;gr;c^? g II75calori£S 

PER POUND 



Fuel value: 



uaroo- 
hydrates: 15,8 



Fuel 
VALUE; I 



400 CALORIES 
PER POUND 



Composition of Bread. 



124 



CEREALS AND LEAVENING AGENTS 



Coffee Cake. — One yeast cake dissolved in four table- 
spoons of cold or lukewarm water, one fourth cup of butter 
or lard, or half butter and half lard, one fourth cup of sugar, 
one half teaspoon of salt, one egg, one cup lukewarm milk 
or water. 

Put butter, sugar, salt, and milk into the mixing bowl ; 
stir until melted ; add yeast and one and one half cups of 
flour. Beat until smooth and full of bubbles ; add the 
beaten egg and enough more flour to make a bread dough 
(about one and one half or two cups), and knead as for 
bread. Let it rise until double its bulk (about three hours). 
Take from the bowl and knead sUghtly, and roll with the 
rolling pin until it is about one inch thick. Place in a pan, 
and let it rise one hour. Brush the top with three table- 
spoons of melted butter, one fourth cup of sugar, one tea- 
spoon of cinnamon, and bake about twenty minutes. 

Swedish Rolls. — Use same recipe as for Coffee Cake. 
Roll out as for Coffee Cake; brush the top with melted 
butter, sprinkle with sugar, cinnamon, and currants. Roll 
the dough and cut pieces one half inch thick. Place in 

pan until light, and bake 
one half hour. When 
baked, brush the top 
with equal parts of sugar 
and milk to glaze. 

Parker House Rolls. — 
Two cups of scalded 
sweet milk, four table- 
spoons of butter, four 
Pabicer House Roils. tablespoons of sugar, one 

teaspoon of salt, one 
yeast cake dissolved in one fourth cup of water, whites of 




CEREALS AND LEAVENING AGENTS 125 

two eggs. Add butter, sugar, and salt to milk ; when luke- 
warm, add yeast and three cups of flour. Beat thoroughly, 
add egg whites, and finally add flour to knead. Let rise. 
Toss on board and knead and roll out one third inch thick. 
Shape with a biscuit cutter dipped in flour. Dip the handle 
of case knife in flour. Crease middle. Brush over one 
half with melted butter. Fold and press the edges to- 
gether. Place in greased pan one inch apart. Bake twelve 
to fifteen minutes. 

Pies 

Pie crust is made from flour, salt, shortening, and a 
very small amount of water. As it contains no leavening 
agent, it needs only enough water to hold the particles of 
flour together. It is made by the same method that 
biscuits are made. The shortening is cut in with a fork, 
though some prefer the method of using two knives and 
chopping it in. Shortening should never be worked in 
with the hands, because the heat of the hand melts or softens 
the shortening. 

Pie Crust. — Mix and sift together one cup of flour, one 
fourth teaspoon of salt. Add six tablespoons of lard, and 
work it in thoroughly with the fork so that the lard sur- 
rounds the particles of flour and separates them. When 
well mixed so that the flour is flaky, add about one and 
one half tablespoons of water, just enough to moisten the 
flour so that it can be rolled, divide the crust into two 
parts, and roll thin. 

Apple Pie. — Line a greased pie plate with crust. Pare 
and core four or five apples and cut them in very thin 
slices. Place them on the pie plate about one fourth inch 
from edge, till the center sUghtly rounds. Sprinkle one 



126 CEREALS AND LEAVENING AGENTS 

third cup of sugar over the apples, and nutmeg or cinnamon 
to taste. Roll out the upper crust, and cut small gashes 
in it so as to allow the steam to escape. Press the two 
crusts together with a fork or pastry jagger. Place the 
pie in a hot oven for five or ten minutes so that the crust 
will set, then reduce the heat and bake in a moderate oven 
thirty-five to forty minutes. The baking is done in a 
moderate oven so that the heat will reach the apples. 

Lemon Pie. — Line a plate with crust and have it extend 
one half inch above the edge so as to hold the Ming in place. 
Pierce the bottom of the crust with a fork, place the crust 
in the oven, and bake until slightly brown. Piercing the 
crust with a fork prevents it from warping in the oven. 

Filling. — Mix three tablespoons of cornstarch and one 
cup of sugar. Add one cup of boiling water ; mix well and 
boil five minutes, stirring constantly. Remove from the 
fire ; add one tablespoon of butter, the juice of one lemon, 
and yolks of two eggs beaten and blended with a tablespoon 
of the cooked cornstarch mixture. Place the fiUing in the 
crust, return to the oven, and bake until the filling boils 
or bubbles. Beat the whites of two eggs stiff and dry; 
add four tablespoons of sugar and a few drops of lemon 
juice. Spread over the pie and bake until the egg is 
slightly brown. 

Pumpkin Pie. — Line a plate with crust and have it 
extend one half inch above the edge of the plate. Mix 
one cup of pumpkin, one and one fourth cups of milk, one 
third cup of sugar, two tablespoons of molasses, two well- 
beaten eggs, one fourth teaspoon of ginger, one fourth 
teaspoon of cinnamon. Fill the crust with the filling, and 
bake thirty-five to forty minutes, or until the filling is 
firm, like custard. 



CEREALS AND LEAVENING AGENTS 127 

Rhubarb Pie. — Mix one cup of sugar, two and one 
fourth tablespoons of flour, and one well-beaten egg. 
Add two cups of rhubarb cut in small pieces, and mix well. 
Bake with two crusts as for apple pie. 

Cookies 

Sugar Cookies. — Cream one half cup of shortening, 
add one cup of sugar gradually, then add two eggs well 
beaten, and one half cup of sour milk ; add three cups of 
flour, one fourth teaspoon of soda, one half teaspoon of 
salt, one fourth teaspoon of nutmeg, sifted together, and 
one half teaspoon of vanilla. Roll out one fourth inch 
thick, cut, and bake in a hot oven. 

Molasses Cookies, Crisp. — Scald one cup of molasses, 
remove from the fire, and add one half cup of lard, one half 
cup of sugar, one teaspoon of ginger, one fourth teaspoon 
of salt. Let the mixture stand until cool, then add one 
fourth cup of water. Sift one half teaspoon of soda in 
about four cups of flour, and add gradually. Roll one 
eighth inch thick, cut, and bake in a moderate oven. 

Molasses Cookies, Soft. — Mix one cup of molasses, 
three fourths cup of shortening, one cup of boiling water. 
Place the mixture on the stove, and let it come to the boil- 
ing point. Cool slightly; add one egg well beaten, four 
cups of flour, one half teaspoon of soda, four teaspoons of 
ginger, two teaspoons of cinnamon, one half teaspoon of 
cloves, sifted together. Mix thoroughly. Drop by table- 
spoons, one inch apart, on a greased pan. Bake in a hot 
oven. 

Oatmeal Cookies. — Cream one cup of shortening; grad- 
ually add one cup of sugar, then add two eggs well beaten, 
and four tablespoons of sour milk. Sift together two and 

CONLEY P. C. — 9 



128 CEREALS AND LEAVENING AGENTS 

one half cups of flour, one teaspoon of cinnamon, one half 
teaspoon of soda, one fourth teaspoon of salt, and add 
•gradually. When thoroughly mixed, add one teaspoon 
of vanilla, two cups of raw oatmeal, and one cup of currants. 
Roll out one eighth inch thick, cut in squares, and bake in 
a hot oven. 

Chocolate Cookies. — Cream one half cup of shortening, 
add gradually one cup of sugar, then two ounces of melted 
chocolate, and one egg well beaten. Mix thoroughly, 
and add one fourth cup of milk, one teaspoon of vanilla, 
two and one fourth cups of flour, three teaspoons of bak- 
ing powder, and one fourth teaspoon of salt, sifted to- 
gether. Roll out thin, cut, and bake in a moderate oven. 

Cakes 

All cakes are grouped into two general classes, — those 
made with butter or some kind of shortening, and those 
made without shortening, as sponge, angel, or sunshine 
cakes. 

The directions for mixing butter cakes are practically 
the same for every case. Grease and flour the cake pans, 
and prepare the oven. Measure all dry ingredients first, 
and sift the flour, salt, baking powder, or soda, and spices 
together. Flour raisins or currants, if they are to be used. 
Beat the eggs, beating the yolks and whites together, un- 
less the directions call for the whites and yolks beaten 
separately. In that case beat the yolks until smooth and 
thick, and the whites until they are so dry that the bowl 
in which they are beaten may be turned upside down with- 
out danger of loss of eggs. 

When all is in readiness, cream the shortening ; this is 
done by working it against the side of the bowl with the 



CEREALS AND LEAVENING AGENTS 



129 



mixing spoon until it is soft as cream. Add the sugar 
gradually, and work it into the shortening until it is par- 
tially dissolved. Add the beaten eggs and beat the mixture 
thoroughly so that sugar, shortening, and eggs are per- 
fectly blended. Add the milk and flour alternately so as 
to keep the same consistency throughout the process. 




Cake Making. 



Never stir a cake after the eggs are added, because stir- 
ring breaks the air bubbles. The cake should be beaten, 
using long strokes of the spoon and going through the 
batter to inclose as much air as possible. During baking, 
watch the oven carefully. If the oven is too hot, the cake 
will not rise sufficiently. Small cakes demand a hot oven, 
large cakes a moderate oven, as in the latter case the heat 
must be slow enough to penetrate to the center of the 
cake. 

A good cake is slightly rounded, smooth, and an even 
brown all over. If it cracks, it contains too much flour, or 



I30 CEREALS AND LEAVENING AGENTS 

it has baked too fast. The grain should be fine and uni- 
form throughout. 

When a cake is baked, it shrinks from the sides of the pan, 
it is firm on top, when touched with the finger, or, if a clean 
straw is inserted, it comes out dry. 

A great variety of cakes may be made from the recipe 
for Plain Cake by adding spices, nuts, raisins ; chocolate 
or other fillings, and frostings. A cake should never con- 
tain more than half as much shortening as sugar. It 
should contain less than half as much milk as flour. If 
more than two eggs are used in a cake, less baking powder 
will be required than for a two-egg cake. Too much bak- 
ing powder makes a cake dry and crumbly. 

Plain Cake. — Cream four tablespoons of butter, or some 
other shortening ; add one cup of sugar, two eggs well beaten, 
one half cup of milk, and one and one half cups of flour, one 
fourth teaspoon of salt, three teaspoons of baking powder 
sifted together, and one half teaspoon of vanilla. Mix ac- 
cording to directions given. Cover with chocolate frosting. 

Spice Cake. — Cream one cup of butter; add two cups 
of brown sugar, and yolks of four eggs ; beat well. Add 
one cup of milk and two and one half cups of flour, one tea- 
spoon of cloves, one teaspoon of nutmeg, one teaspoon of 
cinnamon, and three teaspoons of baking powder. When 
thoroughly mixed, carefully add the beaten whites of four 
eggs, and bake in layers. Put chocolate frosting between 
the layers and on top. 

Chocolate Frosting. — Melt two ounces of chocolate ; 
add one cup of sugar, five tablespoons of milk, yolk of one 
egg, and mix thoroughly. Boil until it thickens, stirring 
constantly. Remove from fire, add one teaspoon of va- 
nilla, and stir until thick enough to spread. 



CEREALS AND LEAVENING AGENTS 131 

White Frosting. — Mix one cup of sugar and five table- 
spoons of cold water, and boil slowly without stirring. 
As soon as it begins to boil, add one eighth teaspoon cream 
of tartar to invert the sugar. Boil until it forms a soft 
ball when dropped into cold water or until it threads 
when dropped from a spoon. Beat an egg white until 
stiff and dry. Gradually pour the sirup over it, stirring 
constantly so as not to cook the egg in flakes. Add 




White Frosted Ca^e, Decorated. 

one half teaspoon of vanilla, and stir until thick enough 
to spread. 

Orange Cake. — Cream five tablespoons of butter ; add 
one cup of sugar, grated rind of one orange, three eggs, 
one half cup of milk, one and three fourths cups of flour, 
three teaspoons of baking powder, one fourth teaspoon of 
salt. Mix as in plain cake. Frost with White Frosting. 



132 CEREALS AND LEAVENING AGENTS 

The cake may be baked in layers and then cut into squares 
or diamond shapes and frosted all over. 

Nut Cake. — Cream six tablespoons of butter; add one 
cup of sugar, three eggs, one half cup of milk, one and three 
fourths cups of flour, two and one half teaspoons of baking 
powder, one fourth teaspoon of salt, one half teaspoon of 
vanilla. Lastly add three fourths cup of chopped nut 
'meats. Mix as for Plain Cake. 

Spanish Buns. — Cream one half cup of butter ; add one 
and one half cups of sugar, three eggs, one cup of sour milk, 
two and one half cups of flour, one teaspoon of cinnamon, 
one teaspoon of cloves, one half teaspoon of soda, and one 
cup of raisins. Mix as for butter cake. Bake in muffin 
pans. 

Golden Cake. — Cream one half cup of butter ; add one 
cup of sugar, yolks of ten eggs, one and three fourths cups 
of flour, three teaspoons of baking powder, one fourth 
teaspoon of salt, one half cup of milk, and one half tea- 
spoon of flavoring. Mix as for Plain Cake. May be baked 
in mufi&n pans for small cakes and frosted, or baked as a 
loaf cake. 

Sponge Cake. — Beat the yolks of six eggs until thick ; 
add one cup of sugar gradually, and continue beating with 
the egg beater. Add one tablespoon of lemon juice or 
one teaspoon of lemon extract. Beat the whites of six 
eggs until stiff and dry. Mix the whites and yolks, and 
when partially mixed cut and fold in one cup of flour and 
one fourth teaspoon of salt. Bake in an unbuttered pan, 
in a slow oven, one hour. 

Angel Cake. — Beat one and one fourth cup of eg] 
whites until frothy, add one teaspoon of cream tartar and 
continue beating until the eggs are stiff and dry. Grad- 



o 



CEREALS AND LEAVENING AGENTS 133 

ually add one and one half cups of rolled and sifted sugar. 
Sift one cup of flour and one fourth teaspoon of salt 
four times, and add it to the eggs, being careful not to 
mix it more than is necessary. Add one teaspoon of 
vanilla. Bake forty to forty-five minutes in an unbuttered 
angel cake pan. 

Jelly Roll. — Beat three eggs until light, add one half 
cup of sugar, one half cup of flour, one half teaspoon of 
baking powder, one eighth teaspoon of salt, and one half 
teaspoon of vanilla. Beat well. Bake in a slow oven in 
a pan the bottom of which is lined with greased paper. 
When baked, turn bottom side up on a paper sprinkled 
with powdered sugar. Remove the paper from the bottom 
of the cake. Spread the cake with jelly and roll. 

Chocolate Cake. — Cream six tablespoons of butter, add 
one cup of sugar and mix thoroughly, add two ounces of 
melted chocolate and two eggs well beaten. Add, alter- 
nately, two thirds of a cup of milk and one and one half 
cups of flour, three teaspoons of baking powder, and one 
fourth teaspoon of salt sifted together. Add one half 
teaspoon of vanilla. Bake in a moderate oven, in a shallow 
pan, about thirty-five minutes. Frost with chocolate 
frosting. 

Crispettes. — Beat two eggs thoroughly, add one cup of 
brown sugar, sifted with six tablespoons of flour and one 
eighth teaspoon of salt. Beat thoroughly. Add one cup 
of chopped nuts. Drop by spoonfuls, about three inches 
apart, on greased paper, and bake in a hot oven. 



CHAPTER IX 

LEGUMES AND FRYING LESSONS 

LEGUMES 

Peas, beans, lentils, and peanuts belong to the family 
called legumes. These growing plants have Httle nodules 
at their roots, which contain bacteria that have the power to 
take nitrogen from the air and put it in a form available for 
food for man and animals. 

Nitrogen occurs in protein foods only, and proteins are, 
generally speaking, the most expensive and the most impor- 
tant foods. Legumes are a cheap food, and they contain 
so much protein that they rank with meat, fish, cheese, 
and eggs as tissue-building foods. 

Legumes should be classed in two distinct classes : the 
fresh form, such as string beans, green peas, and fresh Uma 
beans; and the dried beans and peas. Those in the first 
class rank Uttle higher than green vegetables in nutritive 
value, because they are picked long before the seeds have 
reached maturity. The dried forms have been allowed to 
ripen until the seeds have stored enough nutrition to 
nourish the germ of the new plant when it begins to sprout. 
For use as a food they are then thoroughly dried and may 
be kept for an indefinite period of time. When they are to 
be used, they must be soaked in cold water for several hours 
or overnight to restore some of the moisture. 

Dried legumes contain from 18-25 per cent protein; 
from 59-66 per cent carbohydrate in the form of starch and 

134 



LEGUMES 13s 

cellulose, the cellulose reaching as high as 4^ per cent in 
dried peas. With the exception of peanuts they contain 
scarcely any fat, and must be served with butter or cooked 
with pork for flavor and to make them a better balanced 
food. 

The legumes require long, slow cooking because the starch 
and protein are stored in cells surrounded by thick walls of 
cellulose, and it requires long cooking to soften the walls and 
free the starch and protein. One reason why the process 
is so long is because beans and peas are ordinarily cooked 
whole, and, as they are compact, only long, slow cooking will 
soften them. If the skin were removed and the legumes 
ground into a powder, the cooking process could be 
shortened. 

Legumes are a cheap, wholesome, and highly nutritious 
food, and should often serve as a substitute for meat in the 
diet. A portion of lentil, pea, or bean soup served with 
bread or crackers forms a perfectly balanced meal and has 
the advantage of being an economical one. Too little 
attention is paid to the methods of preparing and serving 
the legumes, for they should be considered important foods, 
and they are almost universally liked. ' 

Boston Baked Beans. — Wash one quart of navy beans, 
cover with cold water, and let them soak over night. Drain 
off the water, cover with fresh boiling water, and let them 
cook slowly until the skins begin to burst. Add one tea- 
spoon of soda, stir well, and boil for two minutes. Drain 
off the water and rinse the beans well with fresh boiling 
water. Cut one half pound of fat salt pork in one half inch 
sHces. Mix one tablespoon of mustard, one tablespoon of 
salt, two tablespoons of molasses, two tablespoons of sugar, 
with one cup of boihng water. Place beans in the bean pot. 



136 LEGUMES 

distribute the pieces of pork, through the pot, pour the 
liquid over the beans, add enough boiling water to com- 
pletely cover the beans, put on the cover, place pot in a slow 
oven and cook from six to eight hours. Add water so that 
the beans are kept covered with it. Cook uncovered during 
the last hour. Beans may be started in the fireless cooker 
and cooked overnight. They should be placed in the oven 
about four hours before they are to be used, and cooked 
slowly. Some cooking in the oven is necessary to bring 
out the flavor. If the fireless cooker has a soapstone plate, 
oven cooking is not necessary. 

Lima Beans. — Soak one pint of lima beans over night. 
Cover with salted boiling water, and cook slowly until soft. 
Add only enough water to prevent burning; season with 
salt, pepper, and butter. 

Salted Peanuts. — Remove shells and skins from raw 
peanuts. Put lard, butter, or olive oil, preferably the latter, 
in a pan on the stove. When melted, add peanuts and stir 
constantly so that they will brown on both sides. Remove 
from fat and drain on soft paper; sprinkle with salt. 
OHve oil or lard is better than butter, because butter burns 
so readily. 

Lentil Soup. — Wash one cup of lentils, cover with cold 
water, and soak over night. Drain ; cook in two quarts of 
water until soft (about two hours) ; add one bay leaf, one 
half teaspoon of salt, one fourth teaspoon pepper. Press 
through a colander and sieve. Add two tablespoons of 
flour, two tablespoons of butter, one grated onion, pre- 
pared as for White Sauce. Boil three minutes. 

Succotash. — Soak hma beans or red kidney beans over 
night. Cook until soft (about two hours) ; ten minutes 
before they are ready to serve, add one can of corn, season 



FRYING LESSONS 137 

with three tablespoons of butter, one half teaspoon of salt, 
one eighth teaspoon of pepper. Stir constantly. During 
the summer season when green corn is plentiful and beans 
are fresh, succotash may be prepared from lima or kidney 
beans and corn cut from the cob. Follow directions given 
above. 

Note. — In the lessons on legumes, much time is consumed in the long 
slow cooking, during which there is but Uttle work to be done in class. For 
this reason the frying lessons are added, and one may be given with each 
lesson on legumes. For Rules for Frjfing, see page 46. 

FRYING LESSONS 

Doughnuts. — Mix one cup sour milk with one cup sugar, 
and let stand for 5 or 10 minutes. Add two eggs well 
beaten; add one cup flour, one fourth teaspoon salt, one 
half teaspoon soda, one fourth teaspoon nutmeg, sifted 
together ; add three tablespoons melted butter and one half 
teaspoon vanilla, and beat until smooth. Add enough 
more flour to make a soft dough. Roll out one half inch 
thick, cut with a doughnut cutter, and fry in deep fat. 

Fritters. — Mix and sift together one and one half cups 
flour, one fourth teaspoon salt, three teaspoons baking 
powder. Add three fourths cup milk and one egg well 
beaten. Beat very light. Drop shces of tart apple one 
fourth inch thick into the batter, and stir until the batter 
covers the apple. Drop the pieces of apple into hot fat, 
and fry until brown. 

Croquettes. Meat or Fish. — Melt three tablespoons 
butter; add one third cup flour and rub together until 
blended. Add one cup milk and cook until thick. Add one 
teaspoon chopped onion, one teaspoon salt, one eighth tea- 
spoon pepper, and two cups cold chopped meat or flaked 



138 FRYING LESSONS 

fish. Mix thoroughly and cool. Shape into cones or 
balls, dip in beaten eggs, roll in grated bread or cracker 
crumbs, and. fry in deep fat. 

Corn Fritters. — Mix and sift together one cup flour, two 
teaspoons baking powder, one half teaspoon salt, one fourth 
teaspoon pepper. Add two eggs well beaten, one third 
cup milk. Beat until smooth; add one half cup canned 
corn. Drop by spoonfuls in deep fat, and fry. 

Corn Oysters. — Beat two eggs until light ; add one can 
corn, two tablespoons melted butter, and one half cup flour, 
one teaspoon baking powder and one fourth teaspoon salt 
sifted together. Mix well. Drop spoonfuls on hot griddle 
or frying pan, and fry as for griddle cakes. 

Bacon and Corn. — Cut one half pound of bacon in inch 
pieces, fry until brown. Turn off nearly all of the fat from 
the frying pan. Add one can of corn and cook five minutes, 
stirring constantly. Season with one teaspoon of salt and 
one eighth teaspoon of pepper and serve immediately. 



CHAPTER X 
EGGS. PLANNING A LUNCHEON 

Eggs rank with meat and fish as important tissue-building 
foods. They are more nutritious than meat because they 
contain more kinds of protein and more mineral matter, 
and for this reason and because they are easily digested, 
they are served to the sick and convalescing so that they 
may gain strength and weight. 

Eggs when freed from the shell contain 73.7 per cent 
water, 14.8 per cent protein, 10.5 per cent fat, and i per cent 
mineral matter. Because of the high percentage of pro- 
tein, they should be eaten with carbohydrate foods. Eggs 
are valuable foods in themselves, but no other food except 
flour has so many uses in cooking. 

Experiments. 

For Freshness. — Roll a piece of paper until it is the diameter of 
an egg. Put the egg in one end. Hold the other end to the eye 
and face the light. If the egg looks clear, it is fresh ; if cloudy, it 
is stale. 

Place the egg in cold water. If it sinks,, it is fresh. 

For Kind of Protein. — Note the effect of cold water on the white. 
Albumin is soluble in cold water. 

Bring the water to a boihng point, and note the effect on the 
albumin. Heat coagulates albumin. 

Boil an egg and let it stand thirty minutes. Separate the white and 
yolk ; note the dark color on the outside of the yolk. What mineral 
present ? 

139 



I40 



EGGS 



U.S. Dspartment ot Agriculture (Spared by 

Olfice of Eiperiment Stations C. F. UNGWOKTHT 

i> C. True: Oirectot Expert in Charge of Nutrition Investigations 

COMPOSITION OF FOOD MATERIALS 

Fuel Value 
sSq.ln. Equals 



Protein Fat Carbohydrates 

WHOLE EGG 




Ash 

(yolk) 
Water-49 5 
Protein: 16 I 

Fat;33.3 
Ash: I.I 



Water 




1000 Calories 



(white) 
Water 86 Z 



FliEL VALUE Of 

WHOLE EGG; 



FuEl 



695 CALORIES 
PER POUND 



CREAM CHEESE 

Water: 34.2, 



L VALUE OF TOLH-. 



1 650 CALORIES 
PER POUND 



Protein; 1 3.0 

Fat: 0.2 
Ash: 0,6 

Fuel value of white- 

E 

?4S CALORIES 
PER POUND 




Protein: 25.9 



COTTAGE CHEESE 



Water: 72 



Carbo- 
hydrates: 2.4 



itein;?0.9 



Ash; 3.8 



Carbo 
hydrates: 4.3 



Fuel value; 

1685 CALORIES PER pound 




UELVAIU 

u 

495 CALORIES PERPOUNO 



Composition of Eggs and Cheese. 



EGGS 141 

USES OF EGGS 

1. Eggs are a tissue-building food and serve as a sub- 
stitute for meat. They are easily digested, easily prepared 
and served, and are almost universally liked. 

2. Eggs have many uses in cooking. Foods are dipped in 
egg before they are fried because the heat coagulates the 
albumin in the egg, and it forms a crust over the food so 
that juices and flavor are retained and the fat is prevented 
from soaking into the food. 

3. Eggs are blended with a hquid such as milk, and the 
whole mass is thickened and becomes smooth and velvety, 
as in the making of custards. 

4. Eggs hold particles of flour together so that hollow 
shells are formed, as in the making of popovers. 

5. When the yolks and whites are beaten separately, eggs 
make foods Ught and fluffy, as in the making of omelet and 
sponge cake. 

6. Eggs are used as a garnish for foods, as salads, soups, etc. 

7. Eggs are used to clear or clarify, as in coffee making 
and the clearing of soups. 

When eggs are used to hold particles of flour together, or 
as a thickening agent, or to form a crust over foods, they 
should not be beaten, but the yolk and white should be well 
blended. When they are used to make foods light, as in 
cake making, omelets, etc., they should be beaten so as to 
inclose as much air as possible. It is the expansion of the 
inclosed air and then the hardening of the protein wall that 
makes the cake light.' As the albumin in egg coagulates at 
about 160° F., and as stronger heat tends to make the mix- 
ture tough, all egg dishes should be cooked at as low a 
temperature as possible. 



142 , EGGS 

Baked Cup Custard. — Beat two large or three small eggs 
slightly with a fork, just enough to blend the yolks and 
whites. Add four tablespoons of sugar, a speck of salt, one 
pint of milk, and one half teaspoon of vaniUa. Mix well and 
turn into custard cups, then grate nutmeg over the top. 
Set the cups in a pan of boiling water, set the pan in the 
oven, and bake the custard at a moderate temperature 
until it is firm. Test with a knife. If, after the knife is 
inserted, it comes out clean, the custard is done. If the 
knife is coated with milk, the custard has not thickened 
sufficiently. 

Baked Caramel Custard. — Melt one half cup of sugar 
to a sirup, stirring constantly to prevent burning. When 
the sugar is a light brown sirup, gradually add two cups of 
milk, and stir until the sugar is melted. Add three eggs 
shghtly beaten, one fourth teaspoon salt, one half teaspoon 
vanilla. Bake as for Cup Custard. 

Soft Custard. — Beat two eggs enough to blend yolk and 
white ; add six tablespoons of sugar, a speck of salt, two cups 
of milk, and flavor with nutmeg. Cook in a double boiler, 
stirring constantly, until the custard coats the spoon. 
Add one teaspoon of vanilla. If the custard is cooked too 
long, it will curdle. It must be removed from the fire as 
soon as it begins to thicken. Serve cold. 

Boiled Eggs. — Pour boihng water into a stewpan and 
place it over the fire and make sure that the water is actually 
boiling. Put eggs into the water, and let them remain over 
the fire for a few seconds. Cover the stewpan and place 
it where the water will not lose too much heat, but where it 
will not boil, — for 6 to 8 minutes for a "soft-boiled egg," or 
20 to 30 minutes for " hard-boiled." Eggs may be placed in 
cold water and brought to the boiling point. When the 



EGGS 



143 



water boils, the eggs are " soft-boiled. ' ' They may be boiled 
five minutes longer for a hard-boiled egg. 

Scrambled Eggs. — Beat six eggs slightly, until whites 
and yolks are blended ; add one half cup of milk or water, 
and one fourth teaspoon of salt. Put two tablespoons of 
butter into the omelet pan, and heat until the butter is 
melted. Turn in the egg mixture, and cook at a low tem- 
perature until creamy, scraping the cooked portion from the 
side of the pan so the uncooked part will reach the bottom. 
Remove from the pan, and serve immediately. Chopped 
ham or bacon or cheese may be added to scrambled eggs 
just before they are removed from the pan. 

Omelet. — (See p. 98.) 

Poached Eggs. — Have a frying pan half full of boihng 
water, and add one half 
teaspoon of salt. Break 
the eggs, one at a time, 
into a cup, and carefully 
shp them into the water. 
Let them remain ii;i the 
water until cooked as de- 
sired. Lift them out 
carefully with a skimmer, 
and serve on buttered 
toast. A pan, specially devised for poaching eggs, is shown 
in the illustration. 

French Toast. — Beat two eggs until yolks and whites 
are blended; add one half cup of milk, two tablespoons of 
sugar, one fourth teaspoon of salt. Mix well and turn into 
a shallow pan. Dip slices of bread into the mixture, and 
fry on one side as for pancakes until brown; turn and 
brown the other side. 




Poached Eggs. 



CONLEY P. C. — 10 



144 



EGGS 



Deviled Eggs. — Cook eggs until hard boiled. Pour 
cold water over to cool rapidly and. prevent discoloring. 
Remove the shells and cut in halves crosswise. Remove 
the yolks and mash them with a fork. For four eggs mix 
one fourth teaspoon of mustard, one fourth teaspoon of 
salt, one eighth teaspoon of pepper, with two teaspoons of 
melted butter. Add the yolks, and mix well. Fill the 
whites with the mixture. 

Bacon and Fried Eggs. — Cook bacon until crisp, remove 
from the frying pan, and turn the eggs one at a time into 
the hot fat. When the whites are firm and the yolks coated 
with a film, remove the eggs carefully, and serve at once. 
Eggs are sometimes turned and fried on both sides, but they 
should not be fried brown, because that indicates that they 
are cooked at too high a temperature. Eggs are frequently 
fried with ham in the same manner as with bacon. 




A Luncheon Table. 



LUNCHEON 145 

PLANNING AND SERVING A LUNCHEON 

Pupils have had enough variety in foods so that they are 
prepared to plan and serve a luncheon, following the plan 
suggested for serving breakfasts. 

Luncheon may Consist or the Following Courses : — 

1. A Cheese Dish i. Salad or Cream Soup 

2. Potato Bread 2. Potato Bread 

3. Sauce Cake Beverage 3. Sauce Cake Beverage 

SUGGESTED MENUS 

I 

Macaroni and Cheese 

Potato Chips Bread 

Berries Chocolate Cake 

Tea 

2 

Cream of Pea Soup 

Croutons Bread 

Baked Apples and Cream Gingerbread 

Tea 

3 

Deviled Eggs Creamed Potatoes 

Mufl&ns 

Stewed Apricots Rocks 

Cocoa 



CHAPTER XI 
MILK AND ITS PRODUCTS 

MILK 

Milk contains 87 per cent water, 3.3 per cent protein, 
4 per cent fat, 5 per cent carbohydrates, .7 per cent mineral 
matter. It is a perfect food for the young calf, because it 
contains all the elements needed for its nourishment up to a 
certain stage of its growth. The milk of all animals differs 
slightly in composition, so the milk of one mammal is not 
a perfect food for others. Cow's milk must have the pro- 
tein diluted, and sugar added, to make it a perfect food for 
the human infant. 

Milk is not a perfect food for an adult because it contains 
too much water, not enough carbohydrate in proportion to 
its protein, and no cellulose or waste matter. It must be 
eaten with bulky foods. 

The most important constituent in milk is protein. The 
protein is in the form of albumin, casein, and compound 
proteins. Heat coagulates the albumin, and it comes to the 
top of boiled milk in the form of a thin skin. The casein is 
not coagulated by heat, but by the ferment rennin, and it is 
precipitated by the presence of lactic acid during the sour- 
ing of milk. The fat occurs in minute globules. When 
milk stands for a time, these globules rise to the surface 
and form cream. Each globule is surrounded by an albu- 
minous covering, and when the cream is churned the cover- 

146 



MILK AND ITS PRODUCTS 



147 



U. S. Department of Agriculture 

Office of Experiment Stations 

A. C. True; Director 



Prepared by 

C. F. UNGWORTHY 

Expert in Charge of Nutrition Investigations 



COMPOSITION OF FOOD MATERIALS. 



Protein Fat Carbohydrates Ash 



WHOLE MILK 



I Fuel Value 
/eSq. In. Equals 
1000 Calories 



SKIM MILK 



Fat:+.0 
Ash;0.7 




Water- 87 



Protein: 3.3 Fat: 0.3- 




-Water;90.5 
Protein 3 4 



c 



Ash: 0.7- 
Carbohydrates:5.0 Carbohydrates 5 I 



c 



Fuel value: 3 1 5 calorics per pound 



BUTTERMILK 



Fuel value: 165 calories pre l>ou^D 



CREAM 



Fat: 0.5 
Ash:0.7 




Carbohydrates: 4.8 

c 

Fuel value: 160 calories per pouko 



Water 9 ID 

Protein: 3.0 Fat: 18.5 - 
Ash : 0.5' 



<ii;.!-,->iv^;v5g 



Water: 74.0 
«-Protein:2.5 



Carb ohydrates: 4.5 

■ 

Fuel value: 880 calories per pound 



Composition of Milk. 



148 MILK AND ITS PRODUCTS 

ing is broken, and the fat and protein separate. The fat is 
called butter and the remainder buttermilk. Buttermilk 
contains 91 per cent water, 3 per cent protein, .5 per cent 
fat, 4.8 per cent carbohydrate, .7 per cent mineral matter, 
and is a very digestible protein food. Butter is the most 
easily digested form of fat known. The sugar in milk is 
called lactose. It is added to cow's milk for infant feeding, 
as it does not ferment as readily as does cane sugar. 

Experiments with Milk to find Composition. 

1. Boil some milk. The skin which rises to the surface is albu- 
min. It is like white of egg, and Hke the substance that rises to the 
surface of water when potatoes are boiled ; also Uke the brown scum 
which forms when meat is boiled. 

2. Add rennet to lukewarm milk. Casein is coagulated. Stir 
with a spoon, and the casein, entangling the fat, separates from the 
whey. The whey contains most of the sugar and mineral matter. 

Add acid, as vinegar or lemon juice to milk, or allow it to sour. 
The casein is precipitated by the presence of the acid. 

3. Test a sample of milk for_starch with solution of iodine. 

4. Drop milk on paper, and note the presence of fat. 

5. Slowly turn out the contents from a bottle of milk, and note 
whether there is dirt or sediment in the bottom, or in the last portion 
of milk. If so, it shows .that the milk is insanitary and not fit to 
use. This condition should be reported to the State Dairy and Food 
Inspector. 

Pasteurized Milk for Infant Feeding. — Sterilize the 
bottle by boiUng it for ten minutes as you would steriHze 
fruit jars. Fill the bottle nearly full with milk, and place 
the cap on the bottle or close with a wad of absorbent 
cotton. Place the bottle in a deep pan which contains 
a small rack or board so that the bottom of the bottle 
will not come in contact with the bottom of the pan. Fill 
the pan with cold water so that the water comes as high as 



MILK AND ITS PRODUCTS 



149 



the milk in the bottle. Heat the water to 158° F., remove 
to the back of the stove, cover the pan, and keep it at that 
temperature for twenty minutes. Cool milk quickly and 
keep in a cool place until ready to use. If it is to be used 
for infant feeding, it must be heated to lukewarm tempera- 
ture just before it is used. 

Cottage Cheese. — Heat sour milk to a temperature of 
about 98° F. and let 
stand until it is uniformly 
warm throughout and 
the curd separates from 
the whey. Drain the 
whey off; add melted 
butter or cream, salt, 
pepper, and serve while 
fresh. It may be fla- 
vored with pimentoes, 
chopped olives, or 
chopped nuts . The curd 
and whey may be sepa- 
rated by pouring boiling 
water over the milk. 

Junket. — Use one 
rennet tablet dissolved 
in one tablespoon of cold 

water. Heat one quart of milk to a temperature of 98° F. ; 
add four tablespoons sugar and one teaspoon of vanilla ; 
add the dissolved rennet and let it stand in a warm place 
until it thickens. Cool and serve with a sprinkUng of 
cinnamon or nutmeg or whipped cream. 

Milk Soups or Cream Soups. — Milk soups are White 
Sauce and the pulp of some vegetable that has been 




Pasteurizing Milk. 
(From Hunter's Civic Biology.) 



I50 MILK AND ITS PRODUCTS 

thoroughly cooked and pressed through a strainer so as to 
rid it of seeds, skins, and any coarse particles. The vege- 
tables most commonly used for soups are potatoes, toma- 
toes, celery, corn, peas, beans, and asparagus. 

Milk soups are very nutritious ; in fact, one half recipe of 
potato or lentil soup and one or two ounces of bread form 
a balanced meal for lunch or supper. Milk soups should 
not be served at dinner, as they contain too much nutrition 
to be served with a heavy meal. They may form the main 
dish at lunch or supper. All milk soups may be made 
after the following directions. 

Cook the vegetables until soft enough to be put through 
a strainer. If the vegetables contain acid, as in tomato, 
add soda to neutralize it before adding milk. Melt the 
butter, add the flour, and rub them together thoroughly. 
Add the vegetable pulp and cook until the mixture thickens ; 
then add milk and seasoning, cook for a minute or two, and 
then serve. Or, add milk to butter and flour, as for White 
Sauce, cook until it thickens, add seasoning, and then add 
vegetable pulp and cook for two minutes. 

Cream of Tomato Soup. — Cook two cups of canned 
tomatoes with two teaspoons of sugar for five minutes. 
Add one fourth teaspoon of soda and stir well, then add 
one fourth teaspoon of salt and rub the mixture through a 
sieve. Melt four tablespoons of butter, add four table- 
spoons of flour, and rub together until thoroughly mixed. 
Add two quarts of milk and one slice of onion. Cook until 
the mixture thickens. Remove the onion. Add the tomato 
pulp to the milk, and cook one minute. Serve. 

Cream of Pea Soup. — Cook one can of Marrowfat peas 
in three cups of water for ten minutes. Add one slice of 
onion and two teaspoons of sugar. Rub the mixture 



MILK AND ITS PRODUCTS 151 

through a sieve until nothing remains in the sieve but the 
skins of the peas. Melt four tablespoons of butter, add 
two tablespoons of flour, and rub together until thoroughly 
mixed. Add two cups of milk, and cook until it thickens, 
then add one teaspoon of salt, one eighth teaspoon pepper. 
Add the peas and cook three minutes. Serve. 

Com Chowder. — Cook one slice of bacon, or salt pork, 
cut in small pieces, until crisp or brown. Add one slice of 
onion, cut in small pieces, and fry until brown.' Parboil 
three cups of thinly sliced potatoes for ten minutes, drain, 
and add the potatoes to the bacon and onion. Add one 
can of corn, one quart of milk, two tablespoons of butter, 
one half teaspoon of salt, and one eighth teaspoon of pepper. 
Cook five minutes. Add half a dozen crackers, and serve. 



Garnish for Soups. 




Chopped Parsley 


Macaroni 


Chopped Celery Tips 


Vermicelli 


Chopped White of Egg 


Spaghetti 


Whipped Cream 


Pearl Barley 


Diced Potatoes 


Rice 


Riced Eggs 


Noodles 


To Serve with Soup. 




Wafers 


Bread Sticks 


Crackers 


Croutons 



CHEESE 

Cheese ranks first among tissue-building foods because 
it contains a higher percentage of protein than any other 
food. American cheese, the kind most commonly pur- 
chased, contains 27.4 per cent water, 27.7 per cent protein, 
36.8 per cent fat, 4.1 per cent carbohydrate, and 4 per 



152 MILK AND ITS PRODUCTS 

cent mineral matter, which is mainly common salt that has 
been added in the process of cheese making. 

Cheese is a concentrated food; that is, it contains no 
cellulose and a small amount of water, and for this reason 
some people find it hard to digest. If it is grated or finely 
divided and mixed with other foods that will increase the 
amount of carbohydrate and bulk, it forms a cheap and 
valuable protein food and is a good substitute for meat. 

A great many varieties of cheese are made. Some con- 
tain more water than others; some are made from milk, 
some from milk to which cream has been added, and some 
are made from skim milk. Some derive their flavor and 
odor from the pecuhar fermentation that takes place 
during ripening. 

Cheese is made the same way that junket is made. The 
milk is heated to lukewarm temperature, and rennet is 
added, and it is allowed to coagulate. The curd is then cut 
so that the whey can be removed, and this water is drawn ofif. 
Then the curd is pressed into shape and allowed to cure or 
ripen. The process of ripening brings out the flavor of 
the cheese. All American cheese is colored with a harmless 
vegetable coloring. 

Cheese Fondu. — Thoroughly mix one fourth cup crumbs, 
one fourth pound of grated cheese, one fourth teaspoon salt, 
speck cayenne pepper, one cup milk, one tablespoon melted 
butter, and three eggs. Bake in individual dishes. Serve 
immediately. 

Welsh Rarebit. — Mix together one pound of cheese cut 
in small pieces or chopped, one teaspoon butter, one tea- 
spoon salt and speck of paprika, one teaspoon mustard 
mixed with one teaspoon of cream, and heat slowly. When 
the cheese is nearly melted, add one beaten egg. Stir well, 



MILK AND ITS PRODUCTS 153 

and when all the cheese is melted, add one fourth cup of 
cream or more, until it is the desired thickness. Serve 
immediately on wafers or toast. 

Cheese Straws, (a) — One cup flour, one fourth teaspoon 
salt, five tablespoons lard. Mix as for pie crust, and roll 
out thin. Cut into two equal pieces. Sprinkle one piece 
with grated cheese, season with salt and paprika, and a 
small amount of melted butter. Place the other piece over 
this, press them together, and then cut into strips about 
one half inch wide and three inches long. Bake in a hot 
oven until crisp and brown. Serve with salad. 

Cheese Straws, (b) — One half cup flour, three fourths 
cup bread crumbs, one cup grated or chopped cheese, one 
tablespoon melted butter, one fourth teaspoon salt, speck 
of paprika, one half cup milk. Rub butter and flour 
together; add crumbs, seasoning, cheese, and milk, and 
mix thoroughly. Roll out one fourth inch thick and cut 
in pieces one half inch wide and three inches long. Bake 
until brown in a moderate oven. 

Cheese SouflBle. — Two tablespoons melted butter, two 
tablespoons flour, one cup milk, one fourth teaspoon salt, 
speck paprika, three fourths cup cheese, four eggs, white 
and yolk beaten separately. Add flour to melted but- 
ter and rub together thoroughly. Add milk and seasoning 
and cook until it begins to thicken. Add beaten yolks 
and cheese ; mix thoroughly. When it has cooled slightly, 
add whites of eggs beaten stiff and dry, and bake in a 
moderate oven until brown, — about thirty minutes. 
Serve immediately. 

Juno Salad: — Mix one Neufchatel cheese, one half cup 
chopped walnuts, one fourth cup chopped pimentoes. 
Moisten with Cooked Salad Dressing and arrange on lettuce. 



CHAPTER Xn 

MEATS AND FISH 

MEATS 

All meats, incUiding poultry and game, are similar in 
composition and structure, and the same methods of cook- 
ing may be appUed to all. The different meats and cuts of 
the same meat vary in flavor ; in the amount of bone, refuse, 
and fat which they contain ; and some are more extensively 
used than others. 

The edible portion of meat is mainly protein, and it fxir- 
nishes about one third of the tissue-building food consumed 
by the American people. Proteins are the important food 
substances in meat, and to understand the cooking of them, 
it is necessary to know the kinds found ; where they occur ; 
and the effect of heat on flavor, digestibiUty, and palata- 
bihty. 

Meat consists of bone, fat, and muscle fiber. The bone 
is about one half solids and one half water. The solid 
part consists of mineral matter, fat, and ossein. The 
ossein i^ not a true protein, but an albuminoid which is 
dissolved by long boihng and gelatinizes when cooled. It 
is not a tissue-building food, but has come to be called a 
protein sparer. Bone is used in soup making to furnish 
the gelatin and some of the fat. It is generally thought 
that if the bone is left in cuts of meat during cooking, the 
flavor is improved. 

154 



MEATS 15s 

Fat differs in different animals. The fat of the hog is 
softer and less highly flavored than that of other animals, 
and, because of this, and because it has a high burning 
point, it is extensively used for frying foods. Beef and 
mutton fats contain more stearin than pork fat; they are 
harder, more highly flavored, and not used much in cooking. 
It could be said that fats are not consumed, to any great 
extent, as meat, but are separated from the muscle fiber 
and prepared for use in some other way. The only excep- 
tion to this is the use of pork as bacon, salt pork, and sausage, 
but even then much of the fat is lost in cooking. 

The most important part of meat, then, is the muscle 
fiber, and if it is examined closely it will be found to consist 
of bundles of tubes or fibers held together by a substance 
similar to the ossein in bone, called collagen, a form of 
connective tissue. As this substance, collagen, is a form of 
albuminoid, it is softened and dissolved by moist heat. 

The tubes contain various proteins, — albumin, fibrin, 
myosin, compound proteins, and extractives, — and it is this 
part of the meat which furnishes the tissue-building ma- 
terial for the body. The muscle tubes consist of a sub- 
stance called elastin, another albuminoid. 

The toughness or tenderness of a cut of meat depends on 
the thickness of the albuminoids which form the cell walls 
and which hold the cells together. If the cut of meat is 
from a part of the animal where the muscles have been 
exercised a great deal, the albuminoids are thicker and 
tougher than in those parts which are exercised but Httle. 
Hence the meat will be tougher and will require long, slow 
cooking to soften the elastin and collagen. That is the 
reason why cuts of meat from the neck and leg are tougher 
than those from the back. 



156 



MEATS 



U. S. Depsrtmeot of Agriculture 
Office of Eicperiment Stations 
A. C. True; Director 



Prepared by 

C. F. UN6W0RTHY 

Expert in Charge of Nutrition Investiflatiorw 



COMPOSITION OF FOOD MATERIALS. 



Protein Fat Carbohydrates 

LAMB CHOP 

CDISLr PODTfOn 

-Water:53.l 




Water 

PORK CHOP 

tOlBLE pomiow 
Water:52.0 



/fgSq In.Equals 
1000 Calories 



Protein: 1 7 



Fat 138. 3 



Protein: '69 



Fat :3a I 



Ash: 1.0 
Fuel miue: 



SMOKED HAM 

CDIBie POHTIOW 

Water: 40. 3 
Protein; 16.1 



1^75 CALORIES 
PER POUND 



Fat: 38.8 



BEEF STEAK 

EDIBLE PORTION 

Water: 6 1.9 





Ash;4.8 



DRIED BEEF 

EOULt PORllOU 

Protein: 
30.0 




Composition of Meats. 



MEATS 



157 



U.S Department ot Agriculture 

Office of Experirnent Slalioni 
A.C True; Director 



Prepared by 

C.F. LANGWORTHY 

expert in Charge of Nutrition Investigations 

COMPOSITION OF FOOD MATERIALS. 

^m mm r???i ^^ ^m 

Pfote''! Fat Carbohydrates Ash Water 



I Fuel Value 
pfbSq. In. Equals 
' 1000 Calories 



VEGETABLE OILS. AS 
OLIVE , 

PEANUT, ^,,,rt&S 

COTTONSEED 




BACON 

Protein: 9.4^ ,Fat:67.4 




4080 CAUOBIES PES POunO 



BUTTER 

Fat 83.0 



Fuel valuE; Ash!4.^ 



3090 MLORieS PER POUND 
Water: 13.2 

Protein: 4. 7 



Ash.0.3 




Ash;3.0 



34?5 WLOSIES PER POUNO 

^Wa-ter? 13.0 

Fat 1 00.0 



^^Protein; 



LARD 



otein: 1.0 




340% CALORIES PER POUND 



FuELVALUt; 



4080 CAL0B1E3 PER POUNft 



Composition of Fats. 



iS8 MEATS 

The true proteins in meat are coagulated by heat, and 
flavor is developed. Albumins are soluble in cold water, 
myosin and fibrin in dilute salt, or alkaline solution, and 
the rest are insoluble. If meat is soaked in cold water, or 
put on to cook in cold water, and gradually heated, albumin 
is dissolved out. It forms the brown scum that rises to the 
surface of the water when meat is boiled, and is usually 
lost during the process. Fibrin and myosin are dissolved 
when meat is soaked in salt solution, as in the corning of 
beef. 

Description of Cuts of Meat 

Beef is the meat most extensively used, and if one 
knows the various cuts of beef and their uses and how 
to select good beef, he will easily learn the cuts in other 
animals. 

In good beef the best cuts are fine grained, well mottled 
with fat and lean, and bright red in color after being ex- 




CuTS OF Beef. 



posed to the air. If there is a thick layer of firm, hght- 
colored fat over the loin and rib cuts, the flesh will be juicier 
and better flavored than when there is httle or no fat over 
these cuts. In the latter case, what fat there is is dark 



MEATS 159 

colored, and the meat is tough and dry. The animal is old, 
underfed, or losing flesh. 

The loin and rib cuts are finer grained and more tender 
than the other cuts, and require less cooking. They are 
the finest cuts for steaks and roasts. The other cuts are 
not so tender, but are juicier, and some of them contain 
less bone than the finer cuts and when properly cooked are 
as well flavored and equal to the loin and rib cuts in palata- 
bihty. 

The less tender cuts require long, slow cooking to soften 
the connective tissue, and for this reason do not make the 
finest steaks and roasts. As less than twenty-five per cent 
of the beef is contained in the loin and rib cuts, they sell 
for a much higher price than round, chuck, or any of the 
other cuts, because the profit must come from the finer 
cuts. Many people who cannot afford it buy these ex- 
pensive cuts because they do not know how to cook 
the other parts and make them attractive and appe- 
tizing. The cheaper cuts are just as nutritious as the 
others, and when properly cooked are deliciously flavored 
and more satisfying than the badly cooked steak or dry 
roast. 

After beef is dressed, it is cut into halves. The halves 
are divided into hind and fore quarters by cutting between 
the twelfth and thirteenth ribs, leaving one rib in the hind 
quarter. The flank is cut from the hind quarter, leaving 
the loin, rump, round, and shank. The loin includes the 
porterhouse, sirloin, and tenderloin cuts. 

The fore quarter is cut across the ribs. The lower part 
includes the plate, clod, and shank. The upper part 
includes the rib, chuck, and neck. 

CONLEY P. C. — II 



i6o MEATS 

Cuts Arranged according to Market Value and De- 
sirability, Highest Priced First 

Loin. — This cut includes short steaks, porterhouse, 
sirloin, and tenderloin. The tenderloin is a long muscle 
that may be stripped from beneath the loin, but when it is 
removed, it destroys the value of the porterhouse steak. 
The first few cuts from the loin are called short or club 
steaks because they contain no tenderloin. Steaks cut 
from the beginning of the tenderloin to the beginning of 
the hook bone are called porterhouse. They are the choic- 
est and highest-priced cuts in beef. The remaining cuts in 
the loin are the sirloin. 

The tenderloin, when sold separately, is deficient in fat, 
and hence must be larded and then roasted or broiled. The 
loin is cut into steaks and broiled, occasionally sold as 
roasts, though expensive, and no finer for roasting than 
are the ribs. 

Rib. — This cut consists of seven ribs, called prime ribs ; 
the cut is made close to the shoulder blade and separates it 
from the chuck. It is sold as roasts, being cut into one, two, 
or three rib pieces. One rib piece usually weighs about 
four pounds. The ribs are removed and the piece rolled 
and called a roUed roast. If the ribs are left in, it is called 
a standing roast. Dealers sometimes remove the ribs from 
the cut and sell it as steaks, called small steaks. 

Round. — This cut consists of very juicy, lean muscle 
and but Uttle bone. It is sold as steaks, roasts, and for 
beef tea and beef juice. It is excellent for pot roast, stews, 
braizing or casserole of beef, and for beef loaf. 

Rump. — This cut contains the end of the hip bone and 
joint. There is considerable bone, but the remainder 



MEATS 



i6i 




Rib. 




Rib. 




Loin. 



Round. 




Rump. 




Cuts of Beef. 
(From Conley's Nutrition and Diet.) 



Chuck. 



1 62 MEATS 

makes very good steaks and roasts. It is also excellent 
for pot roast, boiling, braizing, stews, and mincemeat. 

Chuck. — This cut is next to the prime ribs cut and 
similar to it, but contains more bone and gristle and is not 
so tender. It makes a very good, though large, roast and 
is sold sometimes as steaks, and by some preferred to the 
round, because it is mottled with fat. It is excellent for 
stews, pot roast, boiling, braizing, and mincemeat. 

Clod. — This cut is back of the brisket and below the 
chuck. • It is sold for boiling, stews, braizing, and mince- 
meat. 

Flank. — This cut comes from below the loin. It is 
boneless and coarse, but of good flavor. Flank steak is 
sometimes cut from the lean muscle on the inside of the 
flank. This steak may be scored across the grain and 
broiled. It is also rolled and braized. Flank cut is used 
for stews, boiling, and rolled and corned. 

Neck. — This cut contains juicy, tough meat. It is 
used in stews, soup, and Hamburg steaks. 

Plate. — This cut comes from below the ribs. It has 
layers of fat and lean and the ends of the ribs. It is used 
for boiling and corning. 

Shank. — These cuts are the fore and hind legs. They 
are tough, and contain borie and tendons. They are used 
for soup, cheap stews, and mince meat. 

Principles Involved in the Cooking of Meat 

But three principles are involved in the cooking of all 
meats, and a statement of these principles is made before 
recipes are given which apply them. 

I. Tender cuts of meat are broiled, fried, or roasted. 
The meat is first subjected to strong heat which coagulates 



MEATS 163 

the albumin, and this forms a crust which retains the juices 
in the meat. If the cut is thick enough, the meat will then 
cook, in its own juices, and if this cooking is continued long 
enough, it will soften the connective tissue also. If the cut 
is thin, dry heat will harden the connective tissue. Strong 
heat is needed at first, to form the crust and to develop 
flavor, but the heat should be reduced somewhat after this 
is accomplished or the meat will cook at too high a tem- 
perature and be dry and tasteless. This method of cook- 
ing should not be applied to tough cuts of meat, because it 
does not soften the tough connective tissue. 

II. Tougher cuts of meat are boiled, stewed, or cooked 
by some method that combines the stewing and roasting. 
Meat is cooked in either a large or small quantity of water, 
at a temperature of i7o°-i8o° F. for several hours. This 
long, slow cooking in water softens the elastin and collagen, 
forms of connective tissue which occur in muscle fiber, and 
coagulates the proteins, and this method of cooking makes 
tough meat tender. The meat should be started in boiling 
watgr, but after the first fifteen minutes the heat should be 
reduced, and the meat allowed to cook slowly. Low heat 
softens the connective tissue, while boiling dissolves it and 
leaves a stringy mass of fibers. 

Sometimes the first method and second are combined, 
and meat is subjected to strong heat at first to sear over 
the outside and develop flavor, and then the meat is stewed. 

III. Very tough cuts of meat are used for soup making 
because they are apt to be juicy, and it is more economical 
to use cheap cuts for this purpose. Meat is placed in cold 
water dnd allowed to stand ; the cold water draws out the 
soluble albumins, extractives, and other soluble compoimds. 
The meat is then slowly heated to about 160° F. and al- 



1 64 MEATS 

lowed to cook for several hours. The slow cooking dis- 
solves some of the albuminoids and fat. The longer it is 
cooked, the more gelatin and fat are obtained. Soup 
contains soluble albumin, extractives, blood which con- 
tains hemoglobin, also gelatin and fat, — these form a 
very small percentage of the nutrients in meat. The nutri- 
tive value of meat soup is in the substances added to it. 
A soup usually stimulates the appetite. 

Experiments with Meat. 

I. Scrape a piece of round steak until you can remove no more 
pulp. The white substance which remains is connective tissue. 
The pulp contains all the proteins in the meat. It is used to make 
beef sandwiches for invaUds, and is sometimes fed to children from 
eighteen months to two years old to furnish protein. 

II. Cut round steak in small pieces and soak in cold water. Note 
color of the water. Heat the meat slowly, and press out the juice. 
This is called beef juice and is used for invalids and for infants from 
one year to eighteen months old. It is usually made by adding very 
little water. It Contains albumin, coloring matter, and extractives. 

III. To show that albumin is present, heat the juice to nearly 
boiling, i8o° F., and note the brown scum. How would you know 
that extractives are present? 

IV. Soak meat over night in salt water. Note change in color 
and the presence of dissolved myosin and fibrin. 

V. Pour boiling water over lean round steak, and boil ten minutes. 
Note appearance of water, to find whether albumin is present. Taste 
it to find flavor. 

Cooking of Tender Cuts — Principle One 

Roast Beef. Rib Roast. — The best cuts for roasting 
are called the prime ribs. Have the ribs removed and 

' Pork, Iamb, mutton, and veal roasts are cooked in the same way as beef 
roast, but they require a longer time for cooking, as they should never be 
served rare as beef is served. They require at least twenty minutes per 
pound. 



MEATS 165 

have the meat rolled. This insures more even cooking 
than if the bones are left in, for when they are, the thin 
part is overdone before the rest is cooked. If the meat has 
but Uttle fat, have a piece of suet rolled in with the roast, 
and remove it before the roast is sent to the table to serve. 

Sprinkle salt and pepper on the meat, and dredge with 
flour. This is done so as to form a crust and prevent the 
escape of the juice. Have the oven very hot at first so as 
to sear the outside quickly and retain the juice. After 
ten minutes reduce the heat so as to insure thorough cook- 
ing. If the oven is very hot all the time, the outside will 
burn while the inside is raw. Baste the meat occasionally 
with the drippings. Never add water to a roast unless 
the meat has so little fat that there is danger of burning or 
charring. Never add it until after the first fifteen minutes. 
Allow fifteen minutes' cooking to each pound of meat. 
That is, allow an hour for a four-pound roast, and an hour 
and a half for a six-pound roast. 

Brown Gravy. — Pour off some of the fat from the pan 
in which the roast has cooked. To the remainder of the 
fat add three tablespoons of flour, and rub free from lumps. 
Add one and one half cups of boiling water and cook until 
it thickens ; add one fourth teaspoon of salt and a speck of 
pepper. 

Yorkshire Pudding. — One half cup of milk, one half 
cup of flour, one egg, one eighth teaspoon of salt. Mix the 
salt and flour ; add milk and rub smooth ; add egg well 
beaten. Pour into the pan where the roast beef is cook- 
ing, or cover the bottom of another pan with some of the 
drippings from the roast, and pour the mixture over the 
fat. Bake in a hot oven twenty minutes, and serve with 
roast beaf. 



1 66 MEATS 

Lamb Chops. — Select rib or loin chops and remove the 
skin and some of the fat. If all the fat is removed, the 
chops will be dry and tasteless. Have the frying pan 
smoking hot, and place a small piece of the fat from the 
meat on a fork and rub the pan with it. Remove the fat 
and place the chops in the pan. When one side is seared 
over, turn the chops and sear the other side, turn frequently 
to prevent burning, and cook at a lower temperature after 
the first few minutes. Cook long enough so that the chops 
will not be rare, — from eight to twelve minutes, depending 
on the thickness of the cut. When done, season with salt 
and pepper ; serve immediately. Mutton and pork chops 
are cooked in the same way. 

Veal Cutlets. — Cut the cutlets in pieces for individual 
servings. Sprinkle with salt and pepper, dip in crumbs or 
flour, egg, and crumbs, and fry in bacon fat, lard, or butter, 
until weU browned. Cook slowly so that the cutlets will 
be cooked throughout. Pour Brown or Tomato Sauce 
over, and simmer twenty minutes. 

Brown Sauce. — Brown one fourth cup of butter; add 
one fourth teaspoon of chopped onion and brown; add 
three tablespoons of flour and stir until browned ; add one 
and one half cups of boiling water and cook until it thickens. 
Add one fourth teaspoon of salt, one eighth teaspoon of 
pepper. (One half cup of mushrooms or one fourth cup 
of capers may be added.) 

Tomato Sauce. — (See p. 95.) 

Fried Chicken. — Cut a young chicken in pieces ready 
to serve. Sprinkle with salt, pepper, and flour. Place 
in a deep pan ; add one fourth cup of butter, cover the pan, 
place in a hot oven, and cook from twenty to thirty min- 
utes. Turn several times to cook evenly. 



MEATS 167 

Another method is to place the chicken in the frying pan, 
add the butter, and fry slowly for fifteen to twenty minutes. 
Serve with White Sauce made from the butter which 
remains in the pan. 

Tougher Cuts — Principle Two 

Hamburg Steak. — Pass one pound of round steak 
through a meat chopper; add one small onion chopped 
fine, one fourth teaspoon of salt, one eighth teaspoon of 
pepper, and one beaten egg. Mix thoroughly and shape 
into about six balls. Fry slowly in a small amount of 
bacon fat or salt pork, or some of the fat from the meat. 
Cover the frying pan, and cook ten to fifteen minutes, turn 
to prevent burning. 

Boiled Leg of Mutton. — Remove the skin from the 
mutton, as the skin gives the meat a strong flavor if cooked 
on the meat. Place the meat in a kettle, cover with boil- 
ing water, and boil about fifteen minutes. Reduce the 
heat and let the meat simmer from two and one half to 
three hours, depending on the size of the leg. When 
nearly done, add salt and pepper. Serve with mint or 
caper sauce. 

Mint Sauce. — One half cup of mint chopped fine; add 
two tablespoons of sugar, three tablespoons of vinegar, 
three tablespoons of boiling water, one eighth teaspoon 
of salt. Let it boil for three minutes, and then remove 
from the stove and let it stand for fifteen minutes. 

Meat in Casserole. — Cut round beef steak or shoulder 
of mutton into one and one half inch pieces, and brown in a 
hot frying pan in beef or bacon fat. When the meat is 
seared, place it in the casserole and brown an onion in the 
fat. Add onion and fat to the meat, and cover with water. 



1 68 



MEATS 




MEATS 169 

Place the cover on the casserole, put it in the oven, and let 
the meat cook slowly for two hours. Cut one cup of car- 
rots and two cups of potatoes into balls or slices, add to the 
meat; add one half teaspoon of salt and one eighth tea- 
spoon of pepper, and cook until the potatoes are done. 
Serve from the casserole. 

Mutton Stew and Dumplings. — One and one half 
pounds of mutton from shoulder, cut in small pieces ; add 
one onion and one carrot, sliced ; cover with boiling water 
and boil fifteen minutes ; reduce the heat and let simmer 
one and one half hours. Turn meat from kettle, season. 
Place potatoes in bottom of kettle, place meat on the 
potatoes, pour liquid over this, and add enough boiling 
water to cover all; place dumplings on top of meat, 
and boil twenty minutes. 

Dumplings. — Mix two cups of flour, four teaspoons of 
baking powder, one fourth teaspoon salt. Add two table- 
spoons of lard as for biscuit. Moisten with one cup of 
water. Shape into six dumplings, and cook with meat 
and potatoes. 

Beef Loaf. — Two pounds of beef from round, one tea- 
spoon of salt, one half cup grated bread crumbs, speck of 
dressing seasoning, one fourth pound of pork, one teaspoon 
of chopped onion, one egg. Pass meat through a chopper, 
mix all ingredients, shape into a loaf, sprinkle with flour, 
and bake one hour. Serve with tomato or mushroom 
sauce, or plain. Garnish with parsley. 

Tomato Sauce. — One pint of tomatoes, one half onion 
chopped fine. Cook ten minutes. Put through a sieve. 
Melt four tablespoons of butter, rub in four tablespoons of 
flour ; add one half teaspoon of salt, one eighth teaspoon of 
pepper ; add the tomato, and cook until it thickens. 



170 MEATS 

Mincemeat. — Boil five pounds of lean beef four or five 
hours until it is ready to fall to pieces, remove bone, 
and chop fine. Add two pounds of beef suet chopped 
fine, four pounds of raisins, four pounds of currants, one 
pound of citron, four quarts of chopped apples, four table- 
spoons of cinnamon, four tablespoons of cloves, four table- 
spoons of nutmeg, three teaspoons of allspice, three tea- 
spoons of pepper, three teaspoons of ginger, juice of three 
' lemons, one pint of molasses, one cup of melted butter, 
two and one half pounds of sugar, two and one half 
quarts of boiled cider. Mix thoroughly and store in a 
cool place. 

Hungarian Goulash. — Cut a two-inch piece of fat pork 
or beef suet in small pieces, and fry out. Cut one and one 
half pounds of beef from the round into small pieces, sea- 
son with salt and pepper, and roll in flour and then fry in 
the fat until brown. Place the beef in a kettle, add one 
chopped onion, one chopped green pepper, one cup of 
chopped celery, two cups of canned tomatoes, cover with 
boiling water, and let it simmer about two hours. 

Chicken Pie. — Purchase a chicken about a year old, 
because it is fatter and better flavored for boiling than the 
young ones. Remove the legs and cut each leg into two 
portions ; remove wings ; cut breast into two parts, also the 
back. Place in a kettle ; cover with boiling water and boil 
ten minutes, and then simmer until the meat is tender, — 
from one and one half to two hours, depending on the 
toughness of the meat. When half done, add one teaspoon 
of salt and one eighth teaspoon of pepper. Remove the 
chicken from the kettle ; thicken the stock with one fourth 
to one third of a cup of flour which has been rubbed smooth 
in cold water. If there is but little fat on the chicken, add 



MEATS 171 

several tablespoons of butter to the broth. Return chicken 
to the kettle, and let it simmer in the broth for several 
minutes. When ready to serve, add small baking powder 
biscuits broken in two. 

Warmed-over Meats 

Hash. — One cup of chopped cooked meat, one cup of 
cooked potatoes sHced in small pieces, one fourth cup of 
boihng water, two tablespoons of butter, one tablespoon 
of onion chopped fine, one half teaspoon of salt, speck of 
pepper. Cook slowly until it begins to brown; turn, and 
serve hot. 

Creamed Dried Beef. — One half cup of dried beef 
shredded with a knife into small pieces. Soak in cold 
water about five minutes. Make White Sauce, omitting 
the salt; add dried beef, bring to the boiling point, and 
serve with potatoes or on toast. 

Beefsteak Pie. — Remove fat and bone from remnants 
of roast beef or steak. Use about two cups cut into small 
pieces; add one small chopped onion, one fourth teaspoon 
of salt, speck of pepper; cover with boiling water, and let 
it simmer about one hour. Then thicken the liquid with 
two tablespoons of flour, and remove to a baking dish, 
place biscuit dough on top of the meat, and bake in the 
oven until the crust is done. The gravy or juice should 
completely cover the meat, otherwise it will cook dry. 

For biscuit dough use one cup of flour, one and one half 
teaspoons of baking powder, one fourth teaspoon of salt, 
two and one half tablespoons of Jard or butter. 



172 MEATS 

Soup — Principle Three 
Soup Stock 

Soup stock is the soluble part of meat and bone, with 
vegetables and seasoning added. It forms the basis of 
all meat soups, of aspic jelly, of some sauces. 

It may be made from the remnants of roasts or steaks 
with some fresh meat added ; from the trimmings of roasts 
that are sent with the meat; from the tougher parts of 
meat not cooked or served. It is made from beef, veal, 
lamb, mutton, and chicken ; sometimes two or more kinds 
of meat are used. The bones of the young animals are 
better for soup making because they contain more gela- 
tin; the meat of the older animals is best because it is 
juicier. For the first reason, bones of veal or chicken are 
sometimes added to the soup kettle. Some of the meat is 
frequently seared over by using some of the fat. This 
gives a dark color to the soup stock and adds flavor. Some- 
times caramel is used to darken it. 

Beef Soup Stock. — Select meat from the rump, shin, or 
neck, and be sure to get about two thirds lean meat and one 
third fat and bone, about four pounds in all. Place some 
of the fat in a frying pan and brown a smaU portion of the 
meat. Cut the meat, fat, and bone into small pieces. 
Place it in a soup kettle and add four quarts of water. 
Let it stand in the cold water one hour to draw out the 
juices and soluble albumin, then add the browned meat, 
heat slowly, and cook at a low temperature for four or five 
hours. Add one fourth cup each of onion, carrots, celery 
cut into small pieces; a sprig of parsley, one bay leaf, 
one teaspoon of salt, one eighth teaspoon of pepper, and 
simmer one hour. Strain and cool quickly. Let it stand 



FISH 173 

in a cold place until the fat rises to the top and solidifies. 
The stock will keep so long as the fat covers it. When it is 
to be used, skim off all of the fat, and reheat with whatever 
additional ingredients are desired. 

Tomato soup may be made by adding tomatoes ; or pearl 
barley, macaroni, noodles, or vegetables may be added. 

In the process of soup making the connective tissue is 
softened and dissolved ; the soluble albumin. Juices, and 
extractives are drawn out, but very little of the nutritive 
value from the meat is in the soup. The remaining meat 
is tasteless because the extractives which give meat its 
flavor have been drawn out and the dissolving of the con- 
nective tissue has left the meat stringy. The albumin 
that is in the soup becomes coagulated by heat and is the 
brown scum that floats on the surface. If the scum is 
taken off, some of the nutrients are lost. 

FISH 

Fish are classified in two classes, — those having aback- 
bone and called vertebrates, and the shellfish. The ver- 
tebrates are classified as fresh and salt water fish, and. also 
as white-meat fish, and dark-meat fish. They are classified 
in various other ways, but to apply the principles of cook- 
ing, all vertebrates may be grouped in one general class. 

Fish are similar to meat in composition, structure, and 
nutritive value, in that they are protein foods. They 
take the place of meat in any meal. The muscle consists 
of bundles of fibers bound together by connective tissue. 
There is a marked difference in this tissue from that in 
meat ; the connective tissue in fish is so tender that they 
require but httle cooking, and when they are boiled, care 
must be taken or the connective tissue will be dissolved 



174 FISH 

and the muscle fibers will fall apart. For this reason fish 
are best when broiled, baked, or fried. 

Selection and Cleaning. — Care must be taken when 
purchasing fish that they are fresh, because fish decompose 
readily and do not keep for any length of time after they 
are taken from the water. In fresh fish the eyes are bright, 
the gills are bright red, and the flesh is firm. When fish 
are purchased from the market,' they are cleaned, though 
the scales are not always removed. They may be removed 
with a knife or a fish scaler sold for that purpose. Begin 
at the tail and work towards the head, holding the fish 
firmly by the tail. Wash the fish inside and out with 
plenty of cold water, and dry with a soft cloth. 

Baked Fish. — Remove the head from the fish; sprinkle 
the inside with salt, pepper ; add a tablespoon of lard, bacon 
drippings, or oHve oil, and sew or fasten the sides together. 
Roll the fish in flour, place in a baking pan, add one fourth 
cup of lard, or bacon fat or olive oil, and bake until brown, 
from thirty to forty-five minutes, depending on the size 
of the fish. Serve with Tartare Sauce, Drawn Butter, or 
Hollandaise Sauce. 

Fried Fish. — Fish may be fried whole, or skinned and 
boned and cut into slices. Fish like fresh salmon and lake 
trout are sold sliced and ready for frying. Season with 
salt, pepper, and roll in flour or corn meal, or in egg and 
crumbs. Saute slowly in bacon fat, salt pork, lard, or 
oHve oil until deep brown, or fry in deep fat. 

Tartare Sauce. — Mix one tablespoon of vinegar, one 
teaspoon of lemon juice, one fourth teaspoon of salt, 
one tablespoon of Worcestershire sauce, and heat over hot 
water. Brown one fourth cup of butter, and add it slowly 
to the mixture. Serve hot with fish. 



FISH 



175 



U.S. Department of Aqhculture 

Office of Experiment Stations 

A.C. True: Director 



Prepared by 

C.F. LANGWORTHY 

Expert in Charge of Nutrition Investiq^tions 



COMPOSITION OF FOOD MATERIALS. 




Carbohydrates Ash 



■ Fuel Value 
VsSq In. Equals 
1000 Calories 

SALT COD 



Fuel value 

Wdter;53.5 



C' 



OYSTER 



400 CALOfllES 
PER POUND 

Protein ? I 5 

Fat-0 1 H 

Ash^54/7 



Water86 



Ash: 1. 2 
Carbohydrates-3.7 
SMOKED HERRING 



Water-. 34.6 
Protein-.36 4 

Fuel value; 



1305 CALORIES 
PFP POUND 




MACKEREL 

Fat Fish 




Ash 13 2 




ZiO CALOniES 

Pin pouNO 



620 CALORIES 
PER POUND 



Composition of Fish. 



CONLEY p. C. 12 



176 FISH 

Drawn Butter Sauce. — Melt three tablespoons of butter; 
add two tablespoons of flour, one fourth teaspoon of salt, 
one eighth teaspoon of pepper, and brown the mixture. 
Add one cup of water and stir until it begins to boil, and 
then simmer for five minutes. Add two tablespoons of 
butter, in bits; beat it until it is absorbed, and then serve 
immediately on fish. 

Steamed Salmon Loaf. — One can of salmon, four table- 
spoons of milk, three eggs, four tablespoons of melted butter, 
one half cup of bread crumbs, speck of pepper, one fourth 
teaspoon of salt, one teaspoon of chopped parsley. Rub 
butter into salmon, put crumbs into the beaten eggs, mix 
all together, season, steam one hour, or bake twenty minutes. 

Sauce. — One cup of milk, one tablespoon of cornstarch, 
one tablespoon of butter, juice from the salmon, one egg, 
speck of salt. Cook until it thickens, and serve with the 
salmon. 

Oysters 

Oyster Stew. — Heat one pint of milk and one pint of 
water, or one quart of milk, to the boiUng point. Add one 
pint of oysters, three tablespoons of butter, one half tea- 
spoon of salt, one eighth teaspoon of pepper, and cook 
until the edges of the oysters begin to curl. Serve imme- 
diately. 

Fried Oysters. — Purchase large select oysters for fry- 
ing. Wash and drain the oysters, and dry on a soft cloth. 
Season with salt and pepper and then dip the oysters in 
bread crumbs, slightly beaten egg, and crumbs, and saut6 
in butter until brown on both sides, or fry in deep fat. 

Scalloped Oysters. — Roll two cups of bread or cracker 
crumbs until fine. Melt one half cup of butter and mix it 



PLANNING A DINNER 



177 



with the crumbs. Mix one pint of oysters, one teaspoon 
of salt, one eighth teaspoon of pepper, and one cup of milk. 
Spread one third of the crumbs in the bottom of the baking 
dish, cover with one half of the oysters, put in another 
third of the crumbs and the remainder of the oysters, 
cover with the rest of the crumbs, and bake 20 to 30 minutes. 

PLANNING AND SERVING A DINNER 

After the meat lessons, the pupils are prepared to plan 
and serve a dinner, following the same method pursued for 
the breakfasts and lunches. 




A Dinner Table. 



Dinner may consist of the following courses : — 

1. Soup I. Meat, potato, and one 

2. Meat, potato, and one other vegtable 

other vegetable 2. Salad 

3. Dessert 3. Dessert 



178 



Beef Loaf 



PLANNING A DINNER 

SUGGESTED MENUS 

I 

Cream of Celery Soup 

Tomato Sauce 

Creamed Cauliflower 

Lemon Pie 



Mashed Potato 



Veal Cutlets Brown Sauce Baked Potato 

Lima Beans 
Cabbage Salad or Waldorf Salad 

Chocolate Pudding 



Leg of Mutton 



Riced Potatoes 
Lettuce Salad 
Caramel Ice Cream 



Squash 



Cake 



Cream of Tomato Soup 

Fried Chicken Baked Potato Creamed Peas 

Banana and Nut Salad 

Bavarian Cream 



CHAPTER XIII 

GELATINS AND ICES. SOME ADDITIONAL 
RECIPES 

GELATIN 

Gelatin is manufactured from the albuminoids in meat, 
— ossein in bone, elastin in cell walls, collagen in connec- 
tive tissue. Bone, tendons, ligaments, and all forms of 
connective tissue are boiled, and the substance extracted 
forms gelatin when cooled. It occurs in greatest abun- 
dance in the bones of young animals. 

Gelatin does not build tissue, but yields heat and energy 
when oxidized. Its food value is not very high, as so small 
a quantity of it is used at a time. It is easily digested 
and furnishes a vehicle for adding nutritious foods to the 
diet, as it makes it possible to serve them in attractive ways. 

General Directions. — One box of pulverized gelatin 
contains four tablespoons of gelatin. It should be soaked 
in one cup of cold water for ten minutes. Add one quart 
of boihng water, but never boil gelatin, or the thickening 
power is destroyed. For thick jelly use less water. Pine- 
apple juice should be boiled before gelatin is added, as the 
fresh pineapple contains a ferment that prevents the 
gelatin from thickening. 

Fruit Salad. — Dissolve one box of Knox pulverized gela- 
tin iiJ^one cup of cold water. Boil one pint of canned 
pineapple, remove from the fire, add juice of two lemons, 
three oranges, and one cup of sugar ; add one pint of boil- 
ing water to the dissolved gelatin, the fruit juice, one cup 

179 



i8o 



GELATINS AND IGES 



of celery cut fine, and one fourth pound of shelled and 
blanched almonds spKt lengthwise. Turn into molds, and 
let stand until it stiffens. Serve with Cooked Dressing 
which has been thinned with whipped cream. 

Aspic Jelly. — Aspic is stock, cleared or uncleared, to 
which gelatin has been added. Four tablespoons of 

gelatin are usually used to 
five cups of stock. Soak 
the gelatin in one cup of 
cold water, and pour the 
boiling hot stock over. To- 
matoes, pimentoes, tongue, 
chicken, delicate vegetables, 
sweetbreads, are molded in 
aspic. The mold is Kned 
with the aspic, and as soon 
as it begins to set, the solid 
food to be molded is added, 
and more aspic is used to 
cover it. If the other in- 
gredients were added before 
the jelly begins to set, they 
would not be evenly dis- 
tributed throughout, but 
would float on top. 

Lemon Jelly. — Soak two 
tablespoons of gelatin 
(Knox) in one half cup cold 
water for ten minutes. Pour 
over this slowly two cups of boiUng water, and stir until 
dissolved. Add one cup of sugar and one half cup of 
lemon juice. Turn into mold, and chill. 




Jelly served with Whipped Cream 
OR Fruit. 



GELATINS AND ICES i8i 

Orange Jelly. — Soak two tablespoons of gelatin in one 
half cup of cold water for ten minutes. Pour over this 
slowly two cups of boiling water, and stir until dissolved. 
Add one cup of sugar, one and one half cups orange juice, 
and three tablespoons lemon juice. Turn into molds, and 
chill. 

Snow Pudding. — Soak one tablespoon of gelatin in 
one fourth cup of cold water, and add one cup of boiling 
water, one cup of sugar, one fourth cup of lemon juice. 
Prepare as for lemon jelly. When mixture has thickened, 
beat until frothy. Add whites of three eggs beaten stiff, 
and continue beating until stiff enough to hold its shape. 
Mold or pile by spoonfuls on a dish. Serve cold with 
boiled custard. 

Maple Bavarian Cream. — Dissolve one tablespoon of 
gelatin in four tablespoons of cold water. Scald two thirds 
cup of maple sirup, add two egg yolks, and cook until it 
thickens. Add gelatin; stir constantly until it begins to 
thicken. Add one and one half cups of cream whipped 
stiff and one half teaspoon of vanilla. Turn into a mold, 
and let stand until it stiffens. 

Pineapple Bavarian Cream. — Soak one tablespoon of 
gelatin in four tablespoons of cold water. Boil one cup 
of grated pineapple, four tablespoons of sugar, and one 
fourth cup of lemon juice. Add the gelatin, and stir 
constantly until it begins to thicken. Add one and one 
half cups of cream whipped stiff. Turn into a mold, and 
let it stand until it stiffens. 

Pistachio Salad. — Soak one half box of gelatin in one 
half cup of cold water. Add one cup of boiling water, 
two tablespoons of sugar, the juice of two oranges and one 
lemon. Color with green coloring. Turn into cups to 



i82 GELATINS AND ICES 

stiffen. After the gelatin begins to set, add one half 
pound of chopped walnuts, two cups of chopped celery, 
and let stand until stiff; turn from cups and serve with 
Cooked or Mayonnaise Dressing. 

ICES 

Frozen Desserts. — Frozen dishes may be grouped in 
two general clasSes, — those containing cream, as ice 
cream, parfait, and mousse ; and those made from water 
and fruit juice, as ices, sherbet, frappe, and punch. The 
number of combinations of milk, cream, fruit, nuts, fruit 
juice, and flavorings is practically limitless, and many 
names are given to the different combinations. The direc- 
tions for freezing and packing are practically the same in 
every case, except where whipped cream is used. In this 
case the mixture is frozen without stirring. 

Directions for Freezing. — Purchase coarse rock or ice 
cream salt. Place the ice in a bag and tie loosely; crush 
with the broad side of an ax or wooden mallet until the 
pieces are small and of uniform size. Snow may be used 
in place of ice. Have the mixture to be frozen ready. 
Scald the ice cream can, and rinse and dry just before using 
it. Place the mixture in the can (the can should not 
be more than three fourths full of the mixture to be frozen, 
as it expands during freezing) . Place the can in the wooden 
tub of the freezer, insert the dasher, put on the cover and the 
top. Place the cork or plug in the opening in the side of 
the freezer, and leave it there until the mixture is frozen. 
Use three measures of ice to one of salt, and pack the freezer 
solidly. When snow is used, less salt is needed, as the snow 
is loosely packed. Turn the crank slowly at first, and then 
more rapidly after the mixture begins to freeze. Salt 



GELATINS AND ICES 183 

solution has a lower freezing point than pure water, so when 
the salt dissolves, the salt solution cannot stay solid at the 
temperature of the ice. Any substance going into solu- 
tion absorbs heat. This heat absorbed by the dissolving 
of the salt is taken from the contents of the can. Ice 
melting absorbs, heat. This heat is also taken from the 
contents of the can. Care must be taken that the salt 
water in the tub of the freezer does not reach above the 
cover of the can, or it will enter the can. After the mixture 
is frozen sufficiently, draw off the water by removing the 
cork or plug, remove the cover and dasher and pack the 
cream solidly, then replace the cover, and pack the freezer 
again with ice and salt, but do not insert the cork. 

Lemon Ice. — To four cups of boiling water add two 
cups of sugar and the grated rind of two lemons. Boil 
five minutes. Add one half cup of lemon juice, strain, 
cool, and freeze. 

Oralige Ice. — Four cups of water, two cups of sugar, 
one fourth cup of lemon juice, grated rind of two oranges, 
and juice of four oranges. Make sirup as for lemon ice ; 
add fruit juice, cool, strain, and freeze. 

Ice Cream. — To one' quart of thin cream add three 
fourths cup of sugar and one half teaspoon of vanilla or 
any other flavor desired. Freeze. 

Maple Mousse. — Four eggs, yolks and whites separate, 
one cup maple sirup, one quart of cream, one teaspoon of 
vanilla. Beat the yolks of the eggs very light, stir in one 
cup of maple sirup, and cook until it thickens, stirring 
constantly. Cool. Add one quart of cream and the beaten 
whites of the eggs and vanilla. Strain, cool, and freeze. 

Cranberry Sherbet. — Wash one quart of cranberries, 
cover with one pint of cold water, and cook until soft. When 



i84 ADDITIONAL RECIPES 

soft, press through a fruit press, and add enough water to 
make one quart of juice. Add the juice of two oranges 
and two cups of sugar, and heat to the boiling point. Chill, 
turn into the freezer, and freeze. Serve with turkey, 
chicken, or game course. 

SOME ADDITIONAL RECIPES 

To be used witlv the meat lessons when not enough work 
is provided to keep the pupils occupied. 

Simple Layer Cakes. — Bake plain cake in two layer 
cake pans, and use any of the following filHngs and frost 
the top with White Frosting. 

Marshmallow Cream Filling. — Beat one cup of cream 
until stiff, add one fourth cup of powdered sugar, one half 
teaspoon of vanilla, one egg white beaten stifif and dry, and 
one half cup of marshmallow cut into small pieces. Spread 
between the layers and on top, and serve while fresh. 

Lady Baltimore Filling. — Make White Frosting and to 
one half of it add one half cup of chopped raisins, one half 
cup of chopped nuts, and three chopped figs. Spread 
between the layers, and frost the top with the remainder of 
the frosting. 

Fig Filling. — Chop one fourth pound of figs, add one 
half cup of cold water and one fourth cup of sugar, and boil 
until it thickens. Spread between the layers, and frost 
the top of the cake. 

Chocolate Filling. — (See p. 130, Chocolate Frosting.) 

Blitz Kuchen. — One cup of butter, or one half cup of 
butter and one half cup of lard, creamed until soft, add one 
cup of sugar and mix thoroughly. Add four beaten eggs, 
and beat until thoroughly blended. Add alternately three 
fourths cup of milk and two cups of flour in which three 



ADDITIONAL RECIPES 185 

teaspoons of baking powder and one fourth teaspoon of salt, 
one teaspoon of cinnamon, have been sifted. Add grated 
rind of one lemon. Spread in a shallow pan about one fourth 
inch thick. Sprinkle with three fourths cup of nuts, one 
fourth cup of sugar and cinnamon. Bake in a hot oven. 

Cottage Pudding. — Cream one fourth cup of butter, add 
two thirds cup of sugar, one egg, one cup of milk, two and 
one fourths cups of flour, four teaspoons X)i baking powder, 
one fourth teaspoon of salt. Mix as for Plain Cake. Bake 
thirty-five minutes and serve with Vanilla or Hard Sauce. 

Hard Sauce. — Cream one third cup of butter ; add one 
cup of powdered sugar gradually ; add one fourth teaspoon 
of flavoring, and shape into small balls. 

Rice Pudding. — Cook one half cup of rice in one pint of 
boiUng water for twenty minutes, or until soft. Add one 
half cup of sugar, one pint of milk, two well-beaten eggs, 
one half cup of raisins, speck of nutmeg, and bake slowly 
until firm. 

Bread Pudding. — Mix one pint of bread crumbs, one 
quart of milk, one cup of sugar, four egg yolks, -two table- 
spoons melted butter, and the juice of lemon or one teaspoon 
of lemon extract. Beat until blended. Turn into a baking 
dish and bake three quarters of an hour. Take from oven, 
spread jam or jelly over the top, cover with the whites of 
four eggs beaten stiff and dry, to which has been' added four 
tablespoons of sugar and one fourth teaspoon of lemon 
extract. Return to the oven until the eggs are browned. 
Serve with cream. 

Date Pudding. — Wash one pound of dates and remove 
the stones, add one cup of walnuts chopped, one half cup of 
sugar, two eggs well beaten, and one half cup of flour and 
two teaspoons of baking powder sifted together. Mix well, 



i86 ADDITIONAL RECIPES 

and bake slowly about two hours. Pour one cup of cream 
over the pudding while it is warm, and serve with whipped 
cream. 

Fig Pudding. — Wash and dry one pound of figs and cut 
into small pieces. Cream one cup of shortening ; add two 
cups of sugar and three unbeaten eggs. Sift together three 
cups of bread crumbs, one half teaspoon of nutmeg, one 
teaspoon of cinnamon, and add to the first mixture. Add 
one half cup of milk and the figs, and beat well. Turn into 
two buttered molds, and steam one to one and one half hours. 

Blueberry Pudding. — Cream two thirds cup of butter, 
add two thirds cup of sugar, two eggs well beaten, three 
fourths cup of milk, and two cups of flour, three teaspoons of 
baking powder, one fourth teaspoon of salt, sifted together. 
Mix as for cake. When well beaten, add two cups of floured 
blueberries. Turn into two buttered molds. Steam one 
hour, and then bake one half hour. Serve with Hard Sauce 
and whipped cream. 

Marguerites. — Boil one cup of sugar and one half cup 
of water until it threads. Cut six marshmallows in small 
pieces and add to the sirup. After the tnarshmallows are 
dissolved, add the sirup to the beaten whites of two eggs ; 
add one fourth teaspoon of vanilla, one cup of chopped nut 
meats, one half cup of chopped figs or dates. Spread on 
crackers, and serve with ices. 

Torte. — Beat the whites of five eggs until stiff and. dry; 
add two and one half cups of powdered sugar and continue 
beating until thoroughly blended; add one tablespoon of 
vinegar and one teaspoon of vanilla. Line two shallow 
pans with oiled or greased paper, and bake in a very slow 
oven for at least an hour. Put strawberries, piiieapple, or 
peaches between the layers and whipped cream on top. 



ADDITIONAL RECIPES 187 

Cream Puffs. — Put one half cup of butter and one cup 
of boiling water into a stewpan, and let it come to the boil- 
ing point. Gradually add one cup of flour, and boil two 
minutes, stirring constantly. Remove from the fire, and 
add four unbeaten eggs one at a time, mixing thoroughly 
after each egg is added. Drop by spoonfuls about two 
inches apart on greased paper. Bake one half hour in a 
moderate oven. 

Almond Cookies. — Cream one half cup of butter; gradu- 
ally add one and one fourth cups sugar, one half cup of 
sour milk, one beaten egg, one half teaspoon of almond ex- 
tract, and one fourth teaspoon salt, one half teaspoon soda, 
and two cups of flour sifted together. Mix thoroughly, 
roll thin, and bake in a hot oven. 

Rocks. — Cream one cup of shortening; add one and one 
half cups of sugar, three eggs well beaten, two tablespoons 
of water, one teaspoon soda, one teaspoon cinnamon, one 
fourth teaspoon salt, two and one half cups of flour sifted 
together. Add one cup of chopped walnuts and one cup of 
raisins. Drop by spoonfuls on greased paper one and one 
half inches apart, and bake in a hot oven. 

Molasses Cookies. — Cream three fourths cup of shorten- 
ing; add one cup of sugar, one cup of molasses, and one cup 
of boiling water. Place on the stove, and let it come to the 
boiling point. Remove from the stove and cool. Add one 
beaten egg, one half teaspoon of soda, two teaspoons of 
cinnamon, two teaspoons of ginger, one teaspoon of cloves, 
and three and one half cups of flour sifted together. Mix 
thoroughly. Drop by spoonfuls on greased paper one 
inch apart, and bake in a hot oven. 

Prune Pie. — Wash three fourths pound of prunes and 
soak overnight or several hours in cold water. Cook until 



i88 ADDITIONAL RECIPES 

soft ; add one half cup of sugar, two tablespoons of flour, 
one tablespoon of butter, one half tablespoon of lemon 
juice, one fourth teaspoon of salt. Line a plate with crust 
and cover with an upper crust. 

Raisin Pie. — Mix one and one half cups of chopped 
raisins, one half cup of sugar, one cup of water, one table- 
spoon of flour, and one lemon cut into thin shces. Line 
the plate with crust, and cover with one half inch strips of 
crust. 

Chocolate Pie. — Mix four tablespoons of cornstarch, 
one half cup of sugar, four tablespoons of grated chocolate, 
one eighth teaspoon of salt; add three egg yolks and two 
cups of milk, and cook until it thickens, stirring constantly. 
Add one teaspoon of vanilla. Bake the crust as for lemon 
pie. 'FiU the crust with the filHng, and cover with the 
whites of three eggs beaten stiff, to which two tablespoons 
of sugar have been added, and bake until brown. Serve 
cold. 

Devil's Food. — Cream one half cup of butter, add one 
cup of sugar, mix thoroughly. Add the yolks of two 
eggs, one half cup of sour milk in which one teaspoon of 
soda has been thoroughly dissolved, two cups of flour, and 
lastly the whites of two eggs, and one teaspoon of vanilla. 

Grate three ounces of chocolate, mix with one half cup 
of sweet milk, one half cup of sugar, and the yolk of one 
egg. Boil until stiff, in double boiler, then add to the 
white dough, beat thoroughly and bake in a moderate 
oven, about forty-five minutes. 



CHEMICAL COMPOSITION OF FOODS 



189 



Tables Showing the Chemical Composition of Foods Com- 
monly Used in the Average American Diet 

Taken from Bulletin 28, Office of Experiment Stations, and Farmers' Bulletin 142, 
U. S. Department of Agriculture 



Food 


Water 


Protein 


Fat 


CahbO- 

H-XDRATE 


CELltTLOSE 


Mineral 
Matter 


Cereals 


Per Cent 


Per Cent 


Per Cent 


Per Cent 


Per Cent 


Per Cent 


Wheat . . . 


10.6 


12.2 


1-7 


71-3 


2.4 


1.8 


Corn .... 


10.8 


lO.O 


4-3 


71.7 


1-7 


IvS 


Oats .... 


II.O 


II.8 


S-o 


59-7 


9-S 


3-0 


Rye .... 


lo.S 


12.2 


i-S 


71.8 


2.1 


1.9 


Rice .... 


12.0 


8.0 


2.0 


76.0 


I.O 


I.O 


Barley . 


10.9 


II.O 


2-3 


69-5 


3-8 


2.S 


Buckwheat . . 


12.6 


lO.O 


2.2 


64-5 


8.7 


2.0 


Legumes 














Fresh Legumes: 














String beans 


89.2 


2-3 


•3 


7-4 


1.9 


.8 


Shelled kidney 














beans . . 


58.9 


9.4 


.6 


29.1 


1-7 


2.0 


SheUed lima 














beans 


68. s 


7-1 


•7 


22.0 


1-7 


1-7 


Shelled peas . 


74.6 


7.0 


•S 


16.9 


1-7 


I.O 


Dried Legumes: 














Lima beans . 


10.4 


18.1 


i-S 


65-9 




4.1 


Navy beans . 


12.6 


22.5 


1.8 


S9-6 


4.4 


2,-i 


Lentils . . 


8.4 


2S-7 


I.O 


S9-2 




5-7 


Dried peas 


9S 


24.6 


I.O 


62.0 


4-S 


2.9 


Peanuts . . 


9.2 


2S.8 


38.6 


24.4 


2-5 


2.0 


Roots and 














Tubers 














Potato . . . 


78.3 


2.2 


.1 


18.0 


■4 


I.O 


Sweet potato . 


69. 


1.8 


•7 


26.1 


1-3 


i.i " 


Beets .... 


'87.S 


1.6 


.1 


8.8 


•9 


I.I 


Celeriac . . . 


84.1 


i-S 


■4 


11.8 


1-4 


.8 


Carrots . . . 


88.2 


I.I 


•4 


8.2 


I.I 


I.O 



I go 



CHEMICAL COMPOSITION OF FOODS 



Tables Showing the Chemical , Composition op Foods Com- 
monly Used in the Average American Diet — Contimied 



Food 


Water 


Protein 


Fat 


Carbo- 
hydrate 


Cellulose 


Mineral 
Matter 


Roots and 














Tubers 


Per Cent 


Per Cent 


Per Cent 


Per Cent 


Per Cent 


Per Cent 


Parsnips . 


83.0 


1.6 


•s 


1 1.0 


2.S 


1-4 


Salsify 


8S-4 


4-3 




3 


6.8 


2.0 


1.2 


Turnips . . . 


89.6 


1-3 




2 


6.8 


1-3 


.8 


Rutabagas 


88.9 


1-3 




2 


7-3 


1.2 


I.I 


Onions . . . 


87.6 


1.6 




3 


9.1 


.8 


.6 


Fresh Fruits 














Apples . . 


84.6 


•4 


•s 


13.0 


1.2 


■3 


Apricots . . 


85.0 


I.I 






13-4 




■S 


Bananas 


7S-3 


1-3 




6 


21.0 


1.0 


.8 


Blackberries 


86.3 


1-3 


I 





8.4 


2-S 


■5 


Cherries . . 


80.9 


I.O 




8 


X6.S 


.2 


.6 


Cranberries . . 


88.9 


•4 




6 


8.4 


^•4 


i-S 


Currants 


85.0 


i-S 






12.8 




■7 


Grapes . . . 


77-4 


1-3 


I 


6 


14.9 


4-3 


■5 


Lemons . . . 


893 


1.0 




7 


7.4 


I.I 


•S 


Muskmelons 


89- S 


.6 






7.2 


2.1 


.6 


Olives . . . 


67.0 


2-S 


17 


I 


S-7 


3-3 


4.4 


Oranges . . . 


86.9 


.8 




2 


H.6 


.. 


•S 


Peaches . . . 


89.4 


•7 




I 


S-8 


3-6 


•4 


Pears .... 


80.9 


1.0 




5 


iS-7 


1-5 


•4 


Pineapples 


89.3 


•4 




3 


9-3 


•4 


•3 


Plums 


78.4 


1.0 






20.1 




•S 


Raspberries, red 


85.8 


I 






9-7 


2.9 


.6 


" black 


84.1 


1-7 


I 





12.6 




.6 


Strawberries 


90.4 


1.0 




6 


6.0 


1.4 


.6 


Watermelons 


92,4 


•4 




2 


6.7 




•3 


Dried Fruits 














Apples . . . 


26.1 


1.6 


2.2 


62.0 


6.1 


2.0 


Apricots . . . 


29.4 


4-7 


1.0 


62.5 




2.4 



CHEMICAL COMPOSITION OF FOODS 



191 



Tables Showing the Chemical Composition or Foods Com- 
monly Used in the Average American Diet — Concluded 



Food 


Water 


Protein 


Fat 


Carbo- 

H-SDRATE 


Cellulose 


Mineral 
Matter 


Dried Fruits 


Per Cent 


Per Cent 


Per Cent 


Per Cent 


Per Cent 


Per Cent 


Citrons . 


19.0 


■5 


I-S 


78.1 




•9 


Dates . . 


IS-4 


2.1 


2.8 


74.6 


3-8 


1-3 


Figs . . . 


18.8 


4-3 


•3 


68.0 


6.2 


2.4 


Pears . . . 


16.6 


2.8 


S-4 


66.0 


6.9 


2.4 


Pranes 


22.3 


2.1 




71.2 


2.1 


2-3 


Raisins . . 


14.6 


2.6 


3-3 


73-6 


2-5 


3-4 


Currants 


17.2 


2.4 


1-7 


71.2 


3-0 


4-5 


Nuts 














Almonds . . 


4-S 


21.0 


54-9 


17-3 


2.0 


2.0 


Hickory nuts 


3-7 


iS-4 


67.4 


11.4 




2.1 


Pecans . . 


2.7 


9.6 


70-S 


iS-3 




1.9 


Walnuts . . 


2.S 


18.4 


64.4 


I3-0 


1.4 


1-7 


Milk and 














Products 














Whole milk . 


. 87.0 


3-3 


4.0 


5-0 






•7 


Skim milk 


•• 90.S 


3-4 


•3 


5-1 






•7 


Buttermilk . 


91.0 


3-0 


•5 


4.8 






•7 


Condensed milk 


26.9 


8.8 


8.3 


S4-I 






1.9 


Cheese, Chedda 


r 27.4 


27.7 


36.8 


4.1 






4.0 


Full cream 


34-2 


2S-9 


33-7 


2.4 






3.8 


Roquefort 


• 39-3 


22.6 


29-S 


1.8 






6.8 


Swiss 


• 31-4 


27.6 


34-9 


1-3 






4.8 


Neufchatel 


SCO 


18.7 


27.4 


1-5 






2.4 


Cottage 


72.0 


20.9 


I.O 


4-3 






1.8 


Eggs . . . 


. 74-7 


14.8 


lo.S 








1.0 



CONLEY P. C. — 13 



192 



AMOUNT OF REFUSE IN SOME FOODS 



Tables Showing the Amount of Refuse in Some Vegetables, 
AND in Meats and Fish 





Refuse 


Water 


Protein 


Fat 


Carbo- 
hydrate 


Mineral 
Matter 


Vegetables 


Per Cent 


Per Cent 


Per Cent 


Per Cent 


Per Cent 


Per Cent 


Cabbage . . . 


IS-S 


77-7 


1.4 


.2 


4.8 


■9 


Celery . . . 


20.0 


7S-6 


•9 


.1 


2.6 


.8 


Cucumbers . . 


iS-o 


18.1 


•7 


.2 


2.6 


•4 


Lettuce . . . 


iS-o 


80. S 


I.O 


.2 


2-5 


.8 


Spinach . . . 




923 


2.1 


•3 


3-2 


2.1 


Tomatoes . . 




94-3 


■9 


•4 


3-9 


.6 


Beef, Fresh: 














Chuck, ribs . 


16.3 


S2.6 


iS.o 


14-3 




.6 


Loin, medium 


13-3 


S2-S 


iS-6 


16.6 




•7 


Ribs . . . 


20.8 


43-8 


I3-S 


20.0 




•5 


Round, me- 














dium . . 


7.2 


60.7 


18.4 


12.2 




.8 


Shoulder and 














clod . . 


16.4 


S6.8 


iS-9 


9-3 




•7 


Beef, Dried 














AND Smoked 


4-7 


S3-7 


25.6 


6.6 




S-S 


Veal: 














Cutlets, round 


3-4 


68.3 


I9-S 


7-1 




.8 


Leg . . . 


14.2 


60.1 


15.0 


7-S 




•7 


Mutton : 














Leg ... 


18.4 


S1.2 


14.6 


14.0 




.6 


Loin . . . 


16.0 


42.0 


I3-I 


26.9 




•S 


Pork, Fresh : 














Loin chops 


19.7 


41.8 


130 


23.0 




.6 


Ham . . . 


10.7 


48.0 


131 


24.6 




.6 


Pork, Salted 














AND Smoked 














Bacon . . . 


7-7 


17.4 


8.8 


S9-I 




3-1 


Ham . . . 


13-6 


34-8 


13-8 


31-7 




3-2 


Salt, fat . . 




7-9 


1.8 


81.9 




2.9 



AMOUNT OF REFUSE IN SOME FOODS 



193 



Tables Showing the Amount of Refuse in Some Vegetables, 
AND IN Meats and Fish — Continued 





Refuse 


Water 


Protein 


Fat 


Carbo- 
hydrate 


Mineral 
Matter 


Poultry : 


Per Cent 


Per Cent 


Per Cent 


Per Cent 


Per Cent 


Per Cent 


Fowl . . . 


2S-9 


47-1 


13-3 


II.7 




•S 


Turkey . . 


22.7 


42.4 


IS-6 


17.5 




.6 


Fresh Fish: 














Black bass. . 


46.7 


41.9 


10.3 


•S 




.6 


Cod . . . . 


29.9 


S8.S 


10.6 


.2 






.8 


Mackerel . . 


40.7 


43-7 


II.4 


3-S 






•7 


Perch . . . 


54-6 


34-4 


8.7 


1.8 






•S 


Pickerel . . 


3S-9 


Si-i 


II.9 


.2 






•9 


Pike. . . . 


30-S 


SS-4 


I3-0 


■4 






•7 


Salmon . . . 


23-8 


Si-2 


14.6 


9-S 






•9 


Trout, brook . 


37-9 


48.4 


11.7 


1-3 






•7 


Trout, lake . 


3S-2 


4S-0 


12.4 


6.6 






.8 


Whitefish . . 


43-6 


39-4 


10.3 


3-6 






•9 


Pres'v'd Fish: 














Cod, salt . . 


24.9 


40.2 


16.0 


•4 




18.S 
(salt) 


Herring, 














smoked 


44--4 


19.2 


20.5 


8.8 


•• 


7-4 


Canned Fish: 














Caviare . . 




38.1 


30.0 


19.7 


7.6 


4.6 


Salmon . . 




63-5 


21.8 


12. 1 




2.6 


Sardines . . 


S-o 


53.6 


23-7 


12. 1 




S-3 


Shellfish : 














Oysters . . 




88.3 


6.0 


1-3 


3-3 


I.I 


Clams . . 




80.8 


10.6 


I.I 


5-2 


2.3 


Lobsters . . 


61.7 


30-7 


5-9 


•7 


.2 


.8 


Shrimps . . 




70.8 


2S-4 


I.O 


.2 


2.6 



TEACHING COOKING IN RURAL SCHOOLS 

SUGGESTIONS FOR TEACHERS 

The demand for some simple instruction for work in 
domestic science which can be given in the one-room rural 
school has been so insistent that the following suggestions 
have been added for the high school or normal school student 
who may teach in a rural school. 

The actual work of housekeeping may vary in different 
locahties and under different economic conditions, but, by 
the present generation at least, certain fundamental proc- 
esses will be carried on in the average home. 

These are patching, darning, mending, care, and making 
of clothes ; planning, preparing, and serving meals ; market- 
ing and purchasing the things needed in the home and by 
members of the family ; care of the house, including sweep- 
ing, dusting, and cleaning ; rearing of children and care of 
sick and aged. 

While school instruction in some of these subjects must 
be purely theoretical and hence of little value unless oppor- 
tunity can be afforded for practical work, cooking and sew- 
ing may be taught in the one-room rural school with simple 
equipment and no great expenditure of money. 

This work will be of Uttle value, however, unless what is 
learned at school is practiced at home, and for this reason 
girls' clubs should be organized, contests gtnd school fairs 
should be held, and school credit should be given for home 
work. 

194 



TEACHING COOKING IN RURAL SCHOOLS 195 

The lessons suggested may be given for one or two periods 
a week, preferably the last hour in the session as the work 
may then extend for a longer period of time without inter- 
fering with school work. 

As this work is for the one- or two-room school building 
and as but little space can be utiUzed, it is best to provide 
only equipment enough for four pupils to cook at a time, the 
other members of the class may observe those at work, 
criticize, and make contributions to the knowledge ac- 
quired concerning the lesson. Each pupil in the class 
should try the recipe at home, and report result. The 
home work should form the greater share of the work done, 
and credit should be given for it. A careful record of cook- 
ing done at home should be made and kept. It is well to 
post this record in a conspicuous place in the schoolroom. 

EQUIPMENT FOR COOKING IN RURAL SCHOOLS 

For four pupils, two pupils working together. 
Cupboard made with shelves and curtain in front. 
Cans or Mason jars for holding sugar, salt, pepper, baking . 
powder, soda, flour, etc. 

A molding board. Board for cutting. 



Kitchen table with drawer 


$1 


■5° 


Two paring knives 


$ .20 


Two burner oil stove 1 St 
Oven to fit stove 


t-So 


to 


Two steel knives 


.20 


$S 


.00 


Two steel forks 


.20 


Drip pan to fit oven 




.20 


Four teaspoons 


.20 


Teakettle 




•50 


Two tablespoons 


.10 


Pail for water 




.20 


One Dover egg beater 


■IS 


Garbage pail 




.20 


One spoon egg beater 


.10 


Two dishpans 




•5° 


Two one-quart bowls. 


.20 



196 TEACHING COOKING IN RURAL SCHOOLS 



One sieve to fit bowl $ 


•OS 


4 cups and saucers $ .40 


Two measuring cups 


.10 


4 white plates, large .40 


Two one-pint tin basins 


.10 


One grater .05 


Two one-quart double boilers 


.70 


2 muffin pans .10 


Two one-quart stewpans 


•so 


I large mixing bowl, 2-quart .25 


Two rolling pins 


.10 


One soap dish .05 


Two biscuit cutters 


.10 


One lemon squeezer .10 


One vegetable brush 


•OS 


One match box .05 


Two corks for scouring. 




One broiler .05 


One utensil pan 


.10 


One corkscrew .05 


Two small frying pans 


.20 


One can opener .05 


Two bread pans 


.20 


One creamer and sugar .25 


One pie plate 


.10 


One water pitcher .15 


One tray 


.10 


Total (excluding stove) 10.00 


One two-quart stewpan 


•30 




One bread knife 


•2S 


Flour sacks for dish towels, some 


One butcher knife 


■25 


holders, hemmed dishcloths. 


4 white plates, small 


.40 





SUGGESTED LESSONS 

In addition to actual cooking lessons, have pupils find the 
composition of each food, calculate the cost of each lesson, 
note the length of time which it takes to prepare every 
recipe, find out at what meal each one of the foods prepared 
would be served, and learn to find the nutritive value of 
each recipe. 

With the exception of the bread lesson, the following 
lessons may all be prepared in 60 minutes. 

Creamed Potatoes or CauU- Poached, Boiled, Scrambled 



flower or Carrots 
Cream of Potato or Tomato 

Soup 
Simmered Beef 
Beef Loaf and Coffee 



Eggs 
Cooked Salad Dressing — 

Cabbage Salad — Potato 

Salad 
Biscuit — Shortcake 



TEACHING COOKING IN RURAL SCHOOLS 197 

Muffins and Gingerbread, Apple Pie 

Johnnycake Custard — Custard Pud- 
Bread dings as rice, tapioca, or 
Plain Cake bread 
Sugar Cookies or Oatmeal Plan, prepare, and serve a 

Cookies simple luncheon. 



SCHOOL LUNCHES 

Another method of teaching cooking in the one-room rural 
school is by having the pupils prepare and serve one warm 
dish to supplement the cold lunch brought from home. 

Object of the Work. — The object of this work is not 
to furnish a meal, but some warm food to supplement the 
cold lunch brought from home ; to make the noon meal- 
time serve as a social hour ; to furnish a pleasanter place 
for eating lunch than the school steps, the wood pile, the 
entry way, or the various other places where pupils have 
been accustomed to eat their lunches; to teach table 
manners, poUteness, and common social customs ; to teach 
boys and girls to share work ; to teach some things about 
serving foods and planning meals; to interest pupils in 
cooking, in knowing the nutritive value of foods, the rela- 
tion of foods to health ; to interest pupils in gardening, 
raising of foods, — vegetable and animal ; to bring school 
and home more closely together by interesting mothers in 
the work ; to give school credit for work done at home under 
the guidance and direction of mother and teacher ; to give 
to pupils in the rural schools some of the advantages and 
opportunities which all pupils in the city schools enjoy. 

How to make a Success of the Work. — Keep in mind 
that the object of this work is not slum or settlement work. 



1 98 TEACHING COOKING IN RURAL SCHOOLS 

That, except in rare instances, people in the country can 
all afford to furnish good, nutritious meals for their children. 
That the reasons why this work is attempted are social, 
ethical, and educational rather than philanthropic. That 
the work should not be an additional task for a teacher 
already overworked, but should be a pleasant diversion for 
the pupils after they have spent the morning in academic 
work. That the teacher should not be the only one inter- 
ested and responsible, because no pupils remain interested 
unless they share work and responsibihty. Insist on parents 
sharing the responsibility. Invite the mothers to school 
on a certain day and plan lunches with them. Have dif- 
ferent mothers provide foods occasionally, — as a pot of 
baked beans, cold potatoes and meat for hash, or loan fat 
for a frying lesson of doughnuts or Saratoga chips. Always 
remember that no community work is worth while unless 
the labor is shared by all, and aU share the pleasure. Nor- 
mal children like to work with their hands. 

SCHOOL EQUIPMENT FOR SERVING LUNCH 

An oil stove with oven, unless cooking can be done on the 

stove used for heating. 
A kitchen table or a large box covered with an oil cloth. 
2 dishpans A large spoon and ladle 

Soap A board for cutting bread, 

A frying pan meat, or for rolling out 

A drip pan for oven cookies, doughnuts, etc. 

A paring knife A large kettle 

A butcher knife A garbage pail 

A large bowl A water pail 

A fireless cooker would be desirable. 



TEACHING COOKING IN RURAL SCHOOLS 199 

Dish towels and wiping towels, made out of flour sacks 
which may be brought from home or purchased at the 
bakers, in town, for a very small sum. 
Dishes enough to serve the pupils — each pupil may bring 
his dishes from home, but do not use old, discolored, 
nicked dishes. They tend to make the dishwasher care- 
less and to lower the taste of the pupils in regard to neat- 
ness and attractiveness of table service ; they sometimes 
spoil the appetite. 
A dry goods box may be fitted with shelves and a curtain, 
and placed against the wall. This will hold utensils when 
they are not in use. 

How to Secure Supplies. — SuppHes may be brought from 
home by the various pupils in turn. Supplies may be pur- 
chased by the teacher from funds furnished by the school 
board. SuppUes may be purchased from funds derived 
from entertainments, school fairs, or prizes secured by pupils 
who enter things made at school at county or state fairs. 
The best method is probably to have the mothers supply 
the food needed, as things can be supplied from farm homes 
at much lower cost than they can be purchased by the 
teacher at city stores. This is the hardest problem for the 
teacher and should be solved by the community. 

Suggestions for Serving the School Lunch. — Pupils 
bring their lunch from home and the school lunch supple- 
ments. Prepare but one dish each day and vary the dish 
from day to day. , 

Let pupils know what the dish is to be; plan a week 
ahead. 

Have one or two of the girls make all preparations, before 
school opens (that can be made), so that the lunch work 
interferes but little with the pupils' regular school work. 



200 TEACHING COOKING IN RURAL SCHOOLS 

Have one girl get the food ready to serve when school 
is dismissed, or pupils will start to eat their lunches from 
their lunch boxes. 

Have each pupil set his desk with paper napkin for the 
table cloth, and place the knife, fork, spoon, and cup in 
proper position. 

Have each pupil fill his own glass or cup with water before 
the hot food is served. 

Have all pupils seated but the server, teacher included, 
if possible. 

Have the older girls do the serving and preparing of food 
at first, then pupils in turn. 

Have all pupils remain seated at their desks until they 
have been excused by the teacher. 

Have some pupils prepared to encourage conversation, 
stories, and laughter at the meal. Make the meal time a 
social hour. 

Have each pupil scrape his own plate and other dishes 
and pile them properly. 

Have the boys scour the knives and utensils, carry the 
water, tend the fire, and empty the dishwater and refuse. 

Have two different pupils wash the dishes daily until 
all have shared in the work. 

FOODS WHICH MAY BE EASILY AND QUICKLY 
PREPARED 

Baked apples Mush and. milk 

Baked potatoes Tomato soup, pea soup, potato 

Creamed potatoes, creamed car- soup 

rots, etc. Corn chowder 

Scalloped potatoes Cocoa, cereal coffee 

Rice and cheese Bacon and eggs 

Rice and milk and sugar Bacon and corn 



TEACHING COOKING IN RURAL SCHOOLS 201 

Apple sauce * Cookies 

Dried fruits, as prunes Custard 

Cottage pie Hash, meat and cold potatoes 

Macaroni and cheese brought from home 

Brown Betty Doughnuts 

Gingerbread Fritters 

BOOKS TO READ 

"How the World is Fed," Carpenter. 

"How We are Fed," Chamberlain. 

Bulletins on Foods from the U. S. Dept. of Agriculture. 

LIST OF FARMERS' BULLETINS 
These may be obtained free. 

34. Meats : Composition and Cooking. 

121. Beans, Peas, and Other Legumes as Food. 

131. Household Tests for Oleomargarine and Renovated Butter. 

142. Nutrition and Nutritive Value of Food. 

175. Home Manufacture and Use of Unfermented Grape Juice. 

203. Canned Fruits, Preserves, and Jellies. 

256. Preparation of Vegetables for the Table. 

295. Potatoes and Other Root Crops as Food. 

298. Food Value of Corn and Corn Products. 

391. Economical Use of Meat in the Home. 

413. The Care of Milk and Its Use in the Home. 

270. Modern Conveniences for the Farm Home. 

377. Harmfulness of Headache Mixtures. 

521. Canning Tomatoes at Home and in Club Work. 
Comforts and Conveniences in Farmers' Homes. 

389. Bread Making. 375. Care of Food in the Home. 



363. Milk as Food. 359 

348. Bacteria in Milk. 332 

182. Poultry as Food. 249 

293. Fruit as Food. 241 

93. Sugar as Food. 166 

85. Fish as Food. 128 



Canning Vegetables at Home. 
Nuts ; Their Uses as Food. 
Cereal Breakfast Foods. 
Butter Making on the Farm. 
Cheese Making on the Farm. 
Eggs ; Their Uses as Food. 



INDEX 



Acids, 53- 

vegetable, 26. 
Albumin, 155. 
Albuminoids, 26. 
Apples, 3Q, 54. 

baked, 38. 

steamed, 55. 

stewed, 41. 
Aspic, 178. 

Bacon, 45, 138. 

and fried eggs, 144. 
Bacteria, 65, 66, 67. 
Baking powder, 102, 10,3, 104. 
Batters and doughs, 100, loi. 

griddle cakes, loi. 

muffins, 107, 108. 
Beans, 

Boston baked, 135. 

lima, 136. 

succotash, 136. 
Berries, canned, 6g. 
Beverages, 

chocolate, in. 

cocoa. III. 

coffee, no. 

lemonade, in. 

punch, III. 

tea, no. 

water, 109. 
Biscuit, 104. 
Bread, 121-122. 

judging bread, 120. 
Breads, 

Boston brown, 122. 

coffee cake, 124. 

corn, 102. 

gingerbread, 102. 

nut bread, 107. 

Parker House rolls, 1 24. 

Swedish rolls, 124. 
Breakfast, 112. 

menus, 117. 

serving, 113. 



Broiling, 47, 48, 49. 
Butter, 148. 

Cakes, 128. 

angel, 132. 

Blitz Kuchen, 184. 

chocolate, 133. 

coffee cake, 124. 

devil's food, 188. 

Dutch apple, 106. 

golden, 132. 

jelly roll, 133. 

Johnny cake, 102. 

layer, 184. 

nut, 132. 

orange, 131. 

plain, 130. 

shortcake, 105. 

Spanish buns, 132. 

spice, 130. 

sponge, 132. 

torte, 186. 
Candy, 84. 

chocolate caramel, 86. 

chocolate fudge, 86. 

cream candy, 86. 

divinity fudge,^85. 

fondant, 85. 

molasses, 85. 

peanut brittle, 84. 

popcorn candied, 86. 

sea foam, 85. 
Canning, 67. 

beans, 72. 

berries, 69. 

com, 68. 

fruit, 69. 

peaches, 6g. 

tomatoes, 68. 
Carbohydrates, 24, 26. 

in fruits and vegetables, 54. 
Casein, 146. 
Catsup, 71. 
Cells, 24, 25, S3- 



INDEX 



203 



Cellulose, 25, 33. 
Cereals, S4, 87, go. 

cooking of, gi. 

serving of, g2. 
Cheese, 151, 152. 

cottage, i4g. 

fondu, 152. 

souffle, 153. 

straws, 153. 

Welsh rarebit, 152. 
Chili sauce, 72. 
Chocolate, in. 
Cocoa, III. 
Coffee, no. 
Collagen, 155. 
Conserve pear, 72. 
Cookies, 

almond, 187. 

chocolate, 128. 

crispettes, 131. 

molasses (crisp), 127. 

molasses (soft), 127, 187. 

oatmeal, 127. 

rocks, 187. 

sugar, 127. 
Cooking, 

abbreviations and measurements, g. 

art and science, 32. 

methods, 2g. 

necessity for, 27. 

principles, 29, 51. 

reasons, 28. 

temperatures used, 9. 

why taught, 31. 
Corn and bacon, 138. 
Cornstarch, 

chocolate, 93. 

mold, g3. 

pudding, 93. 
Cream puffs, 187. 
Croquettes, 137. 
Croutons, 78. 
Custard, 142. 

caramel, 142. 

soft custard, 142. 

Desserts {see Ices), 

frozen, 180. 
Dextrin, 44. 
Dinner, 

menus, 178. 

plan and serve, 177. 



Doughs {see Batters and doughs), 

apple dumplings, 105. 

doughnuts, 137. 

dumplings, 107. 

shortcake, 105. 
Dressing, salad, 

cooked salad, 61. 

French, 62. 

Mayonnaise, 62. 

sour dressing, 78. 

Eggs, 139-145- 

boiled, 142. 

deviled, 144. 

fried, 144. 

omelet, g8. 

poached, 143. 

scrambled, 143. 

uses of, 141. 
Elastin, 155. 
Energy, 22, 23, 24. 
Experiments, 

cellulose, 26. 

connective tissue, 26. 

eggs, 139- 

meat, 164. 

milk, 148. 

pectin, 70. 

potato, 74. 

protein, 49. 

yeast, iig. 
Extractives, 27, 48. 

uses of, S3. 

Fats, 24, 27. 

in animals, 155. 

in milk, 146. 
Ferments, 30. 

in dough, 118. 
Filling, 

chocolate, 130. 

fig, 182. 

Lady Baltimore, 184. 

marshmallow cream, 184. 

white, 131. 
Fish, 173. 

baked, 174. 

codfish balls, 44. 

croquettes, 137. 

fried, 174. 

selection of, 174. 

steamed salmon loaf, 176. 



204 



INDEX 



Flour, gs, 96. 
Foods, 22, 23. 

classes, 24, 53. 

composition, 31, i8(>-ig3. 

frying foods, 46. 

preservation of, 65. 

starchy foods, 80. 

structure of, 24. 

uses of, 5s. 

vegetable foods, 33, 38. 
Fritters, 137. 

corn, 138. 

com oysters, 138. 
Frosting {see Filling). 
Fruits, 54. 

baked pears, 55. 

canned, 69. 

fruit punch, in. 

fruit roll, 106. 

pickled, 71. 

steamed apples, 55. 

stewed prunes, 58. 

why dried, SS. 

Gas, IS, 16. 
Gelatin, 179. 

aspic, 180. 

fruit salad, 179. 

lemon jelly, 180. 

maple Bavarian cream, i8i. 

pineapple Bavarian cream, 181. 

pistachio salad, 181. 

snow pudding, 181. 
Gravy, 165. 

Heat, 28. 

destroys ferments, 30. 
Housekeeper, duties of, 7. 

Ices, 182. 
cranberry sherbet, 183. 
ice cream, 183. 
lemon, 183. 
maple mousse, 183. 
orange, 183. 

Jelly, 69. 
apple, 70- 
aspici 180. 
currant, 70. 
cranberry, 58. 
graSpe, 71. 



Jelly, lemon, 181. 

orange, 181. 
Junket, 149. 

Kifchen, equipment, 18. 

Lactose, 148. 
Leavening agents, 

eggs and air, g8. 

eggs inclosing air, 98. 

soda and sour milk, 99. 

steam, 97. 

yeast, 118. 
Legumes, 54, 134, 13S. 
Lemonade, in. 
Luncheon, 

menus for, 145. 

plan and serve, 145. 

Macaroni and cheese, 94. 

Marguerites, 186. 

Meats, 47, 154, 15s, 158, 159. 

broiling steak, 48. 

beef loaf, 169. 

beefsteak pie, 171. 

boiled leg of mutton, 168. 

casserole, 168. 

chicken pie, 170. 

creamed dried beef, 171. 

croquettes, 137. 

cuts, 160, 161. 

experiments, 164. 

fried chicken, 166. 

frying bacon, 43. 

Hamburg steak, 167. 

hash, 171. 

Hungarian goulash, 170. 

lamb chops, 166. 

mincemeat, 170. 

mutton stew, 169. 

principles of cooking, 162, 167-172. 

roast beef, 164. 

steak (round), so. 

veal cutlets, 166. 
Menus, 

breakfast, 117. 

dinner, 178. 

luncheon, 14s. 
MUk, 146. 

buttermilk, 148. 

experiments, 148. 

pasteiuized, 148. 



INDEX 



205 



Mincemeat, 170. 
Mineral matter, 24, 27. 
Mineral salts, 53, S4. 
Molasses, 81, 82. 
Muffins {see Batters). 

Nucleus, 25, 47. 
Nuts, S3, 54. 

Oils, volatile, 27. 
Omelet, 98. 
Onions, 39. 
Ossein, 154. 
Oxidation, 23. 
Oysters, 

fried, 176. 

scalloped, 176. 

stew, 176. 

Pastes, Italian, 94. 
Peanuts, salted, 136. 
Pectin or pectose, 26, 70. 
Pickles, 

beans, 72. 

cucumber, 72. 

peaches, 71. 

nasturtium seeds, 71. 
Pie, 125. 

apple, I2S. 

chocolate, 188. 

lemon, 126. 

prune, 187. 

pumpkin, 126. 

raisin, 188. 

rhubarb, 127. 
Popovers, 97. 
Potato, composition of, 35. 
Potatoes, 74, 75. 

baked, 35. 

boiled, 75. 

escalloped, 76. 

glazed (sweet), 76. 

grated, 75. 

in white sauce, 76. 

Lyonnaise, 77. 

mashed, 76. 

salad, 78. 

Saratoga chips, 47. 

stuffed, 76. 
Proteins, 10, 24, 25, 26. 

cooking of, 50, 51. 

exiKriments, 49. 



Protoplasm, 25, 47, 48. 
Puddings, 

blueberry, 186. 

bread, 185. 

cornstarch, 93. 

cottage, 185. 

date, 185. 

fig, r86. 

fruit, 106. 

fruit roll, 106. 

rice, 185. 

tapioca, 80. 

Yorkshire, 165. 
Punch, III. 

Rice, steamed, 42, 43. 
RoUs {see Bread and rolls). 
Roots and tubers, 54, 73, 

composition and food value, 74. 

cooking and method of preparation, 
75- 

succulent, 78, 79. 
Rules, 

deep fat frying, 46. 

dishwashing, 10. 

firemaking, 12. 

for care of sink, 11. 

how to build fire, 14. 

Sago, 80. 
Salads, 5i. 

asparagus, 64. 

banana, 64. 

cabbage, 63. 

combination, 64. 

cucumber and tomato, 64. 

fruit, 64. 

grape, 63. 

how to serve and garnish, 62. 

Juno, 153. 

pistachio, 181. 

potato, 78. 

stuffed tomato, 62. 

Waldorf, 63. 
Sauces, 

brown, 166. 

chili sauce, 72. 

cranberry, 58. 

date, 42. 

drawn butter, 176. 

hard, 185. 

lemon, 106. 



206 



INDEX 



Sauces, 

mint, i68. 

tartare, 174. 

tomato, 95. 

vanilla, 106. 

white, 40. 
Sliortening, g6, 97. 
Sirup, s8. 

com sirup, 82. 
Solubility and insolubility, 30 
Soups, 172, 173. 

com chowder, 151. 

cream of potato, 77. 

cream of tomato, 150. 

cream of pea, 150. 

cream or milk, 149. 

how to garnish and serve, 151. 

lentil, 13ft 
Spaghetti, 94. 
Squash, 44. 

Starch, 10, 26, 34, 53, 92. 
Stove or range, 13, 14. 

care of gas stove, is. 

temperature of oven, 17. 
Sugar, 26, S3, 81, 82, 84. 
Suggestions for pupils, 8. 

for teaching in rural schools, 194. 



Table, how to set, 114, its, 116. 
Tables, 189-193. 
Tapioca, 80. 

apple tapioca, 81. 

pudding, 80. 
Tea, no. 
Temperatures, 9, 10. 

of body, 23. 
Tissue, cormective, 2S, 26. 
Toast, 44. 

French, 143. 

Vegetables, 38, s8, 59- 
asparagus, 60. 
boiled onions, 39. 
cauliflower, 60. 
creamed celery, 60. 
spinach, 59. 
steamed rice, 42. 
steamed squash, 43. 
tomatoes, Spanish, 60. 

Water, 24. 27, no. 

uses of, S3, log. 

Welsh rarebit, 152. 

Veast. 118, 119. 






m 



Haas 







ii 



iS^iiiiiiliii 











