T X 



E>75 



vumgaerM) 





m 



W&Ldk 




%~> 



HPiffi'Sfi 





Class LX_L4l5" 

Book ^7 fr 

GopyrightN°_ 

COPyRIGHT DEPOSIT 






0ur Nebbing l^ap 







Sis 



Copyright, 1914 

by 

THE NATIONAL PUBLISHING CO. 

MEMPHIS, TENN. 

Edited and Compiled by 
H. L. BRUCE 



DEC -2 iM 

§)C!.A387795 



COPY OF 

MARRIAGE LICENSE 

State of Tennessee, County of Shelby 



To Any One Legally Authorized to Solemnize Marriages : 

This is to Authorize You to solemnize the Rites of Matrimony 



between 



and 

of your County, agreeable to an Act of the General Assembly, in 
such cases made and provided; provided, that there is no lawful 
cause to obstruct the Marriage for which this License is desired; 
otherwise, these shall be null and void, and shall not be accounted 
any License or authority for you, or either of you, for the purpose 
aforesaid, more than if the same had never been prayed or granted. 

Given Under my Hand, at the Clerk's office, in said County, this 
day of 191 



Clerk. 

By 



D. C. 



CERTIFICATE OF MARRIAGE 



State of Tennessee, 1 
County of Shelby. J *■ 



do hereby certify that on the day of 

191 J did duly solemnize the Rites of Matrimony between the 

parties herein named, as authorized in the foregoing License. 

Witness my hand this day of 191 



ATTENDANTS 



ATTENDANTS 



NAME OF BRIDE 



NAME OF BRIDEGROOM 




Op m 



J3 B 




THE BRIDE 



THE GROOM 



PREFACE 



When two people of opposite sex enter into a part- 
nership for life, the style of the firm is ' ' Man and Wife, ' ' 
and the newly associated partners take upon themselves 
solemn obligations, not only to uphold the honor, dignity 
and credit of their matrimonial venture, but to hold 
sacred even the most ancient of its traditions, to share 
impartially its joys and sorrows; and whether the 
glorious sunshine of happiness and prosperity paints the 
pebbles along life's highway with a brush dipped in liquid 
gold, or the frowning clouds of misfortune and failure 
cast their gloomy shadows along the road, to give to each 
other freely of love, sympathy, comfort and understand- 
ing. In the forming of this partnership no man or woman 
is competent to advise; it is a problem that must be 
worked out by the parties interested, without interference 
from others, for every man or woman must live his or 
her own life ; therefore, every man must choose his own 
maid and "every lass her own laddie." Even in this 
way mismating occasionally occurs, just as the workings 
of nature are sometimes abortive; but we do not find 
fault with all nature because of one stunted tree in a 
forest of stately oaks, or a shrunken apple in a basket of 
rosy pippins. Hence, it is not meet that father, mother, 
brother, sister or guardian should "venture in where 
angels fear to tread," because, forsooth, an occasional 
combination, under the firm name of "Man and Wife," 
has discovered that the expected dividends of happiness 
and contentment are not forthcoming, and makes a pil- 
grimage to Reno, that Mecca where the galling ties of 
unhappy marriages are magically dissolved. That mar- 
riage on the whole is not only not a failure, but that its 
bonds soothe more than chafe, is evidenced by the fact 



that those who have experienced it for a time and lost 
the partners of their joys, rarely let the flowers bloom 
more than twice o 'er the grassy mound in the churchyard 
before they evince a willingness to try it over ; and this is 
as it should be, for is it not a tribute to the virtues of 
the dear departed? 

This book is published with the confident expectation 
that each copy will find its way into the hands of two 
people who are just entering upon a life partnership, "for 
better, for worse," and that in setting sail upon the 
matrimonial ocean they are landlubbers, not yet having 
their sea legs under them, and, therefore, in need of much 
advice from old sailors as to how best to pilot the good 
ship Wedlock safely on her voyage. Through the pages 
of this book you will find much valuable advice, compiled 
at the expense of considerable time, labor and money, 
from absolutely reliable sources, and intended to make 
smooth the pathway of the young wife and housekeeper 
if applied in a common sense way to the everyday prob- 
lems of home life. It is assumed that you will fill out 
the pages intended for that purpose with a record of 
your wedding and such circumstances attendant thereon 
as you may deem proper, and that this fact, coupled with 
the merits of the book itself, may be instrumental in its 
preservation for many years, and for this reason it has 
appealed to the individuals and firms whose advertise- 
ments appear herein as a thing of permanency. It is to 
these advertisers, who jointly bear the expense of pub- 
lication and distribution, that you are indebted for your 
copy of "Our Redding Day," and it is their good wishes 
which will follow you through life, since every one of the 
hundred or more has been made aware of your marriage 
and feels a personal interest in seeing you start on this 
new lap in life's journey properly equipped. 




Have you protected Her? 
Words without deeds are empty. 

You will protect and provide for HER, if you live; 
but suppose you die ? 

A Penn Mutual Monthly Life Income Policy will 
answer the question. It is a protection in the event of 
death; a provision for future needs, furnishing the 
monthly check to pay the monthly rent and bills. 

A few cents a day will buy a monthly income for life. 

It is the great IF in lIFe that life insurance offsets. 

We will be glad to furnish particulars without obliga- 
tion or importunity to purchase. 



Sibley & Erskine, General Agents 
Penn Mutual Life Insurance Go. 

Second Street and Madison Avenue 

Memphis, Tenn. 



Second Floor Germania Savings Bank Building 



Phone Main 5374 



AFTER THE WEDDING. 

Ordinarily, all the details of a wedding down to the 
invitations or announcements, as the case may be, have 
been threshed out and arranged weeks beforehand by 
the bride-to-be and her girl friends; but occasionally a 
marriage occurs where no invitations have been sent out, 
and the announcements overlooked. In a case of this kind 
the form given below is entirely correct, filling in, of 
course, the desired names and date : 

Mr. and Mrs. Will icon Sp afford 

Announce the marriage of their daughter, 

Juanita 

to 

Mr. Harold Jennings Brown 

On Wednesday, June the Thirtieth 

Nineteen Hundred and Fourteen 

at Grace Chapel 

New York 

If it is desired to make known the future address of 
the bride, another card may be enclosed, which reads : 

At Home 

After July Fifteenth 

at Twenty-seven East Fortieth Street 

Wedding gifts should be acknowledged before the mar- 
riage, if possible, but if not, this should be attended to 
immediately thereafter, as delay makes one seem unap- 
preciative, and besides lessens to some extent the pleasure 
of the giver. 

After the social events incident to the wedding are 
over, the most important question that confronts hus- 
band and wife is where and how to live, whether they shall 
board, whether they shall live with his or her people, or 
keep house, and to this there are two answers, "if pos- 
sible, keep house; if not, board." No man has a right 



The JOHN GERBER 
COMPANY 

Offers congratulations to the recip- 
ient of this book 
Extends cordial invitation to visit 
our store, to view the varied 
display of merchandise 
gathered from the 
world's style 
centers 

Years of encountering and solving trade problems 
enable us to present you the best values for mini- 
mum expenditure. 

Our policy, "Satisfied Customers," should inspire 
your confidence and accord us the pleasure of 
your visit. 




Memphis 



Cumb. Phone 4236. 

Call Dept. Wanted. 

Mem. Phone 1159. 25-31 N. Main St. 



to saddle his wife on his relatives or his relatives on 
his wife, and no woman should jeopardize her own and 
her husband's happiness by a like experiment with her 
people. When the birds mate in the springtime they 
prudently set about the construction of a home, and no 
man is worthy of the love of a good woman unless he 
desires to follow the example of the birds and build for 
her, be it ever so humble, a ' ' Home, Sweet Home. ' ' The 
pleasure to be derived by young married people from the 
planning and building of a house, as well as the furnishing 
thereof, is not only inestimable, but is the surest road to 
contentment, and then, when the babies come, think what 
a pleasure it will be for them to be born under their own 
roof. 

Without doubt "Home" is the most expressive word 
in the English language ; it carries with it the comforting 
idea of a haven of rest, where one can do as one pleases ; 
where the chairs are made to be sat upon ; where the beds 
are made to be slept in ; where the books are intended to 
be read, the pipes to be smoked and the porch railing 
to put the feet upon ; where shirt sleeves and slippers are 
not considered bad form, where certain mysterious odors 
from the kitchen are faintly discernable as they are 
wafted in on gentle zephyrs, stirring up half forgotten 
memories of ye olden, golden days, when the old swimmin' 
hole was regarded as the most important body of water 
in the wide world, and where it is not deemed an unpar- 
donable sin to eat as long as one is hungry. 

In the selection of a home, the location and neighbor- 
hood are the first things to be considered, the former as 
a matter of choice and convenience, and the latter for 
obvious reasons. Where possible, an east front is always 
preferable, and while the interior arrangement of the 
house merits first consideration, it should not be for- 
gotten that nice, roomy porches not only play an impor- 
tant part in the comfort of a home, but they are of vast 
protection to the house. In regard to the yard or lawn, 
a luxuriant stand of blue grass takes first place as a 
carpet, although Bermuda is extensively used, but in any 
event if each sprig of grass had to be set out separately 

6 




Are You Going Into Your 
Own Home? 

Eventually you will have that home, why not now? 
Let us explain how easily that home can be secured. 

H. M. CALLIGOTT & CO. 

Tennessee Trust Building 
Main 4480 



"We build, sell and rent attractive homes." 



and nurtured by hand in order to get a nice green yard, 
the result would be ample reward for the labor so 
expended. 

Trees and their grateful shade seem to have borne an 
important part from the very beginning in the making 
of a home, for did not the Divine Creator stage the open- 
ing act of the first domestic play the world has ever 
known, in the "Garden of Eden," and was not the tree 
that bore the fatal apple intended for shade, since it was 
expressly forbidden to eat of the fruit thereof? Carrying 
out this idea, it is to be noted that in the ages past and to 
this good day, a man's home is oftenest spoken of as his 
"own vine and fig tree," and the poet raised his voice in 
protest at sight of the vandal with his destroying axe, 
bidding him thus • 

"Woodman, spare that tree. 
Touch not a single bough. 
In youth it sheltered me 
And I'll protect it now." 

At any rate, trees add much to the beauty of the lawn 
and shade is indispensable. Among the many varieties of 
shade trees, the elm, while it grows more slowly than 
many others, is the most desirable, since the wood is 
tough, the limbs rarely breaking off, and the leaves come 
early, forming a dense shade, and remaining until late 
fall. Shade is as essential in the back yard as the front, 
but apple, peach, pear, cherry and damson trees may be 
used here, thus combining the pleasure of the shade with 
the benefit of the fruit. A woman writer in a recent 
magazine briefly sums up the absolute essentials of an 
ideal country home as follows: "Pure air, sunshine, 
breathing spaces, a water supply and sewerage system 
above reproach, pleasant things to look at — trees, flowers 
— a garden, where one could do one's own planting of 
vines, refined neighbors as homogeneous as possible, and 
all within easy access of the great city." This in a gen- 
eral way expresses the idea in the minds of most city 
people of a suburban home, and really it covers the case 
very well. There is one thing you can't get away from, 
and that is that summer doesn't last always, even in the 
country, and therefore the matter of heating is to be 



102 GOODWYN INSTITUTE 




"On the ground floor" 






E. C. Denaux 






Incorporated 






Decorations 






Furniture 






Draperies 






Rugs 






Lighting Fixtures 






We furnish homes complete. 






Colored sketches, with esti- 






mates submitted. 






Churches, Clubs, Theaters 






decorated. 






Out of town correspond- 






ence solicited. 






Telephone Main 5167 





considered. A house to be easily heated should be as 
compactly built as possible, and of the three methods, 
steam, hot air or hot water, the latter is the general 
favorite, although if it is necessary to economize, hot air 
plants can be installed at much less cost than either steam 
or hot water. An important item, if you have your own 
heating plant installed, is the placing of the radiators or 
registers where they will do the most good and at the 
same time be least in the way. Perfection in heating, 
plumbing and lighting are greatly to be desired in the 
home, or elsewhere, and while this subject is under dis- 
cussion it may be as well to touch upon the subject of 
silent or noiseless plumbing, a thing you have doubtless 
wished for but seldom seen. There are a hundred things 
which may contribute their quota to the hissing, hammer- 
ing, singing and gurgling which sets up when faucets are 
turned on or toilets flushed, and quite frequently the 
particular thing is very difficult to locate. Tf you are 
going to have plumbing installed, you should see that your 
contractor fences against all the probable causes of noise. 
The hiss and rumble of water in a supply pipe, which 
occurs when a faucet is opened, may be due to small pipe 
sizes, improper supports, high pressure, poor location of 
piping, undersized stop cocks or valves, and so on. For 
a house with one bathroom, kitchen and laundry fixtures, 
and one or two lavatories in bed rooms, the main supply 
pipe should not be less than three-quarters of an inch in 
size, and one inch is even preferable, if the pressure is 
less than thirty-five or forty pounds. If the pressure is 
lower than this the supply pipe should be one inch any- 
way — not especially to avoid noise, but to provide an 
adequate volume of water, and should be increased one- 
quarter inch for each additional bath room. The pipe 
to the kitchen range boiler should be three-quarter inch 
in a house having one bath room and one inch where 
there are two or three. The pipes to the bath room should 
not be less than three-quarter inch, and if the bath room 
contains a needle and shower bath, one inch is desirable. 
The bath tub should have three-quarter inch supply 
pipe, the lavatory half inch, the closet half inch, the 

10 



W e Specialize in 
Brides ' Trousseaux 




Our correctly ap- 
pointed Lingerie 
Section is replete at 
all times with a di- 
versity of pleasing 
originality in Wom- 
en's Undergarments 
which possess a dis- 
tinctive stylishness 
that gives them 
precedence over all 
others in the pref- 
erence of critical 
followers of Fash- 
ion. Here every 
wish, every need, 
every taste and oc- 
casion is provided 
for at prices ex- 
tremely low, quality 
considered. 
The Corset Section 
also provides a style 
for every type of 
figure, in models 
that afford perfect 
b o d i I y comfort, 
whether standing, 
walking or sitting. 



&.bDTPeivstein> &Bit>s. 



INCORPORATED 

MEMPHIS 



11 



kitchen sink three-quarter inch, the pantry sink half 
inch, and the laundry tubs three-quarter inch. These 
sizes should be maintained right up to the connection 
with the fixtures, even though the actual valves or faucets 
of the fixtures are smaller. 

High pressure develops a velocity in water flowing 
through a pipe, which not only causes it to hiss, but at 
times produces vibration in the pipe itself, the resulting 
noise being transmitted to the timbers, partitions and 
flooring of the building, until the whole responds like 
the sounding board of a piano. Proper supports placed 
about five feet apart, with a layer of hair felt placed 
between the pipe, with its supporting clamp and the wood 
work, will nearly always relieve this trouble. 

A non-conducting pipe covering for the prevention of 
freezing may be purchased in lengths of three feet, and 
this also has the advantage of preventing the escape of 
the sound of water running within the pipes. 

A good pressure of water is desirable, twenty-five to 
seventy-five pounds being enough, but higher pressure 
is apt to be troublesome and noisy when water is drawn. 
High pressure can be controlled to some extent by install- 
ing a pressure reducing valve, through which all water 
to the house must pass. With higji pressure, the sudden 
closing of a faucet produces what is known as "water 
hammer." that is, the momentum that the flowing water 
has attained when a faucet is open will expend itself in 
hammering within the pipe when the velocity is suddenly 
checked by the closing of the faucet. Air chambers are 
used as cushions to prevent or reduce water hammer, and 
to be effective should be from two to three inches in 
diameter and at least three or four feet long. 

Two principles are employed in the construction of 
water faucets — the fuller and the compression, and while 
the fuller pattern is convenient to operate and of more 
pleasing appearance, the compression faucets, which close 
slowly, prevent water hammer and give better service. 

Rumbling in the pipe connections between water backs 
in kitchen ranges and hot water boilers is often due to 
small pipe connections. Pipe connections should pitch 

12 



Your Happiness 



Depends largely on the start you get, so insure 
happiness by starting right now for the office of 
the Memphis Consolidated Gas & Electric Co., 
12 and 16 South Second St., with your mind fully 
made up to make a 

Small Cash Payment on 
a Gas Range 

and have the balance charged to your account and 
billed at one or two dollars each month until it is 
paid for. 

Also ask for our domestic science instructoress to 
call and show you not only how to use gas, but how 
to use it economically. No charge for her services. 



COUPON 

Any newly married couple purchasing a Gas 
Range within 30 days from date marriage 
certificate is issued will be presented with a 

GAS IRON— FREE 

if book containing this coupon is brought to 
our office at time of purchase. 



Memphis Consolidated 
Gas & Electric Company 



13 



up from the water back to the side connection on boilers, 
instead of reaching it through a series of square turns, 
the latter method requiring at least twice as long to heat 
a tank of water. 

In regard to the furnishing of a home, if your means 
are ample, you can lay the whole burden upon the shoul- 
ders of a professional decorator and furnisher, and go 
away for a fortnight. When you return, presto ! the 
thing is done ; go where .you will about the house, there 
isn't a thing lacking. When you step upon the porch you 
will wipe your feet upon a door mat that harmonizes in 
color with the exterior of the house, and has your mono- 
gram neatly traced upon its surface. The porch furniture 
will have the appearance of having been as accurately 
placed as the pieces on a chess board, and when you 
enter the house you will discover that the scheme has 
been carried out with such painstaking attention to detail 
that the sense of utter correctness and absolute appro- 
priateness impresses you with the idea that you "may 
look, but mustn't touch." Really, the most satisfactory 
way for a young married couple to furnish a home is to 
start in by buying only such things as are absolutely 
necessary for the kitchen, the dining room and the bed 
room, and then accumulating, piece by piece, such articles 
as appeal to you. In this way you will eventually get 
just what you want and there will be a feeling of intimacy 
and personal interest in every chair or table you own. 
This feeling of acquaintanceship with one's belongings 
develops a pride of possession in the man as well as the 
woman, for it is doubtful if the chilly breast of an Arctic 
explorer would heave with more pride when planting the 
Stars and Stripes at the North Pole than that of a man 
who has just nailed a loose paling on the first fence he 
ever owned. 

"The two best days to quarrel are yesterday and 
tomorrow." 

IN THE DINING ROOM. 

The dining room and its decorations have much to do 
with the pleasure of dining. First of all, it should be a 

14 



S. M. WILLIAMSON & COMPANY 

INCORPORATED 

INVESTMENT BANKERS 
INSURANCE 

121 Madison Avenue 

Jno. H. Philips, mgr. Memphis phone main 4570 

Real Estate Dept. 

Memphis, Term., 
Wedding Day. 
Dear Mr. and Mrs. Newly wed: 

After you are back from your honeymoon trip the first 
thing you ought to think about is a HOME. Don't begin your 
married life by paying rent — start now to accumulate prop- 
erty. You will be happier and richer some day if you take 
and act upon this advice. We sell all kinds of homes — from 
modest three-room cottages to stately mansions. We lend 
money on property at reasonable rates. Our lists, automo- 
biles and salesmen are at your service. If we are not already 
known to you, inquiry will convince you that we are worthy 
of your confidence and patronage. 

Wishing you much happiness and prosperity, we are, 

Sincerely yours, 

S. M. WILLIAMSON & CO., Inc. 



ARE YOUR WEDDING PRESENTS IN- 
SURED AGAINST FIREP-AGAINST 
THEFT? 

OUR POLICIES ARE CLEAR, CONCISE 
PROMISES TO PAY. 

S. M. Williamson & Co., Inc, 

121 Madison Ave.. Memphis, Teim. 

Fire, Burglary, Accident, Liability 
Automobile 



15 



cheerful room, whether much or little cost has been put 
into its arrangement. It should be bright and well ven- 
tilated — its whole aspect inviting. 

Incapable decorators are now making dungeons of some 
of our dining rooms by using somber colorings on our 
walls and ceilings, besides littering up the nooks and 
corners with bric-a-brac and what-not. 

In decorative art there are many manufactures very 
useful and very artistic, when properly used, but barbar- 
ous in effect when they fall into hands that unsuit them 
to their environs. The dining room should be treated with 
an eye to simplicity, the colorings cheerful, pleasing to 
the eye and comforting to the mind, for it is the sustain- 
ing element of the whole house — the place where the 
promised welcome and hospitality of the host are ful- 
filled. 

The service at table demands absolutely spotless linen. 
The good housewife will pride herself upon table cloths 
and napkins, as well as her skill and genius in things 
culinary. Linens run to fashion as do other things, but 
the laws governing them are flexible enough to accommo- 
date the taste and purse of people of modest means. The 
bare, wooden top of the table should first be covered 
with a blanket or pad intended for the purpose. The table 
cloth should not be starched, but is best when soft and 
smooth, so that it may drop from the table's edge in 
graceful folds. Napkins should match table cloth, and 
also be unstarched. 

The Cutlery. 

Knives and forks are best when plain and of medium 
size. If one can afford, it is very nice to have a set of 
knives and forks for each dish. It is almost necessary 
to have several carving sets, two large and one small, 
the large for roasts, the small fo,r steaks and fowl. 
Carving knives are best when slightly bowed in shape, and 
will be found more convenient than those with a perfectly 
straight edge. In addition to the ordinary cutlery, there 
are many special designs in either knives or forks for 

16 



W. F. OMBERG, Inc. 

INSURANCE 

Fire, Liability, Accident 

Health, Burglary, Bond 

Plate Glass, Elevator 

Automobile 

|]T POLICIES ARE CLEARLY DE- 
*ll FINED AND MEET THE RE- 
QUIREMENTS OF THE MOST EX- 
ACTING FORM OF INSURANCE. 
ANY CONTRACT ANSWERS SO 
LONG AS YOU SUFFER NO LOSS, 
BUT THE CONTRACT YOU ARE 
LOOKING FOR IS ONE UNDER 
WHICH YOU CAN COLLECT WHAT 
IS DUE YOU WHEN IT IS DUE. 

YOUR CONSIDERATION IS RE- 
SPECTFULLY REQUESTED. 

W. F. OMBERG, INC. 

1520-21 EXCHANGE BUILDING 
BOTH PHONES 494 



i: 



butter, cheese, oysters, asparagus, pie, fruit, etc., a list 
of which may be obtained from any hardware or jewelry 
store. 

Breakfast. 

Breakfast is a meal at which all the members of the 
family should make it a point to be present at the same 
hour, as it lessens the worry of the housekeeper and tends 
to keep the servants in a good humor. Breakfast should 
lend all the cheerfulness possible to the beginning of the 
day. A few flowers in flower vases should grace the 
table, and these decorations should be supplemented by 
the bright colors of fruits, berries and melons. Their 
influence is immeasureable upon the man of work, who, 
after breakfast, must plunge into the busy whirl of the 
day. If a man starts the day in a cheerful mood he is 
likely to continue so throughout the day. If he starts 
out ill-natured every little thing annoys and irritates him, 
and unfits him for the performance of his duties. 

The most attractive as well as appropriate china for 
use at breakfast is in strong colors of green, blue, pink or 
brown foliage, effects with gold, garlands of roses in 
natural colors, old flown blues and dainty harebell deco- 
rations. There are less expensive and more modest 
breakfast sets in very pretty geometrical designs of 
blues, pinks, greens, browns, etc. 

The complete Breakfast Set consists of: 

Fruit Set — Fruit basket, individual fruit plates, finger 
bowls. 

Berry Set — Berry bowl, individual berry saucers. 

Melon Set — Melon tray, individual melon plates. 

Porridge Set — Porridge dish, individual porridge 
bowls. 

Roll plates, individual breakfast plates, covered butter 
dish, breakfast cups and saucers, chop tray or round 
platter. 

Gravy or well dish, casserole or covered round dish, 
open vegetable dish, individual toast racks. 

Egg Set — Egg trays, egg cups, coffee maker or coffee 

18 



OW' 




Appointments for 
your dining-table 



Nothing is more pleasing to the eye or more indicative 
of good taste and refinement than a well appointed 
dining-table. 

While it is not absolutely necessary that your silver 
should be all of the same design, it is essential that it 
should harmonize — it should at least blend, if not match. 

In the many Bridal Gifts that you received it is possi- 
ble there were a few pieces omitted that are necessary 
to a well-appointed table. To add these would happily 
solve the gift problem for Birthdays, Christmas and 
Anniversaries. 

If we can be of service to you in advising or suggesting 
anything along these lines, it will be our pleasure to 
assist you. 

Visitors are always welcome, whether wishing to buy 
or only to be informed. 



W. C. GRAVES & BRO. 

Jewelers and Silversmiths 



11 North Main Street 



Near Court Square 



19 



pot, sugar bowl, cream pitcher, water jug or carafe, 
mineral water glasses, Apollinaris glasses, table tumblers, 
crushed ice tubs, cocoa pot. 

Wheat Cake Set— Covered muffin dish, syrup jug, 
lemon tray, powdered sugar bowl, individual cake plates. 

People usually eat what they want, but the following 
is suggested as an every day breakfast menu, which will 
wear well : 

A fruit course, followed by a well cooked cereal, broiled 
blue fish with strips of bacon, Saratoga chips, a light egg 
dish, muffins or toast and coffee. 

Formal Luncheon. 

Luncheon is served after the manner of dinner, except 
that it is a very light repast of bouillon, entrees, salads, 
hors d'cevres, vegetables, sandwiches, fruit, ice cream 
and like dainty foods. Claret and Rhine wine, ale or beer 
may or may not be served at luncheon, as you desire. 

The complete china service at luncheon follows : Fern 
stands, bouillon cups, chop tray, casserole or covered 
round dish, open vegetable dish, sandwich tray, chocolate., 
coffee or tea pot, plates, cups and saucers, claret decan- 
ter and glasses, Rhine wine decanter and glasses, salad 
set, salad bowl and individual plates, celery tray, bread 
and butter plates. Fruit set, fruit basket or comport and 
individual fruit plates. Ice cream set, dish, plates and 
cake plates, olive tray, vinegar and oil cruets, salts and 
peppers, water carafe or pitcher, water tumblers, crushed 
ice tub, Apollinaris glasses, iced tea glasses, ale jug and 
tumblers, beer tankard and glasses or steins, chafing dish. 

How to Serve a Dinner, 
The custom which prevails in America of serving 
oysters before soup has met with much criticism from 
many famous diners. The stomach, in their opinion, 
should be first toned with warm food, that it may per- 
form its functions the more readily. The number of 
courses may be from five to fourteen, at the discretion of 
the host. They should be served quickly, though without 
the appearance of haste, beginning with soup and follow- 
ing in the order named with their various wines. 

20 



Unequa led Service 

and Uniform Courtesy 

CHARACTERIZE 
THIS STORE 

AS AN IDEAL PLACE TO SHOP 

Our stocks are at all times large and well as- 
sorted, and your wants are readily filled. 

Diamonds, Pearls and Fancy Stones, Gold Jew- 
elry, Cut Glass, Sterling Silverware, Sheffield 
Plate, Clocks, Bronze, Umbrellas and Novelties; 
in fact, a Jewelry Store with a complete stock in 
all its branches. 



We have a modern Jewelry Repair Factory and 
employ none but expert workmen, and offer the 
best possible repair work at moderate prices. 

Watch repairing a specialty. 



Crescent Jewelry Co. 

Diamond Merchants and Manufacturing' Jewelers. 

25 N. Main St., Opp. Court Square. 
Memphis 



21 



Soup Madiera or Sherry Wine 

Oysters Sauterne 

Fish Rhine Wine 

Entree Bordeaux or Claret 

Roast Champagne, Claret and Sherbet or Punch 

Game Claret or Champagne 

Asparagus White Bordeaux Wlines 

Salad (Same wine may remain or not, at discretion 

of host) 
Ice Cream (no wine) 

Cheese (no wine) 

Dessert Port 

Cognac 

Liqueurs 

There are really no set rules for serving wines at 
dinner, because all palates are not pleased with all wines. 

It is permissable to serve the same wine throughout 
the dinner, but let it be the kind likely to please the most 
of one's guests. 

First in order is the oyster course. This requires 
oyster plates, in which the raw oysters or clams are 
served in their own half shells, embedded in cracked ice 
to keep them cold. Glasses for Bordeaux, Moselle or 
Rhine wine go with this course. 

The soup course being next, it will now be served. The 
china to be used is composed of a soup tureen and individ- 
ual soup plates, or, if bouillon is served instead of soup, 
individual bouillon cups, decanter and glasses for Madeira 
or sherry. Light soup should be served when the courses 
following are heavy. Thick soups may be served with a 
light dinner. The china, cutlery, etc., used in serving this 
course, as with the others, are removed from the table 
immediately after the guests have finished with them. 

The fish course gives the hostess a fine opportunity 
to display her taste in china. 

The requisite china for this service is a large fish dish, 
a sauce boat and individual plates, usually decorated with 
fish designs. 

Hot foods, like scalloped oysters and fish, may be 
cooked and served on the table in a ramequin — a fire- 

22 



THIS SPACE RESERVED FOR 

A. HAISCH 

Flower Store 

Cut Flowers Floral Designs 

87 Madison Ave. Memphis, Tenn. 



23 



proof china dish, by far the best thing for the purpose. 
Rhine wines of choice vintage are served with this course. 
Authorities on the question agree that Rhine wines are 
essentially fish wines. 

The entrees may consist of sweetbreads, calves' brains, 
breaded chops, fricassee of chicken, etc., etc., and should 
be served on a round dish with harmonious plates, for 
each guest. With this course red Bordeaux wines are 
served. 

The roast, the principal course of the dinner, is now 
in turn. The meat is served on a large platter, and the 
vegetables (hot, of course) are brought on, each kind in 
its own dish. The china for the roast course should be 
the most elaborately decorated of the dinner service. A 
wise plan in selecting one's dinner china is to have the 
sets for the various courses graded in richness of design, 
from the more modest soup sets, increasing in brilliancy 
and reaching a climax in the roast set. 

Exquisite glassware is now in order for dry cham- 
pagnes and rich red wines, like sparkling Burgundies, 
Bordeaux, hocks or clarets. 

The game course does not always form part of the- 
service in large dinners, but when it does, the game dish 
and plates should be as rich in coloring as those used for 
the roast course. 

Beautiful decorative pictures of wild game adorn the 
sets shown in the china shops. Many of the pieces are 
produced by noted artists, and are quite expensive. 

Champagne, Claret, Burgundy or Bordeaux may be 
used with this course, the choice being governed by the 
kind of game served. Chicken, partridge, quail and 
turkey would be accompanied by champagne, while the 
red wines are served with wild duck, wild boar and 
roebuck. 

Cold asparagus follows next in order, with Bordeaux 
wine. Asparagus is served on a special platter with a 
drainer, a boat for dressing and individual compartment 
plates. A separate course is not made of asparagus 
when roast fowl is served. It is better with the fowl. 

Salads should always be served following the game, 

24 



Everything to Furnish 
the Modern Home 



■^-w^ HETHER a modest cottage or a palatial residence — we are 
ill prepared to furnish everything, from the kitchen to the 
yfl / library. Our stocks are the most complete in Memphis and 
our prices are most reasonable. 

More than 35,000 square feet devoted to the display and sale of 
things for the home. 



Furniture, Rugs, Carpets, 
Draperies, Stoves, Sewing 
Machines, Vacuum 
Cleaners, Victrolas and 
General Housefurnishings 



Every department a leader in its line; each line wonderfully 
complete. When you go to buy things for the home, be sure and 
see what we have. We can save you money, and in addition give 
you the privilege of our 



Easy Payment Plan 

which enables you to buy what you need, and while having the 
use of same in your home, pay in easy weekly or monthly amounts, 
without interest or any extra charges whatever for the accommo- 
dation. 



KZ J n GREATER MEMPHIS' 




r>v £ 1-1 GREATER MEMPHIS >- 

V-X bREATEST STORE. 



MAIN AND GAYOSO STREETS, MEMPHIS, TENN. 



25 



but when no game is served they should follow the roast. 
Salads are more palatable when dressed at table, but the 
preparation of it should not begin until the guests are 
ready to be served. The oil and vinegar destroy the brit- 
tleness of the lettuce if left standing. A fine porcelain 
bowl made for the purpose is suggested, instead of a cut 
glass bowl for serving the salad. 

The china service for the course consists of a salad 
bowl, individual salad plates, Mayonnaise bowl, vinegar 
and oil cruets. 

The pudding course is served next, with a large pud- 
ding dish, a sauce boat and pudding plates. The serving 
of puddings at table was done in a primitive manner until 
some bright potter made a pudding dish within a pud- 
ding dish, or rather a fireproof lining, in which the pud- 
ding might be baked, then placed in a decorated dish or 
shell, which fits it nicely. Thus the stains, if any, on 
the baking dish, are hidden from view. 

After this course, the heavier china and glass are 
removed from the table. The floral decorations and lamp 
or candelabra may remain. 

For serving ice cream, which comes next, are ice cream 
trays, plates and cake plates, gold and strong contrasting 
colors show to advantage in the decoration of china used 
for this course. No wines are served with ice cream. Ice 
water and ice cream appear to be a popular combination 
with Americans. 

Next comes cheese, with its special cheese set, a dish 
and individual china plates. Silver bladed dessert knives 
form part of the service for this course. 

After the cheese is served comes the dessert course. 
The fruit is placed on the table in footed fruit comports, 
footed dishes and plates to match. Beautiful fruit sets 
are decorated in flower and fruit designs, with encrusted 
gold embellishments. There is ample opportunity for 
the hostess to show her taste in beautiful china in this 
course. Madeira or port is served in appropriate decan- 
ters and glasses. 

Cafe noir is now served from a coffee maker or coffee 
pot in small individual cups and saucers. A sugar bowl 

26 



The Best Drugs 

That Is What You 
Want 



XT is bad enough to be sick 
without having to take med- 
icines of doubtful strength 
and value. If you need a particular 
medicine, or if your doctor has or- 
dered something special for you, let 
us supply it and you will be sure of 
the highest quality and service. We 
give the most painstaking and thor- 
ough care to the filling of prescrip- 
tions. There is no need to worry 
about the drugs you take if we sup- 
ply them. Place your drug orders 
and prescriptions in our hands. We 
guarantee satisfaction. 



Fortune-Ward Drug Co. 

Memphis, Tennessee 



containing sugar and sugar tongs are also placed upon 
the table, but no cream. The best results are secured 
when coffee is made at table after the French fashion, 
in a coffee maker. A little cognac may be mixed with the 
coffee in one's cup, if taste dictates. 

A light indulgence in creme de menthe liqueurs or cor- 
dials may now end the dinner, so far as the ladies are 
concerned. The gentlemen are served with cigars and the 
dinner party is now ready to repair to the drawing room. 
Now the gentlemen may spend a short time in the smok- 
ing room. 

Serving Wines. 

Table tumblers are used for breakfast and luncheon, 
goblets for dinner. The latter are more beautifully 
decorated. 

For sauterne, it is proper to have a sauterne decanter 
and glasses. The decanters are engraved or in deep 
cuttings, and have handles. The glasses are of various 
graceful shapes, with green bowls and stems of crystal. 

Madeira decanters and glasses are to be had in rich 
cuttings, decorated in gold or in plain crystal. They 
have no handles, and are the size of those used for claret. 

Sherry glasses and decanters are made in a variety 
of decorative effects. The glasses should be taper- 
shaped, with a slight flare at the top. 

The decanter and glasses for Rhine wine may be of 
various colors, the finest glasses having very long stems. 
Some are richly gilded and others finely cut. 

Sherbet cups are of regular size, in Austrian gilt or 
crystal cuttings, and are very effective pieces. 

Champagne should be sparkling, and is best served 
from the bottle in saucer-shaped glasses, with long hollow 
stems. The wine thus retains its effervescence. 

Hock wines are served in decanters, same as those used 
for sauterne, claret and Burgundy. The glasses, how- 
ever, are taller than those used for other wines, and are 
decorated beautifully in gilt and enamel. 

Burgundy is served in a decanter with handles, the 

28 




Easy Payment Club Plan Enables 

You to Secure Any 

Make 

Sewing Machine 



n 



ORIENTAL OR DOMESTIC 
RUGS 

FIRELESS COOKERS 

HEATING STOVES OR 
RANGES 

REFRIGERATORS 

KITCHEN CABINETS 

DRESS FORMS 

VICTOR VICTROLAS 



At Absolutely the Lowest 
Cash Price 



No Interest to Pay for These Accommodations 



29 



same shape and size as that used for sauterne or claret, 
the glasses being in plain crystal and a trifle larger than 
sherry glasses. 

The port decanters are deeply and richly cut, though 
somewhat smaller than those used for claret, and have 
no handles. Colored glasses are not used for port. They 
should be of simple crystal, with perhaps a little gold 
decoration. 

Claret decanters have handles and are made in several 
designs, with brilliant lapidary stoppers. Glasses are of 
goblet and round, low shapes, in plain crystal. Claret is 
never served in colored glasses. In France, claret is 
diluted with water and served in goblets. They do this 
with table claret; never with the fine vintages, however. 

A small crystal cut glass, plain or decorated, is used 
for cognac. The cognac decanter is also small and has a 
handle. 

The best way to serve creme de menthe is to first fill 
the glass with shaved ice, then pour in the liqueur. 
Special bowl-shaped glasses are made for the purpose. 
The decanter is small, has no handle and may be of plain 
or colored glass, highly decorated. 

Cordials and liqueurs have their special decanters and 
glasses. The decanters are small, fancy-shaped and have 
no handles. Some are cut, others are in plain or colored 
glass, with highly ornate gold effects. Chartreuse, Bene- 
dictine, Anisette, Kummel, etc., are served in these decan- 
ters and glasses. 

The punch bowl is often the pride of the hostess. She 
may have one in either gilded or cut glass, richly orna- 
mented china, or it may be of silver. Being a very large 
and odd piece, it may be made a decorative feature of the 
table. Glasses for punch are in crystal and Austrian 
effects and highly decorated. 

Iced tea and coffee glasses are light and tall, with 
either straight or bell tops, and will hold about a pint. 

Beer is served from a large earthen tankard into beer 
steins, having covers and holding from a pint to a quart. 
Glass tumblers for beer and ale are light and straight, 
those for ale being smaller. 

30 



YOU WON YOUR 
HUSBAND 

Not Only With Your Beauty, But by the Taste 
You Displayed in 

Gowns 
and Millinery 

If you would always retain 
his love you must continue 
to appear beautiful to him. 
This may best be accom- 
plished by always wearing 

Gowns and Millinery 

From the Store of 

J. SPIVACK 

Distributor of 

The latest Foreign and Domestic Creations, fresh 
from the skilled touch of the most cele- 
brated designers known to 
woman s world. 



Phone — 
Main 1333. 
Memphis 546. 



104 South Main St. 
MEMPHIS. 



31 



Ale jugs are shaped like tankards, but smaller than the 
beer tankards. 

Water jugs may be of either glass, china or earthen 
ware. If of glass, they may be beautifully cut or etched, 
with gold embellishments. Those of china are ornate in 
colors and figures. Earthenware jugs are made in fine 
relief, modeled with odd color effects. 

We are indebted to the French for the water carafe, 
which has a wide bowl and long bottle neck, for handling, 
and is much better than a pitcher for serving ice water. 

Mineral water glasses are light, straight and beauti- 
fully transparent. A large glass of the same kind is 
made for Apollinaris. 

Finger bowls are either gilded or enameled glass, or a 
combination of both. Some are plain blown, others in 
richly etched cut glass. They are placed on table with 
the fruit, and at the end of the repast. 

Table tumblers should be of goodly size, that they may 
hold sufficient cracked ice to keep the water cold. They 
are richly cut, fluted, etched and plain. 

Cracked ice, in quantity to supply the dinner needs, is 
placed in a glass or china ice tub, which may or may not 
have a stand. 

It is proper to state here that the foregoing matter 
pertaining to dining room and table service, as well as 
much advice relative to housekeeping and cooking, which 
will be found elsewhere in this book, has been gleaned 
from th,e writings of one of the most eminent authorities 
on these subjects on the American continent, and may be 
relied upon implicitly. 

Five 'Clock Tea. 

Coming as it does, between luncheon and dinner, this 
is naturally a dainty repast. To serve more than a mor- 
sel is to destroy one's appetite for the evening meal. A 
cup of tea at this hour is quite refreshing, yet the occa- 
sion is more of an excuse for small, informal social gath- 
erings. 

The table should be daintily laid with china of delicate 
design. The cups and saucers, small and thin, may or 

32 



MAXINE TURKISH BATH 
and BEAUTY SHOP 

CHE largest, most sanitary and elegantly 
equipped shop in Memphis, coupled with ex- 
pert and intelligent service, has made this shop the 
Mecca of high-class and refined patronage. Manu- 
facturers of Human Hair Goods. Every piece 
of hair goods sold with an unlimited guarantee. 
High class toilet goods and hair ornaments. Hot 
Springs attendants for bath. 

A Weil-Groomed Woman is Never a "Has-Been" 

Mrs. A. St. CLAIR RODGERS 

Proprietress 

83 S. Main St., Second Floor. 

Tel. Main 680 

Arnold Bros. & Stub be 

Interior Decorators 

THE SETTING SHOULD BE WORTHY OF THE JEWEL 

YOUR BRIDE IS A JEWEL. LET US MAKE YOUR HOME 

A WORTHY SETTING FOR HER. 

We Take Pleasure in Advising Our Friends and 

the Public That We Have Opened Our 

New Offices 

122, 124, 126 SOUTH MAIN STREET 

With the Jennings-Wilson Furniture Co. 

Exhibiting the Newest and Most Modern Ideas in 

Wall Papers, Fabrics, Draperies, Furniture, 

Lighting Fixtures, Mural Paintings, Art 

Glass, Mosaic. 

Arnold Bros. & Stubbe 

Telephone 1776 

ESTIMATES AND COLORED DRAWINGS UPON REQUEST 



may not be odd pieces. The kettle, of copper, brass or 
silver, should be highly polished. 

Crisp, dry biscuit, thin bread and butter sandwiches, 
spice cakes or English tea biscuit, are usually served on 
plates to each person. The bread sandwiches are often 
cut in odd shapes. 

Making the Tea. 

To make good tea, the water must be freshly boiled, as 
there is a flat taste to tea made from water boiled longer 
than half an hour, because all the life has left the water. 

The water for tea should be filtered and boiled. After 
it has come to a boil, pour in enough to scald the tea pot, 
then empty this water. Put in the tea leaves and then 
the boiling water. Cover the tea pot and allow it to 
stand five minutes before serving. If left steeping longer 
the tea becomes strong and bitter. 

Those to be served may have different tastes, some 
liking strong and others weak tea. In this event make it 
strong enough for those who like it so and weaken it to 
suit the taste of others by the addition of water, which 
should, of course, be boiling. 

Five o'clock teas usually require more of the beverage 
than is ordinarily used, and a different method of prep- 
aration is necessary. Then the tea is placed in a sheer 
muslin bag, which is put into the scalded pot. When it 
has been steeping five minutes the bag is removed, else 
the decoction will become bitter. A kettle of boiling water 
is kept over the flame of an oil or spirit lamp, and this 
water is used to weaken the tea for those who so prefer it. 

Good Coffee. 

Much of the blame for poor coffee at table is laid upon 
the kind of coffee used, when, as a matter of fact, the 
fault is wholly in the making. Good coffee cannot be 
made from poor beans, but poor coffee can be and is 
often made from the choicest varieties of coffee grown. 

To make good coffee, there must be a good pot or 
percolator, thoroughly clean, and good coffee, finely 
ground, which has not been roasted too long. Add to this 
an intimate acquaintance with the peculiarities of both 

34 



Make 

Life's Voyage Smooth Over 

the Sea of Matrimony! 

Guarantee a continuance of the honey- 
moon and the placid days of good fortune 
by protecting the home and family with 

Health, Accident, Disability 
and Theft to Residence 

Insurance 

The Saturday Evening Post says the duty 
of a newly married man to protect his 
home and bride with such insurance is 
clear and urgent. We represent the 
strongest and most liberal and at the same 
time the promptest and most conservative 
companies. Let us tell you how little it 
will cost to make sure that your bride will 
be cared for nicely in case of your illness, 
accident or disability. And how little it 
will cost to protect your home against 
theft. It will be a pleasure to answer all 
questions fully and in confidence. Write, 
see or phone us — to do so will not place 
you under any obligations. 

Vance, Powell & Co. 

Porter Building. Memphis, Tenn. 

Phone Main 34-6 



35 



pot and coffee, so that you may know how much of the 
latter to use and how long to take in the making, and your 
coffee will no longer be an experiment. 

Boiled coffee is made by pouring a sufficient quantity, 
finely ground, into the pot, then pour in the boiling water. 
This is allowed to boil sufficiently and then taken from 
the fire, while the beaten white of an egg and the crushed 
shell are placed in the pot. Again place on the fire and 
let boil about one minute, remove and allow to stand not 
more than five minutes, when it is ready to serve. 

The Kttchen Time Table. 
Time required for boiling various meats : Beef, per 
pound, 30 to 35 minutes ; corned beef, per pound, 30 min- 
utes ; mutton, per pound, 15 minutes ; ham, per pound, 20 
to 25 minutes ; chicken, per pound, 15 minutes ; turkey, 
per pound, 15 minutes ; sweetbreads, per pound, 20 to 30 
minutes; veal, two to five hours; smoked tongue, three 
to four hours; beef, a la mode, three to four hours; tripe, 
five to eight hours. 

Time Required for Boiling Eggs and Vegetables. 

Eggs, 2 to 3 minutes; hard boiled eggs, peas, toma- 
toes, Brussels sprouts, rice, green corn, spinach, 15 to 20 
minutes; asparagus, cauliflower, squash, celery, maca- 
roni, potatoes, young cabbage, 20 to 30 minutes ; carrots, 
onions, turnips, young beets, parsnips, Lima beans, 20 
to 45 minutes ; oyster plant, string beans, shell beans, 45 
to 60 minutes; oatmeal, hominy and wheat, one to two 
hours. 

Time Required for Boiling Fish. 

Lobster, whole, 40 minutes; clams and oysters, 3 to 5 
minutes; bass, 10 minutes; blue fish, 30 minutes; salmon, 
in slices, 15 minutes ; halibut, per pound, 15 minutes ; cod, 
per pound, 15 minutes ; haddock, per pound, 6 minutes ; 
small fish, per pound, 6 minutes. 

Time Required for Baking or Roasting Meat or Fish. 

Beef ribs, well done, per pound, 12 to 15 minutes ; beef 

ribs, rare, per pound, 10 minutes; beef, rolled, rib or 

ramp, per pound, 12 to 15 minutes; beef, long or short 

36 



it 



No Woman Is Ugly if She 
Is Well Dressed. "—Spanish 

You may always have that '"well dressed" feeling if you 
obtain from us your Ladies' Ready-to-Wear Coats, Suits, 
Skirts, Dresses, Waists, Corsets, Hosiery, Knit and Muslin 
Underwear, and even then your costume will be lacking in 
something unless your hat came from 

McNALLY'S MILLINERY 
DEPARTMENT. 

Hats made and trimmed to your order at a net saving 
of $1.00 to $5.00 each. We specialize on Children's Dresses. 

Mrs. S. E. McNally 

96 South Main St. MEMPHIS 

Phone Main 3262 



Accept Our 

Congratulations 

and make your home comfortable 

by buying from us the very 

best grades of coal 

obtainable 

Latura-Whitten Coal Co. 

443-449 DECATUR STREET 

BOTH PHONES 2531 



37 



filet, per pound, 12 to 15 minutes ; beef sirloin, rare, per 
pound, 10 minutes ; beef sirloin, well done, per pound, 12 
to 15 minutes; lamb, well done, per pound, 15 minutes; 
mutton, leg, rare, per pound, 10 minutes ; mutton, leg, well 
done, per pound, 15 minutes ; pork, well done, per pound, 
30 minutes ; turkey, 8 pounds 2 hours, 10 pounds 3 hours ; 
duck, tame, per pound, 40 to 60 minutes; duck, wild, per 
pound, 30 to 40 minutes; partridge, 30 to 40 minutes; 
goose, 8 pounds, 2 hours ; venison, rare, per pound, 10 
to 15 minutes; grouse, per pound, 30 minutes; pigeons, 
per pound, 30 minutes ; small birds, 15 to 20 mniutes ; fish, 
small, 20 to 30 minutes; fish, thick, 4 to 6 pounds, one 
hour; fish, long, thin, 6 to 8 pounds, one hour; braised 
meats, three to four hours ; liver, whole, two hours ; scal- 
loped dishes, 15 to 20 minutes. 

Time Required for Frying. 

Muffins, fritters and doughnuts, 3 to 5 minutes ; smelts, 
small fish, croquettes and fish balls, 2 minutes; slices of 
fish and breaded chops, 4 to 6 minutes; chicken, 10 
minutes. 

Time Required for Broiling. 

Steak, 1-inch thick, 7 to 10 minutes; steak, 1 1-2 inch 
thick, 10 to 12 minutes ; mutton chops, 8 to 10 minutes ; 
spring chicken, 20 to 25 minutes ; small thin fish, 20 min- 
utes; thick fish, 30 minutes; shad, 25 minutes; trout, 15 
to 25 minutes; blue fish, 15 to 25 minutes; squab, 15 to 
25 minutes; grouse, 15 minutes ; quail, 8 to 10 minutes. 

Time Required for Baking Bread, Cakes, Puddings, Etc. 
Loaf bread, 40 to 60 minutes; graham gems, 30 min- 
utes ; rolls and biscuit, 10 to 20 minutes ; cookies, 10 to 15 
minutes ; ginger bread, 20 to 30 minutes ; fruit cake, three 
hours; sponge cake, 45 to 60 minutes; plain cake, 30 to 
40 minutes; rice and tapioca, 60 minutes; plum pudding, 
ten hours; Indian pudding, two to three hours; bread 
pudding, one hour; custards, 15 to 20 minutes; steamed 
puddings, one to three hours ; steamed brown bread, three 
hours; pie crust, about 30 minutes; baked beans, six to 
eight hours ; potatoes, 30 to 45 minutes. 

38 



Put Your House in Order 

A husband who cannot afford to put a policy of life 

insurance upon his life in the hands of his 

bride is too poor to buy a marriage 

license, or to pay a 

wedding fee. 

Careless Husbands Leave Poverty- 
Stricken Families 

OEATH comes rather suddenly to one's neighbors at times. 
There are plenty of exits — appendicitis, a bad heart, a 
quick pneumonia, or a blood clot. Each week some 
friend or acquaintance trickles out of life. Next week it may 
be you. 

In this age a man who has no life insurance, or who has 
inadequate life insurance, is a bad housekeeper. The poor man 
cannot afford to be without it, and the wealthy man dare not. 

Wives are often to blame that their husbands' houses are in 
disorder as far as life insurance is concerned. Considerations 
of delicacy often hold a wife back from bringing up the subject 
of life insurance to her husband. She does not like to think 
that he may die, and she does not like him to think that she is 
planning to derive a money benefit from his death. In sober 
fact death must finally come to all, and life insurance is not a 
benefit, but a compensation, always inadequate, no matter how 
large, assuming that a husband is worth anything at all. A 
wife should never stand in the way of that life insurance which 
is her only protection from privation and poverty. On the con- 
trary, she should demand it, and should insist that it be regarded 
not as an extravagance, nor as an investment, but as a neces- 
sity. It should come before luxuries; it should come before a 
savings bank account; in fact, it should arrive with the wedding 
presents. 

The question of the form of policy to buy can easily be 
decided. All Old Line Life Insurance Companies issue many 
good forms. Go to the office of any reputable company, take 
the representative of the company into your confidence, and 
explain to him your cirmustances and desires, when he will 
select for you the policy best suited to your needs. 

Memphis Life 
Un der writers A ssocia Hon 



39 



Comparative Table of Measures. 
One cup equals y 2 pint; 4 cups flour equal 1 pound 
or 1 quart; 4 cups liquid equal 1 quart; 2 cups solid but- 
ter equal 1 pound ; !/o cup butter equals Vi pound ; 2 cups 
granulated sugar equal 1 pound; 2 cups pulverized sugar 
equal V/s pounds; 3 cups meal equal 1 pound; 4 table- 
spoonfuls of liquid equal 1 wineglass, y 2 gill or Vi cup; 
2 gills equal 1 cup or % pint; 2 cups equal 1 pint; 1 pint 
of milk or water equals 1 pound ; 1 pint chopped meat 
packed solidly equals 1 pound ; 1 round tablespoonful of 
butter equals 1 ounce; 1 heaping tablespoonful of butter 
equals 2 ounces or 14 cup; 9 large eggs or 10 medium eggs 
equal 1 pound; 2 round tablespoonfuls flour equal 1 
ounce; 1 heaping tablespoonful of sugar equals 1 ounce; 
2 round tablespoonfuls powdered sugar equal 1 ounce; 2 
round tablespoonfuls coffee equal 1 ounce; 1 tablespoon- 
ful liquid equals V2 ounce. 

Proportion Table. 
Two rounding or 4 even teaspoonfuls baking powder 
to 1 quart flour ; 1 teaspoonful extract to 1 quart custard ; 
1 teaspoonful soda to 1 pint sour milk; 1 teaspoonful soda 
to 1 cup molasses ; 1 even teaspoonful soda and 2 full 
teaspoonfuls cream tartar to 1 quart flour; y 2 cup of 
yeast or V4 of compressed yeast cake to 1 pint of liquid; 
1 scant measure of liquid to 3 full of flour for bread; 1 
measure of liquid to IV2 of flour for muffins; 1 scant 
measure of liquid to 1 full of flour for batter; 1 salt- 
spoonful of salt to 1 quart of milk for custard; 1 salt- 
spoonful of salt to 1 loaf of sponge cake ; 1 saltspoonful of 
white pepper to 1 quart of soup stock; 1 teaspoonful 
mixed herbs to 1 quart soup stock; 1 teaspoonful of salt 
to 1 quart soup stock or 2 quarts of flour; 1 teaspoonful 
extract to 1 loaf of plain cake ; 1 saltspoonful of spice to 
1 loaf of plain cake; 1 tablespoonful each chopped vege- 
tables to 1 quart of soup stock; a pinch of salt or spice 
is about a saltspoonful. 



-10 




First 
Last and 
A Iways 



You Will 

Buy 

Your Hats 
From 



The Paris Millinery 

THE QUALITY SHOP 



193 S. Main St. 



Phone Main 3476 



DIGESTIVE PROPERTIES OF EVERYDAY 
EATABLES. 

Roast meats are not so easily digested as boiled meats. 

New wheat bread is heavier than stale bread. 

Most ripe fruit is readily digested. 

Fish is more readily digested than the white meat of 
fowls. 

Liquid and semi-liquid dishes are more digestible 
than solids. 

Eggs very slightly cooked and milk are easily digested, 
as well as very nutritious. 

The flesh of shell fish and crustaceans is difficult of 
digestion. 

A ripe cheese, while indigestible itself, aids in the 
digestion of other food. 

HOW TO COOK THINGS. 

Breads, Biscuits, Rolls, Griddle Cakes. Etc. 

Southern Biscuit. 
Sift one quart of winter wheat flour, one teaspoonful 
of salt and one teaspoonful of soda together, then rub in 
a heaping tablespoonful of lard, add sufficient butter- 
milk to make a dought just stiff enough to be easily 
handled. Roll the dough half inch thick, cut out with a 
tin and bake quick in a hot oven. 

Tea Biscuit. 
Sift one quart of flour with one teaspoonful of salt and 
three rounding teaspoonfuls of baking powder; into this 
rub one large tablespoonful lard or butter until it is of 
the consistency of corn meal ; then add enough sweet milk 
to make a dough easily handled; roll and cut out; place 
in a greased pan and bake for fifteen minutes in a hot 
oven. Take out, brush lightly with yolk of egg and milk ; 
return to oven to glaze. 

Parker House Rolls. 

Take two pounds of flour, two heaping teaspoonfuls 
pure cream of tartar, one heaping teaspoonful of soda, 

42 



UNION & PLANTERS 
BANK & TRUST CO. 



MEMPHIS, TENNESSEE 



Capital and Surplus $1,650,000 :-: 3 Per Cent on Savings Accounts 
Large Assets and Conservative Management 



MONEY ADVICE 

Money hid in a sock is not safe. 

Money carried on the person is not safe. 

Money loaned without proper security is not safe. 
Money hid under the carpet is not safe. 

Money risked in speculation is not safe. 
Money is a sacred trust. 

It is your duty to protect your money. 

Nothing Surer Than a Savings Account 
in a Strong Bank 

"It is better to sleep on 3 per cent, than to lie awake on 6. 



OPFKERS 



S. p. Read, President. 
J. R. Pepper, Vice-President. 
Frank F. Hill. Vice-President. 
X. C. Perkins, Vice-President. 



Gilmer Winston, Cashier. 
R. S. Polk, Assistant Cashier. 
Kldridge Armistead, Asst. Cash. 
Sain Holloway, Atty. & Tr. Officer. 



Directors — T. C. Ashcroft, Harry Cohn, J. M. Dockery, W. C. Early, 
Noland Fontaine, G. T. Fitzhugh, J. M. Goodbar, W. E. Gage, 
W. B. Gates, Frank F. Hill, J. F. Hoist, Thos. H. Jackson, R. L. 
Jones, S. R. Leatherman, B. L. Mallory, J. M. McCormack, F. M. 
Norfleet, J. R. Pepper, N. C. Perkins, S. P. Read, Theodore Read, 
H. T. Winkelman. 



Main 5155 



81 Madison 



We Specially Invite Small Accounts 



43 



one heaping teaspoonful salt, all sifted together three 
times; then add two heaping teaspoonfnls sugar. Rub 
into the above dry (like tea biscuit) five ounces butter or 
lard, which must be hard. Add one or two eggs and one 
and a half pints sweet milk and work into a light dough. 
Do not work more than necessary for the dough to hold 
together. Roll out at once half inch thick and cut out 
with a large round cutter. Wash the edges with melted 
butter and double over like turn-overs. Let them stand a 
few minutes. Wash with egg and bake in a hot oven. 

Yeast Bread and Rolls. 
Make sponge with one cup warm water, one cup milk 
and a scant quart of flour and one cake compressed yeast 
dissolved in one-half cup water. Cover and raise in a 
warm place. When light stir well, add two teaspoons salt 
and sugar, if desired. Beat in flour until stiff enough to 
knead; then knead until smooth. Raise again, form into 
two loaves. Raise and bake about three-quarters of an 
hour. For rolls make sponge with scalded milk, slightly 
cooled and add shortening; raise kneaded dough twice 
before shaping. Brush rolls with melted butter, raise 
very light and bake in hot oven. Shape bread sticks with 
hands and bake crisp. 

Salt Rising Bread. 

One pint of new milk, corn meal to thicken ; one gallon 
flour, one tablespoonful sugar, one teaspoonful salt, pinch 
soda. 

Set the milk on the fire and stir in corn meal to make as 
thick as mush. Set in a warm place all night. In the 
morning it will be light. Put the flour in a bowl, pour in 
the mush and mix with warm milk and water, equal parts ; 
add the sugar, salt and soda. Make a stiff batter, cover 
and keep warm. In an hour it will be light. Work in 
flour to make a stiff dough ; let it rise, mold in loaves, put 
in greased pans, let it rise and bake. This makes the 
sweetest and most wholesome bread a family can use. 

Graham Bread. 
Dissolve one cake compressed yeast in one-fourth cup 
water. Make a batter with a scant quart of warm water, 

44 



If You Would Always Be a Bride 
Keep Your Temper and 

V O x THE FIRST IS YOUR AFFAIR 

I our ueauty--- the latter is ours 



Haii- 
Goods 

Toilet 
Articles 

Imported 
Ornaments 

San ford's 
Face 
Powder 

Sanford's 
Face 
Cream 

Sanford's 
Hair 
Tonic 



Manicuring, Massaging, Shampooing 
Hair Dressing. 

Manufacturers of Hair Goods. 

Send Us Your Combings. 

Mail Orders Filled Promptly. 




Novelty Beauty Parlor 

Misses Sanford, Props. 

19 N. Main St., Opp. Court Square Memphis, Tennessee 

Cumberland Phone 



LADIES AND CHILDREN EXCLUSIVELY 



45 



a pint of white flour and a quart of graham (each being 
sifted before measuring). Add half a cup of brown sugar 
and the yeast and beat hard until smooth. Cover well 
and let raise until double its bulk. Beat again, add two 
scant teaspoons salt and pour batter in well greased pans. 
Cover again, raise to not quite twice its size and bake in a 
moderate oven almost an hour. This may also be baked 
as muffins if desired. 

Whole Wheat Bread. 
Soften one cake of compressed yeast in one-fourth cup 
of water. Sift a scant quart of whole wheat flour into 
a bowl, with two teaspoons of salt and one-fourth cup of 
sugar and make into a batter with a pint of warm milk 
and the yeast. Beat well and work in sifted flour until 
the bread can be handled lightly on the board. Place in 
greased bowl, cover well and raise in a warm place. 
Shape in two small loaves when light and bake in a mod- 
erate oven about forty-five minutes, brushing with soft 
butter just before placing them in the oven. For nut 
loaves, a cup and a half of pecans and English walnuts 
may be added with the flour. 

Sally Lunn. 
Sift together one pint of flour, two tablespoonfuls of 
sugar and a little salt. Warm a scant cup of milk and 
melt in this three tablespoonfuls of butter. Stir into the 
flour, adding also a half cake of compressed yeast dis- 
solved in a little lukewarm water. Beat well, add one 
egg yolk and white beaten separately. Pour all into 
buttered cake pan and let raise until double its bulk, 
about two hours. Sprinkle lightly with granulated sugar 
and bake in a moderately hot oven. Serve warm, cut into 
squares. If set over night for breakfast, only one-fourth 
as much yeast is required. 

Boston Brown Bread. 

Sift together one cup each of rye meal, corn meal and 
whole wheat flour (or one and one-half cups each of 
graham and corn meal may be used), with one and one- 
half teaspoons soda and a teaspoon of salt. Add three- 

46 



After Your 
Honeymoon 
Visit the 

Bee 

Hive 

Store 




Quality Highest - Prices Lowest - Styles Newest 

Let us supply your needs in 
Ladies' and Gentlemen's 

Ready To Wear 

Everything in 

DRY GOODS, MILLINERY, LADIES' 
COATS AND SUITS, CLOTHING, 
GENTS' FURNISHINGS, HATS, 
SHOES, TRUNKS, BAGS, UM- 
BRELLAS, NOTIONS, ETC. 

STRICTLY ONE PRICE 



H. SILVERFIELD 

Old Phone Main 3675 
166 S. Main St. MEMPHIS, TENN. 



47 



fourths of a cup of molasses, a pint of sour milk and 
steam from one to three hours, according to size of molds 
used. 

Egg Bread. 

Two eggs well beaten, two cups sour milk, one smooth 
teaspoonful soda, one small handful of corn meal, lard 
size of a small egg, melted and added to batter, a little 
salt. Bake in a hot oven. 

Buttermilk Muffins. 

Take one quart of buttermilk, two eggs, one teaspoonful 
of soda dissolved in warm water, one teaspoonful of salt, 
flour to make a good batter. Beat the eggs well and stir 
them into the milk, beating hard all the while; add the 
flour and salt and at last the soda. Corn meal may be 
substituted for the flour. 

Corn Meal, Batter Cakes. 
Take one pint corn meal, three-fourths pint sour milk, 
one teaspoon nearly full of soda, stir in milk till it foams ; 
two eggs beaten separately, salt to taste. A tablespoonful 
of flour added to the meal is an improvement. Have the 
griddle hot and well greased. 

Waffles. 

Take one quart flour, three eggs beaten separately, a 
piece of lard the size of an egg, half teaspoonful of soda, 
a little salt, mix with enough sour cream to make a thin 
batter. Beat thoroughly before putting in the irons. 
Buckwheat Cakes. 

Mix three tablespoonfuls of molasses with one quart 
buttermilk and two beaten eggs. Then add, stirring in 
slowly, enough buckwheat flour to make a smooth batter 
and one handful of corn meal well mixed with one large 
teaspoonful of soda. Salt to taste. Cook at once. 
Griddle Cakes. 

Sift a teaspoonful of soda, half teaspoonful of salt and 
two cupfuls of flour together; stir into the mixture two 
scant cupfuls of sour milk and two well beaten eggs; 
make a smooth batter and bake on a well greased hot 
griddle. Serve at once. 

48 



N.HILL MARTIN 
&C0. 

INSURANCE 



FIRE 

AUTOMOBILE 

ACCIDENT 

BURGLARY 

HEALTH 

LIABILITY 

ELEVATOR 

PLATE GLASS 

TORNADO 

BONDS 

PHONE MAIN 3505 

545-50 BANK OF COMMERCE 
BUILDING 

Memphis, Tennessee 






49 



Flannel Cakes. 

Sift together one and one-half pints of flour, one table- 
spoonful of brown sugar, two teaspoonfuls baking powder 
and one teaspoonful of salt. Add two beaten eggs and one 
and one-half pints milk and beat into a smooth, thin bat- 
ter. Bake on a hot griddle to a rich brown color and 
serve with maple syrup. These should never be larger 
than a tea saucer. 

The Cooking of Meats, Steaks, Roasts, Fish, 
Fowls, Etc. 

If your husband is a normal, red-blooded, hearty, 
healthy man, you will find that after rubbing up against 
the jagged edges of a close-fisted, miserly old business 
world all day, the best prescription for smoothing the 
wrinkles from his brow, bringing back the sparkle to his 
eye and attuning the strings of his heart to give forth 
sweet melodies, is as follows : 

One rich, rare, juicy beefsteak, one and one-half inches 
thick ; 1 bowl of brown mushroom gravy ; 1 dish of French 
fried potatoes ; 1 asparagus omelette ; 1 plate of hot 
Southern biscuit ; 1 pot of fragrant coffee. 

If he doesn't mention the theater after this, his case 
is hopeless. 

Beefsteak, Broiled. 

Take a T-bone steak, one and one-half inches thick, 
with a large tenderloin in it. Trim away the fat on the 
inner edge of the steak until it is not more than one inch 
wide. Have a steel fry pan just hot enough not to show 
red, and into this put half dozen very thin strips of break- 
fast bacon, which will cook in one minute, when it is re- 
moved and the steak put in. As soon as the steak is 
crisped upon one side it should be turned and crisped on 
the other, the process of turning being frequently re- 
peated until the steak is as well done as desired For a 
rare steak, the two sides should be crisped as quickly as 
possible, then cover for half a minute to heat the steak 
through. The strips of bacon should be placed on the 

50 



Our Line of 
Automobiles 



shown below consists of four of the very best pleas- 
ure cars on the market, and price considered, can 
not be duplicated. 

Let us show you our line before you buy and we 
feel sure of convincing- you and selling you a car. 



Hudson 
Saxon 
Hupmobile 

Detroit Electric 

Memphis Motor Lar Lo. 

Distributors 

Salesrooms — 157-159 Monroe Avenue. 
Telephone Main 4117. 



51 



platter with the steak and the whole garnished with 
parsley, with a few thin slices of lemon around the edges 
of the platter. 

Another Broiled Steak. 
Select- thick, fat steak, trim edges and remove bone, if 
large. Skewer into shape and sear the surface of the 
meat quickly. Finish broiling more slowly, allowing eight 
to ten minutes for steak one inch thick. Place on warm 
platter, pour over part of fat, season, garnish and serve. 
A mushroom sauce may be served with the steak, or the 
sauce Bearnaise. 

Brown Mushroom Sauce. 
Melt two tablespoons butter in frying pan and add 
one tablespoonful minced onion and cook slowly ten min- 
utes. Add one pint of mushrooms, peeled and cut in 
small pieces, and cook ten minutes. Then add two table- 
spoons flour and brown lightly. Pour in one and one-half 
cups stock or water (or liquor from can, if canned mush- 
rooms are used), and when smooth, season well with salt 
and pepper. 

Bearnaise Sauce. 
Put one tablespoon of butter in a small saucepan with 
the yolks of two eggs and two tablespoons of vinegar or 
lemon juice. Set this into boiling water and stir until it 
thickens; add another tablespoon of butter; continue the 
stirring and add a third spoon. Season with salt and 
cayenne, add a teaspoon of minced parsley and tarragon 
if obtainable. Tarragon vinegar may be used if desired, 
also onion juice added. 

Baked Beef. 
Select a good rib, put in pan, dust with pepper, cover 
the bottom of the pan with boiling water, run the meat 
in a very hot oven and cook quickly until the outside is 
thoroughly seared; by this time the bottom of the pan 
will be covered with fat of the meat. Begin basting and 
reduce the heat of the oven and cook fifteen minutes to 
each pound of beef. This recipe will answer for all meats 
that are baked. 



Your Weddin; 
Day 

Should Be the Start of 
Your Saving Day 



We Extend You a Cordial 

invitationto join our 

Savings Department 



3% Paid on Savings Accounts 
4% Paid on Time Certificates 



Peoples Savings I Kink 



ESTABLISHED 1899 



No. 71 Madison Avenue 



Phone Main 3418 



Roast of Beef. 

Select choice rib roast and remove small end of bone, 
to use as short ribs or for stock, leaving a standing roast. 
Score the edges of meat with a sharp knife and place on 
rack in open pan. Sear the meat well under gas flame. 
Reduce heat when meat is crisp. Season well and finish 
cooking in upper oven, basting meat often with fat in the 
pan. Should there not be enough fat for this purpose, 
boiling water may be added. Turn flame out ten minutes 
before roast is done and make a gravy of four table- 
spoons each of meat fat and flour and a pint of stock (or 
boiling water). Season well, add kitchen bouquet to 
color and flavor, and strain before serving. 

Meat cooked in this fashion is more like the roasts 
prepared over an open fire, and no such flavor or juici- 
ness may be obtained by baking in a coal or wood oven. 

Stuffed Leg of Lamb. 
Prepare a dressing by moistening two cups of bread 
crumbs (from inside of loaf) with one-half cup of melted 
butter. Season with salt, pepper and thyme or sweet 
Marjaram, with a little onion if desired. Add a very little 
water and place the meat in, skewering the ends into 
shape. Have oven very hot and place meat in pan, add- 
ing neither water nor seasoning until the meat is seared 
over. Then reduce the heat, dredge meat lightly with 
flour and the seasonings and pour one cup of boiling- 
water in the pan. Baste the meat with this every ten or 
fifteen minutes (unless a covered roasting pan is used) 
and roast about an hour and a half, if weighing five 
pounds. Serve with a brown sauce made of four table- 
spoons of flour and the drippings in the pan, with a pint 
of stock made by cooking the bones in water very slowly 
until it is well flavored. 

Browned Veal, Tomato Sauce. 
Remove the bone and skin from two pounds of veal 
and cut into pieces for serving. Roll these pieces into 
seasoned flour and fry brown in the fat which has been 
tried out from several pieces of fat pork. Remove meat 
from pan and add four tablespoonfuls of flour to remain- 

54 



'Tis the Pleasure of 

HOUSEKEEPING 

Makes Married Life 
Complete 

AND IT IS CHEAPER TO KEEP HOUSE THAN TO BOARD 



It doesn't cost much to furnish the house if econ- 
omy is used in purchasing the furniture. 
Eighteen years' experience in the Furni- 
ture Business has revealed to us the 
secret of 

Low Prices 

and taught us the art of completeness in furnishing 
a home up-to-the-minute. 



Try— 



F 



ORTAS' 

AMOUS 

URNITURE 

IGURING 

ACILITIES 



when estimating the cost of furnishing your home. 



Fortas Furniture Co. 

81 N. SECOND ST. SJ™™T iw MEMPHIS 



ing fat and brown slightly, then add gradually the 
strained liquor from a can of tomatoes, a slice of onion 
and carrot, two or three bay leaves and a bit of mace. 
Return meat to sauce, cover and simmer until meat is 
tender, the time depending upon cut of meat, and strain 
the gravy over meat, adding pepper and salt, if neces- 
sary. This may be cooked in the oven if more convenient 
and stock or water substituted for the tomato. 

Veal Loaf With Mushrooms. 
Run two pounds of veal through the chopper twice 
with half a pound of fresh pork. Soften one cup of stale 
bread in milk and add to the meat with half a cup of 
chopped mushrooms, the juice of one lemon and a little 
grated rind, half a saltspoonful of nutmeg and salt and 
pepper. Add two beaten eggs and when thoroughly 
mixed shape into a long roll and place in shallow pan. 
Dredge with flour, pour around the loaf the liquor from 
the can of mushrooms and baste with this during the 
cooking. Bake about half an hour, then thicken the sauce 
with two tablespoons each of butter and flour rubbed 
together, season well, add the balance of mushrooms 
(chopped) and pour around the roll in serving platter. 
Canned tomatoes may be substituted for the mushrooms. 

Broiled Sweetbreads. 
Clean and boil two pairs of sweetbreads and chill thor- 
oughly. Cut them in halves lengthwise and dip in melted 
butter seasoned with salt, pepper and lemon juice. Broil 
quickly on each side and place on crisp slices of toast, 
adding bits of butter and a little rich stock before serving. 

Baked Pork and Beans. 
Soak. one quart of pea beans in cold water over night. 
In the morning put them into fresh cold water and sim- 
mer until soft enough to pierce with a pin, being careful 
not to let them boil enough to break. If you like, boil 
one onion with them. When soft turn them into a colan- 
der and pour cold water through them. Place with the 
onion in a bean pot. Pour boiling water over one-quar- 
ter of a pound of salt pork, part fat and part lean, scrape 

56 



Both Phones 2207 

Mcdowell $ 
monteverde 

UNDERTAKERS 



1 5 South Third 
Street 



MEMPHIS, TENNESSEE 



57 



the rind till white. Cut the rind into half-inch strips, 
bury the pork in the beans, leaving only the rind exposed. 
Mix one teaspoonful of salt and one teaspoonful of mus- 
tard with one-quarter of a cup of molasses. Fill the cup 
with hot water and when well mixed pour it over the 
beans, adding enough water to cover them. Keep them 
covered with water until the last hour, then lift the pork 
to the surface and let it crisp. Bake eight hours in a 
moderate oven. Much of the excellence of baked beans 
depends upon the bean pot. It should be earthen, with a 
narrow mouth and bulging sides. This shape is seldom 
found outside New England and is said to have been 
modeled after the Assyrian pots. 

Broiled Chicken 

Prepare young chickens for broiling and spread lightly 
with soft butter mixed with salt, pepper and a little lemon 
juice. Cook slowly under the gas flame for twenty min- 
utes, basting and turning once, then increase the heat 
and brown well. Place on hot platter, spread with soft 
butter, paprika and parsley and serve. If chicken be 
large, it is well to do the first part of the cooking in the 
upper oven. 

Roast Turkey with Chestnut Stuffing. 

Dress, clean, stuff and truss a ten-pound turkey. Place 
on dripping pan, rub over with salt and spread breast, 
legs and wings with one-third of a cup of butter worked 
until creamy and mixed with one-quarter cup of flour. 
Place in a hot oven and as soon as turkey begins to brown, 
baste with one-half cup butter melted in one-half cup 
boiling water, and continue the basting every fifteen min- 
utes, using the fat in the pan. Bake three hours, turning 
frequently that the bird may brown evenly. 

Chestnut Stuffing. 

Throw fifty large chestnuts into boiling water for a 
few minutes, then take them up and rub off the thin dark 
skin. Cook in boiling salted water until soft. Drain 
and force through a potato ricer. Add one-quarter cup 
of butter, one teaspoonful of salt, one-eighth of a tea- 

58 



Hmotppe Printing Company 

extents its; congratulations anb toisfjes pou 

fjappiness anb prosperity in 

pour neto relationship. 



T/?e establishment of a home brings with it many new- 
responsibilities. 

To the Young Wife, not the least of these is the many 
social obligations that she must meet. 

CORRECT STATIONERY 

is an index of one's social standing. Trust us with your 
orders in this line and feel assured that they will be cor- 
rect in every particular. Calling cards, invitations, dance 
programs, birth announcements, etc., furnished on short 
notice. Prompt service is a hobby with us. 

To the Young Husband, perhaps just starting in business, 
we would suggest as a stepping stone to success, an inti- 
mate acquaintance with our quality, service and prices in 
all lines of Commercial Printing. A call at our plant will 
be profitable to both of us. 



jpempfn* Htnotppe Printing Co. 

Printer* anb Cngraber* 



56=60 «l9ortlj ^Jjtrb ^Ixttt 



.iHSempijis. Cennrssec 



59 



spoonful of pepper and a quarter of a cup of cream. 
Melt the butter and add one cup of cracker crumbs and 
mix all together. Stuff in the turkey with this. 

Roast Goose. 
Stuff the goose with a potato dressing made in the fol- 
lowing manner: Six potatoes boiled, pared and mashed 
fine and light, one tablespoonful of salt, one teaspoonful 
of pepper, one spoonful of sage, two tablespoonfuls of 
onion juice, two of butter. Truss and dredge well with 
salt, pepper and flour. Roast (if the bird weighs eight 
pounds) one hour and a quarter. Goose is so fat that no 
butter is required. Serve with apple sauce. Many peo- 
ple boil the goose half' an hour before roasting to take 
away the strong flavor. 

Fried Chicken. 
Cut the chicken into six or eight pieces. Season well 
with salt and pepper. Dip in beaten egg and then in 
fine bread crumbs, in which there is one teaspoonful of 
chopped parsley for every cupful of crumbs. Dip again 
in the egg and crumbs. Fry ten minutes in boiling fat. 
Cover the center of a cold dish with tartare sauce. Ar- 
range the chicken on this and garnish with a border of 
pickled beets, or it can be served with cream sauce. 

Mutton Chops. 
Sprinkle the chops with salt, pepper and flour. Put 
them in a double broiler and broil over or before the fire 
for eight minutes. Serve on a hot dish with butter, salt 
and pepper or tomato sauce. The fire for chops should 
not be as hot as for steak. Chops can be seasoned with 
salt and pepper, wrapped in buttered paper and broiled 
ten minutes over a hot fire. 

Boiled Ham 
The best ham for boiling is of the country cured variety 
which has been well seasoned with smoke from hickory 
wood and should weigh from twelve to fourteen pounds. 
Hams cured in this way are better when one to two years 
old. Soak overnight in cold water, put on to boil in 
fresh cold water in kettle or pot large enough to admit of 

60 



When You Make Up Your 

Mind to Begin House 

Keeping 



Remember- -- 



We sell everything in Hardware from the 
cheapest that's good to the best that's 
made. 

The Miller Range- -- 

Is acknowledged by 2,000 Memphians as 
the BEST. 

The McCray Refrigerator- -- 

Is used in all Government Hospitals, 
Forts, Battleships, etc. What better tes- 
timonial do you wish than the U. S. Gov- 
ernment ? 

Community Silver- -- 

In all of its beautiful designs, guaran- 
teed to wear for 50 years, can be found 
here. 

We are prepared to furnish your Kitchen, regard- 
less of how simple or pretentious your 
taste may be. 

Barnes & Thompson Hdw. Co. 

151-153 SO. MAIN ST. 



61 



its being covered up. When the water comes to a boil, 
add half a pint of old port wine and cook very gently 
till skin will peel off. After peeling, stick spice cloves 
all about over the fat of the ham, sprinkle heavily with 
brown sugar, cracker crumbs and black pepper and brown 
in oven. 

Bacon Feaze. 

Beat four eggs into a batter with one-half teacupful 
cream and a teaspoonful flour, fry thin slices of bacon 
and dip them in the batter. Lay the bacon in a frying 
pan with heated cooking oil or fat, pour the batter over 
it, and when both sides are well browned lay on a heated 
dish and serve hot. An appetizing breakfast dish. 

Roast Quail With Bread Sauce. 

Peel and slice an onion and put it over the fire in a pint 
of milk. Pluck and singe half a dozen quail. Draw them 
without breaking the intestines, cut off the heads and 
feet and wipe them with a wet towel. Rub them all over 
with butter, season them with pepper and salt and roast 
them before a very hot fire for fifteen minutes, basting 
them three or four times with butter. Have some slices 
of toast laid under them to catch the drippings. While 
the birds are roasting, make a bread sauce as follows: 
Roll a pint bowlful of dry bread and sift the crumbs ; use 
the finest ones for the sauce and the largest ones for fry- 
ing later. Remove the onion from the milk in which it 
has been boiling, stir into the milk the finest portions of 
the crumbs, season it with a saltspoon of white pepper 
and a dash of nutmeg finely grated. Stir in a tablespoon- 
ful of butter and stir the sauce until it is smooth, then 
place the saucepan containing it in a pan of boiling water 
to keep it hot. Put two tablespoonsful of butter over 
the fire in a frying pan and when it is hot put into it the 
coarse half of the crumbs, dust them with cayenne pep- 
per and stir them until they are light brown, then at once 
put them on a hot dish, putting the bread sauce into a 
gravy boat when ready to send to the table. Arrange 
to have the fried bread crumbs, sauce and quail done at 
the same time, serve the birds on the toast which has been 

62 



THIS SPACE RESERVED FOR 

Economy Shoe Store 

ALEX GOLDSTEIN, Manager 

128 NORTH MAIN STREET 
MEMPHIS, TENN. 






63 



laid under them. In serving the quail at table, lay each 
bird on a hot plate, pour over it a large spoonful of the 
bread sauce and on that place a spoonful of the fried 
bread crumbs. 

Fried Oysters. 
Oysters for frying should be large and plump. Spread 
them on a towel to drain, and after seasoning with salt 
and pepper, roll in fine dry bread crumbs or cornmea!. 
Dip them in beaten egg and again roll in plenty of crumbs. 
Have the frying fat about four inches deep in the frying 
kettle and very hot. Cover the bottom of the frying 
basket with one layer of breaded oysters, plunge into the 
fat and cook one and a half minutes. Drain and serve 
immediately. For a dozen and a half oysters, there will 
be required two eggs, one pint of bread crumbs, quarter 
teaspoon of pepper and one level tablespoon of salt. Use 
half the salt and pepper to season the oysters and the 
rest for the crumbs. If the flavor be liked, two table- 
spoonfuls of tomato catsup may be mixed with the egg. 

Scalloped Oysters. 
Crush and roll several handfuls of Boston or other 
friable crackers. Put a layer in the bottom of a but- 
tered pudding dish. Wet this with a mixture of the 
oyster liquor and milk slightly warmed. Next have a 
layer of oysters. Sprinkle with salt and pepper and lay 
small bits of butter upon them. Then another layer of 
moistened crumbs, and so on until the dish is full. Let 
the top layer be of crumbs thicker than the rest and beat 
an egg into the milk you pour over them. Stick bits of 
butter thickly over it, cover the dish, set in the oven, 
bake half an hour. If the dish be large, remove the cover 
and brown by setting it upon the upper grating of the 
oven. 

Oyster Croquettes. 
Scald and chop fine the hard part of the oysters 
(leaving the other part of the oysters and liquor for 
soup) ; add an equal weight of mashed potatoes. To one 
pound of this add three level teaspoonfuls of butter, a 
teaspoonful of salt, one-half teaspoonful of pepper and 

64 



Have You 


Enough 


p 


You expect to live, say, twenty years, and earn an average of, 
say, $2,500.00 per year, or $50,000.00. 


PUT IT ANOTHER WAY- 




Your life is worth $50,000.00 to your family in twenty years. 


SUPPOSE YOU DIE AFTER 
FIVE YEARS! 






$12,500.00 






27.500 00 


Life Insurance Will Cover the Contingency. 
The Cost is Nominal. 


LOOK AT THE RATES! 




You cannot afford to be without adequate protection. 




Age. Rate per Thousand. 
21 . $10.81 


Age. Rate per 

41 

42 

43 

44 

45 

46 

47 

48 

49 

50 

51 

52 

53. . 


rhousand 
$14.31 
14.73 
15.20 
15.74 
16.35 
17.05 
17.85 
18.76 
19.80 
20.94 
22.23 
23.66 
25.26 


22 10.89 

23 10.96 


24 11.05 

25 11.14 

26 11.24 

27 11.34 


28. . . . 11.45 


29 11.58 


30 11.70 

31 11.84 

32 12.00 

33 12.17 

34 12.36 

35 12.56 

36 12.78 

37 13.03 

38 13.31 

39 13.61 

40 13.94 


54 

55 

56 

57 

58 

59 

60 


27.03 
28.99 
31.18 
33.59 
36.26 
39.20 
. . . 42.45 


These rates are reduced by annual dividends. 

We can insure you against accident, illness and death. 

It is the IF in LIFE that life insurance offsets. 

We ask the patronage of the public because we are giving 

service in each individual life insurance transaction. 


the best 


Sibley & Erskine, General A 


gents 


Penn Mutual Life Insurance Go. 




Second Street and M 


adison Avenue 




Memphis, 


Tenn. 




Second Floor Germania Savings Bank Building 


Phone Main 5374 



65 



one-quarter cup of cream. Make in small cakes, dip in 
egg, then in bread crumbs and fry in hot fat like dough- 
nuts. 

Deviled Crabs. 

One dozen nice, heavy crabs, one-half pint cream, two 
tablespoons flour, one-quarter grated nutmeg, four egg 
yolks boiled hard; one tablespoonful each of salt, butter 
and chopped parsley ; salt and cayenne to taste. Put the 
crabs in warm water, add the salt and put the kettle over 
a brisk fire. Boil thirty minutes. Take up and drain, 
break off all claws, separate the shells, remove the spongy 
fingers and the stomach, which is found under the head. 
Pick out all the meat. Put the cream on to boil, rub 
butter and flour together and add to the boiling cream, 
stir and cook two minutes. Take from the fire, add the 
crab meat, the egg yolks mashed fine, parsley, nutmeg, 
salt and cayenne. Clear the upper shells of the crabs, 
fill them with the mixture, brush over with beaten egg, 
cover with bread crumbs and put in a quick oven to 
brown. 

Creamed Codfish. 

Soak the fish three hours, then boil in fresh water until 
tender, then pick out all the bones. To cream it for 
breakfast, take one pint of milk and bring to the boiling 
point. Thicken with a tablespoonful of cornstarch, dis- 
solved in a little water. Add a spoonful of butter and 
stir in the fish — not less than a large cupful. Add two 
well-beaten eggs, let them cook a moment and serve hot. 

Oyster Stew. 

Take the oysters with their liquor, adding a little water 
if not sufficient liquor. One tablespoonful of butter, pep- 
per and salt to taste. Cover the stewpan, place on the 
fire and remove as soon as it boils. If milk is desired, 
the bottom of the soup plates should simply be covered 
with cold milk, then serve the stew. 

Broiled Lobster. 

First remove stomach and intestinal vein (the only 
uneatable parts of a lobster). Split the meat of the 

66 



SAFETY 
FIRST 



THE NATIONAL CITY BANK 
was the first bank in Memphis to 
offer Savings Depositors the ben- 
efit of United States Government pro- 
tection. Less than one-tenth of one 
per cent of the money deposited in 
National Banks has been lost in fifty 
years' operation. 



We Solicit Your Account, Based on 

Safety and Good Service 

The National City Bank 

Of Memphis 
120 MADISON AVENUE 



67 



tail and claws. Season, cover with butter and dredge 
with flour all the meat and broil over a hot fire until light 
brown. Serve with Bechamel sauce (omitting cheese) ; 
or broil in the shell, dividing tail and claws into two 
parts, and broiling in half shell — on meat side eight miu- 
utes, on shell side ten. 

Barbecue of Mackerel. 
Scale and wash a fresh mackerel of medium size. Split 
it down the back, take out the backbone, lay the fish skin 
down in the pan just large enough to hold it. Sprinkle it 
with two saltspoonfuls of salt and quarter of a saltspoon- 
ful of pepper; lay on it two tablespoonfuls of butter and 
set in front of a clear fire when no ashes can fall on it. 
Let it brown, basting it every two minutes with the butter, 
which will melt and run into the pan. As soon as it is 
brown, set the pan over the fire for five minutes and then 
put the fish in a large, deep platter and keep it hot. Stir 
into the pan in which it browned a tablespoonful of flour 
and set over the fire to brown. As soon as it is brown, 
stir in a pint of boiling water, a saltspoon of salt and a 
quarter saltspoonful of pepper and let it boil two min- 
utes, stirring it constantly. Then pour this sauce over 
the fish and serve it hot. 

Planked Shad. 
The plank should be about fourteen inches long, twelve 
inches wide and made of hardwood — either oak, hickory 
or ash. Select a shad fresh from the water, scale it, split 
it down the back, clean, wash well in cold water and im- 
mediately dry. Dredge with salt and pepper. Place the 
plank in the very bottom of the gas stove under the gas 
lights to heat, or in a coal oven, near the top of the oven. 
When it is very hot, put on the shad, skin side down, 
brush with melted butter, put into the oven under the 
gas lights, cook quickly for fifteen minutes. Have ready 
about two quarts of mashed potatoes, add to them a half- 
pint of boiling milk, a teaspoon of salt and a saltspoonful 
of pepper; beat until very light, put the potatoes in a 
pastry bag. Remove the fish from the oven, decorate 
with the mashed potatoes, brush again with melted but- 

68 



The 

BENJAMIN R. SIMMS 
LUMBER CO. 

Manufacturers and Dealers 
Long and Short Leaf Yellow 
Pine and Hardwoods 

Our Specialty 

"The Very Best Quality 
and Service" 



622 SCIMITAR BUILDING 
PHONE MAIN 5295 



MEMPHIS, TENNESSEE 



PHONE MAIN 5295 



622 SCIMITAR BUILDING 



BENJAMIN R. SIMMS & CO. 

CERTIFIED PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS 

State, County and Commercial 
Auditing 



WE ARE CERTIFIED UNDER 
THE STATE LAWS OF 
TENNESSEE AND LOUISIANA 



MEMPHIS, TENNESSEE 



69 



ter and put back in the oven for five minutes longer. Rub 
together a tablespoonful of butter, a tablespoonful of 
lemon juice and a tablespoonful of chopped parsley. 
Spread this over the fish, garnish with lemon and parsley 
and send to the table. 

"White fish may be planked in precisely the same way. 

Fried Fish. 

Fry smelts, perch, trout, butter fish and other small 
pan fish whole. Cut large fish in inch-thick slices and 
two or three inches square. Flounders and bass, strip 
off the flesh each side the bone in long fillets, divide in 
halves and roll up toward the tip. Remove skin and 
bones as much as possible from sliced fish, wipe dry, roll 
in bread crumbs or fine meal, then in beaten egg and then 
in crumbs and fry in deep fat. 

Broiled Fish. 

The best method for mackerel, white fish, small blue 
fish and shad is broiling. Clean, wipe, split down the back, 
lay in greased wire broiler (kept only for fish) and cook 
flesh side first over hot coals till brown. Turn the broiler 
and cook skin side until crisp. Slide out on platter, sea- 
son with salt, pepper, butter and lemon juice. To broil 
under gas lay the broiler over a pan to catch the dripping 
fat and keep this pan only for fish. 

Brain Fritters. 

After washing and ridding the brains of fiber and skin, 
drop them into boiling water and cook gently for fifteen 
minutes, then throw into ice cold water. When they are 
stiff and white, wipe and mash them to a batter with a 
wooden spoon, seasoning with salt and pepper. Beat 
into this an egg, half a cup of milk and two or three table- 
spoonfuls of prepared flour. Drop in hot fat by the table- 
spoonful, fry quickly, shake in a heated colander to free 
them of fat and serve very hot. 

Creole Hash. 
Put through chopper six raw potatoes, two onions, 
three or four green peppers and two large tomatoes. 
Melt four tablespoonful s butter in frying pan, add the 

70 




The Music of the Masters Through the 

Kimball 

88-Note Player Piano 

Close study of the best in music has often resulted in the growth 
of fine musical temperaments. Comparatively few may at end the 
great symphony concerts and hpar our best orchestr is. B ch, 
Beethoven, Mozart. Handel, Mendelssohn, Wagner, Liszt, Chopin, 
are mere names unless you know the beauties of a M^nd^lss hn 
Pprin°- Sonar. Wagner's glorious Tannhaeuser, the Chopin Etudes. 
The Kimball 88-Note Player-Piano brings this influence into the 
home with an edrcational value scarcely to be overestimated. 

Kimball Circulating Library 

Ask to Hear Any Music 

in which you chance to delight, plaved on the Kimball 88-Note 
Player-Piano at the warerooms of the W. W. Kimball Company. 
Their library of music rolls comprise^ every form of mu ic — 'he 
po»ulnr classic opp'-atic, church or danc^. You will be charmed 
with the artistic plaving of this Player-Piano. Inquire also about 
special Library Privileges. 

Factory Branch 

W. W. Kimball Co. 



JOHN B. VESEY, Mgr. 



Established 1857 



160 MADISON AVE. 



71 



vegetables and cook until potatoes are nearly done. Keep 
covered and stir frequently and add a little stock or water 
as it becomes dry. Now add two cups chopped meat — 
cold roast beef preferred— and season well with salt and 
Worcestershire sauce. Serve very hot with points of 
toast. 

Deutsche Beefsteaks. 
(Hamburger.) 

Chop one pound of lean beefsteak, two ounces of suet 
and one medium-sized onion with a meat chopper. Sea- 
son with salt, black pepper and cayenne, form into four 
flattened meat balls and fry about one minute on each 
side until both sides are brown. When the steaks are 
taken out, add a little water to the sauce and thicken with 
flour. Half a teaspoonful of beef extract will strengthen 
it. Pour the whole over the beefsteaks, which have been 
laid on a hot platter. 

Chile Con Cakne. 

Cut up fine one pound of beef and one medium- sized 
onion; fry for a little while in hot lard, then add salt, 
one green sweet pepper and two tablespoonfuls of chile 
powder. Add ripe tomatoes and a little water and boil 
slowly until done. A few bay leaves may also be added 
and flour to thicken gravy. It is customary to serve 
frijoles (Bayo beans) in equal parts with chile con carne, 
and they are prepared as follows : Soak the beans over 
night in cold water, to which a little baking soda has been 
added. Drain, boil in fresh water with a little lard or 
piece of bacon, seasoning with salt. 

Chile Sauce 

May be made of any ordinary brown gravy by adding 
to each pint of gravy one teaspoonful of chile powder and 
a little onion juice. 

Tamales. 

Chop fine one pound beef; add a little chopped tallow 
or a tablespoonful of lard and a little salt. Fry in pan 
until tender, chop again very fine, return to pan; add a 
little warm water and one teaspoonful of chile powder. 
Stir and fry for ten minutes. Sauce left from above can 
be used to prepare dough with. To prepare the dough. 




It is Easily Worked Out 
in Beautiful 

Glen View Park 

We furnish the lot and nearly all 
of the money with which to 
build. This man you have mar- 
ried owes you a home. Have him 
talk it over with us today and we 
will show him how easy it is to 
own the roof that shelters you. 

Geo. W. Person & Co. 

66 West Court Main 4580 



73 



add to one quart of cornmeal two tablespoonfuls of salt, 
two tablespoonfuls lard and boiling water to make a thick 
dough. To prepare the corn husk, cut off with the scis- 
sors about one inch of the stalk end and boil ten minutes ; 
dry and rub over with a cloth dipped in hot lard. Put a 
layer of dough on the husk about four inches long, one 
and one-half inches wide, one-quarter inch thick. Along 
the center spread two teaspoonfuls of the prepared meat, 
roll the whole like a cigarette and fold the small end of 
the husk. Place them with the folded end down in a po- 
tato strainer, place the strainer in a pot over .water, 
cover the whole with cloth and steam for two hours. The 
above should make about fifty tamales. 

Creamed Macaroni. 

Make a white sauce with two tablespoons each of but- 
ter and flour and one cup of milk. Season with half a 
teaspoon each of mustard and salt, also a little paprika, 
and add a cup of grated cheese. When sauce is thor- 
oughly heated add the cooked macaroni and the yolk of 
one egg mixed with a little cream. If preferred, the 
whole may be placed in a baker and browned in a hot 
oven. 

Macaroni or Spaghetti. 

Break into half-inch bits, cook in boiling salted water 
until tender, drain, reheat in stock, or strained tomato, or 
milk. Season with salt, pepper and butter or cream, and 
when serving cover with grated cheese, or after boiling 
moisten with tomato sauce, add cheese in layers, cover 
with buttered crumbs and bake twenty minutes. 

Welsh Rarebit. 

Heat and stir minced or grated cheese in pan over boil- 
ing water or in chafing dish. Add for each half pound of 
cheese one-fourth level teaspoon dry mustard, a dash of 
salt and pepper, and as it melts add about one-fourth 
cup cream, ale or beer to dilute and one teaspoon of any 
preferred table sauce. When blended, serve at once on 
toast, wafers, plain bread, hot rice or baked potatoes. If 
milk is used, it may be necessary to add an egg to blend 

74 



After the Honeymoon 
Comes the "Money-moon" 

No one thinks it necessary to know the proprietor of 
the store where he buys his hat or shoes, but a man 
should know his Banker. 

The North Memphis 
Savings Bank 

Cordially invites you to come in and get acquainted. 



Capital Stock (paid in) $ 50,000.00 

Surplus (earned) 100,000.00 

DEPOSITS 2,303,277.04 

Total $2,453,277.04 



Depository for the State of Tennessee. 



There is no question about the advantage of having a good 
bank back of you. We court the opportunity to prove to 
you that this bank is a good bank — good in its sound- 
ness, personnel and service. Our officers will be glad to 
meet you or correspond with you with reference to your 
banking relations. 



North Memphis Savings Bank 

Main and Adams St. 
J. T. WALSH, President. M. G. BAILEY, Cashier. 



75 



the milk with the cheese. A few drops of tabasco will add 
to the appetizing flavor. 

Chicken Saute, Mexican. 

Cut a chicken in six pieces — two wings, two legs and 
two pieces of breast. Fry them in butter with one me- 
dium-sized chopped onion. Season with salt, pepper and 
tabasco sauce and let cook twenty minutes. Add three 
peeled tomatoes cut into quarters, one dozen minced 
mushrooms, two minced sweet peppers, a gill of white 
wine. Let simmer for fifteen minutes longer. Dress 
chicken with above, garnishing in a border of rice. 



SAUCES FOR FISH AND MEATS. 

Beukre Noir. 

Two tablespoons butter, one of vinegar, one of chopped 
parsley, one teaspoon of lemon juice, one-half teaspoon 
of salt, one-half teaspoon of tabasco sauce. Put the but- 
ter in a frying pan and when very hot add the other ingre- 
dients. Let it come to a boil and remove from fire. This 
sauce is for fried and broiled fish and should be poured 
over the fish before sending to the table. 

Plain White Sauce. 

In a granite saucepan melt and mix one rounded table- 
spoon each of butter or flour and one-fourth to one-half 
teaspoon salt. Add gradually one cup of hot water or 
milk, or stock from oysters, white fish or meats. Stir till 
smooth. This sauce may be used as it is for toast. 

For meat and fish, add lemon juice, cayenne, capers, 
bits of oysters or cooked celery and a few drops of onion 
juice. 

For vegetables, add pepper or minced sweet pepper or 
parsley, and for cauliflower add grated cheese or lemon 
juice. 

For picked-up codfish or chipped beef, use the sauce 
plain, adding one egg just before serving. 

76 



FOR REAL ESTATE 

Of all kinds, to buy or rent. 



FOR LOANS 

On Real Estate of all kinds 
SEE 

TURLEY & NAILL 

26 North Second Street 
Either Phone — 586. 



Mr. Newlywed:- 



If a FIRE burns our new home, 



what will you do? 

Mrs. Newlywed:- 



Why, collect INSURANCE 



FROM 



Thompson & Tobin 

26 North Second St. Opposite Court Square 
Every kind of Insurance. Telephone 3607 Main 



77 



Tomato Sauce. 
For Chops, Fish, Macaroni, Etc. 

Cook one rounded tablespoon minced onion in one 
tablespoon butter till only slightly colored. Add, if 
liked, the same amount of minced sweet pepper, celery or 
parsley, carrot or turnip, stir in one rounded tablespoon 
of flour and one-fourth level teaspoon salt ; add gradually 
from one to one and one-half cups of strained hot tomato 
or any left-over stewed tomato if unsweetened. Strain 
before serving if desired smooth. 

Brown Sauce. 

This is called brown gravy when made in the roasting 
pan from the fat or dripping of meat with simple sea- 
soning of salt and pepper, and brown sauce, when made 
in a frying pan with butter and brown stock and seasoned 
highly. For special dishes, when the baking pan has not 
furnished the starting point of glaze and brown fat, melt 
in an iron pan one rounded tablespoon of butter or any 
fat of meat you are preparing. Let it brown; add one 
rounded tablespoon of flour or cornstarch dissolved in a 
little water. Stir till very brown. Add gradually one 
cup of hot stock. Add more hot water if too thick or 
boil down if too thin. Season with salt, pepper and lemon 
juice and add mushrooms, catsup, horseradish, currant 
jelly or any other condiment which will blend with the 
meat. 

Horseradish Sauce, Creamed. 

Usually served with hot boiled corned beef or cold roast 
beef. Add the yolk of one egg to six tablespoons of 
grated horseradish. If the horseradish has been in vine- 
gar, press it dry. Add a saltspoon of salt and fold in six 
tablespoons of thick cream whipped to a stiff froth. Serve 
at once. 

Maitre d'Hote Sauce. 
Add to one teacup of fresh made drawn butter the juice 
of one small lemon, chopped parsley, minced onions and 
thyme, cayenne pepper and salt. Beat while simmering. 
Serve with meat or fish. 

78 




Let Us 

Make Home Life Pleasant 

for You With our Up-To-Date 
Helps 




De Soto Hdwe. Co 

FRONT AND MONROE 
MEMPHIS 



79 



HoLLANDAISE SaUCE. 

For each pint use one scant tablespoon of butter and one 
tablespoon of flour. Mix in a saucepan over the fire and 
gradually add one and a half cups of boiling water. Stir 
into this the yolks of three eggs, one tablespoon of lemon 
juice or vinegar, three tablespoonfuls of salad oil and 
mustard if liked. Serve with fish. 

Tartar Sauce. 
One egg yolk, one level teaspoon of mustard, dry; one 
teaspoon salt, cayenne pepper, one gill salad oil, three 
tablespoonfuls lemon juice or vinegar, one tablespoon 
each of chopped parsley, capers and gherkins, one tea- 
spoonful chopped onion. Put the yolk of a raw egg in a 
bowl with the mustard, salt and as much cayenne pepper 
as can be taken upon the point of a penknife blade. Stir 
these ingredients with a wooden salad spoon or spatula 
until they are smooth, then add a few drops of the lemon 
juice and oil at a time, stirring quickly till it is all in. 
When the sauce is thick and smooth add the chopped 
parsley, capers, onions and gherkins. Keep cool until 
wanted for use. 

Mint Sauce. 

Three tablespoons of vinegar, two tablespoons of mint, 
one tablespoon of sugar, one tablespoon of salt. Mix ten 
minutes before using. Serve with spring lamb. 

Sauce Piquante. 
Take one tablespoonful of chopped parsley and rub it 
to a paste, then add, gradually, rubbing all the while, the 
yolks of three hard-boiled eggs; add a quarter of a tea- 
spoonful of dry mustard and a teaspoonful of Worcester- 
shire sauce. Mix until smooth and add a tablespoonful 
of vinegar, two tablespoonfuls of butter and a teaspoonful 
of grated onion; then add, gradually, a half pint of boil- 
ing stock, season with salt and pepper and serve at once. 

Anchovy Sauce. 
Four tablespoons butter, three tablespoons flour, one 
pint white stock or water, one-quarter salt spoonful each 
white and cayenne pepper, one tablespoon lemon juice, 

80 



We Court 

C omparison 

WHEN you are ready to 
build, if you will only 
take sufficient interest to 
visit our plant and allow 
us to show you our lumber 
and facilities for the execu- 
tion of all kinds of mill 
work, and then compare 
us with others, you will 
most surely use York 
Quality and York Service 



We carry the most complete line of 
Framing Lumber, Flooring, Ceiling 
Siding, Shingles, Lath, Sash, Doors, 
Etc., to be found in the city and our 
prices are right. Let us quote you 



York Lumber & Manufacturing Co. 

823 SOUTH BELLEVUE BLVD. 
MEMPHIS, TENN. 



PHONE CUMB. HEMLOCK 1326 



NEW PHONE 1326 



81 



anchovy paste. Put the butter into a stewpan and place 
on the fire. When the butter is melted add the flour. Stir 
until smooth and frothy, cool a little and then add, grad- 
ually, one pint of white stock or water. Stir until this 
boils, then add the white and cayenne pepper, the anchovy 
butter, lemon juice and salt enough to season the sauce. 
As the anchovy butter is very salt, care must be taken 
not to get too much additional salt. This sauce is adapted 
to all manner of fish dishes. 

English Chutney Sauce. 
Requires no cooking, but should be kept in a crock for 
ten days before putting away in a convenient place that 
it may be stirred every day. Then it may be put away 
for the winter. Most of the ingredients may be put 
through a meat chopper, so it is an easy sauce to prepare 
and very satisfactory to serve with meats. All ingredi- 
ents should be well mixed before placing in the crock. One 
pound of apples, three-quarters of a pound of raisins, one 
dozen ripe tomatoes, two red peppers, six small onions, 
one-quarter cup chopped mint leaves, one ounce white 
mustard seed, one and one-half quarts of vinegar, boiled 
and cooled, four ounces salt, one pound granulated sugar. 

Cranberry Sauce. 
Pick over and wash two quarts of cranberries in plenty 
of cold water, put them into a porcelain lined saucepan, 
with a cup of hot water and one pound of sugar and stew 
them gently until they are tender enough to rub through 
a sieve; then use them as a sauce for roast pig or turkey 
or cool the sauce in a jelly mold. If the sauce is cooled in 
molds wet with cold water it will make a jelly firm' enough 
to turn out in the shape of the molds. 



SOUPS. 

Consomme. 
Four pounds of beef, one ounce suet, one small onion, 
three quarts cold water, four cloves, one small carrot, 
a piece of celery, one egg, white. Cut into dice the lean 

82 



G O L E M A N'S 



"Sweet 
Karamel 

Chewing 

Gum 



99 



THE BEST FOR ALL 
OCCASIONS 



83 



beef from the round, put about one ounce of suet and the 
onion, sliced, into the soup kettle and cook until a good 
brown, then add the meat, cook without covering thirty 
minutes, add the cold water, cover the kettle and simmer 
gently for three hours; at the end of this time add the 
cloves, carrots, the celery and simmer one hour longer. 
Strain and stand away to cool. When cold, remove all 
grease from the surface. Turn the consomme into a ket- 
tle, beat the white of egg with a half cupful of cold 
water, add it to the boiling consomme, boil one minute 
and strain through a cheese cloth. Season and it is 
ready to serve. If not dark enough, add a teaspoonful 
of caramel. 

Cream of Tomato Soup. 

One quart milk, one pint canned tomatoes, three tea- 
spoons butter, one bay leaf, sprig of parsley, blade of 
mace, one teaspoon of sugar, one-quarter teaspoon soda, 
two tablespoons flour. 

Put the tomatoes on to stew with the bay leaf, parsley 
and mace ; let them stew fifteen minutes. Put the milk on 
to boil in a farina boiler. Kub butter and flour together, 
add to the milk when boiling and stir constantly until it 
thickens. Now press the tomatoes through a sieve and if 
ready to use the soup, add the sugar and soda to the 
tomatoes and then the boiling milk. Stir and serve at 
once. It must not go on the fire after mixing the milk 
with the tomatoes, or it will separate. 

Vegetable Soup. 

One beef shank, one quart peeled tomatoes, one quart 
butter beans, one quart grated corn, one quart chopped 
cabbage, one quart sliced potatoes, two large turnips, 
one carrot, one onion, one tablespoonful flour, one tea- 
cupful milk, one tablespoonful sugar. 

Put on early in the morning the beef shank ; keep boil- 
ing until two hours before dinner; skim and strain, add 
the other ingredients, rubbing the flour in the milk. 
Season with salt and pepper. Boil one hour and serve. 

84 



FOR PAINT 

AS IT 



a 



Ought to 



Be 



yy 



TRI- 
STATE 
PAINT 

COMPANY 



92 NORTH MAIN ST. 

PHONES 1375 



85 



Bisque of Oysters. 
Wash and chop one quart of oysters and heat the 
liquor. Strain this over the oysters and add a cup of 
water and a cup of stock (chicken or veal). Season with 
a slice of onion, bay leaf, mace, sprig of parsley and a 
few stalks of celery and cook all slowly for half an hour. 
Soften one cup of bread crumbs in one cup of hot milk, 
add to oyster mixture and rub all through puree sieve. 
Thicken a pint of cream with two tablespoonfuls each of 
butter and corn starch, blend the two mixtures, season 
well with salt and white pepper and serve. 



EGGS. 

Spanish Omelette. 

Beat four eggs together until well mixed and add four 
tablespoons of warm water, a little salt and pepper. Pour 
into a hot, well buttered omelette pan and run a spatula 
under it occasionally while cooking until all is a creamy 
consistency. Fold over and brown quickly. Turn out 
on a hot platter and surround with sauce. 

Sauce — Melt two tablespoonfuls of butter and add a 
tablespoon of minced onion and one or two chopped green 
peppers. Cook slowly five minutes, add pulp from one 
can tomatoes and cook fifteen minutes. Season highly 
and serve very hot. 

Omelette With Cheese. 
Four eggs, one-half cup milk, one teaspoon flour, a 
little parsley, pepper and salt, one-half teacupful grated 
cheese, one tablespoon butter. Beat the eggs very light 
and thin; add the other ingredients. Beat all well to- 
gether and pour into a pan in which a large tablespoon 
of butter or cooking oil has been heated. Let it cook to 
light brown, then fold over and dish for table. Shake 
the pan while the omelette is cooking. Must be eaten the 
instant it is removed from pan. 

86 



PIDGEON-THOMAS 
IRON COMPANY 

FOR YOUR NEW HOUSE 

WILL FURNISH YOU THEIR 

Royal Rubber 
Roofing 

OR THE 

Neponsett 7 -Ply Rubber 

Shingles 

Painted red or green or any other color 

you may wish, at right prices. 

When you build consult us 

about the best building 

material before speci- 

fying — we can 

help you 

Pidgeon-Thomas Iron Co. 

94 N. SECOND ST. MEMPHIS 



87 



Omelette With Oysters. 
Blanch one dozen small Blue Point oysters by bringing 
them just to the boiling point in their own liquor, sea- 
soned lightly with cayenne, a pinch of salt and a grate of 
nutmeg ; mix an omelette, place over the fire and when it 
begins to cook at the edges place the oysters, without 
any liquor, in the center, fold over and serve at once. 

Asparagus Omelette. 

To four well beaten eggs add a tablespoonful of cream, 
a heaping teaspoonful of butter, season with salt and 
pepper. Drop in greased pan and when it begins to cook 
lay a thick row of heated asparagus tips through the 
center, fold over and serve hot garnished with parsley. 

Creamed Eggs. 

Eight or ten eggs, one pint milk, butter the size of an 
egg, one small spoonful corn starch, a little salt. Boil the 
eggs hard. Throw into cold water and carefully take 
off shells. Put into a deep dish and cover with a drawn 
butter sauce made of the milk, butter, salt and corn 
starch. 

Stuffed and Breaded Eggs. 

Cut six hard boiled eggs into lengthwise and remove 
the yolks. Mash them fine with one teaspoon soft but- 
ter and season well, using a little minced ham if con- 
venient. Fill the whites and press together evenly, 
skewer with toothpicks, bread them, fry in hot fat and 
serve plain or with cream sauce. 

Luncheon Eggs. 

For six persons, prepare a cream sauce with two table- 
spoons each of butter and flour and three-quarters of a 
cup of milk and add to this a third of a cup of grated 
cheese, seasoning with salt and paprika. Pour half of 
the sauce in a well buttered shallow baking dish and break 
over this five or six eggs, covering with balance of sauce. 
Sprinkle the top with cheese and bake quickly till eggs 
are set. Garnish with quarters of tomatoes and serve 
hot. 



Biggest and Best 
Machine Shop 

IN MEMPHIS 

S.Jo Ellis Machine Works 

S. Second St. and Butler Ave. 



Large Modern Equipment, Nearest to 

All Depots and Express Offices 

Prompt Service and Right 

Prices 



Engineering, Fully Equipped for 
Heavy Machine Work, Steam 
Hammer Blacksmithing, Etc. 



S. J. Ellis, Prop. 



Old Phone Main 144 
New Phone - - 1421 



MEMPHIS, TENN. 



89 



Egg Relish. 

One cup bread crumbs, one cup cream, five eggs. When 
the cream has been absorbed by the bread crumbs and 
the eggs well beaten, with pepper, salt and a teaspoonful 
of chopped parsley, fry in well greased pan as an ome- 
lette. 

Eggs a la Bechamel. 

Six eggs, one tablespoonful flour, one gill cream, one 
tablespoonful butter, one gill white or veal stock, one egg 
yolk, salt and pepper to taste. Boil the eggs fifteen min- 
utes ; while they are boiling prepare the sauce, as follows : 
Melt the butter in a frying pan, being careful not to burn 
it; add to it the flour. Mix until smooth; add the stock 
and cream and stir continually until it boils ; add salt and 
pepper and stand it over the tea kettle to keep it warm 
while you shell the eggs. Cut the whites into thin shreds. 
Chop yolks into tiny squares, then pile them in the cen- 
ter of a shallow heated dish and arrange the whites 
around them. Give the sauce a stir and pour it around 
the eggs. Serve very hot. 

Rumbled Eggs. 

Beat three eggs with two ounces of fresh butter, add 
a teaspoonful of cream or new milk. Put all in a sauce 
pan over the fire, stir until it rises up, when it should be 
immediately dished and served on buttered toast. 

Swiss Style. 

Cover the bottom of a baking dish with two ounces of 
fresh butter and on this scatter grated cheese; drop the 
eggs upon the cheese without breaking the yolks ; season 
to taste. Pour over the eggs a little cream, sprinkle with 
two ounces grated cheese and place in moderate oven 
fifteen minutes. 

Pickled Eggs. 

Have the eggs hard boiled and after removing the 
shells put them in pickled blood beet juice until the whites 
become colored, cut lengthwise and serve as a relish. 

90 




W e I c o me 



WE earnestly invite Mr. and Mrs. New- 
lvwed to visit onr Display Parlors. We 
are "sole distributers of the world's best 
make Pianos and Player Pianos, such as the 

CHICKERING, BUSH & GERTS, KRANICH 

& BACH, STROHBER, HOFFMAN 

AND FORBES 

These Pianos are of the highest type, dis- 
tinct in construction and perfection in tone. 
We can please and satisfy you, no matter 
what your tastes and preference may be. 
Our prices and convenient terms will save 
you money. Come in and talk it over with 
us. A catalogue will be sent to you for the 
asking. 

E. E. Forbes Piano Co. 

Bush Temple 

South' s Largest Piano Dealers 

156 South Main St. C. M. Bishop, Manager 



91 



Cheese Custards. 
Six tablespoons grated cheese, two of butter, four eggs, 
one cup of milk with a teaspoon of corn starch stirred 
into it, salt and pepper to taste. Beat the eggs very 
light and pour upon them the heated milk (with a pinch 
of soda), having thickened with corn starch. While 
warm add butter, pepper, salt and cheese. Beat well and 
pour into greased custard cups. Bake in a quick oven 
about fifteen minutes, or until high and brown. Serve 
at once, as a separate course, with bread and butter, after 
soup or before dessert. 

Shirred Eggs. 
The eggs may be beaten thoroughly and seasoned with 
a little butter, pepper and salt, or they may be broken 
and dropped whole into a hot, buttered baking dish or 
individual baking dishes, if preferred. 

Columbus Eggs. 

Peel the shells from a dozen hard boiled eggs and cut 
each egg in two around the center, cutting off also a lit- 
tle piece from one end, so that they can stand on end, 
as did the famous egg which Columbus handled; pul- 
verize the yolks and mix with finely minced chicken, 
smoked tongue or lean ham, moistening with a little fresh 
butter or vinegar and seasoning to taste with salt, pep- 
per and mustard. Fill with this the empty white, taking 
care not to break them ; press the two halves together and 
stand on a platter, so that they will have the appearance 
of eggs that have not been dissected. The filling which 
remains over after filling the whites may be made into 
dressing by the addition of vinegar and poured over the 
eggs. 

To Tell a Good Egg. 

In shaking an egg, if it makes a sound, it is not good. 

If placed in water, good eggs will lie flat on the bottom 
and bad ones will stand upright. 

The candling process consists in looking through the 
egg at a light or holding it between you and the sun. If 
it shows up clear and spotless, so that the yolk may be 
perceived, it is a good egg; otherwise, it is not. 

92 



W. H. FOSTER 



E. B. WHITE 



Colonial Trust Co. 

Real Estate 



Home Builders 

High Class Cottages and Bungalows 
a Specialty 



405-6 CENTRAL BANK BLDG. 



TELEPHONE MAIN 2322 



We Make the Home 

HAPPY and PLEASANT 

With Sanitary Plumbing and 
Cheerful Chandeliers 



McGowan Plumbing 
Company 

Hot Water and Steam Heating 
Gas and Electric Chandeliers 



223-5 MADISON AVE. 



PHONE MAIN 645 



93 



Omelette That Won't Fall. 

To prevent an omelette falling, cook an even table- 
spoonful of corn starch with a tablespoonful of butter 
and use in the making-. 



POTATOES. 

New Potatoes in Cream. 

For one and one-half quarts cooked potatoes, make 
sauce as follows: Melt four tablespoons of butter in a 
saucepan, add six tablespoons of flour and pour in grad- 
ually one pint milk, stirring constantly. When thickened 
and smooth season with a teaspoon of salt and paprika 
or cayenne. Mix gently with the hot potatoes, sprinkle 
with finely minced parsley and serve. 

Potatoes Hollandaise. 

Cut potatoes in slices or cubes and cook until tender 
in stock, if possible. Boiling water may be used instead 
of stock. Drain well and mix with sauce prepared by 
creaming a third of a cup of butter with a tablespoon 
each of lemon juice and minced parsley and season with 
salt and pepper. 

Potatoes atj Gtratin. 

For one and one-half quarts cooked and chopped pota- 
toes make sauce as follows: Melt four tablespoons of 
butter in a saucepan, add six tablespoons of flour and 
pour in gradually one pint of milk, stirring constantly. 
When thickened and smooth season with salt and paprika. 
Add two-thirds cup of cheese grated, and mix gently with 
potatoes. Place in baking dish, cover with one-third cup 
cheese and bake quickly until browned. 

Lyonnaise Potatoes. 

Chop fine three cups of cold potatoes and put in fry- 
ing pan with four tablespoons butter and two of minced 

94 



99 



After the "Happy Day 

WHEN THE "HONEYMOON" 
OF LIFE BEGINS 



the comfort and style of Zellner's Fault- 
less Footwear will make your walk through 
life more attractive, for at Zellner's you get 



New 
The { Smart and > Styles 
( Authentic ) 

For many years this store has been first to introduce a correct 

new style — the last to cease to keep a loved 

and wanted style 

Just as in the days of rollicking youth and 
the golden days of wooing and preparation 
for "The Day" you found the best at 
Zellner's, so in the after years you will 
find the best 



/^ HOMK i 



THE 



HOME OF 

6QYDEN 



SHOE 



FOR OVER 40 YEARS. 



SHOES FOR MEN, WuMEN " 
AND CHILDREN 



HOSIERY FOR THE 
FAMILY 



95 



onion. Cook slowly twenty minutes without browning. 
Add one tablespoon each of cut parsley and vinegar, 
season with salt and pepper and serve. 

Potatoes O'Brien. 

To one quart of chopped cooked potatoes add a table- 
spoon each of finely minced onion and parsley, two table- 
spoons of sweet red peppers and a seasoning of salt and 
pepper. Melt two tablespoons of butter in a frying pan, 
mix with the potatoes and cook for fifteen minutes, stir- 
ring occasionally. Then let them brown lightly and turn 
out on hot platter, garnish with parsley and serve. 

Potatoes Finnegan. 

This homely dish is a combination of potatoes, carrots 
and cream sauce, made in a proportion of a quart of 
potato cubes, freshly boiled, a cupful of finely cut carrots 
and a pint of milk thickened with four level tablespoons 
each of butter and flour. Season with salt, white pepper 
and a little onion juice. Mix all thoroughly and serve 
very hot. Chopped parsley sprinkled over the top im- 
proves the appearance. 

Potato Croquettes. 

Mix well one pint hot mashed potatoes with one table- 
spoon butter, one-half teaspoon salt, a little onion juice 
and pepper, and one teaspoon minced parsley. Then add 
one beaten egg yolk, cool slightly, shape, bread them and 
fry in hot fat. 

French Fried Potatoes. 

Potatoes that are to be fried raw should be pared and 
kept in cold water for several hours before being cooked. 
For six people, pare half a dozen potatoes of medium size, 
cut them in two lengthwise and then separate each part 
into three parts, cutting the length of the potato. Let 
them stand in ice water an hour or more. Drain and wipe 
them dry. Put the potatoes in a frying basket into deep, 
hot fat, fry to a medium light brown, lift the basket from 
the fat and set on a plate; dredge with salt, shake and 
serve immediately. 

96 




Mi.emi 



SUCCESSOR TO 



JHOE] 



CO- 



sft 



PHISrhOHE 



_REPAIBJ 

148 Ei&Enauir^ 
street MEiPfllS TEF1H. 



Orignial Shape and New Life 

Put Into Your Old Shoes 

Quickly 



Work Galled For and Delivered 
in All Parts of the City 



Free Parcel Post Delivery 
Phone Us 



Best Rubber Heels - 
Best Soles, Men's - - 
Children's and Ladies' 



- - - 35c 

- 50c to 75c 

- 25c to 40c 



97 



Saratoga Potatoes. 
Peel and slice thin into cold water, drain well and dry- 
in a towel. Fry a few at a time in very hot fat. Salt as 
you take them out and lay them on coarse brown paper 
for a short time. 

Potatoes Hashed and Brown. 
Pare and cut into quarter inch squares. Leave in cold 
water for an hour, then boil tender in hot water slightly 
salted. Drain, put into a greased pudding dish, pour over 
them a cup of warm milk seasoned with pepper and salt 
and a spoonful of butter rubbed into one of flour. Bake 
covered half an hour, then brown. 

Stuffed Potatoes. 
Select six rather large potatoes, wash well and dry 
them. Bake in moderate oven until soft. Cut through 
lengthwise, remove inside^ mash fine and mix with salt, 
pepper, butter, milk and part of the well beaten whites 
of two eggs. Return mixture to the cases, cover lightly 
with the white of egg and brown nicely. 

Peas in Potato Cases. 
Prepare three cups of mashed potatoes, well seasoned 
and mixed with soft butter and a little milk or cream. 
Shape into litt'e cases by use of pastry bag and tube, and 
brush lightly with the yolk of an egg mixed with two table- 
spoons of cream. Brown in a moderate oven and fi'l the 
center with peas which have been cooked, drained and 
seasoned. 



SALADS AND SALAD DRESSINGS. 

Besides the ordinary use of salads in the rounding out 
of dinner and luncheon menus, they are invaluable in the 
serving of light refreshments at afternoon receptions, 
small parties or informal gatherings. The list of savory 
and sweet sandwiches given below will be found quite 
helpful in cases of this kind. 

98 



Now is the 
Time to 
Provide a 
Home for 
Your 
Family 




BEGIN LIFE RIGHT 



D O N O T DEL A Y 



We can furnish you a house like either one on this page or a 
smaller one on easy payments. 

We can sell you a lot in the Montgomery Park Place Subdivision, 
the prettiest in the South for Colored people, on terms of $4.00 
and up per month. 

Save your money by investing in one of these beautiful lots, one 
block from the Southern Railroad's "Million Dollar" terminals. On 
best car line in city. 

Lots selling rapidly. 

Values bound to increase. 

Big demand for houses by purchasers and renters. 




$10.00 VALUE 

This Coupon will 
be accepted as a 
$10.00 Payment 
for lot, or house 
and lot in MONT- 
GOMERY PARK 
PLACE SUBDIVI- 
SION, when pre- 
sented by the 
owner of this 
book. 

R. G. BOSTWICK, 
Manager 



To see the subdivision, take Normal School car, get off at 
"Bridge Stop," go two blocks South, then see 

R. G. BOSTWICK, Manager 149 A ^ N D & ON 
Care of WILLIAM WHITE & CO. 



99 



Graham bread, chopped nuts and whipped cream. 

Brown bread, chopped olives and Neufchatel cheese. 

Whole wheat bread, roast beef and horseradish mus- 
tard. 

White bread, cut thick, spread with butter and cheese 
and browned. 

Toast freshly made, lettuce, chicken, Mayonnaise, with 
slice of bacon. 

Fried bread, anchovies and hard cooked eggs. 

Rye bread, schmiercase and chives. 

Minced ham, hard cooked eggs and salad dressing. 

Sardines, split and boned, lemon juice and paprika. 

Caviar, onion juice and lemon juice. 

Brown bread, grated cheese, butter and sliced nuts. 

Salad, with lettuce and white bread. 

Chopped peanuts, salt and thick cream, whole wheat 
bread. 

Finely chopped French fruit, wine or lemon juice and 
whipped cream slightly sweetened, spread on layers of 
cake or lady fingers. 

Marmalade and chopped nuts on sponge drops. 

Plain sweet wafers may be used with a mixture of but- 
ter and sugar creamed and flavored with Kremette, 
forcing this through bag and tube. 

French Dressing. 
Put a saltspoon of salt in a bowl, add a saltspoon of 
pepper, a teaspoon of onion juice, a clove of garlic mashed 
fine, rub this with the back of a spoon until reduced to a 
pulp; add gradually four tablespoons of olive oil, one 
tablespoon of lemon juice, mix and serve. 

Mayonnaise Dressing. 
In a small saucepan standing in water, put one-half 
level teaspoon salt, one-fourth level teaspoon paprika 
(and if for lobster salad, add one level teaspoon mustard, 
if for fruit salads one level teaspoon powdered sugar) ; 
add the yolk of one egg and beat till egg thickens. Add 
slowly from one-half to one cup olive oil, stirring each 
portion well into the egg before adding another. When 
quite stiff, stir in one tablespoon lemon juice, using two 

100 



for one cup oil. If desired, go on adding another cup of 
oil, for it is easier to make one pint or one quart at a 
time than it is to make one cup four times. Increase the 
seasoning if more oil is used. When done it should be 
like smooth, glassy butter, stiff enough to keep its shape. 
Pack it away in a glass jar and keep it cool. When 
ready to use, dilute a portion with more lemon juice, or 
with beaten white of egg, or with an equal amount of 
whipped cream. 

Cooked Cream Dressing. 

Heat one-half cup of vinegar in double boiler. Mix 
two level teaspoons mustard and salt, three level table- 
spoons sugar and one-fourth level teaspoon pepper or 
one-half that of cayenne ; add four eggs, beat until light ; 
add one cup thick cream, the hot vinegar and turn back 
into boiler and cook until thick and smooth, stirring well. 
This will keep for weeks, and as it is good with nearly all 
salads, it is well to make the full amount. 

Cooked Salad Dressing. 
Mix together one teaspoon of mustard, a little salt and 
pepper, and add the yolks of three eggs. Mix gently with 
a tablespoon of melted butter and one-fourth cup of vine- 
gar. Cook over hot water until thickened, then cool and 
mix with half a cup of cream beaten stiff. 

Pimento Relish. 

For six canned pimentoes which have been drained 
from the oil, prepare a cup and a half of Neufchatel or 
cottage cheese. Mash the cheese until smooth, blend with 
it a tablespoonful of soft butter, a little salt and pepper, 
and a tablespoon of minced chives, if obtainable. (A few 
drops of onion juice may be substituted.) Fill the pep- 
pers with the cheese and serve on lettuce leaves with crisp 
wafers. 

Cold Slaw. 

Mix one rounded tablespoon sugar, one-half level tea- 
spoon each salt and mustard, one-fourth level teaspoon 
pepper and one teaspoon flour. Melt one heaping table- 
spoon butter in saucepan, stir in the dry mixture and add 

toi 



gradually one-half cup hot vinegar. When thick and 
smooth, add quickly one beaten egg, cook a moment longer 
and pour it hot over one pint shaved red cabbage. Other 
cold vegetables may be treated in this way. 

Lettuce, Cream Dressing. 

Pile the largest leaves, chop into shreds with sharp 
knife. Toss about in the bowl and sprinkle with salt, 
powdered sugar, cream and lemon juice, and serve at 
once. 

Potato Salad. 

Boil small, waxy potatoes in their skins until almost 
tender. When cold peel, slice very thin. To one pint add 
one small onion sliced into slivers, one-half teaspoon salt, 
one-fourth teaspoon pepper, three tablespoons olive oil 
and two tablespoons vinegar (Tarragon preferred) ; add 
minced celery and parsley; let it stand and ripen and 
serve very cold. Garnish with hard boiled eggs and a 
border of lettuce with rings of green or red pepper. Be- 
fore serving add more oil if it seems dry. If preferred, 
omit the eggs and dress with Mayonnaise. 

Chicken Salad. 
Boil six eggs hard, separate yolks and whites, mash 
yolks to a smooth paste with back of a spoon and add 
ha ] f a tumbler of olive oil, or rather more of butter 
melted, half a tumbler of vinegar with two heaping spoons 
of suarar stirred in it, one teaspoon each pepper and salt, 
two tablespoons mustard wet to a paste with vinegar. 
Stir all these together until smooth. There should be 
three parts of well cooked, fine ] y chopped chicken to one 
of celery thinly sliced; just before serving add the sauce, 
tossing all together well. Chop the whites of eggs fine or 
cut in rings and garnish top of salad. Serve with sprigs 
of parsley, lettuce leaves or celery tops. 

Salad of Fruits. 
One can pineapple chunks, one pound Malaga grapes, 
one cup nut meats, four dozen marshmallows. Cut pine- 
apple in pieces to suit taste, seed and halve grapes, cut 
marshmallows in strips and serve with this dressing: 
One tablespoon sugar, one tablespoon flour, one tea- 

102 



spoon mustard, one level teaspoon salt. Mix in bowl. 
Drop in one egg and beat thoroughly, adding four table- 
spoons vinegar and one cup sweet milk. Cook in double 
boiler and when it begins to thicken add tablespoon of 
butter. When cold add juice of one lemon and whipped 
cream if available. (It is good without whipped cream.) 

Roquefort Salad. 
For two heads of crisp, curly lettuce allow half a cup- 
ful of Roquefort cheese crumbled into tiny bits. Make a 
French dressing with half a teaspoon each of salt and 
paprika, three tablespoons of Tarragon vinegar and half 
a cup of olive oil. Blend carefully with the cheese and 
mix with lettuce until each leaf is coated. Arrange sym- 
metrically in a salad bowl and serve with crisp wafers 
and coffee, hot, strong and clear. 

Waldorf Fruit Salad. 
This is a quick salad, which may be made of equal parts 
ripe apples, cut in cubes, and chopped celery. Add to this 
a goodly sprinkling of pecans or walnuts and dress with 
Mayonnaise reduced with whipped cream. 

Cold Asparagus Salad. 
Trim and tie in bunches two dozen stalks of nice 
asparagus, cover with boiling salted water and cook care- 
fully three-quarters of an hour. Lift and drain on a 
napkin. Stand aside until very cold. At serving time 
arrange the asparagus on a long platter, heads all one 
way. Mash a clove of garlic in a bowl, add a teaspoon 
of onion juice, a dash of paprika, a half teaspoon of salt, 
rub for a moment and add six tablespoons of olive oil. 
Stir until the salt is dissolved, add two tablespoons lemon 
juice, beat until white and creamy. Pour at once over 
the asparagus and serve. 

Stuffed Tomato Salad. 
Scald and peel large ripe tomatoes, cut in halves, 
and scoop out the centers, making cups to be filled with 
the scooped out portion, mixed with dice of cucumbers, 
celery or sweet pepper, nuts or cheese, and dressed with 
Mayonnaise. Serve very cold on lettuce leaf in individual 
plates 

103 



Salmon Salad. 
One pound of red salmon, one-half pint of celery and 
one-half pint of Mayonnaise dressing. Free the salmon 
from skin, bones and oil, pick the fish apart and add the 
celery, finely cut, and the Mayonnaise dressing, tossing 
lightly. Season to taste. Arrange in salad dish, pour 
a little dressing over the top and garnish with curled 
lettuce and drops of red jelly, or serve on fresh crisp 
lettuce leaves. 

Egg Salad. 
Take as many eggs as needed, boil them until perfectly 
hard, almost half an hour. Take out the yolks carefully, 
chop the whites very fine. Arrange lettuce leaves or cress 
on a dish, making nests of the whites of eggs, and put 
one yolk in each nest ; sprinkle French dressing over the 
whole. 



CAKES AND PASTRY. 

Layer Cake. 
The following is a splendid formula for layer cake, to 
be used with any kind of filling : Beat one cupful of butter 
to a cream and gradually beat into it two cupful s sugar. 
When this is light, beat in one cupful of milk, a little at 
a time, and one teaspoon vanilla extract. Beat the whites 
of eight eggs to a stiff froth. Mix one teaspoonful soda 
and two of cream of tartar with four scant cupfuls sifted 
flour. Stir the flour and whites of eggs alternately into 
the mixture. Have three tin pans well buttered and 
spread the batter in them, bake in moderate oven. 

Lady Baltimore Cake Filling. 
Dissolve three cupfuls of granulated sugar in one of 
boiling water; cook until it threads, then pour it grad- 
ually over the whites of three eggs beaten to a standing 
froth, stirring constantly. Add one cup of chopped rais- 
ins, one of pecans and five figs, cut into very thin strips. 
For this filling the cake may be flavored with rose water. 

104 



Chocolate Filling. 

Pour into a granite saucepan three cups of sugar and 
one of water, and boil gently until bubbles begin to come 
from the bottom — say, about five minutes. Take from 
the fire instantly. Do not stir or shake the sugar while 
cooking. Pour the hot syrup in a thin stream into the 
whites of three eggs that have been beaten to a stiff froth, 
beating the mixture all the time. Continue to beat until 
icing is thick. Flavor with one teaspoon vanilla extract. 
To this add four ounces melted chocolate. To melt the 
chocolate, shave fine and put in a cup, which is then 
placed in a pan of boiling water. 

Cocoanut Filling. 
For cocoanut filling, use the plain white icing as for 
chocolate, substituting fresh grated cocoanut or the 
■shredded kind for the chocolate. 

Caramel Filling. 
Put into a deep vessel, two cups of sugar dissolved in 
one of sweet milk. Let come to a good boil and pour into 
it one cup sugar which has been cooked to a brown syrup 
in a skillet. Stir together and add butter the size of a 
walnut. Take off the fire and beat into it a pinch of 
soda, which gives a creamy effect. When cool add one 
teaspoon vanilla. 

Angel Food. 

Beat whites of eleven eggs with half teaspoon of salt 
until frothy. Then add one teaspoon cream of tartar and 
beat until rather stiff, but not dry. Fold into this one and 
one-half cups of sugar sifted five times, then one cup 
pastry flour sifted five times. Flavor with one teaspoon 
of vanilla and turn into ungreased tube pan. Light gas 
oven full about five minutes before baking and turn out 
back burner and have front burner half on for first 
twenty minutes, also have pan of hot water in bottom of 
the oven. 

Cake should be lightly browned in that time and tem- 
perature of oven may be slightly increased. Bake until 
cake settles even over the top and rebounds from touch 

105 



of finger, about thirty-five or forty minutes. Invert 
pan and cool cake thoroughly before removing. 

Sponge Cake, 
Beat yolks of six eggs until thick, add one and one- 
fourth cups of sugar, also two tablespoons of water and 
the juice and grated rind of a lemon. Mix in lightly one 
cup of flour and the well beaten whites of eggs and 
bake in moderate oven, using long narrow sponge cake 
pans, if available. 

Fruit Cake. 
Twelve eggs, three cups sugar, one pound butter, two 
pounds currants, two pounds raisins, one-half pound 
blanched almonds, one-half pound candied peel, four 
ounces butternuts, four ounces pecans, six large figs, one 
glass brandy, one glass wine, one-half cup black molas- 
ses, three cups of flour with two teaspoonfuls baking 
powder. Beat the eggs all together until light. Cream 
the butter, add the sugar, beat again, add the eggs, then 
the flour and liquors, molasses included, and give the 
whole a vigorous beating. Add the nuts. Stem and seed 
the raisins, wash and dry the currants, cut the candied 
peel into shreds, mix the fruit and flour it well, then add 
it to the cake. Line a big cake pan with greased paper, 
pour in the mixture and bake in a very moderate oven 
four or five hours. This will make a very large cake. 

Golden Rules. 

These are to be remembered in cake making : Beat the 
butter and sugar together until very light before put- 
ting in the other materials, then add the yolks of the eggs, 
the liquid, either water or milk, then the flour, with which 
you have sifted the baking powder, and lastly the white 
of eggs. 

Sweet milk will make a cake rich and close; water in 
the same cake will make it light and delicate. In nearly 
a'l recipes beat the whites and yolks separately. Always 
sift the flour before measuring, theu add the baking 
powder and sift it once or twice. 

Pastry flour makes a much lighter cake than bread 

106 



flour; where real pastry flour cannot be obtained, the 
soft winter flour will answer the same purpose. 

Pastry. 
In making pastry have the butter or lard very cold, 
chop it in the flour quickly, mix with ice water, roll out 
and use. Everything must be exceedingly cold. If the 
weather is warm and you are obliged to roll the crust on 
a wooden board, put it aside on the ice after the first 
rolling. In fact, if you are making custard pies, after 
the dishes are lined stand them aside until very cold 
before filling. 

Pastry for One Pie. 
Mix one scant half level teaspoon salt with one heaped 
cup pastry flour. Chop in two tablespoonfuls chilled 
lard. Mix with cold water to a stiff dough, toss out on 
floured board, pat it flat and put one rounded table- 
spoon of butter over the surface in little dabs, dredge 
with flour, fold edges over, pat out thin, spread on an- 
other tablespoon of butter, dredge, fold over and pat out 
thin. If soft lay the paste on ice until chilled. Then 
roll into rectangular shape, roll over like a jelly roll, 
divide in middle, allowing slightly more for the upper 
crust, stand the piece on end, pat it flat, then roll into 
circular shape till a bit larger than the plate. Push the 
edges even with the plate and if you have a true eye, you 
will have no paste to trim off. Fill with the pie material, 
roll the other part of paste in same way, making it one- 
half inch larger than the plate to allow for the filling 
and the puffing in the baking. Put it on loosely, throwing 
the fullness back in the center, with the edges just even, 
and press them slightly together, first wetting the lower 
edge if it is for a juicy pie. Press the two crusts back 
slightly from the edge of the plate and mark or not, as 
you please, with a fork or crimper. Marking keeps the 
crust from puffing and it also helps to retain the juice. 
Binding the crust to the plate with an inch strip of wet 
cloth is the surest way to keep in the juice. Make several 
incisions in the top before you lay it on, that there may 
be an outlet for the steam. 

107 



Grandmother's Lemon Custard. 
One pound powdered sugar, six egg yolks, four egg 
whites, four ounces of butter, juice and rind three lemons. 
Beat the yolks and sugar to a cream, then add the whites, 
unbeaten, one at a time, and beat the whole until very 
light. Beat the butter to a cream and add the other mix- 
ture gradually to it; now stand the bowl in a basin of 
boiling water over the fire and stir continually until the 
mixture thickens; take from the fire and stand away to 
cool. Line two deep pie dishes with good plain paste 
and bake in a quick oven for fifteen minutes. When done 
take out and fill with the lemon mixture. Add gradually 
six tablespoons of powdered sugar to the whites of six 
eggs, beating all the while; after you have added all the 
sugar, beat until very stiff and glossy. Put this meringue 
over the top of the pie and stand it in the oven until a 
golden brown. 

Apple Pie. 
To make a perfect apple pie, a fine flavored, tart 
apple is needed, ripe but not too soft. Pare, quarter and 
cut in thin slices. Line the pie plate with a fine puff 
paste neatly trimmed around the edges. On this heap 
the apple, allowing an abundant filling; put on the top 
crust, moistening the edges before pressing the upper 
and lower crusts together. Bake in a brisk oven about 
half an hour. Take from the oven and quickly loosen the 
upper from the lower crust around the edges and lay the 
upper crust on another plate, scatter into the pie two or 
three tablespoons of sugar, a lump of butter and a little 
grated nutmeg. Replace the upper crust quickly and 
place in the oven for five minutes. 

Cherry, Blackberry and Peach Pies. 
Make both upper and lower crust and fill with the 
fruit, well sweetened. 

New England Pumpkin Pie. 

Stew the pumpkin until soft and then press through a 
sieve. To a quart of pumpkin allow two quarts of milk 
and six eggs. Beat the eggs well and stir into the milk, 

108 



adding the sifted pumpkin gradually. Add a little 
melted butter, sweetening to taste, a pinch of salt, a very 
little cinnamon and a generous flavoring of ginger. Pour 
into shells of pie paste and bake in a quick oven. 

Mince Pie. 
One pound each of raisins, currants and sugar; stone 
and chop the raisins; one pound of suet chopped very 
fine, two-thirds of an ounce each of candied lemon and 
orange peel, two large apples, grated, one-third of an 
ounce of cinnamon, two-thirds of a nutmeg, the juice of 
one lemon added to the grated rind, and one-third of a 
gill of brandy. 



DESSERTS. 

Chocolate Pudding. 
Soften three cups of stale bread in an equal quantity 
of milk. Melt two squares of chocolate over hot water 
and mix with half a cup of sugar, a little salt, three beaten 
eggs and half a teaspoonful of vanilla. Mix this thor- 
oughly with the bread and place in well buttered custard 
cups. Steam about half hour (according to size), and 
serve in cups or turn out on warm plate. 

Strawberry Shortcake. 
Sift two cups flour, one-half teaspoon salt, two table- 
spoons of sugar and three teaspoons baking powder, and 
cut in one-fourth cup of butter. Add a scant cup of 
milk and spread dough in pie tin, brush over with milk 
and bake in a rather hot oven. Split apart when done, 
butter well and fill with sweetened strawberries. 
Whipped cream is a delightful addition. 

Velvet Blanc Mange. 

Two cupfuls sweet cream, one-half ounce gelatine, 
soaked in a very little cold water until soft, one-half 
cupful sugar, powdered, one teaspoon extract bitter al- 
monds, one glass white wine. 

Heat the cream to boiling, stir in the gelatine and 
sugar, and as soon as they are dissolved take from the 

109 



fire, beat ten minutes, or, what is better, churn in a 
syllabub churn until very light, flavor and add by degrees 
the wine, mixing it well; pour into molds wet with cold 
water. 

Syllabub. 
One-half pound sugar, one quart lukewarm cream, one 
glass wine. Dissolve the sugar in the wine and then 
pour on the cream slowly, so as to froth. 

Charlotte Eusse. 
For two molds, each holding one quart, use three quarts 
whipped cream, one-half package gelatine, four egg yolks, 
one-half pint milk, one gill water, one small cup sugar, 
one teaspoon vanilla, stale sponge cake or lady fingers. 
Soak the gelatine in the water for two hours. Beat the 
sugar and the yolks of the eggs together and stir the 
milk into this mixture. Put on the fire in the double 
boiler and cook for five minutes, stirring all the while. 
Add the soaked gelatine and stir until this is dissolved. 
Take from the fire and cool, stirring frequently. Line 
the sides of the molds with the cake. Add the vanilla 
and place the basin in a pan of ice water. Stir the cus- 
tard until it begins to thicken, then add the whipped 
cream, about one-third at a time. Stir until the mixture 
is so thick it can hardly be poured. Fill the molds and 
set away to harden. If possible, let the molds stand for 
an hour or longer. For some tastes the Charlotte is 
improved by the addition of four tablespoons of wine. 

Maraschino Bavarian Cream. 
One and one-half pints cream, one-half cup cold water, 
one-half package gelatine, one-half pint milk, one cup 
sugar, four egg yolks, two tablespoons Maraschino. Soak 
the gelatine in the cold water for two hours. At the end 
of that time whip the cream to a froth. Put the milk 
on the stove in a double boiler. Beat the yolks of the 
eggs and add both them and the sugar to the soaked 
gelatine. Stir this mixture into the hot milk and cook 
for three minutes, stirring all the time, then remove from 
the fire and strain into a basin holding three quarts. 
Add the Maraschino, and placing the basin in a pan of 

no 



We Invite 



Newlyweds 

To select from our well selected 
stock of high grade grocer- 
ies—the best of every- 
thing at extremely 
reasonable 
prices 



Our Specialties 

Rose Leaf Creamery Butter 
Gold Dust Flour 



High Grade Coffees 

Roasted Daily 



J. T. Walsh & Bro. 

Grocers 

326-328 N. Main Street 



111 



ice water, stir the mixture until it becomes cold and 
begins to thicken, then stir in the whipped cream and 
pour into the molds that have been dipped in cold water. 
Set away to harden. The cream should be hard in half 
an hour, but it is well to let it stand for several hours. 
At serving time dip the molds in warm water and turn 
cream out on flat dishes. 



ICES AND SHERBETS. 

For "freezing," use plenty of ice finely broken and 
plenty of salt; put a layer of ice three inches deep and of 
salt one inch deep, and repeat until the tub is nearly 
full, packing down well. For a gallon can use three pints 
of rock salt and ten quarts of chopped ice. If packed 
solid no more ice is needed. Do not drain off the water 
while freezing. If more salt is used the contents of the 
can will freeze sooner, but if it be cream, it will not be so 
rich and smooth. 

Vanilla. Ice Cream. 
This foundation is suitable for any kind of ice cream : 
One large cup milk, one cup sugar, a half cup of flour, 
scant; two eggs, a quart of cream, flavoring, and when 
the cream is added another cup of sugar. Let milk come 
to a boil. Beat one cup of sugar, flour and eggs together, 
and stir into boiling milk. Cook twenty minutes, stirring 
often, cool and when cool add remainder of sugar, cream 
and seasoning and freeze. 

Peach or Strawberry Ice Cream. 
Crushed berries or peeled and stoned peaches with suf- 
ficient sugar to sweeten well, are stirred into the cream 
when half frozen. If preferred, one may strain the fruit 
and add only the juice (before freezing). 

Chocolate Ice Cream. 
Scrape two and one-half ounces of chocolate into a 
small saucepan, with four tablespoons sugar and two 
tablespoons hot water. Stir over hot fire until glossy 

112 



You Can't Live 
on Love 

But You Can Make Life 
Sweeter by Eating 





pApaoiff 



0&0S< 



Made in our own Sanitary Kitchen from the pur- 
est and finest materials. 



MOST COMPLETE CONFECTIONERY 
IN THE SOUTH 

All our Candies, Ice Creams, Sherbets, etc., made 
in our own plant, under our personal supervision. 

Morning, Afternoon, Evening Visit Dinstuhl's 
for Candies or Ices. 

64 N. MAIN ST. MEMPHIS, TENN. 

Phone Main 2924. 



113 



and smooth. This may be added to a foundation as given 
above for vanilla ice cream, while the latter is cooking. 
The sugar used in the preparation of the chocolate should 
be taken from the second cupful used in making the ice 
cream. 

Tutti Frutti. 
One quart rich cream, two ounces sweet almonds, 
chopped very fine, one-half pound sugar, one teacup 
chopped raisins, one teacup chopped citron, one-half 
pound orange preserves. After you have half frozen the 
cream, almonds and sugar, add the other ingredients, 
mix well with the cream and freeze. 

Fruit Sherbet. 
Make a lemonade of three quarts of water, juice of six- 
lemons, rind of one and about a pint of sugar. Add one 
oan of grated pineapp^, one of choice peaches, and freeze. 

Cafe Frappe. 

To a quart of strong, sweetened coffee add cream 
enough to give the desired color and freeze to the con- 
sistency of snow. Serve in tall, slender glasses with a 
spoonful of whipped cream over the top. A few bran- 
died cherries improve the appearance and combine nicely 
in flavor. 

Orange Punch. 

Make a syrup of one pint each water and sugar and 
rind of two lemons. Strain, add lemon juice and three 
cnps orange juice. When cool freeze until almost stiff, 
then add three ripe bananas cut small, two tablespoons 
each of candied cherries and pineapple and finish freez- 
ing. 



THE PRINCE OF THE CRADLE. 

"The coming of the song birds means spring to out-of-doors. The com- 
ing of the stork means springtime in the home." 

The advent of baby is far and away the most important 
occasion in any home, and is the beginning of a new 
era. All plans are shaped thereafter around the little 
one and its future. Mother and father think baby, talk 

114 



baby, read baby and dream baby, and whatever pertains 
thereto is of supremest interest. It is not the purpose 
of this article to take np in detail the care of baby from 
birth until he or she shall have arrived at years of dis. 
cretion, but to give to the young mother a collection of 
advice and helps which has been scrap-booked from a 
wide variety of sources, including besides excerpts from 
modern magazines and newspaper articles by well-known 
writers, such sage authorities as the family doctor and 
the old "black mammy." 

The Expected Child. 

The most eminent authorities of the day believe strong- 
ly in prenatal influence, and advise the use of every pre- 
caution to have the physical and mental condition of the 
mother favorable and to spare the child the deleterious 
effects resulting from three causes, the mother's over- 
work, exposure to unpleasant sights, and worry. 

A prospective mother should husband her strength in 
justice to herself and to her unborn child, for her house- 
hold duties are of small importance compared with the 
responsibility of bringing into the world a normal human 
being. The constant worry of the mother before the 
birth of her child may cloud and weaken the intellect of 
the child for life. The sight of physical deformity dur- 
ing the period of formation has been known to affect the 
child even to the extent of reproduction. 

First Preparations. 

For the coining baby's wardrobe, the following is a 
good list: 

Four medium weight wool shirts or light weight silk 
and wool for summer. 

Four to six flannel skirts, made on cotton waists, for 
summer, or flannel waists for winter. 

Six night dresses, wool flannel for winter, outing flan- 
nel for summer. 

Six or eight nainsook or dimity dresses. 26 inches long. 

Two wrappers, four flannel sacques, four pairs bootees, 
four pairs of wool stockings for winter, silk and wool 
for summer; two shawls or Afghans. 

115 



Six dozen diapers of cotton bird's-eye, two dozen of 
which should be 18 inches wide by 36 inches long and four 
dozen 22 inches wide by 44 inches long. This is an 
ample supply. Two nainsook or longcloth petticoats may 
be added, if desired. 

One yard of white flannel, to be torn into bands of the 
size to fit body; it is better not to hem these bands. 
They should be worn only about six weeks, then the ribbed 
knit silk and wool bands with shoulder straps may be 
substituted. 

To give the little one reasonably good tailoring, it is as 
well to wait its arrival before making coat and bonnet. 

A toilet basket with its contents will be needed. It 
should have in it: One pin cushion full of safety pins, 
large and small; threaded needles for sewing the bands, 
one powder shaker with pure talcum in it ; one soft brush 
and a fine comb, one cake of pure white Castile soap, one 
bath thermometer, a small box of absorbent cotton, a 
small box of sterile gauze, some soft, clean old linen; 
one tube of white petrolatum, one pair of small, blunt- 
pointed scissors, one box of wooden toothpicks, four fine 
baby towels, half a dozen cheese cloth wash cloths, a 
bottle containing six ounces of boracic acid solution, for 
washing out the mouth and eyes. This solution should 
be made by dissolving one level half teaspoonful of 
boracic acid powder in six ounces boiling water, cooling 
this and corking the bottle. It should be made fresh at 
least once a week. 

There should also be a bath apron for the nurse or 
mother, and a square of a white eiderdown blanket for 
wrapping up the baby while waiting for his first bath. 

A bassinet, or crib, with its furnishings, a bath tub, 
one wash basin, two pitchers, one covered pail for soiled 
diapers, one pair of scoop and platform scales for weigh- 
ing baby, one hot water bag, one room thermometer and 
one small chamber are also among the necessary articles 
that should be ready when baby arrives. 

The training of a child should begin from birth, and 
as the mother must bear the brunt of the burden, if he is 
ill, nervous or spoiled, the father should aid her in having 

116 



her way about all this. First decide upon the right line 
of training, then keep steadily to it, and you will be 
rewarded by a healthy, well trained baby that will be 
the delight of your home. 

Baby's bath should be given every morning, one hour 
after second feeding. First, a sponge bath on the lap, 
then a quick dip in the tub. Be careful that the room 
temperature is 70 degrees Fahrenheit, that all doors and 
windows are closed, so there will be no draught on the 
baby, and that all the articles needed for bathing and 
dressing the baby are within reach. A soft rubber bath 
tub is preferable, but in the event a tin one is used, a 
blanket should be placed in it, if the baby is very young. 
The tub should be placed upon a box or low table, so that 
it may be out of the draughts that circulate near the floor. 

The water in the tub or basin should be of a tempera- 
ture of from 98 to 100 degrees Fahrenheit, when tested 
by the bath thermometer, or if one cannot have a bath 
thermometer, the water may be tested by placing the 
tip of the elbow in it, as the skin here is sensitive, and if 
the water feels lukewarm, it is of the correct tempera- 
ture. 

The person who is to bathe the baby should put on the 
bath apron, pin the large soft towel to her belt with safety 
pins, so that it hangs down over the bath apron, and 
take the baby on her lap. 

All the garments should be taken off and the baby 
covered with the towel and bath apron, so that only the 
head is out. One of the soft cheese cloth wash cloths 
should then be wet in the basin of warm water and the 
babv's face gently washed (no soap should be used on 
the face). After this is done a little soap should be put 
on the cloth and the baby's head washed, being very care- 
ful not to get any of the soapsuds in baby's eyes. The 
soap should then be rinsed off the head and the face and 
head dried with a corner of the large towel. Next wash 
the body, arms and legs, using a little soap on the second 
wash cloth (not the one that was used for the face and 
head), and being careful to wash in between the little 
fingers and toes and between all the folds of soft flesh. 

117 



Turn the baby over gently and wash the back, taking the 
lower part of the body last and bathing as much as pos- 
sible with the hand under the bath apron, so the baby 
will not be exposed to cold. After he is well soaped in 
all parts, then put him in the tub, being careful to test 
the water in the tub before you put him in it. While in 
the tub the baby's head should rest on the left arm, the 
fingers of the left hand extending down the baby's back, 
so as to support it and prevent strain on the little back, 
and neck. With the other hand all the soap should be 
quickly rinsed off the body with the wash cloth, and as 
soon as this is done the baby should be lifted out of the 
tub and wrapped up in the bathing towel and bath apron. 

The drying process should consist of simply patting 
gently with the towel, rolling him from side to side, and 
then with the corner of the towel gently drying between 
all the soft folds of the flesh in order that no chafing 
may occur. As soon as this is done the wet towel should 
be slipped out from under baby and he should lie on the 
bath apron during the rest of his toilet. Before the 
clothing is put on, a very little pure talcum powder 
should be dusted under the arms and in the creases of 
the neck and folds of flesh near the thighs and buttocks. 
Do not cover the entire body with it. 

Dressing the baby comes next, and during this opera- 
tion he should be held lying on the lap. Never try to 
dress a young baby while holding him in a sitting posi- 
tion ; his neck and back may be badly injured if you do. 
First, the flannel band, which is neatly rolled, should be 
smoothly unrolled around the baby's abdomen, being 
careful that there are no wrinkles to hurt the tender 
flesh. Then the band should be basted on the left side, 
one finger being placed between the band and the skin, so 
that it will not be possible to prick the baby. This will 
be difficult at first, but it will come easy after a little 
practice. The band should be snug, but not tight enough 
to bind. Safety pins often become unfastened, therefore, 
they should never be used to fasten the band. 

When the baby is two months old, the ribbed knit band 
may be used, and should be put on over the feet, slipped 
up into place and the arms put through the straps. 

118 



The diaper should be folded double and pinned snugly, 
but not too tight, with one large safety pin, and where 
the legs go through, with a small safety pin on each side. 
When the knit band is used, the diaper may be pinned 
to the little tab at bottom of band, which will prevent 
slipping. These three safety pins in the diaper are the 
only ones that should be used in the baby's clothing. 

The wool shirt, which should button down the front, 
should come next, and then the long wool stockings and 
bootees, which should be warmed before they are put on, 
and the Httle feet warmed by hand. The stockings may 
be pinned to the diaper with the two small pins that 
fasten diaper at sides. The long flannel skirt should 
follow, and should fasten in the back with tiny buttons, 
so that no pins need be used. After this, the white dress. 
These should invariably be slipped on over the feet, and 
may both be put on before turning the baby over on his 
stomach to button him up the back, which will avoid turn- 
ing so often. 

His eves should now be very gently washed out with 
the boric acid solution (one teaspoon of boric acid in a 
pint of warm water), using a separate piece of cotton or 
linen for each eye, soueezing a few drops of the solution 
into the eye and drying it with another piece of cotton 
or limn. Next, the mouth may be washed out by twist- 
ing a little piece of cotton or linen firm ] y on your finger, 
dipping this in the boric acid solution and very gently 
wiping out the entire inside of baby's mouth. The nose 
may be cleaned with a small piece of absorbent cotton 
firmly twisted on the end of a wooden toothpick, then 
dipped in the boric acid solution and passed just a little 
way into each nostril. Do not try to reach up higher than 
is necessary to remove the secretions, which can readily 
be seen. The ears may be cleaned in the same manner, 
care being taken not to reach in too far. A small piece 
of cotton or linen should be used to carefully dry the 
nose and ears. 

The baby's nails should now be cleaned with a wooden 
toothpick, and when necessary to trim them, blunt scis- 

119 



sors should be used. This completes baby's toilet, and 
he should be taken to his crib in another room and cov- 
ered with a light blanket, while the room in which the 
bath was given should be aired and the toilet articles put 
neatly away. 

A soft brash should always be used to brush the baby's 
hair, and if it be a boy, the hair should be trained from 
the side in the very beginning. 

The room in which baby spends most of his waking 
time should be as full of sun and fresh air as possible, 
the temperature during the day ranging around 68 de- 
grees Fahrenheit, and that of his sleeping room from 
45 to 55 degrees. 

When the weather is fine, a baby may take his outdoor 
airing in the summer, when a week old; in the spring or 
autumn, at the age of three or four weeks, and in the 
winter, when he is two or three months old. He should 
always be taken out in a carriage, instead of one's arms, 
and in cold weather care should be taken to see that he 
is well wrapped up with mittens on his hands and warm 
blankets on his feet. The wind should not be allowed 
to blow in his face, and neither should the sun be per- 
mitted to shine directly in his eyes, whether sleeping or 
waking. 

When night falls, the baby should be asleep in his crib, 
and not out on the streets. When the baby may not go 
out of doors on account of the severity of the weather, he 
may take his airing by being wrapped up exactly as if he 
were going out, placed in his carriage and left for half 
an hour at a time (longer when he becomes accustomed 
to it), in a room with the doors closed, but the windows 
down from the top. 

When babies do not get enough fresh air, it is indicated 
by a pale, tired look, poor appetite, ill temper and broken 
slumbers. 

When old enough to walk, special care should be taken 
that babies do not play in wet puddles, sit down on cold 
steps or damp grass, get wet in snow, or get too tired. 

A mother should always nurse her own baby, if she is 
free from tuberculosis and is not so nervous as to make 

120 



A Beautiful Complexion 

Is Secured and Maintained 
by the Use of 

Ozo Cream 







A Toilet Luxury 

A Household Necessity 

_,_ is a benzoinated Cold Cream that 
v(J overcomes skin disorders and sal- 

lowness, as well as undue redness, sunburn, 

tan and freckles. 

Om Crpam r eeps ^ ands ' fa u e an ^ 

\JAU Kji Vlim h ps soft, smooth and 
free from chapping. Soothes and restores 
rough, irritated skin to its normal condition. 

Sold at A 11 Drug Stores, or Post-Paid 
by us on Receipt of Price — 



Jars, 25c 50c, and 75c 

Manufactured Only by 

Frederick Pharmacal Go. 

Memphis 



121 



her milk unfit for use. The quality of the milk may best 
be determined by having it ana'yzed by a physician. To 
tell about the quantity, one should weigh the baby just 
before he nurses and again right after he has nursed 
steadily for twenty minutes, and the number of ounces he 
gains will tell the amount he obtains from his mother. 
Regularity in feeding is one of the most important things 
in baby's life. During the first day the baby should be 
put to the breast every six hours, as very little milk is 
secreted during this time; the second day this practice 
should be continued, but on the third day, when the milk 
usual 'y enters the breast, regular two-hour intervals of 
nursing should be observed between 6 a.m. and 10 p.m., 
with an early morning lunch at 2 a.m., making ten meals 
in twenty- four hours. 

This should b.e continued until the baby is two months 
old, when he should be fed every two and a half hours, 
making nine meals in twenty-four hours. When three- 
months old he should have seven meals in twenty-four 
hours, being fed every three hours ; when five months old 
the night meal should be stopped and only six meals 
given. When ten months old, the baby should be fed 
every four hours for five meals in twenty-four hours, 
keeping this up until he is a year old, when he should be 
weaned from the breast. He should be awakened at meal 
time until he learns' to awake of his own accord, and 
should be kept awake until he has finished nursing. The 
average baby should be nursed twenty minutes, although 
ten to fifteen minutes may do, when the milk flows freely. 
The baby is affected to some extent by the diet of the 
mother, and she should avoid sour fruits, cabbage, toma- 
toes and anything she has found she cannot readily 
digest; a'so excessive tea or coffee drinking. She should 
take a glass of milk, a cup of cocoa or a bowl of gruel 
between meals, unless her supply of milk is very abund- 
ant. The mother should exercise great self-control over 
her temper, and should not worry and fret over trifles. 
She should take a walk in the fresh air every day, and 
be sure to have a movement from her bowels daily. If 

122 



Renkerts 

TWO DRUG STORES 

115 and 222 N. MAIN ST. 



We call for and deliver 
prescriptions any hour 
Day or Night. <J We carry 
a complete line of Foun- 
tain Supplies and Hot 
Water Bottles, in fact 
we carry everything 
:-: for the sick room :-: 

Free Messenger 
Service 



MAIN AND EXCHANGE 



BOTH PHONES 676 



A. RENKERT 

Open All Night 
FREE MESSENGER SERVICE ALL NIGHT 



123 



she can spare the time, she should lie down for an hour 
each day. 

Beginning with the first day of life, one or two ounces 
of boiled water should be given in a bottle, used three or 
four times daily, also one meal of modified milk, which 
gradually accustoms the baby to the digestion of cow's 
milk and allows the mother an opportunity to go out with- 
out hurrying back for nursing. 

If the mother needs her night sleep very much, the 
bottle may be given at night by some other member of 
the family and the mother may sleep on undisturbed. 

As the baby grows older, the bottle meals may be sub- 
stituted oftener, so that by the time he is a year old he 
will be entirely weaned. 

In the event the mother cannot nurse the baby at all, 
cow's milk carefully modified to suit the individual 
baby is the best infant's food now known. The curd of 
cow's milk is especially indigestible for baby, and the 
fat or cream must be changed to some extent. Water 
or a gruel is therefore added to overcome this and render 
these elements more digestible. Some form of sugar is 
added to sweeten and an alkali, like lime water or bicar- 
bonate of soda, to overcome the acidity of the milk. 

Milk prepared in this way is sometimes spoken of by 
physicians as "humanized milk," because an effort has 
been made to make it as near like human as possible. 
When good fresh milk can be obtained, this method of 
feeding is recommended by all the best children special- 
ists. 

Babies fed from the bottle should, during the first 
month, receive from one and a half to three ounces of the 
food every two hours from 6 a.m. to 10 p.m., and once 
between these hours, making ten meals in twenty-four 
hours ; second month, from three to four ounces every two 
hours and a half, making eight meals in twenty-four 
hours ; third month, from four to four and a half ounces 
every three hours for seven meals; fourth month, four 
and a half to five ounces every three hours from six or 
seven in the morning until nine or ten o'clock at night, 
but nothing between these hours, making six meals in 

124 



twenty-four hours ; fifth month, from five to five and 
one-half ounces every three hours for six meals; sixth 
month, from five and a half to six ounces every three 
hours for six meals; seventh month, six to six and a half 
ounces every three hours for six meals ; eighth month, six 
and a half to seven ounces for six meals, three 
hours apart; ninth month, seven to seven and one-half 
ounces for six meals ; tenth month, from seven and a half 
to eight ounces for six meals ; eleventh month, eight 
ounces every four hours for five meals in twenty-four 
hours. This schedule has been figured out upon scien- 
tific principles to apply to the average baby, and if ad- 
hered to will give excellent results. Plain round bottles 
with the ounces marked on them are the best feeding 
bottles, and as soon as the baby has finished feeding any 
food remaining in the bottle should be thrown away and 
the bottle rinsed with cold water. Then the bottle should 
be filled with cold water, in which has been placed a 
pinch of borax, and allowed to stand. Just before pre- 
paring the baby's food for the day all bottles should be 
thoroughly washed with hot soap suds and a bottle brush, 
then rinsed and boiled for twenty minutes. They should 
then be stood upside down and covered with a clean 
towel until the food is ready to be poured in them. 

A plain black rubber nipple, with one small hole in 
the top, is best and simplest to use. As soon as the meal 
is finished, the nipple should be rinsed in cold water and 
placed in a covered glass of cold water containing a pinch 
of borax or boric acid solution. Once each day the nipple 
should be turned inside out and scrubbed with a brush 
and hot soap suds, then carefully rinsed and put back in 
a fresh solution. 

Experience has shown that a teaspoon of barley flour 
rubbed up in a very little cold water and added to a pint 
of boiling water, with a pinch of salt, then boiled fifteen 
or twenty minutes, at the end of which time enough boil- 
ing water is added to make up the pint, is the best gruel 
to use with the milk. 

In feeding the modified milk, slight ills incident to 
babyhood sometimes render a temporary change neces- 

125 



sary ; for instance, if the baby has an attack of diarrhea, 
a teaspoon of castor oil should be given as soon as it is 
noticed and all milk stopped for at least twenty-four 
hours, giving on ] y the barley water in its place; then as 
the movements improve and if the baby has no fever, 
begin very gradua ly to add milk to the barley water, 
first adding only one ounce to a pint and gradually in- 
creasing until the regular formula is reached. 

Vomiting may be caused by any one of a number of 
things; the quantity of food given may be too large for 
the stomach to hold readily; he may be taking the food 
too rapidly, in which case the hole in the nipple should 
be smaller size and the baby made to take more time over 
his meal. In some cases a baby vomits because his bands 
are too tight, or some one bounces him about just after 
his meal. 

These things should all be borne in mind and investi- 
gated before blaming the food. Sometimes the baby 
vomits soft curds or keeps spitting up food at any time 
between his meals, which usually shows gastric or stom- 
ach indigestion. It may be due to too much cream in the 
food or to the use of cane or malt sugar. Try reducing 
the richness of the milk by skimming away some of the 
cream, or most of it, if need be, and if this does not 
answer, reduce the auantity of sugar one-half. Longer 
intervals between the meals sometimes proves helpful, 
as it gives the stomach more time to rest and less to do. 

Habitual constipation, or two much starch, proteids or 
su<-'ar. sometimes develops colic and produces gas in the 
intestines, also causing curds to show in his movements, 
in which case you may relieve the baby temporarily by 
an enema of warm water, and by diluting the food with 
water instead of gruel, which contains some starch, but 
your best course in this case is to consult your doctor, 
as it takes considerable skill to right this trouble. The 
first artic ] e besides milk that it is usually safe to give a 
baby is orange juice, but if the baby is inclined to have 
frequent or loose movements from the bowels, do not 
give orange juice, as it is a slight laxative in some cases. 
Begin with one teaspoonful orange juice strained through 

126 



cheese cloth, to which has been added an equal amount of 
boiled water, and give this mixture midway between the 
morning meals. If the baby does not vomit it, gradually 
increase up to one ounce of the juice and one of water, 
and when this point is reached leave out the water little 
by litt'e uutil only one ounce of the pure juice is taken. 
The orange itself should be sweet, but you should never 
add sugar to it, as this often causes sour stomach and acid 
movements that chafe the baby. 

The orange juice may be begun as early as the fourth 
month in many cases, and may be given through the 
medium of the nursing bottle. Under no circumstances 
should "tastes" of food be given from the family table. 
More harm is done in this way than mothers realize. Tt 
often causes serious illness and even death. Keep the 
baby away from table until he is at least two years of 
age, and even then his food must be specially prepared, 
and he should never be allowed to have tastes of food 
meant for adults. Beef juice or cereal is usually given 
next after orange juice. If the baby is inclined to be 
pale, begin with the beef juice, otherwise the cereal may 
be given first. Where there is a reason, the beef juice 
may be commenced when baby is six months old, but it 
is best to wait with the average child until he is ten or 
eleven months old. Fresh beef juice, and not prepared 
extracts, should be used. Round steak slightly broiled 
and pressed with a lemon squeezer will give the juice, 
which may have in it a tiny pinch of salt, and should be 
served to his small majesty lukewarm. When the baby 
is !ess than ten months old it is best to add an equal 
amount of water to the beef juice, using a teaspoonfu 1 of 
each and gradually working up to one ounce of pure 
juice. This may be given once daily, or every two days, 
where the baby is a young one, between meals. A well 
cooked cereal may be begun when baby is ten or eleven 
months old, and on his four-hour schedule for breast or 
bottle meals. 

A light cereal should be used at first, cooked in water 
with a little salt added. One tablespoon of cereal should 
be cooked in a double boiler with one pint of water for 

127 



one hour to the consistency of a thin breakfast cereal. 
Take from the fire and beat one or two ounces of top 
milk (not rich cream) into the required amount for the 
baby's meal, which should be at first only one tea-spoon- 
ful, and gradually increased to two to three tablespoon- 
fuls. No sugar should be used. The white of a coddled 
egg with a tiny pinch of salt in it may be alternated 
with the beef juice when the baby is ten months old, giv- 
ing one or the other every day. A crust of bread may be 
given the baby to suck when he is eight months old, but 
he must not swallow it, or a cracker made especially for 
babies may be given, but never under any circumstances 
give ordinary white or graham crackers until the baby 
is as much as a year old. 

If the course of diet outlined in the foregoing has been 
pursued up to the time baby is one year old, no difficulty 
should be experienced in weaning him from the breast, 
as his little stomach has gradually become accustomed to 
other forms of nourishment. He will doubtless have 
tripled his birth weight by this time, and besides having 
five or six teeth, will be able to stand up by holding to 
something, and maybe say a few short words. Barley 
water, lime water and milk sugar may now be eliminated 
and a quarter teaspoon of bicarbonate of soda added to 
the twenty-six ounces of whole milk, which should con- 
stitute his day's supply. As soon as the milk is deliv- 
ered add your bicarbonate of soda as proportioned above, 
pour the milk into bottles, corked with clean cotton and 
stand on ice until ready for use. 

At mealtime the milk should be warmed by standing in 
hot water. It is now time to have baby learn to take his 
meals from a cup, gradually doing away with the bottle. 
No child should be permitted to have a bottle after he is 
eighteen months old, and the earlier he can be encouraged 
to give it up the better it is for all concerned. 

After taking the twenty-six ounces of milk for the 
baby to drink, there will be six ounces left from a quart, 
and this used with his cereal will give him an entire 
quart during the day, which is plenty, when he is taking 
solid foods as well. Baby's bill of fare may now be 

128 



lengthened by the addition of broths made from chicken 
and mutton, well-cooked rice, the yellow as well as the 
white of coddled egg, prune juice, peach juice and scraped 
apple, or apple sauce, Zwieback or dried bread, with a 
very little butter on it, dried bread and milk, the cereal 
jellies; and any of the cereals you can cook thoroughly at. 
home ; junket, and an occasional graham cracker, if given 
with a meal, never between meals. Baked potato is 
starchy and should be barred until baby is two years old. 

The young master's dai'y routine should begin at 6 a.m. 
with eight ounces of milk and a piece of Zweiback or dried 
bread; at 8 a.m. he should have the juice of one sweet 
orange, or two tablespoons of prune juice, or two table 
spoons peach juice, or a tablespoon of apple sauce. At 
10 o'clock he may have two or three tablespoons of farina, 
hominy or cereal with three ounces of milk, a pinch of salt, 
a little sugar and perhaps a bit of Zweiback. At 2 p.m. 
give him the whole of a coddled egg, with a bit of Zwei- 
back broken in it, and a graham cracker, or six ounces of 
mutton broth with a little barley in it, and a piece of stale 
bread and butter, or two ounces of beef juice over a table- 
spoonful of well cooked rice and a piece of crisp toast 
with butter, or six ounces of chicken broth with a spoon- 
ful of rice in it and a piece of dried bread, each of these 
2 o'clock repasts being accompanied by five ounces of 
plain milk to drink. For the evening meal, which is 
served at 6 o'clock, he should have eight ounces of milk, 
accompanied by two tablespoons oat jelly, with three 
ounces of milk and a pinch of salt on it and a piece of 
Zweiback, or two tablespoons of junket, with three ounces 
of milk poured over it, and a piece of dried bread with 
butter, or two tablespoons wheat or barley jelly with 
three ounces of milk and a pinch of salt and Zweiback, 
or dried bread and butter, or two slices of dried bread 
broken with three ounces of milk and a little salt. Cereal 
jellies are prepared by cooking one tablespoon of the 
cereal flour in eight ounces of water and a pinch of salt 
for about 20 minutes, or until of the consistency of jelly. 

At eighteen months of age the baby's meal hours should 
be changed to 7, 9 and 11 o'clock mornings, 3 in the after- 

129 



noon and 6 :30 in the evening. His morning meal should 
be increased by the addition of a saucer of well cooked 
cereal and an extra piece of toast or bread. At 9 a.m. he 
should have his fruit juice or apple in slightly increased 
quantity. At 11 o'clock he may have as a meat course a 
tablespoon of scraped rare beef pulp, or of finely cut 
lamb chops, or finely cut white meat of chicken, and 
with any of these he may have a tablespoon of well 
cooked rice, or of macaroni, or of spinach mashed through 
a sieve, or of well cooked celery, then a saucer of cooked 
prunes with the skins removed, or boiled custard pud- 
ding, or Irish moss blanc mange. For bread he may have 
Zweiback or whole wheat bread buttered, or stale bread 
and butter. At 3 o'clock, two ounces of beef juice, or a 
cup of mutton broth with an oatmeal cracker, or a cup of 
chicken broth with corn meal cracker. 

Half past six finds him with milk toast, a cup of milk 
and a graham cracker, or a well cooked cereal and milk, 
a cup of milk and a ginger cooky, or a cereal jelly with 
milk, a piece of toast and butter and a cup of milk. 
Apples, oranges and cooked prunes are the best fruits 
for babies, with an occasional ripe raw peach or pear in 
season, the latter two to be well chewed. Crackers should 
not be given children between meals, as they take away 
the appetite for regular meals, keep the stomach working 
all the time and give a coated tongue and bad breath. 

Children should ordinarily be put in short clothes when 
three months old, as they are not then hampered with 
long skirts, which prevent them from kicking and devel- 
oping the legs, but if this age should be reached in cold- 
est weather, it is better to wait till it grows a little 
warmer to put on the short dresses, which should be of 
ankle length. 

The baby's first short clothes outfit should consist in 
summer of from four to six light weight silk and wool, 
or cotton and wool, ribbed knit bands with shoulder 
straps, four silk and wool lightest weight shirts, six flan- 
nel skirts, lightest weight; six pairs light weight silk and 
wool stockings, long enough to be pinned to diapers ; four 
nainsook skirts, six to eight nainsook or dimity dresses, 

130 



four pairs of soft moccasins, six nainsook or cambric 
night dresses, or if the first night dresses have been 
made of outing flannel and washed rather thin, these 
may be cut off and used. 

At night the band, shirt and night dress with the 
diapers are usually enough, but if the baby has cold feet 
the stockings may be left on, even in summer. On ex- 
tremely hot days, and also at night, the shirt may be 
left off, but the band never. 

The winter outfit is the same, except the bands, shirts, 
skirts and stockings are of medium weight wool and 
woolen bootees are advisable, in place of the moccasins. 

A few garments of real wool serve the purpose of keep- 
ing baby warm and are very much to be preferred to a 
number of cotton ones, which are burdensome and irri- 
tating to the child. In summer the baby should be pro- 
vided with a pique or light weight cashmere coat for the 
evenings and cooler days. Light weight muslin caps will 
do for his head until he is large enough to sit up in his 
carriage, when little pique hats that shade the eyes should 
be used. In winter, Bedford cord or similar material, 
lined with lamb's wool, makes a nice coat, and a knitted 
or warm lined silk hood will complete his costume. Never 
use fur-lined coats or rugs for children, for besides being 
unsanitary, they are cumbersome and cause child to per- 
spire and then he feels the slightest draft and takes cold. 

Prematurely born children start in with a handicap as 
compared with those born at term, and for this reason 
should receive doubly careful attention during the first 
two years of life. 

Children should not be permitted to pick at warts. The 
surrounding surface may be greased, which will some- 
times cause them to disappear, but in extreme cases they 
should be burned away with silver nitrate stick or acetic 
acid. 

Where there is a cavity, toothache often yields to oil 
of cloves, oil of peppermint or chloroform dropped on 
cotton, which is then placed in the cavity. 

Equal parts of coal oil and sweet oil, rubbed thoroughly 

131 



into the hair and scalp, left on for twelve hours and then 
washed out with Castile soap and two Quarts of warm 
water, into which a teaspoon of baking soda has been 
stirred, is an efficient method of getting rid of head lice. 

Bathing cold or fever sores with a solution of boracic 
acid and then dusting with a powder (equal parts boracic 
acid and zinc oxide) will be found very effective. 

The itching sensation in hives will be to some extent 
relieved by bathing with a strong solution of bicarbonate 
of soda. Also, a saline laxative should be given, such as 
Epsom salts, sodium phosphate. 

Dry heat will usually relieve earache, temporarily, 
at least. Fill a bag with salt, heat and bind over the ear, 
or make a slender bag, like the finger of a glove, fill 
with salt, heat and place in the ear. The head may rest 
on a flannel covered hot water bag. When a child is too 
young to tell what the trouble is himself, earache may 
be detected by restlessness and fretfulness during the 
day, wakefulness at night and screaming when the ear 
is touched. If earaches are neglected in childhood they 
often result in deafness later in life. A throat specialist 
can nearly always locate the trouble. Never drop oil or 
laudanum in the ear under any circumstances. 

Too much food in hot weather usually is the cause of 
diarrhea, and when it makes its appearance it is an indi- 
cation that there is something the digestive apparatus 
desires to throw off or get rid of. The food supply should 
be cut to almost nothing, castor oil should be given and 
perhaps an enema of warm water. 

Thumb sucking is a habit that is injurious to digestion 
and calculated to deform the arch of the mouth and inter- 
fere with the alignment of the teeth. It may be broken 
by tieing muslin dipped in a strong solution of quinine 
and water around the thumb for a few days and replacing 
it whenever baby shows a disposition to again take up 
this practice. 

The pacifier of modern days might be classified as a 
denaturized "sugar teat," and for sanitary reasons, if no 
other, should never be placed within reach of baby. 

Straining or griping indicate colic. Green stools indi- 

132 



cate indigestion. Mucus in the bowel movements points 
to inflammation or diarrhea. Blood in the actions is a 
sign of dysentery. 

What at first seems to be a persistent cold may prove 
to be whooping cough, which begins this way and develops 
gradually, the coughing sometimes producing a small 
ulcer under and near the tip of tongue. The child becomes 
feverish and restless in about ten days, and has a bad 
cough, the eyes appear watery, the face puffy. The 
coughing spells increase in violence and frequency, the 
paroxysm ending in a whoop. Vomiting often occurs dur- 
ing the coughing spells. 

By all means give a baby plenty of water to drink. 
An old-time physician has said that mothers and nurses 
have become uneasy and treated babies for everything 
under the sun, when all in the world they were crying for 
was water. 

At times a child will develop an inexplainable diar- 
rhea, a fitful appetite, get out of sorts, grind his teeth 
at night, pick his nose or have convulsions; in such an 
event it will be a good idea to give him worm medicine. 
The most common variety of worms found in children 
is the round worm, which resembles the common earth- 
worm and occasionally attains a length of fifteen or 
sixteen inches. The eggs, which are swallowed with 
water, fruit or other uncooked food, having reached the 
small intestine, hatch and the young worms remain there 
and mature. Worms are best prevented by the use of 
pure, clean water and food and by cleanliness of the hands 
and mouth. In treating a child for worms, he should be 
without food for twelve hours and then given a Santonin 
troche (one-quarter grain to one grain) and a half grain 
tablet of calomel. Repeat in four hours. Six hours later 
give a purgative, oil preferred. A cup of milk and a 
cracker may be given just after each dose of Santonin. 
Four hours later the child may go on regular diet. 

Pin worms are the ones which cause trouble in the 
lower bowel and are found as often in grown people as 
children. Eggs of these are swallowed with water, vege- 
tables, fruit and other uncooked food. They may get 

133 



into the food from dirty hands. The eggs travel down 
the intestinal tract, hatching on the way, and the worms 
reach maturity in the lower bowel. The symptom indicat- 
ing pin worms is itching around the lower end of the 
bowel. This symptom, whether in grown-ups or children, 
should invariably suggest seat worms, and proper exam- 
ination should be made and treatment begun at once. 

Children often push corn, beans and other small objects 
up their noses. In such a case the first thing to do is to 
tickle the nostril with a thread or feather until the child 
sneezes, which may get rid of the object. Do not push 
anything into the nose, as it may push the object farther 
up. Have the child blow the nose, and if these means 
do not avial, send for the doctor. 

A black eye should be bathed immediately with hot 
water and gently rubbed. 

For bleeding at the nose, use cold water or ice at the 
back of v the neck or over the bridge of the nose, or a 
towel wrung out of cold water and placed around the neck 
with one end over the bridge of the nose. Pinch the nos- 
trils together. If bleeding persists, plug the nose with a 
piece of cotton. Tie a thread around a piece of cotton 
as large as the thumb, soak in strong tea or lemon juice 
and push gently up the nose. After the bleeding stops 
the cotton may be withdrawn by means of the thread. 

For choking, slap the back between the shoulders. 
Raise the arms as high as possible above the head. If the 
object is small, let it go through the body. Have the child 
eat bread or patotoes ; do not give oil or other laxatives. 

For hiccoughs, stop up both ears with the fingers and 
drink water slowly from a cup held by some one else. 
Produce sneezing. Pull tongue out and put a piece of 
sn^ar or soda on it. Hold out for a few minutes. 

For the relief of bee stings, mosquito, fly, spider, bug 
and other insect bites, applications of damp soda or am- 
monia will afford relief. 

A wound made by a rusty nail should be washed with 
warm water and soap. Thoroughly cleanse the wound 
with peroxide, then with alcohol, and paint with several 
coats of tincture of iodine. 



134 



Exclude the air from a burn at once. For this a thick 
paste made of bicarbonate of soda may be used. Equal 
parts of linseed oil and lime water make the best treat- 
ment if handy; if not use vaseline or sweet oil. In the 
event of a bruise, where the skin is not broken, apply 
cloths wrung out of hot water, then apply witch hazel. 
If the skin is broken, cleanse the wound with Castile 
soap and warm water, then use boracic acid solution and 
apply zinc oxide. 

Peroxide should be used to wash and cleanse cuts, a 
piece of gauze dipped in boracic acid solution applied and 
then the cut bandaged. 

A sprain should be bathed in very hot salt water for 
several minutes, then dried and then bandaged with a 
cloth wet in equal parts turpentine and coal oil. 

The table given below is accepted by the scientific 
world as the ratio of increase in weight and size for a 
normal baby. The weights are taken without any cloth- 
ing. The height is ascertained by laying the child on a 
table or other flat surface and having some one hold his 
knee down while a tape is stretched from top of head 
to bottom of foot. The chest is measured by means of a 
tape passed directly over the nipples and around the 
child's body midway between full inspiration and full 
expiration. The head measurement is taken directly 
around the circumference of the head, over the forehead 
and occipital bone. 

Weight Height Chest Head 

Pounds Inches Inches Inches 

ir ih ^ Bovs 7 - 75 20 - 6 13A 13 - 9 

1 1 Girls 7.16 20.5 13.0 13.5 

a m ti ^ Boys 16 -° 25 - 4 16 - 5 17 - G 

S • • I Girls 15.5 25.0 16.1 16.6 

19 Months ^ s 20 - 5 29 -° 18 -° 18 '° 

1 l S - • I Girls 19.8 28.7 17.4 17.6 

18 Months tBoys 22 ' 8 30 -° 18 ' 5 18 ' 5 

' (Girls 22.0 29.7 18.0 18.0 

9 v (Boys 26.5 32.5 19.0 18.9 

1 earS ""I Girls 25.5 32.5 18.5 18.6 

„ v (Bovs 31.2 35.0 20.1 19.3 

6 Years. . . . | Girlg 3Q 35 Q ig g 190 

135 



A normal baby will hold his head erect in the fourth 
month if his trunk is supported. He will be able to sit 
alone for a few minutes at about the seventh month; in 
the ninth or tenth month he will try to bear his weight 
on his feet. At ten or eleven months he will stand alone 
with slight help, will make first attempt to walk at twelve 
or thirteen months, and at fourteen to fifteen months of 
age can walk pretty well. The baby should not be urged 
to do any of these things, but should be let alone to de- 
ve^p naturally. The average normal baby will cut his 
first set of teeth as follows : Two lower central incisors, 
eight to twelve months; two lower lateral incisors and 
four anterior molars, twelve to fifteen months ; four 
canines, eighteen to twenty- four months ; four posterior 
molars, twenty-four to thirty months. 

At one year a child should have six teeth; at one and 
a half years, twelve teeth; at two years, sixteen teeth; at 
two and a half years, twenty teeth. 

The ''soft spot" or fontanel on top of the head closes 
with the average normal baby at eighteen months, but 
often varies greatly. 

The crying of a child does not necessarily indicate that 
there is anything wrong with the youngster. It is con- 
ducive to health and necessary for the expansion of his 
lungs and the efficient exercise thereof. The young 
mother will soon discover that a baby has several differ- 
ent kinds of cries and be able to distinguish the cry of pain 
from that of simple discomfort, and lose no time in apply- 
ing the needed relief. Babies do not cry from the love of 
so doing, though many do from habit, due to wrong train- 
ing. They are born into the world devoid of habits, either 
good or bad, and to the mother is given the privilege of 
proper^ training her baby, so as to insure for herself 
more liberty and comfort than she would otherwise have. 
Of course, when anything is wrong, the baby can only 
attract attention to himself by crying, and he can scarcely 
be blamed if he does so in a very vigorous and insistent 
manner at times. When a child cries he should always 
be taken up and examined for any justifying cause. When 
this is done and no cause is apparent, and the crying 

136 



ceases while he is up, it is usually the cry of temper, in 
which case he should be put back and left to cry it out. 
This is a discipline which sorely tries the mother's brav- 
ery, but she should not give way to the child's will. To 
do so would be extremely bad for both mother and child 
for years to come. 

Under ordinary circumstances, when a baby cries, he 
is supposed to be hungry and is fed, so that some babies 
are fed when it would be greatly beneficial if they fasted 
several hours. The cry of colic is easily recognized. Tt 
comes in jerks. The baby clutches his hand and draws up 
his legs, and the abdomen becomes inflated with wind 
and hard, like a drum. Colic is due to some error in 
feeding, either feeding too much or feeding the wrong- 
thing. Do not attempt to relieve this by putting the baby 
to the breast. It is true that it will soothe him for a few 
minutes, but then the crying will begin again. The 
warmth of the mother's body is comforting, but the cry- 
ing begins again because the admittance of more food 
into the stomach aggravates the original cause. A warm 
hot water bottle applied to the stomach will afford more 
relief without aggravating the cause. 

The baby should not be fed until the bowels have been 
relieved. A teaspoon of aniseed water may be given, or 
when the pain is very severe, a warm bath. First try 
turning him over on your knee and gently rubbing his 
back until the pain passes off. The hungry baby will cry 
incessantly and will stop at the sight of the breast or the 
feeding bottle, whichever he has been accustomed to. 
This usually begins shortly after a long sleep. A healthy, 
properly fed baby will not cry from hunger, and will not 
cry to be fed at night. The cry of a baby with earache is 
spasmodic and piercing in intensity, and the hand is usu- 
ally raised to the affected ear. The application of a 
woolen cloth wrung out of hot water will often afford the 
desired relief. Oils or medicines should not be dropped 
in the ears of either children or older people. They are 
inclined to catch and hold dust, lint and any particles 
floating in the air, and the health and hearing qualities of 
the ear are best protected by keeping it clean and free 

137 



from foreign matter. The cry of pain from any cause is 
more or less spasmodic and continues until relieved. 
Apart from the fact that the cause of crying should re- 
ceive prompt attention, continuous crying is exhausting 
and productive of harm. The cry of a baby in delicate 
health or with digestion troubles is usually fretful and 
mournful. The same may be said of a baby who is sleepy 
and tired and wants to be let alone. Every mother should 
provide herself with a good clinical thermometer. She 
should know how to use it and know the meaning of the 
rise and fall of temperature. The healthy temperature 
of a baby should range from 89 to not more than 99% 
degrees, there being often a slight difference between 
morning and evening. In the morning it may be from 98 
to 99, and at night from 97% to 98%. Babies troubled 
with indigestion or with catarrhal affections often experi- 
ence a rise in temperature, but when this passes off with- 
in a few hours there is no cause for anxiety. When there 
is a temperature of 100 or over, however, and it is con- 
tinued over that time, it is advisable to send for a doctor. 
A temperature of 104 is serious and 106 or 107 is decided- 
ly dangerous. An improvement in the course of a disease 
is usually accompanied by a sudden drop in the tempera- 
ture. The temperature of a young baby should be taken 
by the rectum. The thermometer should be lubricated 
with vaseline and inserted into the rectum about one 
inch and left there two or three minutes. It is then taken 
out, the temperature read and noted down on a piece of 
paper, together with the time it was taken. 



GOOD THINGS TO KNOW. 

What You Can Do With Soda. 
To promptly and effectually extinguish a fire, scatter 
the entire contents of a large package of soda with a 
sweeping motion at the base of the flames. The action 
of the soda on the fire is to extinguish it instantly; the 
heat from the fire releases the carbonic acid gas, which 

138 



kills the flames. A large package of soda should be 
kept in every part of the building, home, factory or else- 
where. 

For fire in one's clothing — don't run — especially down 
stairs or out of doors. Wrap the person in a woolen rug 
or blanket. Keep the head down so as not to inhale the 
flames. Scatter soda broadcast on the burning parts. 

Hair brushes and combs may be made clean and sweet 
by washing in warm water, in which a spoonful of soda 
has been dissolved. Rub the brush bristles with another 
brush or the hand, and place in the sun to dry. 

To clean jewelry, put in a bag with dry soda and shake 
freely or leave your jewelry in dry soda and it will 
become bright. 

Soda is excellent for cleaning: and brightening silver 
and plated ware. 

Fruit or tea stains may be removed from table linen 
or napkins by the prompt application of soda moistened 
with sweet milk or soap suds. 

Sunburn, freckles, an eruption on the face, or mosquito 
bites, are relieved quickly by washing frequently in a 
strong solution of soda. 

A teaspoon of soda in a glass of water, used as a gargle 
and to thoroughly rinse the mouth, will prevent gums 
from ulcerating, relieve ulcerated bone and lessen tooth- 
ache. 

In cases of gout, where the bone is inflamed, a poultice 
of wet soda will give relief. 

A little soda dissolved in water will relieve headache 
and sour stomach. 

When a patient is feverish, wash the skin in warm 
water and soda. 

If an odor arises from an excessive perspiration, use a 
teaspoon of soda to a pint of hot water. 

If the food distresses the stomach, give half a tea- 
spoon of soda in a glass of milk or water. 

If you wish to keep gruels or milk in the sick room, 
put in a generous pinch of soda to keep them sweet. 

After washing out the baby's bottle, let it stand in soda 
solution before using again. 

139 



If your face looks red and shiny in summer, bathe it in 
warm water with a teaspoon of soda in it. 

Applications of hot water and soda will alleviate piles 
and other inflammations. 

If the hair smells sour and feverish, wash it in cool 
(not too cool) water, with a spoonful of soda to a quart 
of water. Thoroughly dry and rub in a little bay rum, if 
convenient. 

Wash baby with weak soda solution in warm weather. 

For rattlesnake bite, apply to the wound soda slight- 
ly moistened, just so as to make a paste. When it be- 
comes discolored, either yellow or greenish, remove and 
put on a fresh application. Continue to apply in this man- 
ner imtil the soda ceases to become discolored. 

A teaspoon of soda dissolved in a small g'ass of water, 
a piece of cotton soaked in the solution and placed against 
the tooth, and the mouth washed with the balance, will 
alleviate severe cases of toothache. 

Soda is a good dentifrice, as it neutralizes the acids 
which secrete themseVes around the teeth, thereby pre- 
venting decay. Use with a brush same as toothpowder, 
or dissolved in water. 

Corns and bunions may be softened and relieved by 
making a salve of lard and soda, and applying at night 
upon retiring. If this is persevered in they will soon 
disappear. 

A little soda dissolved in water and drank three times 
a day will be found beneficial to dyspepsia and heartburn. 

A teaspoon of soda dissolved in half glass of water fre- 
quently gives relief in cases of hiccough. 

In case of erysipelas: Add one heaping teaspoon of 
soda to one pint of boiling water and apply the solution 
as hot as it can be borne. Apply every fifteen minutes 
until the first sharp attack is relieved. Then every half 
hour for a time; after that every hour until cured. 

For burns and scalds : Cover with soda and lay hot 
cloths on. 

If lard becomes strong and rancid in hot weather, 
reboil it, adding about two or three heaping tablespoons 
of soda to every ten gallons of fat. This will bring the 

140 



lard back to its natural sweetness. A little more or less 
soda will not injure the quality of the lard. 

A judicious mixture of soda with the animal feed is a 
preventive of cholera in poultry and hogs. 

To soften water, use a liberal amount of soda dissolved 
in boiling water. 

If soda is used liberally in washing, the clothes will 
look whiter and not need so much soap nor so much rub- 
bing. 

Milk which has changed may be rendered fit for use 
again by stirring in a little soda. 

When the butter fails to come after the usual amount 
of churning, a teaspoon of soda will expedite matters 
greatly. 

Flowers may be kept fresh a long time by putting a 
pinch of soda into the water in which they are held. They 
should be gathered early in the morning or late in the 
evening and not while the sun is shining upon them. 

The odor of the last contents of a bottle or any glass or 
earthenware vessel may be removed by filling it with 
cold water, in which a small portion of soda has been 
dissolved and letting it stand open in an airy place for 
a few days, changing the water every few days. 

As soon as the irritation develops in hives or nettle 
rash, place half a teaspoonful of soda as far back on the 
tongue as possible; allow the soda to dissolve, or wash 
it down with a very small quantity of water; repeat the 
process every four hours while patient is awake for two 
or three clays. If sleeping, do not awaken patient. The 
ailment indicates an acidity of the system, which the soda 
greatly neutralizes. 

When oil of vitriol (sulphuric acid) touches flesh, it 
burns it immediately. Water applied to vitriol burn in- 
tensifies it by spreading the acid, and the best antidote is 
soda, which transforms the acid to a harmless substance. 

Hints for Table, Kitchen and House. 
In going to the dining room, the host should offer his 
arm to the oldest guest or greatest stranger, unless there 

141 



be a bride present, in which case she takes precedence. 
The lady whom he escorts should be seated at his right. 

The hostess is escorted by the oldest gentleman, great- 
est stranger or such member of the company as she de- 
sires to occupy the seat of honor at her right. 

The seat for the carver should be higher than the other 
chairs at the table. 

It is the rule in carving to cut across the fiber of the 
meat, except in the case of the fillet or under side of the 
sirloin of beef, which should be sliced with the direction 
of the fiber. 

In carving fish, the flakes should not be broken, else 
the beauty and delicacy of the fish will be destroyed. The 
blade of the fish knife should be broad. 

The washing of pans and kettles will not involve half 
the labor if done immediately after using. 

Wipe the range with brown paper after cooking, and 
it can be kept bright with little trouble. 

The hot air passages of stoves and ranges should be 
kept free from soot. Inattention to this will seriously 
interfere with the heating of the oven. 

A basin of cold water placed in an oven will soon 
lower the temperature. 

Eusty flat irons should be rubbed over with beeswax 
and lard, or beeswax and salt. 

Tough meat will be made tender if placed in vinegar 
water for a few minutes. 

To beat the whites of eggs quickly, add a pinch of salt. 

Dish cloths should be scalded and washed daily. 

For ironing days, a fire of cinders is better than fresh 
coal. 

Milk will keep sweet longer in a shallow pan than in a 
pitcher. 

To prepare a new iron kettle for use and prevent rust, 
fill with potato peelings and boil for an hour, then wash 
the kettle with hot water, wipe dry and rub with a little 
lard. 

Turpentine mixed with stove polish prevents rust and 
gives a brighter gloss than the use of water. 

The mica in stoves can be made clear by washing with 

142 



vinegar slightly diluted. If the black does not come off 
immediately, allow the mica to remain in the vinegar a 
short time. 

A small quantity of green sage placed in the pantry will 
keep out red ants. 

Cold fruit requires cold jars. Hot fruit, hot jars. 

The hands should be dipped in cold water before mak- 
ing pastry. 

The busy housewife will save much time if, on ironing 
day, she will use the wringer for a mangle to press folded 
towels, shirts and knit underwear. 

If a granite or enamel pan is burned, don't scrape it. 
After covering the blackened spots with concentrated 
lye and dampening with water, let it remain over night. 
Then the scorches can be easily wiped off, leaving the 
pan like new and without the ugly scratches a knife 
makes. 

Place a cayenne pepper where mice frequent and they 
will not return. 

Tin should never be placed on the stove to dry. It 
should be washed in hot, soapy water, thoroughly rinsed, 
wiped dry and kept in a dry place. Clean the seams with 
a wooden skewer and cloth. To scour tin use Sapolio or 
whiting; never sand. 

Clean silver with French whiting applied with a cloth 
wet in ammonia or alcohol. 

Remove egg stains from silver with bicarbonate of soda. 

To clean cut glass bottle, take warm water with one tea- 
spoon baking soda, shake it well and you will find it 
cleaned perfectly. 

To remove the printed matter from cotton sacks, re- 
move the contents, wash the sack, then soak it thoroughly 
in kerosene overnight, then rewash it. 

The shine may be taken out of broadcloth or other 
heavy woolen materials by sponging them with ammonia. 
Five drops of ammonia in a wineglass of warm water and 
a small fine sponge are necessary. Dampen the cloth a 
little and rub it hard. Hang to dry out of dust. 

All kinds of roots keep better in the cellar by throwing 
fresh dirt over them, especially turnips and beets. They 

143 



can be put in barrels or boxes. Put a layer of dirt in the 
bottom and a layer every few inches, the roots not to come 
out to the sides by an inch at least, and then five or six 
inches of dirt on top. 

After washing and drying your woolen blankets, hang 
them on the line in the open air and beat well with a 
carpet beater. It will make the blankets appear like new. 

An effective fly poison, harmless to human life, is made 
by dissolving a dram of bichromate of potash in two 
ounces of water and sweetening with a little sugar. 

To remove grease from carpet, sprinkle the grease spot 
thickly with corn starch, and cover with a newspaper, 
Leave for a day or two, then sweep it off and the place 
will be clean. 

Ink spots may be removed by dipping the inked parts 
into a cup or bowl of milk and standing away until the 
milk sours. 

Cut hot bread with a hot knife. 

Save water in which meat has been washed to water 
house plants. It is a good fertilizer. 

Never slice a pineapple with the knife it is peeled with. 

Rub your hands with lemon juice as soon as you have 
finished washing dishes. It will keep them from chapping 
and also keep them white. 

A cloth saturated with coal oil will clean a sink, bath 
tub or basin which has become greasy and discolored from 
use. 

New paint stains can be removed with turpentine. Old 
stains must first be softened with butter and then rubbed 
with benzine. 

Rub white spots on furniture with essence of pepper- 
mint or spirits of camphor, or hold a hot plate from the 
stove over them. 

A teaspoonful of ammonia in a gallon of warm water 
will often restore color in carpets. It will also remove 
whitewash from them. 

A teaspoonful of good cider vinegar added to one gill 
of pure, raw linseed oil is said to make an excellent fur- 
niture polish. 

144 



SURE DEATH! 



TO 



Roaches, Ants, Fleas 
Bed-Bugs and All Insects 

If You'll Use 

World's Wonder 

The World's Greatest Bug Exterminator 



Complete extermination guar- 
anteed or your money back 

Price 75 Cents Per Quart 
$2.00 Per Gallon 

At all good grocers or Drug- 
gists, or upon receipt of price to 

Roescher Chemical Co. 



Makers of 



Disinfectants that Disinfect 
Phone Main 3490 472 North Main St. 



145 



If the bedstead is really brass, a piece of flannel mois- 
tened in salt and vinegar will clean it. Touch the spots 
lightly with the mixture, then with a clean flannel rub 
the entire surface of the brass, using a little whiting on 
a dry flannel as a final polish. 

Laundry Tips. 

Oil stains should be washed out in cold water. 

A little borax put in the water in which red bordered 
towels are washed will prevent them from fading. 

To remove ink or iron mold stain, wet them with milk 
and cover with salt. 

Soaking black calico in salt water before washing sets 
the color. 

Put a teaspoonful of powdered borax in your cold 
starch; it gives an extra stiffness to the linen. 

Peach stains may be removed by soaking in the fol- 
lowing mixture : Put a pound of sal soda and five cents 
worth of chloride of lime in an earthen vessel, and pour 
two quarts of soft water on it; stir until it is dissolved 
Continue stirring while stains are soaking. 

Where white garments are mud-stained, first try thor- 
ough washing in cold water, then soak stain in oxalic acid 
for five minutes. Rinse in cold water and then ammonia 
water. 

Colored silks should be washed in gasoline or naphtha, 
out of doors, and rinsed well in clean gasoline. 

Vaseline stains should yield to soaking in alcohol or 
kerosene. 

Soak in alcohol or molasses to remove grass stains. 

Fruit, tea, coffee, cocoa or chocolate stains may be 
removed by spreading the stain over a bowl and pouring 
boiling water through until stain disappears. 

Idoine stains should be washed with alcohol, ether or 
chloroform. 

Stains from milk, cream, meat juice, blood or sweet oil 
should be soaked in cold water for a few minutes; then 
rub on soap and wash well in cold water. 

Rub lard or butter into stains from pitch tar, wheel 
grease or machine oil, then scrape off the pitch or tar. 

146 



a 



FAMILY WASH" 



WILL CAUSE YOU 
NO ANNOYANCE IF 
YOU DEPEND UPON 



Lamar Laundry 



ac- 

at 

and 



PHONE 

Hemlock: 

2 8 6 
2 8 7 

New Phone: 

18 8 9 




Your garments 
are promptly re- 
turned, fresh, 
pure, odorless 
and clean, and 
every piece 
counted for 
less trouble 
expense than 
ever, by our im- 
proved method of 



Rough Dry 
and Pound 
Rates 



We have doubled the ca- 
pacity and efficiency of 
our big plant, and im- 
proved our splendid Dry 
Cleaning Department to 
accommodate demands of 
an ever-growing list of 
satisfied customers. Will 
you join them? 



147 



Wash in cold water, rubbing plenty of soap on the stain. 

Scorch stains may be wet with soap suds, then spread 
in the sun; cover the wet stains with starch made into a 
paste with soap suds. 

To launder colored cottons : Make a strong suds with 
dissolved soap and warm water. Have ready, in two 
tubs, cold water for rinsing. Put one or two articles at a 
time in the suds and wash quickly; then put them in the 
rinsing water. Continue this until all are washed, then 
rinse well and starch. The starch must be cold. Hang 
in the shade to dry. If the colored (articles are badly 
soiled, or there is fear of the co^rs running, soak them 
in cold water and salt. Allow half a cupful of salt to 
two gallons of water. Dark cotton goods should be 
washed in starch. Make the starch with one cupful of 
flour, one pint of cold water and three quarts of boiling- 
water and strain. To two quarts and a half of starch 
add two gallons of warm water. Wash the articles in 
this mixture the same as if it were suds. Wash a second 
time in a mixture of one pint of starch and two ga^ons 
of warm water. Rinse in cold water and hang out to 
dry. Garments washed in this manner will not require 
any more starch. 

Strong soap or alkalis, like soda, ammonia, javelle 
water, etc., injure colors. 

Heat fades and dulls colors, therefore the water must 
never be hot. 

If the colors have a tendency to fade or run. put salt 
in the rinsing water. Have the garments turned wrong 
side out and dry as quickly as possible. 

If the washing machine is used several garments may 
be put in the suds at the same time. 

Woolens should be treated in the following manner: 
Put about two pailfuls of warm water in a tub, and add 
enough dissolved soap to make a heavy suds. Dissolve 
two tablespoons of borax in a quart of boiling water. 
Pour half of this in the suds. Shake the white flannels 
free from dust and put them in the suds ; work the suds 
through the articles by lifting, squeezing and kneading; 
never rub or twist woolens. A washing machine is excel- 

148 



lent for all woolen fabrics. Squeeze the water from the 
washed article, rinse in two waters having about the 
same temperature as the washing suds, put a cupful of 
dissolved borax in each rinsing water. Pass through the 
wringer. If you have no wringer put the article in a 
square of strong cloth and squeeze as free from water as 
possible. Shake well and hang out to dry. Before the 
flannels are fully dried take from the line and press. Do 
not have the iron very hot, and have a piece of cheese 
cloth between the iron and the flannel. Have fresh suds 
and proceed in the same manner with the colored flan- 
nels. Alkalis, even when very weak, have a tendency to 
dissolve and gelatinize wool fiber, and therefore should 
never be employed in washing woolens. 

Ammonia softens and cleans°s wool, but has a ten- 
dency to make white goods yellow. 

Borax cleans, softens and whitens woolens. 

Hip-h temperature h^s a tendency to dissolve and shrink 
wool fiber, therefore the water in which woolen articles 
are washed and rinsed should be only warm enough for 
the hand to be borne comfortably in. 

Do not dry flannels near a hot stove or register. 

Boiled starch gives the most satisfactory results, as 
a rule. The starch should be boiled for ten minutes; it 
is better even longer. Mix the dry starch with cold water 
in the proportion of Inlf a cupful of coM water to two 
tablespoons of starch. Pour on this, stirring all the time, 
half a pint of boiling water, if for cuffs, collars, shirt 
bosoms, etc. If for white skirts and articles that need to 
be fairly stiff, add a quart of boiling water. For dresses 
and articles that require only stiffening enough to make 
them like new, use two quarts of boiling water. When 
the cooking is nearly completed add a teaspoon of salt and 
a teaspoon of lard or butter. A few drops of dissolved 
bluing may be beaten in just as the starch is taken from 
the fire. When different degrees of stiffness are re- 
quired, the thick starch may be made, then thinned to 
suit the various articles. When it is desired to have an 
article very stiff it should be dried before being starched 
and the starch used hot. For collars, cuffs, shirt bos- 

149 



oms, etc., have the starch hot and thick. Rub the starch 
well into the fabric, then clap between the hands, and 
finally draw between the fingers, to remove any super- 
fluous starch. Dry well. For the thinner starching work 
the articles in the starch, that all parts may be equally 
stiff, wring and hang outdoors to dry. All the appliances 
used in making the starch, as well as your own hands, 
must be perfectly clean. If the starch is not perfectly 
smooth when thinned, strain it. 

The following is an excellent method for cleaning a 
floor rug: Dissolve one bar of Ivory soap in one gallon 
boiling water; add four ounces of borax and four ounces 
of sal soda. Stir five minutes, or until dissolved. Add 
four gallons of water and last, one-half pint of alcohol, 
and let stand over night. This makes a jelly, which 
should be rubbed in with a brush, wiped off with a dry 
cloth and, if possible, the rug should be put in the air 
to dry. 

Wash white silk hose in warm suds from white soap, 
rinse in warm water and hang in the dark to dry. Washed 
in this way they will not turn yellow. 

A large wash may be sprinkled thoroughly and neatly 
in a few minutes by holding over the tub and turning the 
water gently through the shower bath. 

Miscellaneous Infoemation. 

Not all bird fanciers know of the bird's love for nas- 
turtium blossoms. The pepper in the blossoms makes 
them a desirable addition to the diet. If made to blos- 
som in the house, nasturtiums will minister to the birds 
health during the winter. 

After the house was finished it was found that the 
carpenters had left four of the wooden bumpers with 
rubber tips, that are screwed behind doors. These 
screwed into the corners of a thick board about a foot 
square and the whole stained a dark green made a very 
pretty little foot rest. 

Never press a fur-lined coat. It will ruin the skins. 
Take a very wet sponge and go over the garment thro- 

150 



oughly, if it has become very wrinkled. Then hang on a 
form in the open air. It will look like a new coat when 
dry. 

No doubt the "man of the house" has discovered that 
he gets the best light for shaving by placing the mirror 
before the window, but perhaps he never noticed how 
much light the frame shuts off. With a window of good 
size and a good light, this is of little consequence, but on 
dark days it amounts to considerable. It was reserved 
for one man to note this in his fifty-sixth year and to 
find, by careful measurements, that the area of his glass 
and its frame were almost equal. Try a mirror without 
a frame and see the difference. 

Constantly chewing on one side of the mouth when 
eating will cause the teeth to weaken on the side that is 
not used. 

A child three years old developed swollen glands. On 
operating, the surgeon found a tubercular affection, 
which had been caused by the child sucking his finger. 
A child's hands, especially if he plays out-of-doors, arc 
constantly coming in contact with germs — another dan- 
ger in allowing the baby to suck his thumb. 

After having a very handsome piece of furniture badly 
scarred because a visitor rojcked against it, a smart 
housekeeper discovered that by turning the rug so its 
nap ran the other way, the chairs moved in the opposite 
direction from the furniture. 

When carrying oranges for a train or picnic lunch. 
remove the skin and seeds at home, wrap in waxed paper 
and pack with your other lunch. 

This for tired feet from walking or standing on them 
a long time: Lie down upon a couch or bed and elevate 
the heels as high as possible upon pillows. The higher 
the elevation of the heels the quicker the cure. Gravity 
helps to redistribute the blood, and in ten minutes the 
feet feel rested and there is no swelling. This treat- 
ment resorted to in the middle of the day makes the 
afternoon jaunt a pleasure. 

A tomato crop may be materially increased if, after 

151 



the third tier of tomatoes have set, every leaf is cut off, 
leaving nothing but the vine. 

If window and door screens are cleaned with kerosene 
it will not only do the work better than water, but it will 
prevent rust. Best of all, mosquitoes will not now settle 
upon your screens, to come in when the doors are opened. 

To separate the white from the yolk of an egg, break 
into a funnel, when the white will slip through and the 
yolk remain in the bowl of the funnel. 

A sure remedy for the removal of the dandelions which 
infest your lawn is a few drops of gasoline applied in the 
center of the plant with a medicine dropper. Gasoline is 
absolutely certain death to plant life. 

A two-quart glass fruit jar makes a convenient churn 
for a small quantity of cream. Fill it half full of thick, 
sour cream, warm it to a temperature of about 65 de- 
grees and shake it, and you will have a roll of delicious 
butter. It is well to unscrew the top once or twice after 
you begin to shake it, to let the air out. This is a good 
way to use up small amounts of left-over cream. 

If the hot water tank is wrapped in sheet asbestos, it 
will keep the water hot for a long time. This is very 
desirable im summer, when you do not care to have a fire 
in the range all day long. 

When dust ruins the appearance of a black chip hat, 
its freshness may be renewed by rubbing first with a 
soft cloth wet with olive oil, then with a dry cloth. 

Many beautiful stockings are ruined by running 
stitches, caused by the fasteners of supporters. A row 
of machine stitching, the color of the stocking, about one 
inch below where the fastener takes hold, will stop all 
running stitches. Be sure to stretch the top of stocking 
wide before stitching, so that it will not bind the knee. 

If one has no arbor or pergola in the garden, a good 
substitute is a Japanese paper beach parasol. The 
handle, which needs to be lengthened with another piece 
of bamboo spliced on, is simply stuck in the ground. One 
is large enough to shade a group of people, and looks 
very pretty. 

152 



A handful of sulphur sprinkled over the fire in the 
stove creates a gas that puts out a chimney fire. Open 
the hack draft to let the gas escape easily. This is a 
great thing to remember, and a supply of sulphur should 
always be at hand. 

Every day take the dish towels, put them in a pan 
with a small piece of soap and cover with cold water. 
Place on the range and allow them to boil ten or fifteen 
minutes, then let the cold water run on them and rub 
the towels gently. Rinse in several waters. This method 
keeps them white and clean with little labor. Another 
point, they are washed by themselves, a fact one cannot 
be sure of when they are sent out with the general wash. 

A wire clothes line may be cleaned by rubbing well 
with a woolen cloth saturated in coal oil and afterward 
with the same cloth liberally sprinkled with cleansing 
powder. The^ result is a bright, shining line that leaves 
no mark on the clothes. 

Little blankets made of several thicknesses of white 
outing flannel, about one yard square, and bound with a 
dainty ribbon, are used to iron embroidered designs on. 
Your friend who has many pieces of embroidery will 
appreciate one of these. 

A teaspoon of g'ycerine in the rinsing water makes the 
flannels come out like new. 

The value of "javelle water" was known to our grand- 
mothers for whitening linens and taking stains out of 
white goods. Household ammonia and other substitutes 
have become popular, because they are easily obtained 
at the grocers, but cannot be called superior to this prep- 
aration. For fruit stains it is invaluable, or for mildew 
or rust. To make a quantity: Four pounds of bicarbon- 
ate of soda, one pound cfroride of lime; put the soda 
into a keWe over the fire, add one gallon of boiling 
water; let it boil from ten to fifteen minutes; then stir 
in the chloride of lime, avoiding lumps. Use the mixture 
when cooler. Baby linen and children's pinafores will bo 
benefited by "javelle water," and it should be in every 
laundry. Keep in bottle tightly corked. 

153 



In removing spots, put a thick pad of cheese cloth or 
other soft material underneath the spot to absorb the 
dirty cleansing liquid, as it soaks through the garment. 
If this is neglected the grease or dirt has no place to go, 
and will spread over the garment, making the spot larger 
than before, although not quite so dense. 

When sweeping a room which has a heavy, old-fash- 
ioned dresser in it, remove the lower drawer and sweep 
under it with a whisk broom. 

A white bias fold one and a half inches wide sewn 
around the inner side of the belt of a black skirt, will 
prevent the soiling of corset or corset cover. 

Washing in cold water will remove raw white of egg, 
while washing in hot water cooks it into the fabric. 

Moderately soft bread from the inner part of a stale 
loaf will clean a white felt hat. 

Boiled icing may be prevented from running off cake 
by putting the cake with icing on it in a hot oven for 
just a bare minute. Do not let it stay long enough for 
the icing to brown, even a little. 

Take an ordinary square hat box, cut open at two 
corners, thus freeing one side of the box. Invert in the 
cover and place in this position on the shelf, allowing 
the cut side to fall on the outside of the cover rim. The 
hat can be removed or replaced by simply lifting up this 
free side and letting it fall into place again. This makes 
a convenient place to keep the hat one is using daily. 

If a plumber is not readily obtainable, a leak in a water 
pipe may be temporarily mended in the following man- 
ner: First shut off the water supply. Wipe the leak 
carefully /and cover with a small piece of surgeon's plas- 
ter. Wind a strip of plaster two or three times over the 
leak and for an inch or two above and below, taking care 
to draw the plaster very tightly. Over this place a wad 
of absorbent cotton two or more inches thick. Wind 
several times with a strip or cloth or a bandage. If one 
has it, a piece of oiled silk may be placed over the pack. 
The whole should be held in place with more tightly 

154 



wound surgeon's plaster. This pack will hold for twenty- 
four hours. 

For a finger nail which has been mashed or pinched, 
apply cold water and hold the finger upright for at least 
half an hour, not letting it hang down for an instant. 
With this remedy you will never have a black spot or 
discoloration of the nail. 

A plant that blooms profusely in a north window and 
thrives better without sunlight, is the Calceolaria. This 
plant has gorgeous pocket-shaped flowers, which last for 
weeks. Give the Calceolaria all the water it will take, 
but do not wet foliage or blossoms. 

A skillful throat doctor advises the application of oil 
with an atomizier after an antiseptic wash in the nose or 
throat. He says that the wash opens the inflamed sur- 
face, and if this is not covered with oil, the patient is 
liable to take cold. He also advises staying in the house 
five or ten minutes before going out in the cold after 
treating the nose and throat. If the oil is used, however, 
the danger is much lessened. 

Lingerie ribbons cut the required length and having a 
piece of match about three-quarters of an inch long sewed 
in the end, like the tab on a shoe lace, will be found to 
thread easily through the holes in the beading. 

The making of a rose jar is an interesting and enter- 
taining task. The first thing necessary is to get the jar. 
If you are going to buy one, get an Oriental jar, a great 
glazed thing with a double top. These jars come tall 
enough to reach to your shoulder, as they stand on the 
floor, and as big around as your body. But if you do 
not want a jar of this size, something more moderate will 
answer. It is a good plan to drop five drops of oil of 
rose geranium in your rose jar while it is empty. One 
drop of glycerine should be added to prevent evaporation, 
and when the drops are in the bottom of the jar, incline 
it from side to side until the bottom is moistened with 
oil. Now drop in such loose rose petals as you have. Be 
sure that they are those that have been scattered on the 
window sill or the table and are partly dried, or they will 

155 



grow musty. Cover the jar with its one cover, or its two 
covers, as you happen to have them, and give it a little 
shake. Set away and do not open again until next day. 
Meanwhile dry all the rose leaves you can find. Pull the 
petals off your roses, lay them out in the sun and let them 
curl slightly. Twenty-four hours' drying will be suf- 
ficient to shrivel them a little. Next day drop them into 
the jar, cover, give the jar a little shake and let stand 
again. The fourth day, supposing you have added a tea- 
cupful of rose leaves each day, pour three drops of oil 
of rose geranium upon your leaves and a teaspoonful of 
best alcohol. This holds the natural scent of your leaves 
and keeps them in good condition. Continue this way 
until you have filled your jar, every fourth day adding 
a teaspoonful of alcohol and three drops of oil of rose 
geranium. When you have filled your jar you can put 
on the cover and shake it well. Turn it bottom side up, 
being sure that the cover is tight, and let it rest over 
night ; next day turn the right side up, open and add 
enough leaves to fill the jar to the very top, for as the 
leaves dry>they settle and the sweet paste within becomes 
more compact and wi ] l admit of more leaves. Do not fill 
your jar to the brim finally, but let it be only half full. 
You wi ] \ find that the leaves settle so rapidly that, even 
though you keep putting them in, you will still have a 
jar that is only ha!f full. When they seem to have 
stopped settling, then is the time to stop adding. A 
jar th n t is too full cannot be stirred, and it is in the stir- 
ring that the sweetness comes forth in winter. Add now to 
your jar a teaspoonful of ground cloves and a teaspoon- 
ful of ground cinnamon. Shake the jar and leave the 
cover off over night. Next day turn the leaves out upon 
a china, dish, and when the last leaf can be shaken from 
the inside of the jar, pour into it one drop of glycerine 
and three drops of attar of roses. This precious attar 
seems to enter at once into the /composition of the very 
porcelain with which it is lined. While it is giving forth 
this sweetness from the attar, shovel the rose leaves back 
in again, all pulpy and drying as they are, and on top of 
the mass pour a tablespoonful of alcohol and six drops 

156 



each of oil of lavender and rosemary. Add one ounce of 
Tonka bean in powder and two ounces of iris. Now 
cover your jar well and set it away. In three days open 
again and stir the contents. Repeat every three days for 
a month, and you will, at the end of that time, have a rose 
jar that is complete, one that will send out its fragrance 
through the room all winter and which, when open, will 
fill the whole house with a soft, sweet scent, at once in- 
vigorating and delightful. 

How to pack away your winter clothes is a subject of 
more importance than is generally conceded. In the 
olden time the thrifty housewife usually aired the family 
woolens on a clothes line and beat them brutally with a 
hickory stick, and then she placed in a Saratoga trunk, 
one upon the other, regardless of their future appearance 
or her own. She patted them down flatter than flound- 
ers, and sprinkled new black pepper between the layers, 
and this was all there was to it. But times have changed. 
We now try to preserve the shape of the garment, as well 
as the fabric, and the entire moth-dispelling process must 
be, as far as possible, wrinkle proof. The burden of 
packing can be considerably lightened if done systematic- 
ally and at one time. Col ] ect your garments, one and all, 
and take them out into the yard. Hang them on the 
clothes line, or spread them on old sheets upon the 
ground. If you are only a boarder or a flat dweller, 
take the clothes to the roof, the balcony or at least the 
open window, but do your best to bring them into the 
glorious sunlight. Fresh air and sunlight are nature's 
own germ destroyers, and too much cannot be said in 
favor of a prolonged airing under the brightest of late 
spring suns. The climate varies too much to set upon 
any absolute time for the packing away of woolens, but 
they should not be allowed to lie about until the hot sum 
mer air has warmed the moths to activity. No matter 
what the article, begin by removing the dust, but do it 
with due regard to the material in hand. For instance, 
hats may be brushed with a soft wad of velvet, a hat 
brush or clothes brush, according to their texture. 
Beaver hats are shaken gently between the hands ; brush 

157 



ing would merely serve to carry the particles farther into 
the nap. The velvet covered shape requires a soft hat 
brush, while some felts need a clothes brush. Boys' and 
girls ' school suits and dresses need more strenuous meas- 
ures. Here we resort to the stick and the whisk broom 
when the material will stand them. They are brushed on 
the right and on the wrong side, and the wads of dust are 
removed from beneath every seam. Coat suits and skirts 
are usually strong enough to stand a reasonable brush- 
ing and beating. Loosely woven cloth dresses are neither 
beaten nor shaken, nor should velvet be beaten — it re- 
quires a velvet brush, while corduroys and velveteens re- 
quire a whisk. Automobile wraps, storm coats, shawls, 
steamer rugs, top coats and children's outer garments 
are in a heavy class to themselves, and require extra 
exertion for the beating out of a season's dust. G-loves, 
mittens, scarfs, caps, sweaters, gaiters, leggings and 
knitted slippers are sunned and brushed, and each one 
that can be is turned inside out and the crevices cleaned. 
Now in this dirt banishing process you will have revealed 
to yourself every grease and dirt spot. Remove these 
with a reliable grease remover, also scour every cloth coat 
collar. Automobile and driving clothes particularly need 
this care, and not infrequently must be sent to a cleaner 
before being packed away. Nothing showing a vestige of 
grease should go into summer quarters, for the spot is the 
moth's first point of attack. "When a good grease re- 
mover will not take out a spot on cloth, you may depend 
upon it that it is not grease, and that it needs merely 
suds from pure white soap. Rub this thoroughly into 
the spot, leave it a few minutes and then mop it clean 
with a wet rag, remembering always that the only cloth 
with which to rub a fabric is a piece of the same material. 
Spots on black velveteen will often yield to this soap-and- 
water treatment, but this does not mean that you can wash 
a velveteen dress, nor does it imply that delicate shades 
of velveteen will stand soap and water. It is wise to try 
the process on a scrap of each material. The only method 
for the cleansing of velveteen or velvet is the steaming 
of the spot from the wrong side. Cleaning is such an 

158 



important part of this packing process that double stress 
is laid upon it. The chances are better for a clean woolen 
garment hung away in a closet without any attempt at 
packing away than the hiding away of a grease-spotted 
one between whole layers of moth destroyers. The whole 
thing is not worth doing if it is not done well. Linen 
and cotton garments should have all starch removed and 
be put away rough dried, that is, unironed. Now sort the 
different articles and pack each lot separately, beginning 
again with the hats. All soft felts from which the trim- 
mings have been removed are wrapped, each in its own 
tissue paper, after being sprinkled with moth destroyer, 
and then they are fitted over each other. All the crevices 
are stuffed with crumpled tissue paper, so that the shapes 
may be preserved as much as possible. Flaked camphor 
with naphtha is the accepted destroyer, and has never 
been known to discolor the most delicate fabric. Pepper 
as an exterminator has been abandoned, because moths 
seem to actually like its warmth. It is generally desir- 
able to remove hat trimmings, but the occasional hat that 
cannot readily be restored by the amateur is kept intact. 
It is sprinkled with the flakes, covered with tissue paper 
and then suspended, upside down, from the lid of its own 
exclusive band box, to prevent its becoming crushed or 
matted. Plumes, feathers and tips are also suspended in 
their own boxes. They are wrapped separately in tissue 
paper and then in oil paper, to keep out the dampness, 
and the flakes are distributed in the box. Suspend the 
package to the lid with a coarse thread. In the case of a 
wide brim, the edges are slipped beneath strips of tape or 
elastic, permanently fastened to the inside of the box lid. 
All quills, wings, breasts and fur strips are removed 
from hats and are wrapped and packed in a box together. 
Wings, if not thoroughly cured, are liable to be eaten by 
worms, and the dry salt that some persons use is a mis- 
take. Salt draws moisture. Continue the curing process 
by wrapping the bony part of the wing in absorbent cot- 
ton sprinkled with arsenic. When there is available 
closet room, much pressing and renovating may be saved 
by the hanging of dresses, skirts, coats, wraps and even- 

159 



ing gowns. They are buttoned and hooked into shapeli- 
ness and hangers covered with crushed tissue paper, 
sprinkled with flakes, which is used also to fill the sleeves 
and puff out the bows and trimmings. Dress covers for 
these may be made of old sheets. If you are suspicious 
about any one article that has shown a tendency to attract 
moths, envelop it in a muslin bag, which may be opened 
from time to time for the purpose of airing or for exam- 
ination. Moths have been known to literally devour a 
large garment in several months. When closet room is 
scarce, skirts are laid in a trunk, each in its own paper. 
If possible, use the tray for some perishable frock and 
remember that the tailor's box, within a trunk, or out 
side of it, will keep a single suit or gown better than 
packing in a general pile. A trunk may be reserved for 
all the small articles of apparel. They are laid in layers, 
with flakes between them. An old chest or a discarded 
attic bureau will hold such things as bath robes, night 
dresses, flannel and mohair petticoats, woolen under- 
wear and merino stockings. Furs should be thoroughly 
aired on a sunny day and on the following morning care- 
fully combed all over with a nickel comb, shaking from 
time to time, in order that the dust and dirt may fall out. 
Next place the fur on a pillow covered with a white slip 
and beat thoroughly but gently with a rattan furniture 
beater. Patience is needed for this beating; half an hour 
is not too long for the smallest piece of fur, and one hour 
for the larger pieces. Now have ready a fine, soft clothes 
brush and a basin of pure cold water ; dip the brush in the 
water and stroke the fur as it runs evenly and smoothly, 
until the surface is all wet. Hang it up until it is per- 
fectly dry, and then beat it again to make the fur fluffy 
once more. White or light-colored furs need an extra 
cleaning, which may be given by placing ordinary corn 
meal on a flat pan in the oven until heated, then rub it 
into the skin, shaking it out when soiled, and renewing it, 
until finally the meal when shaken out is quite clean. Do 
not put the furs in boxes or trunks, but suspend each 
piece, whether it be stole, muff or coat, in a separate 
moth-proof bag of its own. These bags, made of strong tar 

160 



or naphtha-scented parchment, are purchasable in man) r 
sizes, but the same result may be accomplished at less 
expense. Get wide, tough hardware paper and cut it 
into ample sizes. Make flat bags, with the seams on the 
outside. Sew an ordinary raw seam on the machine and 
then turn the cut edges back against the stitching, to 
make a sort of rough fell, and stitch a second time. 
After the fur piece is slipped in through the top opening, 
close it, folding a double hem and sewing it by hand with 
coarse linen thread. Necessarily, the inside of the bag, 
including the garment, is liberally sprinkled with moth 
destroyer. If it be a coat, the pockets and cuffs are filled 
with it, and owners of expensive fur rip a seam in the 
lining of coats, muffs or stoles and drop in a quantity of 
moth balls. Cheese cloth bags filled with flakes are 
sewed to the garment for added protection. The metal 
hanger or tape loop is slipped through an opening at the 
top of bag and then the last remaining openings are 
sealed with paper and library paste. 

Sheets of postage stamps carried in the pocket often 
stick together. When this happens do not soak them 
apart, but lay them on a smooth surface and pass a hot 
flat iron over them. They can then be readily separated 
without destroying the gum. 

In packing bottles of medicine for traveling, if a strip 
of adhesive plaster is p!aced over the cork and stuck to 
the sides of the bottle neck, it will hold the cork in securely 
without its being pressed in so tight as to require a cork- 
screw to remove it. 

A rapid method of computing interest is as follows : 

4 per cent., multiply the principal by the number of 
days, cut off the right-hand figure and divide by 9. 

5 per cent., multiply by number of davs and divide 
by 72. 

6 per cent., multiply by number of days, cut off right- 
hand figure and divide by 6. 

8 per cent., multiply by number of days and divide 
by 45. 

161 



9 per cent., multiply by number of days, cut off right- 
hand figure and divide by 4. 

10 per cent., multiply by number of days and divide 
by 36. 

In making contracts, signing and taking notes and 
transacting other business which requires a slight knowl- 
edge of law, the information given below is worth remem- 
bering : 

Ignorance of the law excuses none. 

It is a fraud to conceal a fraud. 

The law compels no one to do impossibilities. 

An agreement without consideration is void. 

Signatures made with a lead pencil are good in law. 

A receipt for money paid is not legally conclusive. 

The acts of one partner bind all the others. 

Contracts made on Sunday cannot be enforced. 

A contract made with a minor is invalid. 

Contracts for advertising in Sunday newspapers are 
invalid. 

Each individual in a partnership is responsible for the 
whole amount of the debts of the firm. 

Principals are responsible for the acts of their agents. 

Agents are responsible to their principals for errors. 

A note given by a minor is void. 

It is not legally necessary to say on a note "for value 
received." 

A contract made with a lunatic is void. 

A note drawn on Sunday is void. 

A note obtained by fraud, or from a person in a state 
of intoxication, cannot be collected. 

If a note be lost or stolen, it does not release the maker ; 
he must pay. 

The endorser of a note is exempt from liability if not 
served with notice of its dishonor within twenty-four 
hours of its non-payment. 

Demand notes are payable on presentation, without 
grace, and bear legal interest, after a demand has been 
made, if not so written. An endorser on a demand note 
is holden only for a limited time, variable in different 
States. 

162 



A negotiable note must be made payable either to 
bearer or be properly endorsed by the person to whose 
order it is made. If the endorser wishes to avoid respon- 
sibility, he can endorse, " without recourse." 

A joint note is one signed by two or more persons, who 
each become liable for the whole amount. 

Three days' grace are allowed on all time notes; after 
the time for payment expires, if not then paid, the en- 
dorser, if any, should be legally notified, to be holden. 

Notes falling due on Sunday, or on a legal holiday, 
must be paid the day previous. 

Altering the note in any manner by the holder makes 
it void. 

An endorser has a right of action against all whose 
names were previously on a note endorsed by him. 

Deposits of money in a bank placed to the credit of 
depositors are always subject to their check for full 
amount due. 

The figures given below will be found of great conveni- 
ence in estimating measures : 

A pint of water weighs nearly one pound, and is equal 
to about twenty-seven cubic inches, or a square box 3 
inches long, 3 inches wide and 3 inches deep. 

A quart of water weighs nearly two pounds, and is 
equal to a square box about 4 inches long, 4 inches wide 
and SVo inches deep. 

A gaHon of water weighs from 8 to 10 pounds, accord- 
ing to the size of the gallon, and is equal to a box 6 inches 
long, 6 inches wide and 6, 7 or l 1 ^ inches deep. 

A peck is equal to a box 8 inches long, 8 inches wide 
and 8 inches deep. 

A bushel almost fills a box 12 inches wide, 12 inches 
high and 24 inches long, or 2 cubic feet. 

A cubic foot of water weighs about 62Y 2 pounds, and 
contains from seven to eight gallons, according to the 
kind of gaHon used. 

A barrel of water almost fills a box 2 feet wide, 2 feet 
long and IV2 feet deep, or 6 cubic feet. 

163 



Petroleum barrels contain 40 gallons, or nearly five 
cubic feet. 

If you are about to let a building contract, the facts 
given below may interest you: 

One thousand shingles, laid 4 inches to the weather, will 
cover 100 square feet of surface, and five pounds of 
shingle nails will fasten them on. 

One-fifth more siding and flooring is needed than the 
number of square feet of surface to be covered, because 
of the lap in the siding and matching. 

One thousand laths will cover seventy square yards of 
surface, and eleven pounds of lath nails will nail them on. 
Eight bushels of good lime, 16 bushels of sand and one 
bushel of hair will make enough mortar to plaster 100 
square yards. 

A cord of stone, three bushels of lime, and a cubic yard 
of sand will lay 100 cubic feet of wall. 

Five courses of brick will lay one foot in height on a 
chimney; six bricks in a course will make a flue 4 inches 
wide and 12 inches long, and eight bricks in a course will 
make a flue 8 inches wide and 16 inches long. 

Cement one bushel and sand two bushels will cover 3!/2 
square yards one inch thick; 4^ square yards % inch 
thick, and 6V2 square yards y 2 inch thick. 

The Seven Wonders of the Ancient World are usually 
given as follows: The Pyramids of Egypt, Pharos of 
Alexandria, Walls and Hanging Gardens of Babylon, 
Temple of Diana at Ephesus, the Statue of Olympian 
Jupiter, Mausoleum of Artemisia, Colossus of Rhodes. 

The wonders of America are legion, but some one with 
a mania along that line has named seven as given below : 

Yosemite Valley, California. From eight to ten miles 
long and about a mile in width. The slopes are very steep 
and range about 3,500 feet high; has a perpendicular 
precipice 3,000 feet high, and waterfalls from 700 to 1,000 
feet. 

Niagara Falls, about three-quarters of a mile wide, and 
has a fall of 175 feet. 

164 



Natural Bridge, over Cedar Creek, in Virginia. 
Mammoth Cave, Kentucky. 
The New York and Brooklyn Bridge. 
Lake Superior, the largest lake in the world. 
Washington Monument, in Washington, D. C, 555 feet 
in height. 

City Park, in Philadelphia, Pa., the largest park in the 
world. 



If yomwill carefully study the accompanying short les- 
son in Palmistry, it will not be necessary to ''cross the 
palm" of the dark-eyed denizen of the striped tent on the 
Pike with silver, as you will not only be able to read your 
own palm, but those of your friends. Palmistry relies 
upon the markings of the left hand; if in doubt, consult 
the right hand for corroborative indications. The thumb 
and fingers are each divided by the joints into three pha- 
langes. The fingers are named (beginning from the fore- 
finger) Jupiter, Saturn, Apollo and Mercury. The fleshy 
pads at the base of each finger are termed " Mounts," 
and are named after the fingers below which they occur. 
The "Ball" (or third phalange) of the thumb is called 
the Mount of Venus. The center of the palm is the Plain 
of Mars. Below the Mount of Mercury is the Mount of 
Mars; extending from the last mount up to the wrist, is 
the Mount of Luna, or the Moon. The Line of Life 
should, if perfect, completely encircle the Mount of Venus. 
A long, regular line, deep but narrow, soft in color, de- 
notes long, healthy life and good character. The Line of 
Mars, or Martial, should be of a clear red color. It is a 
sister, or inner line, of the Line of Life. In soldiers it 
indicates success in fight, in civilians violence of the 
passions. The Line of the Heart extends from the Mount 
of Jupiter- to the Mount of Mercury. If deep, of a good 
color, and narrow, it indicates a strong, good heart, firm 
affection and even temper. 

The Line of the Head runs from the base of the Mount 
of Jupiter to the Mount of Mars. If even, narrow and 

ir>5 



long it indicates strong will and judgment and acute men- 
tal perception. 

The Line of Fortune or Fate runs in a straight, un- 
broken line from the " Bracelet" to the base of the second 
finger. Broken lines denote troubles. Both hands should 
be read when studying the Line of Fate. 

The Line of Apollo or Brilliancy, a very lucky line to 
possess, rises from the plain of Mars, or from the Life 
Line, toward the third finger. If straight and clear, it 
indicates fame in the arts or wealth. 

The Line of Health starts diagonally from the wrist to 
meet the Line of the Head, close to the Mount of Mars, or 
at the top of Mount Luna. This line is unfortunately often 
wanting. 

Via Lasciva ("The Milky Way"), rarely noticeaVe, 
runs from the wrist across the Mount of Luna; it indi- 
cates a cunning and faithless spirit. It is liable to be 
mistaken for the Line of Health. 

The Girdle of Venus, fortunately uncommon, is as a 
who'e indicative of a bad character. 

Bracelets of Life — These encircle the wrist, and denote 
length of life, fortune and happiness, especially if they 
rise toward the hand. 



Every woman has some chance to marry — it may be 
one to fifty, or it may be ten to one that she will. Kepre- 
senting her entire chance at 100 at certain points of her 
progress invtime, it is found to be in the following ratio : 

Fifteen and twenty 14 1 /o per cent. 

Twenty and twenty-five 52 per cent. 

Twenty-five and thirty 18 per cent. 

Thirty and thirty-five 15y 2 per cent. 

Thirty-five and forty S 1 /^ per cent, 

Forty and forty-five 2' 1 /£ per cent. 

Forty- five and fifty 2-3 of 1 per cent. 

Fifty and fifty-six 1-4 of 1 per cent. 

After 60, it is 1-10 of 1 per cent., or one chance in a 
thousand — a pretty slender figure, but figures are often 
slender at that age. 

166 



Wedding anniversaries are from the first to seventy- 
fifth, as here given: 

First Cotton Fifteenth Crystal 

Second Paper Twentieth China 

Third Leather Twenty-fifth Silver 

Fifth Wooden Thirtieth Pearl 

Seventh Woolen Fortieth Ruby 

Tenth Tin Fiftieth Golden 

Twelfth. . . .Silk and Linen Seventy-fifth . . . .Diamond 



Birth Stones and Flowers. 
January — Garnet — Wild Rose. 
By those who in this month are born 
No gems save Garnets shall be worn; 
They will insure you constancy, 
True friendship and fidelity. 

February — Amethyst — Pink. 
The February born will find 
Sincerity and peace of mind, 
Freedom from passion and from care 
If they the Amethyst will wear. 

March — Bloodstone — Violet. 
Who on this world of ours their eyes 
In March first open, shall be wise; 
In days of peril firm and brave, 
And wear a Bloodstone to their grave. 

April — Diamond — Easter Lily. 
Those who in April date their years 
Diamonds should wear, lest bitter tears 
For vain repentance flow. 
This stone 
Emblem of innocence is known. 

May — Emerald — Lily of the Valley. 
Who first beholds the light of day 
In Spring's sweet flowery month of May, 
And wears an Emerald all her life, 
Shall be a loved and happy wife. 

167 



June — Agate— Rose. 

Who comes with Summer to this earth 
And owes to June her day of birth, 
With ring of Agate on her hand 
Can health, wealth and peace command. 

July — Ruby — Daisy. 

The glowing Ruby should adorn 
Those who in warm July are born; 
Thus will they be exempt and free 
From love's doubts and anxiety. 

August — Sardonyx — Pond Lily. 

Wear a Sardonyx, or for thee 
No conjugal felicity. 
The August born without this stone 
'Tis said must live unloved, alone. 

Septemb er — Sapphire — Poppy. 

A maiden born when Autumn's leaves 
Are rustling in September's breeze, 
A Sapphire on her brow should bind, 
'Twill cure diseases of the mind. 

October — Opal — Cosmos. 

October's child is born for woe, 
And life's vicissitudes must know; 
But lay an Opal on her breast 
And hope will lull the woes to rest. 

November — Topa& — Chrysanthemum. 

Who first comes to this world below, 
With dull November's fog and snow, 
Should prize the Topaz's amber hue, 
Emblem of friends and lovers true. 

December — Turquoise — Holly. 

If cold December gave you birth, 
The month of snow and ice and mirth, 
Place on your hand a Turquoise blue, 
Success will bless you if you do. 

168 



You may not be superstitious, but in choosing your 
wedding day you might just as well get on the safe side 
and choose one on which no unpleasant saying reflects. 

Most of the months seem propitious : 

Marry when the year is new, 
Always loving, kind and true. 
When February birds do mate 
You may wed, nor dread your fate. 
If you wed when March winds blow, 
Joy and sorrow both you'll know. 
Marry in April when you can, 
Joy for maiden and for man. 
Marry in the month of May, 
You will surely rue the day. 
Marry when June roses blow, 
Over land and sea you'll go. 
They who in July are wed, 
Must always labor for their bread. 
Whoever wed in August be, 
Many a change are sure to see. 
Marry in September's shine, 
Your living will be rich and fine. 
If in October you do marry, 
Love will come, but riches tarry. 
If you wed in bleak November, 
Only joy will come, remember. 
When December snows fall fast, 
Marry, and true love will last. 

And the week days : 

Monday for health, 

Tuesday for wealth, 
Wednesday the best day of all ; 

Thursday for losses, 
Friday for crosses, 

Saturday no luck at all. 

Beware a Lenten wedding : 

Marry in Lent, 
You'll live to repent. 

169 



It is a good omen for a bride to weep on her wedding 
day, for it signifies that all her tears have been shed and 
that joy awaits her in the new life. 

''With all my worldy goods I thee endow" is betokened 
by the bestowal of the ring, as it was used in ancient 
times, before money was invented, as the symbol of pov- 
erty. Its place is on the third finger, because of the old 
belief of an intimate connection between that finger and 
the heart. Then later the thumb and first two fingers 
came to stand for the Trinity, and the third was dedi- 
cated to the husband, toward whom was the wife's duty, 
next to God. The thresholds of church and home must be 
crossed with the right foot first, if good fortune is to 
attend the union. The groom must take care to catch 
sight of the bride first, or she will be the "head of the 
family. ' ' The throwing of a shoe after one starting on a 
venture has long been held to bring good luck. 

The bride who neglects to wear — 

"Something old, something new, 
Something borrowed, something blue, ' ' 
is careless of the sentiment attached to it : That she will 
be faithful to old ties as well as new — blue being the 
badge of loyalty. 

These be the things that great writers have said of 
women : 

Who is't can read a woman? — Shakespeare. 
But yet believe me, good as well as ill, 
Woman's at last a contradiction still. — Moore. 
Every woman is in the wrong until she cries, and then 
she is in the right instantly. — Punch. 

That man who hath a tongue 
I say is no man. 
If with his tongue he cannot 
Win a woman. — Shakespeare. 

Where is the man who has the power and skill 
To stem the torrent of a woman's will? 
For if she will, she will, you may depend on't, 
And if she won't, she won't, so there's an end on't. 
— From a Pillar in Canterbiiri). 

170 



The fortitude that becomes a woman may be cowardice 
in a man, and the modesty that becomes a man would be 
pertness in a woman. — Tacitas. 

No woman is ugly if she is well dressed. — Spanish. 
Seek to be good, but aim not to be great ; 
A woman's noblest virtue is retreat. — Lyttleton. 
Earth's twin-born rulers, fame and woman's love. — 
Bulwer. 

If you want to know a woman's true character, linger 
after the guests are gone and listen to what she has to 
say about them. 

A woman without religion, 
A flower without perfume. — German. 
Talk to woman as much as you can ; 'tis the best school. 
— Beaconsfield. 

A man frequently admits that he was wrong; a woman, 
never — she was only mistaken. 

A beautiful and chaste woman is the perfect workman- 
ship of God, the true glory of the angels, the rare miracle 
of the earth and the sole wonder of the world. — Hermes. 
If ladies be but young and fair, 
They have the gift to know it. — Shakespeare. 
The world is the book of women. — French. 
Earth's noblest thing, a woman perfected. — Lowell. 
A woman has never spoiled anything by silence. 
'Tis beauty that oft doth make women proud, 
'Tis virtue that doth make them most admired, 
'Tis modesty that makes that seem divine. 

— Shakespeare. 

Of all the paths that lead to woman's heart, pity is the 
straightest. — Beaumont. 

Women are ever in extremes. They are cither better 
or worse than men. — Bruyere. 

A baby is a mother's anchor. — Bucher. 

When once a young heart of a maiden is stolen, 
The maiden herself will steal after it soon. — Moore. 
The world well tried — the sweetest thing in life, 
Is the unclouded welcome of a wife. — N. P. Willis. 

171 



The Language of Flowers. 

"There's rosemary, that's for remembrance: pray 
you, love, remember: and there is pansies; that's for 
thoughts. There's fennel for you, and Columbines: 
there 's rue for you ; and here 's some for me ; we may call 
it, herb of grace o' Sundays: you may wear your rue 
with a difference: and here's a daisy: I would give you 
some violets ; but they withered all when my father died." 
— Hamlet, Act IV., Scene V . 



Astor — Variety. 

Camelia — Loveliness. 

Candytuft — Indifference. 

Carnation, white — Disdain. 

Clover, four-leaf — Be mine. 

Clover, white — Think of me. 

Clover, red — Industry. 

Columbine — Folly. 

Daisy, colored — Beauty 

Deadly Nightshade — False- 
hood. 

Fern — Fascination. 

Forget-Me-Not. 

Geranium, scarlet — Consola- 
tion. 

Geranium, rose — Prefer- 
ence. 

Goldenrod — Caution. 

Heliotrope — Devotion. 

Hyacinth, white — Loneliness 

Hyacinth, purple — Sorrow. 

Ivy — Friendship. 

Lily, day — Coquetry. 

Lily, white — Sweetness. 

Lily, yellow — Gayety. 

Lily, water — Purity. 



Lily of the Valley — Uncon- 
scious sweetness. 

Marguerite — Innocence. 

Mignonette — Exquisiteness. 

Monkshead — Danger. 

Myrtle — Love. 

Oak — Hospitality. 

Orange Blossoms — Chastity. 

Pansy — Thought. 

Passion Flower — Faith. 

Primrose — Inconstancy. 

Rose — Love. 

Rose, damask — Beauty ever 
new. 

Rose, yellow — Jealousy. 

Rose, white — Worth. 

Hose, moss — Confession of 
love. 

Smilax — Constancy. 

Straw — Argument. 

Straw, broken — Broken 

. agreement. 

Sweet Pea — Depart. 

Tuberose — Dangerous 
pleasure. 

Thistle — Sternness. 

Verbena — Pray for me. 

White Jasmine — Amiabilitv. 



172 



INDEX TO ADVERTISEMENTS 



NAME AND ADDRESS. TELEPHONE. PAGE. 

ARNOLD BROS. & STUBBE, 

122-126 S. Main St Main 1776 :;:; 

B ^SSi F,? IP& S N HDW - ( °" S Main 250 [ 

151-153 S. Mam St j Main 251 [ 61 

BEE HIVE STORE, 

166 S. Main St Main 3675 47 

BOSTWICK, R. G., 

149 Madison Ave Main 1000 99 

CALLICOTT, H. M., & CO., 

Tennessee Trust Bldg Main 4480 7 

CRESCENT JEWELRY CO., 

25 N. Main St Main L876-W 2 1 

COLEMAN MFG. CO., 

406-410 Falls Bldg Main 2172 83 

COLONIAL TRUST CO., 

405-6 Central Bank Bldji Main 2322 93 

DENAUX, E. C, 

102 Goodwyn Institute Main 5167 9 

DESOTO HARDWARE CO., < Main 109 o j 

Front St. and Monroe Ave ) Main 1837 \ ' 

DINSTUHL'S, 

64 N. Main St Main 292 \ 113 

ECONOMY SHOE STORE, 

12S N. Main St 63 

ELLIS, S. J., MACHINE WORKS, , M . , 

S. Second St. and Butler Ave £? iaoi s( ' 

) Mem. 1421 \ 

FORBES PIANO CO., 

156 S. Main St Main 324 91 

FORTAS FURNITURE CO., , n . ,, , 00 „ > 

oi tvt o i a 4. \ Cumb. M. 4227 j 

v I N . Second St -{ ,, 1 . n . \ -jo 

I Mem. loOa j 

FORTUNE- WARD DRUG CO., , - , M 1n , al 

n tvj j- a \ Cumb. M. 1048 .,,- 
11 Madison Ave j Mem _ ^ } -. 

FORTUNE-WARD DRUG (< >, . _ .,,.,, 

J41 S. Main St . £"" ™ " 27 

) Mem. 72 \ 

FREDERICK PHARMACAL CO 121 

GERBER, JOHN, CO., . n , lOQR , 

otoiw m • oi \ Cumb. 4236 j 

2o-31 N. Main St \ ,„ „,„ J •> 

) Mem. llo9 \ 

GERSTAL, D., 

1 50 S. Main St Main 3019-J 17:. 

GOLDSMITH'S, . n . ,, . - OKn , 

vr • , ',„ . ( Cumb. Main 5350 j . 
Main St. and Gayoso Ave j Mem 53g j 2o 

GRAVES, W. C, & BRO.. 

11 N. Main St Main 375 L9 

HAISCH, A., 

87 Madison Ave Main 726 23 

KIMBALL, W. W., CO., 

160 Madison Ave Main 2509 71 

173 



INDEX TO ADVERTISEMENTS-Gontinued 



NAME AND ADDRESS. TELEPHONE. PAGE. 

LAMAR LAUNDRY, Hemlock 2086 . 208? 

1603 Lamar Ave ] Mem 18g9 J. ...147 

LATURA-WHITTEN COAL CO., 

443-449 Decatur St Both Phones 2531 37 

LOWENSTEIN, B., & BROS., 

N. Main St. and Court Ave Main 4200 II 

MARTIN, N. HILL, & CO., 

545-50 Bank of Commerce Bldg Main 3505 49 

MAXTNE TURKISH BATH & BEAUTY 

SHOP, 83 S. Main St Main 6S0 33 

McDowell & monteverde, , n , „ ____, , 

i e o on.- a 04. Cumb. M. 220 ( 

15 S. Third St ) M(>m 22Q7 f. ... 

McGOWAN PLUMBING CO., 

223-5 Madison Ave Main 045 93 

McNALLY, MRS. S. E., 

96 S. Main St Main 3262 37 



MEM. CONSOLIDATED GAS & ELEC. CO., , ,, , , r . 10 _ , 

io -ic o c i C4- i Cumb. M. ol25 / ,., 

12-16 S. Second St ,. „„ > 1 .; 

/ Mem. 66 \ 

MELVILLE, MRS. M. C, 

148 E. Calhoun St Mem. 919 9T 

MEM. LIFE UNDERWRITERS' ASSK 39 

MEMPHIS LINOTYPE PRINTING CO., 

56-60 N. Third St Both Phones 195 59 

MEMPHIS MOTOR CAR CO., 

157-159 Monroe Ave Main 4117 51 

NATIONAL CITY BANK, THE, 

120 Madison Ave Main 1750 67 

NORTH MEMPHIS SAVINGS BANK, 

Main St. and Adams Ave Main 854 75 

NOVELTY BEAUTY PARLOR, 

19 N. Main St Main 1981 45 

OMBERG, W. F., Inc., 

1520-21 Exchange Bldg Both 494 17 

PARTS MILLINERY, THE, 

193 S. Main St Main 3476 41 

PEOPLES SAVINGS BANK & TRUST CO., 

71 Madison Ave Main 3418 53 

PERSON, GEO. W., & CO., 

66 W. Court Ave Main 4580 7:; 

PIDGEON-THOMAS IRON CO., 

92 N. Second St Main 1500 87 

RENKERT, A., 

115 N. Main St Both Phones 208 123 

RENKERT, A., 

Main St. and Exchange Ave Both Phones 676 123 

ROESHER CHEMICAL CO., 

472 N. Main St Main 3490 145 

(CONTINUED ON PAGE 176) 
174 



I 



Make This 
Your Store 



In extending to you our congratulations— 
we bid you welcome! To call and inspect 
the artistic treat that awaits you in Stylish 
Apparel— for both Men and Women! Our 
prices are reasonable— in fact the LOWEST 
IN THE CITY, quality of course considered 

Ladies' and ___ 

Gentlemen's Popular Priced" 
Clothing 



We never knowingly allow anyone to undersell us — 
we never misrepresent or exaggerate an article or value 
in order to make a sale — WE AIM TO SERVE YOU 
BEST — Out-of-town customers are invited to make our 
store their headquarters while in Memphis. 



The 999 Store 

150 SOUTH MAIN 

D. GERSTAL, Proprietor. 



175 



INDEX TO ADVERTISEMENTS-Continued 



NAME AND ADDRESS. TELEPHONE. PAGE. 

RODGERS, MRS. A. ST. CLAIR, 

85 S. Main St Main 680 33 

SM! LEY & ERSKINE, 

Second St. and Madison Ave Main 5374 3 

STBLEY & ERSKINE, 

Second St. and Madison Ave Main 5374 65 

SILVERFIELD, H., 

166 S. Main St Main 3675 47 

SIMMS, BENJAMIN R., & CO., 

622 Scimitar Bldg Main 5295 69 

SPIVACK, J Cumb. Main 1333 ) 

104 S. Mam St \ ,, . .„ 31 

/ Mem. 546 \ 

THOMPSON & TOBIN, 

26 N. Second St Main 3607 77 

TRI-STATE PAINT CO., 

92 N. Main St Both Phones 1375 85 

TURLEY & NAILL, 

26 N. Second St Both Phones 586 77 

UNION & PLANTERS BANK. 

81 Madison Ave Main 5155 43 

VANCE, POWELL & CO., 

Porter Bldg Main 346 :;:, 

WALSH, J. T., & BRO., 

326-328 N. Main St Main 191 Ill 

WILLIAMSON, S. M., & CO., 

121 Madison Ave Main 4570 15 

YORK LUMBER & MFC. CO . . _ „ iOOC . 

823 S. Bellevue ^im. ^m. 1326 

( Mem. 1326 \ 

ZELLNER SHOE CO., 

47 S. Main St Main 45 * 95 



MEMPHIS LINOTYPE PRINTING CO. 

176 



LIBRARY OF CONGRESS 



014 181 924 # 



