
Copyright N°. 



CQK3UGHT DEPOSOi 



TABLE DECORATIONS 
AND DELICACIES 



A COMPLETE HAND-BOOK FOR THE HOSTESS 



BY 

HESTER PRICE 

(Mrs. John Dawson Follett) 



WITH NINETY-SIX ILLUSTRATIONS 



PHILADEL PHIA 

THE JOHN C. WINSTON COMPANY 

PUBLISHERS 






'-- \ 



4* 



Copyright, 1914, by 
THE JOHN C. WINSTON COMPANY 



©CIA374170 
^0/ 






I 



FOREWORD 

To the Hostess: 

Every book, however unpretentious in character, 
owes its origin to an inspiration. If practical, it has a 
distinct object. This picture book for housekeepers is 
designed to give some sort of permanence to childhood 
memories as well as to ideas garnered in later days. 
These ideas are set forth with the hope that they may be 
of value to many women who are too busy to give much 
time to the decorative side of housekeeping. The illus- 
trations show how easily one may brighten and elaborate 
the table every day and especially upon high days and 
holidays. 

So much has been written with regard to the actual 
laying of the cloth and serving of the dinner that it seems 
useless to enter upon the subject here. Suffice it to say, 
fashion has reverted to the old style of having very little 
upon the table. And, again, it is no longer desirable to 
serve a dinner of many courses. 

It may be advisable to state that this is not, strictly 
speaking, a recipe book. On the other hand, a number of 
recipes as well as hints for cooking have been given when 
the dishes mentioned were old-fashioned or in any way 
unusual. 

The greater number of the pictures represent cold 
dishes. The reason for this is that it is an easy matter 



to give care and attention to perfecting a dish that may 
be finished at a convenient time and set aside until it is 
needed. 

With a very few exceptions the dishes set forth may 
be made by any woman of taste and judgment, and with- 
out much outlay for material or kitchen appliances. 
Adaptability, or the faculty of making the most of mate- 
rials at hand, may be placed first and foremost in the list 
of characteristics necessary in planning for guests. Strik- 
ing and original effects are easily secured by the use of 
what is generally termed ordinary material. One needs 
to recall the revelation in St. Peter's vision — that nothing 
is "common." Each season in turn offers to the alert 
and appreciative eye countless beauties all lavishly be- 
stowed for our "common" use. 

The pictures in this book were originally published 
in Collier s Weekly, The Ladies' Home Journal and 
The House Beautiful. They appear now in book form 
through the courtesy of the several editors of these 
publications. It is my pleasure to make acknowledg- 
ment of this courtesy. 

Berwun, Pa. if ~-z — ~» 




CONTENTS 



PART I 

Table Decorations through the Year 

1. Spring Ko 

A "Mad as a March Hare" Luncheon - 1 

An Orange Table 2 

A Japanese Luncheon 3 

With Azaleas 4 

An Easter Table 5 

With Fleurs-de-lis and Pansies 6 

A Daisy Luncheon 7 

An Announcement Luncheon 8 

A Circus Party for Children 9 

2. Summer 

In White and Green 10 

With Hearts and Arrows 11 

With Horseshoe and Roses 12 

With Cornucopias 13 

Under the Parasol 14 

June Roses 15 

With Flags, Drums and Balloons 16 

A Fourth-of-July Dinner Table 17 

An Old-fashioned Flower Garden 18 

A Bachelor Maid's Luncheon 19 

Pond Lilies 20 



3. Autumn m 

A Carnation Dinner 21 

A Birthday Table 22 

With Ivy and Roses - - 23 

With Grapes and Grape Vine - , 24 

For a Wedding Breakfast 25 

With Floral Lanterns 26 

Wedding Breakfast No. 2 27 

Hallowe'en 28 

"Some Pumpkins" 29 

A Harvest-Home Supper 30 

To Celebrate Thanksgiving - - - - - - 31 

The Horn of Plenty 32 



4. Winter 

The Christmas Star - - - 33 

With Lyre and Bells and Ruby Light 34 

A Santa-Claus Christmas Pie 35 

A Gift Ball 36 

With Gnomes and Reindeer 37 

With Ivy and Carnations 38 

A New- Year Table 39 

New- Year Bells - - 40 

With Poinsettia and White Roses 41 

The Wish Tree 42 

Twelfth Night — from the Russian 43 

The Twelfth-Night Star 44 

For a St. Valentine Dinner 45 

Pandora's Box 46 

A Valentine Table 47 

Washington's Birthday 48 



PART II 

Delicacies 

1 . Hot Service No. 

Palmettes of Bass 49 

Mousselines of Fish 50 

Rice Pilaff 51 

Our Christmas Turkey 52 

Roasted Goose with Turnips and Fringed Celery - 53 

2. Cold Service 

Salmon Mousse 54 

Cold Squab with Celery Mayonnaise 55 

Chicken Jelly in Daisy Form 56 

Cold Turkey with Individual Molds of Jelly 57 

Beef Loaf with Asparagus 58 

3. Salads 

Pineapple and Celery Salad 59 

Potato Salad in Daisy Forms 60 

Star Canapes 61 

Bean Salad Served in Shells 62 

Cream Cheese in Rose Leaves 63 

Cauliflower Salad °4 

Cherry Salad 65 

A Gay Salad for the Fourth of July ... - 66 

Tomato Hearts °7 

Tomato Jelly 68 

Celery Salad with English Walnuts - - -. - 69 

March Hares 70 

Christmas Salad ' ' 



4. Hot Desserts No. 

The Yule Log 72 

Fig Pudding 73 

Mince-meat Tartlets 74 

5. Cold Desserts 

Blanc Mange with Strawberries 75 

Bavarian Cream with Cherries 76 

Charlotte Russe with Cherries Perlees 77 

Peaches en Masque 78 

Dantzic Jelly and Lemon Cup 79 

Porcupine Apples 80 

6. Frozen Desserts 

Ice Cream Served in Flower Pots 81 

Firecrackers and Torpedoes 82 

Roses a la Reine r - - 83 

Ice Cream Canapes 84 

7. Cakes 

A Christmas Cake 85 

Black-eyed Susans 86 

Hickory-nut Sticks 87 

Les Plaisirs 88 

'.'Dumb Cake" 89 

Knave-of -Hearts' Cake 90 

8. Fruit 

Pear Croquettes 91 

Grapes Served in Ice 92 

Peaches en Surprise 93 

The Heart of the Melon 94 

Melons with Whipped Cream 95 

From the Sunny South 96 





PART I 




TABLE DECORATIONS THROUGH 


THE YEAR 


So forth issued the seasons of the 


year. 






—Spenser. 




SPRING 




First, lusty Spring, 


all dight in leaves 


of flowers 


That freshly budded 


and new blooms did bear. 






— Spenser 


- 


/ 





ONE 
A "MAD AS A MARCH HARE" LUNCHEON 



w 



HEN considering the old saying, "mad as a March 
hare," it is rather disappointing to find it origi- 
nates from so reasonable and sane a source as the 
mere corruption of the word "marsh." 

It has been explained that marsh hares are madder 
and freer and wilder than those elsewhere, because of 
the greater flatness of the ground and the absence of 
hedges and covers in marshes. But "where ignorance is 
bliss 'tis folly to be wise," so dismiss this explanation and 
continue to believe that "mad as a March hare" means 
something unusual, unconventional and even eccentric. 

Over a broad, round table lay a cloth of soft, green 
linen. For a centerpiece use a large, round box, two 
inches high, filled with moist sand. Such a box is 
easily made of cardboard. Plant in the sand jonquils, 
to give the effect of waving, growing flowers. In the 
middle of this put a stuffed hare. If such a hare is not 
available, use a toy hare. The candles are to be 
capped with yellow shades, decorated in water color. 

To each place-card, tied by a yellow ribbon, "the 
left hind foot of a graveyard rabbit." Upon the cards 
write in gilt letters appropriate quotations. 

The first course, chilled grapes, should be in place 
when luncheon is announced. The grapes are served in 
nests of spun sugar resting upon natural leaves. 



TWO 
AN ORANGE TABLE 



*** 



I 



N the center of the table upon a salver is a fruit- 
bearing orange tree. The pot is concealed with 
yellow, fluted manila straw. This is inexpensive 
and durable. It may be found at a florist's. The candle 
shades are made of fluted straw and are trimmed with 
sprays of artificial orange blossoms. At each cover is a 
petit brule. These are made of tangerine oranges: Draw 
a sharp line a little less than half way through the center 
in a small tangerine orange; cut the skin through, turn 
the upper or smaller section up in cup shape. Put in 
each "cup" two or three pieces of cut sugar, a piece of 
cinnamon and a clove; cover with high-proof brandy and 
set on fire. The purpose is to make a blaze in a dark- 
ened room. If orange blossoms are not to be found, 
garnish the plates with a few narcissi. This custom of 
the petit brule is borrowed from the French Creoles. In 
a darkened room the various little fires give a weird 
effect. 



THREE 
A JAPANESE LUNCHEON 



T 



HE centerpiece and plate mats are of Japanese lace. 
The first course is served in covered Japanese 
bowls. The favors are small Japanese dolls which 
are standing upon small boxes. These boxes are filled 
with tea of a choice brand, each box holding enough tea 
for one "brew." The brass jardiniere in the center of 
the table, the four flat bowls and the inverted Japanese 
parasol hanging over the table are filled with cherry 
blossoms, the favorite flower of Japan, and sprays of the 
delicate keria. The colors in the lanterns, parasol and 
dolls' robes are delicate blues, pinks and yellows. 

The menu offered is suggestive of things Japanese: 

Cream of celery soup. Garnish each portion with a fish 

cut from a pimento. 
White meat of chicken, rice and curry cooked together 

and served in ramekins. Rice wafers. Tea. 
Baked salmon trout. Full length. Head and tail 

included. Potato balls. Asparagus. 
Celery salad. Cheese. Crackers. 
Ginger sherbet. Lady fingers. Oriental paste, cut in 

cubes. 

Ginger sherbet has for a base lemon ice, flavored 
with the heavy syrup drained from preserved ginger with 
a little of the preserved ginger chopped and added. 



FOUR 
WITH AZALEAS 



*T* HE azalea is a flower of great beauty with many 
-a—- variations in tints and colors. It is peculiarly 
' attractive with its clear-cut blossoms in contrast 
with the dark green foliage. 

A fine potted azalea with rosy blossoms has a place 
of honor in the center of this table. The pot, covered 
with pink crepe paper, bound around with white satin 
ribbon, rests upon a round mirror. The favors are small 
bonbon boxes decorated with paper azaleas and leaves. 
The crystal candlesticks add to the clear, dainty effect. 
The candles are capped with simple shades made of 
white paper, stamped with pink azaleas. The shade is 
plaited and edged, top and bottom, with a little ruche of 
tissue paper. 

Every detail is simple and clear cut, quite in keeping 
with the fresh beauty of the flower chosen to grace the 
board. 



FIVE 
AN EASTER TABLE 



*T* HE real Easter flowers are lilies, tulips and other 

jjssss bulbous plants. 

' The round table has in the center a beautiful 

piece of silver with crystal vases at intervals upon it. 
These vases are filled with tulips the color of gold; the 
centerpiece is outlined with sprays of delicate fern; and 
a tall vase of stately lilies has the place of honor. 

The favors, white tulle boxes decorated with artifi- 
cial Easter lilies, are filled with the daintiest confections 
in white and lavender. Almond creams that look like 
tiny eggs and crystallized violets are especially appro- 
priate. 

The service plates with a simple design in gold and 
soft green are quite in keeping with the delicate beauty 
of the Easter blossoms; and the general charm of the 
table is enhanced by the clear crystal candlesticks with 
the white tulle shades. 



SIX 
WITH FLEUR-DE-LIS AND PANSIES 



T 



HIS shows a table after the last course has been 
served. 

The centerpiece is a silver loving cup filled 
with the delicately fragrant, old-fashioned garden flags. 
Pansies are arranged around the base of the loving cup — 
most of them in deep saucers filled with water to keep 
them fresh, while the stems of those which, with the fern, 
form the points of the star, are wrapped in moistened 
cotton to preserve their freshness. One perfect pansy 
floats in each finger-bowl. 

The quaint, unshaded candlesticks and silver loving 
cup seem especially in harmony with the royal purple of 
the beautiful flower-de-luce. 



SEVEN 
A DAISY LUNCHEON 




T is always a delight to handle flowers in profu- 
sion. One advantage when using the field daisy 
is the consciousness that one has "enough and to 
spare," with no expense. 

The illustration shows the table set for the salad 
course. The plates are decorated with a daisy design. 
Green and white china would be equally effective. The 
crystal vase in the center of the table is filled with daisies 
and sprengeri fern. At the four corners are small baskets 
of clear green straw massed with daisies. The lace mats 
make a pretty showing upon the polished table. 

In planning the menu it would not be difficult to 
follow the general color scheme. It would be a simple 
matter to serve at dessert vanilla ice cream that had been 
packed in round baking powder boxes and then cut in 
even slices. Before serving dispose in the center of each 
disk small circles of orange jelly. The cakes may be 
sponge or cup or pound cake baked in individual round 
pans. Ice them with white icing, decorate the icing 
before it becomes firm with almonds cut lengthwise in 
thin pieces, leaving a center to be filled in with icing 
colored a dainty yellow. 



EIGHT 
AN ANNOUNCEMENT LUNCHEON 



N Announcement Luncheon offers scope for elab- 
orate decoration. This table is bare. The 
centerpiece and doilies are of Cluny lace. The 
heart, massed with pink roses and finished with a bow of 
pink tulle, rests upon a circle of ferns. The heart- 
shaped screens in the place of shades are a unique feature. 
These pink screens are prettily decorated with cupids. 
The favors are heart-shaped baskets of pink tulle filled 
with bonbons. The service plates are decorated with 
pink roses and buds. 

The piece de resistance is the cake. Bake any pre- 
ferred mixture in a pan which is a little longer than it is 
wide. When cold cut the cake into as many slices as 
there are guests to serve. It is best not to cut all the 
way through. In each division made place a valentine 
rhyme. Press the cake firmly together and cover with 
white icing. In the upper right-hand corner put two 
pink hearts of icing to serve as stamps. Decorate the 
edges of the cake with scallops of pink icing. Inscribe 
with pink icing the name and address of the guest of 
honor upon the top of the cake, which should be placed 
before her when the dessert is brought on. She should 
be instructed in advance to cut each slice the size 
indicated by one scallop, so that each guest may receive 
a billet doux. 



NINE 
A CIRCUS PARTY FOR CHILDREN 



c 



OVER the table with a white cloth. Arrange 
three rings and the track with sawdust. Let the 
cage and animals occupy the middle ring, and the 
acrobats the smaller one at either end. "The parade" 
will prove very interesting. 

After the party, each guest may receive a circus toy 
as a favor. 

It requires a little ingenuity to think of articles to 
serve as refreshments that will be in keeping with this 
circus table and yet that will not tax the hostess too 
greatly. Sand tarts may be cut in shape of rabbits, 
horses, or other animals. Bright round candies called 
harlequin balls may be provided, also snapping bonbons 
with fantastic paper caps. The confectioner could pro- 
vide ices shaped as brownies or small animals. A crown- 
ing feature would be to have some friend with a knack 
for quibs and jokes appear dressed as a clown to serve the 
refreshments. 



SUMMER 

The Spring's joy-promise milled into thee, 
Fair Summer! and thy gentle reign is here. 

—Willis G. Clark. 



TEN 
IN WHITE AND GREEN 



*T* HE color scheme is white and mignonette green. 

— — -- In the center of the round table is an epergne. 

sSbssI The upper part of the epergne is filled with long- 
stemmed white roses; the lower part with white roses 
and lilies of the valley. At the base of the epergne are 
rosettes of white tulle fastened to wide satin ribbon of a 
pale green tint. The ribbons reach to the plate line. 
The bride's initial in plaster of Paris or raised gold is 
upon the ribbon midway between the centerpiece and 
plate line. The guests' names are at the end of the 
ribbon in letters of plaster of Paris or raised gold. The 
table is lit with green wax candles shaded with pale green 
tulle shades. The service plates, decorated with bands 
of gold, harmonize with the delicate flowers and dainty 
coloring. 



ELEVEN 
WITH HEARTS AND ARROWS 



*T* HIS striking table is developed with roses of deep, 
, i clear pink and lilies of the valley. The center- 
' piece is formed of roses and boutonnieres of lilies. 
The roses are for the maids; the lilies, for the men. The 
flowers are tied with pink ribbons that reach to the plate 
line; the favors are tied to them — hearts tinted pink in 
water color for the maids, small gilded bows and arrows 
for the men. The candle shades, made of tulle, are of 
purest rose and are decorated with lilies of the valley. 
The plates are charmingly decorated with gold bands 
and small pink roses. 

With the dessert serve twin heart cakes, using any 
preferred mixture. Bake the cakes in a heart-shaped 
pan, or they may be baked in a large flat pan, and cut 
out by laying a heart-shaped pattern on top. Ice one 
cake with white icing, using pink icing for the decoration. 
Ice the other cake with pink icing, using white icing for 
the decoration. Dispose the cakes upon a large tray 
with one long-stemmed rose between them. 



TWELVE 
WITH HORSESHOE AND ROSES 



LL the world knows the horseshoe is supposed to 
bring good luck to the finder. This theme is 
worked out with pink roses. 
The centerpiece of roses is in the shape of a horse- 
shoe. The favors are gilded bonbon boxes in the shape 
of a horseshoe. They are prettily decorated with roses. 
At the four corners of the table are four candlesticks. 
The large shades are made of many roses of a delicate 
pink. The service plates are appropriately decorated 
with wreaths of pink roses. A gilded horseshoe is tied to 
the bride's chair with pink ribbons. A delicious "sum- 
mer cup," concocted of juices from a ripe pineapple, red 
currants, seltzer water, shaved ice and sugar is served 
in slender glasses. A spoonful of chilled whipped cream 
caps each glass. 



THIRTEEN 
WITH CORNUCOPIAS 



T 



HIS unique table has at its four corners and 
suspended over the center cornucopias of green 
and white French straw. Pale green ribbons are 
run from the corner cornucopias to the center one. The 
large cornucopia is filled with pale pink roses and aspar- 
agus fern. A plot of pink roses is in the center of the 
table. The smaller cornucopias are filled with white 
carnations and trailing ferns. 

The tall spiral-stem crystal candlesticks are capped 
with candle shades made of rosettes of pale pink gauze 
ribbon and maiden-hair fern. The crystal fringe is espe- 
cially effective. The dessert shown is raspberry sherbet. 
Each portion is sprinkled with candied rose leaves. 

Raspberry Sherbet 

1 quart of raspberry juice 
1 \ pounds of sugar 
Juice of 4 lemons 
1 quart of boiling water 

Mix the first three ingredients and pour over them 
the boiling water. Allow the mixture to stand at least 
one hour, then strain and freeze. 



FOURTEEN 
UNDER THE PARASOL 



PINK chiffon parasol, decked with roses, is 
suspended from the chandelier. The handle is 
wound with smilax and the end of the handle 
rests upon a mound of pink roses and smilax. From each 
rib of the parasol is a streamer of ribbon. reaching to the 
plate line. Attached to each ribbon and resting upon 
the damask is a compact bouquet of small pink roses and 
rose buds. Strawberry ice cream, tinted pink, is in 
flower shape within a circle of whipped cream. 

The parasol may be cleverly lined with pink tissue 
paper and filled with rose petals. A narrow pink ribbon 
is then caught in with one of the ribbons that extends 
from the parasol in such a way that the maid of honor 
may pull it, tear the tissue paper and strew the table 
with rose leaves. 



T 



FIFTEEN 
JUNE ROSES 

HIS luncheon table is especially designed for a 
party of young girls in June, when roses are 
1 ' blooming in riotous profusion. The tall silver 

candlesticks are capped with shades made of numberless 
pink paper roses. The centerpiece is a flat straw hat 
tied with a pink gauze bow that rests upon the flowers 
very like a huge butterfly. The hat is filled with garden 
roses, which show a fine rivalry between delicate tints, 
cream, white, rose and glowing red. The ice cream is 
served in paper cases covered with large, pink paper 
roses. The favors are dolls' hats made into "Sundowns" 
with streamers of pink taffeta ribbon. The hats are 
filled with bonbons, which are concealed by roses strewn 
over them. These little hats hung over the chairs add 
greatly to the effectiveness of the general scheme. 



SIXTEEN 
WITH FLAGS, DRUMS AND BALLOONS 



*T* HIS table has for a centerpiece a mock drum, 
„_ « which is a combination of stiff cardboard, silt 

111111 • 

' paper and cord. In the center of the drum is a 
pan covered with red paper and filled with white sand. 
The flags are stuck in the sand. Small drums, instead 
of bonbon dishes are filled with peanuts and red and 
white candies. The candle shades are made of white 
cardboard covered with white crepe paper, stamped with 
gilt stars, the great seal of the United States, and tiny 
flags. To the back of each chair is tied a red balloon. 
These balloons are exceedingly effective, and after the 
meal they may be given to the children. 



SEVENTEEN 
A FOURTH-OF-JULY DINNER TABLE 



T first glance it would seem difficult to plan any- 
thing new to celebrate so old a holiday. The 
"red, white and blue" are indispensable, but an 
unusual choice and arrangement of flowers will give 
sufficient novelty to the table. 

Place in the center of the round table a large pan 
filled with moist sand. In the center of this place a tall 
vase of white iris. Plant in the sand scarlet poppies 
to give the effect of growing blossoms. To complete the 
color scheme, wreathe the pan with bluets or corn-flowers. 
The shades are decorated with the American flag and 
shield. The favors are bonbon boxes in the familiar 
forms of "Uncle Sam" and "Miss Columbia." Small 
drums filled with candied cherries, crystallized ginger and 
salted peanuts are used instead of bonbons. To com- 
plete this attractive table, gilt stars are scattered over the 
cloth. 



EIGHTEEN 



AN OLD-FASHIONED FLOWER GARDEN 



LACE in the center of the table a pan filled with 
moist sand and plant in it Canterbury bells. 
Conceal the edges of the pan with vines. The 
favors are small watering-cans filled with bonbons. 

The dessert aids in carrying out the idea of a garden. 
Take small flower crocks; scald, scrub and chill them; 
then line them with oiled paper. Just before serving 
pack with peach ice cream, frozen very hard. Cover the 
ice cream with powdered sweet chocolate and plant in 
each pot a pink carnation. Serve with each flower pot 
a small wooden spade instead of a spoon. 



Peach Ice Cream 

1 quart of ripe peaches 

1 \ pounds of sugar 

2 quarts of rich cream 

Crush the peaches; add half the sugar and a table- 
spoonful of lemon juice. Sweeten the cream with the 
remaining sugar, freeze to a smooth consistency, add the 
fruit, pack and allow to stand in the salt and ice until 
hard. Canned peaches in glass, or as generally termed 
now, "fresh peaches," if home-made or bought from a 
reliable kitchen, make ice cream that is as fine as that 
made in the peach season. 



NINETEEN 
A BACHELOR MAID'S LUNCHEON 



T 



HE centerpiece is a large jardiniere of hammered 
brass, filled with sunflowers. The drawn-work 
mats are over yellow silk. The plates, cups and 
saucers have a conventionalized decoration in yellow. 
The individual tea-pots of yellow majolica, upon small 
cedar coasters, are a unique feature, and may serve as 
favors. 

With the assistance of chocolate and of yellow color- 
ing matter the menu may easily harmonize with the gen- 
eral color scheme. The following is suggested: 

Golden Consomme 

Ruddy Duck Currant Jelly 

French Peas Celery Hot Rolls 

Lettuce with French Dressing 

Crackers Roquefort Cheese 

Orange Ice Cream 

Small Chocolate Cakes 

After this luncheon au masculin pass matches and 
chocolate bonbons in the form of cigarettes, with black 
coffee. 



TWENTY 
POND LILIES 



HIS charming table is developed entirely with 
pond lilies and ribbons. Place in the center of 
the table a large round pan of water; conceal the 
edges with ferns; place upon the water a few blossoms. 
Green satin ribbons, one inch in width, are arranged to 
form a sunburst. Lilies or buds are at the end of each 
ribbon. 

Lemon ice, garnished with mint, is served in slender 
stemmed glasses. 

Lemon Ice 

Lemon ice is much better when sweetened with sugar 
syrup. A very practical way in preparing ices is to make 
a syrup of 32°. Add enough juice to dilute it to 20°. 
Freeze and pack in salt and ice. Ices do not freeze as 
hard as creams. 

If one does not wish to prepare the syrup, the follow- 
ing recipe may be used: 

Add three cups of sugar to one quart of water. Boil 
ten minutes and add the juice of five lemons and two 
oranges. 



AUTUMN 

Season of mists and mellow fruitfulness, 
Close bosom friend of the maturing sun. 

—Keats. 



TWENTY-ONE 
A CARNATION DINNER 



*T* HE chief charm of this table, perhaps, is its 
--—— —j simplicity. The centerpiece is a silver candelabra 
' upon a round table mirror. Six slender crystal 
vases are set close to the base of the candelabra. These 
vases are filled with pale pink, long-stemmed carnations 
that are just the height of the unshaded candles. The 
base of the vases are concealed with delicate fern. The 
effect of this simple arrangement is brilliant and lovely, 
the reflection of the blossoms and lighted candle-tips 
making a picture of almost fairy-like beauty. The four 
slender compote dishes are a distinctive feature. 

In planning the menu for this dinner the dainty 
character of the setting should be kept constantly in 
mind in order that no heavy or contrasting note may be 
introduced. The dessert, unless a more elaborate one 
is desired, may be Fanchonettes. 

Fanchonettes 

2 cups of fresh or canned red raspberries 

1 cup of sugar 

Cook until thick, then add: 

2 tablespoonfuls of lemon juice 

When ready to serve, fill puff-paste shells, capping 
each portion with a teaspoonful of whipped cream, tinted 
pale pink and flavored with a little sherry. 



TWENTY-TWO 
A BIRTHDAY TABLE 



u 



SE for a centerpiece a large mirror, around which 
arrange maiden-hair fern and candlesticks. These 
candlesticks are simply artificial roses. (Heat 
the lower end of each small "Christmas-tree" candle 
and place in the middle of the roses; use as many roses 
and candles as there are years to be indicated.) The 
four glass candlesticks are capped with rose shades. The 
place for the guest of honor is designated by a loving cup 
which is wreathed with pink roses. The sheen of the 
damask, the sparkle of clear crystal, the delicate ferns 
and blossoms, and the reflection of many candles in the 
mirror make an enchanting picture. 



TWENTY-THREE 
WITH IVY AND ROSES 



*T* HE centerpiece is a scarlet basket filled with 

■^ ' grapes and ruddy apples. Graceful ivy vines 

' decorate the handle of the basket and radiate 

from the center of the table. A circle of white roses is 

at the base of the basket. The scarlet candle shades are 

decorated with ivy. 

The dessert is orange jelly colored a bright red and 
garnished with a rosette of whipped cream. 

Orange Jelly 

h box of red gelatine 
h cup of cold water 
1 cup of boiling water 
1 pint of orange juice 
Juice of 1 lemon 

1 orange, sliced thin 

2 cups of sugar 

Soak the gelatine in the cold water for an hour or 
more. Put the fruit juices, sliced orange, sugar and cup 
of hot water on the fire, being careful first to have 
removed all seeds, as they are very bitter. When the 
sugar is thoroughly dissolved, add the soaked gelatine and 
stir until that is dissolved. Before pouring into molds 
strain the hot fluid through a flannel bag. If very clear 
jelly is desired, strain it several times. 



TWENTY-FOUR 
WITH GRAPES AND GRAPE VINE 



T 



HE tall centerpiece is made of strong wire and a 
flat oval basket with a round base of wire, which 
is filled in with moss. The framework is entirely 
concealed with grape vine. Golden pears, pink and white 
grapes are piled high in the basket, and fine clusters of 
pink grapes are wired to either side. An oval outline of 
grape vine with leaf and tendril is upon the cloth. At 
the base of the centerpiece are disposed purple, pink and 
white grapes. 

The rose-colored wax candles are hooded with large 
silk shades that graduate in tints from rose to palest 
pink. The plates are banded with gold. White grapes 
are served upon their own leaves. 



TWENTY-FIVE 
FOR A WEDDING BREAKFAST 



T 



HE roses used in decorating this table are the 
variety known as the "Golden Gate." The 
epergne with branching candelabra has banked 
around it a star-shaped mass of roses, the star being 
accentuated by long trailing ferns and rosebuds. The 
service plates are decorated in gold. 

The breakfast served should be light rather than 
heavy, and of unexcelled quality. 

Fruit cup in champagne glasses. 

Timbale of halibut in cases. Potato balls. Sliced 

cucumbers. Hot biscuit. 
Sweetbreads in aspic with white Mayonnaise. Thin 

biscuit. 
Individual bricks of French ice cream. Macaroons and 

wedding cake. 
Crystallized grapes, white and pink. Coffee. 



TWENTY-SIX 
WITH FLORAL LANTERNS 



T 



HE main features of this illustration are the floral 
lanterns. Suspend from the chandelier a hoop; 
conceal the hoop and wire with smilax. Hang 
from the chandelier a large Japanese lantern and from the 
hoop six small Japanese lanterns. These lanterns are 
covered with tissue-paper petals with a few green leaves 
at the top. The round plot of chrysanthemums and 
ferns reaches the plate line of the circular table. The 
color scheme is pink — the unusual coral tints identified 
with Japan. The following menu is suggestive: 

Consomme. 

Frogs' legs. Potato balls. 

Roast capon. Boiled rice. Peas. Celery. Olives. 

Birds' nest salad. 

Peach ice cream. Peach-blossom cakes. Coffee. 

Birds Nest Salad 
Serve lettuce cups each containing three small "eggs" 
of cream cheese, flecked with paprika. 

Peach-blossom Ca\es 
Select any white cake or cup cake mixture preferred. 
Bake in a flat pan. With a sharp cake cutter cut into 
form of a blossom. Tint icing pale pink, flavor with a 
little bitter almond and ice the cakes. Serve flat on a 
sandwich platter, garnishing with pistachio candies. 




TWENTY-SEVEN 
WEDDING BREAKFAST, No. 2 



T 



HE illustration is of a table designed for a bridal 
party. The table is twelve feet long. The 
centerpiece, a large oval plot of splendid yellow 
chrysanthemums and asparagus fern, is outlined by a 
broad yellow satin ribbon that makes a shimmering, 
rippling band of gold upon the damask and terminates at 
either end of the floral centerpiece in bow and long ends. 

The ice cream is served on gold-banded plates in 
cases made to imitate flower crocks ; each crock is deco- 
rated with an artificial chrysanthemum. These chrysan- 
themums and the chrysanthemum shades are of a deeper 
tint than the flowers used in the centerpiece. 

Crystallized grapes in clusters may be obtained from 
any good confectioner. If arranged in a crystal or silver 
basket with high handle, or banked upon a flat crystal 
platter they are exceedingly ornamental. 



TWENTY-EIGHT 
HALLOWE'EN 



*T* HE table is bare. Across each corner are laid 
-=-—- several great, shaggy chrysanthemums of tawny 
' shade. The candles are hooded with artificial 
chrysanthemums. The table is further lighted with tiny 
pumpkin lanterns which burn throughout the supper. 
The centerpiece and mats are the artistic kind made of 
grasses by the Indians. Upon the centerpiece is a basket 
carved from a large pumpkin and encircled with bitter- 
sweet berries. The basket is filled with red, white and 
purple grapes. 

At one end of the table the "Dumb Cake" is given 
a place of prominence. See description eighty-nine. 

Like Christmas, Hallowe'en comes but once a year, 
and with it usually comes the first real "snappy" fall 
weather; therefore the hostess should provide an ample 
and appetizing menu for the late supper. Chicken a la 
King in chafing dish, toasted brown bread, celery, apple 
and nut salad, and coffee would be appropriate. 

The menu may be further amplified with bowls of 
roasted chestnuts, rich spicy ginger bread, country cider 
and delicious nut fudges for the inveterate sweet tooth. 
Doubtless "dreams," or small circles of sandwich bread 
dipped in melted butter, toasted in a chafing dish, and 
put together with highly flavored melted cheese would be 
a welcome dainty. 



TWENTY-NINE 
"SOME PUMPKINS" 



T 



HIS table shows what may be done with the com- 
mon garden pumpkin. The deep orange tones 
show to advantage upon snowy damask and the 
effect is rich and glowing. 

The central pumpkin is large and rather flat. Holes 
are made in the upper side, in which are inserted white 
and yellow candles, alternating the two. Baskets carved 
from pumpkins, filled with yellow pears and peaches and 
white grapes, are placed at either end of the table. A 
pumpkin vine with blossoms is twined in and out the 
three pumpkins to form the figure eight. The orange- 
colored candle shades are in pumpkin shape. Ice cream 
is served in papier-mache pumpkins upon plates deco- 
rated with gold. 



THIRTY 
A HARVEST-HOME SUPPER 



LARGE wire globe, covered with yellow crepe 
paper, is hung over the table by fine wire which 
is almost invisible. This globe has drawn upon it 
a quizzical and kindly face of "The Man in the Moon." 
The foundation of the centerpiece is a fine pumpkin. 
It is surrounded with heads of cabbage, satiny onions, 
ears of golden corn with an occasional ear of red pop- 
corn to aid in giving tone to the color scheme. Dried 
corn tassels relieve the general solidity. Small yellow 
globes with smiling faces serve as candle shades. 

The favors are little sacks made of yellow burlap. 
These are marked "oats" in black letters. They may be 
filled with salted popcorn or with salted hickory nuts. 



THIRTY-ONE 
TO CELEBRATE THANKSGIVING 



T 



HIS table is designed for a genuine up-to-date 
Thanksgiving "spread." 

The centerpiece is decidedly unique. The 
stuffed turkey is surrounded with bunches of wheat, corn 
tassels and scarlet poppies. These poppies conceal small 
bonbon boxes filled with candied filberts, which serve as 
favors. The candle shades are also trimmed with wheat 
and artificial poppies. Golden ears of corn, with husks 
turned back and tied with scarlet ribbons, decorate the 
corners of the table. 

The china is of a unique pattern, with a beautiful 
turkey in the center of each plate. 



THIRTY-TWO 
THE HORN OF PLENTY 



w 



HEAT, poppies, corn and various fruits are appro- 
priately used in developing this table. A round 
centerpiece is made of the wheat and poppies. 
Upon this rests a straw-colored horn of plenty, filled with 
grapes, peaches and pears. The candle shades are made 
of large petals of poppies, and are trimmed with bunches 
of wheat. The corners of the table are decorated with 
ears of ripe corn tied with wide yellow ribbons. The 
coloring in the service plates is in harmony with the 
rich color scheme. 

The menu should be substantial and bountiful to 
emphasize the note of thanksgiving for the successful 
garnering of abundant stores from field and garden. For 
such a feast the hostess should depend upon good cook- 
ing, fine flavors and old-fashioned dishes, rather than 
upon modern elaborations. 

Omit oysters and begin the meal with soup. 

Black bean soup. 

Roast turkey, stuffed with oysters. Cranberry jelly. 

Succotash. Sweet potatoes. Creamed celery. Brown 

bread. Olives. 
Hearts of lettuce with French dressing. Crackers. 

Camembert cheese. 
Pumpkin pie. Nuts-. Raisins. 
Bonbons. Coffee. 



WINTER 

Winter! ruler of the inverted year, 

1 crown thee \ing of intimate delights. 

— COWPER. 



THIRTY-THREE 
THE CHRISTMAS STAR 



T 



HE Christmas Star is prettily brought out with red 
and green on this table. A bowl of white roses 
rests upon a lace centerpiece, which is lined with 
green satin. At each corner of the lace is disposed a 
star of scarlet immortelles. The square candle shades 
are decorated with stars alternating with scarlet and 
green. The service plates are decorated with bands of 
vivid green. 

At the Christmas season the resources for color 
effects in white, green and red are abundant. In order 
to emphasize the idea of the star select for the menu the 
rice garnished with pimientos cut in stars (description 
fifty-one). The salad may be a macedoine of vege- 
tables, disposed upon a platter to represent a large star. 
The green peas, the celery, chopped fine, the beets and 
lettuce will help to carry out the colors. For dessert 
serve Mince-meat Tartlets (seventy -four) with a star 
of whipped cream. If ice cream is served it may be 
garnished with candied cherries and strips of angelica. 
The little cakes may be baked in star-shaped pans and 
iced with icing, tinted green, red and white. 



THIRTY-FOUR 
WITH LYRE AND BELLS AND RUBY LIGHT 



*T* HE centerpiece for this unique Christmas table 
s=— may be made as follows: Color some water a 
" vivid red; fill a round pan and place in the center 
a small bucket that has been weighted; freeze the water 
solid; then place the ice upon a flat pan lined with 
absorbent cotton. Remove the small bucket and set a 
night candle in the open space. When lighted it casts 
a lovely, ruby glow. 

Around the ice is a wreath of holly. Upon the holly 
is a circle of snowballs made of cotton, sprinkled over 
with diamond dust. The lyre is formed by drawing out 
wires wreathed in laurel from either side of the center- 
piece and attaching them to the chandelier. Within the 
lyre are three strings of laurel, with a bell attached to 
each string. The candle shades are scarlet bells. At 
each cover is a bunch of holly tied with scarlet ribbons. 
At the end of each streamer is a tiny metal bell. 



THIRTY-FIVE 
A SANTA-CLAUS CHRISTMAS PIE 



*T* HE large "pie" in the center of the round table is 
S5S5- made of cardboard, covered with white tissue 
' paper and trimmed with scarlet frills. "Santa 
Claus" is so placed as to conceal the hole in the top of 
the pie. At each cover there is a small flower pot filled 
with bonbons and covered with scarlet crepe paper. 
The bonbons are covered with white cotton, and each 
pot has planted in it a toy pine tree. From the pots to 
the pie ribbons extend. At a signal each child draws 
from the pie his gift. 

The Jack Horner Pie is an old friend to the hostess. 
There are, however, possibilities for novel effects in the 
ideas that may be worked out. The real pie crust over 
a genuine baking dish will sometimes divert and amuse 
children more than any amount of tissue paper and 
tinsel when they discover that, after all, the substantial- 
looking pie is merely a ruse to conceal the favors. The 
element of surprise is one of the best factors to count 
upon when entertaining children. 



THIRTY-SEVEN 
WITH GNOMES AND REINDEER 



o 



NE has only to turn to Hans Andersen's tales to 
receive ample inspiration to create a Christmas 
party for children. In Denmark the fairies or 
pixies are known as gnomes. Two of the little men in 
elfin green have installed themselves within a cedar hedge 
upon this table. Their domain is covered with soft 
white cotton. The tiny pine trees and the roof of the log 
house are also touched with snow, while everything is 
sprinkled with sparkling diamond dust or ground isinglass. 
The rabbits and reindeer, knowing no fear, are on the 
friendliest terms with the good fairies. The light from 
the green candles is softened by white shades that are 
appropriately decorated with small cedar trees and sprays 
of cedar wreathed at the top and bottom. 




THIRTY-EIGHT 

WITH IVY AND CARNATIONS 

HE centerpiece of this table is composed in such a 
way as to form a sunburst. The tendrils of the 
ivy reach to the plate line, the dark, glassy green 
of the leaf making a charming contrast to the glistening 
damask. The scarlet shades are decorated with figures 
of Santa Claus bearing a small Christmas tree. Individ- 
ual plum puddings, garnished with sprigs of holly, are 
placed at each of the six covers. 

If children are to appear at this Christmas table a 
simple dessert should be planned, as a small portion of 
plum pudding is all a child should be allowed to have. 
The following is suggested: 

First have ready a large round angels' food cake. 
With a sharp knife cut the top straight across and care- 
fully remove in order not to break or injure it. Scoop 
out the inside of the cake, then ice the sides with white 
icing, also ice the top. While the icing is still moist, 
arrange a wreath on the top made of angelica cut into 
leaf shape with an occasional candied cherry. Candied 
mint leaves are still easier to manage if the icing is almost 
dry. When ready to serve, pack the hollow cake firmly 
with ice cream; replace the top. When serving, cut 
straight through the cake and ice cream, just as if the 
cake were a plain one, and so "keep the secret" until the 
moment of tasting. 




THIRTY-NINE 
A NEW-YEAR TABLE 

N Dixie-land, years ago, friends and neighbors 
were invited to partake of the first feast of the 

^ New Year. This picture is a fair illustration of 
an old-time Southern New- Year's table. 

In the center of the wide mahogany, on an exquisite 
piece of lace, stands a silver epergne of rare beauty, and 
bowls of priceless cut glass, filled with ruddy apples and 
great clusters of white and purple grapes, over which are 
scattered the dark, glossy leaves and glowing berries of 
holly. The only light is the soft glow of wax candles in 
tall, branching candelabra, without shades. 

A rich cake, beautifully iced, and decked with holly, 
is on a silver salver. There is a massive silver bowl 
filled to the brim with "apple- toddy," which is served in 
glasses of generous size. 

Upon the sideboard in the dining room is the large 
silver tray, with delicate, wide-flaring cups and coffee- 
urn and tea-pot of quaint pattern. The serving tables 
fairly groan with their weight of tempting dishes. There 
are a saddle of mutton, roast turkey, cranberry jelly of a 
royal ruby color, fried oysters, chicken salad, beaten bis- 
cuit and a fine old ham baked and garnished until fit to 
set before a king. 



A 



FORTY 
NEW- YEAR BELLS 

HOOP is suspended from the chandelier by wires 
which are covered with smilax. Red candles are 
fastened to the hoop with wire. From the hoop 
scarlet bells are hung, and to each bell clapper is tied a 
scarlet ribbon, wound with smilax. This ribbon reaches 
to the bell that serves as a favor. The centerpiece is of 
white roses and ferns. The ice cream is served in scarlet 
cases. Each handle has a bell fastened to it. 

It is almost impossible to bring any changes upon 
this season. Since scarlet has already been selected as 
the color scheme rather than the alternative, snow white, 
it is important to emphasize somewhat the colors red and 
green in the menu. Serve with the ice cream Snowball 
Cakes. 

Snowball Cakes 
Take a large angel-food cake. Scoop out rounded 
spoonfuls. Dip these first in warm, boiled icing, then 
roll in cocoanut grated fine. Serve piled high on a flat 
silver or crystal platter. 



FORTY-ONE 
WITH POINSETTIA AND WHITE ROSES 



T 



HE epergne is filled with white roses and maiden- 
hair fern. One long rope of smilax is separated 
into single strands. These delicate strands are 
laid upon the cloth in waving lines. Here and there, 
amid the smilax, is a glowing poinsettia. The candle 
shades, of scarlet silk, are very large and shade from 
scarlet to lighter tint. The favors are heavy white card- 
board made to imitate slates; to these tiny pencils are 
attached with scarlet ribbons. The border and the 
hostesses' initial are gilded. The guests may write good 
wishes or good resolutions for the New Year upon them 
and exchange with their partners. 

A menu elaborate in effect may be easily arranged 
for this table. To demonstrate this point : Tomato Jelly 
may be served as in description sixty-eight. For one 
vegetable serve rice boiled carefully to look like popcorn. 
Scatter over the rice little stars cut with a vegetable 
cutter from scarlet pimientoes. If individual service is 
preferred, fill ramekins with Rice Pilaff; garnish each 
portion with a pimiento star. 



FORTY-TWO 
THE WISH TREE 



T 



HIS chafing-dish feast is planned for the mystic 
hour when the old year merges with the new. 
The color scheme is yellow. The yellow candles 
are capped with orange-colored tulle shades, decorated 
with artificial oranges. A small pine tree trimmed with 
imitation oranges is in the center of the table. These 
"oranges" are made of cotton and orange-colored crepe 
paper. Within each is a scroll of heavy paper decorated 
with a gilded wishbone. Some beautiful wish for the 
New Year is written upon each scroll. At each cover is 
a small triangular cake made to imitate the old English 
"God's Cake." In the center of each cake is a lighted 
candle. 

Instead of filling the pastry with mince-meat, accord- 
ing to ancient custom, triangular pieces of bread may 
be hollowed, toasted and filled with creamed oysters, 
then covered with pie-crust and baked. 

On the stroke of twelve each person should blow out 
his candle, while making a wish. 



FORTY-THREE 
TWELFTH NIGHT -FROM THE RUSSIAN 



I 



N considering Twelfth Night one finds that every 
Christian country has interesting customs of 
ancient standing. The Russians present each 
guest with a lighted candle. 

A novel and attractive appearance may be given a 
table by following out this custom. The candles should 
be in the colors, red, pale yellow, rose and white. The 
candlesticks may be paper roses or roses of some com- 
posite material. These should match in color the candles 
they hold and may serve as favors. 

The Russian cake in the middle of the table is elabo- 
rate and beautiful. It is cut when coffee is served. 
This cake is rich with spices and fruits. It is decorated 
with green and red candied fruits. Clusters of white 
sugared grapes are disposed upon the top. One large red 
candle is in the center of the grapes. The cake rests 
within a wreath of evergreens. The dessert course is in 
place. 



FORTY-FOUR 
THE TWELFTH-NIGHT STAR 



T 



HE star, emblematic of the Light of the World, is 
emphasized in this picture. In the center of the 
table is a symmetrical pine tree which is lighted 
with tapers and decorated with stars of many hues. 
These stars may be cut from cardboard and covered on 
both sides with red, green, yellow, rose and silver paper. 
On the tip of the tree is a larger star of gold. The stock 
of the tree is concealed by green crepe paper rippled and 
tied with ribbon. A circle of the colored stars is around 
the stock. The candles have star-shaped shields in the 
place of shades. These shields are cut from gilt card- 
board. The favors are slender wands wrapped with 
green and tipped with a gilt star. 




FORTY-FIVE 
FOR A ST. VALENTINE DINNER 

HE table in the illustration is laid for six. The 
place-cards are heart-shaped valentines, decorated 
in water colors with cupids and suitable valentine 
verses. To the red streamers are attached two smaller 
hearts, one for the name, the other for the date. The 
centerpiece is a heart-shaped basket, made of cardboard, 
covered with red crepe paper and filled with meteor roses 
and asparagus fern. The shades shown in the illustration 
are of a simple and severe style, decorated in water colors 
with red hearts. The daring red on the plain white is 
effective. 

The final touch to this charming table is the scatter- 
ing over the cloth with lavish hand of small hearts cut 
from scarlet cardboard. The vivid, blazing red, in con- 
trast to the purity of the damask, gives a brilliant effect. 



FORTY-SIX 
PANDORA'S BOX 



T 



HIS heart-shaped table is outlined with artificial 
roses of deep pink that serve as holders for 
candles of a more delicate tint. The heart- 
shaped box is covered with deep-pink crepe paper, 
spangled with silver hearts. A large rose conceals the 
opening in the top of the box. Silver cardboard hearts 
are attached to one end of narrow pink ribbons, and little 
souvenirs, symbolical of the blessings of life, are fastened 
to the other ends, with the exception of one ribbon, to 
which is fastened a card bearing the word "Hope." The 
souvenirs and the card are placed within the box; their 
ribbons are drawn out and the hearts symmetrically 
placed upon the cloth. When the ribbons are drawn out, 
the guest who chances to draw the card receives the 
heart-shaped bag of rose-colored silk that is fastened to 
the wide ribbon encircling "Pandora's Box." A star, the 
emblem of Hope, may be in this bag and should go 
"with the heart" to the fortunate one. 




FORTY-SEVEN 
A VALENTINE TABLE 

N the center of the table are two heart-shaped 
baskets made of tulle; the white basket is filled 
with white roses and the pink basket with pink 
roses. The hearts are pierced by one long gilt arrow. 

The hearts are outlined and the candlesticks are 
wreathed with smilax. The candle shades are pink silk, 
decorated with faces that appear in heart-shaped frames. 
The plates are rose-patterned. 

The favors are long-stemmed roses, tied with ribbons. 
At the end of each streamer is a gilt cupid. 

Heart-shaped cakes iced with pink, ices served either 
molded in heart-shape or from heart-shaped boxes cov- 
ered with pink crepe paper as may be most convenient, 
and baskets tied with pink ribbons, filled with motto 
candies or snapping bonbons decorated with hearts and 
arrows, may be passed. 




FORTY-EIGHT 
WASHINGTON'S BIRTHDAY 

IBBONS are sewed together to represent the flag 
and are laid the length and breadth of the table, 
crossing in the middle. The corners of the cloth 
left bare are scattered with small gilt stars. The red 
candles are hooded by shades decorated with silhouettes 
of George Washington, cherries and cherry leaves. The 
centerpiece is a large compote filled with ruddy apples, 
with tiny flags placed in their midst. The edges of the 
compote are hidden in a garland of greens with artificial 
cherries placed at intervals. The ice cream is packed in 
small flower-pots, covered with strips of red, white and 
blue, and served on plates decorated with cherries. In 
each pot is a tiny artificial cherry tree, with the inev- 
itable hatchet laid at its trunk. 



PART II 
DELICACIES 

What first I want is daily bread — 

And canvas-hac^s — and wine— 
And all the realms of nature spread 

Before me, when I dine. 

— John Quincy Adams. 



HOT SERVICE 



The discovery of a new dish does more for 
the happiness of man than the discovery of a 
star. — Brillat-Savarin. 



FORTY-NINE 
PALMETTES OF BASS 



c 



UT out six heart-shaped fillets from the thickest 
part of the bass. Season with pepper, salt and 
the juice of half a lemon. Put under a press for 
one half hour. Cook in clarified butter for ten minutes 
until a delicate brown. Take half a pound of raw fish ; 
mortar it well and put it through a puree sieve. To 
half a cupful of the fish pulp add a thickening made as fol- 
lows: Put a dessert-spoonful of butter in a saucepan on 
the fire; when it is melted add a dessert-spoonful of 
flour; cook a minute without coloring; add three table- 
spoonfuls of cream or milk, half a teaspoonful of salt and 
a dash of pepper. Remove it from the fire; stir in the half 
cupful of fish pulp and one beaten egg; color it a delicate 
pink with a few drops of cochineal; beat the whole until 
light and spread the palmettes of fish with this mixture 
one quarter inch thick; smooth it carefully on top and 
sides with a wet knife. Place the pieces in a pan; cover; 
set it into another pan containing hot water, and let steam 
in the oven for ten or fifteen minutes. Arrange the 
palmettes around a socle of hominy covered with parsley 
chopped fine. Serve with Hollandaise sauce colored 
pink. Garnish socle with one pink rose. 



FIFTY 
MOUSSELINES OF FISH 



c 



UT one pound of fresh, white, uncooked fish into 
small pieces; put in a mortar, and pound until 
the fiber is well separated from the meat; then 
press it through a puree sieve. To every cupful of fish 
pulp add one tablespoonful of bread crumbs, soaked in 
cream until soft and then pressed through a sieve ; add the 
beaten yolk of one egg, ten drops of lemon juice, one tea- 
spoonful of salt, one quarter teaspoonful of pepper and a 
dash of nutmeg. Beat all well together and for some time 
to make it light; then for every cupful of pulp beat in 
lightly the whites of two eggs whipped very stiff. Put 
the mixture into well-buttered individual fish molds, 
filling them three-fourths full; set them into a pan of 
warm water covering three fourths of the molds; cover 
the molds with a greased paper and place in a moderate 
oven about ten minutes. Do not let the water boil. 
Turn the timbales out ; dispose upon an oblong mound of 
potatoes that have been put through a potato ricer. 
Garnish with parsley. Serve with Hollandaise sauce 
colored a delicate green. 



FIFTY-ONE 
RICE PILAFF 

1 cup of rice 

2 cups of stock 

^ cup of tomato pulp 
2 tablespoonfuls of butter 
j teaspoonful of salt 
\ teaspoonful of paprika 
1 teaspoonful of curry. 



OIL together the rice, stock and tomato pulp until 
the rice is tender. Add butter, salt, paprika and 
curry. Press in a buttered mold; turn out on a 
bed of parsley; cover with rice that has been steamed 
until each grain is separate; garnish with stars cut from 
Spanish peppers by means of a star-shaped vegetable 
cutter. Serve hot. 



FIFTY-TWO 
OUR CHRISTMAS TURKEY 



T 



HIS nicely roasted fowl has drum sticks and neck 
dressed with fluted ruches. The platter is gar- 
nished with potato "marbles," stars cut from 
boiled red beets, and full bunches of parsley. 

The probabilities are that every housekeeper has her 
own special recipe for stuffing a turkey. Notwithstand- 
ing this fact the very old one given here may please. As 
with many old recipes, the ability of the cook for pro- 
portioning things h relied upon with supreme confidence. 

The forcemeat is made of grated bread crumbs, 
minced suet, grated lemon peel, nutmeg, salt and the 
yolk of an egg beaten till light. Add to this mixture a 
small amount of grated ham. When making the force- 
meat, reserve enough to form into balls. Fry the balls 
in hot lard and dispose around the platter just as the 
turkey is ready to be served. 

Turkey prepared in this manner is particularly deli- 
cious served with mushroom sauce. 



FIFTY-THREE 

ROAST GOOSE WITH STEAMED TURNIPS AND 
FRINGED CELERY 



ROASTED bird, properly served, is an ornament 

in itself. 

Goose with fringed celery and steamed tur- 
nips makes a delicious dish for either Christmas or New 
Year's. Dispose one or a brace of geese upon a platter. 
Garnish the breast of the fowl with strips of steamed 
turnips. Arrange upon it and the platter sweet pickled 
pears and fringed celery. The celery, turnips and pickled 
pears add the necessary decorative touches. 

A very old recipe for filling for roasted goose is: 

4 good-sized onions minced fine 
Half their quantity of green sage leaves 
1 large cup of grated bread crumbs 
A piece of butter the size of a walnut 
Yolks of 2 eggs, well beaten 
Salt and pepper to taste 

Sage is not as popular as a seasoning as it was some 
fifty years ago; so unless one is really fond of the flavor 
of sage, it is better to stuff the fowl with the usual filling 
of bread crumbs, celery, etc. 

A wineglass of good Burgundy or Madeira may be 
added to the gravy. 



COLD SERVICE 

This dish of meat is too good for any but 
anglers or very honest men. — Izaak Walton. 



J 



FIFTY-FOUR 
SALMON MOUSSE 



T 



AKE canned salmon; chop very fine; rub in a 
bowl with the back of a silver spoon, heat one 
cupful of liquor from the salmon, pour it over the 
beaten yolks of three eggs; add a teaspoonful of salt, a 
dash of pepper and paprika. Put in a double boiler; 
stir until thickened like a boiled custard; add two table- 
spoonfuls of granulated gelatine which has soaked for an 
hour in a quarter cupful of cold salmon liquor. When 
the gelatine has dissolved, remove the custard from the 
fire, add one and one-half cupfuls of the prepared salmon. 
When the mixture begins to thicken stir it perfectly 
smooth and fold in a half pint of cream whipped to a 
stiff froth. Turn into a mold. The cream must not be 
added until the mixture begins to set, or the ingredients 
will settle in layers. After cooking, allow the mousse 
to become cold; unmold the form upon a bed of water- 
cress. Garnish the cress with thin slices of crisp 
cucumbers. 



W *Vjfc ^^H 






frE^^^B 




w^r jpfl 




1 ^b 


^B JjHmJk 


f *B 


1 't '■■■'" ' i I 




H^^f ft 


IjH 


* yA'f 




K ;' ^Hl£ 




I"- : f^ 




B Vli ;-W%i 




B -i ''JH 

n< 1 '■■'■ wk 
HP •■ ? ■•' ..'',■.''"•■? 

Hf f ufa 

'l "'' „«•''' '^ 

1' ^•■ > : ' •-: 


f ili.ivB 

1 J^Tl 


14"^-'" B' ^Jl 





FIFTY-FIVE 
COLD SQUAB WITH CELERY MAYONNAISE 



^^ ELECT six young pigeons; stuff with mashed 

^g i potatoes; lard the breasts with thin slices of 

' sweet bacon; roast in a hot oven thirty minutes; 

when cool, remove potato stuffing; fill each squab with 

Celery Mayonnaise; garnish legs with tiny paper frills; 

garnish platter with a border of watercress. 

Celery Mayonnaise consists of crisp celery cut into 
half-inch pieces, dried and mixed with Mayonnaise. 

With this dish sandwiches of several varieties may be 
served arranged symmetrically on the same platter. 
Very delicious sandwiches may be made by using simply 
brown bread and unsalted butter. In this case there is 
no high flavor to conflict with the delicate celery filling 
of the squabs. If one prefers, savory butters may be 
used. In mixing savory butters use unsalted butter. 

Two tablespoonfuls of fresh butter creamed may be 
the foundation for the following variety of sandwiches: 

Caviar sandwiches 
Sardine butter sandwiches 
Olive sandwiches 



FIFTY-SIX 
CHICKEN JELLY IN DAISY FORM 



N ornamental dish for luncheon or supper may be 
arranged by molding chicken jelly in individual 
daisy molds. Dispose the forms around the base 
of a socle covered with chopped parsley, and garnish with 
ox-eye daisies. 

Boil a fowl as for chicken stock. Let the stock cool; 
take off the grease; then clarify the stock. Add to a 
quart of clarified stock three fourths of a box of Cox's 
gelatine which has been soaked one hour in half a cup 
of cold water. Stir until the gelatine is dissolved. This 
will make a very clear jelly. Fill the individual molds. 
Do not oil or grease the molds. 



FIFTY-SEVEN 

COLD TURKEY WITH INDIVIDUAL MOLDS 
OF JELLY 



ECURE a plump young gobbler. After roasting 
carefully, allow it to cool. When time to serve, 
remove the skin quickly from the breast, using a 
sharp knife. Decorate the exposed white meat with 
flowers, the petals of which are made of slices cut from 
large olives and the centers of circles cut from the white 
of a hard-boiled egg. Touch the olive and egg with the 
white of a raw egg to make them retain their position. 
The leaves and stem are those of a natural carnation. 
Place the turkey when ready upon a large platter. Sur- 
round it with alternating molds of gooseberry jam and 
cranberry jelly. This is an attractive dish for an evening 
collation. 



FIFTY-EIGHT 
BEEF LOAF WITH ASPARAGUS 



RESS the beef mixture in a buttered mold. When 
cold, turn out on a pretty platter and garnish 
with cold asparagus and lemon quarters. The 
asparagus should be marinated in French dressing before 
being used as the garnish. Trim the platter with parsley. 

Beef Loaf 
Cook any cut of beef preferred and cut up one 
quart in pieces. Mix all dry ingredients as follows* 

A dash of black pepper 
A dash of mace 
§ teaspoonful of allspice 
1 teaspoonful of cinnamon 
j teaspoonful of cloves 

Stir together thoroughly and then add one half pint 
of boiling stock. Place into mold and set aside to cool. 



SALADS 

Now good digestion wait on appetite, 
And health on both. 

—Shakespeare. 




FIFTY. NINE 
PINEAPPLE AND CELERY SALAD 

IX two cupfuls of shredded pineapple and one cup- 
ful of chopped celery with white Mayonnaise; 
Line an ice-bowl with lettuce; fill with the salad, 
garnish with pimiento or sweet red pepper. Place the 
bowl upon a bed of cotton pulled to look like snow. 
Garnish with holly. 

For white Mayonnaise use a tablespoonful of un- 
sweetened condensed cream instead of the yolk of an egg; 
beat thoroughly; add gradually the oil and vinegar or 
lemon juice as in ordinary Mayonnaise. 

Another delightful way to serve pineapple salad is 
as follows: 

Provide one large juicy pineapple and equal parts of 
Malaga grapes, oranges and celery. Cut the top from 
the pineapple, carefully remove the inside, leaving the 
shell intact. Shred the pineapple with a silver fork; seed 
the grapes; carefully mince the celery. Mix the fruits 
with French dressing; place in a bowl on ice. Just 
before serving mix in a little whipped cream; fill the 
pineapple shell; replace the top and serve on a platter of 
crushed ice. 



SIXTY 
POTATO SALAD IN DAISY FORMS 

EAT fresh-boiled new potatoes, not using any milk 
or butter, until they are very light. Let them cool ; 
then whip into them Mayonnaise dressing, but not 
enough to make them too soft. Shape them into little 
individual mounds of symmetrical size, flattening the top. 
Boil eggs hard, and carefully separate the whites from the 
yolks, breaking either part as little as possible. Cut the 
white into lengthwise strips and arrange on each mound 
to simulate the petals of a daisy, using a circle cut from 
the yolk for the center of the flower. Lay each daisy in a 
nest of crisp lettuce. 

Another very attractive potato salad may be made 
by cutting potato marbles, then boiling them with great 
care. Be sure that they are really cooked but not mealy. 
When thoroughly chilled, the marbles should be mar- 
inated, using the following proportions: 

3 t'ablespoonfuls of vinegar 

2 tablespoonfuls of olive oil 

1 teaspoonful of salt 

1 dash of pepper 

1 bay leaf 

1 teaspoonful of onion juice 

When ready to serve pile the potato marbles in a 
heap. Sprinkle over them parsley, chopped very fine. 
Serve with either a French dressing or Mayonnaise. 



SIXTY-ONE 
STAR CANAPES 



ANAPES are a desirable adjunct to salad, or may 
serve as a first course. When used as an appe- 
tizer, cheese should be avoided and something 
highly seasoned preferred. 

There is a wide range to select from when planning 
canapes. Those most commonly used are: 

Caviar 

Salmon 

Anchovy 

A blend of celery, truffles and gerkins 

Minced ham, highly seasoned 

The canapes illustrated are made as follows: 
Cut small circles from toasted bread; butter the 
toast. Spread the outer edge of the circle with parsley, 
chopped fine, making a neat border. Now spread the 
center of the toast with Philadelphia cream cheese; dis- 
pose in the center a star, cut from a scarlet sweet pepper 
or a red beet. 





*-M I ^ 




Wjr *;$ 




<^B^^^| 


y:. V 


jA-^ 


M 








W 




\". ■• ^^B 


w 






m 






m <^<&®&-j i 






1 


^MEi 


y^H 


P 


t*'W 




■ 


2/ jbI, -'^ 


s^C^jfefal 


wt J' V ■ 


Sk# , f* i* 






SHft^S 






jffj|j 


Iv^H 


^m 1 # *!JHr .J 








JflM 






M^^W 




A 




■"TjBt y/l 


gg£' fc 




';WJ 




Wm 


" : ' ' *!,:# - SB 


K ; \ 


#Jr ^ 






■1 v 


'^ jfli 


Wkm 







SIXTY-TWO 
BEAN SALAD SERVED IN SHELLS 



¥ T SE for this salad only the very small lima beans, 
^■jg— which are a delicate green tint. Boil them until 
' tender; then let them become perfectly cold and 
marinate them. 

Select small summer squash of uniform size and 
shape. Scoop out the centers of these to form cups and 
let them stand in ice- water until ready for use; this will 
prevent them from discoloring. Wash and chop fine 
some fresh parsley, sufficient to line the squash-shells, 
then fill with the beans and top off each filled cup with a 
tiny scarlet radish. 

Place the "patty pans" on a large platter garnished 
with leaves from the squash vine. If these are not avail- 
able, use grape leaves. Serve with a thick Mayonnaise 
dressing. 



SIXTY-THREE 
CREAM CHEESE IN ROSE LEAVES 



*T* HIS is a vivid and unusual salad and makes a 
g^. ' dainty dish to serve with thin slices of bread and 
' butter and a cup of tea at five o'clock, or as a 
salad course. 

Remove the hearts from crimson roses; in their 
stead put Philadelphia or any other good cream cheese, 
rolled into balls. Serve with a French dressing. 

Crimson rose leaves are suggested because the deep 
red offers a sharp contrast to the cream cheese, but of 
course if the color scheme demands it, pink or yellow 
rose leaves may be substituted. 

As cream cheese served with French dressing is an 
exceedingly simple salad it affords an opportunity to 
serve sweet sandwiches. Delicious sandwiches may be 
made with chopped dates or figs moistened with hot 
water or a little lemon juice. 



SIXTY-FOUR 
CAULIFLOWER SALAD 



*T* RIM off the outside leaves and cut off the stalks. 
— sh- Place upside down in cold salted water for fifteen 
sssEJ minutes or more. Tie the cauliflower loosely in a 
piece of cheesecloth; put into a generous amount of 
rapidly boiling water. Cook uncovered until tender, 
being careful not to let it cook until soft or it will fall to 
pieces. Remove scum from the water to insure the 
whiteness of the cauliflower. 

When ready to serve the salad, dispose a mound of 
tender lettuce leaves upon a round platter. Before 
placing the cauliflower in the center of the lettuce, cut 
the stem of each floweret not quite through in order that 
the bouquet effect may be preserved and yet that it may 
be easy to serve. Cover the cauliflower with a French 
dressing. Garnish the dish with as many sweet scarlet 
peppers filled with a firm Mayonnaise as there are guests 
to be served. 



SIXTY-FIVE 
CHERRY SALAD 



5^ ELECT for this dish the large ox-heart cherries; 
H=- or use in combination the red, white and black 
— — ' cherries. Remove the stone by cutting a slit in 
one side and pressing out the pit carefully so as not to 
bruise the skin. Fill each cherry with bits of English 
walnut meats or whole filberts that have been blanched. 
Make a circle of the heart leaves of lettuce and pile on 
these the stuffed cherries. Serve with a French dressing. 
Cherries Supreme or large white or red cherries 
canned may be used when cherries are not in season. 

Another effective salad may be prepared with 
cherries and cream cheese, if great care is exercised in 
handling the cheese. Use one pint of red cherries, pitted, 
one pint of large white ox-heart cherries, pitted, two 
Philadelphia cream cheeses, and a little heavy cream. 

Beat the cream and the cheese into a smooth consist- 
ency. Put it into a pastry bag with a star-shaped open- 
ing and press it through. As the cheese comes through 
the tube, guide it in a circle, winding it around until it 
comes to a point. Make a "rose" for each portion to be 
served, disposing each upon the platter to form a circle 
as you work. Place in the ice box. Just before serving 
heap the red cherries in the center of the circle of cheese 
and dispose the white cherries around the edge of the 
platter. Serve with French dressing. 



SIXTY-SIX 
A GAY SALAD FOR THE FOURTH OF JULY 



T 



HE tomatoes are skinned, chilled and stuffed with 
hard-boiled eggs, cut in cubes, dressed with 
French dressing and a small portion of green 
pepper minced very fine. 

The tomatoes are disposed in the center of a large 
platter; they are surrounded with dainty rolled sand- 
wiches. The sandwiches are tied with patriotic ribbon 
and the tray is decorated with small flags. 

With regard to the sandwiches, one has a very wide 
range. The most obvious for a Fourth-of-July occasion 
are peanut sandwiches because we seem to associate pea- 
nuts with the day as naturally as we do fire-crackers. 
Sardine or lettuce sandwiches are always appetizing, or 
possibly preference may be yielded to a newer combina- 
tion given here: 

Indian Sandwiches 
Mix two cups of white stock with one small table- 
spoonful of curry, powder; cook until thick; add two 
tablespoonfuls of lemon juice, one cup of chopped 
cooked chicken and one cup of chopped ham. Have 
ready at hand toasted circles of bread; spread with 
the mixture; cover with another piece of toasted bread; 
serve hot. 



SIXTY-SEVEN 
TOMATO HEARTS 



*T* HIS salad is a most effective one for Valentine Day 

— — - or for an Announcement Luncheon. The illus- 

' tration shows the tomato hearts resting upon the 

delicate, inner leaves of head lettuce. Above is a circle 

of white Mayonnaise capped with the yellow Mayonnaise. 

^ can or 2 cups of tomatoes 

3 cloves 

1 bay leaf 

1 slice of onion 

| teaspoonful of thyme 

1 teaspoonful of salt 

1 teaspoonful of sugar 

\ teaspoonful of pepper 

\ box of Cooper's gelatine, soaked in 

^ cup of cold water 

Boil together the spices, tomatoes and onion until 
the tomato is soft; add the soaked gelatine and stir until 
the gelatine is dissolved; then strain and pour into 
individual heart-shaped cake pans or molds. When 
thoroughly chilled, they may be served. 



SIXTY-EIGHT 
TOMATO JELLY 



\/T OLD in a round bowl ; when ready to serve turn 

— ==- out upon a bed of lettuce; scoop out the top of 

^ ssa 9 t ne jelly; line the hollow with fringed celery; 

fill with Mayonnaise dressing; garnish the sides of jelly 

with slices of green pepper ; cap the whole with a lettuce 

heart. 

To fringe celery: 

Place fine white celery in ice water. When very 
cold, cut into four-inch lengths. Split the celery into a 
fringe for about one and one half inches. The thin 
pieces, if the celery is crisp, will curl backwards and offer 
a very pleasing and delicate garnish. 

A simpler way to present the same salad is to pour 
the jelly into a square enamel pan. When set, cut into 
cubes about one inch square. Cut fine celery into small 
dice. Serve each portion individually, using first a cup 
of lettuce leaves, then a close circle of the celery, then 
four or five blocks of the tomato jelly heaped in the 
center. Serve the Mayonnaise dressing separately. 



SIXTY-NINE 
CELERY SALAD WITH ENGLISH WALNUTS 



M 



IX Neufchatel cheese with oil, salt, paprika and a 
little vinegar. Color a delicate green. Fill the 
center of the stalks of celery with the paste. 
Arrange the celery around a mound of salted walnut 
meats. Leave some of the tender leaves on the stalks 
for a garnish. 

Another simple and effective way to serve cream 
cheese tinted a delicate green is to roll it in egg shape and 
to place three eggs for each service in a nest or cup of 
lettuce. Just before serving dash a little paprika on 
each egg. Serve with French dressing. 



SEVENTY 
MARCH HARES 



SPIC jelly molded in the shape of small hares 
nestling in head lettuce makes a beautiful salad. 
The rabbit molds may be found at exclusive 
tinware shops. They are not easy to handle, but a good 
result makes a charming dish. 

First make a white stock as follows: 

1 fowl 

1 knuckle of veal 

1 small onion 

1 turnip cut into squares 

3 stalks of celery 

1 carrot cut into dice 

2 bay leaves 

1 bouquet of thyme, marjoram and savory 
Cold water 

Wash skin of fowl thoroughly. Cut veal from bone. 
Cut fowl into large pieces. To each pound of meat and 
bone allow two quarts of cold water. Let all simmer about 
five hours. Strain into an earthen bowl and allow to 
cool without a cover. When stock is cold, remove all 
grease. Clarify the stock. The veal should take the 
place of gelatine, but if a very stiff jelly is desired add half 
a box of Cox's Gelatine (already soaked an hour or more 
in a little cold water) to each quart of clarified stock. 



SEVENTY-ONE 
CHRISTMAS SALAD 



s 



ECURE a fine head of white cabbage. Turn back 
the outside, loose leaves; then with a sharp knife 
hollow out the cabbage to form a bowl. With 
wooden toothpicks and cranberries decorate the upper 
and lower edge of the cabbage; fill the "bowl" with a 
salad made of equal parts of walnuts or hickory nuts and 
celery mixed with Mayonnaise. 

It would also be appropriate to serve a vegetable 
salad in this head. Asparagus tips with Mayonnaise, 
the latter garnished with thread-like strips cut from the 
skin of a very red apple, are effective. 

Another attractive salad, but one hardly elaborate 
enough for an affair of state, may be made by using two 
cabbages, a red one and a white one. Shave the cabbages 
carefully into long strips. Arrange the strips of the 
red in a circle about an inch wide. Within that circle 
arrange a circle of the same width of the white cabbage, 
then fill in the space that is left with the red. Garnish 
the middle plot with large olives. This salad should be 
served with a cream dressing rather than with Mayon- 



naise. 



HOT DESSERTS 

A good digestion to you all; and once more 
I shower a welcome on you. 

—Shakespeare. 



SEVENTY-TWO 
THE YULE LOG 



HIS festive looking plum pudding was steamed in 
a cylindrical mold to represent a yule-log, and 
garnished with long sprays of holly. When sent 
to the table enveloped in a Christmas blaze it presented a 
very attractive and holiday-like appearance. It was 
served upon a large silver platter and accompanied by a 
delicious soft as well as an appetizing hard sauce. 

Plum Pudding 
6 eggs 

1 pound of suet 
1 pound of raisins 
1 pound of currants 
1 pound of sugar 
§ pound of citron 
j pound of candied orange peel cut 

into thin shavings 
\ teaspoonful each of ground nutmeg, 

cloves, cinnamon and allspice 
f wineglass of sherry 
^ wineglass of brandy 

Mix all dry ingredients thoroughly, add eggs, one at 
a time, then add the sherry and brandy. Steam four 
hours. 




SEVENTY-THREE 
FIG PUDDING 

IG pudding is simpler than the regulation plum 
pudding, and it may be made the day it is eaten. 
Individual portions of hard sauce served in lemon 
shells should be kept on ice until the last moment. Each 
portion of the sauce is garnished with a cube of red jelly. 
A bowl of whipped cream makes a delicious adjunct to 
this dessert. 

The recipe for the pudding is as follows: 

\ cup of chopped figs 

\ cup of chopped suet 

2 cups of white bread crumbs 

\ cup of sugar 

1 cup of milk 

\ cup of flour 

4 eggs 

1 teaspoonful of baking powder 

1 wineglass of sherry 

1 grated nutmeg 

Soak the chopped figs in the sherry several hours; 
flour the suet; mix bread crumbs, sugar, nutmeg, baking 
powder and flour. Add the figs, then the egg yolks, well 
beaten, then the milk, and last the whites of the eggs 
well beaten. Butter the pudding mold; fill three-fourths 
full and steam three hours. 



SEVENTY-FOUR 
MINCE-MEAT TARTLETS 



F 



OR these pretty little dainties make puff-paste 
shells in oval patty pans. These may be made 
the day before they are needed and re-heated 
before serving. The mince-meat should be heated in a 
saucepan, the shells filled nearly full with it and a garnish 
of stiffly whipped cream put on each in the form of a 
five-pointed star. 

It is not always convenient to make mince-meat and 
the recipe below is rich and delicious. 

Plum Pudding Pies 
4 eggs 
\ cup of granulated sugar beaten into the yolks 

1 cup of butter 

2 tablespoonf uls of flour 
1 cup of cream 

1 cup of acid preserves 

Apricots, boiled, or even a very good grade of dried 
apricots or damson preserves not too sweet, could be 
used. 

Beat the eggs separately. Add to the yolks the 
sugar and the butter cerefully creamed. Add the flour 
and the cream; then the preserves, and finally the whites 
of the eggs, stiffly whipped. 



COLD DESSERTS 

Oh, dainty and delicious ! 
Food for the gods! 

— W. A. Croffut. 



SEVENTY-FIVE 
BLANC MANGE WITH STRAWBERRIES 



A 



PRETTY effect may be gained by molding white 
blanc mange in egg cups, arranging the molds in 
a circle, raising the center one, and garnishing 
the dish with strawberries and their leaves. 

There are many simple recipes for blanc mange and 
for cornstarch puddings. A simple blanc mange and one 
especially desirable for children and invalids is made of 
carrageen moss. This is a seaweed found in large quan- 
tities on the coasts of America and may be purchased at 
drug stores. Take one half pint of rich milk; add one 
half ounce of bitter almonds, blanched and pounded; 
one fourth of a grated nutmeg, three snips of broken 
cinnamon, and three blades of mace. 

Set in a closed pan over a hot fire and boil half an 
hour. Now wash thoroughly half a handful of carrageen 
moss and add to a pint and a half of cold milk. Stir in 
the boiled milk; add gradually half a pound of powdered 
sugar and mix the whole well. Set over the fire, allow 
it to come to a boil and then to boil hard for five min- 
utes. Flavor to suit taste; strain into a pitcher; wet the 
molds or cups with ice-water; fill with the blanc mange 
and set aside to harden. 

Caution: The seaweed must be carefully washed and 
dried in a napkin. If too much is used, the blanc mange 
will have an unpleasant taste. 




SEVENTY-SIX 
BAVARIAN CREAM WITH CHERRIES 

HIS may be served with whipped or plain sweet- 
ened cream. Any of the small fruits or sliced 
peaches or bananas may be used in the same way. 

1 pint of cream, whipped 

1 pint of cream 

\ cup of sugar 

Yolks of 4 eggs 

\ saltspoonful of salt 

\ box of gelatine soaked in \ cup of water 



Whip one pint of cream and let it drain. Scald one 
pint of cream with the vanilla bean broken in it; take off 
fire; pour gently, stirring constantly, on the well beaten 
yolks that have been creamed with the salt and sugar; 
return to the fire until the mixture begins to thicken. 
Add the soaked gelatine; stir until dissolved, and pass 
through a sieve. When cold and beginning to set, mix 
in lightly the whipped cream and turn into a mold. 

When perfectly solid turn from the mold on a pretty 
china or glass dish. Fill the center of the form with red, 
white and pink cherries and garnish with a circle of 
cherry leaves. 



SEVENTY-SEVEN 
CHARLOTTE RUSSE WITH CHERRIES PERLEES 



F 



IT an oiled paper to the bottom of a round or oval 
pan. Arrange lady fingers evenly around the 
sides. Fill the pan with charlotte russe filling. 

Garnish the platter and charlotte russe with cherry leaves 

and cherries perlees. 

Charlotte Russe Filling 
1 oz. of gelatine 
^ cup of cold water 

1 cup of sugar 
\ cup of lemon 

2 cups of orange juice 
Yolks' of 2 eggs 

Soak the gelatine in the water half an hour. Make 
a light syrup of the sugar and fruit juices. Turn the 
syrup slowly on the well-beaten yolks, beating all the 
time. Return to the double boiler; when slightly thick- 
ened, add the gelatine, strain and beat until cold; add 
one pint of cream whipped stiff; then turn into the mold. 

Cherries Perlees 
Mix the white of an egg with a little very cold water. 
Dip the cherries in the mixture; drain and roll in gran- 
ulated sugar. Allow them to dry. 



SEVENTY-EIGHT 
PEACHES EN MASQUE 



ELECT fine preserved peaches, preserved whole; 
cover each peach carefully with a meringue, 
colored pink. Cut leaves from thin slices of 
citron; drop them in water colored green in order to 
obtain a deep green tint. Place three leaves on each 
peach. A piece of stick cinnamon may serve for a stem. 
Put the peaches in a very slow oven for thirty minutes or 
more. Do not take them out until entirely dry. When 
cold, invert a pie pan upon a platter; cover the pan with 
a lace paper doily; dispose the peaches upon it. Whip a 
pint of cream very stiff and make a border around 
the peaches. 



SEVENTY -NINE 
DANTZIC JELLY AND LEMON CUP 

AU de tie de Dantzk is made of brandy, is highly 
flavored and contains gold leaf. It makes a very 
ornamental jelly. 

| box of gelatine 

\ cup of cold water 

1 cup of sugar 

Juice of 1 lemon 

2f cups of boiling water 

Soak the gelatine in the cold water two hours. Put 
the boiling water, the sugar and a few thin slices of lemon 
peel in a saucepan on the fire. When the sugar is dis- 
solved, add the soaked gelatine and stir until that also is 
dissolved; then remove and when it is partly cooled, 
add the lemon juice. Strain it several times to make it 
very brilliant; when it is cold (before becoming formed) 
add two tablespoonfuls each of eau de vie de Dantzk and 
brandy. Serve in champagne glasses with whipped 
cream. Lay a yellow rose on each plate. 

Lemon Cup 
A lemon cup is simply a lemon with the top cut off, 
and shred of its interior fruit. It is filled with grape 
juice and lemonade, and has the cover replaced with two 
holes cut through, in which are inserted two straws. 




EIGHTY 
PORCUPINE APPLES 

ELECT large perfect apples of equal size; pare 
them and cut out cores; cook them in syrup. 
Now boil down the syrup used to cook the apples; 
roll the apples in it. This will give them a fine gloss. 
Stud them with sweet almonds; cut into four lengths; fill 
the centers with jelly; dispose upon a round platter, 
arranging vanilla wafers around the outer edge. 

The temptation to offer here another pretty idea is 
too strong to resist. 

Les Petits Pommes en Tasse 
Immediately before serving, heat through individual 
puff-paste shells to insure their crispness. Dispose four 
or five beautiful crab-apples, preserved with the stems 
on, in each shell, with the stems standing together like 
stacked guns. If whipped cream is served as an adjunct, 
it should be passed, as the success of this dainty dessert 
depends upon the bewitching "first appearance." 



FROZEN DESSERTS 

Serenely full, the epicure would say, 

"Fate cannot harm me — / have dined today." 

—Sydney Smith. 



EIGHTY-ONE 
ICE CREAM SERVED IN FLOWER POTS 



ELECT six small flower crocks; scrub, chill and 
line with oiled paper; pack with ice cream, frozen 
very hard and put in a bucket packed in ice and 
salt. When ready to serve cover the tops of the crocks 
with pulverized sweet chocolate; plant in each a car- 
nation and serve with tiny wooden spades instead of 
spoons. Small watering cans may take the place of bon- 
bon dishes. 

The recipe given below is a little unusual and may be 
helpful. 

Almond Ice Cream 
2 cups of sugar 
Juice of 6 oranges 

1 j cups of grated almonds 

5 drops of extract of almond 

2 quarts of cream 

Freeze the sweetened cream. When frozen to a 
smooth, soft consistency add the fruit juices and nuts. 
Freeze well. Pack in the little crocks carefully. Place 
the crocks in a clean freezer with abundant salt mixed 
with the ice to insure hard cream. Just before serving 
cover the top of the ice cream with pulverized sweet 
chocolate. 



EIGHTY-TWO 
FIRE-CRACKERS AND TORPEDOES 



T 



HIS illustration shows a unique arrangement of 
ice cream and cookies. 

Make cases of cardboard; cover with scarlet 
crepe paper. Pack these cases with ice cream, frozen 
hard. Place in each a tiny taper. Around the "fire- 
cracker" dispose small peanut cookies wrapped in white 
tissue paper to imitate torpedoes. The tapers should be 
lighted at the moment of serving. They afford surprise 
and pleasure to little children. 



Peanut Cookies 
2 cups of peanuts, chopped fine 
2 cups of pulverized sugar 
Whites of 5 eggs, beaten very stiff 



Rub pan with beeswax. Drop mixture with a spoon. 
Bake in a moderate oven. 



j 



EIGHTY-THREE 
ROSES A LA REINE 



*T* HIS is a beautiful dessert. Color clear water a 
-5==- very intense green with coloring paste ; fill a mold 
' with it and pack in ice and salt twenty-four hours 
before it is needed, the object of course being to secure a 
solid mass of ice. The mold should be similar to a deep 
cake pan, having smooth sides and a straight tube 
through its depth. The tube should be large enough to 
leave an opening in the ice three inches in diameter. If 
not found in the shops, such a mold is easily made to 
order. When ready to serve the dessert, turn the mound 
of green ice on a large platter; place within the hole a 
lighted flat candle, such as are used in night lamps. The 
effect is brilliant and lovely. Around the base of the 
ice-mold place rose forms of raspberry ice cream, colored 
a deep pink. If the rose forms are out of question, 
rounded spoonfuls of the pink ice cream, garnished here 
and there with the foliage of natural roses may be used. 



EIGHTY-FOUR 
ICE CREAM CANAPES 



LICE sponge cake; cut in circles with a pastry 
cutter; spread with jelly or delicate marmalade. 
When ready to serve dispose rounding spoonfuls 
of ice cream upon the cake. Garnish the ice cream with 
meats of pecan nuts and a single maraschino cherry. 
These canapes afford attractive single portions, which are 
often desirable, and obviate the trouble of single molds, 
which require a skilled hand. 

Easy Sponge Cake 
6 eggs 

2 cups powdered sugar 
2 tablespoonfuls of milk or water 

1 pinch of salt 

2 teaspoonfuls of baking powder 
2 cups of flour 

Beat eggs separately and very thoroughly. Add the 
whites last of all. In any light cake it is well to sift the 
flour twice. Measure after the first sifting. 



CAKES 

Ta\e the goods the gods provide thee. 

— Dryden. 



EIGHTY-FIVE 
A CHRISTMAS CAKE 



/"* UT from heavy cardboard a large star. Cover 
^— the star with holly; stud the holly with white 
=™=* and red candles. Place upon the star a large 
iced fruit cake, garnished with holly. Place in the center 
of the cake a tiny Christmas tree, decorated with small 
tapers. Small toys for children or simple souvenirs for 
adults may be placed upon the tree. 

The following fruit-cake recipe is good: 

1 tablespoonful of powdered cinnamon 

2 teaspoonfuls of powdered nutmeg 
1 teaspoonf ul of powdered mace 

1 wineglass of white wine 
1 wineglass of brandy 
1 wineglass of rose water 
1 pound of powdered sugar 
1 pound of fine flour 
1 pound of fresh butter 
10 eggs 
1 2 drops of oil of lemon 

This recipe, of course, may be divided to make a 
smaller cake. 




EIGHTY-SIX 
BUCK-EYED SUSANS 

AKE a pound-cake mixture in small round individ- 
ual pans, making them very thin, or drop spoon- 
fuls of sponge cake on a baking sheet. Bake 
quickly and carefully and spread the cakes with icing 
colored a pale green. Split some blanched almonds, 
brown them to a delicate yellow, cut them in strips and 
arrange them in circles on the cakes, putting in the center 
chocolate icing. 

Pound Ca\e. 
1 cup of butter (thoroughly creamed) 
1\ cups of sugar 
1 teaspoonful of cream of tartar 
\ teaspoonful of soda 
3^ cups of flour 
\ pound citron, cut thin 
\ pound blanched almonds, chopped 
Whites of 12 eggs beaten to a froth 

Sift flour before measuring; then add cream of tartar 
and soda, and sift again. Add to the flour the citron and 
almonds. Mix all the dry ingredients thoroughly. 
Finally add the eggs. 




EIGHTY-SEVEN 
HICKORY-NUT STICKS 

IX chopped hickory nuts into a very good cup- 
cake mixture, and bake in finger-roll pans. 
Cover the sticks smoothly with chocolate icing. 
Reserve some of the nuts to put on top of the sticks 
before the icing hardens. Arrange in log-cabin style. 

Cup Cake 

1 cup of butter 

2 cups of granulated sugar 

3 cups of flour 

4 eggs 

1 cup of milk 
Flavoring to taste 

The average housekeeper does not realize how easy 
it is to give an appearance of elaboration to the simplest 
dish. The reference to finger-roll pans in the recipe for 
Hickory-Nut Sticks offers the suggestion that it is not 
difficult to bake finger-rolls to serve with a cup of 
bouillon at luncheon or that "sticks" of various sorts of 
cakes may be baked if desired. Plain cup cake, pound 
cake, chocolate cake or any mixture that leaves the pan 
readily may be baked in slender lengths, iced with icing 
of various tints and flavored with different flavors. 
These assorted sticks, if served at the same time on the 
same plate, may be termed Harlequin Sticks. 















,V% V 








♦. i ' *B 








'IB 




^fT^i' J 


wf £k' 


il^jif ■ ^ Jv^ 


^wH 






;*■■"■ 




mr.-:> -'M 


* wr 


#* 




[ T '" 
1 


, : , ., - 


ijfjte*' J; 


B. ■ 


\ 
1 


. u-* 




4 J99 


t ^ 








B 


j? - 




J 


Bp** 




;: "" ! ' 




Ik*' 


--•w 
















mi Jk ■ 








■M 







EIGHTY. EIGHT 
LES PLAISIRS 



c 



REAM thoroughly three quarters of a pound of 
powdered sugar and one half pound of butter. Stir 
in gently, one at a time, six eggs. Then stir in 
one pound of flour, grated nutmeg, four ounces of 
chopped orange peel and a glass of orange juice. Chop 
one half pound of blanched almonds. Drop the batter 
upon buttered paper. Sprinkle the almonds, chopped, 
over the cakes. Bake a delicate brown. When the 
cakes are cold, put them together with icing or jam. 
Then color icing a delicate yellow. Ice cakes, using a 
large star tube pipe with pastry bag. When the icing is 
firm, wrap each cake in a lace doily. Dispose upon a 
flat platter or tray. 

The above recipe is rather elaborate. If one is 
desirous of offering a particularly dainty cake with a cup 
of tea and has not the time to spend in making this 
particular cake or does not wish one so expensive, a 
modified "plaisir' ' may be substituted. With this idea 
in view, very small cup cakes may be highly seasoned 
with nutmeg, a little sherry and a dash of almond 
extract. These little cakes may be put together with 
orange marmalade or a little quince or currant jelly. 
When served in a twist of lace paper, they present an 
elaborate appearance. 




EIGHTY-NINE 
"DUMB CAKE" 

HE "Dumb Cake" is a Hallowe'en dainty. The 
■• time-honored custom of eating every crumb of 
the "dumb" or triangle cake must be observed. 
It should be eaten in a circle before the open fire in 
absolute, silence, each person making a wish. 

1 \ pounds of flour 

1 \ pounds of sugar 
\ pound of butter 

2 cups of milk 

4 even teaspoonf uls of baking powder 

10 eggs 

2 gills of brandy 

Cream the butter thoroughly; add the sugar; beat 
well; add the eggs, beaten well; then a portion of the 
flour which has had the baking powder sifted in it. Add 
a part of the milk, then the rest of the flour and milk. 
Add a little pulverized mace and the brandy. At the 
last fold in the whites beaten to a stiff froth. Bake in a 
flat baking pan. 

With a very sharp knife cut off two corners in order 
to make it a perfect triangle. Ice top and sides with 
orange icing. Outline the top of the cake with sugared 
hazel nuts ; garnish the lower edge with English walnuts 
and autumn leaves. 




NINETY 
KNAVE-OF-HEARTS CAKE 

"The Knave of Hearts brought back the tarts. 
And vowed he'd steal no more." 

HIS cake may be used at a children's party, or will, 
with its elaborate trimming and absurd dolls, 
occasion a good deal of amusement if brought on 
with other refreshments after a game of hearts. The 
tiny dolls are dressed exactly as the characters in Mother- 
Goose melodies. 

The large white cake is iced with white icing and 
garnished with white icing. The hearts and crowns are 
cut from thin wafer sheets and colored scarlet and then 
disposed upon the cake. A simpler method for an 
amateur, perhaps, would be to buy scarlet candy hearts 
and apply. 

Use the same recipe as for Christmas Cake, number 
85, omitting the fruit. This is a very good recipe. 



FRUIT 

Whose are the sweets that never pall, 
Delicious, pure, and crowning all. 

—Coles. 



NINETY-ONE 
PEAR CROQUETTES 



HOOSE fine, large pears of equal size; pare them 
carefully, leaving the fruit whole and without 
disturbing the stem; cook them until tender in 
syrup; drain. Boil the syrup down until it jellies; dip 
each pear in this syrup jelly. Then cover each pear with 
halves of almonds that have been blanched; twist around 
each stem a paper frill. Place each croquette upon a 
round sponge cake spread with quince marmalade. Dis- 
pose upon a lace paper doily. Serve with whipped cream 
seasoned to taste. Canned pears may be used for this 
dish admirably. 

If desired, brandied pears may be substituted for 
preserved pears, omitting the almonds because they will 
not adhere to the surface of brandied fruit. 




NINETY-TWO 
GRAPES SERVED IN ICE 

N seeking beautiful and novel effects one often 
finds them in a unique arrangement of things 
right at hand. Nothing can excel in beauty 
flowers and perfect fruits. An artistic arrangement of 
fruits is perhaps more unusual than floral decorations. 
Grapes presented as shown in the opposite illustration 
offer a delightful picture. 

Select a block of ice weighing about thirty pounds 
and in proportions to fit a large tray. Line the tray with 
several thicknesses of cotton batting. With an ice chisel 
make a suitable cavity in the top of the ice for the 
grapes. Secure around the upper edge of the ice a heavy 
wire. By means of fine wire arrange handsome clusters 
of grapes and grape leaves to form a garland, alternating 
purple and white grapes. 

Pile, with great attention to effect, purple, pink, 
white and green grapes in the ice bowl. 



NINETY-THREE 
PEACHES EN SURPRISE 



s 



ECURE fine large free-stone peaches and chill 
them thoroughly. Just before serving, peel care- 
fully with a silver knife; remove the pits with a 
spoon. Have ready at hand cream which has been 
sweetened and seasoned and thoroughly chilled. Mix 
with the cream meats of pecan nuts, chopped. Fill the 
peaches with the mixture; garnish with candied cherries; 
serve at once. 

A simple and attractive way to serve fresh peaches 
is to make a plain white blanc mange; mold it in a cir- 
cular form. When ready to serve, dispose the blanc 
mange upon a round platter; have ready ripe peaches, 
peeled and halved; fill the center of the mold with the 
peaches and serve with rich cream and powdered sugar. 



NINETY-FOUR 
THE HEART OF THE MELON 



I 



T is difficult to prepare watermelon in any new 
j ^_^ way consistent with good taste. The following 
suggestions are offered: 

Chill a ripe melon thoroughly; cut in half-inch 
slices. With a heart-shaped cookie cutter cut out as 
many hearts as required. Dispose upon a round platter; 
pile crushed ice in the center and between each stack of 
hearts; and garnish with mint. 

Secure a medium-sized ripe melon. Cut off the two 
ends, leaving a middle section about eight inches high. 
Remove all the rind, cutting down the straight sides until 
the edible part of the melon is reached. Remove the 
heart and all seed. Place on ice. When ready to serve 
dispose upon a round platter of crushed ice. Fill the 
center of the watermelon bowl with either raspberry ice 
or claret jelly. When serving, place a small portion of 
the melon with the raspberry ice or the jelly on each 
plate. 

Claret jelly may be made with gelatine, using claret 
instead of sherry or brandy. 



NINETY-FIVE 
MELONS WITH WHIPPED CREAM 



^ ELECT small melons of uniform size; chill; cut off 
ns; a small section that may serve as a "lid." Fill 
Sal each melon with whipped cfeam which has been 
sweetened and mixed with chopped ginger and marsh- 
mallows. Put the melons in a freezer or bucket; pack 
in equal portions of ice and salt; let stand about an hour. 
Serve upon a platter filled with crushed ice and garnished 
with nasturtiums and their leaves. A piece of yellow 
ribbon may be drawn through each top and tied into a 
small bow. 

Another attractive way of serving melons is the fol- 
lowing: 

Select small melons of uniform size. Scoop out the 
fruit carefully; clean and polish the shells. Line the 
shells with red raspberries; fill with the melon cut in 
bits and a garnish of whipped cream. Dispose fruit upon 
a long platter filled with chopped ice, and garnish with 
white clovers. 



NINETY-SIX 
FROM THE SUNNY SOUTH 



T 



HE watermelon may rightly be termed the "sum- 
mer queen" because of its arrogance. Almost 
any other fruit may be stewed or baked or frozen 
or served en melange with other fruits. Possibly the huge 
delight its dusky admirers have for the watermelon 
renders it absolutely sufficient in itself. Certainly very 
few ideas for varying ways in which to serve it occur to 
the most diligent housekeeper. When all has been said, 
the best way is to cut the heart of a ripe melon that has 
been thoroughly chilled into suitable pieces and to regard 
the luscious fruit as the nectar and ambrosia of the gods. 
For a children's party secure a fine watermelon; 
cut in one side a plug large enough to permit of scooping 
out a part of the meat with a spoon, and placing in the 
melon a number of china negro dolls; then replace the 
plug. When the melon is carved, great will be the 
delight of the children to see falling pell-mell from its 
rosy depths the tiny piccaninnies who appear to be 
indulging in slices of luscious fruit. 



8 928 21-9 900 




ssauoNOO =io Auvuan 



H 



■ I 

■ 

B ■ I 

B| 

■DM 1H 

HB 

■■I 

H 

I MH 

SB 



