ALBERT R. MANN LIBRARY 
Cornell University 

Gift of 
Thomas Bass 












^ 




From Home Bakings, by Edna Evans 
San Francisco, 1912. 





CORNELL UNIVERSITY LIBRARY 




924 090 142 211 




The original of tiiis book is in 
tine Cornell University Library. 

There are no known copyright restrictions in 
the United States on the use of the text. 



http://www.archive.org/details/cu31924090142211 





■■^.sry'y 



GOOD HOUSEKEEPER'S 

COOK BOOK 



BY 

EMMA PADDOCK TELFORD 

EDITED BY 

M. A. ARMINGTON 



ILLUSTRATED 



NEW YORK 

CUPPLES & LEON COMPANY 



IK 



COFTBIGHT, 1908, BY 

TSE New Tobe Hebaio Oel 



NEW REVISED EDITION 

OOFSBIGHT, 1914, BY 

SlBiE New YasK Hebald Oo. 



aU RightB Beservea 



TABLE OF CONTENTS 

DEFASTMENTS PAGES 

Tables of Weights and Measures vii 

Measurements Equivalent to One Pound viii 

Table of European Measures c: ix 

Time Tables for Cooking x to xiv 

Soups 5 to 11 

Fish 12 to 20 

Poultry 21 to 26 

Eggs 27 to 31 

Meats 32 to 48 

Vegetables 49 to 80 

Game 81 to 88 

Sauces 89 to 94 

Salads ,. 95 to 101 

Cookies 102 to 104 

Pastry 105 to 141 



TABLE OF CONTENTSr-Continued 

DEPAHTMENTS PAGES 

Bread 142 to 154 

Candies 155 to 163 

Preserves and Jellies 164 to 187 

Drinks 188 to 194 

Ices 195 to 200 

Dishes for Invalids 201 to 207 

Menus 208 to 248 

Index,..,.., 249 to 256 



TABLES OF WEIGHTS AND MEASURES. 



The inexperienced housewife will find the following tables of weights 
and measures of wonderful help in her first culinary efforts; while even 
the experienced cook will find this ready reference arrangement of ines- 
timable value when attempting recipes that, without these simple rules, 
would necessitate a waste of time in tedious weighing. Measuring-cups, 
holding one-half pint, divided into quarters or thirds, and measuring- 
spoons — teaspoons and tablespoons — may now be obtained in any hard- 
ware or department store. By having this kitchen measuring-set the 
young housekeeper will have much better success than by using the 
haphazard method — "a favorite measuring-cup and spoon"— of a gen- 
eration ago, with its vexatious results. A case-knife, for leveling and 
dividing ingredients, should also be at hand, as it is almost indispensable 
in securing uniform measurements. 

It should be remembered that flour, meal, powdered and confectioners' 
sugar should be sifted before measuring. Mustard and baking powder, 
from standing in boxes, should be stirred to lighten; while salt, which is 
inclined to lump, should be rolled and crushed between sheets of strong 
manila paper. 

When a recipe calls for a "cupful" it means all the 'cup will hold; a 
"teaspoonful" or a "tablespoonful" means all the spoon will hold — the 
case-knife to be used in leveling the top. In measuring butter or other 
fats, pack firmly into the cup or spoon and level with the knife. 

1 cup equals 54 pint. 
1 gill equals Yt. cup. 
1 common tumblerful equals J^ pint. 

1 common wineglassful equals 4 tablespoons — J^ gill. 
16 tablespoons equal 1 cup. 

3 teaspoons equal 1 tablespoon. 

2 tablespoons butter equal 1 ounce. 

4 tablespoons flour equal 1 ounce. 

1 heaping tablespoon granulated sugar equals 1 ounce. 

2 heaping tablespoons flour equal 1 ounce. 



WEIGHTS AND MEASURES 

2 heaping tablespoons powdered sugar equal 1 ounce. 

2 heaping tablespoons ground coffee equal 1 ounce. 

1 tablespoon milk, vinegar or brandy equals Yz ounce. 

A breakfastcupful of bread crumbs well packed equals about 4 ounces. 

A breakfastcupful of very finely chopped suet slightly heaped up weighs 

about 4 ounces. 
A heaping breakfastcupful of brown sugar weighs about half a pound. . 
A heaping breakfastcupful of stoned raisins, well packed, weighs about 

half a pound. 
1 square Baker's chocolate equals 1 ounce. 
Yi cup almonds blanched and chopped equals 1 ounce. 
"A few grains" is less than one-eighth teaspoon. 
"A dash of pepper" equals Yt saltspoonful. 
The juice of an ordinary lemon is about a tablespoonful. 



MEASUREMENTS EQUIVALENT TO ONE POUND. 

The following table, showing the amount of diflerent ingredients that 

constitute a pound, will be found very useful and practical for quick, 
reliable reference when making pound-cake, etc. 

Butter, or other fats, packed solidly 2 cups 

Coffee 454 " 

Corn meal, granulated ly^ " 

Eggs large 9, smaller 10 

Flour, pastry etc., sifted 4 " 

Flour, entire wheat Z% " 

Flour, Graham 4}/^ " 

Meats, finely chopped 2 " 

Milk or water 2 " 

Oatmeal 2?^ " 

Oats, rolled 4^^ « 

Rye meal 4j4 " 

Rice \T/i " 

Sugar, granulated 2 " 

Sugar, powdered 2% " 

Sugar, confectioners' 3H " 

Sugar, brown 2}^ " 



WEIGHTS AND MEASUBES 



TABLE OF EUROPEAN MEASURES. 



Should the housewife be following recipes from French or English 
sources, she should measure all teaspoonfuls and tablespoonfuls of solid 
or dry ingredients rounding, or, in other words, as much above the 
spoon as below. This table for both solid and fluid ingredients will be 
fotmd useful in following such recipes. 

1 rounding tablespoonful of flour J4 ounce 

1 " " " sugar 1 " 

1 " " " butter 1 " 

1 tablespoonful of ordinary liquids J4 " 

1 teaspoonful 54 tablespoonful 

2 teaspoonfuls 1 dessertspoonful 

4 teaspoonfuls 1 tablespoonful 

1 dessertspoonful Vz tablespoonful 

2 dessertspoonfuls ■ , 1 tablespoonful 

1 saltspoonful yi teaspoonful 

45 drops of water 1 teaspoonful 

1 teaspoonful 1 fluid dram 

16 oz. avoirdupois, or commercial weight 1 pound 

A hundredweight 112 pounds 

TiV/i gallons — ^liquid measure 1 barrel 

2 barrels 1 hogshead 

1 barrel of potatoes, about. ISO pounds 

1 " " flour 196 

1 " " sugar, about 350 



TIME TABLES FOR COOKING. 



These rules should be modified according to the age and quality of 
the meat, fish, fruit or vegetables; according to the size of the loaves of 
bread or cake, and according to the method Hsed in roasting or baking — 
whether it be a quick or slow method or en casserole. 

Baking and Roasting. 

Apples, sweet (slow) 30 minutes 

Apples, sour (slow) 20 " 

Bananas 30 " 

Beans, with pork 6 to 8 hours 

Beef, fillet, rare 20 to 30 minutes 

Beef, ribs or loin, well done per pound 12 to 16 " 

Beef, ribs or loin, rare " " 8 to 10 " 

Beef, braised " " SO to 60 

Bread (white, loaf) 45 to 60 " 

Bread (Graham, loaf) 35 to 45 " 

Bread (sticks) 10 to IS " 

Bread (entire wheat) 1 hour 

Biscuits or rolls (raised) 12 to 20 minutes 

Biscuits (baking powder) 12 to 20 " 

Com Cake (thin) IS to 20 

Com Cake (thick) 30 to 35 

Cake (layer) 10 to 15 

Cake (loaf) 40 to 60 

Cake (pound) l^A to IJ^ hours 

Cake (fruit) 1^4 to 2j^ " 

Cake (wedding) 3 " 

or steam 2 hours and bake l}^ hours 
Cake (sponge) .,• 45 to 60 minutes 

X 



TIME TABLES FOR COOKING 

Cookies 5 to 10 minutes 

Chicken per pound IS minutes or more 

Cheese straws 8 to 10 minutes 

Duck, domestic per pound 25 " 

Duck, wild " " 12 " 

Fish, whole, as bluefish, salmon etc., " " 15 " 

Gems 25 to 30 " 

Gingerbread 20 to 30 " 

Goose per pound 15 " 

Grouse 25 to 30 " 

Ham per pound 15 " 

Lamb, well done " " IS to 18 

Lamb, leg. " " IS " 

Lamb, forequarter " " 15 " 

Lamb chops 15 to 20 " 

Liver, whole per pound 12 " 

Muffins, baking powder 20 to 25 " 

Muffins, yeast about 30 

Mutton, leg, well done per pound IS minutes or more 

Mutton, leg, rare " " 10 " 

Mutton, saddle, rare, without flank " " 9 " 

Mutton, shoulder, stuffed " " IS to 25 

Oysters, scalloped 25 to 30 " 

Partridge 20 to SO " 

Patties 20 to 2S 

Pies 30 to 40 

Pie crust 12 to 18 

Pigeons, potted 2 hours 

Pork, well done per pound 30 minutes 

Pork, chine or spareribs 3 to 3j4 hours 

Potatoes, white 40 to 45 minutes 

Potatoes, sweet, medium size ■• 30 to 40 " 

Pudding, baked batter 35 to 45 " 

' Pudding, bread 30 to 40 

'. Pudding, custard 30 to 45 " 

Pudding, custard, baked in cups 20 to 25 " 

Pudding, Indian 2 to 3 hours 

Pudding, poor man's rice 2 to 3 " 

Pudding, tapioca 1 hour 

Scalloped and au gratin dishes 20 to 30 minutes 

Scalloped dishes of cooked mixtures 10 to 15 " 

Tarts 15 to 20 

Timbales about 20 " 



TIME TABLES FOR COOKING 

Tomatoes, whole, slow oven 30 to 40 minutes 

Tomatoes, stuffed. 30 to 40 " 

Turkey per pound IS " 

Veal, well done " " 18 to 20 

Venison, rare " " 10 " 

.Waffles 2 to 3 

Boiling. 

Asparagus 20 to 30 minutes 

^Artichokes, globe, sliced 45 " 

Artichokes, Jerusalem, sliced 20 to 30 " 

Artichokes, Jerusalem, whole 4S " 

'Beans, string 1 to 2 hours 

'Beans, shelled, green 45 minutes 

Beans, lima, dried, soaked 45 " 

Beans, lima, young, fresh 30 " 

Beans, soup, dried, soaked overnight, slowly. 2 hours 

Beans, if for baking, until skin cracks 30 minutes 

Beef, fresh per pound 25 to 40 " 

Beef, corned " " 30 " 

Beets, new 45 to 60 

Beets, old 4 to 6 hours 

Brussels sprouts, fresh 30 minutes 

Cabbage, quarter head 20 

Cabbage, chopped 20 

Carrots, cut into dice 30 to 40 

Cauliflower 20 to 30 

Celery, stewed 30 

Coffee , 1 to 3 

Corn, green, sweet, after it begins to boil 7 

Chicken per pound 15 to 20 

Fowl, if tender " " IS 

Cucumbers, cut into quarters 30 

Eggs, soft boiled 3}4 to 5 

Eggs, hard boiled 20 to 25 

Fish, small 6 to 10 

Fish, bass and blue per pound 10 

Fish, clams and oysters 3 to 5 

Fish, codfish and haddock per pound 10 

Fish, halibut, whole or thick piece. " " 15 
Fish, salmon, whole or thick piece " " 10 to 20 
Ham " " 25 to 30 




FTER washing one pint of the black 
or turtle beans, cover well with 
cold water and let them soak over 
night. In the morning put in the 
soup kettle over the fire, adding 
five quarts cold water, a half pound 
of salt pork cut in fine pieces and a 
quarter pound lean, fresh beef. 
Cover closely and cook over a mod- 
erate fire for an hour. Chop fine 
one carrot, one small turnip and 
two small onions. Add to the 
other ingredients and continue the cooking two or three hours longer. 
Half an hour before serving season with salt, pepper, a tiny pinch of 
mace and a little ground clove. Strain through a colander, then add a 
half gill sherry or port. Have ready in a hot tureen three or four hard 
boiled eggs, sliced, and one lemon cut' in thin pieces. Pour the soup 
over them and serve with croutons, which are simply little cubes of 
bread toasted to a golden brown in the oven. After cutting the bread 
spread on pie tins and watch closely, shaking the tins from time to time 
until all the pieces are evenly colored. Kept in glass cans these crou- 
tons may be made ahead, as you have a few slices of stale bread, and 
are then always ready for immediate use. Sometimes very small sau- 
sages are boiled for ten minutes in this soup and served one in each 
plate. 



CREAM OF CELERY SOUP.— Do not use the green, outermost 
stalks of celery, but those partially blanched. Wash and scrape, and 
when you havd the equivalent of two heads, cut in inch pieces, using a 
few of the leaves, cover with a quart of water or water and white stock, 
and cook slowly for three-quarters of an hour. When tender press 
through a puree sieve, add a quart of hot milk, and when it reaches the 
boiling point thicken with two tablespoonfuls of flour blended with the 
same amount of butter. Stir constantly until the soup is smooth and 
creamy, add a tablespoonful of minced parsley and a half cup of cream 
and serve with soufHe balls. 



6 SOUI 

SPLIT PEA SOUPv— For this you can use either the green or yel- 
low split peas. Pick over carefully, removing all imperfect ones, wash 
thoroughly, cover with cold water and soak over night. In the morn- 
ing pour off the water in which they were soaked and put into the soup 
kettle; allow for two cups of the peas four quarts cold water, a half 
pound fat salt pork cut in small pieces, and if you happen to have it, a 
ham bone or bit of bacon. Cover closely and let simmer on the back 
of the range for five or six hours, taking care that it does not scorch. 
About an hour before serving add two medium sized onions, chopped, 
two stalks of celery and a sprig of parsley. At the end of an hour, 
strain through a coarse sieve and return to the stock pot the soup, which 
will be smooth and creamy. Season to taste with salt and pepper, add a 
pint of hot milk or not, as preferred, and if liked quite thick, beat in a 
tablespoonful flour stirred smooth with a tablespoonful of butter. Cook 
ten minutes longer and serve with the croutons. A tablespoonful of 
fine minced parsley sprinkled in at the last makes a pretty garnish, and 
quarters of cut lemon passed with soup are welcomed by many. 

VIRGINIA OYSTER SOUP.— Take two quarts fresh oysters and 
wash through two waters. Strain the liquor and add to it two stalks 
celery, chopped fine; four blades of mace, black pepper, cayenne and 
salt to season. Simmer five minutes; then add a quarter pound butter 
rubbed smooth with two tablespoonfuls flour and three pints rich milk 
or part cream. Let them come to a good boil; stir all the time; add the 
oysters and let them boil up once, no more, or they will shrivel. Serve 
at once. 

SCOTCH BROTH. — Remove skin and fat from three pounds scrag 
of mutton and cut in small pieces, scraping the meat from the bones. 
Put the bones in one kettle with a pint and a half of cold water and 
simmer gently. At the same time put the meat in another kettle and 
cover with two quarts of cold water. Bring quickly to a boil, skim 
carefully, then add three-fourths of a cup of barley that has been soaking 
several hours in cold water, and skim again. Have ready a scant half 
cup each of carrot, onion, turnip and celery, cut into small dice, and add 
to the kettle with the meat. Strain off the stock in which the bones 
have been cooking, to be sure no splinters of bone get in. Cook to- 
gether in the frying pan two tablespoonfuls of butter and a spoonful and 
a half of flour, add a cupful of the strained water gradually, then when 
smooth and thickened put in the pot of broth. Season with salt, pep- 
per and a little minced parsley, simmer ten minutes longer and serve 
without straining. 

FISH SOUP.— Put a tablespoonful of butter in a stewpan over the 
fire and then fry in it three chopped onions. When a golden brown add 
a cup of tomatoes, a carrot, three or four whole cloves, salt and pepper 
to season. Put in a dessertspoonful sugar, a bay leaf, sprig of thyme 
and a quart of water. Cook until the carrot is quite soft, then add any 



SOUPS f 

cold fish, bones and all, or thin slices of raw Ush, and simmer twenty 
minutes. To*at small pieces of bread, enough to cover the bottom of 
the soup tureen. Add a half sflass of white wine to the soup, strain over 
the toast and serve. 

SAVORY SOUP.— This is known to good French housewives as 
"Soup de la bonne menagere," and it is well named. Its ingredients 
may be varied according to materials on hand, but here is an excellent 
framework to go by. Cut into fine dice one large onion, one good sized 
turnip and two small carrots and fry brown in drippings or butter. Then 
add to them a half cup of hot water and let simmer about twenty min- 
utes. Now put into the soup kettle with half a can stewed tomatoes 
a small cup chopped raw cabbage, four stalks celery and a bunch of 
parsley chopped. If you have fresh thyme and summer savory, put in 
a sprig of each. Failing fresh herbs, drop in for half an hour one of the 
little soup bags that come already prepared for seasoning soups. These 
are invaluable where soups are frequently used. Now if you have bones 
left over from roast beef, veal or chicken, add them, taking off any meat 
that clings, cut in small pieces and add at the last. Cover bones and 
vegetables with three quarts boiling water and stew gently for four 
hours. Then thicken slightly with a cupful mashed potato or a tea- 
spoonful cornstarch dissolved in a little cold water, remove the bones 
and seasoning herbs, add the diced meat and a teaspoonful minced pars- 
ley and serve hot. 

CLAM BROTH SERVED EN TASSE.— Wash three dozen Little 
Neck clams in the shell in cold water, place in a saucepan over the fire, 
add a quart of hot water and cook until the shells open. As fast as they 
do so, remove the clams from the shells and chop. Return the chopped 
meat to the clam "broth, with a pat of butter, pepper to season, and 
more salt if required. Cook five minutes and serve hot or cold in cups 
with crackers. 

CLAM CHOWDER.— Put into the bottom of a kettle some thin 
slices of fat salt pork and fry crisp, but not too brown. Next add a 
layer of potatoes cut in rather small pieces, then one of finely sliced 
onions, next one of tomatoes, then a layer of finely chopped clams, 
preferably Little Neck. Crush a handful of pilot biscuit in the hand 
and spread over the clams, repeating this process until the kettle is 
nearly full, seasoning each layer of clams with a very little salt and pep- 
per. Over the top sprinkle some of the regular chowder spice that 
comes already mixed, or make your own mixture of a little thyme, a few 
tarragon leaves and a couple of bay leaves, with a dusting of ground 
cloves. When everything is in pour in the juice of the clams and water 
to nearly cover, put on a tight fitting lid and stew slowly three-quarters 
of an hour. Uncover, give the chowder a stir and serve. 

CLAM BOUILLON. — Chop fine two cnpfuls clanae and put in a sauce- 
pax »n« 4tfi« Str* m. their ewa Ugvor. Scald and «kiai, then add two' 



• SOUPS 

cupfuls boiling water, one tablespoonful chopped celery, a sprig of pars- 
ley, a bay leaf and pepper to season. Bring to a boil, skim, strain 
through a cheesecloth and serve in cups with whipped cream on top. 

TURKEY SOUP.— This is made of the framework and other left- 
OTers of the turkey. Put the carcass and other bones in the soup kettle, 
cover with cold water, add a sliced onion, a cupful of tomatoes, half 
a cupful of well washed celery tops, and salt and pepper to season. 

Simmer gently two or three hours, until the bones are clean, then 
strain and serve. 

BEEF SOUP.— Get a shin of beef and have the bones cracked. Put 
over the fire in a large kettle with a gallon of water (cold), and sim- 
mer six hours; skim well. Then add two turnips, chopped fine, two 
carrots, one onion, two Irish potatoes, all chopped, a pint of tomatoes, 
a tablespoonful of salt, and in season a half dozen ears of corn, the corn 
cut from the cob, the cobs to be added when ready to thicken, then re- 
move. Just before dinner thicken with a little browned flour mixed with 
cold water; boil a few moments, add seasoning if necessary, and serve. 

POTATO SOUP.— Wash, peel and cut four medium sized potatoes 
into small pieces. Put into a stewpan with cold water to cover, add a 
teaspoonful salt and cook until the potatoes are done. Take from the 
fire, drain off the water, mash and turn over them a pint of milk sea- 
soned with a teaspoonful chopped onion, celery or celery seed that has 
been scalded in a double boiler. Mix well, season to taste, thicken with 
a tablespoonful of flour melted with a tablespoonful of butter, add a 
tablespoonful minced chives or parsley and serve with croutons or 
crackers. 

CONSOMME. — Consomme proper is a double stock — that is a broth 
prepared from beef and chicken or veal. The meat and vegetables are 
cooked to pieces so as to extract every bit of the flavor. The broth is 
then cleared from every particle of fat and clarified until as clear as 
amber. Here is a reliable recipe for consomme that may be altered 
a little according to materials on hand: — Four pounds lean beef, pre- 
ferably from the shin; four pounds knuckle of veal or a little smaller 
quantity of fowl, four quarts cold water, an eighth of a pound of lean 
ham or bacon chopped, a half dozen each cloves and peppercorns, one 
bay leaf, three onions, one carrot, one turnip, two stalks celery, three 
sprigs parsley, a tablespoonful salt, a bunch kitchen herbs, three eggs 
{whites and shells), the rind and juice of one lemon. 

Wipe and cut the meat in small pieces, wash, peel and cut the vege- 
tables in thick slices. Put the bones, marrow and part of meat in the 
stock pot and cover with the water. Meanwhile brown the vegetables 
in a little dripping or some of the ham fat, then brown the remainder of 
the meat. Add to the contents of the kettle together with the various 
seasonings and simmer five or six hours until the meat is in rags. 
Strain and, when cold, remove the fat. 



SOUPS 9 

Heat the soup again, mixing with it the whites of the eggs with the 
crushed shells and the lemon. Boil ten minutes, strain through a fine 
strainer, heat again and serve with slices of lemon. 

CREAM OF CORN PUREE.— For this you can use a pint of fresh 
corn, cut from the cob, or a pint of this vegetable canned. Add to a 
pint of plain white stock or simply water, let it come to a boil and cook 
ten minutes. Meantime, add a sliced onion to a quart of milk in the 
double boiler and heat to the boiling point. Thicken with a tablespoon- 
ful flour blended with a tablespoonful butter, cook until creamy, add a 
little of the hot stock in which the corn has cooked, then stir in with 
the corn. Cook ten minutes, strain through the puree sieve, pressing 
through as much of the corn and onion as will go. Add a tablespoonful 
cream or butter and a cupful half-inch cubes toasted bread and serve 
as hot as possible. 

SOUP STOCK. — In making stock fresh, lean and juicy meats, prefer- 
ably beef, with a little veal and ham, produce the best results. Cracked 
bones, especially the marrow and gristle, should be used, as they furnish 
the richness and body necessary to solidify the stock into jelly when cold. 
Meat alone gives simply a broth like beef tea. The proportions of 
meat and bone should be about equal in weight and a quart of cold 
fresh water is allowed to every pound of meat and bone. In most 
families where roasts of beef, steaks and poultry are freely used there 
is usually material enough to keep the stock pot supplied without pur- 
chasing meat especially for it. 

When fresh meat is bought for stock select a piece from the shin 
of beef or lower part of the round and have the butcher crack the bone. 

Wipe the meat with a cloth wrung out of cold water, then cut the 
meat in small pieces. Wash the bones to remove any small bits that 
may adhere. 

Put the bones in a kettle and pack the meat about them. This may 
be all beef or beef and veal in equal proportions, or simply beef and 
veal knuckle bone and a ham bone chopped in pieces. 

Now pour in the cold water and bring very slowly to the boiling 
point. If you are going to make a clear soup, like consomme, skim 
carefully as soon as the scum gathers. Do this three times, adding a 
quarter glass of cold water each time to bring the scum to the surface. 
If you are not particular about the clearness of the soup it is not 
necessary to skim more than once, as the scum is but the albumen and 
juices of the meat which have been drawn out and mixed with the cold 
water. 

The next step is to add the seasonings, which may be used in these 
proportions: — For every quart water allow an even teaspoonful salt, a 
tablespoonful each chopped celery, onion, carrot, turnip and parsnip, 
a few chives, four sprigs parsley, two peppercorns and two cloves, a, 
bay leaf and a teaspoonful mixed herbs. 

One of the little spice bags that come with herbs all properly pT0 



(10 SOUPS 

portioned is best, but failing that you can make your own combination 
of sweet ba.eil thyme and summer savory tied in a little cheesecloth bag. 
Now push back on the range, simmer gently for five hours until the 
meat is in rags, strain carefully through a cloth or fine sieve. 

While cooling set the jar in a cool place (not the ice box) and leave 
uncovered. It keeps better to cool quickly. When quite cold it may be 
put in the ice box. If you are going to use it at once the fat may be 
removed when cold, but if it is to be kept several days the fat, by ex- 
cluding the air, helps to preserve the stock. 

BOUILLON. — Bouillon proper is always beef broth prepared from 
boiled beef with vegetables to season. As neither meat nor vegetables 
are boiled longer than necessary to cook them, an extra allowance of 
bone and sinew is added in order to get out as much gelatine as possible. 

To make bouillon for serving eight persons allow five pounds good 
fresh beef from the middle of the leg, two pounds bone (have the 
■butcher break them), two quarts and a half cold water, a heaping tea- 
spoonful salt, a small bunch kitchen herbs or a spice bag, two cloves, 
two peppercorns, one onion, one stick celery, or a teaspoonful celery 
salt, one small carrot and a half turnip. Lay the bones in the pot first. 
Wipe the meat, remove all fat and cut in small pieces. Lay on the 
bones, cover with cold water, add the salt and place on the range where 
it will come slowly to a boil. As soon as the scum rises, remove, and, 
if the liquor boils too fast, pour in a quarter cup cold water to check 
the boiling and make the scum rise. Repeat twice. Now add the sea- 
soning herbs and sliced vegetables and simmer gently, not boil, for 
three or four hours. Remove vegetables and herbs before they cook to 
rags, leaving the meat only in the kettle until the end of the process. 
During the cooking, the meat should boil down to but three and one- 
half pints. 

Strain, pour into a perfectly clean vessel and, when cold, remove 
the fat. When ready to serve heat and pour in cups. 

LOBSTER BISQUE OR PUREE.— Cover the shell and claws of 
a lobster with a quart of cold water to make a foundation for the soup. 
Heat a tablespoonful butter in chafing dish blazer or a saucepan; stir 
in a tablespoonful flour and cook until it is bubbly. Add a cupful of 
the strained liquor obtained from cooking shell and claws and stir until 
smooth and thickened. Add a cupful lobster pickings from the shell, 
with salt and pepper to taste, and simmer about five minutes. Add a 
cupful warm milk, boil up once and serve. A little lemon juice may be 
added at the last moment if desired. This makes a pint, just enough to 
serve two persons. 

PUREES OR THICK SOUPS.— Purees are among the most nour- 
ishing of soups. They may be made of flesh, fish, game, fowl, vege- 
tables or fruits. The general plan of making these soups is the same, 
so that if the cook knows how to make a good asparagus or pea soup 



SOUPS 11 

she can easily manage other vegetable soups, each taking a different 
name, according to materials. One made of carrots is known as carrot 
puree or Crecy. The use of potatoes makes it a Palbmentier, or with 
fresh green peas a St. Germain. Purees made of shell fish are known 
as bisques. To any of these soups the clear soup stock may be used 
mixed with a puree of cooked and strained fish, flesh, fowl or vegetable, 
with or without the addition of milk. Purees are usually served with 
croutons of toasted bread or souffle balls. 

CARROT PUREE OR POTAGE A LA CRECY.— Take four 
large red carrots, two potatoes, two onions and two sticks celery. Cut up 
and fry brown in beef drippings. Then put all into a saucepan with a 
quart of hot water; cook until the vegetables are quite soft and press 
through a puree sieve. Return to the fire; add two cloves, a tablespoon- 
ful of butter; two tablespoonfuls finely minced parsley, with a little sugar, 
salt and pepper to season. Have ready a pint of milk heated and thick- 
ened with a teaspoonful cornstarch or tablespoonful flour, add to the 
soup, bring to a boil and serve with croutons or souffle balls. 

FRUIT PUREES. — These are usually served cold in small glass 
bowls or bouillon cups. Stew the fruit, berries, apples, prunes, peaches, 
cherries — ^what you will — in water until tender, using as much water as 
you have fruit. Press through a puree sieve, then thicken with corn- 
starch or arrowroot, allowing a level tablespoonful to each pint 
strained juice and pulp. Sweeten to taste, cook until clear and, at the 
last, add a tablespoonful lemon juice or wine. If tapioca or sago is 
used for the thickening it will require longer cooking than the corn- 
starch. 




CODFISH BALLS. 

AKE a cup and a half of raw salt 
codfish and pick up. Peel and cut 
into small pieces three cups of raw 
potatoes. Put potatoes and fish in 
a stewpan, cover with boiling water 
and cook until potatoes are done. 
Pour off the water, stand on back 
of stove five minutes to dry and 
steam, then mash and beat until 
fish and potatoes are fine and light. 
Add butter the size of an egg, one 
egg unbeaten, pepper and more salt, 
if necessary. Beat altogether until as "light as feathers," then shape in 
a tablespoon without much smoothing. Have ready a kettle of boiling 
fat, drop the balls in not more than four or five at a time, and fry about 
a minute. It is easier to use a wire basket for the frying. Drain on 
kitchen paper, and serve with gherkins or sliced green tomato pickles. 
Somewhat similar are the codfish puffets. Mix in the same way as the 
balls, but instead of one egg use the stifHy whipped whites of two when 
mixing. Shape the fish mixture into round biscuits like cakes and flour 
both sides. Have ready some crisp slices of fat salt pork and the drip- 
pings. Keep the pork hot while the pufifets are quickly browned in the 
hot dripping. Drain on paper, arrange on a hot platter with a slice of 
the crisped pork under each pufifet and a tiny pickle on top. 

SALT MACKEREL.— To bake salt mackerel, soak in cold water 
over night, the split side down. Cut off fins and tail. In the morning 
wash and put in a shallow baking tin, split side up. Pour three gills of 
milk over it and put in a moderate oven. Cook twenty minutes. Mix 
together a tablespoonful each butter and flour, season with pepper and 
stir smooth with two tablespoonfuls hot milk. Add to the milk in the 
pan. Cook ten minutes longer, slide the fish on to a hot platter and 
pour the sauce around it. If preferred, the mackerel may be baked in 
a tomato sauce instead of the milk. 

To broil, soak over night, wash and wipe dry. Broil over a clear fire 

12 



FISH 18 

ten or twelve minutes, putting the split side to the fire first. Seaso'm 
■with butter and lemon juice and serve hot with baked or creamed 
potatoes. 

BAKED FISH. — To bake these whole, clean thoroughly, drawing 
the intestines out at the gills, but do not split. Make a dressing from 
one cup of bread or cracker crumbs, two tablespoonfuls of melted butter 
and a seasoning of salt, pepper, lemon juice, parsley, onion, pickles or 
celery, to suit. There are no hard and fast rules about a dressing. Use 
what you have on hand and what the family likes. Fill the fish with 
this, then skewer or tie, to hold in place. Every housekeeper should 
have a special pan for baking fish and an iron sheet with rings at the 
ends for handles, just the size to slip into the dripping pan. Failing 
this, put a broad strip of cheesecloth across the pan before laying in the 
fish. This will enable you to lift it out, when done, without breaking. 
As fish bake through more evenly if placed upright in the pan instead of 
on the side, they hold in place better if skewered into the shape of the 
letter S. To do this it is necessary to leave the head on, then pass a 
threaded needle through it, then through the middle of the body, and 
lastly the tail, draw tight, then fasten the ends. 

Put two or three thin slices of fat salt pork under the fish, cut gashes 
in the fish two inches apart on each side, fill these with tiny strips of 
fat salt pork, or, better still, brush the whole fish with olive oil, then 
dust with salt, pepper and flour. Put into a hot oven without water, 
protecting the tail with a piece of oiled paper. As soon as the flour 
brown.s lightly begin basting and continue doing this at ten minute 
intervals. The oven should be hot and fifteen minutes should be al- 
lowed to the pound in baking. When done, lift carefully on to a hot 
platter, draw out the strings or skewer, remove the pieces of pork, 
garnish with slices of lemon and minced parsley, and serve with Hol- 
landaise or sauce tartare. 

FILET DE BASS. — ^While this delectable fish tidbit usually appears 
under the name of "filet de sole," it is oftener than not the less expensive 
but almost as good bass. Wash and wipe the filets dry with a clean towel, 
trimming the fins close to the filet with a pair of scissors. Dust with 
salt, and lay in a covered dish with a minced onion, the juice of a half 
lemon and a tablespoonful finely cut parsley and thyme. Let stand half 
an hour. Twenty minutes before serving wipe dry again, dust lightly 
with flour, dip in well beaten egg, then roll in fine bread crumbs. When 
all are prepared, fry in boiling hot lard until a delicate brown on both 
sides. Arrange on a hot dish and serve with parsley arid lemon or 
sauce tartare. 

German way of Cooking Black Bass. — For two pounds of bass cut in 
filets, allow a quart sweet brown beer, a teaspoonful butter, a small 
onion sliced, six allspice, a bay leaf and a piece of honey cake, two inches 
square, grated. Put beer and fish in the fish boiler and add salt, peppei; 



14 PISH 

and the allspice. Add onion, butter and bay leaf; cook fifteen minutes, 
add crumbed honey cake; cook fifteen minutes longer and serve. 

WHITE MOUNTAIN MACKEREL.— Mackerel as usually cooked 
is a dry fish, but prepared in this way is moist and delicate. Wash the 
, fish and bake without any water in the pan, excepting that used for 
basting. When nearly done, pour thick cream over the fish and return 
to the oven. Scald a cup of milk and thicken with a half teaspoonful 
flour rubbed with a teaspoonful butter. Pour over the fish and serve. 

STUFFED SMELTS.— Select good sized fresh smelts, clean and wipe 
dry. Remove the insides without splitting the stomach open. Stuff 
with a forcemeat the same as for the large baked fish, using a stiff paper 
cone to put the stuffing in; or stuff with shredded fish, such as haddock 
or bass, mixed with white of egg, a little cream, salt and nutmeg. 

Place in a well buttered pan and moisten with melted butter or oil; 
add chopped parsley and white wine. Bake in a very hot oven for ten 
minutes and serve with Hollandaise sauce. 

FRIED SMELTS. — Clean the smelts, wipe dry, dredge with salt 
and pepper, roll in flour, then fry quickly to a light golden brown in 
olive oil or salt pork drippings. Arrange "fish bone" pattern on a hot' 
platter, garnish with slices of lemon and parsley and serve with sauce 
tartare. 

SHAD ROE. — When the roe comes from the market parboil in salted 
-water, to which a tablespoonful of lemon juice or vinegar has been 
added. Then put in the ice box until needed. This preliminary treat- 
ment not only prevents its spoiling, but lessens its tendency to "pop" 
and splutter while broiling or frying. To broil, brush over with melted 
butter or olive oil, then broil; or, split lengthwise, dust with flour or 
sifted bread crumbs, lay into beaten egg and crumbs again, and fry to 
a golden brown in hot pork fat, olive oil or butter. 

Shad Roe Croquettes. — For croquettes, after they have been boiled 
,and allowed to get thoroughly cold, take off the skins and break 
the tiny eggs apart with a fork. Have ready a rich cream sauce, made 
from two tablespoonfuls each of butter and flour, two tablespoon- 
fuls of milk and one of cream. Season with salt, cayenne and lemon 
juice. Add the prepared roes and let the whole mixture boil up a 
moment. Stir in a beaten egg and turn into a shallow dish to cool. 
When perfectly cold form into oval balls about the size of a walnut. 
Egg and crumb and fry in smoking hot fat to a delicate brown. Drain 
on soft paper and serve with cucumber or sauce tartare. 

PLANKED SHAD. — Use for this purpose a plank of some hard 
,wood — ash, hickory, cedar, oak or cherry — cut in dimensions to fit the 
oven. If you have no family heirloom of this kind, charred and sea- 
.spned, you can buy one in any of the housefurnishing stores. These are 



FISH 15 

fitted out with steel rods or bars to hold the fish in place. Heat the 
board very hot, turning over and around so that all parts will be uni- 
formly warmed. Split the fish down the back, lay it skin side next the 
plank and fasten in place. If you have no patent contrivance, large 
headed tacks will answer. Brush the fish over with olive oil or melted 
butter and sprinkle with salt and pepper. If you have a gas stove, cook 
under the flame; otherwise in the oven, unless you are so fortunate as 
to have an open fireplace. Keep hot a mixture of melted butter, lemon 
juice and- cayenne, and with this baste the fish frequently until the sur- 
face is brown and the fish firm and flaky. About twenty-five minutes 
in a very hot oven will be required. When ready to serve place the 
fish, plank and all, on a large platter or japanned tray, take out the 
tacks or other fastenings, garnish with cress or parsley and lemon and 
serve as quickly as possible with any fish sauce preferred. Squeeze a 
little lemon over the fish. The plank should never be washed, but 
rubbed with a dry cloth. 

SALMON CROQUETTES.— Free a pound and a half of salmon, 
fresh or canned, from skin and bone and chop fine. Season with the 
juice of a half lemon, a tablespoonful chopped parsley, a teaspoonful salt 
and a dash of paprika. Mix well. Put two cups of milk on to boil. 
Put into a saucepan two tablespoonfuls butter and three of flour. 
When melted and bubbly, add the hot milk and stir until smooth and 
thick. Add the salmon, stir until hot, then turn out on a dish to cool. 
When quite cold and firm, form into croquettes, roll in fine crumbs, 
then in egg and again in crumbs. Fry in deep, boiling fat and serve 
very hot with a garnish of lemon and parsley. If these are served for 
the fish course, accompany them with potatoes persillade. 

BAKED HADDOCK. — Haddock, which is in season all the year, 
may be boiled, fried, made into chowder or baked. In baking it can be 
left whole and stuffed, or, more economically, have head and back- 
bone removed to make into fish stock for sauce or soup, then the filets 
stuffed and baked. To do this cut off the head, which hardens in the 
baking, then with a sharp knife make an incision along the backbone the 
entire length of the fish. Draw the fish away from the bone on each 
side, cutting at right angles with the bone. Cover bones and head with 
cold water and let them cook while the fish is baking. For the two 
long strips of flesh left after boning and beheading make a stuffing com- 
posed of one cup bread or cracker crumbs, two tablespoonfuls melted 
butter, a teaspoonful each chopped parsley and onion, a teaspoonful 
chopped pickles or a tablespoonful chopped celery and leaves, one beaten 
egg, or simply the white of an egg, a saltspoonful salt and pepper and 
I'e'mon juice to season. Add water to moisten, then spread on one- 
half of each slice of fish and fold the other half over it. Put one on 
top of the other, skewer together, sprinkle with buttered bread crumbs, 
lay in a buttered pan with a strip of greased cheesecloth laid under, not 
only to keep the fish from sticking but to assist in lifting from the pan 



16 SHELL FISH 

to the platter when ready to serve. Bake fifteen or twenty minutes 
and put on dish with a sauce poured around it. To make the sauce 
melt in a saucepan three tablespoonfuls butter, add to it three table- 
spoonfuls flour, and when bubbly stir into the mixture a scant pint of 
the fish stock strained from the bones. Season with salt, pepper and 
lemon juice. 

CODFISH WITH WALNUTS.— Soak one pound codfish over 
night, then pick apart in as large flakes as possible. . Fry a pounded 
clove of garlic in a tablespoonful of lard or together with an onion cut 
fine. Add the fish and fry a light brown. Have in readiness four slices 
of bread soaked in cold water until soft and then the moisture squeezed 
out. Add to the fish, together with a half cup of walnuts chopped fine. 
Stir well, add cream, or even water, to moisten; cook five minutes and 
serve. 

BROILED SMELTS.— Split large smelts down the back, remove the 
backbones, rub with olive oil and season with salt and pepper. Broil in 
a double broiler two minutes on a side, arrange on a hot dish and gar- 
nish with fried parsley. Serve with sauce Bernaise. 

CLAM FRITTERS. — The secret of success in cooking clams is not 
to overdo them. Long cooking toughens. Simply cook until the edges 
curl. To make fritters, which are excellent for breakfast, supper or 
luncheon, steam the clams until their shells begin to open, then re- 
move and chop, saving the clam juice. For a family of four, twenty- 
five clams will be sufficient for a meal. Having chopped the clams fine, 
put into a mixing bowl and sift over them two scant cups pastry flour. 
Beat three eggs, whites and yolks separately. Add to the beaten yolks 
a cupful of clam juice that has been strained through a cheesecloth and 
a quarter teaspoonful soda dissolved in a teaspoonful hot water. Stir 
well, then fold in the stiffly beaten whites, adding a trifle more flour if 
the batter seems too thin. Have ready a kettle of bubbling hot fat, drop 
in the batter by the teaspoonful. fry a deep golden brown on both sides 
and serve with a garnish of sliced lemon, Graham muffins or popovers. 

STEAMED "LITTLE NECKS."— Scrub the clams thoroughly and 
arrange in a steamer, standing over a kettle of boiling water. Let the 
water continue to boil rapidly for fifteen or twenty minutes until the 
clams open. Lift out the clams, saving the liquor that has filled the 
shells, and strain it through a piece of cheesecloth. Pull off the thin 
skin around the edge of the clams, and with the fish shears snip off 
the black end. 

Reheat the liquor, but do not allow it to boil. When ready to serve 
pour into as many small cups as you have individuals to serve. Add 
to each a bit of butter and a dusting of paprika or white pepper. 

Stand the cup in the centre of a large soup plate and range the 
clams around it, five or six to each plate. Garnish with a little parsley 



SHELL FISH 17 

and lemon. With an oyster fork the clams may then be removed from 
the shells, dipped in the liquor and eaten with brown bread and butter 
sandwiches. The clams and liquor must be very hot. 

CLAM MOUSSE. — ^To make a quart of the mousse you will require 
three or four dozen clams, according to size. Put them into a kettle with 
about a pint of cold water and cook until the shells open. Remove the 
clams, strain the liquor through a cloth and measure. To two and two- 
third cupfuls clam juice allow one and one-third cupfuls whipped cream; 
put the clam liJ^uor in a freezer, season with celery salt to taste, and 
freeze to a mushlike consistency; stir in the whipped cream, freeze five 
minutes longer, then serve or pack in ice and salt until needed. 

SCALLOPED CLAMS. — Chop twenty-five clams fine and season 
with cayenne and a trifle of salt. Cook together a tablespoonful each 
butter and flour until "bubbly," and a cupful liquid, half milk and half 
clam juice, with a tiny pinch of soda, and stir until smooth and creamy. 
Add the chopped clams with a beaten egg. Have ready large clam or 
scalloped shells, butter on the inside and fill with the clam mixture, 
smoothing over with a silver knife blade. Arrange on a baking dish 
and bake about six minutes, or until well browned. Garnish with pars- 
ley and pass sliced lemons with them. 

BUTTERED CRABS.— Crabs should always be boiled alive, being 
plunged into cold water. As the water warms add a handful or two of 
salt, then cook from twenty to twenty-five minutes until bright red in 
color. If thrown at once into boiling water they are apt to throw off 
their claws with a sudden jerk, which allows the water to soak into the 
flesh. As the scum rises after putting in the salt skim carefully. Crabs 
are usually sold ready boiled, which simplifies the matter for the cook. 
In selecting them choose those that are firm and stiff and will not 
rattle. The eyes should be bright and claws and legs all on. The 
male crab has larger claws than the female, but less body. The female 
has also a broader tail. For buttered crabs take the meat from a large 
boiled crab, cut up small and mix with buttered crumbs and chopped 
parsley, having about a third of the bulk of the crab meat. Season with 
cayenne and pack back in the shell, spread with softened butter and a 
little lemon juice. Cover with a layer of bread or cracker crumbs, with 
more butter on top. Set in a slow oven and cook until brown. 

CRAB CROQUETTES.— Take the meat from the shells of two 
medium sized boiled crabs and cut rather fine. Put into a saucepan a 
tablespoonful and a half each of butter and flour, and when bubbly add 
gradually one cupful of milk. Stir until it boils, then cook gently for 
ten minutes. Add the crab meat, with salt and pepper to season, mix 
thoroughly and turn out on a plate to cool. When nearly cold make 
into little rolls about three inches long. When quite cold brush over 
with beaten egg, roll in fine crumbs and cook for two minutes in boil- 
ing fat. Drain a minute on soft paper, then serve. 



18 SHELL FISH 

TERRAPIN. — ^To prepare the terrapin, allow them to move about a 
few moments in lukewarm water before plunging in boiling water. Boil 
until tender, the small ones from twenty to thirty minutes, the larger 
sometimes as long as an hour and a quarter. Take out on a tray and let 
them drain a little. To open, lay on their backs, heads from you, loosen 
and remove the shells, then take out the sand bags and gall, being care- 
ful not to break the latter. Do not use any of the meat on the head. 
That on the neck is good. Separate the meat and cut up very fine, with 
liver and entrails. Place all in a stewing kettle and barely cover with 
boiling water. Let cook half an hour. Then into the contents of this 
kettle mix the following dressing: — For two large or fifteen small terra- 
pins mash the yolks of three hard boiled eggs with one-half pound but- 
ter, one even tablespoonful salt, one teaspoonful Jersey pepper or a half 
saltspoonful cayenne. Add three scant tablespoonfuls browned flour, 
and three-fourths pint of cream. Stir all until smooth and well mixed, 
then add to the prepared terrapin; boil slowly for fifteen minutes, stir- 
ring frequently. If not sufficiently thick add a little more flour. If too 
thick reduce with boiling water. Serve very hot in a covered dish, 
accompanying it with hot baking powder biscuit and baked potatoes. 

BROILED LOBSTER,— Slit a boiled lobster lengthwise and pick 
out all the uneatable parts. Open it out flat, dust with salt and pepper, 
place a teaspoonful of butter on each half. Place the halves on a grid- 
iron and heat slowly over the fire. When done, set them in their shells 
on a hot dish, garnish with parsley and lemon and serve. 

OYSTER SHORTCAKE.— Make a good shortcake batter, using two 
cups pastry flour sifted, with- two teaspoonfuls baking powder and a 
half teaspoonful salt. Rub in a quarter cup butter, then add one egg 
beaten and mixed with a scant cup of milk. Spread on a buttered 
biscuit tin and bake in a quick oven. Split and spread with butter. For 
the filling, which should be ready by the time the cake is baked, scald 
a quart of oysters in their own liquor, skim, remove the oysters and put 
where they will keep hot. Strain the broth and return one cup to the 
saucepan. Mix together two tablespoonfuls butter and one of flour, 
stir into the boiling liquor and season with salt, pepper and celery salt. 
Let this just come to a boil, add three tablespoonfuls cream and the 
oysters. Stir a moment until well heated, fill into the shortcake and 
serve at once. 

LOBSTER A LA NEWBURG.— Pick out the meat of a lobster, 
cutting in any size desired, and measure two cupfuls lightly. Put into 
the chafing dish or a saucepan a rounded tablespoonful of butter, and 
when melted add the lobster meat and a half cupful of sherry and simmer 
ten minutes. Beat the yolks of three eggs thoroughly and add to them 
a tablespoonful of cream, so that they will not curdle. Add a scant 
half cupful of cream to the lobster and wine and cook until it bubbles. 
Season to taste with salt and pepper. As soon as it bubbles stir in 



SHELL FISH 19 

the beaten yolks and serve as soon as it thickens, adding at the very 
last, if desired, a tablespoonful of brandy. This is a matter of personal 
taste. 

MUSSELS IN SHELLS.— These are delightful, though not half 
well enough known. Procure small mussels, as they are the most deli- 
cate; scrape the shells and wash through several waters to remove all the 
grit. Put into a saucepan and toss over a quick fire for a few moments 
until the meat comes easily from the shells. Squeeze all the liquor 
from them, strain into a saucepan, add the mussels and heat, not allow- 
ing them to cook. Add a little flour to thicken, with butter, nutmeg 
and pepper to season. They will not require any salt. Clean the mus- 
sel shells, cover with buttered crumbs, add a layer of the seasoned mus- 
sels, then more buttered crumbs. Moisten with a little of the liquor, 
place a few bits of butter on top with a fine sprinkling of dried parsley, 
and cook in a hot oven until a bright brown. 

PHILADELPHIA LOBSTER SALAD.— Boil one large or two 
medium sized lobsters and pick to pieces when cold. To make the dress- 
ing for them, beat the yolks of two raw eggs with a teaspoonful salt, 
a pinch of cayenne, a half tablespoonful powdered sugar and full tea- 
spoonful mustard wet with vinegar. Add gradually and at first very 
slowly one cup olive oil. When quite thick whip in the strained juice 
of one lemon. Beat five minutes before adding two tablespoonfuls vine- 
gar. Just before serving add to the dressing one-quarter cup sweet 
cream whipped to a froth; stir all well together and into the lobster. 
Line a salad bowl with the crisp heart leaves of lettuce, put in the sea- 
soned meat and cover with a little more whipped cream; if a little more 
acid i,s liked, four tablespoonfuls of vinegar may be used. 

CURRIED LOBSTER. — Take the meat from a medium sized boiled 
lobster and cut in small dice. Put into the chafing dish (for the lobster 
and the chafing dish go hand in hand) one rounded tablespoonful but- 
ter. When hot add a tablespoonful minced onion, and cook until it 
reaches the yellow stage, but not a moment longer. Mix one rounded 
tablespoonful flour with a teaspoonful (or more, according to taste) of 
curry powder and stir into the hot butter. Add a cup hot milk or thin 
cream and stir until it thickens and is smooth and creamy. Add two 
cups of the diced lobster meat, and as soon as thoroughly heated serve 
on delicately browned slices of toast or crisped crackers. 

OYSTER COCKTAILS.— For the cocktails use the small Blue 
Points or cherrystone oysters and allow five or a half dozen to each 
cover. Put on the ice until thoroughly chilled. For six covers, mix 
together three tablespoonfuls each vinegar, grated horseradish and to- 
mato catsup. Add six teaspoonfuls lemon juice and a few drops tabasco. 
Have this dressing also where it will be very cold. When ready to 
serve put the oysters in chilled glasses, pour the sauce over, set each 



20 SHELL FISH 

glass on a service plate and serve with thin slices of buttered brown 
bread. 

COLD CRAB RAVIGOTE.— Allow to one pint fresh crab meat two 
large tomatoes boiled, one large green pepper, one red pepper and a 
tablespoonful of parsley, minced fine. Chop tomatoes and peppers, re- 
moving all the pepper seeds. Mix all the ingredients together with 
mayonnaise to make quite moist. Season with salt and paprika. Fill 
cleaned crab shells with the mixture, heaping it, and garnish with a 
little cut pickle and cut lemon. A couple of anchovies may be added 
to the top of each one, if preferred. This will make six shells. 

PICKLED OYSTERS.— For one hundred large oysters allow one 
pint white wine vinegar, one large red pepper broken into small bits, two 
dozen each whole cloves and black peppers and a dozen blades of mace. 
Put the oysters with their liquor into a porcelain lined kettle and bring 
slowly to the scalding point, but do not allow them to boil. Remove 
the oysters when at their plumpest, just before the edges begin to cockle, 
and set aside to cool. Strain the liquor, return to the kettle, add the 
vinegar and spices, bring to a good scald and pour over the oysters 
when almost cold. Cover the jar that contains the oysters and set in 
a cool place until the next day, and then put up in glass cans and set 
in a cool, dark place. 

LOBSTER FARCIE.— Take the lobster meat carefully from the 
shell, avoiding the stomach, which is usually called the "lady," and the 
intestines. Cream together a large tablespoonful and a half butter, a 
tablespoonful fliour and a pint of hot milk and stir constantly until the 
mixture thickens. Take from the fire, add the beaten yolks of two eggs, 
with salt, pepper or paprika to season. Mix thoroughly with the meat 
and return to the shell that has been carefully trimmed and cleaned. 
Brush over with white of egg, dust with fine crumbs and brown quickly. 



ROAST CHICKEN. — For roasting, select a dry picked chicken not . 
over a year and a half old. Remove all the pin feathers, singe thor- 
oughly, wash well inside and out, reject the tips of the wings, cut oflE 
the neck close to the body, draw up the skin and skewer to the back. 

Dust the inside of the chicken with salt, pepper and a little poultry 
seasoning. If stuffing is not desired — and this is a matter of taste, 
many good cooks preferring to dispense with it — rub the outside of the ■ 
fowl with olive oil, dust with salt and pepper, then powder thickly with 
flour. Truss the wings and legs close to the body, lay in a dripping 
pan with one or two thin slices of fat salt pork. Put the lowd breast 
down so that the juices may run into the breast. Put a half cup boil- 
ing water in the pan, then cover. If you have no covered roasting pan, 
improvise one from two baking pans or a stew kettle laid over the pan. 
Before laying the chicken in protect it with sheets of paraffine paper or 
strips of old muslin moistened with olive oil. Roast in this way for an 
hour and a quarter, then remove the covers and brown the chicken, 
basting often. 

CHICKEN EN CASSEROLE.— Cut in pieces as for a fricassee. 
Put into a frying pan two tablespoonfuls olive oil or butter, and when 
hot add a couple slices of onion, brown slightly, then add the pieces 
of chicken, part at a time. Brown lightly on both sides. As fast as 
done remove and add more. When all are browned arrange in a cas- 
serole together with a pint peeled button onions and a cupful carrots 
cut in narrow strips. Cover with a pint of stock, or, failing that, a pint 
of hot water in which a teaspoonful beef extract has been dissolved. 
Put on the cover of the casserole and bake until nearly tender. Have 
ready a dozen potato balls that have been browned in butter, and add 
to the contents of the casserole together with a half cup mushrooms, 
if desired. A little sherry is also deemed an improvement by some. 
Make a brown sauce by melting two tablespoonfuls butter in a saucepan, 
adding a tablespoonful and a half flour and browning lightly before 
putting in stock enough to make a smooth, creamy sauce. Season 
to taste with salt and pepper and add to the contents of the casserole 
or serve separately in a sauceboat. Serve the chicken directly from 
the casserole. 

21 



22 POULTRY 

SMOTHERED CHICKEN^— Split the chicken down the back, sea- 
son with salt and pepper, and dredge well with flour both sides. Put 
into a bake pan a small cup stock and a quarter pound butter. Arrang* 
the giblets on the bottom and on them lay the chicken, breast down. 
Cover the pan closely and baste every ten or twelve minutes. Allow 
about fifteen minutes to the pound in roasting. When tender take out 
the chicken and lay on a hot platter. Mash the giblets, add a cup rick 
cream and serve with buttermilk or beaten biscuit. 

CHICKEN A LA BALTIMORE.— Prepare as for boiling; then cut 
into joints, wipe dry, season well with salt and pepper, dip into beaten 
egg; then roll in fine bread crumbs. Place in a well buttered pan, pour 
olive oil or melted butter over them and bake in a steady oven for 
twenty-five minutes. When tender remove to a hot dish. Make a good 
cream gravy to pour over the chicken, and serve with corn fritters and 
thin crisped slices of bacon. 

BROILED CHICKEN.— For broiling, the chickens must be small 
and young, as they are split down the back. Remove all the feathers 
and cut the oil bag out. Crush the breast bone with a blow from a mallet 
or rolling pin to flatten the bird evenly, or, if an expert at boning, 
remove the breast bone. Take out all the bits of lungs and dark matter 
on the inside of the chicken, as well as any superfluous fat. Wash in 
cold water and wipe and pat perfectly dry. Some cooks advise no 
washing at all, simply wiping with a damp cloth, but fastidious house- 
wives usually prefer to make sure the bird is quite clean. Season with 
salt and pepper and brush over with olive oil. It takes but a little 
and gives a far better flavor than butter, which is apt to burn. Place on 
a greased broiler over a clear coal fire or under the gas flame, having 
the inside of the chicken next to the flame. Do not have the fowl too 
near the flame, as it requires slow broiling, the inside longer than the 
outside. It will take about twenty minutes. Serve on a hot platter. 
Melt a tablespoonful of butter, add a little salt and pepper, a teaspoon- 
ful each lemon juice and minced parsley, and pour over the chicken. 
Garnish with cress and French fried potatoes and serve with golden 
brown waffles. 

If there is the slightest doubt about the age of the broiler, steam the 
chicken first by laying on a roasting rack placed over the dripping pan 
of boiling water. Invert a pan over it so as to keep in the steam, and 
set in a hot oven for twenty minutes. At the end of this time rub the 
broiler with oil, dredge with salt and pepper and proceed as directed 
above. 

CHICKEN EN CASSEROLE.— Take a chicken weighing about three 
pounds, cut into pieces, clean and lay in cold water for a half hour tO' 
draw out the blood. Drain, dry on a clean cloth and put into a stewpan 
with just enough milk and water in equal proportions to cover. It will 
take about a quart. Add a small onion with three cloves stuck in it. 



POULTRY 28 

a few sprigs of parsley and a salt-spoonful each salt and pepper, and 
simmer gently until the pieces of chicken are tender. Take out and 
put where they will keep warm while you prepare the cream dressing. 
Put three tablespoonfuls each butter and flour in a saucepan and stir 
until blended, but not a particle browned. Add the broth and a cup 
of cream and stir until smooth and creamy. Add more salt if necessary, 
and, if you like, a suspicion of mace. This matter of seasoning depends 
always upon individual taste. A beaten egg may be added or not, as 
preferred, but the sauce must not be allowed to cook after the egg is 
added, lest it curdle. A half cup mushrooms is frequently added, but is 
not essential. 

Now arrange the pieces of chicken on a large hot platter. Put the 
two back pieces in the middle of the dish and arrange on them, one 
above the other, first the neck in two pieces, then the pinions and 
second joints. Rest the legs and wings against the side of the square 
and put the pieces of breast on top. Arrange the giblets and mush- 
rooms round the base with baking powder biscuits split in halves. 
Pour over the sauce and serve. 

CHICKEN CROQUETTES.— Have in readiness a cup and a half 
cold boiled chicken chopped rather fine. Put into a saucepan four 
tablespoonfuls butter, and when melted add a tablespoonful each fine 
chopped onion and parsley. Cook slightly, then add seven tablespoon- 
fuls flour and cook about ten minutes, stirring constantly. Add half 
a teaspoonful salt and pepper with ground mace and thyme to season. 
Then put in gradually one scant quart milk and chicken broth in equal 
proportions. 

When smooth and the consistency of rich cream gravy add the 
chicken and a hard boiled egg minced fine. Stir well, then set away to 
cool. When quite cold mould into croquettes about two and a half 
inches in length, dip in fine bread crumbs then in beaten egg, and lastly 
in crumbs again. Be sure \ the croquettes are thoroughly coated with 
egg and crumb. Fry in deep hot fat. Drain on soft paper, tuck a tiny 
spray of parsley in the end of each croquette and serve hot. 

CHICKEN CURRY. — Select a tender chicken and cut in pieces as 
for a fricassee. Cover with cold water, adding two small onions cut 
in pieces, a bay leaf, a bunch sweet herbs and a small stalk soup celery. 
Put in salt and pepper to season, then simmer slowly for three-quarters 
of an hour or until tender. Take the chicken up on a hot platter and 
thicken the broth with two tablespoonfuls butter stirred with two table- 
spoonfuls flour. Mix a heaping teaspoonful curry powder with a little 
of the broth and add to it the yolks of three beaten eggs and the 
juice of half a lemon. When the gravy is smooth and thickened stir 
in slowly the curry, egg yolks and lemon, but push the kettle back on 
the stove, so there will be no danger of the egg curdling. Pour the 
gravy over the chicken on the platter and arrange a border of rice 
around its edge. Serve very hot. 



24 POULTRY 

STEWED DUCK.— This is the best way to cook a duck about whose 
age there is any question. Clean and joint as you would a chicken for 
fricassee. Put into a stewpan with several finely minced slices of cold 
ham or salt pork, add water to barely cover, and, as the scum arises, re- 
move. Stew gently about three-quarters of an hour, keeping the stew- 
pan covered. Then add a chopped onion, a little minced parsley, a 
tablespoonful catsup, and salt to season, and cook another half hour 
or until tender. Now mix, until smooth, two teaspoonfuls ground rice 
or a tablespoonful ordinary flour with a wineglass of port, stir into the 
gravy, color a rich brown with culinary bouquet, cook until smooth 
and thickened, turn into a deep dish, and serve very hot with green 
peas and cranberry jelly. 

GUINEA FOWLS.— Young fowls may be roasted or broiled. Older 
ones should be stewed according to the directions given for stewing 
ducks. To broil a young guinea fowl, wash thoroughly and split down 
the back. Wipe dry, flatten slightly, brush over with olive oil, dust 
with salt and pepper, dredge with flour and broil over a clear fire. 
Cook about fifteen minutes, then pour over, when in a dish, a rich 
brown gravy and garnish with mashed potatoes in little mounds; use 
watercress also. To roast them, fill with any dressing preferred. Rub 
over with olive oil and dust with salt and pepper. Sprinkle well with 
flour and put in a hot oven for an hour and a half, basting frequently. 
The giblets should be cooking meantime in water to cover. When the 
fowl is roasted season the gravy with onions and parsley. Add the 
finely minced giblets and thicken with browned flour or color with 
the culinary bouquet. Serve currant or grape jelly with guinea fowl. 

ROAST GOOSE. — A green goose from three to four months old is 
a great delicacy and is cooked like a game bird without stuffing. Sea- 
son inside and out with salt and pepper, put half a white onion inside 
to absorb any strong taste, dredge the outside with flour and roast in 
a hot oven for about an hour. Serve with boiled white onions and 
apple sauce. For an older goose, and even so it should not be more 
than a year old, you may use the time honored stuffing of potatoes and 
sage. 

Having thoroughly cleaned and washed the bird in soda water, re- 
move all the fat that can be reached from under the skin or inside. 
This may be saved and tried out to use later for goose grease. To 
make the stuffing boil for twenty minutes or half an hour a half dozen 
potatoes. Peel and mash, adding to them a tablespoonful salt, a tea- 
spoonful pepper, a teaspoonful powdered sage and two tablespoonfuls 
white onions minced aild fried yellow in butter. Mix these ingredients 
lightly together, then bind with two tablespoonfuls melted butter. Sea- 
son the goose on the inside with salt and pepper, stuff and truss. 
Dredge with salt and pepper and a liberal allowance of flour. Dry on 
a rack in a dripping pan and put into an extra hot oven to roast. As 



POULTRY 25 

soon as it begins to color pour a pint of boiling water under the rack 
and begin basting the fowl. Baste and dredge with flour every fifteen 
minutes, and cook fully two hours. When well done and thoroughly 
browned put on a hot platter. Skim off the fat in the dripping pan, 
stir in a tablespoonful flour, then add a cupful hot water or stock to 
make the gravy. Strain and serve. A dish of tart apple sauce always 
goes with roast goose. Other good stuffings for roast ^oose are pota- 
toes and walnuts and prunes and rice. 

ROAST TURKEY.— A fine plump hen turkey should always be se- 
lected in preference to the male bird. While some advanced cooks 
now advise roasting turkey without any stuffing, most people cling to the 
dressing. This may be the dry Philadelphia stuffing, chestnut and mar- 
row, oysters, potato, celery, rice, almost any combination, in fact, that in- 
dividual preference dictates. For a chestnut stuffing peel fifty or sixty 
of these nuts, blanch by putting in boiling water until the skins are 
loosened, then remove them between thumb and forefinger. Now put 
the nuts in boiling water and cook until tender. Drain and chop very 
fine. Empty two marrow bones, cut the marrow in small pieces and 
mix with the nuts. Season with salt and pepper, moisten slightly with 
sweet cream and fill the turkey, taking care not to press the dressing 
in too closely. 

Should you prefer the dry Philadelphia stuffing, which is a marvel 
of lightness, prepare it this way: — Crumb fine two quarts stale bread. 
Season with two even tablespoonfuls salt, teaspoonful pepper, two table- 
spoonfuls each powdered summer savoy and minced parsley, and one 
of powdered sage. Rub a cupful of butter through the crumbs, then 
fill the cavity and sew up. Push the legs close to the body and draw 
the wings back so that the breast stands out plump and fair, an easy 
and inviting task for the carver. Rub the turkey all over with olive 
oil, sprinkle with salt and pepper and dredge with flour. Place on a 
rack in the dripping pan and set in a medium hot oven to roast. Baste 
often with boiling water in which a tablespoonful olive oil has been 
placed and after each basting dredge with flour. Fifteen minutes is 
usually allowed to the pound in roasting. Place the giblets in a sauce- 
pan over the fire, cover with cold water, add a bit of onion and a half 
teaspoonful salt and cook until tender. Place the turkey on a hot plat- 
ter, remove thread or skewers. Skim all fat from the gravy, thicken 
with flour and add enough of the giblet liquor to make the consistency 
required. Cook five minutes, strain and add the chopped giblets with 
culinary bouquet to color a rich brown. Accompany with cranberry 
sauce or jelly. 

ROAST DUCK. — Never try to roast an old duck. Be sure your 
bird is young and tender. If drawn by the butcher see that all the 
pipes in the vicinity of the crop are removed. Take out the leaves of 
extra fat, pick, singe and remove pinions, legs and oil bag. Wash the 
outside of the duck in hot water, rubbing vigorously to get out as much 
of the oil as possible. Rinse the inside in cold water, then truss after 



26 POULTRY 

stuffing the craw and body with peeled and quartered apples. These 
are to absorb the strong taste of the duck and are not to be eaten, 
Dredge the duck with salt and pepper, rub over with olive oil, then 
dredge with flour and roast in a hot oven, basting frequently, for half 
an hour. Serve with orange or olive sauce, green peas and fried corn 
mush or hominy. 

Apple sauce or black currant jelly go well with roast duck. If the 
duck is specially fat and heavy treatment of this sort is efficacious in 
removing the grease. After trussing place the bird on a rack in a 
dripping pan, in a slow oven. When heated through take from the 
oven and prick the duck all aver lightly (just through the skin) with 
a fork. Press out all the oil possible with the back of a case knife. 
Drain the oil from the pan and return the bird to the oven. In fifteen 
minutes again drain the oil from the pan, then dredge the bird with 
flour, put a little hot water in the pan and bake until tender. The heat 
in the oven should be quickened as soon as the superfluous oil in the 
bird has been removed. 

Orange Sauce. — ^To make the orange sauce that goes so excellently 
with roast duck chop fine enough bacon to make a tablespoonful and 
fry with a tablespoonful chopped raw onion until the latter is lightly 
colored. Add the juice of an orange, a wineglass of port, with some 
of the drippings from the duck freed from grease. Season with salt and 
pepper and serve hot. An orange salad is another delightful accom- 
paniment to roast duck. 

A famous dish with bon vivants is roast duck carefully boned after 
roasting, then the bones with the thighs and other inferior portions 
put into a press that comes on purpose and their juices extracted and 
poured over the breast of the roasted fowl. In this way the consumer 
gets the quintessence of all that is excellent in the birds. 

DRESSINGS. — Stuffing for chickens, ducks, turkeys or geese may be 
made of bread with seasonings of celery and parsley, of bread and sau- 
sage, of bread and ham, oysters or chestnuts. A good bread dressing 
is made in this way: — Put into a saucepan four tablespoonfuls butter 
and a half teaspoonful onion juice. When the butter is melted add a 
cup and a quarter of fine bread crumbs, two teaspoon fuls each minced 
parsley and celery, a teaspoonful salt and pepper to season. Toss until 
well heated, then add just the least bit of hot water or milk to moisten 
slightly and with it one beaten yolk of egg. Fill the body and crop of 
the chicken, leaving plenty of room for the dressing to swell, then 
sew up. The sauce for the chicken may be of oyster flavoring, of the 
cooked and finely chopped giblets, of olives, mushrooms or .celery. To 
make the giblet sauce take the well cleaned gizzard, liver and heart, 
cover with cold water in a small saucepan and simmer until tender. 
Chop fine. When you have removed the fowl to a hot dish, pour the 
giblets with the broth in which they were cooked into the dripping 
pan with the drippings, thicken with a little browned flour, season with 
salt and pepper to taste and send to the table in a sauceboat. 




FRIED EGGS. — Olive oil or nice clear ham fat is the nicest frying 
medium for eggs. With butter they burn and blacken, and lard gives 
them an unpleasant taste. If not an adept at opening eggs, break first 
into a cup. Put three tablespoonfuls of oil in the frying pan and when 
well heated turn in the eggs, one or two at a time. With a limber 
knife fold the white over the yolk as it begins to set, and cook about' 
fifteen seconds. Turn over and cook the same length of time on the 
other side. Lift out carefully and place on a heated platter. Proceed 
in this way until all the eggs necessary are fried. The same amount 
of oil will cook eight or ten. Mix together a teaspoonful of salt and 
half a teaspoonful of pepper, season the eggs and serve. Be careful 
not to cook the eggs too long. The time specified is quite enough. 
Fried eggs with bacon are cooked in the same wa.y. Cook the bacon 
first and keep hot while the strained fat is put into a clean frying pan. 
Cook the eggs one or two at a time so that they can be lifted out 
without tearing each other. Season and serve arranged in the center 
of a platter, with the sliced bacon as a garnish, or put an egg on each 
slice of bacon. 

EGGS IN CASES. — Make some paper cases from stiff white paper, 
about three inches square. Butter them inside and half fill with sifted 
bread crumbs seasoned with cayenne, salt and chopped parsley. Dot 
with bits of butter, then break an egg into each case and cover with 
the sifted, seasoned crumbs until the cases are nearly full. Put into 
a hot oven or on a gridiron over a clear fire for three or four minutes, 
then serve very hot. 

HARD BOILED EGGS.— Where eggs have to be boiled hard, cook 
twenty minutes in water kept just below the boiling point. Drop into 
cold water before "shelling." In winter, when eggs are very cold, 
they should be warmed slightly before being plunged into boiling water. 
Either let them stand in the hot kitchen a few moments or pass through 
the steam from a boiling kettle. Twenty minutes' cooking will render 
the yolk of an egg so dry and mealy that it can easily be rubbed smooth 
for salads or other mixtures. 

27 



28 EGGS 

CURRIED EGGS.— Put into a chafing dish brazier or frying pan 
two tablespoonfuls butter and two small onions finely chopped. Cook 
until they brown, then stir in two dessertspoonfuls curry powder mixed 
with two tablespoonfuls flour. Stir until mixed, add one cup veal or 
chicken stock, beat again with a wire whisk until smooth and creamy, 
add two tablespoonfuls cream and six hard Ijoiled eggs sliced. When 
thoroughly heated through turn onto a hot dish, garnish with croutons 
of fried bread and serve. 

Chinese eggs are much like the curried eggs, omitting the curry. For 
a half dozen hard boiled eggs sliced allow one tablespoonful butter, 
one of flour, one-half cup stock, one-half cup milk, one tablespoonful 
minced parsley, a half teaspoonful salt and pepper to season. Cook 
the sauce, add the eggs and when steaming hot serve. 

BAKED EGGS. — There are a number of different ways of baking 
eggs, among which the following are perhaps best: — 

Cover the bottom of a low stone china baking dish with a layer of 
fine crumbs. Break as many eggs, one by one, as there are people to 
be served and lay carefully in the buttered crumbs. Sift over them 
more crumbs, seasoned and buttered, and bake until the crumbs are 
brown. Or cut thin slices of bread, trim off the crusts, lay on a thickly 
buttered dish and cover with thin slices of cheese. Beat enough eggs 
to cover the bread, season with salt, pepper and, if liked, a little nutmeg, 
and pour over the bread. Bake in a moderate oven until the eggs are 
set, then serve very hot in the same dish. Again, slice a half dozen 
hard boiled eggs, put a layer in the buttered dish, sprinkle with grated 
cheese, add another layer of eggs, then more cheese, and so on until 
all are used. Turn enough white sauce over the dish to thoroughly 
moisten the crumbs, dust with buttered crumbs and bake ten minutes. 
Sometimes these are known as Sienna eggs. 

Another variation is to beat the whites of eggs to a stiff froth, salt 
lightly and spread roughly in the bottom of a buttered dish. Make 
nests for the yolks of the eggs some distance apart, carefully lay them 
in, dust with salt and pepper, and bake until the white is a golden brown. 

Baked eggs, known as "bonne femme," are made in this wise: — Slice 
two white or yellow onions and fry a delicate brown in butter or olive 
oil. Butter a dish, spread the onions over it, break over them the re- 
quired number of eggs, season with salt and pepper and bake in a hot 
oven. When done, sprinkle with fried bread crumbs and serve. 

DEVILLED EGGS. — Boil eggs twenty minutes and when cool s'hell. 
Cut into halves crosswise and remove the yolks without breaking the 
whites. Put the whites of the same egg together, that they need not 
get separated. The yolks may be put in the bowl. When all are cut, 
rub the yolks to a cream with melted butter, add a little made mustard 
or sauce from the chow chow bottle, a little chopped pickle or olives, 
and salt and paprika to season. Fill the mixture into the whites, put 
the halves together as they belong, and as if preparing them for the 



EGGS 29 

picnic basket fasten together with a couple of little Japanese wooden 
toothpicks before wrapping in waxed paper. The picks serve as 
handles in eating. If they are to be put on the home table press the 
halves together and arrange on a bed of cress or lettuce. For a change, 
finely minced meat highly seasoned is often added to the yolks. The 
devilled mixture that will be left over makes a spicy filling for sand- 
wiches. 

Another way of using devilled eggs is to spread the yolk mixture 
left over on a shallow baking dish, place the eggs on it and cover with 
a thin cream sauce, veal or chicken gravy. Sprinkle with buttered 
crumbs and bake until the crumbs are a delicate brown. A grating of 
cheese may be incorporated with the crumbs, if desired. 

FRENCH OMELET.— Beat four eggs slightly, whites and yolks to- 
gether, just enough so that you can lift up a spoonful. Add four table- 
spoonfuls cream, a teaspoonful salt and a little paprika or white pepper. 
Put a teaspoonful butter in a clean, hot omelet pan and turn in the 
mixture. Then with a fork pick up the cooked egg from the center, 
allowing the uncooked to run under. Continue doing this until the 
whole is of a soft, creamy consistency. Place over a hotter portion of 
the fire to set and brown, then fold over and turn on to a hot platter. 

EGGS A LA CARACAS.— Shred two ounces smoked dried beef. 
Add one cup tomato, a quarter cup grated or potted cheese, a few 
drops onion juice and paprika to season. Melt in a chafing dish or 
saucepan two tablespoonfuls butter, add the mixture and toss lightly 
until heated. Add three or four eggs lightly beaten and cooked until 
creamy, stirring all the time. Or similarly take fine minced lean bacon 
and place in a frying pan with a little lard or butter and fry until done. 
Add a quarter cup tomato, and when thoroughly hot, four or five eggs 
lightly beaten and peppered to season. Toss and stir, scraping from 
the sides and bottom of the pan, then roll over into an omelet and serve. 

SCRAMBLED EGGS WITH GREEN PEPPERS.— Toast as many 
slices of bread as there persons to be served and lay on a dish to keep 
hot. Put a tablespoonful butter in the frying pan and while heating 
break as many eggs as are needed into a bowl. Six eggs is a good 
number for four or five people. Allow a tablespoonful cream or water to 
each egg. Milk is not good for an omelet or scramble. As soon as 
the butter is melted and begins to bubble, turn the eggs in, and as the 
whites begin to set lift and stir with a silver fork. Have ready two 
finely chopped sweet green peppers from which the seeds have been 
removed, and after the eggs begin to cook stir the peppers through the 
mixture. Cook a half moment, dish on the hot toast, garnish with a little 
watercress or parsley and serve at once. If the toast is preferred 
soft, dip each slice for a moment in hot milk before covering with 
the scramble. Plain scrambled eggs are cooked just the same as the 
French omelet, allowing a tablespoonful cream or water to each egg. 



30 EGGS 

After cooking they are not folded or browned like the omelet, but 
simply poured into a hot dish or served on toast. 

PLAIN OMELET.— Beat the yolks of two eggs until lemon colored 
and thick. Add two tablespoonfuls milk, a saltspoonful salt and pepper 
to season. Beat the whites stiff and dry and cut and fold them into 
the yolks, but do not stir or beat. Have a clean smooth omelet pan 
well heated and buttered with teaspoonful butter. Rub the sides of the 
pan until every bit of the surface, has been greased. When hissing hot 
turn in the mixture and spread evenly. Lift at once to the side of the 
fire and cook carefully, slipping a limber knife blade under to keep it 
from burning in the middle. Put into the oven a moment to dry the 
top, then roll over toward the right; slip off on a hot platter and serve 
as quickly as possible. To vary the omelet, one tablespoonful chopped 
parsley added to the yolks when beating transforms it into a parsley 
omelet. A few tablespoonfuls grated corn makes a corn omelet; oysters 
parboiled and drained, cooked clams chopped fine or grated cheese 
spread over the omelet just before folding will give you an oyster, clam 
or cheese omelet. Other combinations that go well with an omelet 
are minced onion, cold boiled salmon, shredded; green peppers, minced 
fine; mushrooms, shrimps, minced ham or chicken, stewed tomatoes 
or raw sliced tomatoes. 

EGGS AND ARTICHOKES.— These are extremely popular now at 
fashionable luncheons, and are as good as they are attractive looking. 
Steam or cook in lightly salted water as many artichoke buttons as 
there are guests to serve. Place each on a round of bread a little larger 
in 'diameter than the artichoke, that has been delicately browned in 
butter, and over the artichoke drop a poached egg trimmed to just 
the size of the foundation. Pour over the egg a small quantity of sauce 
Hollandaise or brown tarragon sauce, add a dash of paprika and serve 
hot. A variation is to use hard boiled eggs instead of poached ones. 
In this case cut hard boiled eggs in halves, place an artichoke button 
on each round of toasted bread, the half an egg, cut side downward. 
Garnish with parsley and serve with a good gravy. 

Hollandaise Sauce. — Rub to a cream a half cup of butter, then add 
the yolks of two eggs, one at a time, beating well after each addi- 
tion. Put in the juice of half a lemon, a saltspoonful of salt, a 
dash of paprika or cayenne and half a cup of boiling water. Set the 
bowl containing the mixture in a saucepan of boiling water and stir 
rapidly and constantly until it thickens like boiled custard. Take im- 
mediately from the fire. Tarragon vinegar may be used in place of the 
lemon juice, with the addition of a few tarragon leaves blanched and 
cut up small. 

LYONNAISE EGGS.— Put into a frying pan or the chafing dish 
blazer two tablespoonfuls butter or olive oil. When hot add two table- 



EGGS 81 

spoonfuls minced onion and one tablespoonful parsley and fry until 
the onion is light yellow. Add a tablespoonful flour and one cup milk 
or good broth. When smooth and creamy add four hard boiled eggs, 
sliced, and serve as soon as heated through. A change in serving is to 
simply chop the whites of the eggs and add to the sauce, boil up once 
and garnish with the yolks of the eggs. 

BOILED EGGS.— The best way to boil eggs is not to boil them at 
all. Put them in a pan, cover with boiling water, put on a lid and push 
back on the range where the water will keep hot, but not boil, for ten 
minutes. The white should be of a jellylike consistency and the yolk 
soft but not "runny." Cooked in this way the whites will be as digesti- 
ble as the yolks. They should be served at once, as they harden by 
being kept in the hot shell. If the shell of an egg is cracked before 
boiling, prick several small holes in the thickest part of the egg to 
prevent the contents ozing out while cooking. 

SPANISH OMELET. — For this take six eggs, one medium sized 
•tomato cut fine or its equivalent in canned tomatoes, one small onion, 
three tablespoonfuls milk, a dash of red pepper, five mushrooms, a quar- 
ter pound bacon minced and fried brown and a quarter teaspoonful salt. 
Having browned the bacon, add to it the tomato, onion and mushrooms 
chopped fine and cook fifteen minutes. Break the eggs in a bowl with- 
out separating, and beat vigorously. Add to them the salt and pepper. 
Put a tablespoonful butter in the omelet pan and, when melted and the 
sides of the pan are thoroughly greased, pour in the eggs and shake 
over a quick fire until well set. Now quickly pour the mixture from 
the other frying pan over the omelet, fold over once and turn out into 
the center of a hot platter. If any sauce is left over, pour around the 
omelet and serve at once. 




BRAIZED BEEF. 

AKE a piece of beef from the rump 
having one side covered with fat. 
Remove the bone, season the meat 
with a tablespoonful salt and a 
teaspoonful pepper; roll up and tie 
firmly with string enough to keep 
in shape. Saw the bone into small 
pieces, lay in a broad-bottomed 
saucepan with two ounces each 
larding pork and raw ham, two 
onions and one carrot sliced. Add 
a bouquet of herbs, lay the meat on 
top and put in two quarts stock or broth. Cover with buttered paper, 
adjust the lid, push to the side of the stove and simmer about three 
hours. Take out the meat, lay in a roasting pan with some of the broth 
and roast thirty minutes, basting frequently. Strain the rest of the 
broth clear from fat and reduce by boiling, uncovered, until it becqmes 
a half glaze. Take up the meat and lay on a hot dish, add the glaze to 
the gravy remaining in the pan, thicken slightly with a table spoonful^ 
each butter and flour cooked together, then add the juice of one lemon 
and a teaspoonful sugar. Pour a little of the sauce over the meat and 
serve the rest in a sauce bowl. 



NOISETTES OF TENDERLOIN OF BEEF.— Cut from the end 
of a tenderloin of beef slices about five-eighths of an inch thick. Flatten 
down to about three-eighths of an inch and trim round. Salt on both 
sides, pepper, and place over the fire in a hot saucepan containing a 
tablespoonful each of olive oil and butter. Cook rapidly seven minutes 
arrange on small pieces of toast that have also been fried in oil, pour 
a little gravy over them and serve very hot. A mushroom puree may 
be substituted for the gravy. 

BULLOCK'S HEART.— Put the heart in cold water, wash well 
and leave for an hour to draw out the blood. Take out, dry on a cloth, 
cut in halves, rub with flour, and fry in drippings or butter in the frying 

32 



MEATS 3S 

pan until a light brown. Transfer to a saucepan, with two or three 
onions sliced and fried in the same butter; add a sprig of thyme or a 
spice bag, and salt and pepper to season, then pour in sufficient hot 
water or stock to cover. Place on the fire and simmer gently for three 
hours. Remove, skim the fat from the broth, cook uncovered until 
reduced somewhat, thicken slightly with flour or cornstarch stirred 
smooth in a little cold water and put in a little claret and a teaspoonful 
of culinary bouquet. Place the heart again in the pan, reheat, place 
on a hot dish, pour the gravy about it and serve very hot, with baked 
potatoes. The heart is also nice stuffed and roasted. Soak as before 
in warm water for half an hour, wipe dry, fill with a forcemeat well sea- 
soned, then roast, basting frequently. It will take about two hours. 
Serve with a rich gravy or sauce piquant. 

ROAST BEEF.— In buying a roast, ribs, the back of the rump or the 
second cut of the sirloiii are best for those who like their meat rare. 
Cross ribs are selected by those who like their meat well done. The 
time allowed for roasting a large piece of meat is usually twelve minutes 
for every pound and one minute for the pan. A smaller piece of meat 
does not require nearly so much time in proportion. It is important 
to remember, however, the smaller the cut the hotter should be the 
fire when first put into the oven. An intensely hot oven sears the ex- 
terior of the meat, the same as in boiling, and prevents the drying up 
of the riieat juices. After the surface is once seared the temperature 
of the oven should be reduced and the meat allowed to finish slowly 
with frequent basting. A roast of four pounds will be cooked just right 
in forty minutes if liked rare. For a very small roast it is a good plan 
to dredge it with flour, then brown in some of the suet either in the 
dripping pan or a frying pan set on top of the stove. As soon as' 
browned all over finish the roasting in the oven. In turning the meat 
never pierce with a fork, which allows the juices to escape and disturbs 
the tissues. Opinions differ as to the proper time for seasoning the 
roast. Some prefer to salt and pepper it when put into the oven. 
Others follow Queen Victoria's favorite way and have it seasoned when 
half done, while others leave the meat unseasoned for each one to 
season at the table. There is also a difference of opinion as to whether 
suet or water should be added to the pan when it goes into the oven. 
If you wish a fine brown do not add water until the meat is seared. 
After that a little boiling water or beef stock may be used in the basting. 
If too dry a little olive oil wiped over the roast when it first goes in 
makes it exceedingly juicy and toothsome. To tell when it is done 
test with the blade of a knife, pressing the upper surface. If it is 
springy you may know it is still rare. Lift carefully onto a hot platter, 
cover closely a few moments for the meat to "sweat" and allow the 
blood driven to the centre of the piece to return to the outside. This 
makes the first slice of the roast as tender and juicy as the middle. 

While the best gravy for the roast is the plate gravy that collects 
as soon as the meat is cut, many families still use old fashioned flour 



3'4 MEATS 

gravy also. To make this, turn off any superfluous grease left in the 
pan after the meat is taken up and into the remainder stir a tablespocn- 
ful browned flour. Stir until smooth, then add boiling water or stock 
and stir until creamy. Season with salt and pepper and strain into a 
heated gravy boat. If the flour is not browned enough to make a rich 
gravy a tablespoonful of culinary bouquet will make it so. 

YORKSHIRE PUDDING.— Sift together a heaping pint flour, a 
teaspoonful salt and a teaspoonful and a half baking powder. Add a 
tablespoonful butter and rub fine in the flour. Beat two eggs until 
light and add to them a pint of milk. Stir into the flour and mix 
quickly into a thick batter. Pour a few spoonfuls of the beef drippings 
from the roast into hot gem pans or a long tin pan and turn in the 
batter. Bake in a medium oven, basting with the drippings from the 
meat. This is a more convenient way than the old method of baking 
the pudding in the pan under the meat, besides giving it more crust. 
Serve as a garnish to the roast, well seasoned with the plate gravy and 
drippings from the meat. 

BEEF A LA MODE. — Procure a nice piece of beef from the under 
part of the round weighing about six pounds. Wipe, trim ofif the edges, 
place in a deep earthen dish and cover with spiced vinegar made as 
follows: — Cook for five minutes in a small porcelain saucepan one cup 
vinegar, an onion chopped fine, a little salt, mustard, pepper, clove 
and allspice. Let the meat remain in the marinade several hours, stir- 
ring frequently. Chop fine an onion and a little parsley, add a teaspoon- 
ful salt and the same amount of pepper. Cut four ounces larding pork 
and the same amount raw ham into finger thick strips, and make with 
the carving steel or a pointed knife incisions an inch apart in the meat. 
Roll the pork and ham in the seasoning and then insert alternately 
into the incisions. Bind the beef into shape with a narrow strip of 
cotton cloth, then dredge with flour. Cut up two onions, half a carrot 
and a half turnip, fry in hot drippings or pork fat until brown, then 
place in stewpan. Brown the meat all over in the same drippings and 
place on top the vegetables. Add a half pint Rhine wine and white 
broth to reach half way up the meat and add a spice bag to flavor. 
These bags can be purchased at first class grocers,' and contain just 
the right admixture of seasoning herbs. Cover the meat with buttered 
paper, adjust the lid and simmer gently four hours, or until quite tender.I 
When done remove the strings and lay on a large warm dish. Free 
the broth from fat, and strain. 

Melt a tablespoonful butter in a saucepan, add a tablespoonful flour, 
stir and cook until frothy. Add one pint of the strained broth, cook 
five minutes and strain part of it over the meat. Garnish the beef 
with boiled potatoes, carrot balls and small glazed onions, passing the 
remainder of the gravy in a sauce boat. 

BROILED STEAK.— While porterhouse or sirloin steaks are the 
approved cuts for broiling, even a tougher steak can be broiled if 



MEATS 35 

treated first in this way: — Put three tablespoonfuls olive oil and one 
tablespoonful vinegar in a large flat dish. Lay the steak on the mix- 
ture and let it rest for half an hour. Then turn and let it rest another 
half an hour in the same quantity oil and vinegar. Two inches is the 
approved thickness for a broiled steak. If broiled over coal the fire 
should be clear and bright. If under gas flame leave the oven door 
open that the air may circulate freely while the steak is broiling. A 
steak two inches thick will take about fifteen minutes to broil. To tell 
when meat has cooked sufficiently, press with the back of a knife. If 
it offers a slight resistance it is rare. If cooked to perfection the re- 
sistance will be a little stronger. Experience will soon teach this. 
Meantime have the seasoning for the steak prepared. Rub a hot tin 
plate with a clove of garlic, and place on it a half tablespoonful butter, 
a teaspoonful salt and a saltspoonful pepper or paprika. As soon as 
the steak comes from the broiler place on this and baste with melted, 
seasoned butter. Transfer to a heated platter and dress with tomato 
or mushroom sauce or simply butter and fine minced parsley. Two or 
three thin slices of lemon rolled in fine minced parsley make a pretty 
garnish for the ends of the steak. 

BEEF TONGUE. — In purchasing a tongue, salt or fresh, select 
one with smooth skin. A rough skinned one indicates age. A smoked 
tongue should be soaked over night in cold water before cooking. Wash 
well and trim off any extra fat. Draw the tip of the tongue around to 
meet the roots, and skewer in' place. Put into kettle with cold water 
to cover, and in case of a fresh tongue add two tablespoonfuls salt. To 
either smoked or fresh tongue now add a small red pepper, a few 
savory herbs, a spice bag, bay leaf, a stalk of celery, and parsley, carrot 
or whatever soup herbs you have at hand. Simmer gently, and as 
the water boils away add more, so as to keep the tongue covered until 
nearly done. When it can be easily pierced with a fork it is ready to 
take from the fire. If you want to use it right away, remove the skin, 
but if it is to be served cold let it cool without peeling in the water 
in which it was cooked. In serving cold tongue whole it should be 
glazed and trimmed with parsley. If sliced, cut evenly and arrange 
the slices in a circle around the platter, the slices overlapping. Pile 
watercress in the centre and serve with sauce tartare. Tongue is also 
served in aspic and garnished with sliced cucumbers. 

HARICOT OF OX TAIL. — Put one cup butter in a saucepan and 
when melted add two ox tails, divided into natural sections, and two 
onions chopped. Cook until the onions are a light brown. Add two table- 
spoonfuls flour and stir until frothy. Put in three pints of hot water.. 
When it reaches the boiling point, skim, then simmer an hour on the 
back of the stove. Add two carrots and two turnips, cut in rather 
large pieces, and cook an hour. Add potatoes cut in slices, and salt 
and pepper to taste. Cook twenty minutes. Take out the vegetables, 
pile in the centre of a dish with the tails around them, pour the gravy 



86 MEATS 

over, and serve with boiled onions as a garnish. Ox tails are also 
delicious broiled. Joint and put into a stewpan with sweet herbs and 
stock to cover. Simmer gently two and a half hours, then take up and 
drain on a sieve. Roll in yolk of egg and finely grated crumbs and 
broil over a brisk fire, turning constantly. Arrange on a hot dish, gar- 
nish with fried parsley and serve with sauce tartare. 

CORN BEEF, ENGLISH FASHION.— For this the brisket is best 
and to get it just right it should be corned at home. For a ten pound 
brisket of flat ribs you will need a pickle made in this way: — Into three 
gallons of boiling water put three pounds of common salt, two pounds 
of rock salt, two ounces of brown sugar, two ounces of saltpetre. Stir 
until well disssolved, without boiling again. Let this stand until morn- 
ing, then strain and put in the beef. Turn every day. The beef should 
stay in at least a day for every pound of meat, and for a tongue (for 
this is an excellent pickle for tongue), three weeks. When ready to 
cook remove the bones, drain and wipe. Cut into equal parts and place 
one on the other in such a way that the fat and lean mix well. Tie 
together and wrap in cheesecloth. Put into a large stewpan, cover with 
cold water and cook slowly, allowing twenty minutes to each pound, 
and a half hour extra. When tender, drain. Have ready an earthenware 
crock, put the beef in, opening the cloth so that it will lie smoothly. 
Arrange the fat and lean as you desire. Cover with a bf^ard half an 
inch thick, and place a weight on it. Set in a cool place until the next 
day. Take off weight and board, turn out on a large platter, garnish 
with parsley or cress and small radishes, and cut crosswise in small 
strips. 

HUNGARIAN GOULASH.— Cut about two pounds of flank steak 
into small squares and an onion into pieces, and cook both in a pan with 
a little butter a few moments, but not long enough to take much color. 
Place a layer of the meat in a flat bottomed kettle of good size. Over 
this put a layer of the onions, and so on until all the meat is used, and 
as many onions as desired. Add enough cold water to cover the upper 
layer of meat. Put over the fire and bring to a boil. Allow two cup- 
fuls of canned or sliced tomatoes to each quart of the meat and onion 
mixture, and when they have reached the boiling point (on no account 
before), pour the tomatoes over the mixture, but do not stir. Now push 
the kettle back on the stove where it will simply bubble on the side, 
not boil. Simmer two hours. Have ready peeled some small potatoes 
of uniform size, and put into the kettle, pushing the meat and onions 
gently to one side to make room for them. The contents of the kettle 
must not be stirred more than absolutely necessary. As soon as the 
potatoes are done, which will be in about twenty minutes, serve. 

MOCK DUCK. — Have a large cut of round steak at least two 
inches thick. Place on the meat board and spread with a forcemeat 
made from two cups bread crumbs, a half cup butter, a small onion. 



MEATS 37 

chopped; a tablespoonful salt and pepper, and cloves to season. The 
Germans like a half cup seeded raisins added to this. Roll the meat 
about the filling and secure with strips of cotton cloth. Flour well all 
over, then brown in drippings or olive oil, turning from side to side 
until evenly browned all over. Now add to the stewpan or dripping 
pan, as you elect to cook your duck, some good broth or rice stock, 
flavoring it with a few slices of onion, a bay leaf and any other season- 
ings desired. Cook on the back of the stove or in the oven until the 
meat is tender. Take from the pan and place on a hot platter. Skim 
the fat from the surface of the sauce remaining in the pan, add a little 
flour to thicken and chili, vinegar or lemon juice to season. Strain over 
the meat and serve with a garnish of cooked spaghetti. 

TRIPE A LA LYONNAISE.— In whatever way tripe is to be. 
cooked, the preliminary treatment is the same. It comes to us from 
the butcher already boiled or pickled. It should then be thoroughly 
washed and soaked in salt and water, washed again, then put into water 
and simmered a short time until perfectly tender. When cold it may be 
prepared in any way desired. For cooking a la Lyonnaise, cut in long, 
fine strips about an inch in width. Put into a saucepan three table- 
spoonfuls olive oil, and when hot add two tablespoonfuls white onions 
cut in thin slices. Cook to a delicate golden color. Add the tripe. 
Cook slowly fifteen minutes, season with salt, pepper, a dash cayenne, 
a tablespoonful parsley and a tablespoonful tomato conserve. Serve 
with grated cheese. Both cheese and conserve can be purchased in the 
Italian quarter most reasonably. The conserve comes in little tin cans 
and keeps well after being opened. A spoonful is quite sufficient for 
ordinary seasoning. Tripe is also delicious served with bacon. Fry 
thin slices of bacon until crisp. Take from the pan and put where it 
will keep hot. Have the tripe cut in pieces ready for serving. Sprinkle 
with salt and pepper, roll in flour or cornmeal and brown quickly in the 
hot fat. Serve with the bacon. 

IRISH STEW. — Use for this the ribs and neck of mutton, cut in 
pieces. Put in a frying pan with a little hot water at first, until the 
fat begins to try out, then brown in its own fat. Cut in dice some car- 
rots, turnips and potatoes, keeping the latter separate. Add the car- 
rots and turnips to the meat, together with a sliced onion, two stalks 
of celery, cut in small pieces, and a cup of canned tomato. 

Add boiling water to cover and cook gently about two hours or until 
tender. About twenty minutes before serving put in a pint of diced 
potato and two tablespoonfuls of minced parsley. When done add a 
little green pepper, cut in fine strips, thicken with flour diluted with cold 
water to make a thin paste, season with salt and pepper and serve with 
or without dumplings. The latter may be baked the same as biscuit 
or made in this way: — Sift together two cupfuls of flour, three level tea- 
spoonfuls of baking powder and a half a teaspoonful of salt. Rub in a 
tablespoonful of butter, using the tips of the fingers, then add seven- 



38 MEATS 

eighths of a cup of milk, mixing quickly with a knife. Drop by table- 
spoonfuls in a perforated pie tin or buttered steamer, set over the stew, 
cover tightly and steam without uncovering for twelve minutes. 

BREAST OF LAMB STUFFED.— Have the butcher remove all the 
bones from a forequarter of lamb, or do it yourself, using a good sharp 
pointed knife and cutting along the bone under the meat until you can 
pull it out. Wipe carefully and stuff with a dressing of well seasoned 
bread crumbs. Roll tightly and secure with a string. Put a generous 
piece of butter or a couple tablespoonfuls of olive oil in a frying pan and 
when hot lay the lamb in it and turn until browned all over. Then 
transfer to a dripping pan with a half cupful boiling water. Dredge 
with flour and season well with salt and pepper, cover closely and bake 
slowly. Or, if you prefer, you can steam the rolled breast until partially 
done, then put into the oven to finish cooking and browning. 

SCOTCH STEW.— For this use three pounds lamb or mutton from 
the forequarter. Cut the lean meat in inch pieces, discarding skin and 
fat. It is the skin on the mutton that gives it the woolly taste so many 
object to. Put into a kettle, cover with three pints cold water, bring 
quickly to a boil and skim. Add a half cup barley that has been soaked 
in cold water over night and cook gently for an hour and a half. Put 
the bones into a second kettle, cover with cold water, heat slowly to the 
boiling point; skim and cook an hour and a half. Strain and add the 
stock to the meat. Fry five minutes in butter or beef drippings a quar- 
ter cup each of turnip and carrot cut in dice, and an onion thinly sliced. 
Add to the stew with salt and pepper to season, and cook until the vege- 
tables are tender. Thicken with two tablespoonfuls of flour rubbed 
smooth with a talilespoonful of butter, and just before serving throw in 
a tablespoonful of minced parsley. 

BREADED LAMB CHOPS.— French the chops by trimming off 
the strip of fat and skin on the long end of the bone. They should be 
thick and juicy. Wipe with a damp cloth. Have ready on a plate an 
egg beaten slightly and mixed with a tablespoonful of warm water, salt 
and pepper to season. On another plate have some fine dry sifted bread 
crumbs, also seasoned with salt and pepper and a tiny bit of fine minced 
parsley. Have in readiness also a kettle of smoking hot fat. Dip each 
chop in the egg, both sides, then in the crumbs, and two at a time 
plunge into the smoking fat. If more are put in at a time it cools the 
fat too much and the chops soak grease. Draw to the edge of the fire 
and cook from six to eight minutes. 

MOCK VENISON. — This is a favorite way of preparing mutton in 
the chafing dish. The loin is the portion utilized, making an excellent 
substitute for venison. For four loin chops you will require one leve4 
tablespoonful of butter, one-quarter cup of port wine and a dessert- 
spoonful of currant jelly. Let the butter get very hot, brown, but not 



MEATS 89 

burned. Trim the fat from the chops, sprinkle lightly with salt and 
pepper and put in the browned butter quickly. As soon as slightly 
browned add the wine and jelly, put on the cover of the dish and let 
simmer from six to ten minutes, according to the thickness of the chops. 
If the chops are cooked beyond the pink stage they become tough. As 
soon as taken up add as much more wine and two tablespoonfuls of 
bread crumbs to the gravy remaining in the pan and serve with the 
chops. A relish of currant jelly accompanies this very good imitatioa 
of venison. 

FRICASSEE OF LAMB.— Cut up enough cold lamb to make one 
quart diced. Season with salt and pepper, put into a baking dish and 
pour over the meat a sauce made as follows: — Put one tablespoonful of 
butter in a frying pan and when hot add a tablespoonful of flour and 
cook until brown. Then add one scant pint of water and when it boils, 
up season with salt, pepper and a little onion juice and pour over the 
meat. Set in the oven and cook for twenty minutes, covered. To make 
the dumplings, sift together one pint of flour, one-half teaspoonful of 
salt, one teaspoonful of sugar and a teaspoonful and a half of baking 
powder. Repeat three times. Rub into the sifted mixture a half tables- 
spoonful of butter, and then wet with one small cup of milk. Roll out 
and cut into very small biscuit. Place on top the meat and bake twelve 
or fifteen minutes in a very hot oven. Serve at once. 

ROAST LEG OF MUTTON.— Select a large leg of tender muttoa 
and have it sent two or three days before you wish to serve it. Wipe 
with a damp cloth and rub over with a mixture of spices, using a half 
teaspoonful each cloves, pepper, ginger, cinnamon and powdered mint. 
Rub thoroughly and hang the mutton in a cold place for a couple of 
days. 

When ready to cook put into a good sized dripping pan, add four 
sliced onions, a cup of seedless raisins and two quarts of hot cider. The 
cider must be sweet. Cover the mutton with oiled paper and then with 
another pan and put in a hot oven. As soon as the meat is browned 
reduce the heat and then cook slowly, basting frequently with the cider. 
When about half done add to the cider a teaspoonful of salt. When 
ready to serve put the mutton on a hot platter, arrange the raisins about 
it, boil the cider down quickly to a thick, rich sauce, strain and serve in 
a sauce boat. 

GRILLED BREAST OF MUTTON.— Put the meat into a sauce- 
pan of salted water and simmer until about half done. Take out, score, 
sprinkle with salt and pepper and brush over with yolk of egg. Cover 
with bread crumbs and finely minced fresh mint, or dry mint powdered, 
and broil over a clear fire until cooked through and a light brown. Serve 
with tomato sauce or a sauce made by cooking a pint of gravy with a 
minced onion and a tablespoonful minced pickles. Cook ten minutes,, 
thicken with a tablespoonful each flour and butter rubbed together, put 
into a hot gravy boat and serve. 



40 MEATS 

ROAST SADDLE OF MUTTON.— The saddle of lamb or mutton 
is simply the loins cut off before the carcass is split open down the back. 
If a large saddle is used the tail is left on. If medium sized, it will roast 
in an hour and a half. If large, it will require two hours. Take the skin 
from the top of the fat and kidneys from the under side. Cut the suet 
on top in points and raise a little to make a decoration. Roll the flaps 
under and tie in a well rounded shape. It should first be exposed to 
intense heat until browned, then seasoned with salt and pepper, basted 
frequently with its own drippings and cooked rare. In carving, cut 
slices the length of the saddle and parallel to the backbone, then slip 
the knife under and separate from the ribs. After carving the top, turn 
and cut the tenderloin in the same way. Serve with red or black cur- 
rant jelly, and if desired a cucumber sauce made in this way: — 

Peel a couple of large cucumbers, slice and place in cold water, 
lightly salted. Peel and slice a medium sized white onion and put with 
the cucumber in a small stewpan, with gravy to cover. Simmer gently 
for fifteen or twenty minutes, season with salt and pepper and add a 
tablespoonful lemon juice. Garnish the saddle with cucumbers and serve 
the sauce in a boat. 

HARICOT MUTTON.— Cut three pounds lamb or mutton into inch 
pieces, trimming off the fat. Season with salt and pepper. Put a table- 
spoonful butter or drippings in a saucepan over the fire and when hot 
add one finely sliced onion and a half clove of garlic. Cook two or 
three minutes, add the meat, toss for a few moments, cover and cook 
twenty minutes, stirring frequently. Add a half cup boiling water and 
simmer gently until the meat is tender. Meantime melt two tablespoon- 
fuls butter in a saucepan, put in two tablespoonfuls flour and when 
blended add a quart of meat broth made from the bones, a bouquet of 
herbs and a half dozen small onions. Cook ten minutes, then add to 
the meat, cover and cook half an hour longer. When ready to serve 
remove the bouquet and every particle of fat, put the meat in the centre 
of a hot platter and dress with one pint each cooked string or lima beans 
and the same amount of carrot dice. Peas may also be added or sub- 
stituted for either vegetable. 

CROWN ROAST OF LAMB.— This roast, sometimes known as 
Philadelphia roast, consists of rib chops trimmed and skewered to- 
gether. Put into a small dripping pan, meat side down, season with salt 
and pepper and roast in a quick oven just long enough to brown prop- 
erly. Fill in the centre when serving with riced potato or green peas. 
Serve with mint sauce or mint jelly. To make the jelly, pour two cups 
of boiling water over a bunch of freshly bruised mint leaves, then sim- 
mer gently for fifteen or twenty minutes. Strain, and to a pint of liquid 
add one package of currant, lemon, or any of the patent jellies, or a half 
package of gelatine that has been soaked for twenty minutes in a little 
cold water reserved from the original amount measured out. Add sugar 
.to sweeten and currant or lemon juice to make a pleasing acid. Stir 



MEATS 41 

the softened gelatine until dissolved, and set away to cool. As it begins 
to thicken put in two tablespoonfuls of capers. Mould in tiny individual 
cups or one large mould and garnish with tiny sprigs of mint. This is 
nice to serve with any form of roast lamb or mutton. 

BREAKFAST BACON.— The secret of cooking breakfast bacon so 
that it will be dry, crisp and a delicate light brown consists first in cut- 
ting it thin, then in having it ice cold when put into the frying pan if to 
be fried. The pan should be hot, yet not red hot, and care is necessary 
to keep the rashers cooking evenly; a slice of lean needs to be turned 
over on to the fatter part to keep it from getting too dry. In doing 
small quantities it is well to put a little bacon fat in the pan. Save what 
is left each day when frying and pour into a little jar to keep it. Shake 
the pan rapidly while the bacon is cooking and toss over to crisp into 
little rolls. While most people find frying the handiest way to cook 
bacon in small quantities, there is no better or easier way with a gas 
stove than to cook it in the oven. Cut the rashers with mathematical 
precision, and the bacon should be so chilled that it is very firm-and can 
be sliced wafer thin, and lay the slices in a sheet iron baking tin or 
spider, one slice overlapping the other so that each strip of lean rests 
on the fat of the rasher underneath. Put in the oven and leave until 
cooked. An appetizing addition to the dish of breakfast bacon is green 
peppers. Select firm green peppers and cut into rings, removing all 
the seeds. Soak for twenty minutes in salted ice water. Drain, pat dry 
on a clean cloth and fry in the pan in which the bacon has fried crisp. 
Keep the bacon hot meanwhile. When the peppers are tender heap 
them up in the centre of a small hot platter and arrange the slices of 
feacon around them. 

ROAST PIG. — Get a plump little pig, from three to four weeks old. 
Wash thoroughly in cold water, inside and out, taking special care to 
see that the eye sockets, ears and throat are perfectly clean. Rinse in 
cold water and wipe dry. Rub over the inside with salt, pepper and a 
little sifted sage. Make a dressing, using a quart fine bread crumbs, 
three tablespoonfuls melted butter, a large apple, chopped, and one small 
onion, a few sprigs parsley minced, salt and pepper to season and milk 
to moisten. Fill the body of the pig with this dressing, pressing full, 
then drawing the skin together with a coarse needle and thread. Roll 
the ears and legs in oiled paper, bending the fore feet under the body 
and the hind feet backward. Skewer in place. Put a corn cob or bit 
of hard wood between the jaws to keep them open. Put the pig in a 
dripping pan, rub the skin with olive oil or butter, sprinkle with salt and 
pepper and dredge with flour. Place in a brisk oven. Baste for a time 
with hot water and melted butter or olive oil, then later with the drip- 
pings. The easiest way to do this is with a swab of white cloth tied 
to a skewer. When the pig seems tender, which will be in from two to 
two and a half hours, remove the oiled paper from the legs and ears 
and cook about fifteen minutes longer. Arrange on a large platter a bed 



42 MEATS 

of watercress, or celery tips, lift the pig tenderly on it, remove the stick 
from the mouth, replacing it with a small rosy apple or a lemon, put a 
necklace of cranberries, popcorn or parsley about the neck, and serve 
with gravy and tart apple sauce. 

The stuffing may be varied by using mashed potato instead of the 
bread. Cold slaw, cranberry jelly, brussels sprouts, sweet potatoes or 
potato croquettes are all appropriate to serve with roast pig. 

PIGS' FEET. — These make a delicious dish for breakfast or as an 
entree. They usually come from the butcher's already boiled. Split the 
feet and make sure they have been properly cleaned. Season with salt 
and pepper, roll in olive oil, then in fine bread crumbs and broil over a 
clear fire, allowing four minutes to a side. Or dip in batter and fry in 
olive oil or hot butter. Serve with sauce piqUant or maitre d'hotel but- 
ter. They may also be boned by dropping in boiling water for four or 
five minutes, then drain, wipe, season with salt, pepper, lemon juice, dip 
in beaten egg and crumbs and fry in hot fat. 

PORK PIES. — Get two pounds lean pork trimmings and cut into 
inch pieces. Season vyith a teaspoonful and a half salt and a teaspoon- 
ful pepper. Place in a saucepan and cover with boiling water. Add two 
onions, medium size, cover and cook gently until tender. Drain off the 
broth from the meat. Put into a frying pan a tablespoonful each butter 
and flour, and when bubbly add two cupfuls of the broth in which the 
meat was cooked. Season with a little lemon juice and cook until the 
sauce is smooth and thickened. Add the meat and set aside to cool. 
Make a good crust, using two cups flour and one cup lard, a teaspoon- 
ful salt and cold water to make into a paste. Butter small earthen 
bowls or pie plates, dust with flour, line with crust and fill with the meat, 
but no gravy. Cover with paste, leaving a hole in the centre for the 
escape of steam and bake in a medium hot oven. Keep the gravy hot. 
When the pies are baked put a small funnel in the hole in the centre of 
the crust and pour in as much as the pies will hold. Another way is to 
put the meat in bowls without any under crust, then cover with a crust 
and bake. 

SAUSAGE. — While sausage is not to be commended for a steady 
diet, good home made or pure commercial sausage is not an unwhole- 
some breakfast dish on a cool morning, while cooked over the camp or 
picnic fire it is hardly surpassed. 

Link sausages are nice covered with water and boiled a few moments, 
then grilled over the fire or browned in the oven. 

Another appetizing way is to pick the sausages apart, then cook in 
cream sauce, like dried beef. Sausage and onion make a good combina- 
tion. Allow a tablespoonful of chopped onion to a pound of sausage. 
Brown in a frying pan with the sausage and sprinkle over it when serv- 
ing. Fried apples or apple fritters are also excellent accompaniments to 
fried sausage. To bake sausage take a roll of the country sausage and 



MEATS 48 

place in a dripping pan. Dust ligiitly with flour and make a wall of 
potato around it, peeling the potatoes, cutting them in half and standing 
the cut side against the sausage. Bake in a moderate oven until the 
potatoes are tender and brown and the sausage well done. Use the 
drippings from the sausage for a cream gravy to go with the sausage 
and potato. 

BROILED HAM.— Have the ham sliced rather thick. Freshen 
slightly by soaking in ice water over night or by parboiling it in enough 
water to cover. Wipe dry, place between the bars of a gridiron and 
brown slightly on both sides. Season with pepper and more salt if 
needed, and serve with orange or apple fritters. Fried eggs may also 
accompany it if desired. To make the fritters slice oranges or apples 
in thick slices, from which all peeling and cores have been removed. 
Make a fritter batter, allowing to one cup sifted flour a teaspoonful bak- 
ing powder and a pinch of salt, two beaten eggs, a quarter cup sugar (or 
not according to taste), and a half cup milk. 

Fry in hot ham fat or a kettle of deep lard, and as soon as brown 
drain on butcher's paper and dredge lightly with powdered sugar. 

BAKED HAM WITH CIDER SAUCE.— This is especially delight- 
ful for buffet luncheons or high teas. Select a ham weighing from seven 
to nine pounds, scrape the outside, then scrub with a clean brush and 
rinse well. Place in a good sized kettle, cover with cold water and set 
over the fire. When it reaches the boiling point skim thoroughly, then 
push back where it will simmer for a couple of hours. Take from the 
fire and let the meat remain in the liquor in which it was cooked until 
just lukewarm. Take out the ham and peel off the skin, which should 
come off easily. Place in a baking pan and bake in a moderate oven, 
basting frequently at first with hard cider sweetened with brown sugar 
and afterward with the drippings from the pan. 

When the ham is baked prepare a dressing of one cupful rolled bread 
crumbs or cracker dust, a teaspoonful dry mustard, two teaspoonfuls 
brown sugar, one beaten egg and cider to make a paste. Spread over 
the ham, dot with cloves and bake long enough to color a rich brown. 
To make the sauce put into a small saucepan over the fire a level table- 
spoonful each butter and flour, and when melted and frothy add a cup 
of highly seasoned stock. Cook ten minutes, then add a cup of cider, 
strain and serve. 

LIVERWURST. — Quite familiar is the old Southern dish of liver, 
wurst. Take six pigs' haslets (heart, liver, &c.), look over carefully, 
removing all imperfect parts. Put into a pot of water lightly salted and 
cook until tender. Chop fine. In another pot put about five pounds of 
fat pork. Boil until tender, take off the' rind, chop fine and add to the 
liver. Throw away the water in which the haslets were cooked, as it 
is not fit for food, but save the water in which the pork was cooked. Put 
the chopped mixture in the water with a dozen onions, chopped fine. 



44 MEATS 

Cook until the onions are tender. Season with powdered sage, salt and 
pepper, and then sift in meal and cook until thick enough to fry. Pour 
into moulds and when cold slice and fry. 

SCRAPPLE. — Use for this the head of a young pig, with heart, liver, 
kidneys and all the lean trimmings. Do not use the fat pieces. Take 
from the head as much of the jaw bone as possible, with all the teeth, 
and cut off the gristly snout and ears. Clean thoroughly and put into 
a large saucepan with the heart, liver, kidneys and lean meat. Cover 
with cold water and boil until all the bones in the head fall apart. Strain 
off the liquor into another pot and set back on the stove to keep warm. 
Pick over the meat, removing all the bits of bone and gristle. Return 
the meat to the strained liquor and again place over the fire, seasoning 
with salt, black pepper and sage. Now stir into the liquor cornmeal and 
buckwheat in the proportion of two of cornmeal to one of buckwheat 
and cook until the entire mass is about the consistency of mush. Pour 
into deep pans and put in the cellar to cool. This is a cold weather dish, 
but is excellent in a northern camp for the summer. 

SALT PORK AND CREAM GRAVY.— This is just a plain coun- 
try dish, but one which almost every one likes. Slice salt pork thin and 
put in a frying pan with water to cover. Cook until the slices of pork 
look pinkish and the water has evaporated. Roll each slice in a little 
flour, shaking off all that is superfluous, and return to the spider. Fry 
until crispy brown on both sides, watching closely that they do not 
blacken. Take up the slices of pork on to a hot platter, then stir into 
the fat remaining a tablespoonful flour. Stir until well blended, then ■ 
pour in a cup of milk. Stir again until smooth and thickened, add a half 
cup cream or more milk, with pepper to season, and pour over the pork. 
This cream gravy is specially delicious with buckwheat cakes. 

ROAST SHOULDER OF PORK.— Have the bone removed and 
the space filled with a dressing of Sage and onion, or one similar to that 
used in the roast pig. Roll up and secure with a string. Place in a 
dripping pan. Rub salt, pepper and the grated rind of lemon over the 
scraped top and squeeze the juice of a lemon over it. Bake with an even 
heat, basting frequently. The meat must be well done to be good. 
Serve apple sauce or prunes with this. The Swedes make a dressing 
for fresh pork roast of prunes and rice. Soak a quarter pound of prunes 
in cold water over night. Cover with boiling water and cook until nearly 
tender. Blanch one cup rice, add prune juice and water to makp three 
cups in all, add a teaspoonful salt and boil until the rice is tender. Add 
the prunes stoned and cut in pieces. A dozen chestnuts or butternuts 
may be added for variety. 

CALF'S BRAINS.— Wash the brains thoroughly, rejecting all the 
small membranes. Place in a quart of cold water to which a table- 
spoonful of vinegar has been added, soak for twenty minutes or half an 



MEATS 45 

hour, then drain. Drop into boiling water and cook three minutes — 
no longer. Pour off the water- and replace with cold water. After this 
preliminary treatment they are ready for use in any way desired. Put 
on the ice until ready to cook. To bread them, cut each portion of 
brain in half, season with salt and pepper, dip in egg, then cracker crumbs 
and fry in butter or olive oil until browned on each side. Take up care- 
fully so as not to break them and serve with a tomato or brown butter 
sauce. Or brush over well with melted butter or oil, roll in seasoned 
bread crumbs, place each piece on a slice of bacon and bake in a hot 
oven for half an hour. Serve with sauce piquant. The blanched brains 
may also be cut in inch cubes, dipped in fritter batter and fried in hot, 
deep fat; be browned in butter and served on a bed of boiled spaghetti 
covered with tomato sauce and sprinkled with Parmesan cheese; or, 
cut in small pieces, put in scallop shells or ramekins, covered with 
tomato sauce, grated cheese and buttered crumbs and baked until 
slightly colored. 

ROAST SHOULDER OF VEAL.— Have the bones removed from 
the shoulder, then fill with a good forcemeat and sew up. Season the 
meat with a large tablespoonful of salt and a teaspoonful of pepper 
mixed, rubbing in thoroughly. Brush over with olive oil, lay in a roast- 
ing pan, place in a hot oven and roast, basting with olive oil and hot 
water until a light brown. If preferred, thin slices of larding pork may 
be put on top of the roast to furnish the necessary fat for the basting. 
When colored, add a cupful of boiling water to the pan, then continue 
to roast and baste until the meat is tender. This will take about two 
hours. It is a good, plan to invert a pan over the roast during the last 
hour to keep the steam in and the meat from becoming too dry. When 
ready to serve, take the roast on a hot platter, remove all fat from the 
gravy, thicken slightly with a tablespoonful of cornstarch or flour stirred 
smooth in a little cold water, cook a few moments, add culinary bouquet 
to color a rich brown, then strain and serve with the roast. 

VEAL POT PIE. — Take about three pounds lean veal from the 
shoulder or other inexpensive cut that has but little fat about it. Dredge 
with salt, pepper and flour. Put a little pork drippings, olive oil or 
butter in the bottom of a round bottomed iron pot, and when hot turn 
in the meat and let it brpwn. When well colored, add boiling water to 
cover and a small sliced onion and let it simmer a couple of hours, or 
until thoroughly done. Then prepare the dumplings in this way: — Sift 
together two cupfuls flour, a teaspoonful and a half baking powder and 
a half teaspoonful salt. Add a cupful milk, mix quickly and drop the 
batter in large spoonfuls on the meat. Take care not to let them fall 
into the gravy, else they will be heavy. Cover closely and cook steadily 
ten minutes or longer; but do not uncover under ten minutes. Arrange 
around the edge of a hot platter, dish the meat in the centre, add flour 
to the gravy, enough to thicken, cook a couple of minutes, strain over 
the meat and serve immediately. If preferred, the dumplings may be 



46 MEATS 

mixed the same as baking powder biscuit; baked, then split and used 
■with the meat and gravy in the same way. 

BRAISED VEAL. — For this use either the fricandeau or prime piece 
of a leg of veal which weighs from three to four pounds, the shoulder 
"boned and stuffed or the breast. Most of the bones of the breast will 
not need to be removed, as they become tender in the cooking. Brais- 
ing is the ideal way of cooking veal. The old time braising was done 
in a- regular braising kettle with a cover which held coals, thus cooking 
"both top and bottom at the same time. To-day nearly all braising is 
done in the oven in shallow pans, with deep, close fitting covers. The 
meat, seasoned or stuffed, is put in the pan, covered with hot stock and 
an abundance of herbs, seasoning, the vegetables, like young onions and 
carrots, covered closely, then braised with frequent bastings until brown, 
juicy and thoroughly cooked. The time required is usually about three 
hours. A good forcemeat for stuffing veal is made by running through 
a meat chopper a pound lean veal and a quarter pound sausage meat. 
Soak the crumbs of a half loaf of bread in cold water, then squeeze dry. 
Add a tablespoonful salt, a teaspoonful pepper, two onions chopped fine 
and fried in a little olive oil or butter, and parsley, sage or thyme to 
season to taste. Stuff the breast or shoulder with this mixture and tie up. 

CALF'S EARS. — Scald in boiling water, rub with a coarse cloth, 
drain and cook for three hours in stock or water seasoned with onion, 
salt and bay leaves. When tender take out, slit the top of the ear, and, 
having made a rich cream sauce of two tablespoonfuls each butter and 
flour, a cupful of milk or stock, with salt, pepper and nutmeg to season, 
simmer the ears in this for an hour. When ready to serve stir in the 
yolks of two eggs and a little lemon juice and dish on toast, with a 
:garnish of sliced hard boiled eggs. When a more elaborate dish is 
desired, extend the slit in the ear and garnish with trufHes or mushrooms. 

CALF'S HEAD ENTIRE.— When the head comes from the market 
already scraped and cleaned all that is necessary to do is to scald it and 
rub with a coarse cloth to take off any remaining hairs. Have ready a 
saucepan large enough to hold the head, which should be tied in a piece 
of thick muslin. Cover completely with boiling water. Let it boil up 
once or twice, skim thoroughly, then add salt, pepper, parsley, a little 
onion and carrot, a spice bag or, failing that, a bay leaf, two or three 
cloves and a little marjoram. Then push back on the range, where it 
can simmer gently for five or six hours. When done remove the muslin, 
lay the head on a white napkin with a garnish of lemon and parsley, trim 
the ears so they look shapely and put a lemon in the mouth. Serve with 
sauce piquant. Save all the broth in which it was cooked, as it makes 
a thick jelly suitable for soups and sauces. If preferred \he head may 
be boiled entire, then boned and the meat cut in small pieces. Put a 
cup of the stock over the fire and when hot thicken with a tablespoonful 
■of flour stirred smooth with a tablespoonful of butter. Season with salt 



MEATS 47 

and pepper, add two heaping cupfuls of the meat to the stock and cook 
for five minutes. Beat the yolks of two eggs with a cupful sweet cream, 
stir into the stock and take at once from the fire. Add two tablespoon- 
fuls Madeira and a squeeze of lemon juice and serve with baked pota- 
toes and hot raised biscuit. Prepared in this way it is an excellent sub- 
stitute for terrapin, which it closely resembles in taste. 

VEAL CROQUETTES.— Mince fine one cupful of r.old veal, add a 
half cupful of cooked sweetbreads, also cold and minced, one cupful of 
cooked rice, a few drops of onion juice, and minced parsley, celery or 
thyme to season. Moisten with a little rich veal stock, and heat over 
the fire. Add salt and pepper and one beaten egg yolk, cook for one or 
two minutes and turn out on a dish to cool. 

When firm and cold, form into croquettes, pear shaped, stick a clove 
in the small end, to simulate the stem, roll lightly in bread crumbs, then 
in beaten egg to which a tablespoonful of milk has been added, again 
crumb and fry in smoking hot fat until a golden brown. 

VEAL GOULASH. — Fry a tablespoonful chopped onion to a golden 
brown in a tablespoonful olive oil or butter. Add a pound lean veal cut 
in inch pieces. Season with salt and paprika, sprinkle with a tablespoon- 
ful flour and stir until slightly browned. Then add one cupful stock or 
water, cover and simmer for an hour. Add one cupful diced raw pota- 
toes and cook fifteen minutes longer. Add a tablespoonful minced pars- 
ley or green peppers, cook five minutes more, then serve. 

VEAL A LA MARENGO.— Take three pounds lean, juicy veal, 
freed from fat and bones. The neck is particularly suitable for this 
purpose. Cut in cubes about two inches in size. Put in the bottom of 
a pot two tablespoonfuls of oil or pork fat drippings, and when hot add 
a sliced onion and cook a golden brown. Then add the veal seasoned 
with salt and pepper and dredged lightly with flour and fry until well 
browned. Watch closely and turn as required. When all the pieces 
are brown, pour three cupfuls good white stock over the meat with a 
half cup strained tomatoes and a soup bag to season, or a little celery, 
parsley, thyme, cloves and bay leaf. Simmer gently for three-quarters 
of an hour, then dish on a hot platter with a circle of heart shaped 
pieces of fried or toasted bread about it. Skim the gravy, then thicken 
and strain over meat and bread. Serve with rice and green peas. 

FRICANDEAU OF VEAL LARDED.— This is a thick cut of three 
or four pounds from the leg. Remove all skin and tendon and pound 
with a potato masher until almost as tender as pulp. This is the French 
method of treating veal and is an essential thing to do. Beef, on the 
other hand, is ruined by the pounding process, which breaks the fibres 
and lets out the juices. After the pounding, form into a loaflike shape 
and lard the upper part with delicate strips of fat and salt pork. Season 
with salt and pepper, sear in hot fat, sprinkle with just a suspicion of 



48 MEATS 

powdered sugar and roast in a rather cool oven. When ready to serve 
garnish with carrots boiled or fried and cut in long strips, peas and 
potato balls. 

CALVES' TAILS.— Cut three or four tails in two inch lengths, 
then parboil ten minutes. Drain and put into a stewpan, cover with 
water or stock, adding a quarter pound bacon from which the rind has 
been removed. Cook slowly until the tails are tender and the broth re- 
duced nearly half. Slice the bacon and arrange around a mound of 
cooked spinach, well seasoned. Make a circle of the tails around outer 
circumference of the dish, thicken the broth with flour, color brown 
with culinary bouquet or browned flour, season with a little lemon and 
pour over the whole. 

SWEETBREADS.— The first treatment of sweetbreads is always 
the same, no matter in what form they are to be served. When they 
come from the market soak in cold water for two hours, then boil five 
minutes in fresh water, drain and drop again in cold water. Now wipe, 
pull off the windpipes and fibres, after which they may be prepared in 
any way preferred. If you wish them creamed, cook until tender, then 
flake or cut in small pieces. Put a tablespoonful of butter in a frying 
pan, add a scant tablespoonful of flour, and as soon as blended add a 
cupful of rich milk or cream, with salt and pepper to taste. Pour over 
delicately browned slices of toast. Or fry the sweetbreads and an equal 
quantity of mushrooms in butter, then blend with cream, slightly thick- 
ened. In broiling, sweetbreads after being blanched are dipped in oil, 
salted and peppered, then broiled over a clear fire. Sweetbreads and 
ia|con go excellently together. After the preliminary treatment fry in 
jfitton fat and serve with slices of fried bacon and cucumbers. Sweet- 
l^eads and peas are another happy combination. Fry slices of the sweet- 
breads brown in olive oil or butter, arrange them on a hot dish in a 
circle around a mound of hot, well seasoned peas. For a curry cut the 
sweetbreads into dice shaped pieces and cook tender in a little white 
stock of chicken or veal, to which a few slices of onion have been added 
as seasoning. When tender remove the onion, thicken the broth slightly, 
add a teaspoonful of curry powder and a few drops of lemon juice, then 
serve very hot. 



CHOU FARCI OR STUFFED CABBAGE.— This is a very popu- 
lar dish in England and on the Continent and finds appreciation by 
many who would not eat cabbage in any other way. Select a firm 
head of cabbage, green or red, pick clean and lay in salted water for an 
hour, pulling the leaves apart, but not breaking them off. Drain, put 
into boiling salted water and cook fifteen minutes. Drain and cool. 
Have ready a forcemeat made of a pint Italian chestnuts mixed with an 
equal quantity sausage meat, mashed potato and sausage, or a cup and 
a half chopped roast beef, mutton or veal, with half as much fine crumbs 
and weak stock to moisten and herbs to season. Cut out the stalk of 
the cabbage, leaving a cavity large enough for the forcemeat. Pack in, 
wrap the cabbage in a crocheted net made for the purpose, or a piece 
of cheesecloth, then simmer slowly in a saucepan with a cup of broth 
well seasoned. Cook for an hour and a half, tightly covered, remove the 
wrapping, lay the cabbage on a heated platter and pour over it a gooj 
brown sauce. A variation is to put the stuffing between" the leave&jo! 
the cabbage as well as in th^ centre, filling all the interstices. 



FRENCH ARTICHOKES, COLD.— A French artichoke to be 
eaten cold with French salad dressing should have the leaves left on, 
the stalk trimmed off close to the bottom, then be plunged into salted 
boiling water and cooked until the leaves pull off readily and the little 
cup or fond at the base is tender. Drain and chill. When ready to 
serve have the dressing in little sauceplates at each plate. The correct 
way to eat the artichoke is to pull off the leaves one by one, dipping the 
flesh end in the sauce and nibbling off the little bits of flesh. When the 
leaves begin to be flabby and without meat at the end pull out all with 
the bristly heart. This leaves the little fond of the vegetable, which 
is eaten by pouring the rest of the dressing into it, then separating into 
mouthfuls. A delightful introduction to a course dinner on a hot night 
is the heart of a cooked artichoke cut with a cooky cutter to give it a 
fancy edge, then thoroughly chilled. Fill the cup of the fond with 
caviare sprinkled with finely minced parsley, and the yolk of a hard 
boiled egg, pressed through a ricer or frosting bag in star or flower 
design. A few drops of lemon juice gives the needed zest. 

49 



50 VEGETABLES 

CANAPES OF ASPARAGUS.— This makes an exceptionally dainty 
entree. To prepare the canapes, take slices of stale bread about two 
inches thick and stamp into meat rounds with a biscuit cutter. With 
a smaller cutter mark a circle in the centre of each and scoop out the 
crumbs to the depth of an inch. This must be carefully done so as to 
leave a firm bottom and sides. Beat an egg and add to it a cupful of 
milk. Arrange the canapes in a shallow dish and pour the milk and 
egg mixture over them. This amount will make five or six canapes. 
Let them lie in this just two or three moments, then take up carefully 
and slip into a kettle of boiling lard. They must not be crowded. They 
will turn a golden brown in just a moment and need to be carefully 
watched to prevent their getting too dark. . Take out with a skimmer 
and drain on soft paper. Cook the tender tops of a pint of asparagus, 
then drain well. Put into a saucepan two tablespoonfuls butter and one 
spoonful flour. When bubbly add a half cupful boiling water and let 
come to a boil. Add the cooked asparagus, the juice of half a lemon 
and a tablespoonful chopped parsley. Fill the canapes with this, arrange 
on a napkin or platter and garnish with slices of cut lemon and parsley 
or cress. 

STUFFED ARTICHOKES.— Trim oS about half an inch from the 
tops of the artichokes and cut off the leaves from the bottom. Wash 
thoroughly the rest of the vegetables, put into a saucepan with plenty 
of boiling salted water and cook until tender. Take out, drain, scoop 
put the fibrous insides and press perfectly dry. 

Put the tops of the leaves in a frying pan with two tablespoonfuls of 
olive oil and fry. Place in another frying pan three tablespoonfuls of 
chopped bacon, and as it fries out add two tablespoonfuls of flour. Put 
in a few minced herbs to season, then pour in a little broth to make a 
thick sauce. Cook five minutes. Season the artichoke cups with salt 
and pepper, fill with the cream dressing and cover the top of the cup 
with a thin slice of bacon, tying with a string to keep it in position. Put 
into a baking pan with a little gravy or broth and bake twenty-five 
minutes. Arrange the cooked leaves on a hot dish, remove bacon and 
string from the. artichoke cups, place on the cooked leaves and serve hot. 

JERUSALEM ARTICHOKES.— Great care is necessary in cooking 
Jerusalem artichokes, as, owing to the absence of starch, they do not 
become dry and mealy in the cooking like the potato. A nice way to 
prepare them is to cut in slices, boil in salted water until tender, but not 
too soft. It will take about twenty minutes. Drain and dry on a soft 
towel. Put a tablespoonful of butter inxa frying pan, add one onion 
sliced and cook until a light yellow, then put in the artichokes and toss 
until a delicate brown. Sprinkle with salt, pepper and minced parsley. 
Or wash and peel the 'chokes, cut in small cubes, then cook in boiling 
salted water, taking care not to overcook them. Put in a baking dish 
or individual ramekins, sprinkle on a layer of grated Parmesan cheese 
and cover with cream sauce. Put buttered crumbs over the top and bake 



VEGETABLES 51 

■until the crumbs are a golden, brown. The artichokes may also be 
cooked tender and added to a good white or cream sauce, or cooked in 
milk with a little onion, using a double boiler for the cooking and thick- 
ening with flour. They also make an excellent cream soup. 

DANDELION GREENS.— Pick over tender dandelion leaves, wash 
carefully through several waters, then throw into an abundance of boil- 
ing salted water and cook gently for fifteen minutes. Drain, turn cold 
water over them from the faucet, to chill and blanch. Drain again. 
Chop fine and when nearly ready to serve warm in a frying pan with 
butter, pepper and salt, and, if liked, a little nutmeg. Mound in a hot 
dish and slice two or three hard boiled eggs over them. Dandelion 
greens are also cooked with bacon. In this case cook the well cleaned 
leaves ten minutes in boiling salted water, then drain and return to the 
saucepan with fresh water and a pound of bacon allowed to a half peck 
dandelions. Add salt, pepper and a little onion, and boil gently until 
tender and nearly dry. Serve the greens on a hot platter with the 
bacon sliced and arranged around it. 

DANDELION SALAD. — For salad use the common dandelion 
blanched by growing through a depth of sandy soil or under earthen 
pots is preferred by many to the choicest cresses. Blanched in this way 
it is delightfully tender, crisp and white, without the bitter taste. Suc- 
cessive crops of this may be grown throughout the summer if not al- 
lowed to blossom. The tender green leaves of young field dandelions 
picked before the plant blossoms are also used for salad. To prepare 
for serving, wash several times in cold water, drain well, put the leaves 
in a dish and cut fine. Sprinkle with salt, cover and stand in a cool 
place for several hours. Then drain again. Mix six tablespoonfuls of 
oil with three of vinegar or lemon juice and a quarter teaspoonful of 
pepper. Pour over the leaves, toss well and serve. 

ASPARAGUS. — ^The French method of cooking asparagus is to im- 
merse the stalks tied up in a bundle in boiling salted water, allowing 
the tips to stand above the water, so as to steam tender while the 
tougher portions are boiling. Cook until tender but not broken, and 
serve with melted butter, white sauce or a Hollandaise sauce. A French 
woman eating asparagus takes a stalk at a time in her fingers, dips the 
head in the sauce provided and daintily nibbles down the stalk as far as 
it seems tender. In America it is usually served on buttered toast, each 
slice of toast being dipped into the asparagus liquid. 

The "up-State" method of cooking asparagus is preferred by many. 
Only the tender portions of the stalks are used, the tougher parts being 
reserved for the stock pot. Cut the tender portions of the stalks into 
half inch lengths and cook until tender in just enough boiling salted 
water to cover well. When tender — and it will not require more than 
twenty minutes — season them and the liquid in which they were cooked 
with salt and pepper, plenty of butter and cream or milk, and 



52 VEGETABLES 

serve on toast alone or in deep individual serving dishes. In this way 
the whole distinctive flavor of the vegetable is preserved. 

COLD ASPARAGUS.— There are many ways of treating cold 
asparagus, all of which are appetizing. With just a French dressing 
it is dainty and specially attractive on a hot day. With a little mustard 
added to the dressing, many like it still better. With a mayonnaise or 
sauce tartare it comes close to perfection. Again, lemon juice or simply 
salt is used with chilled asparagus. To be eaten cold, asparagus must 
always be well drained and perfectly chilled. 

EGG PLANT, TURKISH STYLE.— Cut the egg plant in slices, 
peel, cover with salt and put a weight on top of the piled up slices tc 
extract the bitter, acrid juice. At the end of two hours fry in olive oil 
or good drippings, and arrange part of the slices in layers around the 
sides and bottom of a cooking pot. Lay the other fried slices one side. 
Now fry, in the same drippings, one pound chopped meat and one onion, 
sliced, and put a layer of the meat and onion on top of the sliced egg 
plant in the saucepan. Next should come a few slices of tomatoes, sea- 
soning all with salt and pepper. Over this put another layer of egg 
plant, then more meat and tomato, and so continue until all the ingredi- 
ents are used. Add a little stock or hot water to partially cover, put on 
the lid and cook gently on top of .the stove until the water is almost 
gone. This is a delicious way of cooking egg plant and hearty enough 
for the substantial course at dinner. 

STUFFED CUCUMBERS.— Choose large cucumbers, two or three 
in number, peel and remove the seeds with an apple corer. Fill the 
cavities with a forcemeat made of a half pound minced veal, a quarter 
of a pound of fat bacon, also chopped; a half tablespoonful chopped 
onion, a tablespoonful minced parsley, one beaten egg, salt and pepper 
to season and crumbs to make a good consistency for stuffing. Place 
the stuffed cucumbers in a stewpan with a cup of stock, a tablespoonful 
butter, a tablespoonful vinegar and a minced onion and simmer for an 
hour. Strain off the sauce and thicken it with a half tablespoonful of 
flour. Pour over the cucumbers and serve as an entree. 

GREEN CORN SUCCOTASH.— Cut the raw corn from the cob, 
first scoring each row, then pressing out the pulp with the back of a 
knife, leaving the hulls on the cob. Cook the cobs in a little water for 
twenty minutes, then strain and add the water to the shelled beans, 
which should equal the corn in quantity. Cook gently until the beans 
are tender. When nearly done add the corn pulp, cook five minutes 
longer, season highly with butter, cream, salt and pepper (a little sugar 
if desired) and serve hot. 

GREEN CORN CHOWDER.— This is a savory mixture of green 
corn, green peppers and tomatoes. To a half dozen ears of corn allow 



VEGETABLES 53 

five tomatoes, five green peppers and five small onions, all minced. Cook 
the onions a golden grown in a little bacon fat, then add the other vege- 
tables, having the corn cut from the cob as nearly whole as possible. 
Cover with boiling water and simmer for an hour. Season with salt 
and pepper and serve. 

CORN FRITTERS.— These are a favorite garnish for fried chicken 
or Belgian hare. To a cupful of fresh corn pulp cut from the ear allow 
a half cup cracker crumbs mixed with a half cup milk. Add two eggs, 
whites and yolks beaten together, and season with salt and pepper. Have 
ready a very hot spider or pancake griddle, well greased with butter 
or olive oil, and drop in the batter, a spoonful at a time. When the 
fritters are brown on one side turn to the other, that they may be well 
cooked through. Four minutes will make them a golden brown. 

TO COOK CUCUMBERS.— For those who cannot eat cucumbers 
raw or tire of them in that fashion there are many ways of preparing 
them tastily. Pared, cut in halves and the seeds removed, they may be 
boiled until tender in salted water, then served on a hot dish with plenty 
of melted butter. Or they may be cut into dice, boiled in salted water, 
drained and served on toast with a cream sauce. 

"They are delicious cut in rather thick slices, dried with a towel, dusted 
with salt and peper, dipped into beaten egg, then in crumbs, and fried. 
Serve with hash or minced meat. 

To serve with mutton cutlets, English fashion, cut the peeled cucum- 
ber in thick slices and fry brown in a little butter, seasoning with salt, 
pepper and a little minced onion. Cover with stock and simmer gently 
for half an hour. Just before serving squeeze a little lemon juice into 
the pan. Serve the cucumber in the gravy, with the cutlets around. 

CUCUMBER SALAD. — Cut off three-quarters of an inch or more 
from the ends of each cucumber, and take off a thick paring, as the 
bitter juice lies next the skin. Shave with a vegetable cutter or cut in 
thin, even slices and throw into ice cold water until ready to serve. 
Drain, place in a pretty china bowl or low glass dish with cracked ice 
and serve with a French dressing or simply salt, pepper and vinegar. 
Bermuda onions or young home grown onions, sliced thin, are often 
mixed with cucumbers. In this case a dusting of finely minced parsley 
over the salad will do much toward removing all odor of the onion. A 
little minced fresh mint is also deemed an addition to raw cucumbers by 
some people. Cucumbers also combine well in salad with sliced raw 
tomatoes, ribbons of green peppers and cold boiled pickled beets. 

GREEN CORN OMELET. — Score the rows and scrape out the 
pulp of five small plump ears of corn. Mix with five well beaten eggs, 
one teaspoonful cream, and salt and pepper to season. Have hot and 
buttered a sheet iron frying pan. Pour in the mixture and shake and 
tilt the pan until it is evenly cooked. Roll and serve on a hot platter. 



54 VEGETABLES 

CELERY ROOT SALAD, CELERY RELISH.— Peel the roots, 
put in cold water for twenty minutes, then put into a saucepan with cold 
water to cover and salt to season. Cover and cook until the roots are 
tender. Drain, cut the roots in slices, then chill. When quite cold, 
cover with a French dressing. To make the relish take wide pieces of 
tender, crispy celery, and fill each one with a mixture of cream cheese, 
paprika, cream, chopped olives and salt. Chill and serve with brown 
bread or thin crackers. 

BROILED SWEET CORN.— Husk the corn ears, then steam for 
fifteen minutes or cook in boiling water three minutes. Drain and dry 
on a towel. Lay on a well greased broiler and toast over a good bed 
of coals or under the gas broiler, turning until brown on every side. 
Serve with salt and plenty of sweet butter. 

GREEN CORN PUDDING.— For a medium sized corn pudding use 
the pulp of a half dozen ears. The easiest and best way to cut corn from 
the cob for pudding, fritters or corn oysters is to score the kernels with 
a sharp knife, cut a slice from the tops of the different rows of corn and 
then with a dull knife scrape out the pulp remaining. Beat two eggs 
together, add a half teaspoonful salt and a cup and a half of milk. Stir 
in the corn pulp, and bake the whole for about two hours in a deep pud- 
ding earthenware dish. Keep covered. If the corn lacks sweetness two 
tablespoonfuls sugar may be added to the eggs in stirring them with 
the other ingredients. The pudding should be of the consistency of 
custard. 

DELICATE WAYS OF COOKING CARROTS.— Scrape and boil 
young carrots in salted water until tender. Cut in halves lengthwise, 
roll in fine cracker crumbs or flour, then in egg and cracker crumbs 
again and fry in olive oil or hot butter until a golden brown. Sprinkle 
with fine chopped parsley and serve very hot; or, after scraping and 
boiling, cut in strips and roll in sugar to which has been added a little 
salt. Have oil or butter very hot, drop in the strips of carrots, and 
as soon as the edges brown take up, sprinkle with parsley and serve. 
These are known as caramel carrots. To cream carrots scrape, slice thin 
crosswise and boil in salted water until tender. It will take about an 
hour. For each cupful carrot allow one-half cupful sweet cream, a salt- 
spoonful each salt and sugar, a teaspoonful butter and a sprinkling of 
pepper. Add to the drained carrots. Just before sending to the table 
add a few freshly toasted crackers, well buttered. If desired a teaspoon- 
ful flour may be combined with the butter, making a regular cream 
sauce. 

DRESSING FOR CABBAGE COLD SLAW.— Have ready three 
cupfuls fine shaved cabbage. Put into the frying pan or chafing dish 
(for this is an approved chafing dish relish to serve with trout or 
smelts) four level tablespoonfuls of butter and two rounded tablespoon- 



VEGETABLES 55 

fuls flour. Melt together until creamy, add a level saltspoonful white 
pepper or a speck of cayenne, a level saltspoonful salt, a teaspoonful 
mustard, four teaspoonfuls sugar and a half cupful vinegar and cook 
until smooth. Beat the yolks of two eggs until lemon colored and 
thick, and add quickly to the vinegar. Pour the hot mixture over the 
egg. A half cupful cream can also be added if desired. Pour the vine- 
gar rapidly into the cream and it will not curdle. Milk is more apt 
to curdle on account of its lack of oil. If you use milk, double the 
quantity of butter, then pour over the cabbage and toss until well 
blended. 

CAULIFLOWER SALAD.— Trim the cauliflower, then soak, head 
down, in cold salted water for an hour. Plunge into boiling salted 
water and cook until tender, but not sodden. Drain dry and set aside 
until cold. Pick into small flowerets and cut the stalks in pieces, 
keeping stalks and flowerets separate. Put the stalks in a bowl and 
mix with them a tablespoonful each minced onion and parsley. Make 
a dressing, using eight tablespoonfuls oil, three of tarragon vinegar, 
or half and half vinegar and lemon juice, half a teaspoonful salt and 
a saltspoonful mustard and paprika. Pour over the cauliflower, toss 
and mix carefully and lightly, and arrange with the flowerets on the 
top. Garnish with olives and slices of lemon or minced parsley and 
hard boiled egg yolk put through a ricer. 

BOILED CORN. — In selecting corn, that with short, thick ears, 
green, tender husks and dark silk will be found best. To test the con- 
dition of the corn turn back the husks and press a kernel with something 
sharp. The farmer uses his thumb nail. If the milk flows freely the 
corn is in the pink of condition. 

Like peas, corn loses its sweetness after being broken from the 
stalk. Freshly picked it is at its best. In boiling, remove the outer 
husks, turn back the inner husks and twist together over the ear. 
Bind with a husk, put in a saucepan, spread the outer leaves over the 
top, pour on cold water to cover and bring quickly to a boil. Cook 
only five or six minutes, as overcooking toughens. Strip off the husks, 
wrap in a serviette and serve piping hot. If the family is large it is 
a good plan to cook the corn in relays. 

CELERY, APPLE AND NUT SALAD.— Clean the celery nicely, 
wash well, then crisp by keeping in a damp napkin on the ice. When 
ready to use cut in crescent shaped slices and put in a bowl. For one 
cupful celery add one cupful thin slices of tart apple and a half cupful 
pecan or walnut meats. Marinate with a French dressing and serve 
in lettuce cups. Other celery combinations that go well for salads 
are equal parts fine dried potato and celery, equal parts of shredded 
cabbage, fine cut celery and English walnuts, with mayonnaise; celery 
and pineapple in equal quantities marinated with lemon juice, then 
dressed with mayonnaise and garnished with lettuce leaves and pistache 



56 VEGETABLES 

nuts; canned herrings broken in pieces and mixed with celery and 
cooked beets in equal parts; celery and sweetbreads with mayonnaise; 
celery, green peppers and tomatoes. 

CABBAGE SALAD. — When celery is unobtainable in the summer 
a little crisped cabbage may be used in combination with veal or 
chicken in a salad. It also combines well with salmon, tomatoes, 
lobster, cucumbers, sweet peppers and shrimps. When cabbage is to 
be shaved or chopped for cold slaw or salad, it should be laid in cold 
water for an hour or two first to get crisp. Dressed with lemon juice 
and the best olive oil it is much more delicate and digestible than 
when vinegar is used. Another excellent dressing for a cabbage salad 
is made in this way: — Chop or shave fine a medium sized head of cabbage 
that has been crisped and season to taste with salt and pepper or 
paprika. For the dressing, beat the yolks of two eggs, add two table- 
spoonfuls melted butter, and beat again. Add a tablespoonful thick, 
sour cream, two tablespoonfuls sugar, half a cup vinegar and a sprinkle 
of mustard, and beat until thoroughly incorporated. Pour over the 
cabbage and mix. 

FRIED EGG PLANT. — No way of cooking egg plant is more suc- 
cessful than frying, as the preliminary work of removing all acridity 
can then be thoroughly done. Cut the plant into slices about half an 
inch thick, rub each slice with an abundance of fine salt, lay them in a 
bowl one over another and cover with cold water. Put a saucer and 
weight on top to hold them down and let remain for three or four 
hours. Rinse off the slices and dry each one with a cloth. Season with 
pepper, dip in beaten egg, then in dried and sifted bread crumbs and 
fry in drippings or olive oil until a golden brown on each side. They 
must be thoroughly cooked, but not burned. 

CELERY WITH CREAM SAUCE.— Cut the white stalks into two- 
inch lengths and cook in boiling salted water to cover until tender. It 
will take about half an hour. Drain, saving the water for soup stock, 
and cover the pieces with a cream sauce made from two tablespoonfuls 
each of butter and flour, salt and pepper to season and a cupful and a 
half of milk. Less flour and a fresh egg yolk added to the sauce makes 
it that much richer. 

STUFFED EGG PLANT.— Parboil a good sized, firm egg plant 
for ten minutes, then lay in ice cold water for an hour. Meantime make 
a forcemeat, using a half cup minced boiled tongue or ham, a teaspoon- 
ful each minced parsley and onion, salt, pepper, a beaten egg and a 
little cream to moisten. Take the egg plant from the water, wipe 
dry and cut in halves lengthwise. Scrape out the seeds and enough 
of the pulp to make a good sized cavity. Chop the pulp and add to 
the dressing already prepared. Fill the cavity, fit the two halves to- 
gether and bind in place with a strip of clean muslin. Lay in a deep 



VEGETABLES 57 

baking pan, pour a cup of stock around the vegetable, cover and bake!; 
half an hour. Lift into a hot dish, remove the binding and pour about 
the plant the gravy that has formed or a butter or tomato sauce. The 
French prefer to use sausage mixed with bread crumbs for their force- 
meat. In a formal course dinner, stuffed egg plants hot and with a 
sauce, is usually served alone as a separate course following the roast. 
At the ordinary family dinner it comes on with the meat, or at a 
season of extreme heat, takes the place of meat. In the latter case the 
stuffing should be hearty. 

BOILED CABBAGE.— Cut a small head of cabbage into quarters, 
cutting through the stalk. Put head down in a large pan of salt water 
to draw out any insects that may be hidden among the leaves. Take 
out, drain and cut into large slices, removing the stalk. Put into a 
large saucepan of boiling water, add a tablespoonful salt and cook with 
the cover partly oflF for half or three-quarters of an hour, dependent 
upon the size of the cabbage. Take out and drain through a colander, 
pressing, to remove as much of the water as possible. Put into a 
chopping bowl and chop, season with salt, pepper and butter, and 
serve hot. Cabbage is also used when boiled in the water in which 
corned beef has been previously cooked, or with salt pork or bacon. 
In this case the meat is cooked first, the cabbage being added three- 
quarters of an hour or so before time for serving. 

BOILED LIMA BEANS.— Shell the beans and throw into cold 
water for a half hour before cooking. An hour before they are required 
drain, cover with boiling water, add salt to season, or, if preferred, a 
little piece of fat salt pork, and cook gently until tender. When done, 
drain off the water (be sure and save it for your stock pot), add pepper 
and a little fresh butter and serve. To serve Hollandaise style, cook 
until tender, adding salt when half cooked. When done there should 
be very little liquid remaining. If too much, drain. For one quart 
of the beans beat a quarter of a cup of butter to a cream. Add the 
yolk of an egg, a tablespoonful minced parsley, a quarter teaspoonful 
paprika and half a tablespoonful lemon juice. When well blended stir 
carefully into the beans to avoid crushing them, and serve at once. 

CAULIFLOWER AU GRATIN.— If the cauliflower is exceptionally 
perfect and fine, pick off the coarse outer leaves, wrap in a cheesecloth, 
cover and cook in boiling salted water for about half an hour, but do 
not cook until it is sodden. Drain thoroughly and put into a deep dish, 
dredge thickly with grated Parmesan cheese, then a thinner layer of 
stale bread crumbs, and on this a number of little pieces of butter the 
size of filberts. Cook in a brisk oven to a golden brown and serve 
hot. If the cauliflower is not perfect, after cooking in the salted water 
break into flowerets, put them with the stems, broken in pieces, in a 
shallow baking dish, sprinkle with pepper, grated cheese and crumbs 
moistened in melted butter. Add a little milk to moisten, then another 



58 VEGETABLES 

layer of the flowerets, crumbs, cheese, etc., with a thin layer of buttered 
crumbs on top. Bake until delicately browned. 

STRING BEANS (Italian Style).— Take the fresh, tender beans, 
break off tops and bottoms carefully, stringing both sides and paring 
the edges neatly. Wash in cold water, soak half an hour, then drain 
and throw in a saucepan of boiling salted water. Add for each quart 
beans two tablespoonfuls olive oil or sweet butter, then simmer half an 
hour or longer until tender. When ready to serve add more seasoning 
and plenty of sweet butter. Another improvement for many tastes is 
the adding of a half cup stewed tomatoes at the same time with the 
boiling water and olive oil. Still another way of seasoning string beans 
calls for grated cheese, chives, a little minced parsley, the yokes of 
two eggs, beaten with a tablespoonful powdered sugar and a cup whipped 
cream. 

N 

BRUSSELS SPROUTS.— Pick over the sprouts, then wash thor- 
oughly through several waters. Place over the fire with water to 
cover, adding a little salt and a small amount of baking soda. Leave 
off the lid and cook rapidly twenty-five minutes, or until tender, then 
drain. Put into a saucepan a good bit of butter, add the sprouts, with 
salt, pepper and, if desired, nutmeg to season and toss until the sprouts 
are heated through. Serve mounded on a hot dish, or on slices of hot 
buttered toast, if preferred. 

BEET GREENS.— Take the young, tender tops of beets and the 
young beets when necessary to "thin out" in the garden. Wash very 
thoroughly through several waters, cover with boiling water, lightly 
salted, and cook until tender. Drain, chop, season with salt and pepper 
and serve with a garnish of the yolks of hard boiled eggs put through 
a ricer. If desired a little salt pork or bacon can be boiled with the 
greens and sliced and served with them. 

SPANISH BEANS.— Soak two and a half cupfuls of small red 
beans in water over night. In the morning cook two hours in fresh 
water, then add one-half can of strained tomatoes. Fry two good-sized 
onions a delicate brown in a half cupful of olive oil, add two whole Chili 
peppers and salt to taste. Turn all into the beans and cook slowly 
an hour and a half. Just before they are done add one tablespoonful 
of vinegar. These keep well even in warm weather, and the oftener 
they are warmed up the better they taste. 

EGG PLANT AU GRATIN.— Cut the stem end from a good sized 
plant and scoop out the inside, leaving just enough wall to hold the 
shell in shape. Cook in boiling salted water for ten minutes, then lay 
in cold water while preparing the forcemeat. Put the pulp that was 
scooped out in a bowl, rejecting the seeds and sprinkle with salt. Leave 
for an hour with a plate and weight on top. At the end of that time 



VEGETABLES 59 

squeeze well and drain. Chop. Put a pint of canned tomatoes or a quart 
of fresh ones in a saucepan with a few slices of onions, two sprigs of 
parsley, a clove and a bit of bay leaf and simmer twenty minutes, stirring 
often. Strain through a coarse sieve, allowing the tomato pulp to go 
through. Add to the egg plant that was chopped a cupful bread crumbs 
soaked in milk and a part of the tomato puree, reserving the rest for 
a sauce. Add the yolks of two beaten eggs, salt and paprika to season 
and a tablespoonful butter. Mix thoroughly, then stuff the plant, spread- 
ing a thin layer of buttered crumbs over the top. Put in a baking dish, 
in which you have poured three tablespoonfuls olive oil, and bake 
half an hour in a hot oven, basting frequently. Season the remainder 
of the tomato, which is to be used as sauce, reheat, and pour over the 
egg plant when ready to serve. 

BEET AND RHUBARB JELLY.— This is a fine relish to serve with 
the meat course. Take equal parts of young beets, boiled tender, and 
rhubarb sliced without peeling. Cook together until very tender, put 
through a sieve, then through a jelly bag. Measure the juice, and to a 
pint allow a pound of sugar. Heat the sugar in the oven, add to the 
hot juice and cook five minutes longer. Turn into heated glasses and 
cover when cold. 

GREENS. — The list of edible "greens" is much more varied than 
usually supposed. Beside the commonly known spinach, Brussels 
sprouts, kale, lettuce, dandelion, beet greens and water cress, there are 
mustard greens, sorrel, chicory, "doucette," or corn salad, escarole, 
narrow dock, cowslip, horseradish, milk weed, rhubarb tops, purslane 
and pig weed. The table preparation is similar in all. There must be 
first a thorough looking over, then washing piece by piece in at least 
five different waters. Cover with boiling water to which a half teaspoon- 
ful common cooking soda has been added to preserve their color and 
cook until tender. A crust of bread in the water in which they are 
boiling will absorb much of the odor brought out in the cooking. When 
done put in a colander to drain, then chop and reheat in butter, season- 
ing with pepper and, if liked, a little nutmeg. For very robust appetites 
a piece of fat pork cooked with the greens gives a seasoning that "goes 
to the right spot." They are, however, more delicate and wholesome 
when cooked in boiling water and seasoned with butter; 

OKRA GUMBO. — Cut into pieces a two or three pound chicken 
and brown lightly in a kettle containing a tablespoonful each lard and 
butter. Add two slices of ham cut into squares and a cup hot water; 
then simmer, stirring often, for ten or fifteen minutes. Add a medium 
sized onion chopped fine, a half pod red pepper without the seeds, a 
couple of tomatoes peeled and sliced, a sprig of parsley and a quart of 
okra pods thinly sliced. When all these ingredients are cooked and 
browned pour over them three quarts boiling water, push back on the 
range and simmer about an hour. Serve hot with boiled rice. 



60 VEGETABLES 

LENTILS.— To cook lentils, look over carefully, wash thoroughly 
and soak over night in cold water. In the morning drain, then cover 
with boiling water and simmer gently for several hours until tender. 
After this the treatment may be varied. They may be sauted in butter, 
with or without a little onion, then covered with a brown sauce made 
by adding a tablespoonful browned flour and a teaspoonful vinegar. The 
contents of the pan may be made into croquettes by seasoning lentil 
pulp with salt, pepper, onion juice and parsley, wetting with a little 
cream and shaping into croquettes, dipping in egg and bread crumbs 
and frying in deep fat. Serve with mint or tomato sauce. Curried 
lentils are also nice. Cook German lentils that have been soaked over 
night in vegetable stock. When quite soft, add a teaspoonful curry 
paste, a fried onion, a chopped apple and teaspoonful chutney. Mix 
well and serve with a border of boiled rice and chipped potatoes. 

A cupful of lentils will serve for a family of four or five, as the 
vegetables swell in the cooking. 

BOILED OKRA. — ^Wash and cut off the ends of young pods, cover 
with boiling salted water and cook about twenty minutes, until tender. 
Drain, add cream (a scant cup to a quart of okra), a tablespoonful 
butter and salt and pepper to taste. Another way of stewing is to cook 
it with tomatoes. To a pint okra pods, washed and sliced, allow a 
tdozen ripe tomatoes, peeled and sliced, and one medium sized onion. 
Stew slowly for an hour, adding a tablespoonful butter, a scant tea- 
spoonful salt and pepper to season. No water will be required, the 
tomato juice sufficing. In the West Indies lemon juice and cayenne 
are also added to stewed okra. 

SUMMER BEETS.— Choose the smooth, round variety, wash and 
clean without bruising or cutting the skin, leaving on a number of 
stalk leaves to prevent losing any of the beet juices. Cook in boiling 
salted water for one or two hours, dependent upon their size, then 
plunge at once into cold water, when the skin can be rubbed off between 
the fingers without a particle of waste. Cut the beets in thin slices 
or cubes, sprinkle with pepper, salt and a speck of sugar, and if they 
have become slightly chilled in the peeling put into a saucepan with 
a tablespoonful butter. Toss lightly, without breaking, until heated 
through, then serve. Or use hot cream instead of butter, and when 
hot add a little lemon juice or vinegar and a tiny bit of sugar. Some 
like them quite acid with cider vinegar. This is a matter of individual 
preference. Others like a little grating of nutmeg added to the season- 
ings. 

KOHLRABI.— This is a sort of cabbage-turnip combination^ the 
stem swelling out above the ground to the size of a large turnip. It is 
a great favorite with the Germans, who cook it as follows: — Trim off 
the leaves, peel, cut into quarters and boil in slightly salted water until 
tender. Serve with a cream sauce poured over it. Still another way of 



VEGETABLES 61 

cooking is to take oflE the tops and strip ofiE the stem. Chop leaves and 
head fine and cook in salted boiling water about twenty minutes. Drain 
and serve with a sauce made as follows: — Fry a small piece of bacon 
with an onion until well browned; remove meat and onion, add a little 
hot water and thicken with browned ilour, or the ordinary flour, using 
a teaspoonful culinary bouquet to color a rich brown. 

BROILED EGG PLANT.— Slice the same as for frying and soak 
in salt and water for a couple of hours. Then drain, wipe dry, brush 
each slice on each side with olive oil and broil over a clear coal fire 
or under the gas flame. Arrange on a hot platter and spread with hot 
butter beaten to a paste with lemon juice. 

BAKED BEETSv— Many old-fashioned cooks like the English way 
of baking beets instead of boiling. They claim they preserve their 
natural sweetness better when baked. Wash well, but no not break 
the skin. Put into a baking tin with a little hot water thrown over 
them. When tender, peel, slice and serve with oil and lemon' juice, 
pepper and salt, or butter, pepper and salt. 

Boiled beets are fine chilled, sliced with celery, and covered with 
mayonnaise. 

BAKED MUSHROOMS.— Peel and remove the stems from large, 
fine mushrooms. Lay in a porcelain lined saucepan with a tablespoonful 
sweet butter. Let the juice gradually draw out, then season lightly 
with salt and pepper, and saute. Put round slices of toast in the baking 
dish, cover with mushrooms and liquor from the pan in which they 
have been sauted, cover with the glass bells that come on purpose for 
mushrooms and bake for from fifteen to twenty minutes. When ready 
to serve add a tablespoonful hot cream to each dish and serve under 
the bells. If you have no bells, let the mushrooms simmer six minutes 
in the porcelain saucepan, adding as much cream as you have mushroom 
liquor, season with salt and pepper, and serve on slices of delicately 
browned toast. 

BROILED MUSHROOMS ON TOAST.— Pare neatly, trim off the 
stems of large niushrooms, sprinkle with salt and pepper, wipe over 
with olive oil, then broil over a hot fire until the caps are filled with 
juice. Lay carefully on slices of brown toast, put a piece of butter on 
each mushroom and serve hot. These are a delicious accompaniment to 
broiled birds. A few drops of lemon juice is deemed an addition to the 
taste. 

STRING BEANS (Sauted in Butter). — Prepare the beans as usual 
and cook in boiling salted water until nearly tender. Drain and place 
in a saucepan over the fire, adding a generous lump of butter and salt 
and pepper to season. Cook until quite tender, add a little finely 
chopped parsley and serve very hot. 



62 VEGETABLES 

MUSHROOMS WITH TOMATOES.— Take medium sized, firm to- 
matoes and with a sharp knife cut a thin slice from the stem of each. 
Scoop out a portion of the pulp with a teaspoon and sprinkle the cavity 
lightly with salt and pepper. Take button mushrooms, remove the 
stems and rub off the outside covering with a bit of clean flannel dipped 
in salt. Lay a mushroom in each tomato. Chop the stems of the mush- 
rooms fine, also a tablespoonful fat salt pork. Add the pulp taken from 
the tomatoes with an equal quantity of fine bread crumbs and the 
juice of half an onion. Mix all together, fill each tomato with the mix- 
ture and replace the tops that were cut off. Set in a buttered baking 
pan, lay on each tomato a bit of butter or a small slice of fat salt pork 
and bake until the inside mixture is thoroughly cooked. Serve very 
hot. 

FRIJOLES OR MEXICAN BEANS.— For a small family wash a 
pint of the small brown beans and put to soak over night. In the 
morning parboil and throw away the water. Cover with fresh water 
and simmer until the beans are tender but not broken. Take a quarter 
pound breakfast bacon, cut into tiny squares and snip a Spanish pepper 
into bits, using the scissors for this purpose. Omit the seeds of the 
peppers. Now put all into a deep crock, or bean pot, arranging in layers 
with beans at the bottom and bacon at the top. Season each layer of 
the beans with a little salt and just a suspicion of brown sugar. 
If too dry add more water, for the beans take up a great deal in the 
baking and the dish should be juicy, though not mushy, when done. 
Bake all day in a slow oven and serve for supper. Fresh pork cut in 
squares is sometimes used instead of the bacon, in which case more 
salt is required. The pork or bacon which always forms the top layer 
should be brown and crisp. 

BOSTON BAKED BEANS.— Soak one quart of well washed pea or 
kidney beans over night. In the morning drain, cover with fresh cold 
water, add a quarter of a teaspoonful of soda and let them come to a 
boil. Cook until the skins crack when you blow upon them. Strain. 
Take half a pound of salt pork, "streak of fat and streak of lean," wash 
and score the rind. Pack the beans in an earthen pot until about two- 
thirds full. Add the pork and cover with the rest of the beans, leaving 
just the rind exposed. Take a good dessertspoonful of salt, two of 
molasses, half a teaspoonful of mustard and a quarter of a saltspoonful 
of red pepper. ■ Add a pint of warm water and pour over the beans. 
Bake slowly all day, or put in the oven at six o'clock and bake covered 
all night. Add water from time to time to keep the beans moist, until 
the last few hours. When done the beans should be soft and tender, 
but whole; brown on top, yet moist, and the pork cooked to a jelly. 

PICKLED MUSHROOMS.— Select small button mushrooms freshly 
gathered. Cut the stems off quite close and wipe ofl the outer covering 
with clean flannel dipped in salt. Throw into cold water, lightly salted. 



VEGETABLES 63 

but drain quickly and wipe dry with a soft cloth, or the moisture will 
weaken the pickle. For each quart prepared mushrooms allow a scant 
quart white wine vinegar, a heaping teaspoonful salt, a teaspoonful white 
pepper, a tablespoonful ginger, ground or sliced, a quarter of a salt- 
spoonful cayenne tied in a cloth, two blades mace and a few gratings 
nutmeg. Bring to a scald, throw in the mushrooms and cook from 
six to ten minutes, according to size. If some are larger than others 
put the larger ones into the vinegar a moment or two before the smaller 
ones are added. As soon as tender, put in small glass jars, dividing 
the spices equally between them. As soon as cold seal and keep in a 
cool, dark place. Use small jars, as the contents of the can spoil quickly 
after being opened. 

LENTIL HASH. — To make the hash mix together one pint cooked 
lentils, one-half pint cold potatoes chopped; two tablespoonfuls butter, 
two tablespoonfuls chopped onion, half a cup of milk and salt and 
pepper to season. Cook slowly half an hour in a buttered frying pan, 
then brown and turn on a hot dish. Garnish with a little parsley and 
serve alone or with poached eggs dropped on top of the hash. 

KALE. — ^There are several varieties of kale, the most desirable be- 
ing the dwarf green curled. It is in season both spring and fall. To 
cook it remove all old or tough leaves, wash thoroughly, then cover 
with boiling salted-water. Cook rapidly, uncovered, until the vegetable 
is tender. Drain, pressing out the water, chop fine, then put into the 
frying pan with butter and a little meat broth or water to moisten 
slightly. Season with pepper and a little more salt, if needed, cook five 
minutes and serve hot. 

BEAN CROQUETTES. — Boil two cupfuls white beans that have 
been soaked in cold water over night. Add one sliced onion and cook 
until beans and onion are tender. Pass through a sieve and season 
with a heaping tablespoonful butter, melted, two eggs well beaten, salt, 
pepper and minced parsley. If necessary, moisten the mixture with 
gravy or hot water flavored with beef extract. Mould into croquettes, 
roll in egg and bread crumbs and fry in deep hot fat. Serve with to- 
mato sauce. 

FRIED ONIONS. — Slice rather large white onions, soak in milk ten 
minutes, then drain, dip in flour and immerse in boiling fat hot enough 
to brown the onions instantly. A wire basket is a great convenience 
for frying. The moment the slices are crisped remove. If allowed to 
cook five or six minutes the slices cannot be kept whole. If you have 
no frying basket take out with the skimmer and drain on brown paper. 
Cooked in this way the onions will be firm yet well cooked and delicious. 
Sprinkle with salt and pepper and serve. 

COOKED LETTUCE. — When lettuce is too old and too tough for 
salad, it may be cooked in a variety of toothsome ways. The Germans 



64 VEGETABLES 

stuff it. Trim and clean a half dozen heads of cabbage lettuce. Wash 
thoroughly, cut the hearts out of each and lay aside for salad. Parboil 
the rest of the heads four minutes, drain and stuff with sausage force- 
meat. 

Tie each head carefully in shape, lay in a buttered dripping pan, 
add a half cup rich stock or gravy and season with salt and pepper. 
Cover closely, cook fifteen minutes, then untie, dress on a hot dish and 
pour the sauce in which they were cooked over them. Serve hot. If 
there is not sauce enough, stir in the stock remaining in the pan after 
the lettuce has been taken up a tablespoonful each of butter and flour. 
Season with salt and pepper, add a cupful stock or hot water and stir 
until smooth and creamy. Add a teaspoonful culinary bouquet to flavor 
and color a rich brown. Pour over the lettuce and serve. The Ger- 
mans also fry lettuce, boiling the head first in salted water, then drain- 
ing until cool, after which it is dipped into an ordinary frying batter 
and cooked in deep fat. Lettuce may also be, prepared like greens in 
boiling salted water, then drained, chopped and seasoned with melted 
butter, salt, pepper and a little broth to moisten. 

PEAS WITH PORK.— Cut a quarter pound fat salt pork into small 
pieces. Put a tablespoonful butter in a saucepan over the fire, and 
when it melts add the pork. Cook to a light brown, then add a quart 
shelled peas, one-half cupful water or stock, a small white onion and 
salt and pepper to taste. Cook gently until the peas are tender. 

LETTUCE FOR SALAD.— Remove the outer withered leaves, cut 
off the stalks and break the tender leaves apart. Remove the thick veins 
and put in cold water. Shortly before serving, drain in a wire basket 
or colander, shaking well to free from all moisture, then put in a salad 
dish. Never dress lettuce until a few moments before serving, as it 
wilts quickly. If the leaves are all tender and delicate they may be 
served whole. Where they are large, yet tender, they may be cut 
in ribbons with a pair of shears. A good dressing for lettuce consists 
of a mixture of three tablespoonfuls each of oil and vinegar, a scant 
half teaspoonful salt and pepper to season. Two or three hard boiled 
eggs may be cut in quarters and laid on top of the salad. An Italian 
dressing for lettuce is' made in this way: — Stick part of a clove or garlic 
into a bit of bread and pour over this a French dressing made of three 
tablespoonfuls of oil, one of vinegar, one of tomato juice, fresh or 
canned, a teaspoonful Worcestershire sauce and salt and pepper to 
taste. Mix thoroughly together and pour over the lettuce. Lettuce 
combines well with any other salad and is invaluable as a garnish. 

OKRA SALAD. — ^Wash the pods and cook in boiling salted water 
until tender. Drain and chill. Then they may be eaten from the fin- 
gers with French dressing like cold asparagus, or may be sliced and 
mixed with cucumbers, tomatoes or green peppers, alone or in combi- 
nation. An individual plate of French dressing accompanies each 
portion. 



VEGETABLES 65 

Where the pods are to be eaten out of hand the stenris are not re- 
moved, but left for handles. A few okra pods added to the pickle jar 
will be found a great addition. 

MUSHROOM CATSUP.— The old recipe for mushroom catsup 
given by Dr. Kitchner, the great English epicure of the eighteenth cen- 
tury, is still considered the best known. A few drops will go further 
than twice the quantity of any other brand. To make it, gather a 
gallon of flap mushrooms and allow six ounces of salt to that quantity. 
Sprinkle the salt evenly over the gills of the mushrooms, arranging 
them in layers in a large porcelain dish. In about three hours, when 
the salt has thoroughly penetrated the mushrooms, mash with a wooden 
potato masher and let them remain for two days, occasionally stirring 
and mashing. Allow to each quart one ounce and a half black pepper, 
half an ounce allspice, two inches ginger root, two bay leaves and two 
blades of mace. Boil the catsup for two hours longer, strain through 
a hair sieve without squeezing, then cook until reduced to about half 
the quantity. Bottle in small bottles, filling in the neck with a teaspoon- 
ful olive 1 oil or French brandy. Seal. The unpressed mushroom can 
be utilized in preparing a catsup for immediate use. Heat over a slow 
fire, press through a sieve until all the juice is extracted, then season 
and proceed as with the first grade. 

LENTIL AND RICE CAKES.— This is a good substitute for Ham- 
burg steak. Soak a half cup lentils over night and then simmer in boil- 
ing salted water until tender. Cook one-half cup rice and add to the 
lentils. Chop a small onion fine and add to the mixture, together with 
a little parsley, thyme, and salt and pepper to season. Form into cakes, 
dip into beaten egg, then in fine bread crumbs and fry in hot drippings 
or olive oil to a golden brown. Serve with onion sauce and gravy. 

CREAMED ONIONS. — Peel a quart of medium sized white onions, 
cover with boiling water, adding a teaspoonful salt for each quart of 
water. 

Boil rapidly ten minutes with the cover partly ofiE, then drain and 
cover again with fresh boiling water. Cook until tender but not broken, 
drain and add milk to cover (it will take about lialf a cup for every 
six onions). Simmer until quite done, then thicken with a tablespoonful 
butter, rubbed smooth with a tablespoonful flour. Add salt and pepper 
to taste, cook, stirring all the time until the sauce is creamy and thick- 
ened, then pour into a hot dish to serve. A change may be made by 
turning the onions, sauce and all, into a serving dish that can go into 
the oven, covering with buttered cracker crumbs, then baking until 
brown. Still another variation is to cover the top of the cracker crumbs 
with grated cheese. Onions cooked in this way will be found very deli- 
cate and not odorous. 

PARSLEY. — No bit of parsley should ever be wasted. Leaf, stalk 
and root are all excellent for seasoning soups, sauces, forcemeats and 



66 VEGETABLES 

salads. Whenever any is left over, dry in the oven, rub through a 
sieve and bottle for ready use. Minced fresh parsley is a delicious 
addition to creamed potatoes, potato salad, fish and cream soups of 
every sort. Fried parsley is delightful served with fried fish. Wash a 
few stalks of fresh parsley, dry well, put in a frying basket and plunge 
in a kettle of deep hot fat. Fry a moment only, lift up the basket, 
remove the parsley with a skimmer, salt lightly and serve around the 
fish on the platter. A pretty garnish for fried or broiled fish is circles 
of lemon, dotted with fine minced fresh parsley. 

SCALLOPED OKRA.— Wash and slice a pint of okra pods, then 
brown in a saucepan with a tablespoonful of butter. Shake over the 
fire four or five minutes, add a cupful boiling water, a teaspoonful 
minced onion, one-half teaspoonful salt, and simmer half an hour. Wash 
one-half cupful rice and boil twenty minutes in salted water. As soon 
as tender, drain and shake dry. Into a buttered baking dish put alter- 
nate layers of rice, okra and thin sliced tomatoes, seasoning each layer 
with salt, pepper and butter, and having the last layer of the rice. Put 
bits of butter over the top and bake half an hour in a hot oven. 

PANNED TOMATOES (With Cream Gravy).— Wash good sized 
solid tomatoes and cut in halves. Put skin side downward in a buttered 
baking tin. Put a lump of butter on each tomato, sprinkle with salt 
and pepper, then bake until soft but not browned. Have in readiness 
as many slices of buttered toast as you have tomatoes, and lift the 
tomatoes on the toast. Make a cream gravy in the usual way, pour 
over the toast and tomatoes and serve. 

PARSNIP FRITTERS.— Boil the vegetables until tender in boiling 
salted water. Press through a colander, then mix with them two beaten 
eggs, salt to season and flour to bind stiffly. 

With floured hands divide the mixture and pat into small round cakes. 
Brown in a frying pan in hot butter on one side, then turn to the other. 
They should be a golden brown. Drain, pile on a hot dish, garnish 
with fried or fresh parsley and serve. 

SPANISH OKRA. — ^Wash a quart of tender pods, cut ofif the ends, 
but do not slice. Put into a saucepan with a quarter pound of lean 
raw ham, chopped fine, and enough good stock or gravy with thick 
stewed tomatoes to cover. Simmer gently, until the okras are tender, 
adding a little onion juice or suspicion of garlic, if desired. When the 
okras are quite tender add a tablespoonful each butter and flour, rub 
to a cream and stir until smooth and thickened. Simmer five minutes 
longer, turn into a hot dish, sprinkle with minced parsley and serve. 

GREEN PEPPERS (For Salads or Relishes).— The simplest way of 
serving green peppers, uncooked, is to cut thin slices from the green 
outside, omitting the white inner part. These strips are eaten raw with 



VEGETABLES 67 

salt, like celery, and are an approved accompaniment to fried soft shell 
crabs. Sliced in thin rings, the sweet green peppers make a tasty addi- 
tion to sliced cucumbers, lettuce, tomatoes, or, indeed, almost any salad. 
A heaping tablespoonful of chopped green peppers combines excellently 
■with scrambled eggs or any mince of veal, chicken or lamb. Chicken 
salad is delicious served in green pepper cups. To prepare the cups, 
take green peppers, cut off the tops and carefully remove all the seeds, 
without breaking the shell. Put into cold water for twenty minutes or 
longer, then drain, wipe and fill. 

Among other excellent fillings for green peppers are chopped nuts. 
The old-fashioned butternut, chopped and lightly salted, makes a de- 
licious filling. The tiny green peppers are delightful filled with 
chopped walnuts. They should be prepared the day before using. Scrape 
all the seeds and soft fibre from the peppers, great pains being taken 
not to break the pretty stem ends of the vegetables. Use a small sharp 
pointed knife. Fill with the chopped and lightly salted nuts, replace 
the stem end, then set in the icebox until ready to serve with the meat 
or salad course. A pepper salad containing equal parts of green and 
sweet red peppers and celery, all chopped fine and mixed with mayon- 
naise or French dressing, is excellent to serve with the meat course. 

PEAS. — ^Unless fresh from the vines, peas are improved by an hour's 
soaking in cold water before shelling. Do not shell until nearly ready 
to cook, then add a few well washed pods to give the peas flavor. If 
the peas are young and tender, the simplest way of cooking them is 
best. Shell, cover with boiling water and cook gently with the cover 
partially off for about twenty minutes, or until tender. _ Over-cooking 
ruins peas and takes away the fresh green color which is so desirable. 
Some good cooks advise the addition of a little soda to soften and 
give a green color to peas, but this is not advisable. If peas have 
reached that extremity they are only fit for soup, or to be cooked with 
pork, which tends to soften them. Do not salt until about half done. 
A little sugar may be added at the same time if the peas lack natural 
sweetness, but use it with discretion. When done, add plenty of sweet 
butter and, if liked, a little cream. This last addition is a favorite with 
"up-State" cooks. Epicures declare that there is a natural affinity be- 
tween the flavor of mint and peas, and both French and English cooks 
usually add a sprig of mint to every mess of peas. A head of lettuce 
also combines well with peas. It should be added during the cooking, 
but removed before serving. The natural juice of the lettuce expressed 
in the cooking makes almost enough moisture for the peas. 

PARSNIPS.— To bake, wash, scrape and cut the parsnips length- 
wise into quarters. Put into a steamer and steam one hour, then place 
in a baking dish, seasoning with salt and pepper. Pour over them some 
nice meat drippings and bake until nicely browned. Drain on soft 
paper and serve. To boil, wash but do not scrape. Put into a sauce- 
pan of boiling water well salted and cook until tender. This will take 
an hour or longer, according to size. When done rub off the skins with 



68 VEGETABLES 

a rough towel, lay in a hot dish and serve with butter or cream sauce. 
For boiling, split into thick slices after boiling and, removing the skin, 
dip in melted butter seasoned with salt and pepper and broil over a 
hot fire. Parsnips may also be boiled and mashed, like potatoes, sea- 
soning with salt, pepper and butter. 

BAKED POTATOES.— Select oval potatoes having a smooth, un- 
marred skin, and of uniform size. Scrub until perfectly clean, then 
rinse and drain. Put in an old baking tin, kept for this purpose, or on 
the clean oven grate and bake in a hot oven. Forty minutes is about 
the time required for the baking. Serve as soon as done. Sweet po- 
tatoes should be boiled until almost tender before baking, then put in 
the oven to finish. To test whether potatoes are done, press with a 
cloth. Cold baked potatoes may be warmed so as to be almost as 
palatable as fresh ones, if they are dipped in hot water, then put into 
the oven and allowed to remain just long enough to get perfectly hot, 
but not long enough to harden. 

Contrary to general opinion, cold baked potatoes may be creamed 
or fried quite as satisfactorily as the boiled ones. 

FRIED PEPPERS.— Select peppers that have not commenced to 
turn red; take out all the seeds and slice crosswise into cold water. 
Leave for twenty minutes, then take out and pat dry on a soft towel; 
sprinkle with salt, shake in flour until covered, then fry slowly in hot 
olive oil or pork drippings for five or six minutes. When done they 
should be soft and slightly browned. They are excellent served with 
steaks, chops or cold meats, or combined with rice in this way: — ^Wash 
and boil a cupful rice, then turn into a vegetable dish. Fry one-half 
dozen peppers cut in rings in butter or oil. Mix the rice in the dish 
with a rich tomato sauce, arrange the pepper rings about it, pour the 
butter in which they were cooked over all and set in the oven, covered, 
for three or four minutes before serving. 

SWEET POTATOES.— These should receive their first cooking 
with skins on. After that they may be prepared in a variety of ways. 
Select those of uniform size, wash, drop in boiling water and cook 
fifteen minutes. Take out and lay in the oven to bake until mealy and 
tender. Peel before sending to the table. Good as they are this way, 
they are much richer with a second cooking. Cut cold baked or boiled 
sweet potatoes into quarter-inch slices. When you have a pint put two 
tablespoonfuls of butter in the frying pan or earthen dish, and when 
very hot lay the potatoes in. Sprinkle the top with two tablespoonfuls 
of sugar, pour over lightly two tablespoonfuls of vinegar and. cook until 
hot and brown. Cold potatoes may also be cut lengthwise into slices 
one-quarter of an inch thick and be fried in hot drippings or butter to 
a golden brown. 

STUFFED PEPPERS.— This is the most common and one of the 
satisfactory ways of serving green peppers. Select sweet peppers of 
uniform size, wash and plunge in boiling salted water. Let them simmer 



VEGETABLES , 69 

five minutes, drain, cut off the stem ends and remove the seeds and soft 
inside. Wipe, stuff with any forcemeat desired, replace the covers, brush 
with oil. Set in a baking pan and bake for fifteen or twenty minutes* 
basting frequently with stock or melted butter. Among the forcemeats 
specially suited to green peppers are minced sausage meat mixed with 
grated onion, buttered bread crumbs, parsley and lemon; bread crumbs 
and minced ham, well seasoned with butter, salt and parsley and mois- 
tened with tomato juice; cooked veal, chicken, or half and half veal 
and chicken with soft bread crumbs, seasonings of salt, summer savory 
and thyme and stock or butter to moisten. Ham and chicken in combi- 
nation make good forcemeat, as does half a cupful of minced boiled 
ham or tongue with a cupful fine bread crumbs, onion juice, parsley, 
melted butter and salt to season. Nuts and rice make another good 
forcemeat, using half as much chopped nuts as hot boiled rice, seasoning 
with a little butter, tomato and salt. Baste frequently with hot salted 
rwater, with stewed tomato stock or beef extract dissolved in hot water. 

PEA SALAD. — Cook the peas in water to cover, then chill. Serve 
alone on lettuce leaves with a boiled or French dressing, or combine 
with sweetbreads, turnips, carrots, sweet or white potatoes, separately 
or altogether in a Macedoine salad. To make the latter, cook separately 
the turnips, carrots and white and sweet potatoes, mix with the peas and 
serve on lettuce leaves, with French dressing.^ A little variation is made 
by cutting into dice a root of cooked celery, a boiled beet and a carrot, 
adding to this mixture a small cup of steamed asparagus tops, one- 
half cup each cooked string beans and peas and a chopped raw onion. 
Mix well, season with salt and pepper to taste, then pour on two table- 
spoonfuls of oil and one of vinegar. Toss, heap in a mound and chill. 
Just before serving spread a cup of mayonnaise over the top. If one or 
more of the above mentioned vegetables are lacking their places may be 
supplied with almost any leftovers on hand. 

PARSNIP STEW. — Allow for one pound of fresh parsnips one pound 
fat salt pork and one pound potatoes. Chop the pork fine, pare the 
potatoes and slice thin; scrape the parsnips and cut in thin slices. Put 
a layer of pork in a stewpan, follow with a layer of potatoes, then one 
of parsnips. Repeat with pork, potatoes and parsnips until all have 
been used. Cover with cold water, season with salt, pepper and celery 
salt, thicken with a little Boston cracker rolled fine, and set on the back 
of the stove where it can cook gently for three-quarters of an hour. 

BAKED GREEN PEAS.— Take the pods from a quart of sweet 
green peas and cook the pods for an hour in boiling salted water. Strain 
and cook the liquid down to a scant pint. Add a tablespoonful of but- 
ter, a teaspoonful of salt and pepper to taste. Put the peas into a 
buttered baking dish or individual ramekins, pour the liquid over, 
sprinkle fine buttered crumbs over the top, cover and bake for half 
an hour. Uncover and bake a golden brown, then serve. 



70 VEGETABLES 

ONIONS RAW AND IN SALAD.— For eating raw or as a salad 
select young home grown onions or the mild Spanish or Bermudas. 
Peel, slice, cover with hot water and let them stand covered for half 
an hour. Turn off the water, pour on as much more ice cold and leave 
them half an hour to crisp. Drain, dress with salt and vinegar or a 
French dressing with oil and serve. To banish the odor a little sugar 
or parsley moistened with vinegar, eaten immediately after, will be 
found effective. Follow with a thorough rinsing of the mouth and teeth, 
using a few drops of tincture of myrrh in water. People who think they 
cannot eat raw onions will find that prepared in this way there will be 
no after effects of heartburn or bad breath. A salad of cucumber and 
sliced onion or shaved cabbage and thin onion rings is appetizing, 
dressed with a plain French dressing or a mayonnaise. It must be borne 
in mind that old onions are much stronger than new, and red than white 
or yellow. 

GREEN PEA PUREE.— Simmer gently for one hour and a half 
a pound of lean lamb and a slice of bacon in one quart and a half of 
water. Add a sprig of mint, a teaspoonful of minced onion, salt and 
pepper to taste, and a quart of green peas. Simmer one-half hour, then 
press through a colander. Make a rich white sauce, using a tablespoon- 
ful of flour and a heaping tablespoonful of butter, with one cup and a 
half of hot milk. Add salt, pepper and sugar to taste, then the pre- 
pared peas; gently bring to a boil and serve hot. Dried or split peas 
may be soaked over night, then cooked until tender (it may take sev- 
eral hours), then pressed through a colander and treated like the fresh 
peas. 

CREAMED PEAS (In Turnip Cups or Bread Croustades).— Make 
a good white sauce, using a tablespoonful each of flour and butter with a 
cup of milk. Add a pint of peas cooked tender and season to taste with 
salt and pepper. Have ready a dozen new round white turnips, medium 
size, that have been boiled in salted water until tender. Drain, scoop 
a hollow in the centre, cut a slice from the bottom so the turnips will 
stand upright and fill with peas. For the croustades have ready thick 
rounds of bread, their centres stamped out with a cooky cutter. Fry 
these in butter and fill with the creamed peas. If preferred, the peas 
may be cooked in boiling water to cover, with the addition of a sprig of 
parsley, one of mint and a small green onion. Remove the onion, 
parsley and mint, add a tablespoonful of butter, a little pepper and the 
yolks of two eggs beaten with veal or chicken stock or cream. Stir 
until the sauce thickens a little, then fill the croustades. 

BAKED POTATOES ON HALF SHELL.— Bake rather large po- 
'tatoes in a brisk oven for about forty-five minutes. When soft take 
out, cut in two lengthwise, remove the interior, taking care not to 
break the skin. Put into a bowl, and for six potatoes allow a table- 
spoonfur butter, a teaspoonful salt, one-h^f teaspoonful pepper and a 
scant cup of hot cream. If milk is used be more generous with the 



VEGETABLES 71 

butter. Unsweetened condensed milk may also be used. Now whip 
briskly until the mass is as "light as a feather" and snowy white, return 
to the shells, smooth the top of each with a knife dipped in cold milk, 
set on the oven grate to crisp and serve at once. A little grated cheese 
is sometimes sprinkled over the top of the potatoes, then crisped. 

GLAZED ONIONS.— Mild onions are required for this way of cook- 
ing. Melt one-half cup butter in a saucepan, then put in as many peeled 
onions as will fit in without crowding. Move about until all are well 
coated with butter, sprinkle with a tablespoonful sugar, then pour over 
the onions a well flavored soup stock, well salted (if you have no stock 
on hand, dissolve a little beef extract in hot water), and simmer until 
the onions are tender. Take off the lid of the saucepan and let the 
stock simmer down to about one-half cupful. Serve in a heated covered 
dish as an accompaniment to a roast of mutton. 

BOILED POTATOES.— Potatoes are nicer, of finer flavor and more 
nutritious if not peeled before cooking. The best part of the potato, 
the salts or flavoring principle, lies next the skin, while according to 
experiments at the Storrs Agricultural Experiment Station it has been 
found that three per cent of the carbohydrates and four per cent of the 
albuminoid material are lost when potatoes are cooked with their skins 
removed. Scrub the potatoes in cold water with a vegetable brush. 

Then with a very sharp knife cut a little band of skin around the 
centre of the potato and a little bit of the skin from each end. Put 
finto the saucepan, cover with boiling water, cook rapidly about fifteen 
minutes, and salt in the proportion of a tablespoonful to a dozen pota- 
toes; then continue boiling ten or fifteen minutes longer, until the potato 
is tender enough to be pierced with a fork or skewer. Drain at once, 
I^ush back on the stove, and let them steam uncovered until every particle 
of the steam has gone and the potatoes are mealy. They may be served 
in their jackets or without, as preferred. The peeling is quickly accom- 
plished. If they must be kept warm any length of time a layer of 
cheesecloth spread over the kettle will keep out the cold air and assist 
in retaining the heat. If the potatoes are of different sizes put the large 
ones in first, and after 'they have boiled five minutes add the smaller. 
Old potatoes are sometimes better if soaked in cold water for one-half 
hour before cooking, but new ones lose much of their nutritive value if 
soaked. If you prefer to peel the potaties before cooking peel thin. In 
the case of new potatoes the thin outer skin can be rubbed off with a 
brush or coarse towel. Another nice way to boil potatoes with their 
jackets on is to put into hot brine and boil until tender. If you can get 
this from some salt manufactory, as at Syracuse, it is best. If not, make 
it at home; but it must be strong. Serve with jackets on and plenty of 
good butter. 

CREAMED POTATOES.— These may be made from freshly boiled 
potatoes or cold ones diced. For a pint of potatoes make a white sauce, 



72 VEGETABLES 

allowing one tablespoonful flour and two of butter, one cupful milk, a 
tablespoonful chopped parsley, a little cream, if you have it to spare, 
and salt and pepptr to season. Melt the butter in a saucepan, add the 
flour and stir until bubbly and well cooked. A frequent cause of failure 
with creamed potatoes comes from the raw taste of the flour. Add the 
milk and seasoning with the cream. One-half cup is a good allowance. 
As soon as the sauce thickens and grows smooth, add the potatoes, 
which may be whole if new and small, diced, or cut in balls, if older. 
Do not stir. When well heated, add the fine minced parsley and serve. 
Potatoes may also be baked in cream. Cut into dice, put in a buttered 
baking dish, dust with salt and pepper, cover with cream sauce, sprinkle 
with a fine layer of cheese or bread crumbs, and bake until a golden 
brown. 

ONIONS STUFFED WITH CHEESE.— Boil large Spanish onions 
a few minutes, then cut in two and remove the centres. Fill the cavity 
with a dressing made of bread crumbs, minced ham, grated cheese, and 
salt, butter, pepper and thyme to season. Pack all you can get in. Place 
in a baking dish with an inch of deep gravy or stock, or failing these, 
beef extract dissolved in hot water. Place a bit of butter on each onion 
and bake, basting frequently. It will require about one-half hour. An- 
other good forcemeat is made of a mixture of chopped cooked meat, 
chicken, sweetbreads or veal, an equal quantity of fine bread crumbs, 
moistened with cream and melted butter and seasoned to taste. Pliace 
in buttered muffin rings, sprinkle with buttered crumbs and bake. 

PUMPKIN CHIPS. — Tajce what quantity you choose of good, sweet 
pumpkin (the old Connecticut field pumpkin is best), halve, take out the 
seeds and cut into chips the size of a dollar. For each pound pumpkin 
allow one pound of fine white sugar and a gill of lemon juice. Put the 
chips in a deep dish and sprinkle over each layer a layer of sugar. Turn 
the lemon juice over the, whole. Let it remain a day, then boil the whole 
together, with one-half pint of water allowed to each three pounds of 
pumpkin, one tablespoonful of ground ginger tied up in muslin bags and 
the peel of the lemony cut into shreds. When the pumpkin becomes 
tender turn the whole into a stone jar and set away in a cool place for a 
week. At the end of that time pour the syrup off the chips, boil down 
until rich and thick, then turn back over the pumpkin and seal. This 
makes a delicious sweetmeat. 

SCALLOPED POTATO.— This is a hearty dish for supper on a 
cold night or for a substantial dinner. Peel thin, then slice crosswise in 
rather thin pieces. Let stand in cold water for ten or fifteen minutes, 
then drain. Have ready a good sized earthen baking pan and butter 
well. Put in a layer of sliced potatoes, then season with salt and pep- 
per, dot with bits of butter and sprinkle lightly with flour. Add another 
layer of potato, season in the same way, and so proceed until the dish 
is full, with plenty of butter on top. Now pour in hot milk until you 



VEGETABLES 73 

can just see it through the top layer of potato, and bake in a moderate 
oven from half to three-quarters of an hour. If it browns too fast cover 
at first. Then uncover and brown. A little grated onion or onion juice 
may be used in seasoning the layers if desired. 

Potatoes Persillade. — ^To make these, wash and peel nice white pota- 
toes, then cut into small balls with a potato scoop that comes for that 
purpose. Boil in lightly salted water, drain dry and serve with melted 
butter, and minced parsley poured over them. 

SCUFFLED POTATOES.— Cook a quart of peeled potatoes in 
boiling salted water until tender. Drain, mash fine and mix with the 
potatoes one cupful of milk, one tablespoonful of butter and the well 
beaten yolks of two eggs. Whip until light, fold in the whites of the 
eggs beaten to a stiff froth and pepper to season, and put the potatoes 
in a soufHe dish. Make five or six dents on top of the potatoes, put a 
little bit of butter in each, set the dish in a medium oven and bake to a 
light brown. Set into the silver souffle service dish and serve. 

FRENCH FRIED POTATOES.— Old potatoes are better for this, 
or the little yellowish potatoes that German cooks use for potato salad. 
These contain more gluten. Peel very thin and cut in long thin strips 
lengthwise. Let them stand in cold salted water for two or three hours. 
Drain and wipe dry; put into a wire basket and fry in very hot, deep fat 
until brown. Take out and lay on a piece of manila paper to absorb the 
fat; dust with salt and serve. Another way to fry potatoes is to put a 
little olive oil in a deep frying pan; when very hot add sliced cold boiled 
potatoes. Cover, and cook until a golden brown, turning once. Drain, 
put in a hot vegetable dish and sprinkle with salt, pepper and lemon 
juice. Still another way, that the French chef delights in, is to chop cold 
boiled potatoes, then season lightly with salt, pepper and onion juice. 
Put a couple of tablespoonfuls of olive oil or good drippings in the fry- 
ing pan, turn in the potatoes, press into a solid cake and cook slowly 
until crusty and brown on the under side. Turn on a hot platter, with 
the brown side uppermost. 

MASHED POTATOES.— Peel potatoes of uniform size, cover with 
boiling water and cook until tender, salting the water in which they are 
cooked when the potatoes are about half done. Drain off the water, 
then with a fork or wire potato masher beat to a fluff in the same sauce- 
pan in which they have been cooked. When entirely free from lumps 
add for every pint of potatoes about one-third of a cup of hot milk, a table- 
spoonful of butter, and salt and pepper to season. Whip until as light 
as a feather. Heap in a hot dish, but do not snxooth the top; leave it 
piled lightly. If necessary to keep hot for some time, set the pan con- 
taining the potatoes in a saucepan of hot water, but leave uncovered or 
cover lightly with a single fold of cheesecloth. Mashed potatoes left 
over may be utilized in a variety of ways. To make potato pompon take 
the potato up by spoonfuls and make into balls. Roll in beaten egg. 



74 VEGETABLES 

then in bread or cracker crumbs and fry like doughnuts in hot fat. A 
little minced onion, parsley or nutmeg may be mixed with the potato 
if desired; or make a potato omelet by adding to a cupful of mashed 
potatoes one cup of sweet milk, three eggs well beaten, a tablespoonful 
of flour and a little salt. Mix until smooth, turn into a heated frying 
pan, with a tablespoonful melted butter, and fry both sides, turning 
when brown. Mashed potatoes left over may also be added to shredded 
codfish for codfish balls, may be mixed with well beaten egg yolks made 
into flat cakes and fried in butter, or baked in a buttered tin in the 
oven, or mixed with a little grated cheese, put into ramekins or a but- 
tered pudding dish with a layer of cheese on top and baked until brown.. 

POTATO BALLS. — Peel six large ripe potatoes, then with a potato 
scoop cut out little balls about three-quarters of an inch in diameter. 
Wash well in cold water, then drain and pat dry. Put in a baking dish 
with a tablespoonful of melted butter, toss until well coated, sprinkle 
with salt and pepper and bake twenty minutes in a hot oven. If you 
prefer to stew them, cook until tender in boiling salted water; drain; have 
ready a thin cream sauce, put in the potatoes, boil three or four minutes, 
adding a tablespoonful of fine minced parsley and serve. Potato balls 
are also served in a maitre d'hotel sauce. Boil, drain, put in a saucepan 
with a tablespoonful butter and a teaspoonful minced parsley. Simmer, 
covered, five minutes, squeeze the juice of half a lemon over them and 
serve very hot. 

DUTCH POTATOES.— Peel rather good sized potatoes thin, then 
with an apple corer cut out a tunnel through each centre. Have ready 
as many frankfurter sausages as you have potatoes and draw one through 
each cavity. Place in a dripping pan and lay a blanket of fat salt pork 
or a thin slice of bacon on each potato. Pepper lightly and bake until 
the potatoes are tender, basting occasionally with the drippings and a 
little hot water. 

GERMAN LYONNAISE~POTATOES.— Fry one-half cupful thin 
sliced onions in butter or drippings to a light brown, then add one and 
one-half pints sliced or hashed cold boiled potatoes, season with salt and 
pepper and fry to a lighter brown than the onions. Five minutes before 
serving add a tablespoonful fine minced parsley and three tablespoonfuls 
vinegar, toss lightly and serve very hot. 

STUFFED POTATOES.— Select large, oval potatoes, scrub thor- 
oughly, rinse in cold water and bake in a moderate oven until all but 
done. Take from the oven, cut in halves, scrape out the pulp from each 
half, put in a dish, season with salt and pepper, and butter and cream 
to moisten, and whip light with a fork. Fill the shells with the pulp, 
heaping moundwise. Grate a little Parmesan cheese over each and 
stand under the gas flame or in the oven long enough to brown. Serve 
hot. The melted cheese adds greatly to the flavor. Another way is to 
make a fine hash with some cooked fish, fine herbs and the potato pulp. 



VEGETABLES 75 

adding seasoning, butter and a little white sauce. Stuff the potatoes, 
cover with more white sauce and cheese if desired, then brown in the 
oven. Or cut a piece from the side of the baked potato, scoop out some 
of the pulp, season and beat light, then return to the shell, leaving just 
enough room to hold a raw egg broken in. Sprinkle with salt and 
pepper and return to the oven long enough for the egg to "set." 

SWEET POTATO SOUFFLE.— Boil and bake four medium sized 
potatoes. When done peel and mash. Beat the yolks of two eggs. Add 
two tablespoonfuls of cream to them, then beat into the potato, with 
salt and pepper to season, and place the dish in the oven while you beat 
the whites to a stiff froth. Draw the dish to the edge of the oven, fold 
in the whites, replace and bake until light and a delicate brown. Serve 
at once before it falls. 

SWEET POTATOES EN SURPRISE.— Select plump oval pota- 
toes, rather long; wash, and boil about fifteen minutes. Remove, drain 
and . dry. Cut in two lengthwise and scoop out an opening in both 
parts, deep and wide enough to hold a small bird, such as a reed or 
blackbird. Prepare as many birds as you have potatoes, cleaning and 
seasoning with salt and pepper. Dust the cavities in the potato with salt 
and pepper, then brush with olive oil. Lay in the bird, trussed and sea- 
soned, with a thin, waferlike piece of bacon or larding pork tied over 
its breast. Put the two halves together and close with a string. Lay 
in a buttered baking dish and bake twenty-five minutes in a hot oven. 
Take out, cut the strings on potatoes and birds, put the two halves to- 
gether again and serve very hot. 

THE PUMPKIN. — For all general uses, the pumpkin is dryer and 
sweeter baked. Cut in quarters or halves, remove all seeds and place 
in a large dripping pan. Bake, without adding water, for about one 
hour, or even less, according to size. The skin will then be soft and 
crispy and the flesh dry and mealy. Scrape out with a spoon, put into 
a colander and press through. It is then ready for pies, pancakds or 
croquettes. All the watery juice that exudes should be saved to make 
a loaf of delicious pumpkin juice brown bread. The seeds are appetiz- 
ing and among the Italians take the place of our salted nuts. Wash free 
from the sticky shreds that surround them, then dry in the sun or a 
rather cool oven. When ready to salt, spread on a baking tin, salt 
liberally, then set in a hot oven, shaking and stirring often until crisp. 

SORREL. — ^This delicately acid vegetable may be used in combina- 
tion with spinach or cooked alone as a vegetable or soup. As a vege- 
table to serve with roast veal, roast pork or chops, cook the same as 
spinach, adding the yolks of one or two eggs after boiling, chopping and 
sauteing in butter. It also makes a tasty addition to any green salad. 

SPINACH. — Spinach is one of the most delicate and healthful of all 
the pot greens. It is one of the vegetables that improves with each 
successive warming over, so that the French housewife usually cooks 



76 VEGETABLES 

it in a quantity with the idea of reheating it. Like all greens, it must 
be carefully looked over and thoroughly washed. Cut off all the stalks, 
put into a large pan of cold water, plunge up and down to remove the 
sand, then lift out into a second pan of water. Do not attempt to drain 
the water off, as that leaves the sediment at the bottom. Rinse a third 
time, then put into a kettle with the least bit of water (there is usually 
enough clinging to the leaves) for fifteen or twenty minutes. It may be 
seasoned with salt while cooking. Drain, cover with cold water and 
drain again, pressing free from moisture. Chop fine. Have ready in a 
frying pan a tablespoonful of hot butter, add the spinach, season with 
salt, peppei and, if liked, a little nutmeg and cream. If cream be used 
less butter yill be required. Heat thoroughly and serve on a hot dish, 
surrounded by toasted bread points. Garnish with the yolk of a hard 
lioiled egg ^ ut through a ricer over the spinach. 

PUMPKIN A LA ITALIENNE.— Boil pieces of pumpkin in salted 
■water for fifteen minutes. Drain, put two tablespoonfuls of butter or 
olive oil in a frying pan, and when melted lay in the sliced pumpkin, 
seasoning to taste with salt and pepper. Toss over the fire a few min- 
utes, then lay the slices in a buttered baking dish, sprinkle grated cheese 
•on top and bake until nicely browned. Serve very hot as a vegetable. 

SPINACH CROQUETTES.— These are made from one-half peck 
spinach, boiled, cooled and chopped fine. Mix with it two tablespoon- 
fuls of butter, one tablespoonful of minced parsley, one teaspoonful of 
sugar, the grated rind of a lemon, and salt and pepper to season. Add 
one-half cup of milk, heat thoroughly, then cool. When cold shape 
into croquettes, dip in egg and crumbs and fry in the usual way. 

SALSIFY OR OYSTER PLANT.— Salsify is one of the most 
wholesome and delicious of vegetables, easily prepared, and with almost 
no waste. The green tops make an excellent salad in combination with 
lettuce, onions or tomatoes. Having cut off the tops of a bunch of 
salsify, scrape the roots as you would carrots, cut in small slices and 
soak in cold water for an hour or two. Then cover with boiling water 
to half their depth, salt to season, and simmer gently until tender. If 
there is any water left, save it for the stock pot. Put in a tablespoonful 
of butter and a cup of rich milk or cream, then thicken slightly with one- 
half tablespoonful of fiour. Cook two or three minutes until smooth and 
creamy, then season with white pepper and pour over slices of delicately 
browned and buttered toast. 

SALSIFY FRITTERS.— Scrape and slice a quart of salsify roots 
and simmer in boiling salted water until tender. If they are to be used 
for dinner at night they should be ptit to cook early in the afternoon. 
Let the water boil off instead of draining, in order to preserve the fine 
oyster flavor of the plant. Press through a colander. Sift into a bowl 
a pint of flour, two teaspoonfuls of baking powder and one-half tea- 
spoonful of salt. Beat two eggs thoroughly and add to them enough 



VEGETABLES 77 

sweet milk to make a good muffin batter when added to the dry ingred- 
ients. Drop in the salsify, season with pepper and more salt if neces- 
sary. Have ready a frying pan in which is a tablespoonful of good 
pork drippings or olive oil, and when smoking hot drop in the fritters 
from the point of a spoon. When brown on one side, turn and brown 
the other. Take up with a perforated ladle, rest for a moment on soft 
paper to absorb all grease, and serve hot. These are almost as good 
as fried oysters. 

SALSIFY AU GRATIN.— Boil the salsify without scraping until 
tender, when the skin may be peeled off. Slice thin. Put into buttered 
shells or one large baking dish, as preferred, a layer of salsify, then one 
of crumbs, with salt, pepper and butter to season. Repeat until all the 
salsify is used, having buttered crumbs at top. Pour in as much milk 
as the dish will hold, and bake brown. A pleasing change, on occasion, 
is to sprinkle grated cheese on top with the bread crumbs.,, 

SWISS SPINACH.— Cook and thoi-oughly drain the spinach. Chop 
fine and mix with two whole eggs and the yolks of two or three others, 
according to the amount of spinach cooked; one or two milk rolls soaked 
in milk until soft, a little stock or gravy to moisten and salt, pepper and 
nutmeg to season. Stir over the fire until the mixture has thickened 
and is very hot, then having buttered a casserole or any, baking di^h that 
can be sent to the table, sprinkle the bottom with fine bread Crumbs and 
pile the spinach that has been cooled and beaten up with the whites' of 
three or fotir eggs whisked stiff. Bake three-quarters of an hbiir and 
serve with a good gravy or sauce mou'sseline. This dish is so hearty 
that it can be served alone instead of iheat. Son.etimes, a grating of 
cheese is added just befoi-e it goes into the oven. 

SUMMER SQUASH. — These are of two varieties, the yellow crook 
neck and the round white. In selecting them make sure the skin can be 
pierced easily. When young and tender they may be cooked without 
paring, but if hard they must be peeled, and much of the flavor and body 
are lost. Remove the stem and blossom end, cut in pieces and slip in a 
coarse cheesecloth bag. Cook in boiling salted water until tender. Take 
out of the bag and drain, put unopened into the colander, then with a 
potato masher press. This extracts all the juice. Open the bag, finish 
the mashing with a silver fork, season with salt, pepper and butter and 
serve .very hot. Or follow the Southern custom of boiling directly in 
the salted water until tender, then drain through a cheesecloth bag in 
the colander. After the juice is all removed put the pulp through a 
colander and return to the stewpan with a tablespoonful of butter, one- 
half cup of cream and salt and pepper to season. Place on the back of 
the stove where the squash will not burn and simmer an hour or more 
until the water has evaporated and the squash is dry and creamy. 

WINTER SQUASH. — Wash, dry and cut in pieces, using a can 
opener to cut the shell. The pieces should be about three inches square.; 



78 VEGETABLES 

Take out the seeds, brush the inside of each piece with butter, place in 
a baking pan and bake in a medium hot oven until tender. Serve on the 
shells, brushing again with melted butter and seasoning with salt and 
pepper. Another way is to peel the squash, remove the seeds and cut 
in small pieces. Cook in boiling salted water until tender, allowing the 
water to dry off. Mash well, season with salt, pepper and butter and 
mound on a hot dish. 

TOMATO PASTE. — To make the paste to use in seasoning sauces, 
soups or with macaroni, peel and slice tomatoes, then cook in a porce- 
lain kettle until a soft pulp. Rub through a sieve and return to the 
kettle, which should have been washed and rubbed inside with a clove of 
garlic. For each peck of tomatoes allow a sweet red pepper minced 
fine, discarding the seeds, a rounded tablespoonful of salt and teaspoon- 
ful of white pepper. Set on the back of the range or in the oven, pro- 
tecting the bottom of the pan from scorch by an asbestos mat, and 
simmer gently until a thick pulp. Then spread on shallow plates or 
put in a cool oven or in the sun until dried to a stiff but flexible paste. 
Pack in glass cans or parafifine paper in tin boxes and keep where it will 
be dry and cool. When ready to use soften an inch or two of the 
paste in hot water. 

STUFFED TOMATOES.— The preliminary treatment of tomatoes 
to be stuffed is all the same, but the fillings are legion. Select tomatoes 
of firm texture and equal size. Cut a cap from each and with a spoon 
handle or vegetable scoop remove the seeds and as much of the soft pulp 
as you desire. Turn upside down for a few moments to drain off super- 
fluous juice, then season the inside of the cups with salt and pepper. 
The stuffing may be widely varied to suit individual taste and materials 
on hand — it may be simply well seasoned bread crumbs, with plenty of 
butter, minced parsley and' egg to bind; the tomato pulp that has been 
removed, mixed with minced onion; bread crumbs and seasonings; 
cooked rice seasoned with salt, pepper, butter and a little curry; creamed 
onions with bread crumbs; Parmesan cheese and bread crumbi^ a cream 
of filling or a forcemeat of minced ham or sausage. 

Still other fillings that are popular are oysters with cracker crumbs 
and seasonings, raw chopped beef well seasoned with onions, salt and 
pepper, a chicken and mushroom forcemeat, sweetbreads, eggs, or cooked 
macaroni and cheese. Most fillings need to be cooked before putting in 
the tomato, as the latter cooks so quickly. The tomatoes may be served 
on rounds of buttered toast or plain, as preferred. 

BAKED TOMATOES.— Cut nice, smooth fruit in halves and place 
skin side down in a buttered dripping pan; season with salt and pepper, 
put a little bit of butter on each, sprinkle with cracker dust and bake 
about twenty minutes. Or select smooth, round tomatoes of equal size, 
pour boiling water over them, skin and cut out the stem end. Roll in 
cracker dust, then in beaten egg and again in the cracker dust, and 



VEGETABLES 79 

pack in a buttered baking dish that can be sent to the table, as the 
tomatoes look better if not disturbed. Season with salt and pepper, 
put a bit of butter on each and bake in a quick oven about twenty min- 
utes, basting often with melted butter and a little hot water. 

FRIED TOMATOES.— Both green and ripe tomatoes are excellent 
fried. For the former, wash, dry, and cut in rather thick slices, without 
peeling. Cover with boiling water and set back on the range, so the 
water will keep hot, but not boil, for fifteen minutes or until the to- 
matoes turn a pale golden color. Drain, dip in flour or fine corn meal, 
seasoned with salt and pepper, then fry a nice brown in pork or bacon 
drippings and serve very' hot, arranging in little piles of two or three 
and putting a piece of butter on each slice as dished. These are a fine 
accompaniment to lamb chops or veal croquettes. To fry the ripe to- 
matoes, slice large, firm fruit in medium thick slices, seasoned with salt 
and pepper, sprinkle plentifully with fine corn meal (as j^nuch as will 
cling to each side), then fry in smoking hot fat until browned on both 
sides. Take up carefully with a broad bladed knife or pancake turner 
and arrange in little piles on a hot platter. Put another tablespoonful 
of butter or pork drippings in the pan, add an equal amount of flour, 
stir until frothy, then pour in milk or cream to make the consistency 
desired. Season to taste with salt and pepper, pour over the tomatoes 
■and serve. 

BROILED TOMATOES.— Cut into half inch slices firm tomatoes 
(the beefsteak variety is best for broiling) and dust with salt and pepper. 
Wipe a fine broiler over with olive oil, lay the tomato slices on closely and 
broil over a clear fire. Some sprinkle the slices with fine cracker dust 
or bread crumbs before broiling. This is a matter of taste. Serve with 
plenty of butter on toast or without, as preferred. To devil them, ar- 
range on a hot chop platter after broiling, and pour over them a sauce 
made by heating together two tablespoonfuls of olive oil, a saltspoonful 
of mustard, a dash of cayenne, one-half teaspoonful of sugar and three 
tablespoonfuls of vinegar. 

CURRIED TOMATOES. — The green tomatoes are best for this pur- 
pose, cut into thick slices. Put into a saucepan two tablespoonfuls 
of butter and when hot add two tablespoonfuls of fine minced onion. 
Cook to a golden brown, add one teaspoonful of curry powder, put in 
the tomatoes and fry on both sides, seasoning with salt and pepper. 

STEWED TOMATOES. — Scald the tomatoes, then peel and cut in 
small pieces, discarding the hard portion about the stem. Put into a 
stewpan and set over the fire. Cook gently about twenty minutes, count- 
ing from the time it commences to boil. When nearly ready to serve, 
season, allowing for each quart of tomatoes about one-half tablespoonful 
of salt, one-half teaspoonful of pepper, one generous tablespoonful of 
butter and one teaspoonful of sugar, if desired. This may be slightly 



80 VEGETABLES 

.thickened with flour stirred smooth in a little cold water or a few 
powdered cracker crumbs. To make a puree to serve with roast beef, 
mutton or pork, add to the tomatoes while cooking a few spoonfuls of 
good gravy, with a little onion, parsley and herbs to season. When the 
tomatoes are tender, rub through a fine hair sieve, having first taken out 
the seasoning herbs. Dissolve one tablespoonful of butter in a frying 
pan, add one tablespoonful of flour, and when blended add the tomato 
pulp and another spoonful of gravy. Serve very hot. 

BAKED TURNIPS.— Peel, slice thin and cook fifteen minutes in 
salted water.^ Drain, place in a buttered baking dish and pour over them 
a cup of good, clear stock, seasoned with salt, pepper, nutmeg, and, if 
liked, a teaspoonful of sugar. Bake until tender, basting often. Serve 
in a hot dish with the pan gravy, which should be slightly thickened, 
poured over them. 

TURNIP BALLS.— Wash and peel fine grained turnips, then cut 
Into balls, using a vegetable scoop. Drop into boiling water, lightly 
salted, adding also a very little sugar and cook until tender, Ijut not 
broken. Drain, cover with drawn butter or cream sauce, sprinkle lightly 
with minced parsley and serve very hot. 

BOILED TURNIPS.— Peel, slice and cook in boiling salted water 
until tender. Drain well, mash with a wooden vegetable masher, season 
|with salt, pepper and butter and serve; or, instead of mashing, chop 
in rather large pieces, return to the stcwpan, seasoning with plenty of 
butter, salt and pepper, then add three or four spoonfuls of water or 
beef stock and cook until the seasonings have been well absorbed. 
Small turnips may be peeled and boiled whole, then have their centres 
scooped out and refilled with creamed peas. 

TURNIPS AU GRATIN.— Peel and cut into cubes. Cover with cold 
water and cook five minutes, then drain and cover with boiling salted 
tiwater or white stock and simmer gently until tender. Make a cup of 
good white sauce, using a tablespoonful each of butter and flour. Melt 
the butter, add the flour and as soon as blended without browning add 
a tablespoonful of grated cheese. When it has melted pour in a cup 
of milk, stirring until smooth and creamy. Season with salt and pepper 
and pour over the turnips. Put into a well buttered gratin dich, and if 
too dry add a little more milk. Cover wjth buttered crumbs and brown 
in a quick oven. 

FRIED TURNIPS.— Peel, slice and throw into cold water for half 
an hour. Drain, then put into boiling salted water and cook until a 
fork can pierce them, but not until broken. Drain, and when cold pat 
dry on a soft towel. Dip in cracker crumbs, then in beaten egg, then in 
crumbs again. Lay on the ice for an hour to harden, then fry in olive 
oil or butter until it is a light brown. 



^^-\ 





TEAL, WIDGEONS, 
and other small ducks. 



S^*., PREPARATION 



necessary before 
cooking teal, widgeons, etc., is to 
singe, draw, and if intended for 
roasting, truss the required number 
of birds, cut off heads and feet and 
wipe with a damp cloth. Put a 
tablespoonful of butter and sprink- 
ling of salt and pepper inside each 
bird, lay in a dripping pan with a 
peeled onion, then roast in a very 
hot oven for fifteen or twenty min- 
utes, basting every few minutes, using more butter or olive oil if required. 
Make a sauce by browning lightly in a tablespoonful butter an onion 
chopped fine. Add a tablespoonful of flour and brown also, then a cup 
each of port wine and hot water, with salt, pepper and a tiny bit of 
nutmeg to season. Stir the sauce until it boils, then pour over the birds. 
If preferred the ducks may be split down the back without dividing, 
browned in a brisk oven for ten or fifteen minutes, then placed on a 
gridiron, flesh side next the fire, and broiled five minutes. 

Make a good browned gravy, place the birds on slices of toast, 
garnish with slices of beef and watercress and serve with red currant 
jelly and orange salad. They may be also broiled and served on toast, 
spread with maitre d'hotel butter. 

BROILED REEDBIRDS.— Dress the birds without splitting, tuck 
an oyster in each one, broil quickly over a clear fire about five minutes, 
season and serve at once on slices of well buttered toast. They may 
also be fried in smoking hot fat, in which case they are split down the 
back, seasoned and rolled in corn meal or sifted crumbs before frying, 
or they may be roasted with thin slices of bacon skewered on each 
little breast, and four birds arranged on a skewer. Roast seven minutes 
in a hot oven. 

BAKED WILD GOOSE. — Pluck, draw and singe a wild goose, then 
soak in salt and water for twelve hours before cooking. If you have 
any doubts about its age, cut up an onion, put in the inside, sew up, 

81 



82 GAME 

plunge into boiling water, then set back on the stove where it will 
simply simmer for an hour. Take out, remove the onion, which will 
have absorbed much of the strong wild taste, then stuff the bird with 
a plain bread stuffing or one made of mashed potatoes with chopped 
celery, onion and seasonings to taste. Sew up the bird, truss and put 
in a baking dish. If the goose is not fat enough to baste with its own 
drippings, lay strips of fat salt pork over the breast and tie in place. 
Put a little water in the pan, well seasoned with salt and pepper, and 
baste the bird frequently until done. The baking should be in a moderate 
oven and the bird should be frequently turned so as to brown evenly 
on all sides. Serve with giblet gravy and apple sauce. 

WILD DUCKS. — While there are more than twenty varieties of the 
wild duck the cooking is about the same. Ducks should be roasted or 
broiled, as a general thing, but always served rare. Twenty minutes in 
a very hot oven will cook them enough to suit the average masculine 
taste, but women as a rule prefer them to be cooked five or ten minutes 
longer. Like venison and other wild game, they must not be washed, 
but simply wiped with a damp cloth. 

Some culinary authorities advise stuffing wild duck with celery to 
improve the flavor, but if they have come from good feeding grounds 
all they require is to be cooked as simply and quickly as possible. With 
canvasback, redhead or mallard it is like painting the lily to attempt to 
improve the flavor. If they are to be broiled, split through the back 
■without detaching the pieces and flatten with a rolling pin. Sprinkle 
inside with salt and pepper and lay on a dish while you rub them over 
with olive oil inside and out. 

Dust sparingly with flour, then broil, flesh side first, over a clear fire 
or under the gas flame. Turn and broil the back. A good plan with a 
gas range is to broil the inside until brown, then set the rack in the 
roasting pan in regular oven to finish. Dress on a hot dish, spread with 
maitre d'hotel butter and decorate with watercress. 

The proper concomitants for duck broiled or roasted are crisp celery, 
|fried hominy, Baltimore apple bread and currant jelly, black or red. 
In roasting sprinkle with salt, set in a brisk oven and cook eighteen or 
^(wenty minutes. Untruss, arrange on a hot dish with two tablespoonfuls 
of broth to moisten the inside and serve with fried hominy. 

PLOVER OR DOUGH BIRD.— Until recently the plover, though 
highly esteemed abroad, was little appreciated in this country, save by 
sportsmen. Now it is a favorite tidbit with all epicures. As the plover 
is small, allow one for each person. Pick carefully, singe and draw. 
Take out the eyes, trim oflE the toes, skin the head and fasten back 
against the body, as the brain is considered a great delicacy. Season 
Inside and out with salt and pepper, and brush with olive oil. Cover 
the breast with a thin slice of bacon, heat a pan, place the plover in it 
and bake in a piping hot oven from twelve to fifteen minutes. Lift 
out the birds and place on slices of delicately browned toast. 



GAME 83 

Pour into the pan one-half cup of well flavored white broth, stir 
with the drippings and pour over the birds and toast. Garnish with 
watercress and lemon points and serve with a cress salad. 

HARES.— Hares must always be skinned before cooking, and if 
intended for roasting must be trussed to give the proper effect. If 
preferred, all bones may be removed and the body reformed so that 
it can be easily carved. But this requires a certain amount of dexterity 
that all amateur cooks do not possess. In dressing the animal be sure 
to remove the thin muscular membrane extending from the flank over 
the intestines. It is this that gives the strong flavor that many object 
to. For broiling split, wipe inside and out with a damp cloth; rub 
the legs and shoulders with butter or olive oil, then lay in a deep earthen 
dish with a sliced onion, a few sprigs of thyme and parsley, a bay 
leaf, a cup of vinegar and one-half cup of water, a tablespoonful of 
salt and a teaspoonful of pepper and let them lay twenty-four hours 
or even longer to marinate. Keep covered with another dish. When 
ready to broil, drain, cut deep gashes in the thick part of the back that 
the heat may penetrate it, rub again with oil or butter and broil over 
a clear fire, turning often. When thoroughly done, transfer to a hot 
platter, rub well with butter, season with salt and pepper and garnish 
with parsley. 

GROUSE.— Grouse may be split in halves through the back without 
separating, seasoned with salt and pepper, rubbed over with olive oil 
and broiled over a brisk fire, then served with a good mushroom sauce. 
They may be cut in halves lengthwise, skinned, rolled in bread crumbs 
and oil or melted butter, fried over a moderate fire, turning so as to 
cook both sides, then served with a rich sauce. They may be larded and 
baked, stewed, made into a pie, or used in a salmi. 

The latter is a specially nice way of preparing them. Cut cold roast 
grouse in pieces for serving. Put into a frying pan one-quarter of a 
cup of butter, and when hot add one tablespoonful of raw ham chopped 
fine, a slice of onion and a stalk of celery chopped. Cook until the vege- 
tables are colored, then add one-quarter of a cup of flour, and when 
that is browned and frothy three-fourths cup of brown stock or gravy. 
Season with one-half teaspoonful of salt and a few grains cayenne, 
cook five minutes, strain, add the grouse and when the meat is thor- 
oughly heated through arrange on a hot serving dish and set where it 
will keep warm while the sauce is prepared. Add one-half wineglass 
of sherry and the thin shaved rind of a half lemon to the gravy in the 
pan, cook two minutes longer, pour over the grouse and serve with a 
garnish of fried bread points. 

POTTED PIGEONS. — Clean the pigeons, tie in shape, then sprinkle 
with salt, pepper and flour. Place some thin slices of fat salt pork or 
butter, if preferred, in the bottom of an earthen jar or small porcelain 
kettle and lay the pigeons on it. Put a few slices of onion on the birds 
and pour over the whole boiling water. Cover the jar or kettle so that 



84 GAME 

no steam escapes and set in a pot of water where it will simmer steadily 
for two hours or until the birds are tender. When stewed enough take 
up on a hot dish, skim the fat from the gravy, thicken with a table- 
spoonful of butter and flour rubbed to a cream, then add a spoonful 
of cream and a little lemon peel. Pour the sauce over the birds and 
garnish with parsley and sliced lemon. If desired, the pigeons may be 
stuffed before jugging. In this case add to their giblets, minced fine, 
a little shredded beef suet, bread crumbs, parsley and marjoram to sea- 
son, and one or two eggs to bind. 

HASSENPFEFFER.— This is the favorite German way of cooking 
hare or rabbit. After a careful cleaning, being particular not to break 
the gall bladder or the liver, cut into pieces, making four bits of the 
backbone from thighs to shoulders. Put two tablespoonfuls of butter 
into a saucepan and when hot add two tablespoonfuls of chopped bacon, 
two small carrots scraped and chopped fine, a bay leaf, a couple of 
cloves, a clove of garlic, with salt and pepper to season. If liked, a 
few button mushrooms may also be added. Put in the hare and when 
nicely browned stir in one-half cup of vinegar and water. Cover closely 
and simmer gently until the meat is tender, adding at the last a cupful 
of cream. Serve with noodles. 

ROAST HARE. — ^This may be done in either of two ways. Gash 
the thick part of the flesh on the back, and if the hare is an old one 
lard with fine strips of bacon or fat salt pork. Boil the liver, chop, and 
mix with bread crumbs, a slice of fat salt pork and a good forcemeat, 
seasoning well with salt, pepper, nutmeg and any preferred herbs. Use 
the water in which the liver was cooked to moisten, and a beaten egg 
to bind together. Stuff the body and sew or skewer. Rub with olive oil 
or butter and roast, basting often until done. Milk is often used in the 
basting, epicures thinking it to be a great improvement in keeping the 
flesh juicy. An hour usually suffices for the roasting. A few moments 
before taking up dredge with flour, then froth with butter. Take up 
in a hot dish, add to the gravy a table spoonful each of butter and flour 
rubbed together, a tablespoonful culinary bouquet, the juice of an onion 
and a tablespoonful of lemon juice. Bring to a boil, strain and serve in 
a boat. Garnish the hare with slices of lemon, dotted with currant jelly 
and parsley. Another way is to cut the hares in halves, separating 
the forequarters from the hind. Bone the saddles, but not the legs. 
Prepare a marinade of white wine vinegar seasoned with a little onion 
juice, lemon, celery; salt and pepper, and lay the saddles in this bath 
for twenty-four hours. Take out the pieces, stuff the boned saddles with 
a good forcemeat, give them a nice rounded shape and tie with tapes to 
hold firmly. Place in the roasting pan with a pint of broth, having a 
piece of fat salt pork placed over each saddle, and bake in a hot oven 
forty-five minutes, basting frequently. Strain the gravy over them when 
dished for serving and decorate with croutons or noodles. Use the fore- 
quarters for a stew. 



GAME 85 

PIGEON PIE.— Clean and wipe four pigeons. Split and put in a 
saucepan with enough good broth to nearly cover. Simmer gently 
Until tender. Take out and remove some of the larger bones. Cut the 
hearts and livers into bits. Have ready four hard boiled eggs sliced, 
butter a deep pudding dish, and fill with alternate layers of the pigeons, 
eggs and minced hearts and livers. Season with salt and pepper. Make 
a gravy with one tablespoonful each of butter and flour, and one and 
one-half cupful of the broth. Season with salt and pepper, and pour 
one-half into the dish. Cover with a layer pf good paste, making an 
incision in the middle of the crust to allow for the escape of steam and 
ornament the edges of the pie with braids, leaves or rolls of the crust. 
Bake for one hour in a moderately hot oven. When nearly done, brush 
over the top of the pie with the yolk of an egg beaten with a little milk. 
Serve hot with baked potatoes and the rest of the gravy. 

HARE PIE. — Skin, joint, and then cut into half joints, saving the 
blood. For a pair of hares chop fine a pound of veal, one onion and a 
little parsley, and mix with a pound of sausage, seasoning well with 
salt and pepper. Soak the pieces of hare in salt water twenty minutes, 
then stew gently in boiling water to cover until they begin to be tender. 
Take up the pieces of meat and thicken the gravy, adding salt, pepper 
and butter to season. Have ready a deep earthen pudding dish, well 
buttered, and on the bottom put a layer of the hare meat. Over this 
arrange a layer of the sausage and veal mince, adding, if desired, a 
layer of sliced hard boiled eggs, with salt and pepper to season. Alter- 
nate in this way the hare, iriince and seasoning, until all the material 
is used. Cover the whole with a thin layer of bacon or fat salt pork. 
Pour in the blood added to the gravy, together with the juice of a half 
lemon and a cup of Madeira wine. Cover with a good crust and bake 
an hour in a moderate oven; If it shows signs of browning too quickly 
cover with paper. 

PIGEONS. — ^The young pigeons or squabs are best broiled. Split 
the birds down the back, rub over with salt, pepper and olive oil, or 
butter — olive oil is better, in that it does not burn so easily— ^sprinkle 
with cracker dust and broil over a clear fire. Serve on pieces of hot 
toast, with a crisp slice of bacon laid on each bird. They may also be 
stuffed and roasted. One way is to fill with a dressing made of seeded 
Taisins, bread crumbs, salt, pepper and a little cinnamon, with stock to 
moisten. After stuffing, skewer or tie the birds into shape, rub the 
outside with butter or olive oil, and dredge with flour or fine crumbs. 
Put in a baking pan, blanketing each bird with a thin slice of bacon, 
add a little hot stock or water to the pan and bake in a hot oven, basting 
■often. When cooked, place on slices of toast or fried hominy, thicken 
the gravy with browned flour or season well, darkening with culinary 
bouquet, and pour over the birds. 

WOODCOCK. — Woodcock may be broiled whole or filleted, may be 
served in croustades or as a salmi, or roasted. For broiling, pick out the 



86 GAME 

eyes and skin the heads. Split through the backs without separating the 
parts, then season with salt and pepper, roll in olive oil and broil over 
a clear fire with their bills tucked in their breasts. Broil on each side for 
four or five minutes and serve on delicately browned slices of toast. 
Spread with maitre d'hotel butter and garnish with crispy slices of 
bacon. To roast, put a cranberry or two in each body and truss, fastenr 
ing the legs close to the body. Toast as many slices of bread as you 
have birds. Lay a slice of toast tinder each bird to catch all the juices, 
and roast half an hour, basting frequently with butter. Serve on a hot 
plate, the toast under each bird, and garnish with thin slices of lemon 
and watercress. 

SALMI OF WOODCOCK.— Split four woodcocks lengthwise down 
the back and divide into joints. Bruise the livers and hearts of the 
birds and put with them in a casserole. Dust over with salt, pepper, 
grated nutmeg, two teaspoonfuls of French mustard and three table- 
spoonfuls of grated yellow peel of lemon. Moisten with the juice of 
five lemons and a little white wine and set in the oven until thoroughly 
heated. Just before serving in the dish in which they are cooked add 
a teaspoonful olive oil, stir about and serve very hot. 

PARTRIDGE. — Partridge is a dry meat and needs plenty of butter 
in whatever way it is cooked. The birds may be halved, seasoned with 
salt, pepper and rubbed with olive oil, then broiled seven minutes on 
each side, after which they may be served on slices of fried hominy 
spread with maitre d'hotel butter, blanketed with crisp slices of broiled 
bacon and served. They may be roasted for twenty minutes in a hot 
oven, with thin slices of fat bacon wrapped around them or may be 
fried in butter, then made into a pie or braised en casserole. For the 
latter clean carefully and truss neatly. Put into a frying pan with hot 
butter or chopped fat bacon and brown evenly all over, turning from 
side to side. When well colored take from the frying pan and place in 
a casserole that has a tight fitting cover. Have ready a cupful of hot 
beef broth and a cupful of tomato puree; pour over the birds, sprinkle 
with a little Spanish red pepper and add a little white wine, or not, as 
preferred. Cover closely and cook about three-quarters of an hour. 
When done take outi and lay on slices of hot toast or in croustades; 
add more butter and seasoning to the sauce, pour over the birds, garnish 
and serve at once. 

STEWED VENISON.— Cut the meat into fairly small, square pieces. 
Put three tablespoonfuls butter in a stewpan and as soon as melted add 
two tablespoonfuls flour, stirring until well blended. Add two or three 
tablespoonfuls of bacon cut in small squares, half a dozen small onions, 
sliced, two cloves of garlic, and the meat seasoned with salt and pepper. 
Add claret and water in equal quantities to cover, then simmer gently 
until the meat is tender. Take from the pot, skim the fat off the gravy, 
remove the garlic and cook until thickened. Add a tablespoonful of 



GAME 87 

culinary bouquet to color, arrange the meat on a hot dish, pour the sauce 
over it and serve hot. 

ROAST VENISON.— The loin, saddle, haunch or shoulder of ven- 
ison may be roasted. The saddle is considered the choicest portion and 
is highest priced. . Do not wash the meat, but wipe with a damp cloth. 
For the haunch, place on a meat board and pound all over, using a 
wooden potato masher or the rolling pin. Several hours before putting 
in oven lard all over on top with strips of firm fat pork. Then put 
into an earthen vessel with a marinade made of two cups of vinegar, 
one cup olive oil, three onions sliced, two sliced carrots, two stalks white 
celery, cut fine, a little bunch of parsley, two crushed bay leaves, a 
sprig of thyme and pepper. Turn the haunch several times, so that 
every portion may be equally well seasoned. When ready to roast, tie 
in compact shape, removing all the shreds of vegetables that remain 
attached to the meat. Put a few thin slices larding pork in the bottom 
of the roasting pan, and having dredged the meat with salt, pepper and 
flour, lay it on the pan and set in a hot oven. After the first twenty 
minutes baste every ten minutes. When the roast is a fine brown, reduce 
the heat of the oven, so that the last part of the roasting may be gentle. 
Venison should be cooked rare, allowing ten minutes to the pound after 
the first twenty minutes. A little claret or melted current jelly used in 
the basting adds greatly to the flavor. Serve piping hot on a hot platter, 
accompanying it with red or black currant or grape jelly. Have the 
dinner plates very hot, as venison chills easily. Vegetables that go 
well with venison are cauliflower, spinach, succotash, white or sweet 
potatoes, and always a good green salad, with French dressing, not 
mayonnaise. 

RICE AND RABBIT STEW.— Put a tablespoonful of fat salt pork, 
chopped, or pork drippings, into an iron pot, and when hot add a 
rabbit cut in joints, and fry. When almost brown enough on all sides 
add two small onions, sliced, and let them brown. Then add two table- 
spoonfuls of flour and let it color a rich brown. Now add one quart 
hot soup stock or boiling water, cook for ten minutes, then season with 
salt, pepper, a bay leaf and a suspicion of cayenne. Push back on the 
stove and simmer gently, covered closely, for two hours, or until the 
meat is very tender. Add the juice of a lemon, a tablespoonful butter 
rubbed smooth with a tablespoonful of flour, and stir well for two or 
three minutes. Turn the whole on a hot dish, piling it up, and serve 
with a border of hot boiled rice. A pint of mushrooms added five or 
ten minutes before taking up makes a delicious addition. 

BARBECUED SQUIRRELS (Southern Style).— Get two fat squir- 
rels and have them skinned and drawn. Cut the thin skin on each 
side of the stomach close to the ribs, then wipe thoroughly with a damp- 
cloth. Sprinkle with black pepper, but use no salt. Put a layer of 
fat bacon, sliced, in a roasting pan, lay the squirrels on this bed, and 



88 GAME 

cover closely with more thin slices of bacon. Pour in the pan one-half 
cup of good broth or hot water, to which a teaspoonful of beef extract 
has been added, and bake in a moderate oven until the squirrels are 
tender. Baste every ten minutes. An hour usually suffices for the 
roasting. Take up the squirrels and keep hot while the gravy "is made 
ready. Skim the fat from the surface, then put in a tablespoonful of 
flour. Let this brown, stirring all the time, then add one cup of boiling 
water, the juice of a lemon, a tablespoonful of chopped pickle, and ten 
tablespoonfuls of catsup. Cook until smooth and thickened, pour over 
the squirrels and serve, 

BRUNSWICK STEW,— This is made from the large Southern gray 
squirrels. Cut into joints and lay in cold salted water for one-half hour 
to draw out the blood. Put into a large pot one gallon of water, lightly 
salted, and bring to a boil. Add the jointed squirrels, one-half dozen 
potatoes parboiled and sliced, one-half pound of fat salt pork, sliced, a 
quart of tomatoes peeled and sliced, one pint Lima beans, six ears of 
corn cut from the cob, or canned corn, and a sliced onion. Cover closely 
and simmer gently for three hours, stirring occasionally from the bot- 
tom. Fifteen minutes before serving add one-half cup of butter, beaten 
.to a cream with a tablespoonful of flour, a tablespoonful of sugar, and 
pepper to season. Stir until smooth and slightly thickened, then pour 
into a hot tureen. 

BROILED VENISON CHOPS AND CUTLETS.— Cut of moderate 
thickness, remove the bones, beat lightly to flatten, season with salt 
and pepper, then put into a rather deep dish with good olive oil to cover, 
and let them stand two or three hours in a cool place to absorb the 
oil. When ready, drain, place on a greased gridiron and broil over a 
clear fire, turning so that both sides will be equally well done. The 
broiling will take about twenty minutes. Place on a hot dish, the 
chops or cutlets overlapping each other, spread with sauce piquant, 
mixed with currant jelly, and serve. 




i fi 



KUC 




ANCHOVY SAUCE.— Take five anchovies divided into fillets and 
heat in a mortar with three tablespoonfuls of butter. Put into a small 
stewpan with a quarter of a cupful of water, two tablespoonfuls of 
vinegar and a tablespoonful of flour stirred smooth with a little water. 
Stir over the fire until it is smooth and thickened, then rub through a 
coarse hair sieve. 

BERNAISE SAUCE. — Put two tablespoonfuls tarragon vinegar in a 
saucepan, then add eight crushed black peppercorns, two chopped shal- 
lots and a tablespoonful of minced parsley. Cook five or six minutes 
and set aside to cool. Break six fggs, separating the whites from the 
yolks, and stir into the cold vinegar, adding at the same time four 
(tablespoonfuls of butter cut in small pieces. Set the small pan in a 
larger one of hot water and as it reaches the boiling point stir constantly 
until very thick. Add a teaspoonful of beef extract dissolved in one- 
quarter cup of hot water, season the sauce with salt and a little grated 
nutmeg, and pour over the steak or whatever it is to be served with. 

BECHAMEL SAUCE.— Put three tablespoonfuls of butter in a sauce- 
pan and stir until soft. Add three tablespoonfuls of flour, a slice each 
of carrot and onion, a blade of mace, half a dozen whole peppers, 
a bay leaf and a sprig of parsley. Stir well into the butter, then add 
three-quarters of a pint of milk or white stock, as preferred. Simmer 
on the back of the stove for twenty-five minutes stirring often. Strain, 
return to the fire, and season with salt and cayenne pepper. Add one- 
half cup of cream and it is ready to serve. A richer sauce may be 
made by adding two eggs and one cup of cream. 

BORDELAISE SAUCE.— The foundation for this sauce, which is 
served with broiled beefsteak, is a rich brown or Espagnole sauce, well 
flavored with onions, minced sweet herbs and red or Bordeaux wine, 
from which it takes its name. If one does not care to use wine, vinegar 
or lemon juice can be substituted. Add to the hot sauce marrow from 
the shin bone of beef, which has been merely scalded in boiling salted 
water, then cut into thin slices or small cubes. Serve very hot, because 
the marrow chills easily. 

89 



90 SAUCES 

CAPER SAUCE.— Make a good drawn butter sauce by melting in 
a saucepan two tablespoonfuls of butter. Add two tablespoonfuls of 
flour and mix well. Add one pint of hot water or white stock, a little 
at a time, and stir rapidly as it thickens. When perfectly smooth add 
two more tablespoonfuls of butter, one-half teaspoonful of salt and one- 
half saltspoonful of pepper. This should be perfectly smooth. If it is 
lumpy, strain. Now, with this for foundation, stir in two tablespoonfuls 
of lemon juice, four tablespoonfuls of large capers and, if desired for 
fish, two tablespoonfuls of essence of anchovy. For the boiled mutton 
Ijhis is not essential. Pickled nasturtium seeds may be used in place 
of capers. 

BROWN BUTTER SAUCE.— Place the desired amount of butter 
in a saucepan and heat until it becomes a rich brown color. Take care, 
however, that it does not burn. Add a little vinegar or lemon juice and 
pour over the fish or joint with which it is to be served. Another brown 
sauce is made by putting in a saucepan two tablespoonfuls of butter and 
two tablespoonfuls of flour. Cook until the flour is browned, stirring 
all the time. Then pour in one cup and a half of boiling water, simmer- 
ing and stirring until smooth and thickened. 

A still richer brown sauce is made in this way: — Put two tablespoon- 
fuls of butter in a pan over the fire, then add one sliced onion, one 
small carrot, one half of a turnip chopped fine, a bay leaf and sprig 
of parsley. Cover and simmer fifteen minutes. Then place over the fire 
jwhere the vegetables will color without burning. Add two tablespoon- 
fuls of flour, stirring until the flour is well browned. Add gradually two 
cups of stock, half a dozen peppercorns, three cloves and a blade of 
mace with salt to season. Cover and simmer twenty minutes, then 
strain and serve. This sauce may serve as the foundation for the Bor- 
delaise sauce or may be varied by adding wine, lemon juice or mush- 
rooms, thus making many different sauces with the same foundation. 

BREAD SAUCE (For Game and Poultry).- Put into a double boiler 
two full cups of milk and place over the fire. Add one-quarter of an 
onion sliced and a cup of finely sifted bread crumbs. Cover and simmer 
twenty minutes. Remove the onion, add a tablespoonful of butter and 
season with salt, pepper and a suspicion of mace. Serve hot. 

CELERY SAUCE (For Boiled Fowl).— Wash a head of celery thor- 
oughly, cut in pieces and cook in boiling salted water until tender. 
Drain. Add enough hot water to that in which the celery was cooked 
to make a pint in all. Cut the celery in nice small pieces, half an inch 
in length. Now make a pint of drawn butter sauce, using the pint of 
water. Add the cooked celery and seasoning and serve. 

LEMON SAUCE FOR FISH.— Squeeze and strain the juice from a 
large lemon into a saucepan, then add to it one-quarter of a pound 
(scant) of butter, one-half saltspoonful of salt and a saltspoonful of 



SAUCES 91 

pepper. Beat over the fire until thick and hot, but do not let it boil. 
When done mix with the beaten yolks of two eggs and serve at once. 

TOMATO SAUCE.— Add to one cupful of hot stewed and strained 
tomato one tablespoonful of butter rubbed with a teaspoonful of corn- 
Starch. Stir until smooth and thickened, add one-half teaspoonful of 
salt, a few drops onion juice and a tablespoonful of Worcestershire 
sauce. If too thick, dilute with a little boiling water. A richer sauce 
is made by putting a pint can of tomatoes into a saucepan with a bunch 
of seasoning herbs, salt and pepper to taste; add one-half cup of , water. 
Put over the fire, cook about three-quarters of an hour, stirring often. 
Put a tablespoonful and a half of butter in a saucepan over the fire 
with a scant tablespoonful flour. Add the strained pulp from the to- 
matoes and a small cup rich broth, graduating the amount to make the 
sauce the consistency required. 

SAUCE TARTARE.— This is one of the standbys that no house- 
keeper liable to the unexpected interruption of guests should be without, 
it can be used in an emergency for so many different things. It is 
delicious with fish, cold or hot, broiled or devilled chicken, tongue, 
beef, cauliflower or potato salad. It is easy to make, the only essen- 
tials being good materials, everything cold, and the oil added very 
slowly at first. After that it may be poured in, in larger quantities and 
frequently. Mix in a small bowl one-half teaspoonful dry mustard, the 
same amount each powdered sugar and salt, and a quarter teaspoonful 
cayenne. Add the yolks of two fresh eggs and stir. Measure out a 
cupful of olive oil and add a few drops at a time, stirring until it thickens. 
If it begins to thicken too much to stir easily, thin with a little lemon 
juice, adding oil and lemon alternately until you have used all the oil 
and two tablespoonfuls of lemon juice. Lastly, beat in two tablespoon- 
fuls of tarragon or other vinegar. This gives the regular mayonnaise, 
which should be smooth and thick. Now to make it into sauce tartare, 
add one teaspoonful finely chopped onion or onion juice, a tablespoonful 
,dhopped pickle, capers, olives and parsley, in any proportion desired. 
You may use simply the sour cucumber pickle or part pickle and olives, 
capers, etc. This may be kept for a number of days in cold weather 
by keeping in glass and in a cool place. 

CIDER SAUCE (For Boiled Ham). — Boil two cupfuls of cider five 
or six minutes, then add half a dozen peppercorns, two cloves, two tea- 
spoonfuls minced onion, a tablespoonful of minced celery and a bit of 
bay leaf. Cook until reduced one-half, then strain. 

CHESTNUT SAUCE FOR TURKEY.— Take the shells from a pint 
of large chestnuts. Scald, then remove the inner skins. Break in halves 
and cook in salted boiling water or stock until very soft. Mash fine 
in the water in which they were cooked. Mix together one tablespoon- 
ful of flour, two tablespoonfuls of browned butter, add to the chestnut 
puree and season to taste with salt and pepper. 



92 SAUCES 

CURRY SAUCE.— Cook a tablespoonful of chopped onion in a 
tablespoonful of butter, taking care not to let it burn. Mix one table- 
spoonful of curry powder with two tablespoonfuls of flour, and stir 
into the butter. Add gradually a pint of hot milk and stir until smooth. 

COLD MINT SAUCE.— To make the mint sauce for the lamb, add 
two tablespoonfuls washed and finely chopped mint, a little white pepper, 
and a gill of vinegar in which two tablespoonfuls of sugar have been 
dissolved. Let stand a half hour before serving. If this sauce is pre- 
ferred hot the vinegar and sugar may be heated to the boiling point 
and the minced mint stirred in just before serving. 

CREAM, OR WHITE SAUCE.— This is the foundation for half the 
sauces used with vegetables. Heat one pint of milk, or half milk and 
half white stock. Put into a saucepan two tablespoonfuls of butter, 
and as soon as melted, without browning, add two heaping tablespoon- 
fuls of dry fleur. Stir quickly until well blended, then add the hot 
milk, a little at a time, stirring until smooth and thickened. Be sure 
all the lumps are rubbed out. Season with one-half teaspoonful of salt 
and a saltspoonful of pepper. For fish sauce, boil a slice of onion with 
the milk, and for oysters add celery salt, lemon juice and cayenne. 

MUSTARD SAUCE.— Put two tablespoonfuls butter in a saucepan 
over the fire and heat without browning. Mix in two tablespoonfuls of 
flour and pour in gradually a pint of hot stock or water, stirring until 
thickened and perfectly smooth. Add two tablespoonfuls more of butter, 
cut in small pieces, and salt and pepper to season. Mix in three table- 
spoonfuls of made English mustard and a little cayenne. 

For a cold mustard sauce to serve with meats, rub a quarter of a 
cup of mustard smooth with a tablespoonful of olive oil and a teaspoon- 
ful each of onion juice, sugar and paprika. When well blended, add 
enough vinegar to make a paste, beat ten minutes and turn into a 
close stoppered mustard pot. 

HORSERADISH SAUCE.— To make a hot sauce to serve with beef 
mix together four tablespoonfuls of grated horseradish, four tablespoon- 
fuls of powdered cracker crumbs, one-half cup of cream, one teaspoonful 
each salt, powdered sugar and made mustard, a saltspoonful of pepper 
and two tablespoonfuls of lemon juice or vinegar. Heat in a saucepan 
set in a large pan of hot water. 

For the cold sauce, cream one-quarter cup of butter, add two table- 
spoonfuls of grated horseradish, half a teaspoonful tarragon vinegar or 
a teaspoonful of lemon juice and a tablespoonful of thick cream. Chill 
on the ice until time to serve. 

MAITRE D'HOTEL BUTTER (Cold).— Rub one-quarter of a cup of 
butter to a cream, add one-half teaspoonful of salt, a saltspoonful of 
pepper, a tablespoonful of minced parsley and one tablespoonful of 
lemon juice. Spread on hot beefsteak. 



SAUCES 93 

To make the hot maitre d'hotel butter, put one-quarter of a pound 
of butter into a saucepan with a half tablespoonful of chopped parsley, 
a little finely powdered thyme and minced onion and salt and pepper 
to taste. Stand the saucepan by the fire and whip with an egg whisk 
until it almost reaches the simmering point. Take at once from the 
fire and serve. 

DUTCH OR HOLLANDAISE SAUCE.— This is really a warm may- 
onnaise, using butter instead of olive oil. It is the best sauce for serv- 
ing with salmon or other boiled fish if you desire it hot. It requires 
a quarter pound butter, half a lemon, the yolks of two eggs, a little 
salt and a half teaspoonful white pepper. The secret of its successful 
making is to preserve an even temperature. The sauce should not 
approach the boiling point, as the eggs would cook and the sauce curdle. 
Put the eggs in a small saucepan and add the butter gradually, stirring 
constantly with a wooden spoon. It will soon thicken like a mayonnaise. 
When the butter is all in, add salt and pepper, and lastly the lemon 
juice, stirring until well mixed. If the sauce becomes too thick add a 
little stock or hot water. Surround the fish with parsley and slices 
of lemon and serve the sauce in a bowl. A few sliced cucumbers should 
be served with fish. 

CURRANT MINT SAUCE.— Separate one glass currant jelly into 
pieces, but do not beat. Add two tablespoonfuls mint leaves minced 
fine and the thin yellow shavings from the rind of one-third of an 
orange. 

Sauce Tartare No. 2. — Sauce tartare, by the way, is one of the nicest 
things a housekeeper can have on hand for ready reference. It is ex- 
cellent with any kind of fish and is easy to make. Mix in a small bowl 
one teaspoonful dry mustard, one-half teaspoonful powdered sugar, one- 
half teaspoonful salt and one-quarter saltspoonful cayenne. Add the 
yolks of two eggs that have been chilled in the icebox or in cold water 
and stir with a wooden spoon or silver fork. Measure out- one cupful 
olive oil (and be sure it is olive oil, not peanut or cottonseed) and begin 
adding to the yolks a few drops at a time, stirring until it thickens. If 
the emulsion thickens too much to beat readily, thin with a little lemon 
juice, then add oil and lemon alternately until you have used all the oil 
and two tablespoonfuls of the lemon juice. Lastly, beat in two table- 
spoonfuls of vinegar, tarragon preferred. This gives a regular mayon- 
naise which should be smooth and thick. Now, to make it into a sauce 
tartare, add one tablespoonful minced onion and parsley, a tablespoon- 
ful chopped pickle and olives or capers to suit. This sauce may be put 
into a glass jar and will keep for several weeks in cold weather. Just 
before serving add, if desired, a half cupful whipped cream. This if 
you are going to use the whole measure at once. 

Sauce Bernaise. — Beat the yolks of five eggs in a saucepan, add a 
pinch of salt and a tablespoonful butter. Stir the eggs over a pan of 



94 SAUCES 

hot water until they begin to thicken, then remove and stir in two more 
tablespoonfuls butter. Keep stirring until the butter is dissolved. Sea- 
son the sauce with minced parsley and any other fine herbs you have on 
hand and pour in a teaspoonful tarragon vinegar. 

HoUandaise Sauce. — Put the yolks of two eggs into a small 
saucepan and add, one at a time, small pieces of butter the size of a 
marble. Keep the eggs, which should be set over a pan of hot water, 
at an even temperature, for if the water gets too hot it will cook the 
eggs and spoil the sauce. Stir constantly with a wooden spoon. This 
will thicken like a mayonnaise. When the butter is all in, and it will 
take a quarter of a pound, season with salt and pepper, and squeeze in 
the juice of a lemon, stirring constantly until well mixed. 




SOUR CREAM SALAD DRESSING 

NOTHER excellent salad dressing 
for potatoes or cabbage is made 
by adding to a small cup thick, 
sour cream three tablespoonfuls 
cider or tarragon vinegar, a tea- 
spoonful each of salt and sugar, a 
saltspoonful paprika or pinch of 
cayenne. For a potato salad a tea- 
spoonful of onion juice or minced 
onion and a tablespoonful minced 
parsley will be found an additior). 

COOKED SALAD DRESSING.— Beat the yolks of two eggs until 
creamy, then add to them one-half teaspoonful dry mustard and the 
same quantity salt. Next beat in slowly four tablespoonfuls of melted 
butter and six tablespoonfuls of hot vinegar. Cook in a double boiler 
until it thickens. When cold, and just before serving, a cupful of 
cream, sweet or sour, may be folded in. This is excellent where one 
does not care for oil and will keep for a long time in a cool place. 
It will be found specially adapted to lettuce, string beans, asparagus 
and cauliflower. 



APPLE AND CELERY SALAD.— Peel and core some tart, well 
flavored apples, cut into eighths or narrower and then cut across the 
sections into thin slices. Cut clean, crisp celery into thin crescent 
shaped slices until you have a quantity equal to the apple. Mix in 
suiificient mayonnaise to moisten well or use the French dressing if pre- 
ferred. 

Arrange in individual portions in lettuce leaves placed cup fashion, 
dot the top with a teaspoonful of mayonnaise and serve at once. 
Apple must not stand after peeling, as it discolors. This is often known 
as a Waldorf salad, whether served in lettuce leaves or in red apple 
cups. 

FRENCH DRESSING.— With many people the French dressing is 
usually hit or miss. There is, however, a set formula that insures having 
the proportions right every time. Put into a bowl or bottle a half 
teaspoonful salt and a saltspoonful pepper. Add four tablespoonfuls 
olive oil, stir with a fork or shake if in a bottle. Add one tablespoonful 
lemon juice or vinegar, mix thoroughly and pour over the salad. 

95 



96 SALADS AND SALAD DRESSINGS 

MAYONNAISE,— Take a clean, cold bowl and drop into it the yolks 
of two fresh eggs that have been chilled. Stir lightly with a silver fork, 
then add one-half teaspoonful each salt, sugar, mustard a:.d a half 
saltspoonful of cayenne. Mix well, then begin pouring in, a little at a 
time, pure oil. You will need a cupful or a cupful and a half altogether. 
Beat steadily until it begins to thicken, then add the oil in larger quan- 
tities, increasing until you can add a tablespoonful at a time. After 
a little, exchange the fork for a Dover egg beater, which will do the 
"work more thoroughly and rapidly. When the dressing is thick and 
glossy, add two tablespoonfuls lemon juice and the same amount of 
tarragon vinegar, alternating with the rest of the oil. If you wish to 
increase the amount of mayonnaise you can whip the whites of the 
eggs and add them at the last. If you wish to make richer, add a half 
cup whipped cream. To color mayonnaise red, add a little lobster coral 
dried and pounded to a powder. If you wish a green mayonnaise add 
spinach juice or chopped parsley. To make the mayonnaise a sauce 
(tartare or sauce piquant, as it is variously called) simply add chopped 
olives, pickks, parsley, capers and onions to the plain mayonnaise. 

CABBAGE SALAD. — Chop or shave fine half a medium sized head 
of cabbage that has been left in cold water until crisp, then drain. 
Season with salt and pepper, then pour over it a dressing made in this 
way: — Beat the yolks of two eggs, add two tablespoonfuls melted but- 
ter and beat again. Add two tablespoonfuls thick sour cream, two 
tablespoonfuls sugar, a sprinkle of mustard and half a cupful of vinegar. 
Beat until thoroughly mixed, pour over the cabbage and toss lightly 
until uniformly seasoned. 

APPLE, NUT AND CELERY SALAD.— For this appetizing salad 
use a cupful each apple and celery prepared as for the apple and celery 
salad, then add a half cup walnuts or pecans shredded fine, or, if pre- 
ferred, butternuts or black walnuts. Chestnuts boiled ten minutes until 
soft, but not broken, then drained, chilled and sliced make also an 
approved addition. Season with a French dressing, pile on lettuce 
leaves and keep in a cool place until ready to serve. If preferred, this 
may be served in tomato or apple cups. 

BAKED BEAN SALAD.— Peel and slice fine eight small onions, 
pour cold water over them and press hard with the hands to remove 
the strong taste. Drain well and put in the salad bowl with three cups 
cold baked beans. Toss lightly, add a teaspoonful salt, a half teaspoon- 
ful pepper, two tablespoonfuls salad oil, a teaspoonful white sugar and 
a small cup of vinegar. Mix. Garnish with olives, green or the ripe 
black ones, hard boiled eggs sliced, and lettuce. 

BEET SALAD. — Cut boiled beets in thin slices, arrange on lettuce 
leaves, cover with French dressing and serve. 

Beets may be chopped, instead of sliced, if preferred. A popular 
combination with beets is celery in equal quantities, while in Germany 
celery, beets and herring broken in pieces, well mixed with French 
dressing, are much liked. 



SALADS AND SALAD DRESSINGS 97 

STRING BEAN SALAD.— Select young, tender beans, cut the strings 
from both sides, then cut each bean in two lengthwise, then across. 
Throw in cold water as fast as cut. When ready to cook cover with 
boiling salted water, cook twenty minutes and drain, throw into cold 
water ten minutes, then cover again with boiling water, to which two 
or three table spoonfuls olive oil have been added. Cook fifteen minutes 
or longer until tender. Season with salt and pepper and serve hot for 
the first day. Put the beans remaining in the ice box. When ready for 
the salad, drain free from liquor, arrange on lettuce leaves and cover 
with French dressing or sauce tartare. 

OYSTER SALAD. — Parboil one pint oysters. Drain, cut into quar- 
ters, drain again, and cover with a French dressing. Heap on lettuce 
leaves or watercresses in individual dishes or in the cleansed oyster 
shells and serve with French dressing or sauce tartare. Or simmer the 
oysters in a pint of water to which has been added two slices of lemon, 
two cloves, a tablespoonful vinegar and a teaspoonful salt. Drain, cool, 
cut in halves and arrange on lettuce or cress leaves and garnish with 
sauce tartare. 

FRUIT SALAD. — This may be made of sliced oranges arranged on 
lettuce leaves with maraschino cherries as a garnish and a French dress- 
ing mixed with a clove of garlic; or sliced grapefruit, with all the white 
membrane removed, then served on lettuce with a French dressing, or 
of various combinations of fruit or fruit and delicate vegetables, such as 
bananas and melons cubed; or peaches, sliced, may be used with cherries, 
,currants, red or blue plums or strawberries. Pineapple may be added 
■to delicate green cucumber, to pears or apples, to seeded grapes or 
olives. Celery always combines well with fruit. French dressing may 
be used with fruit or fruit and vegetables, but a simple dressing of 
sugar and lemon juice is often all that is required for a fruit salad. 
Fruit salads may be served on lettuce, in delicate green or rosy apples 
hollowed out, in- pears treated in like fashion, in orange, lemon or grape- 
fruit cups, in small or large melons, in tomatoes or green peppers. 

LOBSTER SALAD. — In preparing the lobster, cut the meat in long 
thin strips, then into dice. Place in an earthenware bowl and season, 
allowing to one cold boiled lobster four teaspoonfuls of vinegar, two 
'tablespoonfuls oil and a little salt and pepper. Add a tablespoonful 
chopped olives, half a bunch of celery, chopped fine; or dill pickle, if 
you like to make the change. Mix with mayonnaise and serve on lettuce 
leaves, with a garnish of mayonnaise and coral from the lobster. If the 
salad is desired to be specially rich, a half cupful sweet cream whipped 
to a stiff froth may be added to the lobster just before the salad goes 
to the table. 

PEANUT AND BANANA SALAD.— The last new idea came from 
a Hudson River town, where all sorts of dainty dishes are evolved, the 
secret of their manufacture being shared among a coterie of friends. 



98 SALADS AND SALAD DRESSINGS 

The bananas were first laid on the cellar floor until chilled, the ex- 
planation being that they could not be put in the ice box without im- 
parting their flavor to everything else in the box. A good mayonnaise, 
however, was made and put on the ice to get cold. Just before serving 
the bananas were cut in three or four lengthwise strips, then rolled 
in peanuts that had been chopped very fine. Two of these strips were 
allowed to each plate. They were laid on a leaf of crispy lettuce, with 
a little mound of mayonnaise between them, and more mayonnaise was 
passed for each one to help himself if he wished. The combination was 
delightful. 

CHICKEN SALAD.— It is best to cook a fowl for salad the day 
before it is to be used. Select a plump one, medium size, with white, 
firm flesh. Put into a kettle of boiling water, to which you have added 
a sliced onion, a couple of bay leaves, a stick of celery or a half tea- 
spoonful celery seed and a slice of carrot. Bring quickly to a boil, then 
push back on the stove or over the gas simmerer, where the water can 
be kept just below the hard boiling point until the chicken is tender, but 
not stringy. This will make the dark meat almost as light as the white. 
Take the kettle from the fire, but leave the chicken in the broth over 
night. A short time before serving take all the flesh from the bones, 
rejecting all skin, fat and gristle. Cut in dice shaped pieces and measure. 

Take nice white stalks of celery that have been cleaned, scraped and 
crisped and cut into the same sized pieces as the chicken, allowing 
enough to make about two-thirds the quantity of the chicken. Toss 
together, add enough of the broth in which the chicken was cooked 
to make rather moist, season with salt, pepper and a little lemon juice, 
then add enough mayonnaise to cover each piece of celery and chicken. 
Toss lightly again, arrange on crisp white lettuce leaves in the salad 
bowl or individual salad case, garnish with celery tips and olives and 
dot with small spoonfuls mayonnaise. Chicken and almond salad is 
made in the same way as the chicken salad, adding at the last a half 
cupful almonds, blanched and shredded. 

GREEN PEPPER and Cream Cheese Salad.— Take a small Neuf- 
chatel or Philadelphia cream cheese and beat up with a fork, adding 
enough cream to make rather moist. Have ready several spoonfuls 
finely chopped or shredded sweet peppers, toss lightly, then mound 
on lettuce leaves and cover with a French dressing. 

NASTURTIUM SALAD.— This is a delightfully spicy salad and 
most decorative for the Sunday or company dinner. Pick a goodly 
number leaves and blossoms, wash well in cold water and shake dry. 
Arrange in a shallow glass dish, leave's and flowers forming a border 
and stems running to the centre of the dish. Take two or three cold 
boiled potatoes and slice thin. Peel an equal number of tomatoes and 
slice. Then arrange potatoes and tomatoes in alternate circles, covering 
the stems of the nasturtiums, and sprinkle with a little fine minced 
onion and parsley. Dress with French dressing and serve very cold. 



SALADS AND SALAD DRESSINGS 99 

CLEOPATRA SALAD.— This is made of leftovers. For instance, 
a foray on the larder might bring to light some cold cooked Lima 
beans, a dish of corn, a few cold boiled potatoes, some beets and a 
cupful of green peas. These, lightly mixed in a large bowl, could be 
given a distinctive taste by sweet red peppers cut into little crimped' 
ribbons. A goodly number of these added and a French dressing made 
and turned over, and then the salad dished on individual lettuce leaves, 
the tender, sweet variety with brown edges, would taste as good as it 
looks. 

GREEN PEPPER, Lettuce and Tomato Salad.— Crisp the lettuce 
leaves by laying in cold water for half an hour. Then shake dry and 
lay on the ice. Take the sweet green or red peppers, and with a pair 
of scissors cut in ribbons lengthwise. Slice the tomatoes. Arrange the 
tomatoes on the lettuce leaves and sprinkle the pepper ribbons over all. 
Dress with mayonnaise or French dressing. 

GREEN PEPPERS, Stuffed with Nuts.— If the peppers are large, 
scrape out the seeds and soft fibre, leaving only the shells.^ Put into 
cold salted water and leave a day or two before using. If the peppers 
are very small, they need only stand in salted water over night. Open 
carefully so as not to break the pretty stem ends. Chop fine some of 
the old fashioned butternuts or walnuts, salt lightly and fill the pepper 
cases. These are better prepared the day before using. Dress with 
a French dressing or serve simply with salt. 

STUFFED PEPPER SALAD.— Remove tops and seeds from small 
sweet peppers and throw into cold salted water for an hour or longer. 
Chop tender white celery in bits, mixing with a few leaves watercress 
and a tiny bit of grated onion. Let this stand ten minutes, then drain 
and wipe the peppers. Fill with the mixture and serve on lettuce leaves 
with an abundant supply of French dressing. 

POTATO, TOMATO AND GREEN PEPPER SALAD,— Pare and 

slice potatoes that have been cooked with their jackets on. Wash and 
remove the seeds from one green pepper, then cut in narrow shreds 
with a pair of scissors. Toss potatoes and peppers lightly together, 
season with salt and pepper and dress with French dressing. Pile 
lightly in the centre of a salad bowl and surround with a circle of thinly 
sliced tomatoes, also marinated. If preferred, the salad may be ar- 
ranged on individual plates. 

"~ CODFISH SALAD — Shred ^a pound of old fashioned salt codfish, 
tearing in narrow strips. Soak over night in cold water. The next 
morning squeeze out the water, put in a saucepan, cover with cold 
water and simmer just twenty minutes from the time it commences 
to boil. It must not boil hard or it will toughen. Drain, squeeze out 
the water, separate the pieces and put in a salad bowl with an equal 
quantity cold boiled potatoes, sliced, a chopped pickle, one hard boiled 
egg, chopped, and, if you have it, a half cupful celery, diced. Ar- 
range on lettuce leaves and mask with a boiled dressing. 



100 SALADS AND SALAD DRESSINGS 

POTATO SALAD.— The best potato salad is made from waxy yel- 
low potatoes, cooked with their jackets on, then peeled, cut up while 
still warm and dressed before they become cold. Put the potatoes into 
a salad bowl, then pour over them a little hot water, or, better still, 
a little hot broth from the soup kettle. Season at once with salt, 
pepper, and for every spoonful vinegar use four spoonfuls olive oil. Add 
as you like chopped onion, parsley, chives or celery, toss without break- 
ing the potatoes, then set in the ice box to chill. When ready to serve 
put into individual lettuce leaves or a salad bowl lined with lettuce, and 
on top put a spoonful of boiled dressing as a garnish. 

SWEETBREAD SALAD.— It matters not what form your sweet- 
breads are to take at the time of serving, the preliminary preparation 
is just the same. Just as soon as they come from the butcher's drop 
into cold water and leave them there for an hour or two, changing 
the water occasionally until they look, quite white. Then throw into 
boiling salted water, to which a slice of onion, a sprig of celery and a 
bay leaf has been added. Cover and simmer gently half an hour, lift 
out and throw again into cold water. As soon as cold cut away all the 
windpipes and membrane, pick apart and set away until ready to 
prepare in any way desired. For a salad cut in small pieces, season 
with salt and paprika, mix with an equal quantity of crisp cut celery 
or a cup of chopped almonds, and a good stiff mayonnaise. Line the 
salad bowl with lettuce leaves, arrange the salad mixture over them 
and garnish with sliced lemon, pitted olives, finely chopped parsley or 
mushrooms chopped alternately with the parsley. 

SHRIMP SALAD. — This may be made from the fresh or canned 
fish. Marinate with salt, pepper and lemon juice, mix with mayonnaise 
and serve on lettuce leaves; or make an unsweetened jelly of gelatine 
and lemon juice, then, while still liquid, wet individual moulds and pour 
a little jelly into the bottom of each. Put in several shrimps, and 
when the jelly begins to set pour on more to cover. Then set aside 
in a cold place to harden. When ready to serve, turn the moulds out 
on lettuce leaves, cover with mayonnaise and garnish with two or three 
shrimps. 

SPANISH COLD SLAW.— Take a half dozen good sized tomatoes, 
pour boiling water over them, then rub off the skin. Take out as 
many seeds as possible, squeeze out the water and put in the chopping 
bowl. Add one white onion, a clove of garlic, two small green Chili 
peppers and one cucumber, and chop all fine. Season with salt, 
pepper, a bit of sugar, a few grains of cayenne and a half cup of vinegar. 
Heat together, cool, pour over the tomatoes and set on ice. When 
ready to serve arrange on crisp lettuce leaves. 

WALNUT SALAD.— Crack English walnuts or hickory nuts and 
remove the meats in perfect halves. Combine with an equal quantity of 
crisp white celery, cut in small pieces, cover with French dressing or 
mayonnaise and arrange on lettuce leaves. Tart apples, cored, pared 



SALADS AND SALAD DRESSINGS 101 

and cut into cubes, may be used in place of the celery, or the combina- 
tion may be with cream cheese, tomatoes, oranges, potatoes or grape- 
fruit. 

IRISH MOSS SALAD.— Wash some of the moss well in hot water, 
place in a mould or glass dish, then cover with hot lemon juice. In a 
couple of hours the moss will have dissolved and coagulated into a solid 
jelly, which should then be set upon the ice to chill and harden. Ar- 
range on a salad dish a few crisp leaves of lettuce, cut the moss into 
cubes and arrange in the centre of the leaves, then arrange about them 
a tart apple peeled and chopped, and put around the fruit the same 
amount of chopped celery. Cover with mayonnaise. A few nut meats 
may be added to the salad if desired. 

SPINACH SALAD. — Look the spinach over carefully, wash through 
three or four waters and cook until tender with the tiniest bit of water. 
When done, drain well, chop fine and season with melted butter and salt, 
pepper and nutmeg. Mould in small cups. When cold and formed 
turn out on lettuce leaves, garnish with slices of lemon and hstrd boiled 
eggs, and dress with mayonnaise. If desired, pickled beets or Spanish 
red peppers may be used as garnishings in place of the egg. 

EGG SALAD. — ^While this is a little too hearty for a dinner salad, 
it is just the thing for the Sunday night supper. Boil the eggs hard, 
remove the shells, cut in halves crosswise or lengthwise, and take out the 
yolks. Mash the yolks, using a silver fork; then season with minced 
chow chow, with a little of the mustard sauce from the bottle, a little 
melted butter, salt and pepper, and, if desired, minced olives. Return to 
the whites of egg, arrange on a bed of lettuce or cress, dress with 
French dressing or mayonnaise. If no olives have been used in the 
filling of the eggs, a few olives or pimolas scattered over the salad add 
to its decoration. 

ENGLISH WALNUT SALAD.— Crack twenty-four English wal- 
nuts, remove the meats carefully, put in a saucepan and cover with 
stock, adding a slice of onion and a bay leaf, and simmer gently twenty 
minutes. Take out, cool, line a salad bowl with crisp lettuce leaves and 
sprinkle over them a handful of chopped watercress or nasturtium 
leaves and twelve pickled oysters or oysters or clams parboiled and 
marinated. Over this put the nuts, cover with French dressing, chill 
and serve. 

WATER LILY SALAD (For Easter or Palm Sunday).— While 
this looks almost too pretty to eat, it tastes as good as it looks. Cut the 
whites of hard boiled eggs into pointed petal-like strips. Keep out a 
couple of yolks, but mash the rest. Mix with mayonnaise and fill the 
calyx of the arranged petals with the mixture. Put the remaining yolks 
through a ricer or fine sieve, dropping over the petals to give the 
appearance of pollen. Cut lettuce leaves in fine points to simulate the 
outer green. This is most appropriately served on a low glass dish or 
small individual dishes to represent water. 




LEMON JUMBLES.— Cream together one-half pound each butter 
and sugar. Add two well beaten eggs, three-fourths pound flour, the 
juice of two lemons and the grated rind of one. Roll very thin, cut in 
circles, then stamp out the centres, sprinkle with coarse granulated sugar 
and bake in a quick oven. 

CINNAMON JUMBLES.— Mix as for the lemon jumbles, omitting 
the lemon and adding two tablespoonfuls cinnamon. To make the 
cakes, roll lightly between the hands a small piece of the dough, join 
the two ends, making a ring, lay in the bake pan, sprinkle with sugar 
and bake in a hot oven. 

SUGAR COOKIES.— Cream together one-half cup of butter and a 
cup and a half sugar. Add two \irell beaten eggs, one-half cup milk 
and one teaspoonful baking powder sifted with three cups flour. Roll 
rather thin and bake in a quick oven. 

COUSIN JESSIE'S MOLASSES COOKIES.— Measure one cup 
shortening, lard and butter, or butter and drippings mixed, and soften in 
the mixing bowl set in the oven. Add to the softened shortening a cup 
and a third of molasses, one cup brown sugar, one cup sour milk and a 
tablespoonful vinegar. Beat in one heaping tablespoonful soda. When 
the mixture stops "purring" add one beaten egg, a tablespoonful each of 
ginger and cinnamon, with sifted flour to make a soft dough. Take off 
a portion of the dough with the mixing spoon and lay on the moulding 
board that has been dredged with flour. Roll out lightly with floured 
pin, leaving the dough about a quarter of an inch thick. Cut the cookies, 
lift carefully with a spatula or pan turner, and place in the dripping 
pan. Use as many tins as your oven will accommodate at once, so as 
not to waste the heat. Bake in a quick oven. As fast as done, take out 
the pans, lift out the cookies with the pancake turner and lay carefully 
on sheets of brown manila paper. If laid directly on soft wood they 
absorb the odor. When cold pack in jars. 

FOR THE COOKY JAR.— Varied and wonderful indeed are the 
products of the great cracker factories, turning out tons daily of fancy 

102 



COOKIES 108 

biscuits, crackers, wafers, buns and cakes of every sort, borrowing dis- 
tinction by prefixing the name of grandmother, mother or aunt to special 
brands. Yet attractive as these trade cakes are in appearance and elab- 
orate boxing, they lack something which the old fashioned cookies 
made by the good hands of mother or aunt possessed., Tiresome work 
it is to cut out cookies, one at a time, after watching the great rollers and 
cutters in the cracker factories turning their masses of shapeless dough 
into cakes of all sorts with astounding precision and despatch, yet for the 
housekeeper who can give the time to their baking home made cookies 
will always receive the preference, and here are some true and tried 
recipes for their making. 

COCOANUT COOKIES.— Beat to a cream one cup butter and 
two cups sugar. Add two beaten eggs, one grated cocoanut, two tea- 
spoonfuls baking powder and iiour enough to roll thin. Bake in a quick 
oven, but do not brown. 

SELF RAISING FLOUR GINGER SNAPS.— Heat a cup of 
molasses to the boiling point and pour over one-half cup shortening. 
Add one level tablespoonful ginger sifted with three and a quarter cups 
self raising flour, then chill thoroughly. Work with a quarter of the 
mixture at a time, keeping the rest in the ice box. Roll thin, cut with 
a small round cutter, and bake in a quick oven. 

AUNT IDA'S HERMITS.— Mix together two cups sugar, one cup 
shortening, one cup molasses, two well beaten eggs, two level teaspoon- 
fuls soda dissolved in one cup warm water, six cups flour, one cup fruit 
(English currants, seeded raisins or chopped prunes), two teaspoonfuls 
cinnamon and one of cloves. Mix soft and cut with cooky cutter. Bake 
in a moderate oven. 

AUNT COE'S WORCESTER GINGER SNAPS.— Boil one pint 
of molasses, then cool to lukewarm. Beat into it at this stage one 
beaten egg, add a teacupful butter and lard, mixed and melted. Put 
in two tablespoonfuls ginger and a teaspoonful soda dissolved in a tea- 
spoonful of warm water, and flour to roll thin. Bake quickly and take 
carefully from the pans. 

COOKIES FOR CHILDREN. — Beat to a cream one cup butter and 
two cups sugar. Add a teaspoonful soda dissolved in a tablespoonful 
of milk, nutmeg or vanilla to flavor and flour to roll. Sift granulated 
sugar on top and bake. 

JUMBLES. — Cream together one-half pound butter and one pound 
sugar. Add two well beaten eggs, two tablespoonfuls brandy and 
a poimd of flour and beat together. A little caraway seed may 
be put in, if desired. Roll out rather thick, cut in large circles, then 
with a smaller cutter take out the centre, leaving a ring. Roll in sugar 
and cinnamon and bake in a slow oven. 



104 COOKIES 

SAND TARTS.— Rub together half a pound of butter and a pound 
sugar. Add three beaten eggs, leaving out the white of one. Make a 
stiff dough with a pound of fiour, roll out and cut into rounds or squares. 
Put into pans, brush the surface of the tarts with the beaten white of the 
egg left out for that purpose, lay split blanched almonds on top, sprinkle 
with sugar and cinnamon and bake in a quick oven. 

CHOCOLATE COOKIES.— Cream together a half cup butter and 
a tablespoonful lard or drippings. Beat in gradually one cup sugar, a 
pinch of salt, a teaspoonful cinnamon and two ounces unsweetened choc- 
olate, melted. Add a scant teaspoonful soda dissolved in two table- 
spoonfuls milk, one well beaten egg and two and a half level cups of 
flour. Roll thin, cut in rounds and bake in a quick oven. 





PASTRY. 

HE delicacy of pie crust depends 
not alone upon the amount of 
shortening used, but upon the light 
touch with which the pastry is 
handled and the proper proportion 
of water employed in the mixing. 
Pastry flour made by the old proc- 
ess of grinding is usually considered 
best for pie crust, but any good 
flour will do. For the shortening, 
butter and lard, half and half, is 
best, though clarified drippings of 
beef, chicken or pork may be utilized. The plates on which the pies 
are to be baked are preferably tin or granite, as earthenware soaks grease 
in the course of time. To make a plain pie crust allow for each pie one 
heaping cup sifted flour, a scant half cup shortening and enough cold 
water to mix stiff. Have all the utensils and ingredients cold. Sift to- 
gether flour, salt and baking powder, then put in the lard or rub in with 
the tips of the fingers until the flour feels granular. Add cold water, 
a little at a time, to mix to a stiff dough. 

Sprinkle a little flour on the moulding board and toss the ball of paste 
on it. Pat it deftly into shape and, having floured the rolling pin, roll 
out lightly forward, but always lightly. When rolled into a rectangular 
sheet, put a few dabs of butter over it at intervals, dust a little flour over 
the buttered dough, roll up, pat into shape and again roll out. Divide in 
the middle and stand one piece aside while the other is rolled out about 
the size of the pie tin. Experience soon teaches one how to gauge 
this almost exactly. Fold over, lift up and, having dredged the pie tin 
with a little flour, put on the tin. Unfold and press around the rim, 
taking care that all the air bubbles get out, otherwise the undercrust will 
puff up into the filling. Now put in the filling, roll out the top crust, 
fold over once in the middle and cut or prick a few openings to allow 
the steam to escape. 

Cover the pie, shoving up with the hands around the edge, so as to 
give the crust plenty of fulness. Brush the edges of the crust with a 
little cold water, so that they will stick closely together and J)revent the 
juice running out. 

105 



106 PASTRY 

Old fashioned housewives still use a fork to pinch the edges together, 
but the crust will be lighter and better if simply pressed away from the 
edge of the pan, leaving it firm and uniform on the edge. Bake in a 
moderate oven. 

DEEP APPLE PIE.— Invert in the centre of a deep granite or 
earthenware dish a teacup, then fill the remaining space with tart 
apples, peeled, cored and quartered. Sprinkle with a half cup of sugar 
mixed with a teaspoonful cinnamon or a saltspoonful of allspice and 
nutmeg; or in place of the ordinary sugar use maple sugar or molasses 
and sugar, half and half. Roll a strip of paste half an inch wide, wet the 
edge of the dish, put the paste on the edge, then cover with a crust 
a little larger than the dish, with the fulness thrown back in the centre. 
Press the cover to the rim and bake until the apples are tender. 

PUFF PASTE.— The proportions of this are a half pound best but- 
ter, a pint flour, a. half teaspoonful salt and about a half cup ice water, 
dependent upon the flour. Wash the butter in ice cold water, pat into 
a thin piece, wrap in a napkin and lay on the ice to get thoroughly hard 
and chiHed. Mix the salt with the flour, then rub in a quarter of the but- 
ter and mix stiff with ice water. Toss on a well floured board and roll 
into a rectangular sheet. Cut half the remaining butter in thin shavings 
and lay in the middle of the paste. Fold over one side of the paste, then 
tlys other, then double together. Round into a flat cake with the rolling 
pin until half an inch thick, then spread on the other half of the butter. 
Fold as before, pound and roll out into a long strip, keeping the edges 
even and of uniform thickness. When all the butter has been rolled in, 
fold the paste, pat and roll out as many times as you desire. Four times 
is usually considered a good number, then roll in a napkin and put on the 
ice to harden. When ready to use, roll out a portion of the paste about 
a third of an inch thick, then roll up and cut from the end of the roll. 
Turn each piece on the side so that the folds show the rings, pat out 
flat and roll a little larger than the plate. This crust should be used for 
an upper crust only or for a rim or patties. It is too rich to be used 
for an under crust. 

ENGLISH APPLE TART,— Peel and core tart apples, put into a 
large saucepan, cover with boiling water, stew gently until the apples 
are tender but unbroken. Line the edges of a deep pie tin with crust, 
then fill the centre of the dish with apples, dropping into the centre 
of each a spoonful of orange marmalade. Cover the top of the dish 
with strips of pastry arranged lattice fashion and bake quickly until 
brown. Serve hot, 

RUSSIAN APPLE PIE.— Peel and core eight large tart apples, put 
into a baking dish with a little water and bake until tender. Press 
through a sieve into a large bowl and set aside to cool and chill. Add 
three-quarters of a cup of sugar and the whites of four or five eggs 



PASTRY 107 

beaten stiff, with a few grains of salt and a little lemon juice and grated 
peel to season. Beat this mixture until very white and light, turn into 
a buttered dish and bake about twenty minutes. Serve hot with sugar 
and cream. 

DEEP APPLE PIE (With Cream Cheese).— Bake a nice deep 
apple pie about three-quarters of an hour before dinner. Have a small 
cream cheese pressed through a ricer and mixed with a cup of Whipped 
cream and a little salt. Press through a pastiyr tube or tin funnel on top 
of the pie in a pattern, and serve warm for dessert. The cheese and 
cream combination may also be used on a two crust apple pie. 

LEMON CUSTARD PIE.— A lemon custard pie that is always 
appreciated is made in this wise. The crust is baked first, as an open 
shell, perforating it in several places with a fork before putting in the 
oven, to avoid blistering. For the filling, cream together one-half cup- 
ful of sugar and butter the size of a walnut. Add the juice of half a 
lemon and one cupful of boiling water, and, lastly, the beaten yolks of 
three eggs. Grate in a little of the rind and cook in a double boiler until 
thick. Beat the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth and then stir in after 
the filling is taken from the fire. Pour all in the open crust already 
baked and set in the oven for a few moments. If a meringue is desired, 
whip the whites to a froth, add two tablespoonfuls pulverized sugar, 
spread over the top, and dry slowly in the oven until an inch thick and 
a golden brown. * 

A lemon pie that is absolutely reliable is made in this way: — Have 
ready the pastry shell. Dissolve one tablespoonful of cornstarch in a 
little cold water. Pour over it a teacupful of boiling water, stirring all 
the time until clear and free from lumps. Add one tablespoonful of but- 
ter and a small cupful of sugar, and cook a few moments longer. Set 
on back of range and add the beaten yolks of two eggs and the juice and 
grated yellow rind of one lemon. Stir until well blended and pour in 
crust. Set in' the oven a few moments with the door left open, while 
preparing the meringue made from the whites of the eggs beaten stiff 
and two scant tablespoonfuls sugar. Spread evenly over the pie and set 
on the grate of the oven to rise slowly and brown. 

BLACKBERRY PIE. — Line a pie plate with good clrust. Allow 
three cups berries and three-fourths cup sugar to each pie. Sprinkle 
lightly with flour, then put on top crust or a latticed crust. Bake in a 
rather slow and steady oven. 

Gooseberry Tart. — Fill a deep baking dish with alternate layers of 
fruit, sugar and sifted flour. Coyer with rich pie crust in ornamental 
design. 

CHOCOLATE PIE. — Bake a crust the same as for a cocoanut pie, 
then fill with this mixture: — Put one cup of milk with a pinch of salt and 



108 PASTRY 

a square and a half grated chocolate into the double boiler. When hot 
stir in two level tablespoonfuls of flour moistened to a paste with a little 
cold milk. Cook, stirring constantly until smooth and thickened, then 
cook just ten minutes longer. Mix the yolks of two eggs with five 
tablespoonfuls sugar and pour the hot mixture over them, stirring well. 
Return to the double boiler and cook two minutes, stirring constantly. 
Cool, flavor with vanilla and cinnamon, put into the crust, bake ten min- 
utes, then, after cooling slightly, cover with a meringue made from the 
whites of the eggs whipped stiff with two tablespoonfuls sugar. Set in 
a coolish oven to puff and color. 

CHERRY PIE. — ^While sour cherries make far and away the best 
pie, the sweet cherries are not to be despised. They are usually pitted, 
though many persons like the flavor imparted by the stones. This is, 
therefore, a matter of option. A deep tin should be used for cherry pie, 
the deeper the better. Many housewives complain that their cherry 
pies run over in the oven, and much of the juice is lost. To prevent this 
waste of nectar, a strip of cotton cloth may be wet and pressed about 
the rim after the pie is ready to go in the oven, or a paper funnel may be 
inserted in the opening in the centre of the top crust to allow for the 
escape, of steam, thus relieving the crust from pressure. When the 
under crust is spread on the plate, sprinkle lightly with flour or brush 
over with white of egg. This last the Germans always do in making 
fruit pies. Pack full of the cherries sweetened to taste, dredge a little 
flour over the top, then put on the upper crust and seal. 

PEACH PIE CUSTARD.— Line a deep pie tin with plain paste and 
bake. Pare and quarter four ripe peaches. Put one and one-fourth cups 
of milk in a double boiler, and when it is scalding hot add two well 
beaten egg yolks, to which have been added four tablespoonfuls of sugar 
and a pinch of salt. Stir constantly until it thickens, but do not boil. 
Take from the fire, add one-half teaspoonful of butter and a teaspoonful 
of vanilla and stir thoroughly. Spread the fruit in a pie shell, pour cus- 
tard over, and cover with a meringue made of the whites "of three eggs 
and two tablespoonfuls of sugar, spread roughly, and set in a slow oven 
to yellow slightly. Serve very cold. 

GREEN TOMATO MOCK MINCE PIE.— While this compound 
is rather unusual, it is extremely "tasty" and not expensive. To four 
quarts green tomatoes, chopped fine, allow three pounds brown sugar, 
the juice of two lemons and their yellow rind, grated, a tablespoonful 
each cinnamon, allspice and salt, half a teaspoonful cloves and a table- 
spoonful grated nutmeg. Put into a porcelain lined kettle and simmer 
gently until reduced one-half in bulk. Now add two pounds and a half 
seeded raisins, or part raisins and part currants or chopped prunes, and 
a cup boiled cider. Then cook an hour or two longer until thick. 

DATE PIE. — Simmer slowly one pound of dates in enough milk 
to cover. Sift them through a sieve to free from the stones; add one- 



PASTRY 109 

half cup of sugar, the yolks of three eggs, a little cinnamon and a pint 
of boiled milk. Bake in deep lined plates, as for custard pie. Whip the 
whites of the eggs and frost, having flavored the frosting slightly with 
vanilla. Brown -nicely. This is sufficient for two pies. 

SCOTCH APPLE TART.— Peel and core a half dozen tart apples 
and place in a crock in a slow oven, adding neither water nor sugar. 
When tender mix in Sultana rasiins, allowing a quarter of a pound to 
each pound of apples. Turn into a deep baking dish, sprinkle with sugar 
and grated lemon; cover with a top crust, pricking well to allow for the 
escape of steam, and bake in a quick oven. Serve with milk. 

COCOANUT PIE.— Put two even tablespoonfuls grated cocoanut 
in a pint of milk. Add three even tablespoonfuls sugar, the yolks of two 
well beaten eggs and two even tablespoonfuls cornstarch stirred to a 
paste with a little cold milk. Add butter the size of a walnut and cook 
until thickened and smooth. Line a pie plate with crust, prick in several 
places and bake in a hot oven. Then fill with the cocoanut mixture and 
spread with a meringue made from the whites of the eggs beaten to a 
stiff froth with two tablespoonfuls sugar. Sprinkle with cocoanut, set in 
a coolish oven and brown slightly. 

MINCE PIE. — ^Weigh, after it is chopped, three pounds of lean, 
tender beef. Add to it one and one-quarter pounds of suet, chopped and 
freed from strings; six pounds of tart apples, preferably greenings, 
chopped; six pounds, of sugar, four pounds of seeded raisins, three 
pounds of currants, thoroughly washed and dried; one-half pound of cit- 
ron, cut in thin shreds; three pints of sweet cider, one quart of the stock 
in which the beef was cooked, three pints of cider boiled down thick, 
three tablespoonfuls of powdered cinnamon, two tablespoonfuls of cloves, 
one teaspoonful each mace, allspice and nutmeg, two tablespoonfuls of 
salt, one teaspoonful of white pepper, one pint of molasses, three pints 
of jelly and as much more juice of preserves or jelly as each housewife 
may select. Brandy, sherry or rose water may be added at the last, if 
desired. Chopped prunes are deemed by many an improvement over 
currants, while candied orange or lemon peel, cherries, a little cold tea 
or coffee may always be added to advantage. Thi« mincemeat may be 
scalded or packed in glass or stone jars without that formality, its rich- 
ness ensuring its keeping. While this quantity would be too much for 
the dweller in flats, who has scarce room to lay his head, it will be found 
just about the right amount to last the winter for the average family with 
normal appetites and a cellar in which such delicacies may be stored. 
If this mincemeat is scalded do not add the brandy or rose water until 
after the scalding. 

ORANGE PIE. — ^Add one rounding tablespoonful of cornstarch, 
mixed with one cup of cold water, to three-quarters cup of boiling water 
and cook three minutes. Add a pinch of salt, the grated rind of one and 



110 PASTRY 

one-half oranges, the juice of three oranges, one cup of sugar, and cool. 
Beat in the yolks of two eggs and the white of one, both well beaten, 
and pour into a paste lined plate. Bake and cool slightly. Cover with 
a meringue made from the white of one egg beaten stiff with a level 
tablespoonful of powdered sugar and set in a cool oven for ten minutes. 

LEMON MINCEMEAT.— This form of mincemeat will appeal to 
the family of English extraction. It is a favorite holiday dainty in Eng- 
land. To make it, grate the yellow rind of a half dozen lemons that have 
been well scrubbed first, then squeeze out the juice. Put into a deep bowl. 
Add two pounds each of seeded raisins, currants, sugar and chopped 
apple, a pound and a half beef suet, chopped fine, and a quarter pound 
lemon, orange and citron peel, shredded and well mixed. Then add a 
glass of brandy or white wine and it is ready to put in the crust. 

ENGLISH LEMON PIE.— Grate the rinds of two large fresh 
lemons, cover with boiling water (two or three tablespoonfuls) and sim- 
mer ten minutes. Then pound in a mortar or rub through a colander. 
Put into a bowl the cooked rinds, a half pound of sugar, the juice of a 
large lemon, a half pound of butter, the yolks of ten eggs and the whites 
of five beaten to a froth. Stir all together until smooth and creamy and 
pour into a plate lined with puff or good plain paste. Bake. When done 
remove from the oven, cool slightly, then spread with a meringue made 
from the whites of three eggs beaten stiff with three tablespoonfuls of 
sugar. Set back in the oven, which should have had the door left open 
to cool it. Let it remain until the meringue puffs up light and colors a 
golden brown. This usually requires about ten minutes. Too hot a 
fire does not give the meringue a chance to rise. 

WHITE RIBBONERS' MINCE PIE.— For those who object to 
mince pies as usually made, on the score of their being non-temperance, 
the following excellent recipe is commended: — To three bowls of chopped 
meat allow one bowl of suet, seven bowls of chopped apples, three bowls 
of seeded raisins, three bowls of sugar, a half pound of chopped prunes, 
a quarter pound of shredded citron, a pint of strong coffee, a quart of 
currant or grape jelly and a tablespoonful each of salt, cinnamon, all- 
spice and cloves, wifh a teaspoonful each of mace and pepper. Add the 
liquor in which the meat was boiled with the grated rind and juice of two 
lemons and a little vinegar to give the necessary tartness. Scald as soon 
as made and pack in close covered glass jars to prevent fermentation. 

PUMPKIN PIE. — Select a solid meated, golden, glossy pumpkin, not 
too large. The smaller ones, flat at the ends, are usually sweetest. Cut 
into pieces without peeling, rejecting the seeds and inner shreds. Put 
into a large porcelain lined kettle with about a cupful of boiling water to 
keep from sticking, cover and set on the back of the stove, where it will 
cook slowly in its own juice. This will require five or six hours, pref- 
erably longer, until sweet, tender and nearly dry. Pull off the loose 



PASTRY 111 

skin and rub through a colander. If it seems watery let it drain over 
night, keeping the juice for brown bread. When ready to bake the pies, 
measure the pulp and to every five cups allow one teaspoonful of salt, 
half a grated nutmeg, a tablespoonful of mace, two teaspoonfuls of 
ginger and a large cup of sugar. Beat four eggs and stir into the pump- 
kin pulp, together with four cups sweet milk and a half cup of cream, if 
convenient. Beat well and taste to see if sweet enough. Turn into deep 
pie plates lined with good pastry and bake three-quarters of an hour until 
a rich golden brown and firm in the centre. Serve with good American 
cheese. 

Strawberry Pie.— Line a pie plate with rich paste. Fill with hulled 
berries sprinkled with sugar. Cut narrow bars of paste with pastry 
jagger and lay criss-cross over the top of the pie. Bake quickly, serve 
cold but fresh. 

Apple Floating Island. — Make a boiled custard of the yolks of three 
eggs. Beat together two cupfuls of stewed apple sauce and the whites 
of three eggs. Place this beaten apple on the top of the custard in the 
form of islands. 

GERMAN PEACH PIE.— A German pie of peaches, the crust made 
like a rich baking powder biscuit, furnishes an excellent summer dessert. 
Make the dough and roll out in sheets to fit a long biscuit tin. It should 
not be more than half an inch thick. Brush the top with butter and 
cover with slices of peaches arranged in symmetrical, overlapping rows 
or halved peaches, rounded side up. Sprinkle generously with sugar, 
cover with another tin and bake from twenty to thirty minutes. The 
idea is to cook the fruit, but not reduce it to a pulp.' 

PEACH PIE WITH MERINGUE.— Pare and quarter six ripe 
peaches. Blanch and slice the kernels, simmer in water fifteen minutes 
and strain. Place the peaches in a baking pan, add four tablespoonfuls 
of sugar to the strained liquid, pour over the fruit, add a few bits of but- 
ter, cover and bake until soft enough to press through a colander. Line 
a deep tin with plain paste. Strain the fruit, add three slightly beaten 
egg yolks and a pinch of salt and bake. Make a meringue of the whites 
of eggs and two tablespoonfuls of sugar, spread roughly over the pie, 
sprinkle with shredded blanched almonds, and place in a slow oven to 
set, but do not yellow. 

BLACKBERRY FRITTERS.— Make a batter of one pint milk, one 
egg, one tablespoonful sugar, one teaspoonful baking powder, one cup 
flour and a half teaspoonful salt. Into this batter stir lightly two cups 
blackberries and drop the batter by the tablespoonful into a kettle of 
hot fat. Cook a golden brown and serve with liquid sauce. 

OPEN PEACH PIE, — Line a rather deep pie plate with a layer of 
good crust, made in the proportion of one-half cup shortening to one 



112 PASTRY 

cup pastry flour, a saltspoonful of salt and a third or less of a cup of ice 
water. Bake the crust as for a lemon pie. Fill with fresh peaches, 
sweetened, and cover thickly with whipped sweetened cream. Some 
good cooks advise the addition of a little apple marmalade to the peaches, 
holding that the combination of flavors is pleasing. 

PEACH PIE (With Vanilla Syrup).— Boil one-half cup of granulated 
sugar with three tablespoonfuls of water for five minutes; add one tea- 
spoonful of vanilla and one-half teaspoonful of butter and remove from 
the fire. Pare and halve iive ripe peaches, set cut side upward, pour the 
hot syrup over and set aside for thirty minutes. Line a deep pie tin with 
plain paste and bake. Fill with the prepared fruit, put on some sweetened 
whipped cream, to which has been added the stiiHy beaten white of one 
egg, and serve. 

BLACKBERRY PANDOUGHDY.— Turn a qua^t nice ripe black- 
berries into a buttered pudding dish and sprinkle over them a half cup 
sugar. Sift into a bowl a cup flour, a teaspoonful and a half baking 
powder and a saltspoonful salt. Add a tablespoonful butter and rub 
together. Mix the yolks of two eggs with a cup of milk, add to the 
flour with a tablespoonful sugar and mix until smooth. Whip the whites 
of two eggs to a stiflf froth and stir lightly into the batter. Pour the 
batter over the berries and bake in a medium hot oven. Serve with 
liquid or hard sauce, as preferred. 

RHUBARB PIE. — ^Wash and cut into inch pieces, but do not peel, 
as the skin gives the pretty pink color and will cook tender. Fill a deep 
dish with the fruit, sprinkle over it three tablespoonfuls flour or a half 
cup cracker crumbs, two tablespoonfuls butter and enough sugar to 
sweeten. Cover with a rich crust and bake half an hour, or until the 
upper crust is delicately brown. Some cooks prefer to bake the pies 
without the addition of sugar, raising the upper crust and sweetening 
after it is done. Less sugar will be required in this way, but it is a little 
more trouble. If preferred, you may use half russet apples with the rhu- 
barb, or one-third seeded raisiris chopped with the rhubarb. 

APPLE FRITTERS.— Pare and core tart apples and cut them in 
slices about one-third of an inch thick, leaving the round opening in the 
centre. Dip the slices in fritter batter made of one pint of milk, three 
eggs, a little salt and a pint of flour. A teaspoonful of baking powder 
is sometimes mixed with the flour. Beat the eggs well, adding first part 
of the milk and salt, then the flour and the rest of the milk, alternately. 
Beat the batter together quickly and add the apples immediately. 

BANANA CREAM.— Whip half a pint of double cream until stiff 
and stir into it half an ounce of gelatine dissolved in half a gill of warm 
water, a little lemon juice and one pound of peeled bananas rubbed 



PASTRY 118 

thiough a hair sieve with two ounces of sugar. Put the mixture into 
a mould and leave it in a cool place until set. 

INDIAN APPLE PUDDING.— Peel and core a dozen tart apples. 
Scald a quart of milk, then add a quart of Indian meal, mixing and cook- 
ing carefully for several moments. Add a teaspoonful salt, a cupful 
each molasses and finely chopped suet, then pour over the apples 
arranged in a buttered dish. Bake a couple of hours. This is a Southern 
dish commonly known as apple pone. 

APPLE MERINGUE.— There are two ways of making this. Take 
two cupfuls of apple sauce and add your favorite combination of spices, 
and to this put two well beaten eggs. Bake. Finish with a meringue 
of the whites of two eggs, sugar and flavoring. Another method: — 
Either tart or sweet apples may be used. Pare and core. Arrange them 
on a well buttered pudding dish. Fill the openings with sugar, a dot of 
butter, vanilla, nutmeg or cinnamon. Cover the apples with a plate, 
baking until tender. Make a custard of two cupfuls of hot milk, four 
tablespoonfuls of sugar and the yolks of two eggs. Pour over the 
apples and bake only a few minutes. Next add a meringue of the whites 
of the eggs. 

BANANA TRIFLE. — Lay four ounces of macaroons in a deep glass 
dish; cut a sponge cake into slices and spread these with banana pulp; 
place them on the macaroons and soak with a little sherry and brandy; 
pour over the whole a pint of rich custard. Sweeten half a pint of cream 
to taste, flavor with vanilla and a teaspoonful of brandy, then whip it till 
stiff; pile on the top of the trifle, and decorate with crystallized fruits 
and blanched and shredded almonds. 

BLACKBERRY SLUMP.— Sift together two cups flour, two tea- 
spoonfuls baking powder and a half teaspoonful salt. Rub into the dry 
mixture a tablespoonful butter, then add two-thirds cup milk mixed with 
one beaten egg. Lastly stir in lightly two cups floured berries and pour 
into a buttered pail or mould. Cover close and steam for two hours with- 
out allowing the water to stop boiling. Serve hot with milk or sweet 
sauce. 

APPLE SLUMP. — Apple slump is another old fashioned dish, but 
none the less acceptable on account of its antiquity. Pare, core and 
quarter a dozen tart, juicy apples, turn over them a cupful of boiling 
water and set where they will begin to cook. Five minutes later add 
to the apples two cups of molasses and cook five or more minutes, while 
you prepare a very soft biscuit dough, using for a pint of flour a tea- 
spoonful of sugar, two teaspoonfuls of baking powder, a half tablespoon- 
ful of shortening, and milk to stir to a dough that is too soft to roll. 
Put this over the apples, which should be tender, but not broken, cover 
the kettle closely and cook twenty-five minutes without lifting the cover. 



114 PASTRY 

Serve with a hot sauce, made by heating to a cream a half cup of butter 
and one cup of sugar, stirring in just before using a scant cupful of boil- 
ing milk or water and seasoning to taste. 

Apple Tapioca Pudding. — Soak one-half pint of tapioca in water for 
several hours. Peel and core half a dozen apples. In the opening of 
each one place a teaspoonful of sugar and a small piece of lemon or 
orange peel. Pour the tapioca over the apples and bake thoroughly. 

BAKED APPLE SLUMP.— Take a well buttered deep pudding dish 
and slice into it enough tart, juicy apples to fill. Season with cinnamon 
and nutmeg. Sweeten plentifully, add a tablespoonful of butter, cut 
in little bits, and cover with a soft biscuit dough, stirred to a consistency 
to pour, but not roll. Bake in a hot oven and serve with a hard or foamy 
sauce as preferred. 

FAVORITE BLACKBERRY PUDDING.— In a deep buttered pud- 
ding dish place a thick layer of blackberries slightly sweetened. Over 
the berries pour a batter composed of one cup milk, two tablespoonfuls 
butter, one egg, one cup sugar and two cups flour. Bake, turn from the 
dish, with fruit on top, and serve with sweetened cream or spice sauce. 

DELMONICO PUDDING.— Put one quart of milk in a double boiler 
and let come almost to the boiling point. Beat yolks of five eggs light, 
add six tablespoonfuls sugar and beat again until exceedingly light. Mix 
three tablespoonfuls cornstarch with a little cold milk. Add to the 
eggs and sugar, and stir into the hot milk just as it is about to boil. Add 
a saltspoonful salt, then stir until well thickened. Pour into a dish that 
can be sent to the table and stand in the oven for ten or fifteen minutes 
until firm. Remove and spread over the pudding a layer of canned apri- 
cots or other fruit. Beat the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth, allowing 
one tablespoonful pulverized sugar to each egg. Spread lightly over the 
top and put into a coolish oven to color a golden brown. 

APPLE SNOW. — To two cupfuls of grated sour apples add five 
tablespoonfuls of powdered sugar during the grating, and then the 
whites of two eggs, and beat thoroughly. Arrange the snow in a pud- 
ding dish, pour around it a custard made of yolks of two eggs, one cupful 
of hot milk, flavored, and two tablespoonfuls of sugar. 

Blackberry Mould. — Stew and mash a quart of berries with two table- 
spoonfuls water. Stir in a small cup farina and a pinch of salt, and cook 
an hour in a double boiler. Turn into wet moulds to harden. Turn out 
when cold and serve with cream. 

CHOCOLATE PUDDING (Cold).— Put a quart of milk in the 
double boiler and place over the fire. Mix three tablespoonfuls corn- 
starch with a little cold milk reserved from the quart, then stir into the 



PASTRY 115 

boiling milk. Stir until smooth and well thickened, then add two eggs, 
well beaten with a half cup sugar and a saltspoonful salt. Cook ten 
minutes. Meantime shave two ounces chocolate and put in a small pan 
with two tablespoonfuls boiling water and four tablespoonfuls sugar. 
Stir until smooth and glossy, then beat into the hot pudding, which has 
been taken from the fire. Pour while hot into small cups that have 
been rinsed out with cold water, or into a large mould. After the pud- 
ding is cold, set on the ice to chill and harden. At meal time, turn out 
and serve with whipped cream, sweetened and flavored with vanilla. If 
preferred, the eggs may be omitted and another tablespoonful corn- 
starch used in their place. 

BLACKBERRY AND APPLE FOOL.— Pick over a pint of blackber- 
ries and peel, core and slice the same amount of tender, juicy apples. Add 
the grated yellow rind and juice of a lemon. Put in a granite saucepan 
with a cup of sugar and a quarter of a cup of water. Cook gently for 
about fifteen minutes or until the fruit is soft; then rub all through a 
fine sieve. See if the pulp is sweet enough. If not, add a little more 
sugar and a pint of thick boiled custard. Pour into a glass dish. Just 
before serving whip a half pint cream to a stiff froth; sweeten and flavor 
with nutmeg or vanilla. Heap this roughly over the to^) of the "fool" 
and serve very cold. 

BLUEBERRY PUDDING.— Beat two eggs light and stir into them 
one cup of milk and sifted flour enough to make a batter as thick as 
for pancakes. Put into the flour three teaspoonfuls of baking powder. 
Butter a mould and put a layer of the batter in the bottom, then a layer 
of the blueberries. Alternate the layers until the mould is three-quarters 
full, cover it closely, and boil one hour. Serve with a rich sauce. 

CHERRY BUTTER PUDDING.— Beat to a cream a half cupful 
butter and three tablespoonfuls of sugar. Then add, little by little, 
stirring constantly, four beaten eggs, a quart of flour that has been 
sifted with three teaspoonfuls baking powder and a half teaspoonful 
of salt. Add a pint of milk, and lastly a quart of pitted cherries. Boil 
two hours in a buttered moul4 not allowing the water to stop a moment 
from its boiling. Serve with hard or cherry sauce. 

BREAD PUDDING. — Soak one pint of fine crumbs in a pint of warm 
milk until soft. Add three tablespoonfuls cocoa dissolved in a little 
water, three well beaten eggs, a half cup granulated sugar, then another 
pint of milk. Set the pudding dish in a larger pan of hot water and 
bake one hour. Serve with whipped cream flavored with vanilla, or a 
sauce made from a scant cupful of sugar, a tablespoonful cornstarch and 
a cup of water. Cook in a double boiler ten or fifteen minutes, and just 
before serving put in a tablespoonful butter and a half teaspoonful nut- 
meg. 



116 PASTRY 

CABINET PUDDING.— Butter a quart mould well with soft butter. 
Line the bottom with seeded raisins, apricots and citron, cut in fancy- 
shapes. Cover with slices of stale cake, then add another layer of fruit, 
and so alternate until within two inches of the top. Scald two cupfuls 
of milk and pour slowly over three well beaten eggs. Add two table- 
spoonfuls sugar and a teaspoonful vanilla and pour carefully into the 
mould. Set in a pan partly filled with cold water and place over the 
fire until it reaches the boiling point, then cover and set in the oven 
for an hour. Turn out of the mould and serve with vanilla sauce. 

DELICATE DUMPLINGS.— Into one pound of raised biscuit dough 
work one cup of well washed currants and one-fourth of a teaspoonful 
of spice. Shape into very small balls and steam them twenty minutes. 
These may be served with any hot liquid sauce made rich with butter 
and flavored with lemon. 

CHERRY DUMPLINGS.— Those made like apple dumplings and 
served with a sauce made of the juice of the fruit are delicious. An old 
time method is to make a thick batter, using two cupfuls of flour, two 
eggs, two teaspoonfuls butter, one tablespoonful sugar, two teaspoonfuls 
baking powder sifted with the flour, one cupful water and one cupful 
stoned cherries. Drop the mixture by the tablespoonful into boiling 
salted water. Only a few at a time can go in, as the water must not 
stop boiling. Cover closely and cook twelve minutes without uncover- 
ing. Take from the water and serve at once on hot plates. To make 
the sauce, cream together a cupful powdered sugar and a tablespoonful 
butter. Add gradually one beaten egg and a half cupful cherry juice, 
beating constantly. 

COTTAGE PUDDING.— Beat to a cream a tablespoonful butter and 
a cupful sugar. Add a half cup milk, one cup and a half flour sifted with 
a heaping teaspoonful baking powder and the stifily whipped whites of 
two eggs, and flavor to suit. Beat well and bake in a brick-shaped 
pan. 

COCOANUT PUDDING.— Scald a pint of milk, then add to it one- 
half cup rolled cracker crumbs, three tablespoonfuls cocoanut, the beaten 
yolks of two eggs and a teaspoonful lemon juice or vanilla. Mix well, 
then bake half an hour in a buttered mould. When done cover with a 
meringue made from the stiffly whipped whites of two eggs, two table- 
spoonfuls sugar and a teaspoonful lemon juice. Let brown and puff in 
a moderate oven. 

DELICATE PUDDING. — Put into a double boiler one cup of water 
and one cup of any fruit juice preferred. Dissolve three tablespoonfuls 
of cornstarch in a little cold water, stir into the boiling liquid, sweeten 
to taste, add a pinch of salt and cook until smooth and thick. Beat the 
whites of the eggs until foamy, stir into the pudding, remove at once 



PASTRY 117 

from the fire and turn into moulds wet in cold water. Set away to chill. 
Serve cold with a boiled custard sauce made with one pint of milk, the 
yolks of three eggs and flavoring to taste. 

GERMAN CHOCOLATE PUDDING.— Beat the yolks of six eggs 
very light, then add to them one-quarter pound each ground almonds 
and sugar and grated German sweet chocolate. Lastly put in the stiffly 
whipped whites of the eggs, turn into a buttered mould and steam forty- 
five minutes. Serve with whipped cream. 

CHERRY ROLY POLY.— Sift together two cupfuls flour, two tea- 
spoonfuls baking powder and a half teaspoonful salt. Work into the 
mixture a tablespoonful butter, and when it feels "mealy" moisten with 
milk to a dough that can be formed. Turn on a floured board and shape 
and pat with the hands into a long, narrow strip. Over this pour enough 
stoned cherries to cover the surface, leaving an inch uncovered at each 
edge. Sprinkle with sugar, press down into the dough and dredge 
with flour. Make the paste into a roll and after pinching the edges 
together wrap in a floured cloth. Steam for an hour and serve with 
cherry sauce. 

FIG PUDDING.— This pudding is a great emergency dessert on an 
Arizona ranch. You can make quite a bit of it and it will keep in- 
definitely, steaming a little as needed. Chop fine one pound figs, one 
pound raisins and one cup suet. Add one teaspoonful cinnamon, one- 
half teaspoonful cloves, one cup sugar, one cup sweet milk, one-half 
teaspoonful salt, one pint grated crumbs and three well beaten eggs. 
Mix well and steam three hours. 

GREEN GOOSEBERRY PUDDING.— Boil a pint of green goose- 
berries till soft, and sweeten to taste. When quite cold mix in thor- 
oughly four well beaten eggs and one ounce of butter. Butter a mould 
and sprinkle it thickly with equal parts of sugar and fine bread crumbs, 
then pour in the gooseberry puree, being careful not to disturb the 
casing; cover the top nearly half an inch thick with crumbs and sugar, 
and bake for an hour. When taken from the oven cover with a cloth, 
and only turn out when wanted. Serve with clotted or whipped cream. 

CHERRY TAPIOCA. — This calls for a pound and a half sour cher- 
ries, one cup pearl tapioca and sugar to sweeten. Wash the tapioca 
in several waters, cover with cold water and soak over night. Put on 
the fire with one pint boiling water and simmer slowly until the tapioca 
is perfectly clear. Stone the cherries, stir into the boiling tapioca and 
sweeten to taste. Take from the fire, turn into the dish in which it is 
to be served and set to cool. Serve cold with cream. This will make 
enough for eight persons. 

DATE FLUFF-DUFF. — ^This is one of Mr. Berry's unique recipes. 
Stew one cupful stoned dates until tender. Put through a colander and 



118 PASTRY 

mix with a cup of $ugar tLat has been sifted with a teaspoonful cream 
of tartar. Beat the whites of five eggs until stiff, add a pinch of salt, 
and when perfectly stiff put in the yolks of two and whip again. Now 
mix lightly, a little at a time, with the dates and sugar, and place in 
ramekins or other buttered baking dish. Sprinkle over the top one-half 
cup fine chopped nuts and bake about fifteen minutes. Serve with 
cream, plain or whipped. 

CHOCOLATE PUDDING.— Dissolve one-half cake of chocolate, 
grated, in a quart of boiling milk. Pour over a pint of bread crumbs 
and let stand an hour. Put through a ricer or colander to free from 
all lumps. Add four well beaten eggs, three-fourths cup butter, two 
cups sugar, a half teaspoonful cinnamon, a cup seeded raisins and one 
of blanched chopped almonds. Steam an hour, then serve hot with 
cream. 

EXCELLENT GRAHAM PUDDING.— Two cups sifted flour 
(graham or Franklin Mills) ; dredge one cup of raisins, seeded and 
chopped, with a little of the flour and sift with the remainder two tea- 
spoonfuls of cream of tartar. Beat one egg very light, add half a cup of 
sugar, beat them together very light and add one cupful of sweet milk. 
Stir in the flour and mix to a smooth batter. Add one teaspoonful of 
soda dissolved in a little boiling water, and lastly the raisins. Steam in 
a covered pail or dish two and a half hours. Serve with hard sauce. 

INDIAN PUDDING. — Made as our grandmothers prepared it, with- 
out eggs. The old way that has never been improved upon is to bring 
a quart of fresh milk to a boil in an iron kettle, then sprinkle into 
it, little by little, with the left hand, about one and one-quarter cupfuls 
of fine granulated meal, stirring constantly meanwhile with the right 
hand. The meal should be held high and allowed to sift slowly through 
the fingers. When this has thickened and cooled, two teaspoonfuls of 
ginger, three-quarters of a cup of molasses and one-half teaspoonful 
of salt should be stirred in and the mixture beaten until smooth. The 
pudding dish must then be thoroughly greased, the batter poured in, 
and a quart of cold milk turned in at the last. After this last addition 
but little stirring is needed. Bake about five hours in a slow oven. The 
slower the oven the more creamy and delicious the pudding. After the 
cold milk is added the batter should be as thin as for pancakes. As 
meals vary in their thickening properties, an exact rule cannot be given, 
but it is always safe to assume that the newer the meal the less will be 
required. 

PLUM PUDiDING GLACE.— In case a plum pudding is desired at 
a Twelfth Night supper an iced one is a pleasing variation. This is little 
more than a plain ice cream decorated with an abundance of fruits and 
nuts. If desired the cream may be purchased from the confectioner's, 
then mixed with the fruit which has been soaked in sherry and repacked 



PASTRY 119 

in ice and salt until needed. If made at home try this rule, which, by 
the way, is a good one for any wintry festivity: — 

Put two and three-quarters cups of milk in a double boiler and bring' 
to a scald. Stir in gradually two full tablespoonfuls of flour and one cup- 
of sugar dissolved in three tablespoonfuls of milk. Stir until thickened 
and smooth-, then add one beaten egg, a deep yellow one preferred. 
Have ready one level tablespbonful of gelatine which has soaked for 
twenty minutes in three tablespoonfuls of cold milk, and add to the 
custard as soon as taken from the fire. Stir until dissolved, put in a 
cup of cream and a teaspoonful of vanilla, and set aside until cold. Then 
freeze. Meanwhile have in readiness one-quarter pound chopped figs, 
the same quantity seeded raisins, two tablespoonfuls of candied orange 
peel and citron and a quarter cup chopped English walnuts, all of which 
have been soaked in a little sherry for half an hour. 

After freezing add the fruit and nuts, turn the freezer five minutes, 
then pack in ice and salt. If in emptying from the mould the iced 
pudding sticks wrap a towel wrung out of boiling water around it for 
a moment to loosen. Then if it seems creamy set on ice a moment 
to harden. This may be served with or without a pudding sauce. If 
desired the following sauce, which is equally good for any frozen 
pudding, may be served: — 

Iced Pudding Sauce. — Beat together the yolks of two eggs and two 
tablespoonfuls of sugar in a bowl, then set in a pan of boiling water 
on the stove where the water will be kept at the boiling point. As it 
begins to thicken add slowly two tablespoonfuls of brandy, stirring all 
the time. Take from the fire, add a pint of whipped, sweetened cream, 
beat well, and set on the ice until time to serve the pudding. 

Peach Fritters.— Peel and cut in halves peaches not over ripe. 
Sprinkle with sugar, then roll in regular fritter batter, powdered maca- 
roons or fine stale cake crumbs. Fry in deep fat and drain and roll in 
powdered sugar. 

BOILED INDIAN PUDDING.— Mix sifted Indian meal with three 
pints of scalding hot milk. If you have no milk, water may be sub- 
stituted. Stir in three large tablespoonfuls of sugar or molasses, two of 
wheat flour, half a spoonful of ginger or two teaspoonfuls of cinnamon, 
and one of salt. Two or three eggs, a little melted butter or chopped 
suet improve the pudding, but these are not essential. Do not have the 
pudding bag, which should be well floured inside, much more than 
half full of the batter, as it requires considerable room in which to 
swell. It will be good when boiled three hours, but is better for six 
hours' boiling. It can be partly boiled the day before it is to be served, 
but should not remain in the water unless boiling. Serve with butter 
and sugar or molasses. This is a good dessert to go with a boiled dinner. 

PRUNE WHIP.— A good dessert, this, for an invalid. Add to one 
pint prune pulp the whites of four eggs. Whip with the pulp until 



120 PASTRY 

light, and set in the oven until puffed and light. Serve with whipped 
cream or a custard made from the yolks of the eggs, a pint of milk and 
sugar to taste. 

PLUM PUDDING SAUCE.— Cook together a cupful of sugar and a 
quarter cup of water until the syrup spins a thread. Beat the yolks of 
three eggs until lemon colored and thick and pour the hot syrup over 
them, beating all the time. Add a cupful of cream, one teaspoonful of 
lemon juice and two tablespoonfuls of brandy. Strain and serve imme- 
diately. 

INDIAN APPLE JELLY PUDDING.— Turn three pints of scalding 
milk on to a pint of sifted Indian meal, stir in two heaping tablespoon- 
fuls of sugar, two teaspoonfuls of either cinnamon or ginger and a 
teaspoonful of salt. Add a dozen sweet apples, pared and sliced thin. 
Bake three hours in a moderate oven. The apples will form a nice, 
sweet jelly. 

PEACH BETTY.— Slice two cupfuls peaches. Butter a baking dish 
and lay in it a layer of the peaches, sprinkling with cinnamon and sugar 
and dotting with bits of butter. Place over this a layer of bread or cake 
crumbs. Then alternate the peaches and crumbs until the dish is three- 
quarters full, having crumbs on top. Add no water, but cover closely 
and steam three-quarters of an hour in a moderate oven. Then remove 
the cover and brown. Serve with cream or a sweet sauce. 

CHRISTMAS PLUM PUDDING.— According to tradition, plum 
pudding should be at least "nine days old" before it is eaten. A good 
recipe for its making is as follows: — Put into a big bowl one cupful 
each of finely chopped suet, seeded raisins, cleaned currants and granu- 
lated sugar, three cupfuls of soft bread crumbs and one each of shredded 
citron and orange peel. Put in four eggs one by one, each being mixed 
thoroughly with the, other ingredients before the next one is added. 
Next to follow is one-half cup of milk, one-quarter cup brandy, one 
teaspoonful cinnamon, one teaspoonful mixed nutmeg, clove and allspice 
and the grated yellow rind of one lemon. Mix thoroughly, using the 
hands, then fill into a large buttered mould, leaving scarcely any room 
for it to swell. Tie a thickly greased and floured cloth or a piece 
of oiled paper over the top and fit on the cover as tight as possible. 
Put into a steamer or arrange some cords so that it may be suspended 
from the inside of the cover of the kettle in which it is boiled. The 
boiling water should reach nearly to the top of the bowl. Boil seven 
hours steadily, taking care that no water boils into it, and that the 
water is boiling when the pudding goes in, and is not allowed to stop. 
On Christmas Day it can be reheated in^^he mould in which it was 
made. When sending to the table, stick a sprig of holly on the top, 
put a border of blanched split almonds around the edge, and pour over 
the pudding a quarter cupful of brandy or rum, to be set on fire just as 
it enters the dining room. 



PASTRY 121 

STEAMED PEACH PUDDING.— This excellent recipe comes from 
Mr. Berry's Fruit Recipes. Mix well a cup of flour, two of bread crumbs 
and a half cup chopped nuts, preferably almonds. Stir in the beaten 
yolks of three eggs, three-fourths cup of sugar, a little lemon juice 
and two heaping cups of chopped peaches. Lastly put in the whipped 
whites of three eggs. Turn into a well buttered mould and steam two 
hours. Serve with peaches pressed through a sieve and sweetened. 

RAISIN PUFFS.— Beat one-half cup sugar and one teaspoonful of 
butter to a cream. Beat in one egg. Add one-half cup of milk, one and 
one-third cups flour, two teaspoonfuls baking powder, one cup of 
chopped raisins and spice to taste. Steam for three-quarters of an hour 
in cups one-half full. 

INDIAN PUDDING, with Meringue.— Put one quart of fresh milk 
m a double boiler and when it reaches the scalding point sift in four 
tablespoonfuls of fine cornmeal mixed with the same quantity of wheat 
flour. Stir thoroughly and cook two hours. When done, set off the 
stove and cool. Add the yolks of four well beaten eggs, a tablespoonful 
of butter and a teaspoonful of salt. Bake a delicate brown. Take from 
the oven and when it has cooled, spread with a meringue made from 
the whites of the eggs, beaten stiff with four tablespoonfuls of pulver- 
ized sugar. Use a wire whip or fork for making the merinque. Set in 
the oven, which should be cool, and brown. 

PEACH COBBLER,— And first the cobbler which our Southern 
cooks made in such perfection. For this purpose the richest and ripest 
fruit is selected, usually some variety of the yellow peach, because of 
its superior richness. Butter a deep earthenware pudding dish at least 
three and one-half inches deep. Line the sides with good pastry, then fill 
the dish with peeled peaches torn in halves instead of cutting. Leave 
in enough pits to impart flavor. Sweeten abundantly, then cover with 
a rich layer of crust, sealing down so that none of the juices may 
escape. Bake in a hot oven about three-quarters of an hour, covering 
with paper if there is any danger of its browning too rapidly. When 
nearly done draw to the oven door, dredge over with powdered sugar, 
and set back to glaze. A real old fashioned cook is a stickler for a 
few spoonfuls of brandy poured over the peaches before the top crust 
is put on, but the majority of folk find it quite delectable enough without 
any spirituous additions. 

BAKED PEACHES.— These are an excellent relish to serve with a 
roast or fowl, or may be used as dessert. For this purpose large, fine 
peaches are a desideratum. Peef with a fruit knife or plunge into boiling 
water for a moment, when the skins will rub off as easily as the skin 
of a scalded tomato. Leave whole, but stick a couple of cloves in each 
peach for Havor. Arrange in a rather deep baking dish, sprinkle with 
sugar and dot the tops of the peaches with bits of butter. Add a cupful 



122 PASTEY 

of boiling water to the baking pan and sprinkle a few chopped nuts over 
the top if desired, and bake in a steady, moderate oven. They may be 
served hot or cold. 

PEACH DUMPLINGS.— These may be made of biscuit dough the 
same as apple dumplings or of paste rolled into rounds six inches across. 
Pinch the edges into cup shape. Arrange in a baking pan and put 
a peeled peach in the centre of each. Sprinkle with sugar and dot with 
butter, then bake in a hot oven. 

LEMON SAUCE. — Mix together in a saucepan a tablespoonful of 
cornstarch and three-fourths of a cup of sugar. Stir in carefully one 
cup of boiling water, possibly more, as cornstarch varies in its thickening 
qualities. Cook for ten minutes, stirring often. Add the juice of one 
lemon and a little of the grated peel, and one tablespoonful of butter. 
Push back on the stove, and as soon as the butter is all incorporated 
stir in quickly the beaten yolk of an egg. Beat the white very stiff, and 
stir in lightly, so as to give the sauce the effect of foam. 

RHUBARB DUMPLINGS.— It is the invention of an old and re- 
sourceful Arizona housekeeper, a natural cook, and one always ready 
to rise to the occasion for unexpected guests, even on an isolated ranch 
miles from any base of supplies. When rhubarb is in season she washes 
and cuts it in inch pieces, and stews with little more than half its 
weight in sugar and just a little water. It does not need much, for 
as soon as it begins to cook the juice forms plentifully. While it is 
cooking she mixes a flour batter the same as for meat dumplings, using 
in the proportion of a pint of flour, a half teaspoonful of salt, two tea- 
spoonfuls of baking powder and a scant cup of sweetened milk, then 
drops it by the spoonful into the boiling rhubarb. The result is delicious, 
■eaten hot with or withput cream. As the same thing can be done with 
any kind of stewed fruit, this stock emergency dessert may find appre- 
ciation in other places than on the desert. 

STEAMED PUDDING.— Mix together two and one-half cups of 
graham flour, one cup each of milk, molasses and seeded raisins, two 
small teaspoonfuls of soda, a pinch of salt and a half teaspoonful •of 
ginger. Steam two hours in a buttered mould, never allowing the water 
to stop boiling for a moment. Serve with a hard sauce or the following 
liquid sauce which is one of the most reliable pudding sauces made: — 

Cream Sauce for Pudding. — Beat a piece of butter the size of an egg 
with powdered sugar until it is a light cream. Set to one side. Put a 
cup of boiling water into a small saucepan and stir into it one teaspoon- 
ful of flour mixed with a little cold water. Cook until clear, smooth 
and ^e consistency of thin starch. Take up the bowl containing the 
butter and sugar mixture and wjiile one beats it energetically let an- 
other pour it in. 



PASTRY 12S 

QUEEN OF PUDDINGS.— Take one quart of milk, one pint of 
bread crumbs, the yolks of four eggs, one teacupful of white sugar and 
the rind of one lemon. Beat the yolks and sugar together, then stir 
in the crumbs and milk and bake until a light brown. Beat the whites 
of the eggs to a stiff froth, stirring in four tablespoonfuls of granulated 
sugar. Place over the top of the pudding a layer of tart jelly — currant 
is very good— and over all spread the egg froth. Bake in the oven 
until this meringue is a light brown. Served either hot or cold, with or 
without a wine sauce, it is an appetizing dish. For special occasions an 
addition of currants and raisins makes this pudding even more de- 
licious. 

PEACH SOUFFLE.— Peel, then rub through a sieve eight ripe 
peaches. Stir in with them one cup powdered sugar and the beaten 
yolks of three eggs. Whisk steadily for eight minutes, then fold in the 
whites of six eggs that have been whipped to a stiff froth. Turn into- 
a souffle dish, sprinkle with sugar, and bake in a steady, rather cool 
oven for ten minutes. 

PUDDING SAUCE.— T<5 make the sauce beat together one table- 
spoonful cornstarch, two tablespoonfuls of butter and one-half cup of 
brown sugar. Set on the stove until heated, then turn in hot water, 
a little at a time, and cook until of the consistency required. Add four 
tablespoonfuls grape or apple jelly, with spices or flavoring to taste, 
and serve hot. 

AN ECONOMICAL PLUM PUDDING.— This is said to be equal 
to any plum pudding and is certainly far less expensive. Mix together 
a cup and a half of flour, one cup brown sugar, one cup grated suet, 
one cup seeded raisins, on^ cup of cleaned currants or chopped prunes, 
one cup of grated carrot, one cup of grated potato, one-quarter cup of 
minced orange peel, nutmeg, cinnamoiTand clove to taste. 

Steam three or four hours and serve with hard or liquid sauce. 

Marmalade Sauce. — Put a small glass of marmalade into a saucepan 
with two wineglassfuls of white wine, and stir over a gentle fire until 
well heated. Strain and serve. If desired brandy and water in equal 
parts may be substituted for the wine. 

FRUIT JELLY.— Soak a half box of gelatine in a half cup of cold 
water for half an hour, together with the thinly shaved rind of one 
lemon and two oranges. Then pour on a scant cup of boiling water 
■and stir until dissolved. Add one cup sugar, two cups of orange juice 
and the juice of one lemon, and strain through a fine cloth into a pitcher 
or saucepan with a lip. Wet a mould with cold water, turn in a layer 
of the liquid jelly about half an inch deep and set on the ice where it 
will harden quickly. Prepare a cupful of fruit, sections of oranges, 
Malaga grapes (seeded),*bananas (sliced), preserved pineapple, or can- 
died fruits, etc., and as the jelly in the bottom of the mould stiffens 
put in a layer of the fruit, fastening each piece in place with a little 



124 PASTRY 

jelly before adding enough more jelly to cover. Repeat until all the 
fruit and jelly have been used, then set on the ice until time to serve. 

THE MAKING OF CUSTARDS.— A custard is one of the things 
that admits of no guesswork. It is one of the easiest desserts to make 
and one of the easiest to spoil. Its proper baking is of even more im- 
portance than its mixing. It must be made of fresh materials and 
bakes better in a shallow dish than in a deep one. The oven heat must 
be moderate and the cups or dish containing the custard placed in a 
shallow tin dish like a dripping pan. The moment a custard is baked 
it should be taken out. If you leave it longer it will be watery. The 
proper test is to insert the blade of a knife down to the bottom, and 
if it comes out withqut liquid adhering the custard is done. For the 
various forms of baked and boiled custard four eggs to a quart of 
miilk are sufficient for all purposes, yet six eggs may be used, or even 
more, if the custard is desired very rich. Boiled custard is smoother if 
only the yolks of the eggs are used. Often gelatine or cornstarch is 
put in to assist in thickening milk when eggs are expensive, but these 
are 119;^ real custards. Eggs should not be beaten too much in making a 
custard. Beatf just enough so that the egg does not string. Overheating 
tends to make a custard curdle. 

PLAIN BAKED CUSTARD.— Beat llightly four eggs, whites and 
yolks, together. Add one quart fresh milk, four tablespoonfuls of sugar, 
a pinch of salt and whatever flavoring is desired. Nutmeg is the old 
fashioned flavoring that most people like. Rose water is delicate and 
almond good, though not ,<!0 wholesome as other flavors. Bake in stone- 
ware cups or a bowl set in a basin of hot water. Take care that the oven 
is not too hot. 

QUINCE CUSTARD.— Whijgi quinces are at their best quince cus- 
tard is in order. Rub the fuzz off the fruit with a coarse cloth. Slice 
the quinces, saving seeds and cores, and stew gently in water to cover 
until very tender. Strain through a jelly bag. Measure out a pint of 
juice, add to it five ounces of sugar, boil and pour over the yolks of 
ten well beaten eggs while hot, stirring all the time. Pour back into a 
hot bowl, set this in a dish of boiling water and stir over the fire until 
the custard begins to thicken. Pour into glasses, chill and serve. 

FROZEN DESSERTS, Ices, Creams, Sherbets, etc.— The making 
of frozen dishes was once very elaborate, but improved methods and 
utensils have simplified the operation until now the veriest tyro may 
be sure of success if certain rules are followed. Of course, the mixture 
to be frozen must be cold when put in the freezer. The ice should be 
crushed fine and a third as much rock salt as ice used. The easiest 
way to crush the ice is to put it in a stout gunnysack and pound if 
fine with a hammer or the'back of an ax. Having made the cream and 
poured it into the can, set it in the wooden tub and place around it 
alternate layers of crushed ice and salt. Let the layers of ice be two 



PASTRY 125 

or three inches deep, with one inch of salt sprinkled evenly with the 
ice. Let the ice mixture come a few inches above the cream in the 
can. Now for the freezing, which should be done very slowly at first, 
as rapid turning makes a lumpy cream. About five hundred revolutions 
will usually suffice to freeze the cream. One extremely methodical man 
who prides himself on the velvety smoothness of the iced products 
which he says he has frozen for the home dessert every Sunday for 
twenty years turns the crank just one hundred times, then rests five 
minutes, turns a second hundred, rests again and finishes with the third 
hundred. This occupies about twenty minutes in all. When sufficiently 
frozen, remove the dasher, replace the lid and cork tightly. If the cream 
or ice is to be served within an hour, no more ice will be needed. 
Simply push the can down into the ice, put a weight on top to hold 
it and cover with a piece of old carpeting. Sherbets and ices are really 
better served immediately after freezing. Cream, however, is richer if 
allowed to "ripen" for several hours before using. In this case draw 
off the superfluous water, pack with more ice and salt, cover and stand 
»way in a cool place until ready to serve. If these directions are care- 
fully followed, the cream should be smooth and velvety, perfectly free 
from lumps. When a granular consistency is required, as in frappes, 
use a larger proportion of salt. 

CALF'S FOOT JELLY, No. 2.— To four calf's feet, carefully scraped 
and prepared, allow about two quarts of water, and boil about seven 
hours, skimming well. When done, set aside to congeal, then remove 
all the grease. From the four feet there should be about three pints 
and a half of jelly. Pour on this one quart of sherry, the juice of six 
lemons, a pound and a half granulated sugar, the thinly peeled yellow 
rind of two lemons, one bunch of raisins and two blades of mace. Wash 
eight eggs clean, beat the whites to a froth and crush the shells. Put 
with the jelly. Set on the fire, stir until the jelly is melted, then re- 
move the spoon. Let boil just twenty minutes from the time it com- 
mences to cook. Pour into a coarse cotton bag and drain. If not per- 
fectly clear, repeat the straining until transparent. 

APPLE CUSTARD. — Pare and core four good sized tender apples 
and steam until they can readily be put through a sieve. While hot add 
a tablespoonful of butter, the yolks of four eggs, four tablespoonfuls 
of sugar and a cup of milk. Stir well, then turn into little cups or 
moulds and bake in a pan of hot water for twenty minutes, or until the 
knife blade comes up clear. Beat the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth, 
sweetening slightly, and heap over the tops of the cups. Dust with 
powdered sugar and brown slowly in the oven. Serve cold. 

Biscuits and Parfaits. — Are specially delicious desserts. They are 
quickly and easily made, as they require no stirring while freezing. The 
foundation for them, as well as mousses, is simply whipped cream, with 
or without eggs. 

Here is an excellent recipe: 



126 PASTRY 

BISCUIT ICE CREAM.— To two quarts whipped cream allow four 
eggs, three-fourths of a cupful of sugar, three-fourths of a cupful of 
water and a teaspoonful of vanilla. Boil the sugar and water together 
for twenty-five minutes. Beat the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth, 
and gradually pour over them, still beating, the hot syrup. Beat the 
yolks and add to the whites and syrup. Place the pan in another ves- 
sel of hot water and cook for ten minutes, beating all the time. Set 
away to cool. When quite cold add the vanilla and mix the cream in 
lightly. Pour in a mould and pack in ice and salt. Cover with a piece 
of carpet and set away for three or four hours to harden. Four table- 
spoonfuls of maraschino or sherry may be used in place of the vanilla, 
if preferred. 

PLAIN BOILED CUSTARD.— Scald a quart of fresh milk, using 
a double boiler to avoid scorching. Beat the yolks of six eggs, add 
six tablespoonfuls of sugar and a saltspoonful of salt and beat again. 
In the making of a boiled custard the longer beating of the yolks is 
allowable. Pour the hot milk slowly into the bowl containing the 
eggs, stirring constantly while so doing. Never stir the eggs into the 
hot milk or your milk will curdle. When well mixed pour all back into 
the double boiler and stir constantly until smooth and thick like cream. 
It will grow thicker as it cools. Take from the fire, strain and, when 
cool, flavor. Vanilla is the generally admired seasoning, but lemon is 
also used. Serve very cold. 

BREAD JELLY. — Cut^a French roll into slices or toast three slices 
of slightly stale bread to a delicate brown. Put in a saucepan with a 
scant quart water and simmer slowly until reduced to a jelly. Strain 
through a cloth, flavor with lemon juice, nutmeg and a little sherry, 
sweeten to taste and pour into wet moulds to cool and form. 

CHARLOTTE RUSSE.— Soak a quarter box of gelatine in a quarter 
cup of cold water for half an hour, then place over hot water and 
keep stirring until the gelatine is thoroughly dissolved. Remove and, 
when nearly cold, beat thoroughly with an tgg beater. Meantime Havor 
a quart of cream with vanilla and add sugar to taste. Pour the two 
mixtures together, whip thoroughly, then pour into moulds lined with 
slices of sponge cake cut to fit or lady fingers split. Set on the ice until 
needed. 

CARAMEL CUSTARD.— Put one-half cupful of sugar in a smooth 
frying pan and stir until it melts and becomes a rich cinnamon color. 
Pour it into a pint of rich milk or thin cream that has been scalded, 
add a teaspoonful of vanilla, a saltspoonful salt and a half cup of sugar 
and let it simmer until the colored sugar is absorbed. Set away to 
cool. When cold add the beaten yolks of eight eggs, strain to be sure 
it is smooth; pour into baking cups and set in a pan of hot water and 
bake until firm. Serve cold. This will make eight cups. Or make a 



PASTRY 12T 

plain custard, putting in less sugar than usual; then stir in two or three 
tablespoonfuls of caramel made in this way: — 

Caramel. — Put two cups of granulated sugar in a clean saucepan, set 
on the back of the range and stir until it browns. Pour into it slowly 
one cup of boiling water, and when dissolved put into a can for future 
use. It keeps indefinitely. It is nice served as a sauce with the custard 
or with apple dumplings. 

SNOW JELLY. — ^This is an easily prepared dessert whose attrac- 
tive name fits its appearance. Wash carefully four tablespoonfuls of 
rice and cover with two quarts of boiling salted water. Cook slowly 
without stirring until the rice is tender, drain in a colander and shake 
until each kernel is separate and distinct. Set aside to cool. Meanwhile 
have soaking a quarter box of gelatine in a half cup of water. Twenty 
minutes for this part of the programme is good, more is better. Pour 
over the soaked gelatine one cup of boiling water and add one cup 
of sugar. Set in a dish of hot water until dissolved, then mix with 
the cooked rice. Whip a pint of cream until light and dry and stir in 
lightly with the rice. Flavor with sherry or maraschino and pour into 
a mould that has been wet with cold water. Put in a cold place until 
thoroughly chilled and. set, then turn out on a flat dish and pour round 
it preserved berries or maraschino cherries. 

MAPLE CUSTARD.— Beat five eggs until a spoonful can be lifted 
without stringing. Add one-half cup of maple syrup, a saltspoonful 
of salt, stir well, then add three cups of milk and strain into a mould 
or individual cups. Wet the inside of the cups with cold water. The 
hot water in the pan in which the custards are set to bake should not 
boil after baking is begun. 

WINE JELLY. — Soak one box gelatine in two cupfuls of cold water 
for half an hour. Add a quart boiling water in which a stick of cinna- 
mon has been cooked, and stir until dissolved, then add one pint good 
sherry wine, a pound and three-quarters of sugar and the juice of two 
lemons. Strain into moulds and set away to harden. 

LEMON JELLY. — This is the foundation for a number of jellies, 
or it may be used alone. Soak one box gelatine in two cups cold water 
for half an hour. Add a quart boiling water and a cup and a half of 
sugar and stir until dissolved. Add the juice of three or four lemons, 
dependent upon the size, then strain through a jelly bag into moulds. 

COFFEE JELLY. — Soak a half box gelatine in a half cup cold water 
for thirty minutes, then pour over it one pint strong boiling coffee. 
Stir until dissolved, add three-fourths cup of sugar and a cup of boiling 
water. Strain into wet moulds and set in the cold to harden. Serve 
with whipped cream. 



128 PASTRY 

COFFEE BAVARIAN CREAM.— Bavarian creams are among the 
most delicious of cold summer desserts and are, besides, especially 
nutritious. Soak two scant tablespoonfuls of gelatine for a couple of 
hours in a half cup of water. Add a pint of boiling hot strong Mocha 
coflfee that has just been freshly made, strain, and sweeten to taste. 
Cool a little, and while cooling beat a pint of thick cream to a stiff 
froth. Pour in gradually the coffee and gelatine, continuing the beat- 
ing until the whole mixture is thickened. Pour into a mould and set 
in a pan of cracked ice, cover and stand in the cellar or ice box until 
needed. Serve with an abundance of whipped cream. Many people who 
cannot drink coffee without inconvenience find that coffee served in a 
cream or jelly agrees with them perfectly. 

Marshmallow Trifle. — For marshmallow trifle cut half a pound of 

marshmallows into small pieces and mix them with half a pint of 

stifHy beaten cream which has been flavored with sherry. Serve in 
frappe glasses with two or three strawberries on each. 

Sour Cream "Pat-a-Pan" Cakes. — Beat well together one cup of sugar, 
two eggs and one cup of sour cream. Add one small teaspoonful of 
soda, dissolved in a little water, and one and one-half heaping cups of 
flour. Flavor the frosting with vanilla or lemon. 

POUND CAKE.— The old rule— and there is none better— calls for 
one pound each butter, sugar and flour, ten eggs and a half wineglass 
each of wine and brandy. Beat the butter to a cream and add gradually a 
pound of sugar, stirring all the while. Beat ten eggs without separating 
until they become light and foamy. Add gradually to the butter and 
sugar and beat hard. Sift in one pound sifted flour and add the wine 
and brandy. Line the cake pans with buttered paper and pour in the well 
beaten mixture. Bake in a moderate oven. This recipe may be varied 
by the addition of raisins, seeded and cut in halves, small pieces of citron 
or almonds blanched and pounded in rose water. Some old fashioned 
housekeepers always add a fourth of a teaspoonful of mace. The mix- 
ture may be baked in patty tins or small round loaves, if preferred, put- 
ting currants into some, almonds or raisins in the rest. Pound cake is 
apt to be lighter baked in this way. The cakes may be plain or frosted, 
and they will grow richer with the keeping if placed in stone jars. 

PEANUT WAFERS. — Peanut wafers, while not especially new, are 
always welcome. Make ready two quarts of peanuts, shelled, "skinned" 
and chopped or pounded. Beat to a cream one cupful of sugar and one- 
half cupful of butter. Add three-quarters of a cup of milk, two small 
cupfuls of sifted flour, and one and one-half teaspoonfuls of vanilla. 
Butter a tin sheet, or the bottom (outside) of a dripping pan, and 
spread the dough over it in a thin layer, using a knife or spatula. 
Sprinkle thickly with the nuts and bake. As soon as removed from the 
oven, cut in squares and take from the tin. 



PASTRY 129 

DRIED APPLE CAKE— Soak a cup and a half dried or evaporated 
apples over night in cold water, then stew soft the day before using 
in a half cupful of molasses. Cream together one cup sugar and half 
cup butter. Add two-thirds of a cup sour milk, then the apples. And 
next two well beaten eggs, a teaspoonful cloves, two teaspoonfuls cinna- 
mon, a grating of nutmeg and three cupfuls flour sifted three times over 
with a half teaspoonful soda. Mix thoroughly, using the hands. Have 
ready one cupful seeded raisins, two-thirds cupful currants and a little 
shredded citron. A few finely chopped butternut or hickory nut meats 
are an addition. Put a layer of the batter in a paper lined cake tin, 
then sprinkle in some of the fruit and nut mixture. Follow with the 
dough, then more fruit, and so on, having the batter at the top. Bake 
in a slow bread oven, covering the cake with a buttered paper if in- 
clined to brown too fast on top. 

ANGEL FOOD-^For this have in readiness one cupful each of gran- 
ulated sugar and flour, measured after sifting once. Then sift both 
together five times. Also sift by itself half a teaspoonful of cream of 
tartar, and beat the whites of nine large eggs or ten small ones to a 
stiff froth, adding to the eggs a saltspoonful of salt. Use a wire beater 
for this purpose and whip on a large platter. When the whites are 
foaming, add the cream of tartar, then beat until so stiff that the 
platter turned upside down will retain the egg. Now slip the eggs into 
the bowl of sifted sugar and flour, and cut and fold the whites in very 
carefully so as not to break the air cells. Flavor with a little almond. 
This is the critical moment. Have the cake tin in readiness. If you 
haven't a regular angel cake pan use any brick shaped pan or one with a 
tube in the centre. Butter it lightly. A lining of oiled paper is best. 
Do not stop the folding until the cake is almost in the oven, which 
should be very slow. If there is danger of its being too hot, leave the 
oven door open while the cake is being mixed. This gives the cake 
a chance to heat gradually and rise slowly like a souffle. After twenty- 
five minutes the heat may be increased a little. It will require forty 
or fifty minutes to bake. It is important that the cake should not be 
jarred while baking. When done, invert to cool. A boiled frosting is 
usually considered best for this cake. 

PLATZEN (Or Small Drop Cakes).— Beat the yolks of four eggs 
until lemon colored, foamy and light. Stir in gradually two cups 
powdered sugar and beat thoroughly. Add a pinch each of cinnamon 
and cloves and just enough sifted flour to make the batter of con- 
sistency to drop from a spoon. Drop on a greased paper in tins, leaving 
room for them to spread without touching, and bake in a moderate 
oven. 

SILVER CAKE. — For the silver cake mix a cupful sugar with a half 
cup sour cream, adding a scant half teaspoonful of soda and a cup and 
three-quarters of flour. Lastly, fold in the stiffly whipped whites of four 
eggs and flavor with a little lemon. Bake in a bread tin, lined with 



130 PASTRY 

buttered paper, putting in the batter in alternate spoonfuls. Bake in 
a steady moderate oven and, when cold, ice with a plain white icing 
flavored with lemon or orange. 

GERMAN APPLE KUCHEN.— Beat one egg and add to it a cup of 
milk. Mix well, then add two and two-thirds cups sifted flour that has 
been slightly warmed. Beat well. Dissolve on-ethird compressed yeast 
cake in two tablespoonfuls lukewarm milk and add to the water with 
two tablespoonfuls softened butter. Knead thoroughly in the bowl, 
manipulating with hands and spoon until the dough feels elastic and 
velvety. Cover and stand in a warm place for about five hours, or 
until it has doubled in bulk, then turn on a floured board and roll into 
a sheet about half an inch thick. Place on a greased tin, spread with 
butter, sprinkle lightly with sugar, then arrange closely over the top 
enough overlapping slices of apple to cover. Wipe over with butter, 
sprinkle with sugar and plenty of nutmeg or cinnamon. Cover with a 
light cloth and set aside for twenty minutes or until quite light, then 
bake in a hot oven. As soon as done, brush lightly with cold water to 
prevent the kuchen becoming too dry, 

CHOCOLATE NUT CAKE,— An excellent chocolate nut cake that 
is not so expensive but that the family can have one occasionally is 
tnade in this wise: — Shell a pound of English walnuts. Save out two 
or three dozen of the unbroken halves and chop fine the remaining 
kernels. Beat to a cream one cupful granulated sugar and a half 
cupful butter. Add two eggs, one at a time, beating thoroughly after 
each addition. Next stir in alternately one-half cup milk and a cup and 
a half of flour sifted with a level tablespoonful baking powder. Flavor 
lightly with vanilla and bake in two layers. When the cake has par- 
tially cooled, spread with an icing made in this way: — Put into a granite 
basin a teaspoonful butter, and as it softens brush sides and bottom of 
dish. Add two ounces unsweetened grated chocolate, three-quarters 
pound light brown sugar and a half cup sweet milk. Cook until a 
little dropped in cold water makes a soft ball when rolled between the 
thumb and forefinger. Add a level tablespoonful butter. Take from 
the fire and flavor with a teaspoonful vanilla. To one-third of this 
icing add the chopped nut meats. Stir until cool enough to spread, 
then put between the layers. Spread the rest of the icing over sides and 
top of the cake and arrange upon it at regular intervals the whole 
nut meats. 

CHOCOLATE LAYER CAKE.— Melt a half cake chocolate in the 
oven or over hot water. Stir to a cream one and one-half cups sugar and 
a half cup butter. Sift together two cupfuls flour and a half teaspoonful 
soda. Repeat this sifting three times over. Beat the yolks of four 
eggs until lemon colored and thick, and the whites of two until stiff. 
Put a half cupful sour milk in a bowl and stir into it a scant half tea- 
spoonful soda dissolved in a half cup warm water. Put all the ingre- 



PASTRY 131 

dients together and bake in layer tins. Put together with lemon icing 
made from the whites of two eggs. 

PFEFFERNUSSE (or Pepper Nuts).— Beat together four eggs and 
one pound of sugar. Add one tablespoonful cinnamon, one nutmeg 
grated, one teaspoonful cloves and a teaspoonful baking powder. Beat 
thoroughly. Add two ounces candied lemon peel, shaved fine, and one 
pound flour, then knead thoroughly on the moulding board. Shape 
into small balls, lay on buttered paper in tins and bake in a slow oven. 

PETITE FOURS.— These are inexpensive and not difficult when 
made at home. The foundation is a simple light sponge cake baked an 
inch in depth in a shallow tin lined with paper. It is not necessary to 
grease the paper. When done, turn out on a bread board and with a 
sharp knife cut into diamonds, dominoes and squares. Split each of 
these through the centre, spread half with jelly, frosting or rich pre- 
serves, put the other half on top and ice with variously tinted and 
flavored icings — ^white with almond, pink with rose, green with pistache, 
yellow with orange, brown with chocolate. Decorate the brown domino 
shapes with white dots of frosting, the pink cakes with candied rose 
leaves, the green pistache with candied cherries, and the white with 
candied violets or cherries and angelica leaves. 

LAYER CAKE. — While almost every housekeeper has her own fa- 
vorite recipe for layer cake, the following is so unfailingly reliable that 
it deserves to be spread on every cook's culinary archives as a standby. 
Place in a warm bowl one-half cupful of butter, and with a wooden 
spoon rub to a cream. Add gradually one cupful of sugar. Beat the 
yolks of four eggs until lemon colored and thick, add to them a second 
cupful of sugar and stir into the creamed butter and sugar. Add one 
teaspoonful lemon or vanilla extract. Beat the whites of the four eggs 
stiff and dry and let them stand while you add alternately and little 
by little one cupful of milk in which a half teaspoonful of soda has 
been dissolved and three cupfuls pastry flpur sifted with one teaspoon- 
ful cream of tartar. Lastly fold in the whites of the eggs. Bake in 
round shallow pans and spread with any filling preferred. 

A rich fig filling for cake is made in this way: — Blanch one pound 
of almonds, seed one pound of raisins, add three-quarters of a pound 
of figs and half a pound of citron. Chop until very fine, and moisten 
with sherry to form a soft paste. Spread a thin frosting over the cake, 
then a layer of the paste and another thin layer of frosting. 

A more simple filling is made by chopping fine half a pound of figs 
and adding to them a half cupful of sugar and a half pint of sherry. 
Cook over the fire until it thickens like jelly. 

WHITE LAYER CAKE.— For a white layer cake cream together 
a half cup of butter and two cupfuls of sifted sugar. Add one-half 
cupful of sweet milk, one teaspoonful vanilla extract and the whites 
of four eggs. Sift together one heaping teaspoonful of baking powder 



132 PASTRY 

and one and one-half cupfuls of flour and stir into the mixture. Beat 
■well and bake in layers. When baked spread with any filling desired 
and pile one on the other, covering the top with frosting. 

This is a good tnarshmallow filling for a white or angel cake baked 
in three layers: — Cut a half pound of marshmallows into small bits, using 
scissors for this purpose. Put into a bright, clean stewpan two cupfuls 
of sugar and one-half cupful of water. Boil until it hairs, take at once 
from the fire and pour over the well beaten whites of two eggs. Add 
marshmallows and any flavoring desired, and beat until cold. 

A fruit filling that goes well with white cake is made of four table- 
spoonfuls of fine chopped citron, the same quantity of fine cut raisins, 
one-quarter pound of chopped figs, one-half cupful blanched almonds, 
one-half cupful pulverized sugar and whites of three eggs. Beat the 
whites very stiff, add the sugar and other ingredients and spread between 
the layers of cake while still warm. A little currant jelly may be added, 
if desired, to moisten the filling. 

SOUTHERN POUND CAKE.— No cook yet discovered can outdo 
the Virginian in the way of making pound cake. The following recipe 
comes from that section of the country and is warranted to succeed 
if faithfully followed: — Beat one pound of butter and one pound of 
powdered sugar together until they form a cream. Separate the whites 
from the yolks of one dozen eggs. Whisk the whites to a stiff froth 
and beat the yolks until thick. Beat the whites into the creamed butter 
and sugar, then add the yolks and stir all thoroughly together. Sift 
the flour and put in lightly, little by little, stirring only enough to mix 
smoothly. Pour into pans lined with buttered paper and bake in a 
moderate oven for one hour and a quarter. Take care not to stir or 
to shake the pan until the cake is well set. This is genuine pound 
cake, which is always unflavored, but, if preferred, the juice and grated 
rind of a lemon may be added. 

ENGLISH CHRISTMAS FRUIT CAKE.— The true fruit cake 
should contain but little batter in proportion to its fruit. It should be 
black, rich and moist, and to achieve this result must be baked very 
slowly, five hours at the least, in order to give the fruit time to swell 
and its juices to permeate the entire mass. Such cake will keep for 
years, if iced and put in a stone jar in a cool place. Mix to a cream 
in a warm bowl one pound of fresh or well washed butter and one pound 
of sugar. Grate in the yellow rind of one lemon and add to the mixture 
ten eggs, one by one, beating vigorously after each egg is added. Mix 
together on a plate a teaspoonful of cinnamon, two of allspice, half a 
teaspoonful of cloves and the same amount of grated nutmeg. Add four 
tablespoonfuls of molasses, mix, and then add to the butter, sugar and 
eggs, together with a pound of sifted pastry flour. Knead thoroughly, 
using the hands instead of a spoon. Have already prepared two pounds 
of currants, cleaned and dried, two pounds of seeded raisins, two pounds 
of choice California raisins, seeded, half a pound of citron, shaved in 



PASTRY 133 

thin slices, half a pound of candied lemon and orange peel, cut in 
thin slices, one gill of brandy and one of Jamaica rum. Add to the 
batter and knead until thoroughly incorporated. Pour into two cake 
tins, lined inside with well greased paper. Tie four or five thicknesses 
of coarse wrapping paper around the outside and bottom of the tins. 
See that the fire is banked up 'to last, with the addition of an occasional 
shovel of coal, in order to keep the oven heat even, and bake five hours, 
watching that it does not scorch. Remove from the oven very carefully, 
but leave in the tins until quite cold. The next day ice with a thin 
icing of unbeaten egg and confectioner's sugar and later with heavier 
ornamental icing. It is difficult to bake fruit cake with a gas range. 
In Philadelphia many old fashioned housekeepers prepare their cake 
already for baking then send it to the baker's for the long, slow baking 
that is such an essential to its success. 

SPONGE CAKE. — Beat six fresh eggs and a cup of sugar together 
with a wire beater, not the patent beater. Whip in long strokes until 
the mixture is perfectly creamy, light and white. This takes time. Add 
a teaspoonful vanilla or lemon and two tablespoonfuls of cold water, 
and beat again. Lastly, fold in — do not beat— one cup of sifted flour. 
Bake in a rather slow oven. 

CHRISTMAS FRUIT CAKE.— Cream together one-half pound but- 
ter and a pound and a half sugar. Add gradually the yolks of six eggs 
beaten until creamy; then one pint sour cream, in which a teaspoonful 
soda has been dissolved, alternating with a pound and a half of flour. 
Next add the whites of the six eggs, beaten stiff, and lastly one pound 
seeded raisins, one pound currants, one-half pound citron dredged with 
a quarter pound of flour (which would make a pound and three-quarters 
of flour in all). Add the juice of a lemon and the grated yellow rind of 
two, one grated nutmeg and a sprinkling of mace. Bake in a paper 
lined pan for two and a half hours in a slow, steady oven, or steam 
first like pudding, then bake the last hour. This mode of making a fruit 
cake is almost an essential where one uses a gas stove. Cover with 
buttered paper while baking. This recipe is said to have been copied 
from Martha Washington's own book. ., 

ALMOND WAFERS. — Beat to a cream a quarter cup of butter, then 
rub in one-half cupful powdered sugar. Add, drop by drop, a quarter 
cupful of milk, then, gradually, seven-eighths cup of sifted flour. Flavor 
with a half teaspoonful of vanilla or pistache, and spread very thinly 
over the bottom of an inverted dripping pan and cut in three-inch 
squares. Sprinkle with chopped blanched almonds and brown delicately 
in a very slow oven. Take from the oven, turn the squares over one 
by one with a knife and roll loosely. Take up and spread on a wax 
paper to cool and dry. If the squares harden before you get them all 
rolled place over the fire a moment to soften. Serve with cocoa, after- 
noon tea, ice cream or preserves. 



184 PASTRY 

MARGUERITES.— In the drawing room of a New York hostess 
a very dainty nutty wafer was served, which was so much enjoyed 
with the five o'clock tea that the hostess was led to explain the his- 
tory of her Marguerites. These were simply thin crackers spread thickly 
with the following mixture: — Take a cupful of finely chopped nuts — 
pecans, English walnuts and almonds — and put them into the well beaten 
white of an egg to which enough sugar has been added to make a thick 
icing. Spread on the crackers and brown slightly in the oven. The 
story was that these dainties were made after an old navy rule, valued 
because the wafers kept well, being ever fresh and ready for use dur- 
ing long voyages. 

CHOCOLATE FILLING.— Beat the whites of the two eggs left 
from the batter until stiff, adding to them one cup of powdered sugar, 
or enough to make the frosting quite stiff. Add one square of chocolate 
that has been melted. Spread the tops of two of the cakes with a thin 
layer of slightly acid jelly, such as currant, plum or grape, then put 
the cakes together with the chocolate frosting. Spread the top layer 
with some of the frosting. This cake keeps well if put in a tin box 
and covered. 

APPLE LAYER CAKE.— Beat the white of one egg until light, 
but not stiff, then add little by little and alternately one cup granulated 
sugar and one tart apple, peeled and grated as it is added. Continue the 
beating in long, even strokes for twenty minutes until you have a white 
feathery mass that will hold its own. Spread between the layers of a 
sponge cake. 

SIMNEL CAKE. — Though the old simnel cake belonged originally 
to the middle Sunday in Lent, it may now be found on hand at the 
confectioner's from the beginning of Lent until Easter. The modern 
rearrangement of the old time simnel is as follows: — Bake as a foun- 
dation a fair sized round pound or Madeira cake, flavoring with essence 
of almonds and coloring a rich yellow by the liquid extracted from a 
little saffron dropped in boiling water and squeezed through a piece of 
cheesecloth. When the cake is perfectly cold, build a wall of frosting 
on top of the cake around the edge, leaving a good sized hole in the 
centre for the candied fruit. To make the frosting, blanch a half pound 
of fine almonds (preferably the Jordan) and pound to a paste in a 
mortar, moistening with a tablespoonful of orange flower water. Add 
to the almonds the whites of two eggs and confectioner's sugar to make 
a stiff frosting that will stand of itself. Having built the wall on the 
cake, place in a slow oven until the almonds have dried thoroughly, 
like almond macaroons. When the cake is cold again, fill the well in 
the centre with a mixture of candied fruit, plums, pears, orange slices, 
cherries or strawberries, interspersed with blanched whole almonds. 
Almonds already pounded to a paste can now be obtained at any first 
class grocery. 



PASTRY 185 

COCOANUT MACAROONS.— Add to a scant cupful of sifted flour 
one cupful of granulated sugar and two cupfuls of the best shredded 
cocoanut. Mix thoroughly, then fold into the mixture the whites of 
three eggs whipped to a stifif froth. Make into small flat cakes and 
bake in a slow oven until crisp and a delicate brown. 

GOLD CAKE. — ^This is exceedingly tender and delicious when made 
of sour cream. It may be baked in layers or in a loaf, putting the white 
and yellow batters in streaks like a marble cake. For the yellow part, 
beat to a cream the yolks of four eggs, then add a cupful sugar and 
beat again. Add three-fourths of a cup of thick sour cream into which 
has been stirred a half teaspoonful soda. Next fold in a cup and three- 
quarters of pastry flour that has been sifted several times over and 
flavored with a little grated yellow rind of orange and a teaspoonful 
orange juice, or less of the extract. 

GOOD FRIDAY CAKE.— This is a simple tea cake made from one 
pound flour, half a pound butter, two ounces sugar, half a teaspoonful 
lemon juice, a teaspoonful grated yellow peel, and enough water to 
make a stiff paste. Divide the dough into two equal parts and roll into 
large round cakes about the size of breakfast plates. Mark the edges 
in a fancy design with a jigger, or pinch them with the fingers. Mark 
each cake in quarters, brush over with the white of an egg, lay a strip 
of candied lemon peel on each, sprinkle with granulated sugar and bake. 
Serve either hot or cold. 

ORANGE FILLING. — Beat one egg thoroughly and add one scant 
cupful sugar with which one large tablespoonful of cornstarch has been 
mixed by sifting. Add the grated yellow rind and juice of an orange 
and the juice of half a lemon. Mix thoroughly and pour over the 
mixture one cupful of boiling water. Cook, stirring all the time, until 
it thickens slightly. Cool before using. 

"Fill the oven with flawns, Jennie, pause not for sleep. 
For to-morrow thy father his wake day will keep." 

FLAWNS OR CHEESECAKES.— So runs the old English song, 
dating back to Elizabethan days. Small wonder Jennie was obliged to 
stay up all night to provide her father with "wake day" refreshments 
when we consider the old time tedious process of separating curds from 
whey and the "braying" of the curds in a stone mortar with rose water 
and almonds. The twentieth century housekeeper knows how to shorten 
the operation and in place of using milk, takes a Neufchatel or cottage 
cheese as foundation for her flawns. This is crumbled fine and added 
to the other ingredients, allowing to one Neufchatel a scant cup of 
sugar, a half cup rolled cracker crumbs, four eggs, a half cup cream, a 
half cup currants well washed, thoroughly dried and floured, the grated 
rind and half the juice of a lemon, a teaspoonful rose water and cinna- 
mon and nutmeg to taste. Mix well and fill small patty tins lined with 
puff paste. Ornament the top with currants and narrow strips of citron, 
and bake in a quick oven, not allowing the flawns to get top brown. 



136 PASTRY 

PRUNE GINGERBREAD.— Put into a pan one cupful of brown 
sugar, one cupful New Orleans molasses, one-half cup melted butter, 
lard or good drippings, one cupful sour milk into which has been beaten 
one teaspoonful soda, two beaten eggs, a teaspoonful and a half of 
cinnamon, a teaspoonful of cloves, two teaspoonfuls of ginger, the 
grated rind of a lemon, one cupful steamed and chopped prunes and 
flour enough to make a rather stiff batter. There is a diflference in the 
thickening qualities of flour, but the amount required will be about 
three cupfuls. 

CHOCOLATE FILLING No. 2.— Boil one cup fine granulated sugar 
with one-third cup hot water until it spins a thread. Have ready the 
white of one egg beaten stiff with one-eighth teaspoonful cream of tar- 
tar. Pour the boiling syrup slowly into the egg, beating steadily until 
thick enough to spread. Add two tablespoonfuls powdered cocoa or 
chocolate while the syrup is still hot, and the last thing add two table- 
spoonfuls whipped cream, if you wish it extra nice. Spread between the 
layers and on top and sides of cake. 

CHRISTMAS SQUARES.— To four well beaten eggs add four 
ounces of sugar and beat for twenty minutes. Mix three ounces of seed- 
less raisins with five ounces slightly browned flour and put in gradually 
the eggs and sugar. Pour into a flat, square tin lined with buttered 
paper and bake a quarter of an hour in a hot oven. Take from the 
oven and cut into squares while still hot. 

YULE CAKE. — Rub to a light, white cream two cups and a half 
of butter and three cups of sugar. Add ten eggs, two at a time, beating 
five minutes between each addition. Sift four cups of flour, three times 
over, with one teaspoonful of baking powder and add to the sugar, butter 
and eggs. When well mixed, add four cupfuls of currants, washed and 
dried, one-half cup of shredded citron, one teaspoonful each nutmeg 
and cloves and one gill of brandy. Mix and pour into a paper lined 
tin, also well protected with paper outside, and bake two and one-half 
hours in a moderate oven. 

CHINABOY'S SPONGE CAKE,— The ingredients called for are 
eight eggs, one pint of sugar, three gills of flour and the juice of one 
lemon. Beat the yolks until lemon colored and thick, then add the 
sugar little by little, still beating. Beat the whites to a stiff froth and 
add to the yolks. Put in the flour very gently, so as not to break the air 
bubbles, add the lemon juice, and pour into a shallow tin lined with but- 
tered paper. Bake about twenty minutes in a steady oven. 

OLY-KOOKS. — Beat to a cream one cup of butter and two of sugar. 
Break in two eggs, beating vigorously, add half a cup of hot milk, 
half a teaspoonful of salt and sifted flour to make a stiff batter. Beat 
-well. Add a cup and a half more of hot milk and more sifted flour, 
until the batter is as stiff as can be beaten with ease. Cool to luke- 



PASTRY 137 

warm, add a yeast cake dissolved in a cup of water, a little more 
flour and then beat until the batter blisters. Cover and set in a warm 
place about twenty-four hours to rise.' If set about ten in the morning 
it will be usually well risen by nine of the next morning. Dredge the 
moulding board with flour and turn the batter on it, remembering the 
dough must be as soft as can be handled, and the less handling the bet- 
ter. Roll the dough in sheets about three-fourths of an inch thick and 
cut in round cakes. Now, with a sharp, thin knife cut a slit in each cake 
and insert in the centre a plump raisin, a bit of sliced citron and a lump 
of sugar, or a teaspoonful of any rich preserve. Wet the edges of the 
slit and press together closely. Let the doughnuts rise for half an hour, 
or until quite light, and cook in a kettle of smoking hot fat. This may 
be lard or lard drippings. It should be hot enough to color a bit of 
bread a light yellow as soon as it is dropped in. 

The oly-kooks take about ten minutes to cook — longer than ordinary 
doughnuts — on account of the fruit in the centre. This should be a 
tender, golden brown when done. Lift out with a skimmer, drain and 
lay on soft brown paper to absorb the fat. Roll in powdered sugar 
and when cold set away in a stone cake jar.. Old fashioned cooks some- 
times soak the oly-kooks in a little Santa Cruz rum and serve them with 
preserved peaches. In some old Knickerbocker families they are often 
served during the holidays with vanilla ice cream. 

SUNSHINE CAKE.— For sunshine cake sift the flour and sugar the 
same as for angel cake, only lessening the flour to three-fourths of a 
cup. Add a pinch of salt to the whites of seven eggs, and beat until 
stiff and dry. Beat the yolks of five eggs until lemon colored and thick, 
add the sugar and flour to the yolks, stir in lightly the whites of the 
eggs and half a teaspoonful of cream of tartar, flavor with orange ex- 
tract and bake the same as angel cake. Frost with yellow icing, flav- 
ored with orange, and decorate with bits of candied orange peel and 
leaves cut from angelica. 

ANOTHER RECIPE FOR NUT COOKIES.— These may be made 
with any nuts preferred, but hickory nuts are specially good. Rub to- 
gether one cup lard or butter and two cups of light brown sugar. Add 
two well beaten eggs, one cupful sour milk, a teaspoonful of soda dis- 
solved in a little of the milk, one cupful chopped nuts and flour added 
little by little until the dough is the right consistency for rolling thin. 
Cut in round or fancy shapes, place on greased pans and bake in a quick 
oven for five or six minutes. 

GINGERBREAD (With Chocolate Icing).- A well made ginger- 
bread is much better cake on certain occasions than a fruit cake, and is 
quite superior to a coarsely made cake. A chocolate icing is particularly 
nice on a molasses sponge cake flavored with ginger. To make this cake 
put into a pan two cupfuls of molasses, three-quarters of a cup of lard 
and butter mixed, or all butter, a tablespoonful ginger and the same 
amount of hot water poured over a tablespoonful of soda. Stir in 



138 PASTRY 

enough flour tp make a batter about as stiff as for a sponge cake. It 
should be soft enough to spread out when poured in a biscuit pan. As 
gingerbread burns easily, it should be protected at top and bottom. An 
asbestos griddle set under the pan is a protection against scorch. When 
the cake is done lift the pan out of the oven without jarring and let 
it remain in the tin until nearly cold. For the icing, stir two squares 
of unsweetened grated chocolate with two to five tablespoonfuls sugar. 
Add three tablespoonfuls of boiling water and stir the mixture over the 
fire until smooth and glossy. Spread on evenly while the cake is a trifle 
warm, then let it remain in the pan until cold. Cut in squares and, when 
the icing is hard, lift out. 

SCOTCH CAKES.— This is a reliable recipe, for the popular Scotch 
cakes, which has been handed down from generation to generation in 
an old Scotch family. The ingredients required for these cakes, the 
making of which is never intrusted to any but loving hands, are one 
pound of the very best butter, one and one-eighth pounds of flour, one 
pound of sugar, one level dessertspoonful of caraway seed, one table- 
spoonful of ice water and candied caraway seed sufficient to sprinkle 
thick on top of the cakes. Have the butter, the mixing bowl and 
the hands as cold as possible. Cut the butter in small pieces, add the 
flour, and work together thoroughly and quickly. Add the sugar and 
mix lightly. Sprinkle in the caraway seed and mix through. Add the 
water at the last. Make the dough into a ball, flour the moulding board, 
put the dough on it, roll out quickly, and beat level and smooth with a 
rolling pin. Fold over the ends and beat again. Do this three times, 
the last time rolling it to the size and shape of the pan it is to be baked 
in. Properly this should be a shallow sheet iron pan. Put the dough 
in about half an inch thick and bake twenty minutes in a steady oven. 
When done it should be an even light brown on top and brown on the 
bottom. If it shows signs of browning too quickly, cover with white 
paper. Test with a straw or knitting needle. Remove the paper when 
cool, and when thoroughly cold pack in thin boxes with clean letter 
paper between the layers. 

Soft Gingerbread With Sour Milk. — Put into a pan one cup of 
molasses, one cup of sour milk, one-half cup of softened butter, one 
heaping teaspoonful of soda, a tablespoonful of ginger and flour to mix 
very soft. 

MOLASSES COOKIES.— Put into a bowl one and one-third cups 
of molasses, one cup of brown sugar, one cup of sour milk in which a 
heaping teaspoonful of soda has been dissolved. Add one teaspoonful 
vinegar and stir until the soda has stopped "purring." Now add one 
cup melted shortening, one beaten egg, one tablespoonful each cinna- 
mon and ginger and a saltspoonful salt. Mix, add flour enough to 
make as soft a dough as can be rolled out, cut in thick cookies and bake 
in a quick oven. 



PASTRY 139 

LEMON FILLING. — Stew one apple and irub through a sieve. Add 
the grated yellow peel and juice of one lemon, one cup of sugar and one 
beaten egg. Cook until the mixture thickens, then put between the 
cake layers. 

TUTTI FRUTTI FILLING.— Soak two tablespoonfuls of gelatine 
in water to cover for twenty minutes, then melt over the tea kettle. 
Cook two cups of granulated sugar with eight tablespoonfuls of water 
until it threads; pour in the melted gelatine, add a teaspoonful of vanilla 
or rose water, and beat in a cool place until white and thick. Toward 
the end of the beating stir in two or three tablespoonfuls of various 
crystallized fruits, cut in small bits, and add fine chopped nuts if desired. 

SOUR CREAM FILLING.— Whip very sour cream until stiflf. Add 
a cup and a half of English walnuts or hickory nuts, chopped to a 
powder; sweeten to taste and flavor lightly with vanilla. This is ex- 
tremely nice, and, moreover, a novelty. 

MARBLE CAKE. — This is made in separate batters, light and dark, 
then mixed together in the cake tin so as to present a marbled appear- 
ance. Put into a cup two heaping tablespoonfuls grated chocolate and 
a heaping teaspoonful butter. Set over the tea kettle or in hot water to 
melt. Beat to a cream one cup sugar and half cup butter. Add gradu- 
ally, beating all the time, a half cup of milk. Next, add the whites of 
six eggs beaten stiff; a teaspoonful vanilla and a cupful and a half pastry 
flour that has be»n thrice sifted with a teaspoonful and a half baking 
powder. Take out one-third of this mixture and put in a separate dish. 
Add the melted butter and chocolate and a half teaspoonful cinnamon. 
Fill your cake tin with about two inches of white batter, then drop in 
three or four places, a spoonful at a time, chocolate, stirring round so 
it wjll look like marble marking. Repeat this until the batter is used, 
then bake in a moderate oven about three-quarters of an hour. 

MAPLE CREAM FILLING.— Put into a saucepan a cup of 
grated maple sugar and half a cup milk. Cook until thick. Add a 
tablespoonful of butter, then cool and beat. At first it may look as if it 
was going to curdle, but it will grow smooth in the beating. Do not 
let it boil long enough to candy, but only until it forms a soft, thick 
mass when a spoonful is dropped in cold water. 

MOCHA FILLING. — Cook together one cup of cream, two-thirds 
of a cup of su^ar and a heaping tablespoonful of butter. As soon as it 
threads remove from the fire. Add a quarter of a cup of strong coffee 
and cool before spreading. 

HICKORY NUT COOKIES.— Beat to a cream one cup of butter 
and two of sugar. Add two well beaten eggs, two cupfuls of chopped 
hickory nut meats and flour to make a stiff dough. Turn on to a floured 
board and roll out into a very thin sheet. Cut into round cookies and 
bake in a moderately hot oven. When a delicate brown take out, brush 



140 PASTRY 

each with a little white of egg and sprinkle with granulated sugar while 
still hot. 

HICKORY NUT MACAROONS.— Beat one egg until light, add one 
cupful of sugar, beat well together, then add two tablespoonfuls of flour 
and one cup meats, chopped fine. Grease tins, dust with flour; drop the 
macaroons by teaspoonfuls on them and bake about twenty minutes in 
a moderate oven. 

SEED CAKES. — A simple rule for plain but excellent seed cakes 
calls for one cup of butter and two cups of sugar beaten to a cream, two 
cupfuls of flour and one teaspoonful of baking powder, sifted together 
three times, a pinch of salt, two tablespoonfuls of caraway seeds and 
three tablespoonfuls of sweet milk. More flour may be added if not 
quite stiff enough to roll. Turn out on a floured board and roll with a 
floured rolling pin until nearly as thin as a wafer. Cut into round or 
oblong cakes and bake in a rather quick oven. Some housekeepers 
prefer to add a couple of eggs to this recipe, which makes the cookies 
a little harder. 

WIND BEUTEL OR WINDBAGS.— For these puffs use half a 
pound of butter, half a pound of fine flour, a cup of water and eight 
fresh eggs. Clarify the butter, pouring off the salt, then heat with the 
water until it comes to the boiling point. Gradually stir in the sifted 
flour until the dough cleaves to the sides of the pan. Take from the 
stove and cool slightly before adding a few gratings of nutmeg, a little 
grated lemon peel and the eggs. Beat the eggs through and through the 
batter with a steady motion. Turn the mixture in a well buttered plate 
and divide into cakes the size of walnuts. Set in a quick oven and bake 
a golden brown. When done dust with powdered sugar and serve 
immediately. 

CONFECTIONER'S SUGAR ICING.— Put into a bowl the white 
of one egg and a half egg shell of water. Begin stirring in the soft 
confectioner's sugar with any flavoring desired and when of the desired 
consistency for spreading put on the cake. Melted chocolate may be 
added to this. 

BOILED ICING. — Boil one cup sugar with five tablespoonfuls water 
until it threads. While boiling whip the white of a perfectly fresh egg 
to a stiff froth and when the syrup threads beat rapidly and evenly into 
the whipped whites. Stir until rather thick and spread over the cake 
as quickly as possible. It may be flavored with grated orange or lemon 
peel or any extract desired. A half cup of chopped almonds or two 
tablespoonfuls powdered chocolate may be added to this frosting for 
some cakes. 

BRIDE'S CAKE ICING.— Beat the whites of three eggs to a stiff 
froth, then add gradually one pound confectioner's sugar, beating all the 
time. Beat until the mixture will not run when spread and then add 



PASTRY 141 

flavoring and a few drops of ultramarine or indigo blue. Mix carefully 
so it will not streak. This blue is harmless and not only makes the 
bride's cake a snowy white but keeps it from taking on that yellowish 
tinge that frosting is apt to, get in time. 

CHESTNUT PATTIES.— After boiling and mashing one pint of 
chestnuts, add a half cup of cream or two rounded tablespoonfuls of 
creamed butter, a cup and a half of milk, two well beaten eggs, quarter 
of a cup of sugar and salt to season. Beat well, turn into little patty 
tins filled with rich paste, and bake quickly. 

CHOCOLATE ICING.— Grate a square and a half of unsweetened 
chocolate and add to it five tablespoonfuls of sugar and three of water. 
Stir over the fire until smooth and glossy, beat and spread over the cake. 
This makes a rich, black icing with a strong chocolate flavor and not 
very sweet. 

SOUR MILK DOUGHNUTS.— Sift into a bowl four cupfuls flour, 
a teaspoonful and a half soda and the same amount cream of tartar, 
add a half teaspoonful each cinnamon and nutmeg. Rub in lightly with 
the tips of the fingers a half tablespoonful butter, then add a cup sugar, 
a cup of sour milk and two well beaten eggs. Stir into a soft dough, 
turn out on a well floured board, pat and roll into a sheet about one- 
quarter of an inch in thickness. Cut in any shape desired, then fry in 
deep fat. It is necessary to remember that doughnuts require Jonger 
cooking than fish balls or croquettes, and therefore they must not be 
allowed to brown too quickly. 

FROSTING WITHOUT EGGS.— Cook in an agate saucepan one 
cupful sugar and a quarter cup milk. As soon as a little dropped in cold 
water makes a soft ball when rolled between the fingers, take from the 
fire, flavor and beat until it thickens, then spread. For a chocolate 
filling use brown sugar instead of white. 

COCOA FROSTING.— Add to one cup powdered sugar three table- 
spoonfuls sweet cream and mix well. Add a tablespoonful cocoa and a 
half teaspoonful vanilla extract, then spread. This frosting will not 
crack when cut. 

CRULLERS. — Beat to a cream one tablespoonful butter and one cup 
sugar. Add one whole egg and the yolk of another, beaten light, one 
cup rich sweet milk, one teaspoonful salt and three cups pastry flour 
sifted with two teaspoonfuls baking powder. Flavor with cinnamon or 
nutmeg, as desired. Cut in rings and fry in deep, hot fat, taking care 
not to put too many cakes in the kettle at one time. If too many are 
added it cools off the fat too rapidly and the articles soak grease. In 
lifting out, if you do not use the frying basket, take a long handled fork, 
putting the tines through the hole of the cruller so as not to pierce 
the cake itself. Drop for an instant in boiling water on the stove, 
shape thoroughly, and drain on a piece of butcher's paper. When almost 
dry roll in powdered sugar. 




BAKING POWDER BREAD (Quick Process).— Sift together, five 
times over, four quarts flour, six rounded teaspoonfuls baking powder 
and four level teaspoonfuls salt. Have the oven quite hot. Add to the 
sifted flour enough milk and water in nearly equal proportions to make 
a moist, not wet, dough, stiflf enough to handle; then divide into four 
portions, mould lightly into shape and put into brick shaped pans. 
Brush the tops over with milk and bake an hour. 

VIRGINIA BATTER BREAD^Scald one cupful cornmeal. When 
cool beat into it one cup sour milk with one tablespoonful melted butter, 
one tablespoonful flour and a teaspoonful salt. Beat well, then add 
another cup of sour milk and again beat vigorously. Dissolve one-half 
teaspoonful soda in one-half cup sour milk, stir into the mixture and beat 
all together. Put into a well buttered pudding dish and bake half an 
hour in a quick oven. Test with a splint. If it comes out without any 
of the batter adhering the bread is done. 

NEBRASKA CORN BREAD.— Put two rounding tablespoonfuls of 
lard into a frying pan and melt it. Make a batter with two cupfuls of 
corn meal, two beaten eggs and one level teaspoonful of soda dissolved 
in two cupfuls of sour milk. Pour one-half of the melted lard into the 
batter, beat and pour the batter into the frying pan. Set the pan on top 
of the stove where it will cook slowly, covering with a tin. When the 
top seems firm turn the pan over on a tin plate and lay the loaf back 
with the top down in the pan. In a few minutes this side will be 
browned a little. 

HEALTH FOOD BREAD (No. 2).— Mix together three cups 
graham flour, two cups entire wheat flour, one-half teaspoonful salt and 
two teaspoonfuls baking powder. Add a tablespoonful and a half 
molasses stirred in a pint of cold water. Beat well, then turn in two but- 
tered tins. Bake an hour in a steady oven, covering the first twenty 
minutes with oiled paper. 

BROWN BREAD WITH PUMPKIN JUICE.— This is another 
delicious autumnal bread indigenous to New England. To make it 
properly one should have the fresh sweet yellow corn meal and rye meal, 

142 



BREAD 143 

not rye flour, which is a very different product. To make a large loaf 
of this genuine Boston brown bread, sift together a cup and a half of 
yellow meal, the same amount of rye meal and a half teaspoonful of salt. 
Add quarter of a cup of molasses, one cup pumpkin juice, one cup of milk 
and a half teaspoonful of soda dissolved in two ,tablespoonfuls of milk. 
Beat the batter thoroughly, turn into a two-quart brown bread tin and 
steam for five hours. When this is intended for Sunday mornings with 
baked beans it should be made on Saturday, then resteamed in the morn- 
ing. This makes excellent toast. 

ALMOND COFFEE BREAD.— To one quart sifted wheat ilour add 
a tablespoonful sugar and a teaspoonful salt and sift again. Heat a cup 
and a half milk or part milk and part water to the boiling point; add a 
tablespoonful butter and take at once from the fire. Cool to lukewarm, 
dissolving the butter meantime by stirring, then add to the flour mix- 
ture. Dissolve half a compressed yeast cake in a little water and add; 
beat all very hard and place where it will keep warm and rise over night. 
In the morning blend a beaten egg with the dough and roll the mix- 
ture into pieces the size of a finger and the length of the width of the 
buttered biscuit tin. Place the rolls close together. Let the dough rise to 
almost double its original thickness, then spread the top thickly with 
butter; sprinkle with granulated sugar, and on the sugar put a thick layer 
of blanched and chopped almonds. Bake in a moderate oven about half 
an hour. A few raisins and currants or chopped nuts may be added to 
the bread dough when the egg is put in, if desired. When this bread 
is baked and eaten warm it readily breaks apart, which is better than 
having to cut it. 

To make the German "raisin" or "coffee" bread that goes so well 
with coffee on a cold morning, add to one cupful of scalded milk one- 
third cupful of shortening, one cupful of sugar and a half teaspoonful 
of salt. When lukewarm beat in one yeast cake dissolved in one-quarter 
cup of lukewarm milk and flour to make a stiff batter. Beat thor- 
oughly, cover and place where it will keep warm to rise over night. In 
the morning blend a beaten egg with the dough, add a half cupful of 
seeded raisins and roll the mixture on a floured board to three-quarters 
of an inch in thickness. Put into a buttered dripping pan. Cover and 
let it rise until it doubles in bulk. Brush with melted butter, sprinkle 
with powdered sugar and cinnamon, and bake in a moderate oven half 
an hour. This bread may be baked in a ring by putting the dough into 
a deep pie plate having in its centre a muffin ring or piece of stiff brown 
paper 'pinned together to make a circle. 

BOSTON BROWN BREAD. — Sift together one pint each rye and 
corn meal. Add a pint of sour milk in which a teaspoonful of soda has 
been beaten, a cup of molasses and a teaspoonful of salt. Stir until 
well mixed, pour in a greased mould with a tight cover and steam three 
hours, never allowing the water to stop boiling. When small loaves are 
desired, baking powder cans are excellent for the purpose. 



144 BREAD 

SCOTCH SHORTBREAD.— While this is in order all the year round, 
it is particularly welcome in the Lenten season, when cakes and various 
breads are in unusual demand. A real Scotch recipe for its making is 
this: — Put two pounds butter in a basin, warm and beat to a cream with 
a wooden spoon. Add slowly a pound and a quarter of fine granulated 
or sifted crushed loaf sugar, stirring well to obtain a white appearance. 
Add a little grated yellow rind of lemon and a small quantity of milk 
with flour to make a short paste, taking pains not to have it too stiff. 
Divide into pieces, roll out about a quarter of an inch in thickness, form- 
ing them square or oval as desired. They should be about the size of a 
br,eakfast plate. Pinch the edges all around with the fingers, dock the 
surface with a biscuit docker, sprinkle a few caraway comfits on top and 
bake in a moderate oven. Some cooks dredge them with sugar before 
baking; in about twenty minutes dredge again, then bake ten minutes 
longer. 

RYE BREAD. — Scald one cup milk, then add to it one cup hot 
water. Cool to lukewarm, add a half cake compressed yeast dissolved 
in two tablespoonfuls tepid water. Add a half teaspoonful salt and stir 
in enough rye flour to make a batter. Beat until you can beat no longer, 
then cover and stand out of a draft for three hours. Add enough more 
rye flour to make a dough stiff enough to knead, and knead thoroughly. 
Shape into loaves and put in well greased pans. Stand in a warm place 
for an hour or longer until very light, brush over with milk and bake 
in a moderate oven for an hour. 

SOUR MILK BROWN BREAD.— Mix together one cup granulated 
corn meal, one cup rye meal and one cup wheat meal. Sift with a tea- 
spoonful salt and a teaspoonful soda, add three-fourths cup molasses and 
two cups sour milk and when well mixed turn into a buttered mould 
and steam, closely covered, for three hours. Sweet milk may be used 
instead of the sour. In this case use a little less soda. 

WHITE BREAD WITH POTATO SPONGE.— Boil and mash 
two medium sized potatoes. Add one cup tepid water, one compressed 
yeast cake dissolved in a little tepid water, and flour to make a stiff bat- 
ter. Cover and set in a warm place to rise until very light. Add one 
quart warm, not hot, water, two tablespoonfuls salt, a teaspoonful sugar, 
one tablespoonful lard and work in flour until stiff enough to knead. It 
will take about three quarts. Knead thoroughly, cover, and let rise 
until light. Then divide into loaves, let rise again, brush over with milk 
or a little lard, and bake. 

NUT BREAD. — Scald one-Jialf cup milk, add one-half cup boiling 
water, then cool to lukewarm. Add three-fourths cake compressed yeast, 
softened in three tablespoonfuls lukewarm water, one-half tablespoonful 
each lard and butter, two tablespoonfuls molasses, one cup chopped 
nut meats (preferably English walnuts or pecans), one-half cup white 



BREAD 145 

flour, three cups entire wheat flour and more if needed. Knead and bake 
as ordinary bread. 

STEAMED CORNBREAD.— Sift into a bread bowl three cupfuls 
Indian meal, one cupful wheat flour and a half tcLspoonful of salt. Mix 
in another bowl one cupful sour milk and one of molasses and beat into 
it a teaspoonful of soda dissolved in a tablespoonful cold water. Add 
to the sifted flour, pour into a well greased mould and steam steadily 
for three hours. At the end of this period bake a few moments to brown 
the top of the loaf. 

HEALTH BREAD (Quick Process).— Add to a pint thin oatmea. 
porridge one pint warm milk, with two compressed yeast cakes dissolved 
in a cup of the warm milk. Add two rounded teaspoonfuls sugar, six 
level teaspoonfuls shortening and one rounded teaspoonful salt. Add 
entire wheat flour, stirring with the back of a knife until you can't stir 
any longer. Cover lightly and set to rise. When twice its bulk divide 
in loaves, again let rise, then bake. 

SALT RISING BREAD.— Scald one cupful sweet milk, add half a 
teaspoonful salt and two tablespoonfuls corn meal; mix thoroughly and 
put in a warm place to sour. A good plan is to put the batter in a 
pitcher, cover this and set in a pan of warm water, keeping it at the same 
temperature for five or six hours. It must be kept much warmer than 
yeast bread. Scald one quart milk or part milk and part water. Let 
stand until lukewarm, add a teaspoonful salt and stir in enough flour to 
make a drop batter. Beat thoroughly, add the salt rising and continue 
the beating for eight minutes longer. Cover again and stand in a warm 
place for about two hours. Add a tablespoonful lard and enough flour 
to make a dough. Knead thoroughly until smooth and elastic. Divide 
into loaves, mould, place each in a greased pah, cover with a light cloth, 
let rise until light and then bake about an hour in a steady oven. 

GLUTEN BREAD. — Dissolve half a compressed yeast cake in four 
tablespoonfuls lukewarm water. Then add a teaspoonful salt, two tea- 
spoonfuls softened butter and enough gluten flour to make a stiff batter. 
When well mixed, beat in the whites of two eggs and let rise until light. 
When light add enough more gluten flour to knead the loaves, taking 
pains to put in no more than necessary. It should be as soft as is 
possible to handle. Put in greased pans, let rise until light, then bake in 
a moderate oven about forty-five minutes. 

ENTIRE OR WHOLE WHEAT BREAD.— Scald a cupful of 
milk; take from the fire and add a heaping teaspoonful salt, a level tea- 
spoonful sugar and a tablespoonful shortening. Add a cupful cold water 
to the scalded milk and when the mixture is lukewarm add one-half yeast 
cake that has been dissolved in one-half cup lukewarm water.. Beat in 
enough whole wheat flour to make a rather thin batter, beat well, cover 



146 BREAD 

and set aside until light. Then stir in as much more whole wheat flour 
as you can beat in with a spoon. It must be stiff. Beat well, turn into 
greased tins, let rise until light, then bake an hour in a moderate oven. 

PLAIN WHITE BREAD (To Be Baked in One Day).— Dissolve 

two compressed yeast cakes in a little lukewarm water or milk. Add 
to a scant quart milk, or water, with a tablespoonful sugar and two of 
shortening and> a teaspoonful of salt. Add flour to make a stiff batter, 
as stiff as you can beat, remembering that the longer the preliminary 
beating the less kneading will be required. Now add more flonir, turn 
out on a floured board and knead fifteen or twenty minutes. Let it rise 
two or three hours until double its bulk, then make into loaves, handling 
as little as possible. Let rise to double its bulk again, then bake. The 
oven should be hot to start with, then cooled gradually. 

^ HOME MADE YEAST.— Peel, boil and mash three large potatoes. 
Pour two quarts boiling water over an ounce and a half hops (handful), 
simmer half an hour, strain and pour over three tablespoonfuls flour, 
a tablespoonful salt, a half cup sugar, and a teaspoonful ginger. Mix 
well, add the potatoes, mashed through a sieve, cool to lukewarm, then 
add one cupful good yeast. Mix well and leave in a warm place twenty- 
four hours until light and bubbly on the surface. Put into cans and seal. 

SOUR MILK CORNCAKEv— Sift together one cupful of flour, a 
half cupful of Indian meal, two tablespoonfuls sugar and a half teaspoon- 
ful each salt and soda. Pour in one cupful sour milk and a teaspoonful 
lard or butter melted, and beat well. Fold in a beaten egg and bake in 
hot gem tins or a round shallow pan. 

BOSTON BROWN BREAD (New Style).— There is even a new 
wrinkle in making Boston brown bread, and that is cake crumbs in place 
of wheat flour. The regular rule calls for one small cup corn meal, the 
same amount of graham flour, ditto cake crumbs or wheat flour, the 
former much the better. Mix these dry ingredients together. Put into 
a bowl one cup sour milk, two-thirds of a cup of molasses, a pinch of 
salt and a teaspoonful of soda. Stir until the soda stops "purring," then 
stir into the dry ingredients. A cup of cut raisins may be added or not 
as desired. Many think them an improvement. Pour into buttered moulds 
and steam three hours, starting with cold water. If a larger quantity of 
bread is required, a teacupful of entire wheat flour is added. 

CINNAMON BUNS.— Scald one cup milk; while hot add two table- 
spoonfuls sugar and two rounded tablespoonfuls butter. Cool to luke- 
warm, then add half a compressed yeast cake dissolved in two table- 
spoonfuls warm water and three eggs well beaten without separating. 
Now add enough flour to make a dough (about two cupfuls). It should 
be soft and elastic. Knead well, then put into a small pan, cover and 
stand where it wil keep warm until it has doubled in bulk. It will take 



BREAD 147 

about four hours. Turn lightly on the moulding board, roll into a sheet, 
spread the sheet with butter, then cover thickly with sugar, using nearly 
a cupful. Dust lightly with cinnamon, sprinkle with currants and roll 
up into a long roll. Cut into biscuits about an inch and a half long and 
stand up endwise in small round buttered pans. Cover lightly and let 
rise for an hour and a half, then bake in a moderate, steady oven for 
an hour. 

ENGLISH CRUMPETS.— Scald one cupful milk, add a teaspoonful 
butter, one of sugar and a half teaspoonful salt. Cool to lukewarm, add 
one-half cake compressed yeast, dissolved in warm water, and flour to 
make a rather thick batter that can be poured. Beat hard eight minutes, 
and set in a warm place to rise for an hour, or until light and spongy. 
Have ready a heated griddle, well greased, and a number of large muffin 
rings also thoroughly greased. Lay these on the griddle and pour into 
each sufficient batter to fill half an inch deep. Push back where they 
will rise slowly. By the time the under side is a pale brown the upper 
one will be full of bubbles and slightly dried. Turn and cook long 
enough to be done but not brown. When all are baked, tear each partly 
open, butter plentifully, and toast or place in the oven until very hot. 

SOUR CREAM BISCUIT.— While the acidity of milk varies, requir- 
ing judgment on the part of the cook, a safe general rule to follow is a 
level teaspoonful soda to one pint sour milk that has stood two or three 
days and a scant teaspoonful soda to a pint of sour milk that has just 
turned to a jellylike consistency. The mistake that many cooks make 
is to add too much soda. Just enough is required to counteract the 
acidity of the milk. Sour milk that has stood long enough to acquire a 
bitter or mouldy taste is unfit for use and must be thrown away. 

For the biscuit sift together two cupfuls flour, one-half teaspoonful 
salt, a level teaspoonful sugar and a rounding teaspoonful baking powder. 
Put into a bowl a half cup each sour cream and milk, then beat into it 
a half teaspoonful soda dissolved in a tablespoonful cold water. When 
it stops "singing" stir in with the sifted flour, mix gently but quickly 
with a spoon and turn out on a well floured board. Pat with the floured 
hand until a smooth cake is formed, then cut into shape with a small 
biscuit cutter or tea caddy lid. Lay in a greased biscuit pan and bake 
in a hot oven. If you have no cream, rub a spoonful lard or butter in 
the prepared flour before adding a cupful sour milk with the soda. Keep 
the dough as soft as possible so that the biscuit will be tender. Butter- 
milk biscuit are made in the same way, using a tablespoonful shortening 
to a quart of flour. 

BUTTER CAKES. — Dissolve in one pint warm water a tablespoon- 
ful butter and a teaspoonful salt. Add one-half cake compressed yeast 
dissolved in a little warm water and one pint flour. Cover and set in a 
warm place until light. Then add one cupful warm water, and flour to 
make a soft dough. Knead thoroughly for five minutes, cover with a 



148 BREAD 

clcth and set aside again until the dough is light. Turn out on a well 
floured board, roll into a sheet three-quarters of an inch in thickness and 
stamp out with a round cutter. Cover with a floured cloth and leave on 
the board about fifteen minutes, until the cakes begin to rise, then bake 
on a well greased griddle. As soon as set on one side turn over, and do 
this two or three times, that they may be flat and evenly colored. 

BANNOCKS. — Sift together one pint of corn meal, one tablespoonful 
of sugar and one teaspoonful of salt. Pour over the mixture sufficient 
milk or milk and water to moisten. Let it stand until cool, add three 
well beaten eggs, spread half an inch thick on well greased pans and 
bake in a hot oven. Cut into squares, split and serve hot and well but- 
tered. 

CORN DODGERS.— These cakes, made from the earliest times by 
the Indians and negroes, and baked in leaves or on a hoe in the hot ashes, 
may be successfully imitated by the modern cook in her up-to-date oven. 
Scald one pint Southern corn meal sifted with one cupful of flour and a 
teaspoonful of salt with two cupfuls of boiling water or milk in which 
a rounded tablespoonful of shortening has been melted. This should 
result in a moist but sufficiently firm batter that will keep its place when 
dropped from a spoon into a well greased baking pan. Two table- 
spoonfuls will be enough for each dodger, about three-fourths of an, inch 
in thickness. The cakes may be even smaller if preferred. To give 
them the old fashioned Southern finish leave the full length imprint of 
the finger across the top of each cake. Bake in a moderately hot oven 
half an hour and eat hot with butter for breakfast or luncheon. If 
preferred, the dodgers may be baked on a well greased griddle. Cook 
slowly and when well browned on one side turn to the other. 

HOT CROSS BUNS.— For two dozen buns scald one cup of milk, 
add to it a tablespoonful of butter, quarter of a cup of sugar and a salt- 
spoonful of salt. When cooled to lukewarm add half a compressed yeast 
cake softened in a little lukewarm water and a pint of flour. This should 
be mixed early in the evening. Beat well and let the batter rise until 
foaming and about double its bulk. Then add a half cup of sugar, a 
quarter teaspoonful of mixed cinnamon, nutmeg and mace, a half cup of 
currants thoroughly picked over, washed and dried, a tablespoonful of 
finely shredded candied lemon peel and enough flour to make a dough 
that can be kneaded. Knead well, cover and set in a warm place to raise 
over night. In the morning turn out on a well floured board and divide 
into pieces weighing about three ounces each. Pat them out round, let 
stand a few moments, then roll into oblong shapes and lay in a greased 
dripping pan far enough apart to give them room to expand. Let them 
rise again from half to three-quarters of an hour, dip a knife in boiling 
water and cut a cross in the centre of each, taking pains not to cut deep 
enough to make the dough settle. Bake about half an hour in a moderate 
oven. As soon as they are done, rub over with a syrup made by dissolv- 



BREAD 149 

ing a tablespoonful of sugar in two of water and return to the oven a 
moment to dry and glaze. Eat hot and well buttered. Chopped almonds 
or other nuts, raisins seeded and chopped or chopped prunes or dates 
may be substituted for currants if desired and an egg may be added just 
before the first kneading. 

BROOKLYN HOT CROSS BUNS.— Much easier and quicker is 
this Brooklyn recipe. One Brooklyn woman bakes 200 annually for her 
own family, which consists of husband and two stalwart boys. For an 
ordinary measure sift together one quart of pastry flour, two dessert- 
spoonfuls of baking powder and a pinch of salt. Rub into the flour a 
piece of butter the size of an egg. Mix together a pint of milk and water, 
equal quantities, and one cup of sugar; stir into the flour, add two eggs 
and mix soft. Cut out into small biscuit, make the cross on top of each 
and bake in a very hot oven. Sift powdered sugar over them. Raisins 
and currants may be added according to individual preference. 

BAKING POWDER BISCUIT.— Sift together, three times over, 
one quart flour, two rounded teaspoonfuls baking powder and a teaspoon- 
ful salt. Rub in quickly and thoroughly with the tips of the fingers one 
rounding tablespoonful lard or lard and butter mixed. Add slowly a 
cup and a half milk or milk and water. Mix lightly with little handling, 
turn out on the moulding board, roll into a sheet half an inch in thick- 
ness, stamp out with a small round cutter and lay on a greased baking 
pan far enough apart so they will not touch. Brush the top of each 
biscuit with milk and bake in a very hot oven for about twenty minutes. 

MOONSHINER'S CORNCAKE.— Make a thick batter with yellow 
corn meal and warm water, salt to taste, cover and let it stand in a warm 
place out of the way of draughts until it rises. Have muffin pans very 
hot, put them on the stove, drop a teaspoonful of butter in the bottom 
of each, and when it bubbles fill the pans half full of batter. Bake in a 
moderate oven. They should rise to the top of the tins. 

CORN MUFFINS. — Sift together a pint and a half of flour, one cup- 
ful of corn meal, three teaspoonfuls of baking powder, one teaspoonful of 
salt and one tablespoonful of sugar. Add two tablespoonfuls of butter 
or lard, heated to soften (the lard makes more tender gems), one pint 
of milk and two beaten eggs. Have muffin tins hot and well greased, and 
fill with the batter. Bake in a hot oven. 

BEATEN BISCUIT. — Sift together two quarts flour, one teaspoonful 
salt and one level teaspoonful baking powder. Now, with the tips of the 
fingers, work into the sifted flour a quarter cup butter or lard until the 
flour feels like corn meal. Then add from a cup and a half to two cups 
ice cold water or milk and mix to a dough. Roll through a biscuit 
machine for half an hour or beat 100 strokes on a wooden block with a 



150 BREAD 

heavy pestle. Cut into small rounds and bake about thirty minutes in a 
moderate oven. 

CORN PONE. — Sift together one quart sweet meal, one teaspoonful 
salt, two tablespoonfuls sugar. Add one pint scalding hot milk and beat 
well. Sift together one heaping pint flour and two teaspoonfuls baking 
powder and stir into the batter, together with the beaten yolks of two 
eggs. Beat hard. Fold in the stiffly beaten whites of the eggs, turn into 
a long, shallow tin pan and bake in a hot oven. This is a famous 
Kentucky recipe. The Virginia rule calls for one quart buttermilk, two 
teaspoonfuls soda, one quart corn meal and one pint 61 flour. Bake for 
three hours in a stone crock. 

CHEAP HOE CAKE.— Moisten one quart of Indian meal, which 
has had a teaspoonful of salt sifted with it, to a dough, with boiling 
water or milk. Let it stand three or four hours, until it shows air 
bubbles on the surface, then make into thick cakes and bake on greased 
tins in the oven, or cut in slices and fry in pork fat on a griddle. Break 
in pieces instead of cutting, and eat while hot. 

BLACKBERRY MUFFINS.— Sift together a pint flour, two tea- 
spoonfuls baking powder and a half teaspoonful salt. Rub in a half cup- 
ful butter or lard and butter mixed, then add one cupful milk mixed with 
a tablespoonful sugar and a beaten egg. When well mixed add one 
Cupful berries and bake in well-greased muffin tins in a hot oven. 

PARKER HOUSE ROLLS.— Beat together at night one quart 
flour, two tablespoonfuls sugar, two tablespoonfuls butter rubbed into 
the flour, a compressed yeast cake and one pint warm milk. Beat vigor- 
ously, then cover. In the morning add flour to mould, without sticking, 
and let rise again. When light, work into a round ball, then cut into 
long strips about as large around as a rolling pin. These are then cut 
into biscuits, greased over with a bit of melted butter, patted down, then 
folded over so that the greased surface comes to the outside with the 
edges almost together. As they rise they open a little. After rising 
about an hour bake fifteen or twenty minutes in a hot oven. 

VELVET MUFFINS.— Cream together two tablespoonfuls each but- 
ter and sugar. Add the beaten yolks of two eggs mixed with one cup 
sweet milk. Next add one quart wheat flour sifted three times over with 
two teaspoonfuls baking powder and a half teaspoonful salt, and beat 
until the latter blisters. This point should not be overlooked. Now fold 
in the stifily whipped whites of the eggs, pour into hot and well 
greased gem irons and bake in a hot oven. 

BREAD MUFFINS.— Soak one pint broken bread in a pint of milk 
for half an hour. Add a tablespoonful melted butter, the yolks of two 
eggs, beaten light, a teaspoonful salt and a cup and a half flour sifted 



BREAD 151 

with a tablespoonful baking powder. Lastly fold in the whites of the 
eggs, well beaten, and bake in small rings or pans in a hot oven. 

RAISED WHEAT MUFFINS.— Heat a pint milk to the boiling 
point, then cool. When lukewarm dissolve half a compressed yeast cake 
in some of the milk, add a liberal tablespoonful melted butter, the rest 
of the milk and two well beaten eggs. Scald out the bread bowl so as 
to have it warm, then sift into it a quart of flour and a teaspoonful salt. 
Pour in the warm milk with the eggs and butter and beat the whole 
until the batter "blisters." Cover closely and set in a warm place. Do 
this about nine o'clock at night. In the early morning butter twelve 
deep muffin pans, fill half full and set covered where they may rise until 
about a quarter inch from the tops of the pans. Have the oven hot and 
bake about half an hour. 

VIENNA ROLLS. — Sift two or three times over one quart flour, a 
half teaspoonful salt and two teaspoonfuls baking powder. Work in a 
a tablespoonful butter and a pint of milk to make a dough. Roll out 
about an inch in thickness, cut into jound forms, brush over with butter, 
then fold over once. Have the baking pans well greased and do not let 
the rolls touch each other. Brush over the tops of the rolls with a little 
butter or milk and bake in a hot oven. 

TOASTED MUFFINS,— The English housewife usually serves 
toasted muffins with sole for breakfast. To make them English fashioru 
sift together one quart of flour, two tablespoonfuls baking powder, a tea- 
spoonful salt and a half teaspoonful sugar. Mix in gradually two and 
a half cups milk and beat into a stiff batter. Grease muffin rings and 
set on a hot and well greased griddle. Pour in the batter, filling about 
half full. When cooked on one side turn to the other. When a delicate 
brown on both sides, pull apart in the centre and toast lightly. Serve 
very hot. 

LAPLAND MUFFINS.— Beat the yolks of four eggs until lemon 
colored and thick, then add to them gradually a pint rich milk. Have 
ready a pint pastry flour sifted with a half teaspoonful salt, and turn the 
milk and yolks of eggs into this, beating with a patent beater until it 
becomes a perfectly smooth batter vi^ithout lumps. Take out the beater 
and fold in the stiffly whipped whites of the eggs. Have ready a half 
dozen stoneware cups, well greased, turn in the batter and bake in a 
moderate oven. 

CRACKED WHEAT MUFFINS.— Soak two cupfuls cracked wheat 
in two cupfuls sweet milk over night. In the morning add a teaspoonful 
salt, a rounded teaspoonful baking powder, two tablespoonfuls molasses 
and the well beaten yolks of two eggs. Beat vigorously several moments, 
fold in the stifily whipped whites of the eggs and turn at onie into hot, 
well buttered pans. Bake in a hot oven. 



152 BREAD 

HOMINY MUFFINS.— Take a cup of warm boiled hominy cooked 
to the proper consistency for a breakfast mush and mix with it a table- 
spoonful of butter, a half teaspoonful salt and a cup of milk. Sift to- 
gether a cup and a half of pastry flour and a teaspoonful and a half of 
baking powder, and add gradually to the hominy mixture. If the boiled 
hominy is rather thin a little more flour may be needed to make the 
proper consistency. Lastly add two well beaten eggs and bake in a hot 
oven for half an hour. 

RICE MUFFINS.— Dilute two cupfuls cold boiled rice with a cup 
warm milk, stirring until free from lumps. Add a tablespoonful melted 
butter and the well beaten yolks of three eggs. Sift together one pint 
flour, a tablespoonful sugar, a teaspoonful and a half baking powder, 
and a half teaspoonful salt. Add to the rice and milk and beat to a 
smooth, firm batter. Have the muffin pans hissing hot, fold the stiffly 
whipped whites of the eggs into the batter, turn at once into the hot 
pans and bake in a hot oven for about fifteen minutes. 

FRENCH FRITTER BATTER.— Beat thoroughly the yolks of two 
eggs, add to them a half cup cold water and one cup flour which has been 
sifted with a half teaspoonful salt. Beat in a tablespoonful olive oil, 
and if the batter seems too thick add more cold water. Fold in the 
stiffly whipped whites of the eggs and stand on the ice for an hour before 
frying by the spoonful in deep hot fat. 

POPOVERS.— Beat well together one cup flour into which a little 
salt has been sifted, one cup milk and one well beaten egg. Beat very 
light and bake in heated gem irons or cups. Popovers depend for their 
lightness on the heat of the oven and must be baked quickly with the 
greatest heat underneath to drive them up. If the batter is too thick 
or they have not been sufficiently mixed, they will be sodden. 

GRAHAM MUFFINS.— Sift together, two or three times over, one 
cupful graham flour, one-half cupful white flour, two teaspoonfuls baking 
powder, a saltspoonful salt and two tablespoonfuls sugar. Add one well 
beaten egg mixed with a cupful of cream or rich milk, beat well, turn 
into hot irons and bake in a quick oven. 

SWEDISH ROLLS. — Dissolve one cake compressed yeast in a half 
cup warm water. Mix with a pint of milk that has been scalded and 
cooled, add a level teaspoonful salt and flour to make a drop batter. Rub 
half cup butter with a quarter cup sug^ar until creamy, then add the 
beaten whites of two eggs. When well blended, stir into the risen bat- 
ter, with enough more flour to make a stiff dough. Knead until smooth 
and light and set in a warm place until doubled in bulk. Turn out on 
a well floured board, knead slightly and roll into a rectangular piece, 
about one-third of an inch thick. Spread with "a layer of soft butter and 
sprinkle with a mixture of sugar, gj^ated lemon peel, cinnamon and cur- 



BREAD 153 

rants. Roll up like a jelly roll, cut off in slices an inch wide and lay the 
cut side down on well greased pans. Let them rise well or until light, 
then bake about fifteen minutes in a hot oven. Then glaze with a little 
sugar dissolved in milk and dry a moment in the oven. 

PUFF FRITTERS.— Mix smoothly with one pint of milk eight 
tablespoonfuls of flour. Put into a well greased pan and scald over the 
fire, stirring all the time. Take from the fire and when cold mix in four- 
teen well beaten eggs. Beat eggs and batter until smooth and light, 
then drop by the tablespoonful in hot fat and fry a light brown. Drain 
on paper and serve. 

ORANGE FRITTERS.— Beat the yolks of four eggs with four table- 
spoonfuls sugar until lemon colored and thick. Stir into this the juice 
of half a lemon and flour to thicken like batter. Add the stiffly beaten 
whites and dip in one slice of orange at a time. Take up with a large 
kitchen spoon and fry a golden brown in butter or drippings. Sprinkle 
pulverized sugar on top if you are going to serve them as a special 
course. Where they are served with broiled ham lessen the amount of 
sugar put into the batter and omit sprinkling the outside. 

SOUR MILK GRIDDLE CAKES.— Stir into a pint of sour milk 
a teaspoonful of soda, a half teaspoonful of salt and flour to make a good 
consistency for baking. Have the griddle hot and well greased, bake 
the cakes in perfect circles and pile one on top of the other. No eggs 
are needed. A nice addition is a handful of huckleberries. 

FLANNEL CAKES. — Into four cups of pastry flour sift an even 
teaspoonful soda and two of cream of tartar. Rub a half cupful of 
butter into the flour, mixing thoroughly, and a teaspoonful each of salt 
arid sugar. Pour in little by little a scant four cupfuls milk, stirring con- 
stantly so as to avoid all lumps. Bake immediately. 

SWEET MILK GRIDDLE CAKES.— Two cupfuls of flour, one 
level tablespoonful baking powder, two level tablespoonfuls of sugar, one- 
half level teaspoonful of salt, one and one-third cupfuls milk, one egg and 
two tablespoonfuls of melted butter. Sift together the dry ingredients, 
add gradually the milk, then the egg well beaten and the melted butter. 
Beat thoroughly. Drop by spoonfuls on a greased hot griddle or frying 
pan. 

BUCKWHEAT PANCAKES.— To four cups best brand buckwheat 
flour add one small cup yellow Indian meal and a tablespoonful salt. 
Mix one cup cold milk with three cups hot water and when the mixture 
is lukewarm beat slowly into the dry ingredients so as to avoid lumping. 
Beat smooth, add one yeast cake dissolved in lukewarm water, then con- 
tinue beating five minutes longer. Put to rise about seven o'clock in the 
evening, preferably in an earthenware bucket with a tin cover and tin 



154 BREAD 

capped spout. In the morning, just before baking, mix an even teaspoon- 
ful soda in a cup warm milk and beat into the batter, which should foam 
in great bubbles. Grease the hot griddle with a bit of fat pork or a swab 
dipped in beef suet and pour on the batter in small round cakes, taking 
pains to make them perfect circles. They should be a rich brown with- 
out the aid of molasses, which gives them a rank taste. Pile in regular 
order and serve smoking hot. 

PANCAKES A LA . CELESTINE.— Sift together into a deep bowl 
one pint flour, a teaspoonful salt and a tablespoonful sugar. Have ready 
a pint cream or a pint of milk with two tablespoonfuls melted butter 
added. Break three eggs into the flour, add two or three tablespoonfuls 
of the milk and beat into a smooth batter. Then add the rest of the 
milk and a little grated lemon peel. The batter should be very thin 
and the cakes baked about the size of a t;a plate. As soon as a delicate 
brown spread with jelly or jam and roll. Dredge a little powdered sugar 
over each roll and serve very hot. 

RAISED WAFFLES.— Scald a cup and three-quarters of milk and 
add to it half a teaspoonful salt and a teaspoonful butter. Put in a quar- 
ter of a compressed yeast cake dissolved in a quarter cup lukewarm 
water. Add a pint of flour, beat the mixture well and let it rise. Just 
before turning into the hot greased waffle irons, stir in two eggs well 
beaten. 

GEORGIA WAFFLES.— Allow to each pint of flour two eggs, one 
and a half cupfuls of milk or milk and cream, butter the size of a walnut, 
sprinkle of salt and a small teaspoonful of baking powder. Mix salt and 
baking powder well into the flour, rub the butter in evenly, then the 
eggs, well beaten, and stir into the milk. Have the waffle irons hot and 
well greased. Pour the batter in and bake immediately. The batter 
should be rather thin, about the consistency of good paste. 

CREAM WAFFLES. — Beat two eggs light and add .o a pint sour 
cream, into which a teaspoonful soda has been .beaten. Put in half a 
teaspoonful salt and flour to make thin batter. Pour in well greased 
waffle irons, which must be piping hot. Shut the iron the moment it is 
filled, turn it, and in a few moments turn again. When the waffles are 
brown on both sides place in layers and serve very hot, cutting through 
the layers to serve. Eat with plenty of butter and honey. 




CHOCOLATE ALMONDS.— Blanch the almond meats by pouring 
boiling water over them and letting them stand a few moments. Turn 
the hot water off and cover with cold, when the skin may easily be 
rubbed off between the thumb and forefinger. Break some sweet choco- 
late into small pieces, put into a dish and set in a larger pan of hot 
water. When the chocolate is melted, put a blanched nut meat on the 
point of a skewer or darning needle, or use a candy dipper, and dip into 
the melted chocolate. Then lay on oiled paper to cool. When the 
chocolate coating becomes set dip a second time. Flavor the melted 
chocolate with vanilla, if desired. 

CHOCOLATE CARAMELS.— Put into a granite saucepan one cup 
of finely broken or grated chocolate, one cup of molasses, the same 
amount each of rich milk and sugar and two heaping tablespoonfuls of 
butter. Stir over a slow fire until thoroughly mixed, then boil slowly 
until it cracks when dropped into ice water. Turn into greased tins 
and mark into squares before the mixture becomes cold. 

MOLASSES KISSES. — Make molasses candy by boiling together 
two cupfuls of molasses, one cupful of white sugar, three-quarters of a 
cupful of water, a rounded tablespoonful of butter and a scant half tea- 
spoonful of cream of tartar. As soon as this begins to boil, cover with 
a tin lid, which keeps in the steam and washes the candy from the sides 
of the pan. When the candy has been cooked long enough so that a 
little dropped in cold water may be rolled into a ball of jelly like con- 
sistency between the fingers, take from the fire and pour on oiled marble 
or a buttered platter. When cool enough to handle get the mass intO' 
good shape, hold over the stove and pull briskly for a few moments.. 
The heat and the stretching will whiten it in short time. When light; 
colored enough . divide in two parts, place on a slightly floured board,, 
stretch it out into long, narrow shapes, about half an inch thick. Have: 
ready some French fondant, knead until soft and creamy and work intO' 
it a dozen almonds chopped rather fine. Place this fondant on top one 
cake of the taffy, then cover with the remainder of the taffy, thus hav- 
ing the fondant between the layers of taffy. Press the layers firmly 

155 



156 CANDIES 

together and cut into strips half an inch wide, then with scissors cut 
into kisses. 

FRENCH CREAM WITHOUT COOKING.— Break into a bowl 
the white of one or more eggs, according to the quantity of candy you 
wish to make. Add an equal quantity of cold water, then stir in con- 
fectioner's sugar until you have it stiff enough to mould into shape 
with the fingers. Flavor to taste, then form into balls, cubes or lozenge 
shapes and lay on waxed paper to dry. They may then be coated with 
chocolate or combined with dates, walnuts, figs, cherries, just the same 
as with the cooked fondant. 

FRENCH FONDANT.— As fondant is the foundation for all the 
fine French candies, a good working knowledge of how to make it is 
essential. Molasses candy can be made on a damp day, fondant never. 
The materials needed are the best granulated sugar for the cream, a 
small quantity confectioner's sugar to be used in kneading, vegetable 
color pastes that can be purchased at any first class confectioner's or 
made at home, a little cream of tartar, and then the fillings, flavorings, 
nuts, etc., that are to be used in connection with a fondant. For flavor- 
ing the ordinary extracts are used, also maraschino and other cordials. 
The formula for fondant is always the same: — ^A pound of granulated 
sugar (that is, two ordinary cupfuls), one cupful hot water, and a half 
teaspoonful cream of tartar. This is the easiest quantity to handle for 
the amateur. After a little experience the quantity can be doubled, as 
fondant can be made and kept on hand. Put the ingredients into a 
granite saucepan with an extra heavy bottom and stir over a slow fire 
until the sugar is dissolved, but not a moment longer. After it has 
become a clear syrup stirring will cause it to granulate. Heat rapidly 
to the boiling point, wiping gently away with a damp cloth any moisture 
that appears on the sides of the pan. If this drops back into the pan 
it is apt to make the syrup granulate also. If any scum arises, remove it 
carefully. After cooking ten minutes begin testing in cold water. If it 
will make a soft ball when rolled between the fingers it is just right and 
must be at once removed from the fire. Set aside in the pan in which 
it has been cooked to cool. Do not try to hasten this by setting in cold 
water. Let it take its time. When cool, not cold, begin stirring ener- 
getically with a wooden paddle. In a few moments it will look cloudy, 
then whiten and grow thick and creamy. When too stiff to stir, take in 
the hands and knead like bread dough. There is no chance of overdoing 
this, for its lightness depends upon the thoroughness of the kneading. 
When quite light and creamy it is ready for use, though it is better to 
put away a day, as confectioners do, to mellow and ripen. Pack in an 
earthen dish and cover airtight with a slightly dampened cloth. This 
will keep for weeks if desired. 

COFFEE CARAMELS. — To one pound of brown sugar allow one 
cup of strong coffee, a half cup of cream and an ounce of butter. As 



CANDIES 157 

soon as cooked sufficiently to be brittle when dropped in cold water, pour 
into buttered pans and mark with a buttered knife into squares before 
the mixture gets quite cold. 

SOFT CARAMELS. — For one pound of brown sugar allow one cup- 
ful of milk, a tablespoonful and a half of butter and half a cake grated 
chocolate. Cook nine minutes, take from the fire and stir steadily five 
minutes, but not until too stiff to pour. Turn into a buttered pan and 
mark in squares. This candy will be crumbly and rich. 

CARAMEL ALMONDS.— Shell, but do not blanch, a pound of 
Jordan almonds. Put a pound of sugar in a granite saucepan with two 
tablespoonfuls water and stir constantly with a wooden spoon until 
melted and slightly brown. Move to one side of the fire and have ready 
two or three well greased pie tins. With the left hand drop in the 
almonds, which should have been dried slightly in the oven without 
browning, and remove quickly with the candy dipper held in the right 
hand. Place on the greased tins to harden. 

COLORING THE FONDANT.— When sufficient fondant has been 
prepared it is ready for the coloring. All colors, extracts and flavors 
must be as concentrated as possible, so as not to thin the fondant too 
much. If you make your own colorings, green is made by cooking 
spinach leaves a few moments in a little water. Strain and bottle. To 
obtain red, boil one ounce powdered cochineal in a cup of water for five 
minutes, then add one ounce cream of tartar and a half ounce powdered 
alum and cook ten minutes longer. While hot add two ounces sugar 
and bottle. For pink use a few drops cochineal or a little cranberry 
juice, or the pink coloring that comes with some gelatines. For blue, 
rub indigo in a little water on a plate. Caramel or chocolate gives a 
dark brown. The grated rind of a dark skinned orange soaked in a small 
quantity of its juice, then strained, gives yellow, as does the yolk of an 
egg. Fruit juices also furnish good colorings for fondant. To color 
or flavor the fondant, simply work in the desired colors with appropriate 
flavors a little at a time until the desired effect is obtained. From this 
time on the work is fascinating and may be varied in any number of 
ways. For fillings or covers there may be utilized dates, figs, nuts of 
all kinds, cocoanut grated and dried, cherries, ginger, pineapple, can- 
died fruits and other ingredients that will suggest themselves as the 
work goes on. 

BURNT CHOCOLATE ALMONDS (GoufFe).— Spread one pound 
of Jordan almonds on a cloth and, rubbing lightly, pick out any that 
are broken. Put into a shallow saucepan one pound sugar, one-half 
pint water and two sticks vanilla. Boil to the "balling" point, pour 
almonds in and stir with a wooden spoon until the sugar is boiled to 
the crack and the almonds begin to crack. Take the pan from the fire 
and stir the almonds until all the sugar is set, then throw into a very 



158 CANDIES 

coarse wire sieve and sift off the loose sugar. Return the almonds to 
the pan and stir over the fire until the sugar adhering begins to melt, 
then throw back in the sieve and cover to keep the almonds warm. Put 
all the sugar sifted from the almonds into a bowl, add a half-pound loaf 
sugar and one gill of water, boil the sugar to the crack, add almonds 
and stir over the fire until all the sugar adheres to them, and keep them 
warm, so that they may glaze the more easily. To glaze the sugared 
almonds clean the saucepan and put in one ounce gum Arabic and one- 
half ounce sugar dissolved in a half gill of water. Put over fire and 
when the water boils add the sugared almonds, and toss until glazed all 
over. Dry in warming closet. 

Burnt Almonds with Chocolate. — Prepare as directed in preceding 
recipe, merely adding an ounce and a half grated chocolate to the sugar 
«ach time it boils up. Then glaze in the same way. 

MEXICAN KISSES.^Put into a saucepan two cups brown sugar 
and a half cup of milk and cook gently until a little dropped in cold 
-water will ball if rubbed between the fingers. It will take ten minutes 
or a little less to reach this stage. Stir constantly while boiling, as it 
scorches easily. Add a heaping tablespoonful butter, and as soon as 
melted remove from the fire and beat steadily until the mixture looks 
creamy and slightly granulated. Stir in at once a pound of English wal- 
nuts, broken (not chopped) into bits. Beat hard and turn into buttered 
tins to harden. 

MAPLE FOUNDATION OR FONDANT.— Put into a saucepan 
four cupfuls of brown sugar, two cupfuls of maple syrup, two cupfuls 
■of hot water and a level teaspoonful of cream of tartar. Stir over a 
slow fire until thoroughly dissolved, but take care not to let boil. As 
soon as it is dissolved wipe away the grains that appear around the 
edge of the pan with a damp cloth, taking care not to jar the pan or 
let any moisture from the sides fall back into it. Now push the pan 
over the fire and let it come to a quick boil. Cook until it makes a 
soft ball when dropped into cold water to test. Remove from the fire 
and cool very gradually in the pan in which it was cooked. Never try 
*o hasten the cooling by setting the pan in the water. When cool, not 
•cold, stir energetically until a thick, creamy mass, then knead with 
the hands on a marble slab, the longer the better. When light and 
creamy put in an earthen dish and cover with a slightly dampened cloth 
until ready to use, which should not be under twenty-four hours at 
the least. Then flavor, shape and make what combinations with nuts 
jrou wish. If kept damp this fondant will keep for weeks. Avoid mak- 
ing any kind of fondant on damp days, as the sugar absorbs the mois- 
ture from the atmosphere and will not harden. If any fondant comes 
■out grainy after being stirred, cover again with water, stir until thor- 
oughly dissolved, put on the fire and cook again. 



CANDIES 159 

NUT CARAMELS. — Put in a saucepan a quarter of a pound of 
grated unsweetened chocolate, four ounces of butter, one pound of brown 
sugar, a half cupful of molasses, the same amount of cream and a half 
teaspoonful of vanilla. Cook until a little dropped in cold water is brittle, 
then add a pound of nuts chopped fine. The nuts may be of one kind 
or mixed, as preferred. 

COCOANUT CREAM CANDY.— Melt two tablespoonfuls of butter 
in a saucepan, add one-half cup of milk and a cup and a half of sugar. 
Heat to the boiling point and cook twelve minutes, taking care that 
it does not burn. Push back on the stove, add one-third cup of shredded 
cocoanut and a half teaspoonful of vanilla. Beat until the mixture is 
creamy, pour into a buttered pan, cool and mark into squares. 

BUTTER TAFFY.— Put into a granite saucepan a cup and a half 
of light brown sugar, three tablespoonfuls of molasses, a tablespoonful 
and a half each of hot water and vinegar and a pinch of salt. Cook until 
brittle when dropped in cold water. Add three tablespoonfuls of butter, 
cook a moment, add a teaspoonful of vanilla and pour in a shallow 
buttered pan. When cool mark into squares. 

CHOCOLATE CREAM MINTS.— Put into the pan one cup of 
granulated sugar, one-quarter cup of water and two drops of oil of 
peppermint. Cook until it crisps when dropped in cold water, then 
pour on a platter and beat until creamy. Drop on paper and cool. 
When cold and hard melt a quarter of a cake of chocolate over the 
tea kettle, sweeten a little and dip the mints into the melted chocolate. 

GLACED FRUIT AND NUTS.— These are very nice when made at 
home. Select a bright, clear day for the work and do it in a room 
where there is no moisture. Prepare oranges for the glace some little 
time beforehand so that the peeled quarters or eighths may become quite 
dry. Tangerines are excellent for this purpose, being naturally dry. 
Cut Malaga or Tokay grapes from the bunches, leaving the stems long. 
Cut citron in pretty forms, and if you use brandied cherries, dry them. 
Preserved watermelon rind dried out in the oven is also nice. Shell 
as many peanuts, Brazil nuts, hazel nuts and walnuts as needed. Al- 
monds and chestnuts must be blanched as well as shelled, then thor- 
oughly dried. The large French or Spanish chestnuts should be shelled, 
thrown in boiling water a few moments, then skinned, and after that be 
simmered a little in boiling water until tender, but not too soft. Drain 
and dry. When cool insert a small wooden toothpick in each nut. To 
make the glace, put a pound of granulated sugar and a scant cup of 
cold water in a saucepan and let it stand half an hour until the sugar 
is dissolved. Then set over the fire where it can be trusted to boil with- 
out stirring or jarring the kettle. To insure safety it is well to place an 
asbestos mat under the pan. When the bubbles on the surface of the 
syrup begin to look tough, test by dropping a teaspoonful in a cup of 



160 CANDIES 

cold water. If it falls to the bottom with a brittle, clicking sound, add 
two tablespoonfuls of vinegar and lift at once from the fire. Set the 
pan in a larger basin of hot water and dip orange carpels held by the 
tips, cherries, grapes and other fruits in one by one, then place on oiled 
paper to harden. Do not use much motion in dipping the fruit lest 
the syrup granulate. A candy dipper that may be purchased at any 
department or candy store facilitates the dipping. Cherries and grapes 
or any fruit with stems are easy to dip, but the nuts are harder. If 
the syrup becomes too cold before all the fruit has been dipped, it can 
be reheated. As fast as each pan is filled with the glaced fruit set in an 
open window or other cold place to harden. If the glace is not com- 
plete with the first dipping repeat the operation again, adding a little 
more water to the syrup and repeating until it stands the test. Figs, 
dates and prunes are all nice for a glace. 

PEPPERMINTS.— Put half a cup of water and a cup and a half 
of sugar into the pan and stir constantly until the sugar is dissolved. 
Cook ten minutes. Beat until the mixture begins to thicken, then add 
six drops oil of peppermint. Drop from the tip of the spoon on buttered 
paper and set away to cool and harden. If the mixture gets too stiff 
to drop, add a few drops of water. 

PEANUT CANDY. — Have ready one cupful of peanuts shelled and 
chopped. Be sure you are rid of all the brown skins. Put one cupful 
of white sugar in a hot iron frying pan and stir until it is dissolved. 
Add the peanuts and turn immediately on to a buttered tin. As it 
cools cut into squares. 

HOME MADE CREAM CANDY.— Put into an agate or porcelain 
lined saucepan four cups granulated sugar, one cup thick cream and two 
cups water. Stir until the sugar is dissolved, add a tablespoonful butter 
and a half saltspoonful of soda and cook, without stirring, twenty 
minutes or half an hour, until it is crisp, when it is dropped into cold 
water. Flavor lightly with vanilla, wintergreen or sassafras, pour into 
buttered plates and cool quickly. As soon as cool enough to handle, 
take up and pull rapidly and evenly until the mass feels smooth and 
velvety to the touch. It should be beautifully white. Draw into flat 
sticks, cut off with shears into sticks or kiss shaped drops, then lay 
away on buttered paper in air tight tin boxes. It can be used soon 
after making, but it is better if kept away from the air several days 
before using. If you wish to color the wintergreen candy pink, put in 
a few drops of cochineal syrup at the time you add the flavoring. 

VANILLA FUDGE. — Put into a shallow porcelain lined pan a 
heaping tablespoonful butter, a coffee cup granulated sugar, a third 
of a large cup of condensed milk and water mixed in about equal parts, 
and a tiny pinch of salt. Set over the fire and stir constantly. Cook 
eight minutes from the time the mixture begins to boil, or until the 



CANDIES 161 

mixture thickens so as to scarcely drop from a spoon. When it reaches 
this stage remove at once from the fire. Now add a scant teaspoonful 
of vanilla and stir briskly until so thick that stirring becomes difficult. 
This will be in about ten minutes. Turn on a buttered pan and when 
nearly cooled mark into squares. This is delicious either fresh or when 
several days old. 

GUM DROPS.-^Dissolve one pound gum Arabic in a pint and a 
half of water, strain and add one pound sugar. Heat until the sugar 
is dissolved, then flavor to taste and color all or part as desired. This 
should be added while the mixture is warm. When about the con- 
sistency of honey, fill a shallow box with cornstarch, smooth the surface 
and with a stick rounded at the end the size you desire to have the gum 
drops, make little indentations in the starch. They should be as close 
together as can be without interfering. If a large number of the gum 
drops are to be made, round buttons of wood may be fastened to a 
flat board and the whole set of indentations made at once. Place the 
mixture of sugar and gum in a vessel with a long lip or spout and pour 
out slowly striking oflE with a wire. When the mould is filled, set in 
a warm place for several days until the drops are hard enough to 
handle. Then dampen a little and shape in granulated sugar. 

SPICED CHOCOLATE. — Put into a saucepan two cups of brown 
sugar, one-half cup of grated chocolate, a half cup water, a teaspoonful 
of butter and cinnamon to taste. Cook until brittle when dropped into 
cold water, then pour into buttered pans. 

Butter Scotch. — One cup New Orleans molasses, one cup of butter, 
two cups of powdered sugar and a pinch of soda. Boil until it crisps 
when dropped in cold water, then pour in thin sheets to cool. 

Chocolate Marshmallows. — ^To make chocolate marshmallows wipe 
ordinary marshmallows free from cornstarch, cut in halves, dip each 
in the melted chocolate ^d set away to harden. 

CHOCOLATE FUDGE. — Scrape or grate two squares of unsweet- 
ened chocolate and mix with two and one-half cups fine granulated 
sugar. Add one cup rich milk or cream and stir well. Put over the 
fire, add a heaping teaspoonful of butter and boil hard five minutes 
after it begins to boil. Stir all the time it is cooking, then take from 
the fire and continue beating until the fudge is smooth, heavy and cool 
enough to hold itself perfectly in shape. Pour on a well buttered tin to 
the depth of three-quarters of an inch, and check in squares. If you 
like the flavor of cinnamon or vanilla, add a scant teaspoonful while 
beating just as it begins to get cool. 

COCOANUT FUDGE. — Use the same rule as for the chocolate, but 
instead of putting in the cocoanut with the other materials, cook the 



162 CANDIES 

fudge first, then add a cupful of prepared cocoanut just before taking 
from the fire. Fresh grated nut is too moist. Beat very thoroughly, 
so as to have the fudge creamy and delicious. 

BUTTERCUPS. — Put into a saucepan two cups molasses, one cup 
white sugar, three-quarters of a cup of water and a scant half teaspoonful 
of cream of tartar. Cook without stirring, and keep covered so that 
the steam washes the candy from the sides of the pan. As soon as the 
candy is cooked sufficiently so that a little dropped in cold water forms 
a soft ball of jellylike consistency, take from the fire and pour out on an 
oiled marble or platter. When cool enough to handle, pull until light 
colored. It should be a little sticky when you begin to pull or it will 
not be the right consistency later on. Now place on a slightly floured 
board, stretch out into a long narrow shape, fold in the centre a strip 
of French fondant, roll out into sticks three-quarters of an inch in 
diameter and with a pair of shears cut off in inch pieces. Place on 
a slightly floured platter. These "cups" should be brittle when first put 
into the mouth, but at once become soft and melting. 

WOODMERE FUDGE.— Stir to a cream two cupfuls of sugar and 
one tablespoonful of butter. Add from one-third to one-half cup of 
milk, put on the stove and allow it to come to a boil. Stir in two squares 
of grated chocolate or two teaspoonfuls of Baker's cocoa and a few 
drops of vanilla. Boil until it "hairs," take from the fire and stir until 
stiflf. Pour into buttered pans and cool. Cut in squares. 

JUJUBES. — Dissolve one pound of gum Arabic in a pint and a half 
of water. Strain and add one pound of sugar. Stir over a moderate 
fire and cook until the mixture toughens when dropped in cold water. 
It should be of thick consistency. Flavor as desired. Then turn while 
still warm, though partially cooled, into shallow tin pans, well oiled. 
Stand in a warm place to dry. When sufficiently dry to be elastic, take 
from the heat and stand in a cold place. When cold, turn from the 
pan and with a pair of old scissors cut first into strips, then blocks. 
If licorice jujubes are desired, soak two ounces of best Spanish licorice 
in a gill of hot water and add to the syrup when the bubbles begin to 
toughen. 

GRILLED ALMONDS. — Blanch a cupful of almonds, dry them 
thoroughly. Boil a cupful of sugar and a quarter of a cupful of water 
till it "hairs," then throw in the almonds; let them fry, as it were, in 
this syrup, stirring occasionally. They will turn a faint yellow brown 
before the sugar changes color; do not wait an instant once this change 
of color begins, or they will lose flavor; remove them from the fire 
and stir them until the syrup has turned back to sugar and clings irregu- 
larly to the nuts. You will find grilled almonds delicious to alternate 
at dinner with the salted almonds now so fashionable. 



CANDIES 163 

CURL CANDY. — Boil some sugar until it reaches a hard crack and 
assumes a yellow tinge. Pour on an oiled marble and when partly cold 
gather together with a knife and divide into portions. Roll into lengths 
and flatten slightly and twist around an oiled stick half an inch in 
diameter to give the shape of a corkscrew. Flavor with orange or lemon 
while cooking. 

DOUBLE FUDGE.— Cook in a granite saucepan two cups of granu- 
lated sugar, one-half cup of cream, one tablespoonful of butter and two 
squares of chocolate shaved or grated. Cook seven minutes, then flavor 
with vanilla. Take from the fire and beat until thick. Spread in a 
buttered tin to cool. Put into the same saucepan two cups brown sugar, 
one-half cup cream, one level tablespoonful butter, one cup nutmeats 
chopped fine and cook ten minutes. Take from the fire, flavor lightly 
with vanilla, beat until creamy and pour on top of the fudge already 
in the pan. When cool cut in squares. 

WALNUT FUDGE. — Mix together one-half cup of brown sugar, 
one and a half cups of granulated sugar, half a cup of milk — cream is 
better-^and butter the size of a ping pong ball (or smaller). Cook over 
a medium fire until it will harden slightly in cold water. Add one cup 
of chopped nuts, take from the fire and stir vigorously until cold. Pour 
into a buttered pan and let it harden. 





IN THE PUTTING UP OF FRUIT 

HAT most housewives delight in the 
putting up of fruit, or at least take 
infinite pride at the close of the 
season in reviewing the serried 
ranks of "lucent syrups," all prop- 
erly labelled and arranged in order, 
ready to be brought out at a mo- 
ment's notice for the delectation of 
family and guests, is shown by the 
work appended. It is a feminine 
accomplishment giving far greater 
satisfaction to all concerned than 
the ability to strum out an indifferent rhapsody on the piano, tear a 
passion to tatters in elocution, paint marines that would cause even an 
oyster to weep, or "burn" cords of wood into designs neither beautiful 
nor artistic. 

Like all other housewifely duties, preserving may be made, easy or 
diflScult' according as it is done in the right or the wrong way. Among 
the A B C's of the art'are the following^suggestions: — ^Use only sound 
fruit and as soon as possible after gathering. Wash all fruit that comes 
from the market or that from home gardens if it has been exposed to 
dust or if any insecticide has been used in its vicinity. Be sure that 
jars, rubbers, tops and cooking paraphernalia are all sanitarily clean. 
Even if they were put away scrupulously clean they should be scalded 
before using. Never use tin or iron vessels for cooking fruit. Enam- 
elled or porcelain ware is best. Use silver or wooden spoons and silver 
knives, if the fruit is specially acid. 



CANNED BLUEBERRIES.— These will keep without sugar and 
taste more like the fresh fruit for use in pies, shortcakes and puddings. 
If preferred sweet, allow a half cup of sugar to a quart of berries, ex- 
cepting in the case of swamp berries, when a cup of sugar is none too 
much. In putting up without sugar, pick over and wash the berries, 
drain, then pack in jars, filling as full as possible. Pass a silver knife 
down around the sides to help them settle into place. Pour boiling 

164 



PRESERVES AND JELLIES 165 

water over the fruit, going over and adding more boiling water as the 
fruit settles and absorbs the water. When filled to running over, screw 
air tight and keep in a cool, dark place. 

Have everjrthing in readiness before beginning the work of canning. 
The needful articles include pans, spoons, a wooden masher, strainers, fine 
and coarse, a grocers' funnel and small milk dipper, plenty of fine and coarse 
cheesecloth for straining jelly, a half pound of paraffine to be melted and 
used to cover jelly, enough cans and glasses so that you will not have to 
stop and send to the sfhre in the midst of your work, a quart cup for meas- 
uring and scales for weighing. 

For the small family pint cans will be found more convenient. 

Use the best granulated sugar, free from any bluish tinge, the purest 
spices and best cider vinegar. Arrange to do as much work as possible in 
the cool of the early morning and over a gas or oil stove, where the flame 
can be extinguished when not in use. Lastly, go to your task in a com- 
fortable but absolutely clean cotton gown and with a cheerful spirit. 

CANNING.— The success of canning depends upon perfect steriliza- 
tion. To this end the jars, covers, spoons and other utensils should be put 
on the stove in a kettle of cold water, allowed to come to the boiling point, 
then kept there at least fifteen minutes. There are several methods of can- 
ning. These are cooking the fruit packed in the cans in a larger vessel 
of boiling water, cooking the fruit in jars in the oven, cooking the fruit 
before putting in the jars, cooking in the sun, and, in the case of cran- 
berries, pieplant and green gooseberries, simply packing the cans, then 
filling every crevice with cold water and closing air tight. The cold 
water process is only possible with these three fruits, as their own acids 
are destroyers of germs. Fruits canned in the jars keep their shape 
better and are therefore more attractive to the eye than those which 
are cooked and then packed in the jar. The latter process, however, 
is quicker and easier for ordinary home use. In canning, the proportion of 
sugar varies according to the sweetness of the fruit and the use for which 
it is intended. Fruit that is to be used for sauce is best put up with sugar, 
while that intended for cooking purposes may be put up without any. For 
preserves, some fruits require pound for pound, and others half or three- 
quarters of a pound sugar to each pound of fruit. 

CANNED BLACKBERRIES.— Allow a cupful of sugar and a half 
cupful of water to each quart of blackberries. Boil and skim the syrup, add 
berries enough to cover the surface, cook slowly ten minutes, then skim out 
and add others until all are cooked. Return to the kettle, boil up once, 
then pour into sterilized jars and seal immediately. Blackberries may be 
preserved, allowing three-quarters of a pound of sugar to each pound of 
berries. 

PRESERVED APPLES. — Boil one gallon new sweet cider down to 
two quarts. Pare, quarter and core half a bushel sweet apples. Put the 
cider in a granite or porcelain kettle and when it boils add as many apples 



166 PRESERVES AND JELLIES 

as the kettle will hold. Cover closely and cook without stirring until the 
apples are tender. Skim out without breaking, add more apples and cook 
until all are done. Pour the syrup over the apples and set away to cool. 
The next day drain off the syrup, boil down until quite thick and again pour 
over the apples. The pieces of apple should be quite distinct and the juice 
of a jellylike consistency. 

PRESERVED APPLES NO. 2.— For six pounds rather tart apples 
use three pounds granulated sugar. Pare, quarter and core the apples and 
cook the skins in enough water to cover. Sprinkle the sugar over the apples 
and let them stand until the sugar is dissolved. Then strain the water 
from the skins and pour boiling hot over the apples. Let them stand until 
cold, then heat and pour the water again over the apples to harden them. 
Do this several times, add the juice and grated rind of one orange or lemon, 
and cook slowly until the pieces of apple seem clear. 

CANNED CHERRIES.— While the sour cherries are usually con- 
sidered best for doing up, the large white or red sweet cherries are not to be 
despised. Look over carefully to make sure there are no wormy ones, and 
pit or not, according to preference. Most people like the pits left in, think- 
ing they improve the flavor. Allow a cup of sugar to each jar of fruit. Put 
the cherries and sugar in layers in jars until nearly full. Arrange the 
jars in a boiler or kettle of warm water, with straw or a rack underneath 
to avoid breaking. Put in water enough to come nearly to the top of the 
jars, and put on the tops but not the rubbers. Let the water boil until the 
sugar in the jars has melted and formed a clear syrup. Meanwhile have 
more syrup boiling in another kettle, and as soon as the fruit is ready, which 
will be in five or ten minutes, take out the jars, one at a time, fill with the 
scalding syrup and seal at once. Fruit put up in this way is very good 
eaten as preserves, while it makes excellent pies, scarcely inferior to those 
made with fresh fruit. 

BARBERRY SAUCE WITH SWEET APPLES.— To a peck of 
sweet apples allow a half peck barberries and two quarts of molasses. 
Look over the berries carefully, removing stems and leaves, wash and put 
over to cook with water to float them. Add the molasses and cook gently 
until the berries are tender. Skim out the berries and put into the syrup 
as many of the apples, pared, quartered and cored, as the kettle will hold 
conveniently. As soon as tender put into the jar with the berries and boil 
the syrup down until thick. Pour over the fruit, let stand until the next 
day, scald all together once more, then put away in cans if you have plenty, 
or in a large stone jar. 

WILD GRAPE PRESERVES.— Take six pounds of green wild 
grapes. Cut them open on one side and carefully remove the seeds. Weigh 
the fruit and allow an equal weight of sugar. Put the prepared grapes in 
a kettle and pour on a little cold water, just enough to show at the top 
of the fruit. Boil, skim, then sprinkle over the fruit one-quarter of the 



PRESERVES, AND JELLIES 167 

SUgaf kliowed. Bring to a boil, again pressing the grapes under the sjrup, 
but not breaking them. Add more sugar and cook five minutes, repeat- 
ing the operation until all the sugar is used. As soon as the syrup jellies 
turn into small jars and seal. When cold the grapes should show distinct 
in the clear jelly. Grape and elderberry preserves are made in the same 
way, allowing equal quantities of the fruits or half as much grape as elder- 
berry. The flavor of the grape combines well with the richness of the elder- 
berry, which lacks decided zest. 

GREEN GRAPE PRESERVES.— Take six pounds green grapes, 
preferably wild, cut them open one side and with a penknife remove the 
seeds. Weigh the fruit and measure out an equal weight of sugar. Put 
the prepared grapes in a kettle and pour over them a little cold water, just 
enough to show above the top of the grapes. Bring to a boil, then skim, 
and sprinkle over the fruit one-quarter the amount of sugar measured out. 
Bring to a boil, pressing the fruit under the syrup, but not breaking it. Add 
more sugar and cook twenty minutes, repeating this operation until all the 
sugar has been used. As soon as the syrup jellies when tested on a cold 
plate, turn into small jars and seal. When cold the grapes should show 
clearly in the jelly. 

PRESERVED PEACHES.— Select large and rather firm peaches, 
either the yellow Crawfords or white peaches as preferred. Peel with a 
silver knife or remove the skins as you would those of tomatoes by putting 
them a few at a time in a wire basket and dipping them into a kettle of 
boiling water, when the skins will rub off. Weigh them and allow three- 
quarters of a pound of sugar to a pound of fruit. The peaches may be 
left whole if not too large to go in the can; otherwise cut in halves and 
add a few peach pits to each can for flavor. Make a syrup of sugar and 
just as little water as possible to dissolve it — a pint of cold water to threa 
pounds of sugar. When it boils skim clear, then add the peaches, a fevs? 
at a time, and cook them until transparent. Pack them in jars. Let tbft 
syrup boil half an hour after the peaches are out, then pour it over the^n*. 
and seal the jars. 

SPICED BLACKBERRIES.— These are delicious served with meat. 
Put seven pounds blackberries in the preserving kettle with three pounds 
sugar and a pint of cider vinegar. Tie in a cheesecloth bag two teaispoon- 
fuls each cloves, cinnamon, allspice and a teaspoonful nutmeg. Put the 
spices in with the fruit, sugar and vinegar and let stand two or three hours.. 
Place the kettle over the fife, bring slowly to a boil and cook about teu 
minutes. Take out the berries with a skimmer, and spread on a platter 
while the juice is cooked down to about half the original quantity. Pack the; 
berries in stone or glass jars, pour the syrup over them and seal. 

GRAPE AND ELDERBERRY PRESERVES— Grape and elder- 
berry preserves are made in the same way as green grape preserves, allow- 
ing eqttal qua*ititi«s of the fruit or half as much grape as elderberry. The fla- 



168 PEESERVES AND JELLIES 

vor of the grape combines well with the richness of the elderberry, which 
lacks decided taste. 

BRANDIED PEACHES.— Make a syrup the same as for preserving; 
let it come to a boil, then skim; lay in peaches enough to cover the bottom 
of the preserving kettle and cook until they are tender and transparent, but 
not "mushy." Take out the fruit with a skimmer and place carefully in 
jars. Crack some of the pits, put in the syrup and cook fifteen minutes, 
or until slightly thickened; add brandy, half a cupful to each pound of 
fruit, and take at once from the fire; strain the hot syrup, then pour it 
over the peaches in the jars and seal at once. 

MORELLO CHERRY PRESERVE.— This is a Southern recipe and 
most delicious. Pick the cherries when full ripe, stem but do not pit. Prick 
each one with a pin to prevent their bursting. For each pound of cherries 
allow a pound and a half of loaf sugar. Roll part of the sugar, sprinkle 
over the cherries and let them stand over night. In the morning dissolve 
the rest of the sugar in a half pint of currant juice, put in the preserving 
kettle over a slow fire, add the cherries and simmer until they are tender 
but not broken. Take out carefully and put in glasses or jars, boil the 
syrup until thick, pour over the cherries and seal. 

SPICED GOOSEBERRIES.— Top and tail the berries and wash 
clean. Make a syrup, allowing three pints of sugar to one of vinegar. 
Skim, add the berries and boil down until quite thick. Add more sugar if 
it seems necessary, as it is better economy to be generous with sugar at 
preserving time than to have to boil them over later. When nearly done 
spice with cinnamon and cloves. 

CANNED PEARS. — In canning or preserving, pears need the addi- 
tion of some decided flavor such as ginger, lemon, grape juice or brandy. 
They may be cooked in the oven in a hot water bath or simply stewed. The 
amount of sugar required depends upon the acidity of the pears and in- 
dividual preference for sweet. A good proportion is two pounds of sugar 
to eight pounds of fruit. To make the syrup three quarts of water would 
be required. If your fruit is particularly fine, like ripe Bartletts, and you 
wish it to look specially attractive, peel, half and core the fruit, dropping 
each piece when ready into a pan of cold water. When all are cookedl 
make the syrup rich as is desired and spice to taste, and set back on the 
stove for ready reference. Have the cans sterilized and hot, pack in the 
prepared fruit and pour in enough of the scalding syrup to fill the jar full. 
Run a silver knife blade around the inside of the jar to let the air out 
and the syrup in. Set the tops on the cans, but not the rubbers, and place 
the jars in the oven in a shallow pan of hot water or on an asbestos mat. 
Cook fifteen minutes or until the fruit is tender, remove from the oven, 
put on the rubbers, fill where' the fruit has settled wtih more syrup so 
that it runs over, then seal. Wipe off the cans and set on a board or thick 
paper out of the draught. As the contents of the jar cool keep screwing 



PRESERVES AND JELLIES 169 

the cover tighter. When quite cool wipe again and set away in a cool, dark 
closet. 

PRESERVED RIPE TOMATOES.— Scald and peel the tomatoes; 
to each pound of fruit allow one lemon and one pound of sugar; grate the 
yellow rind of the lemon and squeeze out the juice; put enough water with 
the sugar to dissolve it, skim the syrup well and add the tomatoes; cook 
gently for two hours. 

QUINCES (With Sweet Apples). — Sweet apples are often preserved 
with quinces, allowing one-third of quartered apples to two-thirds quince. 
The apples do not require as long cooking as the quinces, and must be re- 
moved from the kettle ten or fifteen minutes before the quinces. Put the 
quinces and apples in alternate layers in the cans, and pour the boiling syrup 
over, as with quinces alone. 

FIG PRESERVES.— Take the figs when nearly ripe and cut across 
the top in the form of a cross. Cover with strong salted water and let 
stand three days, changing the water every day. At the end of this time 
cover with fresh water, adding a few grape or fig leaves to color, and cook 
until quite green. Then put again in cold water, changing twice daily, and 
leave three days longer. Add a pound of granulated sugar to each pound 
of figs, cook a few moments, take from the fire and set aside two days. 
Add more sugar to make sweet, with sliced and boiled lemon or ginger 
root to flavor, and cook until tender and thick. 

STRAWBERRY PRESERVES.— To preserve according to the 
American custom, allow sugar pound for pound, but never let the berries 
that are to be canned stand in the sugar, as it extracts the juice and toughens 
the berry. Pack the fresh fruit into the cans, shaking down well, but taking 
care not to crush the berries. Have ready a hot syrup made of sugar and 
the juice squeezed from other smaller berries, and slowly pour the hot 
syrup over the fresh berries in the jars, leaving an inch space at the top. 
Have a common wash boiler half full of water that is about as warm as 
the hot syrup has made the jars. Set the cans on a wooden rack fitted to 
the bottom of the boiler, and place straw or kitchen towels between the 
cans to prevent their knocking together. Put the can covers on the cans, 
but leave off the rubbers. Bring to a boil, and as soon as the syrup in 
the jars rises, showing the contents to be scalding hot, lift the jars out on 
a dry board. Fill each brimmfng full with the scalding syrup which is left 
in the saucepan, put on the rubbers and screw on the covers as tightly as 
possible. Tighten again when cold, wrap each one in paper and set in a 
cool, dry cellar, where the temperature does not rise above 70 degrees. The 
celebrated Wiesbaden process, which is considered the very best rule for 
preserving strawberries, does not differ materially from this. A syrup is 
prepared from sugar and the juice of small berries, allowing five pounds 
of sugar to five pounds of juice. Let the sugar melt and come to the boil- 
ing point and boil two or three minutes. Skim well. Fill ten thoroughly 



170 PRESERVES AND JELLIES 

sterilized cans with the large berries, selected from ten quarts, pour in the 
syrup, cover closely, leaving off the rubbers, however. Place the cans in 
boilers, pursuing the same precautions as just mentioned. Fill the boiler full 
of hot water to the necks of the cans, and let the canned berries remain 
in the water for five or ten minutes after it begins to boil. The straw- 
berries during this process will have risen to the top of the can and ab- 
sorbed some of the syrup. Fill the cans to overflowing with more syrup, 
put on the rubbers and screw up tight. Put up in this way, the berries will 
keep for years, retaining color and flavor. 

QUINCES (With Cider and Molasses), (Colonial).— Pare and halve 
the quince, removing the cores. Boil these in sweet cider until tender, then 
strain. For five pounds of quinces take a quart of nice molasses, a pound 
of brown sugar and the cider in which the quince parings have been cooked. 
Add the whites of two eggs, bring to a boil, remove from the fire and 
skim. Continue to boil and skim until perfectly clear. Then take off the 
fire, cool, put in the quinces and boil until tender. If there is not syrup 
to cover them full and plenty add more cider. Orange peel or a few slips 
of green ginger boiled in the syrup give a pleasant flavor. 

CANNED GOOSEBERRIES.— Pack the prepared fruit compactly in 
glass jars and pour over it a syrup made as follows: — Allow a generous 
cup and a half of sugar and a pint of water for each quart jar. Let this 
come to a good boil. Skim, cook ten minutes longer, then pour over the 
fruit in the jars and seal at once air tight. Gooseberries and rhubarb may 
also be kept by just lightly packing the jars with either, putting on the 
rubber, immersing under water in a vessel of cold water, and when the 
jars are full screw on the lids, still holding them under water so that no 
air can possibly get in. When taken out try, if possible, to tigTiten the lids 
even more. 

CANNED PEACHES. — Canned peaches are used more frequently 
for peach pies, peach meringues, puddings, shortcakes, creams and other 
iced desserts than the preserved. The latter put up with or without brandy 
need no stage setting. They are perfect as they are. The syrup for can- 
ning is usually made in the proportion of a cup of sugar to a pint of 
water; but the fruit will keep well if a much smaller quantity is used, pro'- 
viding it is sound and the air has been properly excluded from the jar. 

PRESERVED PINEAPPLES.— Select for this purpose the sugar 
loaf pineapple, which is longer than the strawberry and remains green even 
when nearly ripe. It is a pure white fruit with a shallow eye that can be 
easily peeled off. To test its ripeness pull one of the little spines sharply. 
If it comes out easily the fruit is in good condition for preserving. It is 
best to put up pineapples in a moderately heavy syrup. A good proportion 
is three-quarters of a pound of sugar to a pound of the fruit measured 
after it has been peeled and cut into little cubes or torn into shreds with 
a fork. The choice Singapore pines that come canned in heavy syrup are 



PRESERVES AND JELLIES 171 

cut in slices about a quarter of an inch thick, with the core cut out in circle 
shape, but this is not easily done in the ordinary canning. As fast as the 
fruit is prepared put into a large stone jar, layer by layer, with three-quar- 
ters of its weight in sugar between each layer. 

When all the pineapples are prepared put a cover on the jar and let it 
stand in the cellar or any cool place until the next morning. By that time 
the juice will have completely dissolved the sugar and a clear syrup will 
cover the fruit. Put the fruit and syrup in the preserving kettle, bring 
slowly to the boiling point, skim and cook slowly until tender but not 
"mushy," then can at once. The time required in the cooking may vary 
from five to thirty minutes, according to the ripeness of the fruit. 

For sorbets, punches and granites the pineapple has few equals. 

GREEN PRESERVED TOMATO.— Cut small, smooth, green to- 
matoes in halves, then quarter the halves. For every pound of the fruit use 
three-quarters of a pound of granulated sugar. Allow the yellow rind of 
one lemon to each two pounds of fruit, grated or shaved thin, and the juice. 
Put the sugar in the preserving kettle with just enough water to dissolve 
it, add the tomato and lemon, and simmer gently until the tomato is tender 
and transparent. This will keep without sealing as a rule, but is better 
put in small jars or glasses covered airtight. It is so rich that only a little 
can be used at a time. 

WATERMELON PRESERVES.— While watermelon rinds are a 
drug in the market, an old-fashioned preserve may be added to the win- 
ter's supply of goodies with but little extra expense. With a very sharp 
knife peel off the outer green from watermelon rinds, leaving about a 
quarter inch of the firm white part. Cut into any shape desired, having 
the pieces uniform. If you wish the preserves green put into a kettle with 
alternate layers of grape leaves and tiny pieces of alum, not more than a half 
teaspoonful for a large kettle. Pour on hot water to cover, and simmer 
two hours. Drain, cover the fruit again with weak ginger water and sim- 
mer three hours longer. Drain, make a syrup, allowing to every pound of 
fruit a pound and a quarter of sugar and a pint of water. Boil ten min- 
utes, skimming constantly. Put in the rinds, simmer until tender, remove 
the fruit with a skimmer, pack in cans, boil the syrup until quite thick, then 
four over the fruit in the cans and seal. 

QUINCE PRESERVES.— Do not try to preserve quinces until they 
begin to turn yellow. If frost threatens gather and lay aside to ripen. 
When they are uniformly yellow have everything in readiness and "make 
a morning" of it, utilizing the skins and imperfect fruit for marmalade or 
jelly, while you preserve the finer fruit. In this way there will be no waste. 

Rub off the "fur" from yellow quinces, using a coarse towel, then pare, 
core and quarter, dropping the pieces into cold water to prevent discolora- 
tion. Save skins \and cores in a separate vessel for use later. When a 
goodly number of the quinces have been prepared put two layers of the 
quarters in a preserving kettle, cover with cold water and cook over a slow 



172 PRESERVES AND JELLIES 

fire until the fruit is tender. Never make the mistake of boiling quinces 
in the sugar syrup before cooking them tender in water or steaming tender. 
Sugar hardens uncooked quinces. When tender enough to pierce easily 
with a fork, skim out and lay on a platter while the rest of the quinces are 
cooking. When all have been cooked strain the water and to each pint 
of juice allow three-fourths of a pound of sugar. Cook gently for ten 
minutes, skimming until clear, then put in as many pieces as the syrup will 
cover. Simmer gently for half an hour or until the quinces turn a rich 
red, then lift out with a silver spoon, dropping piece by piece into wide 
mouthed glass jars. Have the cans hot to prevent breaking. Let the 
syrup cook a little longer, then pour over the fruit, filling so full that the 
juice runs over the sides, then seal. 

TUTTI-F.RUTTI.— Pineapple is usually the first ingredient to go 
into the tutti-frutti jar, which, by the way, can be continued year after 
year, as its contents never spoil. Only the lighter fruits are used, as black- 
berries, huckleberries or blackcaps spoil the color. Put a pint of good 
French brandy into a stone jar holding several gallons. Then begin add- 
ing fruit and sugar pound by pound as the various fruits come in season. 
No cooking is required. Shred the pineapple or cut in cubes, as preferred; 
pit cherries and plums; cut the white grapes in halves and seed them, and 
slice peaches, pears, bananas, oranges, &c. Strawberries and red raspberries 
make delicious additions, and gooseberries may be used unless the seeds are 
objectionable. No more brandy will be required. Not only does the tutti- 
frutti furnish a delightful preserve, but a rich filling for tarts and pies 
on festal occasions, or the fruit creams and puddings that crown the feast. 
A teaspoonful of the brandy makes a valuable and unusual flavoring for 
cakes, custards and the like. 

YELLOW TOMATO PRESERVES.— Allow a pound sugar to each 
pound tomatoes and a half cup water to each pound fruit. Cover the toma- 
toes with boiling water, then skim. Make a syrup of the sugar, and when 
boiling skim and add the tomatoes. Have ready a sliced lemon that has 
been cooked in boiling water and a little sliced ginger. Add to the toma- 
toes. Cook until they are clear, remove, pack in jars, cook the syruo until 
thick, pour over and seal. 

GINGERED PEARS.— This is particularly nice served with ice 
cream or muskmelon. To eight pounds of pears chopped very thin allow 
four pounds or less of sugar, one cupful of water, the juice and thin yel- 
low rind of four lemons (be sure they are not bitter) and one-eighth pound 
or more of green ginger root, scraped and cut in thin slices. Bring the 
sugar and water to a boil, add the fruit, ginger and lemon, then simmer 
three-quarters of an hour or until the consistency of marmalade. 

STRAWBERRY TOMATO PRESERVES.— To a pint of the fruit 
allow a half ounce sugar and one lemon. Add enough water to the sugar 
to dissolve it, bring it to a boil and skim. Skin the tomatoes and add to 



PRESERVES AND JELLIES 173 

the syrup. Slice the lemon thin, cover with boiling water and cook until 
the rind is tender. Cook the tomatoes until well heated through, skim out 
and put into jars. Add the cooked lemon slices to the syrup, cook down 
until quite thick, pour over the fruit and seal. 

JELLIES, JAMS AND MARMALADES.— In making jellies of the 
larger fruits, such as apples, quinces, crab apples or pears, they do not need 
peeling or coring, for the skins and seeds improve both the quality and 
color of the jelly. Simply slice or quarter, put into the preserving kettle 
with water enough to nearly cover the fruit and simmer until tender. Take 
from the fire, strain and proceed as in making the jellies of smaller fruits. 
A clear day should be selected for the making of all jellies, and it seems 
a little finer if set to cool in the sunlight. The fruit must be sound and 
not over ripe. It should be used as soon as possible after gathering, as 
most fruits lose quality by standing. Quinces and some pears are the 
exception. 

Hints About Preserving.— Use only granulated sugar and avoid that 
with a bluish cast. 

The utensils used should be kettles, colanders and ladles of porcelain 
or granite ware, the spoons of silver or wood, earthenware bowls and glass 
tumblers. The jelly should be poured at once into glasses and allowed to 
remain, as moving about is apt to disturb the process of solidifying. The 
jelly bag may be made of thin flannel, coarse linen or fine cheesecloth. It 
is better shaped like a cone, with a strong string or tape run around the 
neck for suspending it to drip. Do not squeeze unless you care to take the 
chance of its being cloudy. If you wish to use the remainder left after 
dripping squeeze and keep it separate for mincemeat or any other culinary 
purposes where the color does not matter. The boiling syrup may be 
poured directly into glasses without danger of their cracking if they are 
rolled in hot water and then left standing on a damp cloth. A silver spoon 
left in the glass will also prevent cracking, as the silver is a good conductor 
of heat. 

If you lack glasses, glass bottles can be cut down for jelly cups by 
making a deep mark with a file at the desired height, then following it 
around with a hot iron, when it will crack off. 

When cooking the juice if it shows signs of boiling over and the kettle 
is too heavy to lift at a moment's notice, a spoonful of cold water will settle 
it like magic. 

It is a good plan to keep special cloths and holders to use during the 
jelly making, as the stains are difficult to remove. In making jelly it must 
be borne in mind that the less stirring there is the better. If stirred too 
much the jelly will not be clear, while the tendency of sugar to granulate 
is also increased by stirring. 

A good test for the consistency of jelly when boiling is to let it drop 
from a spoon. If the last drop sticks to the spoon it is sufficiently hard. 

Filling Glasses. — In filling the glasses fill to the brim, for in the 
process of cooling they will shrink enough to allow for the pouring on of a 



174 PRESERVES AND JELLIES 

quarter of an inch of melted paraffine, which will keep out the air and pre- 
serve the jelly. 

To Prepare the Paraffine. — Get half a pound of paraffine and shave 
it into a pitcher or small dish from which it can be easily poured and melt 
by setting into hot water or over the tea kettle. While the jelly is still warm 
pour a layer of paraffine over the top. It can then be covered with the usual 
tin cover or simply wrapped with paper, as there is no danger of spoiling. 
When needed for the table slip off the paraffine and put it away to be! 
used again. 

The Comparative Cost of Jelly. — In estimating the comparative cost 
of jelly and marmalade, jelly will be found to be worth twice as much as 
the marmalade. Jelly costs about two-thirds of the price of the fruit used, 
the marmalade one-third. 

Where to Keep Jellies^ — All jellies should be kept where it is cool 
and dark. If you have no dry cellEtr or dark closet cover the shelves of 
any cool closet with black cotton and hang a curtain of the same over the 
fruit. 

BARBERRY JELLY.— As soon as the berries have felt the first 
tinge of frost, which gives them a dark, rich color and the "tang" that makes 
the jelly so delightful, gather. Free the berries from stems, wash, and to 
every two quarts allow a half cup water. Cook until the juice presses out 
easily, take from the fire, mash, strain and measure the juice. To a pint 
of juice allow a generous pound of sugar, for barberries require more sugar 
than most fruits. Heat the sugar the same as usual in making jellies, and 
add to the juice, after it has cooked the regulation twenty minutes. Cook 
five minutes after the sugar is added, then turn into the glasses, sealing when 
cold. 

CURRANT AND RAISIN CONSERVE.— Cut in halves and seed 
two pounds of large raisins, put them in a quart of water and simmer slowly 
for an hour. At the same time stem and wash seven pounds of currants 
and cook in a jar set in a pan of hot water until they are soft. Now add 
the pulp, peel, and juice of two oranges, half a lemon (the peel and pulp 
minced fine) to the currants and raisins, together with six pounds of sugar. 
Boil gently to a jam, and put up in small glasses, covered with paraffine. 
This is an excellent relish to serve with cold meats. 

APPLE BUTTER. — This may be made of sweet or sour apples, or 
half and half. Boil a gallon of fresh cider down to one-half of its original 
bulk. Quarter the apples, peel and core and cut in small pieces. Put into 
the boiling cider as many of the apples as can cook at a time without burn- 
ing. When the apples are soft, skim out, add more and so on until all are 
cooked. Then mash as soft as possible, put all together again in the cider 
and simmer gently until about half their original bulk and as thick as mar- 



PRESERVES AND JELLIES 175 

tnalade. Stir often with a smooth wooden spoon or flat stick, taking a great 
deal of pains not to let the "butter" stick on the bottom. It is the part of 
wisdom to keep one of the asbestos mats under the kettle during the last 
hour or two. Turn into small stone crocks and keep in a cool, dry place. 
If you wish the apple butter to have a spicy flavor allow one teaspoon ful 
each of cinnamon, nutmeg and allspice to each gallon of the sauce, putting 
it in when nearly done. This simple sweet makes a good appetizer at break- 
fast and finds favor with the children for their luncheons when spread on 
bread. An occasional variation is furnished by adding chopped butternut or 
walnut meats to the butter before spreading. 

BARBERRY JELLY (No. 2).— The barberry should be picked late, 
after it is touched with the frost, and the fruit is a deep crimson. If you 
are in the country, these berries, which grow wild, can be had for the 
picking, and the jelly made from them is almost as clear and quite as de- 
licious as that from currants. As the fruit is extremely acid, a pound of 
sugar will be required for each pint of the fruit juice. 

Pick over the berries and wash them. Put in the preserving kettle with 
just a little water to keep them from sticking, and cook until the juice will 
press out easily. Remove from the fire, mash, strain and turn into a jelly 
bag to drain. Do not squeeze it or the jelly will not be clear. Boil the 
juice twenty minutes, skim, and add the sugar, which should have been 
heated in the oven. Stir until the sugar is all dissolved, take out the spoon, 
cook five minutes longer, or until the syrup will thicken on a cold saucer. 
Pour into glasses, and when cold cover. 

The English way of making barberry jelly is to allow a pound of raisins 
to every five pounds of fruit, then proceed as above, while the New England 
housewife frequently adds a dozen sour apples, cored and quartered, to every 
four quarts of the berries. 

CHERRY JAM. — Stone the cherries and allow, after weighing, an 
equal quantity of sugar. Place in a porcelain lined preserving kettle and let 
stand in a cold place over night. In the morning cook until the jam jellies 
on the spoon, then turn into pots. 

CANDIED CRANBERRIES.— While economy is the watchword, 
here are directions for making candied cranberries to take the place in 
cakes, confections or decorations of the more expensive cherries. Use for 
this purpose the Cape Cod berries, half as much sugar as berries and half 
as much water as sugar. Put the berries in a deep agate or porcelain dish, 
pour the sugar on top like a crust and the water on top of that. Cook very 
slowly. When they break into a boil, cover just a few moments — ^not long 
or the skins will burst — then uncover and cook until tender. Take up care- 
fully and spread on oiled plates to dry. 

CRAB APPLE JELLY.— Wash, remove blossom ends, but do not 
peel or core. Cut in rather small pieces, cover with cold water and cook 
gently until soft. Keep on an asbestos mat or in a larger kettle of hot water 
to prevent the apples burning. 



176 PRESERVES AND JELLIES 

When very soft, turn into a jelly bag and hang over night to drip. In 
the morning measure the clear red liquid, bring to a boil and skim. Allow 
for every pint of liquid the usual pound of sugar and have it heating in 
the oven while the juice is scalding. Add to the juice, after it has cooked 
just twenty minutes, stir until dissolved, take out the spoon, cook five min- 
utes longer, skim and turn at once into the heated cups and glasses. This 
jelly is inexpensive and of excellent appearance and flavor. If you desire 
variety, flavor part of the juice with lemon or pineapple and some with 
rose geranium. For the later lay a leaf in the bottom of the glass before 
pouring in the hot jelly. For the lemon or pineapple allow two table- 
spoonfuls of the juice to a quart of the apple juice. The jelly may also 
be spiced, adding a little vinegar, clove and cinnamon to season at the same 
time the sugar is added, 

BLACKBERRY JAM. — Look over a gallon of blackberries, wash and 
drain. Put in a preserving kettle, pour in a pint of water and cook until 
soft, stirring and mashing with a wooden spoon to break up the fruit. Take 
care that it does not scorch. Remove from the fire and press through a wire 
sieve into a stone jar. Do not use tin. Stir this pulp thoroughly. Take a 
quart of the pulp and put in a kettle with a quart of sugar measured light 
and previously heated in the oven. Bring to a boil, cook rapidly for fifteen 
or twenty minutes, until it jellies when dropped in a cold saucer. Pour 
into small jars and when cold seal. Repeat the cooking with another quart 
of the pulp until all has been used. The jam is easier and better pre- 
pared a quart at a time. It is a good plan in hot weather to prepare the 
berries one day, set away in the cellar and make the jam in the cool of the 
next morning. 

CRANBERRY JELLY.— Wash and pick over the fruit, and to each 
quart of the fruit allow a cup of water. Cover and cook for ten minutes. 
Mash and strain through a flannel bag. Return the juice to the ke):tle, 
add two cups of sugar which has been heated in the oven, boil until it 
jellies on the edges, which will be in about ten minutes, and pour into the 
glasses. 

GREEN CURRANT JAM.— To make green currant jam, pick the 
currants from the stem, put in a preserving kettle and set in a larger kettle 
of boiling water, or over a gentle fire, to dry out superfluous juice. Add 
three-quarters of a pound of sugar for each pound of fruit; boil quickly for 
thirty minutes, or less if it shows signs of jelling. Stir and skim often. 
Turn into jars and cover when cold. 

GREEN GRAPE JAM.— Pick the grapes from the stems and remove 
the seeds with a sharp knife. Allow a pound of sugar ,to each pound fruit. 
Put the grapes in a preserving kettle with a little water and cook twenty 
minutes. Add the sugar and cook until a drop "jells" when tested. Remove 
from fire and pour in glasses. 



PRESERVES AND JELLIES 177 

WILD GRAPE JELLY.— Strip the fruit from the stem, wash and 
put in a pan or jar set in a larger vessel of hot water. Cook until the grapes 
are broken ; then strain. Measure the juice, and for every pint allow a pound 
of sugar. Put the juice over the fire and the sugar in shallow pans in the 
oven, where it will heat, but not turn yellow. Cook the juice twenty min- 
utes, skimming all impurities from it, add the sugar, stir until dissolved, re- 
move the spoon, cook a moment or two longer until the liquid jellies when 
dropped on a cold plate; pour into jelly glasses and cover when cold. 

Wild Grape and Crab Apple Jelly. — For this combination, which has 
an especially fine "tang," unequal quantities of crab apple and wild green 
grapes. Cut the applies in quarters, but do not peel or core ; cook until soft, 
then strain and add to the grape juice. 

Wild Grape and Elderberry Jelly. — ^This is another delicious combi- 
nation of flavors. Add four pints of green grape pulp to eight pints of 
elderberry juice, all strained, then allow a pound of sugar to each pint of 
juice and proceed as usual. 

CURRANT JELLY.— Currants for jelly should not be over ripe, 
hence the old wives' tradition that currant jelly will not "jell" after July 4. 
Neither should they be gathered after a rain if a firm, clear jelly is desired. 
Equal parts of red and white currants, or raspberries and currants, two 
parts of the former to one of the latter, making a delicately colored and 
flavored jelly that many people prefer to the plain currant. 

Put the currants in the stone jar or preserving kettle, and set this in a 
larger pan of hot water. As it begins to heat, mash with a large wooden 
pestle until the currants are reduced to a pulp. Scoop up the pulp and put in 
the jelly bag to drain. This is best done the night before the jelly making 
proper begins, and the bag is then left suspended over night to drip with- 
out squeezing, which is apt to make the juice cloudy. 

When the juice is all extracted measure by pints and put into a clean 
preserving kettle. Weigh out as many pounds of sugar as there are pints of 
juice and place on shallow tins in the oven to heat. Do not allow the sugar 
to get hot enough to become dikcolpred. Boil the juice just twenty minutes 
from the time it begins to boil, then pour the heated syrup in, stirring 
rapidly all the while. As soon as it is dissolved, skim, remove the spoon, let 
the juice just come to a boil again and remove at once from the fire. Roll 
the jelly glasses sideways in hot water, then fill with the scalding liquid. 
Cool, then coat with melted paraifine or one-third paraffine to two-thirds 
wax, which will keep out the air and preserve the jelly. Seal with manila or 
writing paper, saturated with the white of egg, unless you have regular 
jelly tumblers, with glass or metal top, in which case the paraffine suffices. 
Keep in a cool, dark, dry place. 

GRAPE JAM. — For this use the smaller Concord grapes or the late 
Isabellas. Stem, weigh and wash. Measure out a pound of sugar for each 
pound of uncooked grapes. Put the grapes in a large preserving kettle with 



178 PRESERVES AND JELLIES 

just enough water to keep them from sticking on the bottom. Cook gently 
for half or three-quarters of an hour, then press through a colander fine 
enough to keep the seeds from coming through. Add the sugar, stir well 
and work gently until it drops from the spoon in a jellylike consistency. 
Skim if needed, and when as thick as you desire turn into glasses. 

BLUE GRAPE JELLY.— Use, if possible, the late Isabella grapes, 
or, if not, grapes that are underripe; any fruit that is full ripe is unfit 
for jelly; pick the grapes from the stems, wash and put in a pan or jar; 
set in a larger vessel of hot water; cook until the grapes are broken, 
then put a square of cheesecloth over a colander and set the colander over 
a bowl, turn in the grapes and let them drip without any pressure ; measure 
the juice and allow a pound of sugar for every pint of juice; put the juice 
over the fire and the sugar in shallow pans in the oven, where it will heat 
but not turn yellow; cook the juice twenty minutes, skimming all im- 
purities from it; add the sugar; stir until dissolved, remove the spoon, 
cook a moment or two longer until the liquid jellies when dropped on a 
cool plate; pour into jelly glasses and cover when cold. 

GRAPE BUTTER.— Pulp ripe or half ripened grapes and cook the 
pulp until soft enough to rub through a colander. Add the skins and cook 
until tender. Add sugar, allowing to each pound fruit a half pound sugar, 
or more if the grapes are quite green. Cook until thick, stirring often, 
then can. 

GRAPE AND ORANGE JAM.— To six pounds grapes allow two 
pounds raisins, four pounds sugar and four oranges. Cut off the thin yellow 
rind of the oranges and chop fine, together with the seeded raisins. Pulp 
the grapes and cook until soft enough to rub through a colander. Add 
to the skins, cook fifteen minutes, put in raisins, orange peel, juice and 
sugar and simmer gently until jellied. 

WILD GRAPE MARMALADE.— Take the wild green grapes, cut 
open with a sjnall knife and remove the seeds. Allow a pound of sugar to 
each pound of fruit. Put the grapes in the preserving kettle with a little 
water and boil twenty minutes. Add the sugar and cook until a drop 
poured in a cold saucer will hold its shape. Remove ai once and pour in 
cups or glasses. In putting up the winter store of jellies it is always a 
good plan to fill some small cheese pots or egg cups for use in the children's 
lunch baskets. 

GRAPE RELISH.— Pick from the stems seven pounds of grapes, 
rather under ripe, and separate the pulp from the skins. Put the skins in a 
preserving kettle over the fire, with just enough water to prevent their 
burning. Place the pulp in another kettle and cook until the seeds loosen. 
Press through a sieve and add to the skins with a half pint vinegar, three 
pounds of sugar and a teaspoonful each cloves, allspice and cinnamon. Boil 
until thick. This is fine to serve with game or roast meats. 



PRESERVES AND JELLIES 179 

PINEAPPLE MARMALADE.— Use perfectly ripe, sweet pines. 
Slice and pare, then cut into small pieces. Allow three-fourths pound sugar 
to each pound fruit, mix in granite or porcelain bowl and let stand over 
night, preferably on ice. In the morning take from ice, and cook gently for 
an hour. At the end of this time press through a fruit crusher or coarse 
sieve with a potato masher. Replace on stove and cook half an hour longer 
until clear and golden in color, and until it curls gently when the finger 
is thrust through it. Place in little pots. 

LEMON MARMALADE. — To six pounds lemons take nine pounds 
sugar. Peel the lemons, then cover the yellow parings with water and 
boil until tender. Drain and let cool, then shred the parings fine. Meantime 
halve the peeled fruit crosswise and press out juice and soft pulp. Cover the 
shells of white pulp remaining with three pints cold water, and boil one-half 
hour. Strain off this liquor and add it to the juice and soft pulp with the 
yellow rinds. Boil all together, then add the heated sugar. Boil down 
to the consistency required, and place while boiling hot in small jars or 
marmalade pots. 

ARIZONA ORANGE MARMALADE.— Wash thoroughly, using 
a scrubbing brush in the operation, one dozen oranges and half a dozen 
lemons. Slice thin and remove the seeds. Pour one gallon of cold water 
over the sliced fruit, reserving a little to cover the seeds. Soak all for 
thirty-six hours. Strain off the water from the seeds, add to the soaked 
oranges with an equal amount sugar and cook for two hours, stirring fre- 
quently. This is not as bitter as the ordinary marmalade, while the gela- 
tine of the seeds adds a richer body to the marmalade. In making any kind 
of marmalade do not allow it to overcook, which spoils the clear golden 
tint so desirable. v 

QUINCE MARMALADE.— Put the cooked pulp through a puree 
sieve, and allow three-fourths of a pound of sugar for each pound of fruit. 
Boil, stirring almost constantly until smooth and firm. Put in jars, cover 
with paraffine, and keep in a dry place. 

Quince Cheese. — This is a simple marmalade, boiled down very thick 
and packed in the small cheese pots. This can be turned out and sliced 
like cheese and is excellent for the lunch basket. 

BITTER SCOTCH MARMALADE.— Seville oranges are best for 
this marmalade, which is held in high esteem at British breakfasts. To 
make it according to an old Scotch recipe press the juice out of a number 
of oranges, then put the rinds in the preserving kettle with plenty of water 
to cover, and cook until soft, adding more water as it boils away. When 
very soft turn into a stout jelly bag and squeeze out all the jelly obtain- 
able. Mix with the uncooked juice, and to every pint allow a pound and 
a half of sugar. Cook twenty minutes, then test by dropping a little on a 
cold plate. Push your fingers through it and if it curls take from the fire 



180 PRESERVES AND JELLIES 

and pour at once into small pots or glasses. Let stand over night uncov- 
ered, then tie with brandied paper or cover with paraffin. 

PEACH LEATHER.— This is an old Virginia dainty, popular for 
the school children's lunch basket. Take a peck of ripe, freestone peaches, 
mash after peeling and pitting, then press the pulp through a coarse sieve. 
To four quarts of the pulp allow one pint soft sugar, preferably brown. Mix 
well, cook about two minutes, stirring all the time, then spread on plates 
and dry in the sun. If the weather is hot, three days will suffice. When 
the paste on the edges looks like leather and cleaves from the plate readily 
if a knife is passed around the edge, it is ready. Dust with white sugar, 
then roll up. If stored in a dry place it will keep for several months. 

ORANGE AND RHUBARB MARMALADE.— String and cut in 
half inch pieces five pounds pink skinned rhubarb. Divide twelve oranges 
in sections, removing seeds and the tough part of the skin. Put into a pre- 
serving kettle, heat slowly to the boiling point, and simmer half an hour. 
Add four pounds sugar, cook gently for two hours, then turn into glasses. 

RIVERSIDE MARMALADE.— Firm fruit of medium size, prefer- 
ably Washington navels, are the best for this attractive looking marmalade 
With a very sharp knife slice off the thick ends of six oranges and two) 
lemons, and then cut in halves longitudinally. This is easily done by rest- 
ing the flat side of the fruit on a board, holding it firm with one hand and 
slicing with the other, making half circle pieces, which look pretty in the 
finished product. Cover with two quarts cold water and let stand over 
night, in the morning bring to a boil, cook forty minutes, then add five 
pounds sugar well heated in the oven, and boil rapidly twenty minutes 
longer. If the oranges are very ripe the juice of two more oranges and 
six lemons is an improvement. 

PINEAPPLE CHIPS.— The pines should be sliced thin and pared, 
placed on dishes and covered thickly with powdered sugar. For ten days 
these dishes must be kept in a slow oven or other heated place, and the 
slices turned each day. At the expiration of this time place the slices in 
a quick oven for just ten minutes, then remove, cool and place between 
layers of paper, with powdered sugar sifted over the fruit. 

STRAWBERRY JAM.— Weigh the fruit after hulling and washing 
and allow for eacli pound a good three-quarters of a pound of sugar. Put 
the fruit over the fire in the preserving kettle and cook half an hour, stir- 
ring often. Add the sugar, boil twenty minutes longer, skim thoroughly and 
put boiling hot in air tight jars. Keep in a cool, dry place. A pint of red 
currant juice added to every four pounds of berries makes a delightful 
variation. Boil the currant juice with the strawberries. 

PEACH ENCHO. — Measure out seven pounds of peaches, peeled, 
then slice or cut in halves, three pounds and a half of sugar and a pint 



PRESERVES AND JELLIES 181 

of vinegar. Put into a porcelain or granite kettle with two tablespoon fuls 
-whole cinnamon or cassia buds and a tablespoonful whole cloves tied in a 
lace bag. Cook with the fruit until it is spiced to taste, then remove the 
bag. Cook the peaches until a^ thick as marmalade, stirring frequently,, 
and talcing care not to scorch, then put into cans and seal. 

RHUBARB JAM. — Allow to each pound cut rhubarb one pound 
sugar and one lemon. Peel the yellow rind off thin, remove the white 
part and slice the pulp into a bowl, rejecting the seeds. Cut the rhubarb into 
half inch pieces and put in the bowl on top of the lemon. Then add the 
sugar and stand away over night. In the morning empty into the pre- 
serving kettle and boil slowly for three-quarters of an hour, stirring fre- 
quently. Take from the fire, cool a little and pour into jars. Cover with 
brandied paper. 

PEACH MARMALADE. — When canning or pickling peaches, save 
the parings and the soft or unshapely pieces. If clingstones, there will be 
considerable pulp adhering to the pits. Cover these with cold water and 
simmer until soft. Rub through a sieve, then boil again twenty minutes. 
Add three-quarters of the weight in sugar, and cook, stirring often until 
thick. 

RHUBARB AND ORANGE JAM.— Wash three pounds of young 
rhubarb, the tender pink skinned kind, then cilt in pieces two inches in 
length. Put three pounds of oranges in the preserving kettle, with plenty of 
cold water, and simmer three hours. Drain and cut each in four pieces. 
Put six pounds of granulated sugar in the kettle, with just enough water to 
prevent sticking, and stir with wooden paddle until it boils. Add the 
oranges and rhubarb, stir until boiling, moving to the edge of the fire, and 
simmer fifteen minutes. Turn into glasses, but do not cover until cold. 
Then put on first a round of brandied paper, then the ordinary glass or tin 
cover, or else a thickness of absorbent cotton. This is an old English recipe. 
If one objects to its bitter taste, the orange seeds can be removed before 
cooking. 

RAISINE. — To make this famous French marmalade allow an equal 
weight of grapes and pears, cook in a little water until soft, then press 
through a colander to remove the seeds. Add the pears, cored and sliced, 
and simmer until thick, stirring almost constantly. When thick, sweeten 
to taste, scald, strain through a colander and can. 

RHUBARB AND FIG JAM.— To five pounds tender rhubarb, 
washed and cut in inch pieces, allow one pound figs (the dried), the grated 
yellow rind and juice of one lemon, and four pounds sugar. Let this stand 
all night. The next day cook slowly for an hour, then turn into glasses. 
Nuts can be added if desired. 

RHUBARB AND ORANGE MARMALADE.— Peel the /yellow 
rind from half a dozen oranges, rejecting all the bitter white. Cut the 



182 PRESERVES AND JELLIES 

pulp in small pieces, taking care that no seeds go in. Put the pulp and peel, 
cut in fine strips, in the preserving kettle, together with two pounds of rhu- 
barb cleaned but not peeled, and cut in inch pieces, and a pound and a half 
of sugar. Simmer until the orange peel is tender and the marmalade thick, 
then put in glasses or little cheese jars. 

CUCUMBER CATSUP.— Select large, nearly ripe cucumbers, peel, 
remove the seeds, chop or grate fine and measure. Place the pulp in a 
colander and sprinkle with salt, allowing a teaspoonful to each pint. Drain 
for six hours. Measure. To each quart allow two cups of cider vinegar, 
or white wine if preferred, four tablespoonfuls grated horseradish and a 
tablespoonful each minced red pepper, excluding the seeds, and white mus- 
tard seed. Bring vinegar and flavoring to a scald, skim well, then set aside 
to get thoroughly cold. Now add to the cucumber pulp, stir well, put into 
wide mouthed bottles or pint fruit cans, lay a horseradish, grape or nastur- 
tium leaf over the top and seal. Keep in a cool, dark place. 

BLACKBERRY CATSUP.— Cover mashed berries with boiling 
water, simmer fifteen minutes, press again and strain. Allow for each 
quart juice a half teaspoonful each mace, cinnamon, pepper and white 
mustard. Cook down to about a quarter of the original quantity, add vinegar 
(pure) to make strength and consistency required, then bottle and seal 
while hot. 

CHERRY CATSUP.— To each pound stoned cherries allow a pound 
of sugar. Boil together until the cherries are soft, then strain. To each 
quart of this liquor allow a teaspoonful each of mace, pepper, ginger, cin- 
namon and a half teaspoonful of cloves. Boil with the syrup and strain; 
then add to the crushed fruit that has been pressed through a puree sieve. 
Boil until thick ; reduce with strong vinegar and bottle. 

OLD FASHIONED TOMATO CATSUP.— For a good catsup 
made from the ripe tomatoes, try this: — Slice without peeling nine quarts 
tomatoes, not too ripe. Pack in a large porcelain kettle, draining off as 
much of the clear juice as possible. Add to the tomatoes four table- 
spoonfuls salt, two of allspice, one of cinnamon, three-quarters of a table- 
spoonful cloves, a teaspoonful black pepper and a half teaspoonful cayenne. 
Pour over all, three cups good vinegar. Cover the kettle and simmer gently 
on the back of the stove for three or four hours, not allowing it to stop* 
simmering. Take from the fire and let the catsup cool in the kettle. When 
cold strain and bottle, sealing closely. 

MUSHROOM CATSUP.— Break firm, fresh mushrooms into quar- 
ters. Put a layer in the bottom of an earthen vessel, sprinkle with salt, 
then add more mushrooms and more salt until all are used. Cover and 
set on the cellar floor for three days, stirring with a wooden spoon three 
times each day. At the end of this time mash to a pulp and strain through 
cheesecloth, squeezing out all the juice. Cook this ten minutes, then meas~ 



PRESERVES AND JELLIES 18S 

ure. To each pint of the liquor allow a generous teaspoonful each whole 
peppers and allspice, two slices of onion, a blade of mace, a dash of paprika, 
and a couple of bay leaves. Cook until thick, strain, cool and bottle. Seal 
tightly. 

GRAPE CATSUP. — Stem and wash five pounds grapes and cook iri 
a bowl set within a large pan of water until soft and mushy. Strain through 
a sieve to exclude seeds and coarse skins. Add one pound of sugar, a pint 
vinegar, a teaspoonful each cloves, cinnamon and allspice, and a tablespoon- 
ful pepper. Cook until a little thicker than thick cream, then bottle. 

APPLE AND TOMATO CHUTNEY.— Remove the seeds from 
two green peppers and a cup of raisins, add six green tomatoes and four 
small onions and chop all very fine. Put one quart of vinegar, one cup of 
powdered sugar and two of brown sugar, two tablespoon fuls of mustard 
seed and two of salt to boil. Add the chopped mixture and simmer one 
hour. Then add a dozen tart apples, pared, cored and quartered, and cook 
slowly until soft. Beat thoroughly and bottle. 

LEMON CATSUP.— Mix one tablespoonful grated horseradish 
with the grated rind of four lemons. Add a teaspoonful salt, the juice of 
the lemons, a dessertspoonful each white mustard seed and celery seed, a 
few blades of mace, four cloves and a dash of red pepper. Boil thirty-five 
minutes, then bottle while hot. In five or six weeks this will be ready to 
serve with fish. 

CHUTNEY. — Chutney is one of the most appetizing relishes to keep 
on hand, yet is expensive to buy. Nearly all chutneys improve with age, 
growing richer and mellower with time. As they almost never spoil, they* 
are an encouraging preparation of fruit to work with, the housewife secur© 
in the feeling that her efforts and material will not be wasted. They are 
deemed especially desirable for dyspeptics and are largely used by the Eng* 
lish residents in India as aids to digestion. 

APPLE CHUTNEY. — A simple apple chutney is made by cooking' 
together in a quart and a half of cider vinegar fourteen large, sour apples, 
ten large onions and two cloves of garlic. When soft, rub throijgh a sieve, 
steep four tablespoonfuls of mustard seed in vinegar to cover, then m^sh, 
Add this with one cupful of brown sugar, half a cup of salt, four table-, 
spoonfuls of ginger and a half pound of seeded raisins chopped fine to th^ 
apples, onions, garlic and vinegar. Beat with a wooden spoon until smooth 
and evenly blended and about the consistency of French mustard. When 
cold, put up in wide mouthed bottles and seal. An excellent way is to pour 
a very little olive oil over the top of the pickle, which shuts out alt air, the 
bearer of ferment germs and mould. Over the oil place a thin found of 
sterilized cotton or wool and over that in turn a roBnd $>f |;la?ed paper wet 
with the white of an egg. 



184 PRESERVES AND JELLIES 

GREEN PEPPER CATSUP.— Take the seeds from five pounds 
bull-nosed peppers and lay in a porcelain kettle holding about' two and a 
half quarts. Add a couple large onions chopped fine and a half table- 
spoonful each of cinnamon, cloves, allspice and mace. Pour in vinegar to 
nearly fill the kettle, and simmer three hours or longer. Rub through a 
puree sieve, cool and bottle. 

GREEN TOMATO CATSUP.— Chop fine seven pounds green toma- 
toes and four red peppers, excluding the seeds. Add one quart vinegar, and 
cook together two hours. Now add one pound brown sugar, two table- 
spoonfuls salt and two of mustard, one teaspoonful ground cloves, one 
tablespoonful cinnamon and the same amount allspice. Boil two hours 
longer, strain and seal. 

SAN DIEGO CHILI SAUCE.— To one gallon ripe tomatoes, 
peeled and sliced, allow three large onions and two green peppers chopped 
fine, three-fourths of a cup of good vinegar, one-half cupful of sugar, or 
less if preferred; three tablespoonfuls of salt and three teaspoonfuls each 
of cinnamon and cloves. Cook slowly until the consistency desired, then 
bottle. 

AUBURN CUCUMBER PICKLES.— For two hundred small cu- 
cumbers allow one coifee cup salt. Rinse the cucumbers, taking care not to 
bruise the skins. Pack in a firkin or jar, with the salt distributed be- 
tween the layers. Cover with boiling water and let stand twenty-four hours. 
Pour off the water and wipe dry on a soft towel. Put into your preserv- 
ing kettle a scant gallon cider vinegar, a full coffee cup sugar, two small red 
peppers chopped fine (excluding all seeds but two or three) one tefispoon- 
ful alum and three tablespoonfuls white mustard seed. Bring to a good 
scald and cover the pickles, which may be kept in glass cans or a stone 
jar. A horseradish or grape leaf laid over the jar will keep the vinegar 
from moulding. The use of a little sugar even with sour pickles is to be 
commended, as it gives the pickles a mellow taste and preserves the vinegar. 

CHERRY VINEGAR.— When cherries are ripe don't forget to put 
up some cherry vinegar. Mash slightly two quarts cherries and pour over 
them one quart vinegar. Pour in an earthen bowl, cover and set in a cool 
place for two days. Strain through a muslin bag, and to each pint liquid add 
three- fourths pound sugar. Place over the fire and boil fifteen minutes; 
bottle and seal. 

MANGOES. — ^These good, old-fashioned, home-made pickles, which 
our grandmothers patterned after East Indian preparations, are again in the 
height of gastronomic style, and the woman who knows how to make them 
may be sure that they will never go to waste on her hands. They may be 
made from small green melons, water or musk melons, green tomatoes, large 
cucumbers, peppers, peaches— any fruit, in fact, from which the inside seeds 
or stone can be removed, the cavity filled with a sweet or sour pickle mix- 



PRESERVES AND JELLIES 185 

ture and the opening closed so as to give the appearance of a whole fruit. 
When melons are used, cut out a wedge large enough to scoop out the 
seeds and soft portions. For peppers or green tomatoes, cut a circular 
piece from the stem end and remove the seeds. Then put the pieces in place 
again and soak over night in brine. In the morning drain, taking pains to 
keep the separated parts of the same fruit or vegetables together. For the 
filling use firm white cabbage, chopped very fine, with a quarter as much 
celery, cucumber, green tomato or green peppers. Sprinkle well with salt 
and stand aside for several hours. Drain, and to each pint of the vegetables 
add a small onion, a few nasturtium seeds, a teaspoonfut of mustard seed 
and salt, pepper, ginger, cloves, allspice and cinnamon to taste. Mix 
thoroughly, fill the cavities, packing in closely, fit in the pieces that belong 
in and wrap firmly with twine. Cover with vinegar and let the pickle stand 
over night. In the morning heat all together and simmer for half an hour. 
Remove carefully, put in a stone jar and cover with cold vinegar. The next 
morning pour off the vinegar and allow a half cup of sugar to each quart 
of the vinegar. Scald and pour over the mangoes. Repeat the scaldings 
for several mornings, and when quite cold cover and set away in a cool 
place. 

PICKLED CHERRIES.— For this you will need plump, rather tart 
cherries with the stems on. For five pounds of cherries scald together one 
quart of vinegar, two pounds of sugar, one-half ounce of cinnamon, one- 
half ounce of cloves and mace mixed, the spices tied in a thin muslin bag; 
and pour over the cherries while scalding hot. Seal at once. 

TOMATOES CANNED WHOLE.— For canning tomatoes whole, 
the best way is that advocated by Miss Parloa in Farmers' Bulletin No. 203, 
issued by the United States Department of Agriculture. For this purpose 
use eight quarts of medium sized tomatoes and four quarts of sliced to- 
matoes. Put the pared and sliced tomatoes into a saucepan and cook twenty 
minutes, taking pains not to let them scorch. Take from the fire and rub 
through a strainer. Return to the fire. While the sliced tomatoes are 
cooking pare the whole tomatoes and put into sterilized jars. Pour into the 
jars enough of the stewed and strained tomatoes to fill all the interstices. 
Put the uncovered jars into a moderate oven, placing on pads of asbestos 
or in shallow pans of hot water. Cook in the oven for half an hour. Take 
from the oven and fill to overflowing with boiling hot, strained tomato ; then 
seal. If there is any of the strained tomato left, can it for sauces. 

TO CAN CORN, PEAS AND LIMA BEANS.— Put the corn into 
a colander and let a little hot water run over it for about a minute. Then 
cut the com from the cob, scraping out as much of the juice as possible, 
but taking care not to get any of the cob. Fill the sterilized jars com-i 
pactly, working down with a silver knife until the jar is filled to within 
about an inch of the top. Allow for each quart jar three-quarters of a 
pint of hot water, in which has been dissolved a teaspoonful of salt and 
a tablespoonful of sugar. Pour into the jar over the com, then adjust the 



186 PEESERVES AND JELLIES 

lid of the jar without the rubber, so that it partly covers the can and set it 
on a rack in the bottom of a boiler. Fill the boiler with lukewarm water 
until the jars are three- fourths covered. Boil three hours, then take 
out the jars, work down the corn and fill up with more of the same liquid 
kept boiling for the purpose. Put on the rubber and screw the lid until 
airtight. Put back in the boiler, allowing the water in the boiler to com- 
pletely cover the jars. Steam one hour longer, take out the jars, cool, screw 
the lids tighter if possible, wrap each jar in brown paper and set in a cool, 
dark place. Proceed in the same way with peas and lima beans, omitting 
the sugar and the tight packing. 

CANNED TOMATOES.— Wash the tomatoes and plunge into boil- 
ing water for five minutes, when the skin will slip off without the least 
trouble. Slice into the preserving kettle, which must never be of tin, or 
•cheap worn granite, and set the kettle on an asbestos mat over the fire. 
Heat slowly to the boiling point, stirring frequently from the bottom. Have 
Tthe jars in readiness, thoroughly sterilized, and with fresh rubbers and close 
iitting tops. Fill with the scalding tomatoes, which have been allowed to 
■cook steadily half an hour from the time they began to boil, then seal. 

PINEAPPLE VINEGAR.— Pineapple parings should never be 
thrown away, as there is no finer vinegar in flavor and coloring than that 
made from pineapples. The fruit parings (fruit may also be added) should 
be placed in crocks and covered with water; sugar or syrup being added 
in quantity according to the condition of the fruit. Allow this to ferment 
-thoroughly, and when this has been accomplished — ^watched and skimmed 
meantime — ^the vinegar must be strained from the fruit and placed in jars 
•or bottles. 

RIPE CUCUMBER PICKLES.— The large ripe cucumbers make 
an excellent sweet pickle or they may be used in chow-chow. To make the 
sweet pickle, peel, take out the seeds and cut into inch pieces. Boil in 
vinegar and water, half and half, adding a little salt, until clear, but not 
"mushy." Drain. To seven pounds cucumbers allow three and one-half 
pounds of sugar and a pint strong vinegar. Let this come to the boiling 
point, add the cucumbers and just scald — no more. Take out with a skim- 
mer, and when cool pack in jars with a sprinkling of cassia buds, stick 
cinnamon, whole cloves, allspice, a few blades of mace and a few pepper- 
corns. Then pour the syrup over them and seal. A few raisins may be 
added if desired. 

CUCUMBER MANGOES.— Still another way of using the ripe cu- 
cumbers is in mangoes. Cut out a side section large enough to allow for 
scooping the seeds and soft portions. Save this piece, as it has to be re- 
sumed after the cucumber is filled ; soak the cucumbers over night in strong 
salt water ; in the morning drain and prepare the mixture for stuffing. This 
may vary according to taste and vegetables on hand. It consists usually 
of chopped cabbage and celery, onions and green tomatoes, radish pods, tiny 



PRESERVES AND JELLIES ,18,r 

cucumbers, tender string beans, green grapes and nasturtium seeds; sprinkle 
well with salt and let stand two hours ; season to taste with ground cloves, 
cinnamon, allspice, ginger, pepper and salt, then drain; mix thoroughly, fill 
the cavities, pressing in well, then adjust the pieces where they were re- 
moved and tie firmly with white cord. Put in a preserving kettle, cover with 
cold vinegar and let remain over night. The next morning heat to a scald 
and simmer gently for half an hour; take out the, mangoes and pack in' a 
stone jar, covering with cold vinegar. The next morning pour off the vine- 
gar, add sugar in the proportion of one-half cup to every two of vinegar,, 
scald and pour over the pickles; set away, closely covered, and they will 
be ready for use in a month. 

CHOPPED PICKLES OF YELLOW CUCUMBERS.— This is 

another way of using the seed of cucumbers. Peel, remove seeds and. 
chop the pulp; to every four quarts of the chopped pulp allow one quart 
chopped onions; mix in a stone jar and sprinkle over them one cup salt; 
let stand over night. In the morning drain, lay in a colander and with a 
wooden masher press out all the juice possible; then add to these vegetables 
one pint chopped celery and two green peppers seeded and chopped, two 
tablespoonfuls each grated horseradish and white pepper, a small red pepper 
seeded and chopped and two ounces white mustard seed; stir well together,, 
add enough white wine vinegar to cover, pack in jars and cover closely. 

BLACKBERRY VINEGAR.— To make the vinegar, mash the 
berries to a pulp in an earthen or stoneware vessel. Add good cider vine- 
gar to cover, and stand in the sun during the day and in the cellar over 
night, stirring occasionally. The next morning strain and add the same, 
amount fresh berries. Crush and over the whole pour the strained juice, 
and set in the sun again through the day and the cellar at night. The 
third day, strain and to each quart of the juice allow one pint water and 
five pounds sugar. Heat slowly to the boiling point, skim, and when it 
boils strain and bottle, sealing airtight. 

OLIVE OIL PICKLES.— Slice without peeling enough medium 
sized cucumbers to fill a gallon jar. Pack in layers with two- thirds cup- 
salt and let stand three hours. Drain carefully, then put in layers again, 
with two ounces white mustard seed, one ounce celery seed and two large 
onions chopped fine distributed through the layers. Add one cup olive oil. 
When all the cucumbers are used cover with good cold vinegar. These 
are ready for immediate use, but improve with standing. 

CANNED SNAP BEANS. — ^Take fresh snap beans, string and cut 
them as if for immediate use. Put a layer of the uncooked beans in the 
bottom of a crock and sprinkle over them a half cup of salt. Add another 
layer of beans, then more salt until the jar is filled, having the salt at the 
top. Cover air tight. These will keep all winter and taste almost as well 
as fresh ones in the spring. When ready to use, take some of the beansj. 
and soak over night to get off the superfluous salt. Cook like fresh beans. 





SOUTHERN EGG NOG. 

COLD drink for the season is egg 
nog, made as the Southern women 
prepare it, with rum and brandy, 
or with Madeira substituted for the 
brandy. Take a dozen eggs and 
beat the whites and yolks sepa- 
rately until very light. Add to the 
yolks twelve tablespoonfuls of sugar, 
a half pint of rum and a pint of 
brandy. This proportion of spirits 
may be modified if preferred. Now 
grate in a little nutmeg, then stir 
in slowly a quart of cream or very rich milk and a cup of cream. Just 
before stirring in the whites pour boiling water through them and off at 
once to partially cook. Serve in punch glasses and eat with a spoon, and 
offer fruit cake or a rich white cake with it. 



GINGER CRAK. — ^This is the regular old fashioned harvest drink. 
It needs to stand in a warm place a couple of days before using. Mix to- 
gether one pint pure cider vinegar, one pint sugar syrup, two tablespoonfuls 
ground ginger, two gallons soft water and one cake of compressed yeast 
softened in lukewarm water. When well mixed stand in a warm place 
for a couple of days, then bottle, tying the corks in firmly. Keep in a cold 
place. 

PINEAPPLEADE. — Peel a juicy pineapple, taking care to pick out ' 
all the eyes, and chop fine or shred with a fork. Sprinkle with sugar to 
sweeten and let it stand until the sugar is melted. Pour one quart of 
freshly boiled water over the shredded pine, add more sugar if needed and 
set away to cool. When cold, strain and serve with a few bits of fresh' 
pineapple floating on top of the glass. 

Orange Punch. — This can be made from equal portions of orange 
and lemon juice, with sugar, chopped ice, soda water and fruit. 

PINEAPPLE PUNCH WITH RUM,— Cut a pineapple in dice and 
add to it the carefully peeled and separated pulp of two grapefruits and 
one cupful of maraschino cherries. Mix together a cupful of sugar and one 
of rum, bring to the boiling point, pour over the fruit and allow it to cool. 
Turn into the freezer and frappe. This may be served as a first course at 

188 



DRINKS 189 

a luncheon, as a sherbet after the roast, or from the punch bowl as a 
beverage, in the latter case diluting with water. 

THE PERFECT CUP OF COFFEE.— There are several points 
in the making of good coffee that must be borne in mind. The coffee itself 
must be a good article and freshly roasted. The pot in which it is made( 
must be perfectly, immaculately clean. The water should be freshly boiled, 
the "sparkle" still in it. The coffee must not be boiled longer than five 
minutes and is still better if it is kept just below the boiling point. If 
allowed to stand and boil the aroma is lost, and the bitter tannic acid that 
spoils the taste and irritates the stomach is extracted. Lastly the coffee 
must be well scented and always served — excepting for after dinner-^-with 
cream, or at least hot (not boiling) milk. 

In buying coffee one is largely dependent upon the dealer, as there is 
often no choice. Most people prefer the proportion of one-third Mocha to 
two-thirds Java, but the Mocha does not always come from Arabia, nor the 
Java from the island of that name. The best coffee is fermented. The 
berry is surrounded by a pulp like a cherry or cranberry. When fermented, 
a white film is formed which no machine can take off. 

Coffee may be roasted and ground at home, if preferred; but it is now 
usually quite as well to buy the coffee already roasted, and to grind it as 
needed. 

There are several ways of making coffee, but the most common method 
is boiling. 

Allow one heaping tablespoonful of coffee to each cup of boiling water. 
Scald out the coffee pot with boiling water. Put in the amount of coffee 
needed, mixing it with a little cold water and the white of an egg, or a 
square inch of isinglass. When eggs are high, an egg shell crushed will 
answer in place of the white of egg. Shake together thoroughly, then pour 
on the fresh boiling water. Cover the spout with a little twist of paper, 
to prevent the escape of the aroma. Stir well, and push the pot on the back' 
of the stove, where it will keep hot, but not boil. Add a few spoonfuls of 
cold water, pour out a little of the coffee in a cup and back into the pot 
again, to clear the spout of the grounds, and let it stand undisturbed for 
five or ten minutes to settle. Then serve as quickly as possible, as it de- 
teriorates if left standing. 

Dip or filtered coffee is made in any double coffee pot fitted with on,e 
or more strainers. Allow one cupful coffee, ground very fine, to a quart 
of water. Measure out the coffee and heat it in a saucepan until it steams, 
stirring continually. This brings out the flavor. Then place the coffee in 
the strainer, pour the boiling water in and allow it to dip slowly through the 
coffee. Repeat this pocess a second time. Then bring the coff'ee to the 
boiling point and serve. Some claim that cold water filtered two or three 
times through the coffee and then brought to the boiling point gives the 
strongest and best flavor, but this, of necessity, takes much time and at- 
tention. 

Grape Juice Lemonade. — Make a quart of strong lemonade in the 
usual way, using a little more sugar. Add to each quart of the lemonade a 
glass of grape juice, chill and serve. 



190 DRINKS 

HOME MADE SODA WATER.— Boil together in a granite ware 
saucepan two pounds granulated sugar, three pints hot water and two 
ounces tartaric acid. At the end of five minutes put down cellar to cool. 
When cool stir in the heaten whites of three eggs and one ounce winter- 
green or sarsaparilla. Bottle. When ready to use put a tablespoonful in a 
glass half full of cold water, add a scant quarter teaspoonful soda, beat 
&nd drink while foaming. This is a staple product for the children's lemon- 
ade and soda water stands which spring into being during the summer, 
yielding a nickel harvest for some pet charity or small boy's private 
exchequer. 

TEA. — ^The first thing to remember in making the perfect cup of tea 
is the old couplet, "Unless the kettle boiling be, filling the teapot spoils the 
tea." More than this, the water must be freshly boiled, not water that has 
lost all life and effervescence with long continued boiling. An earthen pot 
freshly scalded with hot water is best for making tea. The blend of tea 
depends upon individual taste. The Ceylon and India teas are most popular 
in the Eastern and Middle States, China greens are used largely in the South 
and Southwest and Japan tea has the preference in the Northwest. Measure 
the tea, allowing a half teaspoonful to each cup boiling water, reducing the 
proportions when several cups are to be brewed and increasing if the 
drinker prefers it extra strong. Put into the hot teapot, pour in some 
of the freshly boiling, bubbling water, enough to well cover the leaves, then 
stand back on the range three minutes before pouring in the entire quantity 
of boiling water carefully measured. Let stand five minutes longer, then 
fill each cup partly full of the brew, diluting with hot water to suit the 
taste. Never allow tea to boil. It must simply infuse. Never allow the 
water to stand on the tea leaves any length of time, else the fragrant 
bouquet is dissipated and the tannin extracted. If it is to be kept hot, pour 
off in a second hot pot and cover with a cosey. 

GINGER PUNCH. — ^This is a beverage generally approved. To 
serve twenty-five, allow one quart cold water, one cupful of sugar, three- 
fourths of a pound of Canton ginger, three tablespoonfuls ginger syrup, 
three-fourths cupful orange juice, one-half cupful lemon juice and one quart 
of apollinaris water. Chop the ginger, add the water and sugar and boil 
twenty minutes. Add the fruit juice, cool, strain and then pour in the 
apollinaris, a pint at a time. In the summer cracked ice is added, but in 
winter it is not so necessary. 

CHERRY SHRUB. — Mash two quarts very ripe pitted cherries 
through a fruit press. Make a syrup of two pounds sugar and two quarts 
of water and cook five minutes. Add the cherries and the juice of two 
lemons, strain and set aside until very cold. Serve with some of the fresh 
cherries floating on the surface of the shrub. 

Pineapple Punch. — Pineapple makes an excellent and refreshing 
beverage. To the juice of six lemons and six oranges add sugar to taste, 
with sliced pineapple and a few bits of lemon peel, two quarts of water and 
chopped ice to .cool. 



DRINKS 191 

PINEAPPLE FRUICE.— It has remained for the "White Ribboners" 
of Nebraska to coin a new name for punch, which always savors of intoxi- 
cants, even though it be a strictly temperance concoction. After a number 
■of names had been proposed "fruice" was selected as most appropriate. A 
■number of women's clubs and temperance organizations have since adopted 
the name. For pineapple "fruice," therefore, grate one fresh pine or use a 
■quart can of the preserved grated apple. If it is the sliced apple, chop fine. 
Add to it one quart of any fruit syrup preferred, preserved or fresh. Red 
raspberries, cherries, strawberries and oranges are all appropriate. Add also 
the juice from a half dozen lemons or oranges, or the fruit itself sliced very 
thin. Over this pour a hot syrup, allowing a quart of water to a pound of 
sugar, increasing the amount of sugar when the fruit is quite acid. Let this 
stand three hours until all the flavors are delightfully blended, then add half 
a gallon ice water and pour over a block of ice in the "fruice" ,bowl. 

ICED TEA. — The tea that is to be used for the day's consumption 
should be made in the early morning and in just the same way that it is 
made to be served hot. The quantity depends upon the number of persons 
to be served, and in hot weather this might well be multiplied by three. 
The best blend of tea for serving cold is equal parts orange Pekoe and 
English breakfast. This blend does not lose strength in standing but ripens 
and softens in flavor. Tea must never be boiled. To make it as it should 
be, take fresh cold water, bring quickly to the "bubbling" boil, and let it 
continue several minutes. Scald out the teapot, which should be clean and 
dry, and measure into it as many level teaspoonfuls tea as cups will be re- 
quired. Pour^the furiously boiling water over the tea leaves and let steep 
on the back of the range four or five minutes, then strain off into a pitcher 
to cool. When quite cold set in the ice box. By drawing the tea off the 
leaves when just the proper strength it will be fresh and sweet, without 
the bitter taste of tannin it gets if allowed to stand too long on the 
leaves. Keep the pitcher set close to the ice or pour the tea in bottles and 
lay directly on the ice, thus offering more surface for cooling. When ready 
to serve, if the ice is above suspicion, break into pieces about the size of 
horse chestnuts, put in the glasses and pour the tea over them. If dependent 
upon the ordinary unsanitary ice, rinse the glasses out in cold water to 
make them cold, then fill with the chilled tea but no ice. Slices of lemon, 
one whole clove dropped in each cup of tea as poured, a bit of pineapple, a 
sprig of mint or a peppermint cream are among the popular additions to 
iced tea. 

Raspberry and Currant Cup. — Combine one part raspberry and two 
parts currant juice with as much water as juice and as much sugar as 
necessary to sweeten. 

MINT JULEP (For the Punch Bovirl). — In making a quantity for 
the punch bowl, prepare a syrup of a pound of sugar and a quart of water. 
Break up a dozen sprigs of mint, steep in a cupful and a half boiling water 
in a covered bowl for fifteen minutes, strain and add to the syrup. Put in 
the juice of eight oranges, eight lemons, a cup of strawberry juice and a. 



192 DRINKS 

pint of claret. Add ice water to dilute properly and pour in the punch 
bowl over a block of ice. Fresh berries and mint leaves should float on 
top of the bowl and in the individual glasses. 

LEMONADE. — In making lemonade allow thre« lemons to each 
quart of water. Scrub the lemons first to make sure they are perfectly 
clean, cut in two in the centre, and from either half cut a thin slice of the 
lemon and lay aside. Squeeze the juice from the rest of the lemon, then 
peel off several strips of the thin yellow rind and put in a small basin on 
the back of the range with a cup of water added and let it simmer to ex- 
tract some of the rich flavor of the rind. Mix sugar to taste with thei 
juice, and then pour on the requisite amount of boiling water besides the 
water in which the peel has been steeped. Stand away until cold and mel- 
low, then serve with a slice of lemon in the glass and a little chipped ice if 
desired. 

ZOOLAK. — Most digestible and assimilable of all fermented milk 
foods is the Turkish yaourt, known in this country under its Armenian 
names of zoolak or matzoon. It is prepared in the Orient from the milk of 
the buffalo or sheep, and tastes like very rich and delicious buttermilk. In 
this country it is made from cow's milk, and may be found at the best drug 
stores. It can, however, be made at home, using some of the old yaourt or 
zoolak as a starter. Zoolak differs from kumyss in the fact that although it 
is fermented it is not effervescent. 

To make it the easiest way, boil three pints of rich milk, taking care; 
that it does not scorch. Set off the fire to cool, until just a trifle hotter 
than lukewarm. Then add to it one-eighth of a cup of old zoolak, stir 
vigorously and set aside several hours until thick like loppered milk. 

This is delicious served alone in a glass, with a spoon, or it may be used 
with rice, crackers or bread or with fresh berries, if fruit is allowed. In 
typhoid it serves both as food and drink, as it does not, like kumyss, cause 
a distention of the intestines by gas. 

If one is situated so that it is impossible to get any of the old zoolak 
for a starter, it may be made in this way: — Allow to one quart of milk one 
teaspoonful of sugar and one-third of a cake of yeast. Take a half cupful 
of the milk, slightly heat it, dissolve the yeast and sugar in it and set one 
side to begin "working." In an hour's time heat the remainder of the milk 
until lukewarm and beat the yeast mixture into it. Pour in small bottles, 
cork tightly and set aside for three hours in a warm place. At the end 
of that time remove to a moderately cool place and leave for two days, 
with frequent shaking. The bottles should then be opened and their con- 
tents poured into a bowl to stand for ten or fifteen minutes until the 
effervescence has passed away. Bottle again, put on the ice to prevent 
further fermentation, and as soon as cold it is ready for use. By recooking 
it will keep several days. If it thickens too much, shake thoroughly before 
using and it will become somewhat thinner. 

FRUIT PUNCH.— Pour one cup fresh hot tea over one cup block 
sugar and let stand until the sugar is dissolved and the syrup cold. Pour 



DRINKS 193 

into a punch bowl together with three-quarters of a cup orange juice, one- 
half cup lemon juice, one pint each ginger ale and apollinaris. Just before 
serving add slices of orange. 

Grape Punch. — Add to a quart of grape juice the juice of six lemons 
and two oranges, two quarts of cold water and two cups sugar. Pour into 
the punch bowl, add sliced oranges, bits of pineapple and berries or sliced 
peaches. 

BLACK RASPBERRY SHRUB.— Select the best black caps, put 
into a jar and pour over them enough of the best cider vinegar to cover. 
Let stand for thirty-six hours, then strain through cheesecloth, squeezing 
hard enough to get all the juice. Measure the juice and allow a pound of 
sugar to every pint of juice. Cook five minutes, bottle and seal while 
scalding hot. Keep in a cool place. When you wish to serve allow two 
tablespoon fuls of the shrub to each glass very cold water. ' This makes a 
particularly fine beverage for picnics. 

"SWITCHEL."— This is a harvest or hot weather drink that can be 
made on demand. Mix together a pint molasses, two heaping teaspoonfuls 
ginger, a gallon of water and cider vinegar to make as acid as desired. 
Serve ice cold. 

LEMON GINGER BEER.— This should be made a couple of days 
before using. Put two gallons cold water over six lemons sliced thin, a 
pound and a half of sugar and a scant ounce ginger root. Let it come to 
a boil then add tablespoonful cream of tartar. Strain and set in a cool 
place. When nearly cold add a yeast cake dissolved in a little lukewarm 
water, stir thoroughly, then set in the cellar over night. In the morning 
mix well, bottle, corking air tight and lay the bottles on their sides in a 
cold place. A small bottle Jamaica ginger extract may be used in the place 
of the whole ginger if preferred. 

A TEMPERANCE MINT CORDIAL.— This is made without 
spirits. Crush a bunch of mint, rubbing each leaf with a wooden muller 
or masher, then soak for half an hour in the strained juice of two lemons 
with the carefully grated yellow rind of one. Cook together a pint of 
water and a pound of granulated sugar until the syrup spins a thread. Take 
from the fire and stir into it the lemon and the mint, the juice of an orange 
and an equal quantity of pineapple juice. Strain and put on the ice until 
cold, then serve in wineglasses with a sprig of mint and a beriy on top of 
the glass. 

OATMEAL WATER.— A particularly refreshing and wholesome 
drink for extreme hot weather is oatmeal water. To make it, put one cup 
oatmeal in a stone jar, add a cup sugar and the juice and rind of three 
lemons cut thin. Cover with three quarts boiling water, and let it stand 
until the sugar is dissolved and the water cold. Strain and place on ice. 
In the Japanese war with Russia oatmeal water was placed all over the 
Japanese ships to satisfy the thirst engendered by the heat and smoke, in 
place of the alcoholic drinks allowed the Russians. 



194 DRINKS 

Fourth of July Lemonade. — Fourth of July lemonade takes on a more 
festive appearance by the addition of a little pink coloring matter such as 
comes with many of the packages of gelatine, or a little currant, straw- 
berry or red raspberry juice. Slices of banana, strawberries cut in quar- 
ters, raspberries or pitted cherries add to the attractiveness of this favorite 
holiday beveage. 

A TEMPERANCE LOVING CUP.— Mix together the juice of five 
lemons and five oranges, one pint of strawberry syrup, one can of grated 
pineapple and one ounce apollinaris. Make a syrup of one cupful of water, 
one cupful of rather strong tea, and two cupfuls of sugar. When cold add 
to the fruit mixture, with enough water to make a gallon and one-half of 
liquid. 

This same mixture makes a good filling for the punch bowl, in which 
case a half pint of maraschino cherries, chips of orange peel or a few slices 
of red bananas or muscatel grapes cut in halves make an improvement. 

MULLED CIDER. — Put one quart of cider to boil in a granite sauce- 
pan. Beat three eggs well and add sugar enough to tone down the acidity 
of the cider about to be poured in. When the cider reaches the boiling point 
pour over the beaten eggs, stirring briskly. Return to the pan, stir until 
it boils again and serve hot in glasses. 

Red Raspberry Shrub. — Pour one quart cider vinegar over three quarts, 
raspberries. Let stand three days, mash and strain. Allow a pound of 
sugar to each pint juice, boil twenty minutes, skimming well, and bottle. 
Use a couple of tablespoon fuls to each glass of cold water. 

FROTHED CHOCOLATE.— Heat in large double boiler or sauce- 
pan set in a larger vessel of hot water two and a half quarts milk. Cook; 
in a small pan until smooth and shiny four squares of chocolate, four table- 
spoonfuls sugar, a heaping spoonful salt and four tablespoonfuls hot water 
or milk. Cook this for ten or more minutes, stirring constantly; pour into 
kettle of hot milk, and with a chocolate muddler or egg beater beat for five 
minutes. Flavor with a teaspoonful vanilla extract and a little cinnamon 
and serve in cups, pouring the hot chocolate over a spoonful of whipped 
cream in the bottom of each cup. 

LEMON GINGER PUNCH (With Mint),— The older boys (no 
age limit) like this. Make an unusually strong lemonade, using five lemons 
and a cup of sugar to each quart of water. To every quart of lemonade 
allow one quart ginger ale. Put both together in a big punch bowl, with 
a piece of ice. Have ready a number of sprigs of mint carefully washed. 
Bruise the stems and lower leaves between the fingers so as to bring out the 
flavor of the mint. Half an hour before serving put into the punch bowl. 

Buttermilk Pop. — Put a quart of buttermilk in a double boiler. When 
nearly at the boiling point add two tablespoonfuls flour rubbed smooth with 
two tablespoonfuls milk. Stir until boiling. This is excellent for nervous 
dyspepsia. 





WATER ICES. 



S sherbets and ices differ from ice 
cream in that they are better served 
soon after freezing, so creams are 
best when allowed to stand and 
"ripen." There are two methods of 
making water ice. The first is very 
simple, consisting merely of a syrup 
too sweet for drinking, flavored with 
any fruit juice preferred, then frozen. 
The second way is to boil sugar and 
water together, cool, flavor and freeze. 
As an uncooked ice is apt to melt 
quickly on exposure to the air, a tablespoonful of gelatine or the whites of 
two or three eggs are often added to each quart of juice in order to hold it. 
This slight addition converts a plain water ice into a sherbet or Italian 
sorbet. Any kind of fruit can be used in the concoction of a sherbet, but 
grapes, cherries, red raspberries, strawberries and pineapple are specially 
delicious. If liquor is added to a sherbet it becomes Roman punch. In this 
the liquor is added after it is set. 

Roman Punch. — ^To one quart or a little more than a quart of lemon 
water ice add a glass of white rum, the juice of two oranges and a small 
glass of any dry wine. 

COFFEE FRAPPE.— Coffee frappe is delicious and refreshing. It 
is served in glasses with a spoonful of whipped cream on top. A quart will 
serve twelve people. If used in a course luncheon or dinner, it follows the 
last entree and precedes the game. Pour one quart of boiling water over 
four ounces fine ground Java coffee. Cover, let it simmer ten minutes, 
strain through cheesecloth, and add six tablespoonfuls sugar. When cold 
pour into the freezer and begin to freeze. As it begins to thicken, add the 
whites of two eggs beaten to a stiff broth, freeze five minutes longer, re-, 
move the beater, cover and let it stand fifteen or twenty minutes before 
serving. 

PINEAPPLE SORBET.— Peel and cut a sugar loaf pineapple in 
small pieces. Add two cups sugar and let it stand over night in a cool 
place. Strain off the juice and press the pulp through a colander. Add to 
this a pint of water and the grated yellow rind of an orange. Mix well 
and boil, ten minutes. Take from the fire, add the juice of one lemon 

195 



196 ICES 

and two oranges and freeze. If you wish to make this a "granite," 
pack in equal quantities of ice and salt and set away two or three hours, 
scraping the frozen part occasionally from the sides of the can and 
stirring the whole long enough to mix the ice thoroughly with the 
mass, but not long enough to beat it to an even cream. Serve in dainty 
cups of china or crystal. 

MERINGUE GLACE (Or Baked Ice Cream).— Soak two table- 
spoonfuls gelatine in a quarter cup cold water for an hour, then dis- 
solve in a cup of rich milk heated just to the boiling point. Strain 
through a hair sieve into a quart of rich cream, add a cupful of sugar 
and a teaspoonful of orange or vanilla extract and freeze. When frozen 
pack in a mould and leave in the freezer for two or three hours. A 
little before serving time turn out on a stoneware dish, and cover roughly 
with a thick meringue made of the whites of five eggs beaten stiff 
with five tablespoonfuls powdered sugar and flavored with a scant tea- 
spoonful of any flavoring desired. 

Take care that the ice cream and the edge of the dish on which it 
rests are entirely covered by the meringue. Set the dish on an as- 
bestos griddle or a board in a hot oven and let the meringue brown 
delicately. It should not take more than five minutes at the outside. 
Serve at once. The cream will not be melted. This is often known 
as Alaska bake. If preferred you can serve it in individual moulds, but 
you will need to have two persons to assist in dishing, as it must be 
served as soon as it comes from the oven; When the ice cream is 
frozen hard in the freezer take out individual portions with the ordinary 
ice cream pyramid scoop, put in saucers, cover with the meringue and 
place on a board in the hot oven just a moment to color. 

VANILLA ICE CREAM (With Hot Chocolate Sauce).— Beat the 
yolks of four eggs until lemon colored and thick. Add one pound of 
powdered sugar and a quart of milk which has just been brought to the 
boiling point. Cook two minutes in a double boiler — no longer. Stir 
in the whites of four eggs, beaten until stiff, a teaspoonful and a half 
of vanilla and half a teaspoonful of almond. When cool add a quart 
(a pint will answer) of cream, freeze and pack. Just before serving 
make the hot chocolate sauce in this wayi-^Mix two ounces grated 
chocolate or cocoa with two cupfuls granulated sugar, one-half cupful 
•water, a tablespoonful and a half of bujter, and a little stick cinna- 
mon. Cook until the mixture forms a soft ball when dropped in cold 
water. Remove the stick cinnamon, add a few drops of vanilla, pour 
into a pretty pitcher and send about with the cream, to be poured over 
it. The maple sugar sauce with walnuts is a little newer than the 
chocolate, but either is so good that a choice between them is merely 
a matter of individual preference. 

Frozen Tea Sherbet.^ — Is also a refreshing ice, and one too seldom 
used. Make a quart of fine flavored tea in the usual way. Pour off, 



ICES 197 

sweeten to taste, add the juice of a half lemon and the fine sliced peeL 
Freeze. 

LEMON MILK SHERBET.— Put one quart of fresh milk, two. 
cups of sugar and the thin yellow rind from two lemons in the double 
boiler and let it come to a scald. Remove the peel and let the liquid 
cool. When cold freeze until almost solid enough to remove the beater, 
then add the juice of four large lemons, or five medium sized ones, 
mixed with three tablespoonfuls of sugar and the whites of three eggs 
beaten stiff. Mix thoroughly with the frozen mixture, then cover the 
freezer, and stir until frozen quite hard. Remove the beater, scrape 
off the ice, beat and pack closely in the can. Put a cork into the 
opening in the cover, lay the crosspiece on top to keep the can down in 
the ice, and cover with an old piece of carpeting wet in salt and water. 
Let it stand an hour and serve. If it is to be kept longer, draw off 
the water and pack with more ice and salt. 

Lemon Ginger Sherbet. — ^This is simply a lemon sherbet with four 
ounces of candied ginger sliced fine and steeped in with the lemon peel. 

MINT SHERBET.— This makes a pretty addition to a company 
dinner. Pour two cupfuls boiling water over a bunch of bruised, fresh 
mint leaves. Cover and let it stand fifteen minutes on the back of the 
stove to infuse, then add one cupful sugar. When the sugar is dissolved 
strain, cool, add two-thirds of a cupful of grape juice and a quarter 
of a cupful of lemon juice. Freeze to a mush-like consistency. Serve 
in sorbet glasses, ornamenting the top of each glass with a crystallized 
cherry and sprig of mint. 

CHOCOLATE ICE CREAM.— Sift together one cup of sugar, two 
level tablespoonfuls of flour and a half saltspoonful of salt. Add two 
eggs and beat all together. Add one pint of hot, scalded milk, turn 
into a double boiler and cook, stirring constantly until smooth; then 
occasionally for twenty minutes. Cool, then add a pint and a half of 
cream, one cup of sugar, half a tablespoonful of vanilla and two bars 
of sweetened chocolate, melted with a tablespoonful of hot water and 
mixed with a little of the cream. Add half a teaspoonful of Ceylon 
cinnamon with the chocolate or a teaspoonful of cinnamon extract, which 
gives the cream a rich spicy flavor. Freeze. 

RED RASPBERRY SHERBET.— Soak one tablespoonful of gela- 
tine in a quarter of a cup of cold water for twenty minutes, then add a 
cup and a half of boiling water and stir until dissolved. Add two cups 
of sugar, one pint red raspberry juice, or part currant and part rasp- 
berry, and the juice of two lemons. When cool freeze. 

White ' Chocolate Ice Cream.— This is simply a rich vanilla cream 
with chocolate grated coarsely into it at the last moment just before 
freezing. It will not turn dark like ordinary chocolate, but remains, 
white, with the little speckles of chocolate throughout. 



198 ICES 

PHILADELPHIA ICE CREAM— Put a quart of cream and a half 
pint of milk in a double boiler and bring to a scald. Do not boil. Melt 
a cup of sugar in the hot cream, then cool. Flavor with one tablespoon- 
ful of vanilla and freeze. 

SICILIAN SHERBET.— Boil together for five minutes one pound 
sugar and one quart of water. Beat the yolks of six eggs and add 
to the boiling syrup. Stir just a moment, then take from the fire and 
beat until cold. Have in readiness one cup mixed fruit, which has been 
soaked in a half cup sherry. When the mixture is quite cold turn into 
the freezer and freeze. Remove the beater, stir in the fruit with a 
wooden spoon and serve in punch glasses. 

Currant Water Ice. — Soak one tablespoonful gelatine in cold water 
to cover for half an hour. Pour over it one cup boiling water and 
stir until dissolved. Mix with it two cups more water, two cups sugar, 
two cups currant juice and the juice of a lemon. Freeze and serve with 
angel cake. 

RASPBERRY CREAM.— Soak a half box gelatine in cold water to 
cover for half an hour. Then stand over boiling water until dissolved. 
Add a half cup sugar and a pint of raspberry juice, strain, set in a pan 
of cracked ice and stir until thickened. Add a pint whipped cream, 
and mix thoroughly. Pour in a mould and set in a mixture of ice and 
salt to harden. 

PISTACHE ICE CREAM.— Blanch two ounces of pistache nuts as 
you would almonds, remove the skins, then pound to a paste in a mortar. 
Add to a quart of plain vanilla cream, flavor with a little orange flower 
water, then pack in ice and salt. The pistache paste may be purchased 
at the confectioner's if preferred. 

TUTTI FRUTTI ICE CREAM.— If you wish a tutti frutti ice cream 
without the trouble of making the foundation creams at home, buy a 
quart of vanilla cream and a pint of pistache cream at the confectioner's 
and pack with the fruit yourself. Ornament a two quart ice cream 
mould with candied cherries, apricots, citron, peaches, angelica, etc., 
that have been well steeped in warm Kirschwasser syrup. Over this 
spread the pistache cream, then finish filling the mould with the vanilla 
cream mixed with a gill of Kirschwasser and a half cupful candied 
fruits cut small. Close the mould tightly, putting a layer of paper be- 
tween the mould and cover, and imbed in ice and salt for at least two 
hours before using. 

Grape Sherbet. — Boil together one pound sugar and a quart of water, 
coojcipg just five minutes from the time it commences to boil. Cool, 
add a pint of grape juice and the juice of a lemon. When perfectly 
cold, freeze, turning slowly at first, then rapidly until light and spongy. 

Pomegranate Water Ice. — Take off the outer hard shell, remove the 
seeds carefully and press through a sieve. For a half dozen pome- 



ICES 199 

granates use a cupful each sugar and water. Cook the syrup and when 
cold add the fruit juice and freeze. 

Peach Sherbet. — Boil together for twenty minutes one quart of water 
and a pound of granulated sugar. Cool, add a scant pint of peach pulp, 
a teaspoonful gelatine, softened in cold water, then dissolved over the 
tea kettle and put in the juice of two oranges and one lemon. Freeze. 

LEMON SHERBET.— For which one of the best known ranches 
in Arizona is famous: — 

Six lemons, scant two quarts of water, one pint of sugar, one table- 
spoonful of gelatine. Put the water and sugar on to boil in a clean 
basin. Boil until clear, skimming if necessary. Meanwhile squeeze the 
lemons, and grate a little of the yellow peel into the juice. Dissolve one 
tablespoonful of gelatine in a small portion of cold water, heating it 
over the tea kettle. When the syrup is clear, pour into the lemon juice, 
to which the gelatine has also been added. Fi*eeze. 

The beaten white of an egg may be substituted for the gelatine to 
give body. 

Red Raspberry and Currant Ice. — ^To prepare this use the juice from 
one quart currants and a pint of red raspberries. Press through a cheese- 
cloth bag, add three cups sugar, a pint of water and a tablespoonful 
gelatine softened in a little cold water, then dissolved in boiling water. 
Freeze, using a little more salt than in freezing cream. Serve in tall 
glasses with a spoonful whipped cream on each portion and a few 
raspberries on top. 

PINEAPPLE PARFAIT.— Cook for five minutes over the fire one 
cup granulated sugar and a quarter cup water. Beat the yolks of six 
eggs until lemon colored and thick, then add the syrup little by little, 
constantly beating. Cook in a double boiler until the custard coats the 
spoon, then strain and beat until cold. Add two cupfuls pineapple pulp 
pressed through a sieve and fold in a pint of cream whipped stiff. Pack 
and bury in the ice and salt mixture. , 

WHITE OR ANGEL PARFAIT.— This is a recipe given by the 
manufacturers of one of the latest and best of the four minute ice cream 
freezers. The amounts given make a quart of the parfait. Boil together 
until the syrup threads one cup sug^ar and one-third cup boiling water. 
Pour slowly into the stiflfly beaten whites of two eggs and beat until 
cold. Whip to a stiff froth one pint double cream and fold into the egg 
mixture. Flavor with a scant tablespoonful vanilla extract or half a 
vanilla bean steeped in the syrup. Pour into a mould and pack in 
equal measures ice and salt. Let stand four hours. When ready to 
serve garnish with violets, fresh or candied, or rose leaves. 

Violet Parfait. — ^This is made the same as the white parfait, using 
one-third cup grape juice instead of the boiling water, and adding half 
a cup grape juice and the juice of half a lemon to the cream before 
beating. 



200 ICES 

VANILLA PARFAITv— Cook a half cup each sugar and water over 
tke fire until it threads. Do not stir after the sugar has dissolved. Beat 
the whites of three eggs until very stiff, pour the syrup slowly over it, 
beating constantly. Flavor with vanilla, and when cold fold in a pint 
of cream whipped stiff. Four into a mould and pack. 

FROZEN PUDDING.— Cook until the syrup will spin a thread one 
cupful each water and sugar. Have ready the well beaten yolks of 
four or six eggs, stir into the cooked syrup, little by little, and return 
to the fire. Cook until quite thick, beat until cool, then add a level 
tablespoonful gelatine that has been soaked for half an hour in two 
tablespoonfuls milk or water, then softened over the tea kettle. Beat 
again until thick, add one pint cream that has been scalded and cooled 
or whipped, put in one cupful ground almonds, one-half cupful seeded 
raisins or currants (or a cupful canned pineapple), and freeze. When 
ready to pack in a mould or in a freezer add one pound candied fruit 
cat in small pieces. Let' stand a couple of hours to ripen, then serve. 

MISS DANIELS' CUSTARD ICE CREAM.— Beat the yolks of six 
eggs lightly, add to them one quart of fresh milk and one cup of sugar, 
put in the double boiler and cook to a smooth custard. As soon as the 
mixture coats a spoon take from the fire and strain. Set away to cool. 
When quite cold add one pint of cream, more sugar if desired, and a 
tablespoonful of flavoring. When the freezer is ready for the cream to 
be turned in, add the beaten whites of the eggs and freeze. If the ice 
cream is to be moulded one tablespoonful of gelatine soaked half an 
hour in one-half cup of milk reserved from the custard should be added 
when the custard is done. 

STRAWBERRY PARF AIT.— Hull, wash and drain some firm, sweet 
berries. Press through a strainer enough to give about two-thirds of a 
cup of pulp. Cook together in a granite saucepan one cupful granu- 
lated sugar and a half cupful water until it spins a thread. Do not stir 
while cooking. Whip two whites of eggs stiff, then pour the hot syrup 
over them and continue beating until the mixture is cold. As it thickens 
add the crushed berries a spoonful at a time. Have ready a pint of 
cream whipped to a solid froth, stir lightly into the egg and berry 
mixture, then pack in a covered mould- and bury in ice and salt, equal 
proportions, leaving it for several hours. 

HELDERBERG ICE CREAM.— Put one cup of milk in a double 
boiler and bring it to a scald. Add one teaspoonful of arrowroot dis- 
solved in a tablespoonful of cold milk and cook ten minutes. Sweeten 
with one-half cup of sugar. When cold add one pint of cream and 
flavor delicately with vanilla, strawberry or orange. Freeze. 

PEACH ICE CREAM. — ^Take two quarts ripe peaches, peel and 
press through a puree sieve. Make very sweet — the exact quantity of 
sugar cannot be given, as it depends on the acidity of the fruit. Crack 
six peach kernels, mash fine, and add to the pulp, together with a quart 
rich milk or thin cream. Freeze. 




CHICKEN BROTH.— Clean 

and cup up a fowl into inch pieces, 

removing all fat. Break the bones. 

Cover all with cold water, heat 

slowly and simmer gently until 

the meat is tender. Strain, cool, 

and remove any remaining fat. 

When needed reheat and season with salt and pepper. If you wish' 

to use it as a jelly, clear by cooling with the white of an egg for five 

minutes then skim well. Strain into cups to chill and mould, 

MKRINGUED TOAST.— Dip a freshly toasted slice of bread into 
boiling water slightly salted, and lay in a deep saucer. Pour over it 
a sauce made of one-half cup scalding milk, a teaspoonful butter and the 
stiffly whipped white of one egg, the latter stirred in just as taken from 
the fire. Set in the oven for four or five minutes tmtil delicately 
browned. 

Mulled Cider. — Heat sweet cider to the boiling point. Thicken with 
flour stirred smooth in a little cold water, allowing a tablespoonful flour to 
each quart of the cider. Sweeten and spice to taste and serve hot. This 
is an old Quaker drink, used to break up an incipient cold. 

ORGEAT.— This is a favorite Southern remedy in case of feverish 
colds. Boil one quart milk with a two inch stick cinnamon in a double 
boiler. When it comes to a fair boil, remove the cinnamon and let the 
milk cool. Blanch a half cup sweet almonds and when cold pound in 
a mortar with orange flower or rose water to make a paste. Sweeten 
the milk to taste, then cook the paste in it for a few moments only. 
Strain out the almonds, leaving the milk creamy. Cool, then pour in 
glass jars or bottles and keep on the ice. Serve very cold. 

PANADA. — ^Toast two half slices stale bread, lay in a china bowl. 
Sprinkle with a tablespoonful white sugar, a little salt and and cinna- 
mon or nutmeg to taste, then pour on a scant cup, of boiling water. 
Cover with a plate and set in open oven ten or twelve minutes; then 
serve. Boston crackers can be used in place of bread. In this case, 
split, toast, season and let stand twenty minutes in the hot water. 

201 



202 DISHES FOR INVALIDS 



DAINTY DESSERTS (For the Nursery or Invalid's Tray).— The 

first consists of an apple cored and carefully baked, set on a pretty 
saucer, then covered with whipped cream or the white of an egg beaten 
stiff with a little sugar. The other digestible and simple dessert is 
apple toast. To make it, toast bread in the oven until crisp throughout, 
but not blackened. Place the slices in the bottom of a colander set 
within another dish, turn boiling water over each slice, drain immedi- 
ately and serve hot in a pretty plate with sweetened apple sauce about 
the consistency of marmalade spread over each slice. The sauce may 
also be made from dried apples or apricots or stewed peaches. Still 
another nourishing and pretty way of serving apple sauce is to stew 
the apples quickly so that the sauce is white and tender. Strain through 
a puree sieve, then beat up with the white of an egg already beaten 
stiff. Add sugar and flavoring to taste and pile lightly in a glass dish. 

GRUELS. — Gruels properly made and daintily served are invaluable 
where food is required that shall quench thirst and satisfy hunger with- 
out overloading the stomach or affording too great a stimulant. The 
difference between gruels and porridges is but one of a degree, the por- 
ridges being thicker than the gruels. Both are cooked mixtures of 
various grains or flours made with water or milk. They require long 
and thorough cooking to make them digestible. This should be done 
in a double boiler to avoid scorching. Gruels may be served "hot or 
cold, but should be always freshly made. Of the flour, arrowroot, corn- 
starch and rice flour, use two level teaspoonfuls dissolve.d with a little 
cold water to a smooth paste and one saltspoon of salt to a pint of 
boiling water. Cook two hours. Oatmeal should be cooked from five 
to eight hours unless it is to be strained, as the cellular tissue is very 
irritating in diseases of the intestines or in any case of weak digestion. 
For foods that have already been partially cooked, like farina, stir one 
tablespoonful of the food and one saltspoonful of salt into a full cup 
of boiling water and cook twenty minutes. Add a cup of milk and 
heat thoroughly. Barley gruel is excellent in gastric troubles or fevers. 
Cook one ounce of pearl barley in enough hot water to cover well for 
two minutes. Pour off the water, add one quart of cold water and cook 
slowly for two hours. Strain, salt to taste and sweeten or flavor slightly 
if desired. ^ 

Egg Gruel. — Egg gruel is made as follows: — To the yolk of one egg, 
well beaten, add one teaspoonful of sugar, and pour over it one cupful 
hot water, beating very rapidly. Add the well beaten white of the egg 
and again beat until foamy. Serve very hot. Spice or a few drops of 
liquor may be added to this under the doctor's orders. 

Oatmeal Gruel. — For oatmeal gruel pound one cupful of the meal until 
fine. Pour over it a cupful of cold water and let it stand until settled. 
Strain off the water into a saucepan. 



DISHES FOR INVALIDS 203 

Four over the meal another cup of cold water, stir well and again 
strain. Repeat this operation four times. Then boil the four cups of 
strained water thirty minutes, add one saltspoon of salt and serve very 
hot. Beef tea, milk or cream may be added. 

Apple Water. — Roast several apples of fine flavor and put into a 
pitcher. Pour on boiling water and let stand until cold. This will be 
found very grateful in case of a feverish cold. 

MILK PORRIDGE.— Put into a double boiler one cupful of milk" 
and heat to the boiling point. Stir two tablespoonfuls flour smooth in 
another cupful cold milk, then add to the scalding milk, little by little, 
stirring all the time, until smooth and thickened. Cook over the hot 
water for half an hour and salt to taste just before removing from the 
fire. 

MUTTON BROTH.— One pound lean, juicy mutton chopped fine, 
and one pint cold water. Let stand half an hour, then heat slowly, 
and simmer half an hour. Strain, season and thicken with a little rice 
flour stirred smooth in cold water. Serve very hot. If little globules 
of fat appear on the surface of the broth they can be removed with a 
bit of soft tissue paper. 

BEEF TEA. — This should always be prepared at home, unless one 
has access to a first class diet kitchen. 

Take one pound of the round of beef, remove every scrap of fat 
and chop very fine. Cover with one pint of cold, soft water, and stand 
aside an hour. Then place in a jar in the oven or a kettle on the 
back of the stove and heat to a moderate degree — not much warmer than 
you could bear your hand in, say 165 degrees, at the outside. Strain 
through a colander, not a strainer. If care has been taken in the 
preparation, it may be served at once, simply salted with ordinary salt or 
celery salt. It is better, however, to let it stand several hours in a cold 
place, to let every bit of fat rise to the surface. Remove this in a solid 
cake if there is much, or with a clean piece of blotting paper. If 
necessary to reheat, take pains not to let the temperature rise above 
the 165 degrees. If it approaches the boiling point, and the albumen 
coagulates, it is spoiled. If it is necessary to give beef tea to a patient 
several times daily it is wise to vary the flavor from time to time, so 
that the invalid does not tire of it. This may be done by means of 
a bay leaf or a flavoring of some vegetable, straining them out before 
serving. For the patient who rebels against the sight of beef tea, un- 
less overcooked, which causes it to lose its bright color, or unless 
strained through a fine sieve, which removes the brown flakes, which 
are the best part of the broth, get a red wine glass and give him his 
tea in that. 

SPONGE CAKE. — A good sponge cake served with sweet cream 
or a glass of milk is an excellent lunch for an invalid. Sift together two 



204 DISHES FOR INVALIDS 

cups of pastry flour, one teaspoonful cream of tartar and a scant half 
teaspoonful of soda. Beat four eggs until light, add one-half cup cold 
water, a cup and a half powdered sugar, two tablespoonfuls lemon juice 
and the sifted flour. Beat light and bake in a very moderate oven. 

Rice Coffee. — Brown rice in a spider as you would coffee. Grind 
and add two tablespoonfuls of the rice to a pint of boiling water. Put 
in a hot place ten minutes, keeping just below the boiling point, then 
serve with sugar and cream. 

Egg Nog.— Beat the yolk of an egg light, add a wine glass of sherry 
and a cup of new milk. When well mixed stir in the stiffly whipped 
white of an egg, a spoonful at a time. A teaspoonful sugar may be 
beaten in with the yolk if preferred, and a grating of nutmeg added 
for seasoning. 

ICE CREAM FOR THE INVALID.— A novelty is a tiny ice 
cream freezer in which a pint of any frozen dainty may be made. While 
these are popular, as used by college boys and girls to supplement 
their chafing dish spreads, they are still more useful in the sick room. 
Failing the real freezer, a one pound baking powder can set in a 
larger dish will do very well. Be sure, however, that the tin does not 
leak. Put into a bowl two teaspoonfuls of sherry wine, a teaspoonful 
of powdered sugar and half a cupful of cream, and beat together until 
the mixture begins to thicken, but not until like whipped cream. Pour 
this into the sterilized baking powder can or freezer. Fit the lid on tightly 
with a piece of manila paper between the lid and the top of the can. 
Place in the larger vessel of tin or wood, and fill up the space with 
crushed ice, mixed with common salt. Turn the small can for about five 
minutes, then set away in a cold place. In a short time it will be frozen 
and your invalid will have a saucer of delicate and delicious cream. 
If preferred, fruit juice or coffee may be used in place of the wine. 
A little more sugar will then be required. 

COOLING DRINKS FOR FEVERISH COLDS.— With la grippe 
and feverish colds prevalent, cooling drinks are in demand. Chilled 
fruit juices are always acceptable whether they be from the juice of dried 
fruits soaked over night, then cooked in the same water, tart homemade 
jellies dissolved in a glass of cold water, allowing a tablespoonful of 
jelly to a glass of water, or the juice of lemon, limes, oranges or 
grape fruit diluted with water and sweetened to taste. One patient finds 
nothing more acceptable than the juice of an orange squeezed in a 
glass the same as lemon for lemonade. Another finds appleade the most 
refreshing. To prepare it peel and quarter a tart apple, cover with water 
and cook until tender. Press to a pulp while hot, sweeten slightly, then 
cool and strain into a glass of cold water. The water in which rice 
has been cooked, when strained, cooled and slightly sweetened or lightly 
salted, is both nourishing and cooling. The addition of lemon juice 



DISHES FOR INVALIDS 205 

makes an Oriental drink greatly in demand in case of cold or hxet. 
Oyster broth made with milk and chilled is often relished. 

The peculiar acid of buttermilk appeals to many palates, while with 
others oatmeal water stands first. To make the latter put one cup 
oatmeal in a stone jar with a cup of sugar, the juice and thin yellow 
rind of three lemons. Cover with three quarts boiling water and let stand 
until the sugar is dissolved. Strain and put on the ice. 

PRUNE PUFF.— Add to the unbeaten white of one fresh egg, as 
you begin beating, a teaspoonful of cooked, sweetened and finely 
chopped prunes. As you continue to beat, add more prunes, until you 
have added two tablespoonfuls in all. Add a half tablespoonful lemon 
juice and beat until very stiff. Cook in slightly buttered cups filled 
two-thirds full, set in a pan of hot water, or eat simply chilled and not 
cooked. 

Lime Water and Milk.^ — Pour one gallon cold water over a lump of 
unslaked lime about the size of an egg. Let it stand over night to 
settle, then pour off the clear water. Mix as required with an equal 
quantity of milk. 

TEA BREWED IN MILK.— It is said that many patients who can- 
not drink tea made in the ordinary way find that it agrees with them 
when brewed with milk instead of water. Scald out the teapot so 
that it will be hot when the tea is added. Put in the tea leaves, a scant 
teaspoonful or less, and cover with a little hot milk just brought to the 
boiling point but no more. Let it stand for two or three minutes, then 
add more of the hot milk and use at once. 

BROILED FROGS' LEGS.— Select the largest legs for broiling. 
Wash and wipe with a cloth and trim off the bones of the claws with 
a pair of scissors. Prepare a marinade of three tablespoonfuls of the 
best olive oil, the juice of a lemon, a half teaspoonful of salt, and pepper 
or not, according to taste. Roll the legs in this mixture, then lay them 
on a double oyster broiler and broil to a rich, even brown, five minutes 
to a side. Slip on a hot plate and spread with a sauce made by mixing 
a teaspoonful of minced parsley with a tablespoonful of butter and a 
tablespoonful of lemon juice. 

CHOPS, FISH AND BIRDS (In Paper Cases).— Chops, birds and 
dry fish are most delicious when broiled in paper. A sheet of foolscap 
paper is spread with either olive oil or butter (I should always give 
preference to the former), then the article to be broiled, salted and 
peppered, should be laid on the lower half and the upper part folded 
over with the edges together. Begin at the edge and fold over the 
lower side and ends several times, pinching together close to the meat. 
Place in a wire broiler, and broil eight or ten minutes over a steady, 
slow fire, turning often. The paper will char a long time before ignit- 



DISHES FOR INVALIDS 

ing, and the contents will be basted in their own juices. When the 
paper is well browned the chop or bird is done to a juicy, delicate and 
digestible turn. Serve in its envelope, which conserves the heat and 
juices to the very minute of serving. A few crispy sprigs of watercress 
add to its attractiveness and digestibility. The large filet of chicken 
"broiled in this way is delicious and easy of assimilation. Squabs or 
tjuails should be split down the back and wiped dry before broiling. 
A tenderloin of steak may also be broiled in paper. 

CALIFORNIA BROWNED CORN.— Another timely and delicate 
dish for the invalid's tray is corn fried in California style. Cut the 
kernels from the cob, scraping as cut, so that it will be milky, but not 
cutting too close to the cob. Have a sheet iron frying pap piping hot, 
with a little salt sprinkled in it, and left just long enough to brown. 
Put the corn into the pan, pressing the kernels with a spoon so as to 
extract the milk. In just a moment it will begin to brown in its own 
juice. Keep stirring, and when well browned add water, a tablespoonful 
at a time, pressing with spoon until the corn begins to stick. Then add 
another spoonful until two or two and a half have been added for each 
ear of corn used. This makes the delicious gravy. Keep stirring all 
the time the corn is cooking, as it scorches easily. 

Raw Beef Sandwiches. — Scrape fine a small piece of juicy, fresh 
tender raw beef, season well with salt and pepper and place between 
slices of hot, crispy toast. 

BROILED SWEETBREADS.— The throat sweetbreads are consid- 
ered best. Parboil, then blanch in cold water made acid with lemon 
juice. Wipe dry, then brush with olive oil and broil over a clear fire 
until well browned. Season lightly with salt, and, if the physician ap- 
proves, a sprinkling of pepper, being sure, however, that the pepper is 
pure. 

BROILED BEEFSTEAK. — Lean beef, carefully broiled, yields a 
great amount of nourishment. As the convalescent progresses toward 
recovery he is usually allowed steak broiled in the ordinary way, but 
when the digestion is seriously impaired and the least expenditure of 
vital force is a desideratum, there is nothing so easy of assimilation as 
the steak meat balls. Select a thick piece of round or sirloin, and with 
a dull knife scrape with the grain of the meat, leaving all the stringy 
white fibre behind. Roll the pulp up into balls about the size of a 
marble. Have the frying pan smoking hot, sprinkle a little salt in it 
and shake until brown. Then lay in three or four balls, and with a 
spoon keep them rapidly rolling and turning for just a minute or two. 
The salt gives them an appetizing flavor, while they will be rare inside 
and delicately brown outside. Prepared in this way they can be digested 
by the weakest stomach. In some cases a patient has to be restricted to this 
diet alone and the drinking of hot water an hour before meals, with the 
result that great improvement follows speedily, if not convalescence. 



DISHES FOR INVALIDS 207 

Where the patient is allowed steak regularly broiled, care should 
be taken to avoid all flame in broiling, as that causes a deposit of coal 
tar on the meat, giving it a smoky, nauseating flavor. It should be 
.broiled over a clear fire of coals or gas. After the first searing on each 
side it may be turned as often as ten can be counted. In this way 
the juices flow to the centre and are there retained. As the juices 
of the meat become converted into steam they expand, giving the meat 
a puffy appearance, which should not be lost. Steak an inch thick will 
require from five to twelve minutes. Have the plate which is to 
receive it hot, sprinkle with salt, put on a bit of butter and serve at 
once with a mealy baked potato, done just "to a turn," and a few sprigs 
of watercress. 

VENISON. — ^This is one of the most easily digested meats, and 
may be cooked the same way as beef or mutton. It should always be 
rare and served with a little currant jelly. For the invalid it is best 
roasted or broiled with or without the paper case. 

BROILED MACKEREL. — Remove the head and dark skin from 
inside the fish. Wash thoroughly and wipe dry. Split so that when 
laid flat the backbone will be in the middle. Oil the bars of the grid- 
iron and broil over a clear fire, browning the flesh side first. 

SCORCHED CODFISH.— Select a thick square piece of nice salt 
fish and toast over a clear fire until lightly browned on either side. 
An invalid will frequently relish this when richer or more elaborate 
viands will not seem "to go near the right place." 



$5 XMAS DINNER FOR SIX 
PLATES. 

Here is a Christmas menu tra- 
ditionally Englisli in its main fea- 
tures, but embellished with a few 
up to date American frills. The 
entire cost of it is covered by one 
of Uncle Sam's five-dollar bills: — 

Grape Fruit or Oyster Canapes. 

Pickled Pears (home made). 

Celery. 

Oxtail or Mock Turtle Soup. 

Roast Green Goose with Apple 

Sauce, or Roast Sirloin of Beef 

with Browned Potatoes and 

Yorkshire Pudding. 

Mashed Irish Potatoes or Baked 

Sweet. 

Boiled Onions with Cream Sauce. 

Roman Punch (home made). 

Roast Pigeons. 

Orange and Endive Salad. 

Pippins and Cheese. 

Plum Pudding with Brandy Sauce. 

Syllabub. Nuts Raisins. 

Coffee (demi-tasse). 

Oyster Canapes. 

Appetizers served in the form 
of canapes or bouchees are con- 
sidered excellent form in intro- 
ducing the course dinner. As they 
are usually served cold they may 



be prepared the day before. They 
are served on small plates placed 
at each cover. The usual foun- 
dation for these is circles of white 
bread about the size of a silver 
dollar, fried in butter to a delicate 
brown on either side. After fry- 
ing lay on a soft paper to absorb 
every particle of grease. 

To serve six people cut twelve 
selected oysters in small pieces 
and mix with two tablespoonfuls 
horseradish, one heaping table- 
spoonful each chopped green cu- 
cumber pickles and olives, and 
season with lemon juice and pap- 
rika. When the toast is cold, 
spread with the mixture, cover 
with mayonnaise made with lemon 
juice instead of vinegar, and serve 
cold. 



To Prepare the Grape Fruit. 

Cut the fruit in halves, midway 
between the stem and blossom 
ends. With a sharp pointed knife 
loosen the flesh of the fruit from 
the skin without breaking, remove 
the seeds with scissors, reach down 
and snip out the hard centre core 
that holds the white membrane sur- 
rounding the pulpy sections. It 
then may be all removed together. 

Fill the spaces thus created with 



208 



MENUS 



209 



a little sugar and teaspoonful of 
grape juice or sherry wine, add a 
maraschino cherry and serve on 
small plates. 

Syllabub. 

No Southern housewife would 
consider her Christmas dinner 
complete without a big dish of 
syllabub. This is simply chilled 
cream sweetened in the propor- 
tion of two tablespoonfuls finely 
powdered sugar to each cup cream, 
then flavor with sherry or other 
sweet wine, whipped into a froth 
and pour over calves' foot jelly. 

This jelly may be made from any 
of the quick process gelatine pow- 
ders, though it is undoubtedly more 
nourishing when made at home 
under the watchful eye of the 
housewife. 

Procure your calves' feet, scald 
and clean them thoroughly, split, 
break the bones and put over the 
fire in a kettle, with four quarts 
of cold water. Heat slowly, skim, 
then simmer gently until the broth 
has been reduced to about three 
pints. This will take several hours. 

Strain and set aside until cold, 
when the fat can be readily re- 
moved. Return to the kettle with 
one cup sugar, the juice and grated 
yellow rind of two lemons, a 
blade of mace and three sticks of 
cinnamon each an inch long. Put 
over the fire and as it begins to 
heat add whites of three eggs 
beaten and their crushed shells. 
Cook five minutes until a thick 
scum has risen. Remove, then 
add one pint wine and strain 
through a napkin into a shallow 
dish. When ready to serve, cut 
into blocks and pile up lightly in 
a pretty glass dish. 



NEW YEAR'S DINNER FOR 
EIGHT PERSONS COSTS $4. 

Fileted Anchovies or Sardines, 

with Lemon. 

Celery. 

Cream of Tomato Soup. 

Roast Turkey or Guinea Fowl 

(eight pounds). 

Cranberry Jelly. 

Sweet or Irish Potatoes. 

Chicory or Endive Salad, with 

French Dressing. 

Mince Pie (home made). 

Ice Cream (three pints). 

Cakes. Coffee. 

Bread, Butter, &c. 

When the fowl comes home from 
the butcher's you will in all proba- 
bility find it dressed, and with the 
liver, gizzard and heart returned 
to ■ the inside. After removing all 
the little feathers that may have 
escaped notice when the fowl was 
plucked hold over the gas flame or 
a twisted newspaper lighted in the 
fire box of the coal stove and singe. 
Next remove the red parts — the 
lungs that cling to the ribs — and 
throw them away. 

Cut the oil bag carefully from 
the tail and take out every particle 
of it, as it imparts a strong odor. 
Turn the skin back at the neck and 
cut off the neck close to the body. 
Draw' out the tendons from the. 
drum sticks with a fork or a dull 
pointed skewer. This makes the 
flesh of the drumstick much more 
tender. 

All the fat from the inside of 
the fowl should be removed, for 
in a turkey, goose or duck it is 
too strong for cooking. All chicken 
fat should be saved and tried out, 
as it makes a most delicate short- 
ening, or it may be used in making 



210 



MENUS 



a mayonnaise dressing. After the 
fowl is well cleaned, wash thor- 
oughly inside and out, then rinse 
and dry. The giblets should be 
well cleaned, and then cooked in 
a saucepan with boiling salted 
water until tender, when they may 
be chopped and added to dressing 
or gravy, as preferred. If they are 
to be used in the dressing cook 
several hours beforehand. 

Stuffing for Fowl. 

The stuffing for a fowl of what- 
soever sort may be a plain bread 
variety, seasoned with parsley, 
onion, a little celery and salt and 
pepper; a chestnut stuffing, one of 
oysters, olives, mushrooms, or the 
giblets with the bread. A little 
sausage or fat salt pork mixed 
with bread makes a rich dressing. 
One of the best dressings is the 
dry Philadelphia stuffing. 

Dry Philadelphia Stuffing. 

To make this dressing, which is 
never soggy or heavy, as wet 
dressings are apt to be, but falls 
apart like well cooked rice when 
served, use two quarts of stale, 
finely crumbed bread. Season with 
two even tablespoonfuls salt, a 
heaping teaspoonful pepper, two 
teaspoonfuls each powdered sum- 
mer savory and minced parsley 
and one of powdered sage. Rub a 
cupful of butter through the bread 
crumbs; then, having dusted the 
cavity of the bird with salt and 
pepper and a little poultry season- 
ing or sage, stuff full and sew up. 
Push the legs close to the body 
and draw the wings back so that 
the breast may stand out plump 
and fair, affording the carver an 



easy task. Rub a tablespoonful salt 
over the bird, brush over with 
olive oil or melted butter, dredge 
with flour, lay breast down in the 
dripping pan and roast in a medium 
hot oven, basting frequently. If 
too hot protect the bird with a 
thick sheet of buttered paper or 
the paraffine paper that comes al- 
ready prepared. Allow ten minutes 
to the pound for roasting after the 
first twenty minutes. 

Yuletide Wedding Menu. 

For a large wedding refresh- 
ments should be passed from the 
dinner table, which should be ar- 
ranged as charmingly as possible. 
Spread your finest cloth and in the 
middle lay a pretty centrepiece and 
on this arrange a vase of scarlet 
poinsettas or holly. Radiating 
from this, star fashion, have holly 
branches. Use candles with holly 
shades. 

A simple menu might be bouil- 
lon served in cups, two kinds of 
sandwiches — ham and olive; lob- 
ster salad, ice cream served in 
flower or fruit shapes, fancy cakes, 
bonbons and coffee. 

Another good menu at this time 
would be creamed oysters, then 
cold turkey with a spoonful of 
cranberry jelly and a stalk of 
dressed celery on each plate, fol- 
lowed with a sweetbread, letuce 
salad and hot finger rolls. 

The next course would be ice 
with cake and fruit, followed by 
the black coffee. 

On a table at one side of the 
room have a large bowl of claret 
or fruit punch, with a ladle and 
glasses ready for guests to help 
themselves. Wreathe this bowl 
with Xmas greens. 



MENUS 



211 



MENUS FOR A WEEK 
THE SPRING. 



IN 



SUNDAY. 

Breakfast. 

Grape Fruit. 

Cereal. 

French Omelet. 

Rice Cakes, Maple Syrup. 

Coffee. 



Dinner. 

Oysters on the Half Shell. 
Olives. Radishes. 

Roast Veal with Dressing. 
Mashed Potatoes. 

Fried Egg Plant. 
Endive Salad. 
Rhubarb Pie. Cheese. 

Black Coffee. 

Supper. 

Baked Bean Salad. Devilled Eggs. 

Whole Wheat Bread and Butter. 

Lady Baltimore Cake. 

Custard. 

Tea. 



MONDAY. 

Breakfast. 

Cereal Cooked with Dates. 

Scrambled Eggs and Parsley. 

Creamed Potatoes. Toast. 

Coffee. 

Luncheon. 

Potato Cakes. Cold Veal. 

Corn Bread. Cookies. 

Orange Marmalade. 

Tea. 



Dinner. 

Cream of Potato Soup. 

Broiled Steak with Parsley Butter. 

Baked Potatoes. 

Asparagus on Toast. 

Young Beets and 

Beet Green Salad. 

Poor Man's Pudding. 



TUESDAY. 

Breakfast. 

Oranges. Cereal. 

Finnan Haddie, Watercress. 

Popovers. Coffee. 

Luncheon, 

Veal Olives. Baked Potatoes. 

Boiled Rice, Maple Syrup. 

Tea. 

Dinner. 

Tomato Soup. 

Olives. Gherkins. 

Braised Veal Cutlets with Currant 

Jelly. 

Parsnip Fritters. 

Sweet Potatoes. 

Asparagus Salad. 

Sliced Pineapple. Cake. 

Coffee. 

WEDNESDAY. 

Breakfast. 

Evaporated Apple Sauce. 

Cereal. 

French Omelet. Wheat Muffins. 

Coffee. 

Luncheon. 

Clam Chowder. 

Brown Bread and Butter. 

Pickles. .Gingerbread. Tea. 



212 



MENUS 



Dinner. 

Cream of Asparagrus Soup. 

Filet of Flounder. 

New Potatoes with Parsley Butter 

Stewed Tomatoes. 

Lettuce Salad. 

Cottage Pudding. 

Coffee. 



THURSDAY. 

Breakfast. 

Oranges. Cereal. 

Eggs a la Caracas. 

Rice Cakes. Coffee. 

Luncheon. 

Hamburger Steak. 

Baked Potatoes. 

Lettuce with French Dressing. 

Raisin Cake. Baked Rhubarb. 

Tea. 

Dinner. 

Vermicelli Soup. 

Radishes. Pickles. 

Pork and Parsnip Stew. 

Pineapple Shortcake with 

Whipped Cream. 

Black Coffee. 



Dinner. 

Cream of Celery Soup. 

Broiled Shad. 

Creamed Potatoes. Oyster Plant. 

Endive Salad. 

Tapioca Pudding with Meringue. 

Coffee, 



SATURDAY. 

Breakfast. 

Bananas and Oranges. 

Cereal. 

Ham and Eggs. 

Graham Gems. Coffee. 

Luncheon. 

Frizzled Beef. Cream Toast. 

Currant Tarts. 

Tea. 

Dinner. 

Split Pea Soup with Croutons. 

Pickles. 

Pot Roast of Beef, Browned 

Potatoes. 

Creamed Turnips and Peas. 

Lettuce with French Dressing. 

Cabinet Pudditjg. 

Black Coffee. 



FRIDAY. 

Breakfast. 

Evaporated Apricots, Stewed. 

Cereal. 

Broiled Mackerel, Watercress. 

Wheat Muffins. Coffee. 

Luncheon. 

Creamed Codfish. 

Boiled Potatoes. 

Pickles. 

Apple Sauce. Cake. Tea. 



MENUS FOR A WEEK IS 
EARLY SUMMER. 



SUNDAY. 

Breakfast. 

Strawberries au naturel. 

Cereal. 

Broiled Brook Trout or Shad. 

Watercress. 
Graham Gems. Coffee. 



MENUS 



218 



Dinner. 

Fruit Cocktail. 

Radishes. Young Onions. 

White Fricassee of Chicken with 

Parsley. 

Potato Balls. Rice Fritters. 

Tomato and Lettuce Salad. 

Cheese Straws. 

Lemon Ice. Chocolate Wafers. 

Iced Tea. Black Coffee. 

Supper. 

Potato Salad. Saratoga Chips. 

Bread and Butter Sandwiches. 

Currants. White Cake. 

Iced Tea. 



MONDAY. 
Breakfast. 

Fresh Fruit or Orange Marmalade. 

Cereal. 
Broiled Ham. Rolls. Coffee. 

Limcheon. 

Asparagus Omelet. Lettuce Salad. 

Fruit. Cookies. 

Coffee. 

Dinner. 

Clear Soup. 

Olives. Radishes. 

Broiled Lamb Chops. 

Baked Potatoes. 

Green Peas, Mint Sauce. 

Lettuce and Radish Salad. 

Strawberry Shortcake with 

Whipped Cream. 

Black Coffee. 

TUESDAY. 

Breakfast. 

Fruit. Cereal. 

Poached Eggs on Toast. 

Coffee. 



Luncheon. 

Chicken Croquettes. 

Creamed Potatoes. 

Red Raspberries. Cake. 

Iced Tea. 

Dinner. 

Asparagus Soup. Bread Sticks. 

Broiled Shad. 

Green Peas. Boiled Potatoes. 

Dandelion Salad. 

Bavarian Cream. 

Black Coffee. 



WEDNESDAY. 

Breakfast. 

Cherries or Other Fresh Fruit. 

Cereal. 

Spanish Omelet. Oatmeal Scones. 

Coffee. 

Luncheon. 

Salmon Salad. 

Bread and Butter. 

Orange Cake. Lemon Jelly. 

Iced Tea. 

Dinner. 

Clam Cocktails. 

Pickled Young String Beans. 

Lamb Potpie. 

Summer Squash. 

Mashed Potatoes. 

Dressed Cucumbers. ; 

Floating Island. Black Coffee. 

THURSDAY. 
Breakfast. 

Canteloupe or Other Fresh Fruit. 

Broiled Bluefish. 

Sliced Cucumbers. 

Rice Cakes. Coffee. 



214 



MENUS 



Luncheon. 

Eggs with Curry Sauce. 

Brown Bread and Butter. 

Fruit. 

Gingerbread. Iced Cocoa. 

Dinner. 

Carrot Soup. Radishes. 

StuflFed Shoulder of Veal, Roasted. 

Potato SoufBe. Green Corn. 

Moulded Spinach with 

French Dressing. 

Vanilla Ice, Chocolate Sauce. 

Black Coffee. 



Luncheon. 

Dried Beef with Cream Sauce. 

Graham Bread and Butter. 

Radishes. 

Strawberry Shortcake 

Tea. 

Dinner. 

Cream of Asparagus Soup. 

Lamb Fricassee with Dumplings. 

Mint Jelly. Green Peas. 

Lettuce. 

Cherry Pie. Coffee. 



FRIDAY. 
Breakfast. 

Raspberries. 
Cereal. 
Parsley Omelet. 
Coffee. 



MENUS FOR A WEEK IN 
THE AUTUMN. 



Rolls. 



Luncheon. 

Tomato Toast. Green Pea Salad. 

Crullers. Cream Cheese. 

Tea. 

Dinner. 

Clams on Half Shell. 

Scalloped Fish. 

Baked Potatoes. 

Broiled Tomatoes. 

Sponge Corn Bread. 

Lettuce with French Dressing. 

Raspberry Float. 

Black Coffee. 



SUNDAY. 

Breakfast. 

Canteloupe. 

Fried Oysters, Watercress. 

Grilled Sweet Potatoes. 

Toast. Coffee. 

Dinner. 

Cream of Celery Soup. 
Baked Squab wi.h Bread Stuffing. 

Creamed Mashed Potatoes. 

Cold Tomatoes with Mayonnaise. 

Fruit. Cheese. 

Black Coffee. 



SATURDAY. 

Bresdcfast. 

Fruit. Cereal, 

Broiled Chops, Watercress. 

Rice Waffles. 

Coffee. 



Supper. 

Hot Milk Toast. 

Frizzled Beef. 

Sliced Peaches with Whipped 

Cream. 
Sponge Cake. Chocolate. 



MENUS 



215 



MONDAY, 

Breakfast. 

Peaches and Cream. 

Cereal. 

Radishes in Ice. 

Broiled Bacon. 

Rolls. Coffee. 

Luncheon. 

Green Apple Sauce. 

Clam Fritters. Corn Bread. 

Cake. Tea. 

Dinner. 

Puree of Lima Beans. 
Broiled Steak with Maitre d'Hotel 

Butter. 

Baked Potatoes. String Beans. 

Romaine Salad. 

Apple Pie. Cheese. 

Black Coffee. 



WEDNESDAY, 

Breakfast. 

Grapes. Cereal. 

Broiled Tomatoes with Cream. 

Gravy. 

Corn Meal Gems. Coffee. 

Luncheon, 

Cold Roast Beef. Baked Potatoes. 

Cucumbers and Green Peppers. 

Brown Bread and Butter. 

Gingerbread. Baked Apples. Tea. 

Dinner. 

Cream of Corn Soup. 

Pickles. Radishes. 

Fried Breast of Lamb, Macaroni 

and Tomato. 

Sweet Potatoes. 

Tomato and Green Pepper Salad. 

Watermelon. 

Coffee. 





TUESDAY. 






Breakfast. 




Canteloupe. 
Cereal. 
Hash Balls. 
Toast. 


Radishes. 
Coffee. 



Luncheon. 

Macaroni Rarebit. 

Fried Green Tomatoes. 

Fruit. Wafers. Tea. 

Dinner, 

Watermelon. 

Roast Beef. Franconia Potatoes. 

Yorkshire Pudding. 

Sliced Tomatoes. 

Baked Peaches with Cream. 

Coffee. 



THURSDAY. 

Breakfast. 

Fruit. Cereal. 

Minced Beef on Toast. 

Coffee. 

Luncheon, 

Fried Hominy. 

Lamb Mince with Green Peppers. 

Fruit. Cookies. Cocoa. 

Dinner, 

Vegetable Soup. 

Mock Diick, Currant Jelly. 

Mashed Potatoes. Turnips. 

Tomatoes with French Dressing. 

Peach Shortcake. 

Coffee. 



216 



MENUS 



FRIDAY. 

Breakfast. 

Grapes. Cereal. 

Scrambled Eggs with Green 

Peppers. 

Wheat Gems. Coffee. 

Luncheon. 

Salmi of Mock Duck. 

Potato Balls. 

Graham Bread. Peaches. Cocoa. 

Dinner. 

Cream of Cabbage Sou 

Baked Bluefish. 

Mash Potatoes. 

Tomatoes Stuffed with Rice. 

Cabbage Salad. 

Pumpkin Pie. Cheese. 

Black Coffee. 



SATURDAY. 

Breakfast. 

Canteloupe. 

Cereal. 

Hamburger Steak. Fried Potato. 

Blueberry Biscuit. 

Coffee. 

Luncheon. 

Fish Chowder. Crackers. 

Sliced Tomatoes. 

Sponge Cake. Spiced Grapes. Tea. 

Dinner. , 

Barley Soup. 

Chili Sauce. Mustard. 

Corned Beef. Boiled Potatoes. 

Young Beets and Beet Greens. 

Indian Pudding. 

Black Coffee. 



MENUS FOR A WEEK IS 
THE WINTER. 



SUNDAY. 

Breakfast. 

Grape Fruit or Oranges. 

Pinhead Oatmeal. 

(cooked in double boiler). 

Corned Beef Hash, with Poached 

Eggs. 

Cornmeal Muffins. 

Coffee. 

Dinner. 

Vegetable Soup, with Croutons. 

Celery. Pickled Tomatoes. 

Chicken Potpie, with Baking 

Powder Biscuit. 

Rice. Sweet Potatoes. 

Tomato au Gratin. 

Lettuce Salad. Cheese Fingers. 

Fruit Jelly, with Whipped Cream. 

Black Coffee. 

Supper. 

Creamed Oysters or Welsh Rarebit 

in Chafing Dish. 

Lettuce Sandwiches on Toast. 

Olives. 

Home Made Orange Cake. 

Baked Prunes, with Lemon. 

Frothed Chocolate. 

From Sunday's provisions you 
will doubtless have left over 
enough soup, with the addition of 
a little rice and tomato, to do for 
Monday's dinner; enough of the 
baking powder biscuit to reheat for 
breakfast, and enough of the chick- 
en to saute in butter and serve with 
a brown gravy for dinner. There 
may be also two or three sweet 



MENUS 



217 



potatoes that are better for being 
cooked twice, some of the cake and 
some of the prunes. Monday's 
menu then might be: — 



MONDAY. 

Breakfast. 

Stewed Prunes. 

Oatmeal 

(resteamed in double boiler). 

Scrambled Eggs. 

Baking Powder Biscuit 

(Put in paper bag, twist tigh*-ly and 

heat in oven for ten minutes). 

Coffee. 

Luncheon. 

(Some of the oatmeal that has been 

moulded, sliced, dipped in flour 

and fried). 

Baked Potatoes. Chicken Gravy. 

Wafers. Tea. 

Dinner. 

Rice and Tomato Vegetable Soup. 

Pickled Beets 

(from Saturday's dinner). 

Sauted Chicken, with Brown 

Gravy. 

Candied Sweet Potatoes. 

Lettuce and Green Pepper Salad. 

Orange Cake. Fruit Jelly. 

Coffee. 



TUESDAY. 

Breakfast. 

Orange Marmalade. 

Farina Scrapple. 

Pancakes. Maple Syrup. 

Coffee. 



Luncheon. 

Bubble and Squeak (made from the 

remains of Saturday's boiled 

dinner). 

Toast. Cookies. Apple Sauce. 

Tea. 

Dinner. 

Cream Celery Soup (made from 

the coarser parts of the celery 

left from Sunday). 

Mock Duck. Baked Potatoes. 

Macaroni. Cold Slaw. 

Apple pie. Cheese and Coffee. 



WEDNESDAY. 

Breakfast. 

Apple Sauce 
(made frftm evaporated apples.). 

Cornmeal Mush. 

Crisped Bacon and Calf's Liver. 

Popovers. Coffee. 

Luncheon. 

Omelet. Bread and Butter. 

Cookies. Tea. 

Dinner. 
Split Pea Soup, with Croutons 

and Lemon. 
Sliced Mock Duck, with Spanish 

Sauce and Toast Points. 

Cranberry Jelly. Baked Potatoes. 

Tomato Jelly and Lettuce Salad. 

Farina Mould, with Preserved 

Peaches and Cream. 

Coffee. 

THURSDAY. 

Breakfast. 

Baked Apples. 

Fried Mush, with Maple Syrup. 

Boiled Eggs. Coffee. 



218 



MENUS 



Luncheon. 
Baked Beans, with Tomato Sauce. 

Pickles. 

Whole Wheat Bread and Butter. 

Orange Marmalade. Crullers. 

Cocoa. 

Dinner. 
Baked Bean Soup, with Lemon. 

Sirloin Steak. 

Mashed Potatoes. Fried Onions 

Chicory Salad. 

Tapioca Pudding. 

Coffee. 

FRIDAY. 
Breakfast. 

Stewed Apricots. 

Prepared Cereal. 

Codfish Balls. Cornmeal Gems. 

Coffee. 

Luncheon. 

Boiled Eggs. Delmonico Potatoes. 

Sliced Oranges. Cookies. 

Tea. 

Dinner. 

Oyster Soup. 

Fried Smelts, with Mayonnaise. 

Potato Balls, with Cream and 

Parsley. 

Endive Salad. 

Wafers. Cheese. 

Shortcake (made with canned 

peaches or pineapples). 

Coffee. 

SATURDAY. 

Breakfast. 

Cereal, with Dates. 

Home Made Hamburg Steak 

(made from the tough end of the 

Sirloin steak). 

Quick Biscuit. 

Coffee. 



Luncheon. 

Mince of Beef on Toast (made 

from left overs and tomato). 

Bread and Butter. 

Warm Gingerbread. Cheese. 

Tea. 

Dinner. 

Tomato Soup. 

Corned Beef. Boiled Potatoes. 

Cabbage. Beets. 

Steamed Indian Pudding, with 

Hard Sauce. 

Coffee. 



MENUS FOR A WEEK IN 
MIDWINTER. 



SUNDAY. 

Breakfast. 

Grape Fruit. Cereal. 

Fried Country Sausage. 

Fried Potatoes. 

Buckwheat Cakes. Coffee. 

Dinner., 

Noodle Soup. 

Olives. Tomato Pickles. 

Roast Turkey, Cranberry Sauce, 

Giblet Gravy. 

Mashed Potatoes. 

Creamed Onions. 

Apple and Celery Salad. 

Coffee Jelly with Whipped Cream. 

Coffee. 

Supper. 

Stuffed Potatoes. 

Cold Turkey with Cranberry. 

Dried Apple Cake. Cream Cheese. 

Chocolate. 



MENUS 



219 



MONDAY. 
Breakfast. 

Evaporated Apple Sauce. 

Cereal. 

Fried Salt Pork with Cream Gravy. 

Fried Potatoes. 

Pancakes, Maple Syrup. 

Coffee. 



Dinner. 

Turkey Soup (made from bones). 

Pickled Tomatoes. 

Roast Beef, Browned Potatoes. 

Macaroni and Cheese. 

Moulded Tomato Salad on Lettuce 

Leaves with French Dressing. 

Mince Pie. Black Coffee. 



Luncheon. 

Potatoes en Surprise, Rye Bread. 

WafHes with Honey. 

Tea. 



Dinner. 

Beef Soup with Bread Sticks. 
Celery. Home Made Pickles. 

Cold Sliced Turkey. 

Baked Potatoes with Hot Turkey 

Gravy and Dressing. 

Baked Hubbard Squash. 

Cabbage Salad. 

Cabinet Pudding. Black Coflfee. 



TUESDAY. 
Breakfast. 

Evaporated Apricots, Stewed, 

Cereal. 

Crisped Bacon. 

Pancakes, Maple Syrup. 

CoflEee. 



Luncheon. 

Potatoes en Surprise. 

Baked Apples with Cream, 

Warm Gingerbread' 

Tea. 



WEDNESDAY. 

Breakfast. 

Oranges. Cereal. 

Finnan Haddie. 

Coffee Cake. Coffee. 

Luncheon. 

Co'd Roast Beef. 

French Fried Potatoes, 

Stewed Tomatoes. 

Bread and Butter. Marmalade. 

Tea. 



Dinner. 

Anchovies with Olives and Lemon. 

Pea Soup with Croutons. 

Shoulder of Fresh Pork, Stuffed 

with Prunes. 

Mashed Potatoes. 

Hubbard Squash. Cabbage Salad. 

Apple Dumplings with Lemon 

Sauce. 

Coffee. 



THURSDAY. 

Breakfast. 

Grape Fruit. Cereal. 

Scrapple. 

Buckwheat Cakes. Coffee. 



220 



MENUS 



Luncheon. 

Potato Balls. 

Cold Pork with Apple Sauce. 

Molasses Cookies. Cheese. Cocoa. 

Dinner. 

"Pot Luck" Soup. 

(made from left overs). 

Bread Sticks. 

Roast Mutton, Spiced Currants. 

Baked Potatoes. Hot Slaw. 

Suet Pudding with Hard Sauce. 

Coffee. 



FRIDAY. 

Breakfast. 

Baked Apples with Cream. 

Cereal. 

Codfish Balls. 

Graham Gems. Coffee. 

Luncheon. 

Fried Mush with Maple Syrup. 
Baked Prunes. Chocolate. 

Dinner. 

Black Bean Soup with Croutons. 

Olives. Pickled Pears. 

Baked Weak Fish. 

Scalloped Potatoes. 

Stewed Tomatoes. 

Lettuce with French Dressing. 

Lemon Meringue Pie. 

Black Coffee. 



SATURDAY. 

Breakfast. 

Oranges. Cereal. 

Fried Sausage. 

Fried Sweet Potatoes. 

Wheat Pancakes. Coffee. 



Luncheon. 

Mock Venison (made from left 

over mutton). 

Baked Sweet Potatoes. 

Apple Turnovers. 

Tea. 

Dinner. 

Oyster Soup. 

Celery. Pickles. 

Baked Beans, Steamed Brown 

Bread. 

Potato Salad. 

Cheese. Crackers. 

Apple Pie. Black Coffee. 



LENTEN MENUS WITHOUT 
MEAT. 



SUNDAY. 

Breakfast. 

Grape Fruit. 

Cereal. 

Codfish Balls. Boiled Eggs. 

Graham Muffins. 

Coffee. 

Dinner. 

Cream of Tomato Soup. 

Olives. Celery. 

. Roast Chicken, Cranberry Jelly. 

Sweet Potatoes. Creamed Onions. 

Lettuce with French Dressing. 

Pineapple Charlotte. 

Coffee. 

Supper. 

Creamed Oysters in Chafing Dish. 

Lettuce Sandwiches. 

Almond Custard. 

Chocolate Cake. Cocoa, 



MENUS 



221 



MONDAY. 

Breakfast. 

Oranges. 
■^ Cereal. 
French Omelet. Fried Potatoes. 
Rolls. Coffee. 

Luncheon. 

Tomato Toast. Baked Potatoes. 

Baked Apples with Nuts and Sugar 

Stuffing, Served with Cream. 

Gingerbread. 

Tea. 



Dinner. 

Split Pea Soup, Croutons. 

Ripe Olives. Pickles. 

Scalloped Potatoes with Cheese. 

Devilled Eggs. 

Endive Salad. Cheese Straws. 

Cottage Pudding, Lemon Sauce. 

Coffee (Demi-Tasse). 



Dinner. 

Vegetable Soup. 

Radishes. Salted Peanuts. 

Filet of Flounder with Lemon ar4 

Parsley. 

Mashed Potatoes. 

Turnips and Green Peas in Cream 

Sauce. 

Lettuce with French Dressing. 

Tapioca Pudding with Meringue. 

Black Coffee. 



WEDNESDAY. 

Breakfast. 

Stewed Evaporated Apples. 

Cereal.' 

Scrambled Eggs with Green 

Peppers. 

Cornmeal Gems. 

Coffee. 



Luncheon. 

Cream Toast. Devilled Eggs. 

Warm Gingerbread. Cheese. 

Cocoa. Stewed Prunes. 



TUESDAY. 

Breakfast. 

Stewed Apricots. 

Cereal. 

Baked Finnan Haddie. 

Watercress. 

Popovers. Coffee. 



Luncheon. 

Fried Cornmeal Mush with Maple 

Syrup. 

Bread and Butter. 

Fresh Molasses Cookies. Cheese. 

Orange Marmalade. Tea. 



Dinner. 

Clam Chowder. 

Pickles. Celery. 

Lobster Chops, Sauce Tartare. 

Baked Potatoes. Cold Slaw. 

Lemon Pie. 

Coffee. 



THURSDAY. 
Breakfast. 

Farina Cooked in Milk. 

Beauregard Eggs. 

Fried Potatoes. 

Spider Corncake, Hot Maple 

Sauce. 

Coffee. 



222 



MENU'S 



Luncheon. 

Clam Fritters. 

Nut and Banana Salad. 

English Cheese. 

Whole Wheat Bread. 

Chocolate. 

Dinner. 

Cream of Celery Soup. 

Baked Salmon, Sauce Hollandaise. 

Mashed Potatoes. 

Moulded Spinach. 

Rice Pudding with Raisins and 

Hard Sauce. 

Coffee (Demi-Tasse). 

FRIDAY. 

Breakfast. 

Bananas. Cereal. 

Quaker Omelet with Cream Sauce. 

Rice Muffins. 

Coffee. 

Luncheon. 

Cheese Ramekins. 

Buns. 

Sliced Oranges. Patty Pancakes. 

Chocolate. 

Dinner. 

Oyster Soup. 

Olives. Cold Slaw. 

Rice Spanish Omelet, Macaroni. 

Russian Salad. 

Maple Custard. Little Cakes. 

Black Coffee. 

SATURDAY. 

Breakfast. 

Baked Prunes with Figs and 

Lemons. 

Oatmeal. 

Broiled Mackerel, Watercress. 

Coffee Cake. 

Coffee. 



Luncheon. 

Succotash. 

Whole Wheat Bread and Butter. 

Wheat Cakes with Maple Syrup. 

Cocoa. 

Dinner. 

Bisque of Clam. 

Halibut. 

Cauliflower with Brown Butter 

Sauce. 

Mashed Potatoes. Escarole Salad. 

Toasted Wafers and Cheese. 

Coffee Jelly, Whipped Cream. 

Black Coffee. 



Tin Wedding Menu. 

Tinned refreshments to celebrate 
the tenth wedding anniversary 
might be baked beans in tin cans 
or baked in individual tin moulds, 
tinned meats for the sandwiches, 
tinned bouillon, tinned biscuit and 
wafers, tinned fish of various kinds, 
cheese and bonbons in tin foil. 

Or the menu could include bouil- 
lon or consomme served in tin 
cups, lobster or salmon creamed in 
little dishes with sandwiches, jel- 
lied chicken or chicken croquettes 
with rolls, and ice with cake, then 
coffee. 



Waldorf Thanksgiving Dinner 
Menu. 

Cape Cod Oysters. 

Giblet Soup. 

Sheepshead with Hollandaise 

Sauce. 

Tomatoes Stuffed with Cucumbers. 

Saddle of New Jersey Mutton. 

Macedoine of Fresh Vegetables. 

Turkey Stuffed with Chestnuts. 

Cranberry Sauce. 

Brussels Sprouts. 

Potato Palestine. 



MENUS 



223 



Lettuce and Grape Fruit Salad 

with Cracked Almonds. 

Plum Pudding with Rum Sauce. 

Mince and Pumpkin Pies. 

Glace Plombiere. 

Cafe. 

Thanksgiving Menu (Hotel Savoy) 

Olives. Celery. Radishes. 

Blue Point Oysters on the Half 

Shell. 

Shin of Beef, Scotch Style. 

Sheepshead served New England 

Style. 
Boiled Potatoes, German Fashion. 
Virginia Ham. 
Sweet Potatoes, Georgia Style. 
Creamed Spinach. 
Roast Turkey Stuffed with Chest- 
nuts. 
Cranberry and Giblet Sauce. 
Celery and Apple Salad. 
English Plum Pudding. 
Water Ice. 
Fruit. Cake. Coflfee. 

A Second Menu from the Savoy. 

Radishes. Olives. Celery. 

Cold Stuffed Eggs Tartare. 
Pot-au-Feu with Parmesan Cheese 

Toast. 
Planked Weakfish, Maitre d'Hotel 
Butter. 
Cucumbers. 
Saddle Southdown Mutton with 
Currant Jelly. 
Mashed Turnips. 
Brussels Sprouts. 
Roman Punch. 
Roast Turkey, Stuffed New Eng- 
land Style. 
Cranberry and Giblet Sauce 
Lettuce and Tomato Salad. 
Plum Pudding, New England 
Style. 
Pumpkin Pie, 
Fruits. 



A Simple and Elegant Thanksgiv- 
ing Menu (Hotel Savoy). 

Caviare d'Astrachan. 

Terrapin Baltimore. 

English Mutton Chops, Broiled. 

Georgia Sweet Potatoes. 

Mashed Turnips. 

Turkey. Cranberry Sauce. 

Alligator Pear Salad. 

Coupe Jacques. 

Fruit. 

Bar le Due and Gervais. 

Cafe. 



Refreshments for the Lunch 
Basket. 

Lettuce and Mayonnaise 

Sandwiches. 

Swiss Cheese Sandwiches. 

Egg Rolls. 

Devilled Eggs. Pimolas. Pickles. 

Saratoga Chips. 
Nut Cake. Home Made Chocolate 

Fudge Cake. 

Peaches. Plums. Bananas. 

Home Made Blackberry Shrub. 

Lemonade. 



Washington's Birthday Supper 
Menus. 

No. 1. 

Grape Fruit Cut in Halves with 

Maraschino Cherries. 

Pimentoes. Salted Nuts. 

Virginia Oyster Soup. 

Virginia Fried Chicken with 

Cream Gravy. 

Sweet Potatoes. Beaten Biscuit. 

Peas. Cheese Salad. 

Vanilla Ice Cream and Preserved 

Peaches. 

Coffee. Dolly Madison Cake. 

Simpler refreshments might be: — 

Chicken Patties. 



224 



MENUS 



Maryland Biscuit. 

Pickled Oysters. 

Cherry Ice. Cherry Cake. 

Coffee or Egg Nog. 



No. 2. 

Turtle Soup. Madison Biscuit. 

Devilled Clams. 

Chicken Croquettes. 

Candied Sweet Potatoes. 

Fried Sweet Peppers. 

Corn Cake. 

Crab Salad served in Tomatoes. 

Cream Cheese' Balls. 

Red and White Bar le Due. 

Toasted Crackers. 

Cherry Mousse. 

Martha Washington Fruit Cake. 

New Orleans Brulo. 
Artichokes served in this style 
would be a tasty addition: — 
Hearts of Artichokes Filled with 
Russian Caviare. 
(On a layer of hard boiled eggs, 
and in the centre a half olive 
stuffed with sweet pepper; served 
on individual plates.) 



Menus for Seven Course 
Luncheon. 

No. 1. 

Grape Fruit with Maraschino 

Cherries. 
Bouillon with Whipped Cream 

and Hot Wafers. 

Broiled Smelts, Sauce Tartare. 

Lamb Chops. Cream Potatoes.. 

French Peas. 

Celery and Nut Salad in Green 

Pepper Cases. 

Ice Cream with Hot Maple Sauce. 

Small Cakes. Cheese Straws. 

Coffee. 



No. 2. 

Oyster Cocktail. 

Bouillon with English Biscuit. 

Chicken and Mushroom Patties 

with Cream Sauce, Bread and 

Butter Rolls. 

Potato Timbales. French Peas. 

Hollowed Tomatoes with Lettuce 

Centres and Mayonnaise. 
Cheese and Cracker Sandwiches. 
Maraschino Cherries and Jelly. 

Home Made Cake. 
Coffee. Cordial. 

Olives, salted nuts, preserved 
ginger or bonbons may be on the 
table through all the courses. 



Rhode Island Clam Bake Without 
Sea Weed. 

A clam bake in a boiler will not 
taste like an open air bake without 
seaweed unless clean hay moist- 
ened with salt water (sea salt ob- 
tainable at druggists' would be 
best, though not essential) is used. 

Surely stones could be found in 
any country place. Those the size 
of cobbles are best, but a bed of 
heated stones is necessary to cook 
the "bake." Possibly a large flat 
rock would do. 

Place the stones close together 
in a slightly hollowed circular spot 
from three to six feet across. On 
this build a huge bonfire, and let 
it burn briskly for two hours. 
When the fire dies down sweep off 
the embers with boughs and 
branches and spread a thick layer 
of the wet hay on the hissing hot 
stones. Then potatoes, Irish and 
sweet, are scattered over the sea- 
weed or hay. Oysters and clams 
in the shell come next. Fish and 
chickens seasoned and prepared 
for cooking — the chicken is handier 



MENUS 



225 



if cut up as for fricassee — are wrap- 
ped in pieces of clean cheesecloth 
and added to the bake. Lobsters 
and crabs are also sometimes used. 
Over all spread sweet corn from 
which the outer husks have been 
peeled. Now, with pitchforks 
cover everything from sight with 
a thick layer of the wet hay and 
draw a large canvas or sailcloth 
over the whole bake. Around the 
edges sand or dirt is shovelled till 
there is not a crack or crevice 
from which steam can escape. 
Leave the bake to cook for two 
hours without disturbing, then 
carefully roll the canvas aside, re- 
move the hay and dish up the bake, 
putting each kind of food on large 
platters or shining tin pans. Fin- 
ish off with watermelons and cof- 
fee. 

Allow two ears of corn, two po- 
tatoes, both sweet and Irish, 
twelve oysters and clams for each 
person. One small chicken for 
four persons, and two large fish 
for each party of twenty-five, as all 
do not partake of the latter. 

St. Valentine Supper Menu. 

Eros Cocktails. 
Turtle Doves in Love Apple Sauce. 

Sauted Heart. 
Arrow Sandwiches. Cupid Salad. 

Pickles. Kisses. Dates. 

Juliet Sherbet. Romeo Cakes. 

Coffee. 



New England Boiled Dinner. 

This old fashioned dinner has 
for its foundation corned beef, with 
potatoes, cabbage, beets, turnips 
and, if desired, carrots and crooked 
neck squashes for vegetables, all 



cooked in the corned beef liquor 
and served on a large platter with 
the beef as a centre. The dessert 
that usually goes with the boiled 
dinner, according to tradition, is 
Indian Pudding or a steamed cher- 
ry pudding. 

The great secret in cooking the 
beef so as to have it juicy and ten- 
der is long, slow cooking. The piece 
chosen is the rump if you wish all 
lean, or the plate or brisket if you 
like a little fat with the meat. 
Wash a four or five pound piece in 
cold water, letting it stand in the 
water for half an hour or so. Then 
put on to boil in a large pot with 
plenty of fresh water to cover. 
Heat slowly to the boiling point, 
skim well, then push back on the 
stove where it can simply simmer 
for three or four hours until tender 
but not "raggy." 

If you have started the cooking 
early enough in the day, let the 
meat cool in the water in which 
it has been boiled. Take out when 
quite cold, put on a flat shallow 
dish; cover with a plate and set a 
weight on it. Take the fat from 
the meat liquor. All this may be 
done the day before the dinner is 
to be served, if desired. Beets also 
may be cooked the day before. 
About two hours before dinner put 
into ithe boiling pot liquor, which 
has been saved for this purpose, a 
small cabbage, cut in quarters with 
the core removed, and the carrots 
scraped and cut in halves. Pare the 
turnips, slice and add to the same 
pot soon after the cabbage begins 
to boil. Half an hour before dinner 
the peeled potatoes and squash may 
be added. If the beets were not 
cooked beforehand they are cleaned 
without bruising and boiled in 
some of the pot liquor ladled out 



226 



MENUS 



in a separate kettle. If not enough 
add boiling salted water to cover 
the beets. 

When tender, throw into cold 
water. Scrape off the skin, slice 
and dress with butter and vinegar. 
Put the pressed cold beef in the 
centre of a large platter and serve 
carrots, turnips and potatoes ranged 
symmetrically about it. Chop the 
cabbage rather coarsely and serve 
in a separate dish. Mustard, catsup 
or horseradish accompany the din- 
ner as needed relishes. 



FIFTY CENTS A DAY 

FOR DINNERS AND 

LUNCHEONS. 



SUNDAY. 

Dinner. 

Veal or Lamb Potpie, with plenty 

of gravy, onion and biscuit crust, 

2Sc. 

Cabbage Salad with Boiled 

Dressing, Sc. 

Poor Man's Rice Pudding with 

Raisins, 10c. 

Supper. 
Hasty Pudding and Milk, 10c. 



MONDAY. 

Luncheon. 

Fried Mush with Brown Sugar 

Syrup, Sc. 

Whole Wheat Bread with Bacon 

Gravy, 3c. 

Cocoa, Sc. 



Dinner. 

Split Pea Soup with Croutons 

(Made with Ham Bones, 8c. 

Baked Potatoes. Finnan Haddie 

(Baked in Milk), ISc. 
Bread, 4c. Prunes, Sc. Coffee, Sc. 



TUESDAY. 

Luncheon. 

Samp Cooked with Beans and 

Pork, ISc. 

Bread, 3c. 

Apple Sauce 

Made from Evaporated Apples, 5c. 

Tea, 2c. 

Dinner. 

Scalloped Potatoes with 

Cheese, ISc. 

Bread, 3c. Baked Prunes, Sc. 

Tea, 2c. 

WEDNESDAY. 

Luncheon. 

Whole Wheat Bread, Apple Butter, 
Cocoa, ISc. 

Dinner. 

Beef Stew, ISc. 

Dressed Cabbage, 3c. 

Corn Bread, Sc. 

Boiled Rice, Hard Sauce, 7c. 

Coffee, Sc. 

THURSDAY. 

Luncheon. 

Corn Meal Gems, 6c. 

Orange Marmalade, Sc. 

Cocoa, 3c. 



MENUS 



227 



Dinner. 

Macaroni with Cheese and To- 
mato, ISc. 
Warm Biscuit, 6c. Syrup, 4c. 
Molasses Cookies, 9c. 
Tea, 2c. 



FRIDAY. 

Luncheon. 

Baked Potato, Bloaters, Whole 

Wheat Bread, 18c. 

Apple Sauce, Sc. 

Tea, 2c. 

Dinner. 

Creamed Codfish with One Egg, 

ISc 

Boiled Potatoes, 3c. 

Corn Bread, Sc. 

Tea, 2c. 



SATURDAY. 

Luncheon. 

Scrambled Eggs, 6c. 

Baked Potatoes, 4c. Bread, 4c. 

Apple Sauce, Sc. Ginger Bread, Sc. 

Tea, Ic. 

Dinner. 

Baked Beans, ISc. 

Brown Bread, Sc. 

Baked Prunes, Sc. 

Coffee, Sc. 



In case housewives do not know 
how to make a good corn bread, 
I will give this recipe made with- 
out eggs: — 

Stir together one tablespoonful 
each sugar and shortening. The 
last can be either drippings (but 
not from smoked meat), lard or 



cottolene. Add one cupful sour 
milk into which a half teaspoonful 
soda has been beaten, and a salt- 
spoonful of salt. Add wheat flour 
and meal, two-thirds meal and one- 
third flour. It must not be too 
stiff, but just so the batter will 
flatten out when poured into the 
hot gem pans or in a little pan. 
Bake about twenty minutes. 



Lunch for a Sailing Party. 

Bread that will keep moist when 
made into sandwiches for such a 
trip is sold at all first class bak- 
eries. It comes in rectangular 
shape, larger than the ordinary 
loaf, and costs ten cents. For regu- 
lar customers the bakers slice the 
bread in the wafer thin slices with- 
out extra charge, but ask five cents 
for the cutting to other customers. 
The stamping into fancy shapes is 
done at home, using the little tin 
cutters that can be purchased at 
any housefurnishing or department 
store. They come in the shape of 
leaves, flowers, ovals, diamonds, 
hearts, etc. 

For a picnic menu, dainty and a 
little out of the ordinary, I would 
suggest: — 

Fried Chicken or Chicken Salad. 

Saratoga Chips or Potato Salad. 

Lettuce Sandwiches of White 

Bread. 

Cream Cheese and Nut Sandwiches 

of Brown Bread. 

Fancy Ribbon Sandwiches. 

Eggs Stuffed with Sardines. 

Olives. Pickles. Radishes. 

Bar le Due Jelly or Cuban Orange 

Marmalade. 
Lady Fingers, Macaroons or Choc- 
olate Wafers. 
Peaches, Plumbs or Oranges. 
Grape Juice or Claret, to be diluted 
with Cold Water. 



228 



MENUS 



In carrying the salad pack the 
individual portions in the smallest 
size wooden butter dishes to be 
found at the grocers,' lining them 
first with a large lettuce leaf, then 
covering with a second. Four of 
these can be set in the bottom of 
a pasteboard box, then covered 
with a sheet of pasteboard, upon 
which a layer of something light 
can stand. Of course, the box is 
sizable and must be carried "right 
side up with care," but after the^ 
luncheon it can be thrown away.i 
Use an abundance of waxed paper' 
in packing everything that there 
need be no commingling of flavors. 

The paraffine paper costs but a 
penny a sheet and comes in five 
cent rolls. 

The club sandwich is such an in- 
tricate affair nowadays, with its 
various layers of chicken and toast 
and bacon and lettuce and mayon- 
naise, that it is hardly advisable 
for a picnic. 



the flavor better than the other 
peppers. Mix with the cheese a 
half cup grated or chopped nuts, 
preferably English walnuts, and 
spread on thin slices of lightly but- 
tered brown, whole wheat or rye 
bread. 

Ribbon Sandwiches. 

These are made by cutting brown 
and white bread in perfectly even 
^ slices half an inch thick, buttered 
jeach side, then arrange alternately 
I brown and white in an even pile. 
Place an inverted plate on top and 
set away for an hour or two, cov- 
I ering with a damp napkin to pre- 
vent the bread from becoming dry. 
Then trim off the crust evenly from 
the four sides and cut in slices 
just half an inch thick and these 
again into strips. The bread must 
not be packed over three and a 
half inches high, lest strips and 
slices break apart. 



Olive Sandwiches. 

If you do not care for the lettuce 
sandwiches, try these made of 
olives. Cut the meat off the stones, 
chop fine, mix with mayonnaise 
and spread between thin slices of 
white bread from which the crust 
has been removed. No butter is 
required with the mayonnaise. Cut 
into squares, then triangles and 
wrap each separately in waxed 
paper. 

Brown Bread and Neufchatel 
Cheese Sandwiches. 

Break up the cheese and if rather 
dry soften with a spoonful of milk 
or cream. Add a little salt and a 
dash of paprika, which develops 



Eggs Stuffed with Sardines. 

Boil fresh eggs twenty minutes, 
then plunge into cold water; shell 
and cut in halves crosswise. Press 
the yolks out into a bowl, taking 
care not to break the whites and 
keeping the two halves of each egg 
together. Mash the yolks with a 
silver fork and season lightly with 
salt and pepper. Drain the oil 
from some sardines, remove tails 
and bones, wash, add to the yolks, 
mix thoroughly, then refill the 
whites and skewer together with 
Japanese wooden toothpicks. 

This egg filling may be varied by 
using boiled ham, minced fine, sea- 
soned with pepper and a bit of 
made mustard in place of the sar- 
dines, or minced tongue, olives, 



MENUS 



229 



fine chopped chow chow, capers 
or minced mushrooms. 



Pressed Chicken. 

Perhaps you may prefer pressed 
chicken to the salad or fried chick- 
en. To prepare it, singe, clean and 
disjoint a good sized fowl. Wash 
thoroughly, cover with cold water 
and simmer gently until the flesh 
is ready to drop from the bones. 
When half done, season highly 
with salt, pepper, celery salt and 
one small onion stuck with two or 
three cloves. When the chicken is 
perfectly tender remove all the skin 
and bone and shred the meat in 
good sized pieces. Boil two or 
three eggs hard, cool and cut in 
thin slices. Remove all fat from 
the chicken gravy, then boil down 
to about a cupful. Moisten the 
meat with this, then pack in layers 
in a well buttered mould, arrang- 
ing slices of egg over each layer. 
Cover with a plate and set a weight 
on it. Stand in a cool place until 
the next day. Lettuce sandwiches 
are specially good served with the 
pressed chicken. 

Picnic Menus. 

Many a housewife who finds no 
trouble in devising dainty and at- 
tractive menus for the home table 
declares herself feazed when it 
comes to the preparation of the 
picnic basket. Yet it is not a dif- 
ficult undertaking when one gets 
on to the "pull of the ropes." Even 
in the home meals there must be 
forethought to see that all neces- 
sary materials are on hand. Even 
more so is this essential in putting 
up luncheon, for half the pleasure 
of a picnic depends on the effi- 



ciency of its commissary depart- 
ment, and any serious oversight 
when one is twenty miles from a 
lemon or any other desired edible 
is a misfortune hard to bear. 

Picnic luncheons should vary ac- 
cording to the prospective stage 
setting and the mode of journey 
thither. If the party is to motor, 
sail or drive to its destination, with 
plenty of room for hampers and 
accessories, the bill of fare may be 
much more varied and comprehen- 
sive than when one goes on trolley 
or wheel or expects to tramp to 
the picnic ground. In the latter 
case it is necessary to go in light 
marching order, everything as 
compact as possible, and things 
must be stowed away in boxes in- 
stead of baskets, that may be 
thrown away when the meal is 
finished. 

Individual drinking cups should 
be included in every luncheon out- 
fit, and the new paper collapsible 
cups that now come for three or 
four cents apiece solve the ques- 
tion that was erstwhile a perplex- 
ing one. Paper napkins and table 
cloths, a whole set of the later con- 
sisting of fancy cloth 42 x 56 and 
a dozen napkins to match, put up 
in stout envelope cases, may be 
bought at ten cents for a set. 

Picnic Sandwiches. 

It goes without saying that sand- 
wiches are the backbone of all out- 
of-door luncheons, and the roster 
of delightful ones is long. The 
"binding" may be a light tender 
wheat bread, at least twenty-four 
hours old and cut wafer thin; may 
be brown bread or whole wheat 
bread cut thicker; may be a two 
story affair, with both white and 



230 



MENUS 



brown bread in amicable relations; 
may be substantial slices of rye 
or pumpernickel, a tender baking 
powder biscuit, a fluffy, melt-in- 
your-mouth roll, or cornbread or 
gems that are not too crumbly. 
The filling must accord with its 
binding and its name is legion. 
With the dainty slices of wheat 
bread comes first a spreading of 
sweet butter applied with a light 
hand. Then comes the heart of 
the sandwich, which may be cavi- 
are mixed with a little lemon juice, 
anchovies pounded to a paste and 
mixed with equal quantities stoned 
and chopped olives and a sprinkling 
of minced parsley, a slice of 
chicken breast salted and prepared 
with a protecting leaf of crispy 
lettuce moistened with mayon- 
naise, nasturtium leaves, blossoms 
and stems lightly salted, sprigs 
of watercress seasoned, minced 
chicken moistened with own stock, 
gravy or mayonnaise, equal quan- 
tities chopped chicken and ham, 
with a few minced truffles thrown 
in a mince of ham and veal in 
combination, of tongue and veal, 
wafer thin slices of boiled tongue, 
or tongue in aspic cut in delicate 
slices and laid with equally thin 
slices of tomato salad and pep- 
pered between rounds of buttered 
bread. 



Tasty Additions to the Luncheon. 

Tasty additions to the luncheon 
are a souse of pigs' feet, veal loaf, 
broiled chicken, smoked salmon 
sliced thin, boned herring, baked 
beans, chicken salad, put up in 
little individual paper cases, then 
packed in a large box and carried 
"right side up with care." Swiss 
cheese sliced thin never goes beg- 



ging. Saratoga chips are tasty and 
easy to carry and serve. A pigeon 
pie is extremely English and ex- 
tremely nice, as also lamb cutlets 
in aspic jelly. 

Relishes for the Picnic Basket. 

Among the tasty relishes for the 
picnic basket are olives (opening 
the bottle and pouring off the 
liquor before packing), pickles, 
salted peanuts, radishes (not for- 
getting to put in the salt shaker), 
popcorn, young onions for those 
who are especially fond of them 
and tomatoes. 



Sweets for Topping Off. 

Among the sweets best for top- 
ping off the luncheon are currant 
tarts, carrying shells and jelly sep- 
arately and putting together be- 
fore serving; apple or berry turn- 
overs, a glass of bar-le-duc or 
other jelly, chocolate and sponge 
cake, cookies and crullers, pre- 
served ginger, crystallized fruits, 
and if there is to be a camp fire 
plenty of marshmallows for toast- 
ing. 

Liquids. 

As a large amount of liquid is 
awkward to carry it is usually 
better to take a small bottle of 
something concentrated that may 
be diluted with cold water when 
ready to serve the lunch. The 
juice of lemons may be squeezed 
out and made as sweet as desired; 
then bottled. Raspberry or cherry 
shrub is refreshing, allowing a 
couple of tablespoonfuls to each 
glass of cold water. Tea may be 
made quite strong, so as to bear 
reducing, carrying along lemons 



MENUS 



281 



and block sugar to be added when 
serving. Grape juice is always ap- 
preciated. Ginger beer has its ad- 
herents, and a couple of bottles of 
claret add cheer and refreshment. 

If coffee is carried, it is better 
sweetened and "creamed" before 
starting, then poured in bottles 
with patent stoppers. 

Fruits. 

Anything from watermelon 
down to strawberries unhulled 
with a little paper of powdered 
sugar to assist in their service 
goes well at a picnic. A few lem- 
ons should always be carried — a 
squeeze of lemon juice added to 
each cup of drinking water mak- 
ing it not only more refreshing but 
serving as a germicide in case 
there is anything out of the way 
with the water supply. In packing 
bananas carry separately from the 
rest of the luncheon, as their heavy 
odor permeates everything laid 
near them. 

Washington Pie. 

Here is a simple rule for an old 
fashioned cream cake, called in 
New England a Washington pie : — 

Beat two eggs with a scant cup 
sugar; then add a cup and one-half 
flour, sifted several times over with 
a teaspoonful cream of tartar, a 
half teaspoonful soda and a pinch 
of salt. 

Stir in gradually three table- 
spoonfuls cold water and a little 
lemon juice and bake in two layers. 

When cold spread with a custard 
filling made in this way: — Mix a 
large tablespoonful cornstarch with 
two tablespoonfuls sugar, a pinch 
of salt and a beaten egg. Stir 



gradually into a pint of milk 
heated to the boiling point in a 
double boiler. When it thickens 
nicely add the grated rind of a 
lemon. Do not add the juice. 
Spread this on top of one of the 
cakes, cover with the other; dust 
the top of the cake with powdered 
sugar and a little lemon juice. A 
chocolate, apple or orange filling 
may be used instead of the cream. 
To make the orange filling whip the 
whites of four eggs to a stiff froth, 
beat in a teacup powdered sugar 
and the grated yellow rind and 
juice of two oranges. Spread be- 
tween and on top of the layers and 
set in the warming closet or a 
coolish oven for a few moments. 

A lemon filling is also good when 
made in this way: — 

Cook in a double boiler, until 
thickened, one cup sugar, one 
tablespoonful butter, the grated 
rind and juice of one lemon and 
a beaten egg. 

Cream Cheese Sandwiches. 

Cream cheese in any one of a 
half hundred combinations goes 
equally well with either white, 
brown or whole wheat bread. A 
very dainty combination is a blend 
of cream cheese and currant jelly, 
using two or three tablespoonfuls 
jelly to a small cheese, then cov- 
ering with a circle of chopped pis- 
tache nuts. Use a long French 
loaf for- this purpose, but if you 
prefer it without crust use a cooky 
cutter to stamp the slices in circles. 
Pineapple goes well with cream 
cheese. Chop the pineapple fine 
and drain off the juice. Cut thin 
slices of white or whole wheat 
bread, spread thinly with cheese, 
sprinkle with the minced pineapple, 



232 



MENUS 



sweetened or not, as preferred, and 
press together. 

Other combinations are cream 
cheese mixed with an equal quan- 
tity fine minced celery and mois- 
tened with whipped cream, cream 
cheese and chopped green olives 
or the ripe black ones, cream 
cheese and sliced tomatoes, cream 
cheese and crispy lettuce leaves, 
cheese and chopped nuts with or 
without mayonnaise, cheese and 
chopped dates or figs, cheese and 
chopped spinach seasoned with 
lemon juice and mayonnaise, 
cheese and the yolks of cold hard 
boiled eggs, put through a sieve, 
cheese and sliced cucumber, cheese 
and preserved ginger chopped fine, 
or cheese mixed with minced pars- 
ley or cress and seasoned lightly 
with paprika. 

Nut Sandwiches. 

There is plenty of choice here. 
Beside the peanut butter, which is 
one of the handiest things to keep 
on hand where a quick picnic lunch 
is often in demand, there may be 
almonds chopped fine or run 
through the coflfee mill or meat 
chopper, salted and moistened with 
a little mayonnaise or sherry, 
chopped pecans mixed with mayon- 
naise or Boston brown bread but- 
tered and spread with a filling of 
chopped walnuts or butternuts. 

Extra Hearty Sandwiches. 

The first, always in demand for 
tramp trips or where there is to 
be much muscular activity, is made 
of rye bread, ham and Bermuda 
onions. Butter the bread, lay a 
thin slice of pinky ham spread 
with just a suspicion of French 



mustard on one slice, spread with 
a layer of Bermuda onions cut in 
thin rings and lightly salted, then 
top with a second slice of buttered 
bread. Another hearty sandwich is 
made of brown bread with a filling 
of mushrooms cooked in cream, 
cubes of crisped bacon added and 
all seasoned with salt and pepper. 
Ham sandwiches made in this 
way "stay by" one. Rub a half cup 
butter to a cream, add one tea- 
spoonful made mustard, one table- 
spoonful melted butter or olive oil, 
the yolk of an egg beaten well, a 
pinch of salt and red or black 
pepper to season. Mix thorough- 
ly, then stir in as much chopped 
ham as will make a good consis- 
tency for spreading and place be- 
tween slices of whole wheat bread. 



APPETIZING PICNIC LUNCH 
FOR CANOEING PARTY. 

In arranging your provisions 
don't attempt to carry many sweets 
for a canoeing party, such as layer 
cake, cream puffs and other fragile, 
sticky dishes. The exercise in the 
fresh air begets mighty appetites, 
and young men especially prefer 
substantials. A veal loaf is popu- 
lar. It should be baked the day 
before or early in the morning 
of the picnic day, to give it ample 
time to cool. 

Veal Loaf. 

Mince fine three pounds lean, 
raw veal and a quarter of a pound 
of fat pork. Add a half onion 
chopped fine or grated, a table- 
spoonful of salt, a teaspoonful pep- 
per and a teaspoonful mixed sea- 
soning herbs. Mix well, add two- 
thirds of a cup cracker crumbs, a 



MENUS 



230 



half cup of veal gravy, the yolk of 
one egg and the whites of two 
beaten together. Form into a loaf, 
pressing firmly together. Brush 
over with the yolk of an egg, dust 
with finely rolled cracker crumbs 
and set on a greased rack in the 
dripping pan. When it begins to 
brown turn a cup of hot water in 
the pan and baste frequently until 
done. It will take about an hour 
and a half in a moderate oven. 



Ham and Pickle Sandwiches. 

Ham and pickle sandwiches are 
appetizing. Chop cold boiled ham 
quite fine, mix with a little melted 
butter and made mustard, add 
some finely chopped cucumber 
pickles and spread between thin 
slices of bread and butter. 

Where the preparation of the 
lunch is to be divided among four 
one might provide the sandwiches 
(reckoning at least four apiece 
where they are small), and one of 
the relishes such as olives, pickles, 
salted nuts or radishes. 

The second might bring the salad 
or special cold meat dish and the 
devilled eggs. The third could be 
responsible for the fruit, the bev- 
erages and another relish, and the 
fourth the dessert — cake, turn- 
overs, or whatever it may be, and 
more fruit. Let each young 
woman be responsible for the 
, dishes required for her escort and 
herself. 

If cans are to be opened there 
must be an understanding as to 
who shall carry the can opener, 
also the salt and pepper, matches 
and a towel for wiping the dishes. 
The best way is to hold a consul- 
tation beforehand and have all 



these little details adjusted in ad- 
vance. 



REFRESHING SUMMER BBV- 
ERAGES OF MINT. 

The Pungent Mint. 

In fields and waste places, in old 
fashioned gardens and along the 
banks of winding streams, the mint 
family grows clean, pungent and 
odorous, every member, from least 
to greatest, bearing a little medi- 
cine chest tucked away in its green 
bosom. During hot weather espe- 
cially the therapeutic value of the 
mint can scarcely be overesti- 
mated. 

In drying any of the mint family 
for winter use, pick before blos- 
soming time, hang in the garret 
heads down or on sheets of paper 
spread on the floor of an unused 
room. When quite dry put into 
paper bags again with heads down, 
fasten tightly and suspend from a 
beam for future reference. Here 
are some of the ways in which 
fresh mint may be used. 

Mint Apple Jelly. 

Make an extract of mint by 
steeping a cupful of the leaves for 
an hour in a cupful of hot water. 
Press through a cheesecloth bag, 
add a teaspoonful of this extract 
to one cupful apple juice obtained 
by cooking green, unripe apples 
with a little water; then, straining, 
al!ow a pound of sugar to a pint 
of juice; cook twenty minutes, then 
pour into moulds or glasses. This 
is a clear, delicate green jelly, ex- 
ceedingly pretty to look at and 
most appetizing with a roast. 



234 



MENUS 



Mint Julep for the Punch Bowl. 

In making a quantity for the 
punch bowl, make a syrup of a 
pound of sugar and a quart of 
water. Break up a dozen sprigs 
of mint, steep in a cupful and a 
half boiling water in a covered 
bowl for fifteen minutes, strain and 
add to the syrup. Add the juice 
of eight oranges, eight lemons, a 
cup of strawberry juice and a pint 
of claret. Add ice water to dilute 
properly and pour in the punch 
over a block of ice. Fresh berries 
and mint leaves should float on top 
of the bowl and in the individual 
glasses. 

A Temperanee Miiit Cordial. 

This is made without spirits. 
Crush a bunch of mint, rubbing 
each leaf with a wooden muller or 
masher, then soak for half an hour 
in the strained juice of two lemons 
with the carefully grated yellow 
rind of one. Cook together a pint 
of water and a pound of granulated 
sugar until the syrup spins a 
thread. Take from the fire and stir 
into it the lemon and the mint, the 
juice of an orange and an equal 
quantity of pineapple juice. Strain 
and put on the ice until cold, then 
serve in wine glasses with a sprig 
of mint and a berry on top of the 
glass. 

Mint Sherbet. 

Bruise a heaping cupful of mint 
leaves slightly, pour over them a 
pint of boiling water, and steep, 
covered, for twenty minutes. Add 
a cupful of sugar and the grated 
yellow rind and the juice of a 
lemon, cover again and leave until 
cold. Strain and pour into the 
freezer can, pack with equal quan- 



tities salt and ice and freeze to a 
mushlike consistency. Scrape oflf 
the sides and dasher, and cover 
until ready to serve. For state oc- 
casions this same sherbet may be 
enriched by adding the juice of 
three oranges, the same amount 
pineapple juice and, when half 
frozen, the whites of two eggs 
beaten stiiT. A wineglass of any 
preferred wine may also be added. 

Mint Used Medicinally. 

Medicinally there are few herbs 
that equal the pleasant mint. A 
cupful of mint tea taken morning 
and evening aids digestion and was 
claimed by our grandmothers to 
be an infallible rule for giving a 
fresh and healthy appearance. 

Prepared in a tea, with half 
water and half wine, a cupful taken 
daily will remove bad breath, if 
its cause is a disordered stomach; 
while essence of mint mixed with 
cream and sugar or creme de 
menthe, the French preparation of 
peppermint, with plenty of cracked 
ice, affords relief from the pain or 
lassitude caused by excessive heat 
or fatigue. In colic and summer 
complaints also this preparation of 
mint proves a soothing and in- 
vigorating remedy. In making any 
^ of the mint teas never boil. Pour 
boiling water over the leaves, then 
push where the tea will infuse. 

Mint in Soups, Salads and Veg- 
etables. 
Cucumber salad or an apple and 
celery salad are greatly improved 
by a sprinkle of fine chopped mint 
leaves. Just a suspicion of mint 
with cooked peas, or a cream of 
pea or potato soup, is a great ad- 
dition; also to a lamb or veal salad. 



MENUS 



235 



Mint Sauce for Game or Spring 
Lamb. 

Mint sauce is the orthodox ac- 
companiment for roast lamb and 
many kinds of game. For it fresh 
young mint leaves should be used. 
Pick out two tablespoonfuls of the 
best leaves, and chop very fine on 
a plate; mix with two and a half 
tablespoonfuls sugar, four table- 
spoonfuls vinegar and a half tea- 
spoonful salt. Let this stand sev- 
eral hours before serving. 

Mint Jelly. 

This is also an approved accom- 
paniment for lamb or mutton. To 
make it pour a pint of boiling 
water over a bunch of fresh 
bruised mint leaves and simmer 
gently ten or fifteen minutes; 
strain, and to a pint of the hot 
liquid allow one package of cur- 
rant, lemon or any of the quick 
process acid jellies or half a pack- 
age of gelatine soaked half an hour 
in cold water to dissolve; add 
sugar to sweeten and lemon juice 
to make acid as desired. Stir until 
thoroughly dissolved, then set 
away to cool. As it begins to 
stiffen stir in two tablespoonfuls 
capers, pour into one good sized 
mould or tiny individual ones and 
set away to harden. When cold 
and firm turn out and garnish with 
tiny sprigs of fresh mint. 

Mint Vinegar. 

Put crushed mint leaves in a 
wide mouthed bottle, then fill up 
with good cider vinegar. In three 
weeks pour off clear into another 
bottle. This is fine for flavoring 
purposes when fresh mint cannot 
be had and almost a sure cure for 



headache when bound upon the 
forehead. 

Currant-Mint Sauce for Game. 

Separate a glass of currant jelly 
into pieces, but do not break; add 
two tablespoonfuls fine chopped 
mint leaves and the thin shavings 
from the yellow rind of a half 
orange. 

Candied Mint Leaves. 

Select the desired quantity of 
perfect leaves, spread on an in- 
verted sieve and stand in the air 
until slightly dry, but not crisp; 
make a syrup from a cup each of 
sugar and water and cook until it 
spins a thread; lift the leaves with 
a fine wire and dip into the hot 
syrup one by one; then set back on 
the sieve, which should have been 
slightly oiled, dry in the warming 
oven. These are delicious served 
as after dinner bonbons. 



VEGETABLES THAT ARE 
BETTER THAN MEDICINE. 

If more 'housewives appreciated 
the medicinal qualities of vege- 
tables and regulated the diet of 
their families in accordance, there 
would be less need for physician's 
treatment and the taking of drugs. 
By the simplest preparation of cer- 
tain vegetables nerves may be 
soothed, bilious attacks warded off, 
the blood purified, colds averted 
and the general system toned. Of 
course, to cure specific cases, of 
say, biliousness, a woman must 
understand which vegetable will 
have the desired effect, and she 
must also know what other foods 
should be taken with it to hasten 



286 



MENUS 



if possible the desired results. In- 
cidentally, a knowledge of any 
food that would have the opposite 
effect must be known, so that the 
latter will not be served to the pa- 
tient being treated by "vegetables" 
at home. 

For biliousness nothing is better 
than raw ripe tomatoes. They 
should be eaten at every ireal dur- 
ing the day, even for breakfast, 
and the woman who will cease tak- 
ing calomel and other drugs for 
that dizzy feeling and sickness in 
the stomach will find that plenty 
of tomatoes taken with salt and 
pepper will not only keep off these 
uncomfortable spells, but may 
eliminate them. 

Onions a Nerve Tonic. 

That common garden vegetable, 
the onion, which many women re- 
fuse to eat because of its strong 
odor, is an excellent tonic for the 
nerves, and many persons who now 
suffer from nervous dyspepsia and 
other troubles could help them- 
selves immeasurably by eating one 
or two of these every day. Taken 
raw, they are, of course, beneficial, 
but the best results from them 
come after they have been well 
boiled. A diet of onions — that is, 
two or three a day for several 
weeks — ^will make a remarkable 
difference in the nervous system 
that will be noticeable by the per- 
son treated in the discharge of 
everyday duties. 

Taken daily with onions, though 
not in such quantities, peas, beets 
and carrots help nervous people by 
producing rich, pure blood to 
nourish the impoverished nerve 
centres. Because of their direct 
effect on the blood they are ex- 



cellent for thin women. Those 
who are inclined to be irritable and 
get excited about trifles will doubt- 
less be benefited by taking these 
three vegetables with their daily 
meals. 

Known as the "cleanser of the 
stomach," spinach is particularly 
valuable for anaemic persons, be- 
cause it contains so much iron, 
and women who are taking a min- 
eral or prepared drug because of 
the iron in it would do well to eat 
this vegetable every day or twice 
daily. By its action on the blood 
and peculiar medicinal qualities, 
spinach is valuable in treating 
rheumatism, and incidentally for 
gout, and those afflicted with either 
would do well to include it when 
cooked as a part of the daily diet. 
Celery taken at the same time by 
gouty individuals or those suffer- 
ing with rheumatism should hasten 
the good results to the system. 

Cabbages Are Blood Purifiers. 

Though cabbage, cauliflower and 
brussels sprouts have fewer me- 
dicinal ingredients than these other 
vegetables, they are excellent as 
blood purifiers, and for that rea- 
son may be taken daily with ad- 
vantage to the system by those 
who are on tomato, onion or 
spinach diets. 

A woman prone to sleeplessness, 
whether from nervousness or other 
physical causes, yvould do well to 
eat plenty of lettuce, especially at 
dinner time, for the milk contained 
in the crisp green leaves is full of 
a sedative that ■ calms the nerves 
and creates a drowsiness that is 
often hard to resist until time to 
retire. 

Fruits, too, are valuable in the 



MENUS 



237 



daily diet, for apples make a 
wholesome brain food, while figs, 
especially the green ones, act di- 
rectly on the nerves of the stom- 
ach and are good for indigestion 
and also as a laxative. Pome- 
granate is an excellent tonic and 
astringent, and a drink made from 
the juice of a lemon mixed with 
hot water is often the means of 
breaking up a hard cold. 

If herbs are properly prepared, 
boiled into liquids and taken with 
these medicinal vegetables at meal 
time, early in the morning or just 
before going to bed, they act on 
the system of the patient the same 
as real drugs, except, being vege- 
tables, they are much more effec- 
tive and often bring more lasting 
results, even permanent cures. 

Dandelion for Torpid Liver. 

As a medicine for a torpid or dis- 
eased liver nothing is better than 
a liquid made from the roots of 
the dandelion by careful boiling, 
while a syrup taken in the same 
way from the stalks and leaves of 
common mullen is still thought by 
many persons to be a remedy for 
consumption, and it is doubtless, 
in the early stages, a very good 
kind of treatment of pulmonary 
troubles. 

Instead of using quinine, sloe 
bark dried and powdered will have 
the same effect in curing a cold and 
as a tonic. For external applica- 
tions an excellent ointment for 
boils may be made from oak 
leaves, dried and powdered and 
mixed with clarified lard, while to 
stop the bleeding of wounds pink 
blossomed marshmallow is very 
good. 

By carefully preparing elder- 



berry flowers with the fat of mut- 
ton and olive oil, an ointment is 
made that is unequalled in treating 
a rough skin. 



COLD FRUIT SOUPS FOR 
SUMMER MENUS. 

Red Raspberry Soup. 

From a quart of fine ripe berries 
lay aside a cupful. Put the remain- 
der in a saucepan with a cupful of 
cold water and simmer until soft. 
Strain through a coarse sieve and 
measure the juice; add enough 
water to make two cupfuls. Re- 
heat, and when boiling thicken 
slightly with a tablespoonful of 
arrowroot or cornstarch dissolved 
in a little cold water; add two 
tablespoonfuls of sugar and the 
grated yellow rind of a lemon and 
simmer until clear. Take from the 
fire, add the juice of two oranges 
or the same amount of pineapple 
juice, strain again and chill. Serve 
in punch glasses with cracked ice 
in the bottom and a few berries 
floating on top. More sugar may 
be added, but the fruit soups 
should not be too sweet. Serve 
with wafers or sponge cake. 

Peach Puree. 

Press canned or fresh peaches 
through a sieve, measure, and to 
each pint allow a pint of water, the 
juice of a lemon and a half tea- 
spoonful of bitter almond. Bring 
to the boiling point, and thicken 
with a teaspoonful of arrowroot 
moistened in a half cupful of cold 
water. Stir until smooth and 
thickened, then set aside to cool. 
When ready to serve pour into 



238 



MENUS 



tumblers and fill with cracked ice, 
or put in small bowls set in 
saucers of ice and send to the 
table. 

Apple Soup. 

Strain through a sieve enough 
stewed apples to make a cupful. 
Mix a teaspoonful of cornstarch 
with enough cold water to stir 
smooth, and pour into three cups 
boiling water. Stir until thick and 
clear, add the sauce, season with 
salt and cinnamon or nutmeg, 
sweeten if desired, and serve cold 
with croutons or cheese fingers. 

Lemon. Soup. 

Make a strong, hot lemonade; 
thicken slightly with cornstarch or 
arrowroot and serve very cold with 
a bit of preserved ginger or a 
cherry in each glass. Orange soup 
is made in the same way. Also 
pineapple, grape, cherry, currant 
and currant and red raspberry. 

Blackberry Soup. 

Stew the berries in plenty of 
water, and when tender strain 
through a puree sieve. Thicken 
slightly with flour, sweeten to 
taste and flavor with nutmeg. 
Serve with zwiebach. 

Swedish Soup. 

Take equal quanties prunes and 
raisins and cook very slowly in 
plenty of water until tender. Strain 
and sweeten. Cook sago until 
clear; mix with the hot fruit and 
juice and chill before serving. 

Bread Soup. 

This is a favorite German sweet 
soup that is eaten hot in winter 



and cold in summer. To make it 
take stale crusts of rye bread and 
put to cook with plenty of wate' 
to cover them. When soft, strain 
and put the liquid back over the 
fire with a little butter, a handful 
of dried currants, sugar to taste, 
a piece of stick cinnamon and a 
sprinkle of salt. A little vinegar 
or lemon juice is often added. The 
soup should be but slightly thick- 
ened, not so much as porridge. 
Judgment is to be exercised in the 
amount of bread and water used. 
The stick cinnamon may be re- 
moved after cooking a few mo- 
ments, rinsed off and saved to use 
again. 

Einlauf. 

This is another German soup not 
generally known here. Make a 
pancake batter of two eggs, two 
heaping tablespoonfuls of .flour, 
and milk or water to make the 
right consistency. Have ready 
three pints boiling water; then let 
the batter run into it, stirring all 
the time. If desired the yolk of 
one egg may be reserved to add 
to the soup last, with a little sugar 
and butter. Then chill. 

Almond Soup. 

Scald, peel and pound about a 
quarter of a pound of sweet al- 
monds. Boil in fresh milk, press 
through a sieve, sweeten to taste, 
cook again until the soup is thick- 
ened sufficiently, strain, add the 
juice of an orange, chill and serve. 



APPETIZING SUMMER SUB- 
STITUTES FOR MEAT. 

In homes without number, since 
the packing house investigations 



MENUS 



239 



have been so thoroughly exploited, 
the dietary has been changed so as 
to eliminate meat in whole or part. 

It goes without saying that there 
must be intelligent discrimination 
in making out a dietary where flesh 
is excluded. Not all vegetables 
and fruits, even though appetizing, 
have the food or fuel value to sup- 
ply the waste of the body and give 
necessary heat and energy to the 
system. Cereals properly prepared 
and served, though more slowly 
digested than meat, are really 
better adapted to sustain hard man- 
ual labor for a period of time. It 
is a well known fact that men 
nourished extensively on cereals 
are capable of the hardest and 
most enduring manual labor. 
Cheese is rich in nutritive ele- 
ments. There has been a popular 
belief that it is not easily digested. 
That is true of*poor or new cheese, 
but those that are old and rich are 
not only easily digested, but pro- 
mote the digestion of other foods. 
It must be borne in mind, how- 
ever, that it is a highly concen- 
trated food and not to be taken in 
large quantities at a time. 

The pulse family — ^peas, beans 
and lentils — have all the chemical 
elements that the human system 
needs. Eggs that are rich in pro- 
teids may take the place of meat 
very satisfactorily for a time, and 
ways of cooking them are legion. 

Most excellent fish are now in 
the market, cod, halibut, haddock, 
restigouche salmon and Kennebec, 
Spanish and common mackerel, 
blue and weak fish, as well as num- 
berless others from lake, river and 
ocean. Mushrooms are also in or- 
der, and while the fresh fruits 
seem the more refreshing and in- 
viting, the nutritious dates, figs 



and prunes may furnish their quota 
of appetizing nutriment. 

Nuts are very nutritious and if 
eaten at proper times furnish a 
good substitute for meat. At this 
season, however, they are not of a 
good quality and can only be 
served salted or in cooked dishes. 
Olive oil, cream and butter are all 
nourishing and should be indulged 
in freely. Macaroni, spaghetti and 
the various noodles are hearty as 
well as digestible. The noodles 
may be purchased in any one of a 
dozen diilerent forms, for use in 
soups. They are quite inexpensive 
— about sixteen cents a pound — 
and a pound would make a dinner 
dish for a regiment. German 
noodles are even less expensive 
than the Italian and far cleaner. 

Here are several suggestive 
dishes, substitutes for meat, that 
may be varied, according to cir- 
cumstances: — 



Macaroni Milanese. 

The preliminary cooking of mac- 
aroni is always the same, no mat- 
ter how it is to be dressed after- 
ward. It should be put into a 
good quantity of rapidly boiling, 
lightly salted water, cooked about 
twenty minutes, then thrown into 
cold water to blanch. Then it is 
ready to cook. Turn the macaroni 
back into the kettle in which it 
was cooked, pour a cup of milk 
over it and reheat. Butter a pud- 
ding dish and put into it in alter- 
nate layers the macaroni and 
grated cheese, seasoning with a 
little more salt and a few grains 
of cayenne. Put plenty of butter 
on top, cover with fresh milk, the 
richer the better, and cook, cov- 



240 



MENUS 



ered, for fifteen or twenty minutes. 
Uncover and brown. 



Spaghetti with Cheese. 

Take a handful of the long 
stocks of spaghetti and put one 
end of the bunch in a kettle of 
boiling water lightly salted. As 
the sticks soften, bend the mass 
around in the kettle and so put it 
all in without breaking the spa- 
ghetti. Cook fifteen or twenty 
minutes until tender, then drain 
and blanch. Return to the kettle, 
add a little milk and let it cook 
slowly until the milk is absorbed. 
Just before serving add quarter of 
a cup of butter, and when melted 
turn out on a shallow dish and 
sprinkle with grated sap sago 
cheese. 

A change in service is made by 
using a tomato sauce with spa- 
ghetti. 



Tomato Sauce for Spaghetti 

Boil and strain one can toma- 
toes. Chop one small onion fine 
and brown in pan with two slices 
of fat salt pork or two tablespoon- 
fuls olive oil or butter. Five 
minutes before the browning is ac- 
complished throw in a handful of 
dried mushrooms that have been 
scalded, strained and chopped. 
These add greatly to the flavor. 
Add to the tomatoes four whole 
cloves, a lump of sugar, salt and 
paprika or cayenne to flavor, mix 
together, strain, then thicken 
lightly with browned flour and 
cook two minutes. Pour over the 
spaghetti and add grated Parmesan 
cheese. 



Devilled MacaronL 

Cook enough macaroni to make 
two cupfuls after it is cooked, 
blanch and chopped. Make a good 
cream sauce, using two tablespoon- 
fuls each butter and flour, one cup- 
ful warm milk and salt and pepper 
to season. Add to the sauce three 
hard boiled eggs minced, a table- 
spoonful chopped parsley, two 
tablespoonfuls onion juice, nut- 
meg, salt and paprika to season. 
Mix the sauce with the macaroni 
and turn into a good sized ramekin 
or individual ones, sprinkle the 
tops with buttered crumbs and 
brown. Just before sending to the 
table make a little depression in 
the top of each and pour in a tea- 
spoonful of chili sauce. 



Baked Hominy. 

Put a quart of milk over the fire 
and when just at the boiling point 
stir in one cup hominy grits. Stir 
a few moments, then set in a 
double boiler or water basin and 
cook gently three-quarters of an 
hour. Turn into the bowl and cool 
slightly. Beat two eggs until light 
and whip into the cooled hominy 
together with a teaspoonful salt. 
Put into a greased pan and bake 
half an hour in a quick oven. 



Codfish and Hominy. 

For one-half pound of salt nsh, 
flaked, allow one pound white 
hominy cooked, one teaspoonful 
salt, half a teaspoonful pepper, one 
quart milk, with a slice of onion 
boiled in the milk, two tablespoon- 
fuls drippings or butter and two 
tablespoonfuls flour. Make the 
cream sauce first with the flour 



MENUS 



241 



and butter cooked together, then 
add the milk, seasonings and lastly 
fish and hominy. This makes 
enough for a large family. 

Salmon Cooked in Court Bouillon. 

Lay a two pound slice fresh, 
firm salmon in the grate of a fish 
kettle, pour over enough cold 
water to cover, add two table- 
spoonfuls wine vinegar, three 
sprigs parsley, a sliced onion, three 
whole cloves, six whole peppers 
and two tablespoonfuls salt. Let 
the fish come quickly to the boil- 
ing point, then push back where it 
will simmer gently until the flesh 
flakes. Serve with a garnish of 
mushrooms and a rich sauce. 



HISTORICAL SOUTHERN 

DISHES BY OLD-TIME 

HOSTESSES. 

These recipes, used more than 
a hundred years ago in the kit- 
chens of the North and South, 
have all been contributed by de- 
scendants and are now published 
for the first time, each with the 
name of the originator and the 
contributor. They are accompa- 
nied in many cases by notes of in- 
teresting personal or historical epi- 
sodes connected with them. This 
composite collection, to which 
nearly two hundred of the best 
known hostesses of the United 
States have contributed their 
choicest recipes for preparing 
every sort of table delicacy, from 
shell fish, soups, breads, entrees 
and meats, to game, salads, vege- 
tables, beverages and desserts, 
makes a most valuable addition to 
the culinary literature of America. 



Sally Lunn. 

By Mrs. Dabney H. Maury, 
Richmond, Va. 

Take one-quarter pound butter, 
one pound flour, two eggs, one- 
half gill of yeast, or one-half yeast 
cake dissolved in a little warm wa- 
ter, milk enough to make a soft 
dough, one-half teaspoonful salt. 
Cut up the butter and melt in the 
warm milk. When the milk is 
lukewarm, stir it into the flour, 
with the eggs beaten very light, 
then add the yeast. Butter the 
mould in which it is to be baked 
carefully, pour in the mixture, and 
in winter set near the fire to rise. 
When perfectly light and risen to 
top of Turk's head, bake in mod- 
erate oven. 

Waffles. 

By Miss Logan, Kentucky. 

One pint sour cream, two pints 
flour, three eggs, one teaspoonful 
soda, three tablespoonfuls melted 
lard, and a little salt. Beat the 
eggs separately, and put the flour 
and the sour cream in with the 
yellows. Make the batter very thin 
with sweet milk. Add lard, then 
soda dissolved in a little milk, and 
lastly the whites of the eggs. Bake 
quickly in very hot irons. ^ 

Clermont Muflins. 

By Mrs. Robert K. Livingston, 
New York, 1775. 

Two eggs, two tablespoonfuls 
butter, one large teacup cream, 
sweet or sour, one saltspoonful 
salt, flour enough for a very soft 
dough. Mix well, shape into small 
balls the size of an English wal- 



242 



MENUS 



nut, roll out into thin cakes, each 
one about the size of a dessert 
plate, not much thicker than paper. 
Bake in a pan in front of a hot 
fire. 

Beaten Biscuit. 

This recipe has been used for 
several generations in a Montgom- 
ery (Ala.) family. The biscuits 
were formerly beaten on a heavy 
block cut from a large tree, but 
of late a biscuit machine has been 
used and is very satisfactory. 

One quart ilour, one cup milk, a 
pinch of soda size of a small pea, 
one kitchen spoon lard. Sift soda 
and salt in flour thoroughly; rub 
lard in flour until it is like corn- 
meal. Then add milk and mix well. 
Roll through a biscuit machine for 
one-half hour, or beat one hundred 
strokes on a block with a heavy 
pestle. Cut the size of a gentle- 
man's watch and bake in a mod- 
erate oven. 

Black Bean Soup. 

By Grandmother Hannah Burrows. 

One quart beans boiled until 
tender. Add one quart tomatoes, 
boil two hours and strain. Add 
one tablespoonful corn starch, pep- 
per, salt, one tablespoonful butter 
and a few cloves. Just before 
serving add brandy and sherry to 
taste and a few slices of lemon. 

Okra Gumbo. 

An Old Creole Recipe. 

Fry slowly together one sliced 
onion and a tablespoonful of drip- 
pings or a slice of salt pork. Add 
a pound of lean beef cut in small 
pieces and stew quickly. Dredge 
with a heaping tablespoonful of 



flour and cook until brown. Add 
three pints boiling water, one pint 
peeled and sliced tomatoes, and 
one pint of sliced okra. Coyer and 
simmer for an hour and a half, 
adding salt and pepper to taste. 
Chicken may be used instead of 
beef, or crabs or shrimps. In the 
latter case these should be previ- 
ously boiled and the meat picked 
out and added lasti A little 
chopped ham is always an improve- 
ment. Serve with boiled rice. 
The gumbo should be very thick 
when served. 

Cold Crab Ravigote. 

Given by the Chef of the Famous 
Old Bellevue, Philadelphia. 

One pint best crab meat, two 
large fresh ripe tomatoes, one 
large green pepper, one red pep- 
per, same kind; chop the tomato 
and peppers fine; be sure to take 
out all the seeds in peppers; add 
a tablespoonful of chopped pars- 
ley; mix all together with mayon- 
naise enough to have them quite 
wet and moist, season to taste with 
salt and a dash of paprika; fill 
each shell heaping full of the mix- 
ture and garnish the top with two 
anchovies, a small piece of cut 
pickle and lemons; the anchovies 
can be dispensed with if preferred; 
serve in six shells. 

Quenelles with Spinach. 

An English recipe used by an old 
housekeeper of Mrs. Joseph 
Coleman Bright when for- 
merly in the employ of 
Lord Raglan, of Rag- 
lan Castle. 

Make a forcemeat of two pounds 
veal, season with mace, salt and 



MENUS 



243 



pepper; add one-quarter pint of 
cream, mix well and poach in clear 
soup. Drop a soup spoonful at 
a time in the boiling soup, take 
out and keep hot. Have ready- 
some well chopped and seasoned 
spinach, pile in the centre of the 
dish, and place the quenelles 
around. This makes a very nice 
and dainty entree. 



Pudding. 

Contributed by a great-great- 
great-granddaughter of Thomas 
Jefferson, Fredericksburg, 
Va. 

One pint bread crumbs, one 
quart cream, one teacup white 
sugar, yolks four eggs, grated rind 
of a lemon; beat yolks, sugar and 
lemon together, and stir in the 
crumbs. Bake a light brown. 
When it is done spread over the 
top currant jelly or any small pre- 
serve. Beat the whites of the eggs 
to a stiff froth, spread on top and 
serve either hot or cold. 



Cherry Roll. 

By Mrs. Heloise Minor, Norfolk, 
Va, 

Six medium sized Irish potatoes, 
one large spoonful butter, one- 
half teaspoonful salt, flour enough 
to make a paste. Mash potatoes 
smooth, add butter and salt, then 
the flour. Roll it out in a strip 
longer than wide, lay it over the 
fruit. Roll it up and tie in a 
floured bag. It must boil steadily 
one hour, and water must be boil- 
ing when put in. Serve with sauce. 



Dolly Madison's Whim, 

This is Dolly Madison's own fav- 
orite cake and was taken from 
the original book. 

One pound flour, one pound 
sugar, one pound butter, one 
pound raisins stoned and chopped, 
six eggs, a wine glass brandy, one 
nutmeg, a tablespoonful mace, one 
dessertspoonful soda dissolved in 
a wine glass of hot water. Beat 
the butter to a cream, rub the yolks 
of the eggs and the sugar together, 
and the butter, whip the whites of 
the eggs to a stiff froth, and add 
alternately with the flour, then the 
brandy and the nutmeg, and lastly 
the soda. Stir the whole mixture 
lightly and quickly and bake in a 
deep pan with the same heat re- 
quired for pound cake. 



MEDICINAL CORDIAL 
RECIPES, 

In all the large and varied list 
of fruit preparations put up best 
at home, shrubs and cordials stand 
easily first, as many of them can- 
not be purchased in the stores. 
Blackberry cordial, one of the best 
of all remedies for troubles inci- 
dent to hot weather, cannot be 
bought at its best for less than 
sixty to seventy-five cents a bot- 
tle, while it can be made at home, 
using the best French brandy and 
purest spices, for less than half 
that amount. Raspberry shrub, 
one of the most refreshing and 
cooling of summer drinks, costs 
nothing but the price of the ber- 
ries, the sugar and vinegar. 

Here are a few thoroughly well 
tested recipes, that, once tried, will 
be used every season thereafter: — 



244 



MENUS 



Blackberry Cordial. 

Wash the berries in running 
water from the faucet, drain and 
put in a preserving kettle or stone 
jar set inside the wash boiler or 
a large pan of water. Simmer, 
mashing and stirring often, until 
soft and mushy. A wooden spoon 
or potato masher is best for this 
purpose. When soft turn into a 
cheesecloth bag that has been 
wrung out of hot water and sus- 
pend from a nail or a broomstick 
laid across the tops of two chairs 
and let hang until the juice has 
drained off. Measure the juice and 
allow to each quart one pound loaf 
or granulated sugar, a level table- 
spoonful each cinnamon and nut- 
meg, a half tablespoonful each 
cloves and allspice. Tie the pow- 
dered spice in a thin muslin bag. 
Boil all together for fifteen min- 
utes, skimming thoroughly at the 
end of that time. When cold add 
one-half pint best French brandy. 
Seal in small corked bottles. This 
improves with age and is one of the 
most famous household remedies 
in the South. 

Blackberry Wine. 

This resembles the cordial, and 
is made in much the same way, but 
without the addition of spirits. 
Pour four quarts of boiling water 
over eight quarts of well ripened 
blackberries and let stand over 
night in a cool place. Then press 
out the juice, and to every four 
quarts of juice allow three pounds 
of sugar, with a heaping table- 
spoonful of powdered cinnamon, 
a level tablespoonful of powdered 
cloves and a half tablespoonful 
each of nutmeg and allspice. Boil 
the mixture five minutes and set 



to ferment in a stone jar. When 
it has finished fermenting, rack 
oflE without disturbing the lees, 
bottle and cork closely. This, too, 
is used for medicinal purposes, but 
is somewhat stronger than the 
cordial. 

Elderberry Wine. 

This; too, is excellent in case of 
summer complaint, and the berries 
in most cases can be had for the 
gathering. Add to three gallons 
crushed berries three and a half 
gallons of water, one-half cupful of 
raisins, two ounces of whole all- 
spice, one dozen whole cloves, one 
ounce of ginger root and four 
inches of stick cinnamon. Boil all 
together half an hour, then strain. 
To every gallon of the liquid al- 
low three and a half pounds of 
sugar and boil until clear, skim- 
ming thoroughly. 

Put into a cask, and when near- 
ly cold drop in a piece of toast 
spread with one yeast cake soft- 
ened in a little tepid water. When 
fermentation has ceased close the 
cask tightly. It will be ready for 
use in three months, and is one of 
the best of tonics. For summer 
complaint give hourly in dessert- 
spoonful doses. 



Red Raspberry Shrub. 

' Fill a quart jar with red rasp- 
berries, then pour in as much pure 
vinegar (white wine or cider) as 
it will hold. Let this stand over 
night. In the morning mash the 
berries and squeeze through a 
coarse bag. To every pint of the 
juice allow one pound of sugar. 
Boil twenty minutes, skim the bot- 
tle. This makes a thick, rich 



MENUS 



245 



syrup, which must be diluted con- 
siderably before drinking. 

Raspberry Vinegar. 

Put two quarts raspberries in a 
stone jar and cover with one quart 
good cider vinegar. Cover closely 
and stand aside for two days. At 
the end of that time mash the ber- 
ries and drain off the liquid. Pour 
this over a third quart of fresh 
berries and set away for another 
two days. Strain and allow to each 
pint of juice one pound sugar. 
Cook gently for five or ten min- 
utes. Skim, strain and bottle. 
Vinegar prepared in this way will 
keep indefinitely, and a teaspoon- 
ful added to a glass of water makes 
a most refreshing and healthful 
drink. 

Raspberry Syrup for Flavoring. 

Put as many berries as desired 
in the preserving kettle, crush 
slightly, heat slowly and cook 
very gently for half an hour. 
Crush with a wooden spoon and 
strain through a cheesecloth bag. 
Put the juice into a clean preserv- 
ing kettle after measuring. Let it 
come to a boil, then skim. Add 
to the berry juice half its quantity 
of sugar. Stir until dissolved, then 
pour into hot sterilized bottles. 
Set uncovered in pans of hot water 
on the stove or in the oven, cook 
ten minutes longer, fill to over- 
flowing with the boiling juice and 
seal. 

How Lemon and Vanilla Flavors 
Are Made at Home. 

There is no reason why the 
housewife who wishes to keep 
down her expenses, and at the 



same time make sure her family 
is getting pUre food, should not 
put up her own extracts and flav- 
orings. It is really very little 
trouble, and the expense is almost 
nil in comparison to the price one 
is obliged to pay for the high 
grade extracts. Take the lemon, 
for instance. Before cutting the 
lemon to extract the juice, scrub 
well, rinse and wipe with a soft 
cloth. Then grate off all the deli- 
cate yellow skin, taking care that 
none of the white part of the rind 
goes in, as this will give a bitter 
taste. Pack a small bottle full of 
these yellow shavings, cover with 
pure grain alcohol and set away 
. for three weeks. At the end of 
that time the contents of the bot- 
tle should be strained and the ex- 
tract is ready for use. An even 
teaspoonful of this preparation 
will flavor a quart of custard or 
other similar dish. 

Lemon Zest. 

This is a g^eat favorite with 
English cooks. Rub thoroughly 
washed lemons with lumps of sugar 
until they have absorbed the oil 
form the rind. Then rub the 
lumps to a powder and store in a 
glass jar. These contain simply the 
oil of the lemon and are considered 
particularly delicate. 

Lemon Sugar. 

Place the grated yellow peel from 
lemons in a wide mouthed bottle 
and cover thickly with granulated 
sugar. Keep the bottle tightly 
corked., The sug^r becomes satu- 
rated with the oil from the peel 
and imparts a delicious flavor. Still 
another way is to rub lumps of 



246 



MENUS 



sugar over the lemon rind until 
the oil cells are broken and the 
oil absorbed by the sugar. Place 
the lumps of sugar in an air tight 
jar and when ready to use dissolve 
some of the sugar in whatever it 
is desired to flavor. 

Orange Sugar. 

Wash the oranges, then with a 
sharp, thin bladed knife pare off 
the thin yellow rind without a par- 
ticle of the bitter white underneath. 
Spread on plates and dry in a sun- 
ny window or in a cooling oven 
■with door ajar. When perfectly 
dry, add to the rind of a half dozen 
good sized oranges a half pound 
granulated sugar. Rub to a pow- 
der in a mortar, sift through a fine 
sieve, returning the coarse particles 
to the mortar to be reground and 
sifted. A tablespoonful of this 
sugar will flavor a quart of cream 
or other sweet. Sugar made from 
Tangerine oranges is specially de- 
lightful. Orange zest and orange 
extract are made in the same way 
as those from lemon. 

Strawberry Extract. 

Fill a quart jar with sweet ripe 
berries, cover with white brandy, 
let stand two weeks, then strain 
through cheesecloth, pressing out 
all the liquid; pour in bottles, cork 
tightly and keep in a cool, dry 
place. Use for flavoring. 



into small shreds and put in a 
bottle with a pint of brandy; cork 
tightly, shake occasionally, and it 
will be ready to use," in three 
months. "f' 

Vanilla Extract. 

Cut and chop fine two or three 
pods and pound fine in a mortar; 
rub or pound into them a little 
powdered sugar; put in a pint bot- 
tle, add a tablespoonful water and 
let stand over night. The next day 
pour on a cup spirits of wine, cork 
well and let stand for a month, 
shaking every day. 



Vanilla Flavoring. 

Split four beans and clip in bits 
with scissors; put seeds, husks and 
all into a bottle and pour over it 
one pint brandy or whiskey; cork 
tightly, shake frequently for the 
first four or five weeks. It is then 
ready for use and will keep for 
years. 

Vanilla Pods. 

Many professional cooks prefer 
to use the pods themselves in flav- 
oring, declaring that the flavor im- 
parted is more delicate. When 
making a cream or pudding, the 
pod is stirred in the substance to 
be flavored. It is then removed, 
washed in two waters and reserved 
for future use. If care is taken a 
pod will last for a long time. 



Vanilla Essence. 

The best vanilla comes from 
Mexico, though a very good quality 
may be obtained from Honduras, 
Guinea, Brazil or Ceylon. To 
make the essence cut three pods 



Ginger Extract. 

Cover two ounces ginger root 
with one-half pint of pure grain al- 
cohol. Let stand till the spirit is 
impregnated thoroughly with the 
ginger, then strain and bottle. 



MENUS 



247 



Rose Flavoring. 

The easiest way to prepare this 
is to fill a bottle with fresh, fra- 
grant petals, crowding them down 
as compactly as possible. Pour on 
pure alcoboi .to submerge the 
leaves. Cork tightly and set in a 
cool place for several weeks, then 
strain and use as other flavorings. 

Kose Syrup. 

Cut fragrant roses in full bloom, 
picking in the early morning with 
the dew still on. Dry slightly, then 
pull out the petals and spread on 
trays to prevent mildew. Keep 
cutting the roses and drying in this 
way until there are enough for a 
jar or tumbler of preserves. Put 
in preserving kettle with just water 
to cover and cook until the leaves 
are tender. Add sugar, pint for 
pint, and cook until it forms a jelly 
like syrup. Pour into jelly glasses. 
When ready to use a teaspoonful 
gives a delicious flavor to a cake 
or pudding sauce. 



Picnic Lunch Cooked Around 
Camp Fire. 

For a day's outing try cooking 
the dinner over a camp fire. If you 
do not wish to carry many cooking 
utensils along there are plenty of 
things that can be grilled on the 
end of sharp pointed sticks. A 
wire broiler is not a heavy thing 
to carry and over a bed of glow- 
ing coals you can broil a steak or 
fish, toast bread or use it as a rest 
for the coffee pot. Frankfurters 
are nice spitted and grilled over a 
fire; also a kebab of lamb or ten- 
der beef in old Greek fashion. To 
do this cut the meat in two inch 



square pieces before leaving home, 
and cover with onion juice or 
minced onion to season. Let stand 
for an hour before packing for the 
picnic. When ready to grill, string 
the pieces of meat on a sharp 
pbinted stick of some green wood, 
lay across two notched sticks, set 
up by the bed of coals, then turn 
every few minutes until nicely 
browned and sending forth the 
most ravishing odors. Season with 
salt and pepper and serve on the 
little wooden grocer's plates. 

A Barbecue on a Small Scale. 

A barbecue on a small scale is 
a good camp dish. Lay the ribs of 
a sheep on a grill, brush over, us- 
ing a swab of clean cloth tied on 
the end of a stick, with a mixture 
of melted butter and vinegar, 
whipping a half cup softened but- 
ter with a quarter cup vinegar un- 
til frothy like salad dressing. Sea- 
son well with salt, pepper and mus- 
tard. As the meat broils on the 
gridiron or grill, keep saturating 
with the dressing. When done it 
will be deliciously seasoned. 

Apples and Potatoes. 

Apples may be spitted and toast- 
ed over the fire, or baked in the 
ashes or a covered pan until ten- 
der. Potatoes can be baked covered 
over in a bed of hot ashes. When 
done brush off, break the skin 
slightly and serve with salt. 

Roast Clams. 

Clear a place in the sand, stand 
the clams upright so that the juice 
will not run out as they open, and 
cover with brush, driftwood and 



248 



MENUS 



fire. As fast as they open, fish out 
with a stick, taking pains to secure 
a large clam first. Having eaten 
that, use the half of the shell for 
holding butter and pepper, into 
which the rest of the clams may 
be dipped before eating. 



Camp Coffee. 

Allow a tablespoonful ground 
coffee for each one in the camp and 
"one for the pot." Put into a 
cheesecloth bag with a draw string 
to tie about the mouth, lay in the 
pot and pour in cold water as many 
cups as you wish to serve. Cover 
closely, stopping up the spout 
with a twist of paper. As soon as 
it boils it is ready to serve. Use 
condensed cream and block sugar. 
Making the coffee by this cold 
water process obviates the neces- 
sity of a longer wait while the 
water gets its first boil. 



Baked Eggs. 

Make a small hole in the top to 
prevent bursting, then stand in 
rows against hot stones around 
the camp fire. 

Toasted Cheese. 

Cut the cheese in pieces two 
inches square, impale on a green 
stick and toast over the fire. 

Corn Bread Baked in the Ashes. 

Sift together before leaving home 
three pints Indian meal, one pint 
wheat ilour, one teaspoonful salt, 
a tablespoonful sugar and six tea- 
spoonfuls baking powder. When 
ready to bake, stir in enough cold 
water to make a stiff dough, form 
into balls about the size of hens' 
eggs, roll in dry flour and bake in 
hot ashes, which must completely 
cover the bread. Bake about 
twenty minutes. 



Index 



SOUPS 

PAGE 

Black Bean Soup 5 

Beef Soup 8 

Bouillon 10 

Cream of Celery Soup 5 

Clam Chowder 7 

Clam Bouillon 7 

Clam Broth (served en tasse) . . 7 

Cream of Corn Puree 9 

Consomme 8 

Carrot Puree or Potage a la 

Crecy 11 

Fruit Purees 11 

Fish Soup 6 

liObster Bisque or Puree 10 

Potato Soup 8 

Purees or Thick Soups 10. 

Savory Soup 7 K' 

Scotch Broth ' 6% 

Soup Stock ' 9 ', 

Split Pea Soup 6 

Turkey Soup 8 

Virginia Oyster Soup 6 



POULTRY 

, PAGE 

Broiled Chicken 22 

Chicken en Casserole 21 

Chicken en Casserole No. 2 22 

Chicken Croquettes 23 

Chicken a la Baltimore 22 

Chicken Curry 2S 

Dressings 26 

Guinea Fowls 24 

Orange Sauce 26 

Roast Chicken 21 

Roast Turkey 25 

Roast Goose 24 

Roast Duck 25 

Smothered Chicken 22 

Stewed Duck 24 



FISH 

Baked Fish 13 

Broiled Lobster 18 

Broiled Smelts 16 

Baked Haddock 15 

Buttered Crabs 17 

Codfish with Walnuts 16 

Codfish Balls 12 

Crab Croquettes 17 

Clam Fritters 16 

Clam Mousse 17 

Cold Crab Ravlgote 20 

Curried Lobster 19 

Fried Smelts 14 

Filet de Bass 13 

Lobster Farcle 20 

Lobster a la Newburg 18 

Mussels In Shells 19 

Oyster Shortcake l* 

Oyster Cocktails l» 

Pickled Oysters . ..... fO 

Philadelphia Lobster Salad.... 19 

Planked Shad 1* 

Salt Mackerel • }j 

Stuffed Smelts 1* 

Shad Roe j* 

Shad Roe Croquettes }* 

Salmon Croquettes lo 

Steamed "Little Necks" 1| 

Scalloped Clams l' 

Terrapin .•• -ii ••,•••• ; il 

White Mountain Mackerel ,14 



, EGGS 

Baked Eggs 28 

Boiled Eggs 31 

Curried Eggs 28 

Devilled Eggs 28 

Eggs in Cases 27 

Eggs and Artichokes 30 

Eggs a la Caracas 29 

Fried. Eggs 27 

French Omelet 29 

Hard Boiled Eggs 27 

Hollandaise Sauce 30 

Lyonnaise Eggs 30 

Plain Omelet 30 

Scrambled Eggs with Green 

Peppers 29 

Spanish Omelet 31 



MEATS 

Braised Beef 32 

Braised Veal 46 

Bullock's Heart 32 

Beef a la Mode 34 

Broiled Steak 34 

Beef Tongue 36 

Breast of Lamb Stuffed 38 

Breaded Lamb Chops 38 

Breakfast Bacon 41 

Broiled Ham 43 

Baked Ham with Cider Sauce.. 43 

Calves' Tails 48 

Calf's Brains 44 

Calf's Bars , 46 

Calf's Head Entire. 46 

Crown Roast of Lamb;. .... 40 

Corned Beef, English Fashion.. 36 



249 



250 



INDEX 



PAGE 

Fricandeau of Veal, Larded.... 47 

Fricassee of Lamb 39 

Grilled Breast of Mutton 39 

Haricot of Oxtails 35 

Haricot of Mutton 40 

Hungarian Goulash 36 

Irish Stew 37 

Liverwurst 43 

Mock Venison 38 

Mock Duck 36 

Noisettes of Tenderloin of Beef. 32 

Pigs' Feet 42 

Pork Pies 42 

Roast Beef 33 

Roast Leg of Mutton 39 

Roast Saddle of Mutton 40 

Roast Pig 41 

Roast Shoulder of Pork 44 

Roast Shoulder of Veal 45 

Sweetbreads 48 

Salt Pork and Cream Gravy. ... 44 

Scrapple 44 

Sausage 42 

Scotch Stew 38 

Tripe a la Lyonnaise 37 

Veal Pot Pie 45 

Veal Croquettes 47 

Veal Goulash 47 

Veal a la Mareng:o 47 

Yorkshire Pudding 34 



VEGETABLES 

Asparagus 61 

Boiled Turips 80 

Baked Turnips 80 

Broiled Tomatoes 79 

Baked Tomatoes 78 

Boiled Potatoes 71 

Baked Potatoes on Half Shell.. 70 

Baked Potatoes 68 

Baked Green Peas 69 

Bean Croquettes 63 

Boston Baked Beans 62 

Baked Mushrooms 61 

Baked Beets 61 

Broiled Mushooms on Toast. ... 61 

Broiled Egg Plant 61 

Boiled Okra 60 

Beet and Rhubarb Jelly 59 

Beet Greens 68 

Brussels Sprouts 58 

Boiled Lima Beans 67 

Boiled Cabbage 57 

Boiled Corn 65 

Broiled Sweet Corn 64 

Canapes of Asparagus 60 

Cold Asparagus 62 

Corn Fritters 53 

Cucumber Salad 53 

Celery Root Salad, Celery Rel- 
ish 54 

Cauliflower Salad 65 

Chou Farci, or Stuffed Cabbage. 49 

Cabbage Salad 56 

Celery, Apple and Nut Salad. ... 65 

Celery with Cream Sauce 56 

Cauliflower au Gratin 67 



PAGE 

Cooked Lettuce 63 

Curried Tomatoes 79 

Creamed Onions 66 

Creamed Peas in Turnip Cups or 

Bread Croustades 70 

Creamed Potatoes 71 

Dutch Potatoes 74 

Dandelion Greens 61 

Dandelion Salad 51 

Dressing for Cabbage Cold Slaw 54 
Delicate Ways of Cooking Car- 
rots 64 

Egg Plant, Turkish Style 52 

Egg Plant au Gratin 58 

Fried Egg Plant 56 

Fried Turnips 80 

Frlgoles, or Mexican Beans .... 62 

French Fried Potatoes 73 

Fried Tomatoes 79 

Fried Onions 63 

French Artichokes (Cold) 49 

Fried Peppers 68 

Green Corn Succotash 62 

Green Corn Chowder 62 

Green Corn Omelet 63 

Green Corn Pudding 64 

Greens 59 

Green Peppers for Salads or 

Relishes 66 

Green Pea Puree 70 

Glazed Onions 71 

German Lyonnaise Potatoes ... 74 

Jerusalem Artichokes 50 

Kale 63 

Kohlrabi 60 

Lettuce for Salad 64 

Lentils 60 

Lentil and Rice Cakes 65 

Lentil Hash 63 

Mashed Potatoes 73 

Mushroom Catsup 65 

Mushrooms with Tomatoes 62 

Okra Salad ; 64 

Onions, Raw and In Salad 70 

Onions Stuffed with Cheese.... 72 

Okra Gumbo 59 

Potato Balls 74 

Pumpkin a la Italienne 76 

Pumpkin Chips 72 

Potatoes Persillade 73 

Peas 67 

Parsnips 67 

Parsnip Fritters 66 

Parsnip Stew 69 

Pea Salad 69 

Panned Tomatoes, Cream Gravy 66 

Parsley 66 

Peas with Pork 64 

Pickled Mushrooms 62 

Spanish Okra 66 

Spanish Beans 68 

String Beans Sauted In Butter. 61 

Stewed Tomatoes 79 

String Beans, Italian Style 58 

Stuffed Tomatoes 78 

Stuffed Peppers 68 

Summer Squash 77 

Summer Beets 60 

Swiss Spinach 77 

Salsify Fritters 76 



INDEX 



251 



FACE 

Salsify au Gratln 77 

Salsify, or Oyster Plant 76 

Spinach Croquetes 76 

Spinach 75 

Sorrel 75 

Stuffed Potatoes 74 

Sweet Potatoes 68 

Sweet Potatoes en Surprise 75 

Sweet Potato Souffle 75 

Stuffed Egg Plant 56 

Stuffed Cucumbers 62 

Stuffed Artichokes 50 

Scuffled Potatoes 73 

Scalloped Potatoes 72 

Scalloped Okra 66 

To Cook Cucumbe"rs 53 

The Pumpkin 75 

Tomato Paste 78 

Turnip Balls 80 

Turnips au Gratln 80 

"Winter Squash 77 



GAME 

Broiled Reedbirds 81 

Baked Wild Goose 81 

Barbecued Squirrels, Southern 

Style 87 

Brunswick Stew 88 

Broiled Venison Chops and Cut- 
lets 88 

Grouse 83 

Hares 83 

Hassenpfeffer 84 

Hare Pie 85 

Pigeons 85 

Partridges 86 

Potted Pigeons 83 

Pigeon Pie 85 

Plover, or Dough Bird 82 

Rice and Rabbit Stew 87 

Roast Venison 87 

Roast Hare 84 

Salmi of Woodcock 86 

Stewed Venison : . . . 86 

Teal, Widgeons and Other Small 

Ducks 81 

Woodcock 85 

W^ild Ducks 82 



SAUCES 

Anchovy Sauce 89 

Bernaise Sauce 89 

Bechamel Sauce 89 

Bordelaise Sauce 89 

Bread Sauce (for Game and 

Poultry) 90 

Brown Butter Sauce 90 

Caper Sauce 90 

Celery Sauce (for Boiled Fowl) . 90 

Cider Sauce (for Boiled Ham) . . 91 

Chestnut Sauce (for Turkey) ... 91 

Curry Sauce 92 

Cold Mint Sauce 92 



PAGE 

Cream, or White Sauce 92 

Currant Mint Sauce 93 

Dutch, or Hollandaise Sauce.. 93 

Horseradish Sauce 92 

Hollandaise Sauce 94 

Lemon Sauce (for Fish) 90 

Mustard Sauce 92 

Maltre d'Hotel Butter (Cold).. 92 

Sauce Tartare 91 

Sauce Tartare No. 2 93 

Sauce Bernaise 93 

Tomato Sauce ' 91 



SALADS 

Apple, Nut and Celery Salad... 96 

Apple and Celery Salad 95 

Baked Bean Salad 96 

Beet Salad ' 96 

Codfish Salad 99 

Cooked Salad Dressing 95 

Cabbage Salad '. 96 

Cleopatra Salad 99 

Chicken Salad 98 

Egg Salad 101 

English Walnut Salad 101 

Fruit Salad 97 

French Dressing 95 

Green Pepper and Cream Cheese 

Salad 98 

Green Peppers Stuffed with Nuts 99 
Green Pepper, Lettuce and To- 
mato Salad 99 

Irish Moss Salad 101 

Lobster Salad 97 

Mayonnaise 96 

Nasturtium Salad 98 

Oyster Salad 97 

Potato Salad 100 

Peanut and Banana Salad 97 

Potato, Tomato and Green Pep- 
per Salad 99 

Sour Cream Salad Dressing 95 

String Bean Salad 97 

Stuffed Pepper Salad 99 

Shrimp Salad 100 

Sweetbread Salad 100 

Spanish Cold Slaw 100 

Spinach Salad 101 

Walnut Salad 100 

Water Lily Salad, for Easter or 

Palm Sunday 101 



COOKIES 

Aunt Coe's Worcester Ginger 

Snaps 103 

Aunt Ida's Hermits 103 

Cookies for Children 103 

Cocoanut Cookies 103 

Chocolate Cookies 104 

Cousin Jessie's Molasses Cookies 102 

Cinnamon Jumbles 102 

For the Cooky Jar 102 

Jumbles 103 

Lemon Jumbles 102 



252 



INDEX 



PAGE 

Sugar Cookies 102 

Sand Tarts 104 

Self Raising Flour Ginger Snaps 103 



PASTRY 

Apple Slump 113 

Apple Fritters 112 

Apple Tapioca Pudding 114 

Apple Meringue 113 

Apple Snow 114 

Apple Floating Island Ill 

An Economical Plum Pudding. . 123 

Apple Custard 125 

Angel Food 129 

Almond Wafers 133 

Apple Layer Cake 134 

Another Recipe for Nut Cookies 137 

Bride's Cake Icing 140 

Boiled Icing 140 

Biscuit Ice Cream 126 

Biscuits and Parfaits 125 

Bread Jelly 126 

Banana Cream 112 

Banana Trifle 113 

Blackberry Slump 113 

Baked Apple Slump 114 

Blackberry and Apple Pool 115 

Blackberry Mould 114 

Blueberry Pudding 115 

Bread Pudding 115 

Boiled Indian Pudding 119 

Baked Peaches 121 

Blackberry Pan-Doughdy 112 

Blackberry Fritters Ill 

Blackberry Pie 107 

Chocolate Pie 107 

Coooanut Pie 109 

Chocolate Pudding (Cold) 114 

Cherry Butter Pudding 115 

Cherry Dumplings 116 

Cabinet Pudding 116 

Cottage Puding 116 

Cocoanut Pudding 116 

Cherry Roly Poly 117 

Cherry Tapioca 117 

Cherry Pie 108 

Chocolate Pudding 118 

Christmas Plum Pudding 120 

Cream Sauce for Pudding 122 

Calf's Foot Jelly No. 3 125 

Charlotte Russe 126 

Caramel Custard 126 

Caramel 127 

Coffee Jelly 127 

Coffee Bavarian Cream 12 S 

Chocolate Nut Cake 130 

Chocolate Layer Cake 130 

Christmas Fruit Cake 133 

Chocolate Filling 134 

Cocoanut Macaroons 135 

Chocolate Filling No. 2 136 

Christmas Squares 136 

China Boy's Sponge Cake 136 

Confectioner's Sugar Icing.... 140 

Chestnut Patties 141 

Chocolate Icing 141 

Cocoa Frosting 141 

Crullers 141 



PAGE 

Doughnuts 141 

Deep Apple Pie 106 

Deep Apple Pie with Cream 

Cheese 107 

Date Pie log 

Delmonico Pudding 114 

Delicate Dumplings 116 

Delicate Pudding 116 

Date FlufE-DufC 117 

Dried Apple Cake 129 

English Christmas Fruit Cake. 132 

English Lemon Pie 110 

English Apple Tart 106 

Excellent Graham Pudding 118 

Favorite Blackberry Pudding.. 114 

Fig Pudding 117 

Frozen Desserts, Ice Creams, 

Sherbets, &c 124 

Flawns or Cheese Cakes 135 

Fruit Jelly 123 

Frosting "Without Eggs 141 

Gingerbread with Chocolate 

ju Icing 137 

Good Friday Cake 135 

Gooseberry Tart 107 

German Apple Kuchen 130 

German Peach Pie Ill 

Green Tomato Mock Mince Pie 108 

Green Gooseberry Pudding 117 

German Chocolate Pudding . 117 

Gold Cake 135 

Hickory Nut Cookies 139 

Hickory Nut Macaroons 140 

Indian Apple Pudding 113 

Indian Apple Jelly Pudding.... 120 

Indian Pudding us 

Indian Pudding with Meringue. 121 

Iced Pudding Sauce 119 

Lemon Custard Pie 107 

Lemon Mincemeat 110 

Lemon Sauce 122 

Lemon Filling 139 

Layer Cake 131 

Lemon Jelly 127 

Maple Cream Filling 139 

Mocha Filling 139 

Marble Cake 139 

Molasses Cookies 138 

Marguerites 134 

Marshmallow Trifle 128 

Maple Custard 127 

Mince Pie 109 

Marmalade Sauce 123 

Oly-Kooks 136 

Open Peach Pie Ill 

Orange Pie 109 

Orange Pilling 135 

Pastry 105 

Peach Pie Custard 108 

Puff Paste 106 

Pumpkin Pie 110 

Peach Pie with Meringue Ill 

Peach Pie with Vanilla Syrup.. 112 

Plum Pudding Glacfe 118 

Peach Fritters 119 

Prune Whip 119 

Plum Pudding Sauce 120 

Peach Betty 120 

Peach Cobbler 121 

Peach Dumplings 122 



INDEX 



253 



PAGE 

Prune Gingerbread 136 

Petite Pours 131 

Pfeffier-Nusse or Pepper Nuts.. 131 
Platzen, or Small Drop Cakes.. 129 

Peanut Wafers 128 

Pound Cake 128 

Plain Boiled Custard 126 

Plain Baked Custard 124 

Pudding Sauce 123 

Peach Souffle 123 

Queen of Puddings 123 

Quince Custard 124 

Rhubarb Dumplings 122 

Rhubarb Pie 112 

Raisin Puffs 121 

Russian Apple Pie 106 

Seed Cakes 140 

Scotch Cakes 138 

Sunshine Cake 137 

Slmnel Cake 134 

Sponge Cake 133 

Southern Pound Cake 132 

Silver Cake 129 

Snow Jelly 127 

Sour Cream "Pat-a-Pan" Cakes HS 

Steamed Pudding 122 

Strawberry Pie Ill 

Scotch Apple Tart 109 

Steamed Peach Pudding 121 

Soft Gingerbread with Sour 

Milk 138 

Sour Cream Pilling 139 

Tutti Frutti Filling 139 

The Making of Custards 124 

White Ribboners' Mince Pie . 110 

Wind Beutel, or Wind Bags 140 

White Layer Cake 131 

Wine Jelly 127 

Tule Cake 133 

BREAD 

Almond Coffee Bread 143 

Baking Powder Bread (Quick 

Process) 142 

Boston Brown Bread 143 

Boston Brown Bread (New 

Style) 146 

Brown Bread with Pumpkin 

Juice 142 

Butter Cakes 147 

Bannocks 148 

Baking Powder Biscuits 149 

Beaten Biscuits 149 

Bread Muffins 150 

Blackberry Muffins 150 

Buckwheat Pancakes 153 

Brooklyn Hot Cross Buns . 149 

Cinnamon Buns ., 146 

Corn Dodgers 148 

Corn Muffins 149 

Corn Pone 150 

Cheap Hoe Cake 150 

Cracked Wheat Muffins 151 

Cream Waffles 154 

English Crumpets 147 

Entire or Whole Wheat Bread.. 145 

Flannel Cakes 153 

French Fritter Batter 152 



PAGE 

Gluten Bread 145 

Graham Mufflns . 152 

Georgia Waffles 154 

Hominy Mufflns 152 

Health Food Bread No. 2 142 

Health Bread (Quick Process) . 145 

Home Made Yeast 146 

Hot Cross Buns 148 

Lapland Mufflns 151 

Moonshiners' Corncake 149 

Nebraska Corn Bread 142 

Nut Bread 144 

Orange Fritters 153 

Popovers 152 

Puff Fritters 153 

Pancakes a la Celestine 154 

Parker House Rolls 160 

Plain White Bread (To Be 

Baked in One Day) 146 

Raised Wheat Mufflns 151 

Rye Bread 144 

Rice Mufflns ' 152 

Raised Waffles 154 

Swedish Rolls 152 

Sour Milk Griddle Cakes 163 

Sweet Milk Griddle Cakes 163 

Scotch Shortbread 144 

Sour Milk Brown Bread.. 144 

Steamed Cornbread 145 

Salt Rising Bread 145 

Sour Milk Corncake 146 

Sour Cream Biscuit. 147 

Toasted Mufflns 151 

Virginia Batter Bread 142 

Velvet Mufflns 150 

Vienna Rolls 151 

White Bread with Potato 

Sponge 144 

CANDIES 

Buttercups 162 

Butter Scotch 161 

Burnt Chocolate Almonds 

(Gouftee) 167 

Burnt Almonds with Chocolate. 158 

Butter Taffy 159 

Curl Candy 163 

Chocolate Almonds 155 

Chocolate Marshmallows 161 

Chocolate Caramels 155 

Chocolate Fudge 161 

Coffee Caramels 166 

Caramel Almonds 157 

Coloring the Fondant 157 

Cocoanut Cream Candy 169 

Chocolate Cream Mints.. 159 

Cocoanut Fudge 161 

Double Fudge 163 

French Cream without Cooking. 156 

French Fondant 1S6 

Gum Drops 161 

Grilled Almonds 162 

Glaced Fruit and Nuts 159 

Home Made Cream Candy 160 

Jujubes 162 

Molasses Kisses 155 

Mexican Kisses 158 

Maple Foundation or Fondant.. 168 



354 



INDEX 



PAGE 

Nut Caramels 159 

Peppermints 160 

Peanut Candy 160 

Soft Caramels 157 

Spiced Chocolate 161 

"Vanilla Pudge 160 

Walnut Fudge 163 

Woodmere Fudge 162 



DRINKS 

A Temperance Mint Cordial 193 

A Temperance Loving Cup 194 

Black Raspberry Shrub 193 

Buttermilk Pop 194 

Cherry Shrub 190 

Fruit Punch 192 

Fourth of July Lemonade 194 

Frothed Chocolate 194 

Ginger Crak 188 

Grape Juice Lemonade 189 

Ginger Punch 190 

Grape Punch 193 

Home Made Soda Water 190 

Iced Tea 191 

Lemonade 192 

Lemon Ginger Punch with Mint 194 

Lemon Ginger Beer 193 

Mint Julep (for the Punch 

Bowl) 191 

Mulled Cider 194 

Orange Punch 188 

Oatmeal Water 193 

Pineappleade 188 

Pineapple Punch with Rum 188 

Pineapple Fruice 191 

Pineapple Punch 190 

Raspberry and Currant Cup.... 191 

Red Raspberry Shrub 194 

Southern Egg Nog 188 

"Switchel" 193 

The Perfect Cup of Coffee 189 

Tea 190 

Zoolak 192 



ICES 

Coffee Frappe 195 

Chocolate Ice Cream 197 

Currant Water Ice 19S 

Frozen Tea Sherbet 196 

Frozen Pudding 200 

Grape Sherbet 198 

Helderberg Ice Cream 200 

Lemon Milk Sherbet 197 

Lemon Ginger Sherbet 197 

Lemon Sherbet 199 

Mint Sherbet 197 

Miss Daniels' Custard Ice Cream 200 
Meringue Glace or Baked Ice 

Cream 196 

Pineapple Sorbet -195 

Philadelphia Ice Cream 198 

Pistache Ice Cream 198 

Pomegranate Water Ice 198 

Peach Ice Cream 200 

Peach Sherbet 199 



PAGE 

Pineapple Parfalt 199 

Roman Punch 195 

Red Raspberry Sherbet 197 

Raspberry Cream 198 

Red Raspberry and Currant Ice. 199 

Sicilian Sherbet 198 

Strawberry Parfalt 200 

Tutti FruttI Ice Cream 198 

Vanilla Ice Cream (with Hot 

Chocolate Sauce) 196 

Vanilla Parfalt 200 

Violet Parfalt 199 

Water Ices 195 

White Chocolate Ice Cream 197 

White or Angel Parfait 199 

PRESERVES AND JELLIES 

Apple Chutney 183 

Auburn Cucumber Pickles.... 184 
Apple and Tomato Chutney.... 183 

Apple Butter 374 

Arizona Orange Marmalade 179 

Barberry Sauce with Sweet Ap- 
ples 166 

Bitter Scotch Marmalade 179 

Barberry Jelly 174 

Barberry Jelly No. 2 175 

Blackberry Jam 176 

Blue Grape Jelly 178 

Blackberry Catsup 182 

Blackberry Vinegar 187 

Brandied Peaches 168 

Canned Blueberries 164 

Canned Blackberries 165 

Canning 165 

Canned Cherries 166 

Canned Pears 168 

Canned Gooseberries '170 

Canned Peacttes „ , 170 

Currant and Raisin Conserve.'4e-174 

Cherry Jam j 175 

Candied Cranberries 175 

Crab Apple Jelly 175 

Cranberry Jelly 176 

Currant Jelly 177 

Cucumber Catsup 182 

Cherry Catsup 182 

Canned Tomatoes 186 

Cherry Vinegar 184 

Chutney 183 

Cucumber Mangoes 186 

Chopped Pickles of Tello^r Cu- 
cumbers 187 

Canned Snap Beans 187 

Pig Preserves 169 

Filling Glasses 173 

Green Pepper Catsup 184 

.Grape Catsup 183 

Green Preserved Tomatoes 171 

Grape and Orange Jam. 178 

Grape Jan. 177 

Grape R -"llsh 178 

Grape Buvter 178 

Green Currant Jam 176 

Green Grajpe Jam 176 

Gingered Pears 172 

Green Grape Preserves 167 

Grape and Elderberry Preserves 167 



INDEX 



255 



PAGE 

Green Tomato Catsup 184 

Hints About Preserving 173 

In the putting Up of Fruit 164 

Jellies, Jams and Marmalades.. 173 

Liemon Catsup 183 

Lemon Marmalade , 179 

Mushroom Catsup 182 

Mangoes 184 

Morello Cherry Pi-eaerve 168 

Orange and Rhubarb Marmalade 180 
Old Fashioned Tomato Catsup.. 182 

Olive Oil Pickles 187 

Preserved Apples 165 

Preserved Apples No. 2 166 

Preserved Peaches 167 

Preserved Ripe Tomatoes 169 

Preserved Pineapples 170 

Pineapple Marmalade 179 

Peach Leather 180 

Peach Bncho 180 

Pineapple Chips 180 

Peach Marmalade 181 

Pineapple Vinegar 186 

Pickled Cherries >185 

Quinces with Sweet Apples.... 169 
Quinces with Cider and Molasses 

(Colonial) 170 

Quince Preserves 171 

Quince Cheese 179 

Quince Marmalade 179 

Ripe Cucumber Pickles. . ., 186 

Raisine 181 

Rhubarb and Orange Marmalade 181 

Rhubarb and Orange Jam 181 

Rhubarb and Fig Jam 181 

Rhubarb Jam 181' 

Riverside Marmalade 180 

Strawberry Preserves 169 

Spiced Gooseberries 168 

Spiced Blackberries 167 

Strawberry Tomato Preserves.. 172 

Stranrberry Jam 180 

San Diego Chili Sauce 184 

To Can Corn, Peas and Lima 

Beans 185 

Tutti Frutti 172 

To Prepare the Paraffine 174 

The Comparative Cost of Jelly 174 

Tomatoes Canned Whole 185 

Wild Grape Preserves ■.... 166 

Watermelon Preserves 171 

Wild Grape Marmalade 178 

Wild Grape Jelly 177 

Wild Grape and Crab Apple 

Jelly 177 

Wild Grape and Elderberry 

Jelly 17T 

Where to Keep Jellies 174 

Yellow Tomato Preserves 172 



DISHES FOR INVALIDS 

Apple Water 203 

Beef Tea 203 

Broiled Sweetbreads 206 

Broiled Beefsteak 206 

Broiled Frogs! Legs 205 

Broiled Mackerel 207 

California Brown Corn 206 



PAGE 

Chicken Broth 201 

Chops, Fish and Birds In Paper 

Cases 205 

Cooling Drinks for Feverish 

Colds 204 

Dainty Desserts for the Nursery 

or Invalid's Tray 202 

Egg Gruel 202 

Egg Nog 204 

Gruels 202 

Ice Cream for the Invalid 204 

Lime Water and Milk 205 

Mutton Broth 203 

Meringued Toast 201 

Mulled Cider 201 

Milk Porridge 203 

Oatmeal Gruel 202 

Orgeat 201 

Panada 201 

Prune Puff 205 

Rice Coffee 204 

Raw Beef Sandwiches 206 

Scorched Codfish 207 

Sponge Cake 203 

Tea Brewed in Milk 205 

Venison 207 



MENUS 

A Simple and Elegant Thanks- 
giving Menu (Hotel Savoy), 223 

A Second Menu from the Savoy 223 

Appetizing Summer Substitutes 

for Meat 238 to 240 

Appetizing Picnic Lunch for Ca- 
noeing Party 232 

Cold Fruit Soups for Summer 

Menus 237 

Fifty Cents a Day for Dinners 

and Luncheons 226 to 231 

How Lemon and Vanilla Flavors 

Are Made at Home.. 245 to 246 

Historical Southern Dishes by 

Old Time Hostesses. .241 to 244 

Lenten Menus without Meat, 

220 to 221 

Lunch for a Sailing Party, 

227 to 231 

Menus for a Week in the Spring 211 

Menus for Seven Course Lunch- 
eon T 224 

Menus for a Week in Early 

Summer 212 to 213 

Menus for a Week in the Au- 
tumn 214 to 215 

Menus for a Week in the Win- 
ter 216 to 217 

Menus for a Week in Midwin- 
ter 218 to 219 

Medicinal Cordial Recipes, 

243 to 248 

New Tear's Dinner for Eight 

Persons Costs $4 209 to 210 



256 



INDEX 



PAGE 
New Bngland Boiled Dinner.... 225 
Picnic Lunch Cooked Around 

Camp Fire 247 to 248 

Refresliing' Summer Beverages 

of Mint 233 to 234 

Rhode Island Clam Bake with- 
out Sea Weed 224 

Refreshments for the Lunch 

Basket 223 

St Valentine Supper Menu 225 

Tin Wedding Menu 222 



PAGE 
Thanksgiving Henu (Hotel Sa- 
voy) 223 

Vegetables That Are Better 

Than Medicine 236 to 236 

Washington's Birthday Supper 
Menus, No. 1 and No. 2, 

223 and 224 

Waldorf Thanksgiving Binner 

Menu 222 

Tuletide Wedding Menu 210 

$6 Xmas Binner for Six Plates 208 



FAVORITE REQPES 



FAVORITE RECIPES 



-n 




I 




/. / (7 ^ ^ /f 

^^^-^ ^'dcf^ /CmI dtj^y 

^- ^'f^c^i^^ ^hX^t hJ^U ^ J^- ^jf4'^ 

■iM^'^ ^lu{ ^njji hxih ^^Oyrt^ ^^ 




/ 




? <' 



FAVORITE RECIPES 



FAVORITE RECIPES 



FAVORITE REQPES 



FAVORITE RECIPES 



