HOW 
TO COOKd 
^« CASSEROLE 
DISHES 




Marion Harris NdtM. C 

Formerly Cookery' Editor of 



k 

\ 

t ■ 
1 

\ 

^ i 


r Ex ^^ 

Crosbii Gaigii ^?^ 


BiBLIOTHECA I? ^ 
COQVINARIA i iK 




BOSTON 

PUBLIC 

UBRARY 





Rabbit en Casserole 



HOW TO COOK 

IN 

CASSEROLE DISHES 



BY 

MARION HARRIS NEIL, M.C.A. 

Formerly Cookery Editor, 'The Ladies' Home Journal'; 

Author oi Candies and Bonbons and How to Make Them'; 'Canning, 

Preservintf, and Pickling'; 'The Thrift Cook Book'; 

Salads, Sandwiches, and Chaiing-Dish Recipes'; etc. 



LONDON: 38 Soho Squa e, W. 1 

W. & R. CHAMBERS, LIMITED 

EDINBURGH : 339 High Street 



•A/i/4 

NOTES 



In place of " whole peppers " read " peppercorns." 

In place of "okra'' read "canned okra or diced 

vegetable marrow.*" 
In place of *' squabs " read " pis^eons."" 
In place of " corn-starch "" read " corn-flour.'" 
In place of " pumpkin " read " canned pumpkin." 
In place of " string-beans " read " French beans." 



Printed in Great Britain. 
W. & R. Chambers, Ltd,, London and Edinburgh. 



n 



ONTENTS 



VKGT 

How TO Coox IN Casserole Dishes 9 

Soup Recipes 17 

Fish Recipes 30 

Poultry and Game Recipes 44 

Meat Recipes 54 

Cold Meat Recipes 70 

Vegetable Recipes 79 

Salad Recipes 95 

Pudding Recipes 103 

Invalid Recipes 127 

Cheese Recipes 137 

Egg Recipes 147 

Sauce Recipes 159 

Cake and Bread Recipes 170 

Pickle Recipes 181 

Preserve Recipes j^-, 

LIiscellaneous Recipes ..,.,,.,...,._, 202 

Index ............., = . = = ....,...,.,.. 212 

7 



ILLUSTRATIONS 

PAGB 

Rabbit en Casserole Frontispiece 

Soup en Marmite 17 

Haddock and Macaroni 32 

Lobster Newburg 40 

Ragout of Duck 41 

Beef and Sausages 56 

Veal and Ham Pie 57 

Group of Casseroles 65 

Baked Beans 80 

Curried Vegetables 88 

Mushrooms au Gratin 89 

American Salad 97 

French Pudding 112 

Baked Apples 105 

Assorted Ssiall Casseroles 152 

Egg and Potato Pie 153 



HOW TO COOK IN CASSEROLE DISHES 

^^ Some hae meat and canna eat, 
An^ some wad eat that want it, 
But we hae meat an' we can eat, 
Sae let the Lord be thankit." 



There is no doubt that the fashion of cooking in 
casseroles or earthenware dishes has come to stay 
in this country; and it is hardly a matter of surprise 
when the advantages of this form of cookery are 
really understood, whether it be actual casserole 
cookery, so called, or cookery in fireproof utensils. 

Cooking ''en casserole" is a term which signiiies 
dishes cooked and served in the same earthenware 
pot or utensil, though, as every one knows, the original 
French word is the generic name for a stewpan or a 
saucepan. 

The old idea of a casserole was some preparation 
of chopped fish, flesh, or vegetables enveloped in a 
crust of cooked rice, macaroni, or potato. Properly 
speaking, however, a casserole is a dish, the material 
for which in many instances is first prepared in the 
saute or frying pan and then transferred to the earth- 
enware pan to fmish cooking by a long, slow process 

9 



lo Cooking in Casserole Dishes 

which develops the true flavors of the food being 
cooked. 

The sooner the casserole utensil becomes an indis- 
pensable part of our kitchen outfit the better, for it 
makes in every way for economy, — economy of ma- 
terials, time, and labor, — as materials often too tough 
for ordinary cooking may by this means be served 
in a nutritious and tender condition. When casserole 
cookery is thoroughly understood, many combinations 
of food and many inexpensive viands will be put to 
use and very palatable results obtained. 

Casseroles nowad.ays take on all shapes and sizes, 
from the dainty individual dishes up to a size sufficient 
for serving a large number of persons. 

Of late years the prices of these utensils have been 
reduced so greatly that they are within the reach of the 
most modest housewife's pocketbook, and then at the 
same time the actual pots and fireproof dishes have 
been improved enormiously in quafity. 

Every kind of utensil can be had in this ware 
nowadays, and people are realizing how delicious 
food cooked in this way is. 

They may be bought at all the reliable house- 
furnishing stores. Ornamental effects in brown, 
green, blue, red, white, or yellow stoneware add to the 
appearance of the breakfast, luncheon, or dinner 
table. No one attempts to deny that the eye has 
much to do with the palate, and that a dish served 



How to Cook in Casserole Dishes 1 1 

in an attractive form is likely to prove much more 
pleasing to the taste than a carelessly offered one. 
The holders in which the casseroles are placed when 
removed from the oven and taken to the table are 
made of silver, nickel, brass, copper, and wrought 
iron, and are examples of genuine artistic merit. 

For those who do not wish the extra expense of the 
metal holder a platter or tray will answer the purpose, 
which is simply to keep the hot casserole from coming 
in contact with the table or table mats and scorching 
them. The adaptabiHty of a stoneware cooking 
utensil deserves to be more fully known, when it will 
be more thoroughly appreciated. 

For braising, pot roasting, as well as stewing, 
which are slow cooking processes, the casserole has 
proved its superiority over the metal pans again and 
again. It gives its best and almost exclusive service 
in the baking oven, for poultry done in pot roasting 
fashion or for stewing fruit, and other articles which 
require to be cooked slowly under close cover. There 
are few cooks who do not know that the appHcatlon 
of a moderate, even heat for certain food materials 
produces far better results than if quick heat is applied. 
For such cases the use of earthenware cooking utensils 
is to be strongly recommended, because by their aid 
an application of heat, such as will insure gentle 
simmering, steaming, or baking, is assured. 

The casserole may be regarded as a labor-saving 



12 Cooking in Casserole Dishes 

device, taking the place of a half-dozen pots and pans 
in the kitchen. 



SOME COMMENDABLE FEATURES OF CAS- 
SEROLE DISHES 
(i) The initial cost of the utensils is very low, and 
if proper care is bestowed on them they may last as 
long as metal pans. 

(2) All risk of metallic contamination is avoided. 
The i'ngredients may be put together in a casserole 
and allowed to stand for hours in it before cooking 
without spoiling in the very least degree. Its lining 
cannot scale, and in cooking the contents cannot be- 
come tainted or discolored. 

(3) The ornamental appearance of casserole dishes 
simplifies the practice of serving the viands at table 
in the vessels in which they were cooked, so great a 
desideratum in cases where the prosperity of a dish 
depends upon its hot service. The troublesome proc- 
ess of redishing can in most cases be dispensed with. 
This is convenient as well as economical. 

(4) Casseroles are readily cleaned on account of 
their perfectly hard and unbroken surfaces. It can 
easily be seen when casseroles are clean. They are 
sanitary, and food prepared in them is pure and sweet. 
They do not retain any taste whatever from previous 
cooking. Therefore the same utensils can be used 
for the most varying preparations. 



How to Cook in Casserole Dishes 1 3 

(5) The cooking in casserole dishes is slow but 
thorough, and all the nutritious elements in the viands 
are preserved in their integrity. The cover must fit 
snugly to each utensil, to prevent too rapid escaping 
of the aromas and flavors. Sometimes a strip of 
cloth, spread with a soft paste of flour and water or 
mashed potatoes, is pressed over the joining of the 
casserole and the cover, and the heat of the oven fin- 
ishes the seaHng of the dish. When the dish is ready to 
serve, the strip of cloth and paste is removed. 

(6) The use of a casserole is economical. The actual 
cooking is effected slowly and evenly, consequently 
less fuel is used in cooking. Once the materials have 
been started on their culinary way they require little 
attention. A casserole dish may be placed in the 
oven or on the stove ; it may be used for steamed food 
or as a chafing dish. 

(7) The cleanhness and wholesomeness of a cas- 
serole make it especially valuable in preparing food 
for the invahd and the convalescent. 

(8) In the cooking of fruits and vegetables, espe- 
cially for canning, the casserole is invaluable. The 
earthenware is not attacked by fruit acids, therefore 
cannot give rise to any noxious product. 

(9) Any dish which requires slow, gentle cooking 
can be prepared in a casserole, and hash, curry, and 
other rechauffes are far superior in flavor when re- 
cooked in earthenware than in metal. The stew, 



14 Cooking in Casserole Dishes 

or whatever it is, may be left to get cold in the cas- 
serole. The color would be spoiled if this were done 
with an ordinary saucepan. 

(lo) The flavor of the food cooked is brought out 
best when it is prepared in an earthenware dish. 

(ii) The fact that a casserole is a non-conductor 
of heat makes it more economical to use than other 
ware. 

(12) The amount of water, liquid, or stock in which 
the article is to be cooked should be relatively small, 
and, in general, seasoned. For stews, ragouts, etc., 
it is better to cook the meat in a nicely seasoned sauce, 
that it may absorb the flavor in cooking. The time, 
in general, should be multiplied by two; that is, if 
the recipe calls for thirty minutes ; cook in the casserole 
in the oven for about sixty minutes. The heat of the 
oven should be about 212 degrees Fahrenheit or less, 
that the Hquid in the casserole may simmer, not boil. 

When vegetables are to be cooked — and nearly all 
vegetables are wonderfully better when cooked by 
this method — a small amount of w^ater, in many cases 
seasoned stock, should be used. 

(13) Left-overs, salads, and small entrees of all 
kinds may be served in a most attractive manner in 
ramequins or individual casseroles. 

(14) The crowning advantage of casserole cooking, 
especially in a family where for one cause or another 
meals are apt to be irregular, is that the dish can be 



How to Cook in Casserole Dishes 15 

kept waiting for a considerable time without de- 
terioration. Food can be left in a casserole with 
perfect safety as long as desired. 



HOW TO CARE FOR CASSEROLE DISHES 

The cook who has been accustomed to the use of 
iron, granite, copper, aluminum, or other metal cook- 
ing utensils will necessarily have something to learn 
when adopting earthenware. It must be realized 
that it is a method of slow cookery, and cannot be 
hurried. Before being used for the first time the 
vessels should be soaked in cold water for some hours, 
as this will go far toward saving them from cracking 
on their first exposure to heat. There need be Httle 
risk of this if the heat be applied gradually, and this 
principle should always be observed; although as the 
utensils become seasoned by constant use the risk 
of accident is materially lessened. In many places 
garhc is considered indispensable, the new dishes 
being rubbed with a clove of it, ^'to prevent their 
cracking." Never place the vessels on the stove or 
within the oven without either water or fat in them. 
Never put a casserole roughly on a metal surface, 
especially if it is full or partly full. 

Sudden alternations of temperature should be 
avoided, that is to say, the casserole should not be 
taken off the range or out of the oven and placed in 



i6 Cooking in Casserole Dishes 

cold water or on the wet sink, and vice versa. A fierce 
heat is never needed or desirable. 

If the cooking is done on an ordinary coal range 
the fire holes should be kept closed and the heat re- 
ceived through the top Hds; if a gas range be employed, 
the gas jets should be kept low, and not allowed to 
flare round the utensil. When cooking is being done 
on the top of the range with wood, coal, gas, or oil 
as the fuel, an asbestos mat placed underneath will 
modify the heat. The asbestos mat may also be 
used in the oven. If the heat must be intense for 
other food in progress of cooking at the same time as an 
earthenware dish is in the oven, the heat may be con- 
trolled by placing the casserole in a pan of hot water 
which can be lowered in temperature by occasional 
supplies of cold water added to the hot water. 

The adoption of these simple precautions will make 
easy the use of earthenware utensils. Marmites, 
ramequins, cocottes, au gratin dishes, and souffle 
cases all come under the head of casseroles. 



SOUP RECIPES 

*'Give zest and favor to a mess of pottage^^ 



BROWN SOUP V/ITH FORCEMEAT BALLS 


H lb. lean beef 


I tablespoonful mushroom 


I carrot 


ketchup 


2 onions 


4 cloves 


I teaspoonful whole pep- 


I teaspoonful powdered herbs 


pers 


2 tablespoonfuls (i}4 ozs.) 


I teaspoonful salt 


butter 


Few sprigs parsley 


2 tablespoonfuls (iK ozs.) 


2 stalks celery 


flour 


3 pints (6 cups) water 


I teaspoonful kitchen bou- 


I turnip 


quet 




Some forcemeat balls 



Melt the butter in a large marmite, let it get brown, 
then brown in it the onions, cut in rings; remove the 
onions from the pot, and brown the flour in the butter; 
then add the water and the kitchen bouquet, stir 
till smooth, allow this to boil, put back the onions, 
and add the vegetables cut into neat pieces, the meat 
cut up into small pieces, and the seasoning; simmer 
for one and a half hours^ remove the meat, and rub 
through a sieve as much of the vegetables v/ith the 
soup as possible. 

B 17 



t8 Cooking in Casserole Dishes 

Put the soup back into the marmite with the meat 
and some forcemeat balls (made as undernoted)^, 
simmer again for fifteen minutes, skim off the fat 
if necessary, and serve in small fireproof dishes. 

FORCEMEAT BALLS 

4 tablespoonfuls bread i>^ tablespoonfuls chopped 

crumbs suet 

I teaspoonful chopped pars- ]4 teaspoonful powdered 

ley herbs 

yi teaspoonful grated Seasoning of salt and pepper 

lemon rind A pinch powdered mace 

1 egg 

Beat up the t%g and mix in the above ingredients, 
form into tiny balls, roll in flour, and add to the soup. 

BROWN STOCK 

4 lbs. shin of beef 2 onions, browned 

3 cloves I bunch sweet herbs 

2 quarts (8 cups) water i teaspoonful whole peppers 
2 stalks celery i teaspoonful salt 

I bay leaf Some poultry or game bones 

I blade mace 3 sprigs parsley 
I large carrot 

Wipe the meat and cut it into small square pieces. 
Break up the bones and remove the marrow. Put 
the bones and the meat into a large casserole, cover 
with the water, and bring slowly to boiHng point; 
skim thoroughly, then add all the other ingredients, 



Soup Recipes 19 

and simmer for four hours; then strain, and when 
cold remove the fat. 

The bones may be boiled down again for cheaper 
stock. 

To brown the onions place them with the skin on 
in a tin and set in the oven until brown. 



CHEESE SOUP WITH SAVORY CUSTARD 

2 heaping tablespoonfuls i onion 
grated cheese i carrot 

1 quart (4 cups) white i teaspoonful whole peppers 

stock I stalk celery 

X pint {}4 cup) cream Bunch sweet herbs 

2 egg yolks i heaping tablespoonful (i 
I heaping tablespoonful oz.) Jflour 

(i oz.) butter Few sprigs parsley 

I blade mace Savory custard 

I teaspoonful salt 

Pare and sHce the vegetables and fry them in the 
butter with the herbs, mace, and whole peppers for 
five minutes, then add the flour and the stock; sim- 
mer for one hour, rub through a sieve; mix together 
the egg yolks, cream, and grated cheese, add to the 
soup and re-heat, taking care that it does not boil. 

Meanwhile prepare a savory custard as follows: 
Put half a cupful of stock and one tablespoonful of 
grated cheese into a small saucepan and bring to 
boiling point. Beat up two eggs with salt and pepper 
to taste, strain the stock to them, pour into one or 



20 Cooking in Casserole Dishes 

two small buttered molds, stand in a pan of hot water, 
allowing the water to come within half an inch of the 
top of the molds; place in the oven, and when set 
turn out and allow to cool, cut into dice, divide into 
petites marmites, and pour over the soup. 

OYSTER OR CLAM BISQUE 

3 dozen clams Salt and pepper 

I onion Some cream 

I carrot i tablespoonful butter 

1 bay leaf i tablespoonful flour 

2 sprigs parsley i gill (J/z cup) Madeira wine 

1 quart (4 cups) fish stock 

Put the clams into a casserole, slice the onion and 
the carrot, and add them with the bay leaf, parsley, 
and stock. 

Simmer for one and a half hours, then strain; return 
to the casserole and add the needed salt and pepper. 

Blend the butter and flour together and add them 
with enough cream to make two pints. Simmer for 
five minutes and add the wine when serving. 

CREAM OF BARLEY SOUP 

2 ozs. (J^ cup) fine barley yz pint (i cup) hot milk 
2 sliced onions 2 egg yolks 

2 sliced carrots i glass sherry wine 

1 small bay leaf yi pint (i cup) boiled green 
Few sprigs parsley peas 

2 quarts (8 cups) veal or Salt and pepper to taste 

chicken stock 



Soup Recipes 21 

Put the stock into a fireproof pot, add the barley, 
onions, carrots, bay leaf and parsley and simmer for 
three hours. 

When almost ready, add the yolks of the eggs mixed 
with the milk, wine, and seasonings. Press through 
a sieve and re-heat. 

Divide the hot peas into earthenware handled cups, 
pour over the soup, and serve very hot. 

CREAM OF SALSIFY SOUP 

4 roots salsify i oz. (i heaping tablespoon- 

2 pints (4 cups) milk ful) flour 

I teaspoonful onion juice 2 eggs 

I tablespoonful chopped Salt and pepper to taste 

parsley A few chopped pistachio nuts 

I oz. (i heaping table- Water 

spoonful) butter ]/2 pint (i cup) cream 

Clean the salsify, throwdng at once into cold water 
to prevent their turning dark. Put them into an 
earthenware dish with water to well cover and cook 
till very tender, then rub through a sieve. 

Return to the casserole and add to the pulp two 
cupfuls of the milk, onion juice, chopped parsley, 
salt and pepper to season. 

Have ready the remaining milk, thickened with the 
butter and the flour rubbed together, add to the salsify, 
and heat thoroughly. 

Just before serving stir in the beaten yolks of the 
eggs mixed with the cream. 

Pour into hot marmites. Have ready the stiffly 



2 2 Cooking in Casserole Dishes 

beaten whites of the eggs, put a spoonful of the egg 
on the top of each marmite, and sprinkle over the 
chopped pistachio nuts. 
Serve hot. 

FISH SOUP 

1 lb. haddock or flounder 2 quarts (8 cups) water or 
Some fish bones or skin stock 

2 stalks celery i heaping tablespoonful (i 
2 heaping tablespoonfuls oz.) butter 

(2 ozs.) flour I tablespoonful chopped 
14. pint (i cup) milk parsley 

I bay leaf Salt and pepper to taste 
I large onion 

Skin and fillet the fish. Put the fish bones, skin, 
and any other fish trimmings into an earthenware pot 
with the stock or water and the salt; bring to the boil 
and skim well, add the bay leaf, the onion, and celery 
cut into small pieces; simmer for one and a half hours; 
then strain. Melt the butter in the pan, add the 
flour, stir till smooth, then add the milk; allow this 
to boil for four minutes, add the soup, the parsley, 
and the fish cut into small pieces; season nicely, 
simmer for fifteen minutes, and serve hot. 

FRXHT SOUP 

1 pint (2 cups) fruit juice 4 bitter almonds 

2 quarts (8 cups) water 5^ lb. {yi cup) tapioca 

6 cloves 3 heaping tablespoonfuls 

3 inches cinnamon stick (3 ozs.) sugar 
Peel of I orange i teaspoonful salt 
Peel of I lemon 



Soup Recipes 23 

Put one quart of the water into a fireproof utensil, 
add the cloves, cinnamon, lemon and orange peels, 
and the bitter almonds. 

Allow to remain for one hour, then simmer for 
fifteen minutes. 

Strain and return to the pan, add the tapioca and 
the remainder of the water, and simmer until clear; 
then add the sugar, salt, and fruit juice. 

Serve hot. 

Cherry, strawberry, currant, blackberry, or grape 
juice may be used for fruit soups. 

GUMBO SOUP 

I quart okra K lb. sliced ham 

1 chicken K lb. chopped bacon 

2 onions i tablespoonf ul chopped pars- 
I garlic clove ley 

1 tablespoonful flour i head celery 

2 tablespoonfuls melted 3 pints (6 cups) strained stock 

butter I pint (2 cups) plain boiled 

I quart tomatoes rice 

Salt and pepper 

Chop the onions and the garlic, roll them in the 
flour, then brown them in the butter, and add the 
tomatoes. Cut the heads off the okra, split each 
four times and cut into dice, add it to the tomatoes 
in the casserole, add the parsley, salt and pepper, 
and the celery, bacon, and ham chopped; brown all 
together. 



24 Cooking in Casserole Dishes 

Cut up the chicken and fry it for a few minuteSj 
then add it "with the stock, and simmer until thick. 

Serve with plain boiled rice. One pint of cooked 
crab meat, cooked shrimps, or oysters, may be added 
with the chicken if liked. 

LENTIL SOUP 

K lb. (i cup) lentils i blade mace 

3 stalks celery i teaspoonful salt 

4 springs parsley >4 pint {y^ cup) cream 
I onion 3 pints (6 cups) water 
I carrot }4 pint (i cup) milk 

I turnip I heaping tablespoonful (i 
I crust stale bread oz.) butter 

I bay leaf i heaping tablespoonful (i 
I teaspoonful whole peppers oz.) flour 

Wash the lentils and put them to soak in cold water 
overnight. In the morning drain them and put them 
into an earthenware pan with the water, bring slov/ly 
to the boil, and skim well; then add the vegetables 
cut into small pieces, the mace, bay leaf, whole 
peppers, and bread, simmer for one and a half hours. 
Strain the soup, rubbing as much of the pulp through 
the sieve as possible. 

Melt the butter in the pan, stir in the flour, add 
the milk, and boil for four minutes. Add the soup, 
and season it nicely. Divide the cream into earthen- 
ware cups and pour the soup over it. 



Soup Recipes 25 



OYSTER BOUILLON 

2 quarts oysters i celery stalk 

I quart (4 cups) white stock Salt and pepper 

1 onion Some whipped cream 

Put the oysters into a casserole, add the white 
stock, the onion and celery chopped, and the salt and 
pepper. 

Simmer gently for one hour. Strain the soup, re- 
heat it, and serve in earthenware bouillon cups with 
a tablespoonful of whipped cream on the top of each. 

POTATO PUREE 

1 2 medium sized potatoes i pint (2 cups) cream 

2 ozs. (2 heaping table- 2 tablespoonfuls flour 

spoonfuls) butter 2 tablespoonfuls melted but- 

Salt and pepper ter 

I quart (4 cups) white stock i teaspoonful onion juice 

Boil the potatoes in their skins till tender, then cool 
and peel them. Cut them into quarters and put them 
into an earthenware pan ^vith the two ounces of butter 
to brown just a very little in places. 

Season with the salt and pepper, then add the stock, 
cream, and the onion juice. 

Allow to boil up, and strain through a sieve; re- 
turn the puree to the pan and stir into it the melted 
butter mixed with the flour. 

Eoil for three minutes and serve hot. 



26 Cooking in Casserole Dishes 

SCOTCH BROTH 

2 lbs. mutton (neck) i teaspoonful dripping 
yi lb. (i cup) barley i small cabbage 

yi pint (i cup) peas i tablespoon! ul chopped pars- 

I carrot ley 

I turnip 4 quarts (i6 cups) water or 

1 teaspoonful sugar stock 

3 onions or leeks Salt and pepper to taste 

Prepare the vegetables and cut them into small 
pieces. Put the water or stock into a large earthen- 
ware pan, and when it boils, add the meat and the 
barley. Boil up, skimming frequently, add the vege- 
tables, and then simmer for three hours. 

Now stir in one extra carrot grated, the salt and 
pepper, sugar and dripping. Simmer again for thirty 
minutes. 

Add the parsley and the broth is ready to serve. 

The mutton may be served separately with potatoes. 

SHRIMP CHOWDER 

3 cupfuls picked shrimps J^ cupful salt pork fat cut in 

2 ozs. (2 heaping table- cubes 

spoonfuls) butter i chopped onion 

2 ozs. (2 heaping table- Salt and red pepper to season 

spoonfub) flour 2 pints (4 cups) milk 

I blade mace yi pint (i cup) hot cream 

Cook the onion in the salt pork fat. Melt the butter 
in a casserole, stir in the flour and seasoning, then 



Soup Recipes 27 

add the milk very gradually and stir till boiling, allow 
to cook for five minutes, then add the shrimps and 
cook for twenty-five minutes; add the strained salt 
pork fat, the hot cream, and serve hot. 

SOUP TO SERVE IN PETITES MARMITES 

4 lbs. beef from the round i turnip 

I fowl weighing 3 lbs. 4 stalks celery 

8 inches beef marrow bone Some toasted bread 

6 pints (12 cups) cold water Salt 

1 large onion i bay leaf 

2 cloves I blade mace 

I large carrot 12 whole peppers 

Remove the marrow from the bone. Saw the bone 
into inch lengths and put it into a large stoneware 
soup pot with the beef and the water. 

Let it come slowly to boiling point, remove the 
scum, and set on a cool part of the stove to simmer 
for half an hour. Draw, truss, and roast the fowl 
for twenty minutes, then, when well browned, put 
it into the soup pot, adding the giblets well cleaned. 
Remove the beef and the chicken as soon as they are 
tender. Keep hot a part of the beef and a part of the 
breast of the chicken to serve in the petites marmites. 

The remainder can be used for other dishes. Press 
the cloves into the onion and add it to the soup with 
the bay leaf, mace, whole peppers, carrot, turnip, and 
celery, cleansed and pared, and cut into neat pieces. 
Allow to simmer until the vegetables are tender. 



28 Cooking in Casserole Dishes 

Remove the fat and strain the soup; add salt to 
taste and re-heat it. Into each small soup pot put 
two pieces each of chicken, beef, and vegetables, and 
pour over them the soup. Place on the covers and 
serve with small pieces of toasted bread. 

VEGETABLE SOUP 

2 lbs. lean beef or mutton 2 parsnips 

4 onions i teaspoonful white pepper 

2 turnips i tablespoonful salt 

4 carrots 3 stalks celery 

5 skinned tomatoes 3 quarts (12 cups) cold water 

6 potatoes 

Cut the meat into small, neat slices; put it into a 
deep earthenware pan, sprinkle in the salt and pepper; 
add the tomatoes, sliced, the other vegetables all 
pared or scraped and cut into neat pieces, and the 
water. Cover tightly and cook slowly in the oven 
for two and a half hours. 

If too thick, add a little boihng water before serving. 

WHITE STOCK 

4 lbs. shin of veal 2 quarts (8 cups) water 

I onion i teaspoonful white whole 

1 blade mace peppers 

2 stalks celery i teaspoonful salt 
I fowl Some bones 

Wipe the meat and cut it up into small pieces; 
and put it into a large marmite or casserole; add the 



Soup Recipes 29 

bones and the water and bring slowly to boiling point; 
skim thoroughly, add the other ingredients, and sim- 
mer for four hours; strain through a fine sieve, and 
when cold remove the fat. 

The fowl should be cleaned and added with the 
meat. 

The bones may be boiled again for cheaper stock. 



FISH RECIPES 

Why, then, the worWs mine oyster 
Which I with sword will open.'" 



BAKED OYSTERS 

1 quart oysters i heaping tablespoonfiil 

2 ozs. (2 heaping table- grated cheese 

spoonfuls) butter A little melted butter 

2 ozs. (2 heaping table- Some fine bread crumbs 

spoonfuls) flour i tablespoonful white wine 

14 pint (i cup) milk Salt, pepper, and grated nut- 
14 pint (i cup) cream meg to taste 

Scald the oysters in their liquor, and put them aside 
to cool; then divide each oyster into four pieces. 

Melt the butter, stir in the flour, then add gradually 
the milk and cream; stir until thickened, and add the 
seasonings, wine, and cheese. Butter sufficient octa- 
gon ramequins, put in a layer of the oysters, fill up 
with the sauce, pour a little melted butter over each, 
sprinkle some bread crumbs on the top, and bake in a 
moderate oven for ten minutes. 



30 



L.0 


•oking in i^asserole Uisties 
COD A LA GARONNE 


31 


2 slices cod 

I garlic clove 
4 tablespoonfuls olive oil 
I tablespoonful chopped 
capers 

3 boned and chopped an- 

chovies 


I tablespoonful chopped pars- 

ley 
I heaping tablespoonful (i 

oz.) butter 
A few bread crumbs 
Salt and paprika to taste 



Rub a shallow fireproof dish with a cut clove of 
garlic, then lay in the fish and add the oil. 

Bake in the oven, and when three parts cooked take 
out and sprinkle in the capers, anchovies, parsley, 
bread crumbs, salt, and paprika; divide the butter 
into tiny pieces, lay it on the top, and return it to the 
oven to brown and to finish cooking. 

Serve hot in the casserole. 

COLD MACKEREL, \^NAIGRETTE 

I mackerel 12 tablespoonfuls olive oil 

I bunch parsley i teaspoonful chopped shal- 

1 sHce lemon lots 

6 tablespoonfuls tarragon i teaspoonful chopped paxs- 
vinegar ley 

2 teaspoonf uls made mus- i tablespoonful chopped gher- 

tard kins and capers 

I teaspoonful salt 

Clean the mackerel, leaving the head on, wrap it 
in a piece of cheesecloth, and boil in boiling salted 
water until tender. 



32 Fish Recipes 

The water should contain a little \dnegar. Put the 
tarragon vinegar into a basin, add the mustard, salt, 
olive oil, parsley, shallots, gherkins, and capers. Re- 
move the cloth from the fish, then lay the mackerel 
in an earthenware dish, pour the sauce over it and 
let it marinate thoroughly. It should be put into the 
refrigerator as soon as cool. 

Serve cold in a bed of parsley garnished with slices 
of lemon. 

CRAB A LA CARMEN 

1 good-sized crab i teaspoonful tarragon vine- 

2 tablespoonfuls olive oil gar 

I chopped shallot i tablespoonful cream 

1 teaspoonful chopped pars- 3 tablespoonfuls fish stock 

ley K piiit (i cup) white sauce 

2 tablespoonfuls bread 2 hard cooked egg yolks 

crumbs Salt and pepper to taste 
2 tablespoonfuls chopped 
cooked chicken 

Boil the crab, then remove the meat from it. Put 
the oil into a casserole, add the crab meat, the shallot, 
and parsley; stir over the fire until quite hot; then 
add the bread crumbs, vinegar, chicken, cream, stock, 
and seasonings; fill some flange ramequins very full 
with the mixture, heaping them in the center; pour 
over each some of the white sauce, and sprinkle over 
the top the sieved hard cooked yolks of eggs. 

Stand them in a pan containing a Httle boiling water 
en the stove until thoroughly hot, then serve. 



Cooking in Casserole Dishes ^;^ 

CURRIED FISH 

iK lbs. cooked fish i tablespoonful chutney 

2 heaping tablespoonfuls i lemon 

(2 ozs.) butter i teaspoonful salt 

2 large onions ij^ pints (3 cups) fish stock 

1 large apple }4 lb. (i cup) boiled rice 

2 heaping tablespoonfuls j^ cupful shrimps 

(2 ozs.) rice flour 2 hard cooked eggs 

I tablespoonful curry powder 

Free the fish from skin and bones. Melt the butter 
in a fireproof dish, then put in the apple and the onion 
cut into small pieces, fry together until a nice brown 
color, then stir in the rice flour, curry powder, chutney, 
the strained juice of the lemon, salt, and stock; sim- 
mer for fifty minutes, then add the fish. 

Arrange the hot boiled rice around a casserole, turn 
the curry into the center; garnish with the shrimps 
made hot in a little cream and quarters of the hard 
cooked eggs. 

Serve very hot. 



FINNAN HADDIE 

I medium sized finnan 2 ozs. (2 heaping table- 
haddie spoonfuls) butter 

Salt and pepper 

Select a well-cured medium sized fish. If not well 
cured it will probably be tasteless and flabby. Wash 




34 Fish Recipes 

it well, trim off the fins, the tail, and the two bones 
at the head. 

Lay it in a buttered casserole, sprinkle with a little 
salt and pepper, pour in enough boiling water to 
cover it, and allow it to simmer for ten minutes. 

Drain it from the water, return it to the casserole 
with the butter, and cook it for ten minutes in the 
oven. 

See that it is thoroughly cooked, but not hardened. 

FISH SOUFFLE 

% lb. cooked chopped fish i oz. {% cup) bread crumbs 

6 boiled potatoes 3 tablespoonfuls (i oz.) 
3 heaping tablespoonfuls chopped suet 

(3 ozs.) butter i teaspoonful chopped pars- 
I teaspoonful anchovy ex- ley 

tract 5 egg whites 

I teaspoonful made mus- A few browned bread crumbs 

tard Salt and paprika to taste 
yi pint {y2 cup) thick 

cream 

Boil the potatoes and rub them through a sieve 
while they are hot; mix with them the butter, salt, 
paprika, anchovy extract, mustard, cream, fish, white 
bread crumbs, suet, parsley, and the whites of eggs 
beaten stiffly. 

Mix carefully and turn into a well-buttered fireproof 
souffle dish; sprinkle the top of the souffle v/ith the 
browned bread crumbs and here and there put a 



Cooking in Casserole Dishes 35 

little bit of butter; place it on a baking tin and cook 
in a moderate oven for about forty minutes. 
Serve at once. 



FLOUNDER AU GRATIN 

1 large flounder 2 heaping tablespoonfuls (2 

2 chopped shallots ozs.) butter 

I tablespoonful chopped % pint (>2 cup) white wine 
parsley ]/i cupful bread crumbs 

Salt and pepper 

Clean and skin the fish. Salt and pepper both sides 
of the flounder, then lay it in a fireproof au gratin dish, 
sprinkle in the shallots and the parsley; add the butter 
divided into small pieces, the wine, and the layer of 
bread crumbs. 

Let it cook in the oven for about half an hour. 

HADDOCK AND MACARONI 

1 lb. boiled haddock Seasoning of salt and pepper 
y^ pint (i cup) white sauce 3 pickled gherkins 

14, lb. macaroni i heaping tablespoonful (i 

2 small skinned tomatoes oz.) butter 

Break the macaroni in pieces from one to one and a 
half inches long, put it into a pan of fast-boiHng, salted 
water, add the butter, and boil imtil it is tender with- 
out being in the least mashed; drain and wash the 
macaroni in a little hot water. 



36 Fish Recipes 

Heat the sauce in a fireproof dish, stir in the fish 
without breaking the flakes, and season it nicely with 
salt and pepper. 

Arrange a border of the hot macaroni around a hot 
casserole, pile the fish and sauce in the middle. 

Cut the tomatoes in quarters; cook them for a few 
minutes on a buttered baking tin, then arrange them 
round the fish. Cut the gherkins into shreds and 
place them in small heaps on the macaroni. 

Heat in the oven for a few moments and serve 
hot. 

HADDOCK AU GRATIN 

1 haddock weighing 4 lbs. >^ cupful grated Parmesan 

2 heaping tablespoonfuls cheese 

(2 ozs.) butter 2 tablespoonfuls buttered 
Salt and pepper bread crumbs 

2 lemons 1 tablespoonful potato flour 

4 ozs. {}4 cup) melted i gill {yi cup) thick cream 

butter 

Boil the haddock in boiling salted water with the 
two ounces of butter, seasoning of salt and pepper, 
and the strained juice of one lemon. 

When it is ready remove the skin, put the fish into 
a buttered gratin dish, pour over it the melted butter, 
and sprinkle over it a little red pepper and lemon juice. 

Cover it with the cheese and the buttered bread 
crumbs and put in a hot oven to brown. 



Cooking in Casserole Dishes 37 

Mix the potato flour with the cream, make hot, and 
pour over the fish just before sending to table. 
Garnish with a thinly sHced lemon. 

HALIBUT TIMBALE 

iK lbs. fresh halibut 5 egg whites 

I teaspoonful salt i tablespoonful chopped pars- 

A few grains red pepper ley 

I gill {y2 cup) whipping 
cream 

Put the fish through a meat-chopper, add to it the 
parsley, salt, red pepper, whipped cream, and the 
whites of eggs stiffly beaten. 

Mix carefully and turn into a well-buttered earthen- 
ware mold, cover, and steam steadily for half an hour. 

Serve with egg sauce. 

LOBSTER NEWBURG 

I lobster i heaping tablespoonful (i 

^ pint (i cup) cream oz.) butter 

3 egg yolks i wineglassful sherry wine 

Salt and red pepper to taste 

Take the meat from a boiled lobster and cut it 
into dice; saute it in the butter, then add the season- 
ings, sherry wine, and the yolks of eggs mixed with 
the cream. 

Stir until the mixture begins to thicken, then remove 
it from the fire and serve at once in hot ramequins. 



3^ Fish Recipes 



MACKEREL WITH TOMATOES 

I medium sized mackerel J/2 pint (i cup) stock 

I lb. skinned tomatoes i teaspoonful powdered herbs 

1 wineglassful sherry wine >2 cupful bread crumbs 

2 heaping tablespoonfuls Salt and pepper 

(2 ozs.) butter i tablespoonful chopped pars- 
I slice onion ley 

Juice J/2 lemon 

Cook the mackerel in the oven with the stock, sherry 
wine, herbs, lemon juice, and onion, cover with a 
buttered paper; when cooked, remove the skin, spHt 
the fish open, and remove the bones; butter a fire- 
proof dish, lay in a la3^er of shced tomatoes, a Kttle 
salt and pepper, then a layer of fish and some tiny 
pieces of butter, repeat this until the fish is used; 
finally put a layer of sHced tomatoes on the top; 
pour over the stock in which the fish was cooked, 
cover with bread crumbs and some small pieces of 
butter, and cook in a moderate oven for twenty 
minutes; sprinkle the parsley over the top and serve 
at once. 

OYSTER CURRY 

I quart oysters 2 tablespoonfuls flour 

J4 pint (i cup) tomatoes i teaspoonful salt 

3 tablespoonfuls curry i cupful plain boiled rice 

powder 2 tablespoonfuls butter 

J4 pint (i cup) beef stock i Spanish onion 
I apple 



Cooking in Casserole Dishes 39 

Chop the onion and brown it in one tablespoonful 
of the butter in a casserole or earthenware dish, add 
the curry powder, the remaining tablespoonful of 
butter, the apple chopped, and the stock. 

Simmer slowly for half an hour. 

Put the oysters, their liquor, and the tomatoes into 
another pan over the fire. When the edges of the 
oysters begin to rufHe put the two mixtures together. 

Add the salt, and thicken with the flour moistened 
with a little cold w^ater. Boil for five minutes stirring 
constantly. 

Serve with the hot plain boiled rice. 

SCALLOPS EN CASSEROLE 



1 8 scallops 


I heaping tablespoonful (i 


^2 pint (i cup) white stock 


oz.) flour 


2 heaping tablespoonfuls (2 


3 egg yolks 


ozs.) butter 


3 chopped mushrooms 


yi pint {14. cup) cream 


Some small pieces puff pastry 


I small onion 


Salt, pepper, and red pepper 


2 shallots 


to taste 



Put the scallops and mushrooms into a casserole 
Vvith one tablespoonful of the butter, cover, and let 
cook for ten minutes. 

Peel and chop finely the onion and shallots, blanch 
them in water, and drain. 

Put them into an earthenware pan with the re- 
mainder of the butter and cook until a light brown 
color; stir in the flour, mix for a few minutes over the 



40 Fish Recipes 

fire, add the stock and scallop Hquor, simmer for 
fifteen minutes, stirring in the yolks of eggs one at a 
time, season with salt, pepper, and a dust of red pepper, 
put in the scallops and mushrooms, and heat but do 
not boil; mix in the cream just before serving. 
Garnish the top with the pieces of pastry. 

STEWED EELS 

3 or 3 eels Seasoning of salt, pepper, and 

yi pint (i cup) white stock red pepper 

2 tablespoonfuls cream Bunch of parsley 

2 ozs. (2 heaping table- }i teaspoonful lemon juice 

spoonfuls) flour i small onion 

2 ozs. (2 heaping table- Blade of mace 

spoonfuls) butter Bunch of sweet herbs 
^ teaspoonful whole white 

peppers 

Skin and divide the eels into pieces about two inches 
long, put them into a casserole with the stock, sliced 
onion, herbs, mace, lemon juice, parsley, and whole 
peppers. Bring to the boil, skim, and allow to sim- 
mer for twenty minutes; lift out the eels and strain 
the stock. 

Melt the butter in the casserole, stir in the flour, 
add the liquid from the fish, the cream, and boil for 
five minutes, stirring all the time, then add the sea- 
sonings and the eels, allow to heat thoroughly, and 
serve. 



Cooking in Casserole Dishes 41 



STUFFED HERRINGS 

4 large fresh herrings 2 heaping tablespoonfuls (2 

I cupful bread crumbs ozs.) butter 

1 tablespoonful chopped i egg 

parsley Salt and pepper to taste 

Split the herrings up the back, remove the back- 
bones, lay two herrings open on a buttered fireproof 
dish; mix together the bread crumbs, parsley, salt, 
pepper, egg well beaten, and one tablespoonful of the 
butter; lay this on the split herrings, place the other 
two on the top, sandwich fashion; put the remainder 
of the butter on the top, sprinkle with bread crumbs, 
and bake in a hot oven for twenty minutes. 

Serve with parsley sauce. 

TERRAPIN STEW 

2 terrapins i teaspoonful white pepper 
4 hard cooked yolks of eggs 3 tablespoonfuls browned 
^2 lb. (i cup) butter flour 

I tablespoonful salt i pint (2 cups) cream 

I wineglassful sherry wine 

Encourage the terrapin to move about in lukewarm 
water for a few minutes, then plunge head first into 
a pan of boiling water. 

Remove from the water in about five minutes, 
or as soon as the thin white skin can be removed from 
the head and feet, then put back into fresh boiling 
water and simmer for forty minutes, or until the upper 



42 Fish Recipes 

shell separates readily from the lower on a slight 
pressure. Drain, lay them on their backs, heads from 
you; then loosen the shells and take them off. Re- 
move the sand bags, bladders, and the thick part of 
the intestines and the gall sacks, which are found 
embedded in one lobe of the liver, and throw them 
away. The meat is separated and the giblets cut 
up fine. Place all in a casserole and barely cover with 
boiling water. Simmer for haK an hour, then add the 
dressing. Mash the egg yolks with the butter, then 
add the salt, pepper, flour, and cream. Stir until 
smooth and creamy, then add to the terrapin and 
simmer for fifteen minutes, stirring frequently. If 
too thick, reduce with a Httle boiling water. Add 
the wine and serve very hot. 

TROUT WITH POTATOES 

1 fresh trout 2 heaping tablespoonfuls 
yi pint (i cup) milk (2 ozs.) butler 

2 tablespoonfuls chopped ^ pint (>^ cup) cream 

parsley Salt and pepper 

3 large potatoes i egg white 

Oyster sauce 

Boil the trout in boiling salted water for tv/enty 
minutes or until ready; w^hen cold, bone it and flake 
it, and lay it in a v/ell-buttered fireproof dish; bring 
the milk and parsley to the boil and pour them over 
the fish; boil the potatoes, then mash them with the 
butter, cream, salt, and pepper, spread them over the 



Cooking in Casserole Dishes 43 

fish, smooth the surface, then mark it in fancy design 
with a fork; place the casserole in a hot oven for 
ten minutes. Remove it from the oven, beat up the 
white of the egg stiffly, brush it over the top of the 
potatoes, and continue to bake for fifteen minutes. 
Serve hot with the oyster sauce. The sauce may be 
served in an earthenware gravy boat. 



POULTRY AND GAME RECIPES 

" 0: dainty duck, 
With wings as swift as meditation '* 



CHICKEN EN CASSEROLE NO. 1 

I good sized chicken 2 pickled walnuts 

I lb. sliced bacon i bay leaf 

I onion i pint (2 cups) stock 

3 tomatoes i tablespoonful arrowroot 

3 celery stalks Salt and pepper 

5 mushrooms 

Singe and draw the chicken, then truss it as for 
boiling, have ready a casserole large enough to hold 
the bird whole; line it with the bacon, put in the 
chicken, sprinkle in salt, pepper, and the onion chopped 
fine. Then arrange round the chicken the tomatoes 
skinned, the celery, mushrooms and walnuts chopped, 
and the bay leaf; add the stock, place the casserole 
in the oven, let it cook gently for one and a half 
hours, basting the chicken frequently. 

When ready, remove the bay leaf, brown and 
thicken the gravy with the arrowroot, leave all the 
vegetables in the gra\'y with the chicken, and serve 
hot in the casserole. 

A turkey may also be prepared in this way. 
44 



Cooking in Casserole Dishes 45 

CHICKEN EN CASSEROLE NO. 2 

1 large chicken or turkey 1)4 pints (3 cups) chicken 
3 tablespoonfuls olive oil stock 

2 heaping tablespoonfuls (2 Salt and pepper to season 

ozs.) butter i tablespoonful kitchen bou- 
2 heaping tablespoonfuls (2 quet 

ozs.) flour I cupful chopped oysters 

Singe, draw and cut the fowl into neat joints, 
removing the skin and as many small bones as possible. 

Heat the oil in a frying pan, lay in a few pieces of 
chicken at a time, and fry until the meat looks white 
on each side. Turn frequently but do not let them 
brown. 

Take out and drain on paper. Add a little more 
oil if necessary, until all the pieces have been cooked. 
Blend the butter and flour in a saucepan over the fire: 
when smooth stir in the stock, and continue stirring 
until it cooks for five minutes. 

Add the kitchen bouquet and the seasonings. 
Strain the sauce into a casserole, add the chicken, 
arranging the pieces so that they are level at the top, 
cover closely with a sheet of buttered paper, and put 
on the casserole lid. Cook in a moderate oven for an 
hour or until ready. About fifteen minutes before 
serving uncover and add the oysters scalded and cut 
into halves. 



46 Poultry and Game Recipes 

CHICKENS WITH OLIVES 

s 5'oung chickens 2 dozen olives 
3 pints (6 cups) water i tablespoonful capers 
I onion i oz. (i heaping tablespoon- 
Salt and pepper fui) flour 

3 heaping tablespoonf uls 

(3 ozs.) butter 

Prepare the chickens and cut them into joints, then 
put them in a casserole with the water, salt, pepper, 
and onion. 

Cook slowly till tender. Lift out the pieces of 
chicken and drain and dry them, then fry them in the 
butter tiU they are brown. 

Stir the flour into the casserole, add a pint of the 
water in which the cliickens were cooked, the olives, 
chopped, capers, and seasoning of salt and pepper. 

When quite smooth add the chickens and serve when 
hot. 

GOOSE DEVILED EN CASSEROLE 

I goose I tablespoonful white pepper 

Potato stuffing 2 tablespoonfuls made mus- 

4 tablespoonfuls vinegar tard 

After cleaning the goose and wiping it well with a 
damp cloth, plunge it into a saucepan of boiling water, 
and boil gently for one hour. Take it from the sauce- 
pan, drain well, and wipe it very dry. 

Fill the body and neck with potato stuffing, truss 



Cooking in Casserole Dishes* 47 

and sew up, lay it in an earthenware pan, and roast in a 
very hot oven, allowing twenty minutes to every pound. 

MLx the vinegar, pepper, and mustard together, 
pour them over the goose, and baste it frequently. 
An old goose that can be cooked in no other way may 
be so dressed, two hours being allowed for the boiling 
instead of one hour. 

To make the potato stuffing: Cook one chopped 
onion in a quarter of a cupful of salt pork cubes until 
brown, then add two cupfuls of hot mashed potatoes, 
salt and pepper to taste, half a teaspoonful of poultry 
seasoning, one tablespoonful of chopped parsley, and 
one cupful of cooked sausages cut in pieces. Mix 
thoroughly, then stuff the goose with the mixture. 

GUINEA FOWL EN CASSEROLE 

I large guinea fowl 2 heaping tablespoonfuls (2 

1 onion ozs.) flour 

4 tablespoonfuls cream yi pint (i cup) white stock 

A bunch herbs i blade mace 

2 celery stalks 6 whole peppers 
2 heaping tablespoonfuls (2 2 slices carrot 

ozs.) butter 14 pint (i cup) milk 

Salt and pepper 

Draw and truss the guinea fowl; then put it into 
a casserole with sufficient hot water to cover, then 
brmg to the boil, and simmer gently until the bird is 
cooked. Take it up and let it cool. 

Measure half a pint of the water the guinea fowl 



-48 Poultry and Game Recipes 

was boiled in. Put this into a pan with the milk, 
add the onion, mace, carrot, herbs, celery, v/hole 
peppers, and the stock; bring slowly to boihng point; 
then simmer for ten minutes. 

Melt the butter, stir in the flour, then stir in the 
boiling stock. Cook slowly for ten minutes, season 
with salt and pepper, add the cream. 

Cut the guinea fowl into neat joints. Put these 
into a casserole, strain the sauce over, put it on the 
fire, and heat up; make quite hot without boiling. 

Serve in the casserole. 

JUGGED HARE 

I hare i tablespoonful flour 

I carrot i blade mace 

I onion 4 tablespoonfuls water 

1 turnip I tablespoonful red currant 

2 celery stalks jelly 

Small bunch parsley i tablespoonful Worcester- 
Small piece lemon rind shire sauce 

3 allspices i tablespoonful mushroom 
I clove ketchup 

I bay leaf i tablespoonful lemon juice 

Salt and pepper 2 wineglassfuls port wine 

Stock 12 small forcemeat balls 

Skin the hare after taking out the inside, wipe the 
hare thoroughly, but do not wash it, cut it into neat 
joints, dust a httle flour over them, and fry them in 
smoking hot fat till browned. Drain them and put 
them into an earthenware jar with the vegetables 



Cooking in Casserole Dishes 49 

cut into small pieces, the bay leaf, lemon rind, mace, 
clove, allspices, salt and pepper; fill up the jar mth 
boiling stock, let it simmer for two or three hours, 
according to the size of the hare; when cooked, take 
out the pieces of hare, w^arm them to prevent their 
getting dry; mix the flour with the water, add it to 
the blood and the pounded liver, thicken the gravy 
with it, stir in the jelly, sauce, ketchup, lemxon juice, 
and wine, strain on to the hare in a casserole, put in the 
forcemeat balls that have been fried in smoking hot 
fat; heat and serve. 

QUAILS EN CASSEROLE 

6 quails % lb. preserved cherries 

2 heaping tablespoonfuls (2 i wineglassful port wine 

ozs.) butter }4 pint (i cup) stock 

}i pint (3^ cup) red currant ^ orange rind 

jelly Salt and pepper to season 
3^ lemon 

Prepare and truss the quails. Melt the butter in 
an earthenware pan; when hot, put in the birds, and 
brown them all over. 

Cover with the lid, and put into a moderate oven 
till ready. 

Lift out the quails and keep hot. Drain the fat 
from the pan, add the stock, wine, and orange rind. 

Simmer for ten minutes, then stir in the jelly. Put 
in the quails for ten minutes; season with salt, pepper, 
and the strained lemon juice, 
D 



50 Poultry and Game Recipes 

Before sending remove the orange rind and add the 
cherries. 
Serve hot. 

RABBIT EN CASSEROLE 
2 rabbits i pint (2 cups) hot water 

2 sliced onions % pint (i cup) cold water 

2 celery stalks i tablespoonful Worcester- 

I cupful chopped carrots shire sauce 

1 bay leaf 12 stoned olives 

2 heaping tablespoonfuls (2 i tablespoonful capers 

ozs.) butter 2 tablespoonfuls dripping 

2 heaping tablespoonfuls (2 Salt and pepper 
ozs.) flour 

Skin and joint the rabbits, then put them into an 
earthenware pan, add the onions, celery, carrots, 
bay leaf, dripping, and cold water. 

Simmer for thirty minutes, then remove the rabbits. 
Add the butter and flour to the pan, stir over the fire 
till brown, then add the hot water, stirring till smooth, 
add the salt, sauce, capers, olives, pepper, and rabbits. 

Cover closely and bake for forty minutes. 

RAGOUT OF DUCK 

1 cooked duck A few sprigs of parsley 

2 heaping tablespoonfuls (2 i teaspoonful lemon juice 

ozs.) butter Salt and pepper 

I heaping tablespoonful (i i teaspoonful red currant jelly 

oz.) flour yi teaspoonful meat extract 

I pint (2 cups) stock Few drops kitchen bouquet 

3 shallots 



Cooking in Casserole Dishes 5 r 

Cut the duck into neat joints. Melt the butter in 
an earthenware pan, toss the pieces of duck in it, 
then sprinkle in the flour, and fry it a light brown color; 
then add the stock, stirring it in smoothly. Add the 
parsley, lemon juice, shallots, jelly, kitchen bouquet, 
and meat extract. 

Put on the lid and let it simmer for thirty minutes. 
Season it nicely. Pin a napkin round the casserole 
and serve it hot. 

SQUABS EN CASSEROLE 

4 squabs Small piece lemon rind 

I onion i heaping tablespoonful (i 
% lb. raw lean bacon oz.) flour 

Bunch of herbs i heaping tablespoonful (i 
I tablespoonful chopped oz.) butter 

parsley i pint (2 cups) stock 

I bay leaf i wineglassful Marsala wine 

I blade mace Salt and pepper to season 

Cut each bird in four pieces. Cut the bacon into 
small pieces and the onion into large dice. Melt the 
butter in a casserole, put in the bacon, onion, herbs, 
mace, parsley, and bay leaf, and fry them, for five 
minutes, or till a good brown color. 

Add the stock, and bring it to boiling point. Lay 
in the pieces of squabs and lemon rind, cover the 
casserole tightly, and allow its contents to simmer 
very gently for one hour. Next skim it well, remove 
the squabs, and strain the stock. Put the squabs back 



:>- 



Poultry and Game Recipes 



in the casserole. Mix the flour smoothly and thinly 
with a little cold water, add it to the stock, and strain 
both over the squabs. 

Put in the wine and a good seasoning of salt and 
pepper. Allow the gravy to boil for five minutes to 
cook the flour, and serve it in the casserole. The 
v/ine may be omitted. 

SQUIRRELS EN CASSEROLE 



3 squirrels 


I quart (4 cups) peeled, cut 


J/2 lb. chopped salt pork 


tomatoes 


I cupful chopped onions 


I tablespoonful sugar 


1)4 cupfuls sliced par- 


I tablespoonful salt 


boiled potatoes 


4 heaping tablespoonfuls (4 


I cupful green corn 


ozs.) butter 


I cupful lima beans 


2 heaping tablespoonfuls (2 


4 quarts (i6 cups) boiling 


ozs.) flour 


water 


Black and red pepper to taste 



Clean, wash, and joint the squirrels. Lay them in 
salted water for thirty minutes. Put the ingredients 
into a large casserole in the following order: First 
a layer of the pork, then one of the onions; next, 
of potatoes; then follow with successive layers of corn 
cut from the cob, the beans, and the squirrels. Season 
each layer with black and red pepper. Pour in the 
water, put on the cover, and seal with a paste made of 
flour and water. Cook gently for three hours, then 
add the tomatoes, sugar, and salt. Cook for one hour 
longer; stir in the flour and butter mixed together, 
boil for five minutes, and serve in the casserole. 



Cooking In Casserole Dishes 53 

VENISON EN CASSEROLE 

2K lbs. venison iK pints (3 cups) stock 

10 whole peppers 2 heaping tablespoonfuls (2 
12 tiny white onions ozs.) flour 

I clove garlic 1 2 mushrooms 

I tablespoonful chopped 2 pickled walnuts 

parsley Salt and pepper 

1 bay leaf A bunch of herbs 

2 tablespoonfuls (2 ozs.) 3 wineglassfuls port wine 

butter 

Cut up the venison into square pieces; put them 
into an earthenware jar, add the clove of garlic, bay 
leaf, peppers, a pinch of salt, and one glassful of the 
wine. Let this marinade remain for six hours. 

Drain the pieces of venison and dry them. Melt 
the butter in a casserole, put in the venison, and fry 
for ten minutes; then add the flour, and mix well; 
add the wine and the stock, stir till it boils, draw to 
one side of the fire, add the herbs, the onions, peeled, 
salt and pepper to taste, and pickled walnuts. 

Simmer for forty minutes. Ten minutes before 
serving add the mushrooms. Remove the herbs 
before serving in the casserole. 



MEAT RECIPES 

*^ Appetite comes with eating^* 



BAKED LIVER 

I lb. calf's Hver Ji teaspoonful powdered herbs 

3 heaping tablespooiifuls i chopped onion 

bread crumbs Salt and pepper to ta ste 

I teaspoonful chopped Sliced bacon 

parsley }4 pint (i cup) water 

Cut the liver into slices one-third of an inch thick, 
vvash and dry thoroughly, lay it in a well-buttered 
casserole. 

Make a forcemeat with the bread crunibs, chopped 
parsley, herbs, chopped onion, salt and pepper to 
taste, cover each strip of liver with this, and on the 
top place a strip of bacon. 

Pour round the water and bake slowly for one hour. 

BAKED VIRGINIA HAM 

I Virginia ham A few cloves 

J/2 pint (i cup) sherry wine Brown sugar 

Wash the ham and place it in cold water; let it 
soak for twelve hours, then put it into fresh cold water 

54 



Cooking in Casserole Dishes S5 

and let it soak for another twelve hours. When ready 
to cook, place it skin down in a large casserole, which 
must be of good size and full of cold water. It will 
take about one hour, over a moderate fire, to come to 
boiling point. 

Then keep it boiling steadily — on no accoimt must 
it be allowed to boil fast — and as the water boils 
down replenish with hot, never with cold, water, so 
as not to check the boiling. 

Wlien the ham is done it will, on its own accord, 
turn over skin up. This is sufficient proof of its be- 
ing thoroughly cooked ^Adthout further test. Let it 
cool in the liquor in which it was cooked. Take it 
out, gash the entire top, ha\'ing the gashes about half 
an inch apart. Stick cloves in the gashes, sprinkle 
thickly with brown sugar, and pour over all the sherry 
wine. 

Lay the ham in a fireproof dish and bake till brown. 

BEEF AND SAUSAGES 

1 lb. thinly cut beef ;4 lb. sausages 

2 heaping tablespoonfuls (2 i tablespoonful chopped pars- 

ozs.) flour ley 

Some bread stuffing Salt and pepper 

Cut the meat into neat strips. Season the flour 
with salt and pepper; toss the m-eat in this, and fold 
each strip into neat rolls, placing a small portion of 
light bread crumb stuffing in each. Prick and divide 



56 Meat Recipes 

the sausages. Place a layer of sausage in a casserole, 
then the beef, and then the sausage. Sprinkle in the 
remaining flour and chopped parsley. Cover with 
water, put on the lid, then cook slowly for two and a 
half hours. 

To make the bread stuffing: Put into a saucepan 
one heaping tablespoonful of butter and fry in it one 
chopped onion; then add one cupful of bread crumbs, 
one cupful of stock, one teaspoonful of salt, half a 
teaspoonful of pepper and thyme, one tablespoonful 
of chopped parsley, and half a cupful of chopped 
celery. Stir it until it leaves the sides of the pan, then 
use. 

BEEF AND TOMATOES 

2 lbs. lean beef yi lb. grated cheese 

I bunch celery Salt and pepper 

4 onions i cupful small mushrooms 

I can tomatoes i tablespoonful soy sauce 
]4, package macaroni 

Cut the meat, celery, and onions into small pieces, 
then put them into a frying-pan. Set on the range 
and stir constantly until well browned, being careful 
not to scorch. 

Remove from the fire, and put into a large casserole, 
add the tomatoes, the macaroni cooked, the cheese 
grated, the mushrooms, soy, salt and pepper. 

Simmer for two hours and serve hot. 




Q 
< 
< 
> 



Cooking in Casserole Dishes 57 



CALF'S LIVER A LA MADRID 

i}4 lbs. calf's liver l4 pint (i cup) stock 

3 heaping tablespoonfuls 3 egg yolks 

(3 ozs.) butter i teaspoonful lemon juice 

2 chopped onions Salt and pepper 

1 heaping tablespoonful (i Some toast points 

oz.) flour 

Melt the butter in a casserole; cut the liver in thin 
slices and fry it in the butter for three minutes; take 
out the liver, add the onions to the butter, fry till 
a nice brown color; then sprinkle in the flour, add 
the stock, and bring to the boil; then add the liver, 
cover a.nd simmer for thirty minutes, stir in the yolks 
of eggs and the lemon juice, season nicely with salt 
and pepper. 

Place the toast points on the top and serve in the 
casserole. 

CHILLI CON CARNI 

2 lbs. round steak 2 large t>mons 

I oz. (i heaping table- }i teaspoonful pov>'dered 
spoonful) butter thyme 

3 dry red peppers i tablespoonful flour 

4 red chillies 3 cloves 

3 tablespoonfuls rice i cupful cooked beans 

Salt I clove garlic 

yz pint (i cup) boiling water 

Cut the steak into small pieces. Put the butter 
into a casserole and allow it to get hot, then add the 



58 Meat Recipes 

steak and fry it brown, then add the water and the 
rice. Cover closely, and cook till very tender. Re- 
move seeds and partitions from red peppers and 
chillies and cover with boiling water for five minutes. 
Drain and chop the peppers and chillies and add 
them to the steak, with the cooked beans, chopped 
garlic, flour, thyme, chopped onions, salt to taste, 
cloves, and cook till very hot and the gravy a nice 
consistency. 

HAM EN CASSEROLE 

I slice ham cut thick >2 teaspoonful celery seed 

I small, chopped onion i small, sweet green pepper 

I bay leaf Salt and pepper 

I blade mace Cider 
4 cloves 

Brown the ham. on both sides in a hot fr}dng-pan, 
then lay it in a casserole, add the seasonings, the 
pepper and the onion chopped. Pour over enough 
sweet cider to come well up on to the ham. 

Cover and bake slov/ly for tv/o and a half or three 
hours. Serve hot with cider or tomato sauce and 
stuffed potatoes. 

HAMBURG STEAK EN CASSEROLE 



I lb. Hamburg steak 


yi pint (i cup) stock or water 


I heaping tablespoonful (i 


I tablespoonful chopped pars- 


oz.) butter 


ley 


I heaping tablespoonful (i 


A few fried bread croutons 


oz.) ilour 


Salt and pepper 


I chopped onion 





Cooking in Casserole Dishes 59 

Heat the butter in an earthenware dish, add the 
onion, fry it until brown, then add the flour, stir well 
together, add gradually the water or stock, and sim- 
mer for ten minutes. 

Add the Hamburg steak and cook slowly for half 
an hour; baste it occasionally. Season with the salt, 
pepper, and chopped parsley, and place on top just 
before serving a few nicely fried bread croutons. 

HUNGARIAN GOULASH 

I lb. lean veal 6 carrot balls 

yi lb. lean beef 6 turnip balls 

3 tablespoonfuls lard i teaspoonful salt 

I large onion i bay leaf 
1^2 pints (3 cups) boiling i clove 

water 2 heaping tablespoonfuls (2 

I teaspoonful paprika ozs.) flour 

12 potato balls lA pint (i cup) cold water 

6 small white onions i chopped chilli pepper 

Slice the onion and brown it in the lard. Remove 
the onion and put in the veal and beef cut into small 
pieces. Brown these thoroughly, and remove the 
meat and place it in a casserole. Add the paprika 
and the boiling water. Cover the dish and place it 
in the oven. 

Fry the potato, carrot, turnip balls, and onion in 
smoking hot fat. Add them to the meat after it has 
simmered for one and a half hours. After the vege- 
tables are added, add the salt, bay leaf, clove, and 



6o Meat Recipes 

flour mixed with the cold water. Pour this into the 
casserole and stir until the mixture is sHghtly thick- 
ened. Add the pepper inixed with a cupful of boiling 
water. Cover and simmer for another hour and a half. 
Serve from the casserole. 

IRISH STEW 

4 lbs. mutton neck i tablespoonful chopped pars- 

5 large onions ley 

2 lbs. potatoes Salt and pepper to taste 

Water to cover 

Cut the meat into neat pieces, put it into a large 
casserole; add the onions sHced, and enough water 
to cover. 

Simmer for two hours; season with salt and pepper. 
Add the potatoes sHced rather thinly. 

Cover closely, and continue to simmer for another 
hour. 

Sprinkle in the parsley just before serving. 

KIDNEYS EN CASSEROLE 

3 sheep's kidneys 2 eggs 

3 ozs. {}4 cup) chopped i tablespoonful chopped pars- 
suet ley 

>^lb. (2 cups) bread crumbs i teaspoonful powdered herbs 

yi pint (i cup) milk Salt and pepper 

Skin and chop the kidneys, put them into a basin 
WL\h. the suet, bread crumbs, milk, eggs v/ell beaten, 
parsley, herbs, and seasomngs. 



Cooking in Casserole Dishes 6i 

Mix well, turn into a buttered earthenware bowl, 
cover with a buttered paper, and steam for one hour. 
Serve hot with brown sauce or good gra\^. 

LAMB EN CASSEROLE 
2)4 lbs. loin of Iamb yi lb. (J^ cup) butter 

yi lb. {^2 cup) rice 2 egg yolks 

I pint (2 cups) good gravy Salt and pepper 
I blade mace A little grated nutmeg 

Half roast the loin of lamb, and cut it into steaks. 
Boil the rice in boiling salted water for ten minutes, 
drain it, and add to it the gravy with the nutmeg 
and the mace; cook slowly until the rice begins to 
thicken, remove it from the fire, stir in the butter, 
and when melted add the yolks of eggs well beaten; 
butter a casserole well, sprinkle the steaks with salt 
and pepper, dip them in melted butter, and lay them 
in the buttered dish ; pour over the gra\y that comes 
from them, add the rice and simmer for half an hour. 



MUTTON A LA VERONA 

2 lbs. neck mutton 12 preserved cherries 

2 turnips i wineglassful sherry wine 

carrots i tablespoonful mushroom 
2 onions ketchup 

I heaping tablespoonful (i 4 tomatoes 

oz.) flour I pint (2 cups) stock 

I heaping tablespoonful (i Salt and pepper 

oz.) butter 



62 Meat Recipes 

Wipe the meat, then cut it into neat, small joints. 
Melt the butter, put in the meat, and fry it on both 
sides a good brown color. 

Remove the meat, sprinkle in the flour, and brown 
it carefully. Add the stock, and stir until it boils. 
Put the meat into the casserole, add the sHced onions 
and tomatoes, some neatly cut pieces of carrot and 
turnip, the stock, and a little salt. Put on the lid, 
and simmer for about two hours, imtil the meat is 
quite tender. 

Meanwhile, with a round vegetable-cutter cut 
out balls of carrot and turnip, using the reddest part 
of the former. Cook these in boiling salted water 
until tender, then drain and keep them hot. Season 
the stew with salt and pepper, and stir in the wine and 
ketchup. Arrange the vegetable balls and cherries 
on the top and serve as hot as possible. 

OX TAIL EN CASSEROLE 

2 OX tails I blade mace 

3 heaping tablespoonfuls i heaping tablespoonful (i 

(3 ozs.) butter oz.) flour 

1 sliced carrot ^^ pint (i cup) brown sauce 

2 sliced onions J^ pint (i cup) stock 

2 celery stalks i teaspoonful meat extract 

I bunch herbs A few stuffed olives 

8 whole peppers Salt and pepper 

4 cloves 

Wash and dry the tails and cut them into joints. 



Cooking in Casserole Dishes 6 



o 



Put the butter into an earthenware pan, add the vege- 
tables, herbs, whole peppers, cloves, and mace. Place 
the joints on the top of these ingredients with a 
buttered paper over and the cover of the pan, and 
cook on the top of the stove for twenty minutes; 
then remove the paper, sprinkle in the flour, add the 
meat extract, brown sauce, salt and pepper to season, 
and the stock; replace the paper and cover and sim- 
mer for three and a half hours, adding a Kttle stock 
occasionally as the liquor reduces, and removing any 
fat that may rise to the surface. 

When ready to serve, put the ox tails on a hot fire- 
proof dish, and rub the vegetables through a sieve 
with the liquor. Reheat the sauce, add the olives, 
and pour it over the meat. 

OX TONGUE EN CASSEROLE 

1 ox tongue Little thyme and marjoram 

2 carrots 3 cloves 

2 onions 6 allspices 

I turnip Stock or water 

A bunch parsley Salt and pepper 

Wash and trim the tongue carefully, roll it round in 
the same way as you would ribs of beef, and keep it in 
shape with a piece of tape. 

Wash and trim the vegetables, and cut them in 
pieces. Lay half of them in a casserole with the spices. 
Next put in the tongue, then the rest of the vegetables, 
and pour in enough stock or water to half cover the 



64 Meat Recipes 

tongue. Put the lid on the casserole, and let the 
contents simmer gently for four hours. The tongue 
should be turned once during the cooking. 

Then either serve the tongue hot, v/ith the stock 
thickened, carefully seasoned, and flavored with 
mushroom ketchup, or serve it cold garnished with 
parsley. 

PORK EN CASSEROLE 

6 pork chops i teaspoonful salt 

2 large onions i teaspoonful pepper 

I tablespoonful powdered i teaspoonful curry powder 

sage Hot apple sauce 
I hea,ping tablespoonful (i 

oz.) flour 

Cut up the onions and mix them with the sage. 
Mix together the flour, salt, pepper, and curry powder. 
Dip the pork chops into this mixture. Put the onions 
into a casserole, lay the chops on the top, cover with 
hot water, and simmer in the o^^en for two hours. 

Serve with hot apple sauce. 

To make the apple sauce: Put into a saucepan 
one heaping cupful of chopped apples, add one table- 
spoonful of arrowroot, a few grains of salt, one table- 
spoonful of lemon juice, grated rind of one lemon, 
a pinch of pov/dered cinnamon and a quarter of a 
pint of cold water. Cook all together for fifteen 
minutes, stirring occasionally. Strain and serve in 
an earthenware gravy boat. 




o 



Cooking in Casserole Dishes 65 

STEAK EN CASSEROLE 
2 lbs. steak >2 cupful diced fried bacon 

2 heaping tablespoonfuls lo small mushrooms (canned) 

(2 ozs.) butter i diced cooked carrot 

I onion i diced cooked potato 

3 tablespoonfuls brown i teaspoonful meat extract 

sauce A few small fried potatoes 

I tablespoonful chopped Salt and pepper 
pickles 

Cut the steak into six neatly shaped fiat pieces, 
and season them with salt and pepper. Fry them 
slightly on one side in a little of the butter, over a 
quick fire, and set them aside. 

Peel the onion and chop it finely, fry it in a small 
stewpan in one tablespoonful of the butter to a golden 
color, moisten with the brown sauce and a little of the 
mushroom Hquor. Boil up, and add the pickles, 
bacon, mushrooms, carrot, and potato. Heat up these 
and put them in a casserole, place the meat on the top, 
add the meat extract, dissolved, cover and cook in the 
oven for twenty minutes. 

Serve hot in the casserole, with the fried potatoes 
placed on the top. 

STEAK AND KIDNEY PUDDING 

i>^ lbs. lean beef Salt and pepper 

3 sheep's kidneys i cupful chopped suet 

)/2 lb. (2 cups) flour Water or buttermilk 

I teaspoonful baking 2 tablespoonfuls flour 
powder 



66 Meat Recipes 

Chop the suet and rub it into the flour, add the 
baking powder, half a teaspoonful of salt, and enough 
water or buttermilk to make a stiff paste. Cut off a 
small piece for a lid. 

Roll out the larger piece and line a greased casse- 
role with it. 

Cut the meat in thin slices; remove the fat from 
the kidneys and cut them into four pieces. 

Mix two tablespoonfuls of flour with a little salt 
and pepper, then dip the meat and the kidneys into 
them. Place the meat and kidneys into the prepared 
casserole, fill up with water, roll out the small piece 
of paste and lay it on the top. 

Cover with the casserole lid or a piece of buttered 
paper, and steam steadily for two and a half hours. 



SWEETBREADS EN CASSEROLE 

3 sweetbreads A few parsley sprigs 

I bunch herbs i heaping tablespoonful (i 

^2 pint (i cup) stock oz.) butter 

% lb. fat bacon i heaping tablespoonful (i 

I carrot oz.) flour 

I onion Salt and pepper 

Soak the sweetbreads in cold water for two hours, 
changing the water several times; drop them into 
boiling water for three minutes, lift out into cold water 
for fifteen minutes; drain, and remove the skin and 
fat, place them for half an hour between two plates, 



Cooking in Casserole Dishes 67 

divide the bacon into neat lardoons, and lard them; 
slice the vegetables and lay them in a casserole, lay 
the sweetbreads on the top, pour in the stock, and 
simmer for half an hour. 

Melt the butter in another pan, add the flour and 
the stock from the sweetbreads, and boil for three 
minutes. Lift the sweetbreads on to a hot dish and 
strain the sauce over them. 



SWISS STEAK 

1)4. lbs. round steak Salt and pepper 

I carrot Some flour 

I small turnip >^ pint (i cup) boiling water 

I onion 2 tablespoonfids dripping or 

I tomato butter 

I bay leaf 

The steak should be cut two inches thick. Pound 
into it, using a steak shredder, as much flour as it 
will hold. 

Melt the butter in a casserole, and when it is hot 
brown the steak in it, turning it over. 

Add the onion, carrot, turnip, and tomato sliced 
and fry them for a few minutes, then add the bay leaf 
and seasoning of salt and pepper. Pour in the boihng 
water, put on the cover, and simmer for two hours. 



68 



5 Meat Recipes 




VEAL AND HAM PIE 




i}4 lbs. veal 


Salt, pepper, red pepper. 


, and 


2 hard cooked eggs 


mace to taste 




j4 lb. ham 


I tablespoonful chopped ] 


pars- 


I tablespoonful flour 


ley 




I teaspoonful grated lemon 


Some puff pastry 




rind 


Stock 




I teaspoonful powdered 






herbs 







Cut the veal and ham into thin sKces; mix on a 
plate the flour, salt, pepper, red pepper, mace, 
powdered herbs, and lemon rind, roll in this seasoning 
each piece of veal, and lay in a deep casserole, alter- 
nately, layers of veal, ham, and egg cut in slices; 
pile this in the center of the dish, add one cupful of 
water, and the parsley; cover with puff pastry and 
bake in a hot oven for one and a quarter hours. 

When baked add a little very good seasoned stock. 

Serve hot or cold. 

YORK HOT POT 

2 lbs. mutton neck i pint (2 cups) stock 

2 lbs. potatoes i heaping tablespoonful (i 

3 onions oz.) butter or dripping 
3 mutton kidneys i teaspoonful curry powder 

12 oysters Salt and pepper to taste 

Cut the meat into neat cutlets. Peel the potatoes, 
and cut six or eight of them in halves, slicing the rest 



Cooking in Casserole Dishes 69 

thickly. Peel and slice the onions thinly. Wash 
the mushrooms and oysters. Skin and halve the kid- 
neys. 

Put all these in layers in a casserole. The last one 
should be of potatoes cut in halves. Season well, put 
in the butter, and pour in the stock; put the lid on, 
and cook gently in a slow oven for two and a half 
hours. 

For the last half hour remove the lid, so that the 
potatoes may brown nicely. Serve in the casserole. 



COLD MEAT RECIPES 

"7 always match my appetite to my hill of fare" 



CHICKEN AU GRATIN 

}4 lb. cold chicken >^ pint (i cup) tomato sauce 

}4 cupful grated cheese A few bread crumbs 

2 heaping tablespoonfuls Salt and pepper 
(2 ozs.) rice 

Cut the chicken into small pieces. Cook the rice 
in boiling salted water until tender. Drain well. 
Butter an au gratin dish, place a layer of chicken at 
the bottom, then a layer of cooked rice. 

Pour some tomato sauce over this, sprinkle with 
bread cnmibs, grated cheese, and salt and pepper. 

Repeat these layers until the dish is full. The last 
layer must be cheese and bread crumbs. Place in 
a hot oven to brown. 

CHICKEN RAMEQUINS 

i>2 cupfuls cooked chicken Salt and pepper 
cubes Dust of paprika 

}4 pint (i cup) cooked peas i gill (>< cup) chicken stock 

1 gill {}4 cup) sliced mush- i gill (>^ cup) cream 

rooms I gill (K cup) Hquor from 

2 ozs. {yi cup) butter canned mushrooms 

2 tablespoonfuls flour A few browned bread crumbs 

70 



Cooking in Casserole Dishes 71 

Blend the butter and flour together in a fireproof 
dish, add the chicken stock, cream, mushroom liquor, 
and seasoning of salt, pepper, and paprika. Stir un- 
til they boil for three minutes, then add the chicken, 
peas, and mushrooms, and when all are thoroughly 
hot and well mixed, divide into hot buttered rame- 
quins. 

Sprinkle a few browned bread crumbs over the 
top and serve at once. 

CHOPPED VEAL 

I lb. chopped veal ^i pint {i}4 cups) gravy or 
I heaping tablespoonful (i stock 

oz.) butter Seasoning salt, pepper, lemon 
I heaping tablespoonful (i juice, and mace 

oz.) flour Toast points and cut lemon 

Put the butter into a fireproof dish, and when quite 
hot add the flour and brown it, then add the stock; 
boil for five minutes, then add the veal and seasonings. 

Heat through but do not boil. Serve garnished 
with toast points and cut lemon. 

The gravy or stock may be made by stewing the 
veal bones with a carrot, turnip, onion, sprig of parsley, 
and a strip of lemon rind for one hour. 

COTTAGE PIE 

Some cold potatoes A little gravy 

Some cold chopped meat Salt and pepper to taste 

A little dripping 



72 Cold Meat Recipes 

Rice the potatoes or rub them through a sieve; 
butter a fireproof dish, put in alternate layers of 
potatoes and meat, add a Uttle pepper, salt, and gravy 
to each layer; continue this until the dish is full, and 
have a good layer of potatoes for the top; mark the 
top with a fork, and put on a few pieces of butter or 
dripping. 

Bake a nice brown color and serve hot. 

MACARONI RAGOUT 

^ package macaroni 2 tablespoonfuls cornstarch 

2 tablespoonfuls chopped yi pint (i cup) milk 

cooked ham i oz. (i heaping tablespoon- 

I tablespoonful chopped ful) butter 

cooked meat or tongue }i teaspoonful meat extract 

I oz. (4 tablespoonfuls) i tablespoonful chopped pars- 
grated cheese ■ ley. 

Salt, pepper, and dust of 
red pepper 

Break the macaroni into inch lengths, then boil it 
in plenty of boiling salted water until tender; drain 
and keep hot. 

Mix the cornstarch with a little cold milk till 
smooth; boil the remaining milk, stir in the corn- 
starch, meat extract, seasonings, chopped parsley, 
cheese, chopped ham, chopped meat or tongue; 
allow to cook for ten minutes, stirring occasionally. 

Pile the macaroni mixture in a buttered casserole 
and pour over it the cornstarch mixture. 

Put in the oven to brown over and serve hot. 



Cooking In Casserole Dishes "j^ 



CREAMED DRIED BEEF WITH MACARONI 

y2 lb. sliced dried beef 4 ozs. (4 tablespoonfuls) but- 

yi lb. macaroni ter 

4 hard cooked eggs cut in 4 ozs. (4 tablespoonfuls) flour 

rings Salt and paprika to taste 
I pint (2 cups) milk 

Break the macaroni into inch lengths, then throw 
it into boiling salted water, allow to cook for forty 
minutes, then drain and keep hot. 

Melt the butter in a casserole, then fry the beef 
until slightly browned, then remove the beef, stir 
in the flour, and cook for eight minutes; add the season- 
ings and the beef. 

Arrange the macaroni on a hot casserole, pour over 
the beef, and garnish with the eggs. 

MUTTON HASH 

Some cold mutton Bunch sweet herbs 

I heaping tablespoonful (i ]4. pint (i cup) stock 

oz.) butter i small onion 

I heaping tablespoonful (i 2 parsley sprigs 

oz.) flour Salt and pepper 

I celery stalk Some mashed potatoes 

Melt the butter in an earthenware pan, and when 
quite hot, brown the onion sliced, then the flour; 
add the stock, which may be made by stewing the 
bones with one onion, carrot, turnip, and a blade of 
mace; when boilmg, add the celery, herbs, parsley, 



74 Cold Meat Recipes 

pepper, and salt; simmer for half an hour, then add the 
mutton, taking care to remove the fat; allow this to 
simmer for half an hour. 
Serve hot with mashed potatoes. 

PORK PIE 

Some cold pork 4 ozs. (i cup) grated cheese 

yi package macaroni i onion 

I tablespoonful chopped ^2 pint (i cup) cream 

parsley i egg 

Salt and pepper to taste Some pastry 

Cut the meat into neat pieces; boil the macaroni 
in boihng salted water for half an hour, then drain 
it; mix the pork with the macaroni, add the cheese, 
the onion and parsley chopped fine, cream, salt and 
pepper to taste; butter a fireproof pie-plate, line it 
with pastry, fill it with the mixture, cover it with 
pastry, brush it over with the egg well beaten, and 
bake in a hot oven for half an hour. 

Serve hot. 

PUFFS OF MEAT 

1 cupful diced roast meat i heaping tablespoonful (i 

2 eggs oz.) flour 

yi pint (i cup) milk Salt and pepper to taste 

I teaspoonful baking 
powder 

Beat up the eggs, add them gradually to the flour, 
then add the milk, meat, salt and pepper, and powder. 



Cooking in Casserole Dishes 75 

Divide into buttered cocottes, and bake in a hot 
oven. 

Serve hot. 

RECHAUFFE OF BEEF 

Some slices of cold roast 3 tablespoonfuls red currant 

beef, rare if possible jelly 

I oz. (i heaping table- i wineglassful sherry wine 

spoonful) butter Salt and red pepper to taste 

Melt the butter and red currant jelly in a casserole, 
then add the wine and the seasonings. 

When thoroughly hot, add the beef cut in small, 
neat, rather thick slices. Heat it through, but do not 
let it boil. 

SOUFFLE OF VEAL 

1 pint (2 cups) cold cooked i pint (2 cups) milk 

chopped veal 4 eggs 

2 ozs. (2 heaping table- 2 tablespoonfuls chopped pars- 

spoonfuls) butter ley 

2 ozs. (2 heaping table- Salt and pepper to taste 
spoonfuls) flour 

Blend the butter and the flour in an earthenware 
dish over the fire, add gradually the milk, stir till 
it thickens, and cook for five minutes. Then add the 
veal, parsley, and the seasonings. 

Remove from the fire and add the eggs well beaten. 
Pour into a well-buttered casserole and bake in the 
oven until nicely browned, it will take twenty or 
twenty-five minutes. 

Serve hot. 



76 Cold Meat Recipes 

SURPRISE POTATOES 

5 large potatoes ^ tablespoonful chopped 

1 lb. cold meat parsley 

3 mushrooms Salt and pepper to season 

2 heaping tablespoonfuls (2 

ozs.) butter 

Peel and chop the mushrooms, and cook them in one 
tablespoonful of the butter. Cut the meat into small 
pieces, add it to the mushrooms, season nicely, and 
heat thoroughly. Choose five large, even-sized po- 
tatoes, wash and dry them; make a small incision 
in each, place in a hot oven, and bake until soft. 

Cut each potato into half lengthways, scoop out 
most of the center, and rub through a sieve. Season 
with salt and pepper, add the remainder of the butter 
and the parsley; replace some of this mixture in the 
potato skin, leaving a hollow in each. 

Fill this center cavity with the meat preparation. 
Place the halves of potato together again, lay them 
in small fireproof dishes, and put in the oven to reheat. 

TONGUE RAMEQUINS 

I cupful diced cooked i hard cooked egg 

tongue Seasoning of salt and pepper 

1 firm lettuce Some chopped aspic jelly 

2 pickled walnuts 

Chop, the tongue, hard cooked egg, crisp lettuce 
leaves, and walnuts; then mix them together, seasoning 



Cooking in Casserole Dishes 7;^ 

them with a little salt and pepper. Divide into white 
china ramequins and decorate the top with chopped 
aspic jelly. 
Serve very cold. 



TONGUE STANLEY 

A few slices cold tongue Some good white stock or 
Some poached eggs sauce 

A few chopped pistachio Salt and pepper to season 
nuts 

Cut the slices of tongue half an inch in thickness, 
then trim them neat and round. Lay these rounds 
in small fireproof dishes, season with salt and pepper, 
place a poached egg on each piece of tongue, pour 
over some good white stock or sauce, heat in the oven, 
and serve decorated with chopped pistachio nuts. 

TURKEY EN CASSEROLE 

The remains of a turkey i bay leaf 

I heaping tablespoonful (i 3 sprigs parsley 

oz.) butter i small onion 

I heaping tablespoonful (i i wineglassful port wine 

oz.) flour Salt and pepper to taste 
I pint (2 cups) stock 

Put the bones and trimmings of the turkey, the 
onion, and herbs, with water to cover, into an earth- 
enware pan. 

Let these simmer for one hour. Melt the butter, 



78 Cold Meat Recipes 

stir in the flour smoothly, and fry it carefully a good 
brown. Then strain in the stock, stirring it well all 
the time. 

Let it boil, then season it carefully and add the wine. 
Cut the turkey into neat pieces, put it into a casserole, 
strain over the gravy, cover, and put the casserole 
either in the oven or on the stove. 

Let the meat heat gently, being careful that it does 
not boil, or it will become hard and tough. 

Serve in the casserole. 

VEAL RAMEQUINS 

I lb. diced cooked veal 4 tablespoonfuls white sauce 

^ lb. cooked ham or 2 eggs 

tongue Salt and pepper to taste 

I tablespoonful chopped i cupful rice 

parsley Some stock 

6 cooked button mush- Tomato sauce 

rooms 

Cook the rice in some boiling stock till tender, 
then drain it. Line some small buttered ramequins 
with it. 

Mix together the veal, ham, or tongue cut into 
strips, the parsley, sauce, seasonings, the mushrooms 
chopped, yolks of eggs, and whites of eggs well beaten; 
di\dde this mixture into the prepared dishes. 

Cover and steam for twenty minutes. Serv^e hot 
with tomato sauce. 



VEGETABLE RECIPES 

" The Gods sent not corn for the rich men only" 



ASPARAGUS AU GRATIN 

14 pint (i cup) asparagus i egg yolk 

tips I tablespoonful cream 

lo small dinner rolls Few drops lemon juice 

I gill (^ cup) white sauce Salt, pepper, paprika, and 
I tablespoonful grated grated nutmeg to taste 

cheese 

Cut the tops from the rolls, scoop the soft part of 
the crumb, and place them in the oven to get dry 
and crisp. Boil the asparagus tips in boiling salted 
water till tender, then drain. Canned asparagus tips 
may be used, but do not boil them. Heat the sauce 
in a fireproof dish, add the cheese, seasonings, yolk 
of Qgg, cream, and asparagus tips. 

Cook for five minutes. Fill up the rolls with this 
mixture, sprinkle with grated cheese, and dish on a 
folded napkin in an au gratin dish. 

BAKED BEANS 

4 cupfuls beans i tablespoonful salt 

}4 lb. salt pork 4 tablespoonfuls molasses or 

I heaping teaspoonful mus- sugar 

tard I onion, if liked 

79 



8o Cooking in Casserole Dishes 

Soak the beans in cold water (soft water preferred) 
over night. In the morning wash and rinse them 
thoroughly, then parboil them until they are soft 
enough to pierce with a darning needle. Change the 
water while parboiling, always using boiHng water 
for cooking and rinsing. Drain, put one half of the 
beans into a bean pot; add the mustard, salt and, 
sweetening. 

Score the pork and place it on the top of the beans, 
cover with the remaining beans, and then cover the 
whole with boihng water. 

Put the Hd on the bean pot and bake in a slow oven 
for eight hours. 

Uncover the last hour of cooking. 

To score pork, cut the pork rind into squares. 



BAKED CABBAGE 

1 firm cabbage 2 heaping tablespoonfuls 

2 eggs chopped cooked bacon 
Salt and pepper 2 tablespoonfuls milk 

I tablespoonful butter 

Trim the cabbage and boil it till tender in plenty 
of boiling salted water. Press out all the moisture, 
chop it fine, and press it again. 

Now add the butter, milk, bacon, seasonings, and 
the eggs well beaten. 



Vegetable Recipes 8i 

Mix and turn into a buttered fireproof dish, and 
bake till well browned on the top. 

Small pieces of butter dotted about on the surface 
are an improvement and hasten the browning opera- 
tion. 

BAKED ONIONS 

12 medium sized onions i heaping tablespoonful (i 

1 pint (2 cups) milk oz.) butter 

2 table spoonfuls fine tapi- i tablespoonful chopped pars- 

oca ley 

Salt and pepper 

Peel the onions and boil them, till tender in boihng 
salted water. Drain and place them in a buttered 
casserole; pour in the milk mixed with the tapioca, 
then add the butter, parsley, salt and pepper. Bake 
in the oven for half an hour. Serv^e in the casserole. 



BAKED PARSNIPS 

6 parsnips 4 ozs. (>^ cup) melted butter 

Salt and pepper 

Peel and wash the parsnips and cut them in two 
lengthways. Steam them for one hour. Remove 
them from the fire, put them into a buttered earthen- 
ware dish, sprinkle with salt and pepper, pour the 
melted butter over them, and set in the oven to bake 
slowly till perfectly tender and brown. 



82 Cooking in Casserole Dishes 

BEANS WITH ONIONS 

1 pint (2 cups) cooked i oz. (i heaping tablespoon- 

beans ful) flour 

3 large chopped onions Salt and pepper to taste 

2 ozs. (2 heaping table- % pint (i cup) water or 

spoonfuls) butter stock 

Melt the butter in a fireproof dish, then fry the 
onion in it till a light brown color, sprinkle in the 
flour, salt and pepper, then stir in the cooked beans 
and the water or stock. 

Bake till thoroughly hot and serve with roast meat. 



BRAISED ONIONS 

4 Spanish onions i cupful (>^ pint) brown 

2 sheep's kidneys gravy- 

Salt and pepper to taste 

Wipe and skin the kidneys, then slice them finely, 
and season with salt and pepper to taste. Peel the 
onions, scoop out the center portion, and fill with the 
kidneys. Place them in a casserole, add the gravy, 
and cook slowly for about two hours. Serve hot. 

BROWNED POTATOES 

12 potatoes I onion 

4 ozs. {yi cup) melted but- Yz teaspoonful black pepper 
ter 



Vegetable Recipes S;^' 

Peel the potatoes and boil them in boiling salted 
water until they are nearly, though not quite, done. 

Take up, drain, and cut each potato in halves 
lengthways; put flat side down on a hot buttered 
earthenware pan, set into the oven, baste with the 
melted butter having the onion juice and black pepper 
in it, till the potatoes are brown and quite tender. 

BRUSSELS SPROUTS WITH CHEESE 

I box Brussels sprouts J^ cupful grated Parmesan 

^ pint (i cup) rich cream cheese 

I teaspoonful salt 

Trim the sprouts and boil them in boihng salted 
water till they are perfectly tender, drain thoroughly, 
and let get quite cold. 

Mix the cream and salt together, then dip each 
sprout into it; arrange them in a buttered shallow 
earthenware dish, sprinkle the cheese over them, and 
bake in a hot oven for six minutes. 

Serve hot. 

CANDIED SWEET POTATOES 

4 sweet potatoes >^ pint (i cup) molasses 

I tablespoonful butter Salt and pepper 

Select yellow sweet potatoes, peel them, and sHce 
them lengthways. Steam with the butter, salt and 
pepper, and a little water. 

When tender drain oE the v/ater. Put the potatoes 



84 Cooking in Casserole Dishes 

into an earthenware baking dish, pour over the mo- 
lasses, and bake in a hot oven until the molasses 
candies over the potatoes. 

CARROTS A LA POMPADOUR 

2 cupfuls cooked sliced 2 heaping tablespoonfuls (2 

carrots ozs.) flour 

2 cupfuls cooked sliced po- % pint (i cup) cream 

tatoes 14. pint (i cup) milk 

2 heaping tablespoonfuls (2 2 tablespoonfuls grated cheese 

ozs.) butter Salt and pepper 

A few browned bread crumbs 

Butter a fireproof dish, then put in the carrots and 
then the potatoes on the top. Blend the butter and 
flour together in a saucepan over the fire, add gradually 
the milk, cream, cheese, salt and pepper, and stir 
till it boils. 

Pour over the potatoes, sprinkle the browned bread 
crumbs on the top. Bake in a hot oven for ten 
minutes. 

CAULIFLOWER AU GRATIN 

I cauliflower i heaping tablespoonful (i 
I pint (2 cups) white sauce oz.) butter 

^3 tablespoonfuls grated Salt and pepper 
cheese 

Wash and trim the cauliflower and boil it in boiling 
salted water till tender. When done, drain well and 
shape it neatly. Mix two tablespoonfuls of the 



Vegetable Recipes 85 

grated cheese with the white sauce. Butter an au gra- 
tin dish and put in it three tablespoonf uls of the sauce. 
Upon this place the cauhflower, head upward. 

Cover with the sauce, which has been nicely sea- 
soned, and sprinkle the surface with fine bread crumbs 
and the rest of the cheese. Place the butter in pieces 
here and there on the top, and bake f or^a quarter of an 
hour. 

COLCANNON 
6 cupfiils boiled cabbage Salt and pepper to taste 
3 cupfuls mashed potatoes yi pint (i cup) milk 

3 ozs. (3 heaping table- 

spoonfuls) butter 

Mix the cabbage, potatoes, half of the butter, milk, 
and the salt and pepper together with a fork. 

Put the mixture into a buttered earthenware baking 
dish, place the rest of the butter on the top, and bake 
for three-quarters of an hour in a fairly hot oven. 

Serve hot, alone or with meat of any kind. 

CORN PUDDING 

12 ears sweet corn 4 ozs. (4 heaping tablespoon- 

\}/2 pints (3 cups) milk fuls) sugar 

4 eggs Salt and pepper to taste 

Cut the corn from the cob, rejecting the hull. Put 
the corn into a deep buttered earthenware dish, add 
the milk, sugar, salt and pepper, and the eggs well 
beaten. 

Bake in a moderate oven for two hours. 



86 



Cooking in Casserole Dishes 



2 beets 
2 onions 

2 turnips 

3 carrots 
5 potatoes 
I parsnip 

1 cupful string beans 

2 celery stalks 
2 sweet red peppers 



CURRIED VEGETABLES 

I heaping tablespoonful (i 

oz.) flour 
I heaping tablespoonful (i 

oz.) butter 
I tablespoonful curry powder 
I teaspoonful salt 
I cupful {y2 lb.) boiled rice 
I pint (2 cups) stock 



Cook all the vegetables, then cut them into dice- 
shaped pieces. Melt the butter in a casserole, add 
the onions, and fry them a nice brown color. Stir 
in the flour and curry powder, add gradually the stock, 
stir till boiling, then simmer for a quarter of an hour; 
add the vegetables, season nicely, cover the casserole, 
and cook slowly for half an hour. 

Remove the fat from the top of the vegetables. 
Place the red peppers cut in strips on the top and serve 
with the rice. 



EGG-PLANT 

I egg-plant 

1 heaping tablespoonful 

chopped lean bacon 
6 chopped mushrooms 

2 chopped shallots 

1 heaping tablespoonful 

chopped suet 

2 heaping tablespoonfuls (2 

ozs.) butter 



AU GRATIN 

1 teaspoonful chopped parsley 

2 tablespoonfuls bread crumbs 

1 tablespoonful milk 

2 tablespoonfuls grated cheese 
I egg 

Some white sauce 

Seasoning of salt, pepper, 
paprika, and grated nut- 
meg 



Vegetable Recipes Sy 

Cut the egg-plant in two lengthways and remove 
a portion of the interior to make room for the stuffing. 
Melt the butter in an earthenware pan, stir in the 
shallots, bacon, mushrooms, suet, parsley, seasonings, 
one tablespoonful of the cheese, and the egg well 
beaten. Put this stuffing into the egg plant. Arrange 
on a buttered au gratin dish, sprinkle with a mixture 
of bread crumbs and grated cheese. Bake in a 
moderate oven for three-quarters of an hour. 

Serve hot with white sauce. 

ESCALLOPED SWEET CORN 

Corn Butter 

Bread crumbs Milk 

Salt and pepper 

Cut the corn from the cob, put a layer in a buttered 
earthenware dish, sprinkle with salt and pepper, and 
cover with fine bread crumbs. Repeat this until 
the dish is full, having the crumbs on the top; then 
dot with butter and fill the dish with milk. 

Bake in a moderate oven till ready. 

LENTILS CREOLE 

1 cupful (>2 lb.) lentils i pint (2 cups) tomatoes 
3 canned red peppers i onion 

2 heaping tablespoonfuls (2 Salt and pepper 

ozs.) butter 

Wash the lentils, then cover with cold water and soak 



88 Cooking in Casserole Dishes 

overnight. Drain, cover with fresh warm water, 
and simmer for half an hour. Bring to boiling point. 
Again drain, again cover with hot water, and simmer 
until the lentils are tender. 

They are ready when they mash easily between the 
fingers. Melt the butter in a casserole; add the onion 
and red peppers chopped fine. Stir and cook until 
the butter is browned. Add the tomatoes, canned or 
raw, salt and pepper to taste. Drain the lentils and 
add them. Cook for half an hour without the cover. 



MUSHROOMS AU GRATIN 

I lb, mushrooms i teaspoonful chopped pars- 
3 heaping tablespoonfuls (3 ley 

ozs.) butter i tablespoonful chopped 

1 tablespoonful grated cooked meat 

cheese Stock to moisten 

2 tablespoonfuls bread Salt, pepper, and grated nut- 

crumbs meg to taste 

Select six large fresh mushrooms from the pound of 
mushrooms and mince the remainder with the stems. 
Saute the latter in the butter for two minutes. 

Mix the bread crumbs, cheese, parsley, seasonings, 
sauted mushrooms, and stock to moisten. Fill into 
the large mushroom caps, sprinkle a few bread crumbs 
over the top, place in a fireproof dish, and bake for a 
quarter of an hour. 



Vegetable Recipes 



OKRA, RICE, AND TOMATOES 

1 quart okra i heaping tablespoonful (i 
yi lb. (i cup) rice oz.) butter 

y2. can tomatoes Salt, pepper, dust of paprika 

Wash the rice and boil it in boiling salted water 
till tender; drain, and add the butter, salt, pepper, and 
paprika. Cut the okra in slices and cook it in a small 
quantity of boiling water. When nearly ready add 
the tomatoes and the rice. 

Serve hot in fireproof dishes. 

PEAS EN CASSEROLE 

2 quarts shelled peas 3 heaping tablespoonfuls (3 
Small bunch parsley ozs.) butter 

1 2 tiny 'white onions yi teaspoonf ul powdered mint 

]/2 pint (i cup) water Salt and pepper to taste 

Peel the onions and put them into a casserole, 
add the peas, butter, mint, water, parsley, salt, and 
pepper. Cover and simmer for one hour. 

Remove the parsley and serve hot. 

POTATOES AU GRATIN 

2 lbs. potatoes i>^ pints (3 cups) boiling milk 

Salt, pepper, and grated i garUc clove 

nutmeg to taste yi lb. grated cheese 

I egg 2 tablespoonfuls butter 

Peel and finely sHce the potatoes. Put them into 



90 Cooking in Casserole Dishes 

a basin, add half of the cheese, milk, seasonings, and 
the egg well beaten. 

Rub some au gratin dishes with the clove of garlic and 
then well butter them; divide the mixture into them; 
sprinkle the rest of the cheese on the top; dot with the 
butter, and cook in a moderate oven for forty minutes. 

POTATO BALLS EN CASSEROLE 

1 lb. boiled potatoes 2 egg yolks 

2 heaping tablespoonfuis (2 Salt and paprika to taste 

ozs.) butter i tablespoonful chopped pars- 

2 heaping tablespoonfuis (i ley 

oz.) grated cheese 

Rub the potatoes through a sieve, add the butter, 
cheese, yolks of eggs well beaten, salt and pepper. 

Make into neat balls, lay them on a buttered fire- 
proof dish, brush over with a little beaten egg, mark 
with a fork, and bake a nice brown color in the oven; 
pour over them a Kttle melted butter, and sprinkle 
with the chopped parsley and paprika. 

Serve hot. 

RICE AND TOMATO PIE 

I ib. tomatoes 3 tablespoonfuis bread 

>^ lb. (K cup) rice crumbs 

I small onion i tablespoonful chopped pars- 

^ pint (i cup) stock ley 

I heaping tablespoonful (i Salt, pepper and curry pow- 

oz.) butter or dripping der to taste 

Wash the rice. Bring the stock, to the boiHng point, 



Vegetable Recipes 91 

then put in the rice and cook it until it has absorbed 
all the stock. 

Butter a casserole. Peel and slice the tomatoes. 
Put them in layers with the rice in the dish; dust 
each layer with a little salt, pepper, curry powder, 
chopped parsley, and chopped onion. Sprinkle a 
layer of bread crumbs on the top, and put the butter 
on the top in small pieces. 

Bake in a moderate oven for about forty minutes. 

SALSIFY EN CASSEROLE 

I bundle salsify i teaspoonful lemon juice 

I pint (2 cups) white sauce i tablespoonful butter 

I teaspoonful anchovy ex- Few browned bread crumbs 

tract Salt and pepper 

Scrape and wash the roots of the salsify and put 
it to boil in boiling salted water in which has been 
squeezed the juice of half a lemon; when tender, drain 
off the water and cut into half -inch lengths. 

Season the sauce with the lemon juice, anchovy 
extract, salt, and pepper. Toss the salsify in the 
sauce, turn it into a fireproof dish, put the bread 
crumbs and the butter on the top, and bake for a 
quarter of an hour. 

STEWED LETTUCE 

12 heads of lettuce Salt and pepper 

I sliced onion i^ pint (i cup) water 

I small bunch parsley 2 ozs. (}i cup) melted butter 



92 Cooking in Casserole Dishes 

Wash the lettuce, cutting off the stalks at the roots, 
and put it into an earthenware pan with the onion, 
parsley, water, salt, and pepper; cook slowly for two 
hours. By this time the water should have pretty 
well cooked away, leaving the lettuce fairly dry. 

Remove from it the onion and parsley, add the 
melted butter, and serve hot. 

STUFFED PEPPERS 

6 sweet green peppers i gill {}4 cup) tomatoes 

4 tablespoonfuls chopped i oz. (i heaping tablespoon- 
cooked ham ful) butter 

4 tablespoonfuls bread i slice chopped onion 

crumbs Salt and pepper 

1 tablespoonful chopped Water or stock 

parsley 

Use peppers of uniform size. Cut a piece off the 
stem end, and remove the seeds and partitions. Drop 
them into boihng water and boil for ten minutes. 

Mix together the ham, parsley, bread crumbs, toma- 
toes, onion, butter, salt and pepper, and stuff them into 
the peppers. 

Cover with a few buttered bread crumbs, place in a 
buttered fireproof dish, pour in a little water or stock, 
and bake in a moderate oven for three-quarters of an 
hour. 

STUFFED POTATOES 

8 large potatoes 3 tablespoonfuls cream 

2 ozs. (2 heaping table- A few buttered bread crumbs 

spoonfuls) butter Salt, pepper, and paprika 



Vegetable Recipes 93 

Wash and dry the potatoes and bake them in a hot 
oven. When done, cut off the tops, scoop out the 
potato, and put it in a bowl, with the butter, cream, 
and seasonings. 

Beat together until smooth, then return the mixture 
to the shells, sprinkle over with the bread crumbs, put 
a tiny piece of butter on the top of each, and cover 
with the tops. 

Put into a casserole and bake till hot. 



STUFFED TOMATOES 

6 tomatoes A little chopped red pepper 

Some sweet corn A few dashes Worcestershire 
Cream sauce 

Salt and onion juice A little lemon juice 

Have the tomatoes of uniform shape and size, wash 
and dry them, cut a round piece from the stem end of 
each. 

Cut some tender sweet corn from the ears and set to 
heat with a Httle cream, salt, Worcestershire sauce, a 
few drops of onion juice, and a little chopped red pep- 
per. 

Scoop out the seeds from the tomatoes. Fill the 
tomatoes with the com, lay them on a buttered fire- 
proof dish, and bake until they are tender. 

Serve with a Httle melted butter and lemon juice 
put over each one. 



94 Cooking in Casserole Dishes 



TURNIPS AU GRATIN 

9 turnips i heaping tablespoonful (i 
I pint (2 cups) white sauce oz.) butter 

4 heaping tablespoonfuls Salt and pepper 
grated cheese 

Wash and peel the turnips, soak them in cold salted 
water for ten minutes. Drain, and cook the turnips 
in boiling salted water till half cooked. 

Drain and cut in slices. Butter a gratin dish; ar- 
range the slices on it in a heap. Heat the sauce, add 
two tablespoonfuls of the cheese to it; season the tur- 
nips with salt and pepper, pour the sauce over, and 
sprinkle the rest of the grated cheese over the top; put 
a few pieces of butter here and there, and cook in a 
hot oven till a light brown color. 



SALAD RECIPES 

" We may pick a thousand salads, 
Ere we light on such another herb " 



ALLIGATOR PEAR S.\LAD 

3 ripe alligator pears i teaspoonful onion juice 

3 tomatoes i teaspoonful salt 

I canned sweet pepper i tablespoonful' vinegar 

Cut the pears in halves, remove the stones, and 
scrape the pulp from the skin. Peel the tomatoes, 
add them to the pear pulp, add the red pepper, and 
pound them till they are smooth, then drain off the 
liquid. Add the salt, onion Juice, and lemon juice to 
the mixture. 

Mix thoroughly and serve in small earthenware 
dishes. 

AMERICAN SALAD 

3 hard cooked eggs i teaspoonful grated horse- 

I cupful chopped celery radish 

I lettuce Salt and black pepper 

J^ cupful sliced radishes Oil 
I cupful diced cucumbers Vinegar 
I teaspoonful made mus- 
tard 

95 



96 Cooking in Casserole Dishes 

Slice the eggs, mix them with the radishes and cu- 
cumber, then add a little oil, \dnegar, black pepper, and 
salt. Put two yolks of eggs into a basin, add the 
mustard, one teaspoonful of vinegar, seasoning of salt 
and pepper, and enough olive oil to make it creamy. 
Add the grated horseradish. Drain the vegetables 
and divide them into ramequins and pour the dressing 
over them. 

The fireproof dishes should be Hned with crisp let- 
tuce leaves. 

ARTICHOKE SALAD 

% peck Jerusalem arti- 2 tablespoonfuls chopped 

chokes parsley 

French dressing 2 tablespoonful capers 

I teaspoonful grated horse- i tablespoonfuls chopped red 

radish pepper 

Wash and scrape the artichokes; boil them in boiling 
salted water till tender — the water should contain a 
little lemon juice and butter. Drain and slice them, 
and while they are hot pour over them a French dress- 
ing made of three parts olive oil to one of vinegar, the 
horseradish, and the necessary salt and pepper. 

Di\ide into ramequins and set away to get very cold. 
Garnish, when sending to table, with chopped pars- 
ley, capers, and peppers. 



Salad Recipes 97 



ASPARAGUS AND SHRIMP SALAD 

I pint (2 cups) boiled as- Mayonnaise dressing 
paragus tips i tablespoonful capers 

1 pint (2~cups) cooked and i tablespoonful chopped 

sliced shrimps oHves 

I teaspoonful French mustard 

Boil the asparagus tips and let them get cold; then 
put them into a fireproof dish with the shrimps. Put 
the capers, olives, and French mustard into the mayon- 
naise dressing, then mix it with the asparagus and 
shrimps. 

CHERRY SALAD 

2 cupfuls large, firm cher- Mayonnaise dressing 

ries ^2 cupful blanched and cut 

Some crisp lettuce leaves almonds 

Stone the cherries and cut them in halves; then mix 
them with the almonds and mayonnaise dressing. If 
mayonnaise is not desired, use a dressing made of four 
tablespoonfuls of olive oil, one tablespoonful of lemon 
juice, one teaspoonful of sherry wine, and seasoning of 
salt, pepper, and grated nutmeg. 

Serve in cocottes lined with crisp lettuce leaves. 

CUCUMBER SALAD 

3 cucumbers i teaspoonful onion juice 
I red sweet pepper Salt and pepper 

I tablespoonful lemon juice Oil and vinegar 
G 



98 Cooking in Casserole Dishes 

Peel two of the cucumbers and cut them in two 
lengthways. Then scrape out all the seeds. Put the 
pieces of cucumber into ice water containing the lemon 
juice. 

Chop the third cucumber with the red pepper, and 
season this mixture with the salt, pepper, oil, \dnegar, 
and onion juice. 

Set the cucumbers on ice to get very cold. Cut 
each half in two lengthways in serving. 

This salad looks dainty on small earthenware dishes. 

ENDIVE AND GRAPE-FRUIT SALAD 

yi lb. French endive Paprika 

1 ripe grape fruit i romaine 
French dressing 

Wash and dry the endive and mix it with the carpels 
of the grape fruit. Color some French dressing well 
with paprika, and pour it over the salad at the moment 
of serving. 

Mix well and serve on leaves of romaine, or simply 
in ramequins without the romaine. 

FRUIT SALAD 

2 cupfuls diced tart apples Yz cupful white grapes 
Pulp I grape fruit French dressing 

3 diced bananas Lettuce leaves 

Mix the apples with the pulp of the grape fruit, 
add the bananas, and mix with the French dressing. 



Salad Recipes 99 

Serve on lettuce leaves in cocottes and garnish 
with peeled and seeded grapes. 

JARDINIERE SALAD 

I cupful strips new turnip Chicken stock 

I cupful strips new carrots 4 tablespoonfuls olive oil 

I cupful strips potatoes 2 tablespoonfuls white wine 

1 cupful green peas vinegar 

2 heaping tablespoonfuls Mayonnaise dressing 

(2 ozs.) butter 

Put the turnips, carrots, potatoes, and peas into a 
casserole with the butter. Cover them with the 
chicken stock, and cook until they are quite tender; 
then drain. 

Mix the oil and vinegar and stir them into the vege- 
tables. Set away in a cool place for one hour. Divide 
into small earthenware dishes and cover with the 
mayonnaise dressing. 

LETTUCE AND POTATO SALAD 

I large crisp lettuce 2 onions 

I cupful diced potatoes Dressing 

Shred the lettuce till very fine and keep it in a cool 
place. Peel and cut raw potatoes into dice-shaped 
pieces and cook in boiUng salted water with the 
onions. 

Take out when done, remove the onions, pour over 
the potatoes while they are still hot a dressing of oil, 
vinegar, salt and pepper, and set them to cool. 



loo Cooking in Casserole Dishes 

Arrange the crisp lettuce leaves on an oval earthen- 
ware dish and put the potatoes in the center. 
Chopped parsley and thin shoes of cold hard cooked 
eggs may be added to this salad as a garnish, or sliced 
gherkins and capers may be used. 

LETTUCE AND GREEN PEPPER SALAD 

1 crisp lettuce Vinegar and oil 

2 chopped green peppers Salt and red pepper 
2 tablespoonfuls chopped 

chives 

Shred the lettuce, put it into an earthenware bowl, 
sprinkle over the chopped green peppers and chopped 
chives, and dress with \inegar, oil and salt, and a 
dash of red pepper. 

LOBSTER SALAD 

I canned or boiled lobster 3 skinned tomatoes 

4 small crisp lettuces Mayonnaise dressing 

1 bunch watercress A little pepper 

2 hard cooked eggs v ., 

Wash and dry the lettuces and the watercress. 
Cut the lettuce and put it into a dainty earthenware 
dish; then put in a layer of the watercress, a layer of 
the lobster sprinkled with pepper, and a layer of the 
eggs cut in sHces. 

Cover with mayonnaise dressing and ornament 
with sHces of tomato and hard cooked egg alternately. 

If preferred, sardines may replace the lobster. 



Salad Recipes loi 



RED CABBAGE AND CELERY SALAD 

I crisp red cabbage Lemon juice and oil 

I cupful cut celery i teaspoonful onion Juice 

Salt and pepper Mayonnaise dressing 

Chop the tenderest leaves of a red cabbage very 
fine. Mix it with the celery and moisten with lemon 
juice and oil, and season with salt and pepper. Add 
the onion juice. 

Allow to remain in a cool place for half an hour. 
Divide into dainty casseroles and cover with mayon- 
naise dressing. 

STRING BEAN SALAD 

1 quart string beans Salt and pepper to taste 

2 teaspoonfuls vinegar 3 tablespoonfuls oKve oil 
I teaspoonful onion juice 

Cut the beans into inch lengths and boil till tender 
in boiling salted water. Drain, and while they are hot 
pour over them the vinegar, onion juice, salt, and 
pepper. Let get perfectly cold; just before serving 
mix the olive oil with them. 

Serve in white china ramequins. 

SWEETBREAD SALAD 

I pair sweetbreads 2 tablespoonfuls lemon juice 

yi cupful cut celery i tablespooniul capers 

Some crisp lettuce leaves Mayonnaise dressing 



I02 Cooking in Casserole Dishes 

Place the sweetbreads in scalding water, salted, 
for fifteen minutes; then put into cold water to whiten 
and cool thoroughly. Boil for a quarter of an hour 
and remove all veins and skin. Set on ice, and when 
ready to use cut in small pieces and mix with the 
celery; put on lettuce leaves, sprinkle the lemon juice 
over, and cover with mayomiaise. 

Scatter the capers over the mayonnaise. 

WATERCRESS AND APPLE SALAD 

I bunch watercress 6 tablespoonfuls olive oil 

1 cupful sliced tart apples i teaspoonful sugar 

2 tablespoonfuls cider vine- Salt and pepper to taste 

gar 

Wash and dry the cress, having it perfectly fresh 
and crisp, and arrange it Hghtly in a dainty earthen- 
ware dish. Put the apples on the top of the cress. 
Make a dressing of the vinegarj'^oil, salt, pepper, and 
sugar. Pour over the watercress and apples, serve 
immediately. 



PUDDING RECIPES 

Who risethfrom a feast with that keen appetite that he sits down' 



APPLE PUDDING 

8 apples A few'drops red coloring 

1 6 cloves 4 ozs. (4 heaping tablespoon- 
I lemon fuls) sugar 

J/2 pint (i cup) water Marmalade 

I oz. (i heaping table- Mince meat 
spoonful) cornstarch 

Peel and core the apples; put into each apple two 
cloves and as much mince meat as it will hold. 
Place the apples, without touching each other, in a 
buttered fireproof dish; add the remaining sugar, the 
grated rind and strained juice of the lemon, and the 
water. 

Bake in the oven, covering the casserole with its 
lid. Look at them frequently, and as soon as they are 
tender place them in dainty ramequins. 

Stir into the liquor in the casserole the cornstarch 
dissolved in a little cold water; boil for ten minutes, 
stirring all the time; add the red coloring and strain 
it over the apples. 

When quite cold garnish the tops of the apples 
with the marmalade. 

103 . 



I04 Cooking in Casserole Dishes 



APPLE SOUFFLE 

3 pints (6 cups) apple sauce i tablespoonf ul rum 

3 tablespoonfuls melted 3 eggs 

butter Whipped and sweetened 
Sugar to taste cream 

% teaspoonful nutmeg ex- >^ teaspoonful vanilla extract 

: tract I cupful macaroon crumbs 

Peel and core some apples and stew till tender, 
having three pints of sauce. Rub the apples through 
a sieve, add the butter, sugar, nutmeg extract, rum, 
and the yolks of eggs well beaten. When the mixture 
is cool, add the whites of eggs stifHy beaten. 

Butter an earthenware dish, turn the apple mixture 
into it, sprinkle with the crushed macaroons, and set 
in the oven to bake for half an hour. Serve hot with 
the whipped cream sweetened and flavored with the 
vanilla extract. 

ARROWROOT PUDDING 

2 heaping tablespoonfuls (2 ^ pint (i>^ cups) milk 

ozs.) arrowroot . 3 eggs 

I tablespoonful sugar i teaspoonful rose extract 
yi cupful currants 

Mix the arrowroot to a smooth paste with three 
tablespoonfuls of the milk in a saucepan; boil the 
rest of the milk and pour it on to the arrowroot. 
Stir well and boil for five minutes. 




f 4 



V 






-la 



Pudding Recipes 105 

Add the yolks of eggs, sugar, and rose extract mixed 
together. Beat the whites of eggs to a stiff froth 
and stir them hghtly into the mixture with the cur- 
rants. 

Pour into a buttered earthenware pudding dish, 
and bake in a moderate oven for twenty minutes. 

Dredge the top with sugar and serve quickly. 

BAKED APPLES 

3 large apples 2 heaping tablespoonfuls (2 
A little orange marmalade ozs.) sugar 

K cupful whipped cream i gill (>^ cup) water 

A few chopped nut meats i teaspoonful lemon juice 

Core the apples and place them on a fireproof bak- 
ing dish. Mix the sugar, water, and lemon juice to- 
gether, then pour them over the apples. 

Bake until tender but not broken; fill the centers 
with the marmalade. Beat up the cream, add one 
teaspoonful of sugar to it, press it on to the top of the 
apples, using a forcing bag and tube. 

Decorate with the chopped nuts. 

BAKED QUINCES 

6 quinces i oz. (i heaping tablespoon- 

4 ozs. {y2 cup) sugar ful) butter 

i}i cupfuls water 

Pare and core the quinces, place them in a deep 
buttered earthenware dish, and pour over them one 



io6 Cooking in Casserole Dishes 

cupful of the water. Cover and bake in the oven until 
they soften a little. 

Beat the butter and sugar together, spread them 
over the quinces, and add the rest of the water. 

Bake until they are very soft. They should be 
basted often with the liquid in the dish. 

JThese quinces are very good if served hot with ice 
cream. They are also good if served cold with 
whipped and sweetened cream. 

BANANAS A LA PATRICIA 

6 bananas 2 tablespoonfuls melted but- 

>^ lb. {j4 cup) sugar ter 

I saltspoonful salt 4 tablespoonfuls water 

4 teaspoonfuls lemon juice 3 egg whites 

Mix the sugar and salt together; cut the bananas 
into halves, lengthways and crossways, and put a 
layer in an earthenware dish; sprinkle over half of 
the sugar, add two teaspoonfuls of the lemon juice 
and one tablespoonful of the melted butter, then 
another layer of the bananas, with the remainder of 
the sugar, lemon juice, butter, and water. 

Bake in a hot oven for fifteen minutes. 

Beat up the whites of the eggs, then gradually 
beat into them three tablespoonfuls of sugar and a 
little lemon juice. 

Put them on the top of the bananas and color 
slightly in the oven. 



Pudding Recipes 107 



BARLEY CUSTARD 

2 heaping tablespoonfuls (2 Pinch of salt 

ozs.) "Patent" barley i pint (2 cups) milk 

I heaping tablespoonful (i 2 eggs 

oz.) sugar K teaspoonful nutmeg ex- 

I tablespoonful butter tract 

Put the barley and the sugar into a saucepan, add 
the butter, salt, and milk; mix thoroughly and stir 
it over the fire till it boils; then add the eggs well 
beaten, and the nutmeg extract. 

Pour into a buttered fireproof dish and bake for a 
quarter of an hour in a moderate oven. 



BREAD PUDDING 

^ cup (3 ozs.) bread Few drops lemon juice 

crumbs % teaspoonful orange extract 

2 tablespoonfuls butter >^ pint (i cup) milk . 

2 heaping tablespoonfuls (2 2 eggs 
ozs.) sugar 

Put the sugar and lemon juice into a saucepan and 
boil to a caramel, then when cool pour in the milk 
and stand the mixture at the side of the stove until 
the sugar is dissolved, but do not let it boil; fry the 
bread crumbs in the butter until a golden brown, 
then pour on them the prepared milk, and beat into 
them the yolks of eggs, the orange extract, and the 
whites of eggs stiffly beaten. 



io8 Cooking in Casserole Dishes 

Pour into a buttered fireproof dish and bake in a 
moderate oven for half an hour. 
Serve with hot milk. 

BROWN BETTY 

6 large apples, peeled, i tablespoonful butter 

cored, and sliced 3 ozs. (3 heaping tablespoon- 

^ lb. (i heaping cup) fuls) brown sugar 

bread crumbs ^ teaspoonful grated nut- 

2 ozs. {y2 cup) chopped meg 

suet 

Stew the apples with one tablespoonful of the sugar 
and one tablespoonful of water till tender, then rub 
through a sieve. Chop the suet fine, mix it with 
the bread crumbs, grated nutmeg, and the rest of the 
sugar. 

Grease a fireproof dish, put half of this mixture at 
the bottom, then put in a layer of the stewed apples, 
then the rest of the mixture; dot with the butter. 

Bake for half an hour in a moderate oven. 

CHESTNUT MOLD 

K lb. chestnuts 2 tablespoonfuls sherry vAuq 

3 egg yolks %\h. (K cup) sugar 
I tablespoonful powdered i pint (2 cups) milk 

gelatine Some whipped cream 

I gill {^2 cup) boiling water 

Shell the chestnuts, boil and press through a sieve. 
Scald the milk in a fireproof dish, add the sugar, and 



Pudding Recipes 109 

the yolks of eggs, and cook until it thickens, stirring 
all the time. Then add the gelatine, boiling water, 
chestnut piuree, sherry wine, and mix thoroughly. 

Pour into dainty casseroles, chill, and serve gar- 
nished with the whipped cream. 

CHERRY PUDDING 

Cherries fresh or preserved Lemon rind 

K lb. {y2 cup) butter 3 eggs 

% lb. {^ cup) sugar li pint (i cup) 'whipped 

^ lb. (i cup) flour cream 

Line a buttered earthenware dish thickly with 
fresh or preserved cherries. Beat the butter and sugar 
till creamy, then beat in the yolks of the eggs, then 
add the grated rind of half a lemon, the flour, and the 
whites of the eggs stiffly beaten. 

Cover with a buttered paper and steam steadily 
for two hours. Serve with whipped and sweetened 
cream. 

CHOCOLATE CREAM PIE 

3 squares chocolate Pinch salt 

>^ lb. (i cup) sugar ^ pint {ij4 cups) milk 

I oz. (i heaping table- }4 teaspoonful lemon extract 

spoonful) cornstarch }4 teaspoonful vanilla extract 
3 eggs Some pie crust 

Bake a pie crust in a fireproof pie-plate. Grate 
the chocolate into a casserole, stir in the sugar, corn- 
Starch, yolks of eggs, salt, and milk. Cook till thick, 



I lo Cooking in Casserole Dishes 

stirring constantly; then add the extracts. Pour 
into the prepared crust, cover with a meringue made 
by beating up the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth 
and adding two heaping tablespoonfuls of sugar and 
half a teaspoonful of vanilla extract to them. 
Set in the oven to brown. 

COCOANUT PIE 

% pint (i cup) chopped Pinch of salt 

cocoanut i oz. (i heaping tablespoon- 

1 pint (2 cups) milk ful) butter 

2 eggs yi teaspoonful almond ex- 
6 ozs. (^ cup) sugar tract 

2 ozs. (2 heaping table- i lemon 

spoonfuls) cornstarch ; 

Line a fireproof dish with pastry. Mix the corn- 
starch and the sugar together, add the eggs well 
beaten, the milk, butter, cocoanut, salt, almond ex- 
tract, and the grated rind and the strained juice of the 
lemon. Pour into the prepared dish and bake in a 
hot oven till firm. 

COCOANUT PUDDING 

yi pint (i cup) desiccated 4 heaping tablespoonfuls (4 

cocoanut ozs.) sugar 

I quart (4 cups) milk ^ teaspoonful almond ex- 
>^ teaspoonful salt tract 

4 eggs 

Beat up the eggs and add the other ingredients to 



Pudding Recipes 1 1 1 

them. Turn into a buttered fireproof dish and bake 
in a moderate oven for half an hour. 

CREAM OF RICE PUDDING 

4K heaping tablespoonfuls lyi pints (3 cups) hot milk 

(4>^ ozs.) rice flour 4 heaping tablespoonfuls (4 

I heaping tablespoonful (>^ ozs.) sugar 

oz.) powdered gelatine Grated rind 2 lemons 

% pint (i cup) whipping i>^ gills {Y^ cup) cold milk 

cream Some stewed fruit 

y2 teaspoonful vanilla ex- 
tract 

Mix the hot milk, sugar, and lemon rind together, 
then bring slowly to the boiling point; stir in the gela- 
tine and mix until dissolved. Stir in the rice flour 
mixed with the cold milk. Stir over the fire till it 
simmers for ten minutes. 

Cool slightly and add the cream and the vanilla 
extract. Pour into a wet earthenware jelly mould. 
Turn out when set and serve with stewed fruit. 

DATE PUDDING 

% lb. stoned dates 3 ozs. (3 heaping tablespoon- 
3 ozs. {y^ cup) rice fuls) sugar 

1 pint (2 cups) milk 3 eggs 

2 tablespoonfuls chopped 2 tablespoonfuls chopped cit- 

suet ron peel 

A little grated nutmeg 

Wash the rice well, and put it into a casserole with 



112 Cooking in Casserole Dishes 

the milk. Let it cook slowly, with the lid on, until 
all the milk is absorbed by the rice. Now add the 
chopped dates, chopped peel, chopped suet, sugar, 
and nutmeg, mix well, and add the eggs well beaten. 
Pour into a buttered earthenware dish, cover with 
the Hd, and steam steadily for one and a half hours. 

DRIED APRICOTS 

3 lbs. dried apricots Sugar to taste 

Separate the fruit so that each piece will be single, 
then wash several times in lukewarm w^ater. Pour 
the water off; put the rinsed fruit into a casserole; 
cover well with cold water, and let stand for at least 
twelve hours, keeping the' pan covered all the time 
with the hd. 

After the fruit has been thoroughly soaked and has 
regained its natural size, pour off this water saturated 
with fruit juice into another fireproof dish, add sugar 
according to taste (apricots will require a considerable 
quantity of sugar, peaches and apples less, prunes 
very Httle or none, and pears none at all), and cook 
from twenty to twenty-five minutes until you get a 
rich fruit syrup. Pour this boiling hot syrup over 
the soaked fruit. Put the casserole on back of the 
stove and let the fruit simmer very slowly for twenty 
to forty minutes, according to the quaHty of it. Now 
remove the casserole from the stove, keep the lid on 
the dish, and let it cool. 



Pudding Recipes 113 

If cooked properly, the fruit when served must be 
clear, the syrup should be rich and clear, and each 
piece of fruit should look as if fresh fruit had been 
stewed. 

The flavor of all the varieties of fruit is greatly 
improved by adding some lemon or orange peel, 
but especially is this true of pears and prunes. 

CURRANT BATTER PUDDING 

^ lb. (2 cups) flour I teaspoonful baking powder 

6 ozs. (6 heaping table- Pinch salt 

spoonfuls) cleaned ^2 pint (i cup) milk 

currants i teaspoonful vanilla extract 

3 eggs Golden syrup 

Beat up the eggs, sift in the flour and the salt, add 
the milk, and beat for five minutes; then add the 
baking powder and the vanilla extract. 

Pour into a well-greased casserole, sprinkle the 
currants over the top, and bake in a moderate oven 
for one hour. 

Serve with golden syrup. 

FARINA PUDDING 

4 ozs. (4 heaping table- 3 ozs. (3 heaping tablespoon- 

spoonfuls) farina fuls) sugar 

I quart (4 cups) milk % teaspoonful grated nut- 

Pinch of salt meg 

3 eggs I cupful Sultana raisins 

Boil the milk in a fireproof dish, add the salt, and 
H 



1 14 Cooking in Casserole Dishes 

sugar, and stir in the farina; cook, stirring frequently, 
for one hour. 

Cool and add the eggs well beaten, the grated nut- 
meg, and the Sultana raisins. Mix thoroughly and 
bake in a moderate oven for half an hour. 

FIG PUDDING 

14 lb. figs 2 heaping tablespoonfuls (2 

2 pints (4 cups) milk ozs.) sugar 

3 heaping tablespoonfuls (3 3 eggs 

ozs.) cornstarch >^ teaspoonful lemon extract 

Wash the figs, cut them into small pieces, then put 
them into a buttered casserole. Put the cornstarch 
into a saucepan and moisten it with half a cupful of 
the milk. Bring the rest of the milk to the boiling 
point, pour it over the cornstarch, and stir till it boils 
for ten minutes. Add the sugar, lemon extract, and 
the eggs well beaten. 

Pour over the figs and bake in a moderate oven 
for half an hour. Serve with milk or cream. 

FRENCH PUDDING 

Some apricot jam i heaping tablespoonful (i 

Lady fingers oz.) butter 

Fruit juice i gill (>^ cup) cold milk 

Pastry ^ pint (i cup) boiling milk 

I heaping tablespoonful (i Grated rind i lemon 

oz.) flour 3 eggs 

I heaping tablespoonful (i i pint (2 cups) whipped 

oz.) sugar cream 

A few chopped nut meats 



Pudding Recipes 115 

Butter a casserole and line it with the pastry, wet- 
ting the edges to keep it in place; put a layer of 
apricot jam at the bottom, then a thick layer of lady 
fingers which have been dipped in fruit juice. 

Mix the flour and sugar in a saucepan, stir in the 
cold milk, add the butter and the boihng milk; stir 
over the fire till it thickens; let it cool a little, then 
add the lemon rind and the eggs well beaten. Bake 
in a moderate oven for half an hour. 

Sweeten the whipped cream and put it on the top 
of the pudding through a forcing bag and tube. 

Decorate with the chopped nuts. 



FRUIT PUDDING 

2)4 lbs. any kind fresh i tablespoonful butter 

fruit — gooseberries, i teaspoonful vanilla extract 

currants, peaches, i teaspoonful lemon extract 

plums, pears, apples, Pinch salt 

raspberries, cherries. Sugar 3 eggs 

apricots, rhubarb, etc. 3 heaping tablespoonfuls (3 

2 pints (4 cups) milk ozs.) corn-starch 

Stew the fruit, with sufficient sugar to sweeten, 
in a casserole. Mix the cornstarch to a smooth con- 
sistency with a little of the milk. Bring the rest 
of the milk to the boil, stir into it the mixed corn- 
starch, add the butter, salt, extracts, and two heaping 
tablespoonfuls of sugar. Boil for a quarter of an hour, 



1 1 6 Cooking in Casserole Dishes 

stirring all the time, remove from the fire, and add the 
eggs well beaten. 

Pour the hot mixture over the stewed fruit, then 
brown in a moderate oven. This makes a delicious 
covering. 

GINGER PUDDING 

'4 ozs. (4 heaping table- H teaspoonful grated nut- 
spoonfuls) preserved meg 
ginger 3 eggs 

4 heaping tablespoonfuls i heaping teaspoonful baking 
chopped suet powder 

4 ozs. (4- heaping table- K pint (i>^ cups) milk 

spoonfuls) sugar 4 ozs. (4 heaping tablespoon- 

2 tablespoonfuls ginger fuls) flour 

syrup 4 ozs. (i cup) bread crumbs 

Pinch salt or cake crumbs 

Ginger sauce 

Chop the ginger and the suet and put them into a 
basin; then add the eggs well beaten and all the other 
ingredients. Mix together thoroughly, pour into a 
well-buttered casserole, cover with the hd or a but- 
tered paper, and steam for two and a half hours. 

Serve with ginger sauce. 

The sauce may be made as follows: Beat up the 
whites of two eggs to a stiff froth, add half a cupful 
of whipped cream, one tablespoonful of finely chopped 
ginger, and enough of the syrup to give it a strong 
flavor. 



Pudding Recipes 117 



GREEN-GAGE PUFFS 

Some stewed green-gages 2 teaspoonfuls baking powder 
yi lb. (2 cups) flour yi teaspoonful salt 

I egg Some milk 

% teaspoonful lemon extract 

Sift the flour into a basin with the baking powder 
and the salt, beat up the egg, and add a little milk to 
it, then add them gradually with the lemon extract 
to the dry ingredients, making a stiff batter. Put 
half a tablespoonf ul of this batter into buttered earthen- 
ware cups, then put in some stewed green-gages; put 
a tablespoonful of the batter on the top and cover with 
a buttered paper. Steam steadily for twenty minutes. 

These puffs may be baked in the oven. Any kind 
of stewed or fresh fruit may be used. 

MONTE CARLO CHERRIES 

l^ lb. large ripe cherries i dessertspoonful arrowroot 
% lb. lump sugar Some Kirsch 

I gill (>^ pint) water 

Stone the cherries, put them into a saucepan with 
the sugar and the water. Let them boil gently for 
ten minutes. Blend the arrowroot with two table- 
spoonfuls of cold water and stir it among the cherries. 

Divide the cherries into small casseroles, pour a 
Hqueur-glassful of Klirsch on the top of each, and set 
alight. 

Send to the table burning. 



1 1 8 Cooking in Casserole Dishes 



ORANGE MERINGUE PUDDING 

3 oranges ]/2 pint (i cup) bread crumbs 

4 eggs 3 heaping tablespoonfuls (3 
% pint (i cup) milk ozs.) sugar 

2 heaping tablespoonfuls (2 
ozs.) butter 

Bring the milk and the butter to boiling point, then 
pour them over the bread crumbs; mix in the sugar 
and the yolks of the eggs; set aside till cold, then mix 
in the grated rind and the pulp of the oranges, mix all 
thoroughly together, and pour into a buttered earthen- 
ware pudding dish; bake in a moderate oven until set. 

Beat up the whites of the eggs till stiff, then 
gradually beat into them three tablespoonfuls of 
sugar. Decorate the top of the pudding with this 
meringue, and return to the oven to brown. 

PARISIAN PEARS 

6 juicy pears i teaspoonful vaniUa extract 

14. cupful macaroon crumbs 6 rings of angelica 

2 tablespoonfuls cream 6 candied \aolets 

I'tablespoonful sherry wine 2 cupfuls steamed rice 

Peel the pears and stew them in a little sugar 
syrup flavored with vanilla. Take them out when 
tender, cut them in halves, and remove the centers. 

Mix the macaroon crumbs with the cream and the 
sherry wine, and divide them into the pear cavities. 
Cook the rice in milk till tender and flavor it with a 
little vanilla extract. Line some flange ramequins 



Pudding Recipes 1 19 

with it. Put the pear halves together and mount 
them, pyramid shape, on the rice. 

Crown each pear with a ring of angehca, and in the 
center of each ring put a candied violet. 

PEACH SOUFFLE 



6 ripe peaches 


I heaping tablespoonful (i 


4 heaping tablespoonfuls (4 


oz.) butter 


ozs.) sugar 


yi pint (J^ cup) niilk 


)4. pint (i cup) water 


3 eggs 


2 heaping tablespoonfuls (2 


I egg white 


ozs.) flour 





Peel the peaches, put them into a casserole with 
the sugar and the water; cook till tender; then rub 
through a sieve. 

Blend the butter and flour in a saucepan over the 
fire, add the milk gradually, and stir over the fire till 
it boils; then add the peach puree and boil again for 
three minutes. 

Remove the saucepan from the fire; add the yolks of 
eggs one by one ; then the whites of eggs beaten up stiffiy . 

Put into a buttered earthenware dish and bake for 
half an hour. 

It may be steamed for three-quarters of an hour. 

PEAR DAINTY 

1 can preserved pears 3 ozs. (3 heaping tablespoon- 
5 ozs. (5 heaping table- fuls) cornstarch 

spoonfuls) sugar 4 eggs 

2 pints (4 cups) milk i teaspoonful rose extract 



I20 Cooking in Casserole Dishes 

Mix the cornstarch to a smooth cream with a little 
of the milk. Bring the rest of the milk to the boil 
in a fireproof dish, remove from the fire, and stir in 
the mixed cornstarch. 

Beat up the yolks of the eggs ^vith three table- 
spoonfuls of the sugar, and stir well into the corn- 
starch. Cook the whole for a quarter of an hour, 
stirring all the time. 

Then pour the whole into a buttered casserole, 
and bake in a moderate oven till firm. Pour over it 
the pears and add the rose extract. 

Beat up the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth, add 
the remaining sugar to them. 

Spread this meringue over the top of the pears, 
and return to the oven to brown 

PLUM PUDDING 

^ lb. (i cup) bread crumbs yi cupful blanched, chopped 
4 ozs. (i cup) flour almonds 

4 ozs. (i cup) brown sugar % pint (i cup) Sultana raisins 

I cupful chopped suet % pint (i cup) currants 

I lemon yi pint (i cup) seeded raisins 

I teaspoonful baking i teaspoonful powdered all- 
powder spice 

yi teaspoonful salt yi teaspoonful grated nutmeg 

4 eggs I teaspoonful powdered gin- 
Milk to moisten ger 

I cupful chopped citron i teaspoonful powdered cin- 
peel namon 

I wineglassful brandy 



Pudding Recipes 121 

Beat up the eggs, add the strained juice of the lemon 
and all the other ingredients, turn into a well-buttered 
casserole, cover, and steam steadily for five hours. 

Serve with hard sauce. 

PRUNE AND APPLE TART 

K lb. stoned prunes 3^ lb. (i cup) sugar 

I lemon Pastry 

3 lbs. apples i egg 

Wash and stone the prunes; peel, core, and sHce 
the apples. Put them into a casserole, sprinkle in 
the sugar and the grated rind of the lemon. 

Cover neatly with pastry, brush over the top with 
beaten egg, and bake in a hot oven for about three- 
quarters of an hour. 

Sprinkle over with sugar and serve hot or cold. 

PRUNE PUDDING 

^2 lb. prunes 2 heaping tablespoonfuls (2 

y2 lemon ozs.) sugar 

1 tablespoonful cornstarch 2 heaping tablespoonfuls (2 
y2 pint (i cup) milk ozs.) currants 

2 eggs I inch cinnamon stick 

I wineglassful port wine 

Wash the prunes and stew them gently with suffi- 
cient water to cover, adding also the sugar, cinnamon, 
lemon rind, and strained juice. When tender, re- 
move the cinnamon and lemon rind; stone the prunes 
and rub them through a sieve. Crack half of the 



122 Cooking in Casserole Dishes 

stones and chop the kernels, add them to the prune 
pulp, and allow to cool a little. 

Clean the currants and soak them in the wine. 
Mix them with the cornstarch and add them to the 
prune mixture, with the yolks of eggs and the whites 
stiffly beaten. Pour into a buttered earthenware 
dish, dredge with sugar, and bake for half an hour in 
a fairly hot oven. Serve hot. 

PUMPKIN PIE 

^ pint (i cup) stewed % teaspoonful grated nut- 
pumpkin meg 

4 heaping tablespoonfuls (4 i teaspoonful lemon extract 

ozs.) sugar 2 eggs 

14. teaspoonful powdered i tablespoonful cornstarch 

ginger yi pint (i cup) cream 

yi teaspoonful powdered 2 tablespoonfuls melted but- 
cinnamon ter 

Line an earthenw^are pie-plate with pastry. Moisten 
the cornstarch with three tablespoonfuls of the cream. 
Bring the rest of the cream to boiling point, stir in 
the cornstarch, and continue stirring until thickened. 
Remove from the fire, add the eggs well beaten and 
all the other ingredients. Turn into the prepared pie- 
plate and bake in a moderate oven for about one hour. 

RHUBARB MERINGUE 

I lb. pink rhubarb 4 eggs 

4 ozs. (4 heaping table- i lemon 

spoonfuls) sugar 2 tablespoonfuls sugar 



Pudding Recipes 123 

Wash the rhubarb and cut it into inch lengths; 
stew it with the sugar till tender; strain the juice 
into a basin, and rub the fruit through a sieve. 

Reduce the juice to half a cupful, mix it with the 
fruit puree, add the yolks of the eggs well beaten and 
the grated rind of the lemon. Turn into a buttered 
fireproof dish and bake for half an hour. 

Beat up the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth, then 
beat into them two tablespoonfuls of sugar; spread 
over the pudding, dust over with sugar, and return 
to the oven for ten minutes to set the meringue. 

RICE PUDDING 

J^ lb. (i heaping cup) rice 2 heaping tablespoonfuls (2 
2 quarts (8 cups) milk ozs.) butter 

^ lb. (i cup) sugar yi teaspoonful grated nutmeg 

I teaspoonful salt i teaspoonful rose extract 

Wash the rice and soak it in one quart of the milk 
for one hour. Add the rest of the milk, the sugar, 
salt, butter, nutmeg, and rose extract. Turn into a 
buttered earthenware dish and bake slowly for two 
hours. 

STEWED APRICOTS WITH CUSTARD 

12 apricots I gill {Yi^ pint) rum 

4 tablespoonfuls sugar A few slices sponge cake 

4 eggs ]/i pint (i cup) hot water 

I pint (2 cups) cream 

Peel the apricots and cut them into halves, re- 



1 24 Cooking in Casserole Dishes 

moving the stones. Put them into a casserole with 
two tablespoonfuls of the sugar and the water. 
Simmer till tender. 

Put the sponge cake into an earthenware dish, 
lay the apricots on them. Beat up the eggs with the 
rest of the sugar, add the cream to them, then pour 
them into a double boiler. Stir over the fire till 
quite smooth, then add the rum. 

Pour this over the apricots and serve hot. ' 

STRAWBERRY BATTER PUDDING 

I pint strawberries i teaspoonful baking powder 

1 pint (2 cups) milk ^^ teaspoonful salt 

2 tablespoonfuls melted i teaspoonful strawberry ex- 

butter tract 

\y2 pints (3 cups) flour Hard sauce 

3 eggs 

Add the milk gradually to the flour, add the eggs 
well beaten, salt, baking powder, and butter. Dredge 
the strawberries with flour, stir them into the batter, 
add the strawberry extract, and turn into a buttered 
earthenware dish. Cover and steam for three hours. 

Serve with hard sauce. 

STRAWBERRY CUSTARDS 

5 eggs I teaspoonful strawberry ex- 

% lb. (i cup) ripe straw- tract 

berries or strawberry 4 ozs. (4 heaping tablespoon- 
jam fuls) sugar 

K lemon Few drops red coloring 



Pudding Recipes 125 

Remove the green stalks from the strawberries, 
place the berries in a basin, beat until quite Hquid, 
then add the yolks of the eggs well beaten, sugar, 
strained lemon juice, and strawberry extract. 

Pour the mixture into a fireproof dish, stand it in 
a saucepan of boiling water, and stir it over the fire 
till it thickens: it must not boil. Allow to get cold 
then add the stifHy beaten whites of the eggs, stir 
lightly till all is well mixed. 

Pour into earthenware custard cups, and serve 
cold decorated with a ripe strawberry on the top of 
each custard. 

VANILLA CUSTARD 

I pint (2 cups) milk 4 heaping tablespoonfuls (4 

4 eggs ozs.) sugar 

I teaspoonful vanilla extract 

Beat the eggs and the sugar together, then add the 
milk and the vanilla extract. Divide the mixture 
into buttered earthenware custard cups, cover with 
buttered papers, and steam gently for half an hour. 

VERMICELLI PUDDING 

]4 lb. vermicelli 2 tablespoonfuls finely 

I pint (2 cups) boiling milk chopped blanched al- 

1 oz. (i heaping table- monds 

spoonful) butter 3 eggs 

2 ozs. (2 heaping table- Grated rind i lemon 

spoonfuls) sugar )4 teaspoonful grated nutmeg 



126 Cooking in Casserole Dishes 

Crush the vermicelli in the hand till it is in quite 
short pieces. Put it into the boiling milk, then add 
the butter, and stir over the fire till it becomes thick; 
this will take a quarter of an hour. Remove from 
the fire, add the sugar, almonds, grated rind of lemon, 
nutmeg, and the yolks of the eggs, stir all to mix 
thoroughly, then add the stifily beaten whites and stir 
them in gently. Pour into a well-buttered earthen- 
ware dish, cover with the Hd or a buttered paper, and 
steam for one hour. Serve with sweet sauce. 

The pudding can be baked in a moderate oven till 
it is nicely browned. Serve with cream. 

WALNUT PUDDING 

1 6 walnuts 14 teaspoonful vanilla extract 

I oz. (i heaping table- Pinch salt 

spoonful) butter 2 heaping tablespoonfuls 

I teaspoonful almond ex- browned bread crumbs 

tract I pint (2 cups) milk 

3 eggs 

Blanch the walnuts, then chop them finely, and 
mix with the bread crumbs; put them into a fireproof 
dish with the milk, and allow to boil up; then sinmier 
for ten minutes. 

Remove from the fire, and when cool stir in the 
yolks of the eggs one by one, add the salt, extracts, 
and the sugar; mix thoroughly. Beat up the whites 
to a stiff froth, and fold them in gently. 

Bake for half an hour in a moderate oven. 



INVALID RECIPES 



"Eat in measure and defy the doctor'* 

APPLE PUREE 

I lb. apples I teaspoonful grated lemon rind 

1 teaspoonful butter i bay leaf 

2 heaping tablespoonfuls (2 i tablespoonful orange flowec 

ozs.) sugar water 

2 egg whites 

Peel, core, and slice the apples; put them into a 
casserole, with the butter, sugar, lemon rind, bay leaf, 
and orange flower water. 

Put the cover on the casserole and cook slowly to 
a pulp; rub through a sieve, and with it about three 
parts fill some small casseroles. 

Beat up the eggs, then add two tablespoonfuls of 
sugar to them. 

Decorate the puree with this meringue and serve 
hot. 

BAKED MILK 

I quart (4 cups) milk Fresh or stewed fruit 

Baked milk is often recommended as a dish for 
127 



128 Cooking in Casserole Dishes 

invalids. Put the milk into an earthenware jar, cover 
it closely, and allow it to bake very slowly for several 
hours in a moderately hot oven. 

It should be thick and of a creamy consistency. 

Serve with fresh or stewed fruit. 



BARLEY GRUEL 

2 heaping tablespoonfuls (2 i heaping tablespoonful (i 

ozs.) pearl barley oz.) sugar 

I strip lemon rind i wineglassful sherry wine 
I quart (4 cups) water 

Wash the barley thoroughly; put it into a casserole 
with the water and the lemon rind and simmer imtil 
reduced to half the quantity; strain and add the sugar, 
reheat in the casserole, and add the wine. 

BEEF TEA EN CASSEROLE 

I lb. lean beef i pint (2 cups) water 

Salt 

Cut the beef into pieces, then shred it with a sharp 
knife, keeping back the fat and sinews; put the 
shredded meat into a casserole with a pinch of salt 
and the cold water; cover and allow it to stand in a 
cool place for two hours; then set it in the oven for 
two hours. 

Remove the fat and serve hot. 



Invalid Recipes 129 



CALF'S SWEETBREADS 

2 calf's sweetbreads i teaspoonful chopped pars- 

y^ pint (i cup) milk ley 

^2 pint (i cup) white sauce Salt and pepper 

Wash the sweetbreads and soak them in cold water 
for one hour. Drain them and put them into a sauce- 
pan, cover with cold water, and bring to the boil. 
Lift them into another saucepan, cover with the milk, 
let them simmer for twenty minutes. Trim them and 
remove all the fat and gristle. 

Warm the sauce in a casserole, season it nicely, 
put in the sweetbreads cut in sUces, and cook slowly 
until they are tender. 

Sprinkle the chopped parsley on the top and serve 
hot. 

CHICKEN PANADE 

1 chicken breast Salt and pepper 

2 tablespoonfuls cream 

Cut the chicken into small pieces and shred it 
finely; put this into an earthenware dish or jar with 
as much water as will cover it, add a pinch of salt, 
and cover with paper; stand the jar in a pan of boiling 
water, allowing the water to come within an inch of the 
top; cook in this way for two hours; strain the liquid 
from the chicken, poimd it thoroughly and rub it 
through a sieve, using the liquid to help it through; 



130 Cooking in Casserole Dishes 

reheat, add the cream, and add a little more seasoning 
if required. 

COLD LEMON PUDDING 

I lemon i tablespoonful sugar 

>^ pint (i cup) water 2 egg whites 

I tablespoonful arrowroot 

Grate the lemon into a fireproof dish, add the water, 
and bring to boiling point. Mix the arrowroot with 
the sugar and strained lemon juice, then pour into 
the boihng water and stir over the fire till thick. 

Beat up the whites of eggs and stir them in lightly. 

Serve cold in a dainty casserole. 

FRIAR'S OMELET 

S apples I tablespoonful butter 

4 tablespoonfuls sugar 5 eggs 

3^ teaspoonful powdered 2 tablespoonfuls brown 
cinnamon bread crust 

Peel, core, and slice the apples into a saucepan, add 
the sugar, butter, and cinnamon. Cook till tender 
and rub through a sieve. Add the bread crumbs, 
yolks of the eggs, and the whites of the eggs stiffly 
beaten. 

Turn into a buttered fireproof dish, dredge the top 
with sugar, bake in a moderate oven for twenty 
minutes. 

Serve hot. 



Invalid Recipes 13 



INVALID PUDDING 

% pint (i cup) milk i heaping tablespoonful (i 

I heaping tablespoonful (i oz.) rice flour 

oz.) butter 2 egg whites 

I tablespoonful sugar 2 tablespoonfuls cream 

Little grated nutmeg 

Put the milk, butter, sugar, and grated nutmeg 
into a saucepan and bring to boiling point. Mix 
the rice fliour with the cream and stir into the boiling 
milk. 

Allow to cool for a minute, then add the whites of 
eggs stijffly beaten. 

Pour into a buttered fireproof dish and bake 
quickly. 

JELLIED FISH 

I flounder i teaspoonftd lemon juice 

y^ pint (i cup) water i teaspoonful chopped pars- 

Salt and pepper ley 

I heaping tablespoonful 
powdered gelatine 

Skin and fillet the flounder. Season the fillets with 
salt and pepper, roll them up tightly, lay in a small 
fireproof dish, sprinkle the chopped parsley over them, 
add the lemon juice and the gelatine mixed with the 
water. 

Bake for half an hour in a moderate oven. 

Serve cold garnished with parsley. 



132 Cooking in Casserole Dishes 



MILK SOUP 

I pint (2 cups) milk Salt, pepper, and grated 

I celery stalk nutmeg to taste 

I egg yi cupful soft bread crumbs 

Chop the celery and put it into an earthenware pan, 
add the bread crumbs and the milk; allow it to simmer 
for a quarter of an hour, then strain it. 

Beat up the egg and add it to the soup; reheat it 
but do not allow it to boil again. 

Season nicely with salt, pepper, and nutmeg. 

MULLED MILK 
I pint (2 cups) milk 2 egg yolks 

1 oz. (i heaping table- i inch cinnamon stick 

spoonful) sugar 

Put the milk and cinnamon stick into a fireproof 
pan, bring to boiling point, and boil for four minutes. 

Mix the yolks of the eggs, sugar, and three table- 
spoonfuls of cold milk together; strain the hot milk 
and add it to the eggs, then stir it over the fire imtil 
it begins to thicken — it must not boil; pour it several 
times from one earthenware pitcher to another. 

OYSTER SOUP 

12 oysters >2 pint (i cup) cream 

2 tablespoonfuls butter Salt, pepper, and grated nut^ 
2 tablespoonfuls flour meg to taste 

% pint (i cup) oyster 4 tablespoonfuls milk 
liquor Toast points 



Invalid Recipes 133 

Strain the liquor from the oysters, rinse them, and 
cut them into four pieces. Melt the butter, stir in 
the flour, add the milk, oyster hquor, seasonings, and 
cream, bring to boiling point and pour over the 
oysters in petites marmites. 

Serve with toast points. 

RASPBERRY SOUFFLE 

y^ pint (i cup) raspberries i heaping tablespoonful (i 
2 heaping tablespoonf Ills (2 oz.) flour 

ozs.) sugar 3 tablespoonf uls cream 

4 tablespoonfuls water 2 eggs 

1 heaping tablespoonful (i 

oz.) butter 

Put the raspberries into a saucepan with the sugar 
and the water; stir over the fire with a wooden spoon 
till the fruit is tender, then rub through a sieve; re- 
turn to the pan, add the butter, flour, and cream; stir 
until it boils, remove from the fire, add the yolks of 
eggs and the whites stiffly beaten. 

Turn into a buttered earthenware dish and bake in 
a moderate oven for twenty minutes. 

Serve at once. 

SAGO GRUEL 

2 tablespoonfuls sago i wineglassful sherry wine 
I tablespoonful sugar Juice >^ lemon 

I pint (2 cups) water Grated nutmeg and ginger to 

X teaspoonful salt taste 



134 Cooking in Casserole Dishes 

Put the sago and water into a casserole, add the 
salt, and let it stand for two hours to soften; then 
boil it, stirring constantly, until it is thick, add the 
wine, sugar, strained lemon juice, ginger, and nutmeg. 

This is an excellent gruel for invahds. 

SAGO JELLY 

4 heaping tablespoonfuls (4 2 egg whites 

ozs.) sago I gill {}i cup) whipped cream 

1 quart (4 cups) water 

2 tablespoonfuls maple 

syrup 

Wash the sago, put it into a casserole with the water 
and let it simmer for three hours; as it boils add the 
maple syrup. 

Divide it into small casseroles. Beat up the cream 
with the whites of eggs stiffly beaten, and decorate 
the jelly with them. 

SAVORY BEEF JELLY 

^ lb. lean beef i bay leaf 

I pint (2 cups) cold water i blade mace 

Salt I celery stalk 

10 white whole peppers i tablespoonful powdered 

1 clove gelatine 

2 parsley sprigs 4 tablespoonfuls boiling water 

Scrape the beef with a sharp knife, and remove 
any fat and skin; put it into an earthenware dish with 
the cold water and a pinch of salt. Tie the seasonings 



Invalid Recipes 135 

and the vegetables in a small piece of muslin and add 
them to the beef; cover tightly and cook slowly in a 
moderate oven for three hours. 

Remove the Hd two or three times during the cook- 
ing, and stir the contents of the jar. When cooked, 
strain and allow the Hquid to cool, when the fat should 
be removed. 

Dissolve the gelatine in the boiling water and add 
it to the jelly. Divide it into dainty stoneware 
dishes. 

SAVORY CUSTARD 

I giU (>^ pint) beef tea Salt 

I egg 

Beat up the egg, add to it the beef tea and a pinch 
of salt; pour into a buttered earthenware custard cup, 
cover with a buttered paper, and steam until set. 

TAPIOCA CREAMS 

^2 pint (i cup) milk 2 egg yolks 

I tablespoonful (>^ oz.) 3 tablespoonfuls cream 

tapioca % teaspoonful almond extract 

I tablespoonful (^ oz.) A little red currant jelly 

sugar 

Soak the tapioca in the milk for one hour, then stir 
over the fire till the tapioca is quite clear, beat up the 
yolks with the sugar, add to the mixture with the 
extract, and stir until well mixed. Add the cream. 



136 Cooking in Casserole Dishes 

Remove from the fire and divide into dainty earth- 
enware dishes. 

Serve with a Httle red currant jelly on the top of 
each. 



TRIPE FRICASSEE 

A little grated nutmeg 
I small onion i tablespoonful cornstarch 

% pint (i cup) milk Salt and pepper to taste 

I egg yolk 

Prepare the raw tripe by thoroughly scraping and 
scalding after it has been procured cleansed; then 
cut it in small pieces, and cover it with cold water; 
let it boil for a quarter of an hour, throw away the 
water, and wash the tripe once more. Then put it in 
a casserole covered with cold water; let it boil, then 
allow it to simmer for four and a half hours; add the 
onion, and allow it to cook for a quarter of an hour 
longer. 

Take out the onion then and chop it up finely. 
Drain all the water from the tripe, and replace it with 
the milk; add the chopped onion, and let it simmer for 
ten minutes. Now stir in the cornstarch moistened 
with a Httle cold milk, add the seasonings, and stir 
till it boils; allow to cook for five minutes, stirring all 
the time. Remove it from the fire, and add the yolk 
of egg; mix thoroughly, and serve hot. 



CHEESE RECIPES 

Cheese, it is a peevish elf, it digests all things hut itself' 



BAKED CHEESE 

}4 pint (i cup) grated i gill {^2 cup) milk 

cheese 3 eggs 

I heaping tablespoonful (i Salt and pepper to taste 

oz.) butter 
I heaping tablespoonful (i 

oz.) flour 

Melt the butter, stir in the flour, add the milk, 
salt and pepper. When it comes to boiling point 
remove from the fire, then add the yolks of the eggs, 
the cheese, and the whites of the eggs beaten to a stiff 
froth. 

Pour into a well-buttered fireproof dish, and bake 
until brown. 

Serve hot. 

CHEESE AND BREAD 

^2 pint (i cup) grated i heaping teaspoonful butter 

cheese 3 eggs 

}4 pint (i cup) milk Seasoning of salt and red 

yi pint (i cup) bread pepper 

crumbs 

137 



13^ Cooking in Casserole Dishes 

Scald the milk and butter together; remove from 
the stove, and add the cheese, bread crumbs, and 
seasonings. Beat up the eggs and add them lightly. 

Pour into a buttered fireproof dish and bake for 
half an hour. 

Serve at once. 

CHEESE CREAMS 

2 heaping tablespoonfuls i tablespoonful chopped pars- 
grated cheese ley 

yi pint (i cup) half-set as- Salt, pepper, and red pepper to 
pic jelly taste 

^2 pint (i cup) whipping 
cream 

Beat up the cream till stiff and stir into it the cheese; 
add the aspic jelly and the seasonings. Divide into 
china ramequins; when set, sprinkle over with a 
Uttle chopped parsley. 

Serve very cold. 

CHEESE AND RICE 

2 cupfuls (>^ lb.) grated 2 heaping tablespoonfuls (2 
cheese ozs.) flour 

1 gill {yi cup) boiled rice Seasoning of salt and pepper 

2 heaping tablespoonfuls (2 i pint (2 cups) milk 

ozs.) butter A few bread crumbs 

Blend the butter and flour together in a saucepan 
over the fire; then gradually add the milk, stirring 



Cheese Recipes 139 

constantly, and cook for five minutes. Remove from 
the fire and season nicely with salt and pepper. 

Put the rice into a buttered fireproof dish, then 
sprinkle in the cheese and pour in the sauce, sprinkle 
a few bread crumbs on the top, then a little grated 
cheese, and bake in a hot oven for twenty minutes. 

CHEESE WITH NOODLES, SPAGHETTI, OR 
MACARONI 

1 cupful (X lb.) grated i package medium noodles 

cheese Salt and paprika to taste 

3 heaping tablespoonfuls (3 
ozs.) butter 

Boil the noodles in plenty of boihng salted water 
for twenty minutes, then drain, add the butter, 
cheese, salt, and paprika. 

Stir over the fire in a fireproof dish tiH the cheese 
and butter are melted. Serve hot. 

CHEESE APPETIZER 

2 cupfuls {}4 lb.) cheese 2 eggs 

I heaping tablespoonful (i Some crackers 

oz.) butter i saltspoonful salt 

I can tomato soup }4 saltspoonful paprika 

Cut the cheese into small pieces, then melt it in a 
fireproof dish, add the butter, seasonings, and tomato 
soup. When well mixed, add the eggs well beaten. | 

Stir until it begins to thicken, and serve at once on 
buttered crackers. 



140 Cooking in Casserole Dishes 



CHEESE SALAD 



K lb. American cheese 
% pint (i cup) chopped 

cooked chicken 
yi pint {^2 cup) chopped 

stuffed olives 



2 hard cooked eggs 

I teaspoonf ul French mustard 

3 tablespoonfuls vinegar 

4 tablespoonfuls olive oil 
Salt and red pepper to taste 



Chop the cheese and mix it with the chicken and 
olives. Rub soft the yolks of the eggs, add the mus- 
tard, the vinegar, the oil, and seasonings to taste. 

Pour the sauce over the salad in ramequins and gar- 
nish with the whites of the eggs cut into small pieces. 



CHEESE SANDWICHES 

i>^ lbs. grated cream 

cheese 
I large egg 
% pint (i cup) milk 
I tablespoonful cornstarch 



3 canned red peppers 
yi teaspoonful lemon juice 
Salt and red pepper to taste 
Buttered slices of bread 



Cook all the ingredients over the fire in a casserole 
for five minutes. Spread on the bread and toast them. 
Serve hot. 

CHEESE TARTLETS 



4 heaping tablespoonfuls 
(2 ozs.) grated cheese 

I heaping tablespoonful (i 
oz.) butter 

I heaping tablespoonful (i 
oz.) flour 



yi pint (i cup) milk 
2 eggs 

]A, teaspoonful salt 
Seasoning of pepper and 

paprika 
Pastry 



Cheese Recipes 141 

Roll the pastry out thinly, and line some small 
thin casserole dishes with it. Blend the butter and 
flour together in a saucepan over the fire, add the 
milk, stir till it boils and thickens; then remove the 
pan from the fire. 

Add the yolks of the eggs one by one, mixing each 
one thoroughly; add the cheese, the seasonings, and the 
whites of eggs stiffly beaten. Divide into the prepared 
dishes and bake in the oven for fifteen minutes. 

Serve at once. 

CHEESE AND POTATOES 

2 ozs. {yi cupful) grated i tablespoonful chopped 

cheese olives 

1 cupful mashed potatoes Salt and pepper to taste 

2 egg yolks i tablespoonful finely 
I heaping tablespoonful (i chopped parsley 

oz.) butter 

Beat up the yolks of eggs, melt the butter and add 
it to them, with the parsley, potatoes, cheese, pickles, 
and seasonings. 

Turn into a buttered fireproof dish, brush over with 
the whites stiffly beaten, mark with a fork or knife, 
and bake in a hot oven till brown. 

CHEESE AND CORN 

I cupful {yi lb.) grated i egg 

cheese i gill {% cup) milk 

I can corn Salt and paprika to taste 

4 soda crackers i heaping teaspoonful butter 



142 Cooking in Casserole Dishes 

Roll the crackers, add the egg well beaten, butter, 
cheese, seasonings, milk, and corn. Mix well and 
turn into a buttered fireproof dish. 

Bake for thirty minutes in a hot oven. 

CHEESE FONDUE 

>^ lb. (2 cupfuls) grated K pint (i cup) milk 
cheese K lb. (i cup) fine bread 

I saltspoonful dry mustard crumbs 

I heaping tablespoonful (i 2 eggs 

oz.) butter A dust of red pepper 

Melt the butter in a fireproof dish, add the milk, 
bread crumbs, cheese, mustard, and seasonings. 

Stir constantly for five minutes, and then add the 
eggs well beaten. 

Serve hot. 

CHEESE DAINTIES 

3 heaping tablespoonfuls yi pint (>^ cup) milk 

Parmesan cheese Salt, pepper, and red pepper 

4 eggs to taste 

Bring the milk to boiling point, pour it over the 
eggs well beaten, add the cheese, salt, pepper, and red 
pepper; pour into some buttered cocottes or rame- 
quins. 

Stand the cases in a pan, pour in some hot water; 
place in the oven and cook till set. 

Garnish with parsley and serve hot. 



Cheese Recipes 143 



CHEESE CUSTARDS 

4 ozs. (i cup) grated cheese Salt and pepper to taste 
2 eggs A few sprigs parsley 

yi pint (i cup) milk 

Mix the eggs and milk in a saucepan over the fire, 
stir them till they thicken slightly, remove from the 
fire, and add the cheese, salt, and pepper. 

Divide into small china ramequin cases and bake 
until brown. 

Serve with a small sprig of parsley in the center of 
each. 

CHEESE AND MACARONI 

4 heaping tablespoonfuls (2 i slice onion 

ozs.) grated cheese 2 heaping tablespoonfuls (2 
yi lb. macaroni ozs.) butter 

I gill {yi pint) stock i tablespoonful flour 

I gill {yi pint) milk Salt and pepper to taste 

I bay leaf A few bread crumbs 

Break up the macaroni into short pieces, put it 
into a saucepan of boiling salted water, add one tea- 
spoonful of butter, and boil quickly for half an hour. 
Put the stock, bay leaf, onion, and milk into a saucepan 
and bring to boiling point. Blend the butter and 
flour together in a saucepan over the fire; add the 
stock strained; stir till it boils, put in the macaroni 
and the grated cheese; mix well and season with the 
salt and pepper. 



144 Cooking in Casserole Dishes 

Butter a gratin dish, sprinkle it over with bread 
crumbs and grated cheese, pour in the mixture, 
sprinkle over with some more bread crumbs and 
grated cheese, put a few pieces of butter here and 
there on the top, and bake in a moderate oven for a 
quarter of an hour. 

Serve hot in the dish in which it was cooked. 

CHEESE PUDDING 

2 cupfuls (>^ lb.) grated 2 eggs 

cheese 2 tablespoonfuls bread 
I teaspoonful flour crumbs 

y2 pint (i cup) hot milk Salt and pepper to taste 
I heaping teaspoonful 

butter 

Put the cheese into a bowl, add the flour, salt and 
pepper, bread crumbs, milk, butter, the yolks of the 
eggs and the whites well beaten. 

Mix gently, pour into a buttered earthenware dish, 
and bake for a quarter of an hour in a moderate oven. 

Serve hot. 

CHEESE SOUFFLES 

6 heaping tablespoonfuls (3 i level tablespoonful flour 

ozs.) grated cheese 2 eggs 

I heaping tablespoonful (i i gill iyi cup) milk 

oz.) butter Salt and pepper to taste 

Melt the butter, stir in the flour, add the milk, 
and stir till it cooks for three minutes; remove from 
the fire, add the yolks of eggs well beaten, the cheese, 



Cheese Recipes 145 

seasonings, and the whites stiffly beaten; divide into 
buttered ramequins, and bake for ten minutes. 
Serve quickly. 

CHEESE AND TOMATOES 

3 tablespoonfuls grated 2 eggs 

cheese i tablespoonful butter 

4 ripe tomatoes Salt and paprika to taste 

Skin the tomatoes and rub them through a sieve, 
add the cheese, salt, paprika, and eggs well beaten. 

Melt the butter in an earthenware dish, pour in the 
mixture, and bake in a moderate oven for ten minutes. 

Serve immediately. 

CHEESE CAKE 

1 lb. pot cheese 6 ozs. (^ cup) sugar 
3^ lb. (2 cups) flour 6 ozs. (^ cup) butter 

2 teaspoonfuls baking i giU (>^ cup) milk 

powder i egg 

Juice ^2 lemon }4 cupful cleaned currants 

Rub half a cupful of the butter into the flour, add 
half a cupful of the sugar, baking powder, egg well 
beaten, milk, and strained juice of lemon. 

Line a buttered baking earthenware dish with this 
paste. Mix the cheese smoothly with the rest of the 
sugar and butter. Spread this filling into the pre- 
pared casserole. 

Sprinkle the currants on the top and bake in a hot 
oven for half an hour. 
J 



146 Cooking in Casserole Dishes 



SCALLOPED CHEESE 

^2 pint (i cup) grated Ya teaspoonful mustard 

cheese Salt and red pepper to taste 

3 eggs 4 slices bread 

i>^ pints (3 cups) milk i tablespoonful butter 

Remove the crusts from the bread after it has been 
spread with the butter. Place the bread in a fireproof 
dish, then sprinkle in the cheese. Beat up the eggs, 
add the milk and seasonings; pour them over the 
bread and cheese. 

Allow to remain for half an hour. 

Bake in a hot oven for twenty minutes. 

WELSH RAREBIT 

K pint (i cup) grated i teaspoonful made mustard 

American cheese Salt and red pepper to taste 

I heaping tablespoonful (i i egg 

oz.) butter Some hot buttered toast or 

3 tablespoonfuls of milk, crackers 

cream, or ale 

Melt the butter in a casserole, add the seasonings, 
and the cheese. When melted, add the milk, cream 
or ale; stir vigorously till smooth, add the egg well 
beaten quickly and pour over the buttered toast or 
crackers. 



EGG RECIPES 



"What, all my pretty chickens'' 

CURRIED EGGS 

6 hard cooked eggs i heaping teaspoonful flour 

I cupful plain boiled rice 2 teaspoonfuls curry powder 

I onion i teaspoonful salt 

I heaping tablespoonful (i i teaspoonful lemon juice 

oz.) butter >^ pint (i cup) stock or water 

Chop the onion and fry it for a few minutes in the 
butter, add the flour, curry powder, salt, lemon juice, 
and water; allow to cook slowly for fifteen minutes 
in a casserole. 

Add four of the eggs cut in quarters, and garnish 
with the other two eggs. 

Serve in the casserole. 

EGGS IN COCOTTES 

4 eggs I saltspoonful white pepper 

K teaspoonful onion juice K pint (i cup) milk 
^ teaspoonful salt Some bread sauce 

Break the eggs into a bowl, add the onion Juice, 
salt, and pepper. Beat only until thoroughly blended, 
then add gradually the milk. Divide equally into six 

147 



148 Cooking in Casserole Dishes 

well-buttered cocottes or souffle cases. Stand them in 
a pan half filled with hot water and bake in a moderate 
oven for twenty minutes, or until firm to the touch. 
Serve with bread sauce. 

EGG PUDDING 

5 eggs I pint (2 cups) boiling milk 

2 ozs. {}i cup) sugar 3 tablespoonfuls cold milk 

2 ozs. (J/2 cup) flour ^2 teaspoonful vanilla extract 

2 ozs. {J4 cup) butter Cream sauce 

Mix the sugar and the flour with the cold milk, 
stir them into the boiling milk, and cook until thick 
and very smooth; remove from the fire and add the 
butter. Beat in the yolks of the eggs, the extract, 
and mix in gently the whites of the eggs stiffly beaten. 
Turn into a buttered fireproof dish and bake for about 
thirty-five minutes. Serve hot with cream sauce. 

To make the sauce; Beat half a cupful of butter 
with one cupful of powdered sugar, then add two table- 
spoonfuls of cream and half a teaspoonful of vanilla 
extract. 

EGG TARTLETS 

5 eggs I tablespoonful butter 

6 tablespoonfuls chopped 3 tablespoonfuls browned 

cooked ham bread crumbs 

2 heaping tablespoonfuls Salt, pepper, and grated nut- 
white bread crumbs meg 
J/2 gill (4 tablespoonfuls) 
milk 



Egg Recipes 149 

Chop the ham finely, put it into a basin, add the 
white bread crumbs, the milk, and seasoning of salt, 
pepper, and nutmeg. Butter some ramequins, sprinkle 
them with the browned bread crumbs, and Hne them 
neatly with the ham paste. Break an egg into each, 
put one or two small pieces of butter on the top, 
sprinkle over with a little pepper, and bake for twelve 
minutes. 

Serve hot. 

EGGS IN TOMATOES 

4 eggs I teaspoonful chopped pars- 
4 firm tomatoes ley 

I heaping tablespoonful (i Salt, pepper, and dust of pap- 
oz.) butter rika 

Wipe each tomato and cut a round piece from the 
stalk end. Remove enough pulp to leave room for 
one egg dropped carefully into each, first dusting the 
inside of the tomatoes with salt, pepper, and paprika. 

Put a small piece of butter on the top of each egg; 
place the tomatoes in small well-buttered fireproof 
dishes and bake until the whites of eggs are lightly set. 

Sprinkle with salt, pepper, and parsley. 

Serve hot. 

EGGS WITH SPINACH 

4 or 5 eggs J^ peck spinach (2 lbs.) 

3 heaping tablespoonfuls (3 Salt and pepper 
ozs.) butter 



150 Cooking in Casserole Dishes 

Wash the spinach carefully to remove all dirt and 
grit, then put it into a saucepan, put on the cover, and 
cook for ten minutes. Add the butter, salt, and pepper 
to taste; allow it to cook slowly for one hour in its 
own juices. 

Divide it into buttered ramequins, making it into 
neat little nests. Drop an egg into each of these 
nests, and bake for eight minutes in a moderately 
heated oven. 

The whites of the eggs should harden, but the yolks 
should be soft. 

Serve very hot. 

EGG SOUP 

4 egg yolks Salt and pepper 

Ya, lb. {yi cup) butter i tablespoonful chopped pars- 

I onion ley 

I tablespoonful flour Toast points 

lyi pints (3 cups) water 

Chop the onion and fry it for a few minutes in the 
butter, stir in the flour, cook a minute, then add the 
water, bring to boiling point, and season with parsley, 
salt, and pepper. 

Beat up the yoll^s of the eggs, add them off the fire, 
stirring till all is mixed. 

Have the toast points in petites marmites, pou't 
in the soup, and serve as quickly as possible. 



Egg Recipes 1 5 1 

EGG AND MUSHROOM RAGOUT 

3 hard cooked eggs i pint (i cup) stock 

yi lb. mushrooms i teaspooniul flour 

I heaping tablespoonful (i Salt and pepper 

oz.) butter Little chopped parsley 

Peel the mushrooms and fry them for a minute in 
the hot butter in a fireproof dish, add the flour, stock, 
salt, and pepper. Boil for three minutes, add two of 
the eggs cut lengthways. 

Garnish with the other egg and the parsley. 

EGGS IN RAMEQUINS 

5 hard cooked eggs A few bread crumbs 

% lb. mushrooms yi cupful melted butter 

3 tablespoonfuls butter Salt and pepper to season 

I pint (2 cups) white sauce 
% cupful cooked chopped 
ham 

Peel the mushrooms and cut them into small pieces; 
cook them in the three tablespoonfuls of butter till 
the butter is absorbed, then add the white sauce and 
allow to simmer for a quarter of an hour. Add the 
ham and the cooked eggs, cut in sHces; season nicely, 
and turn into well-buttered ramequins, cover with 
some bread crumbs mixed with the melted butter, and 
heat thoroughly in the oven. 

Serve hot. 



152 Cooking in Casserole Dishes 



EGGS WITH CREAM 

6 eggs Yi, lb. thinly cut bacon 

^ pint (i cup) cream i heaping tablespoonful (i 

Salt and pepper oz.) butter 

Spread the butter on the bottom of a shallow fire- 
proof dish, pour in the cream, sprinkle in a little salt 
and pepper, break the eggs carefully into the dish; 
partly cook the bacon in front of the fire, then place 
it on the top of the eggs. 

Bake for ten minutes and serve hot. 

This dish may be prepared in small casseroles, 
allowing one egg to each dish. 



EGGS WITH MACARONI 

4 hard cooked eggs • Y pint (i cup) white sauce 

% lb. spaghetti i tablespoonful finely chopped 

1 heaping tablespoonful (i parsley 

oz.) butter Salt and pepper 

2 heaping tablespoonfuls (i 

oz.) grated cheese 

Break the spaghetti into a saucepan of fast boiling 
water, add one teaspoonful of butter, and cook it 
until tender, then drain. Thickly butter a fireproof 
dish, put in a layer of spaghetti, then a layer of sliced 
hard cooked eggs; dust these with a little salt and 
pepper. 

Next put in more spaghetti, then more slices of egg, 



;. 







"<:!!?■ 



Egg Recipes 153 

and so on until the dish is full, ending with the spa- 
ghetti. Pour the white sauce over this and sprinkle 
the cheese on it. Put the rest of the butter in Httle 
lumps on the top. 

Bake in a quick oven for ten minutes. Decorate 
with the chopped parsley and sliced eggs. 

EGG AND POTATO PIE 

5 hard cooked eggs 3 tablespoonfuls hot cream 

y2 pint (i cup) white sauce Seasoning salt, pepper, and 
10 boiled potatoes grated nutmeg 

I heaping tablespoonful (i Chopped parsley 
oz.) butter 

Shell the eggs and cut them into sHces not too thin. 
Mash the potatoes and mix them with the butter and 
the cream. Season with salt, pepper, and a very little 
nutmeg. 

Line the bottom of an earthenware dish with this 
and place in it a layer of the sliced eggs, scatter 
some chopped parsley over them, and cover with the 
white sauce. Continue alternate layers of potato, 
egg, sauce, and parsley until the quantities are used. 

Cover the top with the mashed potatoes; smooth 
carefully over and mark with a fork; brush with 
beaten egg; bake for half an hour in a moderately 
hot oven. 



154 Cooking in Casserole Dishes 



EGGS AU GRATIN 

6 hard cooked eggs yi pint (>^ cup) milk 

2 tablespoonfuls grated 3 tablespoonfuls cream 

cheese Salt, red pepper, and white 
I heaping tablespoonful (i pepper to taste 

oz.) flour 2 raw egg yolks 

I heaping tablespoonful (i Toast points 

oz.) butter 

Divide the eggs into halves lengthways and place 
them in a buttered gratin dish. Melt the butter, 
stir in the flour, add the milk, stir till boiling, then 
add one tablespoonful of the cheese and the seasonings. 
Cook for five minutes, remove from the fire, add the 
yolks of eggs, mix well, and pour over the hard cooked 
eggs. Sprinkle with the rest of the cheese and brown 
in the oven. 

Garnish with the toast points and serve hot. 

EGGS AND BACON 



(i 



Fry the bacon, then chop it and put it into a gratin 
dish. Peel the mushrooms and iry them Hghtly in 
butter, chop them, and lay them on the top of the 
bacon, sprinkle in a little salt and pepper. Poach 



yi lb. bacon 


2 tablespoonfuls bread 


% lb. mushrooms 


crumbs 


4 poached eggs 


I heaping tablespoonful 


I tablespoonful finely 


oz.) butter 


chopped parsley 


Salt and pepper 



Egg Recipes 155 

and drain the eggs, and lay them on the top of the 
mushrooms. Put the parsley, butter, and bread 
crumbs on the top and bake for six minutes. 
Serve hot. 

GOLDEN EGGS 

4 hard cooked eggs i heaping tablespoonful (i 
I tablespoonful vinegar oz.) flour 

I egg yolk % pint (i cup) milk 

I heaping tablespoonful (i Salt and pepper 

oz.) butter Some croutons 

Put the vinegar into a casserole and boil it till it 
almost evaporates, then add the butter and the flour, 
mix well, add the milk, stir till it boils, and cook for 
five minutes, stirring all the time ; then add the raw 
yolk of egg, salt and pepper to taste, stir for a few 
minutes longer. Cut the whites of hard boiled eggs 
in strips, add them to the mixture. Turn out on to a 
shallow earthenware dish, rub the yolks through a 
sieve on the top. Put the croutons round the edge. 

SCOTCH WOODCOCK 

3 hard cooked eggs i gill iyi cup) stock 

3 tablespoonfuls grated yi teaspoonful ancho\y ex- 
cheese tract 

I heaping tablespoonful (i Salt, pepper, and red pepper 

oz.) flour I teaspoonful chopped pars- 

I heaping tablespoonful (i ley 

oz.) butter 2 founds buttered toast 

I gill (>^ cup) milk 



156 Cooking in Casserole Dishes 

Place one round of toast in a buttered fireproof dish. 
Chop the whites of the eggs and mix them with one 
tablespoonful of the cheese and seasoning of salt, 
pepper, and red pepper; place the other round of toast 
on the top, put in the oven to keep hot. 

Blend the butter and flour in a saucepan over the 
fire; stir in the milk, stock, anchovy, the remainder 
of the cheese, and seasoning. Cook for a few minutes 
and pour over the toast. 

Divide the toast into squares, garnish with the 
chopped parsley and the yolks of eggs rubbed through 
a sieve. 

Serve hot. 

SCRAMBLED EGGS WITH MUSHROOMS 

4 eggs I tablespoonful cream 

I heaping tablespoonful (i i slice buttered toast 

oz.) butter Salt, pepper, and red pepper 

8 small mushrooms 

Wash and peel the mushrooms, chop them finely, 
and fry them in a httle melted butter. Beat up the 
eggs, and pour them into a saucepan; add the cream, 
mushrooms, butter, and seasonings. Stir over a 
quick fire until the eggs are lightly set. 

Have the toast neatly trimmed ready on a hot fire- 
proof dish, put the egg mixture on the top of it, and 
serve immediately. 



Egg Recipes 157 

SHRIMP EGGS 

6 eggs 2 tablespoonfuls sherry wine 

18 large picked shrimps i pint (2 cups) good thick 
3 heaping tablespoonfuls gravy 

finely chopped cooked A few drops red coloring 

tongue Some parsley 

I tablespoonful cream Salt and pepper 

Butter some small casseroles and break into each 
an egg; put into the oven and let cook, but they must 
not harden. Put the gravy into a saucepan,, add the 
sherry wine, the tongue, and the shrimps, simmer for 
ten minutes, but do not allow it to boil. 

Season nicely, add the cream and red coloring; 
pour over the eggs, place a sprig of parsley in the 
center of each, and serve at once. 

SOUFFLfi OMELET 

6 eggs I tablespoonful cornstarch 

3 heaping tablespoonftds (3 yi teaspoonful rose extract 
ozs.) sugar Some raspberry preserves 

Beat the yolks of the eggs and the sugar thoroughly 
together; then add the cornstarch and the rose extract. 
Add a pinch of salt to the whites of eggs and beat them 
up stiffly. Mix them carefully with the yolks and 
sugar. Turn half of the mixture into a buttered fire- 
proof dish, spread over with raspberry preserves, 
then put the remainder of the mixture on the top^ 



158 Cooking in Casserole Dishes 

smooth over with a knife, dredge with sugar, and make 
a few incisions with the point of a knife, so as to form 
a pretty design. 

Bake in a moderately hot oven for twenty-five 
minutes. 

Place the dish on a folded napkin and send to table 
at once. 

SWISS EGGS 

6 eggs Salt and pepper 

3 tablespoonfuls butter Swiss cheese 

I gill {^2 cup) cream 

Melt the butter in a fireproof baking dish, break 
into it the eggs, cover them with very thin slices of 
Swiss cheese, and sprinkle over a Httle salt and pepper. 

Bake in a moderate oven till the eggs are set and the 
cheese melted. 

VENETIAN EGGS 

3 eggs I heaping tablespoonful (i 

}4 pint (i cup) strained oz.) butter 

tomato juice ^ pint (i cup) grated 

Salt and pepper cheese 

Melt the butter in a casserole, add the grated cheese, 
and stir until melted. Pour in the tomato juice, and 
when this begins to thicken, add the eggs, which have 
been lightly beaten. 

Season with salt and pepper and serve on hot 
toasted crackers. 



SAUCE RECIPES 

" Epicurean cooks sharpen with cloyless sauce his appetite " 



ARROWROOT SAUCE 

2 ozs. (2 heaping table- >2 pint (i cup) water 
spoonfuls) arrowroot >^ pint (i cup) milk 
2 tablespoonfuls sugar i teaspoonful rose extract 

Mix the arrowroot with the water in a small earthen- 
ware pan, add the milk, sugar, and boil for four min- 
utes; add the rose extract or any flavoring preferred. 

BECHAMEL SAUCE 

I pint (2 cups) milk 2 tablespoonfuls butter 

I small carrot i bay leaf 

I celery stalk 12 whole peppers 

1 small onion i gill {yi cup) cream 

2 tablespoonfuls flour Salt and pepper 

Wash and prepare the vegetables, then slice them. 
Put them into an earthenware dish with the milk, 
whole peppers, and bay leaf, and let them cook in it 
until it is well flavored. Melt the butter in another 
pan, stir in the flour smoothly, then strain in the milk, 
and stir it over the fire till it boils; then let it simmer 

159 



i6o Cooking in Casserole Dishes 

for ten minutes. Next strain it, return it to the pan, 
reheat it, season it to taste, and, lastly, add the cream, 
taking care that it does not again reach boiling point. 

BROWN GRAVY 

yi pint (i cup) water i tablespoonful mushroom 

I blade mace ketchup 

I shallot or small onion yi teaspoonful kitchen bou- 

sHced quet 

I heaping teaspoonful flour Salt and pepper 

I oz. (i heaping table- i teaspoonful lemon juice 

spoonful) butter i bay leaf 

% teaspoonful meat ex- i wineglassful port ^vine 

tract 

Melt the butter in a fireproof dish, then fry in it 
the onion or shallot, sliced, add the flour, and brown it 
also, add all the rest of the ingredients except the 
wine, allow to boil for eight minutes, strain, add the 
wine, reheat, but do not allow it to boil, and serve. 

Another method is to pour away all the fat from the 
roasting dish, retaining the brown sediment, add to 
this one cupful of water, one teaspoonful of flour, 
half a teaspoonful of meat extract, seasoning of salt, 
pepper, and celery salt, a few drops of kitchen bouquet ; 
stir till boihng, allow to boil for five minutes, stirring 
ail the time. Strain into an earthenware gravy boat. 

CHOCOLATE SAUCE 

5 squares grated chocolate i gill (>^ cup) milk 

^ lb. (i cup) sugar i teaspoonful vanilla extract 



Sauce Recipes i6i 

Put these ingredients into a fireproof dish over the 
fire; stir until the sugar is dissolved, and boil until 
the mixture forms a soft ball when dropped into ice 
water. 

Serve at once with ice cream. 

CUCUMBER SAUCE 

4 large cucumbers 3 tablespoonfuls tarragon 

I teaspoonful white pepper \inegar 

I grated onion i>^ gills (^ cup) whipping 

1 teaspoonful salt cream 

Peel and grate the cucumbers, which should be 
large and crisp; when the pulp is thoroughly drained, 
turn it into an earthenware bowl; add the pepper, 
the onion, grated, the salt, and vinegar. 

Mix and fold in the whipped cream at serving time. 

CUSTARD SAUCE 

2 eggs I tablespoonful sugar 

I pint (2 cups) milk J/2 teaspoonful vanilla extract 

I tablespoonful cornstarch 

Moisten the cornstarch with a Kttle of the milk, 
add the eggs and the sugar, beat well together, make 
the milk hot, add it to the cornstarch and eggs, stir 
v/ell, return the mixture to the casserole, and let it 
thicken, stirring all the time, but it must not boil or 
it will curdle. 

Add the vanilla extract. 

Serve hot or cold. 



1 62 Cooking in Casserole Dishes 



CURRANT SAUCE 

3 ozs. (3 tablespoonfuls) i oz. (i heaping tablespoon- 

currants fill) butter 

I tablespoonful fine bread i wineglassful port wine 
crumbs i blade mace 

4 cloves 

Wash the currants and put them with the other 
ingredients into a fireproof dish, cook gently for twenty- 
minutes, stirring till smooth, and serve in an earthen- 
ware sauce boat. 

The cloves and mace should be tied in muslin or 
cheesecloth and removed before the sauce is served. 

This sauce is good served with venison. 



EGG SAUCE 

1 yolk hard cooked egg i oz. (i heaping tablespoon- 

2 raw egg yolks ful) butter 

I tablespoonful lemon juice i oz. (i heaping tablespoon- 
I teaspoonful chopped ful) flour 

parsley ^ pint (i cup) milk 

Salt, pepper, and paprika i giU (K cup) stock 

Melt the butter in a fireproof dish, stir in the flour, 
milk, stock, parsley, seasonings, and the hard cooked 
yolk of egg rubbed through a sieve. 

Stir till it boils for three minutes, then remove from 
the fire and stir in the raw yolks of eggs and the lemon 
juice. 



Sauce Recipes 163 



ESPAGNOLE SAUCE 

2 ozs. (2 heaping table- i small onion 

spoonfuls) butter i small slice ham 

2 tablespoonfuls flour i wineglassful sherry wine 

I pint (2 cups) brown stock i gill {}4 cup) tomato sauce 

I carrot Salt and pepper 

1 shallot 

Wash and prepare the vegetables, slice and dice 
them. Heat the butter in a casserole, put in the 
vegetables and ham, then fry them a good brown 
color.^ 

Stir in the flour and brown it slightly, add the stock, 
stir it over the fire till it boils, then add the wine, 
tomato sauce, and salt and pepper to taste. Let it 
come to boiling point, then skim it well, strain it, and 
it is ready for use. 

HARD SAUCE 

4 ozs. (4 heaping table- 2 heaping tablespoonfuls 

spoonfuls) butter chopped almonds 

2 ozs. (2 heaping table- i tablespoonful sherry wine 

spoonfuls) sugar or brandy 

Blanch the almonds and chop them very fine, add 
the wine or brandy. Beat up the butter and sugar to a 
cream, then beat in the almonds. 

Chill and serve in a heap in a dainty ramequin. 



164 Cooking in Casserole Dishes 

HOLLANDAISE SAUCE 

4 egg yolks 2 tablespoonfuls vinegar 

4 ozs. (4 heaping table- i tablespoonf ul cold water 

spoonfuls) sweet Salt to taste 

butter 

Break the eggs into a fireproof dish, beat them up, 
then stir in the water and the vinegar. 

Mix carefully over the fire till it thickens, and be 
careful that it does not curdle. Stir in the butter 
and add the salt. 



HORSERADISH SAUCE 

6 tablespoonfuls grated i tablespoonful vinegar 

horseradish i gill (Jyi cup) whipping 

1 egg yolk cream 
^2 teaspoonful salt 

Mix the horseradish, yolk of egg^ and salt together, 
then add the vinegar and fold in the whipped 
cream. 

If the horseradish is already in vinegar, omit the 
tablespoonful of vinegar and press the horseradish 
until dry. 

LEMON SAUCE 

2 lemons i tablespoonful cornstarch 
I oz. (i heaping table- ^ pint (i cup) water 

spoonful) sugar 



Sauce Recipes 165 

Put the water on to boil in a fireproof dish. Mix 
the cornstarch smoothly and thinly with the strained 
lemon juice. When the water boils, pour in the corn- 
starch and stir till it boils. Now add the sugar and 
the grated rind of the lemons. 

Serve hot in an earthenware sauce boat. 



MAYONNAISE SAUCE 

. % pint (i cup) olive oil }i teaspoonful salt 
I egg yolk Dash of red pepper 

I tablespoonful vinegar % teaspoonful mustard 

I tablespoonful lemon juice 
yi teaspoonful powdered 
sugar 

Mix together in an earthenware bowl the salt, red 
pepper, mustard, and yolk of egg. Beat with a wooden 
spoon until sKghtly thickened. Add the sugar and 
a teaspoonful of lemon juice or vinegar, and when 
well blended with the other ingredients add the olive 
oil gradually, beating constantly. 

When several teaspoonfuls of the oil have been 
added, a small egg-beater may be substituted for the 
wooden spoon, and the oil may be added faster. 

When the mixture becomes too thick to beat 
easily, add a little of the lemon juice or vinegar, then 
more oil,' and so on, alternating until all the in- 
gredients are used. If liked, add more seasonings. 



1 66 Cooking In Casserole Dishes 

MUSHROOM GRAVY 

y^ lb. chopped mushrooms i oz. (i heaping tablespoon- 
I heaping teaspoonful flour ful) butter 

Salt and pepper Salt and pepper to taste 

I slice onion yi teaspoonful meat extract 

1/2 pint (i cup) water 
I tablespoonful mushroom 
ketchup 

Fry the mushrooms, onion, and the flour in the but- 
ter in a fireproof dish for a few minutes, add the season- 
ings, meat extract, mushroom ketchup, and the water; 
boil for eight minutes, stirring occasionally, and serve. 

If preferred, the mushrooms can be rubbed through 
a sieve to press out all the juice; they can then be 
reheated and served. 

ONION SAUCE 

4 onions i oz. (i heaping tablespoon- 

Salt and pepper ful) flour 

I dessertspoonful vinegar K teaspoonful sugar 
I oz. (i heaping table- 2 tablespoonfuls cream 

spoonful) butter 1/2 pint (i cup) milk 

Peel the onions and drop them into plenty of boiling 
salted water, add the vinegar, and boil for a quarter 
of an hour. Drain and rinse them in clean warm water 
and chop them up. Melt the butter in a fireproof 
dish, stir in the flour, then gradually add the milk, 
and stir till they boil; add the sugar, onions, and a 



Sauce Recipes 167 

little salt and pepper; stir till boiling; rub the whole 
through a sieve, reheat, then add the cream and 
serve hot. 

OYSTER SAUCE 

12 oysters i gill {}4 cup) milk 

I tablespoonful butter i gill {}4 cup) stock 

I tablespoonful flour i gill (K cup) cream 

Salt and pepper A few drops lemon juice 

Blend the butter and flour together in a fireproof 
dish, then add gradually the milk and stock and boil 
for five minutes, stirring all the time; add the lemon 
juice,' cream, salt, pepper, and the oysters divided into 
two or four pieces, according to size. 

Do not boil the sauce after the oysters are added. 

PARSLEY SAUCE 

3 tablespoonfuls chopped 2 ozs. (2 heaping tablespoon- 
parsley fuls) butter 
yi pint (i cup) milk i oz. (i heaping tablespoon- 
Pepper and salt to taste ful) flour 

Blend the butter and the flour in a fireproof dish, 
then gradually add the milk, stir till boihng; add the 
seasonings and cook for eight minutes; then add the 
chopped parsley, stir, and serve. 

PLUM SAUCE 

I pint (2 cups) stoned 4 ozs. (4 heaping xablespoon- 

plums fuls) sugar 

I gill (>^ cup) water i teaspoonful lemon extract 



1 68 Cooking in Casserole Dishes 

Put the stoned plums into an earthenware dish, 
add the water and the sugar; stir them over the fire 
until the plums are quite smooth; rub through a sieve, 
add the lemon extract, and serve with any steamed 
pudding. 

PISTACHIO SAUCE 

2 ozs. (2 heaping table- i tablespoonful cream 

spoonfuls) chopped i wineglassful Marsala wine 

pistachio nuts yi teaspoonful pistachio ex- 

I tablespoonful cornstarch tract 

I gill {}/i cup) water 

I oz. (i heaping table- 
spoonful) sugar 

Blanch the pistachio nuts, then pound them till 
smooth. Mix the cornstarch smoothly with the water 
in a fireproof dish, add the pistachio nuts, and let them 
boil, keeping them well stirred. Add the sugar, 
cream, Marsala wine, and pistachio extract. 

Strain the sauce and it is ready. 

SAUCE TARTARS 

}4. pint (i cup) mayon- i tablespoonful chopped 

naise sauce pickles 

I tablespoonful chopped i teaspoonful chopped chives 

parsley i tablespoonful chopped 
I tablespoonful chopped capers 

olives 

Put the mayonnaise dressing into an earthenware 
bowl, then mix in all the other ingredients. 



Sauce Recipes 169 



TOMATO SAUCE 

yi lb. tomatoes or i can of i turnip 

tomatoes 2 ozs. (2 heaping tablespoon- 
I onion fuls) butter 

A bunch sweet herbs i oz. (i heaping tablespoon- 
yi pint (i cup) stock or ful) flour 

water 4 whole peppers 

yi teaspoonful salt Bunch of parsley 

A few drops of red coloring Blade of mace 

I carrot i bay leaf 

Put the butter into a casserole with the carrot, 
turnip, onion, and tomatoes cut up into pieces, add 
the herbs, parsley, bay leaf, whole peppers, and mace, 
and fry for ten minutes, then add the flour, the stock 
or water, salt, and red coloring, stir till boiling, then 
simmer slowly for forty minutes, rub through a sieve, 
reheat, and serve. 

WHITE SAUCE 

I oz. (i heaping table- K pi^t (i cup) milk or water 

spoonful) butter i bay leaf 

I oz. (i heaping table- A few drops lemon juice 

spoonful) flour Salt and pepper to taste 

Blend the butter and the flour together in an 
earthenware dish, then add the milk, bay leaf, and 
salt, stir over the fire until it boils and thickens, 
then remove the bay leaf, season it to taste with salt, 
pepper, and lemon juice, and it is ready. 

To make it a sweet sauce add one tablespoonful 
of sugar and half a teaspoonful of extract. 



CAKE AND BREAD RECIPES 

" 'Tis passing good: I prithee let me have it'' 



APPLE BREAD 

}4 compressed yeast cake 6 ozs. (^ cup) b*itter 
}4 pint (i cup) milk 3 eggs 

I lb. (4 cups) flour Apple sauce 

3 ozs. (3 heaping table- 
spoonfuls) sugar 

At night dissolve the yeast cake in the milk. The 
milk should be heated to boiling point, then cooled to 
lukewarm. Sift the flour into an earthenware basin, 
add the sugar, and rub the butter well into them. 
Add the milk, the eggs well beaten, and beat with a 
wooden spoon until the dough is blistered. 

Cover and set over night in a warm place. The 
next day roll the dough in two cakes, each about half 
an inch thick; spread the lower one with tart apple 
sauce, then butter the other slightly and lay over it, 
and let them rise together in a buttered fireproof dish 
for half an hour. 

Bake in a moderate oven till the bread is ready. 
When taken from the oven spread with more apple 

170 



Cooking in Casserole Dishes 171 

sauce ; dredge with sugar and return to the 'oven to 
glaze. 
Serve hot. 

APPLE SAUCE CAKE 

14 pint (i cup) sour apple i teaspoonful powdered cin- 

sauce namon 

I teaspoonful baking soda % teaspoonful grated nut- 
J^ lb. (i cup) sugar meg 

% lb. {]4 cup) butter or 3 tablespoonfuls warm water 

lard 7 ozs. (i^ cups) flour 

1 saltspoonful salt i cupful Sultana raisins 
% teaspoonful powdered 

cloves 

Cream the butter and sugar together, add the salt, 
spices, raisins, cleaned, the soda dissolved in the warm 
water, apple sauce,'and the flour. Beat all thoroughly 
together and pour into a buttered and floured shallow 
casserole. 

Bake in a moderate oven for forty-five minutes. 

BRANDY CAKE 

6 ozs. {yi cup) butter 3 gills (i>^ cups) milk 

12 ozs. {11/2 cups) sugar ' 2 heaping teaspoonfuls bak- 

2 eggs ing powder 

Yi, lb. (3 cups) flour I gill (>^ cup) brandy 

Beat the butter and sugar to a cream, then add the 
yolks of the eggs, beating them well in, the milk, flour, 
baking powder, brandy, and the wliites of eggs beaten 
stiffly. ■ 



172 Cake and Bread Recipes 

Turn into a buttered and floured fireproof dish and 
bake in a moderate oven for three-quarters of an hour. 



CHEESE CAKE 

4 ozs. (K cup) butter >2 pint (i cup) milk 

1 lb. (2 cups) sugar 2 lbs. pot cheese 
4 eggs I lemon 

4 ozs. (i cup) flour Pastry- 

Line a well-buttered casserole with pie crust. Beat 
the butter and sugar to a cream, then beat in the 
yolks of the eggs, add the flour, milk, cheese, grated 
lemon rind, and the stiffly beaten whites of the eggs. 
Bake for fifty minutes in a moderate oven. Allow 
it to cool in the casserole. Dust thickly over with 
powdered sugar. 

CHOCOLATE CAKE 

4 ozs. (>2 cup) butter i gill (^ cup) boiling water 

12 ozs. (i^ cups) sugar i teaspoonful vanilla extract 

2 eggs yi teaspoonful rose extract 
I gill {yi cup) sour milk >^ lb. (2 cups) flour 

. I square chocolate i teaspoonful baking soda 

Cream the butter and sugar together, then add the 
eggs well beaten, the milk, the chocolate dissolved in 
the boiling water, the extracts, the flour, and the soda. 

Mix carefuUy, turn into a shallow buttered and 
floured earthenware dish in a moderate oven for three- 
quarters of an hour. 



Cooking in Casserole Dishes 173 

COCOA SPONGE CAKE 

2 ozs. (>4 cup) cocoa i teaspoonfiil powdered dn- 

3 eggs namon 

I gill {^2 cup) cold water yi teaspoonful salt 

1 teaspoonful vanilla ex- 7 ozs. (i^ cups) flour 

tract }i teaspoonful grated nut- 

2 teaspoonfuls baking meg 

powder 12 ozs. {1}^ cups) sugar 

Beat up the yolks of the eggs till light, then add the 
water, sugar, and vanilla. Mix together the flour, 
nutmeg, cocoa, cinnamon, salt, and baking powder, 
then add them to the sugar. Fold in the whites of 
eggs stiffly beaten and bake in a quick oven in a 
buttered earthenware dish till ready. 

COFFEE BREAD 

}4 pint (i cup) scalded i compressed yeast cake 

milk ; 4 I gill (>2 cup) warm milk 

4 ozs. (J/2 cup) butter i egg 

4 ozs. {% cup) sugar i cupful Sultana raisins 

}4. teaspoonful salt Flour 

Scald the milk, add the butter, sugar, and salt to 
it; when lukewarm, add the'yeast cake dissolved in the 
lukewarm milk, the egg well beaten, the raisins, and 
enough sifted flour to make a stiff batter. 

Turn into a well-buttered casserole, cover, and allow 
to rise overnight. In the morning spread in another 
buttered fireproof dish, cover, and allow to rise again. 



174 Cake and Bread Recipes 

Before baking, brush over with a beaten egg, and 
cover with the following mixture: Melt three table- 
spoonfuls of butter, add one-third of a cupful of sugar 
and one teaspoonful of powdered cinnamon. When 
the sugar is almost melted, add three heaping table- 
spoonfuls of flour. 

Bake in a hot oven for thirty-five minutes. 

CORN BREAD 

3 gills (i>^ cups) yeUow >^ teaspoonful baking soda 

corn meal i teaspoonful salt 

^ pint (i cup) sweet milk 2 eggs 
^ pint (i cup) buttermilk 

Mix the milks, soda, salt, and the eggs well beaten, 
then beat them into the meal. 

Butter a casserole, set it in the oven till hot, pour 
in the batter to the depth of three-quarters of an inch, 
and bake in a hot oven till ready. 

CURRANT CAKE 

6 ozs. (6 heaping'table- 2 teaspoonf uls baking powder 

spoonfuls) cleaned 4 eggs 

currants K cupful chopped nuts 

I lb. (4 cups) flour ]/2 lb. (i cup) butter 

4 ozs. (4 heaping table- i teaspoonful lemon extract 

spoonfuls) sugar Pinch of salt 

Beat the butter and sugar to a cream, then add the 
eggs one by one. Mix thoroughly, then sift in the 



Cooking in Casserole Dishes 175 

flour, salt, and baking powder, then add the currants, 
nuts, and lemon extract, and mix gently. 

Pour into a buttered and floured earthenware dish 
and bake in a moderate oven for one hour. 

DATE CAKE 

1 lb. dates, stoned and i gill {yi cup) boiling water 

halved i lb. chopped walnut meats 

j4 lb. (i cup) butter 2 cupfuls Sultana raisins 

}4 lb. (i cup) sugar }4 lb. (2 cups) flour 

2 eggs I teaspoonful almond extract 
I teaspoonful baking soda 

Beat the butter and sugar together until creamy, 
then add the eggs well beaten. Dissolve the soda 
in the boihng water, then add it with the nuts, fruit, 
extract, and flour. Mix thoroughly, turn into a 
buttered and floured fireproof dish, and bake in a 
moderate oven for one hour. 

DUTCH APPLE CAKE 

Apples, cored and sliced 4 ozs. (4 heaping tablespoon- 

I oz. (i heaping table- fuls) sugar 

spoonful) butter, K lb. (2 cups) flour 

melted }i teaspoonful salt 

3 eggs 2 heaping teaspoonfuls bak- 

I teaspoonful lemon ex- ing powder 

tract }4 pint (i cup) milk 

Separate the yolks from the whites of the eggs, 
add to the yolks the melted butter, milk, salt, and 
sifted flour. Beat till smooth, then add the baking 



176 Cake and Bread Recipes 

powder, lemon extract, and fold in the stiffly beaten 
whites of the eggs. 

Pour into a well-greased casserole, cover with the 
apples, and bake in a hot oven for half an hour. 

Serve hot with sweet sauce flavored with lemon ex- 
tract or with cream. 

FRUIT CAKE 

J^ lb. (i cup) butter yi teaspoonful powdered 

\yi lbs. (3 cups) sugar mace 

6 eggs I lb. currants 

I pint (2 cups) sour cream i lb. Sultana raisins 

I teaspoonful soda yi lb. chopped citron peel 

^yi lbs. (7 cups) flour I lemon 

I grated nutmeg i teaspoonful rose extract 



teaspoonful salt 



Cream the butter and sugar together, add gradually 
the yolks of the eggs well beaten, the soda mixed with 
the cream, flour, salt, spices, grated rind and strained 
lemon juice, the chopped citron peel, currants, rose 
extract, raisins, and the whites of eggs beaten stifily. 

Mix carefully, turn into a large buttered casserole, 
and bake for two and a half hours in a steady oven. 

FUDGE CAKE 

4 ozs. {% cup) butter 2% teaspoonfuls baking 

>^ lb. (i cup) sugar powder 

2 eggs 2 ozs. melted unsweetened 

I gill (>2 cup) milk chocolate 

6 ozs. {lyi cups) flour yi teaspoonful vanilla extract 



Cooking in Casserole Dishes 177 

Cream the butter and sugar together, then add the 
yolks of eggs well beaten, the whites stiffly beaten, 
milk, flour, baking powder, chocolate, and extracts. 

Mix well and pour into a buttered and floured 
shallow casserole. Bake for forty minutes in a 
moderate oven. When cold, cover with any good 
white frosting. 

HICKORY NUT CAKE 

13/2 cupfuls hickory nut yi pint (i cup) buttermilk 

meats i teaspoonful baking soda 

I lb. (2 cups) sugar i lb. (4 cups) sifted flour , 

>2 lb. (i cup) butter ^ teaspoonful salt 

3 eggs I teaspoonful almond extract 

Cream the butter and sugar together, then add the 
eggs well beaten, the salt, extract, the soda dissolved 
in the buttermilk, flour, and the nuts chopped. 

Mix carefully and pour into a buttered and floured 
casserole and bake in a moderate oven for one hour. 



IMPERIAL CAKE 

1 lb. (2 cups) butter y^ lb. {yi cup) preserved 
I lb. (2 cups) sugar cherries 

10 eggs I gill (>^ cup) cream 

i>^ lbs. (5 cups) flour 2 teaspoonfuls baking powder 

3 ozs. (3 heaping table- i teaspoonful pistachio ex- 
spoonfuls) blanched tract 
and halved pistachio 
nuts 
L 



178 Cake and Bread Recipes 

Beat the butter and sugar to a cream, then beat 
in the yolks of the eggs one by one, add the cream, 
flour, baking powder, the nuts, cherries, extract, and 
whites of eggs beaten to a stiff froth. 

Mix carefully, turn into a buttered and floured 
casserole, and bake in a moderate oven for one and a 
half hours. 

MOTHER'S CAKE 

iK cups (^ pint) yellow i teaspoonful baking powder 

corn meal }4 teaspoonful salt 

2 ozs. {}i cup) sugar i teaspoonful baking soda 

3 gills (ij^ cups) sour milk i tablespoonful melted butter 
2 ozs. {]/2 cup) flour or lard 

Put the sugar into a basin, add the corn meal, 
flour, baking powder, salt, soda, and the milk. Beat 
well, then add the melted butter or lard and pour into 
a buttered and floured shallow earthenware dish. 

Bake in a moderate oven for thirty-five minutes. 



POTATO CAKE 


6 ozs. (^ cup) butter 


}4 pint (i cup) English 


I lb. (2 cups) sugar 


walnut meats 


J/2 lb. (2 cups) flour 


2 teaspoonfuls baking powder 


3^ pint (i cup) hot mashed 


I teaspoonful powdered cloves 


potatoes 


I teaspoonful powdered cinna- 


I gill (K cup) milk 


mon 


J^ cupful melted chocolate 


J^ teaspoonful grated nutmeg 




4 eggs 



Cooking in Casserole Dishes 179 

Beat the butter and sugar to a cream, then add the 
potatoes, milk, chocolate, yolks of eggs well beaten, 
flour, baking powder, cloves, nutmeg, cinnamon, 
and whites of eggs beaten to a stiff froth. 

Mix all together, then add the chopped nuts. Turn 
into a buttered and floured casserole, and bake in a 
moderate oven for forty-five minutes. 

SOFT GINGERBREAD 

6 ozs. (^ cup) butter 2 teaspoonfuls powdered cin- 
6 ozs. (^ cup) sugar namon 

Yz pint (i cup) milk (sour yi teaspoonful grated nut- 
preferred) meg 

Y pint (i cup) molasses i teaspoonful baking soda 
2 eggs 3 tablespoonfuls hot water 
2 teaspoonfuls powdered 11 ozs. (2^ cups) flour 

ginger 

Cream the butter and the sugar together, then add 
the eggs well beaten, milk, molasses, spices, flour, and 
the soda dissolved in the hot water. Mix well, turn 
into a buttered and floured shallow earthenware dish. 

Bake in a moderate oven for three-quarters of an 
hour. 

SPICE CAKE 

4 ozs. {yi cup) butter yi teaspoonful powdered 
4 ozs. {yi cup) sugar ginger 

Y lb. (2 cups) flour ^'2 teaspoonful powdered 
i>^ teaspoonfuls baking cinnamon 

powder Some lemon marmalade 

X egg 



i8o Cake and Bread Recipes 

Rub the butter finely into the flour, add the sugar, 
baking powder, and spices. Beat up the egg, add it 
gradually, making the dry ingredients into a stiff 
paste. Knead it a Httle on a floured baking board, 
divide it into two pieces, roll them out, and line a 
greased fireproof plate with one of them, spread over 
with the marmalade, spread the other piece on the 
top, and pinch it neatly round the edges. 

Bake in a hot oven for half an hour. 

RAISIN BREAD 



i}4 pints (3 cups) yellow 


I teaspoonful baking soda 


corn meal 


I gill {}i cup) hot water 


^ pint {i}4 cups) Graham 


I teaspoonful salt 


flour 


^ pint {1% cups) Sultana 


^ pint (i>^ cups) white 


raisins 


flour 


Sour milk 


y^ pint (i cup) molasses 





Put the corn meal into a basin, add the flours, 
raisins, salt, the soda mixed with the molasses and 
water; make into a soft batter with the sour milk. 

Fill a buttered casserole half full with the mixture, 
cover, and steam for three hours. 



PICKLE RECIPES 

" What relish is this ? " 



APPLE RELISH 



7 lbs. apples 

2 lbs. Sultana raisins 

I pint (2 cups) vinegar 
3J^ lbs. sugar 

3 lemons 



2 tablespoonfuls orange 
flower water 

1 teaspoonful powdered 

cloves 

2 teaspoonfuls powdered 

cinnamon 



Clean the raisins and put them into an earthenware 
pan with the orange flower water, the strained lemon 
juice, sugar, vinegar, spices, and apples chopped, 
i Cook steadily for thirty minutes. Divide into jars 
and cover. 

CHUTNEY 



I lb. dried peaches 
I lb. dried apricots 

1 lb. dates 

2 lbs. Sultana raisins 
J^ lb. currants 

2 lbs. sugar 

^ pint (1^ cups) vinegar 
I heaping tablespoonful (i 
oz.) salt 



I tablespoonful red pepper 
I tablespoonful powdered cin- 
namon 

1 tablespoonful powdered 

cloves 

2 tablespoonfuls chopped 

garlic 



1 82 Cooking in Casserole Dishes 

Wash the peaches and apricots, cover them with 
cold water, and soak for twelve hours; put them into 
an earthenware dish, add the dates, seeded and cut 
into small pieces, add one cupful of cold water, and 
stew till they are soft. Add all the other ingredients 
and simmer for twenty minutes, stirring frequently. 

CORN RELISH 

1 8 ears corn i head celery 

2 lbs. sugar 3 pints (6 cups) vinegar 

1 firm cabbage i teaspoonful turmeric 

5 large sliced onions i teaspoonful dry mustard 

3 red peppers 

Cut the corn from the ears, put it into an earthen- 
ware pan, add the spices, vinegar, and the vegetables 
chopped. 

Cook for twenty minutes, then can and cover. 

CUCUMBER MANGOES 

6 large cucumbers 4 blades mace 

2 ozs. mustard seeds 2 ozs. salt 

2 ozs. chopped garlic i oz. mustard 

2 quarts (8 cups) vinegar i oz. scraped horseradish 

I oz. white whole peppers % cupful currants 
I oz. bruised ginger 

Cut each of the cucumbers into two equal parts. 
Extract the pulp, and add to it the mustard seeds, 
currants, and chopped garhc. Fill the cavities with 
this mixture, and arrange the cucumbers on their 



Pickle Recipes 183 

ends in two large earthenware dishes. Put the vine- 
gar into a pan, add the whole peppers, ginger, mace, 
and salt, and boil for five minutes. Pour over the 
cucumbers wliile hot. Reboil the vinegar each day 
for a week, and pour it over the pickle, but on the 
last occasion add the mustard and the horseradish. 
Cover the pickle closely and set aside for a month. 

INDIA RELISH 

6 green tomatoes i teaspoonful cinnamon 

1 red pepper i teaspoonful turmeric 

2 green peppers i saltspoonful cloves 

2 onions i saltspoonful allspice 

1 2 medium sized cucumbers i pint (2 cups) hot vinegar 

Salt 2 tablespoonfuls white mus- 
I pint (2 cups) vinegar tard seeds 

]/2 pint (i cup) water 2 tablespoonfuls powdered 

3 tablespoonfuls sugar mint 

Slice the tomatoes and remove as many of the seeds 
as possible. Take the seeds also from the peppers 
and chop them with the onions. Slice the cucumbers 
into a stoneware jar. Cover them with salt and let 
them stand for twenty-four hours. Drain, pour the 
cold vinegar and one cupful of water over them, bring 
slowly to a scald, and drain again. Mix the sugar, 
cinnamon, turmeric, cloves, and allspice together 
with a little cold \'inegar. Put the mustard seeds, 
spices, and vegetables into the hot \anegar and boil 
for twenty-five minutes, stirring almost constantly. 



184 Cooking in Casserole Dishes 

Pour into small jars, lay a nasturtium leaf over the 
top, and seal. 

LEMON PICKLE 

1 2 large lemons i tablespoonful powdered all- 
14. cupful salt spice 

8 garlic cloves i teaspoonful red pepper 

I tablespoonful powdered 4 heaping tablespoonfuls 

mace mustard 

I tablespoonful grated K gallon vinegar 

nutmeg 

Wash and dry the lemons, and cut each one into 
eight pieces. Place them in an earthenware pan with 
the salt, garlic, mace, nutmeg, red pepper, allspice, 
and mustard; add the vinegar, and bring the pickle 
gradually to the boil. 

Simmer for half an hour, tften pour it into a large 
stoneware jar, and stir it daily for a month, after 
which time place it in small glass jars and cover 
securely. 

LIME RELISH 

12 thin-skinned limes X pint {% cup) water 

yi pint (i cup) vinegar 12 ozs. (i^ cups) sugar 

Wash the limes and soak them in cold water for 
twenty-four hours, changing the water several times. 
In the morning put them in an earthenware dish over 
the fire, cover with cold water, and boil till a straw 
can penetrate them easily. 



Pickle Recipes 185 

Let cool, cut in eighths, and remove the seeds. Put 
the sugar, vinegar, and water into a casserole, allow it 
to boil for twenty minutes, then pour it over the limes. 

Pour into jars and seal. This is very good with 
fish or cold meats. 

MIXED PICKLES 

I gallon vinegar % oz. red pepper 

% lb. bruised ginger yi lb. unmixed mustard 

yi lb. mustard seed 2 ozs.' turmeric 

^ lb. salt Vegetables in season 

I oz. black pepper % oz. mace 

Take a large earthenware jar or casserole that will 
hold two gallons, and put the vinegar into it; add the 
ginger and mustard seeds. Pound together the salt, 
peppers, mace, mustard, and turmeric. Make them 
into a paste by adding a little vinegar, then add it 
to the vinegar in the jar, taking care to mix it 
thoroughly. 

Cover the jar tightly, and keep it in a warm place 
for a month, stirring it every day with a wooden spoon. 
Gather different vegetables as they come in season, 
and prepare them by cutting them into neat pieces 
and scalding them in strong brine, which should be 
boiling hot. The different pieces must be drained 
and left to get quite dry before putting them into the 
pickle. When all the vegetables that are wished for 
are added, put the pickles into earthenware jars or 
dishes and cover carefully so as to exclude the air. 



1 86 Cooking in Casserole Dishes 



PICCALILLI 

2 heads sound white cab- 
bage 4 green peppers 
2 heads cauliflower 4 red peppers 
I teaspoonful gi'ound ginger 4 dozen small cucumbers 
I teaspoonful white pepper 3 quarts small green string beans 

1 teaspoonful powdered % peck green tomatoes 

mace i bunch celery 

Vinegar 6 large white onions 

Tie the spices in a muslin bag. Chop the vege- 
tables, sprinkle with salt, allow to stand for three 
hours, then drain and squeeze out. Cover with hot 
vinegar, add the spice bag, and allow to stand until 
the next morning. Reheat the vinegar and pour it 
over the pickle; do this for three days, then keep in 
an earthenware dish tightly covered. 

PICKLED BEETS 

7 beets I bay leaf 

2 pints (4 cups) vinegar i blade mace 
14. oz. whole ginger 1 2 cloves 

yi oz. whole peppers 

Wash the beets carefully, taking care not to break 
the fibres, or they will bleed and lose their color. 
Boil them in plenty of boiling salted water for one 
and a half hours. Take them up, peel and cut them 
in slices an eighth of an inch thick, and put them into 
a stoneware jar. Boil one pint of the vinegar with 



Pickle Recipes 187 

the whole peppers, bay leaf, mace, cloves, ginger, 
and, when boiled for five minutes, add to it the other 
pint of cold vinegar. Strain over the beets in the 
jars; cover when cold. 

PICKLED CHERRIES 

7 lbs. red cherries 1% ozs. whole cloves 

3K^lbs. sugar 2>^ ozs. stick cinnamon 

K pint (i cup) vinegar 

Wipe the cherries, then stone and drain them. Tie the 
spices in a muslin bag and heat them with the vinegar. 

When boiling, pour the vinegar over the cold cher- 
ries. Keep draining off and heating for four days. 

Then heat all together in a casserole and seal. 

PICKLED EGG-PLANT 

Egg-plants Sugar 

Lemon Mixed spices 

Vinegar 

Peel egg-plants into inch thick slices and soak them 
in salted water for three hours. Drain and place in 
water, add a little lemon juice, and leave for three 
hours. Drain and pour over the slices some hot 
spiced vinegar, allowing one cupful of sugar and one 
and a half tablespoonfuls of mixed spices to one 
quart of vinegar. 

Place the egg-plant slices in stoneware jars, bring 
the vinegar to boiling point, and add it. Cover and seal, 



1 88 Cooking in Casserole Dishes 



PICKLED ONIONS 

Small button onions i tablespoonful sugar 

Salt water i teaspoonful salt 

1 quart (4 cups) vinegar i teaspoonful allspices 

2 blades mace 8 cloves 

2 bay leaves i teaspoonful v/hole peppers 

Take the onions, remove the outer skin with the 
fingers and the second skin with a silver knife, throw 
them into salt water, allowing them to remain for 
twenty-four hours. Then put them on the fire in an 
earthenware pan with fresh salt water and let them 
come to a boil. Remove from the fire, pour off the 
water, put the onions into a large stoneware jar, and 
pour over the hot vinegar, which has been previously 
scalded, with the spices. When spices are used, they 
should be put into a small cheese-cloth bag and thrown 
into the vinegar; this obviates the necessity of 
straining. 

PICKLED OYSTERS 

200 large oysters 4 teaspoonfuls salt 

^ pint (i cup) vinegar i teaspoonful white pepper 

I pint (2 cups) white wine }4 teaspoonful powdered 

mace 

Strain the liquor from the oysters, add to it the 
above ingredients, then put into an earthenware jar 
and allow to boil up. Pour while boiling hot over the 
oysters, and let them stand for a quarter of an hour; 



Pickle Recipes 189 

then pour the liquor off and let both oysters and 
liquor get cold. 

Put the oysters into a jar, add the liquor, and cover 
tightly. They will keep for some time. 



PICKLED PEACHES 

% peck peaches 3 pints (6 cups) sugar 

yi pint (i cup) vinegar A few cloves 

yi pint (i cup) water 

Do not pare the peaches, but wipe them carefully 
with a clean cloth. Divide them into three equal 
parts. The peaches should not be too ripe. Bring 
the vinegar, the sugar, and water to boiling point in 
an earthenware dish, then put in one- third of the 
peaches, and cook for twenty minutes; remove them 
to a platter, then put in another third of the peaches, 
till each part has cooked for twenty minutes. 

Stick two cloves into each peach, put them into dry 
jars, cover with the boiling syrup, and seal at once. 

PICKLED PLUMS 

Plums I oz. allspice 

Salt I oz. cloves 

I quart (4 cups) vinegar i oz. whole peppers 

I tablespoonful sugar i shallot 

I oz. white ginger 6 chUlies 

Choose young green plums and wipe them well; 
now put a layer of salt into an earthenware dish, 
then a layer of the plums, and repeat these layers 
until the dish is full, being careful to end with the 



I90 Cooking in Casserole Dishes 

salt. Leave this for four days, then lift out the fruit, 
drain well, and dry it in the sun, turning it constantly 
for three days. 

Put the vinegar and the spices into a saucepan; 
bring them to boiling point and simmer for ten min- 
utes; then strain and leave till cold. Pour on the 
fruit and bottle it. 

PICKLED RED CABBAGE 

I large red cabbage i teaspoonful red pepper 

Salt I quart (4 cups) vinegar 

Bring the vinegar to the boiling point and cool it; 
stir the red pepper into it. Quarter the cabbage, 
remove the stalk, pull the leaves apart, and wash it 
thoroughly. 

Cut the leaves into thin shreds, arrange them on an 
earthenware dish, sprinkle a handful of salt over them, 
and allow to stand in a cool place for twelve hours. 

Drain the cabbage, dry it in a cloth, and pack it in 
stoneware jars. Fill the jars with the vinegar so that 
the pickle is well covered, and tie down. 

PICKLED WALNUTS 

I peck hulled walnuts 2 tablespoonfuls black pepper 

Vinegar i pint (2 cups) grated horse- 

yi lb. cloves radish 

4 tablespoonfuls mustard 2 pepper pods 
seeds 2 sliced onions 

I garlic clove 



Pickle Recipes 191 

Gather the walnuts while soft enough to run a pin 
through them; put them into an earthenware pan, 
cover them with water, and boil till the hull comes off 
easily. 

Put them into a tub of cold water; hull them, then 
wash them and put them into jars. Pour moderately 
strong salt and water over them and let them remain 
in this for a week, changing the brine once during this 
time. At the end of this time scald them in weak 
vinegar, and let them remain in this for four days; 
then pour it off, cover them with cold vinegar, and 
add all the seasonings. Keep well covered. 

SHALLOT PICKLE 

Shallots 4 allspices 

I quart (4 cups) vinegar A pinch of red pepper 

1 blade mace 6 whole white peppers 

2 cloves 2 saltspoonfuls salt 

Put the vinegar and the spices into an earthenware 
pan and boil them for five minutes. Strain and leave 
to cool. 

Skin and divide up the shallots^ place them in 
perfectly dry pickle jars, fill up the jars with the 
vinegar. 

Cover and leave for two months before using. 



192 Cooking In Casserole Dishes 



TOMATO CHUTNEY 

21/2. lbs. tomatoes 4 heaping tablespoonfuls (4 

I lb. apples ' ozs.) brown sugar 

I large onion 2 heaping tablespoonfuls (2 

1 pint (2 cups) vinegar ozs.) ground ginger 

2 tablespoonfuls salt i tablespoonful mustard seed 

Skin and slice the tomatoes into an earthenware 
dish, add the apples and onion finely chopped, add 
the vinegar and salt, and stew until soft; then rub 
through a sieve, stir in the sugar, ginger, mustard 
seed, and cook gently for half an hour. 

Cover the jar and leave in a warm place for three 
days; then divide into wide-necked bottles, cork 
tightly, and store in a cool place. 



PRESERVE RECIPES 

"Things sweet to taste " 



APPLE JAM 

Apples Water 

Sugar Lemon 

Peel, quarter, and core the apples, then put them 
into an earthenware pan with enough water to cover 
and the rind and strained juice of the lemon. 

Bring them to the boiling point, stir the whole round, 
take out the apples, and set them to cool. When cold, 
put the apples into a thin syrup made of half a pound 
of sugar to every pound of fruit, and enough water to 
dissolve the sugar; allow them to boil for ten minutes, 
keeping it all well skimmed. 

Remove the pan and let the whole cool, then set 
the pan over the fire and let it all simmer carefully 
until the fruit looks quite clear. When cool, put into 
jars and cover. 

BLACK CURRANT JELLY 

Black currants Water 

Raspberries Sugar 

To every four pounds of black currants allow one 
M 193 



194 Cooking in Casserole Dishes 

pound of raspberries. Pluck the roughest of the 
stalks from the currants, and the stems and the leaves 
from the raspberries, and put them into a fireproof 
dish with half a pint of water. Boil them for ten 
minutes after they have begun to simmer. Then 
squeeze out all the juice that can be got quite clear 
and free from specks. Measure it, allow one pound 
of sugar to each pint of juice, and a pound over if 
there are more than four pints, half a poimd if under 
that quantity. 

Put it on the fire, and stir till the sugar is all melted; 
then bring it to the boil, and allow it to bubble for ten 
minutes. Skim it, if necessary, and pot it. 

It should be kept in a cool, dry place after being 
fastened down so as to be air-tight. 

CRANBERRY PRESERVE 

I quart cranberries % teaspoonful carbonate of 

I pint (2 cups) water soda 

Sugar 

Pick over the berries, put them into an earthenware 
pot with the water, and cook slowly for one hour, 
stirring occasionally. Draw the pan to the side of the 
stove, and add the soda. Stir well, and carefully 
remove all scum as it rises. Then rub through a 
sieve, and to every cupful of the puree add one cup- 
ful of sugar. Return to the pan and cook gently 
for half an hour. 

Put into jars and seal. 



Preserve Recipes 195 

CURRANT BAR-LE-DUC 

Red or white currants Sugar 

Secure the largest sized currants, red or white, and 
stem them without breaking. To each pound allow 
three pounds of sugar. Take some currants and 
bruise them while warm until a pint of juice is ob- 
tained. Put half a cupful of this into an earthenware 
dish and add the sugar. Bring slowly to boiling point 
and skim carefully. 

After it has been boiling for five minutes drop in 
one pound of the currants and simmer for four min- 
utes. Lift them out without breaking them, and 
boil the syrup down for five minutes, or longer if it 
is not very thick. Skim well and strain over the 
fruit. Put into little jelly glasses and when cold 
cover with hot paraffin. 

FIG AND RHUBARB JAM 

4 ibs. rhubarb i lb. figs 

3 lbs. sugar >< pint (^ cup) water 

2 lemons 

Wash and dry the rhubarb and figs and cut them 
into small pieces; put them into an earthenware jar 
or casserole, add the sugar, the strained lemon juice, 
and the water. Simmer for forty minutes. Seal in 
jars. 

This excellent preserve keeps well. 



196 Cooking in Casserole Dishes 

GINGER PEARS 

10 lbs. pears 4 lemons 

I lb. crystallized ginger 6 oranges 

7 lbs. sugar 

Peel the pears, cut them into small pieces, put them 
into an earthenware pan with the sugar, and simmer 
for one hour. Add the strained orange and lemon 
juice and the ginger cut into small pieces, and allow 
to simmer for two and a half hours. 

Divide into glasses and cover. 

GRAPE CONSERVE 

5 lbs. grapes i lb. shelled walnuts 

5 lbs. sugar 3 juicy oranges 

I lb. raisins 

Remove the stems, skins, and seeds from the grapes, 
then cook the pulp in a casserole till tender and press 
it through a sieve. Boil the yellow skins of the oranges 
until tender, then chop fine. 

Put them into an earthenware pan with the grape 
pulp, add the strained orange juice, sugar, raisins, 
and walnuts. Boil until quite thick; put into glasses 
and seal. 

GREEN-GAGE JAM 

Green-gages Water 

Lump sugar 

Stone the green-gages, and add some of the kernels 



Preserve Recipes 197 

to the fruit. Allow six pounds of lump sugar and one 
quart of water to every six pounds of green-gages, 
weighed after stoning. Heat the sugar on a baking 
sheet in the oven, then add it to the water and allow 
to boil for eight minutes, then add the fruit, and boil 
gently in a casserole for three-quarters of an hour. 
Pour into glass jars and seal. 



LEMON MARMALADE 

3 lbs. lemons 2 oranges 

2 quarts (8 cups) water Sugar 

Wipe the lemons and the oranges carefully. Pare 
the skin very thinly from the lemons and the oranges, 
and cut them up into slender chips. Put the chips 
on to boil in a saucepan, with three cupfuls of the 
water, allow to cook for forty minutes. Now take 
all the white part from the lemons and the oranges 
and cut up all the pulp roughly; put this into 
a large casserole or earthenware dish with the re- 
mainder of the water to cook slowly for one and a 
quarter hours. Stir it frequently; then strain it 
through a hot jelly bag without pressure. Add the 
chips and the liquid to the strained juice. Now 
measure this Uquid, and for each cupful allow one 
pound of sugar. Return to the casserole, and boil 
slowly for half an hour. 

Put into jars and seal for use. 



198 Cooking in Casserole Dishes 

PRESERVED HUCKLEBERRIES 

Huckleberries Lemons 

Sugar 

Wash and drain the huckleberries, then weigh, 
and to each pound allow three-quarters of a pound of 
sugar and the strained juice of half a lemon. Sprinkle 
one-half of the sugar over the- berries and stand aside 
overnight. In the morning drain off the juice into 
a casserole, add the remaining sugar and the lemon 
juice, add half a pint of water, stir over the fire till 
the sugar is dissolved, bring quickly to boihng point, 
skim, add the berries, and simmer gently until they 
are tender. 

Put into glasses and seal. 

PRESERVED CARROTS 

5 lbs. carrots Lemons 

Sugar Almond extract 

Almonds 

Wash, but do not scrape, five pounds of young 
carrots, boil them till tender in boihng salted water, 
then drain, peel, and mash to a fine pulp. To every 
pound of the pulp allow one and a half pounds of sugar, 
six blanched and shredded almonds, the grated rind 
and strained juice of two lemons, and half a teaspoon- 
ful of almond extract. Put the pulp and sugar into 
an earthenware pan and cook together for a quarter 
of an hour; remove from the fire and add the almonds, 



Preserve Recipes 199 

the lemon juice, and rind. Return to the fire, add the 
almond extract, and cook for five minutes longer. 
When cool, put in jars and seal. 

PRUNE MARMALADE 

2% lbs. large prunes -i lemon 

6 large apples 2 tablespoonfuls orange 

^ lb. (i cup) sugar flower water 

Wash the prunes and soak them over night in cold 
water. Steam or stew gently until tender. Set 
aside until cool enough to handle; then remove the 
stones. Return to the fire, add the apples, pared, 
cored, and sliced, sugar, strained lemon juice, and 
orange flower water. 

Cook slowly to a marmalade in a casserole, stirring 
occasionally that the mixture may be smooth. 

Can at once. 

PUMPKIN PRESERVE 

Pumpkin i teaspoonful powdered 

1 lb. (2 cups) sugar ginger 

2 lemons Water 

Peel, slice, and remove the seeds from the pumpkin, 
then weigh it. For each pound take one pound 
of sugar. Lay the pumpkin in a large earthenware 
dish, and sprinkle the sugar between the layers. 
Moisten the sugar with the strained lemon juice, 
cover with a cloth, and leave for three days. Place 



200 Cooking in Casserole Dishes 

in an earthenware pan, adding half a pint of water 
for each three pounds of sugar, the ginger, and the 
grated rind of one lemon. Simmer till quite tender, 
and turn into a large bowl. 

Cover and leave for six days. Lay the slices of 
pumpkin in dry jars, boil the syrup until it thickens, 
pour into the jars, and tie down immediately. 

QUINCE MARMALADE 

Quinces Cold water 

Sugar 

Wipe the quinces with a damp cloth, but do not 
peel them; cut them in slices and put them into an 
earthenware pan with enough cold water to float them. 
Boil them till quite tender and the fruit is reduced to 
a pulp, then rub through a sieve. Weigh the pulp, 
and allow three-quarters of a pound of lump sugar to 
every pound. 

Place the whole on the fire and keep it well stirred 
from the bottom of the pan with a wooden spoon until 
reduced to a marmalade. Drop a Httle on a cold 
plate; if it jellies, you will know that it is ready. 
Divide into glass jars while hot; let it stand till cold, 
then seal. 

RASPBERRY JAM 

Raspberries Sugar 

Take equal quantities of raspberries and sugar. 
The raspberries must be ripe and dry. Put them into 



Preserve Recipes 201 

a casserole and then place them in a hot oven; put the 
sugar on a baking sheet and put it also in a hot oven. 

When quite hot and beginning to run, take it out 
and stir it among the raspberries until all the sugar is 
dissolved; let the preserve remain in the oven for 
fifteen minutes, then take it out and pour into jars. 

This preserve is excellent both in flavor and color, 
and will keep for one year. 

TOMATO PRESERVE 

Tomatoes Red currant juice 

Sugar 

Choose ripe, sound, well-colored tomatoes and rub 
them through a sieve; put the juice and the puree into 
an earthenware pan and boil for ^ve minutes, stir- 
ring all the time, then let it drain through a napkin 
stretched out as for jelly straining; weigh all that re- 
mains on the napkin, and for each pound of pulp 
allow one pound of sugar. Put the sugar into a pan 
with half a pint of water, let it dissolve, and cook it 
till it reaches 236° F., or the ''small ball" (i. e., on 
dipping the finger and thumb first into cold water and 
then into the syrup, and again into cold water, the 
sugar from the fingers forms a small ball), keeping it 
well skimmed; then add the tomato pulp and half a 
cupful of red currant juice for every pound of the pulp. 

Place on the fire and stir continuously till it reaches 
220° F.; then let the preserve cook for three minutes 
more and pot in the usual way. 



MISCELLANEOUS RECIPES 

"jCheerful looks make every dish a feast" 



ASPIC JELLY 

i>^ ozs. (3 heaping table- 4 cloves 

spoonfuls) powdered 1 2 whole white peppers 

gelatine i inch cinnamon stick 

1% pints (3>^ cups) water Rind and juice i lemon 

or stock I level teaspoonful salt 

4 tablespoonfuls white i small carrot 

vinegar i small onion 

4 tablespoonfuls tarragon i small turnip 

vinegar i stalk celery 

1 sprig parsley 6 drops kitchen bouquet 

2 bay leaves Whites and shells of 2 eggs 
I blade mace 

Put the gelatine into a clean cold saucepan, add the 
water or stock, then the vegetables, cleaned and cut 
into small pieces; add all the other ingredients, and 
whisk over a gentle heat until boiling. Remove the 
beater, allow the thick white scum to rise to the top 
of the pan, draw to one side of the stove, cover, and 
allow to stand ten minutes. Pour two quarts of 
boiling water through a jelly bag, then the jelly. 



Cooking in Casserole Dishes 203 

Turn the jelly into a wet earthenware mold and use as 
required when set. 

Aspic jelly lends itself to a great variety of useful 
dishes. It is used in cold entrees where the materials 
are molded in the jelly, which means that the aspic 
must be beautifully clear and of firm consistence. 

BOILED HOMINY 

y2 pint (i cup) hominy 2 pints (4 cups) boiling water 
grits Salt to taste 

Have the water boiling in a fireproof dish, stir into 
it the hominy, adding salt to taste. Cook slowly for 
three hours or longer, stirring frequently. If the 
hominy is soaked overnight, one and a half hours 
boiling in the morning will suffice. 

Cook in the same manner. 

CANDIED CRANBERRIES 

Cape Cod cranberries Water 

Sugar 

For this recipe use the Cape Cod cranberries, half 
as much sugar as berries, and half as much water as 
sugar. Wash and pick over the berries and lay them 
in a deep casserole; put the sugar on the top like a 
crust, and the water on the top of that. 

Cook very slowly. 

When they just come to boiHng point, cover for 
just a few m-oments — not long or the skins will burst 



204 Miscellaneous Recipes 

— ^then uncover and simmer until tender. Take up 
carefully and spread on oiled plates to dry. 

These candied cranberries may be used in place of 
cherries for decorating cakes or candies. 

CHOUX PASTRY 

2 ozs. (2 heaping table- 4 large eggs 

spoonfuls) butter }i teaspoonful salt 

}4 pint (i cup) water K lb. (i cup) flour 

Put the butter into a fireproof dish, add the water, 
bring to the boiling point, quickly add the flour and salt, 
stir well with a wooden spoon until the mixture leaves 
the sides of the pan, remove from the fire, allow to 
cool, but not become cold; add the eggs, beating 
each one in thoroughly. 

Set away in a cool place for one hour. 

Put into a forcing bag with a plain tube and force on 
to a greased baking tin into small rounds; brush over 
with beaten egg, and bake in a hot oven for half an hour. 

When cold, spHt them open at one side and fill them 
with whipped cream sweetened and flavored to taste. 

The mixture may be forced in small pieces into a 
pan of smoking hot fat and fried like doughnuts. 
They should then be sprinkled over with sugar. 

CORN-MEAL SOUFFLE 

^ pint (i cup) corn meal J4 teaspoonful salt 
I pint (2 cups) hot milk 5 eggs 



Cooking in Casserole Dishes 205 

Cook the corn meal, either yellow or white, in the 
hot milk in a casserole until well thickened, stirring 
frequently; remove from the fire, add the salt, then 
beat in the yolks of the eggs one at a time, add the 
stiffly beaten whites of the eggs. Bake in a moderate 
oven until Hght and nicely browned — it takes about 
forty-five minutes. 

Serve at once from the baking dish, either with 
butter or meat gravy. 



MINCE MEAT FOR PIES 



2 lbs. chopped apples 
I lb. Sultana raisins 
1% lbs. currants 

}4 lb. chopped citron peel 
14 lb. chopped candied 

lemon peel 
)/2 lb. chopped candied 

orange peel 
lyi lbs. (3 cups) sugar 
yi lb. blanched chopped 

almonds 
T teaspoonful salt 
I lb. finely chopped suet 

3 oranges, grated rind and 

strained juice 



3 lemons, grated rind and 
strained juice 

I tablespoonf ul powdered cin- 
namon 

I tablespoonful grated nut- 
meg 

I tablespoonful powdered 
mace 

I tablespoonful ground cloves 

I tablespoonful powdered all- 
spice 

I tablespoonful powdered 
ginger 

}/2 pint (i cup) sherry wine 

yi pint (i cup) best brandy 



Put all these ingredients into a large earthenware 
jar, mix well, and stir up before using. Keep well 



2o6 Miscellaneous Recipes 

covered. The mince meat ought to be made at least 
one month before required. 
The fruit should all be cleaned very carefully. 

OATMEAL PORRIDGE 

Oatmeal Salt 

Water 

Put an earthenware dish on the^ stove, allow one 
cupful of water to each person. When the water 
boils, sprinkle in the oatmeal with the left hand, 
stirring briskly all the time. Use one handful of 
meal to each cup of water; stir free from lumps. Let 
the oatmeal boil for a quarter of an hour before adding 
salt to taste; cook the oatmeal for at least one hour, 
stirring occasionally. If poured in plates, these 
should be previously warmed. Serve with milk. 

Any stewed fruit is also a nice accompaniment, 
and good for the health. 

Another method is to mix the meal with cold water, 
stir steadily until it boils, add salt as in former recipe, 
and cook also for one hour. 

Serve in the same way. 

Still another way. The night before it is wanted 
mix up the oatmeal with milk, one handful of oatmeal 
to one cupful of cold milk, add a little salt, pour into 
an earthenware jar, and let it soak all night. In 
the morning set the jar in a pan of boihng water, and 
let it steam for three hours, or longer if time permits. 

When cooked this way serve with stewed figs. 



Cooking in Casserole Dishes 207 



PASTRY 

^ lb. (3 cups) flour % teaspoonful salt 

>^ lb. (i cup) lard i gill {yi cup) ice-water 

Mix the flour and salt together in an earthenware 
bowl, then mix in the lard by cutting it in with a knife. 
Add the ice- water, and mix as little as possible. Roll 
the pastry out on a floured baking board. 

It should be handled as Httle as possible. 

PUFF PASTRY 

I lb. (4 cups) flour I tablespoonful lemon juice 

I lb. (2 cups) butter Cold water 

I egg yolk 

Wash the butter in cold water and squeeze it in a 
floured towel into a flat cake. Sift the flour into an 
earthenware basin, rub two heaping tablespoonfuls 
of the butter finely into it. Beat up the yolk of the 
egg with the lemon juice and a Httle cold water, add 
them gradually to the flour and butter, making them 
into a firm paste. Roll out the paste into a long strip, 
lay the butter on one end of it, wet the edge sHghtly, 
and fold the paste over. Fasten the edges well to- 
gether, turn round, press with the rolling pin, and roll 
out lengthways; have the paste so that the two open 
edges are parallel with yourself after folding it in three. 
Roll from you and never from side to side, using 
gentle pressure. Then fold in three. Now put the 



2o8 Miscellaneous Recipes 

paste to cool for twenty minutes — the friction will have 
heated it somewhat. Then arrange the paste with the 
open ends in front of you and again roll out lengthways 
and fold in three as before. This completes the second 
rolling. 

Repeat for the third and fourth time, then put to 
cool for another twenty minutes. After this, in 
like manner, give the fifth, sixth, and seventh rolHngs, 
and again cool for twenty minutes. The paste is now 
ready for the final rolHng out. 

Before giving the last two rollings sprinkle over it 
a few drops of lemon juice; each time when rolling the 
pastry keep all the edges as square as possible. 

SUET PASTRY 

K lb. (2 cups) flour I teaspoonful baking powder 

4 heaping tablespoonfuls Cold water 

chopped suet yi teaspoonful salt 

Sift the flour, salt, and baking powder into an earth- 
enware bowl, rub the suet well into them, then make 
into a stiff paste with cold water, adding it gradually. 

This paste may be boiled for two hours in a cloth 
or mold, or rolled out and used for fruit, sweet or 
savory puddings, or roly-polys. 

TOAD IN THE HOLE 

^ lb. (2 cups) flour 2 eggs 

% teaspoonful salt i>^ pints (3 cups) milk 

I lb. link sausages 



Cooking in Casserole Dishes 209 

Sift the flour and salt into a basin; beat up the 
eggs well, and after mixing them with the milk, 
pour gradually on the flour, beating it well with a 
wooden spoon. When quite smooth, pour it into a 
well-buttered fireproof dish; skin the sausages and 
lay them in the batter, and bake in a moderate oven 
for three-quarters of an hour. 

Pieces of apples, rhubarb, primes, or pieces of cold 
meat or fish may be substituted for the sausages. 

The fruit requires a little sugar, and sugar must 
also be served along with the pudding. 

TO PEEL AND GRATE A LEMON 

To peel a lemon for flavoring just remove the yel- 
low skin with a sharp knife, taking care to take none 
of the white pith. 

To grate a lemon take a grater, and grate off the 
yellow part only, the white being of no use for flavor- 
ing, besides being very indigestible. 

A small brush is excellent for removing the rind 
from the grater. 

• TO BLANCH ALMONDS 
Drop the almonds into hot water; allow it just to 
boil, then strain, and remove the brown skins, drop 
the almonds into cold water until required, so as to 
keep their color. 



2IO Miscellaneous Recipes 

TO BLANCH PISTACHIO NUTS 

Drop the nuts into hot water containing a little 
baking soda; allow the water just to boil, strain, and 
remove the skins. 

TO MAKE BROWN BREAD CRUMBS 

Take the crusty part of some stale bread, put it 
into a moderate oven to dry, and bake a golden brown 
shade; crush with a rolling pin or in a mortar, pass 
through a fine sieve. These may be kept for a long 
time if put into a jar or bottle and well covered. 

WHEAT AU GRATIN 

y2 pint (i cup) wheat 2 heaping tablespoonfuls 

I pint (2 cups) milk (2 ozs.) flour 

4 heaping tablespoonfuls 2 heaping tablespoonfuls (2 
grated cheese ozs.) butter 

Salt and pepper to taste 

Pick over the wheat and wash it well; then soak 
it overnight in cold water to cover. In the morning 
put it in a casserole and cook it till tender, salting it 
during the last ten minutes of cooking. Drain it 
well. Blend the butter and flour together in a sauce- 
pan over the fire, add the milk gradually, and season 
nicely with salt and pepper; stir till it boils for four 
minutes. 

Put a layer of the sauce into a buttered fireproof 



Cooking in Caserole Dishes 2 1 1 

dish, then put in half of the wheat, another layer of 
sauce, half of the cheese, the remaining wheat, sauce, 
and finally the cheese on the top. 
Bake for ten minutes in a hot oven. 



YORKSHIRE PUDDING 

-I pint (2 cups) milk 3 tablespoonfuls of dripping 

3 eggs yi teaspoonful salt 

6 ozs. (6 heaping table- yi teaspoonful baking powder 
spoonfuls) flour 

Sift the flour into an earthenware basin with the 
baking powder and the salt, stir in the milk gradually, 
beat up the eggs, and add to the batter when quite 
smooth; allow this to stand in a cool place for two 
hours; melt the dripping in a casserole, pour in the 
batter, and bake in a hot oven for half an hour. 

Serve with roast beef. 



INDEX 



Soups page 

Brown Soup with Forcemeat Balls 17 

Brown Stock 18 

Cheese Soup with Savory Custard 19 

Cream of Barley Soup 20 

Cream of Salsify Soup 21 

Fish Soup 22 

Fruit Soup 22 

Gumbo Soup 23 

Lentil Soup 24 

Oyster Bisque 20 

Oyster Bouillon 25 

Potato Puree 25 

Scotch Broth 26 

Shrimp Chowder 26 

Soup to Serve in Petites Marmites 27 

Vegetable Soup 28 

White Stock 20 



Fish 



Baked Oysters 30 

Cod a la Garonne 31 

Cold Mackerel, Vinaigrette 31 

Crab a la Carmen 32 

Curried Fish 33 

Finnan Haddie 33 

Fish Souffle 34 

Flounder au Gratin 35 

Haddock and Macaroni 35 

Haddock au Gratin 36 

HaUbut Timbale 37 

Lobster Newburg 37 



212 



Index 



213 



PAGE 

Mackerel with Tomatoes 38 

Oyster Curry 38 

Scallops en Casserole 39 

Stewed Eels 40 

Stuffed Herrings 41 

Terrapin Stew 41 

Trout with Potatoes 42 

Poultry and Game 

Chicken en Casserole No. i 44 

Chicken en Casserole No. 2 45 

Chicken with Olives 46 

Goose Deviled en Casserole 46 

Guinea Fowl en Casserole 47 

Jugged Hare 48 

Quails en Casserole 49 

Rabbit en Casserole 50 

Ragout of Duck 50 

Squabs en Casserole . 51 

Squirrels en Casserole 52 

Venison en Casserole 53 



Meats 



Baked Liver 54 

Baked Virginia Ham 54 

Beef and Sausages 55 

Beef and Tomatoes 56 

Calf's Liver a la Madrid 57 

Chilli Con Carni 5^ 

Ham en Casserole 58 

Hamburg Steak en Casserole 58 

Hungarian Goulash 59 

Irish Stew 60 

Kidneys en Casserole 60 

Lamb en Casserole 61 

Mutton a la Verona 61 

Ox Tail en Casserole 62 

Ox Tongue en Casserole 63 

Pork en Casserole 64 

Steak en Casserole 65 



214 Index 

PAGE 

Steak and Kidney Pudding 65' 

Sweetbreads en Casserole 66 

Swiss Steak 67 

Veal and Ham Pie 68 

York Hot Pot 68 

Cold Meats 

Chicken au Gratin 70 

Chicken Ra-mequins 70 

Chopped Veal 71 

Cottage Pie 71 

Creamed Dried Beef with Macaroni 73 

Macaroni Ragout 72 

Mutton Hash 73 

Pork Pie 74 

Puffs of Meat 74 

Rechauffe of Beef 75 

Souffle of Veal 75 

Surprise Potatoes 76 

Tongue Ramequins 76 

Tongue Stanley ^J 

Turkey en Casserole 17 

Veal Ramequins 78 

Vegetables 

Asparagus au Gratin 7^ 

Baked Beans 79 

Baked Cabbage 80 

Baked Onions 81 

Baked Parsnips 81 

Beans with Onions 82 

Braised Onions 82 

Browned Potatoes 82 

Brussels Sprouts with Cheese 83 

Candied Sweet Potatoes 83 

Carrots a la Pompadour 84 

Cauliflower au Gratin 84 

Colcannon 85 

Corn Pudding 85 

Curried Vegetables 86 



Index 215 

PAGE 

Egg Plant au Gratin 86 

Escalloped Sweet Corn 87 

Lentils Creole 87 

Mushrooms au Gratin 88 

Okra, Rice, and Tomatoes 89 

Peas en Casserole 89 

Potatoes au Gratin 89 

Potato Balls en Casserole 90 

Rice and Tomato Pie 90 

Salsify en Casserole 91 

Stewed Lettuce 91 

Stuffed Peppers 92 

Stuffed Potatoes 92 

Stuffed Tomatoes 93 

Turnips au Gratin 94 



Salads 



Alligator Pear Salad 95 

American Salad 95 

Artichoke Salad 96 

Asparagus and Shrimp Salad 97 

Cherry Salad 97 

Cucumber Salad 97 

Endive and Grape-fruit Salad 98 

Fruit Salad 98 

Jardiniere Salad 99 

Lettuce and Potato Salad 99 

Lettuce and Green Pepper Salad 100 

Lobster Salad 100 

Red Cabbage and Celery Salad loi 

String Bean Salad loi 

Sweetbread Salad loi 

Watercress and Apple Salad 102 



Puddings 



Apple Pudding 103 

Apple Souffle 104 

Arrowroot Pudding 104 

Baked Apples 105 

Baked Quinces . . . '. 105 



2i6 Index 

PAGB 

Bananas a la Patricia ,^5 

Barley Custard jq- 

Bread Pudding jq- 

Brown Betty log 

Chestnut Mold jog 

Cherry Pudding lo^ 

Chocolate Cream Pie 109 

Cocoanut Pie no 

Cocoanut Pudding no 

Cream of Rice Pudding m 

Date Pudding m 

Dried Apricots 112 

Currant Batter Pudding 113 

Farina Pudding 113 

Fig Pudding 114 

French Pudding 114 

Fruit Pudding 115 

Ginger Pudding 116 

Green-gage Puffs 117 

Monte Carlo Cherries 117 

Orange Meringue Pudding 118 

Parisian Pears 118 

Peach Souffle 119 

Pear Dainty 119 

Plum Pudding 120 

Prune and Apple Tart 121 

Prune Pudding 121 

Pumpkin Pie 122 

Rhubarb Meringue 122 

Rice Pudding 123 

Stewed Apricots with Custard 123 

Strawberry Batter Pudding 124 

Strawberry Custards 124 

Vanilla Custard 125 

VermiceUi Pudding 125 

Wahiut Pudding 126 

Invalid Cookery 

Apple Puree 127 

Barley Gruel 128 



Index 



217 



PAGE 

Beef Tea en Casserole 128 

Calf's Sweetbreads 120 

Chicken Panade 129 

Cold Lemon Pudding i^q 

Friar's Omelet i^q 

Invalid Pudding 1 01 

Jellied Fish i^i 

Milk Soup 102 

Mulled Milk 132 

Oyster Soup 132 

Raspberry Souffle 133 

Sago Gruel 133 

Sago Jelly 134 

Savory Beef Jelly 134 

Savory Custard 135 

Tapioca Creams 135 

Tripe Fricassee 136 



Cheese 



Baked Cheese 137 

Cheese and Bread 137 

Cheese Creams 138 

Cheese and Rice 138 

Cheese with Noodles 13^ 

Cheese Appetizer 13^ 

Cheese Salad 140 

Cheese Sandwiches 140 

Cheese Tartlets 140 

Cheese and Potatoes 141 

Cheese and Corn 141 

Cheese Fondue 142 

Cheese Dainties 142 

Cheese Custards 143 

Cheese and Macaroni 143 

Cheese Pudding 144 

Cheese SoufSes 144 

Cheese and Tomatoes 145 

Cheese Currant Cake 145 

Scalloped Cheese 146 

Welsh Rarebit 146 



2i8 Index 

Eggs page 

Curried Eggs 147 

Eggs in Cocottes 147 

Egg Pudding 148 

Egg Tartlets 148 

Eggs in Tomatoes 149 

Eggs with Spinach 149 

Egg Soup 150 

Eggs and Mushroom Ragout 151 

Eggs in Ramequins 151 

Eggs with Cream 152 

Eggs with Macaroni 152 

Egg and Potato Pie 153 

Eggs au Gratin 154 

Eggs and Bacon 154 

Golden Eggs 155 

Scotch Woodcock 155 

Scrambled Eggs with Mushrooms 156 

Shrimp Eggs 157 

Souffle Omelet 157 

Swiss Eggs 158 

Venetian Eggs 158 

Sauces and Gravies 

Arrowroot Sauce 159 

Bechamel Sauce 159 

Brown Gravy 160 

Chocolate Sauce 160 

Cucumber Sauce 161 

Custard Sauce 161 

Currant Sauce 162 

Egg Sauce 162 

Espagnole Sauce 163 

Hard Sauce 163 

Hollandaise Sauce 164 

Horseradish Sauce 164 

Lemon Sauce 164 

Mayonnaise Sauce 165 

Mushroom Gravy 166 

Onion Sauce 166 

Oyster Sauce 167 



Index 219 

PAGE 

Parsley Sauce 167 

Plum Sauce 167 

Pistachio Sauce 168 

Sauce Tartare 168 

Tomato Sauce 169 

White Sauce 169 

Cakes and Breads 

Apple Bread 170 

Apple Sauce Cake 171 

Brandy Cake 171 

Cheese Cake 172 

Chocolate Cake 172 

Cocoa Sponge Cake 173 

Coffee Bread 173 

Com Bread 174 

Currant Cake 174 

Date Cake 175 

Dutch Apple Cake 175 

Fruit Cake 176 

Fudge Cake 176 

Hickory Nut Cake 177 

Imperial Cake 177 

Mother's Cake 178 

Potato Cake 178 

Soft Gingerbread 179 

Spice Cake 179 

Raisin Bread 180 

Pickles 

Apple ReHsh 181 

Chutney 181 

Corn ReUsh 182 

Cucumber Mangoes 182 

India Relish 183 

Lemon Pickle 184 

Lime ReUsh 184 

Mixed Pickles 185 

Piccalilli 186 

PicUed Beets 186 



2 20 Index 

PAGE 

Pickled Cherries 187 

Pickled Egg-plant 187 

Pickled Onions 188 

Pickled Oysters 188 

Pickled Peaches 189 

Pickled Plums 189 

Pickled Red Cabbage 190 

Pickled Walnuts 190 

Shallot Pickle 191 

Tomato Chutney 192 

Preserves 

Apple Jam i^^ 

Black Currant Jelly ig^ 

Cranberry Preserve 1^4 

Currant Bar-le-duc 1^5 

Fig and Rhubarb Jam i^^ 

Ginger Pears 1^5 

Grape Conserve , 196 

Green-gage Jam 196 

Lemon Marmalade 197 

Preserved Huckleberries 198 

Preserved Carrots 198 

Prune Marmalade 199 

Pumpkin Preserve 199 

Quince Marmalade 200 

Raspberry Jam 2co 

Tomato Preserve 201 

Miscellaneous 

Aspic Jelly 202 

Boiled Hominy 203 

Candied Cranberries 203 

Choux Pastry 204 

Corn-meal SoufiSie 204 

Forcemeat Balls 18 

Mince Meat for Pies 205 

Oatmeal Porridge 206 

Pastry 207 

Puff Pastry 207 



Index 22 1 

PAGE 

Suet Pastry 208 

Toad in the Hole 208 

To Peel and Grate a Lemon 209 

To Blanch Almonds 209 

To Blanch Pistachio Nuts 210 

To make Brown Bread Crumbs 210 

Wheat au Gratin 210 

Yorkshire Pudding 211 



1 ^hl 



•-vOi 



BOSTON PUBLIC LIBRARY 



3 9999 06561 082 4 



1^ 



