THE INFANT 



? 

THE INFANT 

NUTRITION AND MANAGEMENT 



BY 

ERIC PRITCHARD 

M.A., M,D. (OxoN.), M.R.C.P. (LOND.) 

PHYSICIAN TO THE QUEEN'S HOSPITAL FOR CHILDREN, 
PHYSICIAN TO OUT-PATIENTS, CITY OF LONDON HOSPITAL FOR DISEASES 

OF THE CHEST, VICTORIA PARK, 
HONORARY PHYSICIAN FOR INFANT CONSULTATIONS, ST. MARYLEBONE 

GENERAL DISPENSARY, 

CONSULTING PHYSICIAN TO CHILDREN'S HOME HOSPITAL, BARNET, 

AND TO THE NURSERY TRAINING SCHOOL, HACKNEY 

ETC., ETC. 



LONDON ^ 

EDWARD ARNOLD <*"'* 

1914 ^ M// 

All rights reserved * 



PREFACE 

THIS little volume is founded on a series of lectures 
which, from time to time, I have given to students 
attending at courses held by the Queen's Hospital 
for Children, the Medical Graduates' College and 
Poly clinic, the National Association for the Preven- 
tion of Infant Mortality, and other medical societies. 
Some of these lectures have already been published 
in part, or in whole, in medical journals, and for 
permission to republish I have to thank the editors 
of The Lancet, The Practitioner, The Medical Press 
and Record, The Clinical Journal, The American 
Practitioner, American Medicine, Pediatrics, Archives 
of Pediatrics, and The British Journal of Children's 
Diseases. 

In preparing these lectures in book form, it has 
been necessary to edit somewhat freely, for the 
same ideas recur over and over again in different 
lectures. Even in their revised form I am afraid 
there is some repetition ; this is owing to the fact 
that I deal more with general principles than with 
details, and these principles apply, with slight varia- 



vi PREFACE 

tions, to a large number of different conditions in 
connection with which they are here employed. 

Those who read this little book in the expectation 
of finding a full description of the methods of feeding 
infants will be disappointed, for according to the 
views herein set forth each case must be regarded as 
an individual problem which is to be solved by the 
practical application of certain general principles. 

I believe one of the chief reasons why fixed methods 
of feeding babies so often fail is because the manner 
in which any particular baby responds to any 
particular line of treatment depends more on its 
past experiences than on any other factor, and each 
infant has its own past. 

This work is not intended to take the place 
of more ambitious textbooks or handbooks on the 
subject of infant management ; it contains views 
which, in many cases, are still regarded as un- 
orthodox and revolutionary. Tradition and 
authority have, however, so narrowly circum- 
scribed our methods in the past, and one book has 
so closely followed on the lines dictated by those 
which have preceded it, that a little breaking away 
from precedent, even if it is not in all cases an 
improvement, may perhaps broaden our ideas. 

E. P. 

HARLEY STREET, W., 
August, 1914. 



CONTENTS 



CHAPTER PAGE 

I. THE ESTABLISHMENT OF LACTATION AND THE 

MANAGEMENT OF BREAST-FEEDING - 1 

II. SOME PHYSIOLOGICAL PRINCIPLES CONCERNED IN 

THE NUTRITION OF INFANTS - - 41 

III. SOME PHYSIOLOGICAL PRINCIPLES CONCERNED IN 

THE DETERMINATION OF THE QUANTITATIVE 
FOOD REQUIREMENTS OF INFANTS - - 65 

IV. MOTOR FUNCTIONS OF THE DIGESTIVE SYSTEM - 92 

V. THE TRAINING OF NERVE CENTRES IN INFANTS - 109 

VI. CONSTIPATION IN INFANTS - 132 

VII. THE RATIONAL TREATMENT OF SOME COMMON 

SYMPTOMS IN INFANTS - 151 

VIII. THE USES OF DRIED MILK IN INFANT FEEDING - 181 

IX. THE USES OF PETROLEUM IN THE TREATMENT OF 
CONSTIPATION AND OTHER DISEASES IN 
INFANTS ..... igg 

X. CONVULSIONS IN INFANCY - 212 

XI. RICKETS: ITS CAUSE AND TREATMENT - - 227 

XII. THE TEACHING OF MOTHERCRAFT AND ITS IN- 
FLUENCE ON INFANT MORTALITY - 241 

INDEX ------ 263. 



Vll 



THE INFANT 



CHAPTER I 

THE ESTABLISHMENT OF LACTATION AND THE 
MANAGEMENT OF BREA.ST-FEBDING 

IF one tithe of the human ingenuity, which of recent 
years has been lavished on the artificial method, had 
been bestowed on studying improvements in the 
breast-feeding of infants, I believe that compara- 
tively few infants would even now, in these so-called 
degenerate days, be relegated to the bottle. 

It is most gratifying to me personally, in view of 
the efforts I have made to extend the educational 
influences of infant consultations, to realize that 
many of the improvements in the natural method 
of feeding infants which have been introduced of 
late years, are directly due to the energies of those 
who are engaged in this particular branch of pre- 
ventive medicine. 

In this connection I would more particularly refer 
to the work of Dr. Ronald Carter 1 in Kensington, 

1 " Breast-Feeding and the Value of the Test-Feed," 
The Lancet, September 2, 1911. 

1 



2 THE INFANT 

of Dr. Jessie G. Duncan 1 in Birmingham, of Dr. 
Ella Webb 2 in Dublin, and of Drs. A. E. Naish and 
Lucy Naish 3 in Sheffield. 

Unfortunately, at our infant consultations we 
gain more experience in the general management of 
breast-feeding than we acquire of that most impor- 
tant phase known as the "establishment of lacta- 
tion," for we are seldom called upon to advise on the 
care of infants under three weeks of age. 

The obstetric physician, who has unrivalled oppor- 
tunities for studying the early phases of lactation, 
is as a rule too closely concerned with the interests 
of the mother to pay much regard to those of the 
infant, or to the practical details connected with 
the establishment of the milk flow. On the other 
hand, the children's specialist is seldom consulted 
until breast-feeding has already proved a failure, 
or until the infant has been weaned and relegated 
to the bottle. The consequence is that the study 
of this important stage of breast-feeding falls between 
two stools between the apathy of the obstetrician 
and the want of opportunity on the part of the 
children's specialist. 

1 Keport on Infant Mortality in St. George's and St. 
Stephen's Wards. Birmingham, 1913. Printers: Hudson 
and Son. 

3 " Breast-Feeding of Infants," Medical Press and Cir- 
cular, July 2, 1913. 

8 " Breast-Feeding: Its Management and Mismanage- 
ment," The Lancet, June 14, 1913, p. 1657. 



BREAST-FEEDING 3 

One of the great difficulties with which those who 
are interested in the problems of infant mortality 
have to contend is the early and unnecessary wean- 
ing of quite young infants. Dr. Ella Webb, to 
whose work in Dublin I have already referred, has 
published an analysis of the causes of premature 
weaning of 200 infants who were brought to her 
infant consultations. The following is a resume of 
her results : 

Oases. 

1. Insufficient milk . . . . . . 93 

2. Illness of the mother . . . . . . 35 

3. Disagreement of milk with infant . . 22 

4. Sore breasts . . . . . . . . 16 

5. Mother going out to work . . . . . . 13 

6. Advised by nurse or friend to wean . . 8 

7. Child refusing breast . . . . . . . . 5 

8. Death of mother . . . . . . . . 6 

9. Hare-lip . . . . . . . . . . 1 

10. Accidental illness of child causing great fatigue to 

the mother through watchful nights . . . . 1 

Total .. .. .. ..200 

I find that my own experience closely coincides 
with that of Dr. Webb, except for the fact that I 
meet with fewer instances of illness in the mother 
and more cases in which the milk is said to have 
disagreed with the infant. I should also have to 
include a larger number of cases in Group 6. 

Unfortunately Dr. Webb does not tell us at what 
dates these infants were taken off the breast. 
Speaking from my own experience, I find that of all 



4 THE INFANT 

cases of early weaning no less than 33 per cent, are 
deprived of the breast during the puerperium, a 
proportion which in my opinion can be justified 
by no possible combination of circumstances. 

A very large number of infants are weaned during 
the first three weeks of life owing to the advice of 
doctors, nurses, and friends, on very slender evidence 
that the breast itself is at fault. Troubles there 
often are connected with the establishment of the 
motor and digestive functions of the stomach and 
bowel in infants, which may make it appear that 
the milk is responsible; but exactly the same troubles, 
only in an aggravated form, may ensue when resort 
is made to artificial feeding. 

It is quite impossible to determine at first whether 
a young mother and more particularly a primipara 
will eventually prove a good nurse or not. I have 
known many most unpromising cases turn out 
complete successes after a few weeks of patient effort. 

During the puerperal period we must be prepared 
for accidents in connection with the establishment 
of lactation; but, because our first efforts are not 
successful, we are not necessarily justified in re- 
linquishing all further attempts to keep the infant 
at the breast. 

The nervous and glandular mechanisms concerned 
in the secretion of milk are extremely complicated, 
and most of the difficulties which arise in connection 
with breast-feeding are concerned with setting the 



BREAST-FEEDING 5 

machinery as a whole in motion. I believe that it 
is never justifiable to wean an infant during the 
first three weeks of life simply on the ground that 
the breast remains dry. I have known many 
instances in which the breasts have remained re- 
fractory for three weeks or longer, and then have 
afforded satisfactory supplies of milk. The follow- 
ing experience illustrates this point: 

A primipara was confined at full time in a 
maternity institution. The infant was perfectly 
healthy, and was put regularly to the breast for the 
first three days. On the fourth day as no milk 
appeared in the breast, the baby was given cow's 
milk in a bottle, and was permanently weaned on 
the seventh day. Contrary to instruction, however, 
the mother secretly put the infant to the breast at 
night in the hope that the milk might come at a 
later date, and that the inconveniences of a second 
pregnancy might thereby be averted. On the 
fourteenth day the mother left the institution and 
returned to her home still feeding the infant during 
the day on the bottle, and giving it the breast at 
night. When the infant was ten weeks old, the 
mother brought it to my infant consultations, 
and gave me the details as already described. On 
examining the baby, I found it much under weight, 
and in a very poor condition of nutrition. On 
further inquiry I elicited the fact that, although the 
mother put the infant to the breast at night with 



6 THE INFANT 

the object already stated, she was under no delusions 
that the infant derived any benefit from the pro- 
ceeding, or that her breast contained any milk. 
Feeling convinced, however, that the infant would 
not acquiesce in the conspiracy unless it received 
some reward for its efforts, I examined the mother's 
breasts, and found, as I expected, that both con- 
tained a small quantity of milk. So I straightway 
ordered a test-feed to be given, and much to 
the mother's surprise, demonstrated the fact that 
the baby extracted 3J ounces of milk. In conse- 
quence of this discovery, I ordered the infant to con- 
tinue at the breast, and with the exercise of a little 
care and encouragement, succeeded in postponing 
artificial feeding until the end of the seventh month. 

I have little doubt that a large proportion of the 
cases which are relegated at an early date to the 
bottle might be saved from the dangers incidental 
to this proceeding by the exercise of the same 
degree of patience as that which was displayed, in 
a less worthy cause, by this poor woman. 

The following are the particulars of another case 
which illustrates the value of patience in bringing 
about a satisfactory secretion of milk under most 
unpromising circumstances : 

A woman was confined of her first baby on Janu- 
ary 4, 1907, at a maternity hospital. The infant 
weighed 7 pounds 10 ounces, and was quite healthy 
at birth. During the twelve days the mother stayed 



BREAST-FEEDING 7 

at the hospital, the infant was put regularly to the 
breast, and nothing was noticed amiss with him 
except that there was obstinate constipation. On 
January 17 the baby was brought to my infant 
consultations, chiefly because of this symptom, and 
also because he was losing weight. On being placed 
on the scales, he was found to have lost 10 ounces 
since birth. Owing to the loss of weight, constipa- 
tion, and oliguria, I thought it was extremely likely 
that the infant was suffering from inanition. So 
I ordered a test-feed, and found that the quan- 
tity of milk which the infant extracted from the 
breast was only a few teaspoonfuls. I therefore 
ordered a small quantity of whey and cream to be 
given to the infant in addition to the breast, hoping 
that by keeping the infant hungry and allowing him 
also to apply stimulus to the breast, the latter would 
ultimately become functionally active. During the 
following week the infant showed unmistakable 
signs of improvement in his general condition, but 
repeated test-feeds proved that this result was 
not due to any increase in the quantity of the 
breast-milk. 

During this week the child recovered 6 ounces of 
the weight he had previously lost. On January 28 
the infant was again weighed and found to have 
gained 8 ounces in weight, although the test-feeds 
still proved that the breasts were nearly dry. By 
February 4 there was a further gain in weight, an4 



8 THE INFANT 

every indication that the glands were beginning to 
secrete normally. By February 6 the mother felt 
" the draught " when the child was put to the breast, 
and from that time forward it was possible to remit 
the artificial feedings, and the infant made uninter- 
rupted progress on the breast. The points of in- 
terest in this case are Firstly, that it was practically 
one month before lactation was fully established, 
and that during the last fortnight the infant was 
kept in a good condition of nutrition by very small 
quantities of artificial food (6 ounces of whey and 
cream in the twenty-four hours). The second point 
of interest is that the cause of inanition from which 
the infant was suffering was not detected in the 
maternity institute in which the infant was born, 
although the baby presented all the classical symp- 
toms of starvation i.e., constipation, loss of weight, 
and oliguria. 

Although I shall again refer to these points in 
greater detail, I would at the outstart emphasize 
the fact that the establishment of lactation is 
dependent on the fulfilment of the following con- 
ditions: Firstly, the nipple must be stimulated by 
the sucking of the infant ; secondly, the nerve centres 
which control the functions of secretion and the 
vascular supply must be in a condition of adequate 
excitability; and, thirdly, the blood itself must 
contain a sufficiency of the raw material out of which 
the mammary secretion can be elaborated. 



BREAST-FEEDING 9 

On purely hypothetical grounds we should 
naturally assume that the stimulus afforded by the 
sucking of the infant itself would be more effective 
in bringing about the reflex activity of the glands 
than any other form of excitation; it is, however, 
satisfactory to know that this theoretical assumption 
has been substantiated by the practical observations 
of Dr. Jessie G. Duncan. 1 In a series of experiments 
carried out in Birmingham, Dr. Duncan was able 
to prove that the amount of milk which the pump 
was capable of extracting from the breast was in all 
cases considerably less than that which was obtained 
by the natural efforts of the infant. 

Further, we have ample evidence from the ex- 
periences of the late Pierre Budin 2 that the total 
quantity of milk secreted by a nursing-woman is 
directly proportional to the intensity of the stimulus 
applied. A weakling baby, with feeble powers of 
sucking, extracts only a small quantity of milk, 
whereas a strong, lusty baby secures as a rule 
a good meal. In his book, The Nursling, he supplies 
the protocols of the actual amounts of milk sup- 
plied by a number of wet-nurses employed in his 
clinics. Some of the women acted as foster-mothers 
to two, three, four, or more infants, and the tables 
show that the greater the demand the greater was 

1 Report on Infant Mortality. Birmingham, 1913. 
Printers: Hudson and Son. 

2 The Nursling, Pierre Budin. English translation, 
first edition, p. 37. 



10 THE INFANT 

the supply. In certain cases of multiple feeding 
the total amount of milk supplied to the infants in 
twenty -four hours was surprisingly large. 

The intensity of the stimulus afforded by the 
infant will naturally depend on a variety of con- 
ditions for instance, on the strength of the infant, 
and its degree of hunger; also on the shape of the 
nipple and the sensibility of its tactile nerve-endings. 

An appreciation of these facts will necessarily 
suggest a number of practical expedients to promote 
the activity of the secretory apparatus. For in- 
stance, in anticipation of possible difficulties in 
nursing, the nipples should be drawn out and pre- 
pared for their duties for some considerable time 
before the date of the expected confinement. This 
is particularly desirable in the case of theprimipara. 
The best method of drawing out the nipples is to 
invert over them the bowl of a long-stemmed clay 
pipe (churchwarden), and then to induce a vacuum 
by means of suction applied to the mouthpiece. 
The patient can easily carry out this devise for 
herself, and she should be instructed to commence 
doing so for some weeks before the confinement. 
The rim of the bowl should be well greased with 
vaseline in order that it may adhere to the surface 
of the skin, and enable a good vacuum to be pro- 
duced. It may here be mentioned that quite prob- 
ably the chief cause of depressed nipples is a pre- 
existing mastitis, in some cases caused by the 



BREAST-FEEDING 11 

so-called " dispersion " of the milk in new-born 
infants by massage or other improper treatment. 
The usual plan of hardening and preparing the 
nipples by treating them with astringents is not to 
be recommended, for such applications not only dull 
the sensibility of the tactile sense, but they also 
tend at a later date to indurate the tissues and to 
produce cracks and fissures of the epidermis, especi- 
ally if the infant is rough in its method of seizing 
the nipple. The indications are not so much to 
render the superficial epithelium hard and cornified 
as to make it thoroughly supple and elastic, and to 
accustom it to the sort of treatment to which it will 
be exposed when the infant is put to the breast. 
The best means of preparing the surface of the nipple 
is to massage it daily with lanoline or some other 
emollient. It is further desirable to remove all 
crusts from the surface of the nipples, for such 
crusts not only tend to form if there is any oozing 
of secretion towards the end of pregnancy, but 
after removal by the lips of the infant they leave 
the underlying epithelium tender and liable to 
maceration. All these are small matters, but from 
the point of view of successful nursing they are not 
without their importance. It is, of course, need- 
less to say that at the end of each feeding the 
nipples should be most carefully cleaned with 
boracic lotion, which should be applied with cotton- 
wool, and that they should be subsequently 



12 THE INFANT 

thoroughly dried with lint or some other soft 
material. 

In order that the infant may apply adequate 
stimulation to the nipple, it is necessary that it 
should itself be actuated by the most potent of all 
incentives namely, by hunger and thirst. For this 
reason the humane instincts of doctor and nurse to 
relieve the supposed wants of the infants by pota- 
tions of water or other fluids should be sternly 
resisted. It not infrequently happens, however, 
that despite our best endeavours, the infant will not 
apply the desired stimulus to the breast. 

Under such conditions we must be prepared to 
resort to other expedients, and to coax the infant 
to play its part in the establishment of the mammary 
functions. Sometimes the smearing of the nipples 
with a little glycerine, honey, or even condensed 
milk, may tempt the infant to apply his lips ; at other 
times a temporary exchange of babies may effect 
the desired object. Unfortunately, it is not always 
possible to find, at the required moment, a baby 
to perform the function of an artificial pump, and 
considerations of possible infection with syphilis or 
other disease may damp our ardour, for no one 
would willingly accept responsibilities of this kind 
unless the need is commensurate with the risks. 
In maternity wards, however, there is usually one 
infant at least which can safely be employed for this 
purpose, and by employing one in this way a double 



BREAST-FEEDING 



13 



purpose is served the dry breasts of the woman 
who cannot nurse are stimulated into activity, and 
the weakly baby can be nourished into life by being 
placed at the active breast of the other mother. 

Dr. H. C. Cameron 1 describes an interesting case 
in which such a substitution was effected with the 
most happy results. The accompanying chart 



Ii.cz. 


APR. 


MAY 


JUNE 


VO 
<N 


w 
CM 


o 

CO 




CO 


1O 


t^ 


u 


Z 


C-J 


CO 


^ 


io 


o 


co 


0) 


8 


cs; 

CM 


CO 


^*- 

(^ 


s 


N 


0> 
CM 


O 

C<7 


<M 


t> 


4 


A 








B 








^s 




































2 1? . 




















































/ 




















































J 




















































_ 


















































/ 




^ 8- 












































































































































/ 






































































5 ,4. 


I 




























^ 


















































/i 


































































































. 






























3 


1 


















. 
































I 














' 




































\ 


















































\\ 












, 






































5 12- 




IV 








^ 










































> 


v 


















































\ 




t 
















































y 

































































































represents the weight curve of a premature infant, 
which was born in Guy's Hospital, and fed by an 
accommodating foster-mother in the manner de- 
scribed. 

On the eighth day of life the weight of the baby 
had fallen 14 ounces, and it was obvious that it 
would soon die if not provided with some better 
1 H. C. Cameron, The Lancet, September 27, 1913, p. 911. 



14 THE INFANT 

form of nourishment than that supplied by the 
mother. The woman in the next bed happened to 
have a vigorous baby fourteen days old, and weigh- 
ing 8 pounds, and as she consented for the time being 
to play the part of foster-mother to the premature 
infant, an exchange of babies was immediately 
effected. Eight days later the premature baby was 
returned to its own mother, whose breasts by this 
time had been stimulated into functional activity 
by the importunate addresses of the borrowed in- 
fant. A glance at the chart will indicate the success 
of the experiment as far as the weakling infant was 
concerned. To complete the picture we ought also to 
be provided with the weight chart of the other infant. 

Dr. Cameron further suggests that when a baby 
of this kind is not procurable to perform the required 
duties, the services of an older child recently weaned 
may be conveniently enlisted for the purpose. He 
says : " More than once among the poor out-patients 
I have induced the mother to put back to the breast 
a child which has been recently weaned." 

Opportunities to employ this ingenious expedient 
must be comparatively rare, for women seldom 
nurse their infants during pregnancy, and therefore 
can seldom have a recently weaned child at hand 
when the next one is born. In this connection it 
may be mentioned that cows usually supply excellent 
milk almost up to the date of arrival of the next calf. 

The physiological activity of the mammary glands 



BREAST-FEEDING 15 

is dependent on a very complicated nervous mechan- 
ism, in which mental and psychological factors are 
closely concerned in addition to the direct centripetal 
influences. It would be difficult to define accurately 
the origins or paths of these mental impressions 
which reinforce the effect of the direct reflex stimulus. 
We know, however, that emotions and emotional 
states can sensitize or activate local nerve centres, 
so that otherwise subnormal stimuli reaching them 
through the direct reflex route, can cause normal 
or even exaggerated results. 

There is a very close relationship between the 
specific secretory functions of a gland and the 
vascular supply. The two sets of centres, in fact, 
act as if they were in anatomical continuity. The 
influence of the emotions on the vaso-motor functions 
explains the dominant influence of psychological 
impressions on the secretory functions of the 
mammary glands. 

That curious complex of emotions known as the 
maternal instinct has an undoubtedly favourable 
influence on the secretion of milk, just as fear, 
anxiety, hatred, and anger have a reverse effect. 

Most women who have nursed infants successfully 
are familiar with the phenomenon known as " the 
draught" a feeling of fulness that takes place in 
the breasts when the infant begins to suck. 

This phenomenon has probably little to do with 
the sudden resolution of the substance of the gland 



16 THE INFANT 

cells into milk as is generally supposed; it rather 
represents a sudden engorgement of the blood- 
vessels, and a flushing of the breast in consequence 
of vaso-dilator influences. 

This vaso-motor phenomenon can manifest itself 
with the same rhythmical and automatic periodicity 
that is familiar in the case of certain other organic 
functions, for it is one of the properties of nerve 
centres, such as those which subserve the mammary 
activities, to acquire rhythmical habits when the 
stimuli which first evoke the functions follow one 
another in regular and orderly sequence. If, there- 
fore, the infant is given the breast at absolutely 
regular intervals during the first few days of life, 
there is a reasonable probability that the receptive 
and impressionable nerve centres which control the 
functions of mammary secretion will acquire a 
rhythm and automatism which can be made to 
subserve most useful purposes, and promote the 
chances of successful breast-feeding. 

The usual practice in maternity institutions is 
to feed the infant three times during the first twenty- 
four hours, four times during the second or third 
day, and, finally, when the functions of lactation 
have become permanently established, to give the 
baby the breast every two hours. 

For the reason already stated, I do not regard this 
plan as well designed to promote successful breast- 
feeding and the establishment of rhythm. The 



BREAST-FEEDING 17 

frequent changes in the intervals of feeding must 
interfere with the assumption by the nerve cells of 
periodic habits at the very moment when such 
habits are most easily induced. 

If advantage is taken of this opportunity to impress 
a habit of regular activity on the nerve centres, the 
breasts may be induced to assume such a regular perio- 
dicity, that the times of feeding, as they come round, 
can be recognized by the arrival of " the draught." 

Mrs. Lucy Naish 1 , whose opinion on matters 
connected with breast-feeding deserves the fullest 
attention, advises against the practice of putting 
the infant to the breast more than three times during 
the first few days after the confinement, on the 
grounds that nursing exhausts the mother, and that 
the nipples are liable to become sore and excoriated 
if they are exposed too frequently to the friction of 
the infant's lips. I cannot agree with these objec- 
tions because I consider that the physiological and 
the psychological influences of suckling altogether 
outweigh the other disadvantage that nursing may 
cause to the mother, and because I believe that if the 
nipples have been properly prepared before the con- 
finement, there need be no soreness due to suckling. 

Provided that both breasts are in a state of func- 
tional activity, " the draught " occurs on both sides 
simultaneously. Of this associated action advan- 
tage may be taken in several ways. For instance, 
1 The Lancet, June 14, 1913, p. 1657. 



18 THE INFANT 

it is sometimes of importance to obtain breast-milk 
for infants who are themselves unable to extract it 
from the breast. In such cases the breast-pump 
is usually employed, but, as I have already men- 
tioned, the quantity that can be obtained by this 
means is less than that which is extracted by the 
infant; but if a strong infant is put to one breast 
and the pump is applied to the other, the physio- 
logical stimulus afforded by the infant promotes 
a more abundant flow into the receiver of the 
pump, and this milk, whether from the infant's 
own mother or from some other nursing- woman, 
may be instrumental in saving life. Indeed, it has 
been claimed that this method may be employed as 
a modified form of test-feed; that is to say, the 
amount of milk extracted by the pump from one 
breast may be an accurate gauge of the quantity 
obtained by the infant from the other. 

During the summer of 1913 two twins were 
brought to my consultations : one of them was strong 
and lusty, the other small and feeble. We gave 
each of them a test-feed, one being put to the left 
breast and, subsequently, the other to the right. 
The amount the strong baby secured was apparently 
adequate for his requirements, whereas the weakling 
obtained an insufficient quantity. Believing that 
the weakling was suffering from inanition due to his 
feeble attempts at sucking, I instructed the mother 
to feed both of the twins simultaneously, holding 
one to the right breast and the other to the left. I 



BREAST-FEEDING 19 

also instructed her to be prepared to feed them in 
this way on the next occasion she attended at the 
dispensary. On the following week we found that 
the smaller of the twins had improved considerably 
in condition, and that he had put on more weight 
than his brother. The mother further told me that 
since she had adopted this double method of feeding 
" the milk seemed to pour into the small baby's 
mouth without his doing any work at all," evidence 
which the test-feed confirmed in the weighing-room 
at the dispensary. 

Reverting once again to the question of the times 
of feeding and the acquisition of rhythmical habits, 
I would insist on the great advantage conferred on 
the mother as well as on the child by the adoption 
of the three- hourly method of feeding. In Germany 
there is a tendency to make the intervals even 
longer than this, and to allow four hours' rest between 
two consecutive feedings. On the whole I do not 
think this plan answers very well in the case of 
English nursing-mothers, and even in Germany, 
with extended experience, it seems that most 
infants obtain more milk and put on more weight 
when they are fed eight times than when they are 
fed five times during the twenty-four hours. 

Professor Hans Reitchel, 1 who has paid attention 
to this question, comes to the conclusion that we 
cannot lay down hard-and-fast rules . Each case must 

1 Professor Hans Keitchel, Lehrbuch f. Einderheilk., 
April, 1912, p. 403. 



20 THE INFANT 

be treated on its own merits, and the number of 
feedings must be determined by the prevailing con- 
ditions. In the case of first children his inquiries 
indicate that four- hourly feeding is seldom a success, 
at least for the first few weeks of life. 

Whatever arguments may be urged against limita- 
tion to five feeds in the twenty-four hours, little can 
be said in favour of the two-hour system, for in so 
short an interval the stomach cannot be completely 
emptied except in quite rare instances, and it is 
essential that this important digestive organ should 
have time to recover after one period of activity 
before it enters upon another. It is unfortunate that 
the two-hourly method of feeding has been sanc- 
tioned by English custom, and that it has so many 
attractions for the impatient mother. 

Notwithstanding the arguments I have already 
cited in favour of the establishment of rhythm in the 
times of feeding, I see the advantages of longer 
intervals at night in order that a prolonged period of 
sleep may be secured. The value both to the mother 
and to the child of one long uninterrupted spell of 
sleep cannot be exaggerated, and the earlier this 
habit is induced the better it is for both. Habits of 
sleep are very easily acquired, especially when ad- 
vantage is taken of the quiet and darkness of the 
night. On the other hand, when once the infant has 
formed a habit of waking up in the night to be fed, it 
is very difficult to induce it to dispense with these 
attentions. It is not so difficult as is supposed to 



BREAST-FEEDING 21 

train an infant to sleep right through the night, say, 
from 9 p.m. to 6 a.m. if the room is kept quite dark 
and quiet, but it is very difficult to persuade any 
mother that it can be good for an infant to be kept 
without food for so long a time. Provided, however, 
that an infant obtains a sufficient amount of food in 
the twenty-four hours to satisfy its physiological 
requirements, it is a very distinct gain that there 
should be one long interval of rest such as this. As 
a counsel of perfection I believe that the best hours 
for feeding an infant are six, nine, twelve, three, six, 
nine that is to say, six feedings during the day and 
an interval of nine hours during the night for sleep. 
Although an infant will, perhaps, require to "be 
changed " or held out during this long night interval, 
the function of micturition can be made so auto- 
matic that it soon becomes a reflex habit and the 
child does not wake up. 

The establishment of a broken rhythm of this kind 
is not so irrational as might be imagined. All of us 
can acquire such periodicities, but infants acquire 
them more easily than older individuals. 

It is quite a mistake to suppose that young infants 
that is to say, infants under one month of age 
normally derive much nourishment from their 
mother's breasts. During the colostrum period, 
which usually lasts three or four days, the amount of 
secretion is quite insignificant, and even after the 
establishment of lactation, the quantity of milk 
obtained is far less than is usually supposed. Judg- 



22 



THE INFANT 



ing by the statements which appear in textbooks on 
the subject of infant-feeding, one would imagine that, 
by the end of the first week of life, the majority of 
infants extract about a pint of milk from the breasts. 

TABLE I. 



Day. 


Total Quantity 
of Milk taken 
in 24 Hours. 


Average Num- 
ber of Feeds 
Each Day. 


Average Quan- 
tity of Each 
Feed. 


Average 
Daily 
Weight. 




Oz. Dr. 




Dr. 


Lb. Oz. 


1st .. 


9 


3-23 


2-28 


7 1 


2nd .. 


1 15 


5-00 


5-23 


7 1 


3rd .. 


4 12 


8-88 


8-19 


6 10 


4th .. 


6 4 


9-24 


9-98 


6 15 


5th .. 


6 11 


933 


11-70 


6 15 


6th .. 


7 3 


9-22 


12-39 


7 1 


7th .. 


7 9 


9-53 


12-43 


6 15 


8th . . 


7 13 


9-44 


13-29 


7 3 


9th .. 


8 1 


9-43 


13-80 


7 2 


10th .. 


8 4 


9-11 


13-93 


7 2 


llth .. 


7 14 


9-40 


13-36 


7 


12th . . 


8 8 


9-38 


14-88 


7 4 


13th . . 


8 13 


9-23 


14-69 


7 4 


14th .. 


8 11 


9-48 


14-70 


7 9 


15th .. 


9 3 


9-29 


15-70 


7 3 


16th . . 


9 8 


9-52 


15-95 


7 7 


17th .. 


9 4 


9-54 


15-94 


7 6 


18th .. 


9 10 


9-58 


16-08 


7 4 


19th .. 


9 12 


9-69 


16-07 


7 3 


20th . . 


10 4 


9-00 


18-43 


7 4 


21st . . 


11 5 


8-00 


18-10 


7 9 i 


22nd .. 


10 6 


9-28 


18-40 


8 1 


23rd .. 


11 7 


10-00 


18-30 


7 8 


24th .. 


12 2 


10-00 


19-40 


7 6 



This table shows the average amount of breast -milk 
secured by sixty-one infants in twenty-four hours, and at 
each feeding. It also shows (column 4) the average weight 
of the infants and the number of feeds (column 2) in the 
twenty-four hours. It is to be noted that in columns 1, 3, 
and 4 the figures refer to avoirdupois and not apothecaries' 
weights. 



BREAST-FEEDING 



23 



The evidence on which this belief is based is that 
which has been afforded by a comparatively small 
number of test-feeds conducted in maternity 
institutions in Germany. For instance, Camerer's 
figures, which constitute the usually accepted stan- 
dard, are derived from six cases only, and Freer's 
estimates are based on a similar number. Repeating 
these experiments at my suggestion, on a much 
larger scale namely in the case of sixty-one infants 
Dr. W. 0. Pitt 1 was able to show that the average 
amount of milk secured by London mothers confined 
in a maternity institute (the St. Mary leb one Work- 
house) was very much lower than the German stand- 
ards. Dr. Pitt's results are given in Table I. (p. 22). 

In Table II. Dr. Pitt's results are placed side 
by side with those of Camerer and Freer. 

TABLE II. 

AVERAGE NUMBER OF OUNCES OF MILK CONSUMED BY 
NURSLINGS DURING THE FIRST TEN DAYS OF LIFE IN 
TWENTY-FOUR HOURS. 





Day of Life. 




1st. 


2nd. 


3rd. 


4th. 


5th. 


6th. 


7th. 


8th. 


9th. 


10th. 


Dr. Pitt's 61 






















cases 
Freer's 6 cases 
Camerer's 6 


* 


u 


4 
6i 


61 
"I 


6 
16 


4 


8 
20 


7 
181 


8 
21 


81 
20 


cases 


1 


21 


6 


HI 


121 


13 


16 


161 


16 


15| 



It will be noticed that Camerer estimates that the 
amount of milk obtained by infants on the seventh 
1 The Lancet, September 2, 1911. 



24 THE INFANT 

day of life is on an average 16 ounces and Freer 
20 ounces, whereas Dr. Pitt's figures for the 
corresponding day amount to only 7 ounces. 

I call attention to these figures because it is gene- 
rally supposed that infants are being starved if 
during the early days of life they do not obtain 
amounts of food which conform to the textbook 
standards. Such a belief is quite unjustified; the 
infants in Dr. Pitt's series of cases (see column 4 of 
Table I.) showed quite normal progress and average 
gains in weight in spite of the small quantity of milk 
they obtained. Any unwarrantable interference 
with Nature's supply by supplementary feeding 
during the early days of life, until lactation is fully 
established, is extremely likely to interfere with the 
ultimate success of nursing. 

If the foregoing explanations of the factors on 
which successful breast-feeding depends are under- 
stood, it will be realized that the usual expedients 
adopted to secure the establishment of lactation are 
little calculated to promote the desired object. 

A short time ago I asked a class of experienced 
midwives what was the most important factor to 
attend to in the establishment of lactation. They 
all seemed to think that the feeding of the mother was 
the most important consideration. 

If what I have already said on this subject is 
physiologically and substantially correct, it is quite 
clear that gruel, or Benger's food, or nursing-stout, 



BREAST-FEEDING 25 

can have no influence in the matter. The conditions 
on which the establishment of lactation depend are 
normal stimulation of the nipples, normal conduction 
of the nerve impulse, and normal reflexion of the 
impulse by the nerve cells in the centres concerned ; 
that is to say, the normal behaviour of a normal 
reflex arc controls the vascular supply and the secre- 
tory functions of normal glands. You cannot force 
these glands to activity by saturating the blood with 
nutritive material. 

It is, of course, essential that the blood should con- 
tain the raw elements required for the manufacture 
of milk, and, further, if a large quantity of any manu- 
factured article is required, a large quantity of raw 
material must be supplied. But for the mere estab- 
lishment of the function of lactation it is not only 
unnecessary, but even harmful to attempt to over- 
feed the patient, for the blood always contains an 
ample quantity of nutriment. 

Of recent years a good deal has been written and 
said on the subject of galactogogues, and several 
preparations have been largely advertised as being 
capable of influencing the supply of milk. As far as 
I am aware, no specific galactogogue has yet been dis- 
covered, neither linseed-oil, nor cottonseed-oil, nor 
any of their derivatives can be regarded as galacto- 
gogues in the proper acceptation of the term. They 
are foods just as cod-liver oil or olive-oil are foods, 
and they can serve as the raw material out of which 



26 THE INFANT 

certain of the constituents of milk can be manufac- 
tured; but they cannot influence the establishment 
or the non-establishment of lactation, although many 
poor people are induced to purchase these preparations 
and to take them under the belief that the money is 
well expended, and that they have some specific charm 
in the secretory powers of the mammary glands. 

An examination of the factors on which the estab- 
lishment of lactation depends emphasizes the im- 
portance of the following points : 

To set the secretory mechanism in motion it is 
necessary that the liberating stimulus received from 
the nipple should be adequate in intensity to evoke 
the required response from the controlling nerve 
centres. The responsiveness of these centres can be 
materially promoted by the favourable co-operation 
of the higher centres which subserve psychic and 
emotional activities ; they are, in fact, activated and 
reinforced by the concentrated fire of nerve energy 
which can be directed upon them by the psychic 
batteries of the higher brain. There is reason to 
believe that internal secretions, or hormones, circu- 
lating in the blood can also reinforce the activities of 
these centres or of the gland cells. There are, how- 
ever, no grounds for believing that foods or so-called 
galactogogues can have any influence in setting in 
action the nervous mechanism of secretion, although 
if a large amount of milk is required, the mother must 
be well fed to prevent exhaustion. 



BREAST-FEEDING 27 

I have already dealt somewhat fully with the 
details concerned in the "establishment of lactation." 
I now propose to consider other matters connected 
with its subsequent maintenance and the general 
management of breast-feeding up till the time of 
weaning. 

It will be unnecessary for me to allude further to 
the necessity for long intervals between feeding and 
for giving an extended period of rest during the 
night, but I would refer to some very interesting 
observations made by Dr. Maynard Ladd 1 of Har- 
vard, which show that the stomach requires even a 
longer period than is usually supposed to become 
completely empty, sometimes as long as six hours. 

The management of the quantity of milk supplied 
is a matter of prime importance, not so much during 
the first few weeks of life, when the chief desideratum 
is the establishment of the normal functions of 
digestion, as from the end of the first month onwards, 
when considerations of nutrition should occupy our 
attention. 

There is a very general belief that, as the infant 
grows older and larger, there is a corresponding in- 
crease in the amount of breast-milk consumed. This 
is by no means an invariable rule, as my own obser- 
vations 2 on a large number of infants of the poorer 

1 " The Influence of Variations of Diet upon Gastric 
Mobility in Infants," Archives of Pediatrics, 1913, p. 740. 

2 The British Manual of Children's Diseases, February, 
1914, vol. xi., pp. 49-62. 



28 THE INFANT 

class very clearly prove. There is, indeed, a serious 
risk of breast-fed infants being underfed during the 
later months unless precautions are taken to prevent 
this catastrophe. 

I imagine I do not overstate the case when I say 
that of all the factors in the environment which 
make or mar the development of the infant, food or 
feeding is the most important. Even in breast 
cases the feeding requires management, both as 
regards quality and quantity. It is very difficult to 
influence the quality of breast-milk this is for the 
most part beyond our control but we can manage 
the quantity or, at least, we can, with very little 
trouble, make ourselves acquainted with the exact 
quantity of food consumed, especially when we are 
dealing with infants of well-to-do parents. For 
many years past I have estimated, by means of the 
test-feed, in many cases repeatedly performed, 
the amount of milk consumed by all breast-fed 
infants brought to my clinics, both at the Queen's 
Hospital and at the St. Marylebone General Dis- 
pensary, and by this means I have gained some ex- 
perience of the quantitative variations in the milk- 
supply of different women. These variations are so 
bewildering and often so unexpected that it is merely 
playing with an important matter to attempt to 
treat breast-fed infants for nutritional and other 
disturbances until this primary element in the diag- 
nosis has been settled. I have, indeed, had some 
very strange experiences, which all go to show how 



BREAST-FEEDING 29 

utterly futile it is to attempt to estimate the quantity 
of food an infant is obtaining without the confirma- 
tory evidence of the test-feed. Many times have 
I thought that the infant was being starved when in 
reality it was being " overfed," and often I have 
thought that " overfeeding " was the trouble when 
events have proved that the symptoms were due to 
starvation. There are, indeed, certain clinical tests 
by which we may distinguish between underfeeding 
and overfeeding, and I do not hesitate to refer to 
these very obvious indications, because I notice that 
they are often ignored. 
The cardinal symptoms of underfeeding are 

1. Loss of, or at least a failure to gain, weight at 
the normal rate. 

2. Constipation, or in case of extreme starvation 
the passage of small mucous stools. 

3. A limited excretion of urine (oliguria). 
Whereas the cardinal symptoms of overfeeding 

are 

1. At first unduly large increments in weight suc- 
ceeded by a period of stationary or falling weight. 

2. The passage of large bulky stools and the pres- 
ence of redness of the buttocks. Constipation some- 
times develops, but the motions are large when passed. 

3. The passage of a large quantity of water 
(polyuria) . 

4. Sweating and vascular dilatation of the capil- 
laries of the face. 

5. Rapid breathing. 



30 THE INFANT 

In addition to these cardinal symptoms there are 
other means by which we may distinguish between 
starvation and superalimentation for instance, the 
condition of the mother's breasts conveys very im- 
portant information. Breasts which are full and 
large before feeding, and small and flaccid after 
feeding, presumably afford a good supply, whereas 
small breasts which do not perceptibly diminish in 
size after feeding as a rule cannot be credited with 
a liberal secretion ; but no matter how carefully we 
piece together such fragments of diagnostic evidence, 
it is impossible to rely on any other evidence than 
that of the test-feed. 

To show how very misleading the subjective sens- 
ations of the mother may be, and how utterly worth- 
less her own opinions as to the amount of milk she 
may supply, I herewith give the particulars of two 
interesting and illustrative cases : 

Case 1. A male infant, two months old, was 
brought to the Queen's Hospital, February 10, 1913, 
for continuous screaming. The weight at birth was 
not noted, but the baby was reported to have been 
of average size ; the weight on being brought to the 
hospital was 10 pounds. So presumably the infant 
had increased in weight some 2 or 3 pounds in the 
two months, and therefore could not have been 
systematically starved. For some days past the 
infant had been constipated, and had passed a very 
small quantity of water. The mother's breasts were 
of normal size and appeared well developed, but 



BREAST-FEEDING 31 

milk could only be expressed with difficulty. I gave 
the mother instructions when she next came to see 
me not to feed the infant for three hours before 
attending at the hospital. In the meantime, feeling 
fairly confident from the symptoms that the infant 
was now being starved, whatever might have been 
the case at an earlier date, I told the mother to give 
the infant one teaspoonful of condensed milk and 
two tablespoonfuls of water after each breast-feeding. 
Owing to a mistake on the part of the mother, it was 
not possible to give a test-feed when the infant was 
brought to the hospital a week later, but in the 
interval the infant had gained 2 pounds 4 J ounces in 
weight, the largest increment I have ever seen 
registered in one week in fact, no infant could 
possibly show such an increment unless it had been 
very seriously starved for some time previously. I 
have no doubt that the infant's tissues were very dry 
and that this extraordinary increase in weight was 
chiefly due to their rehydration. Two days later a 
proper test-feed was given, but this showed that 
the infant weighed the same after the feeding as it 
did before it was put to the breast a result which 
was confirmed in the following week by means of a 
second test-feed. 

It is interesting to note that on the occasion of each 
of these test-feeds the mother told me, in answer 
to my inquiry, that the infant had had a good feed, 
and that she felt sure it obtained quite as much as it 
had during the early days of life when the whole 
history of the case proves that it must have been 
making good progress. 

Seven^days later another test-feed was given, 



32 THE INFANT 

but the result still proved that the breasts were quite 
dry. In the interim, however, the infant had gained 
further weight and was now 13 pounds 4 ounces. The 
mother was apparently so satisfied with the result 
of the artificial feeding that she ceased her attendance 
at the hospital, and I have not seen the infant since. 

This result illustrates one of the great dangers of 
supplementary feeding with condensed milk. Owing 
to the sweetness of the milk, infants take so kindly to 
the food that they do not seem to apply much energy 
to the task of obtaining milk from a relatively dry 
breast; moreover, the mothers are so pleased with 
the immediate results that they are only too glad to 
relinquish breast-feeding, with all its attendant 
troubles and disappointments. I have very little 
doubt that the infant above referred to grew into a 
fat, contented, flabby, and unhealthy baby, like the 
rest of its kind who are fed on this most unsatisfac- 
tory food. 

I have great faith in condensed milk as an easy 
stepping-stone to better things, but as a permanent 
bridge between the period of early weaning and the 
solid food stage, it is full of temptations and dangers. 
The three main defects in condensed milk, at any 
rate the ordinary sweetened variety, are ( 1 ) That it 
contains a great excess of sugar, (2) that it is too 
easily digested and does not develop the functions 
of digestion, and (3) that it is a dead food which 
contains no antiscorbutic elements (vitamines). 



BREAST-FEEDING 33 

The following case illustrates the value of the 
test-feed from a totally different point of view : 

Case 2. W. W. A male infant six months old and 
weighing 16 pounds 6 ounces was brought to the 
Queen's Hospital for constipation and glands in the 
neck. The infant was fed every two hours, and the 
mother was under the impression that she had not 
sufficient milk. I gathered from the mother's 
account of the condition of the napkins that the 
infant passed a large quantity of water, and from the 
appearance of the breasts and the ease with which 
milk could be expressed, I felt convinced that from 
whatever else the infant might be suffering, its 
present condition was not due to want of milk. I 
gave the mother the usual instructions, and two days 
later a test-feed was given at the hospital. This 
proved that the amount of milk which the infant ex- 
tracted from the breast was very nearly 7 ounces, 
a quantity which in my experience of hospital 
practice in the East End of London is almost 
unique, and it suggested a diagnosis of overfeeding, 
and, on reflection, the symptoms appeared by no 
means inconsistent with this explanation. Con- 
stipation is not an uncommon accompaniment of 
super-alimentation, but in this particular case, as I 
subsequently discovered, the constipation was due 
to the abuse of soap-and -water enemata. There are, 
on my experience, few more aggravating causes of 
constipation in infants than the early dislocation of 
the normal rectal reflex by the administration of 
enemata, glycerine suppositories, and powerful aperi- 
ents. I treated this case by extending the intervals 

3 



34 THE INFANT 

between feeding, by reducing the amount of clothing, 
and by promoting the physiological demand for food 
in the many ways I have already mentioned. Thus 
were overcome the consequences of overfeeding, and 
the infant soon improved in condition. It at once 
increased in weight, and was in perfectly good 
health when the mother ceased attending at the 
hospital. 

I could easily multiply instances both of overfeed- 
ing and of underfeeding which have been revealed and 
cured owing to the instrumentality of the test-feed, 
but no degree of repetition would be so convincing 
as a short experience of the method in an infant clinic. 
Personally, I cannot understand how anyone can 
expect to treat breast-fed infants successfully unless 
he or she first takes the precaution of becoming ac- 
quainted with the amount of food the infant consumes- 

I imagine that the two really important factors in 
the infant's environment are the quantity and the 
quality of the food. It is very difficult to obtain 
accurate information with respect to the quality of 
breast-milk, for chemical analysis shows us but little ; 
but it is quite easy to obtain precise information 
with respect to the quantity, and I consider that any 
physician who fails to take this precaution, does 
himself an injustice. 

Although for the last ten years I have practically 
never omitted to gauge as accurately as I have been 
able the amount of milk which has been consumed 
by every breast-fed infant concerning whom I have 



BREAST-FEEDING 35 

been consulted, I freely admit that even with the ex- 
perience I have thus gained I am unable to form a 
reliable estimation of the quantity obtained by any 
particular nursling by any clinical test with which I 
am acquainted other than the test-feed. 

I have elsewhere explained that, within certain 
wide limits, the supply of breast-milk is correlated to 
the demands of the infant ; that is to say, other things 
being equal, the more hungry and lusty the infant, 
the larger will be the amount of milk afforded by the 
breasts. In other words, there is some parallelism 
in this particular secretory function between the 
intensity of the stimulation applied and the reflex 
response elicited. But this physiological correlation 
does not obtain under all conditions; its fulfilment 
demands the existence of normal conditions in the 
secretory apparatus and its nervous mechanisms. 
For instance, the casual presence of a crack in the 
nipple may induce painful impressions, and these 
may suppress rather than excite secretion in the 
mammary glands ; on the other hand, psychological 
disturbances in the mother may interfere with the 
normal liberation of the reflex response. Again, the 
infant itself is, like the mother, subject to psycho- 
logical disturbances, and for some quite unforeseen 
reason may refuse to suck and apply the required 
stimulus. Suggestion plays a most important part 
in the actions of an infant. For instance, one or two 
disappointments at the breast may shake the infant' 



36 THE INFANT 

faith, and it may refuse to make any further efforts. 
Sometimes the effort of sucking may initiate painful 
sensations in the abdomen, due to contraction of 
sphincters, to enterospasms, or to other forms of inco- 
ordinated peristalsis ; and when once the infant asso- 
ciates such experiences with the act of taking the 
breast, it may resolutely refuse to make any further 
attempt. The truth is that breast-feeding requires 
a great deal of management if it is to be a complete 
success. It is a mistake to underrate its difficulties 
or to exaggerate its merits. 

One of the most important matters in connection 
with breast-feeding is to know when and how to 
supplement an inadequate supply with artificial 
feedings. In this connection two factors must be 
considered firstly, how much food ought any 
particular infant to receive in the twenty-four hours ; 
and, secondly, how much does it actually derive from 
the mother's breasts. As regards the first factor, 
I must refer the reader to Chapter III., which treats 
of the food requirements of infants. If it is found 
by means of the test-feed that the quantity of milk 
supplied by the mother falls materially short of this 
amount, then the deficit must be made good by 
supplementary feedings. It is very difficult to in- 
crease the natural supply by any practical expedient. 

Galactogogues which directly stimulate the flow 
are unknown, and food makes very little impression. 
Starving women afford quite a good supply, as we 
know from the experiences of the siege of Paris in 



BREAST-FEEDING 37 

1870, and the great cotton famine in Lancashire 
some years prior to this date. During these times of 
trouble and deprivation the infant mortality was 
peculiarly low, and the infants did not seem to 
suffer in health from the starvation of the 
mothers. I had quite recently an interesting illustra- 
tion of the insignificant influence of starvation on 
the mother's milk, when a woman, whom I had 
known for some years, came to my infant consulta- 
tion with a three-months-old baby whom she was 
suckling. This woman was suffering seriously 
from the effects of inanition, and yet the baby was 
plump and well, increasing normally in weight, and 
appearing quite well in all other respects. The test- 
feed showed that the amount of milk obtained at a 
feeding was ample. Dr. Leslie Duncan 1 has made some 
interesting observations on the influence of dinners 
supplied to necessitous nursing-mothers in Birming- 
ham. The extra food supplied in this way to half- 
starved women had a distinct influence on the fat con- 
tent of the milk, but in no other way appeared to influ- 
ence its quality, although the nutrition of the mothers 
materially improved in consequence of the extra food. 

This has been my own experience also, although I 
have not had an opportunity of confirming my clinical 
experience by many actual analyses of the milk. 

On the other hand, if a nursing-mother is already 
obtaining a sufficiency of food, no good purpose 
will be served by amplifying her already adequate 

1 Report on Infant Mortality. Birmingham, 1913. 
Printers : Hudson and Son. 



38 THE INFANT 

dietary. Nursing-stout, gruel, and cod-liver oil often 
do more harm than good by making the mother 
bilious and thus upsetting the general bodily equi- 
librium on which a good mammary secretion so 
largely depends. I would, however, say one word in 
favour of iron as an adjuvant to the nutrition of the 
nursing-mother; it is certainly a drug which may 
improve the quality of the milk. At the best of 
times breast-milk is none too rich in iron, and it may 
show a noticeable deficiency if the mother has been 
depleted of it by haemorrhages or other conditions 
which dispose to anaemia. Infants very soon show 
the effects of iron starvation, and their general con- 
dition of nutrition may under certain circumstances 
greatly improve when it is administered to the 
mothers. I make a common practice of supplying 
nursing-mothers with 15 to 60 grains of carbonate 
of iron in the twenty-four hours, and I generally 
notice that the quality of the milk as estimated 
by the nutrition of the infants improves. Seeing 
that by ordinary means we cannot increase the 
quantity of the natural supply, we must compensate 
for a shortage of breast-milk by giving supplementary 
feedings ; and it is certainly my experience that some 
of the best results in breast-feeding which I have seen 
have been in the case of infants fed by the combined 
method. The supplementary feedings can be given 
in various ways, either at the beginning or at the end 
of a breast-feeding, or as an occasional substitute for 
it that is to say, by alternating breast- and bottle- 



BREAST-FEEDING 39 

feedings, or by substituting one, two, three, or more, 
bottles for the breast. 

I would not like to lay down any hard-and-fast 
rules. Each case must be judged on its own merits. 
Sometimes on inquiry, or on the evidence of a test- 
feed, we find that at one particular hour in the day 
the mother's milk materially fails. If this is so, this 
hour should be chosen for the supplementary bottle. 
I find from experience that the late afternoon feeds 
are the poorest in quantity, just as the first morning 
feed, after the long rest at night, is usually the largest. 

Sometimes I find it an excellent plan to give a 
small supplementary feed at the end of each feeding. 
I have had some very extraordinary cases both at 
the Queen's Hospital and at the St. Marylebone 
General Dispensary, in which the addition of an in- 
significant quantity of extra food has produced 
a quite disproportionate change in the infant. 
Infants whose weight may have been stationary for 
weeks or months may increase a pound or more in 
weight in quite a short time by the addition of a few 
ounces of cow's milk in the twenty-four hours. 

It is naturally of some importance to supply the 
right food in the right amount when recourse is had 
to supplementary feedings. The amount of food to 
be given by hand will depend on the quantity of 
breast-milk already taken by the infant. It is 
unwise to augment the quantity too suddenly or too 
drastically. The danger of overloading an unpre- 
pared stomach is very great. 



40 THE INFANT 

If an infant obtains, say, 15 ounces of breast- 
milk from the mother in the twenty-four hours, 
when, according to ordinary estimation, the amount 
should be at least 25 ounces, we must consider in 
what way to supply the deficiency. If we find, 
after giving a few test-feeds, that sometimes the 
infant obtains a large quantity and sometimes a 
small, it may be quite safe to give the supplementary 
food in comparatively large quantities, say, in doses 
of 3, 4, or 5 ounces. On the other hand, if the 
infant appears to obtain its total supply in small 
and constantly regular quantities, it may be better to 
distribute the supplementary food in the form of small 
and increasing addendums to each feed; but, as 
I say, there is no rule, and each problem must be 
solved by a full consideration of the individual 
difficulties. 

I find among the poor that the simplest and most 
practical method of supplementing a defective 
breast-supply is to order a quarter, a half, or a 
whole teaspoonful of condensed milk to be given 
after each breast-feeding, the food to be given in a 
spoon without any previous dilution. This obviates 
the possible danger of overdistending a stomach 
already full of a thin and poor milk, for it must be 
remembered that infants are often underfed, owing 
to the poor quality of the milk, although its quantity 
may be ample. This is especially the case towards 
the end of lactation, when the mother has become 
exhausted from prolonged suckling. 



CHAPTER II 

SOME PHYSIOLOGICAL PRINCIPLES CONCERNED IN 
THE NUTRITION OF INFANTS 

WHEN we speak of the state of nutrition of an animal 
or of a human being, I imagine that few of us con- 
jure up a very clear picture of the exact meaning of 
the term we employ. We are apt, for instance, to 
regard the popular expression " to be well nourished ' ' 
as synonymous with " being in a condition of good 
nutrition." As a matter of fact, "to be well 
nourished," in the more usual acceptation of the 
expression, is to be fat and sleek to be in the sort 
of condition in which prize cattle and babies are 
when they are sent to shows a very different thing 
from being in a sound condition of health. I should 
find myself in a very difficult position if I were asked 
to define shortly what I myself understand by the 
term "good nutrition." It certainly has very little 
to do with reserve stores of fat or glycogen, and it 
certainly has a great deal to do with the functional 
efficiency or " fitness " of the individual. 

When an organism as a whole is said to be in a 
condition of good functional efficiency or good nutri- 

41 



42 THE INFANT 

tion, such a statement implies that the individual 
organs or elements that make up the sum total of 
its anatomy are also in a condition of functional 
efficiency. We ought therefore to judge the condi- 
tion of nutrition of a baby, for instance, by the 
standard of its functional efficiency rather than by 
that of its outward appearance. There is truth in 
the statement that no one can judge of the time- 
keeping qualities of a watch by a mere inspection 
of its mechanism, and for the same reason there is 
truth in the view that there are few people who can 
judge of the physiological efficiency of the human 
baby by a simple examination of its exterior char- 
acteristics. There are, however, a large number of 
physiological functions which betray their merits or 
defects by visible and objective manifestations. For 
instance, if the liver does not play its part efficiently 
in the destruction or combustion of the products of 
intestinal putrefaction, the individual will be un- 
duly pigmented or muddy of complexion; or, again, 
if the kidneys are diseased or incompetent, the tissues 
may be cedematous or the complexion bloated. It 
requires, however, a very shrewd observer to judge 
at all accurately of the condition of nutrition of any 
particular individual by an examination of externals. 
He must judge by performance, and not by appear- 
ances. 

In order that any organ or tissue may be in a con- 
dition of good nutrition or good functional efficiency, 



THE NUTRITION OF INFANTS 43 

certain conditions are essential. In the first place, 
good nutrition postulates that the organs or tissues 
themselves must possess normal qualities, qualities 
which will enable them to perform the duties de- 
manded of them. Secondly, they must be provided 
with the food or nutritive material which is required 
for their normal metabolic processes. And, thirdly, 
they must be in connection with a normally con- 
stituted nervous arc. 

The soundness and integrity of this nervous arc is of 
paramount importance for the nutrition of the highly 
complex organs of which our bodies are composed. 

Let me take, for instance, such an example as 
the biceps muscle. For this muscle to be in a con- 
dition of functional efficiency, it must constantly 
exercise its function, or it will assuredly atrophy. 
The functions of this muscle are not only exercised 
when it becomes mechanically shortened and it 
performs external work, but its activities are in con- 
stant operation in the mere maintenance of "tone." 
" Tone," however, ceases to exist the moment the 
integrity of the reflex arc is damaged or destroyed. 
A never-failing stream of sensory or centripetal 
impulses constantly impinges on the nerve cell, 
which controls the administrative functions of the 
reflex arc. These centripetal impulses are inter- 
preted by the nerve cell and transmitted to the 
muscle in the form of an endless succession of 
trophic or tone-giving stimuli. The moment these 



44 THE INFANT 

centripetal impulses are cut off, as by severance of 
sensory nerves, or the moment the functions of the 
nerve cell are dislocated, that moment does the muscle 
cell lose its tone, or, in other words, fail in nutrition. 

Whether, therefore, we take the case of a single 
muscle or of the body as an aggregate of many 
organs, we can see, in the light of these fundamental 
conceptions, that nutrition depends on a large number 
of factors, chief and foremost among which is the 
integrity or efficiency of the nervous arc. 

Now, bearing these facts in mind, I would ask 
you to turn your attention for a moment to a con- 
sideration of the first of the factors which I have 
already enumerated as requisite for nutrition 
namely, the food or nutritive supply. In order that 
nutrition may be maintained, certain food require- 
ments must be observed. The food must contain 
all the elements required by the various organs for 
the performance of their functions, and in adequate 
amounts. If the supply falls short, or is excessive 
in amount, the organism suffers. But, owing to 
the vast reserve powers of the body, there must be 
a large excess or a serious shortage to produce any 
material damage. 

The human body has aptly been compared to a 
community of citizens, in which economy and 
efficiency have been secured by a strict adherence 
to the principles of the division of labour. The cells 
of the body, like the various professions or classes 



THE NUTEITION OF INFANTS 46 

in a community of individuals, are differentiated 
into systems or groups for the performance of certain 
definite and often highly specialized functions. 
Thus, in the digestive tract we find segregated 
together cells whose special duties are to render 
soluble and suitable for the nutrition of the other 
members of the community, those solid and crude 
articles of diet which are consumed as food. Again, 
we find in the liver a vast assemblage of cells whose 
special function it is to sort the good from the bad, 
and to destroy or oxidize those waste and superfluous 
products which, together with the necessary and 
useful products, are absorbed from the alimentary 
tract, and are passed through this great scavenging 
system. Highly organized cells, such as those 
of the nervous or muscular systems, could not 
perform their specialized duties with the required 
efficiency if their energies were diverted for such 
base and commonplace purposes as the digestion 
and preparation of their own food. 

It is the special duty of the cells concerned in the 
processes of digestion and assimilation to reduce the 
many varieties of food, consumed by the host, to 
some common denomination, or to some uniform 
standard capable of fulfilling the required conditions. 
The blood contains, or should contain, all the nutri- 
tive material required for the growth and mainte- 
nance of the many varieties of tissue cells represented 
in the body, and in a form at once available for 



46 THE INFANT 

utilization. The composition of the blood remains 
singularly constant and uniform, no matter what 
may be the nature of the food consumed. Chemi- 
cally and physically, the blood is most accurately 
adjusted to the requirements of the tissue cells, so 
that the latter always receive nutritive material, 
which is adjusted both quantitatively and qualita- 
tively to their specific needs. It would greatly 
interfere with the efficiency of their work if these 
cells were to be constantly confronted with changes 
in the character of their food, for such variations 
would necessitate corresponding adjustments in the 
disposition of their molecular structure. It is, 
therefore, impossible to insist too strongly that one 
of the most important mechanisms in the animal 
body is that which is concerned in maintaining the 
uniformity, or specificity, of the circulating nutrient 
media. 

The blood contains, or should contain, every one 
of the essential elements required for the synthesis 
or building up of the many varieties of tissue cells 
contained in the body; for this purpose, proteins, 
carbohydrates, fats, salts, and a great number of 
other colloidal or crystalloid bodies are required. 
Every provision is made for maintaining these 
necessary substances at a uniform strength and of 
specific quality, and for eliminating from the cir- 
culation all those which are not required. Any 
gross departure from the required standards may 



THE NUTRITION OF INFANTS 47 

cause considerable dislocation of the machinery of 
the body, and interfere with the health of the 
organism as a whole. For this reason, the blood of 
one animal cannot be transfused into the circulation 
of another without risk. The more closely the 
animal whose blood is transfused into the circula- 
tion of another is allied by the ties of consanguinity 
or habit to the animal into which it is injected, the 
less serious are likely to be the disturbances provoked. 

Even the blood of two members of the same family, 
of two brothers for instance, is not exactly iden- 
tical, and cannot be substituted without some dis- 
turbance of organic equilibrium. The blood of the 
mother is practically identical with that of the 
foetus in her womb, and so is the blood of one 
dicephalous twin with that of the other; but the 
blood of the infant ceases to be identical with that 
of the mother the moment the placental connections 
are severed. 

The maintenance of the specificity and uniformity 
of the blood is so important to each individual that 
it is not without interest to inquire by what mechan- 
ism or mechanisms these conditions are fulfilled. 
Most of us are quite familiar with the resources at 
the disposal of the organism for maintaining the 
quantitative constancy of the blood. Thus, we 
all know that, as regards the carbohydrate content 
of the blood, the required percentage is maintained 
by elaborate systems of extra-circulatory storage, and 



48 THE INFANT 

by elimination from the body ; the same is true, to a 
greater or less extent, with respect to the nitrogenous 
and saline constituents of the blood. These matters 
are so familiar that I feel my time will be employed 
better in confining myself to the manner in which 
the qualitative constancy of the blood is insured. 

To a certain extent, similar mechanisms and 
methods are employed to maintain the qualitative 
constancy of all the essential constituents of the 
blood ; but inasmuch as the specificity of the protein 
content transcends in importance the specificity of 
all the other constituents combined, I shall confine 
myself to this side of the question, although mutatis 
mutandis the details are practically the same for 
all the other nutritive elements in the blood. 

Thanks to the brilliant work of Emil Fischer, 
Emil Abderhalden, and other organic chemists 
working in the same school, we now have more exact 
information of the molecular constitution of protein 
bodies than we had, let us say, ten years ago. We 
know, for instance, that these complex bodies consist 
of long chains of relatively simple atomic-complexes, 
such as fatty acids and amido-acids, linked or 
combined together in ester groupings or piperazine 
rings. Further, we know the exact chemical con- 
stitution of the amido-acids which take part in 
these syntheses, and can recognize their presence by 
chemical tests. At least twenty separate and in- 
dependent amino-acids have thus been isolated, 



THE NUTRITION OF INFANTS 40 

and recognized as taking part in the specific " make- 
up " of the various protein bodies. The number of 
combinations of amino-acids is, however, possibly 
greater than the number of combinations of letters 
into words, for, however sesquipedalian may be 
the character of the latter, their length is as nothing 
in comparison with the possible length of the chains 
of amino-acids which constitute the huge molecules 
of which proteins consist. 

Thus, although it is quite easy to separate the 
various classes of proteins into groups or classes, 
such as serum-albumins, globulins, nucleo-albumins, 
caseinogens, albumoses, peptones, or collagens, it is 
quite possible, or, indeed, almost certain, that there 
are slight specific differences in the " make-up " of 
each representative of each class, although the dis- 
tinction between these various representatives is at 
present indistinguishable by ordinary chemical 
tests. These specific differences unquestionably 
depend on the number and the grouping of the 
component amido-acids. We know, in fact, that 
the serum-albumins or globulins of no two animals 
are exactly identical when put to the test of the bio- 
chemical reaction; if, for instance, the serum of a 
horse is transfused into the blood-stream of a human 
being, it acts as a foreign body, and leads to the 
production of specific precipitins. This phenomenon 
has a most important bearing on certain phases of 
infant feeding, for we know that, under given con- 

4 



50 THE INFANT 

ditions, unaltered proteins 1 are absorbed from the 
alimentary tract into the circulation without previous 
digestion; further, we know that such absorption 
can be followed by untoward consequences, as, for 
instance, by the development of extensive urticarial 
rashes. 

Immediately after birth, and before the processes 
of digestion are established, if soluble proteins are 
introduced into the stomach of the infant, a certain 
proportion will be absorbed; if these proteids are 
foreign, such, for instance, as those contained in 
cow's milk or in white of egg, they will excite bio- 
chemical reactions, and lead to the production of 
specific precipitation in the blood, and therefore 
they will not subserve the functions of ordinary 
nutrition, and consequently are not only useless, 
but may be actually dangerous. On the other hand, 
if proteins, as, for instance, those contained in the 
colostrum of the child's mother, are introduced into 
the system of the infant and happen to be identical 
with its own specific circulating proteins, the case 
is quite different; such proteins are not foreign 
bodies, and are available for the purposes of nutri- 
tion. A consideration of these facts emphasizes 
the importance of maternal feeding. Even the 
colostrum of a wet-nurse does not contain exactly 
the same proteins as the colostrum of the mother, 

1 Van Alstyne and Grant, Journ. of Med. Research, 1911, 
vol. xxv., p. 399. 



THE NUTRITION OF INFANTS 51 

and consequently is not exactly suited to the re- 
quirements of the infant. It may be safer to feed 
the new-born infant with the colostrum of a wet- 
nurse than with the milk of some foreign species of 
animal, the cow, for instance ; but there are dangers 
attaching even to this procedure, and wet-nursing 
should not be attempted during the first few days 
of life. 

The important purpose of digestion is not so 
much to bring about the solution of solid articles 
of food as for the purpose of splitting up foreign 
material into its component elements. For instance, 
foreign proteins are split up by the processes of 
gastric and intestinal digestion into their constituent 
amino-acids, sometimes into chains of amino-acids 
of varying length and varying degree of complexity, 
sometimes into individual amino-acids, and out of 
these fragmentary particles new proteins are built 
up by synthetic processes on an entirely new archi- 
tectural plan, and of a type which is suited to the 
specific requirements of the individual in whom 
they circulate. 

I have already referred to the fact that in the 
" make-up " of the various protein bodies there are 
quantitative as well as qualitative variations; thus, 
egg-albumin does not contain among its constituent 
amino-acids, representatives of the glycocoll group, 
while gliadin, a vegetable protein, does not contain 
lysin, nor does gelatine contain tyrosin or trypto- 



52 THE INFANT 

phane. On the quantitative side, egg-albumin has 
been shown to contain only 8 per cent, of glutaminic 
acid, while in gliadin it is represented to the extent 
of 33 per cent. 

In the light of this knowledge, it is easy to under- 
stand that when one proteid is built up, so to speak, 
out of the ashes of another, there may be synthetic 
difficulties owing to the absence or relative deficiency 
of some particular amino-acid, or of some atomic 
grouping, or, indeed, there may be excess of certain 
amino-acids which must be disposed of. For in- 
stance, we cannot expect the organism to build up 
its own specific serum-albumin out of gelatine or 
out of a vegetable protein such as gliadin, for the 
former contains no tyrosin or tryptophane, and the 
latter no lysin, all of which amino-acids are required 
for the " make-up " of serum-albumin ; but we 
could well imagine, as, indeed, is the case, that 
the organism might maintain nutrition on a diet of 
gelatine to which the missing amino-acids, tyrosin 
and tryptophane, had been added, or on a diet of 
gliadin plus the requisite quantity of lysin. A 
knowledge of these facts explains why calf's -foot 
jelly, at one time so greatly valued as an invalid food, 
and subsequently held in such scientific contempt, 
can be an excellent food in combination with beef -tea, 
and yet of little nutritive value as an exclusive food ; 
it also explains the advantages of a mixed diet. 

The whole question of the resolution of foreign pro- 



THE NUTRITION OF INFANTS 53 

teins into their component elements, or amino- acids, 
is of immense importance in infant dietetics, for unless 
foreign proteins can be so resolved in the processes of 
digestion, they cannot be utilized for the purposes of 
synthetically compounding the specific proteins, which 
are essential for the nutrition of the growing baby. 

Young infants are not at first possessed of these 
digestive powers, although they soon acquire them 
under suitable conditions of training. The protein 
foods usually provided for the infant consist largely 
of caseinogen, a substance which is converted into 
an insoluble casein by the ferment rennin con- 
tained in the stomach ; it is then further acted upon 
by lactic acid, or hydrochloric acid and pepsin, 
and converted into albumoses and peptoses. Al- 
though these soluble and diffusible bodies may be 
taken up into the system, it is a question to what 
extent they can subserve the purposes of nutrition. 
If they are really to be useful, they must be broken 
down still further into shorter chains of amido- 
acids by the processes of pancreatic digestion. If 
pancreatic digestion is carried far enough, a very 
complete resolution of the protein molecule into its 
component amino-acids occurs, and out of these 
individual acids, or from short chains of acids, the 
new proteids are built up by the organism, either 
in situ in the wall of the intestine, or locally in each 
organ. When it is remembered how many different 
kinds of proteins exist in the animal body, it is 



64 THE INFANT 

hardly remarkable that the specific albumin of the 
blood of each individual has complicated functions 
to perform, for out of its own molecular structure 
must be supplied the required building material for 
the make-up of such very differently constituted 
bodies as the myosin of the muscles, the histone of 
the thymus, the collagen and elastin of the con- 
nective tissues, the keratine of the hair and nails, 
and the nucleo-proteins of the nervous system. 

The circulating proteins of the blood must, in fact, 
represent the least common multiple of all the prime 
factors into which the various tissue proteins can 
be resolved, although this analogy need not be 
taken too literally nor pressed too far. 

It is quite easy to understand that, when through 
monotony or defects in the dietary, the specific 
" make-up " of the circulating proteins is not exactly 
adjusted to the requirements of the organism, com- 
plications and disturbances of development may 
occur. Such a disease as scurvy, for instance, may 
possibly depend on the absence of simple atomic 
groupings which are required for the specific " make- 
up " of some nucleo-protein ; indeed, there is good 
evidence that the disease does depend on the con- 
tinued absence of certain derivatives of nucleic acid 
known as vitamines, which are present in fresh foods, 
but are more or less destroyed when the fresh foods 
are disintegrated by heat or prolonged keeping. 

We know that the reserve powers of the animal 



THE NUTRITION OF INFANTS 55 

organism, both as regards compensation, metastasis 
of function, and excretion of waste products, are so 
great that ordinary degrees of excess or deficiency 
with respect to any particular food element do not 
greatly disturb the general equilibrium. At the 
same time the best results in nutrition are obtained 
when these reserve forces are least strained. 

The practical deductions to be drawn from these 
arguments are mainly concerned with the new-born 
infant, and it follows from what has been already 
stated that it is quite useless, or even dangerous, to 
supply the new-born infant with any variety of foreign 
proteid, unless or until the digestive functions have 
been established. It is possible that a great number 
of the troubles of digestion and nutrition in infants 
and young children can be traced to the improper 
administration of cow's milk before the gastric and 
pancreatic functions have been developed. 

The common practice of greatly diluting cow's 
milk does not necessarily enhance its suitability as 
a food for infants. If it can be digested by the 
gastric and intestinal ferments, and broken up 
into its constituent molecular fragments, well and 
good ; but if it cannot be so broken up and 
rendered suitable for synthetic purposes, no degree 
of dilution will make it a suitable medium for 
nutrition. I cannot help thinking that in our 
attempts to make cow's milk digestible we often 
dilute it too much. 



56 THE INFANT 

As I have already indicated, the digestive func- 
tions of the infant are not developed at the time of 
birth, and it may be days, weeks, or months, before 
the gastric or intestinal functions become sufficiently 
developed to deal satisfactorily with diluted cow's 
milk; the time will be more or less dependent on 
the experiences to which the digestive functions are 
submitted. If an infant is deprived of the educa- 
tional experiences to which it is entitled namely, 
the gradual metamorphosis of its mother's colostrum 
into the ordinary milk of full lactation it is quite 
clear to my mind that some other means of educa- 
tion should be found. If an infant cannot digest 
or break up foreign food into those elementary 
fragments out of which it can synthesize its own 
specific nutritive material, we ought, wholly or in 
part, to perform its digestive functions for it. In 
other words, we ought to pre-digest any artificial 
food which is given to the new-born baby. 

Now, it is very clear that foreign proteins cannot 
be broken up completely into their component 
ammo-acids by any perfunctory or superficial act 
of artificial digestion. If in vitro we digest milk 
with pepsin or pancreatic extract for a period of 
twenty minutes, the time usually recommended, 
we hardly begin to digest the food. By such a 
procedure we only convert a tithe of the proteins 
into albumoses or peptones. If we wish to dis- 
integrate the greater proportion of the casein and 



THE NUTRITION OF INFANTS 57 

whey-proteins into their component amino-acids, 
or even into comparatively short chains of amino- 
acids, it is necessary to pancreatize (pepsin is useless 
for this purpose) for twenty hours, not for twenty 
minutes. The necessity for the prolonged pre- 
digestion of proteins has been well pointed out by 
A. Rendle-Short and H. W. By waters in their 
article on the preparation of nutrient enemata. 1 

It is quite a mistake to think that milk completely 
digested in this way is too nauseating and bitter for 
infant consumption, for new-born infants will 
swallow most liquids with complete indifference, no 
matter how disagreeable adults may think them. 
Although, from the theoretical point of view, it 
may be desirable to pre-digest milk for twenty hours, 
if it is desired to convert all the proteins into amino- 
acids, from the practical standpoint six hours' pre- 
digestion, at a suitable temperature and with a 
liberal supply of pancreatic extract, is sufficient. 

But milk which is pancreatized for this prolonged 
period is apt to become contaminated and nauseating 
to the taste by the simultaneous development of 
putrefactive bacteria; for this reason, it is very 
necessary to sterilize the milk thoroughly before 
commencing the operation, and to boil it again at 
the end of the proceeding, or even during the period 
of digestion. 

j It is further necessary to remember that the 
1 The Lancet, June 28, 1913, p. 361. 



58 THE INFANT 

infant should gradually be taught to digest its own 
food. For this reason the milk, which at first should 
be very thoroughly digested, should be pancreatized 
less and less with each succeeding day. I generally 
advise that the milk should be pre-digested for six 
hours at first, and for ten minutes less every day, 
so that in thirty-six days from the time of com- 
mencement, the infant will be taking completely 
undigested milk. By this method, most excellent 
and reliable results can be obtained ; it is, however, 
important to insure that the pancreatic extract is 
active, that the amount of food given at each feeding 
and the intervals between feeding are adjusted to the 
physiological requirements of the case. 

For many years past, clinicians have argued as 
to the respective merits of boiled milk, unboiled 
milk, milk scientifically modified, or milk diluted 
haphazard, as a food for infants; but now, thanks 
to the researches of the modern physiologist, we 
know that all of them can be good foods or bad foods, 
according to the previous experiences of the infants. 
An infant can be taught to digest any food, but it 
cannot digest a new food at the first trial any more 
successfully than a child can play the piano before 
it has learnt the notes. A very important physio- 
logical principle to remember is that almost every 
living cell can acquire, de novo, the special catalytic 
properties which are necessary for the splitting up 
or digestion of food substances. Some cells, how- 



THE NUTRITION OF INFANTS 59 

ever, have greater powers in this respect than others, 
and the cells concerned in the processes of digestion 
are highly endowed with this function. For instance, 
enzymes or catalases are required for splitting up 
the different varieties of sugars, and these enzymes 
are improvised by the cells as necessity requires. 
Dr. R. S. Frew 1 has shown that if the sugar of a 
young child is changed from one variety to another, 
the new variety will remain undigested for a few 
days, until the cells of the organism have accom- 
modated their metabolic processes to the change, 
and have learnt to supply the new catalytic agent. 

In disease we see many evidences of the same 
phenomenon, although under such pathological con- 
ditions the tissue cells rather than the digestive cells 
are concerned in the production of the catalyzing 
agents. Immunity to disease is an acquired property 
of the cells, and so is their capacity to deal with 
foreign foods; in fact, the processes are supposed 
to be practically identical, and in both cases, when 
once the lesson has been learnt, the knowledge 
remains a more or less permanent possession. 

Thus, during childhood the organism learns how 
to protect itself against a great number of diseases 
for instance, against measles, chicken-pox, whooping- 
cough, scarlet fever, tuberculosis, and a whole host 
of other diseases. As a rule the lessons, which are 
somewhat sharp and severe, are not forgotten, but 
1 The Lcmcet, November 4, 1911, p. 1264. 



60 THE INFANT 

sometimes we come across refractory cases in which 
the individual only acquires immunity with diffi- 
culty, or not at all. This is perhaps more often 
the case with tuberculosis than with any other 
disease. In certain cases which are not thoroughly 
understood, one attack renders the individual more 
susceptible to, rather than more immune from, 
subsequent infection. This curious condition, known 
as " anaphylaxis," is well known in connection with 
hay-fever, asthma, and influenza, and it is also a 
well-known phenomenon in connection with drugs 
for instance, one small dose of arsenic may render 
an individual highly sensitive to its action ; indeed, 
so much so that hereafter the smallest dose may 
produce toxic effects. 

There is a strictly comparable phenomenon in 
the case of different articles of diet: shellfish or 
almonds at times produce the most intense urticarial 
rashes, and some babies, and for the matter of that, 
some grown-up individuals, display such marked 
intolerance of cow's milk that as an article of diet 
it must be permanently given up. Anaphylaxis, 
both in the domain of pathology and of dietetics, 
is clearly a stage in, or a complement to, immunity ; 
but its exact significance and the best methods of 
dealing with it are not yet clearly understood. 

The phenomenon of anaphylaxis or "allergy" as 
it has been called by von Pirquet in its relationship 
to food idiosyncrasies must clearly be distinguished 



THE NUTRITION OF INFANTS 61 

from another form of intolerance to special articles 
of diet, which has a purely psychological basis. The 
lower nerve centres of the brain and their subcon- 
scious activities play a very important part in the 
behaviour of the infant. Young infants behave 
purely as automatons; in response to suggestion 
they act exactly like deeply hypnotized persons or 
well-trained animals. 

In older individuals, in whom the powers of reason 
have become developed, the direct influence of 
suggestion may be counteracted by innumerable 
inhibitions, but in babies, animals, and hypnotized 
individuals the call of suggestion is imperative, and 
the exact form the response takes is determined by 
the nature of the previous responses in other words, 
by habit. Thus, to take a simple example, the 
sucking reflex is one of the earliest and most easily 
elicited of all the inborn mechanisms of an infant; 
the imperativeness of this habit is well illustrated in 
the tyrannical and pernicious influence of the 
" comforter." The presence of a teat between the 
lips acts as the suggestion to suck, and the younger 
the infant the more imperative the call ; but as the 
infant grows older, inhibitions and conflicting reflexes 
interfere with the purity and spontaneousness of the 
response. We find, for instance, that in giving 
test-feeds to infants at our infant consultations 
at the St. Mary leb one General Dispensary, quite 
young infants take the breast better than older 



62 THE INFANT 

infants, because the latter are more easily distracted 
by the strangeness of the environment in other 
words, by conflicting stimuli. 

As an instance of the influence of suggestion in 
quite a young infant, I would refer to the case of a 
baby, two months old, under the care of Dr. W. G. 
Cazalet, of Sutton: 

This baby had a very severe spastic diplegia, from 
which it subsequently died. My opinion was asked 
as to whether any further steps could be taken to 
restrain the severe spasm into which the muscles 
passed the moment they were brought into action. 
The condition had been treated with some success 
by galvanism that is to say, in so far that the 
spasm relaxed by the application of the positive 
electrode to the affected muscles. The interesting 
feature of this case, and the one which illustrates 
the point I wish to make clear, is that relaxation of 
the spasm resulted equally well whether the electric 
current was turned on or not from the battery ; in 
other words, the laying on of the electrode acted by 
suggestion and not by reason of the direct action of 
galvanism. 

I could give many other examples of the uses to 
which suggestion can be applied in the training 
or treatment of infants; but when we realize 
that all their actions are dictated by suggestion, 
the multiplication of examples become super- 
fluous. 

In conclusion, h owever, I must give one instance 



THE NUTRITION OF INFANTS 63 

of the manner in which suggestion acts in deter- 
mining the so-called " food idiosyncrasies ": 

A fat, flabby baby, fed on condensed milk, was 
brought to my infant consultations for treatment 
and advice. Among other details, I recommended 
that the infant should be gradually weaned from the 
condensed milk, and placed on a diet of desiccated 
milk. I gave explicit instructions as to how the 
substitution was to be carried into effect. 

Unfortunately, the mother gave too large a quan- 
tity of the dried milk on the first occasion, thus 
omitting to give the infant time to accommodate 
itself to the changed digestive requirements, with 
the consequence that the infant was violently sick. 
Hereafter the baby was sick every time it was 
supplied with the desiccated milk, no matter how 
little was given at a time. I came to the conclusion 
that this was due to suggestion and not to anaphy- 
laxis. And to prove the truth or the reverse of this 
view, I instructed the mother to try the effect of 
adding the dried milk in such a way that the infant 
could not follow the operation with its eyes or ears, 
for I believed that the sight or the sound of the milk 
being taken out of the tin might be the effective 
stimulus. On the occasion of her next visit, the 
mother reported to me the success of the experiment, 
and told me that when the food was mixed in an 
adjoining room, the infant could take equal quanti- 
ties of dried milk and condensed milk without 
vomiting. As a control experiment, I now in- 
structed her to go through the process of opening the 
tin and of pretending to add some of its contents 



64 THE INFANT 

to the condensed milk, but to be careful not to allow 
any of the milk powder to reach the bottle. The 
success of the experiment was again most striking 
in proving the psychological basis of the idiosyn- 
crasy, for now the infant vomited just as persistently 
as he did when the milk was really added. 

Cases of this kind and I have had several ex- 
periences of them illustrate very forcibly how 
important the psychological factor is in the manage- 
ment of infants, and how carefully the motives of 
an infant's behaviour should be investigated by the 
analytical method. 

In this chapter I have attempted, I am afraid with 
conspicuous ill-success, to show how necessary it is 
to remember that, in dealing with infants, the general 
principles of physiology have applications no less 
important than in the case of older individuals. I 
have attempted to show that, as far as protein 
metabolism is concerned, the organic chemist has 
given us a lead which we should not be slow to follow. 
I have attempted also to show that the phenomena 
of immunity and anaphylaxis have their counterpart 
in various degrees of tolerance and intolerance, 
shown by different individuals for different kinds of 
food. I have also directed attention to the para- 
mount importance of suggestion in the instigation 
of otherwise inexplicable actions in infants. 



CHAPTER III 

SOME PHYSIOLOGICAL PRINCIPLES CONCERNED IN 
THE DETERMINATION OF THE QUANTITATIVE 
FOOD REQUIREMENTS OF INFANTS 

THE quantity of food required by infants of different 
ages and of different weights has been determined 
not only by the direct calorimetric method, but also 
indirectly by the test-feed. 

The calorimeter method is based on the law of the 
conservation of energy ; that is to say, it is assumed 
that the energy expended in work, heat production, 
and other vital activities, is equivalent to the poten- 
tial energy of the food consumed. 

An infant confined in the chamber of a calorimeter 
is to all intents and purposes an animal at rest. So 
that, although a considerable amount of energy is ex- 
pended in the internal work of the body in carrying 
on the functions of respiration, circulation, and so on 
practically the whole of it is finally converted into 
heat in overcoming friction or other resistances, and 
as such can be estimated by calorimetric methods. 

We can therefore make a theoretical calculation of 
the food requirements of the average baby by esti- 

65 5 



66 THE INFANT 

mating the average amount of heat lost by infants 
when confined in calorimeters, due allowance, of 
course, being made for the energy consumed in 
growth, or stored up in the form of food reserves. 

Calculations of this kind have in the past been 
repeatedly made by competent observers, and, 
although their results vary 1 very considerably, they 
mostly appear to agree in the important respect 
that the heat dissipation or, in other words, the 
food requirement varies more or less directly with 
the extent of the skin surface of the baby, and not 
with the weight or age. 

Careful measurements of the superficies of infants 
of different weights have been made, and it is found 
that the skin area of a baby weighing 5 kilogrammes 
(11 pounds) measures 0-350 square metre (3^ square 
feet), while that of one weighing 10 kilogrammes 
(22 pounds) measures 0-555 square metre (5J square 
feet), and that of a child weighing 40 kilogrammes 
(88 pounds) measures 1-442 metres (14J square feet). 

Therefore the amount of heat lost by children of 
the respective weights of 5, 10, and 40 kilogrammes 
will stand in the proportion of 0-350, 0-555, and 
1-442, and not in the proportion of 5, 10, and 40, as 
might naturally be assumed. 

In accordance with these views, the reason why 
the dissipation of heat is supposed to be in proportion 

1 Pfaundler and Schlossman, American edition, vol. i., 
p. 435 (second edition). 



QUANTITATIVE FOOD REQUIREMENTS 67 

to the superficial area, and not to the weight, is 
because the heat is chiefly lost by radiation and 
conduction from the skin. As a matter of fact, under 
normal conditions some 60 per cent, of the total 
heat dissipated is lost by radiation and conduction, 
some 35 per cent, by evaporation of water at the 
surface of the skin and of the lungs, and the remain- 
ing 5 per cent, is lost in the urine or in other dis- 
charges from the body. Since some heat is lost by 
evaporation of water at the lungs' surface, it cannot 
be even theoretically true that the heat lost is pro- 
portional to the skin area. 

Now, since the quantity of food required by any 
particular infant is dependent on the amount of 
heat lost by radiation, conduction, and evaporation, 
and since the amount of this loss is itself chiefly 
dependent on the superficial area of the skin, it has 
been supposed to be quite easy, provided the amount 
of heat lost by any one given infant of known weight 
is known, to calculate from the known data the 
food requirements of any other infant situated under 
similar circumstances. 

From such simple data it has been estimated that 
during the first three months of life an infant requires 
enough food to supply 99 calories or units of heat 
for every kilogramme (2 pounds 3 ounces) of body- 
weight ; a calorie, or unit of heat, being that amount 
of heat which is required to raise 1 litre (35 ounces) 
of water through 1 of temperature (Centigrade). 



68 THE INFANT 

For instance, an infant two and a half months 
old and weighing 5 kilogrammes (11 pounds) will 
require in the twenty-four hours enough food to 
produce 495 (99 x 5) calories. By a similar method 
of calculation it has been estimated that on an 
average during the next three months infants will 
require the equivalent of 94 calories per kilogramme 
(2 pounds 3 ounces) of body-weight; or, to take a 
concrete example, an infant five months old and 
weighing 7J kilogrammes (16J pounds) will require 
a food equivalent of 705 (94 x 7-5) calories. Again, 
on the same basis, it has been estimated that during 
the last quarter of the first year of life an infant will 
require a food equivalent of about 75 calories for every 
kilogramme (2 pounds 3 ounces) of body-weight. 

Now, how much milk will infants of different ages 
and different weights require to afford this theoretical 
number of calories ? 

The amount of heat or the number of calories 
afforded by the combustion of milk is not absolutely 
constant, because the chief heat-producing element 
in milk namely, fat is itself liable to variation, 
but on an average it may be assumed that 1 litre 
(35 ounces, or If pints) affords on combustion 
700 calories. 

If a more accurate estimation of the caloric value 
of any particular milk, or milk mixture, is required, 
it may be made from the following data : 1 gramme 
(15 grains) of fat will produce 9-1 calories, 1 gramme 



QUANTITATIVE FOOD REQUIREMENTS 69 

of sugar will produce 4- 1 1 calories, and 1 gramme of 
protein will also afford 4- 1 calories. 

On the basis of the above data it is quite easy to 
calculate how much milk of any particular per- 
centage composition babies of different ages will 
require. Let us take the simple example of an 
infant three months old weighing 5 kilogrammes 
(11 pounds). In twenty-four hours such a baby will 
dissipate 495 (99 x 5) calories in the twenty-four hours. 

How much milk will be required to afford this 
number of calories ? If 1 litre (35 ounces) affords 
700 calories, by quite a simple sum in proportion it 
may be shown that 495 calories are afforded by 
700 c.c. (24J ounces). 

Theoretically, therefore, an infant of the above 
age and weight will require 700 c.c. of milk to 
compensate for the 495 calories of heat it is estimated 
to lose in the twenty-four hours by radiation, con- 
duction, and evaporation ; but it will also require a 
certain additional amount to provide for growth or 
increment in weight. 

On an average, a healthy infant of this age will 
show an increase in weight of nearly 30 grammes 
(1 ounce) during the twenty-four hours. How much 
milk will be required to afford material for this 
growth ? 

The proportion of solid constituents in the baby's 

1 The caloric value of ordinary hydrous lactose is 3'78, 
while that of the anhydrous variety is 4-1. 



70 THE INFANT 

body is rather more than twice as much as that in 
milk, exactly in the proportion of 28-2 to 12, so that 
assuming that the solids of milk are of the same kind 
as those of the body, the baby must consume about 
60 c.c. (2 ounces) ol milk in the twenty-four hours to 
provide 30 grammes increment in body -weight. 
This, added to the 700 c.c. required for heat-produc- 
tion, will give a grand total of 760 c.c. (26J ounces) 
of milk in the twenty-four hours. 

Calculations such as these may have some value in 
giving us a general conception of the quantitative 
food requirements of infants, but if we rely too 
implicitly on them in calculating the dietary of any 
particular infant, we are quite certain to go widely 
astray. A baby in a calorimeter does not behave 
as a baby in the nursery ; it is situated under strange 
and unnatural conditions. Indeed, for the most 
part infants in calorimeters become restless and 
fretful, and cry continuously, thereby wasting much 
energy and dissipating a considerable number of 
units of heat by evaporation of moisture at the 
lungs' surface. And, further, we have no right to 
assume that under the equable conditions of tem- 
perature obtaining in the calorimeter the amount of 
heat lost by radiation and conduction is the same 
as that which is lost under the ever-varying con- 
ditions of a normal environment. 

Then, again, appetite, and consequently digestion 
and absorption, will be influenced by the strange 



QUANTITATIVE FOOD REQUIREMENTS 71 

conditions, and a number of other complications 
will be introduced which must necessarily detract 
from the accuracy of the calorimeter results. With- 
out entering into further details, it is obvious that 
the conditions which determine food requirements 
in a calorimeter are not identical with those which 
determine food requirements in a nursery. 

The more recent work of Dr. P. Lavialle 1 shows 
how important are considerations of clothing in esti- 
mating the amount of heat lost by radiation and 
conduction in other words, how enormously an 
infant's food requirements are modified by its 
clothes. Dr. Lavialle, using a calorimeter of the 
D'Arsonval type, experimented with infants wearing 
different articles of clothing. Leaving the babies in 
the calorimeter for varying periods of time, he esti- 
mated the exact number of calories which were lost 
by radiation and conduction in accordance with the 
nature and character of the clothing worn. He 
found, for instance, that if an infant wore a simple 
bonnet which covered the parietal and occipital por- 
tions of the head, there was an actual saving in heat 
expenditure which was equivalent to 65 calories, or 
to the combustion value of 60 c.c. (2 ounces) of 
milk. In other words, an infant wearing such a 
bonnet requires, ceteris paribus, 2 ounces less milk 
in the twenty-four hours than an infant without 

1 Congres National des Gouttes de Lait t<nu a Fecamp 
les 26, 27, et 28 Mai, 1912; Report, p. 79. 



72 THE INFANT 

such a covering to the head. Further, he estimated 
by the same method of experimentation that if the 
legs were protected by suitable stockings an economy 
of 220 c.c. (6J ounces) was effected, and that the 
difference in heat expenditure when woollen and 
cotton shawls were used was represented by an 
equivalent 70 c.c. (2J ounces) of milk. 

Such experiments prove how dangerous it is to 
attempt to apply theoretical principles to the prac- 
tical management of infants; it is so easy to leave 
important factors out of the calculation. There can 
be no doubt at all that the most important factor in 
an infant's requirements for food is the factor of 
heat dissipation. An infant at rest utilizes at 
least 80 per cent, of its food in maintaining its body 
temperature at the required level : unlike an adult, it 
diverts but little energy into the channels of 
mechanical work; and, as we now know, although it 
grows rapidly, the amount of food required for this 
purpose is only equivalent to the intake in the 
twenty-four hours of some 60 grammes (2 ounces) 
of breast- milk. It therefore seems almost unac- 
countable that in the past the question of clothing 
and environmental temperature should have been 
taken so little into consideration. A few weeks ago 
I discussed these matters with a lady who takes a 
great interest in infant-welfare work. "It seems 
to me," she said, " that it would be of great interest 
to calculate how many garments a baby would have 



QUANTITATIVE FOOD REQUIREMENTS 73 

to wear to enable it to do without any milk at all. 
I think some of our mothers must unconsciously be 
trying to solve this problem if we are to judge by the 
multiplicity of clothes they crowd on the bodies of 
their unfortunate infants." Such a reductio ad 
absurdum, if properly appreciated, emphasizes the 
important part that clothing plays in the feeding of 
infants. 

I feel sure that it is very necessary to draw atten- 
tion to this side of the question, for we have only to 
read the writings of even the greatest authorities on 
infant feeding to learn how largely this aspect of 
dietetics is neglected. Professor W. Camerer is 
probably one of the greatest authorities in the world 
on the food requirements of infants, but this is what 
he says in his otherwise most admirable article on 
" Metabolism and Nutrition " in Pfaundler 1 and 
Schlossman's textbook on The Disease of Children : 
" The influence of heat and cold can be nearly 
eliminated by means of clothing and dwellings." 

That is to say, Professor Camerer suggests that 
clothing and housing conditions do not affect the 
question of food requirements, that in these respects 
all children are similarly situated, and that their 
different food requirements depend on other factors. 

I would, however, go so far as to say that in esti- 
mating the food requirements of any particular 
infant, the one important factor that we ought to 
1 Second American edition, vol. i., p. 381. 



74 THE INFANT 

take into account is that which is concerned with 
heat production. I do not mean by this that we 
must not take into consideration such matters as 
capacity to digest and assimilate food, habits, 
idiosyncrasies, and so on; all such factors are of 
great importance. What I mean is this that, given 
two infants of equal ages and equal weights and 
growing at the same rate, and with normal digestive 
and assimilative functions, their respective food 
requirements, apart from the very small quantity 
required for growth and work, will be mainly 
dependent on the amount of heat that is lost by 
radiation, conduction, and evaporation of water. 
To put the case more concisely, I maintain that the 
different amounts of food these two infants will 
respectively require will be dependent on the number 
and thickness of their clothes, on the amount of skin 
area (face, head, hands, feet, etc.) exposed to the 
air, on the temperature of the surroundings, on the 
degree of humidity of the air, on the ventilation, on 
the temperature of the bath, and on the number of 
hours spent in the open air, or in the confinement of 
the house, and that these factors may be entirely 
different in the two cases and necessitate totally 
different quantities of food. 

I repeat that it gravely misrepresents the case to 
state that " the influence of heat and cold is elimin- 
ated by the means of clothing and dwellings." I 
admit that the influence of " cold " is almost elimi- 



QUANTITATIVE FOOD REQUIREMENTS 75 

nated in the case of the slum infant, who is wrapped 
in a multiplicity of garments, sleeps in its mother's 
arms or in her bed, and is seldom given a bath or 
taken out of doors ; but I submit that therein lies 
the difference between such an infant's food require- 
ments and that of an infant rationally managed with 
respect to clothing, housing, exercising, etc. 

In the one case there is no opportunity for heat 
dissipation, and hence there is an extremely 
restricted demand for heat production, and conse- 
quently for food, while in the other, although the 
demands may vary greatly with the circumstances, 
there is usually ample opportunity for loss of heat 
and always a corresponding demand for food. 

Although in the past I have myself been guilty of 
drawing up many a table of quantities for the feeding 
of infants of varying ages, I now fully admit that 
such tables are worthless unless other important 
considerations, such as those of clothing, housing, 
and airing, are simultaneously taken into considera- 
tion and allowances made for them. 

I have long held the view that these calorimeter 
results may be most misleading in determining how 
much food any particular baby requires. In the 
first place, an infant acquires certain " habits " of 
metabolism as the result of its previous experiences 
in diet. For instance, one baby may be fed on 
800 c.c. of breast-milk in the twenty-four hours, 
and another of the same weight and size may con- 



76 THE INFANT 

sume a daily allowance of 1,600 c.c. Now, if the 
first baby is healthy and deals physiologically with 
its 800 c.c. of milk, it will show an output of half 
as many calories as the second baby, provided the 
latter also behaves in a similarly physiological 
manner. The first baby does not give out half as 
many calories as the second baby, because it only 
requires to produce this particular amount of heat 
to maintain a normal temperature under the par- 
ticular conditions of the environment ; but because 
it must dissipate this particular number of calories 
in correspondence with the quantity of food digested 
and absorbed, or otherwise there would be a storing 
up of heat or of energy in some other form in the 
body, which, as Euclid says, " would be absurd." 
An infant accustomed to consume 1,600 c.c. of 
milk in the twenty-four hours acquires habits of 
rapid metabolism and active heat dissipation, which 
are very different from the sluggish habits acquired 
by the infant which consumes only half this quantity 
of milk. These habits become very inveterate, and 
make the subjects of them behave quite differently 
though the external conditions of the environment 
to which they may be respectively exposed are pre- 
cisely similar. These habits must be taken into 
consideration in determining dietaries. 

There can be no doubt that the actual quantities 
of food given to different infants do not determine 
accurately the quantity of heat dissipated, for this 



QUANTITATIVE FOOD REQUIREMENTS 77 

food may only in part be digested and absorbed; 
and although decomposition of food in the bowel 
may generate heat, the amount of heat thus pro- 
duced is not equivalent to the full caloric value of 
the food consumed. On the other hand, the external 
conditions will not evoke in different infants pre- 
cisely the same degree of combustion. Combustion 
and heat production must depend more on muscle 
activity and muscle tonus than on any other factor, 
although the factor of muscle tonus itself may 
depend on a vast number of afferent impressions 
reaching the central nervous system, and on the 
manner in which the nerve cell reflects these impres- 
sions and passes them on to the muscles. The whole 
question of muscular development and muscular 
tonus, and indeed voluntary and involuntary move- 
ments, must be very largely concerned in this 
question of heat production ; hence the unreliability 
of the calorimeter results in the sense in which they 
have been employed. The surface stimulation, by 
changing currents of air impinging on the skin of an 
infant, must clearly influence muscular tone and 
muscle metabolism to a very large degree. The 
monothermic conditions of a calorimeter must 
deprive the infant of its normal share of such surface 
stimulation ; hence the findings of calorimeter experi- 
ments cannot be too exactly applied to ordinary 
nursery conditions in which the ever changing events 
will excite the muscles to voluntary movements or 



78 THE INFANT 

varying degrees of tonus. At the time of writing 
this I am not fully in possession of a number of inter- 
esting facts bearing on this subject, which Dr. Fritz 
Talbot, of Boston, tells me are undergoing investi- 
gation at the Carnegie Institution in Washington. 

The second method of estimating the quantitative 
food requirements of infants namely, the empirical 
one of calculating the average amount of milk 
consumed by healthy infants at the breast has 
provided us with a large amount of data for drawing 
up standards for the artificial feeding of infants; 
but I submit that deductions drawn from these 
findings are themselves as liable to misconstruction 
and misrepresentation as are the results of the more 
scientific calorimetric method. 

The amount of food consumed by breast-fed 
infants has been estimated by the method to which 
some years ago I ventured to apply the term " test- 
feed"; that is to say, the infant is weighed on 
accurate scales before and after feeding; the differ- 
ence between the two weighings represents the 
amount of food consumed. By making a number 
of such estimations, or by estimating the amount 
consumed at each feeding, certain averages have 
been arrived at, which are supposed to represent the 
average requirements of normal infants, and these 
figures have been indiscriminately applied to the 
case of all infants no matter what be the circum- 
stances of the hygienic surroundings. 



QUANTITATIVE FOOD REQUIREMENTS 79 

Now, the point that I wish to make perfectly plain 
is that the observations on which we rely have been 
made on infants living under the very best hygienic 
condition. Some of them have been the observer's 
own children, while some of them have been infants 
born and tended in public maternity institutions, 
where every care and attention have been lavished 
on the mother, and the standards thus arrived at 
have been supposed to be applicable to the case of 
the slum infant, who may be living under the 
worst possible conditions of housing, ventilation and 
general hygiene. 

A considerable number of figures have been pro- 
vided by such means, and on the whole I find the 
standards thus estimated agree very closely with the 
standards I have myself formed from estimating the 
amount of breast-milk consumed by the infants of 
well-to-do mothers in England. On the other hand, 
until a series of observations were undertaken to 
show the amount of breast-milk consumed by 
the average slum infant, there was no criterion 
whereby to judge how much food such infants com- 
monly consume. It was taken for granted that 
they obtained as much milk as the better-con- 
ditioned infants on whom observations had actually 
been made. 

During the last eight years I have made a practice 
of giving each breast-fed infant who is brought to 
my clinics a test-feed, or perhaps many test-feeds. 



80 THE INFANT 

In this way I have accumulated an enormous 
amount of evidence on the subject. 

It is true that I have not been able to make an 
estimation of all the feeds given in the twenty-four 
hours in any one particular case. I have had to 
content myself with estimating the average amount 
consumed in the twenty-four hours by multiplying 
the amount consumed at one feed by the number of 
feeds taken in the whole day ; but all the same, I have 
now made so many estimations at different hours of 
the morning, afternoon, and evening that I feel sure 
that my averages for single feedings, and conse- 
quently for the twenty-four hours, are fairly accur- 
ate. In estimating the total amount taken in the 
twenty-four hours from the amount taken at a single 
feed, one must allow for the total number of feeds 
and for the fact that the largest feed in the day is 
usually the first feed in the morning after both 
mother and infant have enjoyed a long rest. 
Further, one must make some allowance for the fact 
that in the strange environment of a dispensary or 
a hospital an infant will not attend to the business 
of sucking quite as well as in the home. But 
making allowance for all such sources of error, I find 
that the average consumption of breast-milk by the 
slum infant is about 33 per cent, less than the 
estimates given by German observers for institute 
Infants, or than the estimates I have myself made 
in the case of infants in well-to-do families. 



QUANTITATIVE FOOD REQUIREMENTS 81 

An examination of the following tables will show 
how widely my figures differ from the standards 
arrived at by foreign observers ; it will further show 
how closely my own estimates agree with the figures 
independently arrived at by Dr. Ronald Carter, who 
carried out a similar series of experiments on the 
infants attending at his infant consultations in 
North Kensington. 

In the first horizontal column I give my own 
figures, which refer to test-feeds conducted in the 
case of slum infants attending at my infant con- 
sultations in Marylebone. In the second column I 
give those of Dr. Carter, which apply to a similar 
class of infant attending at his infant consultations 
in North Kensington. In the third column I give 
my own figures for sick infants attending at my out- 
patient department at the Queen's Hospital for 
Children, Hackney, a very poor district in the north- 
east of London. In the remaining columns will be 
found the figures supplied by German observers. 
These refer for the most part to institutional infants, 
or to private cases in a good position of life. My 
figures, as well as those of Dr. Carter, are based on a 
very large number of observations, whereas those of 
the German observers depend sometimes on a single 
observation, sometimes on small groups of cases, but 
in no case on a large number of estimations. 

If we compare this series of figures, we notice at 
once that the amount of breast-milk consumed by 

6 



00 <N 00 

OI> I 
' 



rH t- O 

GO 



O CO 

O 1O rH O 00 IO 

CO <N <N >O # 1O 



CO IO O 



O 
IO IO 00 <N 

CO "* 4 IO 



CO O "tf 

<M o o 10 



Tt< O 



O <M 

(N IO CO CO rH O 



i li H i-HCqcO<NCOCO 



rt C CO GS1 C <N 



1 Tj 1C O O IO 
' <N G<1 <N (N C<1 




Maryl 
Kensi 
Queen 
gu 

^ 
me 



r s 

?S! 

reer s figu 

achner's 





S 

F 

H 



Slum infants 
in London 



Institutional 
infants or 
private cases 

in Germany 

J 



r 

QrH 

H H 
JZi 

l 



a 



COO 



o 10 
CN i-l 



O 

0- i 10 , , 

(M i O 1 1 <* 

I-H CO rH 



,8 

'CO l> 



CO O O O 

rHO O i I O 

O) CO 00 I I O 

CO (N CO 



CO O O 
COIOO 



rHOlT'OO 

rH CO (N <N 



cq o o 10 10 



TtfOOCOOO 
rH Cq <N <N 



OOO 

-COO 



rH 00000 
!> O O IO O O 

O5 00 O O5 O ^ 
<M (N rH <N rH 



T?) CO 1 O 1O 00 l><^ 

rH rH ' <N rH rH rH rH 



O O IO O O O 
oodsiAcocoo 



ne infants 
on figures 
Hospital 



ylebo 
singt 
en's 
ures 
erer's figure 
r' s figu 
hner's 





Slum i 
in Lo 



Institutional 
infanta or 
privies 
in Germany 



QUANTITATIVE FOOD REQUIREMENTS 83 

the slum-infant in London, as estimated by Dr. Carter 
and by me, is considerably less than that which 
is consumed by the better class of German infant. 

Take, for instance, the case of the three months 
old infant in Table II. Slum infants of this age 
consume on an average, according to my figures, 
about 16 ounces (480 c.c.) in the twenty-four hours, 
According to Dr. Carter, such infants consume in 
Kensington 14 J ounces (435 c.c.), an amount which 
is exactly the same as the sick infants of this age 
consume in Hackney. On the other hand, if we 
refer to the figures given by Camerer, Freer, Beuth- 
ner, and Hachner, we find that, according to their 
estimates, infants of this age consume quantities 
which vary from 26 ounces (780 c.c.) to 28J ounces 
(855 c.c.). Feeling that even my own figures in 
these tables were based on too small a number of 
individual estimations, I recently repeated my 
original experiments, and estimated the average 
amount of all the test- feeds conducted at the St. 
Mary leb one General Dispensary subsequent to the 
date at which the first figures were published. 1 

These control figures I give in Tables III. 
and IV. (p. 84). I give also the number of actual 
test-feeds on which these estimations are based. 
These test-feeds were given at the St. Marylebone 
General Dispensary between the dates April, 1911, 
and September, 1913. 

1 The Lancet, September 2, 1911. 



84 



THE INFANT 



These figures are to my mind extremely interest- 
ing, for they show that the infants in my second 

TABLE III. 

AVERAGE AMOUNT OF BREAST-MILK CONSUMED AT A SINGLE 
FEED BY SLUM INFANTS IN MARYLEBONE (BETWEEN 
APRIL, 1911, AND SEPTEMBER, 1913). 





Age in Months. 




1 


2 


3 


4 


5 


6 ; 7 


8 


Quantity of milk 
consumed . . 


Oz. 

1.94 


Oz. 

2.50 


Oz. 

2-75 


Oz. 

2.37 


Oz. 
3-37 


Oz. 
3.37 


Oz. 

2.56 


Oz. 

2-50 


Number of esti- 


















mations on 


















which figures 


















are based . . 


60 


43 


20 


20 


10 


8 


4 


2 



TABLE IV. 

AVERAGE AMOUNT OF BREAST-MILK COMPUTED TO BE CON- 
SUMED DURING THE TWENTY-FOUR HOURS BY SLUM 

INFANTS IN MARYLEBONE (APRIL, 1911, TO SEPTEM- 
BER, 1913). 





Age in Months 




1 


2 


3 


4 


5 


6 


7 


8 


Quantity of 
milk con- 


Oz. 


Oz. 


Oz. 


Oz. 


Oz. 


Oz. 


Oz. 


Oz. 


sumed . . 


17-36 


20-68 


18-20 


18-20 


22-40 


20-30 


18-21 


17-72 



series (Tables III. and IV.) obtained more milk 
than those of my earlier experiments (Tables I. 
and II.). The increase is so constant and uniform 



QUANTITATIVE FOOD REQUIREMENTS 85 

that I cannot assign it to any other cause than that, 
owing to my experience with the test-feed, and 
to the lessons that I derived therefrom, I have been 
more successful of late years in overcoming the 
difficulties connected with the management of lac- 
tation, and because I have exercised more care in 
securing that the infant manifests a greater demand 
for food by modifications in the clothing and in 
other hygienic conditions. 

But from whatever point of view these figures are 
regarded, they afford ample material for reflection. 
For instance, if we are faced with the duty of deter- 
mining the quantity of food which should be given 
to an artificially fed infant, are we better advised in 
following the standards afforded us by the German 
observers or in taking our cue from the exiguous 
breast allowances consumed by the slum infant as 
estimated according to my own tables ? This 
depends, I believe, on the hygienic surroundings of 
the child. 

Here in London we know that the mortality from 
diarrhoaa and wasting diseases is on the whole much 
greater among the artificially fed than among those 
fed at the breast. How is it that the mortality rate 
is so low among the latter, and why is it so high 
among the artificially fed infants, who receive a 
very much larger amount of food ? And that the 
latter do receive a much larger quantity of food is 
known to everybody with any experience of the 



86 THE INFANT 

methods of artificial feeding indulged in by the poor 
mothers of London. 

I am quite sure that on an average the artificially 
fed slum infant receives 30 to 60 per cent, more food, 
estimated according to its caloric value, than does 
the breast-fed infant of the same age. 

Now, my more recent statistics in Marylebone 
prove that among the infants attending regularly at 
my infant consultations, those who are artificially fed 
show a slightly lower proportion of cases of diar- 
rhoea and malnutrition than those who are breast- 
fed. I attribute this result entirely to the fact that 
my long experience with the test-feed has taught me 
that the average slum infant requires very small 
quantities of food, and that on small quantities 
of food, if the latter is quantitively adjusted 
to the physiological needs, it can fare extremely 
well, and avoid attacks of diarrhoea even in hot 
weather. 

As I have already explained, the quantity of food 
required by the infant is determined by three factors : 
(1) The rate of growth, (2) the mechanical work done, 
and (3) the quantity of heat required to maintain the 
bodily temperature. The first factor is almost 
negligible, so that for all practical purposes the 
amount of food an infant requires to meet its physio- 
logical needs resolves itself into the questions How 
much energy does it use up in voluntary movements, 
in involuntary movements, and in the maintenance 



QUANTITATIVE FOOD REQUIREMENTS 87 

of muscular tonus? and How much heat will it lose by 
radiation, conduction, and evaporation of moisture ? 

The slum infant is as a rule enveloped in many 
more thicknesses of clothing than the well-to-do 
baby ; it is kept in hot, ill- ventilated rooms ; and, in 
fact, is deprived of all those essential stimulants 
which evoke voluntary and reflex muscular move- 
ments, raise tone, and create a demand for food. I 
feel convinced, therefore, that Nature, in supplying 
such slum infants with a very restricted allowance 
of breast-milk, is wiser than we are when we feed 
them artificially on rations which are physiologically 
adjusted to infants with greater food requirements, 
with a more active metabolism, and with better 
opportunities for dissipating heat. 

I hope I shall not be misunderstood when I say 
that the ordinary slum infant, if artificially fed, 
should be fed on a very restricted dietary. I do not 
approve of starvation in any form. I do not feel I 
have done my duty unless the infants for whose 
health I am in any way responsible manifest a 
demand for an adequate allowance of food. A 
greater demand is created by less clothing, by more 
air, by more sun, by more exercise, and by a more 
liberal supply of all those stimuli which quicken the 
vital processes and induce tonus. With a greater 
demand for food there should be a correspondingly 
greater supply, but to give increased quantities of 
food before there is a physiological requirement for it 



88 THE INFANT 

is to court disaster. Indeed, the human body posi- 
tively bristles with mechanisms which protect it 
against the pathological consequences of excessive 
feeding. Some of these effect their object at very little 
expense to the comfort and well-being of the indi- 
vidual; others entail considerable strain. 

The simplest mechanism for counteracting the 
dangers due to excessive feeding, with which the 
human organism is equipped, is that which provides 
for the storing up of the excess in some form available 
for future use. Carbohydrates and fats can be most 
conveniently and safely stored up in the form of 
reserves of glycogen and fat ; on the other hand, there 
is no natural provision for the storage of reserves of 
nitrogenous or proteid foods; such supplies must be 
put to immediate physiological use, or expelled from 
the body. Such expulsion clearly entails expendi- 
ture of energy as well as wear and tear to the 
eliminating organs. 

Next to storage, it is probable that increased com- 
bustion is the readiest means of defence against the 
dangers consequent on the excessive consumption of 
food, and this method of disposal applies to all 
classes of food. In order that there may be an active 
combustion it is essential that the supply of oxygen 
should be ample, and that the metabolic processes 
should be maintained at a high level. When such is 
the case, all varieties of food are oxidized or reduced 
to their normal end-products, carbonic acid, water, 



QUANTITATIVE FOOD EEQUIREMENTS 89 

and urea, with the production of a corresponding 
quantity of heat. On the other hand, if there is 
curtailment in the supply of oxygen, there may be 
a short-circuiting of these processes, and in such 
circumstances the oxidation is incomplete, the heat 
produced less, while a number of intermediate bodies, 
such as fatty acids, are formed which dispose to a 
condition of acidosis with all its attendant evils. 
Subsidiary lines of defence consist in loss of appetite, 
diarrhoea, vomiting, catarrhs, and mucous discharges, 
all of which are designed to preserve the life of the 
individual as a whole, though they may inflict 
damage on certain of its parts. 

When anyone of these protective mechanisms 
is brought into play, the fact is revealed by the 
specific character of the pathological symptoms pro- 
duced. Some of these may be so trivial as to escape 
all but the keenest observation, while others may 
be so obtrusive as to attract the attention of the 
most dull-witted observer. 

An abnormal increase in weight, say of 10 to 14 
ounces per week, in a baby under a year old, if main- 
tained for any prolonged period of time, should at 
once suggest that the storage resources of the body 
are being strained, and such an event should lead us 
to expect that when the critical limit is reached, 
resort will be made to inner lines of defence, with 
possibly more serious consequences to the individual 
as a whole. Such inner lines of defence are 



90 THE INFANT 

represented by short-circuited oxidations, diarrhoea, 
catarrhs, and fevers. 

Again, if the capillaries of the cheeks are dilated, if 
there is sweating about the head, and if the respira- 
tion-rate is unduly raised, we are entitled to suspect, 
in the absence of a better explanation, that reserve 
methods of heat-dissipation are being called into 
requisition. Then, if we are wise, we shall take steps 
to insure that worse things do not befall the child. 
We should, in fact, curtail the supply, or increase the 
physiological demand for food. 

It is clearly the duty of the physician to exercise 
the greatest vigilance in the detection of these early 
symptoms, but it is very difficult to convince the lay 
mind that rosy cheeks and a fine weight record can 
be of unfavourable augury. It is a matter of almost 
daily experience to find that attacks of bronchitis, 
diarrhoea, or intestinal toxaemia have been preceded 
by prolonged periods of apparently exuberant health, 
during which the infant has enjoyed immunity from 
the effects of overfeeding owing to the protective 
influence of the first lines of defence. It is only when 
these fail that the so-called pathological symptoms 
manifest themselves. But during this preliminary 
stage of relative immunity it must not be supposed 
that the organism is in a good state of health nor in 
a safe condition. 

Although it is quite easy to suggest that artificially 
fed slum infants are often overfed, it is quite a 



QUANTITATIVE FOOD REQUIREMENTS 91 

different story to define an optimum dietary for 
such infants. Hedging myself in with all possible 
reservations, and with full knowledge of the scientific 
difficulty of forming any such estimates, I venture 
the statement that no infant, breast-fed or artificially 
fed, can be considered to be in a satisfactory con- 
dition if its physiological demand for food is below 
the following approximate standards: An infant 
three months old and weighing 5 kilogrammes 
(11 pounds) should not require less than 690 c.c. 
(23 ounces) of breast-milk, or its equivalent, in the 
twenty-four hours; an infant six months old and 
weighing 7- 5 kilogrammes (16J pounds) should not 
require less than 900 c.c. (30 ounces) ; and an infant 
nine months of age should require not less than 
1,080 c.c. (36 ounces). If, when taking food in 
these quantities, there is evidence, by reason of the 
development of the symptoms already mentioned, 
that the intake is excessive, I would advise that 
steps be taken to increase the demand for food 
by a revision of the hygienic management of the 
child rather than by cutting down the supply. 
As I have already stated, a demand is created 
when the appropriate stimuli of air, light, and tem- 
perature are applied. 



CHAPTER IV 

MOTOR FUNCTIONS OF THE DIGESTIVE SYSTEM 

ON thinking over the mistakes which I have made 
in the diagnosis and treatment of cases of so-called 
indigestion, I am surprised to discover how many 
of these arise in connection with disturbances of the 
motor functions of the alimentary tract, and not with 
disturbances of the digestive functions proper. 

When an infant suffers from vomiting, diarrhoea, 
wind, or colic, we are very apt to think of undigested 
food, and inactive ferments, and we turn lightly to 
the evidence of chemical analysis and of naked-eye 
examination of vomitus or stools to supply the key 
to the situation. I do not wish in any way to 
belittle the value of the information thus afforded; 
but the point I would particularly emphasize is that 
a very large number of cases of so-called indigestion 
prove intractable to treatment because we fail to 
recognize that the symptoms are due to a perverted 
or inco-ordinated performance of the motor func- 
tions a result which may be dependent more on 
habit than on the particular qualities of the food 
which the infant may consume. 

92 



MOTOR FUNCTIONS 93 

The neuro-muscular mechanisms which control 
the locomotion of food through the body are ex- 
tremely complicated, and they are dependent for 
their efficient working, not only during infancy, but 
during the whole of life, on the nature of their early 
experiences and education. 

Each link in the complicated chain of neuro- 
muscular co-ordinations which effects the locomo- 
tion of food through the alimentary tract, whether 
it be associated with the act of deglutition, with the 
rhythmical openings and closings of the sphincters, 
or with the peristaltic contractions of the muscles 
of the colon, is dependent on a delicate and com- 
plicated reflex, which is initiated in its due chrono- 
logical order by the act which immediately precedes 
it, and thus, for the harmonious working of the 
whole, an indispensable condition is the harmonious 
co-operation of each part. 

It is quite true that errors in diet, and especially 
errors in diet during the very early days of life, may 
produce symptoms which we commonly call " in- 
digestion"; but it must be remembered that these 
symptoms may be perpetuated as bad habits long 
after the cause which has provoked them has ceased 
to exist. And thus it comes about that some of the 
mistakes in diagnosis and treatment which I pro- 
pose to chronicle in this chapter will be mainly con- 
cerned with symptoms which, though originally 
produced by faulty methods of feeding, were 



94 THE INFANT 

wrongly ascribed to defects in the food, and were 
wrongly treated by changes and alteration in the 
diet. There is only one cure for faulty habits of 
this kind, and that is " re-education." 

There is a reverse side to the picture, which, 
though it has no immediate connection with the 
matter in hand, is yet of interest, in that it explains 
the often incomprehensibly good results which fol- 
low methods of feeding which we know on physio- 
logical and rational grounds to be entirely wrong. 
I mean this : If by good methods of educating the 
bowel in its motor functions we secure efficient and 
permanent habits, these good habits will persist, 
misuse them how we may. Let me give you an 
example. An infant very carefully fed and managed 
from the day of birth reached the end of the sixth 
month without having been sick and without having 
learned to posset. Then, unfortunately, it was given 
a bottle of sterilized milk which had become decom- 
posed, and when sterilized milk goes wrong in this 
way, it becomes a very poisonous food. The same 
milk was given to another infant, in a sense not so 
well educated, and who had learned both to posset 
and to vomit. The well-educated infant retained 
the whole of the food, and nearly died in conse- 
quence. The second infant rejected the whole, and 
was quite well again in a few hours. This illus- 
tration would seem to point a doubtful moral, but 
there must be moderation in all things, even in the 



MOTOR FUNCTIONS 95 

training of good habits. Knowledge of evil is a 
safe prophylactic against its insidious effects. 

These preliminary remarks will explain why in 
this chapter I lay so much emphasis on the educa- 
tion of the motor functions. 

Very shortly after I was qualified I had the good 
fortune to see a case which was then going the round 
of the children specialists. It was a case of in- 
tractable vomiting in a very young baby, the cause 
of which was obscure. Every medical man who 
saw the case suggested some radical change in the 
character of the food ; but in spite of the unremitting 
attentions of the profession, the infant died when 
it was about six weeks old. At the autopsy which, 
happily, was allowed, the oesophagus was found to 
be enormously dilated with irregular thickenings of 
the muscles. At its juncture with the stomach the 
muscles were extremely hypertrophied, and the 
lumen showed a marked degree of atresia. In many 
respects the dilated oesophagus, with its sacculations 
and thickenings, had analogies with the abnormalities 
we find in cases of congenital dilatation of the colon, 
or Hirschsprung's disease. Whether in this par- 
ticular case the dilatations of the oesophagus were 
of congenital origin, or whether they were second- 
arily acquired as the result of spasm of the cardia or 
inco-ordination of the neuro-muscular mechanism 
concerned in the propulsion of food down the gullet, 
will never be known; but, reviewing the whole his- 



96 THE INFANT 

tory of the case as I now remember it, I cannot 
help inclining to the view that this was a case of 
cardio-spasm in an extreme form. Of recent years 
a good deal of attention has been directed both by 
Lust 1 and Aschenheim 2 to a condition in infants 
which has been called "rumination," and in which 
a very intractable form of regurgitation or vomiting 
persists. It is supposed to be due to some abnormal 
or perverted co-ordination of the neuro-muscular 
mechanisms of the oesophagus. I have seen one or 
two cases which I now conclude were examples of 
this kind of rumination, but which at the time I did 
not recognize as such. Further, I am disposed to 
think that the essential pathogenesis of cases of 
rumination such as those described by Lust and 
Aschenheim, of Hirschsprung's disease (so-called 
congenital dilatation of the colon), and of the case 
of dilatation of the oesophagus already referred to, 
is of a comparable, if not of an identical, character 
in each instance that is to say, that all these con- 
ditions are due to ill-co-ordinated muscular contrac- 
tions. I cannot understand otherwise how it can 
be that such marked hypertrophy combined with 
such marked dilatation can exist side by side. It 
seems to me that nothing else than persistent spasms 
in certain sections or areas can account both for 
the hypertrophy and dilatation. I believe that 

1 Monatschrift f. Kinderheillc., vol. x., No. 6, 1911. 

2 Zeitschriftf. Kinderheilk., 1913, vol. viii., p. 161. 



MOTOR FUNCTIONS 97 

cases of cardio-spasm in infants are much more com- 
mon than is generally supposed, and that the few 
published cases in no way represent the true 
incidence of the condition. 

Some little time ago I showed, 1 with Mr. Douglas 
Drew, at the Children's Section of the Royal Society 
of Medicine, a case which we then supposed to be 
one of congenital stricture of the distal end of the 
oesophagus. Subsequent events, however, proved 
that the stricture was probably functional, and not 
organic, in nature; for Mr. Drew at once succeeded 
in dilating up the lower end of the oesophagus, and 
since then the infant has been able to swallow 
thickened fluids with great ease, and the symptoms 
have practically disappeared. I have seen cases of 
cardio-spasm in older individuals, and from com- 
parison of the symptoms manifested in such cases, 
and of the symptoms noticed in the above case, I 
believe that I have overlooked several instances of 
the condition, with very serious results to the 
infants concerned. 

Intractable vomiting is by no means uncommon 
in infants; it may be due to obstruction to the 
onward flow of the food current at any point in the 
alimentary canal, and this obstruction may be con- 
sequent on persistent muscular spasms, or on other 
causes. But certainly, in my experience, pyloric 

1 Proceedings of the Koyal Society of Medicine, Children's 
Section, xxxiii., 1913. 

7 



98 THE INFANT 

spasm is one of the commonest, if not the most 
common, cause of vomiting of this kind. 

The difficulty of making a correct diagnosis in the 
days when we had no X rays was very considerable ; 
but now, with the aid of a bismuth meal and the 
X-ray screen, the detection of the exact point at 
which obstruction occurs is easy and accurate. 

At the present time so much attention is given to 
pyloric stenosis, whether of the congenital or 
acquired type, that there is small risk of the con- 
dition escaping notice. Indeed, in my judgment it is 
diagnosed, and cures claimed, far more frequently 
than is justified by events. I remember the time, 
however, when no mention of the condition ap- 
peared in the textbooks, and when its very exis- 
tence was known only to a few individuals. The 
first case I saw was in the year 1895, when my old 
teacher, the late Dr. W. B. Cheadle, asked me to 
look after a case of his which was suffering from 
persistent and violent vomiting. Although we both 
recognized that the symptoms were due to obstruc- 
tion in the neighbourhood of the pylorus, owing to 
the waves of contraction which passed from left to 
right across a greatly dilated stomach, and which 
were quite obvious to the naked eye, neither of us 
suspected hypertrophic pyloric stenosis during life, 
nor at the autopsy, which fortunately was allowed, 
did we recognize that the condition was one of 
extreme interest and rarity. Mr. Jackson Clarke, 



MOTOR FUNCTIONS 99 

then pathologist at St. Mary's Hospital, kindly ex- 
amined the specimen, and reported that the fusi- 
form tumour which surrounded the pyloric orifice 
was not a neoplasm, but consisted of hypertrophied 
muscles only. Some years later (1897) I saw an 
account of the disease in the Archives of Pediatrics, 1 
written by Dr. H. Asby, of Manchester, which 
induced me to inquire into the whole literature 
of the condition. I subsequently made a list of 
all the known cases, and finally published my 
account in the Archives of Pediatrics. 2 Placed in 
its chronological order, this case was the twenty- 
fourth to be recorded, but since that time an 
enormous number of cases have been published, and 
a great literature has grown up round the subject. 

Now, passing from symptoms due to inco-ordina- 
tion of the neuro-muscular mechanisms of the upper 
reaches of the alimentary canal, concerning which 
mistakes in diagnosis are often made, to symptoms 
connected with the motor functions of the large and 
small intestine, I would preface my observations by 
stating that mistakes in the diagnosis of such con- 
ditions usually arise in connection with one or 
other of the following symptoms (1) Diarrhoea, 
(2) constipation, and (3) colicky pains. 

Now, as regards the first of these symptoms 
namely, diarrhoea I feel convinced that this is 

1 Archives of Pediatrics, 1897, p. 498. 

2 Ibid., 1900, p. 241. 



100 THE INFANT 

often wrongly attributed to some indigestible 
quality of the food when the true explanation is 
hypersensitiveness of the neuro-muscular mechanism 
concerned in the locomotion of food through the 
intestinal canal, a condition which is commonly 
known as " lienteric diarrhoea." I see many cases 
of this kind in which change after change in the 
character and quality of the food leaves the infant 
in exactly the same loose condition of bowel. In 
such a case a vicious and intractable reflex has been 
acquired which can only be cured by patient 
attempts at re-education, by prolonged intervals 
between feedings, and by the administration of 
greatly reduced quantities of food of the blandest 
and most digestible character. 

I see many cases of diarrhoea with so-called un- 
digested curds in the motions, which are regarded as 
due to indigestion, but which, as a matter of fact, 
are due to starvation. Frequent dejections of this 
kind are often associated with debility which is due 
to inanition, for in starvation the mucous membrane 
of the bowel suffers from a " paralytic secretion " of 
mucus, with frequent alvine discharges, which to the 
inexperienced at once suggests some irritation due 
to food causes. 

The presence of so-called undigested curds in the 
motions is usually the misleading evidence on which 
the diagnosis is based. I have repeatedly demon- 
strated, by means of the test-feed, that infants 



MOTOR FUNCTIONS 101 

passing stools of this character are the victims of 
inanition, and that so far from obtaining food which 
disagrees, may obtain practically no milk at all 
from the mother's breast. Even the fact that these 
so-called undigested curds of casein continue to 
appear in the motions when all milk is withdrawn 
from the diet, and when the infant only subsists 
on whey, egg- water, or even water, does not appear 
to carry conviction that they have no more connec- 
tion with coagulated casein than they have with 
hard-boiled white of egg, or any other substance with 
which they have a superficial resemblance. To 
prove their origin, these so-called curds have been 
submitted to chemical analysis, and even to bio- 
chemical tests. They are known to contain con- 
siderable quantities of fatty acids mostly in com- 
bination with calcium, forming, in fact, insoluble 
soaps. Further, they contain a small proportion 
of albumin, and a remainder which is of uncertain 
chemical composition, but which contains nitrogen 
in relatively the same proportion as in caseinogen. 
On this evidence, and on the evidence of the super- 
ficial resemblance to small curds of coagulated 
casein, these white bodies have been regarded as the 
undigested remains of milk. 

As a matter of fact, if a stool consisting mainly of 
these so-called curds is carefully washed out in a bowl 
of water, and the little white balls teased out and dis- 
entangled, they will be found to consist of little coiled- 



102 THE INFANT 

up pieces of mucus, which when floated out in the 
water, cannot possibly be mistaken for anything else. 

The fact that soaps, fatty acids, albumin, bac- 
teria, and calcium salts can be detected in these little 
white balls by chemical or other forms of analysis 
in no way weakens the argument that they are the 
products of the activity of the mucous membrane, 
and not the undigested remains of milk, for on 
similar evidence the mucous discharges from the 
nose or respiratory tract might equally well be con- 
sidered to originate from milk. 

I do not mean to imply, by the somewhat dog- 
matic statements above expressed, that milk residues 
do not at times appear in the stools, and especially 
in cases of lienteric diarrhoea. What I mean is that 
these small white particles, generally about the size 
of a pea, which look like pieces of coagulated milk, 
and which are found in the stools of infants suffer- 
ing from colicky pains, are really pieces of stringy 
mucus which have become partially inspissated and 
coiled up into tight balls by the peristaltic move- 
ments of the bowel. By teasing out and unravelling 
these little balls, it is open to all to convince them- 
selves of the truth of my contention. 

Diarrhoea, or at least the too frequent passage of 
motions, is often attributed to some fault in the 
character of the food when the true etiological 
explanation is that the hypersensitive neuro- 
muscular mechanisms of the bowel are stimulated 



MOTOR FUNCTIONS 103 

into activity by some preceding event as, for 
instance, by the forcible sucking of the infant at a 
relatively dry breast, or at some artificial nipple 
which is pierced with too small a hole. It must 
be remembered that although the locomotion of 
food through the alimentary tract is generally re- 
garded as consisting of a number of independent 
phases, such as deglutition, intestinal peristalsis, and 
defaecation, nevertheless, each independent neuro- 
muscular co-ordination, whether it be of oesoph- 
agus, stomach, or intestine, is closely associated 
and bound up in a definite and correlated series, 
action or cessation of action in the one being the 
liberating stimulus for activity in the next. Thus 
violent sucking often initiates painful peristalsis or 
even lienteric diarrhoea. 

Turning now to constipation as a symptom which 
is often in an etiological sense wrongly interpreted 
and wrongly treated, I may say that there are three 
common causes of constipation in infants, although 
the number of occasional causes is almost infinite. 
The common causes are 

1. Dulling or disorganization of the rectal reflex 
by previous over-stimulation or exhaustion of the 
nerve centres by purgative medicines, enemata, 
suppositories, or previously existing diarrhoeas. 

2. Overfeeding, especially with fat. 

3. Underfeeding, chiefly in the case of breast- 
fed infants. 



104 THE INFANT 

Inasmuch as these three common causes of con- 
stipation are in their etiology as widely separated 
as the poles, it is clearly thoroughly irrational to 
expect that constipation can be treated by routine 
methods, as, for instance, by the administration of 
castor-oil, grey powders, or by increasing the per- 
centage of the fat in the food. 

Before we attempt to treat constipation, we must 
discover the cause. I have certain stock questions 
with which I ply the mother in order to elucidate 
the actual cause of the constipation. They are as 
follows: (1) Are the motions hard or soft ? (2) Are 
they large or small ? (3) What remedies have you 
tried ? (4) What food, and how much, have you 
been giving the baby ? 

By means of these questions I can generally dis- 
cover whether the rectal reflex has been tampered 
with by injudicious methods of stimulation, and also 
whether the infant has been obtaining too much 
or too little food. If the variety of constipation 
does not fall under any of these headings, I search 
for other causes. 

As regards treatment, the cure of cases of con- 
stipation due to dislocation of the normal rectal 
reflex can only be effected by re-education often 
a difficult matter and best promoted by massage 
and the teaching of a new reflex. This should be 
applied with absolute regularity every day. The 
stimulus applied may be the contact of the rim of 



MOTOR FUNCTIONS 105 

a soap-dish in the buttocks, or the touching of the 
sphincter ani with a little piece of soap. 

Constipation due to excess of fat must be treated 
by a reduction in the percentage of cream in the 
case of artificially fed infants, and by controlling 
the quantity of milk consumed in the case of breast- 
fed infants. Formerly I used to treat a number of 
infants suffering from this variety of constipation 
by the routine administration of olive-oil. Olive- 
oil is, of course, invaluable in cases in which the 
infant is suffering from fat starvation, but it only 
aggravates the condition in the class of case I am 
now referring to. It was in consequence of the 
realization of this mistake that I came to use petro- 
leum as a lubricant in place of olive-oil, an account 
of the use of which appears in Chapter IX. 

Constipation due to starvation very seldom 
comes under my notice in artificially fed infants, 
but it is very common among breast-fed infants of 
the lower classes. I could give details of dozens 
of cases which have been brought to my clinics, 
and which have previously been treated ineffectually 
with aperients and purgatives, but which have 
immediately improved when the want of food has 
been adjusted. 

Finally, I would say a few words about that 
common symptom of disturbed motor function 
which is so often ascribed wrongly to food causes 
namely, colic or wind. 



106 THE INFANT 

So-called colic or wind in infants is nearly always 
due to some spasm of sphincter or group of intes- 
tinal muscles which interferes with the normal 
locomotion of food through the alimentary system. 

Wind may indeed be retained in the stomach by 
spasm of the cardiac sphincter, but much more often 
so-called wind is due to the arrest in spasm of 
the normal waves of contraction, which should 
pursue one another in harmonious sequence through- 
out the whole length of the intestine. The applica- 
tion of the bismuth meal and the X-ray screen has 
lately revealed some very interesting examples of 
enter ospasm in infants, which have produced trouble- 
some symptoms, the nature of which were not alto- 
gether clear before the application of these diagnostic 
procedures. One of these cases was as follows : An 
infant at the Nursing Training-School in Hackney 
had repeated attacks of screaming with serious and 
violent vomiting. The child was doing badly and 
losing weight. One day I happened to be at the 
school when one of these attacks was in progress, 
and chancing to place my hand on the abdomen, I 
felt some very forcible waves of contraction passing 
across the abdomen in its upper third from left to 
right. As some of the symptoms were not alto- 
gether inconsistent with pyloric spasm, I took the 
infant into the Queen's Hospital, and thoroughly 
investigated the case by means of bismuth feeds 
and X-ray examination. When given a feed of thin 



MOTOR FUNCTIONS 107 

Benger's food thickened with 2 ounces of carbonate 
of bismuth, the infant retained the whole of it, and 
seemed in less pain than usual ; another interesting 
fact was that the food, instead of experiencing a 
check at the pyloric valve, passed through the 
aperture unusually quickly, and continued to travel 
down the small intestine and through the ileo-caecal 
valve in a perfectly normal manner, and at a per- 
fectly normal rate; but when, after some six hours, 
it reached the splenic flexure, here it encountered 
an unexpected check, and the bowel wall appeared 
to lapse into a condition of somewhat prolonged 
spasm, and from this point onwards the locomotion 
of the bowel contents was irregular, jerky, and 
spasmodic. Owing to this discovery, and taking 
advantage of the benefit which the huge doses of 
bismuth seemed to confer on the child, I continued 
to give large doses of this drug combined with 
petroleum before each meal. The improvement in 
the infant was immediate; it at once began to put 
on weight, and within fourteen days was returned 
to the school in a greatly improved condition, from 
which it has not up to date relapsed. 

This case appears to me to be instructive, because 
it illustrates the point to which I have more than 
once referred namely, that symptoms which are 
really due to disturbances of the motor function of 
the bowel, can easily be mistaken for symptoms 
due to inappropriate food, and as such be in- 



108 THE INFANT 

effectively treated. This particular case had been 
treated for weeks by modification in the diet, and by 
drugs directed to soothe the irritability of the stomach. 
If I have given undue attention to the considera- 
tion of symptoms referable to disturbances of the 
motor functions of the alimentary canal as dis- 
tinguished from those connected with the actual 
digestion of food, it is not because I belittle the 
importance of dietetics in the prevention and cure 
of such accidents. I recognize very fully indeed 
that in the first place these perverted motor func- 
tions are produced by wrong methods of feeding 
often during the first few days of life when it is easy 
to teach impressionable nerve centres new reflexes 
which may have most disastrous results. To these 
perverted reflexes the Germans have given the name 
Bedingungsreflexe, which may be translated as " con- 
ditional " or " facultative reflexes " ; but by whatever 
name they are known, I am sure that they play a 
leading role in the production of such conditions 
as rumination in infants, pyloric spasm, entero- 
spasm, constipation, and even diarrhoea. They can 
only be cured by methods of re-education. It is 
consequently of the greatest importance to be able 
to distinguish symptoms which are due to defective 
digestion proper from those which are due to per- 
verted reflexes, learned, perhaps, a long time pre- 
viously, and for which at the time being there may 
be no apparent cause. 



CHAPTER V 
THE TRAINING OF NERVE CENTRES IN INFANTS 

IN the previous chapter I ventured to suggest that 
one of the most important factors in the manage- 
ment of infants was the appropriate training of 
certain simple organic mechanisms. I mean such as 
those which are concerned with the motor activities 
of the digestive, respiratory, and vaso-motor systems. 

It is quite true that these functions are performed 
automatically, without our active or conscious par- 
ticipation; but all the same, they are essentially 
subject to modification in accordance with the in- 
dividual experiences to which they are subjected, 
and especially the early experiences which arise 
soon after birth. The nervous mechanisms by which 
these automatic functions are controlled are either in 
actual or potential existence at the time of birth, 
and the only requirement for setting the machinery 
in motion is to apply the necessary stimulus. 

This stimulus is usually provided by Nature, al- 
though her efforts are often frustrated by the un- 
warrantable interference of man. 

To understand the significance of the essential 
109 



110 THE INFANT 

mechanism of these automatic functions, and the 
influence which habit exercises upon them, we must 
concentrate our attention on the nerve cell, or on 
those groups of cells in the central nervous system 
or peripheral ganglia which we generally describe 
as nerve centres. 

Nerve centres may be regarded as groups of nerve 
cells, which are so anatomically and physiologically 
associated, that they are capable of carrying out 
complicated muscular co-ordinations with consider- 
able precision. The individual cells of which they are 
composed work together like highly trained military 
units or teams of athletes. The more regular their 
drill, and the more uniform their experiences, the 
more stereotyped and permanent become their 
special activities. 

In order that a nerve cell, or, indeed, a group of 
nerve cells, may acquire a permanent habit or bias 
of action, it is necessary that a series of appropriate 
and similar stimuli should follow one another in a 
sequence of the required regularity. In such an 
event, the mechanism seems almost to work of its 
own accord; it hardly need wait for the stimulus 
before commencing to act. It is impossible to 
exaggerate the importance of this principle in 
securing the early education of nerve centres. 

When the stimuli which evoke any action are 
regular in periodicity and uniform in strength, the 
particular function which they control may be 



TRAINING OP NERVE CENTRES 111 

expected to be performed with precision and regu- 
larity, but when the stimuli are unequal in force and 
frequency, bad and irregular habits are formed, 
which may be difficult to eradicate. As I have else- 
where explained, habits of sleep and of digestion 
often show evidence of the kind of education to 
which the nervous centres which control them have 
been exposed. In this chapter I propose to confine 
myself mainly to the consideration of the education of 
those centres which are concerned with the adminis- 
tration of the motor functions of the bowel and the 
heat-regulating mechanisms of the body as a whole. 
With respect to the motor functions of the 
digestive system, it should be remembered that most 
of the symptoms which are associated with disturb- 
ances of digestion are attributable to dislocation of 
some muscular co-ordination. For instance, cramp- 
like contractions of the musculature of the bowel, 
howsoever provoked, give rise to those painful 
seizures which we generally call colic, while spasms 
of sphincters bring about a number of serious events 
which are familiar to all. Vomiting, as well as 
diarrhoea, is almost universally due to violent and 
inco-ordinated muscular contractions ; in fact, the 
smooth and painless working of the motor functions 
of the digestive tract is dependent on a whole series 
of muscular co-ordinations which follow one another 
in sequence, and are most closely dependent the one 
on the other. The essential element in the smooth 



112 THE INFANT 

working of such muscular mechanisms must clearly 
be a highly sensitive series of receptors to keep the 
central nervous administration in immediate rapport 
with the activities of each individual link in the 
chain of events. 

These receptors are the terminal filaments of the 
afferent nerves distributed to the various parts of 
the bowel wall or its attachments. Many authori- 
ties claim that these afferent nerves are incapable 
of conveying painful impressions to the central 
nervous system, and that impulses passing by this 
sensory route must be of a nature other than pain, 
and the fact that the bowel wall can be cut, lacerated, 
or pinched without the patient experiencing any 
discomfort is an argument which has been frequently 
used in support of this view. The painful im- 
pressions that are associated with colic or entero- 
spasms have been ascribed by Professor Wilms and 
others to the dragging or pulling of the peritoneal 
attachments, which, admittedly, possess sensory 
nerves capable of conveying impressions of pain. 
The simple explanation given by Professor C. S. 
Sherrington appeals to me as being more rational; 
it is as follows. The sensory nerve endings in the 
intestines are highly specialized receptors tuned or 
sensitized to one particular class of impressions only, 
namely, those which are indispensable to the 
organization as a whole, and which have a protective 
significance; in other words, such as can inform the 



TRAINING OF NERVE CENTRES 113 

central authority of the extent to which the muscular 
wall is distended or relaxed. Indeed, it seems 
almost impossible to understand how muscular co- 
ordination can be maintained without sensory re- 
ceptors of this kind. To understand how such re- 
ceptors have acquired special sensitiveness to such 
stimuli while other forms of stimuli have no effect, 
it is necessary to suppose that by a process of selec- 
tive adaptation, both in a phylogenetic and in an 
ontogenetic sense, only those impressions which are 
of physiological advantage to the organism are 
allowed to reach the central nervous system, while 
those which are unnecessary are disregarded. 

In accordance with this interpretation, it is easy 
to understand why we are unconscious of the normal 
movements of the bowel and stomach, and why we 
feel pain when the muscular contractions assume a 
dangerous degree of intensity, or when the lumen 
is unduly distended. It is essential to the well-being 
of the individual that such dangers should give rise 
to painful impressions which will attract attention. 

The striking fact that most of us are blissfully 
unconscious of the peristaltic waves which pursue 
one another from one end of the gut to the other, 
and which give us such excruciating pain when they 
are irregularly conducted, surely emphasizes in a 
very marked degree the efficiency of the natural 
method which, under normal conditions, is con- 
cerned in the education of the motor functions. 

8 



114 THE INFANT 

When we contemplate the smoothness and regu- 
larity with which our intestines perform their daily 
functions, we ought not to regret the many throes 
and discomforts we suffered in childhood when we 
were learning to perform these highly important co- 
ordinations. If they had afforded us no pain when 
we managed them wrongly, how should we have 
ever learned to conduct them rightly ? Spasms of 
the pylorus, enterospasms, and hour-glass contrac- 
tions are common causes of abdominal pain in 
infants. They represent, in fact, protective reflexes, 
which are designed to exclude dangerous forms of 
food from gaining entrance to vulnerable parts of 
the digestive tract. 

Dysperistalsis, or inco-ordinated contraction of 
the musculature of the bowel, is certainly one of the 
commonest causes of pain in infants, but it must 
be regarded as an essential and necessary fore- 
stage of normal painless peristalsis. It is, however, 
desirable that these necessary but painful experi- 
ences should be as few and short-lived as possible, 
for nothing is better calculated to disturb the 
development of the central nervous system than 
constant pain associated with ill-co-ordinated motor 
functions. 

It is, therefore, of considerable importance to 
study the best means of teaching the bowel its 
natural functions, and the best means of avoiding 
those mistakes in feeding, and especially in arti- 



TRAINING OF NEEVE CENTRES 115 

ficial feeding, which create exaggerated peristaltic 
activities, and lead to the establishment of bad 
habits. 

I am convinced that the best means of insuring 
these ends is to interfere with Nature as little as 
possible. Throughout the whole period of our 
evolution, Nature has been experimenting on a huge 
scale to find out the best method of education, and 
if she has not discovered a perfect way, she has, at 
least, found a very good one. 

How does Nature teach the bowel those com- 
plicated muscular co-ordinations which effect the 
locomotion of food from stomach to anus ? As in 
all else, the education must commence at the very 
beginning, when the nerve centres are young, 
plastic, and impressionable. Nature begins by 
giving the muscles very easy lessons. At birth the 
intestines are full of meconium, a material which is 
most admirably designed to give the necessary 
didactic experiences. It is semi-solid, but yet 
sufficiently fluid to pass along the intestine and 
distend the rectum, whereby the necessary stimulus 
is imparted for relaxation of the sphincter ani and 
for complete evacuation of the rectal contents. I 
regret to say that it is sometimes a practice among 
maternity nurses and others who have charge of the 
infant during the puerperal period, to administer 
a dose of castor-oil for the express purpose of sweep- 
ing this invaluable material out of the bowel. 



116 THE INFANT 

There can be no more irrational and fatal procedure . 
Castor-oil is too strong a stimulus ; it excites an ex- 
aggerated reaction, and leaves the nervous mechan- 
ism in a condition of exhaustion, and, further, it 
deprives the bowel and rectum of the educational 
material which should last for many days to come. 
The after-effects of this initial over-stimulation are 
reactionary fatigue and constipation, so that there 
are many temptations to repeat the dose before the 
establishment of lactation can provide the necessary 
basis for a stool. In this way the natural rhythm 
and periodicity of the peristaltic wave is disturbed 
from the very first, and the rectal reflex is dislocated. 
A study of the establishment of the normal rectal 
reflex will well repay attention. As a consequence 
of the initiation of the peristaltic contraction of the 
bowel, meconium is slowly squeezed into the rectum. 
When the walls of the latter are sufficiently distended 
to excite the sensory receptors, a message is trans- 
mitted to the central seat of authority, and reflexly 
the sphincter ani relaxes, while the whole group of 
intrinsic and extrinsic muscles concerned in the act 
of defaecation combine in one concerted act of ex- 
pulsion. If the peristaltic contractions of the small 
and large intestines are uniformly conducted, the 
cistern of the rectum will continue to fill in a 
definite number of hours, and hence the conditions 
are favourable for the establishment of a regular 
and periodic action. Such rhythmic and periodic 



TRAINING OF NERVE CENTRES 117 

habits are not readily established when the feeding, 
and all the other events which feeding initiates, 
are not themselves regular. Hence the great im- 
portance of regular habits of feeding in the establish- 
ment of regular habits of defsecation. 

I have occupied so much time in discussing the 
early education of the bowel and rectum by means 
of meconium that I cannot delay to consider the 
analogous functions of colostrum in establishing the 
early functions of digestion and the gastric and 
pyloric reflexes. I can only state generally that 
colostrum is eminently suited for these purposes, 
and that when, for any reason, the infant is deprived 
of the advantages which feeding by its own mother 
confers, the greatest care should be exercised to 
supply a substitute which corresponds both quan- 
titatively and qualitatively with the educational 
material which Nature supplies. 

In connection with the acquisition of normal 
motor functions, it must be remembered that pain 
and discomfort are not altogether unmixed evils, 
for through their instrumentality, clumsy and ill- 
co-ordinated movements are at times arrested by 
syncopal attacks or periods of unconsciousness, and 
thus the infant is given an opportunity of making a 
fresh start and a more successful attempt. 

Turning now to the consideration of the heat- 
regulating centres, I would remind you that we are 
highly dependent on the efficient working of these 



118 THE INFANT 

centres for our health and comfort. Natural selec- 
tion has proved that the vital processes of the body 
are more economically carried on at 98- 6 F. than 
at any other temperature, or, in other words, that 
there is a waste of energy or a lowering of vitality 
when the temperature rises above or falls below 
this point. In strong and healthy individuals wide 
departures from this optimum temperature seldom 
occur, although there is usually a slight rise towards 
evening with a slight fall in the early hours of the 
morning, fluctuations which must be regarded as 
falling within physiological limits. The more serious 
excursions which take place in febrile conditions 
should properly be regarded as evidence of a break- 
down of the thermotaxic mechanisms, although 
it is possible that they may be of a conservative 
or protective significance. 

Breakdowns in the functions of the heat-regulating 
centres occur when the latter are over-stimulated 
or poisoned by toxic substances circulating in the 
blood, and, in common with other nerve centres, 
they are prejudicially influenced by fatigue, over- 
action, or inappropriate stimulation. 

Without referring at unnecessary length to the 
anatomy or physiology of these thermotaxic centres, 
it may be stated broadly that they consist of groups 
of nerve cells situated in the base of the brain, which 
regulate combustion in the body, and of other 
groups in the cortex, known as the " thermo-inhibi- 



TRAINING OF NERVE CENTRES 119 

tory centres," which control or restrain the activities 
of these thermogenic centres. Both of these act in 
close association with the vaso-motor centres which 
regulate the distribution of blood to the various 
organs of the body. 

By the harmonious co-operation of all these centres, 
the bodily temperature is maintained at a relatively 
constant level despite great variations in the sur- 
rounding temperature. Thus, not only can the human 
organism survive a temperature which is sufficiently 
high to boil water or roast a leg of mutton, but it 
can also live for many hours in an atmosphere at 
which mercury freezes. 

At the time of birth these complicated mechanisms 
are incompletely developed, and the infant behaves 
more or less like a poikilothermic, or cold-blooded, 
animal; that is to say, its blood-temperature rises 
and falls in close correspondence with the tempera- 
ture of the surroundings. Hence, unless special 
precautions are taken, the temperature of a new- 
born baby may, within a few hours of birth, experi- 
ence a sharp fall to 90 F. or even lower. It must, 
however, be remembered that the ordinary clinical 
thermometer is not graduated to show such low 
readings, and consequently, unless special ther- 
mometers are used, the infant's temperature may 
fall to a dangerous point without our knowledge. 
In view of the fact that any extreme fall in the 
temperature has a most prejudicial influence on the 



120 THE INFANT 

vital processes, it is important that no unnecessary 
loss of heat should occur in the case of the new-born 
baby. Young infants can, however, survive a 
lowering of the temperature to a level which would 
kill older individuals. This is due to the fact that 
their therm otaxic centres are still undeveloped. If 
an adult, in whom these centres are fully developed, 
were to experience a fall in temperature to 90 F. or 
lower, such a condition would imply complete dis- 
organization of the whole nervous system a state 
of affairs which, in all probability, would be quite 
incompatible with the continuation of life. When 
practical eugenics were practised in Sparta, new- 
born infants who, from a physical point of view, 
were considered unfit to survive, were left naked 
in the caverns of Taygetus, for it was believed that 
if they could survive such an ordeal, they would 
vindicate their right to live. Many new-born infants 
are to-day unconsciously submitted to the same 
kind of ordeal by careless attendants, but the 
modern child does not show the same tenacity of 
life. 

Under favourable conditions the heat-regulating 
centres of the infant soon become functionally 
active, but for many years to come they lack 
stability. This is due to the defective control of 
the thermo-inhibitory mechanism rather than to 
the immaturity of the thermogenic centres in the 
base of the brain. 



TRAINING OF NERVE CENTRES 121 

The time at which the complete mechanism 
becomes functionally proficient, and the degree of 
its proficiency, is almost entirely dependent on the 
experiences to which it is subjected. These nerve 
centres, like others which subserve other functions, 
must be trained and educated by the incidence of 
appropriate stimuli; that is to say, they must be 
exposed to stimuli of normal strength and of 
sufficient variety. If they are too strong, they dis- 
locate the delicate mechanism ; if they are too weak, 
they do not sufficiently call the activities of the 
nerve cells into play. 

Antecedent to the crisis of birth there has been 
no variety in the character of the thermal stimuli, 
for the foatus has pursued its existence in the mono- 
thermic environment of a water-bath. Conse- 
quently, there have been no educational stimuli to 
train the heat-regulating centres. At the moment 
of birth all the conditions are changed, and new 
experiences are apt to crowd only too rapidly on 
the awakening activities of these susceptible centres. 
It seems to me to be a matter of very great impor- 
tance that these early impressions should, in an edu- 
cational sense, be of the very best kind, for it is during 
the plastic stages of immaturity that new functions 
are most easily learned. 

Of recent years " faddists " and " cranks " have 
resorted to practices of " hardening " children by 
systems of thermic education, which consist in 



122 THE INFANT 

allowing them to run about in cold weather with bare 
arms, bare legs, and bare heads. Whatever criticism 
these particular systems of training may deserve, it 
is quite impossible, on physiological grounds, to 
repudiate the general principle that the thermotaxic 
centres should be educated to their full capacity, for 
the more efficiently they do their work, the more 
independent becomes the individual of the tempera- 
ture of the environment. 

Individuals who throughout the period of child- 
hood are sheltered from every breath of air, who 
are protected from every change of temperature in 
warm rooms and by thick clothing, are very badly 
equipped for maintaining their body temperature 
when at any time they are exposed to unexpected 
degrees of cold ; in fact, under such conditions they 
very readily contract what is popularly described 
as a " chill." The pathology of a " chill " may be 
briefly defined as the dislocation of the thermotaxic 
and vaso-motor centres by over-stimulation with 
cold, just as the so-called heat-stroke represents 
the over-stimulation of the same centres by unusual 
degrees of heat. Then, again, these centres may be 
dislocated by the clash of conflicting stimulation, 
such as occurs when a child, on a very hot day, 
paddles about in cold water. Under such conditions 
one set of stimuli calling for a more active metabol- 
ism, and for a conservation of heat, reach the ther- 
motaxic centres from the feet, while an entirely 



TRAINING OF NERVE CENTRES 123 

different series reaches them from other parts of the 
body. The consequence of this is that there may 
be a severe dislocation of the mechanisms concerned, 
and the child may suffer from a syndrome of nervous 
symptoms, which in the language of the uninformed 
is usually called a " bilious attack." 

Although children with well-trained thermotaxic 
centres can participate with impunity in the pleasures 
of paddling in cold water while a hot sun shines 
overhead nevertheless such experiences cannot be 
regarded as scientific methods of training the 
mechanisms concerned; and it is due to the un- 
satisfactory results which sometimes follow from 
such procedures that the more rational methods of 
education have simultaneously fallen into disrepute. 

There unfortunately exists considerable confusion 
in the minds of some people as to the distinction 
between the " principles " of hardening, and the 
" methods " or " systems " by which the principles 
are carried out; and this confusion has so befogged 
the issues that at the present time medical men are 
almost afraid to mention the word " hardening " for 
fear of being misunderstood. 

I believe, however, that the advantages to the 
normal child of an efficient education of his heat- 
regulating centres are so enormously great that 
I would give him the benefit of as good an education 
in this respect as circumstances permit. But it will 
be readily understood that it is one thing to devise 



124 THE INFANT 

a system and another thing to explain to a second 
person how it is to be carried out; you may give 
away the secret of your method, but you cannot 
always give the required understanding to enable 
it to be put into practice. 

From want of time I find it quite impossible to 
explain to all mothers who bring their babies to my 
infant consultations the details of a rational 
" hardening " method. I reserve my energies for 
the more serious cases. The ones I chiefly select for 
the treatment are the infants who come of tuber- 
culous stock, or give evidence of rickets or mal- 
nutrition, because in such cases it is most important 
that the functions both of heat production and of 
heat dissipation should be efficiently performed. 

The main principle involved in a rational method 
of hardening is to give infants and children as many 
and as varied experiences in thermal stimulation as 
possible. The intensity of the stimulation, whether 
of heat or cold, must be adjusted to the physiological 
capacities of the child; there must always be pro- 
gress, but the progress should not be too rapid. 

Over-stimulation of these nerve centres at any 
time may dislocate their delicate mechanism, but 
over-stimulation during the early stages of their 
education may have permanent results very pre- 
judicial to their subsequent development. 

I cannot, in a short account such as this must 
necessarily be, give complete details of the method 



TRAINING OF NERVE CENTRES 125 

I employ, so that I purpose only to explain a few 
of the main principles on which, in my opinion, 
success depends. 

In the first place it is very important that the 
early lessons should be of a very elementary charac- 
ter, and that the transitions from one degree of 
stimulation to another should be very carefully 
graduated. 

The stimulation is effected by means of both air 
and water; the temperature of the room in which 
the new-born baby is confined must be maintained 
at first at a somewhat higher level than is desirable 
for older children, and the baby itself must be 
wrapped up very warmly, even in cotton-wool, if 
the surrounding temperature is low, to prevent loss 
of heat. As time goes on, the temperature of the 
room may be allowed to vary, and the number and 
thickness of the clothes may be reduced, always, 
however, with the exercise of the greatest care that 
the feet or other parts of the body do not become 
cold ; if the feet become cold, the educational regime 
has broken down. 

The date at which the baby may be first taken 
out of doors will depend on the weather and other 
circumstances. This step should not be precipi- 
tated. It must be remembered that the new-born 
baby is quite as slow to learn how to digest and 
assimilate food as to learn how to control its 
therm otaxic mechanism. If, therefore, a young 



126 THE INFANT 

baby suffers much loss of heat, since it is unable to 
digest and absorb new foods, and thus compensate 
for the increased combustion necessitated it will be 
compelled to live on its own tissues, and lose weight. 
As soon, however, as it has begun to assimilate food 
and to increase in weight, there is no valid objection 
why it should not be taken out of doors under 
suitable conditions of weather, and with suitable 
precautions against " a chill." 

The bath, however, must always remain the chief 
instrument of education. Thermal stimulation is 
more easily controlled by means of water, both hot 
and cold, than by means of air. The infant should 
have a bath every day, or even two baths a day; 
but, for the first few days of life, if a bath is given at 
all, it should be most expeditiously administered, 
and at a temperature which is slightly above blood 
heat i.e., about 100 F. As the infant grows older, 
variations in the temperature of the water may be 
introduced, either by giving a tepid douche at the 
end of the ablutions, or by gradually lowering the 
temperature of the bath itself. Both methods give 
excellent results, but on the whole I prefer the 
second method, although the choice depends to a 
considerable extent on the intelligence of the person 
who is responsible for carrying out the orders. A 
bath thermometer must always be used, and the 
individual who gives the bath instructed in its use. 
I find no difficulty in securing the carrying out of the 



TRAINING OF NERVE CENTRES 127 

necessary details, even among the poorest women 
who bring their infants to my consultations at the St. 
Mary leb one General Dispensary ; and the expense of 
bath thermometers is no obstacle, since they can be 
bought for a few pence. The women are taught 
to use these thermometers either by the dispenser 
or by one of our health visitors, and many mothers 
appear to take the greatest interest and pride in the 
proceedings. The instructions I generally give are 
to administer the first bath at a temperature of 
100 F., and to lower the temperature by one degree 
every day, or every other day, as the condition of 
the baby or the intelligence of the mother warrants. 
If the baby shows the least resentment or dislike to 
the temperature of the water, the mother is told to 
retrace her steps, and revert to warmer water. As 
a rule I do not allow thermal education of this kind 
to commence before the fourth or fifth week of life, 
and I generally call a halt when the temperature has 
reached 80 F. Some babies are very much easier 
to teach than others; some of those attending at 
my consultations have a cold bath by the age of six 
months and thoroughly enjoy it; others do not seem 
to appreciate a temperature below 80 F. Many 
of my private cases take their cold bath in tap-water 
(50 to 60 F.) before they are five months old, and 
always with the greatest benefit. The advantages 
of the method are very obvious, and the students 
attending at my consultations frequently express 



128 THE INFANT 

surprise at the splendid physical condition of the 
babies who are submitted to this course of treat- 
ment. As a rule it is quite easy to distinguish the 
" graduated cold-bath babies " by their clear com- 
plexions and general appearance of health and 
vigour. At the Nursery Training School 1 in Hackney 
this method is employed, and I am quite sure it 
would be impossible to find a healthier or more 
vigorous set of babies anywhere, although when they 
are first brought to the school they are often in a 
very poor condition of health. 

It must be remembered that most of the energy- 
value of an infant's food namely, about eight- 
tenths is expended in the production of heat, and 
that only a very small proportion probably about 
one-fifth is required for the purposes of growth, 
or for the performance of mechanical work; conse- 
quently, the food requirements of infants depends 
to a very large extent on the temperature conditions 
of the environment, and on the opportunities pro- 
vided for dissipation of heat by radiation, conduc- 
tion, and evaporation. 

In view of these facts we can readily understand 
how extremely unscientific it is to lay down hard- 
and-fast rules with respect to the quantities of food 
required by different infants (see Chapter III.). 

1 This school is for training domestic nurses. It is sup- 
ported and managed by the Women's Industrial Council. 
As a rule there are about twenty nurses in training and some 
twelve babies in residence. 



TRAINING OF NERVE CENTRES 129 

Many years ago 1 1 drew attention to the serious 
consequences which might ensue when infants were 
fed on diets which were physiologically excessive. At 
that time little importance was attached to the evils 
of superalimentation, but now that Finkelstein 2 and 
others have made definite pronouncements in sup- 
port of this view, medical opinion is slowly veering 
round to the belief that among the many evil conse- 
quences of overfeeding summer diarrhoea is not the 
least important. Although few deny that direct 
and indirect infection plays an important part in 
the determination of epidemics of this kind, none 
the less the number of those who believe in auto- 
genous infection as a possible source of danger is 
daily increasing. 

If a slum infant is overfed, the degree of over- 
feeding becomes relatively greater the moment the 
weather becomes hot, and relatively decreased when 
the temperature falls. 

In very hot weather the dangers for slum infants 
from overfeeding are great as compared with the 
dangers at other seasons of the year, and as com- 
pared with the dangers which threaten better-class 
infants, largely for the reason that the inside tem- 
perature of small houses and tenements has been 

1 " The Overfeeding of Infants." A paper read before 
the British Medical Association's Annual Meeting, Chelten- 
ham, 1901. 

2 Finkelstein, Deutsch. Med. Woch, 1909, No 32, pp. 1375- 
1391. 

9 



130 THE INFANT 

proved to be disproportionately high as compared 
wllh that of larger houses. 

Considerable attention has recently been drawn 
to the disparity between the inside and outside 
temperatures of small tenements, 1 and the influence 
this exercises on the determination of diarrhoea 
among slum infants. 

In hot weather all the physiological mechanisms 
for counteracting excessive feeding are brought into 
play. Thus the infant loses appetite, digests its 
food more slowly, absorbs it less freely, and tends to 
reject it both by vomiting and diarrhoea. But un- 
fortunately, in hot weather infants become thirsty 
and require large quantities of fluid to compensate 
for the water lost by evaporation and sweating, and 
thus Nature's provisions against overfeeding are 
often inefficacious. 

In bottle-feeding this thirst is a source of danger, 
because to obtain sufficient water infants drain 
their bottles dry and appear hungry at the end of 
a meal. This sometimes leads to the supply of a 
second bottle, or larger feeds. 

In breast-feeding the danger is less because, by 
a merciful intervention of Providence, the milk of 
the mother becomes more watery. 2 

There can be no reasonable doubt that those 

1 J. W. Schereschewsky, " Heat and Infant Mortality," 
Archives of Pediatrics, December, 1913, p. 916. 

2 Meinert, Deutsch. Med. Woch., 1888, vol. xiv., p. 491. 



TRAINING OF NERVE CENTRES 131 

infants who possess well-disciplined heat-regulating 
centres are in a far safer position as regards the 
dangers of summer diarrhoea than are infants in 
whom these centres have not been adequately 
trained ; for the former can dissipate more effectually 
an excessive production of heat, and they can also 
more quickly call into requisition all those indirect 
mechanisms whereby appetite is lost or food rejected. 

But all the same, whether the heat-regulating 
centres be well or badly educated, in hot weather 
it is of importance to reduce the food- supply in 
breast-fed, as well as in bottle-fed, infants; more- 
over, it is important to facilitate the dissipation of 
heat by light clothing, tepid, or cool baths, and by 
the maintenance of the lowest possible temperature 
in the houses in which the infants are confined. 
The usual instructions to keep infants warm so as 
to prevent diarrhoea is as irrational as is the advice 
to confine infants in stiff binders to strengthen their 
backs. 

In this chapter, although I have only touched the 
fringe of the subject, I hope I have said enough to 
attract attention to the great possibilities connected 
with the careful and methodical training of nerve 
centres. 










CHAPTER VI 
CONSTIPATION IN INFANTS 

THE causes of constipation in infants are almost 
identical with those of adults ; but it must be remem- 
bered that in the case of older individuals considera- 
tions of volition and determination complicate the 
issue. During infancy the fact that no will-power 
can be brought to bear makes constipation more 
difficult to cure and more liable to recur. But for 
these very reasons, when a habit of regular action has 
been formed, the regularity of the periodicity is 
more difficult to disturb. For reasons which are 
obvious, the establishment of a habit of constipation 
is attended with dangers and inconveniences which 
are almost in inverse proportion to the age of the 
individual; therefore the younger the infant, the 
more important is it to prevent this disturbance of 
function. 

Nearly all cases of constipation can be referred 
either to interference with the mechanical loco- 
motion of faeces through the colon and sigmoid or 
to dislocation of the sensitive reflex of the rectum. 

Locomotion of the intestinal contents through the 
132 



CONSTIPATION IN INFANTS 133 

colon of infants is normally carried on at a dis- 
advantage as compared to that in adults, owing to 
the fact that the colon is relatively longer, is more 
convoluted, has freer peritoneal attachments, and 
is muscularly weaker ; but there are many conditions 
in infancy which can still further aggravate these 
natural disabilities. For instance, in overfeeding 
and flatulent distension, the colon, endowed as it 
is at this time with almost limitless potentialities 
for growth, can respond to the stimulus, and become 
not only permanently dilated and enormously con- 
voluted, but also even kinked and dislocated from 
its normal position. When these anatomical dis- 
abilities of the colon are further complicated by 
feebleness of the intrinsic muscles of the bowel, 
locomotion of its contents through the large intestine 
becomes greatly impeded. 

The tone and the activities of the muscles which 
are concerned in the peristaltic movements are under 
the control of local nervous mechanisms, which in 
turn are co-ordinated and reinforced by a stream 
of efferent nerve impulses emanating from spinal 
and cerebral centres. Hence there is no difficulty 
in understanding how it is that in general conditions 
of nervous debility, in which there is universal loss 
of tone in voluntary muscles, the intestinal muscula- 
ture should also be involved. Constipation is one 
of the most frequent complications of rickets, and 
it is doubtless dependent on factors similar to those 



134 THE INFANT 

which, in the latter disease, produce the familiar 
pseudo-paralysis of the skeletal muscles. Whatever 
may be the essential pathogenesis of rickets, there 
can be little doubt that the injuries inflicted on 
delicate nerve cells and nervous connections by 
circulating poisons play a most important part in 
the determination of many of the symptoms. 

In meningitis, hydrocephalus, and other disturb- 
ances of the central system there is a tendency to 
constipation. In infants, in whom there are asso- 
ciated stigmata of degeneration, inco-ordination of 
various automatic nerve mechanisms is compara- 
tively common, and those which subserve the func- 
tions of defsecation are by no means exempt. Thus, 
constipation is quite a common symptom in cretins, 
in mentally defective infants, and in infants with 
congenital malformations. 

The automatic working of colonic peristalsis is 
thus dependent not only on its own local nerve 
centres, but also on the integrity of a widely con- 
nected central mechanism. At birth this mechanism 
is set in motion by the operation of many stimuli, 
such as the descent of the diaphragm and the con- 
traction of the abdominal muscles, which compress 
the small intestine and empty its contents into the 
colon, sigmoid, and rectum. 

Meconium, owing to its physical qualities, is 
admirably designed to lubricate the mucous surface 
of the intestines, and to offer a convenient medium 



CONSTIPATION IN INFANTS 135 

of resistance to the peristaltic movements. It 
behaves, in fact, as a complacent " corpus vile,'* 
on which the intestines can experimentally exercise 
their untrained efforts. It is impossible to exag- 
gerate the importance of these first efforts, for they 
modify all subsequent reactions. 

The same is true of all nervous mechanisms, for 
the reactions of a nerve centre depend on its past 
experiences, and especially on its first experiences, 
and a " habit " is formed when a series of actions 
are compelled to follow one another through the 
continued operation of a series of stimuli; they 
become, in fact, organically tied together or asso- 
ciated. After a time the series of reactions follow 
each other automatically, almost independently of 
the character of the stimulus. Nature, if she is 
allowed, generally provides at the proper time the 
right kind of stimulus to produce a correct habit. 

Applying these general principles to the particular 
case of intestinal peristalsis, it will be readily under- 
stood that, if the mild and gentle stimulus of 
meconium be replaced by a purgative dose of castor- 
oil, all subsequent reactions will be materially 
modified; by physiological contrast the stimulus of 
colostrum and, later, of milk will be relatively in- 
effective. 

Dr. Still says: " I know of no drug which is re- 
sponsible for more chronic constipation in infancy 
than castor-oil." I would go even further, and say 



136 THE INFANT 

I know of no series of doses of purgative medicine 
which are responsible for so much constipation at 
any time of life as the single dose of castor-oil which 
clears out meconium from the bowel of the new-born 
infant. 

The first ten days of life are hazardous in many 
ways for the infant, but especially so in respect of 
its intestinal functions. During this period there 
are many temptations to give aperient or purgative 
drugs, even when the meconium has not been 
artificially removed; for the amount of food which 
enters the stomach is necessarily extremely limited, 
often insufficient to excite active peristalsis or to 
bring about a satisfactory evacuation. 

What is true generally of peristalsis is equally, or 
even more, true of the specialized peristaltic move- 
ment of the rectum, and the whole machinery of this 
delicate mechanism may be dislocated if unnatural 
and unduly strong forms of stimuli are applied when 
it is, so to speak, formulating its reactions. The 
normal stimulus for the reaction is the presence of 
ordinary fsecal matter in the sensitive zone of the 
rectum. If a glycerine suppository be inserted, or 
a soap-and-water enema be injected, a new and un- 
naturally powerful stimulus is applied, which again, 
by physiological contrast, renders the normal stimu- 
lus subliminal. I know of few forms of constipa- 
tion in infants more difficult to treat successfully 
than that which is due to the use of these artificial 



CONSTIPATION IN INFANTS 137 

expedients. In infants in whom the sensitive zone 
has been rendered relatively anaesthetic, the rectum 
will often be found to be full of dry scybala or 
impacted faeces which have established a right to 
the position, and exercise no stimulatory influence 
on the nerve endings in the bowel wall. 

The nerve centres in the lumbar cord with their 
cerebral connections have a strong tendency, like 
all other nerve centres, to fall into periodic and 
rhythmical habits under the influence of a continu- 
ously acting series of stimuli. The periodicity in 
young as well as in older subjects is often determined 
by accident, or by the advent of some psychological 
reinforcement. 

Some infants habitually have an evacuation when 
put to the breast or given a bottle. This is a most 
disadvantageous rhythm, and must be suppressed 
at all costs. Other infants will pass a motion 
immediately after their bath, owing possibly to the 
stimulating influence of the water, or the friction of 
the towel. This is a habit of which full advantage 
should be taken. Placing the infant at such times 
on a porringer or soap-dish will help to establish the 
habit on a firm basis by introducing a definite 
element of suggestion into the complicated reflex. 

I know of many infants who have been trained 
to perfect regularity in respect of this function before 
they were two months old by skilled and persevering 
nurses, and such infants pass through the whole 



138 THE INFANT 

period of infancy without requiring any unnatural 
stimulus for the daily evacuation of the bowels. 
Habits of this kind, if established at a sufficiently 
early date, are a practical guarantee of future 
regularity. 

Apart from anatomical disabilities of the colon 
which predispose to inertia of the bowel, and apart 
from dislocation of the normal rectal reflex, there are 
other causes of constipation, and among them, 
perhaps, the most important is a pre-existing con- 
dition of diarrhoea. Severe attacks of diarrhoea 
exhaust the nerve centres, enfeeble the musculature 
of the bowel wall, and dry up the secretions. In the 
chronic mucous colitis which so often follows acute 
attacks, the internal surface of the colon is frequently 
roughened and irregularly coated with inspissated 
mucus. This condition severely embarrasses the 
locomotion of faeces, and is at times the cause of 
dysperistalsis or enterospasm. 

There are several forms of constipation which are 
directly due to food causes, and among these a 
deficient quantity of food is common in breast-fed 
infants. Quite a number of constipated infants are 
brought to my consultations at the St. Marylebone 
General Dispensary owing to this cause alone. The 
diagnosis is made by applying the test-feed 
that is to say, the infants are weighed before and 
after they are put to the breast. The difference in 
the weights represents the amount of food con- 



CONSTIPATION IN INFANTS 139 

sumed. For constipation to ensue as a result of 
underfeeding, a minimum quantity of food must be 
supplied to the infant, for I have a number of records 
in which the infants have subsisted on a half or on a 
third of the normal allowance, without any inter- 
ference with the daily evacuation. Constant vomit- 
ing acts as a cause of constipation in the same 
way as a defective supply of food ; vomiting due to 
spasm of the pylorus, and to hypertrophic pyloric 
stenosis, is almost invariably accompanied by great 
obstinacy of the bowels. 

Constipation due to overfeeding is far more com- 
mon in bottle-fed infants, and it is especially notice- 
able among the children of the middle and upper 
classes. In this variety of constipation the motions 
are usually very copious, light coloured, greasy, and 
lumpy. The cause of the constipation is uncertain, 
though it is not improbably connected with the 
same nervous incompetence, due to circulating 
toxins, which is so frequently responsible for inertia 
of the bowel in the rickety condition. In over- 
feeding the liver is often found to be large and fatty, 
and the evidence of the stools points to a defective 
secretion of bile. This, combined with the fact 
that pancreatic digestion may also be at fault, is, 
quite apart from inertia of the bowel, an adequate 
cause of constipation. My own personal view is that 
overfeeding leads to constipation because excess of 
food leads to decomposition in the bowel, and the 



140 THE INFANT 

products of decomposition in their turn poison the 
nerve centres which control hepatic, pancreatic, and 
intestinal functions. 

The particular element in the food which is re- 
sponsible for most of the mischief is a matter of 
dispute. Finkelstein attributes a large share of the 
trouble to fat (fat-injury) ; others attribute it to pro- 
teids or to carbohydrates. It must be remembered, 
however, that carbohydrates and, to some extent, 
fats are proteid-sparers, whether regarded from the 
point of view of digestion or from that of nutrition. 
As a rule they are far more easily digested and ab- 
sorbed, leaving the more resistant proteids at the 
mercy of destructive organisms. Although no doubt 
the acid products of fat and carbohydrate fer- 
mentation can act injuriously on nerve cells, most 
of the evidence goes to prove that the toxins of 
proteid origin in this respect do greater damage. 

Certain other conditions, such as anal fissure, pain- 
ful ulcers, piles, and congenital malformations, may 
occasionally give rise to obstinate constipation, but 
these conditions are rare and consequently unim- 
portant. 

The more important of the many causes of con- 
stipation fall into place in the following classifica- 
tion: 



CONSTIPATION IN INFANTS 141 

A. ORGANIC IMPEDIMENTS TO PERISTALSIS : 

1. Congenital malformations : 

(a) Atresia recti. 

(b) Imperforate anus. 

(c) Dilated colon (Hirschsprung's 

disease). 

2. Acquired structural alterations : 

(a) Dilated, convoluted, or lengthened 

colon from overfeeding or flatu- 
lent distension. 

(b) Inflammatory conditions of 

(i.) Peritoneum (peritonitis). 

(ii.) Bowel wall (results of long- 
standing colitis or dysen- 
teric diarrhoaa). 

(iii.) Mucous membrane (inspis- 
sated mucus in chronic 
colitis). 

B. INTERFERENCE WITH NERVOUS MECHANISM OF 
PERISTALSIS AND DEFECATION: 

1. Organic disease of the nervous system 

(meningitis, hydrocephalus, tumours of 
brain and spinal cord). 

2. Toxic conditions : 

(a) Specific infections (fevers, etc.). 

(b) Specific poisoning due to drugs 
(opium, lead, excess of lime-water, 

etc.). 

(c) Intestinal toxsemias due to decom- 

position of food in the bowel. 



142 THE INFANT 

3. Exhaustion of nerve centres due to over- 

stimulation by : 

(a) Diarrhoea. 

(b) Purgative drugs. 

4. Interference with the peripheral nervous 

mechanism by : 

(a) Hypersensitiveness of anal sphinc- 
ter (fissure of anus). 

(6) Anaesthesia of sensitive zone of rec- 
tum (by anemata, suppositories, 
presence of foreign bodies, etc.). 

C. FAULTS IN THE INTESTINAL CONTENTS : 

1. Insufficient food (starvation, vomiting). 

2. Deficiency of fluid (dehydration of tissues 

by fevers, loss of blood, want of bile, and 
intestinal secretions). 

The rational treatment of constipation in infants 
depends largely upon a correct diagnosis of the 
cause. The routine treatment of the condition by 
aperients, purgatives, enemata, and suppositories, 
is not a scientific method. 

Inasmuch as it is far easier to prevent the onset of 
constipation than it is to cure it after the habit has 
been established, it may be wise to say a few words 
in respect of prophylaxis before entering upon the 
question of curative treatment. 

In bottle-feeding prophylaxis is comparatively 
easy, for the quantity and quality of the food are 
entirely under control. In breast-feeding it is diffi- 
cult, or impossible, to control or modify the food 






CONSTIPATION IN INFANTS 143 

without recourse to supplementary feeding. There 
should be no hesitation in utilizing this method 
when the physiological indications, or the test- 
feed, prove that the breast-supply is defective or 
deficient. I employ supplementary feeding in more 
than half the breast-fed infants I see in my out- 
patient clinics, and more often for the purpose of 
supplementing a deficient diet and correcting con- 
stipation than for any other reason. 

The test-feed will at once show whether or not 
there is a deficiency in the supply of breast-milk, 
and the physiological indications which the history 
of the case, the weight curve, and the symptoms 
provide will as a rule prove in what respects the 
milk is qualitatively defective. The supplementary 
feedings must be adjusted to correct these defects. 

Nurses and mothers are very apt to regard the 
passage of formed motions of firm consistence and 
small calibre as indications of constipation which 
require treatment. It is impossible to insist too 
strongly that such stools are not of pathological 
significance ; they imply strong and active peristaltic 
contractions in an intestine which is not dilated, 
conditions which are of most favourable augury for 
the prevention of constipation. The long-continued 
passage of soft semifluid motions gives the mus- 
culature of the colon, sigmoid, and rectum very 
little work to do. Exercise of function is an essential 
condition of efficiency. Unless the muscles of the 
intestine have work to do, they will not develop in 



144 THE INFANT 

the manner and to the extent that is required for 
the maintenance of their function. Such a con- 
dition therefore demands no treatment as long as 
there is a regular evacuation every day. 

The encouragement of a regular and favourable 
periodicity in the times of evacuation by the means 
already referred to is certainly one of the most im- 
portant factors in the prophylactic treatment. 

The measures for the prevention of constipation 
in infants may be summarized as follows: (1) Not 
to employ aperients, purgatives, enemata, or sup- 
positories, especially during the first few weeks of 
life. (2) In breast-feeding to make certain by means 
of the test-feed that there is neither under- 
feeding nor overfeeding. (3) In breast-feeding to 
correct quantitative and qualitative defects by sup- 
plementary feeding. (4) To induce regularity of 
" habit " by systematic training. 

To return now to the question of cure. The com- 
monest forms of constipation met with in practice 
are those which are due to (1) dilatation and inertia 
of the bowel, and (2) interference with the nervous 
mechanism by over-stimulation from acute attacks 
of diarrhoea or from abuse of purgative medicines. 

An examination of the infant's abdomen combined 
with percussion of the colon will as a rule afford 
evidence of the degree of distension of the large 
intestine. When the dilatation of the colon is con- 
siderable, a tympanitic note will generally be elicited 
high up under the diaphragm on the left side, while 



CONSTIPATION IN INFANTS 145 

the sigmoid itself may be traced across the abdomen 
towards the right iliac fossa. 

A careful inspection of the motions, if necessary 
after washing out in a large quantity of water, will 
reveal the presence or absence of colitis. In the 
chronic forms of this disorder considerable masses 
of inspissated mucus, or coiled-up pieces of mem- 
brane, can, if the motions are well broken up, gene- 
rally be identified among the general detritus. The 
extent and the character of the colitis can as a rule 
be estimated by the size and appearance of the 
fragments of membrane. 

A digital examination of the rectum will prove the 
presence or absence of faeces in the rectum. If 
present, the assumption is justifiable that the sensi- 
tive zone has lost its natural irritability, and that the 
cause of the constipation is to be referred to a dis- 
location of the normal reflex. 

At one time it was my invariable practice to treat 
cases of constipation in infants with additional feed- 
ings of cream. This method of treatment, as Holt, 
Finkelstein, and others have pointed out, is ex- 
tremely liable to give rise to the symptoms of fat 
indigestion, foremost among which is a condition of 
aggravated constipation. Unless the evidence from 
collateral sources is clear that the percentage of fat 
is below the nutritive requirements, this line of 
treatment has little to commend it. This difficulty 
can be avoided by substituting petroleum for fat. 

10 



146 THE INFANT 

Petroleum never gives rise to nutritional or to diges- 
tive disturbances ; it is an absolutely inert lubricant, 
which passes out of the bowel in exactly the same 
condition as it enters the mouth; moreover, every 
trace of it can be recovered from the faeces. 

If given in sufficient quantities, it will soften the 
hardest scybala, and provide soft, plastic stools, 
which pass with ease through the sigmoid and rec- 
tum. For hospital use an inexpensive and most 
efficient emulsion can be made by employing Irish 
moss as the emulsifying agent; in private practice 
I suggest the use of the following formula, in which 
the more expensive gum of acacia replaces the Irish 
moss: 

R Petrolei liquidi puri . . . . mxx. 

Pulvis acaciae . . . . . . gr. x. 

Olei amygdalae amaras . . . . ni $ 

Elixiris glusidi . . . . ia 

Aquam cinnamomi . . . . ad 3j. 

Fiat emulsio. 

If prepared according to this formula, the emulsion 
is exceedingly pleasant, infants and adults taking 
it equally well. 

For an infant three months old I prescribe as 
much as an ounce, or as little as a drachm, in divided 
doses during the twenty-four hours. In some cases 
I give the pure oil instead of the emulsion in doses 
of 1 to 4 drachms two or three times a day. 

It must be remembered, however, that simple 
lubricants of the bowel, in spite of their softening 



CONSTIPATION IN INFANTS 147 

influence on the motions, will not cure all cases of 
constipation; unaided, they often give most dis- 
appointing results, especially in cases of extensive 
dilatation of the colon or extreme inertia of the 
bowel, when these conditions are complicated by 
loss of sensitiveness of the rectum. When the colon 
is dilated or the musculature feeble, massage of the 
abdomen, if skilfully applied along the axis of the 
large intestine and deep into the left iliac fossa, is a 
most valuable adjuvant. If possible, the services of 
a skilled masseuse should be called into requisition, 
but it is quite easy to teach the mother or nurse how 
to manipulate the intestines with beneficial results. 
In this connection it is well to remember that in 
severe cases of dilatation of the colon the sigmoid 
flexure may take an aberrant course across the abdo- 
men in the direction of the right iliac fossa. Elec- 
tricity (galvanic) may be employed to reinforce the 
action of the massage. 

In those cases in which considerable injury has 
been inflicted on the mucous membrane by attacks 
of acute ulcerative colitis, or by dysenteric diar- 
rhoeas, massage must be employed with great 
caution, otherwise haemorrhages may occur from 
partially healed ulcers or inflammatory patches. It 
is dangerous also to try massage when there is any 
suspicion of tuberculous disease of the mesenteric 
glands, or tuberculous ulceration of the bowel. 

When the history of the case shows that the exist- 
ing constipation has been preceded by ulcerative 



148 THE INFANT 

colitis with stools containing blood or pus, I strongly 
advise a preliminary course of irrigation of the colon 
(Plombieres' method) by means of a long rectal tube 
or catheter. When the washings prove that ad- 
herent sloughs or plaques of inspissated mucus have 
been entirely removed, and when there is no pain 
or tenderness along the course of the colon, it may 
be considered safe to commence massage. 

In obstinate cases irrigation of the colon may be 
necessitated for several weeks, but as a rule the 
washings can be discontinued after a few days. As 
soon as the massage is commenced, the petroleum 
emulsion must be given in full doses. By the com- 
bined use of irrigation, massage, and petroleum, 
few cases of constipation resist treatment, but it 
must be admitted that there is a small residuum of 
cases in which these expedients fail. 

In out-patient practice, where neither irrigation 
nor massage can be conveniently applied, a con- 
siderable number of refractory cases are met with. 
In such instances it may be necessary to resort to 
drugs which overcome the inertia of the bowel wall ; 
for this purpose there is no safer drug than cascara 
sagrada, A small dose of nux vomica is also advan- 
tageous when there is general loss of nervous tone. 
A useful prescription is as follows : 

R Elixiris cascarse aromatic! . . nuij. 

Tincturse nucis vomicae . . . . tnj. 
Emulsionem petrolei . . . . ad 3j. 

One teaspoonful three times a day for an infant three 
months old. 



CONSTIPATION IN INFANTS 149 

In private practice it is convenient to prescribe 
the cascara and mix vomica in a drop-bottle, and 
to give directions that the required dose is to be 
added to each teaspoonful of the emulsion at the 
time of administration ; in this way the dose can be 
modified from day to day, and gradually tailed off 
as the constipation improves. 

In certain instances excessive dryness of the 
motions suggests the employment of expedients 
which loosen the secretions of the bowel and promote 
the flow of bile. For these purposes salicylate of 
sodium, citrate of sodium, vinum ipecacuanhse, and 
iodide of ammonium are useful; but it must be borne 
in mind that symptomatic treatment of this kind 
often brings its own retribution, and leaves behind 
an aggravated condition of the symptom it is pro- 
posed to treat. 

However, in those cases in which it is thought 
desirable to have recourse to these expedients, the 
following formula may be found useful : 

& Sodii citratis gr. iij. 

Ammonii iodidi . . . . . . gr. j. 

Vini ipecacuanhas . . . . . . niv. 

Emulsionem petrolei . . . . ad 3j 

One teaspoonful to be given three or four times a day. 

For that variety of constipation in which a white 
and greasy appearance of the stools indicates that 
the pancreatic secretion is also at fault, and especi- 
ally in those cases in which the motions are also 
offensive, I find no preparation so useful a-s liquor 



150 THE INFANT 

pancreaticus given in full doses. The formula I 
generally employ is as follows : 

Liquoris pancreatioi . . . . ttix. 
Emulsionem petrolei . . . . ad 33. 
To be taken one hour after each feeding. 

The treatment of constipation in infants may be 
summarized as follows: 

1. In all cases the exciting cause, such as defi- 
ciency or excess of food, or qualitative faults, must 
be treated by appropriate means. 

2. The motions may be softened by free doses of 
petroleum emulsion, and in aggravated cases by 
small doses of drugs which promote intestinal secre- 
tion and the outflow of bile. 

3. Inertia of the bowel may be treated by massage, 
or massage combined with electricity ; in aggravated 
cases by cascara sagrada and nux vomica. 

4. In cases in which a chronic colitis complicates 
the condition, a preliminary course of irrigation 
(Plombieres' method) may be employed. 

5. In cases in which the motions are light-coloured 
and offensive, liquor pancreaticus may be added to 
the petroleum. 

6. In all cases regularity of habit must be en- 
forced by careful and systematic training. 



CHAPTER VII 

THE RATIONAL TREATMENT OF SOME COMMON 
SYMPTOMS IN INFANCY 

MARASMUS VOMITING CONTINUOUS CRYING TROUBLE- 
SOME COUGHS DIARRHOEA THRUSH SORE BUTTOCKS. 

IT is generally supposed that in the out-patient 
departments of children's hospitals physicians meet 
with a large number of interesting cases, but as far 
as my experience goes the vast majority of patients 
who are brought for treatment suffer from just 
the same commonplace complaints as are met with 
in general practice. A man's success or failure in 
private practice very largely depends on how he 
treats these commonplace disorders, and not on his 
skill in diagnosing rare and obscure diseases. I 
feel, therefore, that I need not offer any excuse for 
describing the methods which I myself have found 
useful in dealing with these common disorders. 

A few months ago I made a note of the causes, or 
the alleged causes, for which forty-two consecutive 
infants under one year of age were brought to my 
out-patient department for treatment. In each case 
I asked the mother the same question namely, 

151 



152 THE INFANT 

"What is the matter with your baby ?" and the 
following is an analysis of the replies : Ten were re- 
ported to be suffering from wasting, seven from sick- 
ness, six from fits of screaming, five from constipa- 
tion, five from cough, three from diarrhoea, one from 
snuffles, one from throwing back of the head, one from 
bandy legs, and the remainder from heterogeneous 
symptoms of an equally uninteresting character. 

The analysis bears out on a small scale what must 
be the experience of all hospital physicians namely, 
that the greater part of their time is occupied in 
dealing with cases of the most commonplace descrip- 
tion. So-called interesting and rare cases are ex- 
tremely scarce. A fuller analysis proved that at 
least 80 per cent, of symptoms complained of were 
due to errors in feeding. It is clear, therefore, that 
it must be by attention to the dietetic treatment that 
success in the management of the majority of the 
cases presented for treatment can be achieved. 

This line of treatment is, unfortunately, often 
thought beneath the dignity of the specialist; his 
thoughts are so occupied in making an elaborate 
diagnosis and in the medicinal treatment that often 
little time remains free for detailed instruction with 
regard to diet and other hygienic matters. It thus 
comes about that the mother's anxiety for informa- 
tion on these important points is often relieved by 
the presentation of a printed paper of directions for 
the feeding of normal infants. The value of such 



TREATMENT OF SYMPTOMS 153 

papers is, at the best of times, small; but their use 
in the treatment of sick children is, in my opinion, 
to be strongly deprecated, for such children require 
individual treatment ; they cannot be fed by rule of 
thumb on standard dietaries. 

Marasmus. 

Now, before I refer to the treatment of wasting, 
the commonest symptom for which infants are 
brought for treatment, I would ask to be allowed 
to deal with certain general considerations. In- 
fants may waste from general constitutional dis- 
orders, from immaturity, prematurity, or from 
specific infections; but the vast majority of them 
waste because the nature of their food or the mode 
of its administration is, or has been, ill-adapted to 
their particular requirements. 

We know that no individual, whether young or 
old, is capable of utilizing for the purposes of nutrition 
many of the articles of diet which are presented in the 
form of food until such articles have been dealt with 
in a very special way by the processes of digestion. 
We know, for instance, if foreign proteid bodies 
such as meat juice, white of egg, or lactalbumins, 
are injected directly into the bloodvessels, that they 
either prove actually toxic, or are eliminated from 
the system as foreign bodies by the kidneys or other 
excretory organs in an unchanged condition. 

The only proteid bodies which can be utilized by 



154 THE INFANT 

the tissues for the purposes of nutrition are those 
which are of a certain specific " make-up " or 
definite molecular structure. Each individual builds 
up his own specific proteids to fulfil his own specific 
needs and to suit the delicate biochemical reactions 
of his own tissues. These specific proteids are built 
up out of the relatively simple fragments into which 
foreign proteids are broken up in the process of 
digestion. For instance, the vastly complicated 
caseinogen molecule of cow's milk is split up by the 
proteolytic action of gastric, pancreatic, and in- 
testinal ferments into fragmentary particles of 
amino-acids, or into small chains or amino-acids 
(polypeptides). Out of these fragments, or " bricks," 
as they are picturesquely called by Abderhalden, the 
synthetic activities of the mucous membrane of the 
intestines build up new proteids of the required 
molecular " make-up." What is true of proteids is 
also true of sugars and fats. Each foreign molecule 
must be reduced to relatively simple and rudimentary 
fragments by the processes of digestion, and these 
fragments must be rearranged on the required archi- 
tectural plan during the processes of assimilation 
before they can be utilized by the tissues for the pur- 
poses of nutrition. 

Nutrition is therefore clearly dependent not only 
on the satisfactory disruption of food elements into 
their more elementary fragments, but also on the 
satisfactory rearrangement of these fragments during 



TEEATMENT OF SYMPTOMS 155 

the processes of absorption. Nutrition cannot be 
furthered by forcing foreign food into the system. 

The new-born infant is not provided with the 
necessary machinery for shattering the molecules of 
foreign food; it has to acquire the art by its own 
experiences. Further, it must learn how to propel 
the food it has consumed from the stomach into the 
duodenum and onwards through the entire length 
of the intestines. This essential and preliminary 
stage is often so badly learned by artificially fed 
infants that the major proportion of all ingested food 
is vomited through the cardiac orifice of the stomach 
instead of being discharged through the pylorus 
into the duodenum. 

Nature will as a rule provide the necessary experi- 
ences, but, alas ! too often human ingenuity outwits 
her efforts and seek by short cuts to dispense with 
the more circuitous but safer routes. 

I do not propose to delay the practical considera- 
tion of treatment by enlarging on the fascinating 
subject of the manner in which Nature teaches the 
new-born infant to digest human milk by means of 
simple lessons in the digestion of colostrum. 

To learn to digest cow's milk cannot be an easy 
task at any time. Some of us never learn to do so 
satisfactorily; it seems to me, therefore, to be merely 
courting disaster to present the new-born infant 
with a variety of food which so stubbornly resists 
cleavage into its component fragments. 



156 THE INFANT 

It was not therefore a matter of surprise that six 
out of the ten cases of marasmus to which I have 
already referred were given cow's milk before they 
were many days old, or before they had learnt the 
simpler lesson of digesting their mother's milk. 

The several processes of the locomotion of food 
through the digestive tract, of its fragmentation into 
elementary particles, of its reconstitution on specific 
lines, and its final breakdown by the internal meta- 
bolism of the tissues are so intimately associated and 
mutually interdependent that weakness in any one 
link is reflected throughout the whole chain, and 
may lead to the same general result namely, maras- 
mus, or wasting. 

It is therefore clearly the first step in the rational 
treatment of wasting conditions to determine as 
accurately as possible, by a review of the past history 
or present condition, the precise link in the chain of 
processes which has broken down and given rise to 
the trouble. 

It would prove too tedious to enumerate all the 
possible weaknesses or combinations of weaknesses 
which a critical examination of a large number of 
cases of wasting can disclose; but apart from a cer- 
tain number of cases in which symptoms of vomiting, 
diarrhoaa, or convulsions, dominate the scene, the 
great majority of cases are due to a more or less 
common cause, and, as far as my experience serves 
me, these cases can be cured with a reasonable degree 



TREATMENT OP SYMPTOMS 157 

of certainty by the application of a comparatively 
simple method of treatment. 

The type of case to which I refer conforms more 
or less accurately to the following description : 

The infant frequently, but not always, vomits after 
feeding ; the stools are too frequent, sometimes after 
feeding, sometimes at irregular intervals ; they nearly 
always contain so-called undigested curds ; they have 
a foul odour ; and the buttocks are usually red and 
excoriated. The infant cries a great deal, is rest- 
less, sleeps badly, and continuously loses weight. 
On careful inquiry, some such history as the follow- 
ing will be elicited : 

During the first or second day of life the midwife 
has administered a dose of castor-oil, which has 
swept the bowel clear of all meconium. This dose is 
necessarily followed by a period of constipation, for 
no material is left in the bowel to constitute a natural 
action, nor does the limited supply of colostrum 
afforded by the breast for the first few days after 
birth in any way afford an adequate basis for a 
motion. The colon is relatively dry and empty, 
while with each wave of peristalsis its unlubricated 
surfaces ride over one another with a considerable 
degree of friction, giving rise to dysperistalsis, tor- 
mina, or even enterospasms. If under such circum- 
stances an action follows, or if a second dose of 
castor-oil has been administered in the hope of 
affording relief, the motion will be found to contain 



158 THE INFANT 

a number of small white bodies, which are almost 
invariably regarded as undigested curds. If, how- 
ever, these little particles be washed out in water 
and carefully examined, they will be found to be 
not undigested curd, but little strands or pieces of 
mucus or mucous membrane, which have been 
forcibly torn off the surface of the bowel and rolled 
up into little balls by the irregular and violent peri- 
staltic contractions of the colon. If these little 
balls of intestinal secretion are fresh, they present 
the appearance of raw white of egg; but if they 
have remained in the bowel for some hours, they 
become opaque, and then look like hard-boiled white 
of egg, or undigested curd. In nearly every stool 
all possible transitions are met with, from stringy 
pieces of glairy mucus to those little hard balls of 
opaque material which certainly have a most decep- 
tive similarity to broken-up and undigested coagula 
of casein. Even to the naked eye their true charac- 
ter is easily revealed if they are freely teased out in 
water; and on many occasions I have found small 
punctate traces of blood on the surface which was 
once attached evidence which proves the force 
with which they have been torn off the surface of the 
bowel. 

The abrasions or breaches of continuity which are 
thus caused in the delicate epithelial lining of the 
colon is to my mind an adequate explanation of the 
many troubles which follow. They explain the 
habit of dysperistalsis which is so persistent in such 



TREATMENT OF SYMPTOMS 159 

cases even under the most careful methods of treat- 
ment. They explain the extreme liability to in- 
testinal infections, and they explain the easy decom- 
position and fermentation of food in the lower seg- 
ments of the gut. A smooth, intact and healthy 
condition of the epithelial lining of the colon is 
essential for the normal locomotion and absorption 
of food in this portion of the bowel. 

Matters are naturally made considerably worse 
if at this time cow's milk is substituted for the breast- 
milk, which is supposed to be disagreeing or to be 
inadequate in amount. 

It is quite impossible to exaggerate the impor- 
tance of the part which meconium plays in the early 
protection of the bowel wall from rough usage. It 
acts as a perfect lubricating medium, and also as a 
most happily designed material for constituting soft 
non-irritating motions until such time as the breasts 
are secreting freely and the infant is receiving suffi- 
cient nutriment to provide the basis for a normal 
stool. In seven out of the ten cases of wasting 
recorded above, I discovered that this fatal dose of 
castor-oil had been administered before the infant 
was forty-eight hours old. 

The subsequent history of infants who present 
these early symptoms can easily be predicted. 
Breast-milk is said to disagree or to be insufficient 
in amount, and the infant is tried first with one kind 
of food and then another, always, however, with 
the same result. 



160 THE INFANT 

The whole digestive mechanism has been thor- 
oughly dislocated from the first, and no kind of food 
can agree ; the surface of the colon is roughened and 
inefficient both in its locomotory and absorbent func- 
tions. The infant is never free from tormina (gener- 
ally called " wind ") unless its intestinal tract is kept 
freely lubricated by aperients or by an active 
secretion of mucus. 

The treatment of these cases is complicated by 
the fact that the wasting condition of the infant 
invites a liberal supply of food ; but under such cir- 
cumstances very little food can be absorbed, and 
that which is not absorbed is decomposed or under- 
goes fermentation, and hence adds greatly to the 
trouble. Further, the infant's nervous system is worn 
and racked by the constant pain of dysperistalsis 
and by the toxins that are absorbed from the bowel. 

The indications for treatment are to give small 
quantities of food which can be easily digested and 
absorbed, and also some indifferent material which 
will not decompose, which will form the basis of a 
motion, and which will lubricate and soothe the 
irritable mucous membrane of the colon and small 
intestine. For hospital cases I find the following 
method eminently satisfactory : I give, for an infant 
eight to twelve weeks old, one teaspoonful of con- 
densed milk in two to three tablespoonfuls of water 
every three hours ; in each feeding I give one to two 
teaspoonfuls of petroleum emulsion. If there is 
diarrhoea, I give glycerine of bismuth combined with 



TREATMENT OF SYMPTOMS 161 

the emulsion, and in doses from half to two drachms, 
according to the severity of the symptoms. If 
there is vomiting, the bismuth and petroleum are 
given independently about five minutes before feed- 
ing. If there is flatulence, I give varying doses of 
milk of magnesia or carbonate of soda, and if the 
powers of digestion are feeble, I also give elixir of 
papain or liquor pancreaticus. 

At the earliest opportunity I increase the amount 
of the feedings, and finally I begin to substitute 
cow's milk for the condensed milk by very carefully 
graduated increments, generally ten drops at a time. 
By this means I re-educate the infant in its digestive 
and motor functions, and, as I have already stated, 
the results, if slow, are in the end highly satisfactory. 
Confidence, patience, and consistency are absolutely 
necessary; otherwise, if the infant does not make 
the progress which the mother seems to expect, we 
maybe tempted to make experiments and try short- 
cuts, which in the end prove no more satisfactory 
than the haphazard methods which were tried 
before, and which failed to give relief. 

Vomiting. 

After wasting, vomiting was the most common 
symptom in my group of cases. Of the forty-two 
cases above mentioned, seven were brought because 
of this symptom, and one in six is, I believe, about 
the average frequency of this symptom among young 
infants who are brought to hospital for treatment. 

11 



162 THE INFANT 

Vomiting may occur as a symptom quite inde- 
pendently of gastric disturbance in association with 
intestinal, nervous, or constitutional trouble, and 
recently my attention has been directed to cases 
of persistent vomiting connected with spasm of the 
cardiac sphincter of the stomach (cardio-spasm). 

On this occasion I propose to deal only with vomit- 
ing of gastric origin. From the point of view of 
treatment I find it convenient to classify the varieties 
of vomiting in relationship to the time interval after 
feeding at which they occur. The first question I 
always ask is, " How soon after feeding does the 
vomiting take place ?" 

The varieties may be classified as follows : 

1. Vomiting which occurs immediately after feed- 
ing. 

2. Vomiting which occurs from ten to thirty 
minutes after feeding. 

3. Vomiting which occurs more than thirty minutes 
after feeding. 

Dealing with these three classes independently, we 
find that vomiting immediately after feeding may be 
due to (a] Simple overfilling of the stomach; 
(b) eructation of gas; (c) violent movements of the 
stomach induced by (i.) the irritating or stimulating 
character of the food, (ii.) the irritable condition 
of the mucous membrane or nervous mechanism, 
(iii.) shaking or jolting the infant. 

Vomiting which occurs from ten to thirty minutes 
after feeding may be due to (a) The coagulation of 



TREATMENT OF SYMPTOMS 163 

caseinogen and the presence of a too solid clot in 
the stomach; (b) the presence of an excess of acid in 
the stomach. 

Vomiting which occurs more than half an hour 
after feeding is generally due to dilatation of the 
stomach, or to spasm or obstruction of the pyloric 
orifice. 

Apart from the time interval which intervenes 
between feeding and vomiting, the character of the 
vomit affords useful diagnostic information. It 
should be noticed whether the food is returned un- 
changed, clotted, or with a strongly sour odour, or 
as, indeed, often happens whether the vomit con- 
sists simply of fluid which has the appearance of 
clear water. 

The treatment depends, naturally, on the cause. 

If the vomiting occurs immediately after feeding 
if the food is returned unchanged, and the act occurs 
without effort or distress it is nearly always due to 
overfilling of the stomach, and can be prevented by 
reducing the quantity of food. 

If the vomiting occurs a few minutes after feeding, 
and is accompanied with a noisy eructation of gas, 
it can often be prevented by holding the infant in 
the upright position until the gas has been belched 
up. This expedient is simple, and in many cases 
most efficacious. At the same time precautions 
should be taken to prevent the infant swallowing air 
by adjusting the valve of the bottle, by enlarging the 
hole in the nipple, or in breast-feeding by holding the 



164 THE INFANT 

nursling in a more convenient position at the breast, 
if it is suspected that any one of these causes is the 
reason of the vomiting. 

Vomiting occurring soon after feeding, and accom- 
panied by violent movements of the stomach, which 
can generally be recognized by waves of contraction 
passing across the abdomen, can as a rule be pre- 
vented by large doses of bismuth. I was led to 
adopt this method after noticing the fact that the 
habitual vomiters of this character seldom vomited 
after the administration of a bismuth feed given 
for X-ray examination. 

Two teaspoonfuls of glycerine of bismuth com- 
bined with half a teaspoonful of milk of magnesia, 
ten drops of tincture of orange and one table- 
spoonful of water, make a most elegant mixture 
for an infant. If given about ten minutes before a 
feeding, the stomach is quieted down, and the food 
will seldom be rejected. As a rule it will not be 
found necessary to repeat the dose often, but even 
when it is found requisite to give a considerable 
number of doses, I have never noticed any un- 
desirable consequences. The magnesia tends to 
correct any resulting constipation. 

Vomiting which occurs from ten to thirty minutes 
after feeding, especially when the vomit contains 
solid curds, can generally be prevented by giving a 
few grains of citrate of soda, either at the time of 
feeding or shortly afterwards. The citrate should 
be given freely at first say 5 grammes to the ounce 



TREATMENT OF SYMPTOMS 165 

of milk and then gradually reduced in quantity. 
I do not think it advisable to give continued large 
doses of this salt, as obstinate constipation may 
ultimately result. If the vomit is strongly acid, 
n\ xv. -xxx. of milk of magnesia are a most invaluable 
corrective. It is best to give this antacid just before 
the usual time of vomiting. If the activity of the 
gastric juices is feeble, elixir of papain in TT^x. doses 
generally corrects the trouble. 

That comparatively common form of vomiting 
which consists in the return of a large quantity of 
clear fluid, generally about half an hour after feeding, 
is in my experience better treated by giving un- 
diluted milk with citrate of soda than by any other 
means. The reduction in volume involved in the 
giving of undiluted milk has, I doubt not, a bene- 
ficial influence ; but I believe also that such vomiting 
occurs chiefly among infants who have active peptic 
digestions, and the administration of a food which 
occupies the energies of digestion and gives the 
stomach some work to do has a certain basis of 
rationalism. At any rate, from practical experience 
I am convinced that the method is worth trying. 

The treatment of cases of vomiting occurring more 
than half an hour after feeding generally resolves 
itself into the treatment of a dilated stomach. 
Washing out the viscus is naturally the rational 
method of meeting the difficulty, but this is not 
always easy in out-patient practice. Lengthening 
the periods between feeding, the giving of the food 



166 THE INFANT 

in more concentrated form, and in the administration 
of alkalies just before the vomiting usually occurs, 
are the best means of combating the difficulties. 

Before I leave the subject of vomiting I would 
insist on the great importance of long intervals be- 
tween feedings both as a prophylactic and as a cure 
for many forms of sickness. I have come to the con- 
clusion that two-hourly feedings cannot be defended 
on physiological grounds either for young infants 
or for sick infants. Many of the best authorities on 
the Continent recommend much longer intervals, and 
personally I have found that infants are more likely 
to thrive when they are fed every three hours than 
when the intervals are shorter. 

One of the most difficult forms of vomiting to 
treat is that which is dependent on habit, and this 
variety of sickness may occur at any period after 
feeding. A habit of this kind is very easily acquired, 
and it persists long after the cause which has pro- 
voked it has been removed. It becomes, in fact, one 
of those " conditional reflexes " to which Professor 
Pawlow has called attention. In such cases the dial 
of the gastric motor mechanism is set, so to speak, 
with the indicator pointing to the word " vomit," 
and vomit the infant will, however carefully you 
may change the diet or method of feeding. 

I have found that an exceedingly useful method 
of treating this kind of vomiting is to exhaust the 
vomiting centre just before feeding-time by the 
administration of an emetic. I generally give 



TREATMENT OF SYMPTOMS 167 

R Vini ipecacuanha . . . . . . 3j. 

Ammonii carbonatis , . . . gr. ij. 
Aquam ad 5ss. 

If this dose does not cause sickness, I order the 
dose to be repeated. This violent stimulation of 
the vomiting centre is followed by a period of quies- 
cence or exhaustion, and as a rule the succeeding 
meal is retained. I have cured a large number of 
habitual vomiters by this method. Sometimes a 
single dose fulfils its object, sometimes the dose has 
to be given on two or three successive days. I rarely 
get a complete failure. The trouble in applying this 
method is the difficulty of making a positive diagnosis 
of the nature of the vomiting. 

Continuous Crying. 

Continuous crying or screaming seems at first 
sight a somewhat trivial symptom, but it is by no 
means trivial to the parent who has to live in the 
same room with the source of the disturbance. The 
late Dr. Cheadle used to say there were only two 
causes of continuous crying in infants first, the 
cutting of the eye teeth ; the second, earache. When 
an infant is brought to me for this symptom, I always 
think of these two most probable causes; and although 
it is dangerous to ascribe symptoms to dentition, 
I have found teething to be the most frequent cause, 
although earache is exceedingly common. When 
there is slight pharyngeal cough, when glands can 
be felt in the neck, and when the infant rolls its head 



168 THE INFANT 

from side to side and pulls at its ear, even without 
confirmation of the diagnosis by direct inspection 
of the membranum tympani which is not alto- 
gether easy in young infants I consider it quite 
justifiable to instil some opium into the external 
auditory meatus. I employ the following formula: 

& Tinctures opii . . . . . . inx. 

Acidi carbolici . . . . . . gr. x. 

Glycerinum ad 5j. 

Intermittent fits of screaming are far more common 
than continuous crying, and they are as a rule asso- 
ciated with disturbances of the motor mechanism of 
the digestive tract . Wind in the stomach that cannot 
be expelled, pyloric spasm, hour-glass contraction, 
dysperistalsis, and the tormina of mucous colitis 
are the most common causes in my experiences. 

Of the six infants included in the above list, four 
were suffering from dysperistalsis due to mucous 
colitis, one from earache, and one from laryngitis. 

The treatment of the tormina of dysperistalsis has 
already been referred to; it is most successfully 
treated by free doses of the mixture I described as 
consisting of milk of magnesia, glycerine of bismuth, 
and petroleum emulsion. If necessary, a small 
quantity of tincture of opium, compound tincture of 
camphor, or compound tincture of cardamoms, 
may be added to the first dose, and afterwards 
omitted. The petroleum alone, or the petroleum 
with the bismuth, must be continued as a prophy- 
lactic measure for some days. 



TREATMENT OF SYMPTOMS 169 

Laryngitis is by no means an uncommon cause of 
crying in infants. It may be recognized by the hoarse 
character of the cry and the evidently painful cough. 
It is rapidly relieved by hot fomentations to the 
throat, and by expectorants. 

There is a widespread belief that thirst is a com- 
mon cause of crying. I cannot say that it has been 
my experience to find that water is a panacea for 
many cases of crying. 

Volumes might be written on the subject of the 
psychology of crying. There can be no doubt that 
crying very easily becomes a habit another instance 
of a conditional reflex, and some infants show the 
greatest regularity in this respect; at the same 
moment day after day they will wake up and com- 
mence crying. How the suggestion arises it is not 
easy to say. It is quite certain, however, that the 
personality of certain women has a most baneful in- 
fluence over certain infants, while other women have 
a correspondingly good influence in soothing these 
conditions of irritability. It is quite astonishing how 
very quick infants are to learn when crying pays 
them. When they know their mothers are weak 
enough to pick them up and nurse them if they cry 
long enough, they will scream for hours until the un- 
willing resistance is overcome. 

Troublesome Coughs. 

Immeasurably the commonest cause of cough, at 
least as far as infants in London are concerned, is ih e 



170 THE INFANT 

pharyngeal catarrh. Very slight irritation or con- 
gestion of the naso-pharynx will give rise to this 
reflex symptom. The reflex once acquired is very 
apt to persist and become troublesome. It is the 
precursor of adenoid vegetations, Eustachian 
catarrh, and running ears. I have on record quite 
a hundred cases of infants who have developed suc- 
cessively the pharyngeal cough, then a small chain 
of glands in the neck, then earache, and finally 
otorrhcea. Owing to my unhappy experiences of 
this sequence of events among my babies in Maryle- 
bone, I have paid considerable attention to such 
prophylactic measures as come within the range of 
practical therapeutics. 

Early operation is undoubtedly the best practice, 
but there are obvious objections to this drastic pro- 
ceeding. On the other hand, regular and persistent 
irrigation of the pharynx through the nose is free 
from objection, and on the whole gives very good 
results. We supply the infants with a cheap nasal 
syringe and an antiseptic collunarium of the follow- 
ing formula : 

LOTTO THYMOLIS. 

R Acid, boraci . . . . . . gij. 

Acid, benzoici . . . . . . 3j. 

Thymolis 3J. 

Eucalyptol 3ss. 

Glycerin! viij. 

Spiritfts rectificati . . . . ij. 

Liquoris cocci cacti . . . . 5ij. 

Aquam . . . . . . ad glxxx. 

Adde partes quattuor aquse callidae 



TREATMENT OF SYMPTOMS 171 

The mothers must, of course, be instructed how 
to use the syringe. 

An occasional painting of the tonsils and pharynx 
with a solution of nitrate of silver (10 grains to the 
ounce) decidedly expedites the cure. 

The frequency of this septic condition of the 
pharynx among edentulous infants suggests that 
adenoids and tonsils are more likely to be responsible 
for carious teeth than that carious teeth are the pre- 
cursors of septic inflammation of the naso-pharynx. 

The next commonest cause of cough is bronchial 
catarrh ; indeed, among hospital patients this variety 
of cough is even more common than the foregoing, 
for infants with merely a pharyngeal cough are not 
as a rule considered ill enough to be brought to 
hospital. Both bronchial catarrh and tracheitis, 
especially the latter, are troublesome, for the reason 
that the infant seldom coughs with sufficient force 
to expel the mucus ; for this purpose there is 
nothing more valuable than the administration of 
an emetic consisting of vinum ipecacuanha and 
carbonate of ammonium. 

In hospital practice the treatment of cough is very 
perfunctory. The stock cough mixture is given in- 
differently in the early stages of congestion before 
there is any mucous secretion, in the second stage 
when the secretion is free, and in the third stage 
when the secretion has become muco-purulent. 

Both at the Queen's Hospital and at the St. 
Marylebone General Dispensary I employ three 



172 THE INFANT 

stock mixtures adapted to the pathological indica- 
tions of the three successive stages above mentioned. 
The formulae of these three mixtures are as follows : 

MISTURA Tussis INFANTILIS. 
No. 1. 

R Potassii oitratis gr. iij. 

Ammonii iodidi . . . . . . gr. j. 

Vin. ipecacuanhas niij. 

Tincturae camphorse composite . . tniij. 

Syrupi aurantii . . . . . . mx. 

Aquam ad 33. 

No. 2. 

R Ammonii carbonatis . . . . gr. j. 

Oxymellis scillse niv. 

Vini ipecacuanhas . . . . . . nuj. 

Syrup tolutani . . . . . . nivi. 

Aquam . . . . . . . . ad 33. 

No. 3. 

R Ammonii carbonatis . . . . gr. i. 

Terebeni inij. 

Syrup tolutani . . . . . . tnv. 

Pulveris acacias . . . . gr. ii. 

Aquam . . . . . . . . ad 33*. 

The other causes of cough, such as enlarged 
bronchial glands, pneumonia, tuberculous disease of 
the lung, and the reflex cough of stomach or ear 
origin, do not require detailed mention. With re- 
spect to whooping-cough it should be remembered 
that young infants very often do not whoop at all, 
and consequently the diagnosis may easily be missed 
unless special inquiry is made to establish the 
true character of the attacks. It is useful to 



TREATMENT OF SYMPTOMS 173 

remember that with the development of whooping- 
cough in infants the intervals between the paroxysms 
become longer as the actual attacks become more 
violent, whereas with ordinary bronchitis the intervals 
become shorter and the actual attacks of coughing 
longer, though not more violent. 

The formula for the mixture I employ in whoop- 
ing-cough is as follows : 

R Potassii nitratis . . . . . . gr. j. 

Ammonii bromidi . . . . . . gr. ij. 

Ammonii iodidi . . . . . . gr. j. 

Ammonii carbonatis . . . . gr. | 

Tinctura belladonnas . . . . mij. 

Vini ipeoacuanhse . . . . . . tnj. 

Aquam chloroform! . . . . ad 3j. 

As the case progresses I freely increase the tincture 
of belladonna and the ammonium bromidi. 

Diarrhoea. 

The number of cases of diarrhoea which occurred 
in my series of forty-two infants was small i.e., three 
only owing to the season of the year ; doubtless in 
summer the proportion would have been far higher. 

For the purposes of treatment the varieties of 
diarrhoea may be conveniently classified as follows : 

1 . Acute cases of summer diarrhoea. 

2. The diarrhoea which accompanies mucous 
colitis or enteritis. 

3. Lienteric diarrhoea. 

Summer Diarrhoea with acute symptoms of col- 
lapse or exhaustion must be drastically dealt with. 



174 THE INFANT 

All food should be suspended for twenty-four 
hours at least ; the colon should be thoroughly washed 
out with clysters of hot water injected at a low 
pressure by means of soft rubber catheter. Either a 
douche-can or a glass funnel may be employed. The 
temperature of the water should be at least 100 F., 
and the quantity should be not less than 1 pint. 
In my opinion this proceeding has advantages over 
the subcutaneous injection of isotonic saline, since 
it serves the double purpose by washing out the 
bowel and of supplying the tissues with much-needed 
fluid. 

If vomiting is not a prominent symptom, small 
quantities of brandy and opium may be given by 
the mouth. Fifteen minims of brandy and J to 
1 minim of the tincture of opium given in a table- 
spoonful of hot water will usually help to relieve the 
symptoms of collapse. In those cases in which 
the feet are particularly cold, 10 minims of sweet 
spirits of nitre will be found to be useful in mitigating 
the vaso-motor spasm. The popular plan of giving 
arrowroot gruel is highly irrational, and personally 
I have no faith in egg-water. It is far better, after 
the bowel has been completely cleared out, to leave 
it in absolute rest, and thus give it an opportunity 
of recovering. 

The subacute or chronic diarrhoea of mucous 
colitis, or enteritis, does not demand such drastic 
treatment. If the symptoms are severe, it is ad- 
visable to give water exclusively for twenty-four 



TREATMENT OF SYMPTOMS 175 

hours or longer, but in the majority of the milder 
cases it is unnecessary to suspend breast-feeding, 
or to alter the bottle-feeds, provided these are 
otherwise of a suitable character. 

In the treatment of mucous colitis or enteritis 
there are few drugs of equal value with castor-oil. 
This oil may be administered in small and frequent 
doses in the form of an emulsion, or better, I believe, 
in a single and comparatively large dose at night- 
time. I usually order J to 1 drachm every night 
until the diarrhoea has subsided. If, as is often the 
case, the infant suffers from tormina and cries much, 
I give large doses of glycerine of bismuth, either 
alone or combined with opium and prepared chalk. 
There is no preparation of bismuth so adapted 
for administration to infants as the glycerine of 
carbonate of bismuth. Bismuth is not an easy drug 
to administer to infants, as all nurses know ; in most 
of its forms it is gritty and remains in the mouth. 
Moreover, it is often rejected altogether, whereas 
the glycerine preparation, especially if combined 
with a little saccharin and cinnamon-water, is very 
well liked by babies, and can be taken in large doses. 
The following is a formula which I often employ : 

& Glycerin! bismuth! carbonatis . . 3ss. 
Elixi glusidi . . . . . . inss. 

Aquam cinnamomi . . ad 3ij. 

Many will think this a large dose of bismuth to 
give a young infant, but the best effects of bismuth 
are only obtained by giving large quantities. 



176 THE INFANT 

Cases of lienteric diarrhoea call for treatment on 
the lines of re-educating the digestive processes. 
Very often the general inefficiency of the digestive 
processes is accompanied by mucous colitis or 
enteritis, and if so, these conditions must be treated 
in the manner already describ ed . Since the digestive 
processes are in abeyance, all food for a time must 
be given in a completely predigested condition. The 
most convenient form of giving predigested food to 
hospital patients is to supply them with Fairchild's 
peptogenic powders, and instruct the mothers to 
digest the milk for forty minutes before giving it to 
the infant. For an infant three months old I order 
3 ounces of predigested whole milk every three hours 
a combination of " threes " which makes the 
method easy to carry out and also to remember. 

As the condition improves the milk can be digested 
less and less every day, say, for two minutes less, 
until the infant's reinstated powers of digestion 
enable it to deal with plain, untreated milk. 

In severe cases of lienteric diarrhoea a tonic treat- 
ment with hypophosphites, sanatogen, or even with 
small doses of arsenic, may accelerate the cure. 

Thrush, Sore Buttocks, and other Common 
Infections in Infancy. 

I regard infancy and childhood as a period in 
which the individual acquires immunity from the 
dangers of the environment, be the latter the germs 



TREATMENT OF SYMPTOMS 177 

of infection, physical agencies, such as heat or cold, 
or even moral and psychological influences. In 
consequence of this opinion I do not take the same 
serious view of many of the infections that is taken 
by certain people. For instance, I consider that the 
individual who has safely survived attacks of measles, 
mumps, chicken-pox, whooping-cough, and half a 
dozen additional infective complaints to which child- 
hood is prone, is a more useful, healthy, and efficient 
person than one who has suffered from none of them, 
and whose troubles are still to come. 

I look forward to the time, and at no distant date, 
when we shall provide our children with an artificially 
acquired immunity to all these complaints, just as 
we now make them immune to smallpox. To 
allow a child to enter into deadly combat with full- 
venomed smallpox, when we can perfectly safely 
teach him how to grapple with the enemy by 
rehearsals in the academy with the blunted foils of 
an attenuated virus, seems to me most foolish; and 
I shall certainly gratefully welcome any means 
which may be discovered of providing our children 
with an artificially acquired immunity to other 
common infective diseases, as safe and as certain as 
that which we now possess in vaccination against 
smallpox. 

As things are at present, a child runs great risks in 
acquiring immunity against many of the infective 
fevers, such as scarlet fever, measles, and tubercu- 

12 



178 THE INFANT 

losis, but when once he has wrestled with the disease 
and conquered it, he is relatively safe. But there 
is an additional danger when these battles are fought 
in too rapid sequence or at unfavourable times 
when the child has to meet a new enemy before it 
has had time to recover from the exhaustion due to 
the one which has preceded it. 

The new-born infant is exposed to a number of 
infections, although in many ways it is ill-equipped 
to fight with them. Some of these infections are 
quite accidental and avoided only with difficulty; 
others are easily prevented with a little care and fore- 
thought. 

There can be little doubt that many of the infec- 
tions from which infants suffer take place through 
inoculation at points in the surface epithelium which 
have received wounds or damage of some kind. 
The common seats of infection are (1) The raw 
surface of the umbilical cord; (2) the epithelium of 
the mouth or the tongue; (3) the mucous membrane 
of the nose, ear, or eyes ; (4) the skin on the top of the 
head or on the buttocks; (5) the mucous membrane 
of the intestinal tract. 

I cannot here describe in detail the manner in 
which wounds are inflicted at all these points soon 
after the child is born, but I would refer briefly to one 
or two. 

I find " thrush " of far more frequent occurrence 
when the mouths of young babies have been carefully 



TREATMENT OF SYMPTOMS 179 

cleaned out than when they have been left, so to 
speak, " dirty." The instinct of cleanliness must, 
in this respect as well as in many other departments 
of infant management, be tempered with respect for 
surface epitheliums. I am glad to see that in the 
instructions issued by the United States Public 
Health Service and by the Bulletin of the National 
Organization for Public Health Nursing in America, 
a caution is uttered against cleaning the infant's 
mouth. I have no doubt myself that most of the 
cases of thrush which come under my own observa- 
tion are due to scrubbing the surface epithelium off 
the tongue with pieces of harsh linen. 

If the mouth is to be cleaned at all, it should be 
very gently swabbed out with cot ton- wool soaked 
in glycerine of borax; but as a rule the mouth should 
be kept clean by the physiological method of pre- 
serving an intact mucous lining rather than by the 
application of the linen rag. 

Inflammations of the eye and nostrils are caused 
also by similar or comparable acts of interference, 
and the unsightly scurf or dandruff which so often 
makes its appearance on the top of the head is, I 
believe, also caused by too much energy in removing 
the vernix caseosa of new-born infants. 

Red buttocks, though largely dependent on rectal 
and intestinal irritation, are also due in some degree 
to the unwise use of soap, water, and towel. It is 
very easy to wound the sensitive skin of the young 



180 THE INFANT 

baby in this way. The skin of the buttocks, which 
must necessarily be exposed to constant infection 
by soiled napkins, should be treated with the utmost 
care, and in the same sort of way that the backs of 
bedridden patients are protected from bedsores. I 
find the application of hazeline cream and of eau de 
Cologne and water answers this purpose most 
excellently. 

The actual treatment of the buttocks when once 
they have become sore and red is another matter. It 
is of the first importance to restrict the amount of 
water in the food when the infant is being artificially 
fed. When breast-fed, this limitation of fluid is more 
difficult. 

The infant should be changed often and the napkin 
should be very loosely applied, so as not to increase 
the soreness through friction. In some cases it is 
well to apply no napkin, but to allow the child to lie 
on a pad of absorbent wool. 

It is very difficult to say in any particular case 
which is likely to be the best local application. Some- 
times one, sometimes another, appears to give the 
better result, but one or other of the following, 
which may be tried in turn, is almost certain to 
effect a cure : (1) Black wash applied on lint ; (2) oint- 
ment of resorcin (1 gramme to the ounce); (3) cala- 
mine and lead lotion in equal parts, with ten drops 
of laudanum to the ounce; (4) pure liquid paraffin; 
(5) olive-oil. 



CHAPTER VIII 
THE USES OF DRIED MILK IN INFANT FEEDING 

WHETHER regarded from the economic, commercial, 
or nutritional point of view, milk is such a valuable 
food that there is little cause for surprise that human 
ingenuity has been constantly engaged in attempts 
to discover some practical means of preserving it 
either in its natural condition or in some condensed 
form, and thus to prevent the serious losses which 
naturally occur in so perishable an article of food. 
But so innumerable and deep-rooted are the preju- 
dices in favour of fresh milk, that inventors and 
manufacturers have experienced almost insuperable 
difficulties in obtaining a market for even the best 
varieties of preserved milk. In spite of the physio- 
logical evidence that a limited degree of heat does 
not impair the nutritive qualities of milk, the public 
and, I regret to say, a small section of the medical 
profession still believe that a diet of boiled milk is 
incompatible with good nutrition. The huge collec- 
tive experience of infant consultations not only in 
England, but also throughout Europe and America, 
has proved beyond question that the sterilization of 

181 



182 THE INFANT 

milk has had even a greater influence in reducing 
infant mortality than the most painstaking attempts 
to provide an absolutely irreproachable milk-supply. 
In this connection it is particularly interesting to 
note that certain of the pioneers of the " pure-milk " 
movement in America are now the active advocates 
of pasteurization. For reasons which I have else- 
where 1 summarized, it is beyond question true that 
a limited degree of heat does not impair the nutritive 
qualities of milk, although excessive heating or pro- 
longed keeping may destroy certain principles in milk 
or other fresh foods, .which are essential for good nutri- 
tion. These principles are known as "vitamines"; 
but they can be so easily supplied in an independent 
form in orange juice or grape juice, for instance 
that their possible destruction by heat is no argu- 
ment against the pasteurization, sterilization, or 
desiccation if these operations confer other and 
important advantages. 

There are many factors concerned in infant mor- 
tality, and of these good and careful mothering is 
undoubtedly the most important; but some of the 
best results of which I have personal knowledge 
have been in those cases in which good mothering 
has been combined with the employment of dried 
milk. The experiences of Leicester, Sheffield, and 
Marylebone in England, and in many centres in 
France and Belgium, prove this conclusively; and in 
this connection I cannot refrain from quoting a 
1 The Milk Problem, Bedrock, January, 1913, p. 515. 



DRIED MILK 183 

passage (translated) from Professor C. Porcher's 
Le Lait Desseche, p. 122. 1 

" At a certain infant clinic in Ghent the infant- 
mortality rate was as high as 260 per 1,000 in the year 
1901. In the year 1903 sterilized milk was supplied 
to the infants, and the rate fell to 150 per 1,000. In 
the year 1907 a house-to-house visitation scheme, 
carried on by trained health workers, was inaugu- 
rated, and the death-rate fell to 60 per 1,000. In the 
year 1908 dried milk was substituted for sterilized 
dairy milk, and the rate fell to 34 per 1,000." This 
striking experience proves that the very best results 
are not incompatible with the use of dried milk. 
Dried milk, however, without good mothercraft, is 
of no more avail than breast-milk, or dairy milk 
under similar conditions. 

Before I proceed to a description of the methods of 
employing dried milk in infant feeding, I may 
perhaps be permitted to make a few general remarks 
on the history of its manufacture. 

Although attempts were made in the middle of 
last century to condense milk to the stage of dryness, 
all efforts in this direction proved a complete failure, 
until, in the year 1903, Mr. S. Amundsen succeeded 
in employing on a commercial scale a method of 
desiccation invented a few years previously by Dr. 
Ekenberg. Necessity is the father of invention, and 
the establishment of Mr. Amundsen's factory in 

1 Published by Asselin et Hougeau, Place de 1'ficole de 
Medecine, Paris, 1912. 



184 THE INFANT 

Kristinnia was almost the necessary consequence of 
that fact that in this part of Sweden there was a 
considerable butter industry, and a large and un- 
avoidable loss of by-products and residuals: the 
separated milk, although largely used for the fatten- 
ing of pigs and other animals, proved so perishable 
and difficult of transport, that it entailed a very con- 
siderable waste of valuable material. By the Eken- 
berg process, which I shall shortly describe, the 
separated milk was reduced to dryness and dis- 
tributed among farmers as a food for their animals 
in a highly convenient and transportable form. This 
early venture, however, cannot be described as an 
unqualified success, and chiefly for the reason that 
the market for desiccated separated milk was at that 
time extremely limited, and partly because the 
method could not then be used for the desiccation of 
milk from which the butter-fat had not been ex- 
tracted. This difficulty in the drying of fat has 
proved the rock on which many milk-desiccating 
ventures have come to grief. 

It was not long, however, before the Ekenberg 
process was so far improved that manufacturers 
were able to produce dried milk on a commercial scale 
without the preliminary removal of the cream, and 
from that time forward one improvement after 
another has been introduced until at the present 
moment there are three distinct methods of manu- 
facture, each good in its way, and each possessing 
special advantages. 



DRIED MILK 185 

The principle of the Ekenberg process consists in 
the partial condensation of the milk at a low temper- 
ature under reduced pressure, and its subsequent 
desiccation within the interior of cylinders heated to 
a comparatively low temperature. The milk solidifies 
into a crystalline mass on the surface of the cylinders, 
which are kept in constant rotation, and this mass is 
subsequently broken up and pulverized. This 
method is not employed to any large extent in this 
country, but it is more popular in France and in other 
parts of Europe. In England the method usually 
employed is that which is known as the Just-Hat- 
maker process. In this method the previously con- 
centrated milk is spread on the outer surface of 
rotating cylinders, which are heated to a high tem- 
perature by steam (160 C.). The thin film of milk 
dries very rapidly on the highly polished surfaces, 
and when dry is scraped off by sharp knife-blades, 
and subsequently pulverized, as in the Ekenberg 
process. This is the process which has been made 
familiar to a large section of the British public by 
frequent demonstrations at Earl's Court and other 
exhibitions. 

A third process, generally known as the Bevenot- 
de-Neveu method, consists in concentrating the 
milk in vacuo and at a low temperature, and then 
forcing it under high pressure (250 atmospheres) 
through minute perforations in a metal disc into the 
drying chamber. The nebula of homogenized milk 
is then surrounded by an envelope of dry and hot air 



186 THE INFANT 

and swept across the chamber. Owing to the fine 
state of division of the particles in which the con- 
densed milk is presented, and to its intimate contact 
with dry air, the milk is almost instantaneously desic- 
cated, and falls as an extremely fine powder to the 
floor of the chamber. The moisture thus evapo- 
rated is carried off as a cloud of steam, while the 
snow-like desiccated milk is rapidly swept up from 
the floor and packed in tins or other receptacles. 

The distinguishing feature of this method lies in 
the rapidity with which the concentrated milk is 
evaporated in the drying - chamber. So finely 
atomized is the milk that even at comparatively low 
temperatures the moisture is almost instantaneously 
evaporated ; indeed, this evaporation is so rapid that 
the water is removed from the coagulable ingredients, 
such as the whey proteids, before they have time to 
become coagulated by the heat at least this is the 
explanation which has been given to account for the 
possibility of reconstituting with water the coagul- 
able substances which have been desiccated by this 
method. On any other grounds it seems difficult to 
explain how it is that substances such as meat juice 
and chlorophyll can be completely desiccated by the 
method at temperatures which would, under normal 
conditions, coagulate and destroy their organic 
properties, and thus render them insoluble in 
water. 

By the Bevenot-de-Neveu process of desiccation, 
milk and whey can be reduced to the condition of a 



DRIED MILK 187 

very dry powder containing no more than 1 per cent, 
of water, apparently without alteration of their 
physical properties; that is to say, none of the 
enzymes or vitamines appear to be destroyed, and 
the milk, when reconstituted with water, can be co- 
agulated by rennet or heat, precipitated with acids, 
and soured by lactic-acid ferments, just as is the case 
with milk fresh from the cow. Moreover, when 
allowed to stand, the cream will slowly rise as it does 
with fresh milk which has been homogenized. 

These results are to my mind of immense advan- 
tage, for the chief objection usually raised to desic- 
cated milks is that they are so profoundly altered by 
the heat to which they have been subjected in the 
course of manufacture that they no longer possess 
those subtle and vital properties which are supposed 
to be essential for good nutrition. 

Milks desiccated by the three processes which 
I have briefly described possess special physical 
properties. Some of them possess distinctive 
chemical properties as well, for to certain of them 
substances such as phosphate of sodium, saccharated 
lime, or glucose, are added to facilitate the operations 
of drying and to render the finished product more 
readily soluble in water. 

The appearance of milk dried on the surface of 
cylinders, as in the Ekenberg or Just-Hatmaker 
processes, is that of irregular polygonal plaques of 
varying dimensions and of striated structure, where- 
as the powder dried by the Bevenot-de-Neveu pro- 



188 THE INFANT 

cess is very much finer and more homogeneous. It 
is fairly soluble in hot, but resistant to cold, water. 
The Bevenot-de-Neveu milk is equally soluble in hot 
and cold water, and can be readily reconstituted by 
beating with a fork or special whisk. 

The appearances of the cylinder- dried and air- 
dried are also distinctive. The colour of Just- 
Hatmaker milk is biscuit yellow, that of Bevenot-de- 
Neveu milk of a peculiarly snow-like white. When 
allowed to stand, the fat rises in the former as a 
yellow oil, in the latter as a rich cream. The odour 
of the cylinder-dried milk is agreeable, and distinctly 
biscuity. The odour of Bevenot-de-Neveu milk is 
slightly tallowy, especially when it has been kept for 
some time. This is due to the oxidation of the fat, 
a result which appears to follow from the fine state 
of division in which the fat particles are presented to 
the oxygen of the air. Although this oxidation in no 
way affects the nutritive value of the milk, it detracts 
from its popularity. This is unfortunate, for in all 
other respects Bevenot-de-Neveu milk is, according 
to my experience, superior to other varieties of 
desiccated milk. This taste, however, is one to 
which most people soon become accustomed. 

Dried milks, whether prepared by the cylinder or 
the air-process, are usually sold in three qualities : 
Firstly, as "full-fat " milk, from which no cream has 
been extracted before drying; secondly, as " half- 
cream," in which part of the fat has been removed; 
and, thirdly, as desiccated milk, from which all the 



DRIED MILK 189 

cream has been separated. To these three varieties 
yet a fourth may be added namely, milk modified to 
the standard required, or supposed to be required, for 
infant feeding. 

These milks vary in price in proportion to their 
cream content. Full-cream milk sells at about 
Is. 6d. per pound, and separated milk at about 7d. 
When reconstituted with water and made up to their 
original bulk, the best dried milks cost practically 
the same as the best dairy milks i.e.) about 4d. to 
5d. a quart. 

Dried milk, as Professor Porcher says, is " la vache 
dansle placard"; that is to say, if you have dried 
milk, you are as well off as if you kept a cow in the 
larder ready to be milked at any moment. Dairy 
milk deteriorates from the moment it is milked up till 
the moment of consumption; if consumed eighteen 
hours after milking, the deterioration may be extreme. 
Dried milk represents milk which has only deterio- 
rated between the time of milking and desiccation. 
This usually is not more than four hours, and need 
not be more than one hour. 

In infant feeding dried milk is no better adapted to 
the physiological requirements of infants than is 
ordinary cow's milk. It must be modified to the 
nutritional and digestive requirements of the infant 
in the same way that cow's milk must itself be 
modified. Many are of the opinion that infants can 
be brought up successfully on whole milk which has 
not been modified in any way. It is true some 



190 THE INFANT 

infants will apparently thrive without any serious 
disasters even on a diet of unaltered cow's milk. 
But the best results are not obtained in this way. 

The physiological requirements of the infant and 
the calf are quite different ; they live under different 
conditions and grow at different rates. 

If there is any truth in the generally held belief 
that the proportions of proteid, fats, and carbohy- 
drates in the milk of different species of mammals is 
designed to meet the specific requirements of their 
own particular young, it seems to me to be most 
illogical to expect that the milk of two mammals so 
morphologically different as the human being and the 
cow can be mutually interchangeable. 

It is the simplest thing in the world to teach an 
infant to digest cow's milk, even in the undiluted or 
in the non-citrated condition ; but it does not neces- 
sarily follow that the proportions of its main 
constituents are well adapted to the nutritional 
requirements of the growing child. Indeed, I am 
prepared to defend the thesis that cow's milk, in its 
unaltered condition, is not adapted to the physio- 
logical needs of the infant. If cow's milk is to be 
used with success in infant feeding, it must be 
modified by dilution and fortified with fat and sugar, 
or treated in some other way to bring it up to the 
approximate standard of breast-milk; and if dried 
milk is to be used for the same purpose, it also must 
be modified in the same way. 

If a good variety of dried milk is diluted with water 



DRIED MILK 191 

in the proportion of one part of the powder to. eight 
parts of water, the resulting mixture is, or should be, 
of the same percentage composition as the undiluted 
milk from which it was originally prepared. 

If, therefore, undiluted cow's milk can be regarded 
as a good food for a baby, we can reproduce it by 
prescribing so many ounces of the reconstituted 
dried milk made up in the proportion of one drachm 
of the powder to one ounce of water. 

But if you wish to modify the resulting mixture so 
that it shall approximate to the composition of 
breast-milk, you must proceed more carefully, dilute 
more freely, and add cream and sugar. 

Assuming the percentage composition of breast- 
milk to be 1 5 per cent, proteins, 6- 5 per cent, carbo- 
hydrates, and 3- 5 per cent, fat, a mixture of this 
percentage composition (Formula I.) can be pre- 
pared by combining two tablespoonfuls of full-cream 
dried milk, six teaspoonfuls of sugar, one ounce of 
thick cream (46 per cent, fat), in one pint of water. 
Such a mixture, however, in one noteworthy respect 
fails to correspond with breast-milk it contains 
practically the whole of its protein in the form of 
caseinogen, and not in the form of caseinogen 
plus whey proteins. Some authorities attach im- 
portance to whey proteins in infant feeding, and 
attribute many of the failures to rear infants success- 
fully on cow's milk to a different supply of these 
elements. 

In breast-milk the total 1*5 per cent, of protein is 



192 THE INFANT 

made up of 0*5 per cent, caseinogen and 1 per cent, 
whey proteins ; whereas in cow's milk the proportion 
is, approximately, 3 per cent, caseinogen to 1 per 
cent, of whey proteids, and in ordinary desiccated 
milks this deficiency is even more pronounced. If, 
therefore, dried milk is to be modified to correspond 
to breast-milk in respect of its content in whey 
proteids, the latter must be added independently. 

From this point of view, it is extremely fortunate 
that the Bevenot-de-Neveu process of desiccation 
permits of the manufacture of a whey powder which, 
when reconstituted with water, almost exactly repro- 
duces the original whey from which it was prepared. 
Dried whey powder of this kind is sold under the 
name of Sweet Whey, or Sec-Wa. 

Now, by an appropriate combination of dried milk, 
whey powder, sugar, and cream we can prepare a 
humanized milk which has a percentage composition 
the same as human milk namely, caseinogen O5 per 
cent., whey proteins 1 per cent., sugar 6-5 per cent., 
fat 3-5 per cent. The formula is as follows (For- 
mula II.): 

Full-cream dried milk, 3 teaspoonf uls ; Sec-Wa, 
2J tablespoonfuls ; sugar, 2 teaspoonf uls ; thick 
cream, 1 ounce (46 per cent.); and water to 1 pint. 

This is a very valuable substitute for breast-milk, 
but somewhat expensive to use owing to the large 
quantity of dried whey powder and cream required 
in its preparation. 

Care with respect to the exact balance between the 



DRIED MILK 193 

different kinds of proteins i.e., the caseinogen and 
whey proteins is only necessary in the case of quite 
young or delicate infants who have not acquired the 
power of digesting caseinogen. 

Strong, healthy infants, who have been accus- 
tomed to take ordinary cow's milk, or who have been 
gradually habituated to larger quantities of casein- 
ogen by a graduated course of feeding, thrive well 
on a mixture of the following formula (Formula III. ) : 

Proteins, 2-5 per cent.; sugar, 6' 5 per cent.; fat, 
3- 5 per cent. 

This is prepared by combining 2 ounces of full- 
cream dried milk, J an ounce of sugar, 1J ounces 
of thick cream (46 per cent.), and water to the pint. 

The transition from Formula II. to Formula III. 
should be carefully made by the gradual substitution 
of the sugar and the full-cream dried milk for the 
whey powder. 

I feel this account would be incomplete without 
referring to the use of dried separated milk, although 
the only advantage to be derived from using it is 
one of economy. 

I am now feeding a large number of infants on 
desiccated separated milk, and modifying it for use 
by adding supplementary fat, and sweetening it with 
a small quantity of sugar. The best fat to add is 
cream, but this is expensive, and any other fat or oil 
will answer the purpose; perhaps a combination of 
several fats is even better than one single variety of 

13 



194 THE INFANT 

oil. I have, however, obtained excellent results with 
an emulsion of linseed-oil, which is generally known 
as " Marylebone cream." The formula for preparing 
20 ounces of a mixture of separated dried milk and 
Marylebone cream is as follows (Formula IV.) : 

Separated dried milk, 1J ounces; Marylebone 
cream (50 per cent, fat), 1J ounces; sugar, J ounce; 
water to 1 pint. 

The cost of feeding infants on this mixture is only 
about 2d. a day. 

When dried milks or other preserved foods are 
employed, it is well to give some fresh fruit juice or 
other antiscorbutic a teaspoonful of orange juice 
or the expressed juice of two grapes. 

Such formulae must not be slavishly followed. The 
art of scientific feeding consists in the adaptation of 
the food to the individual requirements, which can 
be understood only by a study of the infant both in 
health and disease, of the caloric values of food ele- 
ments, and of the expenditure in heat and energy. 
The table on the next page will prove helpful. 

All quantities must be based on the physiological 
requirements of the individual. As a rough basis 
for calculation it may be assumed that a normal 
infant of three months requires from 40 to 50 calories 
per pound of body- weight ; that is to say, an infant 
of this age, weighing 10 pounds, requires 400 to 
500 calories in the twenty-four hours. Younger 
and smaller infants require a larger number of 
calories per pound of body-weight, and older and 



DRIED MILK 



195 



larger infants rather less. From these data it is easy 
to adjust the quantity of food to the requirements of 
different infants, allowance being made for special 
conditions. For instance, more food is required in 
cold weather and when the infant is growing rapidly 
and manifesting great muscular activity. In hot 

PERCENTAGE COMPOSITION. 





Proteins. 






Approximate Caloric 










Value. 


Article. 






Sugar. 


Fat. 






Casein- 


Whey 






1>A1* 






ogen. 


Proteins. 






"QT 

Gramme. 


Per Ounce. 


Dried Milk: 










Calories. 


Calories. 


Full cream 


24-50 


1.94 


38-92 


28.00 


5 


146 


Half cream 


30-58 


2-42 


39-70 


15.10 


4 


119 


Separated . . 


31.40 


2.49 


55-00 


1.00 


4 


104 


Whey powder 





14-25 


74.50 


0.27 


4 


102 


Thick cream 














(46 per cent.) 








3-00 


46.00 


4 


122 


Thin cream 














(16 per cent.) 


. 





4-00 


16.00 


2 


48 


Marylebone 














cream 


L -'- T 


l ~ ' 


" * 


50.00 


5 


127 



weather, when it increases in weight slowly and 
remains inactive, less food should be given. 

I do not, however, recommend adherence to any 
one particular food, no matter how good or how 
cheap it may be. The requirements of nutrition are 
so subtle that it is wise to give new foods and make 
a few changes every now and then in case some 
important element in the diet has been omitted ; but 
every change should be made gradually, for fear of 
disturbing the functions of digestion. 



CHAPTER IX 

THE USES OP PETROLEUM IN THE TREATMENT OF 
CONSTIPATION AND OTHER DISEASES IN INFANTS 

THE therapeutic uses of petroleum for internal ad- 
ministration are almost as old as history itself. 
Herodotus and Pliny both refer to it in their writings 
as a liquid with medicinal properties of considerable 
value. During the eighteenth and early nineteenth 
century, travellers in Russia, Roumania, Bavaria, 
South America, and other countries where oil-wells 
are situated, refer occasionally to the consumption 
of liquid bitumen, white naphtha, or St. Quirinus's 
oil by the natives as cures for various diseases. 
On the other hand, since the time that paraffin was 
introduced into Europe for illuminating purposes, 
medical literature has abounded in references to 
cases of accidental poisoning and attempted suicide 
by the swallowing of the crude oil. This fact may 
possibly explain the strong prejudice shown by some 
people against taking the purified forms of the oil by 
the mouth for medicinal purposes. 

My first acquaintance with the uses of the more 
refined and non-toxic varieties of paraffin dates from 

196 



THE USES OF PETROLEUM 197 

the year 1893, when petroleum in the form of an 
emulsion was brought to my notice as a substitute 
for cod-liver oil in the treatment of consumption 
and wasting diseases. Under the late Dr. W. B. 
Cheadle's directions, I gave this new emulsion a pro- 
longed and careful trial in several cases of tuber- 
culous disease in children who were warded in St. 
Mary's Hospital, but with such disappointing results 
that we soon abandoned its use in favour of our old 
friends cod-liver oil, maltine, and steel wine. 

If, at that time, I had known what I learnt a few 
years later namely, that Dr. N. A. Randolph, 1 of 
Philadelphia, had proved in the year 1884 that 
paraffin when swallowed by the mouth passed through 
the alimentary tract in an unabsorbed and un- 
changed condition I should probably have spared 
myself the pains of making clinical experiments to 
prove its virtues as a food. When I entered into 
private practice a few years later, I was surprised to 
observe that the psychological influence of persistent 
advertisement had already won for this petroleum 
emulsion a strong position in the affection of the 
medical profession as well as of the lay public as a 
cure for bronchitis and other pulmonary complaints. 
Knowing, then, that petroleum acted merely as an 
inert substance in the alimentary tract, and that none 
of it was absorbed into the system, I came to the 

1 Proceedings of the Academy of Natural Science, Phila- 
delphia, 1884. 



198 THE INFANT 

conclusion that its reputation depended either on the 
kind of virtues which belong to bread pills or on the 
considerable doses of hypophosphites which were 
added, very wisely, on the principle that if the 
petroleum failed, the other drugs might succeed. 

In the year 1906 I began to alter my views with 
respect to the possible value of petroleum, and I 
came to the conclusion that it must possess thera- 
peutic properties in the treatment of constipation, 
and that as a remedial agent in this condition it 
must be of indirect use in many other morbid con- 
ditions. 

My enlightenment came in this way. I was at the 
the time in great difficulties in respect to the treat- 
ment of constipation in infants, for I found that if 
the dietetic treatment of this condition by olive-oil 
a line of treatment which I greatly preferred to the 
irrational use of drugs, enemas, or glycerine sup- 
positories was pursued too far, it inevitably led to 
an unfortunate impasse. An occasional teaspoonful 
of olive-oil is an excellent corrective to constipation 
in infants when the latter condition is due to a 
deficiency of fat ; but in those cases in which consti- 
pation supervenes, in spite of the fact that fat is 
already supplied in adequate amount the additional 
administration of olive-oil only aggravates the 
symptom. In attempting to discover some lubricant 
which could effect the required object without 
causing so-called " fat injuries," I called to mind 



THE USES OF PETROLEUM 199 

certain observations which had been made some 
years previously by Dr. Robert Hutchison, 1 in which 
he pointed out that, although the claims of the manu- 
facturers that petroleum emulsion could serve as a 
substitute for cod-liver oil could not be substantiated, 
it was possible that petroleum itself could act as an 
artificial substitute for mucus, and thus be of value 
in other directions. This idea of employing petro- 
leum as an artificial substitute for mucus in cases of 
constipation appealed strongly to my imagination. 
I therefore decided to give it an immediate trial, and 
made my first experiments on a number of consti- 
pated infants who were attending at my infant con- 
sultations in Marylebone. 

The success which attended my early experiences 
with petroleum as an intestinal lubricant for infants 
was so encouraging that in a very short time I 
practically abandoned all other forms of aperient 
medicine; and it speaks well for the method that 
this practice has been so widely adopted in the 
treatment of constipation in older subjects. 

Although I had repeatedly pointed out, both in 
public and in private, the merits of petroleum in cases 
of intestinal stasis and constipation, it was not till I 
published a full account of its influence in such con- 
ditions in my book on the Physiological Feeding of 
Infants, published in July, 1909, and again in an 
article in the special Constipation Number of the 
1 British Medical Journal, March 24, 1898. 



200 THE INFANT 

Practitioner, May, 1910, that the method came into 
general use. 

Most of the paraffin which is now used for internal 
administration is of the liquid variety "Petroleum 
liquidum purum," it is, however, a body of very in- 
definite composition. The official standards, while 
authorizing certain limits as to the volatility and 
specific gravity, do not fix definitely the chemical 
composition of the oil. 

It thus comes about that no two samples are 
exactly alike, either as regards taste or composition, 
and manufacturers have taken advantage of these 
distinctions to sell special brands under registered 
names at fancy prices. As long, however, as a 
liquid petroleum is tasteless and free from toxic 
properties, one kind is as good as another, and it 
certainly is unwise to pay a fancy price for a fancy 
name. 

When the idea first occurred to me to treat the 
constipation of infants by petroleum, I thought I 
would try the original petroleum emulsion which had 
been so largely advertised as a substitute for cod-liver 
oil; but I gave up this idea when I remembered that 
it was fortified with considerable quantities of mixed 
hypophosphites, which might introduce fresh and un- 
desirable complications. I therefore took counsel 
with the dispenser at the St. Mary leb one General 
Dispensary, and he devised the formulary of an 
emulsion, which, under the name of Marylebone 



THE USES OF PETROLEUM 201 

Petroleum Emulsion, answers the purposes re- 
quired. The emulsifying agent is a decoction of 
Irish moss, a very much better medium than gum 
acacia or tragacanth, which is usually employed. It- 
is much cheaper, and it contains a small quantity of 
iodine, which, I believe, has a really beneficial influ- 
ence on most of the conditions for which the emulsion 
is usually given. The flavouring is quite pleasant, 
and the small addition of benzoic acid preserves the 
decoction of Irish moss from fermentative changes. 
The following is the formula for preparing this 
emulsion : 

R Paraffini liquidi B.P 33.0 

Acidi benzoicn 
Glusidi / 

Olei cinnamomi . . . . . . 0.10 

Decoctum chondri crispi . . . . ad 100.00 

The chief objection to prescribing this emulsion is 
that it is practically impossible to make it in small 
quantities ; it must be made in bulk if it is to be of 
good quality. Another objection to the use of an 
emulsion of petroleum instead of the plain oil is that 
larger quantities of it must be taken, and at more 
frequent intervals, if the required result is to be 
obtained. These disadvantages, however, are com- 
pensated for by its efficient action. Emulsions of 
petroleum are now made on an improved principle, 
which allows them to contain 60 per cent, of petro- 
leum as compared with 30 per cent, in the older 



202 THE INFANT 

preparations. In these the emulsifioation is so fine 
that it has been claimed that the petroleum is 
actually absorbed and excreted in the urine: even 
if these claims are true, I cannot see that the 
absorption of such an inert substance carries with 
it any particular advantage. Indeed, I can quite 
conceive that it might be an actual danger. 

The liquid paraffins which are now used in such 
large quantities are very much purer oils than those 
originally obtainable ; a few of them are coloured and 
flavoured, and sold under fancy names as proprietary 
articles. We experimented at the St. Mary leb one 
General Dispensary for a long time in an endeavour 
to flavour liquid paraffin in such a manner as to 
make it really agreeable to take. The best, how- 
ever, that we succeeded in making was coloured 
with chlorophyl and flavoured with menthol. We 
called this new preparation Creme de Menthe, and it 
has been very well liked by those patients for whom 
it has been prescribed ; and it certainly has more than 
a colourable resemblance to the liqueur. The great 
difficulty in making liquid paraffin really palatable 
is that comparatively few flavouring substances are 
soluble in it, difficulties which do not arise in the case 
of the emulsion. 

During the last two years the use of liquid paraffins 
has been largely replaced by the introduction of 
solid or jellified forms, which can be flavoured and 
coloured according to taste ; these are taken with a 



THE USES OF PETROLEUM 203 

spoon like a confection or preserve, and answer all 
the purposes of the ordinary liquid oil. 

Although in their natural state, these solid paraffins 
look exactly like vaseline ; they are, as a matter of 
fact, true emulsions, a fact which explains why they 
can be coloured and flavoured. 

The history of these solid or emulsified paraffins is 
extremely interesting, but into this matter I cannot 
here enter. I can only refer those of my readers who 
are interested in the question to a paper of Mr. S. U. 
Pickering, 1 which contains a full account of the whole 
matter. In a private letter to me, Mr. Pickering 
very kindly explains how it is that an emulsion of 
paraffin can be made so as to appear quite trans- 
parent, and at the same time consist almost entirely 
of paraffin with the addition only of the merest 
trace of the emulsifying agents. He says: "The 
explanation of the semisolid or jelly emulsions is 
clearer tome now than it was then " (i.e., in 1907, at 
the time he wrote the paper referred to above E. P. ). 
" Globules of uniform size in a liquid medium require 
that medium to amount to about 25 per cent, of the 
volume of the whole mixture, for filling up the 
interspaces; if the globules are not uniform, the 
volume of liquid will be somewhat less; but a very 
large reduction in it involves the globules becoming 
distorted so as to fit closer, and ultimately they must 

1 " Emulsions," by Spencer Umfreville Pickering, M.A., 
F.K.S., Transactions of the Chemical Society, 1907, vol. xci. 



204 THE INFANT 

assume such a form as a dodecahedron, being tightly 
packed, like bricks, together, with only a film of 
molecular thickness separating the droplets. This 
accounts for the rigidity of the mass, its transpar- 
ency, and its showing no visible structure under the 
microscope. Dry air causes it to demulsify by dry- 
ing up the separating film, and when wetted it be- 
comes opaque, as the films increase in thickness and 
the oil particles assume a globular form." 

These solid paraffins are an immense improvement 
on the old vaselines which, until two years ago, were 
practically the only solid form in which petroleum 
could be administered by way of the mouth. It is 
difficult to imagine anything more nauseating than 
vaseline naked and undisguised as a medicament for 
oral administration. And yet, to my knowledge, it 
has been largely prescribed in this form, and supplied 
to patients in wooden pill-boxes, with directions that 
it was to be eaten with a spoon. 

This inartistic method of dispensing solid paraffin 
has now been superseded by these solid emulsions, 
which can be coloured and flavoured in a great 
variety of ways. Many people much prefer these 
solid preparations to the liquid forms, or even to the 
simple emulsions such as I have described ; but for 
infants there can be no doubt that the liquid emul- 
sions are more appropriate. 

The general claims of paraffin as an intestinal lubri- 
cant require no corrob oration on my part, but in its 



THE USES OF PETROLEUM 205 

special application in the treatment of those hetero- 
geneous disorders of infancy which are often classified 
as indigestion, the great value of paraffin is not yet 
fully appreciated. As I have elsewhere (p. 106 ) pointed 
out, most of the so-called troubles of indigestion in 
infancy are associated with disturbances of the motor 
functions, such as spasms of sphincters, enterospasms 
or dysperistalses of one kind or another. In these 
conditions it is extremely useful to have at command 
an efficient lubricant, such as petroleum, which can 
penetrate to the lower reaches of the bowels without 
absorption, and without chemical change. In 
severe cases of so-called colic, or windy spasms in 
infants, I sometimes almost fill the intestines with 
petroleum emulsion, either alone or in combination 
with carbonate of bismuth. I learnt the value of 
large doses of bismuth in these cases when I was 
investigating with the X-rays and bismuth feed the 
causes of intestinal motor disturbances in infants. 
In many of these cases I noticed that the crying and 
pain subsided immediately after the administration 
of the bismuth. Since then I have given very large 
doses of this drug in combination with petroleum 
emulsion with the greatest confidence, and generally 
with the most gratifying results. The chief objec- 
tion to the administration of bismuth in large doses 
is that its gritty properties make it distasteful to 
infants ; this disadvantage is overcome by using the 
preparation known as " glycerinum bismuthi car- 



206 THE INFANT 

bonatis," a most elegant preparation of milky soft- 
ness, details for the making of which are given in 
" The Codex." One drachm, or even two drachms, 
of this combined with an equal quantity of petroleum 
emulsion serves as a most efficient carminative for 
infants troubled with wind or colic. It may be given 
independently or combined with the contents of the 
infant's bottle. A mixture of this kind is a most 
efficient substitute for meconium, to the important 
physiological functions of which I have already 
drawn attention (p. 134). When this natural intes- 
tinal and antiseptic lubricant is by design or accident 
discharged from the bowel of the new-born infant, 
disturbances of motor functions are very liable to 
supervene. In such cases the free exhibition of this 
artificial meconium has a most excellent effect in 
restoring harmony to these functions. 

I am not prepared to support the statement that 
petroleum is a powerful antiseptic agent. Our ex- 
periences in attempting to discover an efficient pre- 
servative for our emulsions give the lie to this belief ; 
but, all the same, there can be no doubt that it does 
in some degree limit and retard the decomposition of 
those nutrient media in which it is combined in large 
proportion. It does so, I feel convinced, by coating 
either the bacteria or the nutriment on which they 
thrive with an impenetrable film of a substance 
which cannot mix with, or become incorporated, in 
the protoplasmic contents of the living cell. We know 



THE USES OF PETROLEUM 207 

from experience that the stools of persons who 
regularly take paraffin are, if not exactly odourless, 
at any rate far less offensive than when the oil is not 
taken. This is, however, open to the interpretation 
that it is quite as much due to the rapidity of transit 
of food through the intestinal tract as to the inhibi- 
tory influence of the petroleum on the growth of the 
bacteria themselves. 

One of the most valuable uses of petroleum is in the 
treatment of thread- worms in children. This sub- 
ject, however, hardly comes within the compass of 
this discussion, but I refer to it because I believe that 
its almost specific action as a vermifuge in such cases 
is dependent, not so much on its lethal influence on 
the parasites or their eggs as upon its direct influ- 
ence on the mucous membrane. Paraffin in its 
crude form has long enjoyed a high reputation as a 
local application in cases of catarrhal or diphtheritic 
inflammation of mucous membranes. It has been 
claimed 1 that pieces of diphtheritic membrane, when 
emersed in crude paraffin, soon become soft and 
friable. On similar grounds it might be supposed 
that paraffin, when applied to unhealthy mucous 
membranes, has a health-giving and cleaning-up in- 
fluence. In the treatment of chronic catarrhs of the 
nose and pharynx, the purer forms of petroleum in 
combination with menthol obtained a very consider- 
able vogue a few years ago, and when applied to the 
1 Year-Book of Treatment, 1895, p. 1678. 



208 THE INFANT 

affected mucous membranes in the form of a fine 
spray by means of B. and W.'s useful little paroleine 
naso-pharyngeal atomizer, it affords excellent results. 

Whether, however, petroleum owes its efficacy in 
cases of intestinal disorder to its therapeutic effect 
on the mucous membrane or to its influence on 
the motor functions of the bowel, it can well be 
imagined that in cases of thread-worm infection it 
acts by cleaning up the crypts or other lurking-places 
in an unhealthy mucous membrane, in which the 
eggs would otherwise have an opportunity of in- 
cubating undisturbed. 

Although petroleum is, in the great majority of 
cases, a most efficient lubricant and aperient, never- 
theless in certain exceptional instances it un- 
doubtedly predisposes to constipation. This para- 
doxical effect which must be familiar to all those who 
have had much experience of the drug, is, I believe, 
to be explained on the following grounds. In some 
individuals a regular action of the bowels can only 
be maintained by the stimulating and provocative 
action of irritating particles, such as the seeds or 
husks of fruits or vegetables. In such cases petro- 
leum may predispose to constipation by its emollient 
influence on the mucous membrane, thus depriving 
the rectum or its neuro-muscular mechanisms of the 
required stimulation. Such constipation does not, 
however, imply that stasis in the higher regions of 
the bowel has not been cured by the petroleum. 



THE USES OF PETROLEUM 209 

In considering the alternative hypotheses on which 
the efficacy of petroleum in cases of intestinal dis- 
orders may be explained, it may not be altogether 
irrelevant to remember that paraffin may have the 
same influence in inhibiting absorption of food, as 
that which I have suggested it may exercise in the 
case of bacteria that is to say, it may coat either the 
food or the mucous membrane with an impenetrable 
film of oil in such a way as to interfere with the 
absorption of the products of digestion. In my 
experience hypernutrition or the absorption of an 
excess of food frequently interferes with sound 
nutrition, and especially is this true of infants and 
young children of the upper and middle classes. 

If this belief is well founded, it may be that the 
reason why petroleum proves so beneficial in many 
cases of malnutrition is because it retards rather than 
promotes the absorption of nutritive material. 

As far as the treatment of infants is concerned, I 
have been quite consistent in my adherence to the 
emulsion in preference to any of the other forms 
of the mineral oil, and this is chiefly for the 
reason that the emulsions mix more intimately 
with the ingested food than is possible with the pure 
oil. I think that the softening effects of paraffin on 
the contents of the descending colon and rectum 
must be more pronounced when the oil is evenly dis- 
tributed with the food than when it is confined to 
special portions, and for this reason I think it far 

14 



210 THE INFANT 

better to give a dose of the emulsion with every 
feeding than to give only one dose of the plain oil 
during the twenty-four hours. I admit, however, 
that in certain obstinate cases the mass-effect of a 
large dose of the oil given once a day reinforces the 
milder but more sustained influence of repeated 
doses of the emulsion. 

I find petroleum emulsion such a universally useful 
preparation in the treatment of infantile disorders 
that now I almost invariably use it as the vehicle in 
which to administer the particular drugs I wish to 
prescribe. It is immaterial whether such drugs be 
soluble, insoluble, acid, neutral, or alkaline ; they all 
combine well with it, and their taste is effectually 
disguised. In case of insoluble drugs, such as sulphur 
or bismuth, it is important to see that the bottle is 
well shaken before pouring out a dose. 

Before I conclude, one word as to dosage. As a 
rule one teaspoonful of the emulsion after or with 
each feeding is enough, but I do not hesitate to 
give as much as half an ounce six or eight times a day. 
I have never noticed any untoward results either 
with the emulsion or with the pure oil. Of the latter, 
I generally prescribe half to three drachms once a 

day. 

SUMMARY. 

1. The internal administration of crude petroleum 
for medicinal purposes dates from very early days, 
but the use of the more refined oils is of recent origin. 



THE USES OF PETROLEUM 211 

Towards the end of the last century it was largely 
administered in the form of an emulsion, combined 
with hypophosphites, under the belief that it pos- 
sessed nutritive properties and could serve as a 
substitute for cod-liver oil. 

2. In 1899 Dr. Robert Hutchison repeated the 
almost forgotten experiments of Dr. Randolf (1884), 
and proved that petroleum was not absorbed from 
the bowel, that it had no nutritive properties, and 
that the only rational therapeutic purpose it could 
serve was as a substitute for mucus. 

3. Paraffin is a rational specific in the treatment 
of constipation in infants. 

4. Petroleum emulsions are extremely useful in 
the treatment of all forms of indigestion in infants. 

5. The efficacy of petroleum in these conditions 
may depend on 

(a) Its lubricating properties. 
(6) Antiseptic properties. 
(c) Its cleaning-up effect on the mucous 
membrane. 

6. Petroleum emulsion is a most useful vehicle 
for most drugs, soluble as well as insoluble, which 
are prescribed for infants. It may be given with 
perfect safety in very large doses. 



CHAPTER X 

CONVULSIONS IN INFANCY 

IN dealing with the question of convulsions, it is 
important to keep clearly in view the difference 
between the exciting and predisposing causes. 

In order that convulsions may take place, it is 
necessary that there shall be an exciting cause, a 
causa movens, or a liberating stimulus. Whether 
or not any particular exciting cause is strong enough 
to determine convulsions depends on the degree of 
excitability of the whole nervous sphere or of 
certain of its parts. 

Some infants have convulsions because the ex- 
citing cause is peculiarly intense strong enough, 
in fact, to cause unconsciousness and throw the whole 
of the nervous sphere into violent and inco-ordinated 
activity, even when the central nervous system is 
in a perfectly normal condition, or of unusual sta- 
bility. 

Other infants will manifest convulsive phenomena 
when the strength of the liberating stimulus is com- 
paratively feeble. Hence in general terms we may 

212 



CONVULSIONS IN INFANCY 213 

say that the determination of convulsions depends 
on the relationship of two factors (1) The degree of 
excitability of the nervous sphere; and (2) in the 
intensity of the exciting cause. 

It must, however, be remembered that spon- 
taneous actions do not occur in nature. There is 
always a liberating stimulus, though that stimulus 
may lie deeply concealed. It is one of the greatest 
reproaches to our medical literature that so much 
of it is permeated with suggestions that pathological 
phenomena can occur spontaneously, and that idio- 
pathic diseases diseases which occur by themselves 
without causes can exist. In the literature of 
convulsions there are to be found innumerable refer- 
ences to idiopathic or spontaneous manifestations 
of convulsive symptoms. Convulsions cannot, how- 
ever, on scientific grounds, be said to originate 
spontaneously. 

One or other of the following are the more usual 
classifications of convulsions in infants : 

1. Essential or symptomatic. 

2. Organic or functional. 

3. Sympathetic or hsematogenous. 

It is very difficult to say which of these is the 
least satisfactory. The first assumes that, while 
one class of convulsions (symptomatic) is evolved by 
causes (liberating stimuli), another class (essential) 
manifests itself spontaneously. 



214 THE INFANT 

The second classification recognizes distinctions 
between convulsions which are due to structural 
changes in the nervous system and those which are 
not due to such changes. Such distinctions are 
purely arbitrary, and must continue to disappear 
as our microscopic and histological technique im- 
proves. 

The third classification, which we owe to Solt- 
mann, differentiates between convulsions which 
are due to blood-changes such, for instance, 
as those which are due to the development of 
specific toxins and those which are due to reflex 
causes. 

In a sense all convulsions are reflex that is to 
say, they must have a liberating stimulus which acts 
reflexly through some sensory nerve, the only 
possible exception being those directly due to 
stimulation of the central nervous system. Such 
stimulation is rare, as, for example, electrical or 
mechanical stimulation of nerve cells. Blood states 
or conditions are not exciting causes of convulsions ; 
they predispose to convulsions by raising the ex- 
citability of the nervous sphere. Take, for instance, 
such conditions as poisoning with strychnine, or 
the toxins of tetanus or hydrophobia conditions 
which, according to Soltmann's definitions, would 
give rise to hsematogenous convulsions. But under 
such conditions convulsions are not manifested 
unless the liberating stimulus is applied. 



CONVULSIONS IN INFANCY 215 

An individual suffering from strychnine-poisoning 
will lie comparatively comfortable and free from 
convulsions as long as he is undisturbed ; but 
any sudden stimulus, such as a loud noise, an 
unexpected movement, a catch in the breath, or 
some attempt to swallow or cough, may apply 
the fatal spark, and give rise to the dreaded 
explosion. 

Convulsions in children are not difficult to under- 
stand if the picture of strychnine-poisoning is kept 
before the eyes. For the determination of con- 
vulsions there must be both an adequate liberating 
stimulus and an adequately receptive state of the 
central nervous system. In order that a liberating 
stimulus may be adequate to evoke convulsions, the 
central nervous system must be tuned up to the 
necessary pitch of excitability. 

Now, the central nervous systems of infants, and, 
indeed, of children generally, are tuned up to a 
higher pitch of excitability than those of older in- 
dividuals for three definite reasons. First, because 
their nervous system is growing and developing, 
and all growing and developing tissues are, for 
obvious reasons, more unstable than those which are 
more mature. Secondly, the inhibitory centres in 
the cortex which control and limit purposeless and 
inco-ordinate contractions of muscles are either un- 
developed or imperfectly developed. Thirdly, the 
axis cylinders of the conducting paths in the central 



216 THE INFANT 

nervous system are still ill-provided with their 
myelin sheaths, and consequently are in a less 
favourable position to prevent the escape of nerve 
currents, if so they may be called, from one axis 
cylinder to another. 

Childhood in itself may consequently be considered 
as a predisposing cause of convulsions. Then, again, 
in childhood the organism is constantly exposed to 
internal and external events which tend to increase 
the already excitable condition of the nervous sphere. 
Let me enumerate only a few. Infancy and child- 
hood are, as it were, probationary periods, in which 
the organism has to acquire immunity from the 
dangers which assail it in the environment. The 
infant or child has to learn how to deal with the 
poisons of whooping-cough, measles, chicken-pox, 
influenza, the various catarrhal infections, tuber- 
culosis, and the microbic organisms which infest the 
intestinal tract. The acquisition of immunity in 
each case entails a very considerable strain upon the 
system, for during the process the blood is flooded 
with new and often highly poisonous substances, 
which as a rule raise the degree of excitability of 
the nervous sphere to so high a pitch that relatively 
slight liberating stimuli will determine an explosive 
convulsion. Thus is it quite a usual event for 
specific fevers in infants and children to herald their 
advent by a violent convulsion, the equivalent of 
the rigors in older individuals with more stable 



CONVULSIONS IN INFANCY 217 

nervous systems. What is true of one is true of all, 
and it is unnecessary for me to enter into further 
details of these acute toxaemias which lay so heavy 
a strain on the nervous system of the developing 
child. 

The influence of the psychological environment, 
however, plays quite as important a part in raising 
the excitability of the nervous sphere in infants as 
do actual poisons circulating in the blood. Nervous 
and emotional stimuli impress their mark upon the 
plastic brain as readily as impressions of a more 
substantial and material kind. The infant who is 
fussed over, played with unwisely and too often, who 
is the object of the anxiety of solicitous and nervous 
parents, reacts to this state of nervous tension, 
and himself becomes neurotic and hysterical. One 
of the earliest tendencies in human nature is that 
of imitation. Czerny 1 says the very laugh of the 
nursling is in imitation of that of the one who nurses 
him. The play of his features is under the direct in- 
fluence of the picture of the surrounding personalities. 
How readily the production of nervousness may be 
influenced by the mere factor of imitation is quite 
evident to all those who observe carefully. Person- 
ally I have more faith in the psychological influence 
of the complacent and so-called cow-like woman, 
than in the quality of her milk, as a factor in 

1 Des Arid als Emieher des Kindes, Deuticke. Leipzig 
and Wien, 1908. 



218 THE INFANT 

the successful nursing of infants. There are some 
nurses as well as some mothers who always seem 
to provoke the nervous state in infants placed under 
their charge, just as there are many placid, quiet 
nurses who seem to soothe and quiet the infants. 

It is, indeed, a striking and significant fact that 
those infants who are subject only to general nursing 
care in the wards of a hospital or in nursery training 
schools, and are spared the danger of parental 
anxiety and over-solicitous care on the part of 
devoted nurses, show stability and equilibrium of 
their nervous centres which is quite unlike that 
which is seen in babies living at home. 

I have many times removed infants from the 
electrical environment of the anxious home, and 
have transferred them to the non-temperamental 
atmosphere of nursing homes or training schools, 
with the most remarkable and immediate im- 
provement in their condition, and this without 
in any way altering the food or other details of 
management. 

I must still delay for a moment and say a few 
words about certain of the chronic conditions which 
permanently raise the excitability of the nervous 
sphere, and engender a condition which is so liable 
to spasmodic manifestations that it has been digni- 
fied with a special descriptive designation or title 
namely, spasmophilia. 

The condition of spasmophilia may be hereditary, 



CONVULSIONS IN INFANCY 219 

congenital, or acquired. It is usually acquired by 
the repeated access of noxse, often by way of 
the blood-stream to the nervous system, which 
tend to disturb the normal nutrition of the nerve 
cells. 

The most common form of noxa is some variety of 
poison which is generated in the alimentary tract, 
and which is due to imperfect digestion, improper 
food, or excess of food. Whenever such toxins are 
generated in the digestive tract, they are carried to 
the liver, and there for the most part rendered harm- 
less or destroyed ; but there are limits to the tolerance 
of the best-ordered liver, and when this much- 
suffering organ at length breaks down in function, 
then the whole system, including the nervous sphere, 
is exposed to the noxious influence of such toxic 
bodies. Artificially fed infants are far more liable to 
develop symptoms of spasmophilia, because, as I 
have been able to show, I think conclusively (The 
Lancet, September 2, 1911), they are almost in- 
variably overfed, at least as compared with breast- 
fed infants. 

Thiemich has even gone so far as to state that 
there is something specific in breast -milk which not 
only prevents the development, but actually cures 
the symptoms of spasmophilia, and Finkelstein 
believes there is some specific substance in cow's 
milk which actually produces a condition of raised 
excitability of the nervous sphere. For my part, 



220 THE INFANT 

I see difficulties in accepting these views. I be- 
lieve, as I have already stated, that any method 
of feeding which leads to imperfect or incomplete 
digestion also leads to the decomposition or fermenta- 
tion of food in the bowel, and this in its turn leads 
to the flooding of the system with poisonous pro- 
ducts, which destroy the stability of the central 
nervous system; but I believe there is nothing 
specific either in mother's milk or in cow's milk 
which can on the one hand prevent, or on the other 
hand promote, spasm ophilic conditions. 

In the next chapter I shall explain the condi- 
tions which may lead to rickets; these are also the 
conditions which lead to spasm ophilia. I will not, 
therefore, insist further on this point, but rather 
refer the reader to p. 231, where he will find all the 
necessary details. I append here a provisional 
classification of the underlying conditions which 
predispose to the convulsive state in infants : 

I. Chronic Predisposing Causes. 

1. Conditions accompanied with demonstrable 
lesions of the nervous sphere. 

(a) Traumatic lesions, birth palsies, haemor- 
rhages, etc. 
(6) Syphilis. 

(c) Hydrocephalus. 

(d) Meningitis. 

(e) Tumours, new growth, etc. 



CONVULSIONS IN INFANCY 221 

2. Conditions unaccompanied by demonstrable 
lesions of the nervous sphere. 

(a) Spasmophilia. 

(b) Epilepsy. 

(c) Congenital or hereditary nervous dia- 

thesis. 



II. Acute Predisposing Causes. 

1. Poisons admitted from without. 

(a) Food poisons (ptomaine, etc.). 

(b) Drugs, such as strychnine, lead, arsenic. 

2. Poisons generated within. 

(a) Specific infections. 

(b) Products of intestinal putrefaction and 

decomposition. 

(c ) Products of defective internal metab olism . 

With a full knowledge that this classification is 
defective in many respects, I now pass on to a con- 
sideration of the exciting causes or liberating stimuli 
which actually give rise to the convulsive seizure. 
Any event in the external environment or within the 
organism of the infant which is capable of produc- 
ing a reflex disturbance can also, under conditions 
of raised excitability of the nervous sphere, cause 
an actual convulsion, whether such convulsion take 
the form of violent and inco-ordinated motor activity 



222 THE INFANT 

(convulsive seizure), or merely to cessation of con- 
sciousness or suspension of any of the organic func- 
tions, such, for instance, as those of respiration, or 
of the heart's action so-called "internal con- 
vulsions." 

In my experience the most common forms of 
stimuli which excite convulsions are as follows : 

1. Distended stomach, pyloric spasm, wind in 
the stomach. 

2. Enterospasm, colic, wind, fissures of the 
rectum or anus. 

3. Middle-ear trouble, distension of the middle 
ear from pent-up discharges. 

4. Sore gums and erupting teeth. 

5. Calculi in urinary systems, gravel. 

6. Irritation of the skin from dermatitis or para- 
sites. 

7. Sudden shocks, starts, noises, bright lights, 
etc. 

Painful impressions such as are included in the 
above category may be sufficiently intense to cause 
convulsions in infants or children, even when the 
nervous sphere is not in a condition of raised ex- 
citability. But as a rule such stimuli are not suffi- 
cient to cause actual convulsions. It will be noticed 
that in the above list dentition is included as a cause 
of convulsions, and I believe it is far the most com- 
mon cause, although many people do not agree with 
this view. It is argued that dentition is a physio- 



CONVULSIONS IN INFANCY 223 

logical act, that a physiological act is not accom- 
panied by pain, and that consequently no convulsion 
can follow as the result of dentition. This syllogism 
is unsound in its major premise, in its minor premise, 
and in its general conclusion. There is no true 
distinction between a physiological and a patho- 
logical act; both are conservative and designed to 
preserve the life of the individual, though one may 
perhaps give pleasure and the other pain. Pain 
itself is one of the most useful and necessary pro- 
tective symptoms with which the organism is 
equipped ; it is like pleasure essentially physiological. 
The cutting of a tooth can give pain even under 
normal circumstances, a fact to which most 
of us can testify from personal experiences at 
the age of second dentition. Further, I believe 
that dentition acts both as a predisposing cause of 
raised excitability of the nervous sphere, and as an 
exciting cause, and thus it may cause convulsions 
in both senses. As a predisposing cause the grow- 
ing tooth may disturb the nutrition of those parts 
of the central nervous system with which it may be 
connected by a constant flow of efferent and afferent 
impulses, and this disturbance may overflow by 
irradiation to other parts of the nervous system, and 
raise the general level of excitability of the whole 
nervous sphere. And as the direct stimulus of a 
convulsive reflex it may act by inducing actual pain 
when the gums are touched. 



224 THE INFANT 

It is not to be expected that all should accept this 
view ; because infants who evince serious symptoms 
during teething must necessarily be in a condition of 
raised nervous excitability, and this is nearly always 
due to some independent pathological condition 
which is apparent to the trained observer. The 
fact that serious symptoms arise during the time 
of dentition in unhealthy, badly managed infants 
only does not disprove the fact that teething may be 
either one of the predisposing causes or, indeed, the 
exciting cause of convulsions or other symptoms 
in such children. It is only necessary to observe 
closely a sufficiently large number of relatively 
healthy infants to be able to disabuse one's mind 
of the belief that teething causes no symptoms. The 
reflex or irradiated influence of the erupting tooth is 
quite sufficient to cause slight symptoms in most 
infants, although in those with stable nervous 
systems the disturbance may be so slight as almost 
to escape observation. When the incisors are cut, a 
slight running from or redness of the nose may 
be the only indication of the physiological activity 
occurring in the tooth. Slight patches of eczema, 
papules on the chin, or flushing on the cheeks, some- 
times draw one's attention to the prospective erup- 
tion. Running of the eyes, earache, or pharyngeal 
cough, sometimes accompanies the cutting of the 
canines or molars. 

Personally , I always pay very considerable atten- 



CONVULSIONS IN INFANCY 225 

tion to the statements of nurses or mothers con- 
cerning the manner in which particular infants, or 
infants in the same family, are said to cut their teeth. 
Some are stated to cut them with bronchitis, some 
with diarrhoea; others merely with loss of weight; 
and yet again others with convulsions. I can cer- 
tainly confirm these statements from personal 
observation in many hundreds of cases. 

When the excitability of the nervous sphere is 
raised by dentition or other causes, the explosion, 
when it occurs, or if it occurs, represents purpose- 
less dissipation of nerve energy from the least 
well-regulated nerve centres, or from those centres 
which have been subject to similar disturbances 
before an example, as it were, of the incidence of 
disease at some locus minoris resistentice. In this 
way maybe explained the recurrence of similar symp- 
toms on the occasion of each eruption of a tooth. 

The management of convulsions and similar parox- 
ysmal neuroses in infants is clearly concerned with 
the treatment of the underlying or predisposing 
cause, and this involves so large a number of general 
considerations that I hesitate to refer to them here. 
I would, however, emphasize the fact that the con- 
dition of spasmophilia, or that condition of raised 
excitability of the whole nervous sphere to which 
I have so frequently referred in this chapter, is 
practically the same as that which we have to treat 
in cases of early rickets, and the indications for treat- 

15 



226 THE INFANT 

ment which I shall presently give for this latter 
disease will apply equally well for those conditions 
in which convulsions are the chief symptoms. The 
central nervous system must in such cases be 
protected from circulating poisons due to inappro- 
priate feeding and unhealthy intestinal conditions, 
and it must be protected from undue excitation by 
the general stimuli of the environment, whether 
these be physical, chemical, or psychological. 

I believe that the bromides exercise a restraining 
influence on the explosiveness of the central nervous 
system; and to infants inclined to convulsions I 
generally give from 12 to 30 grains of bromide of 
ammonium in the twenty-four hours. Phosphorus, 
in my experience, is almost a specific for cases of 
spasmophilia coexisting with a condition of rickets. 
It can be prescribed in the form of phosphorated 
cod-liver oil, 1 part of phosphorus being dissolved 
in 10,000 parts of the oil, the dose being 20 to 
60 drops two or three times a day. 

As far as the treatment of the actual attack is 
concerned, chloroform certainly has an immediate 
and powerful influence on convulsive seizures which 
are accompanied with spasm of muscles. In the 
so-called inward convulsions, during which the 
infant usually ceases to breathe and becomes blue 
in the face, surface stimulation by a hot mustard 
bath or a cold bath, or flagellation with a wet 
towel, usually has a most salutary effect. 



CHAPTER XI 
RICKETS: ITS CAUSE AND TREATMENT 

FROM the time that Glisson first described rickets, 
in the year 1650, until the present day pathologists 
and clinicians have been busy trying to discover the 
essential nature of the disease. Up to date this dis- 
covery has not been made, although many plausible 
theories have been forthcoming. 

A satisfactory theory of the pathogenesis of 
rickets has to fulfil a great number of conditions. 
It must explain why the disease occurs as the result 
of bad feeding, mal-hygiene, and hereditary in- 
fluence, and it has to explain a vast and hetero- 
geneous series of symptoms, their amenability to 
treatment, and their usually evanescent duration, 
even when special therapeutic measures are not 
applied. 

With respect to the pathology of rickets, there are 
a vast number of known facts ; there are also hypo- 
theses and theories innumerable. Before I attempt 
to unfold my own views on these debatable matters, 
I think it desirable to state briefly certain of the 
known facts in the etiology, pathology, and nosology 
of the disease. 

227 



228 THE INFANT 

As regards the etiology, we know that heredity 
plays a double part, which is both direct and indirect. 
We know that infants can be born with the symp- 
toms of rickets fully developed. Such cases are rare, 
but distinct from achondroplasia and osteogenesis 
imperfecta, both of which interesting conditions 
have, from time to time, been classified as varieties 
of rickets. Further, we know at least, as far as 
the bony deformities are concerned that there is at 
times a strong family predisposition to the disease, 
a predisposition which asserts itself despite the 
most careful hygienic and dietetic precautions. 

We know that rachitis is a disease of civilization, 
and most common in Northern Europe. It avoids, 
for the most part, very hot countries, very cold 
countries, and high altitudes. It occurs in the most 
crowded quarters of dense centres of population, 
where there is little sun, little air, and little room 
for movement. It does not occur among the Esqui- 
maux, although they may live in darkness for 
several consecutive months. 

It occurs among the children of the rich, who want 
for nothing, and it occurs amongst the poorest 
classes, who certainly have very little food. It 
occurs amongst breast-fed infants who are weaned 
early, as well as amongst those who are weaned late. 
It occurs amongst infants who are fed on sterilized 
milk and patent foods just as it occurs amongst 
those who are fed on raw milk. 



RICKETS 229 

The late Dr. W. B. Cheadle insisted on the fact 
that rickets was due to a deficiency in the supply of 
fat. Dr. A. C. F. Rabagliati has claimed that it is 
due to excess of carbohydrates, and Dr. Lahmann 
incriminates a defective supply of inorganic salts. 
In a word, every possible error of feeding that it is 
possible to imagine has at one time or another been 
held responsible for the causation of rickets. 

We are in possession of much experimental evi- 
dence which relates to the production and the cure 
of the condition. For instance, we know that 
rickets can be produced in animals by restriction of 
nitrogenous foods (W. A. Henry at the Wisconsin 
Experimental Station). We know that it can be 
caused by feeding them exclusively on meat, and 
cured by addition of fat (Guerin and Bland-Sutton). 

Further, we know that in active rickets there is 
always a disturbance of the "calcium balance"; 
that is to say, more calcium is excreted from the 
body than is taken in with the food, and analysis of 
the ash of the tissues of the body shows that there 
is always a defective mineralization as regards the 
calcium base, more especially in bone. 

A most important physiological observation is 
that of Nobecourt. 1 This observer has proved that 
rickety infants cannot burn up or utilize sugar 
or other soluble carbohydrates with the same 

1 Nob6court, Rev. Mens. des Mai. de VEnf., April, 1901, 
p. 161. 



230 THE INFANT 

facility as normal infants; in other words, rickety 
infants have a low " index of utilization " with 
respect to sugar ; they very readily give evidence of 
glycosuria when fed on an excess of soluble carbo- 
hydrates. 

Araki 1 and Irisawa, 2 working in Hoppe-Seyler's 
laboratory, proved that animals fed on a liberal diet 
of carbohydrates produced more lactic acid when 
the oxygen supply was restricted than when the 
allowance was unlimited. 

Finlay 3 produced rickets in young animals by 
depriving them of exercise, whereas the control 
animals, with a free opportunity for exercise, showed 
no evidence of the disease. 

Any satisfactory theory of the pathogenesis of 
rickets must offer some explanation of these facts. 
Do the theories which have heretofore been ad- 
vanced harmonize with them ? 

The favourite theory in this country is that rickets 
is due to a deficient supply of fat. This seems to me 
an unsatisfactory explanation. Rickets certainly 
does occur in fat starvation, but it also occurs in 
infants who consume an excess of fat. 

Rickets has been regarded as due to the develop- 
ment of an acidosis an over-production of lactic 
acid, carbonic acid, and other acids. 

1 Zeitsch. f. Phys. Chem., vol. xv., p. 546. 

2 Ibid., vol. xvii., p. 340. 

3 Pfaimdler and Schlossmann (second edition), vol. ii., 
p. 106. 



RICKETS 231 

As militating against this theory, it has been urged 
that the removal of calcium from the body and the 
resultant changes in bone which are caused by an 
artificially induced acidosis differ from analogous 
processes in true rickets in the following respects : 
In an artificially produced acidosis the bony changes 
are those of a simple osteoporosis which can be cured 
by the administration of calcium salts, whereas in 
true rickets such administration has no beneficial 
influence on the osseous development. Further, it 
has been argued against that particular variety of 
acidosis which is known as " carbonic acid intoxica- 
tion " (Wachsmuth's carbonic acid theory) that in 
congenital morbus cordis, where the excess of car- 
bonic acid in the blood may be extreme, there is no 
definite tendency for the development of the 
rachitic symptoms. 

The conception that rickets is an infective dis- 
order is no more satisfactory. If it is merely an 
infective disorder, why can it be produced at will 
by want of fat, excess of carbohydrates, want of 
exercise, and deprivation or excess of other elements 
in the food ? 

That rickets is essentially a nervous disorder has 
been held by many writers. The prominence of 
nervous manifestations lends colour to this theory. 
Nervous irritability, spasmus nutans, laryngismus 
stridulus, convulsions, tetany, paresis of muscles, 
and general want of tone in both striped and un- 



232 THE INFANT 

striped muscles, and dystrophies of bone and other 
tissues are only some of the more common pheno- 
mena which are clearly compatible with such an 
explanation. It may be argued that these nervous 
symptoms are simply indicative of some underlying 
pathological process such, for instance, as the 
depletion of the system of calcium salts and that 
they are not primary factors in the disease itself. 

One of the latest theories is that of Stoeltzner, 1 
which connects rickets with disease of the adrenal 
bodies. He asserts that not only are the adrenals 
small in rickets, but that they are also deficient in 
adrenalin. He claims that adrenalin benefits cases 
of rickets, and that it has a similarly beneficial 
influence in cases of osteomalacia, which is practi- 
cally the same disease. 

The peculiar dilatation of bloodvessels, and of 
hollow viscera, as well as the want of tone in the 
muscles of rachitic infants, and the known physio- 
logical action of adrenalin in promoting tone in in- 
voluntary muscles, are of course suggestive that 
there may be some association between adrenal 
disease and rickets. The conception, however, that 
a disease so common as rickets can be due in all 
cases to the implication of one organ seems alto- 
gether an extravagant and narrow view. 

For my part, I do not believe for one moment 

1 Stoeltzner, Jahrb. f. Kinderheilk., 1899; and Pfaundler 
and Schlossmann (second edition), vol. ii., p. 106. 



RICKETS 233 

that the pathological processes underlying rickets 
are capable of being explained in this exceedingly 
simple manner. 

Just as the etiology of rickets is complex, and the 
symptoms manifold, so do I believe that the patho- 
logy is composite and involved. 

Moreover, I am not at all sure that we are quite 
right in describing as rickets many of the cases 
of mal-nutrition which are commonly regarded as 
such. I think in the past we have been somewhat 
careless in our conception and in our definitions 
of the disease. Such symptoms as sweating about 
the head, muscular debility, and nerve irritability 
are often seen either in combination or alone 
without any indications whatsoever of the typical 
bony deformities of rickets. And, on the other 
hand, I have seen many cases of typical bony 
deformity in children twelve to eighteen months 
of age who have not previously shown any con- 
stitutional symptoms, and who have had, as far 
as one could judge, most excellent health that is 
to say, who have shown a good weight-chart, have 
cut their teeth at the normal times, have walked 
before they have been a year old, and have had 
no symptoms of indigestion. 

These curious cases of perverted growth of bone, 
and chiefly of the long bones, unaccompanied by 
any other of the symptoms usually expected in 
rickets, seem to be connected with a very strong 



234 THE INFANT 

hereditary predisposition, and in my opinion have 
a close affinity with syphilis, though of an attenuated 
form, which has been passed down through two or 
three generations. 

I certainly believe that many cases of rickets with 
marked bony deformity have a syphilitic taint. 

The views as to the pathogenesis of rickets which 
follow are intended to apply to that syndrome of 
symptoms which is usually described in our text- 
books that is to say, to a general disease of the 
whole system, and not to a disease of bone alone. 

I think that the pathogenesis of the disease thus 
defined must be regarded as a vicious cycle of 
events in which each individual link in the chain 
acts and reacts on the others. In describing this 
vicious cycle it is difficult to know at what point 
to begin ; indeed, in the production of rickets there 
is no one starting-point; the disease may start in a 
variety of ways. 

The vicious cycle may be briefly described as con- 
sisting of an inefficient liver associated with a dis- 
turbed central nervous system acting and reacting 
on one another. 

These are the two pathological pivots on which, 
according to my view, the symptoms mainly hinge. 

The liver may be primarily damaged by faulty 
methods of feeding, from abuse of its functions, or 
from overwork, or it may be inherently or con- 
genitally weak. As a rule there is first indigestion, 



RICKETS 235 

with the formation of toxic products of indigestion, 
then efforts on the part of the liver to oxidize or 
destroy these products, then collapse or failure of 
liver function with the escape of these unoxidized 
products into the general circulation, and finally 
poisoning of the nervous system itself. 

Poisoning of the nervous system, from whatever 
cause induced, not only intensifies the liver ineffi- 
ciency by interfering with its nervous mechanism, 
but it also leads to incapacity of other furnaces 
in the body, and herein lies the essence of the vicious 
cycle of events. In rickets we find loss of mus- 
cular tone or even pseudo-paralysis. If the liver 
and other great furnaces of the body are incapaci- 
tated, normal food-products absorbed into the 
circulation can no longer be oxidized to their normal 
end-products, nor can they be readily disposed of 
by other physiological means. Hence follows an 
acidosis, and for the neutralization of these acids all 
available bases are called into requisition. The 
tissues are thus deprived of calcium, ammonium, and 
other bases. It it difficult to neutralize such an 
acidosis by the artificial administration of calcium 
or other metallic salts, for such bodies usually enter 
the circulation already saturated with acid radicles. 
This may explain why we fail to cure rickets by 
the administration of calcium salts or other alkalies. 
Moreover, correction of the acidosis does not remove 
the underlying cause. When, however, there has 



236 THE INFANT 

been fat-starvation, it is understandable how the 
administration of fat may check the acidosis, for 
fat may enter the circulation in combination with 
sodium, potassium or other metallic bases in the form 
of soaps. And within the tissues such soaps may 
yield up their bases for the neutralization of free 
acids, while the fatty acids may be stored up as 
fat or employed for the purposes of energy produc- 
tion or for the building of nerve-tissue. 

There can be no doubt that any depression of the 
central nervous system brought about by an existing 
acidosis or toxaemia must lower the capacity of the 
whole system for utilizing such food-products as 
may be absorbed. This may explain the low " index 
of utilization " and want of muscular tone in rickety 
infants. 

The bony changes are partly explained by the 
acidosis, partly by the great activity of the haemo- 
genetic functions of the marrow which are called 
for by the existing conditions, and partly by the 
interruption of normal trophic impulses emanating 
from the central nervous system. 

In all toxsemic conditions and the same is true of 
conditions of acidosis there may be a great destruc- 
tion of the red blood-cells in fact, a free haemolysis. 
In rickets these conditions would cause an intense 
anaemia were it not for the compensatory activity of 
the haemogenetic organs of the body. Findlay 1 has 
shown that so far from anaemia being universal in 
1 Findlay, British Medical Journal, May 15, 1909. 



RICKETS 237 

rickety conditions, it is seldom found, owing to the 
compensatory activity of the blood-forming tissues. 
This compensatory action may explain the conges- 
tion of the epiphyses. In other words, the typical 
bone changes which are characteristic of rickets 
may be due partly to the acidosis which deprives 
the bone of its metallic bases, and partly to hyper- 
nutrition of the epiphyses due to a compensatory or 
conservative activity of the blood-forming marrow 
necessitated by a threatened anaemia. 

Put into simple terms, rickets is due to a relative 
overfeeding, or to a relative incapacity on the part 
of the tissues to put ingested and absorbed food to 
physiological use. It is generally accompanied by 
disturbance of digestion, and always accompanied 
by disturbance of the central nervous system. All 
those etiological factors which depress vitality or 
metabolism will contribute to the rachitic state, 
whereas all those therapeutic resources, such as 
sunlight, cold air, friction, massage, exercise, move- 
ment, nerve tonics, and stimulants find at once in 
this theory a rational explanation. Even the re- 
puted benefit of adrenalin can be explained in the 
terms of this theory, because, as we know well, it 
promotes the tone of involuntary muscle. In other 
words, it promotes the physiological activity of 
muscle, and thus creates a demand for food, and at 
the same time it may prevent vascular congestion 
of the epiphyses of bone. 

This theory also, in some degree, explains why 



238 THE INFANT 

rickets is seldom found in conditions of marasmus 
or atrophy ; under such conditions food is voided by 
vomiting or diarrhoea it is not absorbed, nor, indeed, 
are the products of decomposition. Hence there is 
no overfeeding, no excess of food, relative or absolute, 
requiring oxidation within the tissues, and conse- 
quently there is no acidosis. No acidosis, no disturb- 
ance of the calcium balance, no ansemia, and no 
bony changes. 

In the rachitic infant the stomach, intestines, and 
liver are often enormous. 1 There are also at times 
great reserves of food stored up in the tissues as fat, 
glycogen, or low forms of connective tissue; but 
the nobler tissues, such as the muscles and the 
nervous system, are generally in a condition of 
delayed or arrested development. 

Rickets, then, is a disease which is generally 
caused by inappropriate food; this causes indiges- 
tion, taxes the scavenging functions of the liver, 
and finally poisons the nervous system. Then 
follows impairment of function of all the important 
organs which are under nervous control. Absorbed 
food is then not utilized to the full and burnt up 
to its end products, carbonic acid and urea. It is 
only half oxidized, and hence a condition of acidosis 
is produced; the acidosis causes a disturbance of 
the calcium balance, and the demineralization of 
bone. The toxaemia and acidosis combined tend 
to produce an ansemia, which, however, seldom 
1 Marian, Rev. Mens. des Mai. de VEnf., February, 1895. 



RICKETS 239 

actually develops owing to the compensatory activity 
of theheemogenetic organs of the body (red marrow). 
The overactivity of the blood-forming elements in 
bone leads to the well-known deformities of bone 
(enlargement of epiphyses), deformities which are 
intensified by the want of normal nervous (trophic) 
control. 

The rational treatment of rickets comprises, first 
and foremost, the regulation of the diet on physio- 
logical lines. The diet must be designed to meet 
the requirements of digestion, tissue metabolism, 
and of development. A physiological demand for 
food must be created by the application of all those 
external forms of stimulation which act reflexly 
through the nervous system on the muscles, and 
which are responsible for the maintenance of mus- 
cular tone. Such stimuli are light, changes of 
temperature (cold air, cold douches, etc.), massage, 
friction, and handling or playing with the infant. 
In a word, treatment must be designed to prevent 
overfeeding that is to say, relatively to the infant's 
power of metabolism. 

If this conception of the pathogenesis of rickets 
cannot adequately explain all its many and varied 
manifestations, I believe that it constitutes, at 
least, a rational basis for its prevention. The only 
cases of rickets occurring among the infants who 
have been brought to my infant consultations, 
which I have been unable to prevent, are those in 
whom the hereditary bias to dystrophy of bone has 



240 THE INFANT 

been overwhelmingly strong. I have some records 
of cases in which rickets has developed after the 
first year, although during the first twelve months 
of life there has no been suggestion or suspicion of 
rickets, indigestion, acidosis, or muscular debility. 
In all these cases there has been a strong and un- 
mistakable family predisposition to the disease. 

I regard such prophylactic measures as the 
graduated cold bath and free opportunity for mus- 
cular exercise as only second in importance to the 
avoidance of dietaries which, in respect of quality 
and quantity, are calculated to disturb the develop- 
ing functions of digestion. 

I wish to anticipate an objection to this theory 
which will naturally occur to those who critically 
examine it namely, that overfeeding cannot be a 
cause of rickets in semi-starved infants. To this I 
reply firstly, that, in my experience, semi-starved 
infants rarely develop rickets; and, secondly, that 
under certain conditions almost any food, no matter 
how little, may represent a relative excess (see 
Chapter III., p. 87). An infant who is incapa- 
citated by reason of its nervous depression from 
performing muscular movements, whose muscles 
are without tone, and in whom the liver is function- 
ally paralyzed, is only able to apply the smallest 
quantity of food to physiological use ; and if not put 
to physiological use, it will lead to an acidosis and a 
glycosuria, both of which are important elements in 
the syndrome of rickets. 



CHAPTER XII 

THE TEACHING OF MOTHERCRAFT AND ITS 
INFLUENCE ON INFANT MORTALITY 

IT is not my intention to refer at length to the 
history of the movement which has resulted in the 
establishment of health societies, infant consulta- 
tions, schools for mothers, and such-like institutions, 
which have been actively engaged in the teaching of 
mothercraft in this country, further than to indicate 
certain milestones which have marked its progress. 
In the first place, it is interesting to record that 
one of the very first of these institutions was founded 
in Liverpool in the year 1893, under the title of 
" The Ladies' Sanitary Institution," and that in the 
neighbouring city of Manchester a somewhat similar 
association namely, " The Ladies' Public Health 
Society " was brought into being at an even earlier 
date, in the year 1 887. It cannot be claimed that the 
work undertaken by these pioneer societies was 
specifically directed towards the amelioration of the 
lot of infants, nor for the teaching of mothercraft, 
but it operated indirectly in this direction, and 
paved the way for the particular kind of work, 

241 16 



242 THE INFANT 

which first took concrete shape in Wakefield in 
1903, under the energetic lead of Miss Marguerite 
Le F. Boileau, and in 1904 in Huddersfield through 
the initiative by Mr. Benjamin Broadbent. 

The first health society to be founded in London 
was that of Westminster, in the year 1904, a large 
and energetically conducted society which depended 
for its success on a carefully organized system of 
house-to-house visiting. 

In the year 190 6^ St. Marylebone widened the 
field of activities open to such societies by the institu- 
tion of a centre under medical supervision to 
which infants could be brought for periodic exam- 
ination and advice ; this system of medical inspection 
(infant consultations), combined with house-to- 
house visitation by properly qualified voluntary 
health visitors, has formed the basis on which most 
of the more modern health societies have been con- 
stituted. In the following year, 1907, St. Pancras 
organized a still more ambitious association, which, 
under the title of Schools for Mothers, included 
under one roof a system of medical inspection, a res- 
taurant for nursing-mothers, classes for needlework, 
cookery, and all those other branches of domestic 
economy which are now understood under the term 
" mothercraft." From this time forward in rapid 
succession, and in almost bewildering numbers, new 
associations were inaugurated in Birmingham, 
Reading, Stepney, and other large centres of popula- 



INFLUENCE OF MOTHERCRAFT 243 

tion, all of them directing, in a voluntary capacity, 
their energies towards the relief of infant mortality, 
and most of them working in the closest co-operation 
with the Public Health Authority. In 1909 the 
number of these societies had so increased that their 
federation under a central society was considered to 
be justified. Thus was founded a society which at 
first was known as the Society of Infant Consulta- 
tions, and which within eighteen months of its 
foundation was merged, as an independent depart- 
ment, in the larger organization of the National 
League for Physical Education and Improvement. 
This new department was called the Association 
of Infant Consultations and Schools for Mothers, 
and it is now a most flourishing and active body, 
to which are affiliated 118 local societies, with 217 
branches in different parts of the country. The 
work of this association is mainly concerned in the 
co-ordination of the activities of local societies, in 
the collection of statistics, in the promotion of new 
branches, in the preparation and distribution of 
leaflets and Press literature bearing on the subject 
of mothercraft. It also organizes National and 
Inter-school Mothercraft Competitions, and in many 
other ways brings its influence to bear on the main- 
tenance of a high standard of efficiency in the work 
done by the affiliated societies. 

It is difficult to appraise with any degree of accu- 
racy the extent to which this voluntary movement 



244 THE INFANT 

has been instrumental in lessening the mortality 
among infants in this country, because its work has 
been so inextricably bound up with that of the Public 
Health services, and because its influence is in 
many ways oblique and indirect. It is, however, 
well to remember that most of the factors which are 
generally considered as having an important bearing 
on the mitigation of infant mortality I mean such 
factors as improved public sanitation, greater material 
prosperity, better housing, and a higher standard of 
living had full opportunity of proving their influ- 
ence in this direction during that period of unex- 
ampled sanitary and hygienic reform which extended 
from the middle to the close of the last century. 
During this period the general death-rate continued 
to fall in a way that falsified the preconceptions of 
statisticians, and yet the death-rate for England 
and Wales among infants under one year of age 
remained during the last four years of the century 
at exactly the same figure namely, 155 per 1,000 
births as it stood at during the four years included 
between 1861 and 1865. 

During the last fourteen years the death-rate 
among infants has steadily fallen in England and 
Wales, and in 1912 reached the satisfactory figure 
of 95. In London itself the fall has been even more 
conspicuous, and has now reached 91. It would 
be illogical to ascribe these striking results to any 
one cause, but they must clearly be due to some 



INFLUENCE OF MOTHERCRAFT 245 

new influence or influences not in operation before 
1900. The falling birth-rate, and many other 
national, social, and economic conditions have all 
combined to enhance the value of infants, and hence 
more care and vigilance have been exercised both by 
private individuals and public authorities to pro- 
tect and preserve this valuable asset. The period 
of decline in the death-rate among infants has 
coincided with one of immense advance in our know- 
ledge of the feeding and general management of 
infants and young children. During this period 
almost a new branch of medicine has been created, 
a branch which is exclusively devoted to the study 
of the child in health, as distinct from the child in 
disease. The two branches are necessarily com- 
plementary, but up to the end of last century our 
students were taught to attach an exaggerated im- 
portance to morbid symptoms. To-day all this is 
very different. Our whole system of medical service 
is changing, and our chief energies are now directed 
towards the prevention and early detection of small 
ailments in the child before they have assumed 
serious proportions, and while they are still 
amenable to treatment. 

Experience gained at Gouttes de Lait and other 
institutions, where large numbers of infants have 
been kept constantly under skilled medical observa- 
tion, has revealed some very curious facts. It has 
shown, for instance, that the successful management 



246 THE INFANT 

of infants, whether breast-fed or bottle-fed, depends 
on the observance of a few very simple rules and 
principles which can be easily taught by a good 
teacher to moderately intelligent mothers, and very 
easily followed out in the home, in spite of unfavour- 
able social, economic, and hygienic conditions. 

Although I do not claim it as a proof of this state- 
ment, I submit the following as an instance of what 
can be done by good mothercraft in the face of 
economic disadvantages and necessarily bad hygienic 
conditions : The second prize in the recent Mother- 
craft Competitions in London was awarded to a 
poor woman who was successfully bringing up a 
family of three on a weekly allowance of 11s. 6d. 

The late Professor Pierre Budin very clearly 
proved, in his Clinique Tarnier, that good manage- 
ment was the chief factor in the prevention of infant 
mortality, and it has also been proved at the School for 
Mothers in Ghent with results which a friend of mine 
described the other day as being " too good to be 
true. ' ' To these latter results I shall return later, but 
for the moment I would indicate briefly the simple 
principles on which the successful management of 
infants has been shown to depend. This knowledge 
has been arrived at by the collective evidence of a 
large number of Schools for Mothers in France, 
Belgium, and England. If infants are breast-fed, 
the feedings must be given at absolutely regular in- 
tervals and at not too short intervals; the infants 



INFLUENCE OF MOTHERCKAFT 247 

must not sleep in the same beds as their mothers, 
and they must not be fed more than once at night, 
preferably not at all. They must not be wrapped 
up in too many clothes; they must not have stiff 
binders which impede movement, and when it is 
added that they must be regularly bathed, regularly 
aired, and regularly exercised, it may almost be 
claimed that all the canons of good mothercraft 
have been enumerated. Infants do not die because 
they do not receive enough food; they die because 
they are fed irregularly or too often, or because they 
are given too much. They do not die because they 
are exposed to cold and the inclemency of the 
weather; they die because they are kept too much 
indoors, with windows and doors too closely sealed ; 
they die because they have too many clothes, not 
because they shiver in rags ; they do not die because 
they are unloved and uncared for, they die because 
they are rocked and nursed and comforted too 
much; they die, in fact, for want of the exercise of 
good mothercraft, and not from poverty, starvation, 
or bad sanitation. Infants will live and thrive in 
spite of poverty and bad sanitation, but they will 
not survive bad mothercraft; and this is the dis- 
covery that schools for mothers have made, and 
the secret of this huge fall in the mortality -rate 
during the last ten years. This discovery has 
filtered down from expert sources to the lower levels 
of intelligence, and it has welled up from the springs 



248 THE INFANT 

below and permeated every social stratum. To-day 
it is actually and literally safer 1 for an infant to be 
born in the most unsalubrious area of the East End 
of London than it was fourteen years ago to be 
born in the healthiest and most favoured parts of 
Hampstead, and I maintain that this extraordinary 
result has been mainly secured by the spread of a 
knowledge of mothercraft through various public 
agencies, and through the research and prop- 
aganda work of Schools for Mothers, not from 
changes in climatic, hygienic, economic or social 
conditions. 

It has now become the fashion to take an intelli- 
gent interest in matters of health generally, but in 
knowledge which relates to the health of babies I 
notice the most extraordinary improvement of 
recent years. Fathers, as well as mothers, now often 
make quite a study of the subject, and what with the 
active missionary work of whole armies of health 
workers, official as well as voluntary, and the educa- 
tional influence of School Care Committees, enlight- 
ened knowledge on these subjects is spreading through 
the land like a fierce and living contagion. The most 
active foci of infection are undoubtedly those little 
beehives of industry which are known as Infant Con- 
sultations or Schools for Mothers. Here congregate 
together all those who take the keenest interest 

1 The death-rate in Hampstead in 1901 was 102, in 
Stepney 164. In 1912 the death-rate in Stepney was 105, 
and in Hampstead 62. 



INFLUENCE OF MOTHEBCRAFT 249 

in infant welfare work doctors, nurses, mothers, 
daughters, and sometimes fathers; and here pass 
in review before the eyes of intelligent observation 
all the phases of health, development, and diseases. 

To my mind, it is impossible to over-estimate the 
value of such object-lessons. In the old days of 
ignorance women were counted authorities in baby 
management if they had had a tolerably large ex- 
perience in their own families, no matter how un- 
happy those experiences may have been. We know 
how misleading knowledge derived from narrow 
experiences may be, for certain infants will occa- 
sionally survive the most monstrous mismanage- 
ment, though the same treatment imposed on other 
infants may have the most fatal consequences. 

At infant consultations visitors can see not only 
individual infants, but scores of infants, treated 
according to various methods, and they can 
observe the results and draw their own conclusions. 
For this reason I regard it as important that the 
medical direction of these institutions should be in 
the best and most skilful hands. Budin said an 
infant consultation was as good as the man who 
conducts it; now perhaps we should say as the 
woman who conducts it. It is therefore a matter 
for congratulation that there is a distinct tendency 
for the more highly qualified practitioner to take 
up this class of work. In London, and in some of 
the larger provincial towns, the same class of men 
or women who hold hospital appointments are giving 



250 THE INFANT 

their time and services to this new work, and with 
no loss of dignity to themselves; for it is be- 
coming more and more recognized that preventive 
medicine is one of the highest and worthiest branches 
of our profession. 

Infant consultations are not yet utilized to full 
advantage as schools for medical students, young 
mothers of the upper and middle classes, and pos- 
sibly for some of the older girls in the elementary 
and secondary schools. They certainly afford most 
valuable opportunities for the instruction of domestic 
and trained nurses. 

Not only is it desirable that highly qualified 
medical men and women should give their services 
to these institutions, but I also regard it as of im- 
mense importance that, as regards the methods of 
artificial feeding employed, more than one system 
should be tried, in order that their respective 
merits may be demonstrated to those who attend 
for the purposes of instruction. At one infant con- 
sultation with which I am acquainted, one of the 
doctors in attendance is an advocate of raw milk, 
another of pasteurized. No doubt some useful de- 
ductions as to the respective advantages of the two 
methods will be forthcoming as the result of the 
varied demonstrations. At my own consultation I 
employ every system with which I am acquainted, 
and I continually introduce new methods and new 
devices for improving or attempting to improve the 
results we obtain. 



INFLUENCE OP MOTHERORAFT 251 

To indicate how a change of methods can influence 
the mortality and morbidity rate among the infants 
on whom they are practised I would give the follow- 
ing examples : In the year 1891, before the Nathan- 
Strauss Pasteurizing Milk Stations were opened in 
the old city of New York, the deaths from epidemic 
diarrhoea among children under five years of age 
were at the rate of 1 25 per 1 ,000 for the three months, 
June, July, and August. From the year of their 
institution until the present time the rate has been 
steadily falling, until last year it was reduced to the 
highly creditable figure of 38. 1 

It is not claimed that other factors are not con- 
cerned in this result as, for instance, the more exact 
measurement of the milk supplied to infants which 
the Nathan- Strauss system involves but there can 
be no question but that the main factor has been 
the supply of clean safe milk, instead of the highly 
dangerous and foul milk which was previously dis- 
tributed in this quarter of New York during the 
summer months. Experience has proved that the 
precaution of sterilizing milk in the home with the 
same purpose in view has similarly been instrumental 
in decreasing the number of cases of diarrhoea in the 
hot weather, and to teach how this can be done 
efficiently is one of the functions of a school for 
mothers. Again, Dr. G. Variot, 2 who has had a 
very wide experience in the medical supervision of 

1 The Lancet, May 30, 1914, p. 1556. 

2 La Clinique Infantile, May 15, 1914, p. 289. 



252 THE INFANT 

a large number of infants at his Goutte de Lait, 
Belville, Paris, has been able to show that if sufficient 
care be taken in the management of artificial feeding, 
the condition of nutrition at the twelfth month is 
not necessarily inferior to that of breast-fed infants. 

Now, to return to the experiences of the School for 
Mothers at Ghent which were characterized by my 
friend as being " too good to be true." I give these 
on the authority of Professor Porcher l of Lyons. In 
1901 the death-rate of the infants attending at the 
consultation was 260 per 1,000, a most appalling 
figure. Two years later, in 1903, sterilized milk was 
substituted for so-called " fresh milk " in the arti- 
cial feeding of those infants who were not breast-fed, 
and the death-rate fell to 140 per 1,000. In 1907 a 
system of domiciliary visiting was inaugurated, and 
the rate fell to 60 per 1,000. In 1908 dried milk was 
substituted for sterilized milk, and the rate fell to 
34 per 1,000. 

The experiences of Marylebone in this connection 
may not be without interest, for before the campaign 
of instruction began this central metropolitan 
borough was, from the point of view of infant mor- 
tality, one of the worst in London. 

The borough of St. Marylebone has an estimated 
population of 123,000, and although it has a 
large number of very poor inhabitants and a large 
slum quarter, a considerable part of the district is 
occupied by shops and large business premises. It 
1 Le Lait Desseche, p. 122. 



INFLUENCE OF MOTHERCRAFT 253 

also contains a high-class residential population, 
living in large, well -construe ted houses, private and 
flats ; and, further, it has the distinction of contain- 
ing those famous streets and squares where doctors 
most do congregate. Thus, right in the very centre 
of Marylebone are Harley Street, Wimpole Street, 
Welbeck Street, Cavendish Square, Portman Square, 
and Portland Place, all of which are almost ex- 
clusively occupied by medical men. In Marylebone, 
therefore, if anywhere in England, we ought to find 
in practical operation all the expedients for the 
preservation of infant life which are known to 
medical science. Yet here in Marylebone, at the 
very doorstep of Esculapius, in a comparatively well- 
to-do district, with all the resources of civilization 
to hand, there was, but fifteen years ago i.e., in 
1899 an infant mortality of 190 per 1,000 births. 

There was good reason, therefore, why Marylebone 
should set its house in order, and this, I think I may 
say, it has done, for to-day the infantile mortality- 
rate is 90. How has this feat been accomplished ? 
I cannot afford the time to enter into all the details 
of sanitary reform introduced into the borough by 
a succession of distinguished and energetic Medical 
Officers of Health, commencing with Dr. Winter 
Blyth, continuing with Dr. Meredith Young, and 
now represented in the active personality of Dr. 
Charles Porter. All of these have effected reforms 
and all have left the impression of their office on a 
continuously declining mortality-rate. Who can 



254 THE INFANT 

place his finger on the factor which has contributed 
chiefly to this splendid result ? Is it chiefly due to 
the clearing away of plague centres, insanitary dwell- 
ings, and the thinning out of areas of congested 
population ? Is it due to improved cleaning, 
scavenging, watering, and paving of the streets ? 
Is it due to closer inspection of tenements, to a more 
liberal supply of water, or to improved drainage in 
the houses ? Is it due to an improvement in the 
milk-supply, and the more careful supervision of 
dairies ? Who shall say ? But we all know that 
each one of these factors has contributed its quota 
to the result on which Marylebone justly prides 
itself, and all praise to those who have been respon- 
sible for these several reforms. 

It is not, however, with sanitary and municipal 
matters of this kind important as they undoubtedly 
are that I propose for the moment to concern 
myself. The great and important factors in infant 
mortality are ignorance and the many secondary 
disabilities that poverty brings in its train. Poverty, 
primarily and directly, I do not hold responsible for 
nearly as many deaths as ignorance, but poverty 
secondarily and indirectly is, of course, a mighty 
factor in the problem. For poverty implies dirt and 
overcrowding ; it often keeps the mother away from 
the home and compels her to go out to work; and 
it often leads to drink, thriftlessness, and despair. 
Actual want of food I do not regard as an important 
factor in infant mortality. Infants live and thrive 



INFLUENCE OF MOTHERCRAFT 255 

on exceptionally small quantities of milk, whether 
it be breast-milk or cow's milk ; but they die 
in shoals because they are given too much, or 
because it is given too frequently, or too strong, or 
otherwise ill-adjusted to their needs. 

When Marylebone began its serious work in 1906 
the infantile death-rate was 121. As I have already 
said, in 1899 it stood at 190. To this level it had 
been reduced chiefly by sanitary reform. In Feb- 
ruary of that year (1906) there was convened at the 
Boroughs' Public Health Offices an open meeting of 
all those individuals and representatives of public 
bodies or societies who were interested in questions 
affecting the public health, sanitation, or infant 
mortality. And at this meeting, which was very 
largely attended, a society called the Borough of 
St. Marylebone Health Society was formally in- 
augurated. The society was composed of represen- 
tatives of the Public Health Department, with the 
Medical Officer of Health (Dr. Wynter Blyth) as 
chairman ; it included representatives of the Charity 
Organization Society, of the Churches, Chapels, 
Dispensaries, Hospitals, and Charitable Institutions 
in the Borough. In fact, every organization was 
represented which could in any way promote the 
objects of the society. The objects of this voluntary 
society were to act in co-operation with the Public 
Health Department, and to extend and amplify its 
work in connection with the prevention of the spread 
of tuberculosis and the saving of infant life by 



256 THE INFANT 

means of voluntary effort to inaugurate, in fact, 
" a system of voluntary service in a municipal 
setting." To accomplish this object, the society 
set itself to work to organize a service of voluntary 
workers for the whole district. 

Its first work was to find suitable volunteers for 
this service ; these were chiefly recruited from among 
the wives and daughters of medical men in the 
neighbourhood. I suppose that no society of this 
kind has ever been favoured with so energetic and 
serious-minded a company of workers as those who 
were first numbered in the ranks of the St. Maryle 
bone Health Society. Having obtained recruits, 
we proceeded to organize : we arranged a very com- 
plete series of lectures and demonstrations, covering 
all the subjects that would be useful or necessary for 
the work. Then we divided the Borough into dis- 
tricts and subdistricts, formed independent com- 
mittees for each, and divided up our workers as 
economically and impartially as we were able. In 
our two branches of work i.e., that concerned 
with the prevention of consumption and the saving 
of infant life there has been continued an un- 
broken progress. Our work among consumptives 
has culminated in a fully equipped tuberculosis dis- 
pensary and an open-air school for consumptive 
children, supported by voluntary contributions. 
With respect to the second department of the work 
i.e., that which is concerned with combating 
infant mortality I propose to describe the system 



INFLUENCE OF MOTHERCRAFT 257 

as it operates at the present time, and omit the 
preliminary stages of its evolution and expansion. 

Our Public Health Department, under the Early 
Notification of Births Act, is informed of all births 
which occur in the Borough within thirty-six hours 
of the time of birth. The houses in which these 
births occur are then visited by members of the staff 
of salaried women sanitary inspectors. These in- 
spectors are highly qualified and fully instructed in 
all matters that relate to the management of infants ; 
moreover, they have been carefully selected for their 
qualities of tact ; they talk with the mothers, and 
give them such oral or printed directions as they 
think necessary. If they observe that the condi- 
tions are bad, they make a second call at a short 
interval, or depute one of the voluntary health 
workers to visit the case. If the services of the 
latter are called into requisition, such voluntary 
health visitor as may be appointed takes over the 
case and in future keeps a vigilant eye on the mother 
and baby. If the case requires medical supervision 
or in any way proves intractable, the voluntary 
health visitor refers the infant to one of the infant 
consultations which have been established in the 
Borough ; and it is about these infant consultations 
that I wish particularly to speak, for by means of 
them a knowledge of mothercraft has been widely 
disseminated throughout the district. 

In 1906, when it was thought that the work in 

17 



258 THE INFANT 

Marylebone would be greatly furthered if we could 
have some central station where infants could be 
referred for medical inspection, advice, and treat- 
ment, there were no institutions of this kind in 
England. There were already established a few 
milk depots, conducted very much after the manner 
of the so-called Gouttes de Lait in France and 
Belgium, for the most part without any medical 
supervision; but these institutions never had been 
a success in England, and they had always proved 
most expensive. Besides, our idea was to supply 
very little milk and a great deal of advice; in fact, 
we wanted to encourage breast-feeding all we could, 
and allow these new institutions to act rather as 
educational centres than as centres for relief. 

The establishment of an infant consultation was 
therefore quite an experiment in England, and in 
order that it might prove a success I visited some 
of the best-known institutions in Belgium and on 
the Continent, and borrowed from them some of 
their best, or what I conceived to be their best, 
points, and modified them to suit our own con- 
ditions. From the first it was my aim to conduct 
my consultation on lines as scientific as possible, 
to make it a teaching centre for voluntary health 
workers, and to a certain extent a school for 
medical men and nurses engaged in similar kinds 
of work. This latter aim is at present in course of 
development. 

To these ends I have a very complete system of 



INFLUENCE OF MOTHERCRAFT 259 

note-taking. We record particulars of the family 
history, of the past and present history of the 
infant itself, of its physical condition, and of the 
advice given. The notes are taken by health visi- 
tors, of whom generally some four to six are present 
during the holding of the consultation. One of the 
official sanitary inspectors also attends at my con- 
sultations, and acts as my chief of staff. As this 
lady has been working at my clinic some five or six 
years, it may readily be imagined that much of the 
work devolves on her shoulders. Two other col- 
leagues of this lady also attend on two other days 
at consultations which are held in another district 
of the Borough. To carry out the idea of making 
the consultation a teaching centre, I have consis- 
tently refused to be restricted to any one system of 
feeding. I use all methods impartially. I employ 
whole milk, citrated whole milk, carefully home- 
modified diluted milk, specially modified milk sold at 
special dairies, condensed milk, and dried milk, and 
in all cases the mothers are taught how to prepare 
the food at home. I have kept a careful record of 
the results, and they will be published in due course. 
Breast-feeding is conducted on the most up-to- 
date and approved lines. A test -feed that is to 
say, an estimation of the amount of breast-milk 
taken at a feeding is made in every case, and the 
feeding regulated in accordance. If the breast-milk 
proves insufficient in quantity or weak in quality, 
supplementary feedings of modified milk, or dried 



260 THE INFANT 

milk, are given in all cases. There is individual 
attention to each case, and our breast-fed infants 
do particularly well. By means of supplementary 
feedings, many babies continue at the breast who 
without them might be reduced to artificial feeding. 

The health visitors always follow up the cases that 
attend at the consultations, and by periodical visits 
to the home see that the instructions are carried out. 

Although we see a considerable number of normal 
cases at the consultations, we see also a large variety 
of difficult and abnormal cases, which require special 
treatment; the experience which we all get from 
these cases is very valuable. The number of mothers 
attending has steadily increased during the eight 
years the consultations have been in operation, but 
I have never aimed at great numbers. I have tried 
to make the work at the clinic " intensive rather than 
extensive." I have concentrated on the thorough 
education of a few mothers rather than on the 
superficial instruction of many. The number of 
new cases in 1913 was 178, and the number of indi- 
vidual attendances 1,223. 

It is especially in connection with the initiation 
and organization of voluntary work of this kind 
that a central co-ordinating society, such as the 
Association of Infant Consultation, and Schools for 
Mothers can be so useful ; for at its conferences, 
discussions and committee meetings, we have not only 
many opportunities for the exchange of experience 
and the comparison of statistics, but we have all 



INFLUENCE OF MOTHERCRAFT 261 

the machinery for the direct and rapid dissemination 
of new and useful knowledge. In this connection 
I attach great importance to the recent Press cam- 
paign which has been initiated as one of the items 
in our propaganda. We publish from time to time 
in National Health, and, owing to the kindness of 
their editors, in a large number of provincial papers, 
short articles on mothercraft which have been ap- 
proved of by the members of our executive com- 
mittee a committee which makes a special study 
of these points. We also publish occasionally a 
series of mothercraft questions, and the approved 
answers. We also organize, both for London and 
the provinces, annual mothercraft competitions in 
which the various metropolitan and provincial 
Schools for Mothers contend in friendly rivalry for 
a challenge shield. As one of the examiners in these 
competitions, I can, to some extent, judge of the 
standard of knowledge displayed by the competitors 
sent up from the various schools which take part in 
these competitions, and I can definitely say that 
even within the last twelve months there has been an 
enormous improvement in the knowledge displayed 
by the mothers. Some of the answers given by the 
mothers in this year's mothercraft examination are 
astoundingly accurate and to the point. 

In conclusion, I would quote the following words 
from Dr. John Robertson's excellent paper on " The 
Special Responsibilities of Sanitary Authorities in 
regard to Infant Welfare," which was read at the 



262 THE INFANT 

recent Conference on Infant Mortality held in 
Liverpool: 1 

" The prevention of infant mortality must depend 
on many forces all working together, but of these I 
am satisfied that the greatest is education in its 
widest sense. What has been accomplished along 
these lines is sufficient to encourage us to go on and 
insist on a continuation of the reduction in mortality 
which has now set in. 

" First let me point to the fact that infant mor- 
tality is a class mortality. I show you a map of 
my own city which indicates quite clearly that the 
mortality in the central areas is considerably more 
than double what it is in the suburbs. We have 
many very large artisan areas where the rate of 
mortality is less than half of what it is in the slum 
areas of the centre. 

" I feel certain that the main causes of these great 
differences are not that the housing conditions are 
much worse, nor the conditions of poverty much 
greater, or that drunkenness and vice are more 
prevalent in the slum areas, but that the mothers 
in these areas suffer from a greater ignorance as to 
what constitutes healthy and reasonable conditions 
for their babies than do the mothers in the suburban 
ring. To guard against misapprehension I must, of 
course, admit that housing, poverty, drink, and vice 
do play an important part in the production of 
infant mortality, but not the most important part." 
i July 2, 1914. 



INDEX 



ADENOIDS, 170 

Amido-acids, 48 

Anaemia in rickets, 236 

Anaphylaxis, 60 

Aperients, objection to use of, 30 

Artificial digestion of milk, 57 

Ashby, Dr. H., 99 

Baths, 126 

Bedingungsreflexe, 108 
Beuthner, 83 

Bevenot-de-Neveu milk, 185 
Breast-feeding, 1 

milk, influence of heat on, 

130 

Budin, Professor Pierre, 9, 246 
By waters, Dr. H. W., 57 

Calcium equilibrium, 231 
Caloric values, 68, 195 

of dried milk, 195 
Calorimetric results, 65, 67 
Camerer, Professor W., 23, 73, 83 
Cameron, Dr. H. C., 13 
Cardio-spasm, 95 
Carter, Dr. Ronald, 81 
Caselet, Dr. W. G., 62 
Castor-oil in constipation, 135 
Cheadle, Dr. W. B., 98 
Clarke, Mr. Jackson, 98 
Clothing, influence of, on food re- 
quirements, 71 



Cold baths graduated, 128, 240 
Colic, 111 
Collunarium, 170 
Colostrum, 50, 56, 117, 155 
Condensed milk, 32 
Constipation, 103, 132, 148, 208 
Convulsions, 213 
Cough mixtures, 172 

treatment of, 167 
Crying, causes of, 167 
Curds in stools, 101 

Dandruff, 179 
Dentition, 167 

as a cause of convulsions, 

223 

Desiccated milk, 181 
Diarrhoea, 85, 102, 173 
Digestion of milk, 57 
Draught in breast-feeding, 15 
Drew, Mr. Douglas, 97 
Dried milk, 181, 191 

whey, 192 

Duncan, Dr. Jessie, 2, 9, 
Dysperistalsis, a cause of pain, 
107 

Effect of heat on secretion of 

milk, 130 

Ekenberg process, 184 
Emulsion of linseed-oil, 195, 
of petroleum, 146 



263 



264 



THE INFANT 



Enemata nutrient, 57 

objection to use of, 33 
Eugenics, Spartan, 120 

Fat, deficiency of, in diet, 229 
cause of constipation, 198 
injuries, 198 

Feeding, multiple, 9 

Finkelstein, Professor, 127 

Fischer, Emil, 48 

Food idiosyncrasies, 60, 63 

requirements, quantity of, 91 

Foster-mother, 13 

Freer, Professor, 83 

Frew, Dr. R. S., 59 

Galactogogues, 25 
Ghent, school for mothers, 252 
Glycerine suppositories in consti- 
pation, 36, 136 
Graduated cold bath, 240 

Hachner, Professor, 83 
Hardening, 121 
Hasoline cream, 180 
Heat and diarrhoea, 129 

centres, 117 

Hutchinson, Dr. Robert, 199 
Hypertrophic pyloric stenosis, 98 

Idiosyncrasies, 60 
Immumtjr, 177 
Infant mortality, 241 
Infection after birth, 178 
Intervals between feedings, 19 
Intolerance of food, 60 
Iron starvation, 38 

Just-Hatmaker process, 185 

Lactation, 1 

psychic factors in, 15 



Ladd, Dr. Maynard, 27 
Lavialle, Dr. P., 71 
Lust and Aschenheim, 96 

Marasmus, 153 

Marylebone cream, caloric value 

of, 195 

Massage in constipation, 147 
Meconium, 115, 134 
Milk dried, 181 

secretion, 37 
Mothercraft, 241 
Motor functions of alimentary 

tract, 93 

Mouth, cleaning of, 179 
Multiple feeding, 9, 18 
Muscle tonus, 77 

Naish, Dr. A. E., 2 

Naish, Dr. Lucy, 2, 17 

Nasal syringe, 170 

Nathan -Strauss stations, 251 

Nerve-centres, training of, 109 

Nipples, preparation of, 11 

retracted, 10 
Nursing-mothers, diet of, 24 

(Esophagus, spasm of, 95 
Osteoporosis, 231 
Overfeeding, 29, 88, 129 

Pain, intestinal, 112 
Pancreatization of milk, 57 
Paraffin, 196 

as vermifuge, 207 

cause of constipation, 208 
Peptonization of milk, 57 
Pertussis, 172 
Petroleum, 196 

emulsion, 146 
Pharyngeal cough, 170 
Pickering, J. W., 203 



INDEX 



265 



Pitt, Dr. W. O., 23 
Porcher, Professor, C. 183 
Proteins, constitution of, 49 

foreign, 50 
Pyloric stenosis, 28 

Quantity of breast-milk secreted, 

22 
of food required, 65 

Rectum, reflexes of, 116 
Reflexes, perverted, 108 
Reitchel, Professor Hans, 19 
Rendle-Short, Dr. A., 57 
Retracted nipples, 10 
Rickets, 227 

Robertson, Dr. John, 261 
Rumination, 96 

Schereschevsky, Dr. J. W., 130 

Scurvy, 57 

Sec-Wa, 192 

Sherrington, Professor C. S., 112 

Sleep, habits of, 20 

Sleeping, 20 

Solid paraffins, 203 

Specificity of blood, 46 

Sterilized milk, 182 



Sugar, digestion of, 59 

index of, utilization of, 236 
Suggestion, 62 
Summer diarrhoea and heat, 

129 

Supplementary feeding, 39 
Suppositories, 38 

Talbot, Dr. Fritz, 78 
Taygetus, caverns of, 120 
Temperature regulation, 118 

of room, 130 
Thrush, 176 
Tonus of muscle, 77 

Underfeeding, 29 

Vaccination, 177 
Vitamines, 54, 182 
Vomiting, 161 

Wasting, 153 
Webb, Dr. Ella, 2, 21 
Wet-nursing, 50 
Whey, 192 

Whooping-cough, 172 
Wilms, Professor, 112 
Wind, 105 



BILLING AND SONS, LTD., PRINTERS, GUILDFORD 



A NEW AND IMPORTANT WORK 

COVERING THE ENTIRE FIELD OF THE SUBJECT BY LEADING 
AUTHORITIES 

DISEASES OF CHILDREN 

By VAEIOUS AUTHOES. Edited by AECHIBALD E. GAEEOD, 
D.M., M.A., F.E.C.P., F.E.S. ; FEEDEEICK E. BATTEN, M.D., 
M.A., F.E.C.P.; and HUGH THUESFIELD, D.M., M.A., 
F.E.C.P. Fully Illustrated. In One Volume. 1200 pp. 30s. net. 

LIST OF AUTHORS 

H. G. ADAMSON, M.D. (Lond.), F.R.C.P., Physician-in-Charge Skin 
Department, St. Bartholomew's Hospital ; FREDERICK E. BATTEN, 
M.D., M.A., F.R.C.P., Physician to Hospital for Sick Children, Great Ormond 
Street; J. W. CARR, M.D. (Lond.), F.R.C.P., F.R.C.S., Senior Physician, 
Victoria Hospital for Children, Chelsea ; EDMUND CAUTLEY, M.D. 
(Cantab.), F.R.C.P., Senior Physician, Belgrave Hospital for Children, 
London ; H. MORLEY FLETCHER, M.D. (Cantab.), F.R.C.P., Physician- 
in-Charge Children's Department, St. Bartholomew's Hospital ; J. S. 
FOWLER, M.D. (Edin.), F.R.C.P. (Edin.), Physician, Royal Hospital for 
Sick Children, Edinburgh ; ARCHIBALD E. GARROD, D.M. (Oxon.), M.A., 
F.R.C.P., F.R.S., Physician to the Hospital for Sick Children, Great Ormond 
Street, London; E. W. GOODALL, M.D. (Lond.), Medical Superintendent, 
Eastern Hospital, London; A. M. GOSSAGE, D.M. (Oxon.), F.R.C.P., 
Physician to Out- Patients, Westminster Hospital ; LEONARD G. GUTHRIE, 
D.M. (Oxon.), F.R.C.P.. Physician, Paddington Green Children's Hospital; 
ROBERT HUTCHISON, M.D. (Edin.), F.R.C.P., Physician to the London 
Hospital ; FREDERICK LANGMEAD, M.D. (Lond.), M.R.C.P., Physician 
to Out-Patients, Hospital for Sick Children, Great Ormond Street ; F. J. 
POYNTON, M.D. (Lond.), F.R.C.P., Physician-in-Charge Children's Depart- 
ment, University College Hospital; H. D. ROLLESTON M.D. (Cantab.), 
F.R.C.P., Senior Physician, St. George's Hospital, London; F. A. ROSE, 
M.B., B.C. (Cantab.), F.R.C.S., Assistant Surgeon, Throat Department, St. 
Bartholomew's Hospital ; GEORGE FRED. STILL, M.D. (Cantab.), F.R.C.P., 
Physician Children's Department, King's College Hospital ; G. A. SUTHER- 
LAND, M.D. (Edin.), F.R.C.P., Physician, Paddington Green Children's 
Hospital ; H. THEODORE THOMPSON, M.D. (Cantab.), F.R.C.P., F.R.C.S., 
Assistant Physician to the London Hospital; JOHN THOMSON, M.D. 
(Edin.), F.R.C.P. (Edin.), Physician to the Royal Hospital for Sick Children, 
Edinburgh ; HUGH THURSFIELD, D.M. (Oxon.), F.R.C.P., Physician to 
Out-Patients, Hospital for Sick Children, Great Ormond Street ; A. F. 
VOELCKER, M.D. (Lond.), F.R.C.P. ; Physician, Hospital for Sick Children, 
Great Ormond Street; G. E. WAUGH, M.D. (Lond.), B.S., F.R.C.S., 
Surgeon-in-Charge Aural Department, Hospital for Sick Children, Great 
Ormond Street. 

LONDON : EDWARD ARNOLD 



"A book of high and deserved popularity." 

BRITISH MEDICAL JOURNAL. 

LECTURES ON DISEASES 
OF CHILDREN 

By KOBEBT HUTCHISON, M.D. Edin., F.R.C.P., Physician 
to the London Hospital ; Physician, with charge of Out- 
Patients, to the Hospital for Sick Children, Great 
Ormond Street, London. Third Edition, Revised and 
Enlarged, with many New Illustrations, jdi + 404 pp. 
Demy 8vo. 10s. 6d. net. 

In the new third edition the work has undergone a 
thorough revision by the author ; the book has been 
increased in size six new lectures and many new illus- 
trations having been added. The new chapters include the 
subjects of Ccdiac Disease ; Hysteria in Childhood; Disorders 
of the Heart ; Common Affections of the Genito- Urinary 
System in Childhood; while the subject of Respiratory 
Diseases has been considerably extended. The many new 
illustrations greatly enhance the value of the work as a 
clear and concise introduction to the study of children's 
diseases for practitioners and students. 



EXTRACTS FROM REVIEWS 

"As a preliminary to the study of the larger and more systematic treatises 
on diseases in childhood, we know of no work more likely to prove of service. 
Dr. Hutchison possesses the happy gift of stating the main essentials of each 
complaint in a plain and lucid manner." British Medical Journal. 

' ' These lectures will serve as an excellent clinical guide to students who 
are beginning the study of children's diseases . . . and also to practitioners 
who have had no opportunity for such special study. The subject is treated 
very simply and systematically from the clinical point of view. . . . The 
photographs are invaluable, and help to impress upon the mind the truths of 
the text." St. Bartholomew's Hospital Gazette. 



LONDON : EDWARD ARNOLD 



From 

Mr. Edward Arnold's List 
of Medical Books. 

THE PRACTICE OF 
SURGERY. 

By RUSSELL HOWARD, M.B., M.S. Lond., F.R.C.S. Eng., 
Surgeon to the Poplar Hospital ; Assistant Surgeon to the 
London Hospital, etc. With 8 Coloured Plates and 523 Illus- 
trations in the Text. About 1200 pages. Royal 8vo. 2 is. net. 

The author of this new text-book on surgery has written especially for the 
student who is preparing for one of the qualifying examinations. At the 
same time it is hoped that the book may be useful to him after leaving 
hospital work, special attention having been given to a clear description of the 
treatment of diseases and modern methods of diagnosis. A special feature of 
the book is the concise descriptions of the clinical features of the various 
diseases of surgery, so that cases that have been seen in the wards are 
recalled to the memory. Directions for the after-treatment of operations 
have been given, and considerable space has been devoted to diseases of the 
nose, ear, pharynx, and larynx. 

The text is fully illustrated by diagrams, photographs, and illustrations 
specially prepared for the book . 

THE BRAIN IN HEALTH 
AND DISEASE. 

By JOSEPH SHAW BOLTON, M.D., D.Sc. Lond., F.R.C.P. Lond., 
Fellow of University College, London ; Professor of Mental 
Diseases, University of Leeds ; Medical Director West Riding 
Asylum, Wakefield, etc. xii + 479 pages. With 99 Illustrations. 
1 8s. net. 

This volume forms a new, and it is hoped welcome, departure in the treat- 
ment of cerebral function. The work deals with two related questions the 
functions of the brain and the physical basis and causation of mental disease. 
It is thus a monograph on cerebral physiology and pathology based largely 
on the personal researches of the author. An endeavour is made to throw 
new light on the vexed questions dealt with, and, in particular, to demonstrate 
that the mental functions possess a definite physical basis, and that affection 
(developmental, pathological or dissolutive) of this physical basis is the cause 
of the phenomena variously described under the terms " mental defective- 
ness," "insanity," or "mental diseases," etc. Full reference is made to 
all recent research bearing on the subjects under discussion e.g. , tHe very 
recent discovery of Noguchi. 



FROM MR. EDWARD ARNOLD'S LIST 



A NEW AND IMPORTANT WORK 

COVERING THE ENTIRE FIELD OF THE SUBJECT 
BY LEADING AUTHORITIES. 

DISEASES OF CHILDREN. 

By VARIOUS AUTHORS. 

Edited by ARCHIBALD E. GARROD, D.M., M.A., F.R.C.P., F.R.S.; 

FREDERICK E. BATTEN, M.A. (Camb.), M.D., F.R.C.P. ; 

and HUGH THURSFIELD, D.M., M.A., F.R.C.P. 

In One Volume, over 1,200 pages, fully Illustrated. 303. net. 

LIST OF AUTHORS: 

H. G. ADAMSON, M.D. (Lond.), F.R.C.P., Physician-in Charge Skin De- 
partment, St. Bartholomew's Hospital. 
FREDERICK E. BATTEN, M.A. (Camb.), M.D., F.R.C.P., Physician to 

Hospital for Sick Children, Great Ormond Street. 

J. W. CARR, M.D. (Lond.), F.R.C.P., F.R.C.S., Senior Physician, Victoria 
Hospital for Children, Chelsea. 

EDMUND CAUTLEY, M.D. (Cantab.), F.R.C.P., Senior Physician, Bel- 
grave Hospital for Children, London. 

H. MORLEY FLETCHER, M.D. (Cantab.), F.R.C.P., Physician-in-Charge 

Children's Department, St. Bartholomew's Hospital. 

J. S. FOWLER, M.D. (Edin.), F.R.C.P. (Edin.), Physician, Royal Hospital 

for Sick Children, Edinburgh. 

ARCHIBALD E. GARROD, D.M. (Oxon.), M.A., F.R.C.P., F.R.S., 

Physician to the Hospital for Sick Children, Great Ormond Street, London. 

E. W. GOODALL, M.D. (Lond.), Medical Superintendent, Eastern Hospital, 

London. 
A. M. GOSSAGE, D.M. (Oxon.), F.R.C.P., Physician to Out-Patients, 

Westminster Hospital. 

LEONARD G. GUTHRIE, D.M. (Oxon.), F.R.C.P., Physician, Paddington 

Green Children's Hospital. 
ROBERT HUTCHISON, M.D. (Edin.), F.R.C.P., Physician to the London 

Hospital. 

FREDERICK LANGMEAD, M.D. (Lond.), M.R.C.P., Assistant Physician, 

Hospital for Sick Children, Great Ormond Street. 

F. J. POYNTON, M.D. (Lond.), F.R.C.P., Physician-in-Charge Children's 

Department, University College Hospital. 
H. D. ROLLESTON, M.D. (Cantab.), F.R.C.P., Senior Physician, St. 

George's Hospital, London. 

F. A. ROSE, M.B., B.C. (Cantab.), F.R.C.S., Assistant Surgeon, Throat 

Department, St. Bartholomew's Hospital. 
GEORGE FRED. STILL, M.D. (Cantab.), F.R.C.P., Physician Children's 

Department, King's College Hospital. 

G. A. SUTHERLAND, M.D. (Edin.), F.R.C.P., Physician, Paddington 

Green Children's Hospital. 

H. THEODORE THOMPSON, M.D. (Cantab.), F.R.C.P., F.R.C.S., Assis- 

tant Physician to the London Hospital. 
JOHN THOMSON, M.D. (Edin.), F.R.C.P. (Edin.), Physician to the Royal 

Hospital for Sick Children, Edinburgh. 

HUGH THURSFIELD, D.M. (Oxon.), F.R.C.P., Physician to Oat-Patients, 

Hospital for Sick Children, Great Ormond Street. 

A. F. VOELCKER, M.D. (Lond.), F.R.C.P. ; Physician, Hospital for Sick 
Children, Great Ormond Street. 

G. E/WAUGH, M.D. (Lond.), B.S., F.R.C.S., Surgeon -in- Charge Aural 

Department, Hospital for Sick Children, Great Ormond Street. 



OP MEDICAL BOOKS 



ULCER OF THE STOMACH 

By CHARLES BOLTON, M.D., D.Sc. Lond., F.R.C.P. Lond. ; 
Director of Pathological Studies and Research, and Lecturer in 
General Pathology, University College Hospital Medical School ; 
Physician (with Charge of Out-Patients) University College 
Hospital. With 35 full-page Plates and 15 Figures in the Text, 
xv + 396 pages. 155. net. 

During the past ten years the attention of the Author has been particularly 
directed towards the study of gastric ulcer, both from its pathological and 
clinical point of view. In the present work he has endeavoured to produce 
a book which is comprehensive, concise, and of practical value, dealing with 
the scientific and clinical aspects of the subject. 

The work is written primarily from the standpoint of the physician, but the 
surgical aspect of the disease , in so much as it affects the medical practitioner, 
is systematically dealt with. 

The Author criticizes in turn all the methods of treatment which have been 
employed, and describes fully his own method of treatment based upon a 
study of the pathology of the disease. 

The value of the latest methods employed in diagnosis is discussed, the 
text being illustrated by clinical cases, not only of ulcer, but also of diseases 
liable to be mistaken for it. 

The chapters on symptoms, diagnosis, and treatment, will be found of 
great value to the medical practitioner. The pathology is exhaustively dealt 
with, and the portion of the book devoted to this part of the subject will be 
of great use to the student and the teacher of pathology. 

DISEASES OF THE HEART. 

By JOHN COWAN, D.Sc., M.D., F.R.F.P.S.; Professor of 
Medicine, Anderson's College Medical School ; Physician, Royal 
Infirmary ; Lecturer in Clinical Medicine in the University, 
Glasgow. With Chapters on THE ELECTRO-CARDIOGRAPH, 
by W. T. RITCHIE, F.R.C.P., and THE OCULAR MANIFESTA- 
TIONS IN ARTERIO-SCLEROSIS, by ARTHUR J. BALLANTYNE, 
M.D., F.R.F.P.S. With 3 Coloured Plates and 199 Illus- 
trations in the Text, xx + 438 pages, i5s.net. 

During the last ten years great advances have been made in our knowledge of 
the diseases of the heart and arteries. New methods of histological technique 
have revealed lesions which were hitherto unappreciated, and experimental 
research has deciphered their causes. The sphygmomanometer, the poly- 
graph, the electro-cardiograph, and the Rontgen rays, have become accessible 
to the clinician, and the data thus acquired have elucidated some of the many 
problems which awaited solution ; while the pharmacologists have defined 
the uses of such drugs as digitalis more accurately than had been previously 
possible. 

In this work the Author has made an attempt to review the whole subject 
in the light of these recent advances, and to present to the practitioner the 
results which have been attained, and their bearing upon the practical work 
of diagnosis, prognosis, and treatment. 



FROM MR. EDWARD ARNOLD'S LIST 



NEW AND REVISED EDITION. 

A SYSTEM OF CLINICAL 
MEDICINE 

DEALING WITH THE DIAGNOSIS, PROGNOSIS, AND 
TREATMENT OF DISEASE. 

By the late THOMAS DIXON SAVILL, M.D. Lond. Fourth 
Edition, Revised by AGNES SAVILL, M.A., M.D. Glas., and others. 
xxvii + 942 pages. With 4 Coloured Plates and 170 other Illus- 
trations. 8vo. 255. net. 

" In writing ' A System of Clinical Medicine ' Dr. Savill has adopted a plan which we believe 
will be found of great assistance both to students and to practitioners. He has approached the 
subject from the standpoint of symptomatology. . . This scheme has been admirably carried 
out. ... A very useful and practical work. . . . At the end of the volume are a large number 
of useful formulae for prescriptions. . . . We have formed a high opinion of Dr. Savill's work ; 
we wish it the success that it deserves." Lancet. 

" The best work on the subject of Clinical Medicine in the English language." West London 
Medical Journal. 



TEXT-BOOK OF 

GENERAL PATHOLOGY. 

By the following contributors : A. P. BEDDARD, M.A., M.D., 
London; A. E. BOYCOTT, M.A., M.D., Manchester; C. H. 
BROWNING, M.D., Glasgow; A. E. GARROD, MA., M.D., F.R.S., 
London; J. S. HALDANE, M.A., M.D., F.R.S., Oxford; I. WALKER 
HALL, M.D., Bristol; A. F. HERTZ, M.A., M.D., London; 
F. W. MOTT, M.D., F.R.S., London; M. S. PEMBREY, M.A., 
M.D., London; J. RITCHIE, M.A., M.D., Edinburgh; S. V. 
SEWELL, M.D., Melbourne; J. LORRAIN SMITH, MA., M.D., 
F.R.S., Edinburgh ; E. AINLEY WALKER, M.A., M.D., Oxford. 

Edited by M. S. PEMBREY and J. RITCHIE. Illustrated. 
One Volume. xii + 773 pages. Demy 8vo. i8s.net. 



OF MEDICAL BOOKS 



THE DIAGNOSIS OF 
NERVOUS DISEASES. . 

By PURVES STEWART, M.A., M.D. Edin., F.R.C.P., Physician 
to Out- Patients at the Westminster Hospital ; Joint Lecturer on 
Medicine in the Medical School ; Physician to the West End 
Hospital for Nervous Diseases, and to the Royal National Ortho- 
paedic Hospital; Consulting Physician to the Central London 
Throat Hospital, vii + 477 pages, with 2 full-page Plates and 225 
Illustrations from Original Diagrams and Clinical Photographs. 
Third Edition, Revised and Enlarged. 155. net. 

INTERNAL SECRETION AND 
THE DUCTLESS GLANDS. 

By SWALE VINCENT, M.D., Lond., D.Sc. Edin., Professor of 
Physiology in the University of Manitoba, Winnipeg, Canada ; 
formerly Assistant Professor of Physiology in University College, 
London. With Preface by Prof. E. A. SCHAFER, F.R.S. Fully 
Illustrated. xx + 464 pages. Demy 8vo. i2s.6d.net. 



WORKS BY DR. ROBERT HUTCHISON. 

FOOD AND THE PRINCIPLES 
OF DIETETICS. 

By ROBERT HUTCHISON, M.D. Edin., F.R.C.P., Physician to 
the London Hospital, and Assistant Physician to the Hospital for 
Sick Children, Great Ormond Street. New and Revised Edition, 
xx + 615 pages, with Illustrations. i6s. net. 

The British Medical Journal says : 

(First Edition.) " Accepted as the leading work amongst English text-books on Dietetics." 
(Latest Edition.) " The best work of its kind which has been published in recent years by 

anyone in this country." 

LECTURES ON 
DISEASES OF CHILDREN. 

Third Edition, revised and greatly enlarged. About 400 pages, 
with many new Illustrations. Demy 8vo., cloth. IDS. 6d. net. 

" The whole of the book has been revised, and may be commended as a safe and convenient 
guide to the practitioner." Lancet. 

" In the second revised edition fresh chapters have been inserted. Each of these additions 
enhances the value and usefulness of the work. Dr. Hutchison possesses the happy gift of stating 
the main essentials of each complaint in a plain and lucid manner." British Medical Journal. 



6 FROM MR. EDWARD ARNOLD'S LIST 

Practical Anatomy. The Student's Dissecting 

Manual. By F. G. PARSONS, F.R.C.S. Eng., Lecturer on Anatomy at 
St. Thomas's Hospital and at the London School of Medicine for 
Women ; Examiner for the Fellowship of the Royal College of Surgeons 
of England, etc. ; and WILLIAM WRIGHT, M.B. , D.Sc., F.R.C.S. Eng., 
Lecturer on Anatomy at the London Hospital ; Examiner at the Royal 
College of Surgeons of England, and at the Universities of London and 
Bristol, etc. In Two Volumes. With many Illustrations. Large crown 
8vo. Price per volume, 8s. 6d. net. 

Human Embryology and Morphology. By 

ARTHUR KEITH, M.D. Aberd., F.R.C.S. Eng., Conservator of the Royal 
College of Surgeons. Third Edition. Revised and Enlarged, with 
many new Illustrations. Demy 8vo., cloth. 155. net. 

A Manual of Pharmacology. By WALTER E. 

DIXON, M.A. , M.D., B.Sc. Lond., D.P.H. Camb., Professor of Materia 
Medica and Pathology, King's College, London ; Examiner in Pharma- 
cology in the Universities of Cambridge and Glasgow. Third Edition, 
thoroughly revised. Demy Svo. 153. net. 

Practical Physiology. By M. S. PEMBREY, M.A., 

M.D. ; A. P. BEDDARD, M.A., M.D. ; J. S. EDKINS, MA., M.B.- 
MARTIN FLACK, M.A.; M.D. , LEONARD HILL, M.B., F.R.S. ; J. J. R. 
MACLEOD, M.B. Illustrated by numerous diagrams and tracings. 
Third Edition, revised and enlarged. xviii + 4^o pages. Demy Svo. 
143. net. 

Applied Physiology. By ROBERT HUTCHISON, 

M.D. Edin., F.R.C.P., Physician to the London Hospital and to the 
Hospital for Sick Children, Great Ormond Street. 73. 6d. net. 

Further Advances in Physiology. Edited by Prof. 

LEONARD HILL. With contributions by Experts in various branches. 
448 pages. 153. net. 

Old Age : its Care and Treatment in Health and 

Disease. By ROBERT SAUNDBY, M.D. Edin. ; F.R.C.P. Lond. ; Pro- 
fessor of Medicine in the University of Birmingham ; Consulting 
Physcian to the General Hospital, Birmingham, to the Birmingham and 
Midland Counties Eye Hospital, and to the West Bromwich Hospital, 
vii + aia pages. 73. 6d. net. 

Military Hygiene and Sanitation. By Col. C. H. 

MELVILLE, M.B. Edin., D.P.H., R.A.M.C., Professor of Hygiene, 
Royal Army Medical College. 418 pages. 123. 6d. net. 

The Sanitary Officer's Handbook of Practical 

Hygiene. By Major C. F. WANHILL, R.A.M.C., Assistant Professor of 
Hygiene, Royal Army Medical College; and Major W. W. O. 
BEVERIDGE, D.S.O., R.A.M.C., Analyst to the Army Medical Advisory 
Board. Interleaved with blank pages for notes. New and Revised 
Edition. Crown Svo. 6s. net. 

Forensic Medicine and Toxicology. By C. O. 

HAWTHORNE, M.D., Lecturer on Forensic Medicine, London School of 
Medicine for Women, etc. Third Edition, entirely re-written and 
greatly enlarged, vii + 344 pages. Crown Svo., cloth. 6s. net. 



OF MEDICAL BOOKS 



Malingering and Feigned Sickness. By Sir JOHN 

COLLIE, M.D., J.P., Medical Examiner, London County Council; Chief 
Medical Officer, Metropolitan Water Board ; Medical Examiner to the 
Shipping Federation, Sun Insurance Office, Central Insurance Company, 
London, Liverpool, and Globe Insurance Company, and other Accident 
Offices. Second Impression. Demy 8vo. IDS. 6d. net. 

Modern Theories of Diet, and their Bearing upon 

Practical Dietetics. By A. BRYCE, M.D., D.P.H. Camb. xvi + 368 
pages. 73. 6d. net. 

Glycosuria and Allied Conditions. By P. J. 

CAMMIDGE, M.D. Lond., D.P.H. Camb. Demy 8vo., cloth. i6s. net. 

The Treatment of Diseases of the Skin. By 

W. K. SIBLEY, M.A., M.D., B.C. Camb., M.R.C.P. Lond., M.R.C.S. 
Eng., Physician to St. John's Hospital for Diseases of the Skin, London, 
viii + aSo pages. With Illustrations from Original Photographs. 53. 
net. 

Electro - Therapeutics for Practitioners. Being 

Essays on some useful forms of electrical apparatus, and on some diseases 
which are amenable to electrical treatment. By FRANCIS HOWARD 
HUMPHRIS, M.D. Brux., F.R.C.P. Edin., M.R.C.S. Eng., President of 
the American Electro -Therapeutic Association. 8vo., cloth. Illustrated. 
8s. 6d. net. 

Tabular Diagnosis. An Aid to Rapid Differential 

Diagnosis of Disease. By RALPH WINNINGTON LEFTWICH, M.D., late 
Assistant Physician to the East London Children's Hospital. 73. 6d. net. 

A Pocket-Book of Treatment. By RALPH WIN- 

NINGTON LEFTWICH, M.D. viii + 348 pages. Flexible binding, with 
wallet flap. New and Revised Edition. 6s. net. 

Contributions to Abdominal Surgery. By HAROLD 

LESLIE BARNARD, M.S., F.R.C.S., Late Assistant Surgeon, London 
Hospital. xix+ 391 pages. Illustrated. 153. net. 

Fractures and Separated Epiphyses. By A. J. 

WALTON, M.S., F.R.C.S., L.R.C.P., Surgical Registrar, London 
Hospital. 312 pages. 100 Illustrations. IDS. 6d. net. 

The House-Surgeon's Vade-Mecum. By RUSSELL 

HOWARD, M.B., M.S., F.R.C.S., Surgeon to the Poplar Hospital; 
Assistant Surgeon to the London Hospital. With 142 Illustrations, 
viii -t- 516 pages. 73. 6d. net. 

Surgery for Dental Students. By G. PERCIVAL 

MILLS, M.B., B.S. Lond., F.R.C.S. Eng., Surgeon to the Royal 
Orthopaedic and Spinal Hospital, Birmingham ; and H. HUMPHREYS, 
M.B., Ch.B., B.D.S. Birm., L.D.S. Eng., Demonstrator in Dental 
Surgery at the Dental Hospital, Birmingham. Illustrated. 123. 6d. net. 



FROM MR. EDWARD ARNOLD'S LIST 



INTERNATIONAL 
MEDICAL MONOGRAPHS. 

General Editors: LEONARD HILL, M.B., F.R.S., Lecturer on Physiology, 
London Hospital Medical School ; and WILLIAM BULLOCH, M.D., Bacterio- 
logist and Lecturer on Bacteriology and General Pathology, London Hospital. 

In this series will be found volumes dealing with subjects of exceptional 
interest and importance, giving in a concise form the results of the leading 
investigators in special branches of medical science throughout the world. 
Attention also is given to the practical application of the results of scientific 
research to the treatment of disease. 

The Mechanical Factors of Digestion. By WALTER 

B. CANNON. A.M., M.D., George Higginson Professor of Physiology, 
Harvard University. xii + 227 pages. Cloth, Illustrated, ios.6d.net. 

Syphilis : A Systematic Account of Syphilis from the 

Modern Standpoint. By JAMES MC!NTOSH, M.D. Aberd., Grocers' 
Research Scholar; and PAUL FILDES, M.B., B.C. Camb., Assistant to 
the Bacteriologist of the London Hospital, xvi + 228 pages. Illustrated 
with 8 Full-page Plates and 5 Diagrams, cloth. IDS. 6d. net. 

Blood- Vessel Surgery and its Applications. By 

CHARLES CLAUDE GUTHRIE, M.D., Ph.D., Professor of Physiology and 
Pharmacology, University of Pittsburgh, etc. xii + 35o pages. 158 Illus- 
trations, cloth. 145. net. 

Caisson Disease and Diver's Palsy : The Illness of 

Workers in Compressed Air. By LEONARD HILL, M.B., F.R.S. , Lecturer 
on Physiology, London Hospital. xi+255 pages. Illustrated, cloth. 
IDS. 6d. net. 

Lead Poisoning and Lead Absorption : The 

Symptoms, Pathology and Prevention, with Special Reference to their 
Industrial Origin and an Account of the Principal Processes Involving 
Risk. By THOMAS M. LEGGE, M.D. Oxon., D.P.H. Cantab., H.M. 
Medical Inspector of Factories ; Lecturer on Factory Hygiene, University 
of Manchester; and KENNETH W. GOADBY. D.P.H. Cantab., Pathologist 
and Lecturer on Bacteriology, National Dental Hospital. viii + 3o8 pages. 
Illustrated, cloth. 123. 6d. net. 

The Protein Element in Nutrition. By Major D. 

McCAY, M.B., B.CH., B.A.O., M.R.C.P. Lond., I.M.S., Professor of 
Physiology, Medical College, Calcutta. xv + 2i6pages. Illustrated, cloth, 
los. 6d. net. 

The Carrier Problem in Infectious Disease. By 

J. C. G. LEDINGHAM, M.B., D.Sc., Chief Bacteriologist, Lister Institute 
of Preventive Medicine, London ; and J. A. ARKWRIGHT, Assistant 
Bacteriologist, Lister Institute of Preventive Medicine, London. vii + 3ig 
pages. Cloth. 123. 6d. net. 

Diabetes : Its Pathological Physiology. By JOHN 

J. R. MACLEOD, M.B., Ch.B., D.P.H., Professor of Physiology, Western 
Reserve University, Cleveland, O., U.S.A., late Demonstrator of Phy- 
siology, London Hospital. Illustrated. IDS. 6d. net. 

LONDON : EDWARD ARNOLD, 41 <& 43 MADDOX STREET, W. 



* 



00 



H 

* -H 

H d 
o 



University of Toronto 
Library 



DO NOT 

REMOVE 

THE 

CARD 

FROM 

THIS 

POCKET 



L 




Acme Library Card Pocket 

Under Pat. "Ref. Index File" 
Made by LIBRARY BUREAU 



