
This is a digital copy of a book that was preserved for generations on library shelves before it was carefully scanned by Google as part of a project 
to make the world's books discoverable online. 

It has survived long enough for the copyright to expire and the book to enter the public domain. A public domain book is one that was never subject 
to copyright or whose legal copyright term has expired. Whether a book is in the public domain may vary country to country. Public domain books 
are our gateways to the past, representing a wealth of history, culture and knowledge that's often difficult to discover. 

Marks, notations and other marginalia present in the original volume will appear in this file - a reminder of this book's long journey from the 
publisher to a library and finally to you. 

Usage guidelines 

Google is proud to partner with libraries to digitize public domain materials and make them widely accessible. Public domain books belong to the 
public and we are merely their custodians. Nevertheless, this work is expensive, so in order to keep providing this resource, we have taken steps to 
prevent abuse by commercial parties, including placing technical restrictions on automated querying. 

We also ask that you: 

+ Make non-commercial use of the files We designed Google Book Search for use by individuals, and we request that you use these files for 
personal, non-commercial purposes. 

+ Refrain from automated querying Do not send automated queries of any sort to Google's system: If you are conducting research on machine 
translation, optical character recognition or other areas where access to a large amount of text is helpful, please contact us. We encourage the 
use of public domain materials for these purposes and may be able to help. 

+ Maintain attribution The Google "watermark" you see on each file is essential for informing people about this project and helping them find 
additional materials through Google Book Search. Please do not remove it. 

+ Keep it legal Whatever your use, remember that you are responsible for ensuring that what you are doing is legal. Do not assume that just 
because we believe a book is in the public domain for users in the United States, that the work is also in the public domain for users in other 
countries. Whether a book is still in copyright varies from country to country, and we can't offer guidance on whether any specific use of 
any specific book is allowed. Please do not assume that a book's appearance in Google Book Search means it can be used in any manner 
anywhere in the world. Copyright infringement liability can be quite severe. 

About Google Book Search 

Google's mission is to organize the world's information and to make it universally accessible and useful. Google Book Search helps readers 
discover the world's books while helping authors and publishers reach new audiences. You can search through the full text of this book on the web 



at |http : //books . google . com/ 






J by Google 



Digitized by 



Google 



Digitized by 



Google 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



Digitized by 



Google 



Digitized by 



Google 






zed by 



Google 



Digitized by 



Google 



Digitized by 



Google 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



Digitized by 



Google 



Digitized byLnOOQlC 




c 



2 
in 



u 






Digitized by 



Google 



A STUDY OF FOODS 



BY 



RUTH A. WARDALL, M.A. 

HEAD OF DEPARTMENT OF HOME ECONOMICS 
STATE UNIVERSITY OF IOWA 



AND 



EDNA NOBLE WHITE, A.B. 

HEAD OF DEPARTMENT OF HOME ECONOMICS 
OHIO STATE UNIVERSITY 



GINN AND COMPANY 

BOSTON • NEW YORK • CHICAGO • LONDON 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



COPYRIGHT, 1914, BY RUTH A. WARDALL 

AND EDNA NOBLE WHITE 

ALL RIGHTS RESERVED 



414-7 



.^* 



^^- 



m •••••' 



<gfte fltftenieum 9ttt€ 

GINN AND COMPANY • PRO- 
PRIKTORS • BOSTON • U.S.A. 



Digitized by 



GooqIc 



PREFACE 

This volume is intended to present the subject of foods 
in a simple, concise manner. The preparation of food 
which is suggested in the book is in every case an illus- 
tration of some one or more principles involved and pre- 
viously discussed. The object of this work is not to provide 
training for a finished cook, for skill comes only with 
experience and practice ; neither is there an attempt to 
make a food expert. A serious consideration of the subjects 
of chemistry, the physiology of digestion, and dietetics 
belongs to a university course. It is hoped that the work 
outlined will give some knowledge of food materials, of the 
effects of heat upon them, of methods of manipulation, 
and of comparative cost of commercial and domestic prod- 
ucts. The increased cost of living makes especially desir- 
able a study of food values and the cost of food from 
different sources. 

In schools where courses in chemistry, physiology, and 
physics are offered, there are many opportunities for cor- 
relation with the food work, which will at once suggest 
themselves to the well-trained teacher. The reference 
lists at the close of each chapter will be found very help- 
ful for classes, as well as for clubs who use this book as 
a guide. The preparation of food suggested in the text 
could easily be managed in the home and results discussed 
and compared later. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 

304742 



VI A STUDY OF FOODS 

The food principles, or nutrients, form the basis of the 
arrangement of the work, but the cost of food is especially 
emphasized. No attempt has been made to divide the 
work into separate lessons, and the subject matter may be 
amplified or abbreviated, according to the need. Sug- 
gested lists for reference are given, and it is hoped that 
these will be liberally used, for there has been no attempt 
to make this a complete text ; it is intended only as a guide 
to the study of the subject of foods. Questions and exer- 
cises are frequently suggested for the use of the pupil, and 
these should be recorded in the notebook. 

Grateful acknowledgment should be made to Professor 
Henry C. Sherman for suggestions and assistance and 
to Mr. A. D. Emmett and L. D. Hall of the Illinois 
Agricultural Experiment Station for the use of the photo- 
graphs of meat and the descriptive matter accompanying 

them. 

RUTH A. W^ARDALL 
EDNA N. WHITE 



Digitized byLnOOQlC 



CONTENTS 

CHAPTER rAGE 

I. Food i 

II. Water ii 

III. Fruits AND Green Vegetables 15 

IV. Preservation of Fruit and Vegetables ... 22 
V. Sugar 31 

VI. Starch 37 

VII. Potatoes 40 

VIII. Cereals and Cereal Products 43 

IX. Dried Legumes 51 

X. Milk 54 

XI. Eggs 61 

XII. Cheese 65 

XIII. Meat 68 

XIV. Fish and Oysters 81 

XV. Gelatin 87 

XVI. Fats and Oils 90 

XVII. Flour 94 

XVIII. Flour Mixtures 99 

XIX. Bread 108 

XX. Food Requirements 120 

XXI. Selection of Food 129 

XXII. Serving Meals 135 

APPENDIX I 

Food Standards 139 

APPENDIX II 

Retail Cuts of Beef 143 

INDEX . 171 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



Digitized by 



Google 



A STUDY OF FOODS 

CHAPTER I 
FOOD 

Food, as defined in Farmers Bulletin No, 142^ '*is that 
which, taken into the body, builds tissue or yields energy." 
While the supply of building material and energy are two 
important functions, there is a third purpose served by 
food in the regulation of certain important processes in 
the body. Sherman says : " Upon the presence of the 
so-called inorganic elements also depend such important 
matters as the alkalinity or neutrality and coagulability of 
the blood, the acidity or alkalinity of the digestive juices, the 
solvent power and osmotic pressure of the body fluids, the 
elasticity and irritability of muscle and nerve. They also 
tend to protect the body against harmful substances by 
combining with them to form compounds which are less 
toxic or more readily eliminated. These latter functions 
are perhaps regulatory rather than structural and are hardly 
suggested by the term 'tissue building.'" In order to give 
them proper prominence it may be necessary to expand 
the usual definition of the function of food (that it yields 
energy and builds tissue) into one of three divisions 
according to which the functions of food are 

1 . To yield energy. 

2. To furnish building material. 

3. To regulate body processes. 



Digitized byLnOOQlC 



2.: ^ : ;. : :A STUDY: OF FOODS 

The energy of the food furnishes power for internal 
work, as in respiration, digestion, and other body proc- 
esses, as well as for external work, — when the muscles 
are brought into activity, — as in running, digging, or 
any other form of exercise. When the energy of the 
food is changed into energy for body use, heat is given 
off in somewhat the same way that heat results when 
the energy of the coal is changed into energy for the 
engine. Under ordinary conditions the heat resulting 
from energy transformation keeps the body at a comfort- 
able temperature, but where a great deal of energy is 
needed, as in a brisk walk or in active muscular work, the 
amount of heat is greater and frequently causes discom- 
fort. In case of little or no exercise and a cold day, 
it may be necessary to transform energy for the sake of 
keeping the body warm. Building material must be avail- 
able to the body, for there is constant wear and tear of 
tissues in all, and development of tissue — or growth — 
in the young. 

While foods present a great variety in appearance and 
flavor, it is found on chemical analysis that they are made 
up of compounds which may be divided into five general 
groups : water, mineral matter, protein, fat, and carbohy- 
drate. All five of these nutrients are found in some foods ; 
usually one or two are present in much greater quantity 
than the others, so that we value some foods for protein, 
some for fat, carbohydrate, or mineral content. Eggs and 
meat are valued especially for protein ; butter and nuts, 
for fat ; potatoes and rice, for carbohydrate in the form 
of starch. Flour is valued for carbohydrate and protein ; 
green vegetables and fresh fruits, for water and mineral 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



FOOD 3 

matter ; cheese, for fat and protein ; and milk is unique 
in that it contains all the nutrients, or food principles. 

Our foods are derived from both the plant and animal 
kingdoms. All the nutrients are abundant in either king- 
dom, with the exception of the carbohydrates, which occur 
mainly in plant foods. 

Protein, mineral matter, and water are frequently classed 
as tissue builders. Water and mineral matter are found 
in all the body tissues, and protein is found principally in 
muscular and glandular tissues. Mineral matter, in addi- 
tion to its function of building tissue, plays an important 
r61e in the regulation of body processes, as before stated. 
Fats and carbohydrates yield energy, and, to a considerable 
extent, one may take the place of the other for this pur- 
pose. While protein is the only one of the nutrients 
which can build certain body tissues, it may also serve 
the function of an energy yielder. 

The same chemical elements which are found in the 
body are found in the food which is necessary to growth 
and maintenance of life. The wise selection of food is 
based upon a consideration of its composition, its ease and 
completeness of digestion, its cost, and palatability. 

Carbohydrates 

The carbohydrates consist of a group of substances 
closely related chemically, although differing in appear- 
ance and taste. The well-known carbohydrates are sugars, 
starches, and cellulose. The carbohydrates are found in 
the plant kingdom with very few exceptions, such as lac- 
tose in milk and glycogen in the body. Starch occurs 
more abundantly in vegetables than in fruits, and sugar 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



4 A STUDY OF FOODS 

is found in both. A woody substance, cellulose, forms the 
framework of the plant. Cellulose is a food for the lower 
animals, but not for man ; however, it is commonly eaten 
by man, and because of its bulk it is an aid in digestion. 
Starch and sugar are both valuable human foods ; they do 
not build the tissues of the body, but they furnish energy. 
Since plant foods are less expensive than animal foods, 
the carbohydrates are generally less expensive than proteins 
and fats. 

Fats 

There are many substances chemically related which 
are known as fats. Those which are liquids at ordinary 
temperatures are called oils. F^ats, like carbohydrates, yield 
energy and are frequently stored in considerable quantity 
in the body. Weight for weight, the fats yield two and 
a quarter times the energy that carbohydrates or proteins 
do. Fats are highly concentrated foods and are obtained 
from both plant and animal sources. The common animal 
sources are cream, butter, and fat of meat, and the common 
vegetable fats are olive oil, cottonseed oil, and the fat of 
nuts. Fat from most sources is expensive. We use fats not 
only as food but also as a medium for cooking. 

Proteins 

The term '' protein " includes a group of substances 
chemically related, and all containing nitrogen, although 
not all substances containing nitrogen are proteins. 

The chemistry of the proteins is very difficult and will 
not be discussed here. Some of the well-known members 
of the protein family are gluten of wheat, albumen of egg 
and meat^ casein of milk, legumin of peas and beans. 



Digitized byLnOOQlC 



FOOD 5 

Protein is derived from both plant and animal sources. 
Some plant foods rich in protein are wheat, corn, oats, 
peas, beans, peanuts, lentils, and nuts. The animal sources 
of proteins are meat, milk, eggs, and cheese. Plant foods 
are cheaper than animal foods, and consequently they are 
a cheaper source of protein. . • 

Protein, like fat and carbohydrate, may serve as a source 
of energy to the body, but it differs from these in that it 
also builds tissue. 

Although protein is very necessary in the diet, it should 
not be eaten in too great quantities, for certain ills may 
attend its excessive use. Heavy eating, and particularly 
heavy eating of meat, may easily furnish more protein than 
is desirable, and it is believed that meat protein may cause 
more harm than other proteins. 

Water 

Water furnishes the fluid necessary for the body and 
enters into the composition of all the tissues. Approxi- 
mately two thirds of the weight of the body is water, con- 
sequently the supply must be liberal. All foods contain 
water; fruits, green vegetables, and milk are especially 
high in water content, but the body needs more than occurs 
in the food, and water should be freely used as a beverage. 

Mineral Matter 

The body contains several pounds of mineral matter, 
the bulk of which is in the bones and teeth. Some mineral 
salts are in solution in the body fluids, and some are found 
in other body tissues. Mineral matter occurs in practically 
all our foods, both animal and plant, but it varies in amount 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



6 A STUDY OF FOODS 

and kind. While a freely chosen, normal diet may contain 
enough mineral matter to supply the demands of the body, 
it is not always in the form or amounts needed. Knowledge 
of the composition of food leads physicians to prescribe 
certain diets for people who show a lack of some mineral 
constituent. Fruit and vegetables are especially valued 
for their mineral content. The outer coats of the cereal 
grains, so often discarded, are also rich in mineral matter. 
Care is necessary, especially with children, to provide foods 
supplying mineral matter. 

Preparation of Food 

Some foods are eaten in the natural (or raw) state, but 
much of our food is cooked. Cooking means the applica- 
tion of heat to food. It makes it more attractive in appear- 
ance, more palatable, and destroys any living organisms 
which may be present. In the case of foods eaten in the 
raw state, such as lettuce, celery, and fruits, very thorough 
cleansing is necessary. One should be accurately informed 
as to the condition of milk which is used in the raw state, 
for it frequently is the carrier of disease germs. Methods 
of cooking and degree of heat vary with the nature of the 
food. The temperature and method of cooking should 
vary as fat, protein, or carbohydrate predominates in the 
food. 

LABORATORY EXERCISES 

I. Laboratory and Equipment 

Examine desks, b*st equipment, and carefully note arrange- 
ment of utensils in the desk. If general supply cupboards are 
used by pupils, examine and note contents. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



FOOD 7 

The foDowing abbreviations are used throughout the book : 

c cup 

s.s salt-spoon 

t teaspoon 

T tablespoon 

II. Measurements 

Compressible materials, such as flour and powdered sugar, 
should be sifted before measuring, and lightly filled into the 
measure without packing. Heap all dry materials into the meas- 
uring cup or spoon, and level with the edge of a knife. Measure 
a half spoonful by dividing lengthwise. A measure of liquid 
means all that the cup or spoon will hold. 

1. Answer the following questions by measuring with sugar; 
with flour ; with water : 

How many t in i T .? ^ Ho\y many c in i lb. ? 

How many T in \ct How many c in i pt. ? 

2. Repeat measurements for a check. Compare results with 
others in class and account for differences. Is the measure 
responsible in all cases? 

III. Weights 

1. Determine, by avoirdupois system, weight of 

I c flour I c water 

I c sugar I c lard 

2. Compare weight of i c of unsifted flour with i c of flour 
sifted once, twice, and three times. 

3. Compute weights of the above in the metric system. 
Note, i pound = 453.6 grams ; i ounce = 28.36 grams. 

4. From above data compute number of cups of flour, sugar, 
water, and lard in i lb. avoirdupois. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



A STIDV OF FOODS 



e r 



Temperatures 




Heat is always used in cooking food, 
but it may be applied in a number of dif- 
ferent ways. Varying degrees of heat may 
be employed in the cooking of food by 
using hot or boiling water, steam, hot fat, 
or hot air in the oven. 

Thermometer Scales 

The difference between freezing and 
boiling temperatures is marked by lOO 
degrees on the centigrade scale and by 
1 80 degrees on the Fahrenheit scale. The 
ratio between the two scales is 100 : 180, 
or 5 : 9. The freezing point is o°C. and 
32°F. To change from one scale to the 
other use the following formulas : 

|C + 32 = F, A(F-32)=C. 

Demonstration by Teacher 

A. High Temperatures 

1. Note and record room temperature by centigrade ther- 
mometer. 

2. Note and record boiling point of water. 

3. Note and record temperature of steam just above boiling 
water. 

4. Note and record temperature of steam in a covered kettle. 

5. Note and record temperature of water in the covered top 
of a double boiler when the water below is boiling. 



Thk Centiciradk 

AND Fahrenheit 

Scales 



Digitized by 



Google 



FOOD 9 

6. Oven temperatures. 

By noting time required to brown white paper, test the 
oven at the following temperatures : 150**; 200*^; 250*^. 

7. Fat temperatures. 

a. Note condition of a piece of bread one minute after 
it is dropped into fat which is at the temperature of 
boiling water. 

b. Note temperature of fat in which bread is browned : 
in one minute ; in forty seconds. 

B, Low Temperatures 

Low temperatures are used in the household for preservation 
of food and in the preparation of frozen dishes. 

1 . What is the temperature of ice 1 

2. What is the temperature of a mixture of ice and salt? 

3. Does the proportion of ice to salt affect the temperature 
of the mixture ? 

Fuels 

The usual source of heat for cooking is furnished by 
coal, wood, gas, gasoline, and kerosene. Electricity is a 
very desirable, but usually a very expensive, source. The 
cost of fuel must be considered a part of the cost of 
our food, and should be added to the cost of raw food 
materials. By planning, it is possible to economize in our 
use of these fuels. For example, when the oven of a 
coal or wood range is in use, the top of the stove is hot 
and may also be in use ; and a gas burner need not be 
turned on full in order to keep water boiling. If a gas 
meter is attached to a range, it will be observed that there 
is quite a difference in the gas consumed when the burner 
is partially opened and when it is turned on to the fullest 
extent. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



lO A STUDY OF FOODS 

GENERAL EXERCISES 

Convert recorded temperatures to Fahrenheit scale. 

What is the lowest temperature in the above demonstration ? 

When would you use this in cooking? 

When would you use the highest temperature in cooking ? 

Suggest different dishes which might be prepared at the other 
temperatures. 

What ways of applying heat to food are suggested in the above 
demonstrations ? Which medium is most commonly used ? 

What is the source of heat used in preparation of food in a 
fireless cooker? In what way does the modem fireless cooker differ 
from the old " hay-box " ? Is the hay-box or fireless cooker of any 
service in keeping things cool ? Is a fireless cooker an aid to economy 
in fuel ? 

Suggest other ways of reducing cost of fuel in preparing food. 

From the data and experience that you have, discuss the various 
fuels from the viewpoint of cost, desirability, and convenience. 

Examine and operate all stoves and other heating devices found in 
the laboratory. 

References 

Atwater. " Principles of Nutrition and Nutritive Value of Food," 

Farmers* Bulletin No. 14.2^ U.S. Department of Agriculture. 
Hutchison. Food and Dietetics, chap. i. 
Hough and Sedgwick. The Human Mechanism. 
Jordan. Principles of Human Nutrition. 
Sherman. Chemistry of Food and Nutrition. 
Wiley. Foods and their Adulteration. 
Norton. Food and Dietetics. 
Atwater and Bryant. " The Chemical Composition of American Food 

Materials," Bulletin No. 28^ Office of Experiment Stations, U.S. 

Department of Agriculture. 
Langworthy. "Ash Constituents of the Food," Journal of Home 

Economics^ February, 19 10. 
Murlin. Tigerstedt's Text Book of Physiology. 
Hill. Recent Advances in Physiology and Biochemistry, chap. x. 
Bevier and Van Meter. Selection and Preparation of Food — 

Laboratory Guide. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



CHAPTER II 

WATER 

Generally speaking, water is either hard or soft, de- 
pending on the mineral substances which it carries in solu- 
tion. Rain water as stored in the ordinary cistern is the 
softest water available to the household. Well, river, and 
spring water vary greatly in the materials in solution, and 
consequently vary greatly in degree of hardness. 

Boiling will sometimes bring about changes which tend 
to soften water. Doubtless all have observed the lime 
deposit in the teakettle. Other causes of hardness can 
be removed only by the use of chemicals. Cities some- 
times use chemicals on a large scale to soften water for use. 
In a small way the same thing is done in the household 
when baking soda is added to the water for cooking beans, 
or lye is added to water which is to be used in cleaning. 

While hardness of water is a matter of importance to 
the household, there is another far more important con- 
sideration. A safe water is one which does not contain 
disease germs or any substances injurious to health. A 
number of diseases are carried by water ; typhoid fever and 
dysentery are among the common ones. The appearance 
of typhoid fever should lead to an immediate investigation 
of water and milk supply. The typhoid fever record of a 
city is a fair index of the safety of its water. Water may 
be clear and sparkling and yet be very dangerous. Surface 
wells are very easily contaminated and there is always risk 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



12 A STUDY OF FOODS 

in using water from such wells. Deep, driven wells are 
less liable to contamination, but their safety is not assured. 
Generally speaking, a municipal water supply is preferable 
to the ordinary well, because it is apt to be more carefully 
watched. The surety of a safe water supply is a moral 
obligation which all should feel. If there is any doubt 
about it, the water should be boiled. The household filters 
ordinarily seen are worse than useless, and often a real 
menace because they frequently become breeding places 
for germs. Directions from a board of health to boil water 
should never be neglected. 

As said before, a liberal supply of water is needed for the 
body fluids and to remove waste. Water is used as a bever- 
age, either alone or flavored with other substances. It is used 
also as an agent in the preparation of food. Hot water is a 
very common medium for the cooking of food, and in tea, 
lemonade, and other mixtures, water serves as a carrier of 
flavor. 

LABORATORY EXERCISES 

Water as a Medium for Foods and Flavors 

I. Lemonade 

I lemon 3 T sugar 

I c cold water \ c boiling water 

Wash lemon and grate a small portion of yellow rind. Add 
boiling water to sugar and grated rind. To this add cold water 
and juice of lemon. Chill and serve. 

II. Fruit Punch 

I c cold water i^T lemon juice 

\-\z sugar Jc chopped pineapple 

\ c orange juice 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



WATER 13 

Boil water, sugar, and pineapple several minutes ; cool, add 
fruit juice, strain, and dilute with ice water. 

Other fruit juices could be substituted for any of these. 
Lemon juice is necessary with almost any fruit. 

III. Lemon Ice 

2 c sugar I c lemon juice 

I c boiling water 3 c cold water 

Make a sirup of sugar and hot water. Add the rest of the 
water and then the fruit juices. 

For variation add ^ t vanilla, juice of an orange, or other 
fruit juice. Freeze. 

IV. Sherbet 

To I qt. of lemon or other ice add the beaten white of i tgg, 
when the mixture begins to freeze. 

^ ^^ I c freshly boiling water 

it tea 

Scald the teapot. Pour water over the tea in the teapot. Let 
tea stand 2 or 3 minutes in a hot place, and serve. Never boil tea. 

Compare the beverages made from green tea, from black tea, 
and from a mixture of the two. 

VI. Cqfee 

1 . I c freshly boiling water 

2 T ground coffee mixed with i T cold water 
Pour boiling water over the moistened coffee in the coffee- 
pot. Boil up once, simmer 4 or 5 minutes, and let stand in a 
hot place for from 5 to 10 minutes. 

2. ic cold water 

2 T ground coffee 
Pour water over coffee in the coffeepot. Bring to boiling 
point, and then simmer for 2 minutes. Stand in a hot place 
for from 5 to 10 minutes. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



14 A STUDY OF FOODS 

A small amount of white of egg may be stirred in after the 
coffee has boiled, to aid in settling the grounds. Long cooking 
of coffee not only impairs the fine flavor but extracts undesirable 
substances. 

Compare the beverages made from coffees of different kinds 
and grades as to desirability and cost 

GENERAL EXERCISES 

Calculate the cost of a cup of black coffee ; the cost of a cup of 
coffee with sugar and cream. 

Determine source of home and of school water supply. 

Is lemonade a valuable food ? Explain. 

Calculate the cost of a glass of lemonade. 

Why use freshly boiling water for tea and coffee ? 

Are tea and coffee valuable as foods ? 

Are there any objections to their use ? 

References 

Elliott. Household Hygiene, pp. 90-113. 
Price. Handbook on Sanitation, chaps, v, vi. 
Richards and Woodman. Air, Water, and Food, chaps, v, vi. 
Sedgwick. Principles of Sanitary Science, chaps, ix, x. 
Sherman*. Chemistry of Food and Nutrition, chaps, ix, x. 
Hough and Sedgwick. The Human Mechanism. 
Hutchison. Food and Dietetics. 

Langworthy. " Cereal Substitutes for Coffee," Bulletin No. 122, U.S. 
Department of Agriculture. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



CHAPTER III 

FRUITS AND GREEN VEGETABLES 

Fruits 

Fruits are largely composed of water. Many of the fresh 
fruits contain from 80 to 90 per cent of water. Dates, 
figs, and raisins are fruits from which the water has been 
evaporated, and consequently they are concentrated foods. 
Peaches, apricots, apples, and prunes are dried in order 
to preserve them, but the water is restored when they are 
prepared for eating, and they resemble other cooked fruits 
in composition. The banana owes its food value largely to 
the starch it contains, while a number of fruits, especially 
grapes and pineapples, are valued for sugar. The acids 
and minerals occurring in fruits give them an important 
place in the diet. The woody fiber which forms the frame- 
work of the fruit is a carbohydrate called cellulose, which 
adds bulk to the food and stimulates peristalsis. 

Fruit is frequently valued as an appetizer, and the water 
content and bulk make it a desirable addition to the diet, 
although for actual nutrients fruits are expensive. Canned 
fruit has a greater food value due to the addition of sugar. 
The cooking of fruit changes the flavor, cooks starch if 
present, softens the cellulose, and in the case of dried fruits 
restores the water lost. It is important that the juice be 
served with the cooked fruit so that the mineral salts may 
not be lost. 

15 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



V. B. JH i m i f Mt of AfttowHttTt 

OAM of KzpOTlB«0i 8utl«M 

A. C Thm: DbMMT 



C. P. LANOWORTUr 
Xzpwt fai Ohufi «r HvtrftteJBTMdfMlou 



COMPOSITION OF FOOD MATERIALS 

\ I ^y, /: ^<^ 



■ L &).tn. Eqnals 
lOOOOftloriM 



APPLE 

EDIBLt PORTION 



DRIED FIQ 

lOIBLE PORTION 

.Water: 18.8 



OMbohjdtmtM: 14.9 




BANANA 

EDIBLE PORTION 



STRAWBERRY 

EDIBLE PORTION 




Fresh and Dried Fruits 



i6 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



FRUITS AND GREEN VEGETABLES IJ 

Green Vegetables 

Various parts of plants are used as food. The stem of 
asparagus, leaves of the spinach, flower of the cauliflower, 
root of the beet, fruit of beans and tomatoes, are eaten. 
Many green vegetables are grown and valued for their 
variety in flavor, their bulk, and their mineral salts. Green 
vegetables, like fruits, are conspicuously high in water; 
lettuce, cucumbers, and celery, for example, are about 
95 per cent water. Cellulose forms the framework of the 
green vegetables. Minerals occur in all, sugar and starch 
in some. In cooking strong-juiced vegetables, such as 
onions and cabbage, a large amount of water is used ; and 
in vegetables valued for sugar and other soluble materials, 
as com, peas, carrots, etc., it is best to use the smallest 
amount of water that is possible. 

LABORATORY EXERCISES 

I. Canned Green VegetabTes 

Open the can and empty at once. The flavor is usually im- 
proved by allowing the vegetables to stand for an hour or more 
exposed to the air. 

The majority of the canned green vegetables are palatable 
when simply seasoned with butter, pepper, and salt, and heated ; 
or they may be served with cream sauce. 

II. Baked Apples 

Select sound apples, preferably tart ones. Wash and core, 
place in a shallow pan, fill centers with sugar, or a mixture of 
sugar and cinnamon, cover the bottom of the pan with water. 
Bake in a moderate oven until apples are easily pierced with a 
fork. If the oven is very hot, cover with a pan or baste apples 
frequently with the sirup in bottom of pan. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



V. 8- OtputoM&t of AgrlffuHura 

OflM of KxperbMBt Btetlou 

▲. a Troa: Dtawlor 



Prepared by 
C. F. LANOWOBTHY 
Ispvi !■ Ohufi «r Nutritkn 



COMPOSITION OF FOOD MATERIALS 

^^^" ^^H L Sq.In. Equals 

Protein Pat Oarlxdijdntai AA Water ■■ loOOCaloriM 



PoalTahM: 







OMtHAjrinli*: it- 



XT ''i ulurlM 



Roots and Succulent Vegetables 



i8 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



FRUITS AND GREEN VEGETABLES 19 

III. Stewed Prunes 

Select good prunes, sort, and wash. Cover with water and 
soak several hours or overnight ; then slowly cook in the same 
water until plump and smooth and the stones will easily slip out. 
A little lemon juice or sugar may be added. 

IV. Creamed Onions 

Cook onions in a large amount of boiling water in an un- 
covered kettle, and change water two or three times. Cook 
until tender; drain, and reheat in white sauce. 

V. Escaloped Cabbage 

Cook cabbage in boiling, salted water, changing water two 
or three times ; do not overcook. Arrange in baking dish alter- 
nate layers of cabbage and cream sauce. Cover with buttered 
crumbs and brown in oven. 

VI. Glazed Sweet Potatoes 

Wash and pare potatoes. Cook until partially done in boiling 
water. Remove from water, cut potatoes in halves or slices. 
Brush with melted butter, sprinkle with sugar lightly, and bake. 
Or make a sirup of i T sugar, i T water, and i T butter ; brush 
potatoes with this, and baste with it during the cooking. 

VII. Spinach 

Carefully pick over and wash spinach through several waters. 
Cover bottom of pan with water, place spinach in pan, heat 
slowly, and cook until tender. Drain, season with butter, salt, 
and pepper, and garnish with slices of hard-cooked ^gg. 

Salads 

A salad is a wholesome and a favorite way of serving 
vegetables, both fresh and cooked. Combinations of meat, 
eggs, fruit, nuts, and cheese with vegetables are frequently 
made in salads. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



20 A STL'DY OF FOODS 

The dressing is usually a mixture of vinegar, egg, fat, 
and seasonings. The simplest of all dressings (the French 
dressing) is made of oil, vinegar, and seasonings, and is not 
cooked ; a raw egg in combination vnth the same gives a 
mayonnaise. Butter is more commonly used than oil in 
making dressings, and the mixture is cooked. 

As a source of food the salads vary greatly, depending 
entirely upon the materials put into them. If properly used, 
the salads are a very desirable addition to the diet. With 
a heavy meal a light salad, such as celery or lettuce, should 
be chosen, and in this case the salad is an accessory to the 
meal. The salad if made of meat, egg, or cheese may really 
be the major part of the meal. 

Care should be taken to have vegetables or fruits fresh, 
crisp, and thoroughly cleaned, and meat carefully freed from 
gristle and bone. All materials, including dressing, should 
be cold. Salads should be carefully mixed and served, in 
order to preserve their attractiveness. 

LABORATORY EXERCISES 

I. French Salad Dressing 

3 T oil I T vinegar or lemon juice 

\ t salt \ t paprika 

Mix salt and pepper with oil, add vinegar slowly, and beat. 

II. Cream Dressing 

Yolks 3 eggs or 2 whole eggs 1 1 salt 

2 T flour 1 1 mustard 

I T sugar ^c vinegar 

I T butter Paprika 

Mix dry ingredients, add vinegar, and cook thoroughly ; re- 
move from fire, add slightly beaten ^gg and butter. Cool, and 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



FRUITS AND GREEN VEGETABLES 21 

store in a glass jar until ready for use. When ready to serve, 
thin the dressing with cream, sweet or sour. Whipped cream is 
especially desirable. 

III. Vegetable Salnd 

^c peas I small cucumber 

^c string beans i tomato 

Carefully prepare the vegetables and serve with either French 
or cream dressing. 

IV. Fruit Salad 

Use seasonable fruits, either alone or in combination. Serve 
on lettuce leaf with French or cream dressing. 

GENERAL EXERCISES 

From Bulletin No. 28, " Chemical Composition of American 
Food Materials," and Farmers^ Bulletin No. 2gj^ " Use of Fruit as 
Food," list ten commonly used fruits according to water content; 
according to sugar content. Which are valued for food and which as 
appetizers? Compare grapes and raisins with respect to water and 
sugar content, and explain difference. 

List ten common green vegetables according to water content; 
protein content. What green vegetables contain sugar? 

References 

Langworthy. " Use of Fruit as Food," Farmers^ Bulletin N^o. -?9j, 

U.S. Department of Agriculture. 
Parloa. " Preparation of Vegetables for the Table," Farmers' Btilleiin 

No. 2^6^ U.S. Department of Agriculture. 
Hutchison. Food and Dietetics. 
Snyder, Frisby, and Bryant. "Losses in Cooking Vegetables," 

Bulletin No. ^j. Office of Experiment Stations, U.S. Department 

of Agriculture. 
Hough and Sedgwick. The Human Mechanism, pp. 93, 350. 
Bailey. Cyclopedia of American Horticulture. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



CHAPTER IV 

PRESERVATION OF FRUIT AND VEGETABLES 

Food spoils, due to the action of some form of plant or ani- 
mal growth. The most common causes of spoiling are the 
minute plants, always found in the air, called bacteria, yeasts. 




Apparatus for steaming Fruit in Cans 

and molds. A food, or any other substance, is sterile when 
all these microscopic forms of life have been killed. Steri- 
lization is most frequently accomplished by the use of heat. 
Since all dust is laden with these minute forms, food 
should not be exposed to the air unnecessarily. Like other 



Digitized by 



Google 



PRESERVATION OF FRUIT 23 

plants, these microscopic forms need food, warmth, and 
moisture. One of the means of protecting food is to keep 
it in a dry place, and in some cases the food is actually 
dried, as raisins and dried apples. Cold is the commonest 
and best means of protecting food, either in the household 
refrigerator or the commercial cold-storage plant. 

Heat, sugar, salt, vinegar, spices, and certain chemicals 
are used in preserving food for long periods of time. These 
agents are useful because they do not favor animal and 
plant growth. Heat is the most effective preservative, fqr 
if high enough and long enough applied, it will kill any 
form of life. Sugar, vinegar, and spices give a desired 
flavor to the food, as well as aid in preserving it, if used 
in sufficient quantities. Frequently several of these agents 
are combined. Canning powders may preserve food indefi- 
nitely, but they shrxild never be used. The Pure Food 
Laws are forbidding the use of chemicals by the manufac- 
turer, and the houscv\ ife should be no less particular. Heat, 
if properly used, will preserve food as well as chemicals, 
and there can be no question as to the safety of its use. 

The preser\'ation of food has largely passed out of the 
modem household, excepting the canning and pickling 
processes, and, in some localities, the curing of meat. 

LJRiiRATORV EXERCISES 

AfiENT?^ AND Methods of Preservation^ 

Experiment /. P u 1 1 ]i > rtions of some ripe fruit (as peach or apple) 
and vegetables (as tf miitto) on small dishes and treat as indicated : 

1. Expose at room temperature. 

2. Place in refrigerator. 

^ This group of experiments may be demonstrated. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



24 A STUDY OF FOODS 

3. Carefully dry sample in slow oven. Leave exposed in room. 

4. Cover with ground spice. 

5. Cover with sugar. 

6. Cover with salt. 

Examine samples at intervals and note results. 

Experiment II. Prepare duplicate samples for comparison. 

1. (a) Put slices of raw fruit into small glass bottles; cover 
with water ; cork and seal. 

(b) Repeat with cooked fruit. 

2. Sterilize, by boiling, two small glass bottles with corks 
to fit. • • 

{a) Fill one with raw fruit ; cover with water ; cork and seal. 
(J)) Fill the other with cooked fruit at boiling temperature ; 
cork and seal. 

Examine samples at intervals and compare. 

Experiment III. Put slices of fruit in small glass bottles 
and treat as indicated : 

1. Cover with. alcohol. 

2. Cover with vinegar. 

3. Cover with sirup of 5T sugar and 2T water. 
Examine at intervals and compare. 

All samples in these experiments should be discarded on spoil- 
ing, but some will need to be kept for a long period. 

In Experiment I note order in which samples spoil. Why do 
some keep indefinitely ? 

Discuss the value of sterilization as illustrated in Experi- 
ment II. What is complete sterilization, and in which sample 
is this illustrated ? 

Compare samples in Experiment III. Are all desirable ? 
Explain. 

When would you use any of the above methods in the 
household .^ 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



PRESERVATION OF FRUIT 25 

Canning 

Canning is largely a method of preservation by heat. 
In the canning of fruit, usually from one fourth to one third 
the weight of the fruit in sugar is added to give the desired 
flavor. 

Cans, lids, and rubbers should be thoroughly washed 
and rinsed. Cans and lids should be sterilized by boiling, 
and care should be taken not to touch the top of the can 
or the inside of the .lid with fingers or cloth. New rubbers 




Types of Fruit Jars 

only should be used, and these should be sterilized with 
boiling water. Spoons and funnels used in handling fruit 
should be sterilized in boiling water. 

LABORATORY EXERCISES 
I. Canned Com 

Use only fresh and perfect com. Free from silk and cut from 
cob, using care not to cut too closely. Put into ketde, barely 
cover with water, and boil thoroughly. Fill jars, add 1 1 salt and 
1 1 sugar, and set lids loosely on top. Place in a covered steamer, 
steam i hour, and seal. After 24 hours fill steamer with cold 
water and heat, steaming the com for an hour. Repeat the 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



26 A STUDY OF FOODS 

steaming the third day. This same method is applicable to 
beans, peas, and other vegetables. 
Calculate cost, and note on each jar. 

II. Canned Peaches 

Prepare peaches by paring and dividing into halves. Make a 
sirup, using i c sugar to 2 c water. Cook peaches in sirup until 
tender and somewhat transparent, put into sterilized jars, and 




I II 

I. Jar of Fancy Melba Peaches; cost, $i. II. Fifteen Jars of 
Peaches canned in Laboratory ; cost, $1 

seal. Invert jars at once and leave until cool. By inverting the 
jar an ill-fitting top is quickly discovered. This same general 
method is applicable to other fruits. 

Keep a complete record of cost of fruit and sugar used for 
each jar. Note on a gummed label, and paste on jar together 
with date and name. 

III. Canned Tomatoes 

Sterilize cans, tops, and rubbers as for canned fruit. Wash 
tomatoes, scald, remove skins and hard green core. Cut into 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



PRESERVATION OF FRUIT 2^ 

quarters and cook, without adding water, until thoroughly heated 
through and boiling. Fill jars, seal, and invert. 
Calculate and note cost on each jar. 

Preserving 

Preserving fruit is largely a method of preservation by 
a heavy sugar solution, three fourths to equal weight of 
sugar being used. 

Wash, rinse, and scald with boiling water the glasses 
for preserves. Cover fruit with melted paraffin. 

LA BORA TORY EXERCISE 
I. Grape Conserve 

I pint grapes f c raisins 

I small orange 
Pulp grapes, cook until soft ; then put through a colander and 
add skins, orange pulp, and raisins. To every cup of this add a 
cup of sugar and cook until of desired consistency. Nuts added 
at this time increase the attractiveness of the conserve. 
Calculate and record cost on each glass. 

Jelly-making 

In making jelly, sugar is used in large enough quantity 
to act as a preservative. 

Prepare glasses as for preserves and cover in same way. 

LABORATORY EXERCISE 
I. Grape Jelly 

Cover the bottom of an enameled kettle with water and add 
the grapes, which have been thoroughly washed. Cover, cc^ok 
slowly, and stir occasionally. When simmering point is reached, 
crush the fruit with a masher and continue heating until thor- 
oughly cooked. Pour the hot mass into a double square of 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



28 A STUDY OF FOODS 

cheesecloth ; tie the comers together and let the juice run out 
Do not squeeze the pulp. Measure the juice, boil 2 or 3 minutes, 
add a three-fourths measure of sugar, and boil until the jelly will 
drop in flakes from the spoon. Pour into hot jelly glasses and 
cover with melted paraffin. 

The same method may be used with any juicy fruit. 

Calculate and record cost on each glass. 

Pickling 

Pickling is usually a method of preserving by use of 
vinegar and spices. Heat may or may not be used. 
Wash, rinse, and scald jars. 

LABORATORY EXERCISE 
I. Cucumber Pickles 

Place cucumbers in stone jar, cover with brine in proportion 
of ^c salt to 2 qt. boiling water. Let stand 24 hours. Drain 
off brine, scald, and pour again over cucumbers. Let stand until 
cool, or longer if necessary. Drain off the brine and pack pickles 
closely in jars. 

I pint vinegar Stick cinnamon 

Salt Sugar 

Cloves Pepper 

Scald vinegar with seasonings, pour over pickles, and seal 
jars. These seasonings vary with strength of vinegar, spices, 
and individual tastes. 

Calculate and record cost of pickles on each jar. 

GENERAL EXERCISES 

In order to test the proper care of all sorts of canned materials, 
carefully wrap and stand in a dark place samples of each kind of 
fruit and vegetable canned. Leave duplicate samples exposed to full 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



PRESERVATION OF FRUIT 



29 



light. After two or three months open and compare the above 
samples with each other, and with commercial samples. 

Carefully measure commercial products to estimate the cost of one 
quart, and compare with the domestic product made in the class. 

Comparison of Domestic and Commercial Products 





Flavor 


Appkar- 

ANCB 


Cost per Quart 


Remarks 


Product Examined 


In 

Season 


At Time of 
Canning 


reasons for 
diflferences) 


Com 

Commercial-! _ . 

(^ Expensive 

Domestic Product 












Tomatoes 

Commercial-! ^ . 

^ Expensive 

Domestic Product 










Peaches 

Commercial-! _ ^ . 

1^ Expensive 

Domestic Product 












Jelly 

Commercial-! _ ^ . 

Expensive 

Domestic Product 












Pickles (Cucumber) 

. , r Bottled 
Commercial ^ „ 
\Bulk 

Domestic Product 






• 







I bu. peaches = 48 lb. 



I bu. tomatoes = 56 lb. 



What is a reasonable price to pay for peaches for canning? for 
tomatoes ? 

What factors enter into the cost of the commercial product, which 
are not usually counted in the domestic product ? 



Digitized by 



Google 



30 A STUDY OF FOODS 

References 

Conn. Bacteria, Yeasts, and Molds in the Home. 

Price. Handbook on Sanitation. 

Parloa. " Canned Fruits, Preserves, and Jellies," Farmers' Bulletin 

No. 203^ U.S. Department of Agriculture. 
Breazeale. "Canning Vegetables in the Home," Farmers' Bulletin 

No. 3$g^ U.S. Department of Agriculture. 
GoLDTHWAiTE. " Principles of Jelly Making," University of Illinois 

Bulletin, Vol. VIII, No. 7. 
GoLDTHWAiTE. "Jelly Making," The Journal of Home Economics, Feb- 
ruary, 19 10. 
Abel. "Care of Food in the Hom^,'' Farmers' Bulletin No.jy^, U.S. 

Department of Agriculture. 
Snow. "Effect of Sugar and Temperature on Fruit Juices," The 

Journal of Home Economics, June, 1909. 
Hoffman and Evans. "The Preservative Action of Spices," The 

Journal of Home Economics ., December, 191 1. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



CHAPTER V 

SUGAR 

There are several kinds of sugars. The common com- 
mercial sugars are granulated, powdered,' light and dark 
brown, maple, and glucose. The commercial names do 
not indicate their chemical composition — chemically pure 
powdered, granulated, and maple sugars are identical. Com- 
mercial maple sugar contains flavoring materials which make, 
it very desirable for some purposes. There are a number of 
chemically different sugars, which are of interest to the phys- 
iologist, but in the household we are principally concerned 
with granulated (cane) sugar and grape sugar (dextrose). 

Granulated sugar is obtained commercially from the sugar 
cane and the sugar beet. Contrary to popular notions, the 
sugar is the same from both sources. Differences which 
have been noted in granulated sugars are probably due to 
the degree of purification in their manufacture. Cane 
sugar is found in fruits and other vegetables, but in lesser 
quantities than in the sugar cane and beet. Grape sugar 
occurs in honey, fresh and dried fruits, and may be seen in 
small whitish lumps on raisins and prunes. The starches 
and sugars are easily changed to grape sugar by the action 
of heat and acid outside the body and by digestive fluids 
in the body. 

The commercial sirup (glucose or corn sirup) is prepared 
from starch, and contains from 34 to 36 per cent of grape 
sugar. When cream of tartar, vinegar, or lemon juice is 

31 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



U. 8. DcpartiDMit of Acrleuttur* 
OOm of Expwlaiait BtetkiM 



Praparedbj 

C. F. lanowortht 

XziMrt in Chug* of If utrkkw InrMtigstfam 



COMPOSITION OF FOOD MATERIALS 

fe'". ;,'f-^ B^SJra i^^^ ^^B F««iv««u«: 




MAPLE SUGAR 



1746<Mloriw 



\ 




GaAiits«rtmt8SL9 




C^iW^jfnlH; &I 



1R00 oalorica ptr ponnd 



1176 caloriM per pound 



Sugar and Similar Foods 



32 



Digitized by 



Google 



SUGAR 33 

added to taffy, a portion of the cane sugar is changed to grape 
sugar. Cane sugar easily granulates, while grape sugar does 
not; so in the making of candy it is desirable to have glucose, 
to prevent the coarse granulation, or *' turning to sugar." 

The sugars are valuable as food. They are easily dis- 
solved, do not require cooking, give a pleasant flavor to 
other foods, and, eaten in moderation, are valuable to the 
body as a source of energy. The sweet flavor of sugar 
is universally liked, and frequently it is used in too great 
quantities, particularly in the form of candy, and with tea, 
coffee, and cereals. The overeating of sugar may cause 
fermentation in the stomach. 

Cane sugar is the form most commonly used, but the 
grape sugar is eaten in large quantities in honey, corn 
sirups, candy, and fruits. Grape sugar is wholesome as a 
food, and occurs in the body as a result of the digestion of 
starches and sugars. Glucose is produced more cheaply 
than cane sugar, and the chief objection to its use in com- 
mercially prepared food is its substitution for the more 
expensive products without a reduction in the price of the 
finished article. Glucose is more familiar to us in the form 
of sirup than as a dry sugar, and is not so sweet as cane 
sugar. Under the Pure Food Laws, the sirup glucose is 
called corn sirup — a concession to the popular prejudice 
against glucose. 

Lactose (milk sugar) is prepared commercially and is fre- 
quently used in infants* food. Lactose is still less sweet than 
grape sugar. Molasses is another familiar form of sugar in 
the household. It contains both cane sugar and grape sugar 
and a number of coloring and flavoring substances which 
exist in the raw materials from which the sugar is made. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



34 A STUDY OF FOODS 

LA BORA TORY EXERCISES 

I. Effect of Heat upon Cane Sugar^ 

1 . Put \ c sugar in a small frying pan, heat gently, and stir 
constantly until sugar is melted. Quickly remove a small portion 
to a plate and examine the product, which is known as barley 
sugar. Continue the heating until the whole mass is light brown 
in color. Remove a small portion of this product (caramel) to 
a plate and compare with barley sugar. To the caramel in pan 
add \ c boiling water and boil to a sirup. This caramel may be 
saved and used for flavoring custards and sauces. 

2. To I c sugar add \ c water. Place in a small pan. Boil, 
and with constant use of the thermometer discover the temper- 
ature for the following tests which are in constant use : 

a. When sirup will form a soft ball in cold water. 

b. When sirup will form a thread as it is dropped from spoon. 

c. When sirup will form a hard ball in cold water. 

d. When sirup will harden in cold water and crack on cooling 

(crack stage). 

e. When caramel is formed. 

Remove a portion to a small dish at each stage of the heating. 
Compare products ahd suggest uses. 

II. Peanut Brittle 

Place \ c sugar in small frying pan, heat slowly, stirring con- 
stantly, until sugar is melted and light brown in color. Stir in 
2 T chopped peanuts and pour at once onto a buttered plate. 

III. Fondant 

Add \ c sugar to ij^ c hot water, stir until dissolved, then 
add ^t cream of tartar and boil to soft ball stage. During 
cooking remove all crystals from the sides of the pan by washing 

^ This may be demonstrated by the teacher. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



SUGAR 35 

with a wet cloth wrapped around a fork. Pour onto a cold plate, 
cool, flavor, then beat with a spoon until it stiffens and can be 
molded with the hands. Handle the mass until it is soft and 
creamy. This may be molded into candies at once or it may be 
covered closely and allowed to stand for 24 hours. 

IV. Chocolate Creams 

Mold fondant into desired shapes, and when firm place on tip 
of fork and dip into the melted chocolate. 

Grate or scrape chocolate into a cup or bowl and place the 
bowl in warm, not hot, water. Be very careful not to overheat 
or the chocolate will thicken. 

Place dipped creams on oiled paper and cool at once. 

V. Molasses Taffy 

\q, molasses i c sugar 

I T butter ^c boiling water 

I T vinegar \ t soda 

^t vanilla 

Mix all the ingredients except the soda and cook until brittle 
when tried in cold water. Add soda and pour onto a buttered 
pan. When cool enough to handle, add vanilla and pull candy 
until light. Pull out into a long rope and cut with scissors. 

VI. Butterscotch 

I c sugar Flavoring 

^c water ^t cream of tartar 

I T butter 

Boil together sugar, water, and cream of tartar until the color 
changes to a light brown. Remove from fire, stir in butter and 
flavoring. Boil up again and pour, in a very thin layer, onto a 
buttered pan. Mark into squares before the candy hardens. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



36 



A STUDY OF FOODS 



GENERAL EXERCISES 

Comparison of Commercial and Domestic Products 





Appearance 


Cost 


Flavor 


Remarks 


Peanut Brittle 
Commercial 
Domestic 










Chocolate Creams 
Commercial 
Domestic 








'' 


Butterscotch 
Commercial 
Domestic 










Taffy 

Commercial 
Domestic 











Why is cream of tartar added to fondant? Is this absolutely 
necessary? Why is the flavoring not added at the beginning of 
the cooking process? What are the objections to cheap candies? 

Table sirup made from granulated sugar in the household fre- 
quently turns to sugar on standing. Can you suggest any way to 
avoid this? Illustrate with an example. 

Examine the samples of different sugars and note characteristics. 

References 

Rem SEN. Organic Chemistry, chap. xi. 

Abel. " Sugar as Food," Farmers* Bulletin No. gj^ U.S. Department of 
Agriculture. 

Leach. Food Inspection and Analysis. 

Wiley. Foods and their Adulterations. 

Jordan. Principles of Human Nutrition. 

Shaw. " Cane and Beet Sugar for Canning and Jelly Making," Bul- 
letin No.jj^ California Experiment Station. 



Digitized by 



Google 



CHAPTER VI 
STARCH 

Starch is the form in which plants commonly store food. 
Starch occurs in the form of grains, which are closely packed 
in the plant cell. These grains vary in different plants, and 
microscopic examination of the starch grain usually tells at 
once the kind of plant from which it comes. Corn is the 
common commercial source of starch, both for laundry and 
for table use. Starch is also prepared from wheat and 
potatoes. Less usual forms of starch are tapioca, sago, 
and arrowroot. 

Starch is a valuable food and a cheaper form of carbo- 
hydrate than sugar. Its use in the body is the same as that 
of sugar ; it yields energy for work and keeps the body 
warm. In the process of digestion starch is made soluble, 
finally being reduced to grape sugar, in which form it 
circulates through the animal body. Carbohydrate may be 
stored in very small quantities in animals and exists in the 
form of glycogen, sometimes called animal starch. Dry 
starch when heated changes its color and flavor and is 
converted into a form of carbohydrate called dextrin. This 
substance is familiar in toast and in browned flour used in 
making gravy. Starch, unlike sugar, is not soluble in cold 
water. Starch heated with water swells, changes its flavor 
and appearance, thickens, and forms a translucent mass. 
Raw or undercooked starch has an unpleasant flavor, so 

37 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



38 A STUDY OF FOODS 

all starchy food should be thoroughly cooked and should 
reach the boiling point some time during the cooking 
process. The thickening power of starch makes it desir- 
able in the preparation of many dishes, such as puddings, 
sauces, and gravies. It is necessary to use a little care in 
cooking starch to avoid lumping. Starch, if first mixed 
with something else, as sugar, cold water, or fat, does not 
lump when a hot liquid is stirred into it. When iodine is 
added to starch, it turns blue. This is a simple and reliable 
test for detecting starch. 

LABORATORY EXERCISES 

I. Cornstarch Pudding 

\q, fruit juice f c water 

2 or 3 cloves Sugar to taste 

\ t salt 2 T cornstarch 

Heat water and juice. When boiling, stir in the cornstarch 
which has been mixed with a little cold water. Stir over the 
direct flame until it thickens, and add cloves and sugar. Cook 
\ hour in a double boiler ; then pour into molds to cool. Fruit 
or nuts may be added at this time. 

Chill and serve plain with fruit or with cream. 

Strong flavored fruits, as plums or grapes, should be used. 

Calculate number of servings and cost. 

II. White Sauce 

1 c milk 2 T flour 

2 T butter Salt and pepper 

Soften or melt butter in pan, add flour, and mix thoroughly. 
Remove pan from fire and very gradually add the milk, stirring 
constantly to avoid formation of lumps. After these are mixed, 
retum to fire and boil the sauce thoroughly. Add pepper and salt 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



STARCH 39 

III. Cream Toast 

Prepare two slices of toast, and dip each into hot white sauce. 
Place on a heated plate and pour the remainder of the sauce 
over them. 

GENERAL EXERCISES 

Test several foods for starch. 

Make a microscopic examination of starches from different sources. 

Is there any difference in the thickening power of white and 
browned or dextrinized flour? Explain. 

Compare value of cornstarch and flour as thickening agents. 
Explain. 

Will cost lead to a choice between them ? 

References 

See list for Chapter V. 

Wiley. "Cereals and Cereal Products," Bulletin No. 13, Part IX, 
Division of Chemistry, U.S. Department of Agriculture. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



CHAPTER VII 

POTATOES 

The potato is a commonly used vegetable. It is a tuber, 
or underground stem, in which the plant stores a large 
amount of starch, and so is a good source of food. New 
potatoes, if ripe, are more palatable than old potatoes. 
When potatoes are old and begin to sprout, they become 
waxy on cooking and are not so choice. This is due to a 
certain change in composition. The potato is composed of 
water (75 per cent), cellulose, starch, mineral salts, and a 
small amount of protein. We value the potato for its starch 
and the bulkiness of its cellulose. The mineral salts lie 
very close to the skin, and a thick peeling may easily 
remove a large part. Care should be taken not to overcook 
potatoes. They are mealy if properly cooked, but soggy 
if overcooked or not thoroughly drained and dried. 

LABORATORY EXERCISES 

I. Cut a very thin slice through the center of a potato, hold 

up to the light, and observe the structure. Add a drop of 
weak iodine solution and observe again. 

II. Remove skin from a potato and grate about one third of 

the potato. Let this stand two or three minutes on a plate 
which is placed on a slant. What is the bulky portion ? 
Pour liquid off from the lower edge. What remains ? 
40 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



POTATOES 41 

III. Boil one potato with the skin on, and one potato which has 
been pared. After the water used in cooking the two pota- 
toes has been cooled, test it with iodine. 

Compare the two potatoes as to appearance and flavor. 

IV. Prepare two potatoes of uniform size for baking. Put one 
into the oven 20 minutes after the other. Remove both 
when second potato is properly cooked. 

Compare the properly cooked and the overcooked potato. 
Why are you often directed to pierce skin of baked potato 
when it is done ? 

V. Boiled Potatoes 

Select potatoes of uniform size. Clean and pare, or not, as 
desired. Cook in boiling, salted water until easily pierced with 
a fork. Drain off water and shake the pan over the fire until 
potatoes are thoroughly dried. 

VI. Creamed Potatoes 

Use diced boiled potatoes. Prepare a white sauce of the 
desired consistency, and add salt and pepper. Turn the potatoes 
into this, and with as little stirring as possible heat potatoes 
thoroughly. 

VII. Mashed Potatoes 

2 boiled potatoes Salt 

Milk or cream Butter 

Potatoes for mashing should be pared before cooking. Mash 
potatoes, and add butter and salt. Mix thoroughly and add milk, 
beating vigorously. Pile lightly in a hot dish and serve. 

Why is the amount of milk and seasoning not given in this 
direction ? 

VIII. Potatoes au Gratin 

Put a layer of diced, cold boiled potatoes in a baking dish. 
Sprinkle with grated cheese and diced pimentos. Cover with 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



42 A STUDY OF FOODS 

white sauce. Repeat until dish is full. Cover with buttered 
crumbs and bake until well browned. 

Buttered crumbs. Melt i T butter in pan, add 4 or 5 T bread 
crumbs, and mix thoroughly. 

IX. Escaloped Potatoes 

Put alternate layers of sliced, hard-cooked eggs and cold, 
boiled potatoes in a greased baking dish. Cover each layer with 
white sauce. Put buttered crumbs on top and bake until brown. 

X. Potato Salad 

Use only potatoes which have been thoroughly cooled after 
cookmg. J ^ diced potatoes i hard-cooked ^gg 

\q. diced celery Dressing 

The flavor of the salad may be changed by adding a little 
onion, pimento, or green pepper. A potato salad should be 
carefully and lightly mixed, and not stirred and mashed together 
with a spoon. Enough dressing should be used to coat and 
flavor the whole salad. It is better if it stands at least half an 
hour. Serve on a crisp lettuce leaf. 

GENERAL EXERCISES 

For a family of six compare the cost of a dish of boiled potatoes 
when they cost 90 cents a bushel and when they cost $2.50 a bushel. 

What would be the cost of a dish of boiled rice, hominy, or mush 
for the same family ? 

Is one of these a reasonable substitute for one of the others? 

References 

Langworthy. " Potatoes and Other Root Crops as Food," Farmers^ 
Bulletin No. ^95, U.S. Department of Agriculture. 

Snyder, Frisby, and Bryant. "Composition and Digestibility of 
Potatoes and Eggs," Bulletin No. ^j, Office of Experiment Stations, 
U.S. Department of Agriculture. 

Hutchison. Food and Dietetics. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



CHAPTER VIII 

CEREALS AND CEREAL PRODUCTS 

The cereals, and the preparations from them, furnish 
foods high in starch. Some fruits and vegetables contain 
starch, but in smaller proportions. The potato, a very 
starchy vegetable, is considered in the preceding chapter. 

The cereals — wheat, oats, com, rice, barley, rye, millet, 
and buckwheat — store a large amount of starch in their 
seeds. In some cases these seeds, or grains, are used whole, 
and in others they are crushed, rolled, or ground into meal 
or flour. In addition to starch, which averages 65 per cent 
to 70 per cent, the cereals contain 10 per cent to 1 2 per cent 
each of protein and water, and, with the exception of oats 
and com, very little fat. The mineral matter in cereals adds 
greatly to their food value. In milling the grains, the outer 
layers and germs of the grain are frequently discarded and 
so the greater part of the ash is lost. The loss of total 
mineral matter in milling may be shown in the case of 
wheat; the whole grain contains 2 per cent ash, the bran 
about 6 per cent, and the white flour about ^ per cent. 

A list of the so-called breakfast cereals found on the 
market will quickly reveal the fact that there is a large 
number of commercial products made from this group of 
foods. When the cereals are put up in fancy boxes and 
under special names there is an increase in the price not 
always warranted. 

43 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



44 



A STUDY OF FOODS 



From com, starch is prepared on a commercial scale and 
sold as cornstarch. Corn meal is a staple article of food, 
and hominy is another familiar preparation from corn. 
Wheat in the form of flour for bread and cake is very 
extensively used. Macaroni and spaghetti are pastes made 
of coarsely ground wheat (called semolina) and water. 

While the cereals are high in starch, which is desirable 
for its nutritive value, they also contain the bulky cellulose, 




56-7 8 

TexN Cents' Worth of Eight Well-Known Breakfast Foods 

I, Grape Nuts; 2, Puffed Rice; 3, Shredded Wheat Biscuit; 4, Com Flakes; 
5, Cream of Wheat; 6, Rice ; 7, Oatmeal ; 8, Corn Meal 

which serves its purpose in the body by aiding in peristalsis. 
In cooking cereals, starch and cellulose are to be specially 
considered. For the sake of flavor starch should be thor- 
oughly cooked, reaching the boiling point at some time 
during the process. The cellulose, surrounding the starchy 
grains, must be softened so that the digestive juices may 
more easily penetrate the mass. The greater the amount 
of cellulose and the larger the particles of the grain, the 
longer must the cooking be continued. Cracked or rolled 



Digitized by 



Google 



CEREALS AND CEREAL PRODUCTS 45 

oats, for instance, are more quickly cooked than the whole 
grain. Rice contains less cellulose along with the starch ; 
consequently it is more quickly cooked. 

The cereals form a large part of the food of people in 
the greater part of the world. They are easily grown and 
stored, and being high in all the nutrients but fat, they 
furnish one of the cheapest sources of food. The corn of 
the American Indian and the oatmeal of the Scotch High- 
lander furnish a much more complete food than the rice 
of the oriental, due to the fact that rice furnishes practically 
no protein or fat The rice-eating people use fish and beans 
to supply fat and protein in their diet. The common custom 
of using butter with bread, eggs and milk with rice is easily 
justified on the ground of composition of wheat and rice. 

LABORATORY EXERCISES 
L Boiled Rice 

1. :J^c rice 2 c boiling water 
^t salt 

Wash rice and add to 2 c rapidly boiling water in which ^t 
salt has been dissolved. Keep up the rapid boiling until the 
rice is tender, replacing the water lost by evaporation, if needed. 
Turn water and rice into a strainer, drain, and set in the oven 
to dry slightly. 

Note time of cooking ; bulk before and after cooking. 

Continue boiling the water in which rice was cooked until its 
volume is reduced about one half. Explain. 

2. ^c rice f c boiling water 
it salt 

Wash rice, add to boiling salted water, and cook 3 or 4 min- 
utes. Finish cooking in a double boiler and avoid stirring the rice. 
Compare with rice from No. i, as to appearance and flavor. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



46 A STUDY OF FOODS 

Note time of cooking ; bulk before and after cooking. 
When would you use these different methods, and why ? 

II. Escaloped Rice 

Put a layer of cooked rice in a buttered baking dish ; cover 
with a layer of grated cheese and white sauce. Repeat until 
dish is filled. Cover with buttered crumbs and brown in oven. 

Macaroni may be prepared in a similar way. 

III. Rice Pudding 

4C milk ^c sugar 

^c rice ^t salt 

^c seeded raisins, if desired 

Mix ingredients in a baking dish and cook in a very slow 
oven for from 4 to 5 hours. It will be necessary to stir occasion- 
ally to prevent rice and raisins from settling to bottom of dish. 
If raisins are not used, some flavoring should be added. 

Calculate cost of this pudding, and the number of people it 
will serve. 

IV. Boiled Macaroni 

Macaroni Boiling water 

Salt 

Break macaroni into inch lengths and cook in rapidly boiling 
salted water until tender. Drain. 

V. Macaroni with Tomato Sauce 

1 c tomato juice \\. salt 

2 T flour ^t pepper 
2 T butter i-^t sugar 

I slice onion 

Melt butter; mix thoroughly with flour. Remove from fire; 
gradually add tomato juice, stirring constantly. Add seasonings. 
Boil sauce until it thickens and remove onion. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



CEREALS AND CEREAL PRODUCTS 47 

Place alternate layers of boiled macaroni and tomato sauce in 
a buttered baking dish. Cover top with buttered crumbs. Bake 
until the whole is heated through and crumbs are browned. 

Rice may be prepared in a similar way. 

Breakfast Cereals 

In cereals the starch and cellulose are both improved by 
long cooking. A fireless cooker may well be used after the 
cereal has been thoroughly boiled. It is economical because 
it saves the time of watching and the fuel for cooking. An 
undercooked cereal is poor in flavor, and breakfast cereals 
are so frequently undercooked that many people do not 
care for them and will not eat them. 

LABORATORY EXERCISES 

I. Com Meal Mush 

I c com meal 3 Jc boiling water 

1 1 salt 

Mix com meal with cold water, slowly stir this into the 
rapidly boiling water, boil and stir for 5 minutes, cook more 
slowly for 2 to 3 hours. This may be served hot with milk 
or cream and sugar, or it may be molded and used for frying. 
It is nice to use milk in place of part of the water. 

Note increase in bulk of com meal after cooking. 

II. Fried Mush 

Cut molded mush into §-inch slices. Drop into deep fat and 
cook until golden brown. 

If desired, the slices may be dipped into ^gg and cmmbs. 

III. Rolled Oats 

I c Rolled Oats 2 c water 

|t salt 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



48 A STUDY OF FOODS 

Gradually stir oats into boiling salted water. Boil, stirring con- 
stantly, for 5 minutes, then cook at a lower heat for several hours. 

Raisins or dates make a nice addition, but they should be 
cooked with the cereal. 

Note increase in bulk on cooking. 

GENERAL EXERCISES 

In using corn meal for breakfast cereal, what measure would you 
cook for a family of six ? Calculate cost. 

What is the measure and cost for Quaker Oats and Cream of 
Wheat? How much would the addition of raisins or dates increase 
the cost and food value ? 

What is the amount and cost of Shredded Wheat and Com Flakes 
needed for a family of six ? 

Comjjare package and bulk cereals as to cost and desirability. 

References 

Wiley. "Cereals and Cereal Products," Bulletin No. ij. Part IX, 

Division of Chemistry, U.S. Department of Agriculture. 
Woods. " Food Value of Com and Corn Products," Farmers' Bulletin 

No.2g8y U.S. Department of Agriculture. 
Woods and Snyder. " Cereal Breakfast Foods," Farmers' Bulletin 

No. 24g, U.S. Department of Agriculture. 
Knapp. " Rice Culture in the United States," Farmers' Bulletin N^o. no, 

U.S. Department of Agriculture. 
Knapp. "Course in Cereal Foods and their Preparation," Bulletin 

No. 200y Office of Experiment Station. 
Knapp. " Breakfast Foods," Bulletin A^o. 7^, Iowa Experiment Station. 
Knapp. " Composition of Prepared Cereals," Bulletin No. 33^ Wyoming 

Experiment Station. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



n. 8. DaparimMit of AfHouUvn 



A. C. TnwiDliMtor 



C F. LANOWOBTHT 
Bzpart Ib Ohaiia rfNoteldM ImrmOaldcoB 



COMPOSITION OF FOOD MATERIALS 



Fat OtrbohydntM Aah 



IPmI ValM 
L 8q.Iii. EquaU 
lOOOOtloriM 




CarbohydntM: 78.4 



BUCKWHEAT 

Protein: 10.0-.^ A*-- Wf r; 12.8 

OarbohydratM: 78.2 ^^^^ ^^. g q 
Fuel veloe: 





Cereal Grains 



49 



Digitized by 



Google 



U. & DqiwtBWtof A«rlenltun 
OAm of KxpntoMt BtedoM 



^P(t|MMd1>7 

C. T. UiNOWOBTHT 



COMP OSITION OF FOO D MATERIALS 

mun ^M ^^ ^^ BH ^■L'sJIiI'Bqu.to 

Pftt lOirbohjdntM Aah Water ^^M lOOOCUorlM 



NAVY BEAN, DRV 

-^WatMr: 1S.« 



SHELLED BEAN, FRESH 

ir:68.» 





STRING BEA-N, QREEN 




CORN. QREEN 

EDIBLE PORTION 



If aim U^ 




i7dntM:19.r 



Legumes and Corn 



50 



Digitized by 



Google 



CHAPTER IX 

DRIED LEGUMES 

Not many vegetables are dried, but legumes — such as 
beans, peas, lentils, and peanuts — are kept in the dry 
state for use during the whole year. These dried leg- 
umes, naturally, have a very low percentage of water. 
They are high in protein and contain some starch. Pea- 
nuts are high in fat. In some households corn is dried, 
and it makes a very acceptable product. Commercially, 
other vegetables have been dried, but the result is not 
altogether satisfactory. 

The legumes are not only high in food value, but they 
are inexpensive, make a very good substitute for meat, 
and add variety to the diet. The wide use of legumes by 
certain races, and by those engaged in hard labor, such 
as lumbermen, bears evidence to the fact that their food 
value is high. A little care bestowed upon the prepara- 
tion of the legumes will result in very palatable dishes, 
the use of which should be encouraged both from a die- 
tetic and an economic viewpoint. The removal of the 
hulls of beans and peas will frequently prevent the dis- 
comfort which sometimes follows the eating of them. If 
the water used in cooking is very hard, a little soda should 
be added. Time should be allowed for soaking these dried 
foods, and they should be cooked until they are thoroughly 
softened. 

SI 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



52 A STUDY OF FOODS 

LABORATORY EXERCISES 
I. Baked Beans 

Soak 4C beans overnight in cold water. In the morning add 
fresh cold water and cook slowly until the skins begin to burst. 
Pour off water and put beans into jar. Bury in beans f lb. of 
fat salt pork. To i c boiling water add i T salt, i T molasses, 
3T sugar, and pour over beans. Add enough more boiling 
water to cover beans; replenish, if needed, during cooking. 
Cover the bean jar and bake slowly from 6 to 8 hours. Mustard 
may be added if the flavor is desired. 

Calculate the cost of this dish and the number of people served. 

What is the increase in the bulk of beans on cooking ? 



II. Lentil Soup 






4 c lentils 


lib. ham 


Salt 


I bay leaf 


I onion 


Pepper 


I carrot 


I T butter 





Soak lentils overnight, drain, cover with cold water, and 
bring to boil ; cook for an hour. Drain again, cover with boil- 
ing water, add ^t soda, ham, bay leaf, onion, and carrot. Cook 
until lentils are tender. Remove ham, press through a colander. 
Season with salt, pepper, and butter. Add cream or milk to 
give desired consistency. 

111. Dried-Pea Soup 

1 c dried peas Small piece of 2 T flour 

2 qt. cold water fat salt pork i^t salt 

^ onion 3 T butter ^t pepper 

Soak peas several hours or overnight ; drain, add water, pork, 
and onion. Simmer several hours until soft, and run through 
colander or sieve. Melt butter, add flour, and mix. Add to this 
a small portion of the soup, boil, and turn into the soup kettle. 
This use of flour and butter in the making of soup or gravy is 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



DRIED LEGUMES 53 

termed " binding," because it holds together all the ingredients 
of the dish. Season with salt and pepper. If soup is too thick, 
add milk or cream. 

IV. Cream of Lima Beans 

Soak ic dried beans overnight, drain^ and cook slowly in 
salted water for from 2 to 3 hours. Drain, season with butter, 
pepper, and salt, and add ^c cream. 

V. Peanut Sandwiches 

Put freshly roasted peanuts through the finest knife on the 
grinder; mix with melted butter or salad dressing and make 
into sandwiches. 

VI. Salted Peanuts 

^T butter or olive oil \z shelled peanuts Salt 

Shell and remove skins from unroasted peanuts, add them to 
the hot fat in frying pan, and stir constantly until peanuts are a 
light brown. Salt, and cool on brown paper to remove excess 
of fat. 

GENERAL EXERCISES 

Is it desirable to use the fireless cooker in preparing dried 
vegetables ? 

Compare the compwDsition of beans and peanuts with potatoes. 

Would you serve salted peanuts with a heavy or a light meal ? 

If you were going camping and were allowed small luggage, 
suggest some of the vegetable foods which you probably would take 
and some which you would not. 

References 

Abel. "Beans, Peas, and Other Legumes as Food," Farmers' Buiieiin 

No. 121, U.S. Department of Agriculture. 
Hutchison. Food and Dietetics. 
Beattie. " Syllabus on the Peanut," Farmers' Institute^ Lecture /j, 

Office of Experiment Stations, U.S. Department of Agriculture. 



Digitized byVnOOQlC 



CHAPTER X 

MILK 

Milk has a large percentage of water, but still contains 
enough of other nutrients to make it a good food. It is 
especially adapted to infants and young children, but is 
desirable for older people, either when taken alone or com- 
bined with other foods. 

Composition of Milk 



Constituents 


Per Cent 


Water 


87-88 

3-4 

3-5 

4-5-5 

0.7 


Protein 


Fat ... 


Carbohydrate 


Ash 



It will be noted that milk contains the five nutrients, 
or food principles, and this is to be expected when it is 
realized that infants and growing children live on milk 
alone. It is adapted in form and composition to the needs 
of the young, but it is not good as an exclusive food for 
older persons, for the food principles are not in proper 
proportion for the adult. 

Milk is an animal food which contains a carbohydrate. 
This is a sugar and is called lactose. The fat of milk 
occurs in tiny globules (which rise to the top of milk as 
cream), and is separated in the form of butter. The mineral 

54 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



MILK 55 

matter of milk is especially adapted to the needs of the 
growing child. The protein of milk is mainly in two 
forms, casein and albumen. As said before, protein is 
the nutrient which builds tissue, and this is absolutely 
necessary for people of all ages, but especially needed for 
the young on account of growth. If milk is taken with 
a meal instead of water, it must be remembered that so 
much extra food is being added to the meal. A glass of 
milk or a bowl of cream soup may well form part of a 
light lunch. The value of skimmed milk as a food is 
not always appreciated. Skimming removes fat only, and 
the rest of the nutrients are left. The price of skimmed 
milk is much less than that of whole milk, and it has 
enough food value to deserve more extended use. 

Certain minute forms, already discussed in Chapter IV, 
as well as similar forms which produce disease, grow very 
readily in milk. Consequently great care must be used in 
producing, handling, and keeping milk. The production 
of clean, wholesome milk involves extra care and means 
additional expense. It is always wise to pay the price of 
good, wholesome milk, particularly if it is used for infants 
or invalids. The duty of inspecting dairies belongs to city 
boards of health ; and from these boards information con- 
cerning the condition of the milk from any dairy may be 
obtained. The duty of the householder is to know the 
source of the milk supply in the first place, and, in the 
second place, to take proper care of the milk after it is in 
the house. All pails, pans, bottles, and other vessels in 
which milk is kept should be thoroughly washed and scalded 
with boiling water after each use. A milk vessel rinsed with 
boiling water is in better condition if it is not wiped with 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



U. 8. D«|wrtaMnt of Afrieultura 

OflM of EzpniBMBt Btetiou 

A.C. Ttm: Diiwtor 



C. F. LAKOWOBTHV 
ExpOTt la Chazge of Notritloa iBTMtlcidoiu 



COMP OSI TION OF FOO D MATE RIALS 

mnii ^^ mm ^m bb HL'^'iI'^oau 

Fftt Ovbohjdnto* Aih Wtter ^^| 1000 Calorlot 



WHOLE MILK 




SKIM MILK 






Wfciw: 17.0 








|. . . . , 




\' -- f 


Xkr1i»l>fdiiiv5.0 


- piEitLtrii^ 


FimItsIm: 

1 

U&oalorlM 
JMT pound 


Foci ralue: 

1 

166oaloriM 
pw pound 





BUTTERMILK 





rbohjAnttfi 4 & 



Milk and Milk Products 



S6 



Digitized by 



Google 



MILK 57 

a towel or cloth, for these are not free from bacteria. For 
the same reason, the common custom of rinsing a pan 
in fresh cold water is not a good one. If the condition of 
the milk is doubtful, it is best to pasteurize or boil the milk, 
since heat will kill any disease-producing forms. Boiling 
milk will destroy many organisms present, but it affects 
the flavor of the milk and brings about other undesirable 
changes. In pasteurization the milk is not heated to the 
boiling point, but to a temperature high enough to destroy 
most disease-producing organisms. 

LABORATORY EXERCISES'^ 

I. Pasteurization of Milk 

Nearly fill a clean bottle with fresh milk. Cork with a care- 
fully rolled plug of clean cotton. Place the bottle in cold water, 
taking care that the water does not reach the mouth of the bottle. 
Heat slowly until the water reaches a temperature of 60** C. 
Remove from fire, but keep closely covered for 20 minutes. 
Remove from water and cool quickly. Keep in a cool place. 

Why should pasteurized milk be used soon after treating ? 

II. Effect of Boiling upon Milk 

1 . Boil a portion of sweet milk for i minute. Cool and com- 
pare with pasteurized milk as to taste. 

2. Boil a portion of sour milk for i minute. 

III. Separation of Constituents of Milk 

1. Skim cream from ic of milk. What has been removed 
from the milk ? 

2. To the skimmed milk add vinegar drop by drop until the 
white curd (casein) separates out from the liquid. Strain. What 
nutrient is strained out ? 

^ Exercises I, II, and III may be demonstrated by the teacher. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



58 



A STUDY OF FOODS 



3. Boil the liquid which has passed through the strainer in 2. 
Strain or filter this through a filter paper. On the filter paper 
is the albumen. What nutrient is this ? 

4. The liquid which has passed through the filter in 3 is the 
water of the milk with some substances dissolved in it. What 
are they ? 

IV. Cottage Cheese 

Pour 2 c of hot, but not boiling, water over 2 c of thick, sour 
milk. Strain. If the curd has a sour taste, add water a second 
time. Season with salt, pepper, and cream. 

V. Junket 

Heat to lukewarm ^c milk. Add ^t sugar, a few drops va- 
nilla, and \ junket tablet dissolved in 1 1 warm water. Pour at 
once into a dish. When set, cool and serve. 



VI. Chocolate 

f c heated milk 
\ square bitter chocolate 
^t cornstarch mixed with 
^c cold milk 



\T sugar 

A few grains of salt 

4 or 5 drops of vanilla 



Add cornstarch, sugar, and salt to cold milk and heat to boil- 
ing, stirring constantly. Remove from fire, add grated choco- 
late, and mix with f c heated milk. Heat in a double boiler 
from 10 to 15 minutes. Just before serving, add vanilla and 
beat with Dover egg-beater. 



VII. Potato Soup 

3 potatoes 

4 c milk 

2 slices onion 
2 T butter 
I T flour 



i^t salt 

\X, celery salt 

\t pepper 

A few grains of cayenne 

I T chopped parsley 



Digitized by 



Google 



MILK 59 

Cook potatoes in boiling, salted water. When soft, rub through 

a sieve. Scald milk with onion until well seasoned, remove onion, 

and mix milk and potatoes. Bind the mixture with butter and 

flour which have been cooked together. Add seasonings and 

serve. 

GENERAL EXERCISES 

Compare cost of milk per quart from different dealers. What 
causes the difference in price.'* What is the standing of your milk 
dealer ? 

When should milk be pasteurized ? 

What changes do you observe when sweet milk is heated ; when 
sour milk is heated ? 

Why not use boiling water in making cottage cheese ? 

Why do you heat milk in a double boiler ? 

Why not use ^ot milk in making junket ? 

References 

MiLNER. "The Use of Milk as Food," Farmers' Bulletin No. 363, U.S. 
Department of Agriculture. 

Hutchison. Food and Dietetics. 

Rogers. "Bacteria in Milk," Farmers' Bulletin No. 348^ U.S. Depart- 
ment of Agriculture. 

Whitaker, RoGERs7and Hunt. " The Care of Milk and its Uses in the 
Home," Farmeri' Bulletin No. 413^ U.S. Department of Agriculture. 

Whitaker. " The '- Extra Cost of producing Clean Milk," Circular 
No. lyo^ Bureau of Animal Industry. 

Lane. " Medical MiJk Commissions and the Production of Certified Milk 
in the United States," Bulletin No. 104, Bureau of Animal Industry. 

" Milk and its Relation to Public Health," Hygienic Laboratory Bul- 
letin No. ^6. 

Denton. " Pasteurization of City Milk Supplies," TTie Journal of Home 
Economics, June, 19 10. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



U. 8. D«partm«ntof Agrlcttltim 

OfflM of Ezperlmant Btatloai 

A.C. TriMtDlxMtor 



Prepandby 

C. F. LANOWORTHY 

Expert In Chatge of Nutrition Inrcatlgatloni 



00MP08ITI0N OF FOOD MATERIALS 

^B ^^ ^^ ^Mk 

F«t CwbohjdntM Aah Water 



I Fuel Value 
L Sq.In. Equals 
1000 Calories 



WHOLE EQQ 



EGO 

WHITE AND YOLK 




Pro«^! IfiJ 

Fat: 33,3 ""^ 



/ 



Fuel raluo of whole egf t 



N^^tei — Fit -. •Ji.a 

AA:a6 
Fuel value of white: 



696oaIorlag 
per pound 



OREAM CHEESE 



lOfiOoalori^ 



C 




eOTTAQE CJHEESl 



.^---^ rrrvlaiii; 2C.0 WUrtrTS: 



'*¥t>vb jilratAft, il.\ 



OkrtKAjlnUB: 4.^- 



1885 calories per pound 




406 oaloriei per pound 



Eggs and Cheese 



6o 



Digitized by 



Google 



CHAPTER Xr 

EGGS 

Eggs are a valuable animal food composed of water, 
protein, fat, and mineral matter, all the substances required 
for the development of the young chick. The percentage of 
water is less than in milk, the protein is greater, and there 
is no carbohydrate. Albumen is found in the white and 
yolk of egg, as well as in milk, but other forms of protein 
occur in eggs. The yolk contains the fat and a large part 
of the mineral matter. Eggs are a good substitute for meat 
because of their protein. The shell of the egg, contrary to 
popular notion, is porous, and consequently will permit 
the entrance of disease and other putrefactive germs. 
Dirty nests may be dangerous, and if eggs are packed, 
clean material should be used. Eggs should be kept clean 
rather than washed, for they have a slight covering which 
is some protection against infection as well as against 
evaporation. As an egg grows older, water evaporates 
through the porous shell and the egg weighs less. This 
fact is made use of in testing the freshness of eggs. When 
they are put into water or a salt solution, the fresh or heavy 
ones stay at the bottom and the lighter ones come to the 
top. The white of egg on beating entangles a large amount 
of air, and this is an aid in making light desserts, omelets, 
and cakes. Albumen coagulates on heating, and this makes 
egg a thickening agent for custards and sauces. Care must 

6i 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



62 A STUDY OF FOODS 

be taken not to overcook albumen ; if in combination with 
a liquid, it will first thicken the liquid, but on continued 
heating it will separate, as the protein of milk does in 
making cottage cheese. If albumen is heated slightly it 
becomes jellylike, and on continued heating it grows very 
hard and tough. 

LABORATORY EXERCISES^ 

I. Manipulation, 

1. Separate the white and yolk of an egg. Beat each thor- 
oughly with a wire egg-beater. Note difference in results. Let 
both stand 30 minutes. Observe occasionally, but do not disturb. 
If eggs are used as leaveners, when should they be beaten ? 

2. Beat whole egg thoroughly. Compare i and 2. What ef- 
fect does the presence of the yolk have on the beating of the 
white ? What is the purpose in the beating of eggs ? 

II. Effect of Heat upon Eggs, 

1. Place 3 eggs in 3 pints of boiling water. Remove from 
flame, cover closely, and keep warm. Test i &gg in 5 minutes, 
another in 7, and the third in 10. 

2. Cover I egg with boiling water. Boil for 3 minutes. Re- 
move and test. 

3. Cover I tgg with boiling water and boil for 20 minutes. 
What factors would have any effect on comparable results in 

the above experiments ? 

III. Poached Eggs. 

Place I c water in small frying pan. Bring to boil, add \ t salt. 
Break an tgg into a saucer and carefully slip it into a buttered 
muffin ring placed in the bottom of the frying pan. The water 
should cover the &gg. Place the pan where the water cannot 

^ Exercises I and II may be demonstrated by the teacher. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



EGGS 63 

boil, let stand until a white film has formed over the top of the 
egg and the white is firm (about 6 minutes). With a skimmer 
remove the egg and muffin ring to a piece of buttered toast and 
carefully lift off the ring. Season with butter, salt, and pepper. 

IV. Ome/ef. 

I egg I T water 

J t salt Pepper 

I t butter 
Separate white and yolk of egg. Beat yolk until thick, add 
salt, pepper, and water, and mix well. Beat white until stiff but 
not dry. Fold the white carefully into the yolk. Melt the but- 
ter in an omelet pan, add the egg, and cook at a low tempera- 
ture. Place in a hot oven to dry the top. Fold and turn onto 
a hot platter. 

When should the oven be lighted ? 

When should the white of egg be beaten ? 

Would a preparation of yolks of eggs alone be light ? 

V. Baked Custard, 

I c milk 2 T sugar 

I egg A few grains of salt 

Flavoring 
Do not beat egg, but mix thoroughly with milk, sugar, and 
salt. Add milk and flavoring and pour into a custard cup. Set 
cup in a pan of warm water and place in oven. 
Why is the cup set in a pan of water ? 

VI. Soft Custard, 

I c scalded milk Few grains salt 

1 egg Vanilla 

2 T sugar 

Beat egg slightly and add sugar and salt ; stir constantly while 
gradually adding the hot milk. Cook in a double boiler; continue 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



64 A STUDY OF FOODS 

stirring until mixture thickens and a coating is formed on the 
spoon. Chill, and flavor with vanilla. If cooked too lopg the 
custard will curdle ; if this should happen, remove immediately 
from the fire and whip with a Dover egg-beater. 

GENERAL EXERCISES 

From observations on Exercise II, how should a soft-cooked egg 
be prepared ? 

For a family of six, calculate the cost of a serving of soft-cooked 
eggs when eggs are 20 cents a dozen ; 45 cents a dozen. 

Repeat cost calculation for omelet. 

Why are eggs beaten in making the omelet, and not beaten in 
making the custard ? 

References 

Langworthy. " Eggs and their Uses as Food," Farmers' Bulletin 

No. 128, U.S. Department of Agriculture. 
Hutchison. Food and Dietetics. 
Hammersten. Physiological Chemistry. 
Leach. Food Inspection and Analysis. 
Lamson. " Water Glass a Preservative for Eggs," Bulletin No. 67, 

Connecticut Experiment Station. 
Lamson. " Infection and Preservation of Eggs," Bulletin No. jj, 

Connecticut Experiment Station. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



CHAPTER XII 

CHEESE 

Cheese is a food prepared from milk, but differs greatly 
from milk in composition. At least half of the water is re- 
moved from milk in the making of cheese. There is a great 
variety of cheeses, due to the kind of milk used and the 
methods of making and ripening. Ordinarily cow's milk is 
used, and the curd is separated by use of either acid or rennet. 
Where a large part of the water is removed, a hard cheese 
results, such as the ordinary American cheeses. The Neuf- 
chatel is an example of a soft or cream cheese. The flavor 
of cheese is produced during the ripening process by the ac- 
tion of bacteria or molds. The familiar American or Cheddar 
cheese is ripened by bacterial action ; Roquefort, by molds. 

Cheese varies greatly both in kind and composition, but, 
generally speaking, it is approximately one third each of 
water, fat, and protein. Cheese contains practically no car- 
bohydrate, and the custom of eating it with crackers, or com- 
bining with rice, macaroni, or potatoes, is rational. Cheese 
is frequently called indigestible, but the reason for this is usu- 
ally due to improper use. It is a highly concentrated food, 
consequently should not be eaten in very large quantities 
or added to the dessert at the end of a heavy meal. Cheese 
is frequently eaten for its flavor, but its food value should 
always be recognized when it becomes a part of the meal. A 
very desirable way of serving cheese is in combination with 
other foods, thus affording a large variety of cooked dishes. 

65 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



66 A STUDY OF FOODS 

LABORATORY EXERCISES 

I. Effect of Heat upon Cheese 

Add 2T grated cheese to ^c milk. Heat to boiling. Note 
results. Explain. 

II. Welsh Rabbit 

2 T flour 2 T butter 

I c milk 4-6 T cheese 

I t.gg yolk 

Prepare a white sauce with flour, butter, and milk. Add 
cheese (finely divided) and ^gg yolk. Remove from fire, and stir 
until cheese is melted ; reheat, and serve at once on hot wafers 
or toast. 

III. French Rabbit 

Fill a baking dish with alternate layers of bread (which has 
been sliced, spread with butter, and cut into small squares) and 
cheese either grated or ground. Moisten this thoroughly with 
a mbcture made in the following proportions : 

I c milk Salt 

I ^gg Cayenne pepper and mustard 

Bake until thoroughly heated through and browned on top. 

IV. Cheese Crackers 

Sprinkle grated cheese thinly over crackers. Season with 
salt and cayenne pepper. Place in the oven until crackers are 
slightly browned. 

V. Cheese and Pimento Sandwiches 

^c cheese 2 T cream or salad dressing 

;J:C chopped pimento Salt and pepper 
Cottage, Neufchatel, or any other soft cheese may be used. 
Cream the butter and spread very thin slices of bread. Spread 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



CHEESE 67 

the filling on the slices of bread and pile in layers of from six to 
eight slices, having a piece of plain bread on top. When ready 
to serve, cut through the slices, making a layer sandwich. 

GENERAL EXERCISES 

Which one of the food principles in cheese is most affected 

by heat.** 

For a family of six, what is the cost of a serving of Welsh rabbit 1 
Note cost, flavor, and appearance of at least five different kinds 

of cheese. 

References 

Langworthy and Hunt. "Cheese and its Economical Use in the 
Diet," Farmers* Bulletin No. 487, U.S. Department of Agriculture. 
Hutchison. Food and Dietetics. 
Conn. Dairy Bacteriology. 
Wiley. Foods and their Adulteration. 
Leach. Food Inspection and Analysis. 
Alvord. Cheese Making on the Farm, Farmers* Bulletin No. 166, 

U.S. Department of Agriculture. 
Williams. Chemistry of Cookery. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



CHAPTER XIII 

MEAT 

The flesh of cattle, swine, and sheep furnish our common 
meats. Beef is from cattle, veal from calves, mutton from 
sheep, and lamb from the young sheep. Meat, milk, cheese, 
and eggs are the chief sources of protein. Protein from 
animal sources is expensive, and vegetable protein should 
be frequently used as a substitute. 

Meat contains water, protein, fat, and mineral matter. 
The amount of water varies with the fat, which occurs in 
layers and also through the lean of the meat in portions so 
finely divided as not to be visible. The mineral content of 
meat is important from a dietetic viewpoint. Meat contains 
a group of substances called extractives. These are not 
nutrients, but they give to the meat its desirable flavor and 
consequently they should be considered in cooking meat. 
These extractives are soluble in water and may be quickly re- 
moved by hot water. They vary in kind and amount in dif- 
ferent meats, and these, together with the fat, give each meat 
its characteristic flavor. As a muscle is used, the amount 
of extractives increases, consequently the highest flavored 
is very often the most used and the toughest. For example, 
a round steak is more highly flavored than a tenderloin. 

Meat, or muscle, is made up of bundles of fibers bound 
together with connective tissue. Each of these bundles is 
made up of smaller bundles, the fibers being microscopic. 

68 



Digitized byLnOOQlC 



MEAT 



69 



These little fibers are elongated cells filled with a fluid 
called protein. There are several proteins in meat, and 
some are soluble in cold water. Protein forms from 15 
to 20 per cent of the meat. As a muscle is used the walls 
of the fibers thicken and harden, and the connective tissue 
increases in amount, so making a tough piece of meat. 




12 3 4 

BOITLES SHOWING AVERAGE COMPOSITION OF OnE PoUND OF BeEF 

I, mineral salt, .16 oz. ; 2, fat, 2.08 oz. ; 3, protein, 3.04 oz. ; 4, water, 10.72 oz. 

The cuts of meat may be roughly divided into two classes, 
tough and tender. The toughness may be due to the amount 
and kind of connective tissue, or to the fact that the desir- 
able changes which follow slaughtering have not taken place. 
The connective tissue increases in amount and toughness 
with age and hard work. For this reason, veal is more 
tender than beef ; the porterhouse steak cut out from the 
back where the muscles are little used is more tender than 
the round cut from the leg where the muscles are in con- 
stant use. The best beef-producing cattle have certain 



Digitized by 



Google 



70 A STUDY OF FOODS 

characteristics — wide back, thick flesh covering, short legs, 
etc. — and animals of this type that have been well fed 
produce first-grade meat. This, of course, is more tender 
and of a better flavor than that from lower-grade cattle. 
The fat should be evenly distributed through the meat; 
this means less waste, and in cooking bastes all parts much 
more effectively. 

Meats undergo marked changes in texture after slaughter- 
ing. Immediately after the animal is killed the flesh is juicy 
and tender ; very soon the death rigor develops, the muscles 
stiffen, and the meat is. tough. Later on, due partly, at least, 
to the formation of acids, the flesh becomes softer and more 
tender, as in the first stage, and acquires an added flavor. 
In hot climates the meat is commonly eaten in the first or 
the second stage ; in temperate climates, in the second and 
the third, and, of course, is much more palatable and tender 
if left until the third stage. 

The effect of heat upon protein has already been shown 
with milk, eggs, and cheese, and the same general principles 
hold for cooking the protein in meat. The purposes of 
cooking meat are to develop flavor, improve appearance, 
kill any living organisms, and soften the connective tissues 
if they are present in large amounts. Since proteins are 
coagulated and hardened by heat, it is probably true that 
cooking diminishes ease of digestion, and it may remove 
considerable quantities of nutrients. The effect on con- 
nective tissue depends on whether dry or moist heat is 
applied. If the soft part, or the contents of the fibers, is 
scraped out and the remaining connective tissue placed in a 
smoking hot frying pan, the effect of dry heat can easily 
be seen. The tissue shrinks and hardens to a remarkable 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



MEAT 71 

degree, illustrating what happens when a tough cut, such 
as round, is broiled or roasted. If a similar piece were 
placed in water and simmered for a long time, the fibers 
would fall apart, and when the broth was cooled it would 
set more or less solidly. This is due to the fact that the 
moist heat has acted on the connective tissue, forming 
gelatin, which dissolves easily in the hot liquid and stiffens 
on cooling. The extractives, or flavoring materials in the 
meat, are dissolved out in hot water. The flavor is much 
more highly developed in meat cooked by dry heat, because 
of the higher temperature and also because of the browned 
outside. So we prefer the broiled steak or the roast if the 
meat is a tender cut. 

Beef is divided by the butcher through the backbone 
into sides or halves, and then each of these is cut between 
the twelfth and thirteenth ribs into fore and hind quarters. 
The muscles of the four quarter run irregularly and there 
are more of them, so that the meat is usually of a lower 
grade and, therefore, cheaper than that from the hind 
quarter. The most tender and the most expensive cuts lie 
just back of the middle of the backbone, decreasing in 
value as either extremity is approached. The best part of 
the fore quarter is taken from the ribs and is usually cut 
into roasts. A rib roast is tender and may be roasted in 
an open pan with dry heat. The fore quarter includes the 
chuck, neck, etc., and belongs to the tough cuts, so they 
must either be ground or cooked by moist heat, as in pot 
roasts, stewing, braising, corning, or in soup. These cuts 
are fully as nutritious as the more expensive ones, and if 
properly cooked at low temperatures and well seasoned, 
they offer an excellent means of reducing the cost of food. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



72 A STUDY OF FOODS 

The most expensive and tender cut comes from the 
<^hort ^^h<^ in ^^^"*^ ^^ ^^^ ^T'^j ^^^ ^"^ Vnnum ac tVt^ portpf- 
house cuL This cut is made up partly of the muscle called 
the tenderloin and partly of the sirloin. Where the 
tenderloin muscle ends, the loin p i^^g ^^g^"j and extend 
back to the rump cut. These are not so tender as porter- 
house, but still are classed as tender cuts, and, therefore, 
are suitable for broiling. The rump piece i s ordinarily cut 
into roasts, but usually needs the application of some moist 
heat to make the meat tender, and for this reason they are 
used as pot roasts. Bel9) | V the rump lie s thp rnnnH a piece 
of meat that has little waste and good flavor. T^e insiHe^ 

or top^ ronnH from ^ first-g^ade animal mi^Upg a fairly ti^^nH^r 
f^fpal^ whpn hrnilpH ; f]]^ ^Mt^^^^^j ^'^ WtOm, r^""^ ^^ IcSS 

desirable, and unless one is sure of the grade of the beef, 
moist heat or grinding is usually advisable. 

In estimating the relative cost of the various cuts, the 
amount of waste must be taken into consideration ; for 
example, chuck ribs ordinarily sell for from lo to 12^ 
cents per pound, round from 1 5 to 18 cents per pound, and 
porterhouse from 25 to 30 cents per pound. Of the chuck 
ribs at least one half is waste ; of the round only about 
one twelfth ; and of the porterhouse about one eighth. 
The real cost of the edible portions then of the three 
cuts mentioned at 10, 15, and 25 cents per pound, re- 
spectively, would be 22, i6|-, and 281^ cents, showing that 
the round because of its small percentage of waste is by 
far the cheapest. 

As has already been said, protein is coagulated and hard- 
ened by heat. The higher the temperature, the harder and 
tougher the product. Therefore we use a high temperature 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



MEAT 73 

only at the beginning of the cooking process to form a 
coating over the outside which will retain the juices, and 
then lower the heat so that the interior may not be tough- 
ened and its juices coagulated. For this reason steaks 
should not be cut too thin ; never less than three quarters 
of an inch thick, and thicker than that is desirable. 

The methods of cooking meat by application of dry 
heat are broiling, pan broiling, oven roasting in an un- 
covered pan, or roasting before an open fire. The steak 
may be broiled under gas or over glowing coals, and if 
properly done will be well browned on the outside and juicy 
and pink on the inside. A steak that is gray all through 
will not be juicy, because the proteins dissolved in the juices 
have all been hardened by the heat. The steak should be 
first seared on either side to retain the juice, then moved 
farther from the flame so that the interior will not be over- 
cooked. Frequently it is more convenient to broil in frying 
pan or skillet. In this case the pan should be smoking hot 
and may be rubbed lightly with a bit of fat to prevent stick- 
ing. As soon as the meat is browned on either side, the 
heat should be reduced as in ordinary broiling. If fat col- 
lects in the pan, it should be poured off, otherwise the meat 
will be fried rather than broiled and will lose in flavor. 

A number of experiments in the roasting of meat were 
carried on at the University of Illinois, and it was found 
that for a tender cut the closed pan did not give as satisfac- 
tory results, as far as flavor and appearance were concerned, 
and the losses were greater than where an open pan was 
used. The same principle of high heat at first for searing 
and then a lower heat to finish the cooking applies here 
also. If the fat side is placed uppermost in the pan, 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



74 A STUDY OF FOODS 

basting will not be found necessary. If the roast is lack- 
ing in fat, lay a piece of suet on the uppermost side. 

The methods of cooking meat by the application of 
moist heat are stewing, braising, steaming, etc. By brown- 
ing the meat first, a good flavor is produced and probably 
more of the juices are retained. In stewing, the meat is 
cut into smaller pieces and is served with the broth or gravy 
so that none of the flavor and nutritive material will be 
lost. In braising, the meat is placed in a covered pan in 
the oven and steamed in its own juice. A pot roast is 
similar, except that it is cooked in a kettle on top of the 
stove. A small amount of water is usually added in both 
cases, and the meat may be floured and browned in 
smoking fat before the water is added. The temperature 
after the browning process is finished must be low. This 
method may be used with stealcs also, browning thoroughly, 
then adding a small amount of water, covering closely, 
and cooking for a long time over a very slow fire. 

Unless the broth is served with the meat, quite a little 
of the nutritive and flavoring material may be lost, since 
the extractives, mineral matter, and some of the protein 
will dissolve in water. The scum which covers the sur- 
face of broth is mostly made up of the dissolved protein 
which has been hardened by heat, as are also the set- 
tlings. In a clear broth this scum and any solid particles 
are usually carefully removed before serving, so that there 
is little left in the broth but some mineral salts and the 
extractives. 

The strong meaty flavor deceives many people who 
imagine that because of it the broth is nourishing. These 
extractives are allied to the stimulating substances found in 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



MEAT 75 

tea and coffee, and therefore the broth has some value as a 
stimulant, often whetting the appetite, but in cases of severe 
illness it should not be given unless ordered by a physician. 
It is commonly thought that the most expensive cuts of meat 
have the best flavor, but it is frequently true that the extrac- 
tives are better developed in the muscles which have been 
used more, and are in consequence tougher. The use of dry 
heat, which is possible only with the more tender cuts, 
does tend to develop flavor, and because of the ease of 
mastication the flavor is more easily detected in the tender 
cuts. While the extractives are not nutritious, their value 
as digestive stimulants must not be underrated. 

Good meat is bright red in color and has fat evenly 
distributed through it. The fat should be light yellow and 
firm. The price of meat is regulated by its tenderness 
rather than by its nutritive value. The tougher cuts require 
more skill in preparation, more time, and more fuel, al- 
though usually the cost of the extra fuel does not equal 
the extra cost of the tender meat. 

LABORATORY EXERCISES 

I. Effect of Dry Heat upon Protein 

From a three-inch square of round steak scrape out the soft 
portion with a dull knife. Form this into a ball. Place the soft 
ball, and the connective tissue from which it has been scraped, 
in a hot frying pan. Carefully watch the connective tissue while 
heating. Examine both after cooking and explain results. 

II. Effect of Moist Heat upon Protein 

Soak I T ground beef in 2 T cold water for several minutes. 
Strain and place in a test tube. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



76 A STUDY OF FOODS 

Mix 1 1 white of ^gg with 2 T cold water and place in a test tube. 
Heat both test tubes. Explain results. 

III. Tender Cuts 

1. Pan-broiled porterhouse steak or chops. Note weight as 
purchased. Weigh all edible portions and calculate the cost. 
Wipe with a damp cloth and trim off ragged edges and excess 
of fat. Put into a smoking hot frying pan without any grease. 
Turn several times until both surfaces are seared and brown. 
Finish cooking at a lower heat, turning occasionally. Salt sides 
of meat just as the cooking is finished. Serve on a hot dish. 

2. Beef roast (ribs). Calculate cost of the edible portion as 
in exercise III. See that the meat selected is clean. Trim off any 
ragged portions, but do not remove fat. Place a rack in the pan, 
arranging to have the larger cut surface exposed to the direct 
heat of the oven. The part with the greatest surface of fat should 
be placed uppermost, to do away with the necessity of basting. 
Place in a very hot oven, maintaining this heat for 15 or 20 
minutes, after which the heat should be lowered and the roast- 
ing continued, allowing from 15 to 20 minutes for each pound, 
according to the shape of the cut and the degree of cooking 
desired. Remove roast to a hot platter and pour hot fat from 
pan. Make gravy in pan in which roast is cooked. Measure 
flour and fat in the proportion of 2T of each to ic water. 
Thoroughly mix and brown fat and flour. Remove from fire 
and gradually add the water, stirring constantly. Boil, season, 
and serve hot. 

IV. Tough Cuts 

I. Pressed veal. Cook a shank of veal until very tender, so 
that meat can be easily picked to pieces. Let the water cook 
down until about i c of the liquid remains. Pick the veal apart, 
season with salt, pepper, and sage if desired. Pour over this 
the liquid from the vessel in which the meat was cooked. Mix 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



MEAT 77 

thoroughly and pack closely in a pan of proper shape to make 
good slices when the meat is cold. When set, cut in thin slices 
and serve. 

Hard-cooked eggs may be packed into center (A mold. 

2. Swiss steak. Pound a liberal quantity of flour into a piece 
of round steak on both sides. Season well and saute in very 
hot suet drippings until a good brown crust is formed. Then 
add sufficient water to barely cover, and simmer slowly for 
from I to i^ hours. It may be necessary to add a little water 
occasionally. When ready to serve there should be just enough 
liquid to moisten the meat thoroughly. Onion or tomato juice 
may be added to vary the flavor. Calculate cost of ediblie portion 
as in exercise III. 

3. Brown stew. Cut lean beef into cubes ; neck beef will be 
found quite satisfactory for this. Season each piece with salt 
and pepper ; dredge thoroughly with flour and brown well on all 
sides in a frying pan, using a little suet to prevent sticking and 
to give necessary fat. Add sufficient water to cover meat, and 
when this has boiled up once, turn into a double boiler and cook 
for 3 hours. Diced vegetables may be added, toward the end of 
the cooking, if the flavor is desired. If gravy is thin, pour off 
and thicken. 

4. Pot roast. Use a cut from the round, the rump, or the 
shoulder. Season with salt and pepper and dredge with flour ; 
then brown entire surface in pork fat or suet. Add a little boil- 
ing water, cover closely, and cook slowly for several hours 
(4 hours is not too long for a 4- or 5 -pound roast). Vegetables 
may be added if desired. Less water may be added and the 
meat cooked in the oven. The water around meat in either 
case should be kept below the boiling point. Why ? 

The liquor around this meat makes an excellent foundation 
for gravy. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



78 A STUDY OF FOODS 

Meat Substitutes 

By a meat substitute is meant a dish which contains 
enough protein so that it can reasonably take the place 
of meat at a meal. Meat substitutes may be found from 
both vegetable and animal sources, but the former are 
cheaper. 

List the dishes suggested in this book which might 
serve as meat substitutes. Discuss the comparative cost 
and food value. Suggest other substitutes. 

Materials, such as rice, potatoes, dumplings, and maca- 
roni, are frequently cooked with meat, thereby gaining its 
flavor and lessening the amount of meat eaten. These 
are called meat extenders, and their use helps to reduce 
the cost of food. These extenders are useful when a 
small quantity of meat is on hand. 

Meat Left-overs 

Portions of meat left over are too frequently thrown away, 
or so poorly prepared that. they might as well have been 
thrown away. The use of left-overs requires some skill 
and care, but throwing them away is extravagance. More 
thought about quantities purchased would frequently result 
in no left-over portions. In preparing left-overs the result 
should always justify the extra materials added, the time, 
and the fuel used in preparation. In the second cooking 
of meat it must be remembered that little cooking should 
be done, or the meat will be dried and unappetizing. Extra 
flavorings are usually added, for the original flavor of the 
meat is lost. 



Digitized byLnOOQlC 



MEAT 79 

LABORATORY EXERCISES 

I. Minced Meat 

Chop or grind cold meat, heat with some of the gravy, and 
season with celery salt or onion juice. Serve on buttered toast. 

II. Escaloped Meat 

Put into a baking dish alternate layers of macaroni or rice, 
and chopped or ground meat. Pour over it brown gravy or 
tomato sauce. Cover with buttered crumbs and bake until dish 
is heated through and crumbs are brown. 

III. Browned Hash 

Mix together equal parts of chopped meat and chopped coki 
boiled potatoes. Moisten slightly with gravy or stock. Season 
and place in heated frying pan containing a little fat Press 
compactly into one half of the pan ; heat slowly until brown. 
Turn onto a platter and serve with tomato sauce. 

IV. Beef Croquettes 

I c cold beef (ground) A few drops Worcestershire 

Salt and pepper sauce 

I T melted butter Enough gravy or meat 

I or 2 1 onion juice stock to moisten well 

Add ingredients to meat, shape, roll in flour, ^^^^ and crumbs. 
Fry in deep fat and serve with tomato sauce. 

V. Meat Salad 

Left-over portions of veal, chicken, or ham may be mixed 
with celery or cabbage and dressed with salad dressing. 

GENERAL EXERCISES 

List the market prices of the common cuts of meat. 
For a family of six, calculate cost of a porterhouse and a Swiss steak. 
With the cost of the serving of meat just calculated, compare the 
cost of a serving of eggs at 20 cents a dozen ; at 45 cents a dozen. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



8o A STUDY OF FOODS 

For a family of six, calculate the cost of a rib roast and a pot 
(rump) roast. 

In which of the above illustrations would a fireless cooker be 
useful ? 

What makes the pressed veal "set," after the liquid is poured 
over the meat? 

Do you think that the usual objection to tougher and cheaper 
cuts of meat is well founded? 

References 

Woods. " Meats, Composition, and Cooking," Farmers' Bulletin No. 34^ 
U.S. Department of Agriculture. 

Langworthy and Hunt. " Economical Use of Meat in the Home," 
. Farmers^ Bulletin No.jgi^ U.S. Department of Agriculture. 

Grindley. " Experiments on Losses in Cooking Meat," Bulletin 
A'o. io2y Experiment Stations, U.S. Department of Agriculture. 

Grindley and Mojonnier. "Losses in Cooking Meat," Bulletin 
A'o. 141, Experiment Stations, U.S. Department of Agriculture. 

Grindley. " Studies of Effect of Different Methods of Cooking upon 
Ease and Thoroughness of Digestion," Bulletin No. igj^ Experi- 
ment Stations, U.S. Department of Agriculture. 

Boss. ** Meat on the Farm, Butchering, Curing, and Keeping," Farmers^ 
Bulletin No. 183^ U.S. Department of Agriculture. 

Melvin. "The Federal Meat Inspection Service, Bureau of Animal 
Industry," Circular No. 12^^ U.S. Department of Agriculture. 

Bevier and Sprague. " Roasting of Beef," Circular No. 7/, Illinois 
Experiment Station. 

Hall. " Market Classes and Grades of Meat," Bulletin No. 147^ Illinois 
Experiment Station. 

Hutchison. Food and Dietetics. 

Terrell. Household Management. 

Hall and Emmett. " Relative Economy, Composition, and Nutritive 
Value of the Various Cuts of Beef," Bulletin No. ij8y Illinois Ex- 
periment Station. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



CHAPTER XIV 

FISH AND OYSTERS 

The flesh of fish resembles the flesh of other animals 
in composition. The muscle fibers are shorter, coarser, 
and are bound with much less connective tissue. Generally 
speaking, fish contains more water than meat and much 
less fat. A few of the commonly eaten fish, such as sal- 
mon, contain fat in greater quantity, but these do not con- 
tain more than half of the quantity found in a piece of 
moderately fat beef. The flavor of fish is very character- 
istic, and its use affords variety to the diet. The flavor of 
freshly caught fish is far superior to that which has been 
kept even a short time. Unlike meat, fish should not be 
kept, but used immediately. Fish lends itself to various 
methods of preparation, and is good in combination with 
other things. The all-too-frequent habit of frying fish has 
possibly led to its disfavor with many people. In selecting 
fish on the market, choose only those with firm flesh and 
bright eyes. Fish spoils very quickly on removal from 
cold storage. 

Oysters are another form of sea food very commonly 
used. These are valued for their flavor rather than for 
their nutritive value. They have approximately the same 
composition as milk, and cost from five to ten times as 
much as milk. Some danger attends the eating of raw 
oysters, due to the fact that they are sometimes fattened 

8i 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



U. 8. D*|«rt8iiMtorA«rleuUun 



A. C. Ttm: Dinetof 



C. F. LANOWOKTHY 
Kxpwt IB Chug* of Nntritim IiiTMtlcMlou 



COMPOSITION OF FOOD MATERIALS 




Fish, Fish Products, and Oysters 



82 



Digitized by 



Google 



FISH AND OYSTERS 83 

in sewage-polluted water. The laws for food inspection 
have done a great deal to correct this evil, but outbreaks 
of typhoid fever have been traced to the eating of raw 
oysters. 

LABORATORY EXERCISES 

I. Boiled Fish 

To each quart of water in which fish is to be cooked add 1 1 
salt and 1 1 vinegar. Small fish should be cooked whole. For 
preserving the shape and appearance of the fish it is desirable 
to wrap it in a piece of cheesecloth, which is also an aid in 
handling the fish. A wire basket is convenient for cooking fish 
in water. Put the fish into the boiling water and cook at the 
simmering point until the bones and flesh will readily separate. 
Drain water from the fish ; bone, and serve with suitable sauce. 

II. Baked Fish 

Clean fish ; the head and tail may or may not be removed. 
The fish may or may not be boned. Rub inside and out with 
salt and pepper. Fill the cavity with stuffing, allowing it room 
to swell slightly. Sew the slit over with strong thread, taking 
stitches so deep that they will not tear out. Brush over with 
melted butter and dredge with flour. If the fish is lean, lay 
strips of fat pork over it. A little water should be added to the 
pan. Bake from 40 to 60 minutes, basting occasionally. When 
done, remove strings and strips of bacon. 

Garnish with lemon and parsley and serve with a suitable sauce. 

III. Fish Stuffing 

I c bread crumbs A few drops of onion juice 
\c melted butter 1 1 chopped parsley 

it salt ^t pepper 

I I chopped cucumber pickle, if desired 

This is a dry dressing. If a moist dressing is desired, water 
or meat stock may be added. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



84 A STUDY OF FOODS 

IV. Sauces 

1 . Maitre-d^ hotel butter 

Rebutter ^t pepper 

\ t salt I T chopped parsley 

I T lemon juice 

Cream butter in a bowl ; add salt, pepper, parsley, and then 
slowly, lemon juice. 

2. Drawn-butter sauce 

\c butter i^c hot water 

3T flour Salt and pepper 

Melt \ the butter, add flour and seasonings, and pour hot 
water on gradually. Cook thoroughly and add remaining but- 
ter cut into small pieces. May be served with broiled or baked 
fish. In the latter case, add i^T lemon juice or vinegar. 

3. Tartar sauce 

iT vinegar ^t salt 

1 1 lemon juice i T Worcestershire 

^c butter sauce 

Mix vinegar, lemon juice, salt, and Worcestershire sauce, and 
heat over hot water. Brown butter and strain into mixture. 

V. Escaloped Salmon 

I c flaked salmon i c white sauce 

Remove salmon from can, separate skin and bone, and flake 
the salmon. Put alternate layers of fish and white sauce in a 
buttered baking dish, cover with buttered crumbs, and heat in 
oven until brown. 

VI. Codfish Balls 

\q salted cod ^c potatoes 

\ egg White pepper 

-Jt butter Salt, if needed 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



FISH AND OYSTERS 85 

Wash the fish in cold water and break into small pieces. 
Wash and pare the potatoes and cut into pieces. Cook the fish 
and potatoes together in boiling water until the potatoes are 
soft Drain, shake over the fire until dry, mash with a fork, 
add the beaten egg, butter, pepper, salt if needed, and beat 
until light. Take up by spoonfuls, mold slightly, and cook in 
deep fat. Or shape into croquettes, roll in egg and crumbs, 
and fry in deep fat. 

VII. Creamed Oysters 

1 c oysters 3 T butter 
Pepper 3T flour 
Salt I c milk 

Set oysters to drain. Make a thick white sauce of the other 
ingredients, add the oysters just before time to serve, and cook 
only long enough to heat them thoroughly. The oysters should 
be plump when served — not heated until they shrink. 

Fish Left-overs 

VIII. Escaloped Fish 

2 c cold flaked fish Bit of bay leaf 
I c white sauce i slice onion 

I c milk Salt and pepper 

Few sprigs parsley ^c buttered crumbs 

Heat milk with parsley, bay leaf, and onion until well sea- 
soned, and make into white sauce. Arrange fish and white sauce 
in a buttered baking dish in alternate layers, cover with buttered 
crumbs, and brown in hot oven. 

IX. Fish Croquettes 

Moisten ic cold flaked fish with a thick white sauce. Cool 
and shape into croquettes; roll in flour, then in egg and in 
crumbs, and fry in deep fat. Cold hard-cooked eggs or parsley 
may be cut up and added to the croquette mixture. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



86 A STUDY OF FOODS 

X. Creamed Fish 

I c cold flaked fish 4T chopped pimento 

I c white sauce i hard-cooked t%% 

Reheat fish with pimento and egg in white sauce. 

GENERAL EXERCISES 

For a family of six, calculate the cost of a serving of fresh fish 
and compare with cost of meat. Repeat with escaloped salmon and 
creamed oysters. 

Where are oysters grown, how obtained, and how shipped ? 

Is the frequent warning against eating raw oysters well founded? 

References 

Langworthy. " Fish as Food," Farmers* Bulletin Nb.S^y U.S. Depart- 
ment of Agriculture. 

Stiles. " The Value of the Shell-fish Industry and the Protection of 
Oysters from Sewage Contamination," Yearbook of Department of 
Agriculture, 1910, Separate No. 544. 

Stiles. " Shell-fish Contamination from Sewage-Polluted Waters and 
from Other Sources," Bulletin No. /j6, Bureau of Chemistry. 

Hutchison. Food and Dietetics. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



CHAPTER XV 

GELATIN 

Gelatin is a substance derived from animal sources. It 
is closely related chemically to the other proteins which 
have been discussed, but it does not serve the purpose in 
the body which some of these do. It is prepared commer- 
cially by boiling bone, gristle, skin, etc. in water, and then 
purifying. Gelatin is odorless, colorless, and tasteless in 
the pure state. It swells in cold water and dissolves in hot 
water. On cooling, a gelatin solution ** sets,'* or *' jellies." 
In this respect gelatin is similar to certain substances in 
plants which also set, or jelly, water solutions. Certain sea 
plants, such as mosses and agar, yield substances which 
have this property, and preparations of these are on the 
market under various names. In the ordinary fruit juices 
is found another substance — pectin, a carbohydrate — 
which causes these juices to jelly. While some other sub- 
stances will form a jelly, chemically they are not the same 
as gelatin, and do not have the same food value. Gelatin 
is generally used in the preparation of desserts, where it is 
valued as a carrier of flavor and for its texture and consist- 
ency. A very small per cent of gelatin is required to jelly 
a solution, so that the amount of gelatin ordinarily used 
is small. 

Gelatin is prepared in sheets and in granulated form. 
The latter may be bought in bulk or in small packages. 

87 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



88 A STUDY OF FOODS 

It is most frequently used with fruits, both fresh and 
canned, but fresh pineapple should never be used because 
the gelatin will lose its power to jelly, due to the action of 
the enzyme in the pineapple. 

LABORATORY EXERCISES 

I. Jellied Prunes 

\ lb. prunes 3 1 gelatin 

I c sugar ^c lemon juice 

Soak and cook prunes, remove stones, and cut into pieces. 
To the prune juice add enough boiling water to make 2 cupfuls. 
Soak gelatin in 4T cold water ; when soft, dissolve in hot prune 
juice, and add sugar and lemon juice. Add prunes and chill. 
Stir occasionally during cooling process so that the prunes may 
not settle when the jelly sets. 

II. Orange Whip 

4t gelatin ^c cold water 

I pt. orange juice Juice i lemon 

Sugar 

Soak gelatin in cold water and dissolve in hot water. Strain 
into this the fruit juice and sugar to taste. Set aside until partly 
jellied and then whip with Dover egg-beater until it becomes 
white and frothy. 

What causes the change of appearance on beating ? 

III. Snow Pudding 

2 1 gelatin i c sugar 

^c cold water ^c lemon juice 

I c boiling water Whites 3 eggs 

Soak gelatin in cold water, dissolve in boiling water, add 
sugar and then lemon juice. Cool ; when it thickens, beat with 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



GELATIN 89 

an egg-beater until light. Add stiffly beaten whites of eggs and 
continue beating until mixture is stiff enough to hold its shape. 
Serve cold with custard sauce. 

IV. Tomato Jelly 

I c tomato juice 1 1 gelatin soaked in 
I slice onion 2T cold water 

I stalk celery ^t sugar 

\ bay leaf Salt 

I clove Paprika 

Simmer tomato juice and seasonings for 5 minutes. Add 
soaked gelatin to the hot tomato juice. Strain and pour into 
molds to set Serve on a lettuce leaf and with a salad dressing. 

GENERAL EXERCISES 

Calculate the cost of the three puddings and the number of people 
served by each. How much would the cost be increased by serving 
whipped cream with them t 

Can you suggest the reason for the condition of a cold veal or 
beef soup stock? 

References 

Wiley. Foods and their Adulteration. 
Allen. Commercial Organic Analysis. 



Digitized byVnOOQlC 



CHAPTER XVI 

FATS AND OILS 

Fat is found in both plant and animal foods, as previously 
stated, and is practically always used as a food in combina- 
tion with other things. 

The cooking of food in fat is a favorite method with 
many people because of the flavor which is developed, but 
the frying of food is more common than it should be, 
even though by proper care food may be cooked in fat 
without becoming grease soaked. Food which is soaked 
in fat is more slowly and less easily digested. Harm may 
come from overheating fat in the cooking, for heat causes 
fat to decompose into substances which are irritating to 
the digestive tract. Fats vary not only in the melting 
point but in the temperature at which they decompose by 
heat. Generally speaking, oils may be heated to a higher 
temperature without decomposing than the solid fats, and 
consequently they make a very desirable medium for cook- 
ing. The cooking oils usually cost less than the solid fats, 
and, due to higher point of decomposition, may be used 
a greater number of times. Deep-fat frying has some advan- 
tages over frying in a small amount of fat, since the object 
to be cooked is immediately immersed in it and a protec- 
tive coat is formed against the absorption of fat. Care 
should be taken in cooking in a large quantity of fat be- 
cause it is inflammable and accidents may occur. Articles, 

90 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



FATS AND OILS 91 

such as potatoes, which contain a large amount of water 
will cause the fat to sputter, due to the expansion of the 
water to steam, and such articles should be added slowly. 
A large number of cooking fats are on the market at 
the present time. Some of these are compounds or mix- 
tures of different animal and plant fats. If properly 
prepared, there is no objection to their use, and frequently 
they save money for the buyer. Sometimes old and rancid 
samples are bought, and on account of the one poor sample, 
all of these special preparations are unjustly condemned. 
Any unpleasant flavor detected in foods where these are 
used is practically always due to the rancidity and not, as 
is frequently supposed, to the character of the fresh fat. 

LABORATORY EXERCISES 

I. Effect of Heat upon Fats 

Heat butter, lard, some commercial compound, and a cooking 
oil, and note point of decomposition as shown by smoking point. 

II. Types of Commercial Fats and Oils 

Observe samples of some common fats and oils, noting 
source, physical characteristics, price, and use. 

III. Ice Cream 

Ice cream in its simplest form is sweetened and flavored 
cream. Cream is a very expensive form of fat and sometimes 
an acceptable substitution may be made for it. In the directions 
given below the ingredients vary and the cost of each should be 
computed. Calculate the cost when a thin (16 per cent) cream is 
used, and the cost when double cream is used. 

I. Ice Cream 

4 c cream f c sugar 

Flavoring 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



92 A STUDY OF FOODS 

Mix ingredients and freeze. Use a freezing mixture of 3 to 
4 parts ice and i part salt. 
2. Ice Cream 

4 c cream i t.gg 

2 c milk I T cornstarch 

I c sugar Flavoring 

Pinch of salt 

Mix cornstarch with i c cold milk and boil. Remove from 
fire and stir in the slightly beaten ^gg. Stir until smooth ; then 
add the other ingredients and freeze. 

IV. Saratoga Chips 

Wash and pare potatoes. Cut into very thin slices in a bowl 
of cold water. Let stand for from 15 to 20 minutes. Drain off 
water and dry potatoes in a towel. Fry in deep fat until light 
brown. Drain on brown paper and sprinkle with salt. 

Fry half of potatoes in lard and the rest in some other kind 
of fat. Compare in desirability and cost. 

V. Potato Croquettes 

2C hot riced potatoes ^c grated cheese 

2T butter I ^gg 

\\ salt Few grains cayenne 

Shape into desired form, roll in crumbs, ^gg^ and again in 
crumbs. Fry in deep fat. Drain on paper in oven. 

GENERAL EXERCISES 

To what extent may lard be used in place of butter } 

May any of the other fats be substituted for butter, and when 1 

What is the objection to fried potatoes as they are frequently 

prepared 1 

What other foods are often fat soaked 1 

Name the objections to foods which are saturated with fat How 

may this difficulty be avoided ? 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



FATS AND OILS 93 

Why is cooking in fat a common and favorite method of pre- 
paring food? 

What is the danger of cooking in deep fat ? 

Are fats in general cheap or expensive foods ? 

Name some of the cheap and some of the expensive fats. 

References 

Lewkowitsch. Chemical Technology and Analysis of Oils, Fats, and 
Waxes, Vols. I and II. 

Allen. Commercial Organic Analysis. 

Leach. Food Inspection and Analysis. 

Wiley. Foods and their Adulterations. 

Wiley. " Household Tests for the Detection of Oleomargarine and 
Renovated Butter," Farmers* Bulletin No, iji^ U.S. Department of 
Agriculture. 

Hayward. Facts concerning the History, Commerce, and Manufac- 
ture of Butter. 

Hayward. " Principles and Practice of Ice-Cream Making," Bulletin 
No, 753-, Vermont Agricultural Experiment Station. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



CHAPTER XVII 

FLOUR 

Flour is a very familiar preparation from the cereal 
wheat. In the milling of wheat, the outer (bran) layers and 
the germ are removed, and the inner starchy portion is 
finely ground into flour. Flour is largely starch (from 70 to 
75 per cent), but it contains protein, varying with the kind 
of wheat. Water, mineral matter, and a very small amount 
of fat make up the rest of the content. The protein of the 
flour possesses some interesting characteristics. Protein 
of wheat occurs chiefly in the form of glutenin and gliadin, 
and when water is added, these two unite to form a sticky 
substance called gluten. This is already familiar to many 
as the chewing gum obtained from the wheat kernels. 
Gluten is an elastic substance which is readily stretched 
as the contained air or moisture expands. Like the other 
proteins discussed, gluten is hardened by heat. In the 
making of bread this is of considerable importance, for 
the expanded and hardened gluten forms the support or 
framework of the loaf. 

There are many varieties of wheat, and these vary not 
only in physical characteristics but in composition. In the 
more moderate climates in the United States the wheat 
is planted in the fall and left in the ground through the 
winter. This is generally known as winter wheat. In the 
Northwest, where the winters are severe, the seed is sown 

94 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



FLOUR 95 

in the spring, and these are known as spring wheats. 
The spring wheats are harder and more difficult to mill 
than the winter wheats. In some of the semiarid portions 
of the country the very hard Russian wheats are grown. 
These are known as durum (hard) wheats, the name indi- 
cating one of their characteristics. The durum wheats 
usually run quite high in protein, and are sometimes 
blended with other wheats in the milling process. The 




Baked Gluten from Two Cups of Flour 

I, flour ; 2, dough from same ; 3, gluten from same ; 4, gluten baked ; 
5, baked gluten cut open 

durum wheats are very desirable for the making of maca- 
roni, and some varieties are excellent for bread. 

In all wheats the quality of the gluten is an important 
factor in bread making. Flour made from a single variety 
of wheat is not usual. The miller mixes or blends differ- 
ent wheats to make a more desirable flour. Generally 
speaking, the winter wheats are more starchy, which makes 
them especially desirable for the making of cake and pastry, 
and many of them make excellent bread, while the spring 
wheats are higher in protein and better adapted to the 
making of bread than the making of pastry. The harder 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



96 A STUDY OF FOODS 

varieties of the winter wheats and the softer spring wheats 
resemble one another in composition. It is not infrequent, 
however, to find a flour which is good for both pastry and 
bread, due to the wise blending of wheats in the milling. 
The flour of the starchy winter wheats is white and soft, 
while that of the spring wheats is more granular, and 
creamy in color. 

The complaints frequently made against a flour are not 
always just, for they often arise from a failure to recog- 
nize the kind of flour and the use to which it is adapted. 
A good flour should be a clear white or cream in color ; 
a gray flour indicates poor quality, and in no case is a 
musty smell permissible. 

Graham and whole-wheat flours are also prepared from 
wheat. The original graham flour was made by grinding 
the whole wheat kernel without removing any portion of 
it. Substitutes for this are sometimes found on the market, 
which are mixtures of bran with an inferior quality of 
flour. In whole-wheat flour the outer bran layers are re- 
moved, and the whole is ground finer than in the graham. 
It is frequently stated that graham and whole-wheat breads 
have greater food value than the plain white bread, due 
to the fact that the whole wheat kernel is used in preparing 
the former. While percentage composition seems to favor 
the claim, it is also misleading. Bran stimulates peristalsis, 
and so hastens food through the digestive tract, and its 
passage may be so rapid that absorption is partially pre- 
vented, thus causing a loss of nutrients. The laxative 
action of bran has been attributed to the mechanical irri- 
tation of its particles, but recent work indicates that this 
action is largely due to the phosphorus compounds. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



FLOUR 97 

Rye, barley, buckwheat, corn, and some other cereals 
are ground into meals and flours. Rye flour is often used 
for making bread ; but the gluten, if present, in the other 
cereals is of such a nature that they do not make good 
bread. Corn meal is made into a bread by combining 
white flour or egg with it. 

LABOR A TORY EXERCISES 

I. Flours 

Examine graham, whole-wheat, and white flour, rye flour, and 
com meal. 

Sift and examine residue of wheat preparations ; compare. 
What is the percentage composition of these flours ? 

II. Gluten 

Measure ^c of ordinary white flour and mix with it enough 
water to form a stiff dough. Work in the hands until it be- 
comes smooth and elastic, and then wash it until the water is 
clear. What is left ? What has been removed ? Bake the residue 
in a moderate oven for from 30 to 45 minutes. 

GENERAL EXERCISES 

Is spring or winter wheat grown in your vicinity ? 
What varieties of wheat are ground by your local miller ? 
What kind of flour is used in your home ? 
Is more than one kind of flour kept in your home ? 
What flour does your local baker use ? Why t 
What guides the baker in his choice of flour ? 
What guides the housewife in her choice of flour 1 
Why is a blended flour desirable ? 

References 

Snyder. Human Foods. 
Hutchison. Food and Dietetics. 
Osborne. Proteids of the Wheat Kernel. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



98 A STUDY OF FOODS 

Osborne. "Winter Wheat Varieties," Bulletin No. 82, Pennsylvania 
State College Agricultural Experiment Station. 

Shepard. " Macaroni Wheat," Bulletin No. g2. South Dakota Agri- 
cultural College Experiment Station. 

Norton. " A Study of Durum VJYiQdXy^ Journal of the American Chemi- 
cal Society, Vol. XXVII, August, 1905. 

Dondlinger. Book of Wheat. 

Freeman and Shilling. " Flour," The Journal of Home Economics, 
December, 19 11. 

Jordan, Hart, and Patten. " Metabolism and Physiological Effects of 
Phosphorus Compounds of Wheat Bran," Bulletin No. /, New York 
State Experiment Station, and American Journal of Physiology, 
Vol. XVI, p. 268. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



CHAPTER XVIII 

FLOUR MIXTURES 

In the household we are familiar with a large number 
of flour mixtures, both batters and doughs. In all these 
mixtures flour is combined with moisture and some leav- 
ening agent, whatever else may be added. Water is the 
liquid most commonly used, but sweet and sour milk and 
buttermilk are frequently substituted for water. On mixing 
the flour with the liquid, gluten is formed. As explained 
before, the gluten is expanded by gas and steam, and if 
heated while in this stretched, or expanded, condition, the 
gluten is hardened and forms a sort of framework for the 
other ingredients of the loaf. Exercise II in the previous 
chapter illustrates this characteristic of gluten. 

The third essential to the flour mixture is a leavening 
agent. Flour and water mixtures are heavy, and it is nec- 
essary to provide some means for lightening, or leavening, 
them. To accomplish this, air may be beaten into the 
mixture directly, as in the beaten biscuit of the South, or 
air may be added after it has been beaten into the white 
of egg. Carbon-dioxide gas is the most common leavening 
agent and is supplied by the action of yeast or of certain 
chemicals. The chemicals used are baking soda and some 
acid. The acid may be one of several combined with the 
soda to form a so-called baking powder, or the acid may 
be supplied in the cooking materials, such as sour milk or 

99 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



lOO A STUDY OF FOODS 

molasses. The moisture used in all these mixtures is 
expanded into steam during the cooking process, and 
this also helps to make the mixture light. 

While flour, water, and a leavening agent are necessary 
to any flour mixture, the resulting product would not be 
very palatable, and therefore other materials are added to 
modify both flavor and texture. Salt is necessary in prac- 
tically every case. Milk, eggs, fat, and sugar are commonly 
used, and all these add to the food value. Other materials, 
such as spices and extracts, are valued for their flavor. 
Eggs not only serve as a means for introducing air into the 
mixture, but, on heating, the albumen of the egg hardens 
and aids in forming a framework for the mixture. Fat 
affects the texture, tenderness, and flavor in proportion to 
the quantity used. Sugar is valued for its flavor, but it 
also affects texture. The proportion of liquid to flour in 
these mixtures varies greatly. Thin mixtures are called 
batters ; the thicker ones are called doughs. 

Practically all flour mixtures are baked, although fat and 
steam are used in some cases as the cooking mediums. 
In applying heat to any food its composition should be kept 
in mind. This is rather simple when we are cooking eggs 
alone or starch alone, but where different substances are 
combined, it is necessary to regard the material which pre- 
dominates, and a compromise is usually necessary. In 
most of the flour mixtures starch is present in large quan- 
tity, and this calls for thorough cooking at a high tempera- 
ture. In mixtures in which a large amount of egg is used, 
as in sponge cake, a low temperature is required and the 
time of baking is prolonged. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



FLOUR MIXTURES- . ^ :. - : : • Toi 

LABORATORY EXERCISES 

I. Oven Tests 

Repeat oven tests as given in Chapter I. 

II. Baking Temperatures 

Discuss the baking temperatures which will be desirable for 
the mixtures in the following exercises : 

III. Batters with Air and Steam as Leavening Agents 

1. Popov ers 

I c milk I T fat 

I c flour \t salt 

I egg 

Mix salt and flour; gradually add milk, in order to keep 
mixture smooth ; then add melted fat and unbeaten egg. Beat 
thoroughly with Dover egg-beater or spoon. Pour at once into 
hot gem pans and bake for from 40 to 45 minutes in a moderate 
oven. They should be served as soon as cooked. 

All materials and utensils should be ready and fire lighted 
before mixing is started. 

2. Sponge cake 

Yolks 2 eggs Salt 

Whites 2 eggs Lemon rind 

^c sugar 1 1 lemon juice 
^c flour 

Beat yolks until lemon colored and thick. Add sugar gradu- 
ally and continue beating. Then add lemon juice, rind, and 
whites of eggs beaten until stiff and dry. When white is par- 
tially mixed with yolk, carefully cut and fold in flour mixed and 
sifted with salt. Bake in an unbuttered pan in a slow oven for 
from 35 to 45 minutes. 

What makes this mixture light ? 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



^102-.* : :, r ' A^TUDY OF FOODS 

3. White sponge cake 

|c white of ^%% \\. cream of tartar 

§c granulated sugar Flavoring 

^c flour 

Sift flour once before measuring and several times afterward. 
Beat egg until very stiff, adding the cream of tartar, and gradu- 
ally beat in the sugar. Then add flavoring and carefully fold in 
the flour. Do not stir or beat more than is necessary to mix. 
Pour into an unbuttered pan and bake for from 40 to 50 minutes 
in a very slow oven. 

IV. Baking Soda 

Acid of some sort must be added to soda to free carbon diox- 
ide. Molasses contains a mixture of organic acids; sour milk 
contains lactic acid. 

1. Into a tablespoon of sour milk stir a pinch of soda. Watch 
results. Explain. 

2. Repeat, using molasses. 

V. Batters with Soda and Sour Milk or Molasses as Leavening 
Agents 

1. Gingerbread 

1 c molasses i egg ^c butter 
^c sour milk i^t soda 2t ginger 

2 c flour ^t salt 

Sift together all dry ingredients. Cream the butter, add 
molasses and beaten egg, and then add to this the flour and 
milk in turn. Beat the whole thoroughly and turn into a greased 
pan. Bake in a slow oven. 

2. Sour-milk griddlecakes 

2|^c flour 2C sour milk ^t salt 

i^t soda I Qgg 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



FLOUR MIXTURES 103 

Mix and sift dry ingredients. Add these to the milk, beat 
well, and lastly add the beaten egg. Cook on a hot griddle. No 
grease is required if an aluminium griddle is used. 

3. Com bread 

I c com meal i T melted butter 

I c sour milk -Jc sifted flour 

\X. salt 1 1 baking powder 

I I soda I egg 

Sift together all dry ingredients, stir these into the milk, and 
then add butter and beaten egg. Bake in a moderate oven. 

VI. Baking Powder 

Baking powder is a mixture of an acid and an alkaline con- 
stituent which will yield a gas in the presence of moisture. 
The alkaline constituent is almost always the ordinary baking 
soda, which is sodium bicarbonate. The acid constituent varies 
with the brand of the baking powder, and may be a phosphate, 
tartrate, or alum salt. The commercial baking powder contains 
a third substance, usually starch, which tends to absorb the 
moisture from the air and prevent premature development of 
gas from the other two substances. Oftentimes in the house- 
hold baking soda and cream of tartar are added to a flour 
mixture. This serves the same purpose as baking powder. 

1. Mix \i soda and ^t cream of tartar. Stir this into a half 
glass of water and observe results. 

2. Stir It baking powder into a half glass of water and 
observe. (Save this for 4.) 

3. Half fill two glasses with water. Into the first stir 1 1 of 
a tartrate baking powder ; into the second stir 1 1 of a phosphate 
baking powder. Do you note any difference in the rapidity of 
action ? 

4. Boil the mixture left from 2 and note results. Explain. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



I04 A STUDY OF FOODS 

VI I. Batters with Baking Powder as a Leavening Agent 

1. Griddlecakes 

i^c flour I Qgg 

it salt 2 1 baking powder 

ic milk 
Sift dry ingredients, stir into the milk, and lastly add the 
beaten egg. Cook on a hot griddle. 

2. Muffins 

2 c flour I c milk 

I tgg 4t baking powder 

4^ t salt 2 T melted butter 

2T sugar 
Sift dry ingredients, stir into milk, and add melted butter 

and beaten ^gg. Beat the mixture thoroughly and pour into 

greased pans. Bake in a quick oven. 

3. White cake 

4^c butter 4t baking powder 

2C sugar Whites 5 eggs 

I c water 1 1 vanilla 

3 c flour 

Cream butter, add sugar, and thoroughly mbc Sift flour and 
baking powder several times, add this, alternating with the water, 
to the first mixture, and then add vanilla. Fold in the stiffly 
beaten whites of eggs and pour into a greased pan. Bake in a 
moderate oven. 
Boiled icing 

I c sugar Lemon juice or 

^c water flavoring 

White I t,gg \\, cream of tartar 

Cook sugar, cream of tartar, and water together until sirup 
will thread. Pour in a fine stream into well-beaten white of ^g, 
beating until smooth and thick enough to spread upon the cake. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



FLOUR MIXTURES 105 

Flavor and pour over cake, spreading with spatula. If beaten 
too long, thin with a few drops of lemon juice or boiling water 
and wet the knife in cold water. Ice the cake and calculate the 
cost of cake and icing. 

VIII. Doughs 

The difference between doughs and batters is in the amount 
of moisture used with the flour. Batters have one or two meas- 
ures of flour to one of liquid. Doughs have about three measures 
of flour to one of liquid. 

1. Biscuit 

ic flour f c liquid, equal parts 

2t baking powder water and milk 

it salt i^T fat 

Sift dry ingredients, work fat into flour, and gradually add 
the liquid, mixing into a very soft dough just stiff enough to roll. 
Turn onto a floured board, roll to \ inch in thickness, cut, put 
into a floured pan, and bake in a quick oven. 

2. Shortcake 

2 c flour I T sugar 

4t baking powder ^c fat 

^t salt f c milk 

Mix the same as biscuit, roll about | inch thick, and fit into a 
pan for baking. When done, split and spread with butter, cover 
with crushed and sweetened fruit. Add the top layer of short- 
cake and cover generously with fruit and juice before serving. 

3. Doughnuts 

\ c sugar 3 1 baking powder 

I T butter in i J c flour 

Jc milk \\. salt 

1 1%^ cinnamon 

nutmeg 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



io6 A STUDY OF FOODS 

Beat thoroughly butter, sugar, and egg. Sift dry ingredients 
and add, alternately with milk, to the first mixture. Add enough 
more flour to make a soft dough, turn onto a floured board, 
roll to J inch in thickness, cut, and cook in deep fat 

GENERAL EXERCISES 

What is the leavening agent in each of the foregoing illustrations ? 

What furnishes the moisture ? 

Why use moderate or low heat for sponge cakes ? 

Calculate the cost of both sponge cakes and the number of people 
served by each. 

Suggest a use for the yolks left from the white sponge cake. 

Why are egg and white flour used in making com bread ? 

Is there any objection to the use of griddlecakes .•* 

Does the gingerbread brown more easily than the corn bread.? 
Explain. 

Calculate the cost of corn bread and of gingerbread for a family 
of six. 

Compare the cost of sponge cakes and butter cakes. 

Calculate the cost of pound cake. Is this expensive.'* Explain. 

Calculate the cost of muffins for a family of six. 

How may an oven that is too hot affect a cake mixture.? too 
slow an oven.? 

Which needs the greater heat, a layer or loaf cake.? a butter or 
sponge cake .? a molasses or plain cake .? 

How determine when a cake is done ? 

When add beaten whites, and why .? 

Suggest possible causes for the following : 
Cracks across top of cake in baking. 
Coarse-grained cake. 
Tough cake. 

How prepare pans .? Explain. 

Suggest methods for reducing heat in an oven that is too hot. 

How much should a cake increase in bulk while baking.? 

What effect has beating on the texture of the cake .? 

Why will a cake that is carelessly moved in baking frequently fall ? 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



FLOUR MIXTURES 107 

How care for a cake on removal from oven ? 
Discuss order of adding ingredients in mixing a cake. 
When add flour ? When add eggs ? Explain. 

References 

Wiley. Foods and their Adulteration. 

Leach. Food Inspection and Analysis. 

Leach. " Baking Powders," Bulletin No. iigj Maine Agricultural 

Experiment Station. 
Wiley. " Cereals and Cereal Products," Bulletin No. /j, Part IX. 
Farmer. Boston Cooking School Cook Book. 
Hill. Practical Cooking and Serving. 
Vulte and Goodell. Household Chemistry. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



CHAPTER XIX 

BREAD 

Bread is a dough made of flour, salt, liquid, and yeast. 
The flour of wheat is used more commonly than that of 
any other cereal. The flavor of wheat is desirable, and its 
gluten makes it suitable for bread. If the whole kernel is 
ground, as in graham flour, the flavor is very pronounced ; 
if less of the bran is retained, as in whole-wheat flour, the 
flavor is milder. The range of flavor in the ordinary white 
flours of the same grade is not so great, but there is a choice. 

It was discovered long ago that a dough, or mixture of 
flour and water, would undergo some changes on standing, 
and the character of the loaf on baking was consequently 
different. This change we know to be fermentation, due 
to the development of certain living forms in the dough. 
Instead of depending upon chance for these living forms 
to make the dough light, we add yeast to the dough at 
the start. The yeast is a one-celled plant of microscopic 
size. Like any other plant, the yeast requires the proper 
conditions for growth — namely, warmth, moisture, and 
food. These favorable conditions are found in bread dough, 
and as the yeast grows there is developed carbon dioxide, 
which gas lightens the dough. 

Yeast may be purchased in the form of dry cakes, or as 
compressed yeast. Frequently these are used to make a 
so-called '' starter," which is kept and used from time to 

io8 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



BREAD 



109 



time in the household. The starter, or liquid yeast, affords 
a favorable place for the growth of other living forms than 
yeast, and these often are the cause of sourness or a very 
poor flavor in the bread. Since the same conditions which 
favor the growth of yeast favor the growth of other plants, 
it is very necessary to be careful that all the materials are 
in good condition and that all the utensils are clean. The 
amount and the condition of the yeast used in making bread 
determine the time necessary for the process. The yeast 




Typical Loaves of Bread 

plant develops very rapidly if under favorable conditions 
and will leaven a large amount of dough in a comparatively 
short time. If it is necessary to make the bread in a very 
short time, as much as two cakes of compressed yeast may 
be added to a small loaf without injuring the flavor of the 
bread. In the ordinary household process such an amount 
would be unnecessary and extravagant, except under unusual 
circumstances. Bread made in a short time with compressed 
yeast is familiarly known as *' short process " bread. The 
more common custom is to allow a longer time for making 
bread. The yeast is mixed with a small portion of flour 



Digitized by 



Google 



no 



A STUDY OF FOODS 



and water. Sugar is usually added to this mixture, and 
oftentimes potatoes are used. This mixture is known as 
a sponge and affords favorable conditions for the devel- 
opment of the yeast plant. The sponge stands for a 
number of hours (usually overnight) and is then mixed 
with more liquid and flour to make the dough. Bread 
made in this way is known as *' long-process '* bread. 




Utensils used in Bread Making, showing also Method 
OF Measuring 

The liquid used in making bread may be water, milk, a 
mixture of the two, whey, or potato water. Potatoes furnish 
a good medium for the growth of yeast, and so their use 
is frequently favored. Fat may or may not be added. Sugar, 
in small amount, hastens the activity of the yeast and should 
be added early in the process. 

The object in kneading bread is to mix it thoroughly 
and to distribute the gas evenly, so making a finer texture. 
Repeated rising of the bread and kneading down before 
making into a loaf makes a somewhat finer texture and a 



Digitized by 



Google 



BREAD 1 1 1 

whiter loaf, but at the expense of the finer flavor of the 
bread. Very good bread can be made with comparatively 
little kneading. 

Bread is baked to kill the yeast plant, to cook the starch 
thoroughly, and to make a brown and palatable crust. It is 
desirable to bake each loaf in a separate pan which is 
small enough to insure the thorough baking of the loaf. 
A small loaf of bread in a single pan should bake not less 
than forty-five minutes. If dough has doubled in bulk, it 
should be put into a very hot oven and the heat gradually 
reduced until the baking is finished. If the dough is put 
into the oven before its bulk has doubled, the heat should 
be more moderate at first in order that the loaf may rise 
sufficiently. 

There are so many notions with regard to the desirable 
qualities of bread that it is a help to use some standard 
for judging it. The following score card, accredited to 
Miss Isabel Bevier at the University of Illinois, has been 
widely used and found helpful in establishing standards. 

Bread Score Card 

Scale of roitits 

Flavor 35 

Lightness 15 

Grain and Texture 20 

r Color 1 
Crust J Depth I 10 

[ Texture J 
^^^^^r Color ^ 
1 Moisture/ 

Shape and Size 10 

Total 100 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



112 A STUDY OF FOODS 

1. The flavor is determined by taste and odor. Bread 
should have the good nutty sweet flavor of the grain. A 
sour or yeasty smell or taste is not allowable. 

2. Lightness is determined by the relation of size and 
volume. The bread should be neither overlight nor 
underlight. 

3. Grain and texture are judged by the fineness and 
tenderness of the loaf. There should be even distribution 
of the gas, making fine and uniform holes. No heavy 
streaks should occur. 

4. The crust should be an even, yellowish brown in 
color, about one fourth of an inch in depth, and should 
be crisp. 

5. The crumb should be creamy in color, neither 
excessively dry and crumbly nor doughy. 

6. The loaf should be shapely and small enough to 
be thoroughly cooked. 

LABORATORY EXERCISES 

I. Effect of Temperatures upon Yeast. (Demonstration) 

1. Blend one yeast cake thoroughly in a pint of water to 
which has been added i T sugar. 

2. Freeze a portion of the mixture, and then allow it to thaw 
at room temperature. 

3. Boil another portion and cool to room temperature. 

4. Take another portion at room temperature. 

5. Chill a fourth portion. 

Fill wide-mouthed bottles from each of the above portions 
and invert them on plates. Keep 2, 3, and 4 in a warm room, 
and 5 packed in ice during the remainder of the laboratory 
period. Explain results observed. 



Digitized by VnOOQlC 



BREAD 113 

II. Long- Process Bread 

I c boiled water or i T sugar 

^c each of milk and water Jt salt 

\-\ cake dry yeast or i T fat 

\-\ cake compressed yeast 3 c flour 

In making long-process bread less yeast is required than for 
the short process because the time is so much longer. Good 
long-process bread is made by different methods, but the 
following is typical. 

A sponge is made by adding sugar, yeast, and flour to the 
liquid. Scald the liquid, and soften the yeast in 2 T warm water. 
When the liquid is lukewarm, add the yeast and sugar and 
enough flour to make a thin batter. This is set aside in a warm 
place overnight, during which time the yeast becomes active 
and the sponge is light. In the morning add all the other in- 
gredients, mixing thoroughly. When enough flour is added so 
that the dough may be handled, turn it onto the board and 
knead until it is smooth, sticks neither to the board nor hands, 
and air bubbles appear near the surface of the dough. Put the 
dough into a greased bowl and set in a warm place. When the 
dough has doubled in bulk, make it into loaves and put into 
greased pans. Again set the dough to rise in a warm place. 
When the loaves have doubled in bulk, put into a hot oven 
and bake for from 40 to 50 minutes. The temperature of the 
oven should be lowered during the baking process. When the 
loaf is baked, remove it from the pan at once and cool it in a 
position which allows full circulation of air about the bread. 

III. Short-Process Bread 

\q, scalded milk ^c boiled water 

I T lard or butter ft salt 

3 c flour I T sugar 

1-2 compressed yeast cakes in 2t warm water 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



114 A STUDY OF FOODS 

Put butter or lard, sugar, and salt in bread bowl ; pour on it 
the hot liquid (milk and water). When this is lukewarm, add 
the softened yeast cake ; then add enough flour to make a stiff 
batter, beating thoroughly. Add the remaining flour ; mix and 
turn onto the floured board. Knead until the dough will stick 
neither to hands nor to board and bubbles may be seen under the 
surface. Grease the bowl and return the dough to it. Set in a 
warm place until the dough has doubled in bulk ; then shape 
into loaves. Let this double its bulk again and bake. 

IV. Whole-wheat^ Graham^ or Rye Bread 

Make a sponge as for long-process bread. When light, use 
entire-wheat, graham, or rye flour to make a soft dough. Make 
into loaves and let rise until thoroughly light. Bake with mod- 
erate heat I hour or longer. Sugar to sweeten may be added if 
desired. 

V. Parker House Rolls 

Roll bread dough to \ inch in thickness and cut with biscuit 
cutter. Crease each piece in the middle, brush one half with 
melted butter, fold, pressing edges together. Place in a greased 
pan, cover, let rise, and bake. 

VI. Cinnamon Rolls 

Roll bread dough to \ inch in thickness, spread with butter, 
and sprinkle with a mixture of f sugar and \ cinnamon. Roll 
up like a jelly roll and cut into f -inch pieces. Place in greased 
pan flat side down. Let rise and bake. 

GENERAL EXERCISES 

Calculate cost of baker's bread per pound. 
Calculate cost of homemade bread per pound. 
Judge both samples by the score card. 
Why is bread kneaded ? 
When is it desirable to use a sponge 1 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



BREAD IIS 

What determines the amount of yeast used ? 

What might cause sour bread ? 

What is accomplished in the baking of bread ? 

What is " jug " or " starter " yeast ? 

What kind of yeast would you use ? 

What is salt-rising bread ? 

Examine yeasts under the microscope, and make drawings. 

References 

Atwater. " Bread and Bread Making," Farmers^ Bulletin No. j8g^ 

U.S. Department of Agriculture. 
Snyder. " Studies on Bread and Bread Making," Bulletin No. 67, 

Office of Experiment Stations, U.S. Department of Agriculture. 
Snyder. " Studies on the Digestibility and Nutritive Value of Bread," 

Bulletins Nos. 126^ 143^ /j'^, Office of Experiment Stations, U.S. 

Department of Agriculture. 
Wardall. " Relation of Yeast to Flavor in Bread," The Journal of 

Home Economics^ February, 1910. 
Jagg. Bread and Bread Making. 
Hutchison. Food and Dietetics. 
Snyder. Human Foods. 
Simmons. The Book of Bread. 

Bevier. Some Points in the Making and Judging of Bread. 
Wood. Story of a Loaf of Bread. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



Oi Oi 0« Oi o< 



S VC> V£> 9v tS. (i ^ 

g ro m -<♦• fO -<♦• W 




c 4) « a ^ o 

ffl On CJ a < On 



M N PO ♦ »r%\0 



^^^)f\^X. 



ii6 



Digitized by 



Google 




a 
8 



- 2 






X 

o 



1 1^ 8 I is 

kJ ffi S 0<^ On < n 



o o o o o o o 
^; ^ fe iz; iz; iz; iz; 



<«•«'♦• "S ,« c *" 



t ^ 






O vO 00 t^OO 
O 00 ro u^ O 



3 5 2^ ^-o 

C tJ — VM sp S i» 

►^ o cu « box o 

:^ Oh < tt w u P!i 

6 6 6 6 6 6 6 
^; iz; z ^; ^; ^; Z 



117 



Digitized by 



Google 




2 

o 






ti. 



n 
n 



< 

u. 
o 

H 

z 

O 
< 

CD 

< o 

Z M 

o ^ 

X S 

Q 
O 

& 

O 

o 
u 

u 

;s 
o 

CD 
b 

O 

CO 

Z 

o 

o 
ft, 

u 
X 
H 



POvO f^ ■^ 



© C» fOvO »'^ 
O r^ t^ w-> w 
V) u^ N M M 



5i 



M S *» t*- « 

2 E o « W) 



o o o o o 



\ 



^1 






s 2 2 3 

, ": p p p 

H cr c c c 

HW * o o^ w 

•- N « N •- 



irt M ^ tnvO 



ut r^ M t«« M 



CO u< cu ^ 

►- N r«^ -"^ »r% 

d 6 d 6 6 



ii8 



Digitized by 



Google 







O^ N 



N N O 



ii-» ^ M O^ ^ 



^ i^ UTk ir% I -. _ _ 



■5 C ^ I- 3 

(^ S CU < H^ CQ ^ 

N CO -^ ii-»vO t>.0O 

M H M M M M l-l 

6 d d 6 d 6 d 6 



^j^jZfe^;^;^;^;^; 





is -a 






09 




^8- 






bo 


1 


eggs 
large 
large 


Is" 


& 


^ 3 


"" 


"«*■ N N 


u-» fO 


^ 


W M 


00 


u^ 


o^ t>. 


■^ 


On O^ 


(S 


*C *1 ^ 


t>.00 


w 


f^ -. 


t>. 


'"T M 







q* M 





N vO vO 


r^OO 


o^ 


r^ 




1/^ M f^ 






00 00 




<S u-» t>. 









« o O 

I II II I. rs I 

666666666 



119 



Digitized by 



Google 



CHAPTER XX 

FOOD REQUIREMENTS 

In order to meet the needs of the human body, the 
diet should contain the various nutrients, or food principles, 
in proper amount and kind, and should furnish the neces- 
sary energy. Proteins, fats, and carbohydrates are all 
capable of furnishing energy, and so enable the body to 
perform its work — both internal and external — and keep 
it warm. Energy cannot be measured in terms of weight 
or of dimension but in terms of heat or of work performed. 
The unit of measure is the calorie, which is the amount 
of heat needed to raise one pound of water four degrees 
Fahrenheit, or the work necessary to raise one ton 1.53 feet. 
The calorific value of any substance is determined by burning 
a given weight in the calorimeter and determining the result- 
ing heat. Protein and carbohydrate have about one half the 
calorific, or fuel, value of the same weight of fat. If the 
amount of protein, fat, and carbohydrate in the food is 
known, the fuel value of the diet may easily be calculated. 

Many studies of food requirements have been made, and 
the results have led to the formation of so-called " standard 
dietaries." Observation of the food eaten by people under 
normal conditions has frequently been made and records 
kept of the food consumed. Since these earlier observa- 
tions of food customs, or habits, very careful experiments 
have been conducted, investigating food requirements. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



FOOD REQUIREMENTS I2i 

Dr. Langworthy, Chief of Nutrition Investigations, says 
that, for adults of moderate activity, the results " do not 
differ very markedly from a general average of lOO grams 
of protein and 3000 calories of energy, and that it is fair 
to say that, although foods may differ very decidedly, the 
nutritive value of the diet in different regions and under 
different circumstances is very much the same for a like 
amount of muscular work." 

It is fairly easy to determine the need of the body for 
energy under given conditions, and to some extent fat, 
carbohydrate, and protein may replace each other for this 
purpose. Protein, it must be remembered, serves two pur- 
poses in the body ; it builds and repairs tissue, and also 
furnishes energy. While it is necessary to supply enough 
protein to build tissue, it is desirable to depend quite largely 
upon the fat and carbohydrate for energy. If protein is 
eaten in too large amounts, it causes physiological disturb- 
ances and frequently makes an undue tax upon the body. 
In diseases, such as rheumatism and gout, the amount of 
protein eaten is restricted, and meat is frequently forbidden. 
There is a great difference of opinion among students of 
nutrition as to the desirable amount of protein in the diet. 

The factors most affecting total food requirement are 
work, age, and size. In the adult, muscular exercise or 
work has the most important influence upon diet. The 
following estimates of the calorific need for the day are 
given by Atwater : 

Man without muscular work 2700 calories 

Man with light muscular work .... 3000 calories 

Man with moderate muscular work . . . 3500 calories 

Man at hard muscular work . , , , , 4500 calories 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



122 A STUDY OF FOODS 

Lumbermen who engage in very heavy work and in the 
open air have been known to use as much as 6000 calories 
and more. 

" In general, it appears that the food requirements of 
men and women of equal activity are in proportion to their 
body weights. Women, on the average, weigh about 0.8 
as much as men, and it is commonly assumed that if 
equally active their food requirements will stand in the same 
proportion. In apportioning the food of a family to its 
different members it has become customary to make use 
of some such conventional factors as the following : " 

Under i year 100 calories per kilogram 

1-2 years 100-90 calories per kilogram 

2-5 years 90-80 calories per kilogram 

6-9 years 80-70 calories per kilogram 

10-13 years 70-60 calories per kilogram 

14-17 years 60-45 calories per kilogram 

Sherman, "Chemistry of Food and Nutrition" 

Von Noorden suggests for adults the following allow- 
ances : 

At complete rest .... 30-35 calories per kilogram 

With light exercise . . . 35-40 calories per kilogram 

With moderate exercise . . 40-45 calories per kilogram 

With hard muscular labor . 45-60 calories per kilogram 

For the aged these figures should be lowered by one fourth. 
The higher calorific allowance for children is due to their 
great muscular activity, growth, and more intense physio- 
logical activities. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



FOOD REQUIREMENTS 123 

One-Hundred-Calorie Portions 

It is frequently desirable to compare foods on the basis 
of fuel value, and the amounts of foods shown in the table 
on the following page will yield approximately one hun- 
dred calories. These amounts are frequently referred to 
as one-hundred-calorie portions. 

The fuel value and composition of all ordinary foods 
may be determined by consulting ** Chemical Composition 
of American Food Materials," Bulletin No. 28, Office of 
Experiment Stations. 

Food for the Infant 

For infants the only proper. food is milk. If artificial 
feeding of an infant is necessary, a great responsibility rests 
upon the one who selects the food, for it is well known that 
the death rate is much higher where artificial feeding is 
employed. While the composition of milk is important, 
its cleanliness is a more vital factor. Ordinary milk con- 
tains enormous numbers of bacteria, and some of these may 
be dangerous. It is desirable to obtain a milk as free from 
germs as possible, and it becomes necessary to know the 
source and care of the milk supply. In the city market 
the milk is graded according to cleanliness. The cleanest, 
highest grade is known as certified milk, which sells from 
fourteen to sixteen cents a quart. Sometimes the price is 
even higher. Certified milk is used almost solely for in- 
fants and invalids. The next grade is known as inspected 
milk, and this is reasonably safe for ordinary use. For both 
certified and inspected milk, the cows are tested for tuber- 
culosis, and all the conditions of production are watched. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



124 A STUDY OF FOODS 

One-Hundred-Calorie Portions 



4' 



Food 


Quantity 


Constituents for which these 
are chiefly valued 


Almonds 


12-15 


Fat and protein 


Apples 


1-2 


Carbohydrate, mineral mat- 
ter, and bulk 


Bacon 


Small serving 


Fat 


Bananas 


I 


Carbohydrate 


Beans (dried) 


One serving (when cooked) 


Protein and carbohydrate 


Beef (round) 


Small serving (ij in. sq.) 


Protein and fat 


Bread 


I slice 


Carbohydrate and protein 


Butter 


I square or ball 


Fat 


Cabbage 


I small head 


Bulk and carbohydrate 


Cheese 


Small cube (ij inches) 


Protein and fat 


Chocolate 






(bitter) 


J square 


Fat 


Com meal 


icup 


Protein and fat 


Cream 


i-icup 


Fat 


Dates 


3-4 


Carbohydrate 


Eggs 


I 


Protein, fat, and mineral 
matter 


Milk 


J cup 


Protein, fat, carbohydrate, 
and mineral matter 


Oatmeal 


i cup (cooked) 


Carbohydrate, mineral mat- 
ter, and bulk 


Olives 


7-8 


Fat 


Oranges 


I large 


Mineral matter and carbo- 
hydrate 


Pickles 


1 5 cucumbers (medium 
sized) 


Flavor 


Pork chops 


I very small 


Fat and protein 


Potatoes 


2 sn>all 


Carbohydrate and bulk 


Prunes 


3-4 


Carbohydrate 


Raisins 


15-20 


Carbohydrate 


Rice 


J cup (dry) 


Carbohydrate 


Sugar 


2 tablespoons 


Carbohydrate 


Tomatoes 






(canned) 


about I pint 


Flavor 



Digitized by 



Google 



FOOD REQUIREMENTS 125 

The third grade is known as market milk and is much less 
rigidly inspected. This grading of milk is a good illustration 
of the fact that cleanliness costs money. For the feeding 
of infants the very best milk should be used. This is 
frequently modified to suit the age and needs of the infant 
by changing its composition. Water, milk sugar, and cream 
are very commonly added to cow's milk. 

Frequent attempts have been made to prepare artificial 
foods for infants, and many are found on the market. 
Some of these manufactured foods are lacking in mineral 
salts and some contain starch — a carbohydrate which does 
not occur in milk and which is entirely unsuited to a young 
infant. In general, the proportion and nature of the nutri- 
ents differ from those of milk and frequently they are not 
good substitutes for milk. Many times children apparently 
thrive on these prepared foods, but usually they are large 
and flabby, and have less ability to resist disease than 
normally fed children. Whether the food of an infant is 
natural or artificial, it should be given with great regularity. 

During the second year solid food may be introduced 
into a child's diet, but great care should be used in its 
selection. Milk will still be the basis of the diet, and suit- 
able materials may be added, such as a soft-poached egg, 
thoroughly dried and toasted bread, orange juice, baked 
apple, thoroughly cooked prunes, and cereals, junket, and 
rice pudding. Sugar should be used very sparingly, and 
should not be permitted with the cereal or fruit, for the 
sugar habit is easily formed, and the easiest way to avoid 
its overuse by the child is not to use it the first time. Only 
the pulp of the fruit should be used, and if the cereal is 
coarse, it may be put through a strainer to remove a portion 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



126 A STUDY OF FOODS 

of the cellulose. During the second year the food should 
be given in four or five meals at regular intervals. The 
second year of a child's life is an important one for its 
future welfare. Many of the health disturbances arise from 
improper food. The fact that some children thrive in spite 
of being improperly fed is no reason for taking the risk 
with other children. 

After the second year fruits and vegetables may be sup- 
plied in greater variety, but meat should be sparingly used 
for the first eight years. Eggs, milk, bread, and cereals, 
with fruits and vegetables, should make up the bulk of 
a child's diet. Sugar should be added to the diet with 
some care. It is better given at the end of the meal in a 
simple dessert, such as rice pudding, custard, figs, raisins, 
or occasionally a wholesome homemade candy. Sugar is 
used to excess usually with the cereal, fruit, and beverages, 
and these food habits should never be formed. Tea and 
coffee should never be given to a child, but the habit of 
drinking water should be encouraged. With thought and 
tact on the part of older people, the child will develop a 
liking for most ordinary, plain foods. All fancy and rich 
made dishes, especially those which are highly flavored, 
should be rigidly excluded from the meals of a child. 

The importance of proper food for the child in school is 
recognized more and more, as is shown by the action of 
school authorities and other interested parties in providing 
food at school. Frequently, as a result, better health follows, 
better order is found in the schoolroom, and lessons are 
better learned. Food, especially when eaten in the middle 
of the study period of the day, should be light and easy of 
digestion. Eggs and milk will be a safe foundation and 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



FOOD REQUIREMENTS 127 

should be used more generously than meat. The pennies 
of school children are most commonly spent for candy and 
pickles. It is better to include in the meal some wholesome 
sweet and acid so that the craving for these things is satis- 
fied. Figs, dates, and raisins are desirable sweets for a 
child's lunch. Ice cream, if wholesome, is a valuable food, 
but that obtained from street venders is so frequently bad 
that it is dangerous to buy it. If the lunch is served at 
school, milk, soups, and cocoa or plain milk with crackers 
are good. Fresh and stewed fruits and vegetables should 
be liberally used. Good bread and butter is always desirable. 
Cookies, gingerbread, sponge cakes, and other mixtures 
which are not rich may well be included in the meals of 
children to supply variety and attractiveness. 

GENERAL EXERCISES 

Using the table for one-hundred-calorie portions, plan the three 
meals of a day which will have a total fuel value of 2500 calories. 

Estimate the calorific value of an ordinary breakfast. 

Using the tables given in this chapter, plan a day's meals for a 
man who is digging a ditch or sawing wood; a day's meals for 
a bookkeeper. The weight of both men is assumed to be 175 pounds. 

Plan one week's suitable noon lunches for a child in school. 

Test for starch several samples of prepared infant's food. How 
is this done ? 

References 

Sherman. Chemistry of Food and Nutrition. 
Jordan. Principles of Human Nutrition. 
Rose. Laboratory Manual of Dietetics. 
Hutchison. Food and Dietetics. 
LusK. Science of Nutrition. 
Mendel. Childhood and Growth. 

Hunt. ** Daily Meals for School Children," Bulletin No. j, Bureau of 
Education. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



128 A STUDY OF FOODS 

" School Lunches," The Journal of Home Economics^ February, 1910, 
April, 1910, December, 1910. 

Psychological Clinic, University of Pennsylvania, Symposium on School 
Feeding. 

"Classified List of Foods," Yearbook, 1909, Department of House- 
hold Science, Illinois Farmers* Institute. 

Atwater and Bryant. " Chemical Composition of American Food 
Materials," Bulletin No. 28 ^ Office of Experiment Stations, U.S. 
Department of Agriculture. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



CHAPTER XXI 

SELECTION OF FOOD 

A few generations ago, when people produced much of 
their own food and transportation facilities were not so 
well developed, the variety of food at hand was not so 
great as now, and the possibilities of choice were not 
so many or so confusing. The choice of food for human 
beings is a real responsibility and should be more clearly 
recognized. Unfortunately, appetite is not always a safe 
guide, for food habits are rather easily formed, and an 
abnormal appetite is as easily and quickly formed as a 
normal, or correct, one. Appetite, or food habit, may lead 
to the eating of too much as well as to the eating of too 
little food. Both overnutrition and undernutrition may 
be commonly observed in people, due not only to too 
much or too little food eaten, but to food that is not 
wisely chosen. The only remedy for bad food habits is 
some real knowledge of the value of foods, as well as a 
knowledge of the individuals who are to eat them. At the 
present time any progressive stockman or farmer can tell 
what kind and amount of food is being given to the calf 
or the pig, but not many women in the same families have 
an equal knowledge of the food which is being given to 
the children, or to the grown-up members of the family. 
Mrs. Richards says, ** Not all other influences put together 
can equal in profound effect upon the welfare of the 

129 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



I30 A STUDY OF FOODS 

household that exercised by food and the attitude of mind 
regarding it/' Sugar is more nearly chemically pure than 
any of our ordinary food products; starch is practically 
pure carbohydrate, but most all of our common food mate- 
rials contain two or more nutrients or food principles, and 
a knowledge of the composition is necessary to a wise 
choice of foods. 

It is not only desirable that a person cultivate a liking, 
or taste, for all ordinary foods, but it is really a duty. In 
many cases so-called dislikes are only mistaken notions, 
and indicate bad food habits or poorly prepared food. 
Criticism of food at the table is not desirable and should 
never occur, as this is a strong influence in forming fancied 
dislikes and cultivating bad food habits. 

In the ordinary family there are both children and 
adults, and the differences in their need of food should 
be borne in mind. Certain peculiarities or abnormal con- 
ditions may need to be considered in connection with the 
individual. There should be a wide difference between 
the food of an infant and an adult, and errors in the nu- 
trition of the infant and the growing child may affect the 
health in later years. 

To properly select food, its chemical composition must 
be understood and interpreted in the terms of nutrients, 
or food principles — water, mineral matter, protein, carbo- 
hydrate, and fat. " Chemical Composition of American 
Food Materials,** Bulletin No, 28, gives the composition of 
all our ordinary foods. The figures cannot be remembered, 
but it is not too much to ask that the one who selects food 
should have in mind the general composition of the food 
materials. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



SELECTION OF FOOD 



131 



The table below suggests the nutrients for which some 
common foods are especially valued. 



Protein 


Fat 


Carbohydrate 


Mineral Content 


Meat 


Butter 


Sugar 


Green vegetables 


Eggs 


Cream 


Starch 


Fruits 


Milk 


Bacon 


Bread 


Eggs 


Cheese 


Cheese 


Cereals 


Milk 


Legumes 


Nuts 


Dried fruits 




Nuts 


Fat meat 


Rice 




Fish 




Potatoes 








Macaroni 
Hominy 
Tapioca 
Dried beans 





It is not often that we select foods because of a high 
water content, for water is so easily obtainable elsewhere, 
but the following foods contain a large amount of water : 
milk, green vegetables (such as celery, lettuce, cabbage, 
cucumbers, and tomatoes), fresh fruits, and shell fish (such 
as oysters and clams). 

Oatmeal, graham flour, green vegetables, and fruits 
furnish bulk to the diet. 

Cost is a very real factor in selecting food, but it is not 
always properly considered. A cheap food is one which 
contains a large amount of nutritive material for a given 
sum of money — not necessarily one of low money cost. 
Cost is in no way a measure of the value of a food. Rarity, 
flavor, distance from market, season, and other factors 
enter into the money cost. Generally speaking, meats, 
dairy products, and vegetables and fruits out of season are 
high-priced foods. Plant foods, as a whole, are cheaper 



Digitized by 



Google 



132 A STUDY OF FOODS 

than animal foods ; the cheapest foods are the cereals and 
legumes. The cost of fuel for cooking any food must be 
added to the cost of the raw material. Sometimes a sav- 
ing in the cost of food may be made by buying in large 
quantity and storing. 

Planning Meals 

Since so many factors enter into the wise selection of 
food, the planning of meals should be a subject for study. 
The housekeeper who carefully plans the meals for several 
days, or at least one day, in advance is able to select more 
wisely, buy more advantageously, secure more pleasing 
meals, and do it with less friction than the one who does 
not. Such a woman is in sharp contrast to the one who 
goes into the kitchen shortly before a meal, finds a lack 
of the things wanted, and starts the children in hurried 
trips to the store for the first article of food which comes 
to her mind as one that can be quickly prepared. The 
dropping of this careless habit would be much appreciated 
by the grocer, as well as by the members of the household. 

In planning meals the tastes of the family should be 
taken into account to a certain extent. Real likes and dis- 
likes should be carefully distinguished from whimsical 
notions. In every case the food should be so prepared 
and served that it is pleasing both in flavor and appear- 
ance. Monotony in meals is not necessary and indicates 
lack of thought and care. Variety in food has both a 
psychological and a physiological value. This may be ob- 
tained by using different foods or by using different 
methods for preparing and serving the same food. Meat 
and potatoes, for instance, need not always be fried. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



SELECTION OF FOOD 133 

A knowledge of the composition of food will prevent the 
serving of too many starchy foods at one meal, such as rice 
and potatoes, or macaroni and bread pudding ; or too many 
foods high in protein, as meat and cheese or legumes. 

Foods should be combined for a meal not only on the 
basis of composition, but with regard to flavor. Too many 
acid, sweet, or strong-flavored foods should not be com- 
bined in one meal, and should bear a proper relation to 
one another. 

Experience shows that dishes of somewhat different char- 
acter are chosen for the three meals of the day. Americans 
are tending toward the simple European breakfast of rolls 
or toast and coffee, although fruit, cereals, and sometimes 
a hot dish of some sort is added. The heavy meal of the 
day is dinner, whether served at noon or at night. In 
addition to the meat course, a salad course and a dessert 
course are often served. Frequently a soup course precedes 
the meat course. The soup and salad courses are some- 
times omitted. The luncheon or supper is a lighter meal. 

In planning meals the amount of labor involved in 
preparing the food should be taken into account. 

After food is wisely chosen, well prepared, and properly 
combined for a meal, some thought should be spent on 
its serving, for this may either add to or detract from 
the meal. 

GENERAL EXERCISES 

Make a list of dishes suitable for the three meals of the day. 

Suggest the more expensive dishes which appear in this list. 

Suggest the dishes on this list which require a long time in 
preparation. 

Plan meals for a day which will be low in cost; medium in cost; 
high in cost. Discuss and criticize. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



134 A STUDY OF FOODS 

References 

Langworthy. " Food Customs and Diet in American Homes," Cir- 
cular No. ttOy Office of Experiment Stations, U.S. Department of 
Agriculture. 

Richards. Cost of Food. 

Richards. Cost of Living. 

Norton. Food and Dietetics. 

" Rules and Regulations for the Enforcement of the Food and Drugs 
Act," Circular No. 21, Last Revision, Office of the Secretary, U.S. 
Department of Agriculture. 

" Classified List of Foods," Yearbook, 1909, Department of Household 
Science, Illinois Farmers* Institute. 

Atwater and Bryant. ** Chemical Composition of American Food 
Materials," Bulletin No. 28^ U.S. Office of Experiment Stations, 
Department of Agriculture. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



CHAPTER XXII 

SERVING MEALS 

The dining room should be cleaned, aired, and in order. 
The linen should be as good as possible and carefully laun- 
dered, and the silver should be kept in good condition. 

Directions for Setting the Table 

If tablecloth is to be used, cover table first with silence 
cloth for protection, then put on tablecloth with middle 
fold in center of table. On tables of handsome wood, 
luncheon is often served without a cloth, individual doilies 
being used under all the dishes. 

A "cover" is a place at table for each person and 
should consist of plate, napkin, glass, knives, forks, and 
spoons necessary for the meal. Twenty inches of space is 
the least that should be allowed for each cover ; and on 
formal occasions 30 inches should be given. The depth 
of cover is from 15 to 16 inches. 

Knives are placed at the right of the plate and about 
\ inch from the edge of the table with the cutting edge 
turned toward the plate. If more than one knife is used, 
lay the last one to be used nearest the {5late, the first knife 
to be used farthest from the plate, and the others in order 
of using. At the right of the knife or knives lay spoons 
with bowls up, in order of using. On formal occasions 

135 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



/' 



136 A STUDY OF FOODS 

when a number are required they may be laid by the plate 
at the time of serving the course for which they are needed. 

Forks are placed, tines up, at the left of plate in the 
order of using, except the oyster fork, which is placed at 
right of spoons. 

The napkin is folded and laid at the left of the forks, 
or in the center of the place. 

The glass should be three quarters filled with water and 
placed at the right of cover, just above the point of the 
knife. 

The bread-and-butter plate is at the left above the forks. 

Individual salts and peppers are placed in front of each 
cover, or salt and pepper shakers may be placed between 
each two covers or at corners of the table. 

Directions for Serving 

Trays are used to carry silver, small dishes, and those 
dishes on which fingers are apt to come in contact with 
the food. Large dishes are sometimes more easily carried 
on a folded napkin. 

Be sure that hot dishes are served hot and cold dishes 
cold. 

Dishes from which portions are to be taken should be 
passed to the left. 

Dishes containing only individual portions are placed at 
the right with the right hand. 

When a course is removed, take first all large dishes 
containing food, then all soiled china, glass, and silver, then 
clean glass, silver, and china, and all things pertaining only 
to that course. Never pile dishes on one another. One 
may be removed in each hand or small pieces may be set 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



SERVING MEALS 



137 



beside one another on a tray. Take the plates and other 
dishes from the right side of the cover. 

Crumbs are removed before the dessert course and 
between other courses if necessary. A clean napkin and 
plate are satisfactory for this purpose. 

The waitress should see that glasses are kept filled, 
butter, bread, and rolls always supplied without being asked 
for, and other things at hand as needed. 

Remove every soiled dish from the table as soon as the 
purpose which it has served is over. Move noiselessly and 
avoid all clatter of dishes. 

In serving begin with hostess or guest of honor (the 
lady at the right of the host) and pass to the other guests 
in order. 

GENERAL EXERCISES 

I. From a given list of materials, such as the following, plan and 
prepare a meal for one person. Select either Group I or Group II 
and use any desired materials from the Common Supplies. 



Group I 


Group II 


Common Supplies 


I potato 


Rice or macaroni 


Ice 


Flour 


> egg 


I egg 


Butter 


i c tomato 


J c milk 


^ c milk 


Bread 


Gelatin 


Salmon 


Cheese 


Vinegar 


Flavoring 


Orange or 


Pineapple or 


Lemon 


Lettuce 


Canned fruit 


Canned fruit 


Sugar 





Serve appropriately. Compare the meals as to originality, desira- 
bility, and attractiveness of service. 

2. Plan the three meals of the day for six persons at a cost of 
$1.80, or 30 cents each. 

Make and hand in the order list. 



Digitized by 



Google 



138 



A STUDY OF FOODS 



Prepare and serve the meals. Score according to meal score card 
in the Appendix. 

Tabulate, in form similar to the one indicated below, the amount 
and cost of materials used. 




Calculate the cost of fuel used in preparation of the above meals, 
and the cost of labor at ten cents per hour. 

What is the total cost of the meals of the day ? 



Digitized by 



Google 



APPENDIX I 

Food Standards 

The fact that poorly prepared food is often found sug- 
gests the need of better standards. It is easy and natural 
to like the things to which we are accustomed, and often- 
times a family is found which is fond of its own particular 
kind of sour bread, or its hard-fried, leathery beefsteak. 
Comparison is one of the best means of setting a good 
standard, and the score card affords a ready means of 
emphasizing the good or bad points of an article. The 
following score cards have been found useful, and others 
could be easily formulated. 

Bread ^ (White, Salt-rising, Rye, Graham) 

Flavor 35 

Lightness 15 

Grain and Texture 20 

Crust 

Color 1 

Depth I 10 

Texture J 
Crumb 

Color "1 

Moisture/ 

Shape and Size 10 

100 

1 Illinois score card for bread. — Bevier. 
139 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



140 A STUDY OF FOODS 

Steamed Brown Bread and Corn Bread 

Flavor 40 

Lightness 15 

Texture 20 

Crust 10 

Appearance . 15 

100 

Loaf Cakes 

Flavor 35 

Lightness 15 

Texture 20 

Crust 10 

Appearance 

Shape, Size ^ 

Color of Crust I 20 

Icing J 

100 

Layer Cakes 

Flavor 30 

Lightness 15 

Texture 20 

Icing 20 

Appearance . 15 

100 

Cookies, Doughnuts, and Fancy Cakes 

Flavor 40 

Lightness 15 

Texture 20 

Appearance 
Form 1 

Size, etc. I . . . 25 

Additions J 

100 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



FOOD STANDARDS 14 1 

Pies 

Flavor 40 

Crust 

Flakiness "1 
Tenderness/ 

Appearance 20 

100 
Candy 

Flavor 50 

Texture 30 

Appearance 20 

100 
Canned Fruit 

Flavor 60 

Color 15 

Condition of Fruit 15 

Consistency of Sirup 10 

100 
Jelly 

Flavor 50 

Color 15 

Consistency 20 

Texture 15 

100 

PRESERVES> 

Flavor 50 

Color 15 

Consistency of Sirup 20 

Condition of Fruit 15 

100 
Pickles, Catsup, etc. 

Flavor 60 

Condition 25 

Color . 15 

100 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



40 



142 A STUDY OF FOODS 

Fruit Butter and Marmalade 

Flavor 60 

Consistency 25 

Color 15 

100 
Score Card for a Meal 

Selection of food 

Quality of materials 

Combination of nutrients 

Combination of flavors 

Variety and suitability 

Preparation of food 35 

Service 

Table appointments 1 

Attractiveness of food I 25 

Table service J 

100 

Contests 

The contest may be a valuable means of making com- 
parisons and forming standards. A bread-judging contest 
is frequently arranged for a class or a club, in which a 
number of loaves of bread are judged, according to the 
score card, by the contestants. Other contests could easily 
be arranged in the same way. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



APPENDIX II 

Retail Cuts of Beef 

[Reprint from Bulletin No, 138, University of Illinois, Agricultural Experiment 

Station, by L. D. Hall and A. D. Emmett, to be used in connection with their 

photographs of retail cuts] 

Taking the net cost of the lean meat as a basis of comparison, 
we learn from these data that the most expensive steaks at the 
prices given are the porterhouse cuts, followed by the club, sir- 
loin, flank, round, and chuck steaks. Of the different roasts the 
first-cut prime ribs are the most costly in terms of lean meat, 
and the rump roast is the most economical. The various boil- 
ing and stewing pieces furnish lean meat more economically at 
market prices than either the roasts or steaks ; the rib ends and 
briskets being the dearer cuts of this class, while the neck and 
shank stews are relatively cheapest. Several of the soup bones 
are very economical sources of lean meat, particularly the mid- 
dle cuts of both shanks; and only one of them is extremely 
expensive, even on this basis. In general, the wide variation 
between the various cuts in net cost of lean is remarkable, 
ranging from 7.5 cents in one of the soup bones to 40.5 cents 
in a prime rib roast, and up to 62.5 cents in the hock soup 
bone ; the latter, however, being used primarily for its flavoring 
substance rather than for lean meat. It will be observed, also, 
that the market prices of the cheaper cuts correspond much 
more closely to their net cost of lean meat than is true of the 
higher-priced steaks and roasts. 

The net cost per pound of gross meat, or lean and fat com- 
bined, varies much less as between the different cuts than does 
the net cost per pound of lean, because the proportions of total 
meat are more nearly uniform than the percentages of lean. 

143 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



144 A STUDY OF FOODS 

The various steaks and roasts rank in substantially the same 
order as to relative economy on this basis as on the basis of 
lean meat. The rib roasts, however, are considerably more 
economical as compared with the porterhouse and sirloin steaks 
when all the edible meat is considered. The rump shows a 
very low cost per pound of edible meat, due to the large pro- 
portion of fat it contains ; and a still further difference is noticed 
in the case of the rib ends, brisket, navel, flank, neck, and sev- 
^eral of the soup-bone cuts. The stewing meats are generally the 
most economical sources of edible meat at these prices, while 
porterhouse steaks are the most expensive. 

On the whole, the data clearly show that the cheaper cuts 
of beef are by far the most economical sources both of lean 
and of total edible meat, including fat and lean. It has been 
shown that no correlation exists between market prices and the 
proportion of flavoring substances contained in various portions 
of the carcass ; and cooking tests indicate that the proportion 
of waste and shrinkage is not necessarily greater in the cheaper 
than in the more expensive cuts. It is evident, therefore, that 
retail prices of beef cuts are determined chiefly by considera- 
tions other than their food value, such as tenderness, grain, 
color, general appearance, and convenience of cooking. 



Digiti 



ized by Google 



APPENDIX II 



145 



Cost of Lean and of Total Meat in the Various Retail 
Cuts at Market Prices 











Cost (in 




■p. 


Retail 


Cost (in 


Cents) per 


Retail Cuts 


Number 
(Page 147) 


Price (in 
Cents) 


Cents) per 
Pound of 


Pound of 
Lean and 




PER Pound 


Lean Meat 


Fat Meat 






OF Cut 


IN Cut 


IN Cut 


Steaks 










Porterhouse, hip-bone 


8 


25 


38.6 


28.9 


Porterhouse, regular 


10 


25 


40.2 


27.2 


Club steak 


18 


20 


32.1 


22.6 


Sirloin, butt-end 


I 


20 


253 


20.6 


Sirloin, round-bone 


3 


20 


28.3 


21. 1 


Sirloin, double-bone 


5 


20 


28.7 


22.7 


Sirloin, hip-bone 


7 


20 


323 


24.2 


Flank steak 


I 


16 


193 


16.0 


Round, first cut 


2 


15-^ 


17.0 


15-3 — 


Round, middle cut 


e> 


15 


173 


15.6 


Round, last cut 


14 


15 


193 


16.0 


Chuck, first cut 


2 


12 


18.3 


I4.I 


Chuck, last cut 


9 


12 


157 


131 


Roasts 










Prime ribs, first cut 


I 


20 


40.5 


22.9 


Prime ribs, last cut 


4 


16 


26.1 


18.8 


Chuck, fifth rib 


I 


15 


22.8 


17-3 


Rump 


I 


12 


19.4 


12.8 


Boiling and stewing pieces 










Round pot roast 


16 


10 


II.6 


lO.I 


Shoulder clod 


14 


10 


12.3 


10.5 


Shoulder pot roast 


II 


10 


143 


11.6 


Rib ends 


3 


8 


16.2 


9.2 


Brisket 


I 


8 


15.0 


8.7 


Navel 


2 


7 


12.8 


7-7 


Flank stew 


2 


7 


10.9 


71 


Fore shank stew 


I 


7 


8.5 


7.0 


Neck 


15 


6 


8.5 


7.0 


Soup bones 










Round, knuckle 


2 


5 


26.3 


12.5 


Hind shank, middle cut 


18 


5 


7-5 


6.3 


Hind shank, hock 


19 


5 


62.5 


26.6 


Fore shank, knuckle 


2 


5 


17.2 


12.5 


Fore shank, middle cut 


4 


5 


12.5 


94 


Fore shank, end 


6 


5 


28.8 


20.9 



Digitized by 



Google 



146 



A STUDY OF FOODS 




Hind Quarter 
Round 
Rump 

Round with rump and shank off 
Hind shank 

Loin 
Flank 

Fore Quarter 
Rib 

Chuck 

Chuck, knuckle out 

Clod 

Neck 

Plate 
Shank 



Method of cutting the Three Sides, showing Wholesale Cuts 



Digitized by 



Google 



RETAIL CUTS 



147 



Hind Quarter 
Round 

Rump 

1, rump 

Round with rump and shank off 

2, round steak, first cut 
3-13, round steaks 

14, round steak, last cut 

15, knuckle soup bone 

16, pot roast 

Hind shank 



17, 18, soup bones 
19, hock soup bone 

Loin 

1, butt-end sirloin steak 

2, wedge-bone sirloin steak 

3, 4, round-bone sirloin steak 
5, 6, double-bone sirloin steak 

7, hip-bone sirloin steak 

8, hip-bone porterhouse steak 
9-15, regular porterhouse steak 
16-18, club steaks 

Flank 

1, flank steak 

2, stew 



Rib 



Fore Quarter 

1, nth and 12th rib roast 

2, 9th and loth rib roast 

3, 7th and 8th rib roast 

4, 6th rib roast 



Chuck 

I, 5th rib roast 
2-9, chuck steaks 
10-13, pot roasts 

14, clod 

15, neck 

Plate 

1, brisket 

2, navel 

3, 4, rib ends 

Fore shank 

1, stew 

2, knuckle soup bone 
3-6, soup bones 




Neck 



Method of cutting the Three Sides, showing Retail Cuts 



Digitized by 



Google 



148 



A STUDY OF FOODS 




First Cut Sirloin Steak. Loin Cut No. i 




Wedge-Bone Sirloin Steak. Loin Cut No. 2 




Round-Bone Sirloin Steak. Loin Cut No. 3 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



RETAIL CUTS 



149 




Round-Bone Sirloin Steak. Loin Cut No. 4 




Double-Bone Sirloin Steak. Loin Cut No. 5 




HiP-BoNE Sirloin Steak. Loin Cut No. 7 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



ISO 



A STUDY OF FOODS 




HiP-BoNE Porterhouse Steak. Loin Cut No. 8 




Regular Porterhouse Steak. Loin Cut No. id 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



RETAIL CUTS 



151 




Regular Porterhouse Steak. Loin Cut No. 12 




Regular Porterhouse Steak. Loin Cut No. 13 




Regular Porterhouse Steak. Loin Cut No. 14 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



152 



A STUDY OF FOODS 




Regular Porterhouse Steak. Loin Cut No. 15 




CLUii S'lEAK. Loin Cut No. 16 




Club Steak. Loin Cut No. 17 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



RETAIL CUTS 



153 




Eleventh and Twelfth Rib Roast. Rib Cut No. i 




Ninth and Tenth Rib Roast. Rib Cut No. 2 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



154 



A STUDY OF FOODS 




Seventh and Eighth Rib Roast. Rib Cut No. 3 




Sixth Rib Roast. Rib Cut No. 4 



Digitized byVnOOQlC 



RETAIL CUTS 



155 




Rump Roast. Round Cut No. i 




Round Steak. Round Cut No. 2 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



156 



A STUDY OF FOODS 




Round Steak. Round Cut No. 3 




Round Steak. Round Cut No. 4 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



RETAIL CUTS 



157 




Round Steak. Round Cut No. 5 




Round Steak. Round Cut No. 6 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



158 



A STUDY OF FOODS 




Round Steak. Round Cut No. 7 




Round Steak. Round Cut No. 8 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



RETAIL CUTS 



159 




Round Steak. Round Cut No. 12 




Round Steak. Round Cut No. 14 




Hind-Shank Soup Bone. Round Cuts Nos. 17, 18, 19 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



i6o 



A STUDY OF FOODS 




Round Pot Roast. . Round Cut No. i6 




Knuckle Soup Bone. Round Cut No. 15 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



RETAIL CUTS 



l6l 




Chuck Rib Roast. Chuck Cut No. i 




Chuck Steak. Chuck Cut No. 2 




Chuck Steak. Chuck Cut No. 3 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



l62 



A STUDY OF FOODS 




Chuck Steak. Chuck Cut No. 4 




Chuck Steak. Chuck Cut No. 5 




Chuck Steak. Chuck Cut No. 6 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



RETAIL CUTS 



163 




Chuck Steak. Chuck Cut No. 7 




Chuck Steak. Chuck Cut No. 8 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



1 64 



A STUDY OF FOODS 




Chuck Steak. Chuck Cut No. 9 




Shoulder Pot Roast. Chuck Cut No. 10 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



RETAIL CUTS 



I6S 




Shoulder Pot Roast. Chuck Cut No. ii 




Shoulder Pot Roast. Chuck Cut No. 12 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



i66 



A STUDY OF FOODS 




Chuck Stew. Chuck Cut No. 13. 




Neck. Chuck Cut No. 15 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



RETAIL CUTS 



167 




Brisket. Plate Cut No. i 




Navel. Plate Cut No. 2 




Rib Ends. Plate Cut No. 3 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



i68 



A STUDY OF FOODS 




Rib Ends. Plate Cut No. 4 




Flank Stew. Flank Cut No. i 




Flank Steak. Flank Cut No. 2 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



RETAIL CUTS 



169 




Shank Stew. Fore-Shank Cut No. 




Knuckle Soup Bones. Fore-Shank Cuts Nos. 2, 3 





ii^ 



f<^:V 



Fore-Shank Soup Bones. Fore-Shank Cuts Nos. 4, 5, 6 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



Digitized by 



Google 



INDEX 



Albumen, 6i, 62 

Almonds, 124 

Apples, dried, 1 5 ; baked, 1 7 ; fuel 

value of, 124 
Apricots, dried, 15 
Ash in milk, 54 
Asparagus, 17 

Bacon, 124 

Baking powder, 103-104 

Baking soda, 102 

Bananas, 124 

Beans, as a green vegetable, 1 7 ; 
dried, 51, 124 ; baked, 52 ; cream 
of Lima, 53 

Beef. See Meat 

Beef broth, 74-75 

Beets, 17 

Biscuit, 105 

Body energy, 120-127 

Bread, com, 103 ; composition of, 
108-111; score card for, 11 1- 
112; effect of temperatures upon 
yeast, 112; long-process, 113; 
short-process, 113-114; whole- 
wheat, graham, or rye, 114; 
Parker House rolls, 114; cin- 
namon rolls, 114; fuel value of, 
124 ; Illinois score card for, 139- 
140 

Butter, 124 

Butterscotch, 35 

Cabbage, 17, 124; escaloped, 19 
Cake, sponge, loi ; white sponge, 

102 ; white, 104 ; score card for, 

140 
Canning powders, 23 
Carbohydrates, value of, 2 ; study 

of, 3-4 ; starch, 37 ; in milk, 54 ; 

pectin, 87; in some common 



foods, 116; fuel value of, 120- 
121 

Carrots, 17 

Cauliflower, 17 

Cereals and cereal products, 43- 
48 ; composition and food value 
of, 43-45; boiled rice, 45; es- 
caloped rice, 46 ; rice pudding, 
46 ; boiled macaroni, 46 ; maca- 
roni with tomato sauce, 46-47 ; 
advantage of long cooking, 47 ; 
corn-meal mush, 47 ; fried mush, 
47 ; rolled oats, 47-48 

Cheese, 65-67; composition and 
food value of, 65 ; effect of heat 
on, 66; Welsh rabbit, 66; French 
rabbit, 66 ; fuel value of, 1 24 

Cheese crackers, 66 

Cheese and pimento sandwiches, 
66-67 

Chocolate, 58, 124 

Chocolate creams, 35 

Codfish balls, 84-85 

Coffee, 13 

Com, water in cooking, 17; 
canned, 25-26 

Corn meal, as a food, 44; for bread, 
97, 103 ; fuel value of, 124 

Corn-meal mush, 47 

Cornstarch pudding, 38 

Cottage cheese, 58 

Cream, 124 

Croquettes, beef, 79 ; fish, 85 ; 
potato, 92 

Custard, baked, 63 ; soft, 63-64 

Dates, dried, 15, 124 
Dextrin, 37 
Doughnuts, 105-106 
Doughs, 99-100, 105-106 
Drawn-butter sauce, 84 



171 



Digitized by 



Google 



1/2 



A STUDY OF FOODS 



Dried legumes, 51-53; baked 
beans, 52 ; dried-pea soup, 52 ; 
lentil soup, 52 ; cream of lima 
beans, 53 ; peanut sandwiches, 
53; salted peanuts, 53 

Eggs, 61 -64; composition and food 
value of, 6 1 -62; manipulation of, 
62 ; effect of heat on,62 ; poached, 
62-63 i omelet, 63 ; baked cus- 
tard, 63 ; soft custard, 63 ; fuel 
value of, 1 24. Se^ also Cake 

Fat, food value of, 2-3 ; study of, 
4; in peanuts, 51 ; in milk, 54; 
in eggs, 61 ; in cheese, 65 ; in 
meat, 68; in fish, 81 ; in some 
common foods, 118; ifuel value 
of, 120, 121 

Fats and oils, 90-93 ; composition 
and food value of, 90-91 ; effect 
of heat on, 91 ; types of com- 
mercial, 91 ; ice cream, 91-92 ; 
Saratoga chips, 92 ; potato cro- 
quettes, 92 

Figs, dried, 1 5 

Fish, 81-86; composition and food 
value of, 81 ; boiled, 83; baked, 
83 ; stuffing for, 83 ; sauces for, 
84 ; escaloped salmon, 84 ; cod- 
fish balls, 84-85 ; escaloped 
left-overs, 85 ; creamed, 86 

Fish croquettes, 85 

Flour, 94-98 ; composition of, 94 ; 
varieties of wheat, 94-95 ; food 
value of, 95-97 ; graham and 
whole-wheat, 96; rye, barley, 
buckwheat, corn, 97 ; batters 
and dough, 99-107; leavening 
mixture, 99-100; oven tests, 
101 ; baking temperatures, loi 
popovers, loi ; sponge cake, 
101-102 ; gingerbread, 102 ; sour- 
milk griddlecakes, 102-103 
corn bread, 103 ; baking-powder 
griddlecakes, 104; muffins, 104 
white cake, 104 ; boiled icing, 
104-105; biscuit, 105; short- 
cake, 105; doughnuts, 105-106 
bread, 108-115 



Fondant, 34-35 

Food, I -10; defined, i; function 
of, 1-3 ; chemical composition 
of, 2-6 ; carbohydrates, 3 ; fats, 
4 ; proteins, 4 ; water, 5 ; mineral 
matter, 5; preparation of, 6; 
temperatures, 8; fuels, 9; se- 
lection of, 129-134; good and 
bad habits in choosing, 1 29-130 ; 
table of nutrients, 131 ; planning 
meals, 132-133; serving meals, 

135-138 

Food requirements, 120-128; for 
different persons, 122; one- 
hundred-calorie portions, 1 23 ; 
for the infant, 123-125; for 
young children, 125-126; for 
school children, 126-127 

Food standards, 139-142 

French rabbit, 66 

Fruit punch, 12-13 

Fruits, composition and food value 
of, 15; fresh and dried, 16; 
baked apples, 17; stewed 
prunes, 19 ; in salads, 19, 20, 21 ; 
preserving, 22-30 ; experiments 
in preserving, 23-24; canned 
peaches, 26; grape conserve, 
27 ; grape jelly, 27-28 

Fuels for cooking, 9 

Gelatin, 87-89 ; jellied prunes, 88 ; 

orange whip, 88 ; snow pudding, 

88 ; tomato jelly, 89 
Gingerbread, 102 
Gluten, 94, 95, 97, 99 
Grape conserve, 27 
Griddlecakes, 102-103, 104 

Hash, meat, 79 

Heat, in preserving foods, 23, 25 ; 

effect of, on protein, 70, 75-76; 

effect of, on fat, 90, 91 
Hominy, 44 

Ice cream, 91-92 
Icing, boiled, 104-105 

Jelly, 27 ; grape, 27-28 
Junket, 58 



Digitized by 



Google 



INDEX 



173 



Lactose, 33 

Legumes, 51-53 

Lemon ice, 13 

Lemonade, 12 

Lentil soup, 52 

Lima beans, cream of, 53 

Macaroni, composition of, 44; 
boiled, 46; with tomato sauce, 
46-47 

Maitre-d'hdtel butter, 84 

Meals, planning, 132-133; serving, 
135-138 ; setting the table, 135- 
136; score card for, 142 

Meat, 68-80; composition and 
food value of, 68-69; cooking, 
70-71; cuts of beef, 71-72; 
methods of cooking, 73-74; 
effect of dry and moist heat 
on protein of, 75; pan-broiled 
porterhouse steak or chops, 76; 
beef roast, 76; pressed veal, 
76 ; Swiss steak, 77 ; brown 
stew, 77 ; pot roast, "j"] ; substi- 
tutes for, 78 ; minced, 79 ; escal- 
oped, 79; browned hash, 79; 
beef croquettes, 79; descrip- 
tion and cost of various cuts, 
143-169 

Meat salad, 79 

Milk, 54-59; composition and 
food value of, 54-57 ; pasteur- 
ization of, 57 ; effect of boiling, 
57 ; modifying, 57-58 ; cottage 
cheese, 58 ; junket, 58 ; choco- 
late, 58; potato soup, 58-59; 
compared with other foods, 116- 
119; for infants and children, 
123-127 

Mineral matter, in composition of 
food, 2-3; study of, 5-6; in 
cooked fruits, 1 5 ; in potatoes, 
40 ; in eggs, 61 ; in meat, 68 

Molasses taffy, 35 

Muffins, 104 

Oatmeal, 124 
Oats, 44-45, 47-48 
Olives, 124 
Omelet, 63 



Onions, water in cooking, 17; 

creamed, 19 
Orange whip, 88 
Oranges, 124 
Oysters, 81-86; composition and 

food value of, 8 1 -83; creamed, 85 

Pasteurization, 57 

Peaches, dried, 1 5 ; canned, 26 

Peanut brittle, 34 

Peanuts, in sandwiches, 53 ; salted, 

53 

Peas, 17 ; dried, in soup, 52 

Pectin, 87 

Pickles, 28, 124 

Popovers, loi 

Pot roast, ']'] 

Potato croquettes, 92 

Potato salad, 42 

Potato soup, 58-59 

Potatoes, 40-42 ; composition and 
food value of, 40; boiled, 41; 
creamed, 41 ; mashed, 41 ; au 
gratifty 41-42 ; buttered crumbs, 
42 ; escaloped, 42 ; fuel value of, 
124 

Protein, food value of, 2-3 ; study 
of, 4-5 ; in potatoes, 40 ; in 
cereals, 43-45 ; in dried legumes, 
51 ; in milk, 54, 55 ; in eggs, 61 ; 
in cheese, 65 ; in meat, 68, 69 ; 
gelatin, 87 ; in flour, 94 ; in some 
common foods, 117; fuel value 
of, 1 20-1 21 

Prunes, dried, 15; stewed, 19; 
jellied, 88; fuel value of, 124 

Raisins, as a concentrated food, 
1 5 ; fuel value of, 1 24 

Rice, composition and food value 
of, 43, 45, 124 ; boiled, 45 ; escal- 
oped, 46 

Rice pudding, 46 

Rolls, Parker House, 114; cinna- 
mon, 114 

Salads, food value of, 19; dress- 
ings, 20; vegetable, 21; fruit, 
2 1 ; potato, 42 ; meat, 79 

Salmon, escaloped, 84 



Digitized by 



Google 



174 



A STUDY OF FOODS 



Sandwiches, cheese and pimento, 
66 

Saratoga chips, 92 

Sherbet, 13 

Shortcake, 105 

Skimmed milk, food value of, 55 

Snow pudding, 88-89 

Soups, lentil, 52 ; dried pea, 52 ; 
cream of lima beans, 53; po- 
tato, 58-59 

Spaghetti, composition of, 44 

Spinach, 17; boiled, 19 

Starch, 37-39; composition and 
food value of, 37 ; in cooking, 
38; cornstarch pudding, 38; 
white sauce, 38; cream toast, 
39 ; in potatoes, 40 ; in cereals, 
43-45 ; in dried legumes, 51 ; 
in flour, 94 

Steak, flavor, 68, 71 ; methods of 
cooking, 73 ; pan-broiled porter- 
house, 76 ; Swiss, 77 

Sugar, 31-36; kinds of, 3^-33; 
effect of heat on cane sugar, 
34 ; peanut brittle, 34 ; fondant, 
34-35; chocolate creams, 35; 
molasses taffy, 35 ; butterscotch, 
35 ; fuel value of, 1 24 

Sweet potatoes, glazed, 19 

Tartar sauce, 84 
Tea, 13 



Temperatures, in cooking, 8-9; 

baking, 10 1 
Toast, cream, 39 
Tomatoes, 17 ; canned, 26-27 ; 

with macaroni, 46; jellied, 89; 

fuel value of, 124 
Typhoid fever and oysters, 83 

Water, in food, 2-3, 5, 11-14; 
hard and soft, 11 ; safe, 11 -12; 
for lemonade, coffee, etc., 12- 
14 ; in fruits, 15 ; in green vege- 
tables, 17; in potatoes, 40; in 
milk, 54; in eggs, 61 ; in cheese, 
65 ; in meat, 68 ; in fish, 81 

Welsh rabbit, 66 

Veal, pressed, 76 

Vegetables, green, composition 
of, 17; canned, 17; creamed 
onion, 19; escaloped cabbage, 
19; glazed sweet potatoes, 19; 
spinach, 19; in salads, 19-21; 
preserving, 22-30; experiments 
in preserving, 23-24; canning, 
25-27 ; canned corn, 25 ; canned 
tomatoes, 26-27 ; pickling, 28 ; 
cucumber pickles, 28 

Yeast, 108-111, 112 



Digitized by 



Google 



ANNOUNCEMENTS 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



Digitized by 



Google 



PURE FOODS 

THEIR ADULTERATION, NUTRITIVE VALUE, 
AND COST 

By John C. Olsen, Professor of Analytical Chemistry, Polytechnic Institute of 
Brooklyn, N.Y., Editor of Van NosirancPs Chemical Annual^ etc. 



i2mo, cloth, 2IO pages, illustrated, 80 cents 



'*Pure Foods : their Adulteration, Nutritive Value, and Cost" 
aims to present, in language easily understood, the results of the 
large amount of scientific investigation to which the various phases 
of the food problems have been subjected in recent years. 

The text includes the chemical composition of each class of 
foods, the methods used in producing the food, and the com- 
mon adulterations, together with a number of simple tests for 
the detection of these. The directions are so explicit that they 
may be carried out by persons who have not been trained as 
chemists. 

The nutritive value of foods being given, it is shown how 
the true cost may be estimated. 

There is a statement of legal requirements for pure foods, 
and a list of references to literature on the subject so that those 
interested may pursue it still further. 

This volume is admirably adapted for use in domestic science 
or chemistry classes where the chemistry of foods is studied and 
laboratory tests made for purity. It will also furnish excellent 
supplementary reading in the upper grammar grades. 

The intelligent consumer of foods and the food producer or 
dealer will find this of great assistance in purchasing pure and 
nutritive foods. 

GINN AND COMPANY Publishers 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



BACTERIA, YEASTS, AND 
MOLDS IN THE HOME 

By H. W. CONN 

Professor of Biology in Wcsleyan University. i2mo, cloth, 
293 pages, illustrated 



THE book contains an important summary of the facts which 
have rapidly accumulated in recent years concerning the 
relation of microorganisms to all matters connected with 
the home. The work is a popular and not a scientific discussion, 
free from many technical terms, and admirably adapted to the 
needs of the housewife, the student of domestic science, and all 
others interested in home economics. 

Molds, which are the cause of mildew, the spoiling of many 
foods, and the decay of fruits ; yeasts, which are the foundation 
of fermentation in the raising of bread ; and bacteria, which cause 
food to spoil, meat to decay, and contagious diseases to spread, — 
all these phenomena which are of the most vital importance are 
presented in an interesting and helpful manner. The author 
explains the various actions of bacteria, and points out the sources 
of trouble and the principles which underlie the methods to be 
adopted for avoiding their effects. Special attention is paid to 
the problems of food preservation and to the practical methods 
which can be used in the home for preventing the distribution 
of contagious diseases. 

To render the work more useful for classes in domestic science 
there is added an appendix containing directions for a series of 
simple experiments which will give to the student a practical 
knowledge of the most important properties of microorganisms. 

167 

GINN & COMPANY Publishers 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



ELEMENTARY APPLIED CHEMISTRY 

By Lewis B. Allyn, State Normal School, Westfield, Maus. 



i2mo, cloth, 127 pageS) illustrated, 60 cents 



This book offers practical applications of chemistry to pres- 
ent-day civic and industrial problems. The course is essentially 
that conducted by the author in the Westfield State Normal 
School, where a pure-food campaign has been made one of the 
objects of the course. The widespread results shown in the 
almost complete elimination of the sale of impure foods in 
the city of Westfield are matters of national knowledge. 

Besides the work with food products, the book includes 
exercises with water, textile fabrics, drugs, soils, and similar 
materials. It gives a particularly complete analysis of each 
subject and brings out clearly the practical relation which 
chemistry bears to everyday matters. The order of presen- 
tation differs radically from that of the usual textbook in 
chemistry, the common elements, bases, and radicals being 
taken up as they naturally occur. 

For supplementary use with any regular textbook " Elemen- 
tary Applied Chemistry " is invaluable. Teachers of domestic 
science will find the chapter on food values most important, 
while for boards of health, inspectors of milk, and all those inter- 
ested in the pure-food problem, the book has a special function 
in its valuable information and tests relating to their work. 

GINN AND COMPANY Publishers 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



TEXTBOOKS IN 
PHYSICS AND CHEMISTRY 

FOR HIGHER SCHOOLS AND COLLEGES 

PHYSICS 

Cavanagh, Westcott, and Twining: Physics Laboratory Manual $070 

Gage ; Physical Experiments 35 

Gage : Physical Laboratory Manual and Notebook 35 

Gage: Principles of Physics (Revised by Goodspeed) . . . . 1.50 

Hastings and Beach : Textbook of General Physics 2.75 

Higgins : Lessons in Physics 90 

Higgins : Simple Experiments in Physics • 35 

Hill: Essentials of Physics i.io 

Ives: Experiments in Physics 50 

Miller: Laboratory Physics 2.00 

Millikan : Mechanics, Molecular Physics, and Heat 1.50 

Millikan and Gale: First Course in Physics (Rev. Ed.) . . . . 1.25 

Millikan and Gale : Laboratory Course in Physics 40 

Millikan and Mills : Electricity, Sound, and Light 2.00 

Mills : Introduction to Thermodynamics 2.00 

Newman : Laboratory Exercises in Elementary Physics (in four 

books) per doz. 1.50 

Sabine: Laboratory Course in Physical Measurements .... 1.25 
Smith, Tower, and Turton : Manual of Experimental Physics . . .80 
Snyder and Palmer : One Thousand Problems in Physics ... .50 

Stone: Experimental Physics i.oo 

Wentworth and Hill: Text-Book in Physics (Rev. Ed.) . . . 1.15 
Wentworth and Hill: Laboratory Exercises (Rev. Ed.) 25 

CHEMISTRY 

Allyn : Elementary Applied Chemistry 60 

Dennis and Whittelsey : Qualitative Analysis (Rev. Ed.) . . . i.oo 
McGregory: Qualitative Chemical Analysis (Rev. Ed.) . . . . i.oo 
Mcpherson and Henderson : Course in General Chemistry . . 2.25 
McPherson and Henderson : Elementary Study of Chemistry . 1.25 

McPherson and Henderson : Exercises in Chemistry 40 

Moore : Logarithmic Reduction Tables [In />ress} 

Morse : Exercises in Quantitative Chemistry 2.00 

Olsen : Pure Foods : Their Adulteration, Nutritive Value, and Cost .80 
Ostwald and Morse : Elementary Modern Chemistry .... i.oo 
Sellers : Treatise on Qualitative Analysis (Rev. Ed.) .... i.oo 

Thorp: Inorganic Chemical Preparations 1.50 

linger : Review Questions and Problems in Chemistry 50 

Williams : Chemical Exercises 3° 

Williams: Essentials of Chemistry 1-25 

Williams : Laboratory Manual of General Chemistry 25 

GINN AND COMPANY Publishers" 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



Digitized by 



Google 



Digitized by 



Google 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



14 DAY USE 

RETURN TO DESK FROM WHICH BORROWED 

LOAN DEPT. 

This book is due on the last dat« scamped below, or 

on the date lo wbich f enewed. 

Reoewed bookj axe subject to inimediate recalL 







n^co vo 




JftMwB ^ 




9 MflY'64WD 


1 






REC'D LD 




^P'^2 5'64-(0flM 


i 






AUG, ..,, 


1 


f»:r. cia^^ i 7 '^' 


7 

1 

1 




i 














CA9&02slO)a76B 


Geoen] Libfmrf 



Digitized by 



Google 



ye 15113 



'04712 








UNIVERSnT OF CAUFORNIA LIBRARY 



. ♦ 




Digitized_byG00gle 




This is a digital copy of a book that was preserved for generations on library shelves before it was carefully scanned by Google as part of a project 
to make the world's books discoverable online. 

It has survived long enough for the copyright to expire and the book to enter the public domain. A public domain book is one that was never subject 
to copyright or whose legal copyright term has expired. Whether a book is in the public domain may vary country to country. Public domain books 
are our gateways to the past, representing a wealth of history, culture and knowledge that's often difficult to discover. 

Marks, notations and other marginalia present in the original volume will appear in this file - a reminder of this book's long journey from the 
publisher to a library and finally to you. 

Usage guidelines 

Google is proud to partner with libraries to digitize public domain materials and make them widely accessible. Public domain books belong to the 
public and we are merely their custodians. Nevertheless, this work is expensive, so in order to keep providing this resource, we have taken steps to 
prevent abuse by commercial parties, including placing technical restrictions on automated querying. 

We also ask that you: 

+ Make non-commercial use of the files We designed Google Book Search for use by individuals, and we request that you use these files for 
personal, non-commercial purposes. 

+ Refrain from automated querying Do not send automated queries of any sort to Google's system: If you are conducting research on machine 
translation, optical character recognition or other areas where access to a large amount of text is helpful, please contact us. We encourage the 
use of public domain materials for these purposes and may be able to help. 

+ Maintain attribution The Google "watermark" you see on each file is essential for informing people about this project and helping them find 
additional materials through Google Book Search. Please do not remove it. 

+ Keep it legal Whatever your use, remember that you are responsible for ensuring that what you are doing is legal. Do not assume that just 
because we believe a book is in the public domain for users in the United States, that the work is also in the public domain for users in other 
countries. Whether a book is still in copyright varies from country to country, and we can't offer guidance on whether any specific use of 
any specific book is allowed. Please do not assume that a book's appearance in Google Book Search means it can be used in any manner 
anywhere in the world. Copyright infringement liability can be quite severe. 

About Google Book Search 

Google's mission is to organize the world's information and to make it universally accessible and useful. Google Book Search helps readers 
discover the world's books while helping authors and publishers reach new audiences. You can search through the full text of this book on the web 

at http : //books . google . com/| 



Digitized by 



Googk 



IHciy.lCA.LLlBMUY a '"A 






Digitized by 



Googk 



Digitized by 



Googk 



Digitized by 



Googk 



Digitized by 



Googk 



Digitized by 



Googk 



> 



O 



i4 
U 



X 
u 
h 

C 

o 

X 
u 

C/3 



Digitized by 



Googk 



A STUDY OF FOODS 



BY 



RUTH A. WARDALL, M.A. 

HEAD OF DEPARTMENT OF HOME ECONOMICS 
STATE UNIVERSITY OF IOWA 



EDNA NOBLE WHITE, A.B. 

HEAD OF DEPARTMENT OF HOME ECONOMICS 
OHIO STATE UNIVERSITY 



GINN AND COMPANY 

BOSTON • NEW YORK • CHICAGO • LONDON 



Digitized by 



Googk 



COPYRIGHT, 1914, BY RUTH A. WARD ALL 

AND EDNA NOBLE WHITE 

ALL RIGHTS RESERVED 

. 414.7 



gfte gtftenaenm grc<< 

GINN AND COMPANY' PRO- 
PRIETORS • BOSTON • U.S.A. 



Digitized by 



Googk 



t 






PREFACE 

This volume is intended to present the subject of foods 
in a simple, concise manner. The preparation of food 
which is suggested in the book is in every case an illus- 
tration of some one or more principles involved and pre- 
viously discussed. The object of this work is not to provide 
training for a finished cook, for skill comes only with 
experience and practice ; neither is there an attempt to 
make a food expert. A serious consideration of the subjects 
of chemistry, the physiology of digestion, and dietetics 
belongs to a university course. It is hoped that the work 
outlined will give some knowledge of food materials, of the 
effects of heat upon them, of methods of manipulation, 
and of comparative cost of commercial and domestic prod- 
ucts. The increased cost of living makes especially desir- 
able a study of food values and the cost of food from 
different sources. 

In schools where courses in chemistry, physiology, and 
physics are offered, there are many opportunities for cor- 
relation with the food work, which will at once suggest 
themselves to the well-trained teacher. The reference 
lists at the close of each chapter will be found very help- 
ful for classes, as well as for clubs who use this book as 
a guide. The preparation of food suggested in the text 
could easily be managed in the home and results discussed 
and compared later. 



575568 



Digitized by 



Googk 



vi A STUDY OF FOODS 

The food principles, or nutrients, form the basis of the 
arrangement of the work, but the cost of food is especially 
emphasized. No attempt has been made to divide the 
work into separate lessons, and the subject matter may be 
amplified or abbreviated, according to the need. Sug- 
gested lists for reference are given, and it is hoped that 
these will be liberally used, for there has been no attempt 
to make this a complete text ; it is intended only as a guide 
to the study of the subject of foods. Questions and exer- 
cises are frequently suggested for the use of the pupil, and 
these should be recorded in the notebook. 

Grateful acknowledgment should be made to Professor 
Henry C. Sherman for suggestions and assistance and 
to Mr. A. D. Emmett and L. D. Hall of the Illinois 
Agricultural Experiment Station for the use of the photo- 
graphs of meat and the descriptive matter accompanying 

them. 

RUTH A. WARDALL 
EDNA N. WHITE 



Digitized by 



Googk 



CONTENTS 

CHAPTER PAGE 

I. Food i 

II. Water ii 

III. Fruits and Green Vegetables 15 

IV. Preservation of Fruit and Vegetables ... 22 
V. Sugar . • 31 

VI. Starch 37 

VII. Potatoes 40 

VIII. Cereals and Cereal Products 43 

IX. Dried Legumes 51 

X. Milk 54 

XI. Eggs 61 

XII. Cheese 65 

XIII. Meat 68 

XIV. Fish and Oysters 81 

XV. Gelatin 87 

XVI. Fats and Oils 90 

XVII. Flour 94 

XVIII. Flour Mixtures 99 

XIX. Bread 108 

XX. Food Requirements 120 

XXI. Selection of Food 129 

XXII. Serving Meals 135 

APPENDIX I 

Food Standards 139 

APPENDIX II 

Retail Cuts of Beef 143 

INDEX 171 



Digitized by 



Googk 



Digitized by 



Googk 



A STUDY OF FOODS 



CHAPTER I 

FOOD 

Food, as defined in Farmers' Bulletin No, l^f.2, '*is that 
which, taken into the body, builds tissue or yields energy." 
While the supply of building material and energy are two 
important functions, there is a third purpose served by 
food in the regulation of certain important processes in 
the body. Sherman says : '' Upon the presence of the 
so-called inorganic elements also depend such important 
matters as the alkalinity or neutrality and coagulability of 
the blood, the acidity or alkalinity of the digestive juices, the 
solvent power and osmotic pressure of the body fluids, the 
elasticity and irritability of muscle and nerve. They also 
tend to protect the body against harmful substances by 
combining with them to form compounds which are less 
toxic or more readily eliminated. These latter functions 
are perhaps regulatory rather than structural and are hardly 
suggested by the term ' tissue building.' " In order to give 
them proper prominence it may be necessary to expand 
the usual definition of the function of food (that it yields 
energy and builds tissue) into one of three divisions 
according to which the functions of food are 

1 . To yield energy. 

2. To furnish building material. 

3. To regulate body processes. 



Digitized by 



Googk 



2 A STUDY OF FOODS 

The energy of the food furnishes power for internal 
work, as in respiration, digestion, and other body proc- 
esses, as well as for external work, — when the muscles 
are brought into activity, — as in running, digging, or 
any other form of exercise. When the energy of the 
food is changed into energy for body use, heat is given 
off in somewhat the same way that heat results when 
the- energy of the coal is changed into energy for the 
engine. Under ordinary conditions . the heat resulting 
from energy transformation keeps the body at a comfort- 
able temperature, but where a great deal of energy is 
needed, as in a brisk walk or in active muscular work, the 
amount of heat is greater and frequently causes discom- 
fort. In case of little or no exercise and a cold day, 
it may be necessary to transform energy for the sake of 
keeping the body warm. Building material must be avail- 
able to the body, for there is constant wear and tear of 
tissues in all, and development of tissue — or growth — 
in the young. 

While foods present a great variety in appearance and 
flavor, it is found on chemical analysis that they are made 
up of compounds which may be divided into five general 
groups : water, mineral matter, protein, fat, and carbohy- 
drate. All five of these nutrients are found in some foods ; 
usually one or two are present in much greater quantity 
than the others, so that we value some foods for protein, 
some for fat, carbohydrate, or mineral content. Eggs and 
meat are valued especially for protein ; butter and nuts, 
for fat ; potatoes and rice, for carbohydrate in the form 
of starch. Flour is valued for carbohydrate and protein; 
green vegetables and fresh fruits, for water and mineral 



Digitized by 



Googk 



FOOD .3 

matter ; cheese, for fat and protein ; and milk is unique 
in that it contains all the nutrients, or food principles. 

Our foods are derived from both the plant and animal 
kingdoms. All the nutrients are abundant in either king- 
dom, with the exception of the carbohydrates, which occur 
mainly in plant foods. 

Protein, mineral matter, and water are frequently classed 
as tissue builders. Water and mineral matter are found 
in all the body tissues, and protein is found principally in 
muscular and glandular tissues. Mineral matter, in addi- 
tion to its function of building tissue, plays an important 
r61e in the regulation of body processes, as before stated. 
Fats and carbohydrates yield energy, and, to a considerable 
extent, one may take the place of the other for this pur- 
pose. While protein is the only one of the nutrients 
which can build certain body tissues, it may also serve 
the function of an energy yielder. 

The same chemical elements which are found in the 
body are found in the food which is necessary to growth 
and maintenance of life. The wise selection of food is 
based upon a consideration of its composition, its ease and 
completeness of digestion, its cost, and palatability. 

Carbohydrates 

The carbohydrates consist of a group of substances 
closely related chemically, although differing in appear- 
ance and taste. The well-known carbohydrates are sugars, 
starches, and cellulose. The carbohydrates are found in 
the plant kingdom with very few exceptions, such as lac- 
tose in milk and glycogen in the body. Starch occurs 
more abundantly in vegetables than in fruits, and sugar 



Digitized by 



Googk 



4 A STUDY OF FOODS 

is found in both. A woody substance, cellulose, forms the 
framework of the plant. Cellulose is a food for the lower 
animals, but not for man ; however, it is commonly eaten 
by man, and because of its bulk it is an aid in digestion. 
Starch and sugar are both valuable human foods ; they do 
not build the tissues of the body, but they furnish energy. 
Since plant foods are less expensive than animal foods, 
the carbohydrates are generally less expensive than proteins 
and fats. 

Fats 

There are many substances chemically related which 
are known as fats. Those which are liquids at ordinary 
temperatures are called oils. Fats, like carbohydrates, yield 
energy and are frequently stored in considerable quantity 
in the body. Weight for weight, the fats yield two and 
a quarter times the energy that carbohydrates or proteins 
do. Fats are highly concentrated foods and are obtained 
from both plant and animal sources. The common animal 
sources are cream, butter, and fat of meat, and the common 
vegetable fats are olive oil, cottonseed oil, and the fat of 
nuts. Fat from most sources is expensive. We use fats not 
only as food but also as a medium for cooking. 

Proteins 

The term " protein " includes a group of substances 
chemically related, and all containing nitrogen, although 
not all substances containing nitrogen are proteins. 

The chemistry of the proteins is very difficult and will 
not be discussed here. Some of the well-known members 
of the protein family are gluten of wheat, albumen of egg 
gnd meat^ casein of milk, legumin of peas and beans. 



Digitized by 



Googk 



FOOD 5 

Protein is derived from both plant and animal sources. 
Some plant foods rich in protein are wheat, corn, oats, 
peas, beans, peanuts, lentils, and nuts. The animal sources 
of proteins are meat, milk, eggs, and cheese. Plant foods 
are cheaper than animal foods, and consequently they are 
a cheaper source of protein. 

Protein, like fat and carbohydrate, may serve as a source 
of energy to the body, but it differs from these in that it 
also builds tissue. 

Although protein is very necessary in the diet, it should 
not be eaten in too great quantities, for certain ills may 
attend its excessive use. Heavy eating, and particularly 
heavy eating of meat, may easily furnish more protein than 
is desirable, and it is believed that meat protein may cause 
more harm than other proteins. 

Water 

Water furnishes the fluid necessary for the body and 
enters into the composition of all the tissues. Approxi- 
mately two thirds of the weight of the body is water, con- 
sequently the supply must be liberal. All foods contain 
water; fruits, green vegetables, and milk are especially 
high in water content, but the body needs more than occurs 
in the food, and water should be freely used as a beverage. 

Mineral Matter 

The body contains several pounds of mineral matter, 
the bulk of which is in the bones and teeth. Some mineral 
salts are in solution in the body fluids, and some are found 
in other body tissues. Mineral matter occurs in practically 
all our foods, both animal and plant, but it varies in amount 



Digitized by 



Googk 



6 A STUDY OF FOODS 

and kind. While a freely chosen, normal diet may contain 
enough mineral matter to supply the demands of the body, 
it is not always in the form or amounts needed. Knowledge 
of the composition of food leads physicians to prescribe 
certain diets for people who show a lack of some mineral 
constituent. Fruit and vegetables are especially valued 
for their mineral content. The outer coats of the cereal 
grains, so often discarded, are also rich in mineral matter. 
Care is necessary, especially with children, to provide foods 
supplying mineral matter. 

Preparation of Food 

Some foods are eaten in the natural (or raw) state, but 
much of our food is cooked. Cooking means the applica- 
tion of heat to food. It makes it more attractive in appear- 
ance, more palatable, and destroys any living organisms 
which may be present. In the case of foods eaten in the 
raw state, such as lettuce, celery, and fruits, very thorough 
cleansing is necessary. One should be accurately informed 
as to the condition of milk which is used in the raw state, 
for it frequently is the carrier of disease germs. Methods 
of cooking and degree of heat vary with the nature of the 
food. The temperature and method of cooking should 
vary as fat, protein, or carbohydrate predominates in the 
food. 

LABORATORY EXERCISES 

I. Laboratory and Equipment 

Examine desks, list equipment, and carefully note arrange- 
ment of utensils in the desk. If general supply cupboards are 
used by pupils, examine and note contents. 



Digitized by 



Googk 



FOOD 7 

The following abbreviations are used throughout the book : 

c cup 

s.s salt-spoon 

t teaspoon 

T tablespoon 

II. Measurements 

Compressible materials, such as flour and powdered sugar, 
should be sifted before measuring, and lightly filled into the 
measure without packing. Heap all dry materials into the meas- 
uring cup or spoon, and level with the edge of a knife. Measure 
a half spoonful by dividing lengthwise. A measure of liquid 
means all that the cup or spoon will hold. 

1. Answer the following questions by measuring with sugar ; 
with flour ; with water : 

How many t in i T ? How many c in i lb. ? 

How many T in i c .? How many c in i pt. ? 

2. Repeat measurements for a check. Compare results with 
others in class and account for differences. Is the measure 
responsible in all cases? 

HI. Weights 

1. Determine, by avoirdupois system, weight of 

I c flour I c water 

I c sugar I c lard 

2. Compare weight of i c of unsifted flour with i c of flour 
sifted once, twice, and three times. 

3. Compute weights of the above in the metric system. 
Note, i pound — 453.6 grams ; i ounce = 28.36 grams. 

4. From above data compute number of cups of flour, sugar, 
water, and lard in i lb. avoirdupois. 



Digitized by 



Googk 



A STUDY OF FOODS 

Temperatures 

Heat is always used in cooking food, 
but it may be applied in a number of dif- 
ferent ways. Varying degrees of heat may 
be employed in the cooking of food by 
using hot or boiling water, steam, hot fat, 
or hot air in the oven. 

Thermometer Scales 

The difference between freezing and 

boiling temperatures is marked by lOO 

degrees on the centigrade scale and by 

1 80 degrees on the Fahrenheit scale. The 

ratio between the two scales is 100 : 180, 

AND Fahrenheit or S : 9. The freezing point is o°C. and 

Scales 32°F. To change from one scale to the 

other use the following formulas : 

fC + 32 = F, |(F-32)=C. 

Demonstration by Teacher 

A. High Temperatures 

1. Note and record room temperature by centigrade ther- 
mometer. 

2. Note and record boiling point of water. 

3. Note and record temperature of steam just above boiling 
water. 

4. Note and record temperature of steam in a covered kettle. 

5. Note and record temperature of water in the covered top 
of a double boiler when the water below is boiling. 



The Centigrade 



Digitized by 



Googk 



FOOD 9 

6. Oven temperatures. 

By noting time required to brown white paper, test the 
oven at the following ternperatures : 150°; 200**; 250°. 

7. Fat temperatures. 

a. Note condition of a piece of bread one minute after 
it is dropped into fat which is at the temperature of 
boiling water. 

b. Note temperature of fat in which bread is browned : 
in one minute ; in forty seconds. 

B, Low Temperatures 

Low temperatures are used in the household for preservation 
of food and in the preparation of frozen dishes. 

1 . What is the temperature of ice t 

2. What is the temperature of a mixture of ice and salt ? 

3. Does the proportion of ice to salt affect the temperature 
of the mixture } 

Fuels 

The usual source of heat for cooking is furnished by 
coal, wood, gas, gasoline, and kerosene. Electricity is a 
very desirable, but usually a very expensive, source. The 
cost of fuel must be considered a part of the cost of 
our food, and should be added to the cost of raw food 
materials. By planning, it is possible to economize in our 
use of these fuels. For example, when the oven of a 
coal or wood range is in use, the top of the stove is hot 
and may also be in use ; and a gas burner need not be 
turned on full in order to keep water boiling. If a gas 
meter is attached to a range, it will be observed that there 
is quite a difference in the gas consumed when the burner 
is partially opened and when it is turned on to the fullest 
extent. 



Digitized by 



Googk 



lO A STUDY OF FOODS 

GENERAL EXERCISES 

Convert recorded temperatures to Fahrenheit scale. 

What is the lowest temperature fn the above demonstration ? 

When would you use this in cooking ? 

When would you use the highest temperature in cooking ? 

Suggest different dishes which might be prepared at the other 
temperatures. 

What ways of applying heat to food are suggested in the above 
demonstrations ? Which medium is most commonly used ? 

What is the source of heat used in preparation of food in a 
fireless cooker? In what way does the modem fireless cooker differ 
from the old " hay-box " ? Is the hay-box or fireless cooker of any 
service in keeping things cool ? Is a fireless cooker an aid to economy 
in fuel ? 

Suggest other ways of reducing cost of fuel in preparing food. 

From the data and experience that you have, discuss the various 
fuels from the viewpoint of cost, desirability, and convenience. 

Examine and operate all stoves and other heating devices found in 
the laboratory. 

References 

Atwater. "Principles of Nutrition and Nutritive Value of Food," 

Farmers* Bulletin No. 142^ U.S. Department of Agriculture. 
Hutchison. Food and Dietetics, chap. i. 
Hough and Sedgwick. The Human Mechanism. 
Jordan. Principles of Human Nutrition. 
Sherman. Chemistry of Food and Nutrition. 
Wiley. Foods and their Adulteration. 
Norton. Food and Dietetics. 
Atwater and Bryant. " The Chemical Composition of American Food 

Materials," Bulletin No. 28^ Office of Experiment Stations, U.S. 

Department of Agriculture. 
Langworthy. "Ash Constituents of the Food," Journal of Home 

Economics^ February, 19 10. 
Murlin. Tigerstedt*s Text Book of Physiology. 
Hill. Recent Advances in Physiology and Biochemistry, chap. x. 
Bevier and Van Meter. Selection and Preparation of Food — 

Laboratory Guide. 



Digitized by 



Googk 



CHAPTER II 
WATER 

Generally speaking, water is either hard or soft, de- 
pending on the mineral substances which it carries in solu- 
tion. Rain water as stored in the ordinary cistern is the 
softest water available to the household. Well, river, and 
spring water vary greatly in the materials in solution, and 
consequently vary greatly in degree of hardness. 

Boiling will sometimes bring about changes which tend 
to soften water. Doubtless all have observed the lime 
deposit in the teakettle. Other causes of hardness can 
be removed only by the use of chemicals. Cities some- 
times use chemicals on a large scale to soften water for use. 
In a small way the same thing is done in the household 
when baking soda is added to the water for cooking beans, 
or lye is added to water which is to be used in cleaning. 

While hardness of water is a matter of importance to 
the household, there is another far more important con- 
sideration. A safe water is one which does not contain 
disease germs or any substances injurious to health. A 
number of diseases are carried by water ; typhoid fever and 
dysentery are among the common ones. The appearance 
of typhoid fever should lead to an immediate investigation 
of water and milk supply. The typhoid fever record of a 
city is a fair index of the safety of its water. Water may 
be clear and sparkling and yet be very dangerous. Surface 
wells are very easily contaminated and there is always risk 



Digitized by 



Googk 



12 A STUDY OF FOODS 

in using water from such wells. Deep, driven wells are 
less liable to contamination, but their safety is not assured. 
Generally speaking, a municipal water supply is preferable 
to the ordinary well, because it is apt to be more carefully 
watched. The surety of a safe water supply is a nioral 
obligation which all should feel. If there is any doubt 
about it, the water should be boiled. The household filters 
ordinarily seen are worse than useless, and often a real 
menace because they frequently become breeding places 
for germs. Directions from a board of health to boil water 
should never be neglected. 

As said before, a liberal supply of water is needed for the 
body fluids and to remove waste. Water is used as a bever- 
age, either alone or flavored with other substances. It is used 
also as an agent in the preparation of food. Hot water is a 
very common medium for the cooking of food, and in tea, 
lemonade, and other mixtures, water serves as a carrier of 
flavor. 

LABORATORY EXERCISES 

Water as a Medium for Foods and Flavors 

I. Lemonade 

I lemon 3 T sugar 

I c cold water \ c boiling water 

Wash lemon and grate a small portion of yellow rind. Add 
boiling water to sugar and grated rind. To this add cold water 
and juice of lemon. Chill and serve. 

II. Fruit Punch 

I c cold water i JT lemon juice 

J -|c sugar J c chopped pineapple 

\ c orange juice 



Digitized by 



Googk 



WATER 13 

Boil water, sugar, and pineapple several minutes ; cool, add 
fruit juice, strain, and dilute with ice water. 

Other fruit juices could be substituted for any of these. 
Lemon juice is necessary with almost any fniit. 

III. Lemon Ice 

2 c sugar I c lemon juice 

I c boiling water 3 c cold water 

Make a sirup of sugar and hot water. Add the rest of the 
water and then the fruit juices. 

For variation add \ t vanilla, juice of an orange, or other 
fruit juice. Freeze. 

IV. Sherbet 

To I qt. of lemon or other ice add the beaten white of i egg, 
when the mixture begins to freeze. 

^ ^^ I c freshly boiling water 

It tea 
Scald the teapot. Pour water over the tea in the teapqt. Let 
tea stand 2 or 3 minutes in a hot place, and serve. Never boil tea. 
Compare the beverages made from green tea, from black tea, 
and from a mixture of the two. 

VI. Coffee 

1 . I c freshly boiling water 

2 T ground coffee mixed with i T cold water 
Pour boiling water over the moistened coffee in the coffee- 
pot. Boil up once, simmer 4 or 5 minutes, and let stand in a 
hot place for from 5 to 10 minutes. 

2. ic cold water 

2 T ground coffee 
Pour water over coffee in the coffeepot. Bring to boiling 
point, and then simmer for 2 minutes. Stand in a hot place 
for from 5 to 10 minutes. 



Digitized by 



Googk 



14 A STUDY OF FOODS 

A small amount of white of egg may be stirred in after the 
coffee has boiled, to aid in settling the grounds. Long cooking 
of coffee not only impairs the fine flavor but extracts undesirable 
substances. 

Compare the beverages made from coffees of different kinds 
and grades as to desirability and cost. 

GENERAL EXERCISES 

Calculate the cost of a cup of black coffee ; the cost of a cup of 
coffee with sugar and cream. 

Determine source of home and of school water supply. 

Is lemonade a valuable food ? Explain. 

Calculate the cost of a glass of lemonade. 

Why use freshly boiling water for tea and coffee ? 

Are tea and coffee valuable as foods ? 

Are there any objections to their use ? 

References 

Elliott. Household Hygiene, pp. 90-1 13. 
Price. Handbook on Sanitation, chaps, v, vi. 
Richards and Woodman. Air, Water, and Food, chaps, v, vi. 
Sedgwick. Principles of Sanitary Science, chaps, ix, x. 
Sherman. Chemistry of Food and Nutrition, chaps, ix, x. 
Hough and Sedgwick. The Human Mechanism. 
Hutchison. Food and Dietetics. 

Langworthy. " Cereal Substitutes for Coffee," Bulletin No, 122^ U.S. 
Department of Agriculture. 



Digitized by 



Googk 



CHAPTER III 

FRUITS AND GREEN VEGETABLES 

Fruits 

Fruits are largely composed of water. Many of the fresh 
fruits contain from 80 to 90 per cent of water. Dates, 
figs, and raisins are fruits from which the water has been 
evaporated, and consequently they are concentrated foods. 
Peaches, apricots, apples, and prunes are dried in order 
to preserve them, but the water is restored when they are 
prepared for eating, and they resemble other cooked fruits 
in composition. The banana owes its food value largely to 
the starch it contains, while a number of fruits, especially 
grapes and pineapples, are valued for sugar. The acids 
and minerals occurring in fruits give them an important 
place in the diet. The woody fiber which forms the frame- 
work of the fruit is a carbohydrate called cellulose, which 
adds bulk to the food and stimulates peristalsis. 

Fruit is frequently valued as an appetizer, and the water 
content and bulk make it a desirable addition to the diet, 
although for actual nutrients fruits are expensive. Canned 
fruit has a greater food value due to the addition of sugar. 
The cooking of fruit changes the flavor, cooks starch if 
present, softens the cellulose, and in the case of dried fruits 
restores the water lost. It is important that the juice be 
served with the cooked fruit so that the mineral salts may 
not be lost. 

15 



Digitized by 



Googk 



tmm^tmr^m 



<. » '^. "hi » »«T1«T 



f"^ \ I { \ 



t'. * f *'-.*- Gm 



OfBCD FIG 




•TRAWBCRRY 

COttLC POUTIOII 



ir*toriM.4. 



OtrMt;dra4w: 7,4 




Fresh and Dried Fruits 



i6 



Digitized by 



Googk 



FRUITS AND GREEN VEGETABLES 17 

Green Vegetables 

Various parts of plants are used as food. The stem of 
asparagus, leaves of the spinach, flower of the cauliflower, 
root of the beet, fruit of beans and tomatoes, are eaten. 
Many green vegetables are grown and valued for their 
variety in flavor, their bulk, and their mineral salts. Green 
vegetables, like fruits, are conspicuously high in water ; 
lettuce, cucumbers, and celery, for example, are about 
95 per cent water. Cellulose forms the framework of the 
green vegetables. Minerals occur in all, sugar and starch 
in some. In cooking strong-juiced vegetables, such as 
onions and cabbage, a large amount of water is used ; and 
in vegetables valued for sugar and other soluble materials, 
as corn, peas, carrots, etc., it is best to use the smallest 
amount of water that is possible. * 

LABORATORY EXERCISES 

I. Canned Green Vegetables 

Open the can and empty at once. The flavor is usually im- 
proved by allowing the vegetables to stand for an hour or more 
exposed to the air. 

The majority of the canned green vegetables are palatable 
when simply seasoned with butter, pepper, and salt, and heated ; 
or they may be served with cream sauce. 

II. Baked Apples 

Select sound apples, preferably tart ones. Wash and core, 
place in a shallow pan, fill centers with sugar, or a mixture of 
sugar and cinnamon, cover the bottom of the pan with water. 
Bake in a moderate oven until apples are easily pierced with a 
fork. If the oven is very hot, cover with a pan or baste apples 
frequently with the sirup in bottom of pan. 



Digitized by 



Googk 



V. 8. Bij I I •tJLttitmitmm ^ ^ - ^ 



coMP oe mow of food materials 

OOI F"^ r~i ^B mm m 



c 



CMbih74nt«:lS.4 



D 



Roots and Succulent Vegetables 



i8 



Digitized by 



Googk 



FRUITS AND GREEN VEGETABLES 19 

III. Stewed Prunes 

Select gocxi prunes, sort, and wash. Cover with water and 
soak several hours or overnight ; then slowly cook in the same 
water until plump and smooth and the stones will easily slip out. 
A little lemon juice or sugar may be added. 

IV. Creamed Onions 

Cook onions in a large amount of boiling water in an un- 
covered kettle, and change water two or three times. Cook 
until tender; drain, and reheat in white sauce. 

V." Escaloped Cabbage 

Cook cabbage in boiling, salted water, changing water two 
or three times ; do not overcook. Arrange in baking dish alter- 
nate layers of cabbage and cream sauce. Cover with buttered 
crumbs and brown in oven. 

VI. Glazed Sweet Potatoes 

Wash and pare potatoes. Cook until partially done in boiling 
water. Remove from water, cut potatoes in halves or slices. 
Brush with melted butter, sprinkle with sugar lightly, and bake. 
Or make a sirup of i T sugar, i T water, and i T butter ; brush 
potatoes with this, and baste with it during the cooking. 

VII. Spinach 

Carefully pick over and wash spinach through several waters. 
Cover bottom of pan with water, place spinach in pan, heat 
slowly, and cook until tender. Drain, season with butter, salt, 
and pepper, and garnish with slices of hard-cooked t%%. 

Salads 

A salad is a wholesome and a favorite way of serving 
vegetables, both fresh and cooked. Combinations of meat, 
eggs, fruit, nuts, and cheese with vegetables are frequently 
made in salads. 



Digitized by 



Googk 



20 A STUDY OF FOODS 

The dressing is usually a mixture of vinegar, egg, fat, 
and seasonings. The simplest of all dressings (the French 
dressing) is made of oil, vinegar, and seasonings, and is not 
cooked ; a raw egg in combination with the same gives a 
mayonnaise. Butter is more commonly used than oil in 
making dressings, and the mixture is cooked. 

As a source of food the salads vary greatly, depending 
entirely upon the materials put into them. If properly used, 
the salads are a very desirable addition to the diet. With 
a heavy meal a light salad, such as celery or lettuce, should 
be chosen, and in this case the salad is an accessory to the 
meal. The salad if made of meat, egg, or cheese may really 
be the major part of the meal. 

Care should be taken to have vegetables or fruits fresh, 
crisp, and thoroughly cleaned, and meat carefully freed from 
gristle and bone. All materials, including dressing, should 
be cold. Salads should be carefully mixed and served, in 
order to preserve their attractiveness. 

LABORATORY EXERCISES 

I. French Salad Dressing 

3 T oil I T vinegar or lemon juice 

\ t salt \ t paprika 

Mix salt and pepper with oil, add vinegar slowly, and beat. 

II. Cream Dressing 

Yolks 3 eggs or 2 whole eggs 1 1 salt 

2 T flour 1 1 mustard 

I T sugar ^c vinegar 

I T butter Paprika 

Mix dry ingredients, add vinegar, and cook thoroughly ; re- 
move from fire, add slightly beaten ^%g and butter. Cool, and 



Digitized by 



Googk 



FRUITS AND GREEN VEGETABLES 21 

store in a glass jar until ready for use. When ready to serve, 
thin the dressing with cream, sweet or sour. Whipped cream is 
especially desirable. 

III. Vegetable Salad 

\q peas I small cucumber 

^c string beans i tomato 

• Carefully prepare the vegetables and serve with either French 
or cream dressing. 

IV. Fruit Salad 

Use seasonable fruits, either alone or in combination. Serve 
on lettuce leaf with French or cream dressing. 

GENERAL EXERCISES 

From Bulletin No. 28, " Chemical Composition of American 
Food Materials," and Farmers^ Bulletin No. 2gj^ " Use of Fruit as 
Food," list ten commonly used fruits according to water content; 
according to sugar content. Which are valued for food and which as 
appetizers? Compare grapes and raisins with respect to water and 
sugar content, and explain difference. 

List ten common green vegetables according to water content; 
protein content. What green vegetables contain sugar? 

References 

Langworthy. " Use of Fruit as Food," Farmers^ Bulletin N^o. sgj^ 

U.S. Department of Agriculture. 
Parloa. " Preparation of Vegetables for the Table," Farmers* Bulletin 

No. 2^6, U.S. Department of Agriculture. 
Hutchison. Food and Dietetics. 
Snyder, Frisby, and Bryant. " Losses in Cooking Vegetables," 

Bulletin No. 4j, Office of Experiment Stations, U.S. Department 

of Agriculture. 
Hough and Sedgwick. The Human Mechanism, pp. 93, 350. 
Bailey. Cyclopedia of American Horticulture. 



Digitized by 



Googk 



CHAPTER IV 

PRESERVATION OF FRUIT AND VEGETABLES 

Food spoils, due to the action of some form of plant or ani- 
mal growth. The most common causes of spoiling are the 
minute plants, always found in the air, called bacteria, yeasts, 



Apparatus for steaming Fruit in Cans 

and molds. A food, or any other substance, is sterile when 
all these microscopic forms of life have been killed. Steri- 
lization is most frequently accomplished by the use of heat. 
Since all dust is laden with these minute forms, food 
should not be exposed to the air unnecessarily. Like other 



Digitized by 



Googk 



PRESERVATION OF FRUIT 23 

plants, these microscopic forms need food, warmth, and 
moisture. One of the means of protecting food is to keep 
it in a dry place, and in some cases the food is actually 
dried, as raisins and dried apples. Cold is the commonest 
and best means of protecting food, either in the household 
refrigerator or the commercial cold-storage plant. 

Heat, sugar, salt, vinegar, spices, and certain chemicals 
are used in preserving food for long periods of time. These 
agents are useful because they do not favor animal and 
plant growth. Heat is the most effective preservative, for 
if high enough and long enough applied, it will kill any 
form of life. Sugar, vinegar, and spices give a desired 
flavor to the food, as well as aid in preserving it, if used 
in sufficient quantities. Frequently several of these agents 
are combined. Canning powders may preserve food indefi- 
nitely, but they should never be used. The Pure Food 
Laws are forbidding the use of chemicals by the manufac- 
turer, and the housewife should be no less particular. Heat, 
if properly used, will preserve food as well as chemicals, 
and there can be no question as to the safety of its use. 

The preservation of food has largely passed out of the 
modem household, excepting the canning and pickling 
processes, and, in some localities, the curing of meat. 

LABORATORY EXERCISES 

Agents and Methods of Preservation^ 

Experiment L Put portions of some ripe fruit (as peach or apple) 
and vegetables (as tomato) on small dishes and treat as indicated : 

1. Expose at room temperature. 

2. Place in refrigerator. 

1 This group of experiments may be demonstrated. 



Digitized by 



Googk 



24 A STUDY OF FOODS 

3. Carefully dry sample in slow oven. Leave exposed in room. 

4. Cover with ground spice. 

5. Cover with sugar. 

6. Cover with salt. 

Examine samples at intervals and note results. 

Experiment IL Prepare duplicate samples for comparison. 

1. (a) Put slices of raw fruit into small glass bottles; cover 
with water ; cork and seal. 

{U) Repeat with cooked fruit. 

2. Sterilize, by boiling, two small glass bottles with corks 
to fit. 

(a) Fill one with raw fruit ; cover with water ; cork and seal. 

(b) Fill the other with cooked fruit at boiling temperature ; 
cork and seal. 

Examine samples at intervals and compare. 

Experiment IIL Put slices of fruit in small glass bottles 
and treat as indicated : 

1. Cover with alcohol. 

2. Cover with vinegar. 

3. Cover with sirup of 5 T sugar and 2 T water. 
Pbcamine at intervals and compare. 

All samples in these experiments should be discarded on spoil- 
ing, but some will need to be kept for a long period. 

In Experiment I note order in which samples spoil. Why do 
some keep indefinitely ? 

Discuss the value of sterilization as illustrated in Experi- 
ment II. What is complete sterilization, and in which sample 
is this illustrated ? 

Compare samples in Experiment III. Are all desirable? 
Explain. 

When would you use any of the above methods in the 
household 1 



Digitized by 



Googk 



PRESERVATION OF FRUIT 25 

Canning 

Canning is largely a method of preservation by heat. 
In the canning of fruit, usually from one fourth to one third 
the weight of the fruit in sugar is added to give the desired 
flavor. 

Cans, lids, and rubbers should be thoroughly washed 
and rinsed. Cans and lids should be sterilized by boiling, 
and care should be taken not to touch the top of the can 
or the inside of the lid with fingers or cloth. New rubbers 



Types of Fruit Jars 

only should be used, and these should be sterilized with 
boiling water. Spoons and funnels used in handling fruit 
should be sterilized in boiling water. 

LABORATORY EXERCISES 
I. Canned Corn 

Use only fresh and perfect com. P>ee from silk and cut from 
cob, using care not to cut too closely. Put into kettle, barely 
cover with water, and boil thoroughly. Fill jars, add 1 1 salt and 
1 1 stigar, and set lids loosely on top. Place in a covered steamer, 
steam i hour, and seal. After 24 hours fill steamer with cold 
water and heat, steaming the com for an hour. Repeat the 



Digitized by 



Googk 



26 A STUDY OF FOODS 

steaming the third day. This same method is applicable to 
beans, peas, and other vegetables. 
Calculate cost, and note on each jar. 

II. Canned Peaches 

Prepare peaches by paring and dividing into halves. Make a 
sirup, using i c sugar to 2 c water. Cook peaches in sirup until 
tender and somewhat transparent, put into sterilized jars, and 



I II 

I. Jar of Fancy Melba Peaches; cost, $i. II. Fifteen Jars of 
Peaches canned in Laboratory ; cost, %\ 

seal. Invert jars at once and leave until cool. By inverting the 
jar an ill-fitting top is quickly discovered. This same general 
method is applicable to other fruits. 

Keep a complete record of cost of fruit and sugar used for 
each jar. Note on a gummed label, and paste on jar together 
with date and name. 

III. Canned Tomatoes 

Sterilize cans, tops, and rubbers as for canned fruit. Wash 
tomatoes, scald, remove skins and hard green core. Cut into 



Digitized by 



Googk 



PRESERVATION OF FRUIT 2^ 

quarters and cook, without adding water, until thoroughly heated 
through and boiling. Fill jars, seal, and invert. 
Calculate and note cost on each jar. 

Preserving 

Preserving fruit is largely a method of preservation by 
a heavy sugar solution, three fourths to equal weight of 
sugar being used. 

Wash, rinse, and scald with boiling water the glasses 
for preserves. Cover fruit with melted paraffin. 

LABORATORY EXERCISE 
I. Grape Conserve 

I pint grapes f c raisins 

I small orange 
Pulp grapes, cook until soft ; then put through a colander and 
add skins, orange pulp, and raisins. To every cup of this add a 
cup of sugar and cook until of desired consistency. Nuts added 
at this time increase the attractiveness of the conserve. 
Calculate and record cost on each glass. 

Jelly-making 

In making jelly, sugar is used in large enough quantity 
to act as a preservative. 

Prepare glasses as for preserves and cover in same way. 

LABORATORY EXERCISE 
I. Grape Jelly 

Cover the bottom of an enameled kettle with water and add 
the grapes, which have been thoroughly washed. Cover, cook 
slowly, and stir occasionally. When simmering point is reached, 
crush the fruit with a masher and continue heating until thor- 
oughly cooked. Pour the hot mass into a double square of 



Digitized by 



Google 



28 A STUDY OF FOODS 

cheesecloth ; tie the comers together and let the juice run out. 
Do not squeeze the pulp. Measure the juice, boil 2 or 3 minutes, 
add a three-fourths measure of sugar, and boil until the jelly will 
drop in flakes from the spoon. Pour into hot jelly glasses and 
cover with melted paraffin. 

The same method may be used with any juicy fruit. 

Calculate and record cost on each glass. 

Pickling 

Pickling is usually a method of preserving by use of 
vinegar and spices. Heat may or may not be used. 
Wash, rinse, and scald jars. 

LABORATORY EXERCISE 
I. Cucumber Pickles 

Place cucumbers in stone jar, cover with brine in proportion 
of ^c salt to 2 qt. boiling water. Let stand 24 hours. Drain 
off brine, scald, and pour again over cucumbers. Let stand until 
cool, or longer if necessary. Drain off the brine and pack pickles 
closely in jars. 

I pint vinegar Stick cinnamon 

Salt Sugar 

Cloves Pepper 

Scald vinegar with seasonings, pour over pickles, and seal 
jars. These seasonings vary with strength of vinegar, spices, 
and individual tastes. 

Calculate and record cost of pickles on each jar. 

GENERAL EXERCISES 

In order to test the proper care of all sorts of canned materials, 
carefully wrap and stand in a dark place samples of each kind of 
fruit and vegetable canned. Leave duplicate samples exposed to full 



Digitized by 



Googk 



PRESERVATION OF FRUIT 



29 



light. After two or three months open and compare the above 
samples with each other, and with commercial samples. 

Carefully measure commercial products to estimate the cost of one 
quart, and compare with the domestic product made in the class. 

Comparison of Domestic and Commercial Products 





Flavor 


Appear- 
ance 


Cost per Quart 


Remarks 


Product Examined 


In 

Season 


At Time of 
Canning 


(Suggest 
reasons for 
diflFerences) 


Corn 

Commercial-! _ . 

1^ Expensive 

Domestic Product 












Tomatoes 

Commercial-! ^ , 

1^ Expensive 

Domestic Product 












Peaches 

Commercial-! „ . 

Expensive 

Domestic Product 












Jelly 

Commercial-! _ . 

Expensive 

Domestic Product 












Pickles (Cucumber) 

. , r Bottled 
Commercial jg^jj^ 

Domestic Product 













I bu. peaches = 48 lb. 



I bu. tomatoes = 56 lb. 



What is a reasonable price to pay for peaches for canning .f* for 
tomatoes ? 

What factors enter into the cost of the commercial product, which 
are not usually counted in the domestic product ^ 



Digitized by 



Googk 



30 A STUDY OF FOODS 

References 

Conn. Bacteria, Yeasts, and Molds in the Home. 

Price. Handbook on Sanitation. 

Parloa. " Canned Fruits, Preserves, and Jellies," Farmers' Bulletin 

No. jfojt U.S. Department of Agriculture. 
Breazeale. " Canning Vegetables in the Home," Farmers' Bulletin 

No.^^gy U.S. Department of Agriculture. 
Goldthwaite. ** Principles of Jelly Making," University of Illinois 

Bulletin, Vol. VIII, No. 7. 
Goldthwaite. "Jelly Making," The Journal of Home Economics, Feb- 
ruary, 19 10. 
Abel. "Care of Food in the Home," Farmers^ Bulletin No.jy^, U.S. 

Department of Agriculture. 
Snow. " Effect of Sugar and Temperature on Fruit Juices," The 

Journal of Home Economics, June, 1909. 
Hoffman and Evans. "The Preservative Action of Spices," The 

Journal of Home Economics, December, 19 11.. 



Digitized by 



Googk 



CHAPTER V 

SUGAR 

There are several kinds of sugars. The common com- 
mercial sugars are granulated, powdered, light and dark 
brown, maple, and glucose. The commercial names do 
not indicate their chemical composition — chemically pure 
powdered, granulated, and maple sugars are identical. Com- 
mercial maple sugar contains flavoring materials which make 
it very desirable for some purposes. There are a number of 
chemically different sugars, which are of interest to the phys- 
iologist, but in the household we are principally concerned 
with granulated (cane) sugar and grape sugar (dextrose). 

Granulated sugar is obtained commercially from the sugar 
cane and the sugar beet. Contrary to popular notions, the 
sugar is the same from both sources. Differences which 
have been noted in granulated sugars are probably due to 
the degree of purification in their manufacture. Cane 
sugar is found in fruits and other vegetables, but in lesser 
quantities than in the sugar cane and beet. Grape sugar 
occurs in honey, fresh and dried fruits, and may be seen in 
small whitish lumps on raisins and prunes. The starches 
and sugars are easily changed to grape sugar by the action 
of heat and acid outside the body and by digestive fluids 
in the body. 

The commercial sirup (glucose or corn sirup) is prepared 
from starch, and contains from 34 to 36 per cent of grape 
sugar. When cream of tartar, vinegar, or lemon juice is 

31 



Digitized by 



Googk 



U. 8. D«|»rtm«Dtof Afrioultura 

OOm of Experiment StatUiM 

A. C. True: Diraetor 



Preparadbf 
C. F. lanuwobthy 
Exptrt In CbaiTga of NutriUoa li 



COMP OSITION OF FOOD MATERIALS 

E^ l"^^"^ GSSSSS9 ^m IH, ^JT' 

Pr»..la Fat C«boh,d»u. A.h W.wr ■i^lSb^^ri;'' 



SUGAR 

ORANULATEO 



MOLASSES 




DOOoaTorlM 
par.poond 



MAPLE SUGAR 



5 otlorlM 
ir pound 



bohydratM: 82.8 



lAOO oalorlM per pound 



1175 calories per pound 



Sugar and Similar Foods 



32 



Digitized by 



Googk 



SUGAR 33 

added to taffy, a portion of the cane sugar is changed to grape 
sugar. Cane sugar easily granulates, while grape sugar does 
not ; so in the making of candy it is desirable to have glucose, 
to prevent the coarse granulation, or " turning to sugar." 

The sugars are valuable as food. They are easily dis- 
solved, do not require cooking, give a pleasant flavor to 
other foods, and, eaten in. moderation, are valuable to the 
body as a source of energy. The sweet flavor of sugar 
is universally liked, and frequently it is used in too great 
quantities, particularly in the form of candy, and with tea, 
coffee, and cereals. The overeating of sugar may cause 
fermentation in the stomach. 

Cane sugar is the form most commonly used, but the 
grape sugar is eaten in large quantities in honey, corn 
sirups, candy, and fruits. (5rape sugar is wholesome as a 
food, and occurs in the body as a result of the digestion of 
starches and sugars. Glucose is produced more cheaply 
than cane sugar, and the chief objection to its use in com- 
mercially prepared food is its substitution for the more 
expensive products without a reduction in the price of the 
finished article. Glucose is more familiar to us in the form 
of sirup than as a dry sugar, and is not so sweet as cane 
sugar. Under the Pure Food Laws, the sirup glucose is 
called corn sirup — a concession to the popular prejudice 
against glucose. 

Lactose (milk sugar) is prepared commercially and is fre- 
quently used in infants' food. Lactose is still less sweet than 
grape sugar. Molasses is another familiar form of sugar in 
the household. It contains both cane sugar and grape sugar 
and a number of coloring and flavoring substances which 
exist in the raw materials from which the sugar is made. 



Digitized by 



Googk 



34 A STUDY OF FOODS 

LABORATORY EXERCISES 

I. Effect of Heat upon Cane Sugar"^ 

1 . Put \ c sugar in a small frying pan, heat gently, and stir 
constantly until sugar is melted. Quickly remove a small portion 
to a plate and examine the product, which is known as barley 
sugar. Continue the heating until the whole mass is light brown 
in color. Remove a small portion of this product (caramel) to 
a plate and compare with barley sugar. To the caramel in pan 
add \ c boiling water and boil to a sirup. This caramel may be 
saved and used for flavoring custards and sauces. 

2. To I c sugar add \ c water. Place in a small pan. Boil, 
and with constant use of the thermometer discover the temper- 
ature for the following tests which are in constant use :• 

a. When sirup will form a soft ball in cold water. 

b. When sirup will form a thread as it is dropped from spoon. 

c. When sirup will form a hard ball in cold water. 

d. When sirup will harden in cold water and crack on cooling 

(crack stage). 

e. When caramel is formed. . 

Remove a portion to a small dish at each stage of the heating. 
Compare products and suggest uses. 

II. Peanut Brittle 

Place \ c sugar in small frying pan, heat slowly, stirring con- 
stantly, until sugar is melted and light brown in color. Stir in 
2 T chopped peanuts and pour at once onto a buttered plate. 

III. Fondant 

Add ^c sugar to ^ c hot water, stir until dissolved, then 
add ^t cream of tartar and boil to soft ball stage. During 
cooking remove all crystals from the sides of the pan by washing 

1 This may be demonstrated by the teacher. 



Digitized by 



Googk 



SUGAR 35 

with a wet cloth wrapped around a fork. Pour onto a cold plate, 
cool, flavor, then beat with a spoon until it stiffens and can be 
molded with the hands. Handle the mass until it is soft and 
creamy. This may be molded into candies at once or it may be 
covered closely and allowed to stand for 24 hours. 

IV. Chocolate Creams 

Mold fondant into desired shapes, and when firm place on tip 
of fork and dip into the melted chocolate. 

Grate or scrape chocolate into a cup or bowl and place the 
bowl in warm, not hot, water. Be very careful not to overheat 
or the chocolate will thicken. 

Place dipped creams on oiled paper and cool at once. 

V. Molasses Taffy 

\c molasses ic sugar 

iT butter ^c boiling water 

I T vinegar ^t soda 

^t vanilla 

Mix all the ingredients except the soda and cook until brittle 
when tried in cold water. Add soda and pour onto a buttered 
pan. When cool enough to handle, add vanilla and pull candy 
until light. Pull out into a long rope and cut with scissors. 

VI. Butterscotch 

I c sugar Flavoring 

^c water ^t cream of tartar 

I T butter 

Boil together sugar, water, and cream of tartar until the color 
changes to a light brown. Remove from fire, stir in butter and 
flavoring. Boil up again and pour, in a very thin layer, onto a 
buttered pan. Mark into squares before the candy hardens. 



Digitized by 



Googk 



36 



A STUDY OF FOODS 



GENERAL EXERCISES 

Comparison of Commercial and Domestic Products 





Apfearancb 


Cost 


Flavor 


Remarks 


Peanut Brittle 
Commercial 
Domestic 








Chocolate Creams 
Commercial 
Domestic 










Butterscotch 
Commercial 
Domestic 










Taffy 

(Commercial 
Domestic 






_ 





Why is cream of tartar added to fondant? Is this absolutely 
necessary? Why is the flavoring not added at the beginning of 
the cooking process? What are the objections to cheap candies? 

Table sirup made from granulated sugar in the household fre- 
quently turns to sugar on standing. Can you suggest any way to 
avoid this? Illustrate with an example. 

Examine the samples of different sugars and note characteristics. 

References 

Rem SEN. Organic Chemistry, chap. xi. 

Abel. " Sugar as Food," Farmers' Bulletin No. 9J, U.S. Department of 
Agriculture. 

Leach. Food Inspection and Analysis. 

Wiley. Foods and their Adulterations. 

Jordan. Principles of Human Nutrition. 

Shaw. " Cane and Beet Sugar for Canning and Jelly Making," Bul- 
letin No.jj^ California Experiment Station. 



Digitized by 



Googk 



CHAPTER VI 

STARCH 

Starch is the form in which plants commonly store food. 
Starch occurs in the form of grains, which are closely packed 
in the plant cell. These grains vary in different plants, and 
microscopic examination of the starch grain usually tells at 
once the kind of plant from which it comes. Corn is the 
common commercial source of starch, both for laundry and 
for table use. Starch is also prepared from wheat and 
potatoes. Less usual forms of starch are tapioca, sago, 
and arrowroot. 

Starch is a valuable food and a cheaper form of carbo- 
hydrate than sugar. Its use in the body is the same as that 
of sugar ; it yields energy for work and keeps the body 
warm. In the process of digestion starch is made soluble, 
finally being reduced to grape sugar, in which form it 
circulates through the animal body. Carbohydrate may be 
stored in very small quantities in animals and exists in the 
form of glycogen, sometimes called animal starch. Dry 
starch when heated changes its color and flavor and is 
converted into a form of carbohydrate called dextrin. This 
substance is familiar in toast and in browned flour used in 
making gravy. Starch, unlike sugar, is not soluble in cold 
water. Starch heated with water swells, changes its flavor 
and appearance, thickens, and forms a translucent mass. 
Raw or undercooked starch has an unpleasant flavor, so 

37 



Digitized by 



Googk 



38 A STUDY OF FOODS 

all starchy food should be thoroughly cooked and should 
reach the boiling point some time during the cooking 
process. The thickening power of starch makes it desir- 
able in the preparation of many dishes, such as puddings, 
sauces, and gravies. It is necessary to use a little care in 
cooking starch to avoid lumping. Starch, if first mixed 
with something else, as sugar, cold water, or fat, does not 
lump when a hot liquid is stirred into it. When iodine is 
added to starch, it turns blue. This is a simple and reliable 
test for detecting starch. 

LABORATORY EXERCISES 

I. Cornstarch Pudding 

^c fruit juice f c water 

2 or 3 cloves Sugar to taste 

^t salt 2 T cornstarch 

Heat water and juice. When boiling, stir in the cornstarch 
which has been mixed with a little cold water. Stir over the 
direct flame until it thickens, and add cloves and sugar. Cook 
^ hour in a double boiler ; then pour into molds to cool. " Fruit 
or nuts may be added at this time. 

Chill and serve plain with fruit or with cream. 

Strong flavored fruits, as plums or grapes, should be used. 

Calculate number of servings and cost. 

II. White Sauce 

1 c milk 2 T flour 

2 T butter Salt and pepper 

Soften or melt butter in pan, add flour, and mix thoroughly. 
Remove pan from fire and very gradually add the milk, stirring 
constantly to avoid formation of lumps. After these are mbced, 
return to fire and boil the sauce thoroughly. Add pepper and salt 



Digitized by 



Googk 



STARCH 39 

III. Cream Toast 

Prepare two slices of toast, and dip each into hot white sauce. 
Place on a heated plate and pour the remainder of the sauce 
over them. 

GENERAL EXERCISES 

Test several foods for starch. 

Make a microscopic examination of starches from different sources. 

Is there any difference in the thickening power of white and 
browned or dextrinized flour? Explain. 

Compare value of cornstarch and flour as thickening agents. 
Explain. 

Will cost lead to a choice between them ? 

References 

See list for Chapter V. 

Wiley. "Cereals and Cereal Products," Bulletin No. /j, Part IX, 
Division of Chemistry, U.S. Department of Agriculture. 



Digitized by 



Googk 



CHAPTER VII 

POTATOES 

The potato is a commonly used vegetable. It is a tuber, 
or underground stem, in which the plant stores a large 
amount of starch, and so is a good source of food. New 
potatoes, if ripe, are more palatable than old potatoes. 
When potatoes are old and begin to sprout, they become 
waxy on cooking and are not so choice. This is due to a 
certain change in composition. The potato is composed of 
water (75 per cent), cellulose, starch, mineral salts, and a 
small amount of protein. We value the potato for its starch 
and the bulkiness of its cellulose. The mineral salts lie 
very close to the skin, and a thick peeling may easily 
remove a large part. Care should be taken not to overcook 
potatoes. They are mealy if properly cooked, but soggy 
if overcooked or not thoroughly drained and dried. 

LABORATORY EXERCISES 

I. Cut a very thin slice through the center of a potato, hold 

up to the light, and observe the structure. Add a drop of 
weak iodine solution and observe again. 

II. Remove skin from a potato and grate about one third of 

the potato. Let this stand two or three minutes on a plate 
which is placed on a slant. What is the bulky portion? 
Pour liquid off from the lower edge. What remains ? 
40 



Digitized by 



Googk 



POTATOES 41 

III. Boil one potato with the skin on, and one potato which has 
been pared. After the water used in cooking the two pota- 
toes has been cooled, test it with iodine. 

Compare the two potatoes as to appearance and flavor. 

IV. Prepare two potatoes of uniform size for baking. Put one 
into the oven 20 minutes after the other. Remove both 
when second potato is properly cooked. 

Compare the properly cooked and the overcooked potato. 
Why are you often directed to pierce skin of baked potato 
when it is done } 

V. Boiled Potatoes 

Select potatoes of uniform size. Clean and pare, or not, as 
desired. Cook in boiling, salted water until easily pierced with 
a fork. Drain off water and shake the pan over the fire until 
potatoes are thoroughly dried. 

VI. Creamed Potatoes 

Use diced boiled potatoes. Prepare a white sauce of the 
desired consistency, and add salt and pepper. Turn the potatoes 
into this, and with as little stirring as possible heat potatoes 
thoroughly. 

VII. Mashed Potatoes 

2 boiled potatoes Salt 

Milk or cream Butter 

Potatoes for mashing should be pared before cooking. Mash 
potatoes, and add butter and salt. Mix thoroughly and add milk, 
beating vigorously. Pile lightly in a hot dish and serve. 

Why is the amount of milk and seasoning not given in this 
direction ? 

VIII. Potatoes au Gratin 

Put a layer of diced, cold boiled potatoes in a baking dish. 
Sprinkle with grated cheese and diced pimentos. Cover with 



Digitized by 



Googk 



42 A STUDY OF FOODS 

white sauce. Repeat until dish is full. Cover with buttered 
crumbs and bake until well browned. 

Buttered crumbs. Melt i T butter in pan, add 4 or 5 T bread 
crumbs, and mix thoroughly. 

IX. Escaloped Potatoes 

Put alternate layers of sliced, hard-cooked eggs and cold, 
boiled potatoes in a greased baking dish. Cover each layer with 
white sauce. Put buttered crumbs on top and bake until brown. 

X. Potato Salad 

Use only potatoes which have been thoroughly cooled after 
coo mg. J ^ diced potatoes i hard-cooked ^g'g 

\q. diced celery Dressing 

THe flavor of the salad may be changed by adding a little 
onion, pimento, or green pepper. A potato salad should be 
carefully and lightly mixed, and not stirred and mashed together 
with a spoon. Enough dressing should be used to coat and 
flavor the whole salad. It is better if it stands at least half an 
hour. Serve on a crisp lettuce leaf. 

GENERAL EXERCISES 

For a family of six compare the cost of a dish of boiled potatoes 
when they cost 90 cents a bushel and when they cost $2.50 a bushel. 

What would be the cost of a dish of boiled rice, hominy, or mush 
for the same family t 

Is one of these a reasonable substitute for one of the others? 

References 

Langworthy. " Potatoes and Other Root Crops as Food," Farmers^ 
Bulletin No. 2g^^ U.S. Department of Agriculture. 

Snyder, Frisby, and Bryant. "Composition and Digestibility of 
Potatoes and Eggs," Bulletin No. 4.3, Office of Experiment Stations, 
U.S. Department of Agriculture. 

Hutchison. Food and Dietetics. 



Digitized by 



Googk 



• CHAPTER VIII 

CEREALS AND CEREAL PRODUCTS 

The cereals, and the preparations from them, furnish 
foods high in starch. Some fruits and vegetables contain 
starch, but in smaller proportions. The potato, a very 
starchy vegetable, is considered in the preceding chapter. 

The cereals — wheat, oats, com, rice, barley, rye, millet, 
and buckwheat — store a large amount of starch in their 
seeds. In some cases these seeds, or grains, are used whole, 
and in others they are crushed, rolled, or ground into meal 
or flour. In addition to starch, which averages 65 per cent 
to 70 per cent, the cereals contain 10 per cent to 1 2 per cent 
each of protein and water, and, with the exception of oats 
and corn, very little fat. The mineral matter in cereals adds 
greatly to their food value. In milling the grains, the outer 
layers and germs of the grain are frequently discarded and 
so the greater part of the ash is lost. The loss of total 
mineral matter in milling may be shown in the case of 
wheat ; the whole grain contains 2 per cent ash, the bran 
about 6 per cent, and the white flour about ^ per cent. 

A list of the so-called breakfast cereals found on the 
market will quickly reveal the fact that there is a large 
number of commercial products made from this group of 
foods. When the cereals are put up in fancy boxes and 
under special names there is an increase in the price not 
always warranted. 

43 



Digitized by LjOOQ IC 



44 A STUDY OF FOODS 

From com, starch is prepared on a commercial scale and 
sold as cornstarch. Corn meal is a staple article of food, 
and hominy is another familiar preparation from corn. 
Wheat in the form of flour for bread and cake is very 
extensively used. Macaroni and spaghetti are pastes made 
of coarsely ground wheat (called semolina) and water. 

While the cereals are high in starch, which is desirable 
for its nutritive value, they also contain the bulky cellulose. 



56-7 8 

Ten Cents' Worth of Eight Well-Known Breakfast Foods 

1, Grape Nuts; 2, Puffed Rice; 3, Shredded Wheat Biscuit; 4, Com Flakes; 
5, Cream of Wheat ; 6, Rice ; 7, Oatmeal ; 8, Com Meal 

which serves its purpose in the body by aiding in peristalsis. 
In cooking cereals, starch and cellulose are to be specially 
considered. For the sake of flavor starch should be thor- 
oughly cooked, reaching the boiling point at some time 
during the process. The cellulose, surrounding the starchy 
grains, must be softened so that the digestive juices may 
more easily penetrate the mass. The greater the amount 
of cellulose and the larger the particles of the grain, the 
longer must the cooking be continued. Cracked or rolled 



Digitized by 



Googk 



CEREALS AND CEREAL PRODUCTS 45 

oats, for instance, are more quickly cooked than the whole 
grain. Rice contains less cellulose along with the starch ; 
consequently it is more quickly cooked. 

The cereals form a large part of the food of people in 
the greater part of the world. They are easily grown and 
stored, and being high in all the nutrients but fat, they 
furnish one of the cheapest sources of food. The corn of 
the American Indian and the oatmeal of the Scotch High- 
lander furnish a much more complete food than the rice 
of the oriental, due to the fact that rice furnishes practically 
no protein or fat The rice-eating people use fish and beans 
to supply fat and protein in their diet. The common custom 
of using butter with bread, eggs and milk with rice is easily 
justified on the ground of composition of wheat and rice. 

LABORATORY EXERCISES 
L Boiled Rice 

\. \q. rice 2 c boiling water 

^t salt 
Wash rice and add to 2C rapidly boiling water in which ^t 
salt has been dissolved. Keep up the rapid boiling until the 
rice is tender, replacing the water lost by evaporation, if needed. 
Turn water and rice into a strainer, drain, and set in the oven 
to dry slightly. 

Note time of cooking ; bulk before and after cooking. 
Continue boiling the water in which rice was cooked until its 
volume is reduced about one half. Explain. 

2. \q, rice f c boiling water 

it salt 
Wash rice, add to boiling salted water, and cook 3 or 4 min- 
utes. Finish cooking in a double boiler and avoid stirring the rice. 
Compare with rice from No. i, as to appearance and flavor. 



Digitized by 



Googk 



46 A STUDY OF FOODS 

Note time of cooking ; bulk before and after cooking. 
When would you use these different methods, and why ? 

II. Escaloped Rice 

Put a layer of cooked rice in a buttered baking dish ; cover 
with a layer of grated cheese and white sauce. Repeat until 
dish is filled. Cover with buttered crumbs and brown in oven. 

Macaroni may be prepared in a similar way. 

III. Rice Pudding 

4C milk ^c sugar 

^c rice ^t salt 

^c seeded raisins, if desired 

Mix ingredients in a baking dish and cook in a very slow 
oven for from 4 to 5 hours. It will be necessary to stir occasion- 
ally to prevent rice and raisins from settling to bottom of dish. 
If raisins are not used, some flavoring should be added. 

Calculate cost of this pudding, and the number of people it 
will serve. 

IV. Boiled Macaroni 

Macaroni Boiling water ^ 

Salt 
Break macaroni into inch lengths and cook in rapidly boiling 
salted water until tender. Drain. 

V. Macaroni with Tomato Sauce 

1 c tomato juice :J-t salt 

2T flour -j^t pepper 

2 T butter J-^t sugar 

I slice onion 

Melt butter ; mix thoroughly with flour. Remove from fire ; 
gradually add tomato juice, stirring constantly. Add seasonings. 
Boil sauce until it thickens and remove onion. 



Digitized by 



Googk 



CEREALS AND CEREAL PRODUCTS 47 

Place alternate layers of boiled macaroni and tomato sauce in 
a buttered baking dish. Cover top with buttered crumbs. Bake 
until the whole is heated through and crumbs are browned. 

Rice may be prepared in a similar way. 

Breakfast Cereals 

In cereals the starch and cellulose are both improved by 
long cooking. A fireless cooker may well be used after the 
cereal has been thoroughly boiled. It is economical because 
it saves the time of watching and the fuel for cooking. An 
undercooked cereal is poor in flavor, and breakfast cereals 
are so frequently undercooked that many people do not 
care for them and will not eat them. 

LABORATORY EXERCISES 

I. Corn Meal Mush 

I c com meal 3 Jc boiling water 

1 1 salt 

Mix com meal with cold water, slowly stir this into tlie 
rapidly boiling water, boil and stir for 5 minutes, cook more 
slowly for 2 to 3 hours. This may be served hot with milk 
or cream and sugar, or it may be molded and used for frying. 
It is nice to use milk in place of part of the water. 

Note increase in bulk of corn meal after cooking. 

II. Fried Mush 

Cut molded mush into §-inch slices. Drop into deep fat and 
cook until golden brown. 

If desired, the slices may be dipped into ^gg and crumbs. 

III. Rolled Oafs 

I c Rolled Oats 2 c water 

^t salt 



Digitized by 



Googk 



48 A STUDY OF FOODS 

Gradually stir oats into boiling salted water. Boil, stirring con- 
stantly, for 5 minutes, then cook at a lower heat for several hours. 

Raisins or dates make a nice addition, but they should be 
cooked with the cereal. 

Note increase in bulk on cooking. 

GENERAL EXERCISES 

In using corn meal for breakfast cereal, what measure would you 
cook for a family of six ? Calculate cost. 

What is the measure and cost for Quaker Oats and Cream of 
Wheat? How much would the addition of raisins or dates increase 
the cost and food value ? 

What is the amount and cost of Shredded Wheat and Corn Flakes 
needed for a family of six ? 

Compare package and bulk cereals as to cost and desirability. 

References 

Wiley. "Cereals and Cereal Products," Bulletin No. /j, Part IX, 

Division of Chemistry, U.S. Department of Agriculture. 
Woods. " Food Value of Com and Corn Products," Farmers* Bulletin 

No,2g8, U.S. Department of Agriculture. 
Woods and Snyder. " Cereal Breakfast Foods," Farmers^ Bulletin 

No. 24g, U.S. Department of Agriculture. 
Knapp. " Rice Culture in the United States," Farmers^ Bulletin No. iio^ 

U.S. Department of Agriculture. 
Knapp. "Course in Cereal Foods and their Preparation," Bulletin 

No. 200^ Office of Experiment Station. 
Knapp. " Breakfast Foods," Bulletin No. 74, Iowa Experiment Station. 
Knapp. ** Composition of Prepared Cereals," Bulletin No.jj^ Wyoming 

Experiment Station. 



Digitized by 



Googk 



n. & DqMitBMBt of Afrisaliun 

Ofltoa of EzpwiBMit StetloH 

iLCTriwiI 



C. F. LAHGVOKTHT 
Izpvt la Chaii* of KoMdM lamHlciitkiM 



G0MP08ITI0N OF FOOD MATERIALS 



Fat OubohydntM Ath Wster 



IfWlTahM 
L Sq.In. EqnaU 
lOOOOUoriM 




Cereal Grains 



49 



Digitized by 



Googk 



U. & Dq»HmwtofA«Tlralt«n 

OAm er KxpOTtaMBt StetloM 

iL 0. Thm: DiiMtor 



C. r. LAHOWOKTHT 
Zzptrt in €hai|« «f VvtrldtB lana^gMat 



GOMPOSITION OF FOOD MATERIALS 

^::^ ZZZ2 ^m ■■ WM^X.^^ 

ft \Oubohj4n»m Aah Wattr ^H i * ~ 



8HELLED BEAN. FRE8H 




NAVY BEAN, DRY 

-<- Water: lS.e 




8TRINQ BEAN, QREEN 

OubobydntM: T.4 




C 



CORN. QREEN 

EDIBLE PORTION 




Fuel H 4C0 oftloriea ^^Fat: LI 

value: ^H par pound 



Legumes and Corn 



50 



Digitized by 



Googk 



CHAPTER IX 
DRIED LEGUMES 

Not many vegetables are dried, but legumes — such as 
beans, peas, lentils, and peanuts — are kept in the dry 
state for use during the whole year. These dried leg- 
umes, naturally, have a very low percentage of water. 
They are high in protein and contain some starch. Pea- 
nuts are high in fat. In some households corn is dried, 
and it makes a very acceptable product. Commercially, 
other vegetables have been dried, but the result is not 
altogether satisfactory. 

The legumes are not only high in food value, but they 
are inexpensive, make a very good substitute for meat, 
and add variety to the diet. The wide use of legumes by 
certain races, and by those engaged in hard labor, such 
as lumbermen, bears evidence to the fact that their food 
value is high. A little care bestowed upon the prepara- 
tion of the legumes will result in very palatable dishes, 
the use of which should be encouraged both from a die- 
tetic and an economic viewpoint. The removal of the 
hulls of beans and peas will frequently prevent the dis- 
comfort which sometimes follows the eating of them. If 
the water used in cooking is very hard, a little soda should 
be added. Time should be allowed for soaking these dried 
foods, and they should be cooked until they are thoroughly 
softened. 

51 



Digitized by 



Googk 



52 A STUDY OF FOODS 

LABORATORY EXERCISES 
I. Baked Beans 

Soak 4C beans overnight in cold water. In the morning add 
fresh cold water and cook slowly until the skins begin to burst. 
Pour off water and put beans into jar. Bury in beans f lb. of 
fat salt pork. To i c boiling water add i T salt, i T molasses, 
3T sugar, and pour over beans. Add enough more boiling 
water to cover beans; replenish, if needed, during cooking. 
Cover the bean jar and bake slowly from 6 to 8 hours. Mustard 
may be added if the flavor is desired. 

Calculate the cost of this dish and the number of people served. 

What is the increase in the bulk of beans on cooking t 



II. Lentil Soup 






4c lentils 


lib. ham 


Salt 


I bay leaf 


I onion 


Pepper 


I carrot 


I T butter 





Soak lentils overnight, drain, cover with cold water, and 
bring to boil ; cook for an hour. Drain again, cover with boil- 
ing water, add \\, soda, ham, bay leaf, onion, and carrot. Cook 
until lentils are tender. Remove ham, press through a colander. 
Season with salt, pepper, and butter. Add cream or milk to 
give desired consistency. 

III. Dried'Pea Soup 

1 c dried peas Small piece of 2 T flour 

2 qt. cold water fat salt pork i^t salt 

4^ onion 3 T butter ^t pepper 

Soak peas several hours or overnight ; drain, add water, pork, 
and onion. Simmer several hours until soft, and run through 
colander or sieve. Melt butter, add flour, and mix. Add to this 
a small portion of the soup, boil, and turn into the soup kettle. 
This use of flour and butter in the making of soup or gravy is 



Digitized by 



Googk 



DRIED LEGUMES 53 

termed " binding," because it holds together all the ingredients 
of the dish. Season with salt and pepper. If soup is too thick, 
add milk or cream. 

IV. Cream of Lima Beans 

Soak ic dried beans overnight, drain, and cook slowly in 
salted water for from 2 to 3 hours. Drain, season with butter, 
pepper, and salt, and add ^^c cream. 

V. Peanut Sandwiches 

Put freshly roasted peanuts through the finest knife on the 
grinder; mix with melted butter or salad dressing and make 
into sandwiches. 

VI. Salted Peanuts 

^T butter or olive oil ^c shelled peanuts Salt 

Shell and remove skins from unroasted peanuts, add them to 
the hot fat in frying pan, and stir constantly until peanuts are a 
light brown. Salt, and cool on brown paper to remove excess 
of fat. 

GENERAL EXERCISES 

Is it desirable to use the fireless cooker in preparing dried 
vegetables ? 

Compare the composition of beans and ]:>eanuts with potatoes. 

Would you serve salted peanuts with a heavy or a light meal ? 

If you were going camping and were allowed small luggage, 
suggest some of the vegetable foods which you probably would take 
and some which you would not. 

References 

Abel. "Beans, Peas, and Other Legumes as Food," Farmers' Bulletin 

No. 121^ U.S. Department of Agriculture. 
Hutchison. Food and Dietetics. 
Beattie. " Syllabus on the Peanut," Farmers^ Institutey Lecture /j, 

Office of Experiment Stations, U.S. Department of Agriculture. 



Digitized by 



Googk 



CHAPTER X 

MILK 

Milk has a large percentage of water, but still contains 
enough of other nutrients to make it a good food. It is 
especially adapted to infants and young children, but is 
desirable for older people, either when taken alone or com- 
bined with other foods. 

Composition of Milk 



Constituents 


Per Cent 


Water : . 


87-88 
3-4 
3-5 

4.5-5 
07 


Protein 


Fat 


Carbohydrate 

Ash 





It will be noted that milk contains the five nutrients, 
or food principles, and this is to be expected when it is 
realized that infants and growing children live on milk 
alone. It is adapted in form and composition to the needs 
of the young, but it is not good as an exclusive food for 
older persons, for the food principles are not in proper 
proportion for the adult. 

Milk is an animal food which contains a carbohydrate. 
This is a sugar and is called lactose. The fat of milk 
occurs in tiny globules (which rise to the top of milk as 
cream), and is separated in the form of butter. The mineral 

54 



Digitized by 



Googk 



MILK 55 

matter of milk is especially adapted to the needs of the 
growing child. The protein of milk is mainly in two 
forms, casein and albumen. As said before, protein is 
the nutrient which builds tissue, and this is absolutely 
necessary for people of all ages, but especially needed for 
the young on account of growth. If milk is taken with 
a meal instead of water, it must be remembered that so 
much extra food is being added to the meal. A glass of 
milk or a bowl of cream soup may well form part of a 
light lunch. The value of skimmed milk as a food is 
not always appreciated. Skimming removes fat only, and 
the rest of the nutrients are left. The price of skimmed 
milk is much less than that of whole milk, and it has 
enough food value to deserve more extended use. 

Certain minute forms, already discussed in Chapter IV, 
as well as similar forms which produce disease, grow very 
readily in milk. Consequently great care must be used in 
producing, handling, and keeping milk. The production 
of clean, wholesome milk involves extra care and means 
additional expense. It is always wise to pay the price of 
good, wholesome milk, particularly if it is used for infants 
or mvalids. The duty of inspecting dairies belongs to city 
boards of health ; and from these boards information con- 
cerning the condition of the milk from any dairy may be 
obtained. The duty of the householder is to know the 
source of the milk supply in the first place, and, in the 
second place, to take proper care of the milk after it is in 
the house. All pails, pans, bottles, and other vessels in 
which milk is kept should be thoroughly washed and scalded 
with boiling water after each use. A milk vessel rinsed with 
boiling water is in better condition if it is not wiped with 



Digitized by 



Googk 



U. 8. Dapartmoitof Arrieuhur* 
A, C. Ttim: Dlnotor 








P«p«edb, 

C. F. LANOWORTHY 

Expert In ChvKe of Nutrition InrMtigirtionB 


COMPOSITION OF 

nil {M^ m^i 

r»ot«la P« CubobjdrfttM 


FOOD 

Aih 


MATERIALS 

WaUr ^1 


1 FuelVniuo 
1 L Sq.In. Equals 
1 lOOOGaloriea 


WHOLE MILK 








SKIM MILK 




Adi: 

1 






Adt: 

6.0 


f iwi Tuuc; 

1 


6.1 


1 

pn pound 








IM onh>ri«a 
p« pound 




BUTTERMILK 






At: 


OREAM 




Fuel Talu«: 






4.8 All 


Fuel Taluo: 


46 


1 

160o»l<iriM 
p« pound 








■ 

880onloriM 
pot pound 





Milk and Milk Products 



56 



Digitized by 



Googk 



MILK 57 

a towel or cloth, for these are not free from bacteria. For 
the same reason, the common custom of rinsing a pan 
in fresh cold water is not a good one. If the condition of 
the milk is doubtful, it is best to pasteurize or boil the milk, 
since heat will kill any disease-producing forms. Boiling 
milk will destroy many organisms present, but it affects 
the flavor of the milk and brings about other undesirable 
changes. In pasteurization the milk is not heated to the 
boiling point, but to a temperature high enough to destroy 
most disease-producing organisms. 

LABORATORY EXERCISES^ 

I. Pasteurization of Milk 

Nearly fill a clean bottle with fresh milk. Cork with a care- 
fully rolled plug of clean cotton. Place the bottle in cold water, 
taking care that the water does not reach the mouth of the bottle. 
Heat slowly until the water reaches a temperature of 60° C. 
Remove from fire, but keep closely covered for 20 minutes. 
Remove from water and cool quickly. Keep in a cool place. 

Why should pasteurized milk be used soon after treating .^ 

II. Effect of Boiling upon Milk 

1 . Boil a portion of sweet milk for i minute. Cool and com- 
pare with pasteurized milk as to taste. 

2. Boil a portion of sour milk for i minute. 

III. Separation of Constituents of Milk 

1. Skim cream from ic of milk. What has been removed 
from the milk ? 

2. To the skimmed milk add vinegar drop by drop until the 
white curd (casein) separates out from the liquid. Strain. What 
nutrient is strained out } 

^ Exercises I, II, and III may be demonstrated by the teacher. 



Digitized by 



Googk 



58 A STUDY OF FOODS 

3. Boil the liquid which has passed through the strainer in 2. 
Strain or filter this through a filter paper. On the filter paper 
is the albumen. What nutrient is this ? 

4. The liquid which has passed through the filter in 3 is the 
water of the milk with some substances dissolved in it What 
are they ? 

IV. Cottage Cheese 

Pour 2 c of hot, but not boiling, water over 2 c of thick, sour 
milk. Strain. If the curd has a sour taste, add water a second 
time. Season with salt, pepper, and cream. 

V. Junket 

Heat to lukewarm ^c milk. Add ^t sugar, a few drops va- 
nilla, and \ junket tablet dissolved in 1 1 warm water. Pour at 
once into a dish. When set, cool and serve. 

VI. Chocolate 

f c heated milk ^T sugar 

\ square bitter chocolate A few grains of salt 

^t cornstarch mixed with 4 or 5 drops of vanilla 
^c cold milk 

Add cornstarch, sugar, and salt to cold milk and heat to boil- 
ing, stirring constantly. Remove from fire, add grated choco- 
late, and mix with f c heated milk. Heat in a double boiler 
from 10 to 15 minutes. Just before serving, add vanilla and 
beat with Dover egg-beater. 

VII. Potato Soup 

3 potatoes i^t salt 

4c milk \\ celery salt 

2 slices onion ^t pepper 

2 T butter A few grains of cayenne 

I T flour I T chopped parsley 



Digitized by 



Googk 



MILK 59 

Cook potatoes in boiling, salted water. When soft, rub through 

a sieve. Scald milk with onion until well seasoned, remove onion, 

and mix milk and potatoes. Bind the mixture with butter and 

flour which have been cooked together. Add seasonings and 

serve. 

GENERAL EXERCISES 

Compare cost of milk per quart from different dealers. What 
causes the difference in price? What is the standing of your milk 
dealer ? 

When should milk be pasteurized ? 

What changes do you observe when sweet milk is heated ; when 
sour milk is heated? 

Why not use boiling water in making cottage cheese ? 

Why do you heat milk in a double boiler ? 

Why not use hot milk in making junket? 

References 

MiLNER. "The Use of Milk as Food," Farmers' Bulletin No.jdSy U.S. 
Department of Agriculture. 

Hutchison. Food and Dietetics. 

Rogers. "Bacteria in Milk," Farmers' Bulletin No. 348^ U.S. Depart- 
ment of Agriculture. 

Whitaker, Rogers, and Hunt. " The Care of Milk and its Uses in the 
Home," Farmers' Bulletin No.4iSy U.S. Department of Agriculture. 

Whitaker. " The Extra Cost of producing Clean Milk," Circular 
No. lyo^ Bureau of Animal Industry. 

Lane. " Medical Milk Commissions and the Production of Certified Milk 
in the United States," Bulletin No. 104^ Bureau of Animal Industry. 

" Milk and its Relation to Public Health," Hygienic Laboratory Bul- 
letin No. ^6. 

Denton. " Pasteurization of City Milk Supplies," TTie Journal of Home 
Economics^ June, 19 10. 



Digitized by 



Googk 



U. 8. Dapartmantof Agrleultun 

Oftoa of Bxperfanmt Statiooi 

A. C. True: Divaotor 



C. F. LANCWORTHT 
Expert In Cbuge of Nutrition InToatigmtlons 



COMPOSITION OF FOOD MATERIALS 

CarbohjdimtM 



I Fuel Value 
L Sq.In. Equals 
1000 Caloriea 



WHOLE EQQ 



EGO 

HITE AND YOLK 



Fuel Talne of whole egi: 



JoalTalikeofyolk 



OoaloriM 
r-pound 



Fuel value of white: 

C 

S45 oaloriea 
per pound 



OREAM CHEESE 



COTTAGE CHEESE 



1886 oaloriea per pouad 




496 oaloriea per pound 



Eggs and Cheese 



6o 



Digitized by 



Googk 



CHAPTER XI 

EGGS 

Eggs are a valuable animal food composed of water, 
protein, fat, and mineral matter, all the substances required 
for the development of the young chick. The percentage of 
water is less than in milk, the protein is greater, and there 
is no carbohydrate. Albumen is found in the white and 
yolk of egg, as well as in milk, but other forms of protein 
occur in eggs. The yolk contains the fat and a large part 
of the mineral matter. Eggs are a good substitute for meat 
because of their protein. The shell of the egg, contrary to 
popular notion, is porous, and consequently will permit 
the entrance of disease and other putrefactive germs. 
Dirty nests may be dangerous, and if eggs are packed, 
clean material should be used. Eggs should be kept clean 
rather than washed, for they have a slight covering which 
is some protection against infection as well as against 
evaporation. As an egg grows older, water evaporates 
through the porous shell and the egg weighs less. This 
fact is made use of in testing the freshness of eggs. When 
they are put into water or a salt solution, the fresh or heavy 
ones stay at the bottom and the lighter ones come to the 
top. The white of egg on beating entangles a large amount 
of air, and this is an aid in making light desserts, omelets, 
and cakes. Albumen coagulates on heating, and this makes 
egg a thickening agent for custards and sauces. Care must 

6i 



Digitized by 



Googk 



62 A STUDY OF FOODS 

be taken not to overcook albumen ; if in combination with 
a liquid, it will first thicken the liquid, but on continued 
heating it will separate, as the protein of milk does in 
making cottage cheese. If albumen is heated slightly it 
becomes jellylike, and on continued heating it grows very 
hard and tough. 

LABORATORY EXERCISES^ 

I. Manipulation, 

1. Separate the white and yolk of an tgg. Beat each thor- 
oughly with a wire egg-beater. Note difference in results. Let 
both stand 30 minutes. Observe occasionally, but do not disturb. 
If eggs are used as leaveners, when should they be beaten } 

2. Beat whole ^gg thoroughly. Compare i and 2. What ef- 
fect does the presence of the yolk have on the beating of the 
white ? What is the purpose in the beating of eggs ? 

II. Effect of Heat upon Eggs. 

1. Place 3 eggs in 3 pints of boiling water. Remove from 
flame, cover closely, and keep warm. Test i egg in 5 minutes, 
another in 7, and the third in 10. 

2. Cover I t,gg with boiling water. Boil for 3 minutes. Re- 
move and test. 

3. Cover I egg with boiling water and boil for 20 minutes. 
What factors would have any effect on comparable results in 

the above experiments ? 

III. Poached Eggs. 

Place I c water in small frying pan. Bring to boil, add \ t salt. 
Break an egg into a saucer and carefully slip it into a buttered 
muffin ring placed in the bottom of the frying pan. The water 
should cover the ^gg. Place the pan where the water cannot 

1 Exercises I and II may be demonstrated by the teacher. 



Digitized by 



Googk 



EGGS 63 

boil, let stand until a white film has formed over the top of the 
egg and the white is firm (about 6 minutes). With a skimmer 
remove the egg and muffin ring to a piece of buttered toast and 
carefully lift off the ring. Season with butter, salt, and pepper. 

IV. Ome/et. 

I egg I T water 

J t salt Pepper 

I t butter 
Separate white and yolk of egg. Beat yolk until thick, add 
salt, pepper, and water, and mix well. Beat white until stiff but 
not dry. Fold the white carefully into the yolk. Melt the but- 
ter in an omelet pan, add the egg, and cook at a low tempera- 
ture. Place in a hot oven to dry the top. Fold and turn onto 
a hot platter. 

When should the oven be lighted ? 

When should the white of egg be beaten ? 

Would a preparation of yolks of eggs alone be light ? 

V. Baked Custard 

I c milk 2 T sugar 

I egg A few grains of salt 

Flavoring 
Do not beat egg, but mix thoroughly with milk, sugar, and 
salt. Add milk and flavoring and pour into a custard cup. Set 
cup in a pan of warm water and place in oven. 
Why is the cup set in a pan of water ? 

VI. Sqft Custard. 

I c scalded milk Few grains salt 

1 egg Vanilla 

2 T sugar 

Beat egg slightly and add sugar and salt ; stir constantly while 
gradually adding the hot milk. Cook in a double boiler; continue 



Digitized by 



Googk 



64 A STUDY OF FOODS 

stirring until mixture thickens and a coating is formed on the 
spoon. Chill, and flavor with vanilla. If cooked too long the 
custard will curdle ; if this should happen, remove immediately 
from the fire and whip with a Dover egg-beater. 

GENERAL EXERCISES 

From observations on Exercise II, how should a soft-cooked egg 
be prepared ? 

For a family of six, calculate the cost of a serving of soft-cooked 
eggs when eggs are 20 cents a dozen ; 45 cents a dozen. 

Repeat cost calculation for omelet. 

Why are eggs beaten in making the omelet, and not beaten in 
making the custard ? 

References 

Langworthy. " Eggs and their Uses as Food," Farmers^ Bulletin 

No. 128, U.S. Department of Agriculture. 
Hutchison. Food and Dietetics. 
Hammersten. Physiological Chemistry. 
Leach. Food Inspection and Analysis. 
Lamson. " Water Glass a Preservative for Eggs," Bulletin No. 67, 

Connecticut Experiment Station. 
Lamson. " Infection and Preservation of Eggs," Bulletin No. 55, 

Connecticut Experiment Station. 



Digitized by 



Googk 



CHAPTER XII 

CHEESE 

Cheese is a food prepared from milk, but differs greatly 
from milk in composition. At least half of the water is re- 
moved from milk in the making of cheese. There is a great 
variety of cheeses, due to the kind of milk used and the 
methods of making and ripening. Ordinarily cow's milk is 
used, and the curd is separated by use of either acid or rennet. 
Where a large part of the water is removed, a hard cheese 
results, such as the ordinary American cheeses. The Neuf- 
chitel is an example of a soft or cream cheese. The flavor 
of cheese is produced during the ripening process by the ac- 
tion of bacteria or molds. The familiar American or Cheddar 
cheese is ripened by bacterial action ; Roquefort, by molds. 

Cheese varies greatly both in kind and composition, but, 
generally speaking, it is approximately one third each of 
water, fat, and protein. Cheese contains practically no car- 
bohydrate, and the custom of eating it with crackers, or com- 
bining with rice, macaroni, or potatoes, is rational. Cheese 
is frequently called indigestible, but the reason for this is usu- 
ally due to improper use. It is a highly concentrated food, 
consequently should not be eaten in very large quantities 
or added to the dessert at the end of a heavy meal. Cheese 
is frequently eaten for its flavor, but its food value should 
always be recognized when it becomes a part of the meal. A 
very desirable way of serving cheese is in combination with 
other foods, thus affording a large variety of cooked dishes. 

65 



Digitized by 



Googk 



66 A STUDY OF FOODS 

LABORATORY EXERCISES 

I. Effect of Heat upon Cheese 

Add 2T grated cheese to ^c milk. Heat to boiling. Note 
results. Explain. 

II. Welsh Rabbit 

2 T flour 2 T butter 

I c milk 4-6 T cheese 

I egg yolk 

Prepare a white sauce with flour, butter, and milk. Add 
cheese (finely divided) and ^gg yolk. Remove from fire, and stir 
until cheese is melted ; reheat, and serve at once on hot wafers 
or toast. 

III. French Rabbit 

Fill a baking dish with alternate layers of bread (which has 
been sliced, spread with butter, and cut into small squares) and 
cheese either grated or ground. Moisten this thoroughly with 
a mixture made in the following proportions : 

I c milk Salt 

I Qgg Cayenne pepper and mustard 

Bake until thoroughly heated through and browned on top. 

IV. Cheese Crackers 

Sprinkle grated cheese thinly over crackers. Season with 
salt and cayenne pepper. Place in the oven until crackers are 
slightiy browned. 

V. Cheese and Pimento Sandwiches 

|-c cheese 2 T cream or salad dressing 

Jc chopped pimento Salt and pepper 
Cottage, Neufchatel, or any other soft cheese may be used. 
Cream the butter and spread very thin slices of bread. Spread 



Digitized by 



Googk 



CHEESE (>7 

the filling on the slices of bread and pile in layers of from six to 
eight slices, having a piece of plain bread on top. When ready 
to serve, cut through the slices, making a layer sandwich. 

GENERAL EXERCISES 

Which one of the food principles in cheese is most affected 

by heat? 

For a family of six, what is the cost of a serving of Welsh rabbit "t 
Note cost, flavor, and appearance of at least five different kinds 

of cheese. 

References 

Langworthy and Hunt. "Cheese and its Economical Use in the 
Diet," Farmers' Bulletin No. 487^ U.S. Department of Agriculture. 
Hutchison. Food and Dietetics. 
Conn. Dairy Bacteriology. 
Wiley. Foods and their Adulteration. 
Leach. Food Inspection and Analysis. 
Alvord. Cheese Making on the Farm, Farmers* Bulletin No. i66y 

U.S. Department of Agriculture. 
Williams. Chemistry of Cookery. 



Digitized by 



Googk 



CHAPTER XIII 

MEAT 

The flesh of cattle, swine, and sheep furnish our common 
meats. Beef is from cattle, veal from calves, mutton from 
sheep, and lamb from the young sheep. Meat, milk, cheese, 
and eggs are the chief sources of protein. Protein from 
animal sources is expensive, and vegetable protein should 
be frequently used as a substitute. 

Meat contains water, protein, fat, and mineral matter. 
The amount of water varies with the fat, which occurs in 
layers and also through the lean of the meat in portions so 
finely divided as not to be visible. The mineral content of 
meat is important from a dietetic viewpoint. Meat contains 
a group of substances called extractives. These are not 
nutrients, but they give to the meat its desirable flavor and 
consequently they should be considered in cooking meat. 
These extractives are soluble in water and may be quickly re- 
moved by hot water. They vary in kind and amount in dif- 
ferent meats, and these, together with the fat, give each meat 
its characteristic flavor. As a muscle is used, the amount 
of extractives increases, consequently the highest flavored 
is very often the most used and the toughest. For example, 
a round steak is more highly flavored than a tenderloin. 

Meat, or muscle, is made up of bundles of fibers bound 
together with connective tissue. Each of these bundles is 
made up of smaller bundles, the fibers being microscopic. 

68 



Digitized by 



Googk 



MEAT 69 

These little fibers are elongated cells filled with a fluid 
called protein. There are several proteins in meat, and 
some are soluble in cold water. Protein forms from 15 
to 20 per cent of the meat. As a muscle is used the walls 
of the fibers thicken and harden, and the connective tissue 
increases in amount, so making a tough piece of meat. 



12 34 

Bottles showing Average Composition of One Pound of Beef 

I, mineral salt, .16 oz. ; 2, fat, 2.08 oz. ; 3, protein, 3.04 oz. ; 4, water, 10.72 oz. 

The cuts of meat may be roughly divided into two classes, 
tough and tender. The toughness may be due to the amount 
and kind of connective tissue, or to the fact that the desir- 
able changes which follow slaughtering have not taken place. 
The connective tissue increases in amount and toughness 
with age and hard work. For this reason, veal is more 
tender than beef ; the porterhouse steak cut out from the 
back where the muscles are little used is more tender than 
the round cut from the leg where the muscles are in con- 
stant use. The best beef-producing cattle have certain 



Digitized by 



Googk 



70 A STUDY OF FOODS 

characteristics — wide back, thick flesh covering, short legs, 
etc. — and animals of this type that have been well fed 
produce first-grade meat. This, of course, is more tender 
and of a better flavor than that from lower-grade cattle. 
The fat should be evenly distributed through the meat; 
this means less waste, and in cooking bastes all parts much 
more effectively. 

Meats undergo marked changes in texture after slaughter- 
ing. Immediately after the animal is killed the flesh is juicy 
and tender ; very soon the death rigor develops, the muscles 
stiffen, and the meat is tough. Later on, due partly, at least, 
to the formation of acids, the flesh becomes softer and more 
tender, as in the first stage, and acquires an added flavor. 
In hot climates the meat is commonly eaten in the first or 
the second stage ; in temperate climates, in the second and 
the third, and, of course, is much more palatable and tender 
if left until the third stage. 

The effect of heat upon protein has already been shown 
with milk, eggs, and cheese, and the same general principles 
hold for cooking the protein in meat. The purposes of 
cooking meat are to develop flavor, improve appearance, 
kill any living organisms, and soften the connective tissues 
if they are present in large amounts. Since proteins are 
coagulated and hardened by heat, it is probably true that 
cooking diminishes ease of digestion, and it may remove 
considerable quantities of nutrients. The effect on con- 
nective tissue depends on whether dry or moist heat is 
applied. If the soft part, or the contents of the fibers, is 
scraped out and the remaining connective tissue placed in a 
smoking hot frying pan, the effect of dry heat can easily 
be seen. The tissue shrinks and hardens to a remarkable 



Digitized by 



Googk 



MEAT 71 

degree, illustrating what happens when a tough cut, such 
as round, is broiled or roasted. If a similar piece were 
placed in water and simmered for a long time, the fibers 
would fall apart, and when the broth was cooled it would 
set more or less solidly. This is due to the fact that the 
moist heat has acted on the connective tissue, forming 
gelatin, which dissolves easily in the hot liquid and stiffens 
on cooling. The extractives, or flavoring materials in the 
meat, are dissolved out in hot water. The flavor is much 
more highly developed in meat cooked by dry heat, because 
of the higher temperature and also because of the browned 
outside. So we prefer the broiled steak or the roast if the 
meat is a tender cut. 

Beef is divided by the butcher through the backbone 
into sides or halves, and then each of these is cut between 
the twelfth and thirteenth ribs into fore and hind quarters. 
The muscles of the four quarter run irregularly and there 
are more of them, so that the meat is usually of a lower 
grade and, therefore, cheaper than that from the hind 
quarter. The most tender and the most expensive cuts lie 
just back of the middle of the backbone, decreasing in 
value as either extremity is approached. The best part of 
the fore quarter is taken from the ribs and is usually cut 
into roasts. A rib roast is tender and may be roasted in 
an open pan with dry heat. The fore quarter includes the 
chuck, neck, etc., and belongs to the tough cuts, so they 
must either be ground .or cooked by moist heat, as in pot 
roasts, stewing, braising, corning, or in soup. These cuts 
are fully as nutritious as the more expensive ones, and if 
properly cooked at low temperatures and well seasoned, 
they offer an excellent means of reducing the cost of food. 



Digitized by 



Googk 



72 A STUDY OF FOODS 

The most expensive and tender cut comes from the 
short ribs in front of the hips, and is known as the porter- 
house cut. This cut is made up partly of the muscle called 
the tenderloin and partly of the sirloin. Where the 
tenderloin muscle ends, the loin cuts begin, and extend 
back to the rump cut. These are not so tender as porter- 
house, but still are classed as tender cuts, and, therefore, 
are suitable for broiling. The rump piece is ordinarily cut 
into roasts, but usually needs the application of some moist 
heat to make the meat tender, and for this reason they are 
used as pot roasts. Below the rump lies the round, a piece 
of meat that has little waste and good flavor. The inside, 
or top, round from a first-grade animal makes a fairly tender 
steak when broiled ; the outside, or bottom, round is less 
desirable, and unless one is sure of the grade of the beef, 
moist heat or grinding is usually advisable. 

In estimating the relative cost of the various cuts, the 
amount of waste must be taken into consideration ; for 
example, chuck ribs ordinarily sell for from lo to \2\ 
cents per pound, round from 1 5 to 1 8 cents per pound, and 
porterhouse from 25 to 30 cents per pound. Of the chuck 
ribs at least one half is waste ; of the round only about 
one twelfth ; and of the porterhouse about one eighth. 
The real cost of the edible portions then of the three 
cuts mentioned at 10, 15, and 25 cents per pound, re- 
spectively, would be 22, 16I-, and 281^ cents, showing that 
the round because of its small percentage of waste is by 
far the cheapest. 

As has already been said, protein is coagulated and hard- 
ened by heat. The higher the temperature, the harder and 
tougher the product. Therefore we use a high temperature 



Digitized by 



Googk 



MEAT 73 

only at the beginning of the cooking process to form a 
coating over the outside which will retain the juices, and 
then lower the heat so that the interior may not be tough- 
ened and its juices coagulated. For this reason steaks 
should not be cut too thin ; never less than three quarters 
of an inch thick, and thicker than that is desirable. 

The methods of cooking meat by application of dry 
heat are broiling, pan broiling, oven roasting in an un- 
covered pan, or roasting before an open fire. The steak 
may be broiled under gas or over glowing coals, and if 
properly done will be well browned on the outside and juicy 
and pink on the inside. A steak that is gray all through 
will not be juicy, because the proteins dissolved in the juices 
have all been hardened by the heat. The steak should be 
first seared on either side to retain the juice, then moved 
farther from the flame so that the interior will not be over- 
cooked. Frequently it is more convenient to broil in frying 
pan or skillet. In this case the pan should be smoking hot 
and may be rubbed lightly with a bit of fat to prevent stick- 
ing. As soon as the meat is browned on either side, the 
heat should be reduced as in ordinary broiling. If fat col- 
lects in the pan, it should be poured off, otherwise the meat 
will be fried rather than broiled and will lose in flavor. 

A number of experiments in the roasting of meat were 
carried on at the University of Illinois, and it was found 
that for a tender cut the closed pan did not give as satisfac- 
tory results, as far as flavor and appearance were concerned, 
and the losses were greater than where an open pan was 
used. The same principle of high heat at first for searing 
and then a lower heat to finish the cooking applies here 
also. If the fat side is placed uppermost in the pan, 



Digitized by 



Googk 



74 A STUDY OF FOODS 

basting will not be found necessary. If the roast is lack- 
ing in fat, lay a piece of suet on the uppermost side. 

The methods of cooking meat by the application of 
moist heat are stewing, braising, steaming, etc. By brown- 
ing the meat first, a good flavor is produced and probably 
more of the juices are retained. In stewing, the meat is 
cut into smaller pieces and is served with the broth or gravy 
so that none of the flavor and nutritive material will be 
lost. In braising, the meat is placed in a covered pan in 
the oven and steamed in its own juice. A pot roast is 
similar, except that it is cooked in a kettle on top of the 
stove. A small amount of water is usually added in both 
cases, and the meat may be floured and browned in 
smoking fat before the water is added. The temperature 
after the browning process is finished must be low. This 
method may be used with steaks also, browning thoroughly, 
then adding a small amount of water, covering closely, 
and cooking for a long time over a very slow fire. 

Unless the broth is served with the meat, quite a little 
of the nutritive and flavoring material may be lost, since 
the extractives, mineral matter, and some of the protein 
will dissolve in water. The scum which covers the sur- 
face of broth is mostly made up of the dissolved protein 
which has been hardened by heat, as are also the set- 
tlings. In a clear broth this scum and any solid particles 
are usually carefully removed before serving, so that there 
is little left in the broth but some mineral salts and the 
extractives. 

The strong meaty flavor deceives many people who 
imagine that because of it the broth is nourishing. These 
extractives are allied to the stimulating substances found in 



Digitized by 



Googk 



MEAT 75 

tea and coffee, and therefore the broth has some value as a 
stimulant, often whetting the appetite, but in cases of severe 
illness it should not be given unless ordered by a physician. 
It is commonly thought that the most expensive cuts of meat 
have the best flavor, but it is frequently true that the extrac- 
tives are better developed in the muscles which have been 
used more, and are in consequence tougher. The use of dry 
heat, which is possible only with the more tender cuts, 
does tend to develop flavor, and because of the ease of 
mastication the flavor is more easily detected in the tender 
cuts. While the extractives are not nutritious, their value 
as digestive stimulants must not be underrated. 

Good meat is bright red in color and has fat evenly 
distributed through it. The fat should be light yellow and 
firm. The price of meat is regulated by its tenderness 
rather than by its nutritive value. The tougher cuts require 
more skill in preparation, more time, and more fuel, al- 
though usually the cost of the extra fuel does not equal 
the extra cost of the tender meat. 

LABORATORY EXERCISES 

I. Effect of Dry Heat upon Protein 

From a three-inch square of round steak scrape out the soft 
portion with a dull knife. Form this into a ball. Place the soft 
ball, and the connective tissue from which it has been scraped, 
in a hot frying pan. Carefully watch the connective tissue while 
heating. Examine both after cooking and explain results. 

II. Effect of Moist Heat upon Protein 

Soak I T ground beef in 2 T cold water for several minutes. 
Strain and place in a test tube. 



Digitized by 



Googk 



^6 A STUDY OF FOODS 

Mix 1 1 white of egg with 2 T cold water and place in a test tube. 
Heat both test tubes. Explain results. 

III. Tender Cuts 

1. Pan-broiled porterhouse steak or chops. Note weight as 
purchased. Weigh all edible portions and calculate the cost. 
Wipe with a damp cloth and trim off ragged edges and excess 
of fat. Put into a smoking hot frying pan without any grease. 
Turn several times until both surfaces are seared and brown. 
Finish cooking at a lower heat, turning occasionally. Salt sides 
of meat just as the cooking is finished. Serve on a hot dish. 

2. Beef roast (ribs). Calculate cost of the edible portion as 
in exercise III. See that the meat selected is clean. Trim off any 
ragged portions, but do not remove fat. Place a rack in the pan, 
arranging to have the larger cut surface exposed to the direct 
heat of the oven. The part with the greatest surface of fat should 
be placed uppermost, to do away with the necessity of basting. 
Place in a very hot oven, maintaining this heat for 15 or 20 
minutes, after which the heat should be lowered and the roast- 
ing continued, allowing from i^ to 20 minutes for each pound, 
according to the shape of the cut and the degree of cooking 
desired. Remove roast to a hot platter and pour hot fat from 
pan. Make gravy in pan in which roast is cooked. Measure 
flour and fat in the proportion of 2T of each to ic water. 
Thoroughly mix and brown fat and flour. Remove from fire 
and gradually add the water, stirring constantly. Boil, season, 
and serve hot. 

IV. Tough Cuts 

I. Pressed veal. Cook a shank of veal until very tender, so 
that meat can be easily picked to pieces. Let the water cook 
down until about i c of the liquid remains. Pick the veal apart, 
season with salt, pepper, and sage if desired. Pour over this 
the liquid from the vessel in which the meat was cooked. Mix 



Digitized by 



Googk 



MEAT 77 

thoroughly and pack closely in a pan of proper shape to make 
good slices when the meat is cold. When set, cut in thin slices 
and serve. 

Hard-cooked eggs may be packed into center of mold. 

2. Swiss steak. Pound a liberal quantity of flour into a piece 
of round steak on both sides. Season well and saute in very 
hot suet drippings until a good brown crust is formed. Then 
add sufficient water to barely cover, and simmer slowly for 
from 1 to i^ hours. It may be necessary to add a little water 
occasionally. When ready to serve there should be just enough 
liquid to moisten the meat thoroughly. Onion or tomato juice 
may be added to vary the flavor. Calculate cost of edible portion 
as in exercise III. 

3. Brown stew. Cut lean beef into cubes ; neck beef will be 
found quite satisfactory for this. Season each piece with salt 
and pepper ; dredge thoroughly with flour and brown well on all 
sides in a frying pan, using a little suet to prevent sticking and 
to give necessary fat. Add sufficient water to cover meat, and 
when this has boiled up once, turn into a double boiler and cook 
for 3 hours. Diced vegetables may be added, toward the end of 
the cooking, if the flavor is desired. If gravy is thin, pour off 
and thicken. 

4. Pot roast. Use a cut from the round, the rump, or the 
shoulder. Season with salt and pepper and dredge with flour ; 
then brown entire surface in pork fat or suet. Add a little boil- 
ing water, cover closely, and cook slowly for several hours 
(4 hours is not too long for a 4- or 5 -pound roast). Vegetables 
may be added if desired. Less water may be added and the 
meat cooked in the oven. The water around meat in either 
case should be kept below the boiling point. Why ? 

The liquor around this meat makes an excellent foundation 
for gravy. 



Digitized by 



Googk 



78 A STUDY OF FOODS 

Meat Substitutes 

By a meat substitute is meant a dish which contains 
enough protein so that it can reasonably take the place 
of meat at a meal. Meat substitutes may be found from 
both vegetable and animal sources, but the former are 
cheaper. 

List the dishes suggested in this book which might 
serve as meat substitutes. Discuss the comparative cost 
and food value. Suggest other substitutes. 

Materials, such as rice, potatoes, dumplings, and maca- 
roni, are frequently cooked with meat, thereby gaining its 
flavor and lessening the amount of meat eaten. These 
are called meat extenders, and their use helps to reduce 
the cost of food. These extenders are useful when a 
small quantity of meat is on hand. 

Meat Left-overs 

Portions of meat left over are too frequently thrown away, 
or so poorly prepared that they might as well have been 
thrown away. The use of left-overs requires some skill 
and care, but throwing them away is extravagance. More 
thought about quantities purchased would frequently result 
in no left-over portions. In preparing left-overs the result 
should always justify the extra materials added, the time, 
and the fuel used in preparation. In the second cooking 
of meat it must be remembered that little cooking should 
be done, or the meat will be dried and unappetizing. Extra 
flavorings are usually added, for the original flavor of the 
meat is lost. 



Digitized by 



Googk 



MEAT 79 

LABORATORY EXERCISES 

I. Minced Meat 

Chop or grind cold meat, heat with some of the gravy, and 
season with celery salt or onion juice. Serve on buttered toast. 

II. Escaloped Meat 

Put into a baking dish alternate layers of macaroni or rice, 
and chopped or ground meat. Pour over it brown gravy or 
tomato sauce. Cover with buttered crumbs and bake until dish 
is heated through and crumbs are brown. 

III. Browned Hash 

Mix together equal parts of chopped meat and chopped cold 
boiled potatoes. Moisten slightly with gravy or stock. Season 
and place in heated frying pan containing a little fat. Press 
compactiy into one half of the pan ; heat slowly until brown. 
Turn onto a platter and serve with tomato sauce. 

IV. Beef Croquettes 

I c cold beef (ground) A few drops Worcestershire 

Salt and pepper sauce 

I T melted butter Enough gravy or meat 

I or 2 1 onion juice stock to moisten well 

Add ingredients to meat, shape, roll in flour, ^^^ and crumbs. 
Fry in deep fat and serve with tomato sauce. 

V. Meat Salad 

Left-over portions of veal, chicken, or ham may be mixed 
with celery or cabbage and dressed with salad dressing. 

GENERAL EXERCISES 

List the market prices of the common cuts of meat. 
For a family of six, calculate cost of a porterhouse and a Swiss steak. 
With the cost of the serving of meat just calculated, compare the 
cost of a serving of eggs at 20 cents a dozen ; at 45 cents a dozen. 



Digitized by 



Googk 



8o A STUDY OF FOODS 

For a family of six, calculate the cost of a rib roast and a pot 
(rump) roast. 

In which of the above illustrations would a fireless cooker be 
useful ? 

What makes the pressed veal " set," after the liquid is poured 
over the meat? 

Do you think that the usual objection to tougher and cheaper 
cuts of meat is well founded? 

References 

Woods. " Meats, Composition, and Cooking," Farmers^ Bulletin No. j^, 
U.S. Department of Agriculture. 

Langworthy and Hunt. " Economical Use of Meat in the Home," 
Farmers^ Bulletin No.jgi, U.S. Department of Agriculture. 

Grindley. " Experiments on Losses in Cooking Meat," Bulletin 
No. io2y Experiment Stations, U.S. Department of Agriculture. 

Grindley and Mojonnier. " Losses in Cooking Meat," Bulletin 
N^o. 141, Experiment Stations, U.S. Department of Agriculture. 

Grindley. " Studies of Effect of Different Methods of Cooking upon 
Ease and Thoroughness of Digestion," Bulletin No. igj^ Experi- 
ment Stations, U.S. Department of Agriculture. 

Boss. " Meat on the Farm, Butchering, Curing, and Keeping," Farmers^ 
Bulletin No:i8jy U.S. Department of Agriculture. 

Melvin. "The Federal Meat Inspection Service, Bureau of Animal 
Industry," Circular No. i2^y U.S. Department of Agriculture. 

Bevier and Sprague. " Roasting of Beef," Circular No. 7/, Illinois 
Experiment Station. 

Hall. " Market Classes and Grades of Meat," Bulletin No. 7^7, Illinois 
Experiment Station. 

Hutchison. Food and Dietetics. 

Terrell. Household Management. 

Hall and Emmett. " Relative Economy, Composition, and Nutritive 
Value of the Various Cuts of Beef," Bulletin No. ij8, Illinois Ex- 
periment Station. 



Digitized by 



Googk 



CHAPTER XIV 

FISH AND OYSTERS 

The flesh of fish resembles the flesh of other animals 
in composition. The muscle fibers are shorter, coarser, 
and are bound with much less connective tissue. Generally 
speaking, fish contains more water than meat and much 
less fat. A few of the commonly eaten fish, such as sal- 
mon, contain fat in greater quantity, but these do not con- 
tain more than half of the quantity found in a piece of 
moderately fat beef. The flavor of fish is very character- 
istic, and its use affords variety to the diet. The flavor of 
freshly caught fish is far superior to that which has been 
kept even a short time. Unlike meat, fish should not be 
kept, but used immediately. Fish lends itself to various 
methods of preparation, and is good in combination with 
other things. The all-too-frequent habit of frying fish has 
possibly led to its disfavor with many people. In selecting 
fish on the market, choose only those with firm flesh and 
bright eyes. Fish spoils very quickly on removal from 
cold storage. 

Oysters are another form of sea food very commonly 
used. These are valued for their flavor rather than for 
their nutritive value. They have approximately the same 
composition as milk, and cost from five to ten times as 
much as milk. Some danger attends the eating of raw 
oysters, due to the fact that they are sometimes fattened 

8i 



Digitized by 



Googk 



A. a Ttm: DliMtor 






Pnpand by 

C. F. LANOWOUTHY 

Xzptrt la Chu«« of Natrltlon larMtlfiktlonf 


COMPOSITION 


OF FOOD MATERIALS 


nnnnnii fws^ 

Prauin Fat 


V////A ^ 

CwbohjrdntM Aih 


Wttter 


I^H Fte«lV«lM 
^■L8q.Iii. Equals 
^H lOOOCaloriM 


ooo 


klm: 
loriw 

NUMl 

1 


OYSTER 


E 

400MIOI 
pwpoai 

1 
7^ YtXxV. 


SALT OOO 
MACKEREL 

FAT FISH 


SMOKED HERRING 


IrtlM: 

■1 


Fml «^m: 

C 

SaOoalorlM 
fMrpooiid 


Wat 
Pntrfn: 
FMlTthw; 




FM: 


■ 
oaoriw 

pOODd 




1. 

«SO<»lortM 
pvpomid 


1 
.8 













Fish, Fish Products, and Oysters 



82 



Digitized by 



Googk 



FISH AND OYSTERS 83 

in sewage-polluted water. The laws for food inspection 
have done a great deal to correct this evil, but outbreaks 
of typhoid fever have been traced to the eating of raw 
oysters. 

LABORATORY EXERCISES 

I. Boiled Ftsh 

To each quart of water in which fish is to be cooked add 1 1 
salt and 1 1 vinegar. Small fish should be cooked whole. For 
preserving the shape and appearance of the fish it is desirable 
to wrap it in a piece of cheesecloth, which is also an aid in 
handling the fish. A wire basket is convenient for cooking fish 
in water. Put the fish into the boiling water and cook at the 
simmering point until the bones and flesh will readily separate. 
Drain water from the fish ; bone, and serve with suitable sauce. 

II. Baked Fish 

Clean fish ; the head and tail may or may not be removed. 
The fish may or may not be boned. Rub inside and out with 
salt and pepper. Fill the cavity with stuffing, allowing it room 
to swell slightly. Sew the slit over with strong thread, taking 
stitches so deep that they will not tear out. Brush over with 
melted butter and dredge with flour. If the fish is lean, lay 
strips of fat pork over it. A little water should be added to the 
pan. Bake from 40 to 60 minutes, basting occasionally. When 
done, remove strings and strips of bacon. 

Garnish with lemon and parsley and serve with a suitable sauce. 

III. Fish Stuffing 

I c bread crumbs A few drops of onion juice 
ic melted butter 1 1 chopped parsley 

J t salt ^t pepper 

I I chopped cucumber pickle, if desired 

This is a dry dressing. If a moist dressing is desired, water 
or meat stock may be added. 



Digitized by 



Googk 



84 A STUDY OF FOODS 

IV. Sauces 

1 . Maitre-d^ hotel butter 

\q butter ^t pepper 

\ t salt I T chopped parsley 

I T lemon juice 

Cream butter in a bowl ; add salt, pepper, parsley, and then 
slowly, lemon juice. 

2. Drawn-butter sauce 

\q, butter i^c hot water 

3T flour Salt and pepper 

Melt ^ the butter, add flour and seasonings, and pour hot 
water on gradually. Cook thoroughly and add remaining but- 
ter cut into small pieces. May be served with broiled or baked 
fish. In the latter case, add i^T lemon juice or vinegar. 

3. Tartar sauce 

iT vinegar \\. salt 

1 1 lemon juice i T Worcestershire 

■J-c butter sauce 

Mix vinegar, lemon juice, salt, and Worcestershire sauce, and 
heat over hot water. Brown butter and strain into mixture. 

V. Escaloped Salmon 

1 c flaked salmon i c white sauce 

Remove salmon from can, separate skin and bone, and flake 
the salmon. Put alternate layers of fish and white sauce in a 
buttered baking dish, cover with buttered crumbs, and heat in 
oven until brown. 

VI. Codfish Balls 

\q, salted cod ^c potatoes 

\ egg White pepper 

\\. butter Salt, if needed 



Digitized by 



Googk 



FISH AND OYSTERS 85 

Wash the fish in cold water and break into small pieces. 
Wash and pare the potatoes and cut into pieces. Cook the fish 
and potatoes together in boiling water until the potatoes are 
soft. Drain, shake over the fire until dry, mash with a fork, 
add the beaten egg, butter, pepper, salt if needed, and beat 
until light. Take up by spoonfuls, mold slightly, and cook in 
deep fat. Or shape into croquettes, roll in egg and crumbs, 
and fry in deep fat. 

VII. Creamed Oysters 

1 c oysters 3 T butter 
Pepper 3T flour 
Salt . I c milk 

Set oysters to drain. Make a thick white sauce of the other 
ingredients, add the oysters just before time to serve, and cook 
only long enough to heat them thoroughly. The oysters should 
be plump when served — not heated until they shrink. 

Fish Left-overs 

VIII. Escaloped Fish 

2 c cold flaked fish Bit of bay leaf 
I c white sauce i slice onion 

I c milk Salt and pepper 

Few sprigs parsley \q, buttered crumbs 

Heat milk with parsley, bay leaf, and onion until well sea- 
soned, and make into white sauce. Arrange fish and white sauce 
in a buttered baking dish in alternate layers, cover with buttered 
crumbs, and brown in hot oven. 

IX. Fish Croquettes 

Moisten i c cold flaked fish with a thick white sauce. Cool 
and shape into croquettes ; roll in flour, then in Qgg and in 
crumbs, and fry in deep fat. Cold hard-cooked eggs or parsley ' 
may be cut up and added to the croquette mixture. 



Digitized by 



Googk 



86 A STUDY OF FOODS 

X. Creamed Fish 

I c cold flaked fish 4T chopped pimento 

I c white sauce i hard-cooked ^%% 

Reheat fish with pimento and tigg in white sauce. 

GENERAL EXERCISES 

For a family of six, calculate the cost of a serving of fresh fish 
and compare with cost of meat. Repeat with escaloped salmon and 
creamed oysters. 

Where are oysters grown, how obtained, and how shipped ? 

Is the frequent warning against eating raw oysters well founded ? 

References 

Langworthy. *' Fish as Food," Farmers' Bulletin No. 8^, U.S. Depart- 
ment of Agriculture. 

Stiles. " The Value of the Shell-fish Industry and the Protection of 
Oysters from Sewage Contamination," Yearbook of Department of 
Agriculture, 19 10, Separate No. 544. 

Stiles. " Shell-fish Contamination from Sewage- Polluted Waters and 
from Other Sources," Bulletin No, ij6. Bureau of Chemistry. 

Hutchison. Food and Dietetics. 



Digitized by 



Googk 



CHAPTER XV 

GELATIN 

Gelatin is a substance derived from animal sources. It 
is closely related chemically to the other proteins which 
have been discussed, but it does not serve the purpose in 
the body which some of these do. It is prepared commer- 
cially by boiling bone, gristle, skin, etc. in water, and then 
purifying. Gelatin is odorless, colorless, and tasteless in 
the pure state. It swells in cold water and dissolves in hot 
water. On cooling, a gelatin solution " sets," or ** jellies." 
In this respect gelatin is similar to certain substances in 
plants which also set, or jelly, water solutions. Certain sea 
plants, siich as mosses and agar, yield substances which 
have this property, and preparations of these are on the 
market under various names. In the ordinary fruit juices 
is found another substance — pectin, a carbohydrate — 
which causes these juices to jelly. While some other sub- 
stances will form a jelly, chemically they are not the same 
as gelatin, and do not have the same food value. Gelatin 
is generally used in the preparation of desserts, where it is 
valued as a carrier of flavor and for its texture and consist- 
ency. A very small per cent of gelatin is required to jelly 
a solution, so that the amount of gelatin ordinarily used 
is small. 

Gelatin is prepared in sheets and in granulated form. 
The latter may be bought in bulk or in small packages. 

87 



Digitized by 



Googk 



88 A STUDY OF FOODS 

It is most frequently used with fruits, both fresh and 
canned, but fresh pineapple should never be used because 
the gelatin will lose its power to jelly, due to the action of 
the enzyme in the pineapple. 

LABORATORY EXERCISES 

I. Jellied Prunes 

^ lb. prunes 3 1 gelatin 

I c sugar :^c lemon juice 

Soak and cook prunes, remove stones, and cut into pieces. 
To the prune juice add enough boiling water to make 2 cupfuls. 
Soak gelatin in 4T cold water ; when soft, dissolve in hot prune 
juice, and add sugar and lemon juice. Add prunes and chill. 
Stir occasionally during cooling process so that the prunes may 
not settle when the jelly sets. 

II. Orange Whip 

4t gelatin ^c cold water 

1 pt. orange juice Juice i lemon 

Sugar 

Soak gelatin in cold water and dissolve in hot water. Strain 
into this the fruit juice and sugar to taste. Set aside until partly 
jellied and then whip with Dover egg-beater until it becomes 
white and frothy. 

What causes the change of appearance on beating ? 

III. Snow Pudding 

2 1 gelatin i c sugar 

\c cold water \c lemon juice 

I c boiling water Whites 3 eggs 

Soak gelatin in cold water, dissolve in boiling water, add 
sugar and then lemon juice. Cool ; when it thickens, beat with 



Digitized by 



Googk 



GELATIN 89 

an egg-beater until light. Add stiffly beaten whites of eggs and 
continue beating until mixture is s.tiff enough to hold its shape. 
Serve cold with custard sauce. 

IV. Tomato Jelly 

I c tomato juice 1 1 gelatin soaked in 
1 slice onion 2 T cold water 

I stalk celery \\, sugar 

i bay leaf Salt 

I clove Paprika 

Simmer tomato juice and seasonings for 5 minutes. Add 
soaked gelatin to the hot tomato juice. Strain and pour into 
molds to set. Serve on a lettuce leaf and with a salad dressing. 

GENERAL EXERCISES 

Calculate the cost of the three puddings and the number of people 
served by each. How much would the cost be increased by serving 
whipped cream with them '^. 

Can you suggest the reason for the condition of a cold veal or 
beef soup stock? 

References 

Wiley. Foods and their Adulteration. 
Allen. Commercial Organic Analysis. 



Digitized by 



Googk 



CHAPTER XVI 

FATS AND OILS 

Fat is found in both plant and animal foods, as previously 
stated, and is practically always used as a food in combina- 
tion with other things. 

The cooking of food in fat is a favorite method with 
many people because of the flavor which is developed, but 
the frying of food is more common than it should be, 
even though by proper care food may be cooked in fat 
without becoming grease soaked. Food which is soaked 
in fat is more slowly and less easily digested. Harm may 
come from overheating fat in the cooking, for heat causes 
fat to decompose into substances which are irritating to 
the digestive tract. Fats vary not only in the melting 
point but in the temperature at which they decompose by 
heat. Generally speaking, oils may be heated to a higher 
temperature without decomposing than the solid fats, and 
consequently they make a very desirable medium for cook- 
ing. The cooking oils usually cost less than the solid fats, 
and, due to higher point of decomposition, may be used 
a greater number of times. Deep-fat frying has some advan- 
tages over frying in a small amount of fat, since the object 
to be cooked is immediately immersed in it and a protec- 
tive coat is formed against the absorption of fat. Care 
should be taken in cooking in a large quantity of fat be- 
cause it is inflammable and accidents may occur. Articles, 

90 



Digitized by 



Googk 



FATS AND OILS 9 1 

such as potatoes, which contain a large amount of water 
will cause the fat to sputter, due to the expansion of the 
water to steam, and such articles should be added slowly. 
A large number of cooking fats are on the market at 
the present time. Some of these are compounds or mix- 
tures of different animal and plant fats. If properly 
prepared, there is no objection to their use, and frequently 
they save money for the buyer. Sometimes old and rancid 
samples are bought, and on account of the one poor sample, 
all of these special preparations are unjustly condemned. 
Any unpleasant flavor detected in foods where these are 
used is practically always due to the rancidity and not, as 
is frequently supposed, to the character of the fresh fat. 

LA BORA TORY EXERCISES 

I. Effect of Heat upon Fats 

Heat butter, lard, some commercial compound, and a cooking 
oil, and note point of decomposition as shown by smoking point. 

II. Types of Commercial Fats and Oils 

Observe samples of some common fats and oils, noting 
source, physical characteristics, price, and use. 

III. Ice Cream 

Ice cream in its simplest form is sweetened and flavored 
cream. Cream is a very expensive form of fat and sometimes 
an acceptable substitution may be made for it. In the directions 
given below the ingredients vary and the cost of each should be 
computed. Calculate the cost when a thin (16 per cent) cream is 
used, and the cost when double cream is used. 

I. Ice Cream 

4 c cream f c sugar 

Flavoring 



Digitized by 



Googk 



92 A STUDY OF FOODS 

Mix ingredients and freeze. Use a freezing mixture of 3 to 
4 parts ice and i part salt 
2. Ice Cream 

4 c cream i ^gg 

2 c milk I T cornstarch 

I c sugar Flavoring 

Pinch of salt 

Mix cornstarch with i c cold milk and boil. Remove from 
fire and stir in the slightly beaten egg. Stir until smooth ; then 
add the other ingredients and freeze. 

IV. Saratoga Chips 

Wash and pare potatoes. Cut into very thin slices in a bowl 
of cold water. Let stand for from 15 to 20 minutes. Drain off 
water and dry potatoes in a towel. Fry in deep fat until light 
brown. Drain on brown paper and sprinkle with salt. 

Fry half of potatoes in lard and the rest in some other kind 
of fat. Compare in desirability and cost. 

V. Potato Croquettes 

2C hot riced potatoes ^c grated cheese 

2T butter I egg 

\\. salt Few grains cayenne 

Shape into desired form, roll in crumbs, egg, and again in 
crumbs. Fry in deep fat. Drain on paper in oven. 

GENERAL EXERCISES 

To what extent may lard be used in place of butter 1 

May any of the other fats be substituted for butter, and when } 

What is the objection to fried potatoes as they are frequently 

prepared ? 

What other foods are often fat soaked 1 

Name the objections to foods which are saturated with fat. How 

may this difficulty be avoided ? 



Digitized by 



Googk 



FATS AND OILS 93 

Why is cooking in fat a common and favorite method of pre- 
paring food? 

What is the danger of cooking in deep fat ? 

Are fats in general cheap or expensive foods ? 

Name some of the cheap and some of the expensive fats. 

References 

Lewkowitsch. Chemical Technology and Analysis of Oils, Fats, and 
Waxes, Vols. I and II. 

Allen. Commercial Organic Analysis. 

Leach. Food Inspection and Analysis. 

Wiley. Foods and their Adulterations. 

Wiley. " Household Tests for the Detection of Oleomargarine and 
Renovated Butter," Farmers* Bulletin N^o. iji, U.S. Department of 
Agriculture. 

Hayward. Facts concerning the History, Commerce, and Manufac- 
ture of Butter. 

Hayward. " Principles and Practice of Ice- Cream Making," Bulletin 
No. 753", Vermont Agricultural Experiment Station. 



Digitized by 



Googk 



CHAPTER XVII 

FLOUR 

Flour is a very familiar preparation from the cereal 
wheat. In the milling of wheat, the outer (bran) layers and 
the germ are removed, and the inner starchy portion is 
finely ground into flour. Flour is largely starch (from 70 to 
75 per cent), but it contains protein, varying with the kind 
of wheat. Water, mineral matter, and a very small amount 
of fat make up the rest of the content. The protein of the 
flour possesses some interesting characteristics. Protein 
of wheat occurs chiefly in the form of glutenin and gliadin, 
and when water is added, these two unite to form a sticky 
substance called gluten. This is already familiar to many 
as the chewing gum obtained from the wheat kernels. 
Gluten is an elastic substance which is readily stretched 
as the contained air or moisture expands. Like the other 
proteins discussed, gluten is hardened by heat. In the 
making of bread this is of considerable importance, for 
the expanded and hardened gluten forms the support or 
framework of the loaf. 

There are many varieties of wheat, and these vary not 
only in physical characteristics but in composition. In the 
more moderate climates in the United States the wheat 
is planted in the fall and left in the ground through the 
winter. This is generally known as winter wheat. In the 
Northwest, where the winters are severe, the seed is sown 

94 



Digitized by 



Googk 



FLOUR 95 

in the spring, and these are known as spring wheats. 
The spring wheats are harder and more difficult to mill 
than the winter wheats. In some of the semiarid portions 
of the country the very hard Russian wheats are grown. 
These are known as durum (hard) wheats, the name indi- 
cating one of their characteristics. The durum wheats 
usually run quite high in protein, and are sometimes 
blended with other wheats in the milling process. The 



Baked Gluten from Two Cups of Flour 

I, flour; 2, dough from same ; 3, gluten from same ; 4, gluten baked ; 
5, baked gluten cut open 

durum wheats are very desirable for the making of maca- 
roni, and some varieties are excellent for bread. 

In all wheats the quality of the gluten is an important 
factor in bread making. Flour made from a single variety 
of wheat is not usual. The miller mixes or blends differ- 
ent wheats to make a more desirable flour. Generally 
speaking, the winter wheats are more starchy, which makes 
them especially desirable for the making of cake and pastry, 
and many of them make excellent bread, while the spring 
wheats are higher in protein and better adapted to the 
making of bread than the making of pastry. The harder 



Digitized by 



Googk 



96 A STUDY OF FOODS 

varieties of the winter wheats and the softer spring wheats 
resemble one another in composition. It is not infrequent, 
however, to find a flour which is good for both pastry and 
bread, due to the wise blending of wheats in the milling. 
The flour of the starchy winter wheats is white and soft, 
while that of the spring wheats is more granular, and 
creamy in color. 

The complaints frequently made against a flour are not 
always just, for they often arise from a failure to recog- 
nize the kind of flour and the use to which it is adapted. 
A good flour should be a clear white or cream in color ; 
a gray flour indicates poor quality, and in no case is a 
musty smell permissible. 

Graham and whole-wheat flours are also prepared from 
wheat. The original graham flour was made by grinding 
the whole wheat kernel without removing any portion of 
it. Substitutes for this are sometimes found on the market, 
which are mixtures of bran with an inferior quality of 
flour. In whole-wheat flour the outer bran layers are re- 
moved, and the whole is ground finer than in the graham. 
It is frequently stated that graham and whole-wheat breads 
have greater food value than the plain white bread, due 
to the fact that the whole wheat kernel is used in preparing 
the former. While percentage composition seems to favor 
the claim, it is also misleading. Bran stimulates peristalsis, 
and so hastens food through the digestive tract, and its 
passage may be so rapid that absorption is partially pre- 
vented, thus causing a loss of nutrients. The laxative 
action of bran has been attributed to the mechanical irri- 
tation of its particles, but recent work indicates that this 
action is largely due to the phosphorus compounds. 



Digitized by 



Googk 



FLOUR 97 

Rye, barley, buckwheat, corn, and some other cereals 
are ground into meals and flours. Rye flour is often used 
for making bread ; but the gluten, if present, in the other 
cereals is of such a nature that they do not make good 
bread. Corn meal is made into a bread by combining 
white flour or egg with it. 

LABORATORY EXERCISES 

I. Flours 

Examine graham, whole-wheat, and white flour, rye flour, and 
com meal. 

Sift and examine residue of wheat preparations ; compare. 
What is the percentage composition of these flours ? 

II. Gluten 

Measure ^c of ordinary white flour and mix with it enough 
water to form a stiff dough. Work in the hands until it be- 
comes smooth and elastic, and then wash it until the water is 
clear. What is left ? What has been removed ? Bake the residue 
in a moderate oven for from 30 to 45 minutes. 

GENERAL EXERCISES 

Is spring or winter wheat grown in your vicinity 1 
What varieties of wheat are ground by your local miller } 
What kind of flour is used in your home .'* 
Is more than one kind of flour kept in your home? 
What flour does your local baker use ? Why } 
What guides the baker in his choice of flour ? 
What guides the housewife in her choice of flour.? 
Why is a blended flour desirable ? 

References 

Snyder. Human Foods. 
Hutchison. Food and Dietetics. 
Osborne. Proteids of the Wheat Kernel. 



Digitized by 



Googk 



98 A STUDY OF FOODS 

Osborne. "Winter Wheat Varieties," Bulletin No. 82^ Pennsylvania 
State College Agricultural Experiment Station. 

Shepard. " Macaroni Wheat," Bulletin No. g2^ South Dakota Ag^- 
cultural College Experiment Station. 

Norton. " A Study of Durum ^Ynt^Xy^'* Journal of the American Chemi- 
cal Society, Vol. XXVII, August, 1905. 

DoNDLiNGER. Book of Wheat. 

Freeman and Shilling. " Flour," Tlie Journal of Home Economics^ 
December, 191 1. 

Jordan, Hart, and Patten. " Metabolism and Physiological Effects of 
Phosphorus Compounds of Wheat Bran," Bulletin No. /, New York 
State Experiment Station, and American Journal of Physiology, 
Vol. XVI, p. 268. 



Digitized by 



Googk 



CHAPTER XVIII 
FLOUR MIXTURES 

In the household we are familiar with a large number 
of flour mixtures, both batters and doughs. In all these 
mixtures flour is combined with moisture and some leav- 
ening agent, whatever else may be added. Water is the 
liquid most commonly used, but sweet and sour milk and 
buttermilk are frequently substituted for water. On mixing 
the flour with the liquid, gluten is formed. As explained 
before, the gluten is expanded by gas and steam, and if 
heated while in this stretched, or expanded, condition, the 
gluten is hardened and forms a sort of framework for the 
other ingredients of the loaf. Exercise II in the previous 
chapter illustrates this characteristic of gluten. 

The third essential to the flour mixture is a leavening 
agent. Flour and water mixtures are heavy, and it is nec- 
essary to provide some means for lightening, or leavening, 
them. To accomplish this, air may be beaten into the 
mixture directly, as in the beaten biscuit of the South, or 
air may be added after it has been beaten into the white 
of egg. Carbon-dioxide gas is the most common leavening 
agent and is supplied by the action of yeast or of certain 
chemicals. The chemicals used are baking soda and some 
acid. The acid may be one of several combined with the 
soda to form a so-called baking powder, or the acid may 
be supplied in the cooking materials, such as sour milk or 

99 : : .-. "^ ^:' 



Digitized by 



Googk 



lOO A STUDY OF FOODS 

molasses. The moisture used in all these mixtures is 
expanded into steam during the cooking process, and 
this also helps to make the mixture light. 

While flour, water, and a leavening agent are necessary 
to any flour mixture, the resulting product would not be 
very palatable, and therefore other materials are added to 
modify both flavor and texture. Salt is necessary in prac- 
tically every case. Milk, eggs, fat, and sugar are commonly 
used, and all these add to the food value. Other materials, 
such as spices and extracts, are valued for their flavor. 
Eggs not only serve as a means for introducing air into the 
mixture, but, on heating, the albumen of the egg hardens 
and aids in forming a framework for the mixture. Fat 
affects the texture, tenderness, and flavor in proportion to 
the quantity used. Sugar is valued for its flavor, but it 
also affects texture. The proportion of liquid to flour in 
these mixtures varies greatly. Thin mixtures are called 
batters ; the thicker ones are called doughs. 

Practically all flour mixtures are baked, although fat and 
steam are used in some cases as the cooking mediums. 
In applying heat to any food its composition should be kept 
in mind. This is rather simple when we are cooking eggs 
alone or starch alone, but where different substances are 
combined, it is necessary to regard the material which pre- 
dominates, and a compromise is usually necessary. In 
most of the flour mixtures starch is present in large quan- 
tity, and this calls for thorough cooking at a high tempera- 
ture. In mixtures in which a large amount of egg is used, 
as in sponge cake, a low temperature is required and the 
time of baking is prolonged. 



Digitized by 



Googk 



FLOUR MIXTURES lOl 

LABORATORY EXERCISES 

I. Oven Tests 

Repeat oven tests as given in Chapter I. 

II. Baking Temperatures 

Discuss the baking temperatures which will be desirable for 
the mixtures in the following exercises : 

III. Batters with Air and Steam as Leavening Agents 

1. Popov ers 

I c milk iTfat 

I c flour \\. salt 

Mix salt and flour; gradually add milk, in order to keep 
mixture smooth ; then add melted fat and unbeaten egg. Beat 
thoroughly with Dover egg-beater or spoon. Pour at once into 
hot gem pans and bake for from 40 to 45 minutes in a moderate 
oven. They should be served as soon as cooked. 

All materials and utensils should be ready and fire lighted 
before mixing is started. 

2. Sponge cake 

Yolks 2 eggs Salt 

Whites 2 eggs Lemon rind 

)^c sugar 1 1 lemon juice 
\q. flour 

Beat yolks until lemon colored and thick. Add sugar gradu- 
ally and continue beating. Then add lemon juice, rind, and 
whites of eggs beaten until stiff and dry. When white is par- 
tially mixed with yolk, carefully cut and fold in flour mixed and 
sifted with salt. Bake in an unbuttered pan in a slow oven for 
from 35 to 45 minutes. 

What makes this mixture light ? 



Digitized by 



Googk 



I02 A STUDY OF FOODS 

3. White sponge cak^ 

\c white of ^gg \t cream of tartar 

f c granulated sugar Flavoring 

^c flour 

Sift flour once before measuring and several times afterward. 
Beat egg until very stiff, adding the cream of tartar, and gradu- 
ally beat in the sugar. Then add flavoring and carefully fold in 
the flour. Do not stir or beat more than is necessary to mix. 
Pour into an unbuttered pan and bake for from 40 to 50 minutes 
in a very slow oven. 

IV. Baking Soda 

Acid of some sort must be added to soda to free carbon diox- 
ide. Molasses contains a mixture of organic acids; sour milk 
contains lactic acid. 

1. Into a tablespoon of sour milk stir a pinch of soda. Watch 
results. Explain. 

2. Repeat, using molasses. 

V. Batters with Soda and Sour Milk or Molasses as Leavening 
Agents 

1. Gingerbread 

I c molasses i t%% \q. butter 

^c sour milk i^t soda 2t ginger 

2C flour ^t salt 

Sift together all dry ingredients. Cream the butter, add 
molasses and beaten egg, and then add to this the flour and 
milk in turn. Beat the whole thoroughly and turn into a greased 
pan. Bake in a slow oven. 

2. Sour-milk griddlecakes 

2^ c flour 2C sour milk ^t salt 

I Jt soda I ^%% 



Digitized by 



Googk 



FLOUR MIXTURES 103 

Mix and sift dry ingredients. Add these to the milk, beat 
well, and lastly add the beaten egg. Cook on a hot griddle.. No 
grease is required if an aluminium griddle is used. 

3. Com bread 

I c com meal i T melted butter 

I c sour milk \c sifted flour 

\t salt 1 1 baking powder 

I I soda I egg 

Sift together all dry ingredients, stir these into the milk, and 
then add butter and beaten ^%%, Bake in a moderate oven. 

VI. Baking Powder 

Baking powder is a mixture of an acid and an alkaline con- 
stituent which will yield a gas in the presence of moisture. 
The alkaline constituent is almost always the ordinary baking 
soda, which is sodium bicarbonate. The acid constituent varies 
with the brand of the baking powder, and may be a phosphate, 
tartrate, or alum salt. The commercial baking powder contains 
a third substance, usually starch, which tends to absorb the 
moisture from the air and prevent premature development of 
gas from the other two substances. Oftentimes in the house- 
hold baking soda and cream of tartar are added to a flour 
mixture. This serves the same purpose as baking powder. 

1. Mix \X, soda and ^t cream of tartar. Stir this into a half 
glass of water and observe results. 

2. Stir It baking powder into a half glass of water and 
observe. (Save this for 4.) 

3. Half fill two glasses with water. Into the first stir 1 1 of 
a tartrate baking powder ; into the second stir 1 1 of a phosphate 
baking powder. Do you note any difference in the rapidity of 
action ? 

4. Boil the mixture left from 2 and note results. Explain. 



Digitized by 



Googk 



I04 A STUDY OF FOODS 

VII. Batters with Baking Powder as a Leavening Agent 

1 . Griddlecakes 

\\z flour I ^%% 

:Jt salt 2 1 baking powder 

1 c milk 

Sift dry ingredients, stir into the milk, and lastly add the 
beaten ^g^. Cook on a hot griddle. 

2. Muffins 

2 c flour I c milk 

1 ^gg 4t baking powder 
^t salt 2 T melted butter 
2T sugar 

Sift dry ingredients, stir into milk, and add melted butter 
and beaten ^gg. Beat the mixture thoroughly and pour into 
greased pans. Bake in a quick oven. 

3. White cake 

\z butter 4t baking powder 

2 c sugar Whites 5 eggs 
I c water 1 1 vanilla 

3 c flour 

Cream butter, add sugar, and thoroughly mix. Sift flour and 
baking powder several times, add this, alternating with the water, 
to the first mixture, and then add vanilla. Fold in the stiffly 
beaten whites of eggs and pour into a greased pan. Bake in a 
moderate oven. 
Boiled icing 

I c sugar Lemon juice or 

^c water flavoring 

White I ^gg ^t cream of tartar 

Cook sugar, cream of tartar, and water together until sirup 
will thread. Pour in a fine stream into well-beaten white of t^g^ 
beating until smooth and thick enough to spread upon the cake. 



Digitized by 



Googk 



FLOUR MIXTURES 105 

Flavor and pour over cake, spreading with spatula. If beaten 
too long, thin with a few drops of lemon juice or boiling water 
and wet the knife in cold water. Ice the cake and calculate the 
cost of cake and icing. 

VIII. Doughs 

The difference between doughs and batters is in the amount 
of moisture used with the flour. Batters have one or two meas- 
ures of flour to one of liquid. Doughs have about three measures 
of flour to one of liquid. 

1. Biscuit 

ic flour f c liquid, equal parts 

2 1 baking powder water and milk 

it salt i|T fat 

Sift dry ingredients, work fat into flour, and gradually add 
the liquid, mixing into a very soft dough just stiff enough to roll. 
Turn onto a floured board, roll to \ inch in thickness, cut, put 
into a floured pan, and bake in a quick oven. 

2. Shortcake 

2 c flour I T sugar 

4t baking powder :^c fat 

^t salt . f c milk 

Mix the same as biscuit, roll about | inch thick, and fit into a 
pan for baking. When done, split and spread with butter, cover 
with crushed and sweetened fruit. Add the top layer of short- 
cake and cover generously with fruit and juice before serving. 

3. Doughnuts 

\c sugar 3t baking powder 

I T butter in i J c flour 

Jc milk Jt salt 

I ^gg cinnamon 

nutmeg 



Digitized by 



Googk 



io6 A STUDY OF FOODS 

Beat thoroughly butter, sugar, and egg. Sift dry ingredients 
and add, alternately with milk, to the first mixture. Add enough 
more flour to make a soft dough, turn onto a floured board, 
roll to i inch in thickness, cut, and cook in deep fat 

GENERAL EXERCISES 

What is the leavening agent in each of the foregoing illustrations ? 

What furnishes the moisture ? 

Why use moderate or low heat for sponge cakes ? 

Calculate the cost of both sponge cakes and the number of people 
served by each. 

Suggest a use for the yolks left from the white sponge cake. 

Why are egg and white floiu- used in making com bread ? 

Is there any objection to the use of griddlecakes ? 

Does the gingerbread brown more easily than the corn bread? 
Explain. 

Calculate the cost of corn bread and of gingerbread for a family 
of six. 

Compare the cost of sponge cakes and butter cakes. 

Calculate the cost of pound cake. Is this expensive ? Explain. 

Calculate the cost of muffins for a family of six. 

How may an oven that is too hot affect a cake mixture.'* too 
slow an oven? 

Which needs the greater heat, a layer or loaf cake? a butter or 
sponge cake ? a molasses or plain cake ? 

How determine when a cake is done ? 

When add beaten whites, and why ? 

Suggest possible causes for the following : 
Cracks across top of cake in baking. 
Coarse-grained cake. 
Tough cake. 

How prepare pans? Explain. 

Suggest methods for reducing heat in an oven that is too hot. 

How much should a cake increase in bulk while baking? 

What effect has beating on the texture of the cake ? 

Why will a cake that is carelessly moved in baking frequently fall ? 



Digitized by 



Googk 



FLOUR MIXTURES 107 

How care for a cake on removal from oven ? 
Discuss order of adding ingredients in mixing a cake. 
When add flour ? When add eggs ? Explain. 

References 

Wiley. Foods and their Adulteration. 

Leach. Food Inspection and Analysis. 

Leach. " Baking Powders," Bulletin No. iig, Maine Agricultural 

Experiment Station. 
Wiley. " Cereals and Cereal Products," Bulletin No. /j, Part IX. 
Farmer. Boston Cooking School Cook Book. 
Hill. Practical Cooking and Serving. 
Vulte and Goodell. Household Chemistry. 



Digitized by 



Googk 



CHAPTER XIX 

BREAD 

Bread is a dough made of flour, salt, liquid, and yeast. 
The flour of wheat is used more commonly than that of 
any other cereal. The flavor of wheat is desirable, and its 
gluten makes it suitable for bread. If the whole kernel is 
ground, as in graham flour, the flavor is very pronounced ; 
if less of the bran is retained, as in whole-wheat flour, the 
flavor is milder. The range of flavor in the ordinary white 
flours of the same grade is not so great, but there is a choice. 

It was discovered long ago that a dough, or mixture of 
flour and water, would undergo some changes on standing, 
and the character of the loaf on baking was consequently 
different. This change we know to be fermentation, due 
to the development of certain living forms in the dough. 
Instead of depending upon chance for these living forms 
to make the dough light, we add yeast to the dough at 
the start. The yeast is a one-celled plant of microscopic 
size. Like any other plant, the yeast requires the proper 
conditions for growth — namely, warmth, moisture, and 
food. These favorable conditions are found in bread dough, 
and as the yeast grows there is developed carbon dioxide, 
which gas lightens the dough. 

Yeast may be purchased in the form of dry cakes, or as 
compressed yeast. Frequently these are used to make a 
so-called '' starter," which is kept and used from time to 

io8 



Digitized by 



Googk 



BREAD 109 

time in the household. The starter, or liquid yeast, affords 
a favorable place for the growth of other living forms than 
yeast, and these often are the cause of sourness or a very 
poor flavor in the bread. Since the same conditions which 
favor the growth of yeast favor the growth of other plants, 
it is very necessary to be careful that all the materials are 
in good condition and that all the utensils are clean. The 
amount and the condition of the yeast used in making bread 
determine the time necessary for the process. The yeast 



Typical Loaves of Bread 

plant develops very rapidly if under favorable conditions 
and will leaven a large amount of dough in a comparatively 
short time. If it is necessary to make the bread in a very 
short time, as much as two cakes of compressed yeast may 
be added to a small loaf without injuring the flavor of the 
bread. In the ordinary household process such an amount 
would be unnecessary and extravagant, except under unusual 
circumstances. Bread made in a short time with compressed 
yeast is familiarly known as " short process " bread. The 
more common custom is to allow a longer time for making 
bread. The yeast is mixed with a small portion of flour 



Digitized by 



Googk 



no A STUDY OF FOODS 

and water. Sugar is usually added to this mixture, and 
oftentimes potatoes are used. This mixture is known as 
a sponge and affords favorable conditions for the devel- 
opment of the yeast plant. The sponge stands for a 
number of hours (usually overnight) and is then mixed 
with more liquid and flour to make the dough. Bread 
made in this way is known as ** long-process ** bread. 



Utensils used in Bread Making, showing also Method 
OF Measuring 

The liquid used in making bread may be water, milk, a 
mixture of the two, whey, or potato water. Potatoes furnish 
a good medium for the growth of yeast, and so their use 
is frequently favored. Fat may or may not be added. Sugar, 
in small amount, hastens the activity of the yeast and should 
be added early in the process. 

The object in kneading bread is to mix it thoroughly 
and to distribute the gas evenly, so making a finer texture. 
Repeated rising of the bread and kneading down before 
making into a loaf makes a somewhat finer texture and a 



Digitized by 



Googk 



BREAD 1 1 1 

whiter loaf, but at the expense of the finer flavor of the 
bread. Very good bread can be made with comparatively 
little kneading. 

Bread is baked to kill the yeast plant, to cook the starch 
thoroughly, and to make a brown and palatable crust. It is 
desirable to bake each loaf in a separate pan which is 
small enough to insure the thorough baking of the loaf. 
A small loaf of bread in a single pan should bake not less 
than forty-five minutes. If dough has doubled in bulk, it 
should be put into a very hot oven and the heat gradually 
reduced until the baking is finished. If the dough is put 
into the oven before its bulk has doubled, the heat should 
be more moderate at first in order that the loaf may rise 
sufficiently. 

There are so many notions with regard to the desirable 
qualities of bread that it is a help to use some standard 
for judging it. The following score card, accredited to 
Miss Isabel Bevier at the University of Illinois, has been 
widely used and found helpful in establishing standards. 

Bread Score Card 

Scale of roints 

Flavor 35 

Lightness 15 

Grain and Texture 20 

r Color 1 

Crust J Depth I 10 

[ Texture J 

Crumb I ^^^^^ \ 
I Moisture J 

Shape and Size 10 

Total 100 



Digitized by 



Googk 



112 A STUDY OF FOODS 

1. The flavor is determined by taste and odor. Bread 
should have the good nutty sweet flavor of the grain. A 
sour or yeasty smell or taste is not allowable. 

2. Lightness is determined by the relation of size and 
volume. The bread should be neither overlight nor 
underlight. 

3. Grain and texture are judged by the fineness and 
tenderness of the loaf. There should be even distribution 
of the gas, making fine and uniform holes. No heavy 
streaks should occur. 

4. The crust should be an even, yellowish brown in 
color, about one fourth of an inch in depth, and should 
be crisp. 

5. The crumb should be creamy in color, neither 
excessively dry and crumbly nor doughy. 

6. The loaf should be shapely and small enough to 
be thoroughly cooked. 

LABOR A TORY EXERCISES 

I. Effect of Temperatures upon Yeast. (Demonstration) 

1. Blend one yeast cake thoroughly in a pint of water to 
which has been added i T sugar. 

2. Freeze a portion of the mixture, and then allow it to thaw 
at room temperature. 

3. Boil another portion and cool to room temperature. 

4. Take another portion at room temperature. 

5. Chill a fourth portion. 

Fill wide-mouthed bottles from each of the above portions 
and invert them on plates. Keep 2, 3, and 4 in a warm room, 
and 5 packed in ice during the remainder of the laboratory 
period. Explain results observed. 



Digitized by 



Googk 



BREAD 113 

II. Long-Process Bread 

I c boiled water or i T sugar 

^c each of milk and water ft salt 

\-\ cake dry yeast or i T fat 

\-\ cake compressed yeast 3 c flour 

In making long-process bread less yeast is required than for 
the short process because the time is so much longer. Good 
long-process bread is made by different methods, but the 
following is typical. 

A sponge is made by adding sugar, yeast, and flour to the 
liquid. Scald the liquid, and soften the yeast in 2 T warm water. 
When the liquid is lukewarm, add the yeast and sugar and 
enough flour to make a thin batter. This is set aside in a warm 
place overnight, during which time the yeast becomes active 
and the sponge is light. In the morning add all the other in- 
gredients, mixing thoroughly. When enough flour is added so 
that the dough may be handled, turn it onto the board and 
knead until it is smooth, sticks neither to the board nor hands, 
and air bubbles appear near the surface of the dough. Put the 
dough into a greased bowl and set in a warm place. When the 
dough has doubled in bulk, make it into loaves and put into 
greased pans. Again set the dough to rise in a warm place. 
When the loaves have doubled in bulk, put into a hot oven 
and bake for from 40 to 50 minutes. The temperature of the 
oven should be lowered during the baking process. When the 
loaf is baked, remove it from the pan at once and cool it in a 
position which allows full circulation of air about the bread. 

III. Short- Process Bread 

\q, scalded milk \q, boiled water 

I T lard or butter ft salt 

3 c flour I T sugar 

1-2 compressed yeast cakes in 2t warm water 



Digitized by 



Googk 



114 A STUDY OF FOODS 

Put butter or lard, sugar, and salt in bread bowl ; pour on it 
the hot liquid (milk and water). When this is lukewarm, add 
the softened yeast cake ; then add enough flour to make a stiff 
batter, beating thoroughly. Add the remaining flour; mix and 
turn onto the floured board. Knead until the dough will stick 
neither to hands nor to board and bubbles may be seen under the 
surface. Grease the bowl and return the dough to it. Set in a 
warm place until the dough has doubled in bulk; then shape 
into loaves. Let this double its bulk again and bake. 

IV. Whole-wheat, Graham, or Rye Bread 

Make a sponge as for long-process bread. When light, use 
entire-wheat, graham, or rye flour to make a soft dough. Make 
into loaves and let rise until thoroughly light. Bake with mod- 
erate heat I hour or longer. Sugar to sweeten may be added if 
desired. 

V. Parker House Rolls 

Roll bread dough to \ inch in thickness and cut with biscuit 
cutter. Crease each piece in the middle, brush one half with 
melted butter, fold, pressing edges together. Place in a greased 
pan, cover, let rise, and bake. 

VI. Cinnamon Rolls 

Roll bread dough to \ inch in thickness, spread with butter, 
and sprinkle with a mixture of \ sugar and -J- cinnamon. Roll 
up like a jelly roll and cut into f -inch pieces. Place in greased 
pan flat side down. Let rise and bake. 

GENERAL EXERCISES 

Calculate cost of baker's bread per pound. 
Calculate cost of homemade bread per pound. 
Judge both samples by the score card. 
Why is bread kneaded ? 
When is it desirable to use a sponge ? 



Digitized by 



Googk 



BREAD IIS 

What determines the amount of yeast used ? 

What might cause sour bread ? 

What is accomplished in the baking of bread ? 

What is " jug " or " starter " yeast? 

What kind of yeast would you use ? 

What is salt-rising bread ? 

Examine yeasts under the microsco{>e, and make drawings. 

References 

Atwater. " Bread and Bread Making," Farmers* Bulletin No. j8g^ 

U.S. Department of Agriculture. 
Snyder. " Studies on Bread and Bread Making," Bulletin 2V0. 67, 

Office of Experiment Stations, U.S. Department of Agriculture. 
Snyder. " Studies on the Digestibility and Nutritive Value of Bread," 

Bulletins Nos, 126^ 14.3^ 756, Office of Experiment Stations, U.S. 

Department of Agriculture. 
Wardall. " Relation of Yeast to Flavor in Bread," The Journal of 

Home Economics^ February, 1910. 
Jagg. Bread and Bread Making. 
Hutchison. Food and Dietetics. 
Snyder. Human Foods. 
Simmons. The Book of Bread. 

Bevier. Some Points in the Making and Judging of Bread. . 
Wood. Story of a Loaf of Bread. 



Digitized by 



Googk 



ii6 



O M 

Q 

O gooSooo 

S H I * * * 

U i2 

td 
O 

£ »« O ■-« N 
»_ M 

z^ 000000 

u -^ w w o 

£ o ^ ::'s I 

" , ^ o •" 2 

3 rt tJ 3 g 



Q i^ -^ .y 3 rt -5 3 2 

o 



s ^ i 
o 

jjj M N fO ^ i/-»vO 

H 6 6 d d 6 o' 

^ ;z; ;z; S5 2; 55 



Digitized by 



Googk 



"7 



O « 

2 S « 

o 

o ^^ . .^ . . . . 
z <o in N "-« '-' 

D 

o 

2 » O ^ N <^ '^ 

P^ 00OxMi-i«-.i-. 

•7ir> OOoOOOO 



1-^ c 









Q 
O 
O 

►_ S <** r ON fO •-« 

O I ' N N * * * * 

o 



2 en M O O 

S 8 -SSutsas^:^ 

o fe -^ o a « W)^ o 

r_z dddodod 



Digitized by 



Googk 



ii8 



^ S -5)6 



z 

o 



5 

ft, 
o 



^ M <^Mt N <^ 









O 



If-' mil 



Z fl< 'O t^OO CT^ • 



^ O 6 6 6 6 6 

O • 
K ^ 

M ^ -Sill 

g " H» * o Ov« 

O S M M M M M 

i 1 

o £ < 

CO 4 

o 

tn 

2 - „ 

I I ill I 

a •* pa u < Oh > 

Lh « « r^ -t*- m-» 

d d d d d 



Digitized by 



Googk 



119 



< 

»> I ^. N CJ M i-j N N 5 ^ 

o soooc^5ooc^o^'■*■5 



"- ' li|iilgi| 



C/2 O O "I N fO -* »^vo t^oo 

a,*^ ooooooooo 






^ o 

•p 
o 
o 
^ 

o 

s 
o 
u 

s 
o 

Cx, 

o 
o 

H 

o 





^ K 






*^ j> 






■3 "S. 


« 




s-s-^ 


^ 


rt 


a 8. S,.a -S 


figs 
servi 
cups 


X 


Sf^ « " g- 








" 


•T»- N M u-\ f^ 


-«*■ N HH 


loo 


li^ ON t^ 


■^ ON ON 


1 ^ 


to M NO N M 


N rp « 






a. 






«0 


t^OO 




JS *> 


. ^ ^ o Q 


« ON M 


Q d 


N vO vO «^0O 


d^ 6 t^ 


4 5^ 


xr\ m r^ r^ t^ 


O OO oo 


C4 u-t t>. N* 










V 


« 


1J 




ggs 

Otatoe 

pples 

read 

heese 


igs 

eef (r 
oiled 


(j(zja;<QaUb0Q(^ 


-- 


N fO ■<♦■ ir>NO 


t^oo ON 



OOOOOOOOO 



H ^^^Z,Z^^^Z, 



Digitized by 



Googk 



CHAPTER XX 

FOOD REQUIREMENTS 

In order to meet the needs of the human body, the 
diet should contain the various nutrients, or food principles, 
in proper amount and kind, and should furnish the neces- 
sary energy. Proteins, fats, and carbohydrates are all 
capable of furnishing energy, and so enable the body to 
perform its work — both internal and external — and keep 
it warm. Energy cannot be measured in terms of weight 
or of dimension but in terms of heat or of work performed. 
The unit of measure is the calorie, which is the amount 
of heat needed to raise one pound of water four degrees 
Fahrenheit, or the work necessary to raise one ton 1.53 feet. 
The calorific value of any substance is determined by burning 
a given weight in the calorimeter and determining the result- 
ing heat. Protein and carbohydrate have about one half the 
calorific, or fuel, value of the same weight of fat. If the 
amount of protein, fat, and carbohydrate in the food is 
known, the fuel value of the diet may easily be calculated. 

Many studies of food requirements have been made, and 
the results have led to the formation of so-called *' standard 
dietaries." Observation of the food eaten by people under 
normal conditions has frequently been made and records 
kept of the food consumed. Since these earlier observa- 
tions of food customs, or habits, very careful experiments 
have been conducted, investigating food requirements. 



Digitized by 



Googk 



FOOD REQUIREMENTS I2i 

Dr. Langworthy, Chief of Nutrition Investigations, says 
that, for adults of moderate activity, the results " do not 
differ very markedly from a general average of lOO grams 
of protein and 3000 calories of energy, and that it is fair 
to say that, although foods may differ very decidedly, the 
nutritive value of the diet in different regions and under 
different circumstances is very much the same for a like 
amount of muscular work." 

It is fairly easy to determine the need of the body for 
energy under given conditions, and to some extent fat, 
carbohydrate, and protein may replace each other for this 
purpose. Protein, it must be remembered, serves two pur- 
poses in the body ; it builds and repairs tissue, and also 
furnishes energy. While it is necessary to supply enough 
protein to build tissue, it is desirable to depend quite largely 
upon the fat and carbohydrate for energy. If protein is 
eaten in too large amounts, it causes physiological disturb- 
ances and frequently makes an undue tax upon the body. 
In diseases, such as rheumatism and gout, the amount of 
protein eaten is restricted, and meat is frequently forbidden. 
There is a great difference of opinion among students of 
nutrition as to the desirable amount of protein in the diet. 

The factors most affecting total food requirement are 
work, age, and size. In the adult, muscular exercise or 
work has the most important influence upon diet. The 
following estimates of the calorific need for the day are 
given by Atwater : 

Man without muscular work 2700 calories 

Man with light muscular work .... 3000 calories 

Man with moderate muscular work . . . 3500 calories 

Man at hard muscular work .1.11 4500 calories 



Digitized by 



Googk 



122 A STUDY OF FOODS 

Lumbermen who engage in very heavy work and in the 
open air have been known to use as much as 6000 calories 
and more. 

*' In general, it appears that the food requirements of 
men and women of equal activity are in proportion to their 
body weights. Women, on the average, weigh about 0.8 
as much as men, and it is commonly assumed that if 
equally active their food requirements will stand in the same 
proportion. In apportioning the food of a family to its 
different members it has become customary to make use 
of some such conventional factors as the following : " 

Under i year 100 calories per kilogram 

1-2 years 100-90 calories per kilogram 

2-5 years 90-80 calories per kilogram 

6-9 years 80-70 calories per kilogram 

10-13 years 70-60 calories per kilogram 

14-17 years 60-45 calories per kilogram 

Sherman, "Chemistry of Food and Nutrition" 

Von Noorden suggests for adults the following allow- 
ances : 

At complete rest .... 30-35 calories per kilogram 

With light exercise . . . 35-40 calories per kilogram 

With moderate exercise . . 40-45 calories per kilogram 

With hard muscular labor . 45-60 calories per kilogram 

For the aged these figures should be lowered by one fourth. 
The higher calorific allowance for children is due to their 
great muscular activity, growth, and more intense physio- 
logical activities. 



Digitized by 



Googk 



FOOD REQUIREMENTS 1 23 

One-Hundred-Calorie Portions 

It is frequently desirable to compare foods on the basis 
of fuel value, and the amounts of foods shown in the table 
on the following page will yield approximately one hun- 
dred calories. These amounts are frequently referred to 
as one-hundred-calorie portions. 

The fuel value and composition of all ordinary foods 
may be determined by consulting " Chemical Composition 
of American Food Materials," Bulletin No. 28 , Office of 
Experiment Stations. 

Food for the Infant 

For infants the only proper food is milk. If artificial 
feeding of an infant is necessary, a great responsibility rests 
upon the one who selects the food, for it is well known that 
the death rate is much higher where artificial feeding is 
employed. While the composition of milk is important, 
its cleanliness is a more vital factor. Ordinary milk con- 
tains enormous numbers of bacteria, and some of these may 
be dangerous. It is desirable to obtain a milk as free from 
germs as possible, and it becomes necessary to know the 
source and care of the milk supply. In the city market 
the milk is graded according to cleanliness. The cleanest, 
highest grade is known as certified milk, which sells from 
fourteen to sixteen cents a quart. Sometimes the price is 
even higher. Certified milk is used almost solely for in- 
fants and invalids. The next grade is known as inspected 
milk, and this is reasonably safe for ordinary use. For both 
certified and inspected milk, the cows are tested for tuber- 
culosis, and all the conditions of production are watched. 



Digitized by 



Googk 



124 A STUDY OF FOODS 

One-Hundred-Calorie Portions 



Food 


Quantity 




Constituents for which these 








ARE CHIEFLY VALUED 


Almonds 


12-15 




Fat and protein 


Apples 


1-2 




Carbohydrate, mineral mat- 
ter, and bulk 


Bacon 


Small serving 




Fat 


Bananas 


I 




Carbohydrate 


Beans (dried) 


One serving (when cc 


loked) 


Protein and carbohydrate 


Beef (round) 


Small serving (i^ in 


sq.) 


Protein and fat 


Bread 


I slice 




Carbohydrate and protein 


Butter 


I square or ball 




Fat 


Cabbage 


i small head 




Bulk and carbohydrate 


Cheese 


Small cube (ij inches) 


Protein and fat 


Chocolate 








(bitter) 


I square 




Fat 


Corn meal 


J cup 




Protein and fat 


Cream 


i-i cup 




Fat 


Dates 


3-4 




Carbohydrate 


Eggs 


I 




Protein, fat, and mineral 
matter 


Milk 


J cup 




Protein, fat, carbohydrate, 
and mineral matter 


Oatmeal 


J cup (cooked) 




Carbohydrate, mineral mat- 
ter, and bulk 


Olives 


yS 




Fat 


Oranges 


I large 




Mineral matter and carbo- 
hydrate 


Pickles 


15 cucumbers (medium | 


Flavor 




sized) 






Pork chops 


I very small 




Fat and protein 


Potatoes 


2 small 




Carbohydrate and bulk 


Prunes 


3-4 




Carbohydrate 


Raisins 


15-20 




Carbohydrate 


Rice 


J cup (dry) 




Carbohydrate 


Sugar 


2 tablespoons 




Carbohydrate 


Tomatoes 








(canned) 


about I pint 




Flavor 



Digitized by 



Googk 



FOOD REQUIREMENTS 125 

The third grade is known as market milk and is much less 
rigidly inspected. This grading of milk is a good illustration 
of the fact that cleanliness costs money. For the feeding 
of infants the very best milk should be used. This is 
frequently modified to suit the age and needs of the infant 
by changing its composition. Water, milk sugar, and cream 
are very commonly added to cow's milk. 

Frequent attempts have been made to prepare artificial 
foods for infants, and many are found on the market. 
Some of these manufactured foods are lacking in mineral 
salts and some contain starch — a carbohydrate which does 
not occur in milk and which is entirely unsuited to a young 
infant. In general, the proportion and nature of the nutri- 
ents differ from those of milk and frequently they are not 
good substitutes for milk. Many times children apparently 
thrive on these prepared foods, but usually they are large 
and flabby, and have less ability to resist disease than 
normally fed children. Whether the food of an infant is 
natural or artificial, it should be given with great regularity. 

During the second year solid food may be introduced 
into a child's diet, but great care should be used in its 
selection. Milk will still be the basis of the diet, and suit- 
able materials may be added, such as a soft-poached egg, 
thoroughly dried and toasted bread, orange juice, baked 
apple, thoroughly cooked prunes, and cereals, junket, and 
rice pudding. Sugar should be used very sparingly, and 
should not be permitted with the cereal or fruit, for the 
sugar habit is easily formed, and the easiest way to avoid 
its overuse by the child is not to use it the first time. Only 
the pulp of the fruit should be used, and if the cereal is 
coarse, it may be put through a strainer to remove a portion 



Digitized by 



Googk 



126 A STUDY OF FOODS 

of the cellulose. During the second year the food should 
be given in four or five meals at regular intervals. The 
second year of a child's life is an important one for its 
future welfare. Many of the health disturbances arise from 
improper food. The fact that some children thrive in spite 
of being improperly fed is no reason for taking the risk 
with other children. 

After the second year fruits and vegetables may be sup- 
plied in greater variety, but meat should be sparingly used 
for the first eight years. Eggs, milk, bread, and cereals, 
with fruits and vegetables, should make up the bulk of 
a child's diet. Sugar should be added to the diet with 
some care. It is better given at the end of the meal in a 
simple dessert, such as rice pudding, custard, figs, raisins, 
or occasionally a wholesome homemade candy. Sugar is 
used to excess usually with the cereal, fruit, and beverages, 
and these food habits should never be formed. Tea and 
coffee should never be given to a child, but the habit of 
drinking water should be encouraged. With thought and 
tact on the part of older people, the child will develop a 
liking for most ordinary, plain foods. All fancy and rich 
made dishes, especially those which are highly flavored, 
should be rigidly excluded from the meals of a child. 

The importance of proper food for the child in school is 
recognized more and more, as is shown by the action of 
school authorities and other interested parties in providing 
food at school. Frequently, as a result, better health follows, 
better order is found in the schoolroom, and lessons are 
better learned. Food, especially when eaten in the middle 
of the study period of the day, should be light and easy of 
digestion. Eggs and milk will be a safe foundation and 



Digitized by 



Googk 



FOOD REQUIREMENTS 127 

should be used more generously than meat. The pennies 
of school children are most commonly spent for candy and 
pickles. It is better to include in the meal some wholesome 
sweet and acid so that the craving for these things is satis- 
fied. Figs, dates, and raisins are desirable sweets for a 
child's lunch. Ice cream, if wholesome, is a valuable food, 
but that obtained from street venders is so frequently bad 
that it is dangerous to buy it. If the lunch is served at 
school, milk, soups, and cocoa or plain milk with crackers 
are good. Fresh and stewed fruits and vegetables should 
be liberally used. Good bread and butter is always desirable. 
Cookies, gingerbread, sponge cakes, and other mixtures 
which are not rich may well be included in the meals of 
children to supply variety and attractiveness. 

GENERAL EXERCISES 

Using the table for one-hundred-calorie portions, plan the three 
meals of a day which will have a total fuel value of 2500 calories. 

Estimate the calorific value of an ordinary breakfast. 

Using the tables given in this chapter, plan a day's meals for a 
man who is digging a ditch or sawing wood; a day's meals for 
a bookkeeper. The weight of both men is assumed to be 175 pounds. 

Plan one week's suitable noon lunches for a child in school. 

Test for starch several samples of prepared infant's food. How 
is this done } 

References 

Sherman. Chemistry of Food and Nutrition. 
Jordan. Principles of Human Nutrition. 
Rose. Laboratory Manual of Dietetics. 
Hutchison. Food and Dietetics. 
LusK. Science of Nutrition. 
Mendel. Childhood and Growth. 

Hunt. '* Daily Meals for School Children," BulUtin No. 3, Bureau of 
Education. 



Digitized by 



Googk 



128 A STUDY OF FOODS 

*' School Lunches," Tlte Journal of Home Economics^ February, 19 lo, 
April, 19 10, December, 19 10. 

Psychological Clinic, University of Pennsylvania, Symposium on School 
Feeding. 

"Classified List of Foods," Yearbook, 1909, Department of House- 
hold Science, Illinois Farmers' Institute. 

Atwater and Bryant. ** Chemical Composition of American Food 
Materials," Bulletin No. 28^ Office of Experiment Stations, U.S. 
Department of Agriculture. 



Digitized by 



Googk 



CHAPTER XXI 

SELECTION OF FOOD 

A few generations ago, when people produced much of 
their own food and transportation facilities were not so 
well developed, the variety of food at hand was not so 
great as now, and the possibilities of choice were not 
so many or so confusing. The choice of food for human 
beings is a real responsibility and should be more clearly 
recognized. Unfortunately, appetite is not always a safe 
guide, for food habits are rather easily formed, and an 
abnormal appetite is as easily and quickly formed as a 
normal, or correct, one. Appetite, or food habit, may lead 
to the eating of too much as well as to the eating of too 
little food. Both overnutrition and undernutrition may 
be commonly observed in people, due not only to too 
much or too little food eaten, but to food that is not 
wisely chosen. The only remedy for bad food habits is 
some real knowledge of the value of foods, as well as a 
knowledge of the individuals who are to eat them. At the 
present time any progressive stockman or farmer can tell 
what kind and amount of food is being given to the calf 
or the pig, but not many women in the same families have 
an equal knowledge of the food which is being given to 
the children, or to the grown-up members of the family. 
Mrs. Richards says, "Not all other influences put together 
can equal in profound effect upon the welfare of the 

129 



Digitized by 



Googk 



I30 A STUDY OF FOODS 

household that exercised by food and the attitude of mind 
regarding it/* Sugar is more nearly chemically pure than 
any of our ordinary food products; starch is practically 
pure carbohydrate, but most all of our common food mate- 
rials contain two or more nutrients or food principles, and 
a knowledge of the composition is necessary to a wise 
choice of foods. 

It is not only desirable that a person cultivate a liking, 
or taste, for all ordinary foods, but it is really a duty. In 
many cases so-called dislikes are only mistaken notions, 
and indicate bad food habits ' or poorly prepared food. 
Criticism of food at the table is not desirable and should 
never occur, as this is a strong influence in forming fancied 
dislikes and cultivating bad food habits. 

In the ordinary family there are both children and 
adults, and the differences in their need of food should 
be borne in mind. Certain peculiarities or abnormal con- 
ditions may need to be considered in connection with the 
individual. There should be a wide difference between 
the food of an infant and an adult, and errors in the nu- 
trition of the infant and the growing child may affect the 
health in later years. 

To properly select food, its chemical composition must 
be understood and interpreted in the terms of nutrients, 
or food principles — water, mineral matter, protein, carbo- 
hydrate, and fat. '' Chemical Composition of American 
Food Materials," Bulletin No. 28, gives the composition of 
all our ordinary foods. The figures cannot be remembered, 
but it is not too much to ask that the one who selects food 
should have in mind the general composition of the food 
materials. 



Digitized by 



Googk 



SELECTION OF FOOD 



131 



The table below suggests the nutrients for which some 
common foods are especially valued. 



Prothin 


Fat 


Carbohydrate 


Mineral Content 


Meat 


Butter 


Sugar 


Green vegetables 


Eggs 


Cream 


Starch 


Fruits 


Milk 


Bacon 


Bread 


Eggs 


Cheese 


Cheese 


Cereals 


Milk 


Legumes 


Nuts 


Dried fruits 




Nuts 


Fat meat 


Rice 




Fish 




Potatoes 
Macaroni 
Hominy 
Tapioca 
Dried beans 





It is not often that we select foods because of a high 
water content, for water is so easily obtainable elsewhere, 
but the following foods contain a large amount of water : 
milk, green vegetables (such as celery, lettuce, cabbage, 
cucumbers, and tomatoes), fresh fruits, and shell fish (such 
as oysters and clams). 

Oatmeal, graham flour, green vegetables, and fruits 
furnish bulk to the diet. 

Cost is a very real factor in selecting food, but it is not 
always properly considered. A cheap food is one which 
contains a large amount of nutritive material for a given 
sum of money — not necessarily one of low money cost. 
Cost is in no way a measure of the value of a food. Rarity, 
flavor, distance from market, season, and other factors 
enter into the money cost. Generally speaking, meats, 
dairy products, and vegetables and fruits out of season are 
high-priced foods. Plant foods, as a whole, are cheaper 



Digitized by 



Googk 



132 A STUDY OF FOODS 

than animal foods ; the cheapest foods are the cereals and 
legumes. The cost of fuel for cooking any food must be 
added to the cost of the raw material. Sometimes a sav- 
ing in the cost of food may be made by buying in large 
quantity and storing. 

Planning Meals 

Since so many factors enter into the wise selection of 
food, the planning of meals should be a subject for study. 
The housekeeper who carefully plans the meals for several 
days, or at least one day, in advance is able to select more 
wisely, buy more advantageously, secure more pleasing 
meals, and do it with less friction than the one who does 
not. Such a woman is in sharp contrast to the one who 
goes into the kitchen shortly before a meal, finds a lack 
of the things wanted, and starts the children in hurried 
trips to the store for the first article of food which comes 
to her mind as one that can be quickly prepared. The 
dropping of this careless habit would be much appreciated 
by the grocer, as well as by the members of the household. 

In planning meals the tastes of the family should be 
taken into account to a certain extent. Real likes and dis- 
likes should be carefully distinguished from whimsical 
notions. In every case the food should be so prepared 
and served that it is pleasing both in flavor and appear- 
ance. Monotony in meals is not necessary and indicates 
lack of thought and care. Variety in food has both a 
psychological and a physiological value. This may be ob- 
tained by using different foods or by using different 
methods for preparing and serving the same food. Meat 
and potatoes, for instance, need not always be fried. 



Digitized by 



Googk 



SELECTION OF FOOD 133 

A knowledge of the composition of food will prevent the 
serving of too many starchy foods at one meal, such as rice 
and potatoes, or macaroni and bread pudding ; or too many 
foods high in protein, as meat and cheese or legumes. 

Foods should be combined for a meal not only on the 
basis of composition, but with regard to flavor. Too many 
acid, sweet, or strong-flavored foods should not be com- 
bined in one meal, and should bear a proper relation to 
one another. 

Experience shows that dishes of somewhat different char- 
acter are chosen for the three meals of the day. Americans 
are tending toward the simple European breakfast of rolls 
or toast and coffee, although fruit, cereals, and sometimes 
a hot dish of some sort is added. The heavy meal of the 
day is dinner, whether served at noon or at night. In 
addition to the meat course, a salad course and a dessert 
course are often served. Frequently a soup course precedes 
the meat course. The soup and salad courses are some- 
times omitted. The luncheon or supper is a lighter meal. 

In planning meals the amount of labor involved in 
preparing the food should be taken into account. 

After food is wisely chosen, well prepared, and properly 
combined for a meal, some thought should be spent on 
its serving, for this may either add to or detract from 
the meal. 

GENERAL EXERCISES 

Make a list of dishes suitable for the three meals of the day. 

Suggest the more expensive dishes which appear in this list. 

Suggest the dishes on this list which require a long time in 
preparation. 

Plan meals for a day which will be low in cost; medium in cost; 
high in cost. Discuss and criticize. 



Digitized by 



Googk 



134 A STUDY OF FOODS 

References 

Langworthy. "Food Customs and Diet in American Homes," Cir- 
cular No. iiOi Office of Experiment Stations, U.S. Department of 
Agriculture. 

Richards. Cost of Food. 

Richards. Cost of Living. 

Norton. Food and Dietetics. 

" Rules and Regulations for the Enforcement of the Food and Drugs 
Act," Circular No. 21^ Last Revision, Office of the Secretary, U.S. 
Department of Agriculture. 

" Classified List of Foods," Yearbook, 1909, Department of Household 
Science, Illinois Farmers' Institute. 

Atwater and Bryant. "Chemical Composition of American Food 
Materials," Bulletin No. 28^ U.S. Office of Experiment Stations, 
Department of Agriculture. 



Digitized by 



Googk 



CHAPTER XXII 

SERVING MEALS 

The dining room should be cleaned, aired^ and in order. 
The linen should be as good as possible and carefully laun- 
dered, and the silver should be kept in good condition. 

Directions for Setting the Table 

If tablecloth is to be used, cover table first with silence 
cloth for protection, then put on tablecloth with middle 
fold in center of table. On tables of handsome wood, 
luncheon is often served without a cloth, individual doilies 
being used under all the dishes. 

A ** cover" is a place at table for each person and 
should consist of plate, napkin, glass, knives, forks, and 
spoons necessary for the meal. Twenty inches of space is 
the least that should be allowed for each cover ; and on 
formal occasions 30 inches should be given. The depth 
of cover is from 15 to 16 inches. 

Knives are placed at the right of the plate and about 
\ inch from the edge of the table with the cutting edge 
turned toward the plate. If more than *one knife is used, 
lay the last one to be used nearest the plate, the first knife 
to be used farthest from the plate, and the others in order 
of using. At the right of the knife or knives lay spoons 
with bowls up, in order of using. On formal occasions 

135 



Digitized by 



Googk 



136 A STUDY OF FOODS 

when a number are required they may be laid by the plate 
at the time of serving the course for which they are needed. 

Forks are placed, tines up, at the left of plate in the 
order of using, except the oyster fork, which is placed at 
right of spoons. 

The napkin is folded and laid at the left of the forks, 
or in the center of the place. 

The glass should be three quarters filled with water and 
placed at the right of cover, just above the point of the 
knife. 

The bread-and-butter plate is at the left above the forks. 

Individual salts and peppers are placed in front of each 
cover, or salt and pepper shakers may be placed between 
each two covers or at corners of the table. 

Directions for Serving 

Trays are used to carry silver, small dishes, and those 
dishes on which fingers are apt to come in contact with 
the food. Large dishes are sometimes more easily carried 
on a folded napkin. 

Be sure that hot dishes are served hot and cold dishes 
cold. 

Dishes from which portions are to be taken should be 
passed to the left. 

Dishes containing only individual portions are placed at 
the right with the right hand. 

When a course is removed, take first all large dishes 
containing food, then all soiled china, glass, and silver, then 
clean glass, silver, and china, and all things pertaining only 
to that course. Never pile dishes on one another. One 
may be removed in each hand or small pieces may be set 



Digitized by 



Googk 



SERVING MEALS 



137 



beside one another on a tray. Take the plates and other 
dishes from the right side of the cover. 

Crumbs are removed before the dessert course and 
between other courses if necessary. A clean napkin and 
plate are satisfactory for this purpose. 

The waitress should see that glasses are kept filled, 
butter, bread, and rolls always supplied without being asked 
for, and other things at hand as needed. 

Remove every soiled dish from the table as soon as the 
purpose which it has served is over. Move noiselessly and 
avoid all clatter of dishes. 

In serving begin with hostess or guest of honor (the 
lady at the right of the host) and pass to the other guests 
in order. 

GENERAL EXERCISES 

I . From a given list of materials, such as the following, plan and 
prepare a meal for one person. Select either Group I or Group II. 
and use any desired materials from the Common Supplies. 



Group I 


Group II 


Common 


Supplies 


I potato 


Rice or macaroni 


Ice 


Flour 


I egg 


I ^gs 


Butter 


i c tomato 


I c milk 


J c milk 


Bread 


Gelatin 


Salmon 


Cheese 


Vinegar 


Flavoring 


Orange or 


Pineapple or 


Lemon 


Lettuce 


Canned fruit 


Canned fruit 


Sugar 





Serve appropriately. Compare the meals as to originality, desira- 
bility, and attractiveness of service. 

2. Plan the three meals of the day for six persons at a cost of 
$1.80, or 30 cents each. 

Make and hand in the order list. 



Digitized by 



Googk 



138 



A STUDY OF FOODS 



Prepare and serve the meals. Score according to meal score card 
in the Appendix. 

Tabulate, in form similar to the one indicated below, the amount 
and cost of materials used. 





Foods 


Amount 


Cost 









Calculate the cost of fuel used in preparation of the above meals, 
and the cost of labor at ten cents per hour. 

What is the total cost of the meals of the day ? 



Digitized by 



Googk 



APPENDIX I 

Food Standards 

The fact that poorly prepared food is often found sug- 
gests the need of better standards. It is easy and natural 
to like the things to which we are accustomed, and often- 
times a family is found which is fond of its own particular 
kind of sour bread, or its hard-fried, leathery beefsteak. 
Comparison is one of the best means of setting a good 
standard, and the score card affords a ready means of 
emphasizing the good or bad points of an article. The 
following score cards have been found useful, and others 
could be easily formulated. 

Bread ^ (White, Salt-rising, Rye, Graham) 

Flavor 35 

Lightness 15 

Grain and Texture 20 

Crust 

Color ^ 

Depth I 10 

Texture J 
Crumb 

Color ^ 

Moisture/ 

Shape and Size 10 

100 

^ Illinois score card for bread. — Bevier. 
139 



Digitized by 



Googk 



I40 A STUDY OF FOODS 

Steamed Brown Bread and Corn Bread 

Flavor 40 

Lightness 15 

Texture 20 

Crust 10 

Appearance 15 

100 

Loaf Cakes 

Flavor 35 

Lightness 15 

Texture 20 

Crust 10 

Appearance 

Shape, Size 1 

Color of Crust I 20 

Icing J 

100 

Layer Cakes 

Flavor 30 

Lightness 15 

Texture 20 

Icing 20 

Appearance 15 

100 

Cookies, Doughnuts, and Fancy Cakes 

Flavor 40 

Lightness 15 

Texture 20 

Appearance 

Form ^ 

Size, etc. I 25 

Additions J 

100 



Digitized by 



Googk 



FOOD STANDARDS 141 

Pies 

Flavor 40 

Crust 

Flakiness ^ 
Tenderness J 

Appearance 20 

100 
Candy 

Flavor 50 

Texture 30 

Appearance 20 

100 
Canned Fruit 

Flavor 60 

Color 15 

Condition of Fruit 15 

Consistency of Sirup 10 

100 
Jelly 

Flavor 50 

Color 15 

Consistency 20 

Texture 15 

100 
Preserves 

Flavor 50 

Color 15 

Consistency of Sirup 20 

Condition of Fruit 15 

100 
Pickles, Catsup, etc. 

Flavor 60 

Condition 25 

Color 15 

100 



Digitized by 



Googk 



40 



142 A STUDY OF FOODS 

Fruit Butter and Marmalade 

Flavor 60 

Consistency 25 

Color 15 

100 
Score Card for a Meal 

Selection of food 

Quality of materials 

Combination of nutrients 

Combination of flavors 

Variety and suitability 

Preparation of food 35 

Service 

Table appointments 1 

Attractiveness of food I 25 

Table service J 

100 
Contests 

The contest may be a valuable means of making com- 
parisons and forming standards. A bread-judging contest 
is frequently arranged for a class or a club, in which a 
number of loaves of bread are judged, according to the 
score card, by the contestants. Other contests could easUy 
be arranged in the same way. 



Digitized by 



Googk 



APPENDIX II 

Retail Cuts of Beef 

[Reprint from Bulletin No. ij8y University of Illinois, Agricultural Experiment 

Station, by L. D. Hall and A. D. Emmett, to be used in connection with their 

photographs of retail cuts] 

Taking the net cost of the lean meat as a basis of comparison, 
we learn from these data that the most expensive steaks at the 
prices given are the porterhouse cuts, followed by the club, sir- 
loin, flank, round, and chuck steaks. Of the different roasts the 
first-cut prime ribs are the most costly in terms of lean meat, 
and the rump roast is the most economical. The various boil- 
ing and stewing pieces furnish lean meat more economically at 
market prices than either the roasts or steaks ; the rib ends and 
briskets being the dearer cuts of this class, while the neck and 
shank stews are relatively cheapest. Several of the soup bones 
are very economical sources of lean meat, particularly the mid- 
dle cuts of both shanks; and only one of them is extremely 
expensive, even on this basis. In general, the wide variation 
between the various cuts in net cost of lean is remarkable, 
ranging from 7.5 cents in one of the soup bones to 40.5 cents 
in a prime rib roast, and up to 62.5 cents in the hock soup 
bone ; the latter, however, being used primarily for its flavoring 
substance rather than for lean meat. It will be observed, also, 
that the market prices of the cheaper cuts correspond much 
more closely to their net cost of lean meat than is true of the 
higher-priced steaks and roasts. 

The net cost per pound of gross meat, or lean and fat com- 
bined, varies much less as between the different cuts than does 
the net cost per pound of lean, because the proportions of total 
meat are more nearly uniform than the percentages of lean. 

143 



Digitized by 



Googk 



144 A STUDY OF FOODS 

The various steaks and roasts rank in substantially the same 
order as to relative economy on this basis as on the basis of 
lean meat. The rib roasts, however, are considerably more 
economical as compared with the porterhouse and sirloin steaks 
when all the edible meat is considered. The rump shows a 
very low cost per pound of edible meat, due to the large pro- 
portion of fat it contains ; and a still further difference is noticed 
in the case of the rib ends, brisket, navel, flank, neck, and sev- 
eral of the soup-bone cuts. The stewing meats are generally the 
most economical sources of edible meat at these prices, while 
porterhouse steaks are the most expensive. 

On the whole, the data clearly show that the cheaper cuts 
of beef are by far the most economical sources both of lean 
and of total edible meat, including fat and lean. It has been 
shown that no correlation exists between market prices and the 
proportion of flavoring substances contained in various portions 
of the carcass ; and cooking tests indicate that the proportion 
of waste and shrinkage is not necessarily greater in the cheaper 
than in the more expensive cuts. It is evident, therefore, that 
retail prices of beef cuts are determined chiefly by considera- 
tions other than their food value, such as tenderness, grain, 
color, general appearance, and convenience of cooking. 



Digitized by 



Googk 



APPENDIX II 



145 



Cost of Lean and of Total Meat in the Various Retail 
Cuts at Market Prices 











Cost (in 




"n 


Retail 


Cost (in 


Cents) per 


Retail Cuts 


Number 
(Page 147) 


Price (in 
Cents) 


Cents) per 
Pound of 


Pound of 
Lean and 




per Pound 


Lean Meat 


Fat Meat 






OF Cut 


in Cut 


IN Cut 


Steaks 










Porterhouse, hip-bone 


8 


25 


386 


28.9 


Porterhouse, regular 


10 


25 


40.2 


27.2 


Club steak 


18 


20 


321 


22.6 


Sirloin, butt-end 


I 


20 


25-3 


20.6 


Sirloin, round-bone 


3 


20 


28.3 


21. 1 


Sirloin, double-bone 


5 


20 


28.7 


22.7 


Sirloin, hip-bone 


7 


20 


32-3 


24.2 


Flank steak 


I 


16 


193 


16.0 


Round, first cut 


2 


15 


17.0 


15-3 


Round, middle cut 


6 


15 


17-3 


15.6 


Round, last cut 


14 


15 


193 


16.0 


Chuck, first cut 


2 


12 


18.3 


14.1 


Chuck, last cut 


9 


12 


157 


131 


Roasts 










Prime ribs, first cut 


I 


20 


40.5 


22.9 


Prime ribs, last cut 


4 


16 


26.1 


18.8 


Chuck, fifth rib 


I 


15 


22.8 


17-3 


Rump 


I 


12 


19.4 


12.8 


Boiling and stewing pieces 










Round pot roast 


16 


10 


11.6 


lO.I 


Shoulder clod 


14 


10 


12.3 


10.5 


Shoulder pot roast 


II 


10 


M-3 


11.6 


Rib ends 


3 


8 


16.2 


9.2 


Brisket 


I 


8 


15.0 


8.7 


Navel 


2 


7 


12.8 


1-1 


Flank stew 


2 


7 


10.9 


71 


Fore shank stew 


I 


7 


8.5 


7.0 


Neck 


15 


6 


8.5 


7.0 


Soup bones 










Round, knuckle 


2 


5 


26.3 


12.5 


Hind shank, middle cut 


18 


5 


7-5 


6.3 


Hind shank, hock 


19 


5 


62.5 


26.6 


Fqre shank, knuckle 


2 


5 


17.2 


12.5 


Fore shank, middle cut 


4 


5 


12.5 


9.4 


Fore shank, end 


6 


5 


28.8 


20.9 



Digitized by 



Googk 



146 



A STUDY OF FOODS 




Hind Quarter 
Round 
Rump 

Round with rump and shank off 
Hind shank 

Loin 
Flank 

Fore Quarter 
Rib 
Chuck 

Chuck, knuckle out 

Clod 

Neck 

Plate 
Shank 



Method of cutting the Three Sides, showing Wholesale Cuts 



Digitized by 



Googk 



RETAIL CUTS 



147 



Hind Quarter 
Round 

Rump 

1, rump 

Round with rump and shank off 

2, round steak, first cut 
3-13, round steaks 

14, round steak, last cut 

15, knuckle soup bone 

16, pot roast 

Hind shank 



17, 18, soup bones 
19, hock soup bone 

Loin 

1, butt-end sirloin steak 

2, wedge-bone sirloin steak 

3, 4, round-bone sirloin steak 
5, 6, double-bone sirloin steak 

7, hip-bone sirloin steak 

8, hip-bone porterhouse steak 
9-15, regular porterhouse steak 
16-18, club steaks 

Flank 

1, flank steak 

2, stew 



Rib 



Fore Quarter 

1, nth and 12th rib roast 

2, 9th and 10th rib roast 

3, 7th and 8th rib roast 

4, 6th rib roast 



Chuck 



I, 5th rib roast 
2-9, chuck steaks 
10-13, pot roasts 

14, clod 

15, neck 

Plate 

1, brisket 

2, navel 

3, 4, rib ends 

Fore shank 




Keck 



1, stew 

2, knuckle soup bone 
3-6, soup bones 

Method of cutting the Three Sides, showing Retail Cuts 



Digitized by 



Googk 



148 A STUDY OF FOODS 



First Cut Sirloin Steak. Loin Cut No. i 



Wedge-Bone Sirloin Steak. Loin Cut No. 2 



Round-Bone Sirloin Steak. Loin Cut No. 3 



Digitized by 



Googk 



RETAIL CUTS 149 



Round-Bone Sirloin Steak. Loin Cut No. 4 



Double-Bone Sirloin Steak. Loin Cut No. 5 



Hip-Bone Sirloin Steak. Loin Cut No. 7 



Digitized by 



Googk 



ISO A STUDY OF FOODS 



Hip- Bone Porterhouse Steak. Loin Cut No. 8 



Regular Porterhouse Steak. Loin Cut No. 9 



Regular Porterhouse Steak. Loin Cut No. 10 



Digitized by 



Googk 



RETAIL CUTS 151 



Regular Porterhouse Steak. Loin Cut No. 12 



Regular Porterhouse Steak. Loin Cut No. 13 



Regular Porterhouse Steak. Loin Cut No. 14 



Digitized by 



Googk 



152 A STUDY OF FOODS 



Regular Porterhouse Steak. Loin Cut No. 15 



Club Steak. LoiN Cut No. 16 



Club Steak. Loin Cut No. 17 



Digitized by 



Googk 



RETAIL CUTS 153 



Club Steak. Loin Cut No. 18 



Eleventh and Twelfth Rib Roast. Rib Cut No. i 



Ninth and Tenth Rib Roast. Rib Cut No. 2 



Digitized by 



Googk 



154 A STUDY OF FOODS 



Seventh and Eighth Rib Roast. Rib Cut No. 3 



Sixth Rib Roast. Rib Cut No. 4 



Digitized by 



Googk 



RETAIL CUTS 155 



Rump Roast. Round Cut No. i 



Round Steak. Round Cut No. 2 



Digitized by 



Googk 



156 A STUDY OF FOODS 



Round Steak. Round Cut No. 3 



Round Steak. Round Cut No. 4 



Digitized by 



Googk 



RETAIL CUTS 157 



Round Steak. Round Cut No. 5 



Round Steak. Round Cut No. 6 



Digitized by 



Googk 



158 A STUDY OF FOODS 



Round Steak. Round Cut No. 7 



Round Steak. Round Cut No. 8 



Digitized by 



Googk 



RETAIL CUTS 159 



Round Steak. Round Cut No. 12 



Round Steak. Round Cut No. 14 



Hind-Shank Soup Bone. Round Cuts Nos. 17, 18, 19 



Digitized by 



Googk 



i6o A STUDY OF FOODS 



Round Pot Roast. Round Cut No. i6 



Knuckle Soup Bone. Round Cut No. 15 



Digitized by 



Googk 



RETAIL CUTS l6i 



Chuck Rib Roast. Chuck Cut No. i 



Chuck Steak. Chuck Cut No. 2 



Chuck Steak. Chuck Cut No. 3 



Digitized by 



Googk 



i62 A STUDY OF FOODS 



Chuck Steak. Chuck Cut No. 4 



Chuck Steak. Chuck Cut No. 5 



Chuck Steak. Chuck Cut No. 6 



Digitized by 



Googk 



RETAIL CUTS 163 



Chuck Steak. Chuck Cut No. 7 



Chuck Steak. Chuck Cut No. 8 



Digitized by 



Googk 



i64 A STUDY OF FOODS 



Chuck Steak. Chuck Cut No. 9 



Shoulder Pot Roast. Chuck Cut No. 10 



Digitized by 



Googk 



RETAIL CUTS 165 



Shoulder Pot Roast. Chuck Cut No. ii 



Shoulder Pot Roast. Chuck Cut No. 12 



Digitized by 



Googk 



i66 A STUDY OF FOODS 



Chuck Stew. Chuck Cut No. 13. 



Shoulder Clod. Chuck Cut No. 14 



Neck. Chuck Cut No. 15 



Digitized by 



Googk 



RETAIL CUTS 167 



Brisket. Plate Cut No. 



Navel. Plate Cut No. 2 



Rib Ends. Plate Cut No. 3 



Digitized by 



Googk 



1 68 A STUDY OF FOODS 



Rib Ends. Plate Cut No. 4 




Flank Stew. Flank Cut No. i 



Flank Steak. Flank Cut No. 2 



Digitized by 



Googk 



RETAIL CUTS 169 



Shank Stew. Fore-Shank Cut No. 



Knuckle Soup Bones. Fore-Shank Cuts Nos. 2, 3 



Fore-Shank Soup Bones. Fore-Shank Cuts Nos. 4, 5, 6 



Digitized by 



Googk 



Digitized by 



Googk 



INDEX 



Albumen, 6i, 62 

Almonds, 124 

Apples, dried, 15; baked, 17; fuel 

value of, 124 
Apricots, dried, 15 
Ash in milk, 54 
Asparagus, 17 

Bacon, 124 

Baking powder, 103-104 

Baking soda, 102 

Bananas, 124 

Beans, as a green vegetable, 1 7 ; 
dried, 51, 124 ; baked, 52 ; cream 
of Lima, 53 

Beef. See Meat 

Beef broth, 74-75 

Beets, 17 

Biscuit, 105 

Body energy, 1 20-1 27 

Bread, corn, 103 ; composition of, 
108-111; score card for, 11 1- 
112; effect of temperatures upon 
yeast, 112; long-process, 113; 
short-process, 113-114; whole- 
wheat, graham, or rye, 114; 
Parker House rolls, 114; cin- 
namon rolls, 114; fuel value of, 
1 24 ; Illinois score card for, 139- 
140 

Butter, 124 

Butterscotch, 35 

Cabbage, 17, 124; escaloped, 19 
Cake, sponge, loi ; white sponge, 

102 ; white, 104 ; score card for, 

140 
Canning powders, 23 
Carbohydrates, value of, 2 ; study 

of, 3-4 ; starch, 37 ; in milk, 54 ; 

pectin, 87; in some common 



foods, 116; fuel value of, 120- 
121 

Carrots, 17 

Cauliflower, 17 

Cereals and cereal products, 43- 
48 ; composition and food value 
of, 43-45; boiled rice, 45; es- 
caloped rice, 46 ; rice pudding, 
46 ; boiled macaroni, 46 ; maca- 
roni with tomato sauce, 46-47 ; 
advantage of long cooking, 47 ; 
corn-meal mush, 47 ; fried mush, 
47 ; rolled oats, 47-48 

Cheese, 65-67; composition and 
food value of, 65 ; effect of heat 
on, 66; Welsh rabbit, 66; French 
rabbit, 66 ; fuel value of, 1 24 

Cheese crackers, 66 

Cheese and pimento sandwiches, 
66-67 

Chocolate, 58, 124 

Chocolate creams, 35 

Codfish balls, 84-85 

Coffee, 13 

Corn, water in cooking, 17; 
canned, 25-26 

Corn meal, as a food, 44; for bread, 
97, 103 ; fuel value of, 124 

Corn-meal mush, 47 

Cornstarch pudding, 38 

Cottage cheese, 58 

Cream, 124 

Croquettes, beef, 79; fish, 85; 
potato, 92 

Custard, baked, 63 ; soft, 63-64 

Dates, dried, 15, 124 
Dextrin, 37 
Doughnuts, 105-106 
Doughs, 99-100, 105-106 
Drawn-butter sauce, 84 



171 



Digitized by 



Googk 



1/2 



A STUDY OF FOODS 



Dried legumes, 51-53; baked 
beans, 52 ; dried- pea soup, 52 ; 
lentil soup, 52 ; cream of lima 
beans, 53 ; peanut sandwiches, 
53; salted peanuts, 53 

EggSj 61-64; composition and food 
value of, 6 1 -62; manipulation of, 
62 ; effect of heat on,62 ; poached, 
62-63; omelet, 63; baked cus- 
tard, 63; soft custard, 63; fuel 
value of, 1 24. See also Cake 

Fat, food value of, 2-3 ; study of, 
4; in peanuts, 51 ; in milk, 54; 
in eggs, 61 ; in cheese, 65 ; in 
meat, 68; in fish, 81 ; in some 
common foods, 118; fuel value 
of, 120, 121 

Fats and oils, 90-93 ; composition 
and food value of, 90-91 ; effect 
of heat on, 91 ; types of com- 
mercial, 91 ; ice cream, 91-92 ; 
Saratoga chips, 92 ; potato cro- 
quettes, 92 

Figs, dried, 1 5 

Fish, 81-86; composition and food 
value of, 81 ; boiled, 83; baked, 
83 ; stuffing for, 83 ; sauces for, 
84 ; escaloped salmon, 84 ; cod- 
fish balls, 84-85 ; escaloped 
left-overs, 85; creamed, 86 

Fish croquettes, 85 

Flour, 94-98; composition of, 94; 
varieties of wheat, 94-95 ; food 
value of, 95-97 ; graham and 
whole-wheat, 96; rye, barley, 
buckwheat, corn, 97 ; batters 
and dough, 99-107 ; leavening 
mixture, 99-100; oven tests, 
loi ; baking temperatures, 101 ; 
popovers, 101 ; sponge cake, 
101-102 ; gingerbread, 102 ; sour- 
milk griddlecakes, 102-103 ; 
corn bread, 103 ; baking-powder 
griddlecakes, 104; muffins, 104; 
white cake, 104 ; boiled icing, 
104-105; biscuit, 105; short- 
cake, 105; doughnuts, 105-106; 
bread, 108-115 



Fondant, 34-35 

Food, I -10; defined, i; function 
of, 1-3; chemical composition 
of, 2-6 ; carbohydrates, 3 ; fats, 
4 ; proteins, 4 ; water, 5 ; mineral 
matter, 5; preparation of, 6; 
temperatures, . 8 ; fuels, 9 ;• se- 
lection of, 129-134; good and 
bad habits in choosing, 1 29-130 ; 
table of nutrients, 131 ; planning 
meals, 132-133; serving meals, 

135-138 

Food requirements, 1 20-1 28 ; for 
different persons, 122; one- 
hundred-calorie portions, 1 23 ; 
for the infant, 123-125; for 
young children, 125-126; for 
school children, 126-127 

Food standards, 139-142 

French rabbit, 66 

Fruit punch, 12-13 

Fruits, composition and food value 
of, 15; fresh and dried, 16; 
baked apples, 1 7 ; stewed 
prunes, 19 ; in salads, 19, 20, 21 ; 
preserving, 22-30; experiments 
in preserving, 23-24; canned 
peaches, 26; grape conserve, 
27 ; grape jelly, 27-28 

Fuels for cooking, 9 

Gelatin, 87-89 ; jellied prunes, 88 ; 

orange whip, 88 ; snow pudding, 

88 ; tomato jelly, 89 
Gingerbread, 102 
Gluten, 94, 95, 97, 99 
Grape conserve, 27 
Griddlecakes, 102-103, 104 

Hash, meat, 79 

Heat, in preserving foods, 23, 25 ; 

effect of, on protein, 70, 75-76; 

effect of, on fat, 90, 91 
Hominy, 44 

Ice cream, 91-92 
Icing, boiled, 104-105 

Jelly, 27 ; grape, 27-28 
Junket, 58 



Digitized by 



Googk 



INDEX 



173 



Lactose, 33 

Legumes, 51-53 

Lemon ice, 13 

Lemonade, 12 

Lentil soup, 52 

Lima beans, cream of, 53 

Macaroni, composition of, 44; 
boiled, 46; with tomato sauce, 
46-47 

Matire-d'hdtel butter, 84 

Meals, planning, 132-133; serving, 
135-138 ; setting the table, 135- 
136; score card for, 142 

Meat, 68-80; composition and 
food value of, 68-69; cooking, 
70-71; cuts of beef, 71-72; 
methods of cooking, 73-74; 
effect of dry and moist heat 
on protein of, 75; pan-broiled 
porterhouse steak or chops, 76; 
beef roast, 76; pressed veal, 
76 ; Swiss steak, 77 ; brown 
stew, 77 ; pot roast, 77 ; substi- 
tutes for, 78 ; minced, 79 ; escal- 
oped, 79; browned hash, 79; 
beef croquettes, 79; descrip- 
tion and cost of various cuts, 
143-169 

Meat salad, 79 

Milk, 54-59 ; composition and 
food value of, 54-57 ; pasteur- 
ization of, 57 ; effect of boiling, 
57 ; modifying, 57-58 ; cottage 
cheese, 58 ; junket, 58 ; choco- 
late, 58 ; potato soup, 58-59 ; 
compared with other foods, 1 1 6- 
119; for infants and children, 
123-127 

Mineral matter, in composition of 
food, 2-3 ; study of, 5-6 ; in 
cooked fruits, 1 5 ; in potatoes, 
40 ; in eggs, 61 ; in meat, 68 

Molasses taffy, 35 

Muffins, 104 

Oatmeal, 124 
Oats, 44-45, 47-48 
Olives, 124 
Omelet, 63 



Onions, water in cooking, 17; 

creamed, 19 
Orange whip, 88 
Oranges, 124 
Oysters, 81-86; composition and 

food value of, 8 1 -83; creamed, 85 

Pasteurization, 57 

Peaches, dried, 1 5 ; canned, 26 

Peanut brittle, 34 

Peanuts, in sandwiches, 53 ; salted, 

53 

Peas, 17 ; dried, in soup, 52 

Pectin, 87 

Pickles, 28, 124 

Popovers, loi 

Pot roast, 77 

Potato croquettes, 92 

Potato salad, 42 

Potato soup, 58-59 

Potatoes, 40-42 ; composition and 
food value of, 40; boiled, 41; 
creamed, 41 ; mashed, 41 ; au 
gratin^ 41-42 ; buttered crumbs, 
42 ; escaloped, 42 ; fuel value of, 
124 

Protein, food value of, 2-3 ; study 
of, 4-5 ; in potatoes, 40 ; in 
cereals, 43-45 ; in dried legumes, 
51 ; in milk, 54, 55 ; in eggs, 61 ; 
in cheese, 65 ; in meat, 68, 69 ; 
gelatin, 87 ; in flour, 94 ; in some 
common foods, 117; fuel value 
of, 1 20-1 2 1 

Prunes, dried, 1 5 ; stewed, 1 9 ; 
jellied, 88 ; fuel value of, 1 24 

Raisins, as a concentrated food, 
15; fuel value of, 1 24 

Rice, composition and food value 
of, 43, 45, 124 ; boiled, 45 ; escal- 
oped, 46 

Rice pudding, 46 

Rolls, Parker House, 114; cinna- 
mon, 114 

Salads, food value of, 19; dress- 
ings, 20; vegetable, 21; fruit, 
2 1 ; potato, 42 ; meat, 79 

Salmon, escaloped, 84 



Digitized by 



Googk 



174 



A STUDY OF FOODS 



Sandwiches, cheese and pimento, 
66 

Saratoga chips, 92 

Sherbet, 13 

Shortcake, 105 

Skimmed milk, food value of, 55 

Snow pudding, 88-89 

Soups, lentil,. 52; dried pea, 52; 
cream of lima beans, 53; po- 
tato, 58-59 

Spaghetti, composition of, 44 

Spinach, 17; boiled, 19 

Starch, 37-39; composition and 
food value of, 37 ; in cooking, 
38; cornstarch pudding, 38; 
white sauce, 38; cream toast, 
39 ; in potatoes, 40 ; in cereals, 
43~45 ' ^^ dried legumes, 51 ; 
in flour, 94 

Steak, flavor, 68, 71 ; methods of 
cooking, 73 ; pan-broiled porter- 
house, 76 ; Swiss, 77 

Sugar, 31-36; kinds of, 31-33; 
effect of heat on cane sugar, 
34 ; peanut brittle, 34 ; fondant, 
34-35; chocolate creams, 35; 
molasses taffy, 35 ; butterscotch, 
35; fuel value of, 124 

Sweet potatoes, glazed, 19 



Tartar sauce, 84 
Tea, 13 



Temperatures, in cooking, 8-9; 

baking, 101 
Toast, cream, 39 
Tomatoes, 17 ; canned, 26-27 ; 

with macaroni, 46; jellied, 89; 

fuel value of, 124 
Typhoid fever and oysters, 83 

Water, in food, 2-3, 5, 11-14; 
hard and soft, 11 ; safe, 11 -12; 
for lemonade, coffee, etc., 12- 
14 ; in fruits, 1 5 ; in green vege- 
tables, 17; in potatoes, 40; in 
milk, 54 ; in eggs, 61 ; in cheese, 
65 ; in meat, 68 ; in fish, 81 

Welsh rabbit, 66 

Veal, pressed, 76 

Vegetables, green, composition 
of, 17; canned, 17; creamed 
onion, 19; escaloped cabbage, 
19; glazed sweet potatoes, 19; 
spinach, 19; in salads, 19-21; 
preserving, 22-30 ; experiments 
in preserving, 23-24 ; canning, 
25-27 ; canned corn, 25; canned 
tomatoes, 26-27 ; pickling, 28 ; 
cucumber pickles, 28 

Yeast, 108-111, 112 



M.".'' 17 1915 



Digitized by 



Googk 



ANNOUNCEMENTS 



Digitized by 



Googk 



Digitized by 



Googk 



PURE FOODS 

THEIR ADULTERATION, NUTRITIVE VALUE, 
AND COST 

By John C. Olsen, Professor of Analytical Chemistry, Polytechnic Institute of 
Brooklyn, N.Y,, Editor of Fan Nostrand's Chemical Annual^ etc. 



i2mo, cloth, 2io'pages, illustrated, 80 cents 



"Pure Foods : their Adulteration, Nutritive Value, and Cost" 
aims to present, in language easily understood, the results of the 
large amount of scientific investigation to which the various phases 
of the food problems have been subjected in recent years. 

The text includes the chemical composition of each class of 
foods, the methods used in producing the food, and the com- 
mon adulterations, together with a number of simple tests for 
the detection of these. The directions are so explicit that they 
may be carried out by persons who have not been trained as 
chemists. 

The. nutritive value of foods being given, it is shown how 
the true cost may be estimated. 

There is a statement of legal requirements for pure foods, 
and a list of references to literature on the subject so that those 
interested may pursue it still further. 

This volume is admirably adapted for use in domestic science 
or chemistry classes where the chemistry of foods is studied and 
laboratory tests made for purity. It will also furnish excellent 
supplementary reading in the upper grammar grades. 

The intelligent consumer of foods and the food producer or 
dealer will find this of great assistance in purchasing pure and 
nutritive foods. 

GINN AND COMPANY Publishers 



Digitized by 



Googk 



BACTERIA, YEASTS, AND 
MOLDS IN THE HOME 

By H. W. CONN 

Professor of Biology in Wcsleyan University. 1 2mo, cloth, 
293 pages, illustrated 



THE book contains an important summary of the facts which 
have rapidly accumulated in recent years concerning the 
relation of microorganisms to all matters connected with 
the home. The work is a popular and not a scientific discussion, 
free from many technical terms, and admirably adapted to the 
needs of the housewife, the student of domestic science, and all 
others interested in home economics. 

Molds, which are the cause of mildew, the spoiling of many 
foods, and the decay of fruits ; yeasts, which are the foundation 
of fermentation in the raising of bread ; and bacteria, which cause 
food to spoil, meat to decay, and contagious diseases to spread, — 
all these phenomena which are of the most vital importance are 
presented in an interesting and helpful manner. The author 
explains the various actions of bacteria, and points out the sources 
of trouble and the principles which underlie the methods to be 
adopted for avoiding their effects. Special attention is paid to 
the problems of food preservation and to the practical methods 
which can be used in the home for preventing the distribution 
of contagious diseases. 

To render the work more useful for classes in domestic science 
there is added an appendix containing directions for a series of 
simple experiments which will give to the student a practical 
knowledge of the most important properties of microorganisms. 

— 

GINN & COMPANY Publishers 



Digitized by 



Googk 



ELEMENTARY APPLIED CHEMISTRY 

By Lewis B. Allyn, State Normal School, Westfield, Mass. 



l2mo, cloth, 127 pages, illustrated, 60 cents 



This book offers practical applications of chemistry to pres- 
ent-day civic and industrial problems. The course is essentially 
that conducted by the author in the Westfield State Normal 
School, where a pure-food campaign has been made one of the 
objects of the course. The widespread results shown in the 
almost complete elimination of the sale of impure foods in 
the city of Westfield are matters of national knowledge. 

Besides the work with food products, the book includes 
exercises with water, textile fabrics, drugs, soils, and similar 
materials. It gives a particularly complete analysis of each 
subject and brings out clearly the practical relation which 
chemistry bears to everyday matters. The order of presen- 
tation differs radically from that of the usual textbook in 
chemistry, the common elements, bases, and radicals being 
taken up as they naturally occur. 

For supplementary use with any regular textbook " Elemen- 
tary Applied Chemistry " is invaluable. Teachers of domestic 
science will find the chapter on food values most important, 
while for boards of health, inspectors of milk, and all those inter- 
ested in the pure-food problem, the book has a special function 
in its valuable information and tests relating to their work. 

GINN AND COMPANY Publishers 



Digitized by 



Googk 



TEXTBOOKS IN 
PHYSICS AND CHEMISTRY 

FOR HIGHER SCHOOLS AND COLLEGES 

PHYSICS 

Cavanagh, Westcott, and Twining: Physics Laboratory Manual $0.70 

Gage: Physical Experiments ' 35 

Gage : Physical lyaboratory Manual and Notebook 35 

Gage : Principles of Physics (Revised by Goodspeed) .... 1.50 

Hastings and Beach : Textbook of General Physics 2.75 

Higgins : Lessons in Physics 90 

Higgins: Simple Experiments in Physics 35 

Hill: Essentials of Physics i.io 

Ives : Experiments in Physics 50 

Miller: Laboratory Physics 2.00 

Millikan: Mechanics, Molecular Physics, and Heat . . . . . 1.50 
Millikan and Gale: First Course in Physics (Rev. Ed.) . . . . 1.25 

Millikan and Gale : Laboratory Course in Physics 40 

Millikan and Mills : Electricity, Sound, and Light 2.00 

Mills: Introduction to Thermodynamics 2.00 

Newman : Laboratory Exercises in Elementary Physics (in four 

books) per doz. 1.50 

Sabine : Laboratory Course in Physical Measurements .... 1.25 
Smith, Tower, and Turton : Manual of Experimental Physics . . .80 
Snyder and Palmer : One Thousand Problems in Physics ... .50 

Stone: Experimental Physics i.oo 

Wentworth and Hill: Text-Book in Physics (Rev. Ed.) . . . 1.15 
Wentworth and Hill: Laboratory Exercises (Rev. Ed.) 25 

CHEMISTRY 

Allyn : Elementary Applied Chemistry 60 

Dennis and Whittelsey : Qualitative Analysis (Rev. Ed.) . . . i.oo 
McGregory: Qualitative Chemical Analysis (Rev. Ed.) .... i.oo 
McPherson and Henderson : Course in General Chemistry . . 2.25 
McPherson and Henderson : Elementary Study of Chemistry . 1.25 

McPherson and Henderson : Exercises in Chemistry 40 

Moore : Logarithmic Reduction Tables [In />ress] 

Morse : Exercises in Quantitative Chemistry 2.00 

Olsen : Pure Foods : Their Adulteration, Nutritive Value, and Cost .80 
Ostwald and Morse : Elementary Modern Chemistry .... i.oo 
Sellers : Treatise on Qualitative Analysis (Rev. Ed.) .... i.oo 

Thorp: Inorganic Chemical Preparations i-S© 

linger : Review Questions and Problems in Chemistry 50 

Williams : Chemical Exercises 3° 

Williams: Essentials of Chemistry t-25 

Williams: Laboratory Manual of General Chemistry 25 

GINN AND COMPANY Publishers" 



Digitized by 



Googk 



Digitized by 



Googk 



Digitized by 



Googk 



Digitized by 



Googk 



Digitized by 



Googk 



