SUBSTITUTES FOR 

MEAT 



ISSUED BY 

MAYOR MITCHEL'S COMMITTEE 
ON FOOD SUPPLY 



JOHN PURROY MITCHEL, Mayor 
GEORGE W. PERKINS, - Chairman 
JOSEPH HARTIGAN, - Secretary 



NOVEMBER, 1914 



SUBSTITUTES FOR 

MEAT 



ISSUED BY 

MAYOR MITCHEL'S COMMITTEE 
ON FOOD SUPPLY 






JOHN PURROY MITCHEL, Mayor 
GEORGE W. PERKINS, - Chairman 
JOSEPH HARTIGAN, - Secretary 



NOVEMBER, 1914 



\ 



'b 



f2> 



. 



^5 




D. 



D- 



?r Jft8il 



* 



cf 



4. 

J 

J 



CONTENTS 



Page 

INTRODUCTION 7 

EGGS: 

Eggs a la Suisse 9 

Eggs Susette 9 

Eggs a la Livingstone ' .' 9 

Eggs baked in tomatoes 9 

Poached egg in tomato 9 

Eggs au gratin 9 

Egg croquettes 9 

Cheese omelet 10 

Bread omelet 10 

Creamed cheese and eggs 10 

SOUPS: 

Cream of potato 10 

Cream of tomato 11 

Cream of pea 11 

Cream of cauliflower 11 

Cream of carrots 11 

Cream of cabbage ,. 12 

Cream of rice 12 

Cream of asparagus 12 

Cream of green peas t 12 

Cream of string beans ' 12 

Cream of spinach " v 12 

Cream of corn ■ 12 

Cream of celery ' •' 12 

Potato chowder 12 

Corn chowder 13 

Onion soup 13 

Chestnut soup 13 

Egg soup 13 

Cheese soup 14 

Black bean soup 14 

Split pea or bean soup 14 

Baked bean soup 15 

Lentil soup 15 

Cream of lentils soup 15 

Lentil puree 15 

MACARONI, SPAGHETTI AND NOODLES: 

Baked macaroni 15 

Macaroni baked with tomatoes 15 

Macaroni a l'ltalienne 16 

Macaroni with brown sauce 16 

Boiled macaroni with cheese 16 

Sauce for macaroni 16 

Macaroni with tomato sauce 16 

Macaroni croquettes 16 

Macaroni timbale 17 

Spaghetti with tomato sauce 17 

Noodles 17 



CONTENTS— Continued 

CHEESE: Page 

Cheese relish 18 

Cheese fondue 18 

Cheese dreams 18 

Cheese souffle 18 

Cheese custard 18 

Cheese with red peppers 18 

Cream toast with cheese 18 

Cheese and tomato rarebit 19 

Cheese with tomato 19 



CEREALS: 

Cereal with fruit 19 

Oatmeal mush with apples 19 

Oatmeal muffins 19 

Raised oatmeal muffins 19 

Raised hominy muffins 20 



RICE: 



Savory rice 20 

Rice balls with tomato sauce 20 

Cheesed rice 20 

Rice with cheese 20 

Turkish pilaf 20 

Rice a la Riston 21 

Rice and cheese croquettes 21 

Rice and tomato croquettes 21 

Baked rice and cheese 21 

Rice with apple compote 21 

Rice muffins 21 

Raised rice muffins 22 

NUTS: 

Nut loaf, No. 1 22 

Nut loaf, No. 2 22 

Nut and cheese roast ' 22 

Nut scrapple '. 22 

Nut and celery salad, No. 1 22 

Nut and celery salad, No. 2 23 

Nut muffins (without eggs) 23 

Prunes stuffed with nuts 23 

Chestnuts with brown sauce 23 

Chestnuts en casserole 23 

Stewed chestnuts 23 

Chestnut puree 23 

BANANAS: 

Moulded cereal with banana surprise 23 

Baked bananas 24 

Banana fritters 24 

Banana fried in crumbs 24 

Sauted bananas 24 

Banana sandwich 24 

Banana and nut salad 24 



CONTENTS— Continued 

PEAS: 

Page 

Puree of peas ?4 

Pea timbales 04 

Creamed peas 04 

Spring salad ?e 

> 

BEANS: 

Baked beans ~e 

Boston baked beans ..... ....[/.. . or 

Pork and beans ......... ?e 

Bean polenta pc 

Bean croquettes ?(■ 

Puree of beans of. 

Boston roast ?5 

Kidney beans with brown sauce ...... .' . . .' .' .' .' .' .' .' .' ' .' ' [ ..........[ 26 

LENTILS: 

Baked lentils 9f - 

Curried lentils ?7 

Lentils and rice [[[ ' ' ' 07 

Lentil cakes 07 

Lentil croquettes ........:. 27 

Lentils and rice croquettes 27 

Louisiana lentils "." 97 

Mashed lentils ...'. "' Zi 

Buttered lentils Zi 

Fried lentils 28 

Lentil gravy with rice 28 

Lentil pancakes " Z% 

Lentil salad " 0% 

Lentils as a side dish 28 

POTATOES: n 

Potatoes au gratin 2« 

Scalloped potatoes 28 

Potato custard .'....... ?q 

Potato souffle 29 

Potato croquettes •" ' ' 09 

German potato salad ?o 

Potato salad ' ' ?o 

Potato and nut salad 29 

Potato and egg salad 30 

CABBAGE: 

Creamed boiled cabbage 3q 

Cabbage with cheese !.!!!!.. 30 

Stuffed cabbage m 

Cabbage rolls 30 

TOMATOES: 

Stuffed tomatoes ^1 

Curried tomatoes \] 

Scalloped tomatoes 31 



CONTENTS— Continued 

CORN: Page 

Corn pudding No. 1 31 

Corn pudding No. 2 31 

Corn, mock oysters 32 

Corn fritters 32 

PEPPERS: 

Huntington stuffed peppers 32 

Stuffed peppers 33 

Pepper timbal 33 

EGG PLANT: 

Egg plant baked in shell 33 

VEGETABLE HASH 33 

STUFFED SPANISH ONIONS 33 

SAUCES: 

White sauce 33 

Tomato sauce 34 

Brown sauce 34 

Lemon sauce 34 

Mayonnaise dressing 34 

FISH 34 



IN PLACE OF MEAT 



INTRODUCTION 



To the Purchasing Public: 

YOU EAT IN ORDER TO KEEP YOURSELF ALIVE 

The work you do, the exercise you take, the thoughts you think, each 
breath you draw — all these use up a certain proportion of your body each 
day. If you want to live and keep well, this used-up portion must be 
replaced, and this is done through the food you eat. Part of your 
food furnishes you with new blood ; part of it goes to make bone ; part 
of it builds up new tissue or flesh, etc. 

Meat has always been considered the best tissue or flesh building 
food, and for this reason people have always eaten it a great deal. Most 
of our meat has come from the Western states, but the tremendously 
large ranches of twenty years ago are gradually being cut up into small 
farms, and cattle are not "being raised in such large numbers any more. 
This is one reason why meat costs so much. Another reason is the great 
demand there is for it on the part of our people, who do not know 
that there are other foods that will supply the needs of the body in just 
»the same way that meat does, and which do not cost as much as meat. 
For instance, we can use fish in place of meat much more than we do. 

Other foods that can take the place of meat are eggs, milk, creamed 
soups, macaroni, cheese, cereals, nuts, bananas, peas, beans and lentils. 

Eggs contain all the elements, in the right proportion, necessary for 
the support of the body. They are rich in the same flesh-building element 
as the lean of meat, and, therefore, make an excellent substitute for meat. 
They should be eaten with foods that are rich in starch, such as bread 
and potatoes. If so eaten, they will take care of your body just as 
completely as meat would. 

Milk contains heat-giving, strength-giving and tissue-building 
properties. Creamed soups and purees made with milk and the pulp of 
vegetables can take the place of meat. 

Macaroni, spaghetti and noodles contain so much starch and flesh- 
building material that they are equal to meat as a food if combined with 
cheese. The fat that they lack is supplied by the cheese, and, when so 
combined, they make a perfect food. 

Cheese contains in a condensed form the same flesh-building material 
as meat, and can be used in place of it. If combined with macaroni, rice, 
etc., it will supply all the needs of the body. Cheese costs less than most 



8 

cuts of meat. A given amount of money will buy twice as much food 
value if spent for cheese as it will if spent for beef. 

Cereals contain in varying proportions all the elements necessary to 
support life. They contain a great deal of starch, which is valuable as a 
strength-giver. Oatmeal and corn meal contain more fat than the 
other cereals, and, therefore, make a good winter food, especially for 
hard-working people. Cereals with cooked fruits are particularly 
appetizing. A bowl of oatmeal, eaten for breakfast, will furnish the 
average man with all the strength, heat and energy he will need, and 
it is not necessary for him to eat meat in addition. 

Nuts contain in a condensed form the same flesh-building material 
as meat. Some of them contain a great deal of fat as well. They should 
not be eaten between meals, but, either raw or cooked, they can take the 
place of meat. A pound of shelled almonds is equal in food value to 
three pounds of steak. Hickory nuts and pecans added to muffins or 
yeast breads may be used as a substitute for meat. Peanuts are also 
rich in fat and flesh-building material. 

Bananas contain most of the nourishment that meat does, and if eaten 
with bread and butter make an excellent lunch without the addition of 
meat. Most children prefer banana sandwiches to meat sandwiches, and 
they cost much less. 

Peas, beans and lentils are richer in flesh-building material than any 
other vegetable, and can be used in place of meat. Lentils are more 
easily digested than either peas or beans. If properly prepared, all these 
make very appetizing dishes. A dish of baked beans, costing about 14 
cents, will furnish a family of six with more nourishment than two pounds 
of beef, costing 44 cents. 

In stating that the various dishes given in this pamphlet can be used 
in place of meat it is not our purpose to urge you to give up eating meat 
altogether. It is a fact, however, that as a people we eat too much meat, 
and you would undoubtedly find yourself much benefited physically if 
you would cut down on the amount of meat you eat and vary your diet 
more than you do. 

You do not have to eat meat in order to keep well and strong. A 
great many people never eat meat at all, but find in other foods all the 
strength and life-giving properties they require. 

// our meat supply continues to dwindle in the future as it has in the 
past meat will some day be very scarce, and sooner or later you will have 
to learn to use other foods in place of meat. 

BEGIN NOW AND SAVE MONEY 



EGGS 

EGGS A LA SUISSE. 

4 eggs Salt 

y 2 cup milk or cream Pepper 

1 tablespoon butter Cayenne 

2 tablespoons grated cheese. 

Heat a small omelet pan, put in butter, and, when melted, add milk 
or cream. Slip in the eggs one at a time ; sprinkle with salt, pepper and a 
few grains of cayenne. When whites are nearly firm sprinkle with cheese. 
Finish cooking, and serve on buttered toast. Pour sauce from the pan 
over the eggs. 

EGGS SUSETTE. Wash and bake six large potatoes, cut slice 
from top of each, scoop out inside and mash. To three cups mashed 
potato add six tablespoons finely chopped ham, two tablespoons finely 
chopped parsley, whites of two eggs well beaten, three tablespoons butter, 
four tablespoons cream or milk, and salt and pepper. Line potato shells 
with mixture, place in each cavity a poached egg, cover with potato 
mixture, and bake until browned. Care must be taken to have eggs 
delicately poached. 

EGGS A LA LIVINGSTONE. 

4 eggs 54 teaspoon paprika 

3/2 cup stewed and strained tomatoes 2 tablespoons butter 
Yz teaspoon salt 

Beat eggs slightly and add tomatoes, salt and paprika. Melt butter 
in an omelet pan, add seasoned eggs, and cook same as scrambled eggs. 
Butter slices of toasted bread. Pour over the eggs and sprinkle with 
parsley. 

EGGS BAKED IN TOMATOES. Eggs may be baked in small 
tomatoes. Cut a slice from stem end of tomato, scoop out the pulp, 
slip in an egg, sprinkle with salt and pepper, cover with buttered crumbs, 
and bake. 

POACHED EGG IN TOMATO. Cut a piece from the stem 
end of a tomato ; remove pulp ; set in ramekin dish ; sprinkle with salt and 
pepper; drop egg into tomato cup, cover with buttered paper. Set in a 
pan of water and bake in a moderate oven until firm. 

EGGS AU GRATIN. Arrange poached eggs on a shallow but- 
tered dish. Sprinkle with grated Parmesan cheese. Pour over eggs one 
pint white sauce. Cover with stale bread crumbs and sprinkle with 
grated cheese. Brown in oven. Tomato sauce may be used instead of 
white sauce. 

EGG CROQUETTES. 

6 eggs Salt 

2 tablespoons butter Pepper 

1 slice onion Yolks 3 eggs 

l /z cup flour Stale bread crumbs 

1 cup white stock Grated cheese 



10 

Poach eggs and dry on a towel. Cook butter with onion three 
minutes. Add flour and, gradually, stock. Season with salt and pepper ; 
then add yolks of eggs slightly beaten. Cook one minute, and cool. 
Cover eggs with mixture ; roll in bread crumbs and cheese, using equal 
parts ; dip in egg, again roll in crumbs, fry in deep fat, and drain on 
brown paper. These may be served with a thin white sauce, seasoned 
with grated cheese, salt and paprika. 

CHEESE OMELET. 

2 eggs Yz teaspoon salt 

1 tablespoon melted butter Few grains cayenne 

1 tablespoon grated cheese 

Beat eggs slightly; add one-half teaspoonful of melted butter, salt, 
cayenne and cheese. Melt remaining butter in frying pan, add mixture 
and cook until firm without stirring. Roll and sprinkle with grated 
cheese. 

BREAD OMELET. 

3 eggs y 2 cup of bread crumbs 
34 teaspoon salt y 2 cup of milk 

1 dash of black pepper Piece of butter, size of walnut 

Beat the eggs separately. Add to the yolks the milk, salt, pepper and 
the bread crumbs. Now stir into this carefully the beaten whites; mix 
very lightly. Put the butter in a very smooth frying-pan ; as soon as hot 
turn in the mixture gently, and set it over a clear fire, being very careful 
not to burn ; shake occasionally to see that the omelet does not stick. 
Now stand your frying-pan in the oven for a moment to set the middle of 
the omelet. When done, toss it over on a warm platter to bring the 
brown side of the omelet uppermost ; or, it may be folded in half and 
then turned out in the center of the platter. Serve immediately or it 
will fall. 

CREAMED CHEESE AND EGGS. 

3 hard boiled eggs 1 tablespoon flour 
Yz teaspoonful salt Few grains cayenne 

4 slices toast 1 cup milk 

1/4 cup grated cheese 

Make a thin white sauce with flour, milk and seasoning. Add cheese, 
stir till melted. Chop egg whites and add to sauce. Pour over toast. 
Force yolks through a strainer. Sprinkle over the toast. 



SOUPS 

CREAM OF POTATO SOUP. 

1 qt. milk or milk and water 1 teaspoon salt 
l*/2 cups potatoes mashed Few grains pepper 

2 tablespoons butter 1 sliced onion 
\Yz tablespoons flour 1 bay leaf 



11 

Put the onion and bay leaf into the milk and heat to the scalding 
point. Remove the onion and bay leaf and add the mashed potatoes. 
Stir until smooth ; then add the flour and butter rubbed together. Cook 
until it thickens slightly. Add seasoning and sprinkle over with finely 
chopped parsley. 

CREAM OF TOMATO SOUP. 

Small can of tomatoes 1 slice onion 

2 tablespoons butter 1 slice green pepper 

2 tablespoons flour Salt and pepper to taste 

1 quart milk Few grains cayenne 

1/4 teaspoon of bicarbonate of soda 

Put tomatoes, onion and green pepper into a saucepan and cook 
slowly for about ten minutes ; then put through a strainer. Rub flour and 
butter together until smooth. Add this to the milk and stir over 
moderate fire until it thickens slightly. Add soda to the tomato juice and 
pour the milk into the tomato juice. Do not combine tomato and milk 
until ready to serve. 

CREAM OF PEA SOUP. 

1 can peas 1 slice onion 

2 teaspoons sugar 2 tablespoons butter 
1 pint cold water 2 tablespoons flour 

1 pint milk 1 teaspoon salt 

y% teaspoon pepper 

Drain peas from their liquor, add sugar and cold water and simmer 
twenty minutes. Rub through a sieve, re-heat and thicken with butter 
and flour cooked together. Scald milk with onion, remove onion and 
add milk to pea mixture. 

CREAM OF CAULIFLOWER SOUP. 

4 cups hot white stock or water y 2 bay leaf 

1 cauliflower }i cup flour 

54 cup butter 2 cups milk 

1 slice onion Salt 

1 stalk celery cut in inch pieces. Pepper 
or y 2 teaspoon celery salt 

Soak cauliflower, head down, one hour in cold water to cover ; cook 
in boiling salted water twenty minutes. Reserve one-half flowerets, and 
rub remaining cauliflower through sieve. Cook onion, celery, and bay 
leaf in butter five minutes. Remove bay leaf, then add flour and stir 
into hot stock or water; add cauliflower and milk. Season with salt 
and pepper; then strain, add flowerets, and reheat. 

CREAM OF CARROT SOUP. 

Carrots \ J /> teaspoons salt 

2 slices onion Few grains cayenne 
Sprig parsley 2 cups water 

34 cup rice 2 cups scalded milk 

4 tablespoons butter 2 tablespoons flour 



12 

Chop enough carrots to make two cups. Cook in water until tender. 
Press through sieve, keeping the water the carrots were cooked in. Cook 
rice in milk in double boiler. Cook onion in butter; add flour and 
seasonings. Mix carrots with rice and milk, and add butter, flour and 
the water the carrots were cooked in; bring to the boiling point, strain 
and serve. Garnish with chopped parsley. If this soup seems too thick, 
thin with cream or milk. 

CREAM OF CABBAGE SOUP. 

1 small cabbage 4 tablespoons butter 

2 cups water 1 teaspoon salt 

2 cups milk }i teaspoon pepper 

3 slices onion Few grains cayenne 

2 tablespoons flour 

Chop cabbage, add water, and cook until tender; press through a 
sieve. Melt butter, add chopped onion, cook slowly five minutes, add 
flour, scalded milk and cabbage mixture ; cook five minutes. Add season- 
ings, strain and serve. 

CREAM OF RICE SOUP. 

1 cup rice 2 cups milk or cream 

6 cups cold water 4 tablespoons butter 

1 small onion 2 tablespoons flour 

1 green pepper Salt, cayenne and nutmeg 

1 teaspoon chopped parsley 1 teaspoon Worcestershire sauce 

Cook rice, onion and pepper in cold water until rice is tender. Press 
through a sieve. Melt butter, add flour, milk or cream, and seasonings ; 
boil five minutes. Combine mixtures. Add parsley and serve. 

CREAM OF ASPARAGUS; CREAM OF GREEN PEAS; 
CREAM OF STRING BEANS; CREAM OF SPINACH; CREAM 
OF CORN; CREAM OF CELERY. These soups are very delicate, 
and are much esteemed. They are all made in the same way. The 
vegetable is boiled until soft, and is then pressed through a sieve. 
A pint of the vegetable pulp is diluted with a quart of stock or water (the 
stock may be veal, beef or chicken broth). It is thickened with one table- 
spoon of butter and two tablespoons of flour rubbed together until 
smooth, and seasoned with pepper and salt, and is then strained 
again, so it will be perfectly smooth. 

POTATO CHOWDER. 

6 good-sized potatoes 1 pint milk or cream 

% lb. salt pork 1 pint water 

1 onion 1 tablespoon chopped parsley 

1 tablespoon butter 1 teaspoon salt 

1 tablespoon flour ]/ 2 teaspoon pepper 

Cut the potatoes into dice, cut the pork into small pieces, and put 
it with the sliced onion into a frying pan, and fry until a light brown. 

Put into a kettle a layer of potatoes, then a layer of onions and pork, 
and sprinkle with salt, pepper, and chopped parsley. Repeat this until 
all the potatoes, pork, onions, and parsley are in. Pour over them the 



13 

grease from the pan in which the pork and onions were fried. Add one 
pint of water, cover, and let simmer twenty minutes. Scald the milk 
in a double boiler, and add the flour and butter, rubbed together until 
smooth. Add this to the pot when the potatoes are tender, and stir 
carefully together, so as not to break the potatoes. Taste to see if the 
seasoning is right. Serve very hot. 

CORN CHOWDER. 

1 can corn 3 cups water 

1 cup salt pork cut in cubes 2 cups milk 

1 cup potatoes 1 tablespoon butter 
y 2 cup onion 1 tablespoon flour 
Salt and cayenne ^ CU P cracker crumbs 

Cook salt pork in frying pan five minutes ; add onion and cook 
until yellow. Parboil potatoes five minutes ; add to onion with corn and 
water ; cook twenty minutes. Thicken milk with butter and flour cooked 
together. Combine mixtures ; add cracker crumbs and seasonings, and 
serve. 

Succotash may be substituted for corn. 

ONION SOUP. 

6 medium-sized onions 3 tablespoons butter 

3 cups cold water 4 tablespoons flour 

2 cups scalded milk 1 egg yolk 

Salt and cayenne 2 tablespoons Parmesan cheese 

1 tablespoon pimento 

Chop onions, cook in two tablespoons butter five minutes ; add water, 
cook thirty minutes, press through a sieve. Melt remaining butter, add 
flour, scalded milk and seasonings, cook five minutes. Combine mixtures, 
add egg yolk slightly beaten, Parmesan cheese and pimento. 

CHESTNUT SOUP. 

2 cups chestnuts shelled and Cayenne 

blanched Nutmeg 

• 3 cups cold water 2 tablespoons onion 

2 cups scalded milk 4 tablespoons butter 

Y% teaspoon celery salt 2 tablespoons flour 

Salt 1 cup milk or cream 

Cook chestnuts in cold water until tender, press through a sieve, 
and add scalded milk. Cook onion in butter five minutes, add flour, 
seasonings and chestnut mixture. Cook five minutes, add milk or cream, 
strain and serve. 

Note — To shell chestnuts, make a cross on either side of the nut 
with a sharp knife. Put one teaspoon melted butter in dripping pan ; 
add chestnuts and cook in oven until shells come off easily. 

EGG SOUP (Four Persons). 

4 cups of milk 6 eggs 

4 level teaspoons of flour 1 level saltspoon of salt 

Pinch of pepper 



14 

Boil two of the eggs hard; put the milk into the double boiler, and 
when heated stir in thoroughly the flour, wet in cold milk. Cook from 
fifteen to twenty minutes, stirring frequently, and stir in four of the eggs, 
which have been beaten very light, stirring constantly over the fire for two 
minutes. Add the seasoning; chop the hard-boiled egg very fine, sprinkle 
over the top of soup, and serve. 

CHEESE SOUP. 

2 tablespoons of Parmesan 1 cupful boiled rice or spaghetti 

1 quart of hot milk 1 saltspoon of salt 

2 well-beaten eggs % teaspoon of pepper 

In a large saucepan melt the cheese with a little milk. When the 
cheese is dissolved, slowly add one quart of hot milk (do not let the 
milk come to a boil, keep stirring constantly). Then stir in two well- 
beaten eggs, adding them very slowly to prevent curdling. Cook for 
five minutes, adding the seasoning and one cupful of boiled rice or 
spaghetti, but do not let the mixture boil at any time. 

BLACK BEAN SOUP. 

1 pint black beans */& teaspoon pepper 

2 quarts cold water 54 teaspoon mustard 

1 small onion Few grains cayenne 

2 stalks celery, or 3 tablespoons butter 
% teaspoon celery salt \ l / 2 tablespoons flour 
K teaspoon salt 2 hard-boiled eggs 

1 lemon 

Soak beans over night ; in the morning drain and add cold water. 
Slice onions and cook five minutes with half the butter, adding to beans, 
with celery stalks broken in pieces. Simmer three or four hours, or 
until beans are soft; add more water as water boils away. Rub through 
a sieve, re-heat to the boiling point, and add salt, pepper, mustard and 
cayenne well mixed. Mix with remaining butter and flour cooked 
together. Cut eggs in* thin slices, and lemon in thin slices, removing 
seeds. Put in tureen and strain the soup over them. 

SPLIT-PEA OR BEAN SOUP. 

1 cupful of split peas, or 2 quarts of water 

1 cupful of dried beans y 2 teaspoonful of sugar 

1 tablespoon of butter 1 tablespoon of flour 

Salt and pepper to taste. 

Let the peas or beans soak over night in three quarts of cold water. 
Put the soaked peas or beans into a saucepan with two quarts of water 
and a ham-bone, if you have it, otherwise it may be omitted. Let simmer 
for four or five hours, or until the peas or beans are perfectly soft. (Add 
more water from time to time, if necessary.) Then pass them through a 
sieve ; add to the pulp enough stock or milk or water to make a soup 
of the consistency of cream. Put it again into a saucepan on the fire ; 
season, and add a roux made of one tablespoonful of butter and one 
tablespoonful of flour cooked together; dilute the roux to smoothness 
with a little of the soup before adding it to the pot. 

An onion may be boiled with the peas or beans if desired. 

Serve croutons on the soup, or pass them. (Croutons are small 
pieces of bread fried in butter.) 



15 

BAKED BEAN SOUP. 

3 cups cold baked beans 2 tablespoons butter 

3 pints water 2 tablespoons flour 

2 slices onion 1 tablespoon Chili sauce 

2 stalks celery Salt 
\y 2 cups stewed and strained Pepper 
tomatoes 

Put beans, water, onion and celery in saucepan ; bring to boiling 
point and simmer thirty minutes. Rub through a sieve, add tomato and 
Chili sauce, season to taste with salt and pepper, and mix with the butter 
and flour cooked together. Serve with crisp crackers. 

LENTIL SOUP. To the contents of a can of lentils add some 
broth or water, chopped parsley and onions, brown sauce or butter and 
flour. Also, if desired, a few pieces of frankfurter sausage. Boil five 
minutes and serve. 

CREAM OF LENTIL SOUP. Two cups of canned lentils, 
eight cups water, three tablespoons chopped onions, two tablespoons but- 
ter, two tablespoons flour, two cups milk. Cook the onions ten minutes, 
add to the lentils and press through a sieve. Melt butter, add flour and 
milk and cook five minutes. Combine the mixture, season to taste and 
serve with small pieces of bread fried in butter. 

LENTIL PUREE. Wash and soak for about eight hours half a 
pint of lentils. Put the lentils, together with a small carrot, an onion, 
three leeks and a little celery, into two quarts of cold water. Place 
over a slow fire and bring to the boiling point. Add a piece of butter 
the size of an egg, stir well and serve very hot, with croutons. 

MACARONI, SPAGHETTI AND NOODLES 

BAKED MACARONI. 

% pound of macaroni J / 2 cup of milk or cream 

% pound of grated cheese 1 tablespoon of butter 

Salt and pepper 

Break the macaroni in convenient lengths, put it in a two-quart 
kettle and nearly fill the kettle with boiling water ; add a teaspoon of salt 
and boil rapidly twenty-five minutes (the rapid boiling prevents the 
macaroni from sticking together) ; drain in a colander, then throw into 
cold water to blanch for ten minutes; then drain again in the colander. 
Put a layer of the macaroni in the bottom of a baking dish, then a layer of 
cheese, then a sprinkling of salt and pepper, then another layer of 
macaroni, and so continue until all is used, having the last layer macaroni. 
Cut the butter in small bits ; distribute them evenly over the top ; add the 
milk or cream and bake until a golden brown (about twenty minutes) 
in a moderately quick oven. Serve in the dish in which it was baked. 

MACARONI BAKED WITH TOMATOES. Arrange layers 
of cooked macaroni, stewed and seasoned tomato, and chopped green 
pepper. Dot each layer with butter. Cover all with buttered cracker 
crumbs. Bake in hot oven. 



16 

MACARONI A LTTALIENNE. 

34 pound of macaroni y 2 pint of milk 

y pound of grated cheese Butter the size of a walnut 

Salt and white pepper to taste. 

Break the macaroni in convenient lengths. Put in a two-quart kettle 
and nearly fill the kettle with boiling water ; add a teaspoonful of salt 
and boil rapidly twenty-five minutes ; then drain ; throw into cold water to 
blanch for ten minutes. Put the milk into a double boiler ; add to it the 
butter, then the macaroni and cheese; stir until thoroughly heated, add 
the salt and pepper, and serve. 

MACARONI WITH BROWN SAUCE. 

34 pound of macaroni 2 tablespoons of Parmesan 

1 quart of stock or water Salt and pepper to taste 

Break the macaroni in pieces two inches long. Put the stock or 
water on to boil. When boiling, add the macaroni and boil rapidly for 
thirty minutes. When done, put it in a colander to drain. Put one table- 
spoon of butter in a frying-pan ; and when brown, add one tablespoon of 
flour, mix until smooth ; then add a half-pint of stock and stir continually 
until it boils ; add the cheese, then the macaroni, and let it boil up once. 
Season to taste, and serve. 

BOILED MACARONI WITH CHEESE. Put the macaroni 
into salted boiling water, and cook it twelve to fifteen minutes, or until 
it is tender. When it is cooked, drain off all the water and cover the 
hot macaroni with grated cheese (Parmesan and Gruyere mixed). With 
two forks mix lightly the cheese with the macaroni. Turn it into the hot 
serving-dish, and pour over it the sauce given below. Serve at once. 

SAUCE FOR MACARONI. Put into a saucepan one and a 
half tablespoonfuls of butter. Add a small onion chopped fine and a 
half clove of garlic. Cook until all are browned; then add three table- 
spoonfuls of water in which the macaroni was boiled and a teaspoonful 
of beef extract. Add, also, three or four soaked mushrooms and let 
it simmer for five minutes. 

This amount of sauce is enough for a pound of macaroni. 

The mushrooms given in this receipt are the dried cepes, which can 
be bought by the pound at Italian groceries. They are the best, after the 
fresh mushrooms, to use for sauces. They should not be cooked longer 
than five minutes to give their best flavor. 

MACARONI WITH TOMATO SAUCE. Boil macaroni in 
water for thirty minutes ; drain off the water and serve with tomato 
sauce and cheese. 

MACARONI CROQUETTES. 

1 cup cooked macaroni y± cup milk or stock 

4 tablespoons butter Few drops onion juice 

4 tablespoons flour Salt and pepper 

y 2 cup cheese 
Melt butter ; add flour and cheese ; when well blended add milk, onion 
juice, and seasonings. Cool, add macaroni ; shape, dip in crumbs, egg 
and crumbs, and fry in deep fat. 



17 

MACARONI CROQUETTES. 

6 ounces of macaroni ^2 pint of milk 

1 tablespoon of butter 2 tablespoons of flour. 

2 tablespoons of grated cheese Yolks of 3 eggs 

Salt and pepper to taste 

Break the macaroni in pieces about two inches long. Put it in a 
kettle nearly full of boiling water, and boil rapidly twenty-five minutes. 
When done, put it in a colander to drain, then into cold water for fifteen 
minutes ; drain again, and then cut it in pieces a half-inch long. Put 
the milk on to boil. Rub the butter and flour together until smooth ; 
stir into the milk when boiling, and stir continually until it thickens ; then 
add the cheese and macaroni, salt, pepper, and the yolks of the eggs ; 
cook one minute longer; then turn out on a plate to cool. When cold, 
form into cone-shaped croquettes ; roll first in egg and then in bread 
crumbs, and fry in deep hot fat. Serve with cream sauce. 

MACARONI TIMBALE. 

6 ounces of left over meat or 1 teaspoon of mushroom catsup 

vegetables 1 teaspoon of Worcestershire sauce 

4 tablespoons of bread crumbs 2 ounces of macaroni boiled and 

1 tablespoon of stock cut in pieces one inch long 

1 egg 

Mix the crumbs and meat or vegetables well together; then add the 
stock, seasoning and sauces ; mix, and add the egg, well beaten. Grease 
a plain pudding mould, and line it with the boiled macaroni ; fill with the 
mixture, and press in compactly. Put the lid on the mould and fasten it. 
Then stand the mould in a kettle, with sufficient boiling water to about 
two-thirds cover it. Now put the lid on the kettle, and boil for one 
hour. When done, turn it from the mould, pour cream sauce around 
it, and serve. 

SPAGHETTI WITH TOMATO SAUCE. 

% pound of spaghetti 1 large tablespoon of butter 

1 tablespoon of flour l / 2 pint of stewed tomatoes 

Salt and pepper to taste 

Take a handful of the long sticks; put the ends into boiling salted 
water; as they soften bend and coil the spaghetti in the water without 
breaking it. Boil rapidly twenty minutes. W r hen done, put it in a col- 
ander to drain, then stand the colander in a pan of cold water for fifteen 
minutes. Put the butter in a frying-pan to melt ; add to it the flour ; 
mix until smooth; then add the tomatoes (strained), and stir continually 
until it boils. Now carefully add the spaghetti, let it boil up once, and 
serve without cutting. 

NOODLES. Throw a few noodles at a time into boiling, salted 
water; boil them until they are done, separating them carefully with a 
fork to prevent their matting together. Skim them out when done, 
and keep them on a warm dish on the hot shelf until enough are cooked. 
Season with butter. Put them in the dish in which they are to be served, 
and sprinkle over them bread crumbs browned in hot butter to a golden 
color. This dish may be served with fish, with meat, or as a course 
by itself. Noodles may also be cooked like macaroni, with cheese. 



18 

CHEESE 

CHEESE RELISH. 

1 cup bread broken in small y teaspoonful pepper 

pieces 1 cup milk 

y 2 cup cheese 1 egg 

1 teaspoonful salt 

1 tablespoon ful butter 

Mix ingredients well, place in buttered baking dish and bake 25 
minutes. 

CHEESE FONDUE. 

1 cup scalded milk 1 tablespoon butter 

1 cup stale bread crumbs J / 2 teaspoon salt 
y lb. mild cheese (in small 3 eggs 

pieces) 

Mix first five ingredients ; add yolks of eggs beaten until stiff. Fold 
in whites of eggs beaten until stiff. Pour into buttered baking dish and 
bake twenty minutes in moderate oven. 

CHEESE DREAMS. Cut twelve thin slices of bread and remove 
crusts. Cut in halves, cover with a thin slice of American cheese, 
sprinkle with salt, paprika and cayenne; cover with another slice of bread 
and saute on both sides in butter. These are more easily prepared small 
than large. 

CHEESE SOUFFLE. 

2 tablespoon fuls butter y 2 teaspoon salt 

3 tablespoon fuls flour y cup American cheese, grated 
y 2 cup scalded milk 3 eggs 

Melt butter, add flour, and when well mixed add gradually scalded 
milk. Add salt and cheese. Remove from fire ; add yolks of eggs well 
beaten. Cool mixtures and put in whites of eggs beaten until stiff and 
dry. Pour into a buttered baking dish and bake twenty minutes in a slow 
oven. Serve at once. 

CHEESE CUSTARD. Melt two tablespoons butter; add one 
teaspoon each of salt, mustard and paprika. Add two cups cheese, one 
half cup soft bread crumbs, and one cup milk. Cook five minutes. 
Add two eggs well beaten ; when thoroughly blended, pour on to bread 
toasted on one side. 

CHEESE WITH RED PEPPERS. Melt two tablespoons 
butter, add four tablespoons chopped pepper, one-half tablespoon 
chopped onion, one-fourth cup grated cheese, one-fourth cup milk or 
cream, four eggs slightly beaten. Cook until well blended and serve 
on buttered slices of toast. 

CREAM TOAST WITH CHEESE. Make toast; make white 
sauce. To white sauce, just before taking from the fire, add y 2 cup 
of grated cheese. When this is melted, pour over the toast. 



19 

White Sauce 

2 tablespoons of flour 1 cup of milk 

2 tablespoons of butter y 2 teaspoon salt 

}i teaspoon pepper 

Rub flour and butter together until smooth. Add milk slowly. 
Stir over fire until it thickens (just to the boiling point). Remove 
from fire and add salt and pepper. 

CHEESE AND TOMATO RAREBIT. Melt one tablespoon 
butter; add three sliced tomatoes, one-half cup milk, one teaspoon 
salt, two cups cheese. Stir continually until cheese is melted. Add 
three eggs well beaten. When hot, serve on hot buttered toast. 

CHEESE WITH TOMATO. Place slices of buttered bread 
in pans. On top place a slice of tomato, grated cheese on this, a slice 
of bacon on this. Bake in a moderate oven. 

CEREALS 

CEREAL WITH FRUIT. 

24 cup cereal 1 teaspoon salt 

24 cup cold water y 2 pound dates, stoned, and cut in 

2 cups boiling water pieces 

Mix cereal, salt and cold water; add to boiling water placed on 
front of range. Boil five minutes, steam in double boiler thirty min- 
utes ; stir in dates, and serve with milk or cream. Prunes or any other 
cooked fruit may be used instead of dates. 

OATMEAL MUSH WITH APPLES. Core apples, leaving 
large cavities ; pare and cook until soft in syrup made by boiling 
sugar and water together, allowing one cup sugar to one and one-half 
cups water. Fill cavities with oatmeal mush ; serve with sugar and 
cream or milk. The syrup should be saved and re-used. Berries, 
sliced bananas, or sliced peaches are acceptably served with any 
cereal. 

OATMEAL MUFFINS. 

1 cup cooked oatmeal y 2 teaspoon salt 

1 y 2 cups flour y 2 cup milk 

2 tablespoons sugar 1 egg 

4 teaspoons baking powder 2 tablespoons melted butter 

Mix and sift flour, sugar, salt and baking powder; add one-half 
milk, egg well beaten, the remainder of the milk mixed with oatmeal, 
and beat thoroughly ; then add butter. Bake in buttered muffin rings 
placed in buttered pan or bake in buttered gem pans. 

RAISED OATMEAL MUFFINS. 

24 cup scalded milk 34 yeast cake dissolved in 

y cup sugar y cup lukewarm milk 

y 2 teaspoon salt f 1 cup cold cooked oatmeal 

2y 2 cups flour 



20 

Add sugar and salt to scalded milk ; when lukewarm, add dis- 
solved yeast cake. Work oatmeal into flour with tips of fingers, and 
add to first mixture ; beat thoroughly, cover, and let rise over night. 
In morning, fill buttered iron gem pans two-thirds full, let rise on 
back of range that pan may gradually heat and mixture rise to fill 
pan. Bake in moderate oven twenty-five to thirty minutes. 

RAISED HOMINY MUFFINS. 

1 cup warm cooked hominy y 2 teaspoon salt 

54 cup butter 34 Y east ca -k e 

1 cup scalded milk 34 CU P lukewarm water 

3 tablespoons sugar 3% cups flour 

Mix first five ingredients ; when lukewarm add yeast cake, dis- 
solved in lukewarm water and flour. Cover, and let rise over night. 
In the morning, fill hot buttered gem pans two-thirds full, let rise one 
hour, and bake in a moderate oven. Unless cooked hominy is rather 
stiff" more flour will be needed. 

RICE 

SAVORY RICE. 

2 tablespoons butter 3 tablespoons grated cheese 
6 tablespoons boiled rice 2 chopped hard-boiled eggs 

4 tablespoons chopped cooked Milk 
carrots 

Melt the butter and add the rice, carrots, cheese and eggs. Moisten 
with milk and season highly. Heap on a dish and brown in the oven. 

RICE BALLS WITH TOMATO SAUCE. Make balls of 
undrained rice and dip them in grated cheese. Bake in a hot oven 
until cheese is brown. Serve with tomato sauce. 

CHEESED RICE. 

1 can tomatoes 3^ lb. cheese 

1 cup cooked rice Salt — paprika 

Spread in a casserole dish in layers with cheese on top. Bake in a 
moderate oven until cheese is brown. 

RICE WITH CHEESE. 

2 cups steamed rice y 2 cup grated cheese 
2 tablespoons butter Few grains cayenne 
y 2 teaspoon salt Milk 

Arrange rice and cheese in alternate layers in buttered baking 
dish, add remaining ingredients, adding sufficient milk to moisten. 
Cover with buttered bread crumbs. Bake until crumbs are brown. 

TURKISH PILAF. Wash and drain one-half cup rice, cook in 
one tablespoon butter until brown, add one cup boiling water, and 
steam until water is absorbed. Add one and three-fourths cups hot 
stewed tomatoes, cook until rice is soft, and season with salt and 
pepper. 



21 

RICE A LA RISTON. 

1 cup white stock or boiling % cup boiled rice 

water y 2 teaspoon chopped parsley 

2 thin slices bacon Salt and pepper to taste 
y 2 medium-sized cabbage 

Chop the bacon finely; add cabbage finely chopped and moisten 
with the boiling water or stock. Cook slowly uncovered for 30 
minutes. Add the rice, parsley, salt and pepper and cook 15 minutes 
longer. 

RICE AND CHEESE CROQUETTES. 

1 cup rice Salt and pepper 

4 cups milk 1 egg 

1 cup cheese 1 cup thick white sauce 

Cook rice in milk ; when milk is absorbed add cheese, seasoning and 
egg and enough sauce to make of the consistency to shape. Shape, dip 
in crumbs, egg and crumbs, and fry in deep fat. 

RICE AND TOMATO CROQUETTES. Cook two table- 
spoons chopped onion in two tablespoons butter five minutes; add one 
tablespoon red pepper, sprig parsley, four cloves, and one and one-half 
cups tomatb; cook five minutes. Add one cup water or chicken stock, 
pour into double boiler, add one-half cup washed rice and cook until rice 
is tender and liquid absorbed. Season with salt, pepper and paprika. 
Add two egg yolks and four tablespoons grated cheese. 

Shape, dip in crumbs, egg and crumbs, and fry in deep fat. 

BAKED RICE AND CHEESE. 

3 cups boiled rice 1 cup milk 

J / 2 pound cheese */> teaspoonful salt 

2 tablespoons flour. 

Make sauce by thickening milk with flour. Add cheese, stirring until 
it is dissolved. Arrange in baking dish layers of rice and sauce, cover 
with buttered crumbs and bake until brown. 

RICE WITH APPLE COMPOTE. 

3y 2 cups sugar 6 apples 

2y 2 cups water 4 slices of lemon 

2 cups cooked rice. 

Cook sugar and water together ten minutes. Pare, core and cut 
apples in thick round slices. Add lemon slices to syrup and cook apples, 
a few slices at a time, until all are cooked. Arrange rice in bottom of 
serving dish. Arrange slices of apples overlapping each other on top of 
rice. Boil the syrup until thick and pour over apples. Cool and serve. 
Pears, peaches or oranges may be substituted for apples. 

RICE MUFFINS. 

2y cups flour 1 cup milk 

•)4 cup hot cooked rice 1 egg 

5 teaspoons baking powder 2 tablespoons melted butter 

2 tablespoons sugar y 2 teaspoon salt 



22 

Mix and sift flour, sugar, salt and baking powder; add one-half milk, 
egg well beaten, the remainder of the milk mixed with rice, and beat 
thoroughly; then add butter. Bake in buttered muffin rings placed in 
buttered pan or buttered gem pans. 

RAISED RICE MUFFINS. Make same as raised hominy 
muffins, substituting one cup hot boiled rice in place of hominy, and 
adding the whites of two eggs beaten until stiff. 

NUTS 

NUT LOAF (No. 1). 

2 cups soft bread crumbs \ J / 2 teaspoons salt 

1 cup chopped nut meats % teaspoon pepper 

y 2 cup melted butter y 2 teaspoon Worcestershire sauce 

y 2 cup hot water or stock Few drops onion juice 

1 egg 
Mix all ingredients ; taste, add more seasoning if needed ; shape in 
a bread pan and bake one hour in a moderate oven, covering with a 
tin cover for the first half of the time. Baste three times during the 
cooking with melted butter. Remove from pan and serve with brown 
sauce, to which one-fourth cup chopped nuts has been added. 

NUT LOAF (No. 2). 

2 cups soft bread crumbs 1 egg 

1 cup milk 1 teaspoon Kitchen Bouquet 

2 cups chopped nuts y& teaspoon pepper 

V 2 teaspoon salt 1 tablespoon butter or bacon fat 

Soak the crumbs in milk until soft, add remaining ingredients. Pour 
into bread pan, baste with water, butter, or pork fat, and bake one hour. 
Serve hot or cold with tomato sauce. 

NUT AND CHEESE ROAST. 

1 cup grated cheese 1 tablespoon butter 

1 cup bread crumbs 2 tablespoons onion 

Juice y 2 lemon Salt 

1 cup chopped nuts Pepper 

Cook chopped onion in the butter and a little water until tender. 
Mix other ingredients, moisten with water, using that in which onion 
was cooked. Pour into a shallow baking dish and brown in the oven. 

NUT SCRAPPLE. 

2 quarts boiling water 1 cup hominy 

2 cups corn meal 1 tablespoon salt 

2 cups nut meats. 

Cook the hominy and corn meal in a double boiler until very thick. 
Add chopped nuts and pour in a greased dish. Keep in a cold place. 
Cut in slices and fry. Serve with syrup or plain. 

NUT AND CELERY SALAD, No. 1. Mix equal parts of 
English walnut or pecan nut meats cut in pieces and celery cut in small 
pieces. Mix with French Dressing. Serve with lettuce. 



23 

NUT AND CELERY SALAD, No. 2. Mix one and one-half 
cups finely cut celery, one cup pecan nut meats broken in pieces and one 
cup shredded cabbage. Moisten with cream dressing. 

NUT MUFFINS (Without Eggs). 
2 cups flour 2 tablespoons butter 

% cup sugar 1 cup milk (scant) 

4 teaspoons baking powder ^ cup nut meal 

3^2 teaspoon salt 

Mix and sift dry ingredients; work in butter with tips of fingers; 
add milk and nuts. Bake in muffin pans for twenty to twenty-five 
minutes. 

PRUNES STUFFED WITH NUTS. 

*/2 pound prunes */a cup nuts 

Soak prunes. Cook slightly. Remove stones and stuff with nuts 
broken in small pieces. 

CHESTNUTS WITH BROWN SAUCE. Remove the shells 
from one pint of chestnuts, cover them with boiling water and let stand 
for fifteen minutes, then peel off the thin, brown skin. Put them into 
a saucepan, cover with boiling stock, and boil thirty minutes, or until 
you can pierce them with a fork. When done, drain, and save the stock 
in which they were boiled. Put one tablespoonful of butter into a 
frying-pan to brown; when brown, add one tablespoonful of flour, mix 
until smooth; then add a half-pint of the stock in which the chestnuts 
were boiled, stir continually until it boils, add salt and pepper to taste, 
pour over the chestnuts, and serve. 

CHESTNUTS EN CASSEROLE. Remove shells from three 
cups chestnuts, put in a casserole dish, and pour over three cups highly 
seasoned chicken stock. Cover, and cook in a slow oven three hours ; 
then thicken chicken stock with two tablespoons butter and one and one- 
half tablespoons flour cooked together. Send to table in casserole dish. 

STEWED CHESTNUTS. Remove the shells from one pint of 
chestnuts, cover with boiling water and let blanch fifteen minutes, then 
remove the brown skin. Put them in a saucepan, cover with boiling 
water, boil fifteen minutes; then add a half-teaspoonful of salt and boil 
ten minutes longer, or until you can pierce them with a fork. When 
done, drain, turn into a heated dish, pour over them cream or white 
sauce, and serve. 

CHESTNUT PUREE. Remove the shells; boil ten minutes; 
then drain and remove the skins. Put them in boiling salted water, 
and cook until tender; then drain, mash, and press them through a 
colander. Season with butter, salt, and pepper; moisten with cream, 
or milk, or stock. 

BANANAS 

MOULDED CEREAL WITH BANANA SURPRISE. Turn 
any left-over breakfast cereal, while still hot, into cups rinsed in cold 
water, half filling the cups. When cold, scoop out the centres, and fill 
the open spaces with sliced bananas ; turn from the cups on to a buttered 



24 

agate pan, fruit downward and set into a hot oven to become very hot. 
Remove with a broad bladed knife to cereal dishes. Serve at once with 
sugar and cream or milk. 

BAKED BANANAS, No. 1. Remove skins from six bananas 
and cut in halves lengthwise. Put in a shallow granite pan or on an old 
platter. Mix two tablespoons melted butter, one-third cup sugar, and 
two tablespoons lemon juice. Baste bananas with one-half the mixture. 
Bake twenty minutes in a slow oven, basting during baking with remain- 
ing mixture. 

BAKED BANANAS, No. 2. Arrange bananas in a shallow 
pan, cover, and bake until skins become very dark in color. Remove 
from skins, and serve hot sprinkled with sugar. 

BANANA FRITTERS. Remove skins from four bananas. Cut 
each one in four equal parts. Sprinkle with four tablespoons sugar, four 
tablespoons lemon juice, or wine, and let stand one hour. Dip in Fritter 
Batter; fry in deep fat; drain on brown paper. Serve. 

BANANA FRIED IN CRUMBS. Remove skin from six 
bananas, cut in halves lengthwise and crosswise. Sprinkle with salt and 
pepper and lemon juice, dip in flour, egg and crumbs, and fry in deep 
fat. Drain on brown paper, serve on folded napkin. Garnish with lemon 
and parsley. Serve with or without lemon sauce. 

SAUTED BANANAS. Remove skins from bananas, cut in 
halves lengthwise, and again cut in halves crosswise. Dredge with flour, 
and saute in clarified butter. Drain, and sprinkle with powdered sugar. 

BANANA SANDWICH. Slice the bananas and lay between 
slices of buttered bread. Salt lightly. 

BANANA AND NUT SALAD. Cut bananas in half length- 
wise ; sprinkle with finely chopped nuts and serve on lettuce with 
mayonnaise dressing. 

PEAS 

PUREE OF PEAS. Boil the peas until very tender; mash and 
press them through a sieve. Place them again in the saucepan, and stir 
into them enough hot milk, pepper and salt, to well moisten and season 
them ; add also some butter, and a very little sugar. 

Dried peas may be used in this way, but require soaking and long 
boiling. 

PEA TIMBALES. Drain and rinse one can peas, and rub 
through a sieve. To one cup pea pulp add two beaten eggs, two table- 
spoons melted butter, two-thirds teaspoon salt, one-eighth teaspoon 
pepper, few grains cayenne, and a few drops onion juice. Turn into 
buttered moulds, set in pan of hot water, cover with' buttered paper, and 
bake until firm. Serve with one cup white sauce to which is added one- 
third cup canned peas drained, rinsed and cooked slowly for fifteen 
minutes. 

CREAMED PEAS. 

2 cups of boiled peas 34 CU P white sauce 



25 

Cook the peas ; add them to the white sauce and then cook gently for 
about two minutes. If left over peas are used, heat slightly before 
adding to the white sauce. 

Peas may be prepared in the same ways as lentils. (See lentil 
recipes). 

SPRING SALAD. 

Cold cooked green peas Cold boiled potatoes 

Cut potatoes into dice. Mix peas and potatoes together with 
mayonnaise dressing; then serve on lettuce leaves. 

BEANS 

BAKED BEANS. Cook dried beans gently until skins begin 
to break. Place a layer of beans in a bean pot or deep earthen dish 
and on this layer on the center of the dish place a piece of salt pork 
(streak of fat and streak of lean), have rind side up. For each quart 
of beans use one-half pound pork ; score the rind. Fill dish with beans, 
add seasoning and water to cover. (One tablespoon salt and one-half 
teaspoonful pepper to one quart beans.) Mix seasoning with the water. 
One tablespoon mustard may be added ; also one-half tablespoonful mo- 
lasses and one onion. Instead of pork, a piece of salt or fat beef or 
mutton may be employed. In this case use one and one-half to two 
pounds meat to one quart of beans. If fresh meat is used, add more 
salt. If all meat is used, one teaspoonful salt is sufficient. When mutton 
is used, trim off every particle of skin. Bake the beans in a very moderate 
oven eight to ten hours. Add a little boiling water from time to time, but 
never enough to bring the water above the beans. Any kind of bean may 
be baked in summer, but the small pea bean is the best for Boston baked 
beans. Lima and white beans are best for the deep earthen dish. Do not 
cover beans while baking. 

BOSTON BAKED BEANS. Soak one quart of peabeans over- 
night in cold water. In the morning drain off the water and cover with 
fresh water. Heat slowly and let it simmer one hour. Place in an 
earthen bean pot. Scald one-half pound of salt pork ; bury pork in 
beans, leaving only rind exposed. Mix one teaspoon salt, one-half teas- 
poon dry mustard, one tablespoon molasses, three tablespoons sugar; 
add one cup of boiling water and pour over beans ; then add more water 
if necessary to cover them. Cover bean pot; bake slowly from eight to 
twelve hours, uncovering the last hour. 

PORK AND BEANS. Soak a pint of small white beans over- 
night. 

In the morning pour off the water, pour on a pint of cold water, and 
set at the back of the range to simmer slowly for three quarters of an 
hour. 

Place the beans in a bean-pot with half a pound of scored salt pork 
in the middle, half a teaspoonful of dry mustard, salt, white pepper and 
a half pint of white sugar. Add water from time to time, as it grows dry, 
and bake twelve hours. 

BEAN POLENTA. 

1 pint of small white soup beans 1 tablespoon of butter 

\]/2 tablespoons of molasses 1 tablespoon of vinegar 

r /> teaspoon French mustard Salt and pepper to taste 



26 

Wash the beans, and soak them over night in lukewarm water. In 
the morning-, drain off this water, cover with fresh, cold water, bring 
slowly to a boil, and boil slowly one hour ; drain again, cover with one 
quart of fresh boiling water, and boil slowly another hour. When done, 
press through a colander, return to the kettle, add the butter, molasses, 
mustard, salt, pepper and vinegar ; stir, and boil ten minutes. Serve in a 
vegetable tureen. 

BEAN CROQUETTES. 

1 pint of white soup beans 1 tablespoon of molasses 

1 tablespoon of vinegar 1 tablespoon of butter 

Salt and cayenne to taste 
Boil the beans as directed in preceding recipe. When done, drain 
and press the beans through a colander, then add the other ingredients, 
mix well and stand away to cool. When cold, form into small balls, dip 
first in egg and then in bread crumbs, and fry in deep hot fat. 

PUREE OF BEANS. Boil the beans until tender; mash them 
through a colander. Season with butter, salt and pepper ; and add enough 
milk or cream or stock to make them the right consistency. 

BEAN CROQUETTES. To make croquettes add a beaten egg 
to the puree, form it into small croquettes, roll them in egg and crumbs, 
and fry in hot fat. 

BOSTON ROAST. 

1-pound can kidney beans, or y 2 pound grated cheese 

Equivalent quantity cooked Bread crumbs 

beans Salt 

Mash beans or put through a meat grinder. Add cheese and enough 
bread crumbs to make a stiff roll. Bake in a moderate oven, basting 
occasionally with butter and water. Serve with tomato sauce. The dish 
may be flavored with onions chopped and cooked in butter and water. 

KIDNEY BEANS WITH BROWN SAUCE. Put one table- 
spoon of butter in a saucepan and brown until dark, but do not burn it. 
Add one tablespoon flour ; stir and brown again. Add cupful good stock 
(beef is best) ; season with salt and pepper. Cook one pint fresh shelled 
beans in salted water until tender. Add the sauce, and cook one minute 
longer. 

LENTILS 

BAKED LENTILS. 

1 quart lentils 6 ounces mixed salt pork 

1 quart water 1 clove garlic, or 

Yz teaspoon ful pepper 1 small onion 

1 teaspoon ful salt 

Pick over and wash lentils. Soak in water overnight. In morning, 
pour water off. Put lentils in stewpan with two quarts cold water and 
heat slowly. As water boils, the lentils will rise to the top. Remove them 
with a skimmer and place in a deep earthen dish with pork and onion in 
the center. Mix salt and pepper with one quart boiling water and add. 
Cook slowly in moderate oven four to five hours, adding a little water 
from time to time. If pork is not very salt, more salt should be added. 



27 

Stewed lentils are prepared in the same way, but using more water. 
Instead of pork, fat corned beef or the shank of a ham may be used. 

CURRIED LENTILS. 

1 cup lentils 3 tablespoons butter 

1 pint vegetable stock or water 3 onions 

1 teaspoon salt 1 tablespoon curry powder 

Wash the lentils and soak them. Drain and cook in the stock or 
water one hour. When done they should be a dry mass. Melt the 
butter, add sliced, onions and curry powder. Fry until the onions are 
brown. Add lentils. Season and heat. Serve with boiled rice. 

LENTILS AND RICE. Boil the lentils as directed in the pre- 
ceding recipe. Wash and boil one cup of rice. Put two tablespoonfuls 
of butter in a frying-pan ; when melted add one onion cut in slices, then 
the lentils and rice, and stir over the fire fifteen minutes; add salt and 
pepper to taste and serve. 

LENTIL CAKES. 

1 cup lentils % teaspoon salt 

2 tablespoons melted butter 2 egg yolks 

1 tablespoon sugar y 2 cup chopped nuts 

Wash lentils in several waters and soak over night. Boil until soft, 
but not broken. Drain and add melted butter, sugar, salt, egg yolks and 
nuts. Shape in round cakes ; lay on greased tins and bake in a hot oven 
fifteen minutes. Sprinkle nuts on top. 

LENTIL CROQUETTES. Thoroughly soak one cup of lentils 
and one half cup red beans. Drain and add two cupfuls of water, half an 
onion, a stalk of celery or one-half teaspoon celery salt, one small carrot 
sliced and three sprigs of parsley. Cook until a pulp, strain through a 
sieve and add one cup grated bread crumbs, one beaten egg, pepper and 
salt to taste. Make a sauce by creaming two tablespoonfuls of butter 
and pouring on gradually two-thirds of a cup of milk or cream. Bring 
to the boiling point and add lentil mixture. Mix thoroughly. When 
cool form in balls, dip in egg and crumbs and fry in deep hot fat. 

LENTILS AND RICE CROQUETTES. Rub one cupful of 
canned lentils through a colander. Mix with one cupful of cooked rice, 
one-half cupful of milk or cream, one beaten egg, sage and salt to taste. 
Form into croquettes, roll in beaten eggs and then in bread crumbs. 
Spread a little cream on top and bake to a nice brown. 

LOUISIANA LENTILS. One cup lentils, one onion, two cups 
tomatoes, two tablespoonfuls butter, three red peppers. Soak the lentils 
about eight hours. Drain, cover with fresh water and cook very slowly 
for half hour. Bring to boiling point, drain, cover with hot water and 
simmer until they become tender; melt the butter in a casserole. Add 
the onion and red peppers chopped fine. Stir and cook until the butter 
is browned. Put in the tomatoes and salt and pepper to taste. Drain 
the lentils and add them. Cook uncovered for thirty minutes. 

MASHED LENTILS. After the lentils have been soaked 
thoroughly, cook in water until they become a soft mass. Press through 
a sieve and season with butter and salt. They should be of the con- 
sistency of mashed potatoes. Just before serving put over them three 



28 

tablespoon fuls of minced fried onions. Pork may be used instead of 
butter in cooking lentils, if preferred. 

BUTTERED LENTILS. Arrange one can lentils in tomato 
sauce on a hot platter, and sprinkle it with salt, pepper and dry mustard. 
Moisten with melted butter and season highly with grated cheese, well 
mixed in with a fork, and serve. 

FRIED LENTILS. One can lentils in tomato sauce, two table- 
spoonfuls melted butter, two eggs, salt and pepper, butter for frying. 

Pound the lentils in a mortar until quite smooth, then work in the 
melted butter and eggs, and season to taste. Form the mixture into 
small oval shapes, fry both sides until lightly browned, then serve. 

LENTIL GRAVY WITH RICE. Rub a cupful of canned len- 
tils through a colander to remove the skins, add one cup of rich milk, 
part cream if it can be afforded, and salt to taste. Heat to boiling, and 
thicken with a teaspoon ful of flour rubbed smooth in a little cold milk. 
Serve hot on nicely steamed or boiled rice, or with well cooked macaroni. 

LENTIL PANCAKES. Mash two cupfuls of canned lentils, 
and press through a sieve. Season with salt, pepper and butter, cool, 
and add two eggs beaten with a cupful of milk. Add a cupful of flour 
sifted with half a teaspoonful baking powder, mix thoroughly, and fry 
on buttered griddle. 

LENTIL SALAD. To one can of lentils add a small onion and 
a small sweet pepper, chopped fine. Add a little vinegar and mayonnaise 
dressing. Salt and pepper to taste. 

LENTILS AS A SIDE DISH. Heat canned lentils in a sauce- 
pan. Fry some finely cut onions in butter with a little flour, season with 
paprika if desired, and pour over the lentils and serve. 

POTATOES 

POTATOES AU GRATIN. 

6 cold boiled potatoes 2 tablespoonfuls of butter 

2 cups of milk 4 heaping tablespoons grated cheese 

3 tablespoonfuls of flour Salt and cayenne to taste 

Put the butter in a frying-pan to melt ; when melted, add the flour, 
mix until smooth ; then add the milk, and stir continually until it boils. 
Take from the fire, add the cheese, salt, and cayenne. Put a layer of 
this sauce in the bottom of a baking-dish, then a layer of the cold 
potatoes, sliced, and so on, having the last layer sauce ; sprinkle bread 
crumbs over the top, and put it in a quick oven ten minutes, to brown. 
Serve in the dish in which it was baked. 

SCALLOPED POTATOES. Cut boiled potatoes into dice; put 
two tablespoons of butter in a frying pan, and when melted add two table- 
spoons of flour; then add one pint of milk, teaspoon salt and a little pep- 
per. Put a layer of this sauce in the bottom of the baking dish, then a 
layer of potatoes ; sprinkle with grated cheese. Then add another layer of 
sauce ; sprinkle the top lightly with bread crumbs and put in oven for 
fifteen minutes to brown. 



29 

POTATO CUSTARD. 

2 good-sized potatoes 1 teaspoon cinnamon 

3 eggs 2 cups of milk 
Piece of butter size of a walnut T / 2 cup of sugar. 

Wash the potatoes and parboil them then stand away until quite 
cold. When cold, peel and grate them. Beat the butter, sugar, and the 
yolks of the eggs until very light, add the potatoes by degrees, stirring 
all the while, then add all the other ingredients. Bake in a baking dish 
for thirty minutes. Then beat the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth, 
with two tablespoonfuls of powdered sugar, heap this over the top of 
the custard, and put back into the oven until a light brown. 

POTATO SOUFFLE. To two cupfuls of smooth, well-seasoned 
and quite moist mashed potatoes add the yolks of two eggs. When 
a little cooled stir in lightly the whites of two eggs beaten very stiff. 
Put the whole into a pudding-dish, and brown it in a quick oven. 

POTATO CROQUETTES. To two cupfuls of well-seasoned 
mashed potatoes add the beaten yolks of two eggs, a tablespoonful of 
chopped parsley, one and a half tablespoonfuls of butter (if none has 
been used in seasoning), a dash of cayenne and nutmeg; stir over the 
fire until the potato leaves the sides of the pan. When cold, form it 
into small croquettes, roll them in egg and bread-crumbs and fry them 
in hot deep fat to an amber color. 

GERMAN POTATO SALAD (Six Persons). 

10 medium potatoes 4 tablespoons good olive oil 

1 onion 5 tablespoons of vinegar 

1 teaspoonful of salt Chopped parsley 

^2 teaspoon of pepper 1 yolk of egg 

Boil and peel the potatoes and slice them while still hot. Spread 
over the potatoes the onion, sliced fine, and then sprinkle on the salt and 
pepper. In a bowl mix the yolk of egg, the oil and vinegar, and then 
pour it over the potatoes. 

Now pour over all three quarters of a teacupful of boiling water. 
This is the great point in order not to have the salad have the common 
fault of being too dry. After thoroughly mixing, cover the salad, and 
.let it stand for a few hours. Garnish with parsley. 

POTATO SALAD. Boil the potatoes with the skins on ; when 
cold remove the skins and cut them into slices three-eighths inch thick, or 
into dice three-quarters inch thick, or cut the potatoes into balls with a 
scoop ; sprinkle them with a little grated onion and parsley, chopped very 
fine. Turn over them a French dressing. They will absorb a great deal. 
Toss them lightly together, but do not break the potatoes, which are very 
tender. A mayonnaise dressing is also very good with marinated pota- 
toes. A mixture of beets and potatoes with mayonnaise is also used. 
Garnish with lettuce, chopped yolk of hard-boiled egg and capers. In 
boiling potatoes for salad, do not steam them after they are boiled, as 
they should not be mealy. New or German potatoes are best for salad. 

POTATO AND NUT SALAD. Mix two cups cold boiled riced 
potatoes and one cup pecan nut meats broken in pieces. Marinate with 
French dressing, and arrange on a bed of watercress or lettuce. 



30 

POTATO AND EGG SALAD. Hard boil three eggs thirty 
minutes, shell and cut fine with a silver knife. Boil three or four potatoes. 
Dice while hot, mix with cut eggs and add French dressing. Let stand 
till cold. Serve on bed of watercress or lettuce with more French dress- 
ing or boiled dressing thinned with vinegar. 

CABBAGE 

CREAMED BOILED CABBAGE. Cut the cabbage into good- 
sized pieces, take off the outside leaves, and cut away the hard core. 
Wash it well in two changes of water, and place the pieces, open side 
down, on a colander to drain. Have a very generous amount of water 
in a large saucepan or pot; let it boil violently; add a tablespoonful of 
salt and one-quarter teaspoonful of baking soda ; put in the cabbage, one 
piece at a time, so as to check the boiling as little as possible. Let it 
cook for twenty-five minutes uncovered and boiling rapidly all the time. 
Push the cabbage under the water every five minutes. Turn it into 
a colander and press out all the water. Put into a saucepan one table- 
spoonful of butter, a heaping teaspoonful of flour, one-half cupful of 
milk, and stir till smooth ; then add the cabbage. Cut it into large pieces 
with a knife, and mix it lightly with the sauce. If the cabbage is free 
from water the sauce will adhere to it and form a creamy coating. 

CABBAGE WITH CHEESE (Very Good). Boil the cabbage as 
directed above. Press out all the water and chop it. Make a white 
sauce of one tablespoonful each of butter and flour, one cupful of milk, 
one-half teaspoonful of salt and a dash of cayenne. Spread a layer of 
cabbage on the bottom of a pudding-dish; cover it with white sauce; 
then add a layer of grated cheese. Make a second layer of cabbage, sauce 
and cheese ; cover the top with a layer of crumbs moistened with butter, 
and place it in the oven. When the sauce bubbles through the crumbs 
it is done. Serve in same dish. 

STUFFED CABBAGE. For this select a nice head of Savoy 
cabbage. Pour over it boiling water, let stand fifteen minutes, drain, 
scald again and let stand thirty minutes. Drain and shake until dry. 
Make the stuffing as follows : Wash two heaping tablespoon fuls of rice 
in cold water, then mix it with a half-pound of sausage meat, add a table- 
spoonful of onion and a tablespoonful of chopped parsley; mix all well 
together. Open the cabbage carefully to the very centre ; put in a half- 
teaspoonful of the mixture, fold over two or three of the little leaves ; 
now cover these with a layer of the mixture, fold over this the next layer 
of leaves, and so on until each layer is stuffed. Press all firmly together, 
tie in a piece of cheese-cloth, put it into a kettle of salted boiling water, 
and boil two hours. When done, carefully remove the cloth, stand the 
cabbage in a deep round dish, pour over it cream sauce, and serve very 
hot. 

CABBAGE ROLLS. 

One head cabbage 
Stuffing made from: 
1 cup boiled rice 1 small onion grated 

y 2 pound chopped raw meat Enough milk to moisten 

Salt and pepper to taste. 



31 

Separate the leaves of the cabbage. Wash them and boil them in 
water for about ten minutes. Then drain off the water. 

Mix the stuffing in the order given. Take one tablespoonful of the 
stuffing and roll it in each cabbage leaf and tie securely, forming rolls. 
Brown the cabbage rolls in hot dripping in a pot and then add a little 
water and cook slowly for about an hour ; then take out the cabbage rolls. 
To the dripping in the pan add two level tablespoons flour and stir until 
it browns. Then add about one cup of boiling water and one-half tea- 
spoon kitchen bouquet, and pour this sauce over the cabbage rolls. 

TOMATOES 

STUFFED TOMATOES 

1 cup dry bread crumbs 1 teaspoon onion juice 

Yz teaspoon salt 1 tablespoon chopped parsley 

A little pepper 2 tablespoons melted butter 

Remove the inside of the tomato; fill with the dressing, and brown 

in the oven. Hominy, rice or other cooked cereals can be used instead 

of bread crumbs. 

CURRIED TOMATOES. 

1 qt. stewed tomatoes or 1 teaspoon curry powder 

1 qt. can of tomatoes Salt to taste 

1 cup boiled rice 

Wash the rice through several cold waters. Add the curry powder 
and salt to the tomatoes ; mix well. Put a layer of the tomatoes in the 
bottom of a baking-dish, then a layer of the rice, then a layer of tomatoes, 
and so on until all is used, having the last layer tomatoes ; sprinkle the 
top over with bread crumbs, place a few bits of butter here and there 
over the crumbs, and bake in a moderate oven for a half-hour. Serve 
in the dish in which it was baked. 

SCALLOPED TOMATOES. Season a can of tomatoes with 
one teaspoonful of salt, and one quarter teaspoonful of pepper. Spread 
a shallow baking dish with a thin layer of boiled rice; pour in the 
tomatoes, sprinkle over them a tablespoonful of sugar, and a few drops 
of onion juice. Cover the top with a cupful of bread-crumbs which 
have been moistened with a tablespoonful of melted butter. Bake in a 
hot oven for fifteen minutes. Serve in the same dish. 

CORN 

CORN PUDDING NO. 1. Take one can corn or one pint corn 
pulp cut from the cob ; add one beaten egg, one-half cup of milk, one-half 
teaspoon salt, a little pepper ; bake in a buttered pudding dish in a mod- 
erate oven for thirty minutes or until it is set, like a custard. 

CORN PUDDING NO. 2. 

4 cups corn 3 eggs 

2 cups milk r / 2 cup butter 
Salt Pepper 

Beat yolks; add corn, milk, butter, salt and pepper. Pour into a 
buttered baking dish ; add beaten whites and bake in moderate oven one 
hour. 



32 

CORN, TOMATO AND CHEESE. 

y 2 pound butter 1 ripe pimento 
y cup canned or fresh grated 1 teaspoon salt 

corn y 2 teaspoon ful paprika 

y 2 cup tomato puree 2 egg yolks 

1 clove garlic 4 slices bread 

2 cups grated cheese 

Melt butter; add cheese, and stir until it melts. Add corn and 
pimento ; stir for a moment, then add egg yolks beaten and mixed with 
tomato juice, salt and paprika. Toast bread on one side, rub lightly on 
the other with garlic cut in half. Pour mixture over untoasted side 
and serve at once. A poached egg is sometimes placed on top of each 
portion, making a very nutritious combination. 

CORN MOCK OYSTERS. Cut down through the center of 
the grains, each row of green corn on the ear and with the back of a 
knife press out the pulp, leaving the hulls on the ear. To a pint of the 
pulp add two beaten eggs, one teaspoon ful each of butter and salt, a 
dash of pepper, and enough flour to bind it. Roll it into small cakes, and 
saute them in butter ; or it may be dropped from a spoon into hot fat, 
making fritters. These may be made of canned corn, in which case use 
a little milk and sugar. 

CORN FRITTERS. 

1 dozen ears of corn y 2 pint of milk 

2 eggs 1 cup of flour 

1 teaspoon baking powder y 2 teaspoonful of salt 

2 dashes of black pepper 

Score the corn down the centre of each row of grains, then with the 
back of the knife press out the pulp, leaving the hull on the cob. Do not 
grate the corn, as in that way you get the hull. To this pulp add the milk, 
the yolks of the eggs, salt, pepper and flour ; beat well. Beat the whites 
of the eggs to a stiff froth, and stir them and the baking powder carefully 
into the mixture. Put lard or dripping into a frying-pan ; when hot, drop 
the mixture by spoonfuls into the deep fat. When brown on one side, turn 
and brown the other. Take out with a skimmer (do not pierce them 
with a fork, as it makes them heavy), drain on brown paper, and serve 
very hot. 

Canned corn may be used, allowing one pint finely chopped. 

PEPPERS 

HUNTINGTON STUFFED PEPPERS. Parboil six green 

peppers six minutes. Cut in half, lengthwise, and remove all seeds. 
Stuff. Cover with bread crumbs and bake until they are brown. 
Stuffing — 

y 2 cup white sauce y 2 cup corn chopped 

1 teaspoon chopped green Salt 

pepper Paprika 
1 teaspoon chopped onion 



33 

STUFFED PEPPERS. Use green sweet peppers of uniform 
size. Cut a piece off the stem end, or cut them in two lengthwise, and 
remove the seeds and partitions. Put them in boiling water for five 
minutes to parboil. Fill each one with a stuffing made of equal parts of 
softened bread-crumbs and minced meat well seasoned with salt, butter, 
and a few drops of onion juice. Place them in a baking dish with water, 
or better stock, half an inch deep, and bake in a moderate oven for half 
an hour. Serve them in the same dish if a suitable one is used; if not, 
remove them carefully to another dish. 

PEPPER TIMBAL. Put a red pepper in the bottom of a cup. 
Pour in an unsweetened custard (made of one egg, one cup of milk and 
a pinch of salt). Bake in a moderately hot oven. Turn on a platter. 
Cover with a medium white sauce in which cheese has been melted. 

EGG PLANT BAKED IN SHELL. Boil four egg plants 
twenty minutes. Cut in halves lengthwise. Scoop out centre. Drain in 
cheese cloth. Mix one-half cup bread crumbs, one-quarter cup minced 
chicken, or any left-over meat or vegetable, one-quarter cup egg plant, 
two tablespoons butter, salt, paprika, cayenne and one egg. 

Fill egg plant shells with this mixture, cover with buttered and sea- 
soned crumbs, and bake in a slow oven about one hour. 

VEGETABLE HASH. 

y 2 cup chopped carrots 2 cups chopped cabbage 

1 cup chopped potatoes 1 cup chopped beets 
5^ cup chopped turnips 2 tablespoons beef fat 
Few drops onion juice x /\ cup milk or hot water 

Salt and pepper 

Melt the fat in a frying pan ; when hissing hot, pour in the above 
ingredients spread evenly, cover, and cook slowly one-half hour. Fold, 
turn, and serve. 

STUFFED SPANISH ONIONS. Peel the onions. Scoop out 
from the top a portion of the centre. Parboil them for five minutes, and 
turn them upside down to drain. Fill them with a stuffing made of equal 
parts of minced chicken, or any left-over meat, and soft bread crumbs, 
chop fine the onion taken from the centre, and add it to the mixture. Sea- 
son it with salt and pepper, and moisten it with melted butter. Fill the 
onions heaping full and sprinkle the tops with crumbs. Place them in a 
pan with an inch of water ; cover, and let cook in an oven for an hour, or 
until tender, but not so long as to lose shape. Take off the cover the last 
five minutes, so they will brown very slightly. 

SAUCES 

WHITE SAUCE. 

2 tablespoons flour 1 cup milk 

2 tablespoons butter y 2 teaspoon salt 

}i teaspoon white pepper 
Mix flour and butter together until no flour can be seen. Add milk 
slowly and stir over moderate fire until it thickens. Remove from the 
fire and add salt and pepper. 



34 

TOMATO SAUCE. 

Y^ can tomatoes 1 clove 

1 slice onion 2 tablespoons flour 

1 bay leaf 2 tablespoons butter 

Cook tomatoes, onion, bay leaf and clove together for ten minutes ; 
strain. Rub flour and butter together until smooth and add strained 
tomatoes. Cook over moderate fire until the sauce thickens. 

BROWN SAUCE. 

2 tablespoons butter 1 cup brown stock 
Yz slice onion 34 teaspoon salt 

3 tablespoons 'flour l /% teaspoon pepper 

Cook onion in butter until slightly browned ; remove onion and stir 
butter constantly until well browned ; add flour mixed with seasonings, 
and brown the butter and flour ; then add stock gradually. 

LEMON SAUCE. 

2 teaspoons arrowroot or corn- 1 cup sugar 

starch Grated rind and juice 1 lemon 

2 cups water \y 2 tablespoons butter 

Mix arrowroot or cornstarch with sugar. Add boiling water and 
cook twenty minutes. Add flavoring and butter. Serve hot. 

MAYONNAISE DRESSING. Success in making a mayonnaise 

dressing generally depends upon all the ingredients being of the same 
temperature. 

1 egg 1 tablespoon vinegar 

1 teaspoon salt 1 tablespoon lemon juice 

54 teaspoon cayenne 1 cup olive oil 

1 teaspoon mustard 54 teaspoon paprika 

Mix salt, cayenne, mustard and paprika. Beat yolk well, and add to 
seasonings ; beat until mixture is thick, adding olive oil, drop by drop, for 
the first four tablespoons, then more rapidly until oil is used, thinning as 
needed with lemon juice and vinegar. Beat up the white of the egg 
until perfectly stiff and dry, add to the above and mix thoroughly. 

FISH. 

FISH IS A MOST EXCELLENT AND APPETIZING SUBSTITUTE FOR 
MEAT. WE HAVE MADE NO REFERENCE TO FISH IN THIS PAM- 
PHLET OR INCLUDED ANY RECIPES FOR SAME, FOR THE REASON 
THAT WE HAVE ISSUED A SPECIAL PAMPHLET, GIVING MORE THAN 
SEVENTY=FIVE RECIPES FOR COOKING FISH. 

IF YOU HAVE NOT SEEN A COPY OF THIS FISH PAMPHLET YOU 
SHOULD HAVE ONE AT ONCE, AND ONE WILL BE SENT YOU IF YOU 
WILL INDICATE YOUR DESIRE FOR SAME ON A POSTAL CARD, 
ADDRESSING IT TO 

MAYOR MITCHEL'S FOOD SUPPLY COMMITTEE, 
George W. Perkins, Chairman, 

City Hall, New York City. 



LIBRARY OF CONGRESS 







1 



