NYPL RESEARCH LIBRARIES 



3 3433 07736240 2 



ToN — - 
KITCHEri 



TEXTsBftoK 




For tM U/« oF Classes 
in Public or\d 
Industrial JcKooU* 



By 



Mrs.MaryJIincoln 



UTILE >BRoWN dcCo^PVBLIiHERI^ 
* * Bo/ TON •• 



\ . C «> V. ' S . 

X . 1 'I 'i A • •' I 



MlOlOfiJUME^ 



iv^ 



L.. 



\/-i"\ 



^ 



cs^ 



r^^^ 



vs 



Digitized by the Internet Archive 

in 2007 with funding from 

IVIicrosoft Corporation 



http://www.archive.org/details/bostonschoolkitcOOIinc 



Boston School Kitchen 

TEXT-BOOK. 



LESSONS IN COOKING 

FOR THE USE OF CLASSES IN PUBLIC AND 
INDUSTRIAL SCHOOLS. 



BY 

MARY J. LINCOLN, 

AUTHOR OF 
THE BOSTON COOK BOOK," "CARVING AND SERVING,'' ETC 



BOSTON 

LITTLE, BROWN, AND COMPANY 
1914 



THE NEW YOR!C ' 



ASTOR, LiLP,Q4 ^fiQ 
TILDLK FOUHOMTlQHi 



Copyrighty 1887, 
By Mrs. D. A. Lincoln. 

Copy right, igog, 
By Mary J. Lincoln. 



STi^ig Book IS ©ftiicatcli 

TO 

MRS. MARY HEMENWAY, 

THE EARNEST AND GENEROUS FRIEND OF PRACTICAL 
EDUCATION. 

M. J. L 



) ' •> 



YT is the accepted educational doctrine that all matter? 

^ for school instruction should be tauglit, so far as 
possible, in the light of first principles. The under- 
standing is to be engaged and thought awakened. A 
memory laden with rules and precej)ts is not enough ; 
nor is the faculty of imitation in itself worthy of much 
care in tlie direct cultivation of it. The best educa- 
tion embraces more and aims higher. 

o 

Therefore, if cooking is to liave a place among schv3ol 
exercises, the text-book ought to be, not a cook-book, 
but a book giving the reasons for its directions, and 
connecting these reasons w^ith first principles. Such a 
book this one appears to be. Its claim to the title 
Boston School Kitchen Text-Book is justified by the 
fact that the substance of all the lessons has been 
w^orked out in the cooking class-rooms or school kitch- 
ens connected with the Boston public schools. That 
this working out has been decidedly satisfactory I 
gla-Uy testify. 

Edwin P. Seaver, 

SuperiiUcmlei\t of the Boston Pablic Schootb. 



PREFACE. 



IN" the preparation of tins book the aim has not 
been to furnish a complete cook-book, or to cater 
to the widely prevalent desire for new receipts and 
elaborate dishes; but rather to prepare such a study 
of food and explanation of general principles in con- 
nection with practical lessons in plain cooking as 
should be adapted to the use of classes in public and 
industrial schools. 

There is a great lack of knowledge, even among 
experienced housekeepers, of the nature of food and 
its proper combinations, and much unwholesome cook- 
ing has been the result of this ignorance. 

Much of the dislike which many girls have for 
cooking arises from their want of success, and the 
failure is ascribed to ill luck, poor material, incorrect 
receipts, or to any cause but the true one, — ignorance 
of first principles. 

Cooking cannot be well done by guess-work. There 
is a right way and a wrong way, and the right way 
is usually the easier. To show this right way and 
the reason for it, has been our endeavor in preparing 
tliese lessons. 



viii PREFACE. 



Beginners in tlie art sliould strive for a tli(jrough 
understanding of the principles that underlie all culi- 
nary work. This is essential to success, botli in the 
preparation of the simple food adapted to tlie daily 
table and in the intricate labor of the chef in charge 
of some grand entertainment. 

Above all, our object lias been to elevate tliis de- 
partment of work ; to show its bearing upon many 
vital questions; to impress upon girls tliat all work 
well done is honorable; and that it is as really a 
part of education to be able to blacken a stove, to 
scour a tin, or to prepare a tempting meal of whole- 
some food, as it is to be able to solve a problem in 
geometry, to learn a foreign language, to teach a 
school, to decorate a plaque, to make an elegant gown, 
or to interpret the melodies and harmonies of the 
great masters in music. 

We have endeavored to show that there is some- 
thing more in cooking than the mere putting of cer- 
tain materials together for the gratification of the 
palate ; that it is not all manual labor, but requires 
study, and that it ought not to be considered drudgery 
or done in a careless, slipshod, untidy fashion. And 
more than all else we have insisted that the health 
and comfort of the family depend upon the wholesome 
and economical preparation of the daily food. 

It cannot be expected to make professional cooks in 
twenty lessons. But it is confi lently believed that if 
school-girls once master the elementary principles 
which these lessons illustrate, they can, with practice 
at home, acquire a degree of skill sufficient to do all 



PREFACE. ix 



tlmt is necessary in plain family living. And when 
this foundation is secured and a respect for the work 
developed they can do more. They can take any 
reliable cooking formula and work it out unaided, and 
in time detect errors in proportions and invent new 
combinations. 

Youth is the time to begin to acquire this, as well 
as other knowledge. Many a young housekeeper over- 
whelmed with responsibility regrets that her mother 
did not require her to learn these things in her girl- 
hood. No matter how high her social position may 
be, no girl is sure of retaining it through life. Though 
in her youthful conceit she may boast of never scrub- 
bing a floor, or washing a dish, and may think it 
commendable to be ignorant of the mysteries of the 
kitchen, the time may come when slie will have 
harder work than this to do, and \^'ill be thankful if 
there is one thing she can do well, even if it be but 
the washing of dishes or the cooking of wholesome 
food. 

And if her position should chance to be tliat of a 
director of such work, rather than a doer of it, this 
practical knowledge will be even more valuable. For 
those can direct best who can do best; and those can 
do best in any department of work who begin in early 
life and learn by experience much tliat can be learned 
in no other way. 

If we can awaken in school-girls an entliusiasiii 
for the performance of the common duties of life, 
an important part of our purpose will have been 
accomplished. 



PREFACE. 



The author wishes to acknowledge her indebtedness 
to Miss A. M. Homans, at wliose suggestion this 
manual was prepared ; to ]\Iiss Hope, and other 
teacliers in the Boston School Kitchens for their help 
in the practical working out of these lessons; and to 
Mrs Richards, of the Institute of Technology, for her 
assistance in revising the scientific portion of the 
work. 

MARY J. LINCOLN. ' 



SUGGESTIONS TO TEACHERS ON THE MAN- 
AGEMENT OF CLASSES. 



It is expected that all teachers in the cooking classes will 
have had a special normal training for the work ; but even 
with such training a few suggestions from one who has hud 
a large experience in both the practice and the teaching of 
cookery may be helpful. 

No definite rules can be given that will apply to all schools. 
Teachers must govern the classes and adapt the instruction 
as circumstances require, but it is of the first importance that 
the order and discipline of the public schools should be 
maintained in the cooking classes. Pupils must be required 
to dress neatly and appropriately. A large apron or tire, a 
holder suspended by a tape from the belt, a hand-towel at 
the side, and a cap to cover the hair entirely, are necessary. 
Rings and bracelets should not be worn during the lesson. 

Personal cleanliness must be insisted upon. Many people 
who consider themselves neat have objectionable habits, and 
a word of caution will be given against such as have been 
observed frequently in pupils. The hands and nails should 
be perfectly clean ; wash the hands always before begin- 
ning work and as often during the lesson as there is need. 
Wiping them on the towel at the side will often be sufl&cient, 
and should always be done just before touching any food. 

Never allow the pupils to use their handkerchiefs or their 
aprons in the place of a towel or a holder, or to work with 
sticky or floured fingers, or to rest their hands on tlieir faces 
or hair, or to lick their fingers, or to use their handhen hicfa 



Xll SUGGESTIONS TO TEACHERS. 

without immediately wiping their fingers, or to taste with 
the mixing spoon without wiping it before using it again, or 
to use a hand-towel as a dish-towel, or the hand-basin for 
food, or to do anything that is not neat and cleanly. The 
only way to cure pu})ilG of untidy habits is to be sure that 
your own example is perfect in that respect, then be watch- 
ful and let no fault, however trivial, pass unnoticed. 

In classes of fifteen pupils, three may be housekeepers, and 
the cooking may be done by the remaining members work- 
ing in groups of two, three, or four, according to the number 
in the class. The kitchen work may be divided among the 
three according to the rules for housekeepers. These duties 
may be shared in alternation, so that all the pupils may 
learn both the cooking and the kitchen work. 

The pupils should do all the work of keeping the class- 
room in order, except the weekly scrubbing of the floor. 
The room should be left in perfect order at the close of 
every lesson. This part of the training should be considered 
of equal importance with the cooking and should never be 
slighted. 

During the lesson the pupils should work under the direc- 
tion of the teacher and not from the text-book. Let the 
principles be explained, the receipts be given orally, and then 
let each step of the work be done as directed by the teacher. 

Endeavor to draw out what the pupils already know, and 
let them think for themselves rather than cram them with a 
multitude of facts. The pupils may study the text-book 
after the lesson, and prepare at home the dishes they have 
learned to make in the class, and at the next lesson report 
the result, that the teacher ma}^ keep a record of the work 
done at home. 

Examine the classes frequently on the previous lessons. 
Do not allow them to repeat verbatim any of the text in the 
book, but question them in such a way that they may be 
taught the art of expression. The receipts should be mem- 



SUGGESTIONS TO TExVCIlERS xiil 

orized, for the pupils should know how to prepare all the 
dishes in daily use without referring to a book. 

It is advisable to follow the order of the lessons in the 
book as far as practicable, but sometimes changes must be 
made. Afternoon classes should take Lesson YI. before Les- 
son v., and XV. before XIV., in order to finish the work 
begun in the morning class, and to economize in the use of 
material. In the spring sessions it may be advisable to 
have the baking lessons come before the invalid cookery, 
and thus avoid the heat. 

The amount of material used at each lesson will vary with 
the number in the class, and the teacher must use her own 
judgment as to how much to provide. As small an amount 
as will suffice for thorough instruction should be the rule 
always. Many of the receipts may be halved, but the ma- 
jority of them are already as small as practicable, and they 
have purposely been made as economical as we can make 
them and have the result satisfactory. More dishes are 
given in some lessons than can be prepared in the school 
hour. The teacher will select such as are in season and are 
adapted to the class, not confining the instruction to the one 
dish that is being made, but leading the pupils to suggest 
other dishes that may be made after the same general rule. 

Pupils should never be encouraged to think that any part 
of the preparation of food is disagreeable or unworthy of 
their best effort. 

The teacher should keep in mind that tlie object of the 
lesson is not to prepare a certain amount of food to eat or 
to sell, but to develop the powers of the children, the mental 
with the manual, and not the one to the exclusion of the 
other ; to teach them to work understandingly, so that by 
being trained in youth to do well and intelligently the com- 
mon daily duties of the home, they may be better fitted for 
the arduous duties of mature life, and become better and 
more useful women. 



RULES FOR HOUSEKEEPERS. 



HOUSEKEEPER No. I. 

A. M. 

Get kindlings and coal. 
Build the fire. 
Regulate the dampers. 
Empty ashes into sifter. 
Brush the stove and under and around it. 
Blacken the stove. 
Light the fire. 
Polish the stove. 
Regulate the dampers. 

Fill tea-kettle and reservoir with fresh water. 
Wash hearth or zinc under the stove. 
Wash cloth and put to dry. 
Sift ashes. 

Bring cinders to kitchen. 

Collect soiled dishes from desks and take them to the 
sink. 

Put clean dishes in their places. 

p. M. 
Regulate the fire. 
Replenish kettles. 

Empty kettles and copper boiler, and turn them over to 
dry. 



RULES FOR HOUSEKEEPERS. XV 



HOUSEKEEPER No. II. 

Dust the room thoroughly. Begin at one corner and take 
each article in turn as you come to it. Dust from the high- 
est things to the lowest, taking up the dust in the cloth, 
not brushing it off on the floor. Shake the duster occa- 
sionally in a suitable place, and when through wash and 
hang it to dry. Use two or more cloths if needed. 

Biing stores to teacher when directed. 

Scrub dresser and teacher's desk. 

Keep dresser in perfect order. 

Wipe dishes if needed. 

Sweep room at 11.40 and 3.40, beginning at one side and 
sweeping toward one place. Hold the broom clo&e to the 
floor; sweep with short strokes, and let the bioom take the 
dust along on the floor instead of tossing it into the air. 



HOUSEKEEPER No. III. 

Polish the boiler. 

Clean knives and spoons in dresser drawer. 

Wash and wipe dishes. 

Wash dish-towels. 

Scrub sink outside and inside with hot suds. 

Wash cloth and hang it to dry. 



RULES FOR CLEANING DISHES. 



Collect the knives, forks, and spoons. Scrape the dishes, 
rinse the cups, and soak in cold water any dishes that have 
egg or dough adhering to them ; pack them neatly where 
they are to be washed. Have the dish-pan half full of hot 
soapy water, and the drainer near. Wash the glass first, 
one piece at a time, and wipe instantly. Wash the silver, 
and wipe at once without rinsing. Then wash the china, 
taking the less soiled dishes first, — cups, saucers, pitchers, 
plates, etc. Place the dishes on the drainer so they may 
be scalded inside and outside. Scald with hot soapy water, 
and wipe immediately. Glass, silver, and in fact, all kinds 
of dishes look brighter and better if wiped from hot, slightly 
soapy water instead of clear water. But be careful not to 
leave the soap in the water. Use a soap strainer, or keep 
the soap in a cup and pour the water over it. 

Steel knives and forks should never be placed in the dish- 
water. Keep them in the hand and wipe the handles with 
the dish-cloth, wash the blades, scour if needed, then wash 
again and wipe at once. 

Be particular to wash bright tin ware in clean hot soapy 
water with as much care as if it were silver. Do not forget 
to clean the grooves and seams. 

Greasy iron ware should be wiped out first with soft paper 
to absorb the grease, then washed in scalding hot suds and 
wiped dry, — not with the dish-cloth, but with a dry towel. 

Lukewarm or greasy water, and wet wiping towels, or the 
dish-cloth used instead of the towel for wiping, should never 
under any circumstances be allowed in cleaning dishes. 



RULES FOR CLEANING. xvii 

When all are wiped, see that your hands are dry, then 
pack all things of a kind together and distribute to their 
places. Wash the basin, dipper, soap-dish, dish-pan, and 
sink with clean hot suds. Then take clean water and soap 
and wash the towels and cloths; rinse in cold water, wring 
them, shake them out thoroughly, and hang them up to dry, 
— in the sun, if possible. If the towels are only slightly 
wet, and not soiled, they must be washed in clear water just 
the same, and never allowed to dry with the dish-water or 
rinse-water in them. 

Tables and Bread Boards. — Scrape off the dough or Li'ush 
off the crumbs, then dip a brush slightly in warm water, rub 
on sand soap, and rub hard with the brush, always witli the 
grain of the wood, and hardest where there are grease spots. 
Do not let the water run off over the edge, but be careful 
to wash the edges. When clean, wash with a cloth in clear 
hot water, and when well rinsed off, rul) dry. Wash out the 
cloth and brush, and leave the brush, bristles down, to dry. 
Always wash the bread board and meat board on the table 
wliere they have been used, never in an iron sink. 

Tim^. — Use a soft, damp cloth, and mineral soap or sapoiio. 
Rub tlie tins quickly back and forth, the same way and not 
around. W^ipe off all the sand, then wash quickly in clean 
hot soapy v^ater, and wipe at once on a clean dry towel. 

Brass, Copper, and Nickel Plate. — Moisten a soft woolion 
clotli with Pultz pomade, and rub briskly. Where the article 
to be rubbed is stationary, like a faucet, take an end of the 
cloth in each hand, bear down hard, and pidl it briskly back 
and forth over the suiface. The friction does the work more 
thoroughly than can lie done by mere pi-essure with the hand. 
When bright, pobsh quickly with a dry clean flannel. 



REDUCED COPY OF CHARTS 

Prepared at the Massachusetts Jnstitide of Technology by Professor 
Sedgwick and Mrs. Hichards. 



AVERAGE COMPOSITION 
OF SOME COMMON FOODS 



NITR06£NOU^ 

'PROTEIDS WATER 



ASH ETC 



_CARBOHYDRATEa_^ 

STARCH SUGAR 



FATS 




APPLES 

BUTTER 

CABBAGE 

POTATOES 

BACON 

MILK 

BREAD. RYE 

BREAD 

RICE. 

CLAMS 

CRACKERSiMTw 

WHEAT 

EGGS 

INDIAN MEAL 

BEET AVERAGE. 

OAT MEAL 

MUTTON 

HAM 

MACKEREL 

BLUE-FISH 

TRIPE 

FOWL 

BEANS 

PEAS 

CHEESE 

100 90 80 70 60 SO 40 30 20 10 

^^an average qaily piet should contain 
st25^1?^ *•"' 

FATS 

TOTAL-.-dRrtC: 




FOOD MATERIALS OBTAINED rOR2S(I: 

♦^OUNDS OF MATERIALS moi POUNDS OF NUTRIENTS QraWiH 
12 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 II 12 13 

OYSTERS /\TSO(tqt 

beef; SIRLOIN „ZS„\h 

COD, FRESH „ 8, 

BEEF,ROUND „\S, 

MUTTON, LEG „I5, 

SALMON,CANNED, I2i 



,. I2i 
,. 30„ 
,, 8„qt 
„ 8,. lb 
n 5,.qt 
..15,, lb 



COD, SALTED 
MACKEREL 
BUTTER 
MILK 

BEEF. NECK 
MILK,SKIMMED 
CHEESE 

HERRING,SMOKED 6„ „ 
OLEOMARGARINE I5„ ., 
PORK. SALT, FAT, .12,, „ 
RiCE „ 8., „ 

POTATOES „IOO„bu 
BEANS „ 10.. lb 

OATMEAL „ 5 . ., 

FLOUR, WHEAT., H „ 
INDIAN MEAL„ 3„ „ 




INTRODUCTORY. 



In connection with the first and second lessons the pupils 
should learn about the four most important elements, namely, 
oxygen, nitrogen, hydrogen, and carbon. 

OXYGEN. 

Oxygen is a gas found as an element in the air and in 
combination everywhere. It is one fifth of the air, one half 
the solid crust of the earth, eight ninths of the water, about 
four fifths of the weight of vegetable bodies, and three fourths 
of the weight of animal bodies. It is the supporter of ani- 
mal life ; we are constantly taking it into our bodies and 
without it ^ve should die. It sustains combustion and burns 
or unites with all other elements except fluorine. At a low 
temperature it unites slowdy with iron, causing it to rust, and 
with wood, causing it to decay. It attacks all vegetable and 
animal substances and decomposes them, producing a form 
of oxidation or slow combustion. In every such chemical 
change heat is evolved, although it may not always be per- 
ceptible to our senses. 

At a high temperature oxygen combines rapidly with some 
elements and produces fire or rapid combustion. 

NITROGEN. 

Nitrogen is a gas, and constitutes four fifths of atmospheric 
air. It is found in all vegetable substances, but chiefly in 
animal tissues. It forms about 26 per cent of the human 



XXU INTRODUCTORY. 



1)0(1}'. It dilutes the air and thus makes combustion less 
furious than it would be in oxygen alone and renders the 
air mild and suitable for us to breathe. 

HYDROGEN. 

Hydrogen is a gas, and is the lightest substance known. 

It is seldom found free in nature, but its compounds are 
everywhere. Combined with oxygen it forms water. In 
tliis form it is found in all animal and vegetable substances. 
Pure hydrogen burns instantly in the air when lighted and 
produces intense heat, and the result of the burning is water- 
vapor. 

CARBON. 

Carbon is a solid elementar}' substance. Its combinations 
M'ith other elements are in the form of liquids, gases, and 
solids. 

It constif utes nearly one half of the weight of all dry 
vegetable and animal substances. It, exists in a pure state 
in the diamond, and in a nearly pure state in charcoal and 
so-called l)lack-lead or graphite. Tl e charcoal that we l)urn, 
the graphite in our pencils, and the diamonds we wear are 
all different forms of the same element, carbon. The black 
mass left when bread is burned in the oven, or sugar on the 
stove, or fat in the frying-pnn, is also carbon. 

For further information the teacher is referred to " First 
Lessons on Minerals," by Mrs. Ellen H. Richards. 



CONTENTb. 



Preface vii 

Suggestions to Teachers on the Management of Classes xi 

Kl'les for Housekeepers xiv 

Rules for Cleaning Dishes, etc xvi 

Charts showing Average Composition of Food . . . xviii 

Introductory xxi 

LESSON I. 

Cooking. — Heat. — Fuel. — Fires. — The Making and Care 
of a Fire. — Suggestion to the Teacher. — Receipts for 
Baked Potatoes, Crotitous, aud Bread Crumbs. — Abbre- 
viations. — Questions 1-13 

LESSON II. 

Food, how it builds up the Body and keeps it Warm. — 
ClassiGcation of Food : Nifrogenous, Carbonaceous, and 
Mineral. — Water. — Suggestion to the Teacher. — Meas- 
uring. — Table of Measures and Weights. — Receipts for 
Baked Apples, Baked Crackers, Baked Crackers witli 
Cheese, and Cracker Brewis. — Questions .... 15-2C 

LESSON III. 

Boiling or Cooking in Water. — Experiment with Starch. — 
Experiment with Albumen. — Potatoes. — General Rules 
for Cooking Vegetables. — Time-table for l>oiliug. — Sug- 
gestion to tlie Teacher. — Recei|)ts for Boiled Potatoes, 
Rice Potato, Mashed Potato, Potato Cakes, Boiled Eggs, 
and Beef Tea. — Questions 29-42 



XXIV CON TKNrS. 



LESSON IV. 

Sieiiiniug aud other forms of Cooking in Boiling Water. — 
^Milk, — Tlie Combination of Foods, — Suggestion to the 
Teacher. — Receipts for Oatmeal Mush, Steamed Rice, 
Soft Custard, Coddled or Poached Eggs, Steamed Apples, 
and Steamed Potatoes. — Questions 45- 



LESSON V. 

First Lesson in Meat. — Boiled Meat. — Suggestion to the 
Teacher. — Receipts for Boiled Mutton, Gravy, Smothered 
Beef, Baked Heart, Beef Tea, and Clarified Fat or Drip- 
ping. — Diagram of an Ox. — Questions 55-6S 



LESSON VI. 

Warming Over. — Gravies. — Sauces. — Thickening. — Maca- 
roni. — Suggestion to the Teacher. — Receipts for Minced 
Meat on Toast, Cottage Pie, Scalloped Mutton, Macaroni, 
Hash, Tomato Sauce, and White Sauce. — Questions . 71-78 



LESSON VII. 

Second Lesson in Meat. — Soups. — General Rule for Stock. 
— Suggestion to the Teacher. — Receipts for Soup Stock, 
Macaroni, Mixed Vegetable, Rice, Potato, aud Baked 
Beau Soups. — Questions 81-S8 

LESSON VIII. 

Digestion, and Invalid Cookery. — Cooking and Caring for 
Invalids. — Food for Invalids. — Tea. — Suggestion to the 
Teacher. — Receipts for Lemonade, Apple Water, Rhubarb 
Water, Irish Moss Jelly, Milk Porridge, Oatmeal Gruel, 
Orange for an Invalid, Chipped Ice, Tea, and Cocoa 
Shells. — Questions 91-99 



CONTEXTS. XXV 



LESSOR IX. 

Iiivall J Cookery continued. — Toast. — Ice-Cream. — Nutri- 
tious aud Innutritions Foods and Proper Proportion of 
Pood. — Suggestion i-o the Teacher. — Receipts for Toast, 
Water Toast, Milk Toast, Eggnog, Beef Juice, Ice-Cream, 
Blanc-Mange, and Whcatena, — Questions .... 101-109 

LESSON X. 

Broiling. — Pan Broiling. — Time-table for Broiling. — First 
Lesson in Dough. — Suggestion to the Teacher. — Re- 
ceipts for Broiled Steak, Mutton Chop, Broiled Meat 
Cakes, Suet Pudding, Ginger and Fruit Suet Puddings, 
and Lemon Sauce. — To Chop Suet, To Clean Currants, 
To Stone Raisins. — Questions 111-122 

LESSON XL 

St^ws. — Suggestion to the Teacher. — Receipts for Beef 
Stew, Dum])lings, Biscuit, Baked Apple Sauce, and Stewed 
Prunes. — Questions 125-129 

LESSON XIL 

First Lesson in Batters. — Stimng and Beating. — Sugges- 
tion to the Teacher. — Receipts for Griddle Cakes, Whole 
Wheat or Graham Gems, Pop-overs, and Snow Pan- 
cakes. — Questions 131-136 

LESSON XIII. 

Thic'Ker Batters, Muffins, and Doughnuts. — Rolling. — Fry- 
ing. — Suggestion to the Teacher. — General Directions 
for Mixing. — Receipts for Corn Cake, Rye Muffius, Gin- 
ger-bread, Soft Molasses Cookies, Wheat Crisps, Fried 
Rye Muffius, and Doughnuts. — Questions • . . 139-147 



XXVI CONTENTS. 



LESSON XIV. 

Bread. — Yeast. — The Heat for Baking. — Time-table for 
Baking. — Suggestion to the Teaclier. — Ileccipts for 
Yeast and Bread. — Questions 149-158 

LESSON XV. 

T!ic Care of Food. — Suggestion to the Teacher. — Receipts 
for Pastry, Pies with no Under Crust, Apple and Rhubarb 
Pies, Pies with no Upper Crust, Squash and Custard Pies, 
Pies with two Crusts, Plain Mince Pie, and Lyonnaise 
and Creamed Potatoes. — Questions 161-168 

LESSON XVI. 

The Adaptation of Pood to Age, Occupation, Climate, and 
Means. — The Cheapest Poods. — Peas and Beans. — 
Suggestion to the Teacher. — Receipts for Split-Pea Soup, 
Scotch Broth, Steamed Brown Bread, Scalded Corn Cake, 
and Fried Corn-Meal Mush. — Questions .... 171-180 



LESSON XVII. 

Poultry. — To Prepare Poultry for Cooking. — Veal. — Sug- 
gestion to the Teacher. — Receipts for Chicken Fricassee, 
Veal Fricassee, Cranberries, Steamed Rhubarb, Cold Slaw, 
Lettuce, Scalloped Apple and Cream Rice Pudding. — 
Questions 183-190 



LESSON XVIII. 

Fish. — Suggestion to the Teacher. — Receipts for Broiled, 
Baked, Boiled, and Fried Fish, Stuffing for Fish, Drawn 
Butter and Egg Sauce, Fish Chowder, and Fish Balls. — 
Questions 193-199 



CONTENTS. XXVli 



LESSON XIX. 

Eggs. — Oysters. — Lobsters — Cake Making and Baking. — 
Suggestion to tlie Teacher, — Receipts for Plain Cake, 
Water Sponge Cake, Frosting, Dropped Eggs, Omelet, 
Egg Vermicelli, Preparing and Parboiling Oysters, Fried, 
Stewed, and Scalloped Oysters, Opening Lobsters, Plain 
Lobster, and Stewed Lobster. — Questions . . . 201-211 



LESSON XX. 

Laying the Table. — Waiting on the Table. — Table Manners. 
— Suggestion to the Teacher. — Receipts for Chocolate 
and Coffee . 213-222 



Table of Average Cost of Material used in Cooking .... 223 

Table of Cost of Meat and Game 2U 

Table of Cost of Fish 225 

Additional Receipts for Baked Beans, Corned Beef, Boiled 
Dinner, Baked Meat, Roast Chicken, Indian-Meal Pud- 
ding, Berry Charlotte, Chocolate Creams, Creamed Wal- 
nuts, Dates, and Almonds, Banana and Lemon-Jelly Cream, 
Orange Jelly, and Fruit Ice-Cream 22G -232 



BOSTON SCHOOL KITCHEN TEXT-BOOK. 



LESSON I. 

COOKING. 

Cooking is the preparation of food, by the aid of heat, 
to nourish the human body. We cook our food to 
make it taste better, and that it may be more easily di- 
gested and made a part of our bodies. 

The word "cooking" is derived from the Latin coquo, 
meaning "to boil, bake, seethe, dry, scorch, or ripen." 
Cooking is usually done by the application of heat. The 
ripening and the drying process, which some foods 
undergo by the direct heat of the sun, is a kind of nat- 
ural cooking. 

The heat of the living animal also does its part in 
preparing other varieties of food for our use; but the 
greater part of the food we eat is cooked or prepared by 
the more rapid action of artificial heat. This develops 
and improves the flavor, changes the odor, taste, and di- 
gestibility of nearly all articles of food, and thus renders 
them more capable of nourishing our bodies. 

The proper cooking of much of our food depends also 
upon the use of water, or some other liquid, combined 
with heat, and upon the free action of air during the 
process of cooking. 

1 



BOSTON SCHOOL KITCHEN TEXT-BOOK. 



HEAT. 

Artificial heat for household purposes is obtained 
by rapid combustion, or the chemical union of tlie 
oxygen in the air with the carbon and liydrogen found 
in fuei. 

Wood, charcoal, anthracite and bituminous coals, kero- 
sene oil, and gas, all are composed of either carbon, or 
compounds of carbon with a gas, hydrogen, forming 
hydro-carbons. Sometimes they contain both. 

All these varieties of fuel were originally derived from 
vegetable matter. The living tree or plant, through its 
leaves and roots, takes in from the air and soil carbonic 
acid gas and water with earthy and nitrogenous mat- 
ter dissolved in the water. It gives back to the air a 
large part of the oxygen contained in the gas, but re- 
tains some of it, and especially retains much of the 
carbon and water. Upon these it lives, and from 
these, with the help of the sunlight, it constructs the 
WT)ody fibre, sap, and other substances, — compounds 
which are rich in carbon. Since these compounds have 
been built up by the energy of the sunlight, and can 
unite with oxygen, they are readily combustible. When 
we burn them in the form of wood, oil, fat, etc., this 
energy is liberated, or set free, as heat, or light, or both. 
By heat, which represents a certain amount of energy, 
we are enabled to have work done : on a large scale, 
when we burn coal under an engine, and on a small 
scale when we burn it in our stoves, and use the heat 
to cook our food. Artificial heat may thus be traced 
to the sunlight, the chief source, also, of all natural 
heat. 



LESSON I.— FUEL. 



FUEL. 

Wood is a product of vegetable growth, found in the 
trunks and branches of trees. It contains hydro-carbons 
in a solid form. It consists of slender fibres or tubes 
closely packed together. When first formed these are 
hollow, and contain the sap or vegetable juices; but 
gradually they become hardened and consolidated, and 
by their successive layers or rings indicate the age of 
the tree. 

The fibres in hard woods are more densely packed and 
are of a purer quality than those in soft woods. When 
freshly cut, wood contains a large amount of water or 
sap, and soft wood contains more than hard. On ex- 
posure to the air this water is lost by evaporation. 
Wood should be well dried to be useful and economical 
as fuel. 

Charcoal is obtained by heating ^vood in close vessels, 
or in covered pits, with a limited supply of air, — 
enough to decompose the wood, but not enough to con- 
sume, or entirely burn it, — a kind of partial or half- 
smothered burning. The gaseous elements in the wood 
are all expelled, and the coal or charred wood that re- 
mains is nearly pure carbon. 

Anthracite coal is 90 to 98 per cent carbon. It is 
found in immense layers, deeply embedded in various 
parts of the earth's crust. Ages ago the vast forests 
and luxuriant forms of vegetation were submerged; and 
by the action of pressure, heat, and other causes, they 
have been changed to their present form. The gaseous 
substances have nearly all been expelled, and the carbon 
that remains forms the hardest kind of coal. 

Other forms of ancient vegetation thus buried had less 



4 BOSTON SCHOOL KITCHEN TEXT-BOOK. 

charring, and much of the hydrogen, or gaseous element, 
remains. These are called bituminous coals, from the 
bitumen or pitch which they contain. 

Petroleum, from whicli kerosene oil is made, contains 
liquid compounds of hydrogen and carbon. It is ob- 
tained from wells in the bituminous coal regions. 

Illuminating gas is made by distilling or heating 
bituminous coal with entire exclusion of air. Coke is 
the black, porous mass left after the volatile gases have 
been driven off, and is nearly pure carbon. 

Carbon is the chief element in all these forms of fuel. 
In burning, the oxygen unites with the carbon and hy- 
drogen, forming, with the carbon, carbonic acid gas, and 
with the hydrogen, watery vapor. Both escape into the 
air, and the gas is absorbed by plants. Some of the 
carbon is not consumed, and passes off as smoke. 

Any fuel that burns with a flame must be at tluit 
moment in a gaseous state. In burning gas we simply have 
to heat the gas to its kindling-point, and we have a bright 
flame. We light the wick in a candle and at first it burns 
slowly ; the wax in the wick must first melt, then change to 
a vapor, and when the vapor is heated to its kindling-point it 
burns with a flame. Wood burns with a flame because it is 
first decomposed by the heat. Gases are formed ; and the 
burning of these gases, and not of the solid wood, produces 
the flame. Hard coal is made up almost entirely of solid 
carbon, which no furnace heat can change into gas. As there 
are no gases first made by the heat, so there can be no flame 
produced in the burning. Hard coal bums with a steady 
glow without flame, provided there is plenty of air to bum 
the carbon ; but when the coal is densely packed in the grate 
and the supply of air is insufficient, a poisonous gas is formed 
which bums with a blue flame. It disappears when the coal 
burns freely. — Cooley's Ckemistry, page 45. 



LESSON I.— FIRES. 



Wood charcoal, being light and porous, ignites readily, 
burns rapidly with little or no flame, and gives out more 
heat than an equal weight of any other fuel. 

Anthracite coal is next in heating power. Owing to 
its density it kindles slowly, but when once thoroughly 
ignited it burns with an intense heat, without flame, 
smoke, or soot, and for a long time. 

Bituminous coal ignites readily, burns with much flame 
and smoke, but yields less heat than anthracite. 

Soft woods kindle quickly, burn with much flame, 
produce intense heat, and leave but few coals. 

Hard woods kindle and burn slowly, with less flame, 
but afford a large mass of coals, which retain the heat a 
long time. 

FIRES. 

The carbon and hydro-carbons in fuel will not burn 
or unite with oxygen and produce rapid combustion 
except at a very high temperature, — that is, when made 
very hot. The temperature at which this union takes 
place is called the burning-point. This varies in differ- 
ent substances, and special means must be employed to 
produce it. 

Some substances, like the phosphorus on matches, will 
burn very easily when heated by friction. The phos- 
phorus ignites the sulphur, and the burning sulphur 
makes the wood hot enougli to burn, and thus we have 
a little fire. If we hold the burning match near large 
pieces of hard wood or coal it will not make them burn, 
because the match will burn out before they are hot 
enough to take fire. But if we place paper or shavings 
and a pile of small pieces of soft wood under the hard 
wood, and apply the lighted match to the paper, we soon 



6 BOSTON SCHOOL KITCHEN TEXT-BOOK. 

have a bright flame. The burning shavings heat and 
kindle the soft wood ; this in turn kindles the hard wood 
and coal ; and in this way we make our fires. 

The wood or coal will burn until they are nearly con- 
sumed, if they have the proper supply of air. The air, 
enterincr from beneath, should have room to circulate 
freely through the entire mass of wood or coal. There 
should also be a way for the smoke and products of 
combustion to escape freely. 

In wood and coal there is a small amount of mineral 
matter. It will not burn, and in the process of combus- 
tion it is left as ashes. These settle under the fire, and, 
if allowed to accumulate, hinder the burning. 

A fire for cooking purposes is best made in an iron 
box, or, as it is usually called, a stove, or range. By so 
doing we confine the heated air within a certain space, 
and can obtain more or less heat, as may be required. 
By means of a pipe we connect the stove with a chim- 
ney having an opening into tlie outer air. The ashes 
drop througb a grate in the bottom of the fire-box into 
the pan beneath. We control tlie amount of heat ob- 
tained from the fire by dampers in the stove and pipe. 
These increase or diminish the supply of fresli air, regu- 
late the circulation of hot air through the flues of the 
stove, and afford an outlet for the imperfectly burned 
carbon and products of combustion. 

Through ignorant or careless management of a fire, 
much fuel is wasted, health is impaired, and not seldom 
human lives are sacrificed. Charcoal and anthracite 
coal should not be burned in close rooms, especially in 
open stoves, with the pipe dampers closed, or where 
there is a poor draught in the chimney. Poisonous 
i^ases are ^rmed, which if inhaled cause death by suffo- 



LESS(W I.— MAKING A FIRE. 



cation. It is, therefore, a matter of vital importance 
that we so regulate our fires and ventilate our rooms 
that the air may not be impregnated with these deadly 
gases. 

THE MAKING AND CARE OF A FIRE. 

Eemove the covers, and brush the ashes from inside 
the top of the stove into the fire-box. Eeplace the 
covers, close the dampers, and turn over the grate. 
Shake the lower grate, letting the ashes sift through 
into the ash-pan. When the dust ceases to rise, brush 
out the oven, remove the cinders from the lower grate, 
and reserve them to burn again. When taken out in 
this way, the ashes in the pan will not require sifting. 
If there be no lower grate, remove the ashes and cin- 
ders tooether, and sift them. Pick over the cinders 
carefully, and tlirow out any stones, slaty pieces, or 
bits of clinker. These should never be burned, as they 
injure the lining of the fire-box ; but any pieces of half- 
burned coal should be saved. Always take out the 
ashes before lighting the fire, for if they are left in 
the pan, sparks and lighted coals will drop into them. 
It is then highly imprudent to remove them, unless 
they are to be placed in a fire-proof ash receiver. Fires 
have often been occasioned by careless storing of hot 
ashes. 

Put into the fire-box, first, shavings or loose rolls of 
newspaper, letting them come close to the front ; then 
fine pine kindlings, arranged crosswise, that the air may 
circulate freely between the pieces ; be careful to have 
tliem touch each end of the fire-box that the coal may 
not drop through to the grate. Then put on enough 
hard wood, arranged in the same manner, to come to 



8 BOSTON SCHOOL KITCHEN TEXT-BOOK. 

the top of the fire-box. Put on the covers, open the 
dampers, and brush the dust off the stove. 

Moisten some stove-polish with cold water, and put 
it on the stove with the *' dauber." Rub the blacking 
in thoroughly, then light the paper from below the 
grate, and while the fire is kindling polish the stove 
with tlie dry polishing brush. Blacken the stove while 
it is cold, but polish as it begins to heat. 

When the wood is well kindled, put in a few more 
pieces of hard wood, and press the coals down to the 
grate. Put on coal enough to cover the wood, and 
when this has kindled fill the fire-box to the top of the 
lining. By making sure that the hard wood kindles first, 
and adding the coal gradually, much trouble is saved ; 
for unless the kindling be well seasoned, and part of it 
hard wood, and plenty of it used, it will either not 
kindle or it will burn out before tlie hard coal kindles, 
and then the coal must be removed and the fire rebuilt. 
The blazing heat from the wood alone warms the stove, 
and the oven quickly becomes hot. If you have char- 
coal or Franklin coal, it may be put on at first with the 
wood. 

When the blue flame is no longer seen, close the 
oven damper ; and as soon as the coal is burning freely, 
shut the front damper. Then regulate the fire by the 
slide or damper in the pipe. 

While making and watching the fire, empty the tea- 
kettle, wipe out the inside, fill it and the reservoir with 
freshwater, — never from the hot-water tank, — finish 
polishing the sides and back of the range, and brush up 
the hearth and floor. 

When a hot fire is needed for several hours, add a 
sprinkling of new coal before the first has burned out, 



LESSON L — THE CARE OF A FIRE. 9 

and add to it often enough to keep the fire at a uniform 
heat. Be careful not to add enough to cover and thus 
check the fire, and never have the coal above the top 
of the lining. 

When the fire is not needed for the present, add a 
little fresh coal, and close all the dampers in two or 
three minutes, or as soon as the blue flame disappears. 
Never shut off all the draught on a red-hot fire without 
putting on a little fresh coal, if you wish to keep it in 
good condition to use again. It is important to remem- 
ber that when all the coals are red they are nearly 
burned out, and w^ill not give out heat for so long a 
time as when partly black and partly red. 

To quicken an old fire, open all the dampers ; and if 
the coal is black or only partly burned on top, pick out 
the ashes underneath with the poker, and when it be- 
gins to burn more freely add a sprinkling of coal and 
shake the grate. Keep the grate free from ashes w^hen 
a very hot oven is needed. But if the old fire has 
burned so low that all the coals look red or ashy, al- 
ways put a few pieces of small coal on the red coals, 
and when these are burning add a few more carefully ; 
then shake the grate gently, or pick out the ashes. If 
you shake a whity-red or dying fire, the arhes fly up 
and settle on the coals and put out the little life there 
is in them. 

During cold weather, or when a fire is required for 
heating purposes as well as for cookiug, it is more 
economical, with most first-class stoves, to keep the fire 
night and day, letting it go out occasionally if the grate 
become clogged. But when it is no longer wanted for 
either purpose, turn the grate over at once that there 
may be no unnecessary burning of the coaL 



10 BOSTON SCIK)OL KITCHEN TEXT-BOOK. 

Once a mouth clean out the ashes and soot from 
tlie flues back of the oven and under it. There are 
openings made for that purpose. 

When anything is spilled on a hot stove, scrape off 
the thickest part of it at once with an old knife, and 
wipe off the grease by rubbing hard with a crumpled 
newspaper. 

Suggestion to the Teacher. 

The first lesson should be mainly about the chemistry and 
management of the fire. Let the pupils become familiar 
with the names of, and places for, all the utensils; learn 
the table of abbreviations, and, after preparing the receipts, 
repeat from memory what they have done. But do not tel) 
them about the composition of potatoes until the next lesson. 
For further information about fire, combustion, stoves, fuel, 
etc., see " Boston Cook Book," pages 1-8. 

It may be more practicable in some localities to use a wood, 
gas or kerosene stove, and if so, pupils should be taught how 
to manage them, and especially to keep them clean and 
free from soot. The new portable stoves for the burning 
of the gas from denatured alcohol are particulary valuable 
for cooking schools in places remote from the gas supply, 
and for itinerant teachers. 



RECEIPTS FOR LESSON I. 11 

RECEIPTS FOR LESSON I. 

Baked Potatoes. 

Select potatoes of uoiform size. Wash and scrub 
them well. Bake in a clean, hot oven from 30 to 45 m., 
or until soft. Break the skins to let the steam inside 
escape. Serve, at once, uncovered. Should there be 
any potatoes left over, peel them at once, that they may 
be in better condition to warm for another meal. 

Croutons. 

Cut stale bread in half-inch slices. Eemove the 
crusts, and cut into half-inch cubes. Put them on a 
shallow pan, and bake until brown. Use them in the 
place of toast, or as a garnish, or in soups and stews. 

Bread Crumbs. 

Put the crusts, broken pieces, and crumbs of bread 
on a shallow tin plate in a moderate oven, and heat 
until dry and crisp. Roll line, sift, and keep them in a 
dry place. Use them to cover articles which are to be 
fried. 



Abbreviations. 



tbsp. stands for tablespoonful. 
tsp. " " teaspoonfiil. 
sap. " ** saltspoonful. 
c. " " cupful, 

hp. " " heaped. 

Bpk. " " speck. 



m. stands for minute 



h. 

qt. 

pt. 

lb. 

oz. 



^' hour. 

" quart. 

" pint. 

" pound. 

" ounce 



12 



BOSTON SCHOOL KITCHEN TEXT-BOOK. 



Questions on Lesson I. 



1. 


What have you come lu'ie to 
learn ? 


21. 


2. 


Why do we cook our food ? 


oo 


3. 


What is cookery ? 




4. 


How is our food cooked ? 


23. 


5. 


Is there anything which has 


24. 




not been cooked, suitable 


25. 




for us to eat ? 


26. 


6. 


How do we obtain the heat to 






cook our food ? 


27. 


7. 


What is fire ? 


28. 


8. 


What is there in wood or coal 






that burns ? 


29. 


9. 


How came the heat and light 






in the wood or coal ? 


30. 


10. 


What is coal ? 




11. 


From what is the oil we burn 
made ? 




12. 


From what is illuminating gas 
made ? 


31. 


13. 


What do we have to do to 
wood or coal to make them 
burn ? 


32. 


H. 


Why is it better for us that 
they will not burn without 
our help ? 




15. 


What is one of the quickest 
substances to burn ? 




16. 


How did people make a fire 


33. 




before they had matches ? 


34. 


17. 


What is it on the match that 
burns first ? 




18. 


Why not burn our wood or coal 
outside the house, on the 






gi-ound ? 


35. 


19. 


What is this iron box in which 






we are making the fire 


36. 




to-day ? 




20. 


What is the difference between 


37. 




a stove, a portable range, 


38. 




and a brick set range ? 





Why do we make our stoves 
of iron I 

Why do we place the stoves 
near the chimney ? 

Does all the wood or coal burn'/ 

What is smoke ? 

What are ashes ? 

How do we control the heat 
from the fire ? 

Wliat kinds of wood are hard ? 

How can you tell soft wood 
from hard wood ? 

Which wood gives out the 
most heat ? 

Wliich wood is best for kin- 
dling ? 



How many ways of cooking 
food can you mention ? 

What is the easiest thing to 
cook, — that is, what re- 
quires the least preparation 
and the fewest things to 
work with ? We have only 
our stove and our fire ; no 
hot water, no saucepans or 
kettles. What can we cook ? 

What is baking ? 

Large potatoes require 45 ra. 
to bake. Dinner is to be 
served at 11.30 ; what time 
must the potatoes be put 
into the oven ? 

Do potatoes require a hot, or 
a moderate, oven ? 

How can you tell when the 
oven is hot enough ? 

Why do you scrub potatoes ? 

In what part of the oven do 
we put them ? 



QUESTIONS FOR LESSON I. 



13 



40. 



41. 



42. 



43. 



44. 



45. 



Why do we have a rack or 
<^rate across the niicldlc of 
tlie oven ? 

Which are the best for hakinrr, 
— very small, medium, or 
large potatoes ? 

How can we tell wlien the po- 
tatoes are done ? 

Which is more important, — 
to bake them until soft, 
or just the 45 m. ? 

If they chance to be done be- 
fore we are ready to eat 
them, what should we do ? 

Some people send them to the 
table in a covered dish, to 
keep them warm. Is that 
the best way ? 

W' hat happens to oakod pota • 
toes if tiiey are left for a time 
with the skins unbroken ? 

(~'an they be warmed over ? 

When some of the class talk 
about potatoes I am re- 



minded of a hard, soggy, 
shrivelled, poorly baked po- 
tato ; but when others speak 
of them I immediately think 
of a plump, smooth, mealy, 
well-baked potato. Can 
you tell me why ? 

What are croutons, and with 
what are they eaten ? 

What use can you make of 
small pieces of bread ? 

Should even a crumb of bread 
be wasted ? 

How can you keep bread 
crumbs for a long time ? 



W'hat does "ssp." stand for ? 

How do you write or abbrevi- 
ate " tablespoonful " ? 

What is the meaning of "ab- 
breviate " ? 

What is the abbreviation for 
" pound " ? 



Note. — The questions given here are suggestive only, for the 
teacher must adapt the questions as well as the instruction to each 
class or pupil. 



LESSON 11. 

FOOD. 

We learned in our last lesson about rapid combustion, 
by which we obtain heat to cook our food. In this les- 
son we are to learn what food is, and about animal heat, 
a result of slow combustion. 

Food is anything that nourishes the body, or helps to 
support life. 

To live, to grow, and to be in health, the human body 
must have the power to move, and must be kept w^arm. 
When the voluntary muscles of the body lose their 
power of motion, they are said to be paralyzed ; and when 
tlie heart ceases to move the whole body soon after dies. 

Motion, whether of the whole body or of its smallest 
part, results in waste. New material, equal to the waste, 
must be supplied, or the body will be entirely worn out ; 
and until maturity there should be material for growth 
as well as for repair. Tlie particles of worn-out tissue 
must be removed from the body to keep it in a health- 
ful state. 

The living human body always has internal warmth. 
No matter how the temperature of the external air may 
chauge, the internal temperature keeps almost exactly 
the same. A variation of a few degrees always causes 
death. 

Food, therefore, in order to support and nourish life, 
must supply the body not only with building material^ 
but also with fuel to develop animal heat. 



16 BOSTON SCHOOL KITCHEN TEXT-BOOK. 

How in this supplied ? 

All liviug bodies, whether vegetable or animal, are 
capable of growth from within, and of repairing tlieir 
own waste. But lifeless substances, such as manufac- 
tured articles, are constantly wearing out and cannot 
restore themselves, but must be repaired by some power 
from without. 

The living plant, if surrounded by air and a suitable 
soil, light, and the proper temperature, has the power, 
through its leaves and roots, to take from these sources 
all that it needs for growth and nourishment. 

The living animal also has similar power, but ani- 
mals wander about from place to place, and are not, like 
plants, always in contact with their food. Sometimes 
they have work to do, and cannot be seeking food. For 
these reasons animals are provided with a storehouse in 
which to lay by, at intervals, a supply of material for 
growth and repair. They are also provided with a 
monitor, in the shape of nervous structure, to tell them 
when the storehouse is empty, and are surrounded by 
an almost unlimited supply of material from which to 
select, according to their need. 

All that is required of them, therefore, is to heed the 
voice of this nervous monitor, replenish the storehouse 
at the proper time, with a suitable amount of the right 
kind of food ; and the remaining work — the making of 
the food into a part of themselves — will be done by the 
energy within. 

How does food build up the body ? 

Food, as we see it on our tables, bears little resem- 
blance to our bodies ; but if we study and compare them 
we shall find that they are composed of similar sub 



LESSON II. — COMPOSITION OF FOOD, ETC. 17 

stances. The solid part of the flesh and blood is largely 
fibrin and albumen, substances similar to the fibres and 
juices of meat and fish. Eggs, milk, peas, beans, and 
grains also contain other varieties of fibrin and albu- 
men. When we analyze these substances still farther, 
we find nitrogen is the element common to all ; and it 
is from these nitrogenous foods that the bodily substance 
is chiefly built up. 

A small part of the body is fat, a substance similar to 
the fat which we eat in the form of butter, oil, fat meat, 
etc. Fats, from whatever source obtained, when ana- 
lyzed, are found to consist of carbon, oxygen, and 
hydrogen. 

The bones, teeth, skin, hair, and nails contain, in 
addition to these elements, a larger proportion of min- 
eral matter. Grains, vegetables, fi-uit, meat, milk — in 
fact, all things we eat — contain mineral matter, often- 
times in solution. 

Although dissimilar in appearance, the body and our 
food are both made up of substances which contain the 
same elements, the principal of which are oxygen, hy- 
drogen, carbon, and nitrogen. There are small quan- 
tities of phosphorus, sulphur, iron, potassium, silicon, 
calcium, etc. 

But food, in the form in which it is eaten, cannot 
nourish the body and sustain life. It must first be 
changed, and converted into a fluid that can pass through 
very small channels into the blood. The blood, laden 
with food, and enriched with oxygen in the lungs, is 
carried by the arteries to the capillaries, which penetrate 
every part of the body. There it is taken up by the 
living cells, and changed by them into their own tissues. 
Each little cell or particle of tissue, whether of bone. 



18 BOSTON SCHOOL KITCHEN TEXT-BOOK. 

flesh, brain, nerve, hair, nail, or gland, has the power to 
select from this common supply such material as it es- 
pecially requires, and convert it into its own substance. 

By this power our food is assimilated, or becomes a 
part of ourselves ; but only for a time, for the cells are as 
constantly breaking down as building up. The wearing- 
out process goes on incessantly, creating a demand for 
new material as long as life lasts. 

The particles of worn-out tissue and the surplus of 
new material are taken out of the way, partly by the 
capillaries and partly by the lymphatic vessels, and car- 
ried as the venous blood to the lungs, where they are got 
rid of or changed, as we shall learn in the next section. 

How does food keep the body warm ? 

To obtain heat in the stove we need carbon and hy- 
drogen to be burned and oxygen to burn them. To 
obtain animal heat, the same elements are essential. 
All our food contains compounds of carbon and hydro- 
gen, the same elements that are found in w^ood and 
coal. Many of our foods contain compounds of nitrogen. 
These carbonaceous and nitrogenous foods are eaten in 
a natural or in a prepared state, and, after undergoing 
certain processes of digestion, are absorbed into the gen- 
eral circulation. Through the lungs, oxygen from the 
air enters the blood. So we have in the arterial blood 
all the elements we had in the coal fire, — carbon and hy- 
drogen in the form of new material and worn-out tissue, 
and oxygen taken in at every breath. This blood is 
carried all over the body ; and then in the cells, chiefly 
in the muscles, the oxygen combines with the carbon 
and hydrogen, producing carbonic acid gas and watery 
vapor. 



J.ESSON II. — ANIMAL COMBUSTION. 19 



This chemical action develops heat just as tnily, 
though at a lower temperature, as in the coal fire. But 
instead of combining so rapidly as to produce fire and 
light, this animal combustion goes on so slowly and 
continuously as scarcely to be noticed except when 
vigorous exercise increases the amount of fire, or lack of 
fuel diminishes it. 

Carbonic acid gas and watery vapor — products of 
combustion — are given off from the lungs in the ex- 
halations. The mineral salts and the nitrogenous resi- 
due, together with the larger part of the water, escape 
through the kidneys and skin. 

Some of the food, being indigestible, never enters the 
blood, but leaves the system as excrement. 

In the coal fire, we have been advised to " keep the 
grate free from ashes and clinkers when a bright fire is 
needed." Equal care is essential in respect to the fire 
within our bodies. The pores of the skin must be kept 
open by frequent bathing, and a suitable amount of water 
be taken daily, to aid in digestion and assimilation of 
food, and in the removal of the waste products. 

Coal burned in a stove gives out heat to warm our 
rooms and to cook our food, and if burned in an engine, 
converting water into steam, gives force with which to d^ 
mechanical work. So, in animal combustion, the burn- 
ing of the foods by the oxygen liberates their stored-up 
energy. This energy is given out partly as heat — 
keeping the body temperature at 98° — and partly in 
the form of mechanical work. 

Thus our food renders a threefold service to that most 
wonderful machine, the human body : furnishing heat to 
keep it warm, material to build it up, make it grow, and 
keep it in repair, and energy with which it may do its 



20 BOSTON SCHOOL KITCHEN TEXT-BOOK. 

work, whether that work be the voluntdry activity of 
our hands, feet, and brains, or tlie involuntary motions 
by wliich are performed the great functions of respira- 
tion and circulation. 

CLASSIFICATION OF FOOD. 
NITROGENOUS FOODS. 

Foods that supply material for growth and repair are 
called nitrogenous foods, because some nitrogenous com- 
pound is found in them. 

They are also called proteids, from a Greek word 
meaning " first," because in the living cells which are the 
first principle or form of life there is always nitrogen, 

A common name is albuminous foods, because the 
most familiar form of tliese nitrogenous compounds is 
egg albumen, as found in the white of an egg. The 
word is derived from the Latin alhis, meaning " white." 
Albuminous substances exist in many forms, and are 
called by different names in different things. They 
are found largely in meat, fish, milk, peas, beans, and 
grains. The albumen and fibrin in the juices and flesh 
of meat and fish, and in the juices and membranes of 
some vegetables and fruits, the casein in milk, the vege- 
table casein in peas and beans, and the gluten of grains, 
are all forms of nitrogenous substances, or proteids. 

Nitrogenous foods are often classified as fiesh-form- 
ing, and other foods as heat-producing ; but these terms 
are misleadincr, because nitrogenous foods also contain 

O' o 

carbon, and give out heat. 

But there are foods containing carbon which do not 
contain nitrogen ; and these, in which carbon is the 
chief element, are called 



LESSON II. —CARBONACEOUS FOODS. 21 



CARBONACEOUS FOODS. 

Though the internal normal temperature of the body 
is only 98°, the amount of heat produced by the slow 
combustion going on in the body, as mentioned on page 
19, is considerable. It has been estimated that this 
heat obtained during twenty-four hours, if confined 
within certain limits, would be sufficient to raise nine 
gallons of water from a temperature of 70° to 212°. 
A portion of this heat is derived from nitrogenous 
foods, but the greater part of it is obtained from car- 
bonaceous foods. These are classed as fats and carbo- 
hydrates. 

Fats. These include butter, the fat of meat and fish, 
oils, eggs, and some kinds of cheese. 

Fats stand at the head of heat-producing foods, and 
are necessary in winter and in cold climates. They 
serve other and important uses in the body. A small 
amount is necessary in digestion, and indispensable to 
perfect nutrition. 

" Fat forms the principal material of certain tissues, 
which, by filling the spaces between the bones, muscles, 
and the different organs of the body, give rotundity and 
beauty to the form, equalize external pressure, diminish 
the friction of the parts, and being non-conductors of 
heat, keep the body warm." An undue accumulation 
of fat is a species of disease, and disease just as surely 
results from a deficiency of fat. 

Carbo-hijdrates (Starch, Sugar, etc.). Other carbona- 
ceous foods, called carbo-hydrates, are the starches found 
in grains, peas, beans, and some vegetables, and the 
sugars found in the sap and juices of plants, vegetables, 
and fruits. Sugar is also found in milk ; but we take 



22 BOSTON SCHOOL KITCHEN TEXT-BOOK. 

most of it in the form of pure sugar, made from the 
sugar-cane. 

These carbo-hydrates form tlie larger part of our diet, 
and are very important and useful foods. 



MINERAL FOOD OR ASH. 

Under the general term salts, or mineral matter, aie 
included various combinations of lime, soda, potash, sul- 
phur, phosphorus, magnesia, and iron, which are found 
principally in cereals, milk, meat, fish, and fruits. They 
are found in so minute quantities, that if, through igno- 
rance or improper cooking, we are deprived of them, the 
system suffers from the want of them ; and it is from 
the ill effects which follow that we judge their office to 
be a most important one. They replenish certain tis- 
sues, and are indispensable to the pPTTect building up of 
the body. More mineral matter is needed when the 
body is young ; and it is especially important that chil- 
dren should not be deprived of it by being fed exclu- 
sively on arrowroot, sago, tapioca, etc., which are purely 
starch. 

How much is needed we do not know ; but the best 
development follows when the supply is from foods 
which are naturally rich in mineral matter, rather than 
from its addition to other foods. 

Chloride of sodium, or connnon salt, seems to be es- 
sential to the proper digestion and absorption of food, 
and since there are many foods in which it is not found 
in sufficient quantity, it must be added to them. From 
habit, more is often used than the system requires ; and 
when taken in excess it acts as an irritant, and some- 
times occasions disease. 



LESSON II. — WATER. 23 

On the charts these mineral substances are classed as 
ash, because if the foods were burned there would be 
left a solid residue, resembling the ashes left in burning 
wood or coal. 

WATER. 

While water cannot in the usual sense be called a 
food, it fills one of the most important offices in the 
nutrition of the body, and ranks next to oxygen as a 
supporter of life. It constitutes about three fourths 
of the wdiole body. It forms a large part of the mus- 
cular tissue, and is found even in the bones. It abounds 
in the blood and secretions, giving them the necessary 
fluidity, thus enabling them to dissolve the important 
materials they contain, transport them over the body, 
and carry away the used-up material. 

Water is the great regulator of animal heat, for by 
its evaporation in perspiration it prevents or reduces 
any excessive temperature of the body. 

We are constantly losing a large quantity of water 
through the lungs, skin, and kidneys. This loss must 
be supplied, or life cannot go on. A large amount of 
water must be taken as a beverage, and care must be 
taken to have it free from any harmful substance. Al- 
though it is found in all kinds of solid food, yet there 
are many foods to which it must be added in cooking. 

Suggestion to the Teacher. 

Review the lesson on making the fire and baking potatoes. 
Illustrate the table of measures and weights. Give a brief 
outline of the purpose of food and its classification, illus- 
trating by the foods used in the two lessons. 



24 BOSTON SCHOOL KirCHEN TEXT-BOOK. 



MEASURING. 

Accurate measurement is necessary to insure success 
in cooking. Sift dry materials before measuring. 

Measure flour lightly, without shaking down, and 
butter by packing closely. 

A cup holding just half a pint (beer measure) is the 
standard measuring cup. See note, page 26. 

A cupful is all the cup will hold without running 
over, — full to the brim. A scant cupful is within a 
quarter of an inch of the top. 

A tablespoonful of flour, sugar, butter, rice, chopped 
vegetables, and crumbs, is a rounded spoonful. 

A teaspoonful of salt, soda, pepper, baking powder, 
and spice, is a level spoonfuL 

A heaped spoonful is all the spoon will hold. 

Half a spoonful is measured by dividing through the 
middle lengthwise, or by using the new half teaspoon. 

A speck, or a shake, or a few grains is what you can 
pile on a quarter-inch square surface. 

TABLE OF MEASURES AND WEIGHTS. 



4 ssp. = 1 tsp. 

3 tsp. = 1 tbsp. 

4 tbsp. = i^ c. 
2 gills = 1 c. 
2 c. =» 1 pt. 
2 pt. =1 qt. 

4 qt. =1 gallon. 

8 qt. =1 peck. 



4 c. flour = 1 lb. 

2 c. solid butter = 1 lb. 

2 c. gran, sugar = 1 lb. 

3 c, meal := 1 lb. 
1 hp. tbsp. butter = 2 oz. 

1 hp. tbsp. sugar = 1 oz. 

2 c. solid meat = 1 lb. 

1 tbsp. liquid = J^ oz. 



Rf:CEIPTS FOR LESSON II. 25 

RECEIPTS FOR LESSON II. 
Baked Apples. 

1 tsp. sugar, 1 tbsp. water, to each apple. 

Wipe the apples, remove the core, and put them in a 
granite or earthen dish. Put the sugar in the centre 
of each apple, and the water in the dish. Bake in a 
hot oven from 20 to 30 m., or until soft, but not until 
broken. 

Baked Crackers. 

% tsp. butter to each whole cracker. 

Split round crackers in halves, spread the inside with 
a thin layer of butter. Put them, buttered side up, 
into a pan, and brown in a hot oven. Serve plain or 
with soups and oyster stews. 

Baked Crackers with Cheese. 

Mix 1 tbsp. crumbled or grated cheese, ^ ssp. salt, 
%. ssp. pepper for each whole cracker. Toast as in the 
first receipt, spread with the cheese mixture, return to 
the oven, and warm until the cheese is melted. 

Cracker Brewis. 

Prepare the crackers with the cheese, put them in a 
shallow earthen dish, add ^ c. of milk to each whole 
cracker. Bake until brown, or until the milk is absorbed, 
The pepper may be omitted, 



26 



BOSTON SCHOOL KITCHEN TEXT-BOOK. 



Questions on Lesson II, 



1. 


What part of a tsp. is a ssp. ? 


15. 


What do we mean by flesh- 


2. 


How many tsp. in a tbsp. ? 




forming foods ? 


3. 


If you had no cup, how could 


16. 


Are flesh-forming, albuminous, 




you measure )^ c. of flour 




and nitrogenous foods the 




with a tbsp. ? 




same ? 


4. 


What part of a c. is a gill ? 


17. 


Where do we obtain the oxy- 


5. 


How many cups in a qt. ? 




gen to keep the fire within 


6. 


How do you measure }^ tbsp. ? 




us burning ? 


7. 


How many cups of gran, sugar 


18. 


Where do we obtain the fuel 




in a lb. ? 




for this fire ? 


8. 


If you wanted a lb. of flour, 


19. 


What is the bellows with 




and had no scales, how could 




which we blow this fire ? 




you measure just one lb. ? 


20. 


What vegetable that we have 


9. 


How much will ^ lb. of but- 




learned to cook contains 




ter measure ? 




carbon ? 


10. 


How many hp. tbsp. of butter 


21. 


What is this substance called ? 




in a cup ? 


22. 


What foods that we have used 


11. 


How many in % lb. ? 




contain water; sugar; min- 


12. 


How much would 1 tbsp, of 




eral matter; muscle-making 




sugar weigh ? 




food? 






23. 


In what form have we used fat 


13. 


What is there in the wood we 




in these lessons ? 




burn which is in the food 


24. 


Why are we hungry after rig- 




we eat ? 




orous exercise ? 


14. 


What is the purpose of car- 
bonaceous foods ? 







Note. — The quart in beer measure is larger than that of liquid 
measure by which milk is now sold. A quart of milk will not contain 
4 cups, measured by the cooking-cup measure. The standard cooking 
cup should be of a size that will hold just half a pound of water, or 
granulated sugar, or butter packed in solidly. Two tin cups divided 
by grooves, one into quarters and the other into thirds, and holding 
iu.st half a pint, beer measure, should be in every kitchen. 



LESSON II.— MEASURING. 27 



Note to the Teacher. 

On account of the variation in ditferent pupils' ideas of 
a rounded spoonful, many teachers prefer to use the level 
measurement for everything ; but experience shows that it 
is better to teach pupils to measure in a variety of ways. 
Weighing is best for many things, but the eye may be 
trained to exactness, and judgment may be acquired. After 
memorizing the table of weiglits and measures, let the pupil 
have frequent comparison of weights and measures and prac- 
tise in measuring by the eye. 

Liquids are always measured level, but if you dip a 
tablespoon into melted butter, molasses, cream, etc. you 
take up what adheres to the under side of the spoon and 
have more than when you pour the liquid into the spoon. 
Salt, pepper, spices, soda, and baking powder are measured 
level, for a level teaspoonful is the proportion needed in 
most combinations, and exactness is essential to keep the 
proportions correct. 

Flour, cornstarch, and sugar are commonly measured in 
a tablespoon, and for the sake of accuracy it is better (until 
the eye has been well trained) to use the level measurement. 
With the left hand dip the spoon into the sifted material 
and with a knife in the right hand scrape off all that is 
above the rim of the spoon. But remember to use two 
level tablespoonfuls where one is specified in these recipes. 

As many recipes call for an ounce of butter and scales 
are not always at hand, butter has been commonly mea- 
sured by the rounded tablespoonful, an ounce filling the 
spoon and rounding over or up as much above the edge as 
the spoon hollows below. Time and butter are wasted by 
packing butter into a tablespoon and scraping off* to a level 
measure ; unless the butter is soft it is difficult to pack ; 
and if soft and you dip the spoon into the butter, you can- 
not allow accurately for that which is on the under side. 



28 BOiiON SCHOOL kitchen text-book. 



Surely there can be no better opportunity to teucli ac- 
curacy of measurement, and economy of time, labor, and 
material, than to train a pupil to cut olf at once the amount 
of butter desired. Any one can learn and remember that 
a rounded tablespoon is equal to two of level measure, and 
make one motion answer for two. A rounded tablespoon 
also equals one-eighth of a cup or one-fourth of a quarter 
\b. print of butter. Divide this quarter lb. once each way 
and you have four cubes about one inch in size. These 
cubes will be sliglitly larger in butter that is soft and 
watery than in that which is close-grained and has been 
thoroughly worked over. If j^ou have not a pound print 
or ball of butter, weigh a pound of tub butter and pack it 
into rectangular shape ; divide it into halves when a cup- 
ful is desired, or into quarters if you wish a half cup; and 
divide the quarter into four cubes and lay aside until 
needed ; and thus save the waste and uncertainty winch 
comes from packing butter into a cup or spoon. 

Should the teacher prefer the level measurement, it will 
be well to remember that in the following recipes a level 
measure is intended where all teaspoons and saltspoons, or 
tablespoons of liquid are called for; and that a rounded 
measure is intended for all tablespoons of solid material, 
unless a heaped measure is indicated ; a heaped is equal 
to two rounded or four of level measurement. 



LESSON III. 

BOILING, OR COOKING IN WATER. 

We have learned about baking, or cooking by dry, 
confined heat, and now we are to learn about cooking in 
a boiling liquid. This is the most common form of 
cooking, and water is the liquid usually employed. 

Nearly every kind of food needs the action of water, 
or some other liquid, combined with heat, to cook it in 
the best manner. 

Some seeds and grains, when fully grown, lose by the 
ripening process nearly all the water that was in them, 
and become very hard. They need to absorb a large 
amount of water in cooking to replace that which they 
have lost. 

Other foods contain so much water that simply heat- 
ing them cooks them sufficiently, while still others are 
improved by having the water they contain taken away 

Some foods have flavors which are affected by the 
temperature of the water and the length of time they 
remain in it. 

To understand the different effects of cold water and 
boiling water upon food, and also the time required for 
cooking in water, we need first to learn about boiling 
water. When we cook in boiling water, we really cook 
the water first ; that is, we heat or boil it. 

We will put a cupful of cold water in a saucepan over 
the fire, and see what happens. When it becomes so 



30 BOSTON SCHOOL KITCHEN TEXT-BOOK. 

hot that we cannot bear the fingers in it we will take 
the temperature. This is scalding hot water. Soon we 
see tiny bubbles forming on the edges and bottom of the 
pan. This is the air in the water which expands by 
the heat. These air bubbles disappear as they reach 
the colder water near the top, and the cold water being 
heavier goes to the bottom. This makes a slight motion 
in the water which we call simmering, and which is often 
mistaken for boiling. Water simmers at about 180°. 

After a while all the water is very hot, that nearer the 
bottom is changed into steam, large bubbles of steam rise 
rapidly and soon break above the surface, making quite 
a commotion or bubbling all over the top, and we say 
" the water boils." 

We take the temperature, and find it boils at 212°. As 
the bubbles break the steam escapes, and w^hen it comes 
in contact with the cold air above and outside the kettle 
it is changed, or condensed, into a fine mist. We call 
this mist steam, but the real steam is invisible. 

Thus w^e learn that boiling is the changing of water 
or liquid into steam by the action of heat sufficient to 
cause commotion or bubbling on the surface. 

Any solid must first be melted into a liquid before it 
can boil. We do not really boil our potatoes ; we cook 
them in boiling water. 

After boiling the water some time we take the tem- 
perature again, and find the water is no hotter than 212°. 
We increase the fire to make the water boil faster, and 
the force of the steam lifts the cover, and the water 
runs over and spatters the stove ; but we find the water 
is no hotter. The excess of heat escapes in the steam, 
and in ordinary kettles it is impossible to retain the 
whole of it. 



LESSON III. — BOILING WATER. 31 

We cover the kettle, and some of the steam con- 
denses into water on tlie inside of the cover, drops 
back again into tlie kettle, and gives up its heat. 
So although we do not gain any greater degree of heat 
by boiling i-apidly, yet by keeping the cover on more 
of the heat is kept inside. The steam, as it changes 
from a vapor to a liquid, gives back the heat that it 
has, and by keeping in the steam we can economize 
heat. 

We cool a portion of the boiling water, and find it 
tastes flat. This is because tlie gases, or air, which gave 
it a fresh taste have escaped. 

If we let the water all boil away, or be changed into 
steam, we find only a rim or deposit of brown scum on 
the edge of the pan. 

We learn by this experiment in cooking or boiling 
water — 

That it boils at 212°, or when it bubbles all over the 
top; 

That when once it boils all over it becomes no hotter, 
and fuel and heat are wasted when it boils at a gallop- 
ing rate ; 

That the kettle should never be so full that the water, 
as it expands in heating, will boil over ; 

That it loses its freshness by long boiling, and should 
be used at once ; 

That it boils away faster if uncovered ; 

That in time it will all evaporate and pass off as steam, 
and more must be added as needed ; 

And, lastly, that the water leaves a deposit on the 
kettle, which, if not removed, will in time afiect the 
taste of the water. 

These are only a few of the many facts to be learned 



32 BOSTON SCHOOL KITCHEN TEXT-BOOK. 

about boiling water, but they are sullicient for our 
lessou.^ 

We will take for our experiment to-day some foods 
which contain starch and albumen, and see wliat effect 
cold water or boiling water has upon them. In this way 
we learn how to cook our food in water. 

EXPERIMENT WITH STARCH. 

If we soak thin slices of raw potato in cold water, 
after a while we find a sediment in tlie pan. This is 
starch, which has dropped out of the cells which were 
cut by slicing. This sediment may be purified and dried, 
and then it will be like the pure starch of commerce. 

Pure starch is a fine white powder, and is found en- 
closed in cells in the various grains, seeds, and vege- 
tables. 

We will wet a teaspoonful of cornstarch with a little 
cold water. It appears to mix with the water, but after 
standing a short time the starch is found at the bottom 
of the bowl, and the water is clear again, showing that 
it has not united with the starch ; but by stirring this 
wet starch till a smooth paste is formed, and pouring it 
quickly into boiling water, we find that the membranes 

1 Water boils at a higher temperature when there is sugar or salt or 
anything in it to increase its density. 

Water boils at a lower temperature when the pressure of the air up- 
on the water is diminished. Before a rain the pressure of the air is 
lessened, because the air when filled with vapor is lighter. Things 
burn on more quickly at such a time because the water evaporates more 
rapidly. The pressure of the air is less the higher we ascend above the 
level of the sea, and at an elevation of 14,150 feet water boils at 188.6°. 
Cooking in boiling water requires a much longer time, therefore, in 
mountainous regions, for the water boils so quickly that it has less heat 
than at lower altitudes, where it is subject to greater pressure. 



LESSON III.— STARCH. 33 

of the starch grains swell and burst,. and the fine powder 
inside unites with the boiling water. 

We learn from this experiment that cold water does 
not affect starch ; and that boiling water is absorbed by 
the starch grains, causing them to swell and burst, and 
form a thick, sticky mass, wdiich, when cold, is quite 
stiff. Starch is from the German word, stdrke, meanincr 
" Stiff." 

This experiment teaches us the first important princi- 
ple of mixing dry and liquid ingredients ; and also the 
rule for boiling starchy foods : Any star cliy food in the 
form of a poivder, like four or cornstarch, whe7i it is to 
be iised as a thickening, should first he wet ivith a little 
cold water to form a smooth paste. Then add more 
cold water until it is tliin enough to pour. Stir it 
quickly into rapidly boiling water, and the grains will 
burst uniformly. 

If toiling water be poured upon fine dry starch, the 
grains are so compact it will not reach all of them. 
Some will burst more quickly than others, some will not 
burst at all, and the mass will be lumpy. 

But all other starchy foods, like lohole grains, vegetables, 
tapioca, etc., should be put directly into boiling water. 

Starch in its uncooked, insoluble state is unwholesome. 
All starchy foods should be moistened w^th a sufficient 
amount of liquid, and subjected to a great degree of 
heat, tliat all the grains may swell and burst. 

EXPERIMENT WITH ALBUMEN. 

Albumen is a substance found in many foods in both 
solid and liquid forms. 

The white of eggs is nearly pure albumen. The yolks 
contain a smaller portion of it. The albumen in the 

3 



34 BOSTON SCHOOL KITCHEN TEXT-BOOK. 

\vliite of egg is in a clear, lit^uid Ibriii ; but if we put an 
egg into boiling water, the white soon becomes opaque, 
thick, and creamy, tlien tough, and finally the white is 
quite hard and brittle, and the yolk dry and mealy, or 
easily crumbled. The two kinds of albumen in the egg 
coagulate at 122° and 16G° F. 

Blood albumen is found in the juices and fibres of 
lean meat. A piece of lean meat, if put into boiling 
water, shrivels and contracts, and the juices stay in the 
meat. The water is unchanged. But these small pieces 
of meat wdiich were put into cold water at the beginning 
of the lesson have colored the water red and given it a 
taste, which shows that the juices have been drawn 
into the water. On heating this water, w^e find the red 
color changes to brown, and the water seems thicker. 
Soon the brown substance becomes harder, separates en- 
tirely from the water, and, when the water stops boiling, 
settles. Blood albumen coagulates at 160°. 

By this experiment we have learned that cold water 
draws out albuminous juices and holds them in solution, 
and that boiling water hardens albumen. 

Nearly all vegetables contain starch and a small 
amount of albuminous matter, and are generally cooked 
in water. 

We shall learn to-day about cooking potatoes ; and as 
the principles are the same for cooking all vegetables, 
if we learn how to cook one kind well, we can, by follow- 
ing the special directions, cook any kind as occasion may 
require. 

POTATOES. 

Potatoes are three fourths water. The solid matter 
consists largely of starch, with a small quantity of albu- 
men and mineral matter^ — chiefly potash salts held in 



LESSON III. — POTATOES. 35 

solution ill tlie juices. New potatoes, unless perfectly 
ripe, contain but little starch. In late summer and in 
autumn they are in their best condition. The amount 
of starch and albumen diminishes by keeping ; and in 
spring, or when the potatoes begin to sprout, a part of 
the starch changes to gum, and this makes them sticky 
or waxy. Some of the water has evaporated, the mem- 
branes of the starch cells are dry and hard, and their 
value as food is diminished. 

The amount of albumen in potatoes, though small, is 
more than that in any other of the moist vegetables. 
This, together with the fact that they are cheap and pala- 
table, combine well with other foods, and are easily cul- 
tivated and kept, makes them a favorite vegetable food. 
But they have been greatly overrated, and should not be 
used alone, or in too great proportion. For they contain 
little heat-giving and flesh-forming material, and if they 
be depended upon mainly for sustenance, so large a bulk 
of them is required that the system is overtasked. They 
should be eaten with fat and meat to make perfect food. 

As they contain starch, they must be cooked to be 
wholesome, and it is important not to lose any of their 
nutriment in the process of cooking. The most eco- 
nomical methods are baking, steaming, and boiling. 

There is a difference of opinion as to whether pota- 
toes should be pared or not pared before cooking. Many 
claim that the most nutritious part of the potato is the 
part in and near the skin, and that this is lost by paring. 
This is chietly mineral matter, — silica, — an element 
needed by the hair and nails. The potash salts — the 
most valuable mineral constituent — are probably held 
in solution all through the juices, and if these juices are 
drawn out, no doubt much of the potash escapes. 



36 BOSTON SCHOOL KITCHEN TEXT-BOOK. 

Potatoes are often grown in soils not adapted to them, 
and ave liable to disease. They belong to a poisonous 
family, and contain a bitter juice in and near the skin, 
which makes them indigestible. In cooking, this bitter 
principle is set free by the heat, and goes off with the 
steam, if they are opened or uncovered at once ; if not, 
the potato absorbs it and becomes bitter. So, unless po- 
tatoes are sound and of the best quality, it is better to 
pare them before boiling, and to take off quite a thick 
})aring, that all this juice may escape; and they should 
always be pared when they are to be cooked for people 
with weak digestion. If any of the potash salts are lost 
by paring, they can be supplied by the use of salads and 
other green vegetables and fruits. If not pared they 
sliould be thoroughly scrubbed, to remove all the earthy 
matter adhering to the skin. The skin of new potatoes 
is thin, and may be removed by scraping instead of 
paring. 

Potatoes, when pared, turn brown if exposed to the 
air, and each should be covered with cold water as soon 
as pared, and should not be pared long before cooking. 
In the spring, when they are shrivelled and become 
gummy, soaking improves them by supplying the water 
they have lost and dissolving the gum, making them 
less sticky ; but at any other time it is undesirable. 

If we examine the potato under the microscojje, we 
can understand why, in cooking, it should be put into 
boiling water rather than into cold. The starch is found 
throughout the potato, enclosed in cells the walls of 
which are thin membranes of an albuminous nature. 
Each cell contains ten or twelve grains, surrounded by 
a watery, albuminous juice. In cooking the potato, this 
juice becomes boiling hot, the starch grains absorb it and 



LESSON III. — COOKING VEGETABLES. 37 

burst ; so that each cell, which before cooking was wet 
and hard, is now filled w4th soft, mealy starch. If we 
begin to cook our potatoes by putting tliem into cold 
water, some of the gum and potash salts will be drawn 
out, and tlie starch will not begin to cook until the 
water boils. Hence, though the potatoes may look and 
taste well, no time is gained in cooking, and they must 
have lost some portion of their nutriment. But if put 
into freshly boiling water, this hardens the albuminous 
membranes of the outside cells, and prevents the escape 
of the juices. The water should boil gently, to prevent 
the potatoes from breaking. Salt should be added to 
slightly increase the density of the water and thus raise 
the boiling-point, and help retain the soluble matters. 
And lastly, and most important of all the steps in the 
process, the potatoes should be taken up the moment 
they are done, — that is, when a fork will pierce them 
easily. They should be drained at once, then shaken, 
and left uncovered, to let the water inside, which has 
not been absorbed by the starch, pass off as steam. If 
we cook them after the starch is all softened, the starcli 
on the outside will absorb the bitter, boiling water in 
the kettle ; after a time the potato will break up and 
partly dissolve, and w^e shall have a bitter, pasty, potato 
gruel, instead of a firm, but soft and mealy potato. 

GENERAL RULES FOR COOKING VEGETABLES. 

Prepare them for cooking as follows : — 

Potatoes, scrub, and pare when necessary. 
Parsnips, scrub till white, trim off the fine roots. 
Carrots, scrub, and scrape off the thin outer surface. 
Turnips, scrub, '^'^t in slices, and pare. 



35 BOSTOX SCHOOL KITCHEN TEXT-BOOK. 

Beets, wash carefully, for if the skin be broken the 
sugary juices will escape. 

Cabbage and cauliflower, trim and soak top down to 
draw out any insects. 

Celery, wash, and scrape off any rusty portions. 

Spinach and other greens, pick over and wash in 
several waters. 

Onions, peel and soak. 

Green corn, husk with clean hands, but do not wash it. 

Peas and beans, shell with clean hands and wash 
quickly. 

Soft-shell squashes, wash, pare, and cut as desired. 

Hard-shell squashes, wash, split, and cook in the 
shell. 

Asparagus, wash and break off the tough end, tie in 
bundles, or break into inch bits. 

String beans, strip off the ends and strings on each 
side, cut or break into small pieces, and wash. 

Fresh vegetables do not require any soaking in cold 
water, and it is better not to prepare them until you 
are ready to cook them. But if they be wilted, soaking 
will freslien them ; and if they must be prepared long 
before cooking they should be covered with cold water 
to prevent them from wilting or from becoming dis- 
colored. 

Put vegetables into freshly boiling water, slightly 
salted, and cook quickly until done. The time will 
depend upon the age or freshness of the vegetable. 

With green peas, shelled beans, green corn, asparagus, 
celery, and spinach, use as little water as possible, and 
let it boil away, leaving just enough to moisten, and 
thus save all the desirable soluble matter that may have 
been drawn out. Do not salt until nearly done. 



LESSON III. — TIME-TABLE FOR BOILING, ETC. 39 

Cook cabbage and caulitlower, uncovered, in a large 
kettle of rapidly boiling salted water, with a saltspoon 
of soda. 

Onions, scald and change the water twice. 

All others, cook in water enough to cover, and drain 
it off' after cooking. 

Greens, summer squash, cabbage, and other watery 
vegetables should be pressed in a cloth or strainer, and 
well drained. 

TIME-TABLE FOR BOILING. 

Eggs, coffee, clams, oysters 3 to 5 m. 

Green corn, small fish, and thin slices of fish . . . . 5 to 10 " 
Rice, sweetbreads, peas, tomatoes, asparagus, hard-boiled 

eggs 15 to 20 " 

Potatoes, macaroni, squash, celery, spinach, cabbage . . 20 to 30 " 

Young beets, carrots, turnips, onions, parsnips, cauliflower 30 to 4.5 " 

String beans, shelled beans, oyster plant 45 to 60 " 

"Winter vegetables, oatmeal, hominy, and wheat, chickens 

and lamb 1 to 2 hrs. 

Fowls, turkey, veal 2 to 3 " 

Corned beef, smoked tongue, beef a la mode 3 to 4 " 

Ham 4 to 5 " 

Small pieces of meat, allow 15 m. to warm through, then 

for every lb 15 m. 

Halibut and salmon in cubical form, per lb 15 " 

Blue-fish, bass, etc., per lb 10 " 

Cod, haddock, and small fish, per lb 6 " 

Seasoning. — One pint of vegetables, mashed or 
sliced, or one pint of small whole vegetables, requires 
1 tbsp. butter, ^ tsp. salt, y^ ssp. pepper. Squash, 
peas, and beans are improved by 1 tsp. sugar. ]\Iilk 
or the vegetable liquid may be used to moisten such as 
are too dry. 



40 BOSTON SCHOOL KITCHEN TEXT-BOOK. 



Suggestion to the Teacher. 

Let the pupils tiy the experiments as given in the lesson, 
and thus learn by observation about boiling water and its 
effect upon starch and albumen. Three or four potatoes 
may be boiled, then riced, mashed, seasoned, and made into 
cakes. Beef tea may be prepared from the meat used in 
the experiment, and the bit of meat put into hot water may 
be minced and mixed with the potato cakes. The effect of 
boiling water upon eggs may be illustrated by allusion to 
what they already know", leaving the boiling of eggs till 
another lesson, or for the pupil to try at home. Potatoes 
have been discussed quite minutely as an illustration of the 
method of teaching the composition of food, but other foods 
will not be explained so fully for want of space. The 
teacher should be familiar with all the subjects taught, and 
give oral information as to their nature, composition, man- 
ner of growth or production, modes of cooking, digestibilit}-, 
etc., illustrating from the charts and museum. For further 
information about vegetables, see " Boston Cook Book/' pages 
289-316. 



RECEIPTS FOR LESSON III. 41 

RECEIPTS FOR LESSON III. 

Boiled Potatoes. 
Select potatoes of uniform size. Wash and scrub 
them. Pare and cover with cold water. Put them in 
a saucepan of toiling salted water. (1 qt. of water and 
1 tbsp. of salt for 6 large potatoes.) Cook yi h., or until 
soft. Drain off every drop of water. Place the sauce- 
pan, uncovered, at the back of the stove to let the steam 
escape. Shake it gently. Serve very hot. 

EiCE Potato. 
Mash the potatoes as soon as they are boiled and 
drained. Eub them with a wooden masher through a 
strainer into a hot dish. 

Mashed Potato. 
To 1 pt. of hot boiled potatoes, add 1 tbsp. of butter, 
)/i tsp. of salt, a spk. of pepper, and enough hot milk 
to moisten. Mash in the saucepan in which they were 
boiled ; beat with a fork till light and creamy, and turn 
out lightly on a hot dish. 

Potato Cakes. 
Make cold mashed potato into small round cakes 
about y^ inch thick. Put them on a baking tin, and 
brush them over with milk. Bake in a hot oven till 
golden brown. 

SoFT-BoiLED Eggs. 
Put the eggs into a saucepan, cover with boiling 
water, and let them stand from 6 to 10 m. where the 
water will keep hot (180°) but not boiling. The white 



42 BOSTON SCHOOL KITCHEN TEXT-BOOK. 

should be soft and jelly-like, and the yolk soft l)ut not 
liquid. If cooked in boiling water, cook from 3 to 5 m. 

Hakd-Boiled Eggs. 
Cook them 20 m., in water just bubbling. The yolk 
of an egg cooked 10 m. in rapidly boiling water is tough 
and indigestible ; cooked 20 m. it is dry, mealy, and 
easily digested. 

Beef Tea. 

Cut lean, juicy raw beef into quarter-inch dice. 
Cover with cold water, and add Jf^ tsp. salt to every 
cup of water. Press the meat often, and after an hour 
squeeze out all the juice. Heat the juice, stir it con- 
stantly, and serve as soon as it looks thick and is hot. 



Questions on Lesson III. 



10. 



Can yon think of any grains 

or seeds which become hard 

and dry when ripe ? 
"What vegetabU's contain water 

enough to cook them ? 
What vegetables need to have 

the water they contain 

pressed out after cooking ? 
What are the first bubbles 

which, we see when water 

begins to be heated ? 
How do the steam bubbles 

differ from the air bubbles ? 
Do we really see the steam ? 
What is boiling ? 
What is the temperature of 

boiling water ? 
Does rapid boiling increase 

the temperature of boiling 

water ? 
What becomes of the excess of 

heat ? 



11. Why does boiled water taste 

flat? 

12. How do you use starch as a 

thickening ? 

13. Should starchy food be put 

into cold or into boiling 
water ? 

14. What is the effect of boiling 

water upon egg albumen ? 

15. What is the effect of boiling 

water upon blood albumeu ? 

16. When are potatoes best as 

food ? 

17. What do they lack, and what 

should be eaten with them ? 

18. When should they be pared ? 

19. When is it better to soak 

them ? 

20. Why should they be taken up 

as soon as done ? 

21. Why do we leave them un- 

covered ? 



LESSON lY. 

STEAMING, AND OTHER FORMS OF 
COOKING IN BOILING WATER. 

We have found that some starchy foods need rapid 
cooking in boiling water, directly over the fire. The 
danger of burning them is avoided by using plenty of 
water. 

Sometimes it is desirable to cook more slowly than 
we can in boiling water, and some foods require only 
a limited amount of water ; or it may be tliey are sticky 
and glutinous, and it would be inconvenient to be con- 
stantly stirring them to prevent burning. It is then 
better to cook either over boiling water or by steam. 

Puddings, brown bread, mushes, custards, and other 
soft, sticky, glutinous mixtures are often cooked in a 
covered pail or mould, which is placed in a kettle of 
boiling water. There should be a trivet or muffin-ring 
under the pail to keep it from the bottom of the kettle, 
and allow the water to be under as well as around it. 
The kettle should be closely covered to keep in the 
steam, and the water kept boiling steadily the required 
time. The heat in the inner pail is less than that of 
boiling water, but it is sufiicient to cook the mixture. 
It takes a longer time than some other ways of cook- 
ing, but if the fire be rightly prepared, and tlie supply 
of water sufficient, it needs less attention. It is an 
economical and satisfactory niethod, answering well the 



46 BOSTON SCHOOL KirCIIKX Ti:XT-li()()K. 

first great purpose in cooking, — lliat of developing llavor 
with little loss of substance. 

A double boiler is a utensil made for cooking on this 
principle. It has two boilers ; the upper one, holding 
the food, fits tightly half way down into the lower one, 
which contains the boiling water. The steam is partially 
confined, and as it changes from the gaseous to the 
liquid form, or condenses on tlie inner boiler, it gives 
u]i its heat sufficiently to cook the food.^ 

These modes of cooking are often called steaming, but 
they are only other forms of boiling ; the cooking by 
real steam is a very different process. Sometimes super- 
heated steam is forced through pipes into a receptacle 
containing the food, and in this way a greater degree 
of heat is obtained. 

But cooking by steam is commonly done in a steamer 
or covered pan with perforations in the bottom. This 
is placed over boih'ng water, and the food is kept en- 
tirely out of the water, but in direct contact with the 
steam, which, coming through the perforations, condenses, 
gives up its heat, and cooks the food. Some vegetables, 
iVuits, meats, and other foods or mixtures which have 
sufficient moisture in themselves are cooked in this way. 
Watery vegetables are made drier ; tough, dry meats are 
softened, and made tender ; and flour mixtures have a 
different flavor from that obtained by dry heat or cook- 

1 It has been supposed that adding salt to the water in the lower 
l)oiler would increase the temperature of the boiling-point from 212° to 
224° ; but it would take one pound of salt to a quart of water to raise it 
to that point, and this quantity would soon corrode the boiler. Two 
ounces of salt to a quart of water would raise the boiling-point two 
degrees.' But by using the same amount of chloride of calcium, — 
not chloride of lime, — the temperature could be raised to 240° ; and 
if a pound to a quart were used it would reach 350°. 



LESSON IV. — OATMKAJ.. 



iiig ill water. In the first two methods the heat is con-. 
veyed from the boiling water througli the boiler to the 
food. In the real steaming, the steam carries the heat 
directly to the food. 

To-day we are to learn more about starch as it is 
found in grains like rice and oatmeal ; also about an al- 
buminous substance contained in grains and called glu- 
ten, because when dry it is tough and sticky like glue. 

These grains of oatmeal are hard and dry. You re- 
member we learned in the last lesson that many things 
dried in ripening, and needed a large amount of water 
to swell and soften them. If we were to cook oatmeal 
in the oven, without anything else, as we did the baked 
potatoes, it would be harder and drier than it is now. 
But the potatoes became softer by baking. 

If we wanted a thin gruel of oatmeal w^e should cook 
it in a large quantity of water until the starch and 
gluten were swollen and softened ; but when we make 
oatmeal mush we w^ant to have it more like solid food 
than pasty gruel. We cannot drain off the ^vater as 
easily as we did from the potatoes, so we must be care- 
ful to use only so much water as is needed to swell and 
soften the starch and gluten. Oatmeal, for mush, re- 
quires four times its bulk of water ; fine oatmeal a little 
less. 

We use boiling water because oatmeal is not a fine 
powder like the flour, and the grains will separate easily 
without being first wet in cold water, and because the 
boiling water bursts the starch grains quickly, and be- 
gins at once to cook them. If we put the meal into cold 
water, the starch will come out into the water, and make 
it gluey and pasty. This thickened, gluey water can- 
not soften the gluten quickly, so it takes a longer time 



48 BOSTON SCHOOL KITCHEN TEXT-BOOK. 



to cook, and it always has a raw, pasty taste. AVe add 
salt because there is not enough in the grain, and then 
we must cook it until the gluten is thoroughly softened. 
Cook it rapidly at first, directly on the stove, about ten 
minutes, to burst all the starch grains. When the water 
is nearly absorbed, place the pan into, or over, another 
of boiling water. The steam will keep the water in the 
meal hot enough to soften the gluten, but not hot enough 
to boil and waste away and so make the mush too dry ; 
and this slow cooking will soften the gluten more 
thoroughly than rapid boiling, and develop a better 
flavor. 

Eice may be cooked in a double boiler ; but as it will 
absorb a great amount of water and yet only needs a 
little to soften it thoroughly, it is important to use the 
right proportion, or it will be too moist. It requires 
only twice its bulk of boiling water, and will cook in 
half an hour. 

MILK. 

In cooking some kinds of food, milk is used in the 
place of w^ater. Milk contains water, sugar, salts, fat, 
albumen, and casein. 

After it stands awhile, the fat separates and rises as 
cream. The sugar and salts are dissolved in the water 
of the milk. The casein is dissolved in fresh milk, but 
when the milk becomes old, and sours, it separates from 
the watery part and forms a thick mass wdiich we call 
curd. This curd is made into cheese. Now as milk con- 
tains all these substances it is thicker than water, and 
when we boil it, it adheres to the pan and burns quickly. 
The bubbles of water in the milk, as they change into 
steam, rise rapidly., the albumen hardens, and forms a 



LESSON IV. — MILK AND EGGS. 49 

skill-like coating ; as this skin is thick and tenacious, 
owing to the other substances in the milk, these bubbles 
do not break quickly at the surface as clear water bubbles 
do, but stretch and climb one upon another till they run 
over the edge of the pan. By heating milk in a double 
boiler we avoid the danger of its burning or running over. 
When the whole surface is covered with air bubbles, — 
not steam bubbles, — the milk is hot enough, though not 
actually boiling. The temperature of boiling milk is 
slightly higher than that of boiling water, and it will not 
boil over boiling water, 

Eice may be cooked in boiling milk as well as in 
water, but milk being the thicker, a little more will be 
required than of water. 

Eggs are also cooked in hot milk. When we break 
an egg, we find the white is soft and without form, and 
the yolk seems round and firmer than the white ; but 
if we break the film or membrane on the outside of the 
yolk we find that it, too, is soft and liquid. By beating, 
we can mix the yolk and white, and be unable to dis- 
tinguish them. Sometimes we want to use the two 
parts separately, and it is quite an art to break and 
divide an eggy and not mix the yolk with the white. 
When eggs are cooked in milk, the albumen in the egg 
thickens, and if cooked slightly, and stirred constantly, 
forms a smooth, soft, creamy mass. If cooked longer, 
and without stirring, it becomes thick and solid ; but if 
cooked too long the casein and albumen become quite 
hard, and separate from the watery part, or the mass 
curdles. 

Eggs cooked in milk, and seasoned with salt, pepper, 
and butter, are called poached eggs. When they are 
sweetened we call the mixture a custard. 

4 



50 BOSTON SCHOOL KITCHEN TEXT-BOOK. 

When eggs are eaten raw, or cooked in any way in 
which the result is to be a smootli, soft mass, the thick 
white substance uniting the yolk and white should be 
removed before cooking, unless the cooked mixture is to 
be strained, as in soft custard. This substance hardens 
into a lump, and it is unpleasant to find it in what 
would otherwise be a smooth mass. In eggs cooked in 
the shell, or cooked hard as in cake, it is not perceptible. 

THE COMBINAJTION OF FOODS. 

All the different kinds of food material — water, salts, 
sugar, starch, fat, and albumen — must be combined in 
our diet, for a substance which fulfils only one of the 
purposes required in our food will not support life. A 
man cannot live on water or salt, yet he would soon die 
without them. If our clothing is torn we do not repair 
it with sand. So if the muscles are w^orn out by hard 
work we cannot replace them by eating sugar. 

The albuminous foods, though they are considered the 
most nutritious, must not be taken in excess, for they 
will load the blood with more building material than it 
can use. If more fat be taken than the oxygen will 
burn, or than is needed for storage, we may suffer in 
several ways. 

Many articles of food do not contain all the necessary 
elements, and few foods contain them in the right pro- 
portion. It is necessary, therefore, to have different 
kinds of food, and to proportion them rightly, so that 
one kind will supply what another kind lacks. 

Some flavors are more highly developed by combina- 
tion with other foods ; and one great purpose in cook- 
ing is to bring out flavors that shall tempt the appetite 
and increase our enjoyment of food. For food, firet 



LESSON IV. — COMBINATION OF FOODS. 51 

by its savory odors, then by its attractive appearance, 
sliouid gratify the senses of smell and sight, before tlie 
sense of taste is awakened. When this is done, the 
pleasures of taste are heiglitened ; and food that tastes 
good is more readily digested and assimilated, and we 
really derive more nourishment from it. 

It must also be adapted to the state of one's health, 
and to the various circumstances of age, occupation, and 
climate. 

In our lesson to-day we have an illustration of the 
proper combination of food materials. 

Neither rice, potatoes, apples, cheese, eggs, nor oatmeal 
should be taken alone. 

Eice and potatoes contain little except water and starch, 
supplying only two of the needful substances. Large 
quantities of them must be taken to give sustenance. 

Eggs and cheese, though rich in muscle-making ele- 
ments, lack water, and are too highly concentrated. 
Apples, taken alone, supply little beside water, and oat- 
meal alone is dry and unpalatable. But by serving the 
custard as a sauce with the rice, the milk, egg, and 
sugar furnish what the rice lacks. 

Serve the steamed apple with the oatmeal, adding 
milk, or cream, and sugar, if desired. The tart apples 
inq^rove the taste of the mush. Eat butter with the 
potatoes, and crackers with the cheese. Add salt to 
everything, and tlnis have a suitable combination. 

Suggestion to the Teacher. 

The important points in the lesson are accurate measure- 
ment, comparison of weights and measures, care in the break- 
ing of eggs, the beating with a fork in place of an egg-beater, 
the use of a covered pail as a substitute for double boiler, 
and the proper combination and ^irving of food. 



52 BOSTON SCHOOL KITCHEN TEXT-BOOK. 

BECEIPTS FOR LESSON lY. 
Oatmeal Musii, with Baked Apples. 

yi c. coarse oatmeal. i 2 c. boiling vater. 

Yz tsp. salt. I 

Pick over the oatmeal, put it with the salt and boil- 
ing water into the upper boiler. Place the upper boiler 
on the stove and boil rapidly 10 m. Stir occasionally 
with a fork ; then place it over boiling water, and cook 
from 40 m. to 1 li. Serve with baked or steamed apples, 
and milk and sugar. 

Fine hominy and granulated ivheat are cooked in the 
same way, but they require only three times as much 
water as meal. 

Whole or cracked ivheat requires five times as much 
water as meal, and should cook four or five hours. 

Steamed PvIce. 

yi c. rice. I 1 c. boiling water. 

^ tsp. salt. ' 

Pick over and wash the rice in three or four waters. 
Put it with the boiling water and salt into the top of the 
double boiler. Steam for 20 m., or until tender. Serve 
as a pudding, with boiled custard, or as a breakfast dish 
with poached eggs. 

Boiled or Soft Cl'stard. 

1 c. milk, scalded. I 1 tbsp. sugar. 

1 egg. I yi tsp. flavoring. 

Beat the egg to a froth, add the sugar, and a spk. of 
salt ; mix well ; add the scalded milk, and stir over boil- 
ing water till it thickens. Strain at once, and when cool 
add the flavoring. Serve alone or as a sauce with rice. 



RECEIPTS FOR LESSON IV. 



53 



Coddled or Poached Eggs. 

}^ c. milk, scalded. 1 ssp. salt. 

1 egg. y2 ssp. pepper. 
1 tsp. butter. 

Beat the egg slightly, add milk, butter, salt, and 

pepper. Stir over hot water till it is quite thick. 
Serve hot, on toast or rice. 



Steamed Apples. 
Wipe, core, and pare the apples. Place in a steamer 
and cook until soft. 

Steamed Potatoes. 

Wash and pare the potatoes. Place in the steamer 
and cook about 30 m., or till they are soft. 



Questions on Lesson IV. 



1. What kinds of food are usually 

cooked over boiling water ? 

2. What is a double boiler ? 

3. What is a good substitute for 

a double boiler ? 

4. How does the heat reach the 

food in a double boiler ? 

5. What is steaming ? 

6. Which do we do, — pare, or 

peel, an apple ; a banana ; a 
squash ; an onion ? 

7. What is gluten ? 

8. Why not bake oatmeal as we 

baked potatoes ? 

9. Why is it necessary to measure 

the water in cooking oat- 
meal ? 

10. Why do we put it into boiling 

water i 

11. Why do we cook it slowly after 

the first ten minutes '/ 



12. 



13. 
14. 
15. 



16. 

17. 

18. 

19. 
20. 
21. 



How much water will be re- 
quired to cook one cup of 

rice ? 
What is cream ? 
What is casein ? 
Why does milk boil over 

the pan more quickly than 

water ? 
What is the safest way to heat 

milk ? 
What is custard ? 
What are the substances which 

we need in our daily food ? 
Does any food contain them 

all? 
What foods contain them in 

nearly the light proportions? 
Why can we not live on rice 

alone ? 
W^hy can we not live on eggs 

alone ? 



LESSON V. 

FIRST LESSON IN MEAT. 

Meat is a general term applied to the flesh of animals 
used for food. It includes the muscular flesh, sinews, 
fat, heart, liver, stomach, brains, and tongue, and is di- 
vided into three classes : — 

Meat proper, including beef, veal, mutton, lamb, and 
pork ; 

Poultry, including chicken, turkey, geese, and ducks, 
or all domestic fowls ; 

Game, including partridges, grouse, pigeons, quail, 
and other birds, venison, and any wild meat that is 
hunted in the forest, or field. 

All meat should be removed from the brown paper in 
wliich it is wrapped as soon as it comes from the mar- 
ket, or the paper will absorb the juices, and the meat 
will taste of the paper. 

Let us examine a piece of meat. Wc first wipe it all 
over with a clean, damp cloth, to cleanse it ; but it should 
never be put into water, as this draws out the juices. 

We find large masses of red flesli or muscle, made up 
of little bundles of thread-like fibres, separated by white 
membranes, and the large masses separated by cellular 
tissue. These fibres seem full of a red, watery juice. 
There is fat on the edge, or inner skin, also between the 
fibres, and large masses of it are between the muscles 
and in the hollow bones. AYe find a small amount of 



56 BOSTON SCHOOL KITCHEN TEXT-BOOK. 

bone ; a hard, white, gelatinous substance around the 
joints, called gristle ; and white, shining, tough mem- 
branes or tendons at the ends of the muscles. 

These masses of fil^re we call the lean meat. In one 
place the thread-like fibres seem coarse and flabby, sepa- 
rate easily, and have thin membranes connecting them. 
If we press it we find only a little juice. In another 
section the fibres are smaller, finer, are very close to- 
gether, and feel hard and firm. We cannot separate them 
there is so much of the tough, white membrane ; but 
there is a large quantity of juice. In still another piece 
w^e find soft, tender fibre, with very little membrane and 
juice. 

Good beef should be bright-red when first cut, well 
marbled with yellowish fat, and with a thick outside 
layer of fat. The flesh must be firm, and when pressed 
with the finger no mark should be left. The suet should 
be dry and crumble easily. The best mutton is that 
from a large, heavy animal, and should have an abun- 
dance of hard, clear-white fat, and the flesh should be 
fine-grained and bright-red. Poor mutton has but little 
fat and little flesh as compared with the bone. More 
depends upon the quality of the meat than upon its 
location in the creature. A piece from the sirloin in 
a poorly fed creature may not be so rich in flavor and 
nutriment as one from the flank in a stall-fed animal. 

The muscles that are used most are the toughest, but 
they contain the larger amount of juice, for the blood cir- 
culates more freely through them. The heart is a muscle 
used more than any other, and has a very tough, close, 
compact fibre. 

The legs have large, thick muscles which start near 
the lower end, among a mass of tendons and cords, and 



LESSON v. — MEAT. 57 



grow larger, thicker, and more tender, till at the uppei 
end they are very thick. Here is where we shall find 
the largest masses of lean meat with only the small 
round leg bones. The upper part of the leg is called the 
round, and the lower end the shin. 

On the thighs, or rump, there are large, broad bones, 
with large muscles, branching out in several directions, 
which are tender and very juicy. The muscles on tlie 
upper part of the fore leg are smaller, and not so tender 
as those on the round. 

Where the fore leg joins the shoulder, and down the 
back, we find the shoulder btade — a broad, flat bone — 
and the backbone, also a number of small muscles run- 
ning in all directions. We cannot expect to find any 
large masses of meat there ; but we do find bone, gristle, 
and fat, with thin layers of meat interspersed between 
them. 

Under the shoulder blade, and extending down the 
backbone to the loin, are the ribs, running at right angles 
with the backbone, meeting at the breast and tapering 
off at the loin. These bones are covered with a thick 
muscle near the back, and with many layers of muscle, 
fat, and tough membranes, extending round to the breast. 

On the loin, and close to the backbone, there is a 
muscle which is not much used. It is merely a cushion 
over the bones ; and this is all tender and juicy, and is 
considered so choice that it has been named " Sir Loin." 

Inside of the loin and under the short ribs is another 
muscle which is so little used tliat it is very soft and 
tender, and it has but little juice or flavor. This is 
called tenderloin. 

On the flank or under part of the body there are no 
bones, but a great many thin, flab1)y nmscles with large 



58 BOSTON SCHOOL KITCHEN TEXT-BOOK. 

classes of elastic membrane between them, so they can 
be stretched to a great size. They cross, and lap over, 
and extend in many directions, and sometimes have 
large quantities of fat stored between and under them. 

The ends of the legs, and the large joints, have large 
masses of gristle and tendon, which contain gelatine, — a 
sul)stance which softens in cold water, and then dissolves 
by long, slow cooking in hot water. But when cooked 
by dry heat it becomes very hard. 

You can easily see that in an animal there is a great 
amount of bone, fat, etc., and only a small portion of 
choice, tender, juicy, lean meat. The thick, lean, ten- 
der portions on the rump and loin are the choice and 
expensive parts. These are best when cooked quickly, 
by intense heat, as in roasting and broiling ; they have 
so much juice and such tender fibre, they do not need 
the solvent agency of water. We shall learn about this 
in another lesson. 

But the tougher, cheaper parts of lean meat are very 
juicy, and when properly cooked afford a large amount 
of nutriment. The bones contain nitrogenous and min- 
eral matter, a portion of which can be dissolved by 
proper cooking ; the fat is rich in heat-giving material ; 
and the gelatinous portions are useful. 

The juices of meat contain many substances which are 
valuable as food, and the savory principle which gives 
flavor to the meat and causes it to differ in different ani- 
mals. Meat should always be cooked in such a manner 
as to retain the largest proportion of this juice. 

In salting meat this juice is drawn out into the 
brine, and although there is some nutriment in the 
fat and fibre of salt meat, it is less nutritious than 
fresh meat. 



LESSON v. — BOILED MEAT. 59 

It is therefore important, as a matter of economy and 
health, tliat we learn how to cook all parts of meat so as 
to obtain the greatest amount of nutriment. 

The fibrin of meat is liardened and contracted by 
dry, intense heat, but softened by moderate and long- 
continued heat. Albumen dissolves in cold water, but 
hardens in hot water and by dry heat. Therefore all 
meat that has a tough, liard, or flabby fibre, with mucli 
gristle, tendon, and bone, should be cooked in water. 
and at a moderate heat. 

We cook meat in water for three distinct purposes ; 

First, to keep the nutriment within the meat, as in 
boiled meat ; 

Second, to draw it all out into the water, as in soups 
and meat broths ; 

Tliird, to have it partly in tlie meat and partly in the 
water, as in stews, where we eat the broth with tlie 
meat. 

We are to learn to-day about several ways of cooking 
meat, where the object is to keep the nutriment in tlie 
meat. 

BOILED MEAT. 

In boiling meat we leave the meat whole, that only a 
small surface may be exposed. Plunge it into boiling 
salted water enough to cover, and keep it there for five 
or ten minutes. This hardens the albumen over the 
entire surface, and makes a coating through which the 
juices cannot escape. Then move the kettle where 
the water will be just below the boiling-point. Cover 
tightly to keep in the steam and the volatile, aroma- 
tic compounds which give flavor to XhB liieat. A small 
amount of albumen from the outer surface will be dis- 



60 BOSTON SCHOOL KITCHEN TEXT-BOOK. 

sulved and rise as scum. This should be removed, or it 
will settle on the meat and render it uninviting in ap- 
pearance. The salt coagulates this albumen and helps 
it to rise. It also slightly raises the boiling-point of the 
water, and by increasing its density aids in preventing 
the escape of the juices. 

Meat cooked in this wa}^ requires a longer time than 
wlien kept boiling furiously, but it is made more tender, 
and has a better flavor. It will take fifteen or twenty 
minutes for the heat to penetrate to the centre of tlie 
meat before the cooking process begins. Then allow 
twelve or fifteen minutes for each pound of meat.^ Two 
pounds in a cubical form will require a longer time than 
the same weight cut thin and having a broad surface. 

Notwithstanding the pains we take to keep the nutri- 
ment in the meat, some portion of it escapes into the 
water, and therefore the water should be saved and used 
fur a gravy or in warming over the meat. 

Meat is sometimes cooked in water in the oven instead 
of over the fire, and this way of cooking is often erron- 
eously called roasting. 

Eoasting means to heat violently, and is done either 
before the open fire, or in a very hot oven without any 
water. If water be used the meat cannot be made any 
hotter than boiling water ; and a much greater degree of 
heat is required to cook such meats as have tender fibre 
and are rich in juice and flavor, so that the outside sur- 
face may be quickly seared and prevent the escape of 
the juices. 

Tough pieces, which require the solvent power of 
water, and which are lacking in flavor, are improved 
by the addition of a savory stuffing, or by seasoning the 
water with herbs and vegetables ; also by first browning 

1 See })age 62. 



LESSON v. — THE FAT OF MEAT. Gl 

the meat in hot drippiug. The flavor imparted by the 
partially confined heat of the oven is stronger than that 
of boiling. 

Sometimes meat is steamed over boiling water until 
it is made very tender, then put in the oven to be 
browned and receive the flavor which can be obtained 
only by means of this dry heat. 

Another way is to steam it in its own juices. This is 
called smothei'ing, or pot roasting. The meat should be 
left whole for convenience in slicing and serving neatly, 
particularly if to be served cold. If cooked over the 
fire a little water should be put in the kettle to prevent 
burning, and be kept hot but not boiling. Some of tlie 
juices are drawn out into the water, and the steam from 
this heats and softens the meat. These juices make a 
rich and savory gravy. 

A convenient way is to put the meat into a tightly 
covered jar, place it in a very moderate oven for one 
hour, or until some juice is drav/n out, then increase 
the heat and cook a half hour for every, pound of meat. 
There will be a large quantity of juice in the jar, which 
sliould be diluted with water, thickened, and used as a 
gravy. The meat may be cut in small pieces when the 
time for cooking is limited. 

These are all savory and wholesome modes of cook- 
ing the cheaper parts of meat; and fresh meat cooked 
properly is equally palatable and far more nutritious 
than corned or salt meat, which forms too large a part 
of the diet of many people. 

The fat of meat is a useful article of food, especially 
in winter. Every scrap of it, particularly of beef fat, 
should be used, and all that is not eaten with the meat 
may be clarified, or made pure and clear. 



62 BOSTON SCHOOL KITCHEN TEXT-BOOK. 

By heating the I'at with water to prevent burning, or 
with thin slices of raw potato, the water evaporates and 
the steam carries off the odors or gases. The organic 
matters in the fat are decomposed or deposited as sedi- 
ment and adhere to the sliced potato. Clarified fat or 
dripping answers for many purposes in cookery, — fry- 
ing, basting roast meat, greasing pans, and as shortening 
for bread, plain pastry, and various things. 

Suggestion to the Teacher. 

If it be difficult for pupils to locate the difterent cuts of 
meat by studyiug a diagram, let them imagine an ox as it 
looks in life, and then compare it with the human body, as 
that would look if men walked with hands as well as feet. 
The position of the bones of the legs, back, and ribs can 
be shown ; also the large and small muscles, and the joints, 
cords, tendons, etc. Then from the meat which is to be 
used in the lesson explain its compositiou. Show the differ- 
ence between tough and tender fibre, gristly, gelatinous por- 
tions, fat, bone, juice, etc., and tell briefly how the differeut 
|)arts are to be cooked. Serve the calf's heart for a luncli, 
and after tasting the beef and mutton, reserve them for the 
next class to use in warming over. 

As meat varies, according to its age and feeding, in the 
tenderness of its fibre and the amount of connective tissue, 
gristle, tendon, etc., it is safer to allow at least an hour for 
the boiling or stewing of any kind, whatever the shape or 
weight; then increase the time from two to five hours as 
per time-table. 



RECEIPTS FOR LESSON V. 63 

BECEIPTS FOR LESSON V. 

Boiled ]\Iuttox. 

Wipe, remove the fat, and put tlie meat into well- 
salted, boiling water. Boil 10 m. Skim, and stnimer 
12 m. for eacli pound of meat, or until tender. One 
quarter of a c. of rice is sometiuies boiled vvitli the 
mutton. Serve witli thickened gravy or parsley sauce 
poured over the mutton. 

Gravy for Mutton. 

To each cup of boiling water in which the mutton 
was cooked add 1 tbsp. of flour moistened with a little 
cold water, 1 tsp. vinegar, spk. of pepper, and Y-z ssp. 
salt. Boil 5 m., stirring till smooth. Add 1 tbsp. fine 
chopped parsley, or capers if desired. 

Smothered Beef. 

Cut 1 lb. of round of beef into one-inch cubes, and 
put it, in a tightly covered jar, into the oven for 1 h. 
Let it be in a cool part of the oven for the first ^ h., 
then increase the heat. Thicken and season the juice 
and serve as a gravy. 

Baked Heart. 

Wash the heart thoroughly in cold water to remove 
the blood, and cut out the veins and arteries. ^Ial;e 
a stuffing with 1 tbsp. bread crumbs, 1 tsp. chopped 
onions (which must first be scalded), 1 ssp. powdered 
sage, >2 ssp. salt, and a spk. of pepper. Moisten it with 
milk or water. Stuff this into the cavity and sew^ the 



C4 BOSTON SCHOOL KITCHEN TEXT-BOOK. 



edf^es tooether. Peel, slice, and brown an onion 



in 



1 tbsp. drippings, then brown the heart in the same fat, 
and put it with the onion in a deep dish, and half cover 
with boiling water. Bake in a hot oven 1 h.,or till ten- 
der, basting every 10 ni., and add more water if needed. 

Beef Tea. 

1 lb. shin of beef. I ^ tsp, salt. 

1 pt. cold water. | 

Scrape the meat very fine and put it into the cold 
salted water. Let it stand 1 to 2 h. Put it into 
double boiler and cook 30 m. Press it through a 
strainer. Eemove the fat with paper. This is very 
strong beef tea, and may have more water added if 
liked. 

Clarified Fat or Drippings. 

Save any scraps or pieces of fat. Cut into half-inch 
cubes, put in pan, and cover with cold water. Place in 
an oven and cook slowly for 4 or 5 h., or until the 
scraps are quite brown and the w^ater evaporated. 
Several slices of raw potato put in with the fat will aid 
in the clarifying. When slightly cooled, strain, and set 
away to cool. 

Always clarify and strain fat after using it for frying. 



LESSON v.— DIAGRAM OF OX. 



65 






Diagram of Ox. 


1. 


Tip of Sirloin. 


12. Shin. 


2. 


Middle of Sirloin. 


13. Boneless Flank. 


3. 


First Cut of Sirloin. 


U. Thick Flank with Bone. 


4. 


Back of Rump. 


15. First Cut of Ribs. 


5. 


Middle of Rump, 


c. Chuck Ribs. 


6. 


Face of Rump. 


d. Neck. 


7. 


Aitch Boue. 


16. Rattle Rand. 


8. 


Lower part of Round. 


17. Second Cut of Rattle Rand. 


i},. 


Top of Round. 


18. Brisket (a. the navel end : 6. the 


9. 


Vein. 


butt end). 


0. 


Poorer Part of Round. 


19. Fore Shin, 



11. Poorer Part of Vein. 



66 



BOSTON SCHOOL KITCHEN TEXT-BOOK. 





lp:sson v. — explanation of cut. 



A. Hind quarter of Beef. 

1,2,3, 4, 5, 6, Kouiid of Beef. 
7, 8, 9, Rump. 
10, 11, 12, Sirloin. 
13, 14, Flank. 



1. Shin. — Suitable to be used for 
soups and stock. 

2. Lower or poorer part of the 
round, used for stews, etc. 

3. Upper and best part of the 
round, used for steak and beef tea. 

b. Top of round. The best round 
steak as far as the ridge of fat. 

4. Lower or poorer part of vein, 
used for stews, chopping, braising. 

5. Upper and best part of vein, 
used for boiling, steak, beef tea, 
spiced beef, etc. 

6. Aitchbone, used for roast, stew, 
and stock. 

7. Face of rump, used for a roast 
or steaks. 

8. Middle of rump, used for steak. 

9. Back of runp, used for roasts 
or steaks. 

These steaks may be cut with the 
grain, or across the grain, of the 
meat. The cross-cut steaks are much 
the best. 

10. First cut of sirloin, used for a 
roast or steaks. It contains tender- 
loin. 

11. Second cut of sn-loin, used for 



roasts or steaks; it contains tender- 
loin. 

12. Tip of sirloin, used for roast 
or short steaks. Contains no tender- 
loin. 

13. Thick end of flank. Used for 
corning, rolling, boiling. 

14. Thin end of flank. Used for 
corning, rolling, boiling. 



B. Fore quarter of Beef. 
1, 2, 3, Back-half. 
4, 5, 6,7,8,9, 10, Rattle rand. 



1. First five ribs or prime ribs. 
Five-rib cut. Used for roasts and 
steaks. 

2. Five chuck ribs. Poorer roasts 
and steaks. 

3. Neck, used for beef tea, stews, 
boiling, etc. 

4. Sticking piece, used for corn- 
ing. 

.5. Shoulder, used for steaks, corn- 
ing, etc. 

6. Shm, used for soups and soup 
stock. 

7. First strip rattle rand, used for 
corning. 

8. Middle strip of rattle rand, 
used for corning. 

9. Butt end of brisket, used for 
corning. 

10. Navel end of brisket, used for 
coning. 



68 



BOSTON SCHOOL KITCIIKN TEXT-BOOK. 



Questions on Lesson V. 



1. 


What is meat. ? 




2. 


How many varieties of meat 






can you mention ? 


13 


3. 


Wliat is the first thing to do 
wlien meat comes from the 






market ? 


14 


4. 


How shouKl it be cleansed ? 




5. 


Does every part of meat con- 
tain nutriment ( 


15 


6. 


How would you select good 
beef? 


IG 


7. 


Where would you find the 


17 




most juicy meat ? 


IS 


8. 


In what jiarts would you find 
the least bone ? 


19 


9. 


What part of the creature is 
the round ? 


20 


10. 


Which is the most nourish- 






ing, — the tenderloin or the 


21 




shin ? 




11. 


Which costs most,— the rump 


22 




or neck ? 


23 


12. 


How should meat that con- 





tains bone and gelatine be 

cooked ? 
Which portions of meat are 

best cooked by (piick, in 

tense heat ? 
What are our three objects in 

cooking meat ? 
How may meat be cooked in 

water ? 
What kind of a piece of meat 

would be best to boil ? 
Why do we keep it whole ? 
Why use boiling water ? 
What is the advantage in slow 

cooking ? 
What use can we make of 

the water in which we cook 

meat ? 
How do we improve the flavor 

of meat cooked in water ? 
What is smothered meat ? 
How may we use the fat of 

meat 1 



LESSON YI. 

WARMING OVER. 

To be able to prepare nice, tempting dishes from the 
odds and ends that are left over is not only desirable, but 
should be regarded as a duty ; for it is wrong to waste 
food, even if we have abundant means. By waste I do 
not mean such remnants of food as are given away or 
fed to animals, but all good food which is thrown into 
the refuse barrel or the fire, because there is so little of 
it. 

With care not a scrap of food need be wasted. Be- 
cause there is not enough for an entire meal, or for every 
member of the family, is no reason for throwing it away. 
By combining small portions of different foods that will 
blend agreeably, quite a large dish may be prepared. 

Plight here I am tempted to tell you of a dish that I 
prepared ; and although you may not have the same 
materials, it will show you how to save and combine 
fragments of food. About a pint of meat left from a 
roast leg of lamb was made into a stew, with potato, 
onion, and tomato. After serving for two meals for a 
family of two, there was left what would fill one small 
soup-plate, — mostly meat and broth. I carefully re- 
moved all the meat, and strained the broth ; chopped the 
meat very fine and put with it the yolk of a boiled eg^^ left 
from breakfast, and two broken slices of egg toast, also 
chopi>ed fine; warmed the broth, thickened it slightly 



72 BOSTON SCHOOL KITCHEN TEXT-BOOK. 

with flour, and mixed it with the meat. As it needed 
more moisture, an egg was beaten, and part of it put 
with the meat. As the stew had been highly seasoned, 
no seasoning was needed except a little salt. From this 
mixture I made eight cylinder-shape rolls about three 
inches long, rolled them in fine bread crumbs, then in 
the remainder of the egg (to which two tablespoonfuls 
of milk had been added), then in crumbs again, and 
browned tliem in 'at. So from several fragments, each 
of which seemed hardly worth saving, enough was pre- 
pared, in a tempting form, to serve as a part of two more 
meals, making that small leg of lamb seem not unlike 
the " five loaves and two small fishes." 

These pieces of meat which we are to use to-day have 
been cooked until they were tender, and w^e only need 
to look tnem over carefully, and remove the bones, skin, 
and gristle, and some of the fat, before chopping them. 
But some kinds of meat which you may have occasion 
to use at home, such as the tough ends of steak and 
chops, and the harder and poorer parts of roast meat, 
should be cooked slowly in just water enough to cover 
until they are very tender. They may then be cut fine, 
and used in any of the ways we are to learn about in 
this lesson. 

The secret of warming over meat successfully is to 
warm quickly such parts as are already tender, and to 
make tender by long, slow cooking such as are hard or 
tough. Care in removing all objectionable portions, and 
a judicious use of seasoning materials, are also necessary. 

The chief objection to hash is the presence of small 
bones, hard gristle, skin, etc., in the mixture, or the 
greasy, half-browned, soggy condition in which it is 
served. But when carefully prepa/^ed it is a savory and 



LESSON VI. — GRAVIES AND SAUCES. 73 

palatable dish. It is not necessary to have corned beef, 
as many suppose. Fresh beef, if made tender by stew- 
ing and seasoning properly, is more wholesome. It may 
be varied by making it into round, flat cakes and brown- 
ing each side, or by using warm boiled rice instead of 
potato, with such seasoning as may be desired. 

Other easy and attractive ways of serving nearly every 
kind of cooked meat or fish are the cottage pie and the 
scalloped meat. The latter admits of a great variety of 
combinations, care being taken to use such foods as are 
agreeable when combined. Potatoes are best with beef 
or hsh. Eice, macaroni, oysters, and bread crumbs may 
be used with mutton, veal, or chicken. Onions and 
tomatoes improve every kind of meat. White sauces 
are best for fish and liglit meats ; brown gravies are 
best for dark meats; and tomato or some acid sauce 
blends well with everything. 

All the bones and scraps of gristle, fat, etc., that are 
not used in the made-over dishes should be covered with 
cold water, and simmered until the bones are clean and 
the gristle dissolved. Then strain it, throw the scraps 
away, and wdien the liquid is cool, remove the fat, and 
clarify it for dripping; use the water for gravies with 
warmed-over meat, or combine it with some vegetable 
pulp, and use it for soups. 

GRAVIES. — SAUCES. — THICKENING. 

Gravy is the cooked juice of meat, or a mixture of it 
with water, thickened with flour. 

The term " sauces " is often supposed to include only 
certain preparations of fruit, like apple-sauce, cranberry- 
sauce, etc. ; or mixtures of butter, sugar, etc., eaten Avith 



74 BOSTON SCHOOL KITCHEN TEXT-BOOK 

puddings ; but anything eaten with food to improve its 
relish may be called a sauce. Gravies are sauces, but 
not all sauces are gravies. 

Gravies are made with meat juice or broth, and may 
be either light or dark. Sauces are made with meat 
juice or broth, water, milk, cream, or fruit juice, or mix- 
tures of two or more of tliese materials. We are to learn 
to-day only about those which are used with meats. 

The consistency of gravies and sauces may be varied 
by using more or less flour in proportion to the liquid. 

The simplest way of making a thickening for gravy 
or sauces was explained in the third lesson ; but when 
butter or fat is also to be used, it is better to make it 
according to the direction for tomato sauce, using the 
onion or not as preferred. 

Cookinsr the flour in the hot butter or fat cooks it 
thoroughly ; for the fat, when it stops bubbling, is much 
hotter than boiling water. When done in this way the 
flour never has a raw, uncooked taste, and the butter or 
fat is absorbed by the flour instead of floating on the 
surface of the gravy. 

AYhen a brown sauce is desired, heat the butter and 
flour together long enough to have them tui^n brown, 
before adding the liquid. The fat browned alone will 
burn easily, and the flour browned alone in the oven, as 
many wTiters — not cooks — recommend, will be baked 
so hard that it will only color the gravy, not swell and 
thicken it. 

In making a white sauce, be careful to cook the flour in 
the hot butter, without browning them ; and at all times 
add the liquid hot, that it may boil quickly and cause 
the starch in the flour to swell and burst; and (jraduaU;/, 
that the sauce may be stirred, wliile it is like a thick 



LESSON VI.— MACARONI. 



/o 



paste, until it is smooth. If all the liquid be poured ou 
at once, or the mixture be not stirred thoroughly wliile 
it is thick, the sauce will be lumpy. Enough liquid 
must be used to swell all the flour, and make the sauce 
of the desired consistency. The usual proportion is one 
tablespoonful of fat and one rounded or two level table- 
spoonfids of Hour to one cup of liquid ; and by varying 
these proportions, and using different liquids and sea- 
sonings, a great variety of gra\ies and sauces may be 
made from this general rule as the foundation. 

MACARONI. 

Macaroni is a nutritious and economical food, and 
should be used more freely than it is. Much of the dis- 
like for it arises from ignorance as to the proper mode 
of cooking. It is made from the choicest varieties of 
wheat, — a grain which contains all the substances 
needed as food, though not in the proper proportion. 
Wheat lacks water and fat. Macaroni, being only wheat 
flour and water made into a hard, dry paste, is not pala- 
table unless cooked, till tender, in plenty of water or 
other liquid, and seasoned well or combined with other 
foods, particularly some form of fat, as butter, milk, 
cheese, eggs, or meat broth. 

Macaroni is prepared in a variety of forms, — spaghetti, 
Italian paste of fanciful shapes, vermicelli, and round, 
tubular, and flat macaroni. The paste, while soft, is 
rolled into sheets, and cut with fancy cutters, or it is 
forced through metallic plates which have perforations, 
sometimes in the form of small rings with the centre of 
the hole filled. It is then dried thoroughly, and will 
keep in a dry place a long time. 



70 BOSTON SCHOOL KITCHEN TEXT-BOOK. 



Suggestion to the Teacher. 

The meat used in this lesson is taken from that \Yhich 
was cooked in Lesson V. Use the boiled mutton for tlie 
minced meat on toast ; the smothered beef for the hash and 
cottage pie. The broth in which the meat was boiled will 
answer for the gravy. The toast should be browned in the 
oven, for the pupils will have a special lesson in toasting 
over the coals. Impress upon them the importance of care 
in preparing these dishes. Save the bones and remnants, 
with the addition of some new meat, to start stock for next 
lesson. 



KE-TEIPTS FOR LESSON VI. 77 

RECEIPTS FOR LESSON VI. 

]\IiNCED Meat on Toast. 

Remove the fat and gristle from the mutton, and chop 
it fine. To 1 c. of meat, add 1 ssp. of salt, a spk. of 
pepper, and y^ c. thickened gravy. Heat quickly in a 
saucepan, and pour over slices of toast. Serve hot. 

Cottage Pie. 
Chop cold meat very fine. Boil and mash some pota- 
toes. To every cup of meat add 1 ssp. salt, ^ ssp. 
pepper, a spk. nutmeg, and 3^ c, of gravy or stock. 
Put the meat, seasoning, and gravy in a pie dish, cover 
it with mashed potato, and bake in the oven till golden 
brown. Omit the nutmeg and add 1 tsp. of finely 
chopped onion if liked. 

Scalloped Muttox. 
Cut cold, cooked mutton into small thin pieces. 
Eeniove all bone, fat, and gristle. Put a layer of bread 
crumbs on the bottom of a shallow bakinoj dish, tlien a 
layer of mutton, then a layer of boiled macaroni, then 
gravy. Moisten ^ c. of crumbs in 1 tbsp. melted but- 
ter, spread over the top. Bake until the crumbs are 
brown, — about 20 m. 

Macaponl 
J^ c. macaroni, measured after breaking into inch 
})ieces. Cook in boiling salted water 20 m., or until 
tender. Drain, pour cold water tln^ough it, and serve 
plain, with hot white sauce or tomato sauce, or use it 
with meat, in scalloped meat. 



78 



BOSTON SCHOOL KITCHEN TEXT-BOOK. 



Hash. 

1 c. tender cooked meat chopped fine, 2 c. "hot mashed 
potato, 1/2 tsp. salt, ^^ ssp. pepper. Mix until there are 
no lumps. 

Put 2 or 3 tbsp. of hot water into a spider. Melt in 
it 1 tbsp. of butter or dripping. Put in the hash, and 
let it simmer slowly till it has absorbed the water and 
formed a brown crust. Do not stir it. Fold over, turn 
out on a hot j)latter. 



Tomato Sauce. 

Melt 1 tbsp. butter in a saucepan ; cook in it 1 tbsp. 
fine chopped onion until yellow, add 1 tbsp. flour, stir- 
ring well. Add, gradually, 1 c. mutton liquor, and ^ c. 



strained tomato, 
pepper. 



Season with ^ tsp. salt and >^ ssp. 



White Sauce. 

Melt 1 tbsp. butter in a saucepan ; cook in it 1 tbsp. 
flour. Add gradually 1 c. hot milk or cream. Season 
with ^ tsp. salt and y^ ssp. white pepper. 

Questions on Lesson VI. 



1. How do you prepare tender 

meat for made-over dishes ? 

2. What must first be done with 

tough meat ? 
8. How many kinds of meat 
can you think of that 
might be prepared as we 
did the hash? 



How many like the scalloped 

mutton? 
What use may be made of the 

bones, gristle, and fat ? 
What is macaroni ? 
Why is it better to cook flour 

for gravy in hot fat instead 

of in hot water ? 



LESSON VII. 

SECOND LESSON IN MEAT, 
Sv)UPb 

Neaely all parts of an iiiimai may be used as food, 
but from some parts we can obtain the nutriment in 
only one way. These are the bones and the gristle, 
tendons, and other gelatinous portions, some kinds of 
fat, and the lean meat whicli is tough and coarse in 
texture, or difficult to separate from the gristle and cord 
imbedded in it. Many people consider these portions 
undesirable, and dealers often have to dispose of them 
as refuse. But when cooked slowly in water at a 
moderate heat a large part of their nutriment is dissolved 
in the water, and may be used in this liquid form. The 
bony portions in roasted or baked meat are deemed even 
more undesirable, and are often thrown away as unfit 
for food. But even if previously cooked, some nutri- 
ment may be obtained from them, and they shoukl 
always be saved and used in soups. 

These parts of meat are very cheap, and every family 
should know how to utilize them. It is better to cook 
a large quantity at a time, as considerable time is re- 
quired to extract all the nutriment; and the broth, wlieu 
obtained, may be kept a week or more. 

This liquid in which the meat has been cooked, and 
whicli contains all the juices and soluble parts, is used in 
making soup ; and because it can be stored or kept on 

6 



SJ. BOSTON SCHOOL KITCHEN TEXT-BOOK. 

hand and drawn upon when needed, it is called stock. 
Stock is from the word stician, " to stick, or stay by," 

In making soup our object is to draw the nutriment 
from the meat and bones into the water. So we cut them 
into small pieces, and soak in cold water before heat- 
ing, that we may soften and loosen the fibres and extract 
all the nutriment that is soluble. Some careless cooks 
soak the meat to cleaase it and then throw the water away. 
It should be cleansed by wiping with a damp cloth. 

We may use all kinds of meat, — beef, veal, mutton, or 
poultry, — either together or separately. As each kind of 
meat has its distinctive flavor, we may have a greater 
variety of soups by using tliem separately. A very good 
soup may be made from a mixture of all the bones and 
fragments of meat which we may happen to have. But 
to make the most nutritious and palatable soup we need 
both cooked and uncooked meat, also bone, gelatine, fat, 
and a variety of seasoning material 

The salts found in the blood and juices of uncooked 
flesh are valuable as food ; therefore a small portion of 
raw, lean meat is essential in making soup. Browned or 
roasted meat improves the flavor of the broth, because in 
such meats the flavor has been more highly developed. 
The marrow foundxin the shin bone, and the browned 
fat of cooked meats, give a fine flavor; and such portions 
as contain gelatine afibrd a certain amount of nutriment, 
and by hardening like jelly when the stock is cold, en- 
able as to keep it longer than if it were in a liquid form. 
Vegetables which have been cut fine, sweet herbs, spices, 
etc., are used to season and flavor the stock 

When the juices are drawn out and the water is red, 
we draw the kettle forward where the water will almost 
boil, — just bubble on one side of the kettle. This 



LESSON YIL — SOUPS. 83 

gentle heat, continued steadily and for a long time, will 
dissolve the gelatinous portions. The water must bub- 
ble slightly, for if the temperature be allowed to fall too 
low the soup will sour. 

The kettle should be closely co\'ered to keep in the 
steam and the savory odors which would be wasted by 
evaporation if it were uncovered. It is wasteful to skim 
soup stock. The scum that rises as the water heats 
contains some of the very substances we have been try- 
ing to get into the water. They increase the flavor of 
the stock, and should be retained. After a time they 
settle as sediment, and all the sediment that is fine 
enough to go through the strainer should be used. In 
clear soups it may be removed by clearing, but clear 
soups are not the most nutritious. 

After simmering several hours, or until the bones are 
clean and the meat is in shreds, strain the stock, and 
throw away the scraps. This worthless residue of mus- 
cular fibre, bones, etc., is dry, tasteless, and useless as 
food. When we need the fibrin from meat, it is better 
to cook the meat in other ways, as in stews, which are 
often called soups, but are different, as we shall learn 
later. Eemember, we are not to depend upon soup as a 
complete food, only as one of a variety of foods, — a sort 
of stimulant to prepare the stomach for more hearty 
food. 

The stock will keep better if the fat be not removed, 
as when cold it forms an air-tight co\ering over the 
stock. As the fat is more easily removed when cold, it 
is best to make the stock the day before it is needed, 
and to strain it into several small jars, that such a por- 
tion as may be required may be used without disturbing 
the remainder. 



84 BOSTON SCHOOL KITCHEN TEXT-BOOK. 

When you are ready to use this stock for soup, take 
off every particle of the fat, and save it for clarifying-. 
Heat the portion of stock to the boiling-point, and serve 
it alone, or put with it any vegetable, rice, macaroni, 
barley, tapioca, etc., which has been previously cooked 
till tender. 

A general rule for stock : equal parts by weiglit of 
meat and bone, and one quart of water to every pound 
of meat and bone. AVhere tliere is more bone than 
meat, or only cooked meat, water enough to cover is a 
good proportion. For every quart of water use 

1 even tsp. salt. 



4 peppercorns. 
4 whole cloves. 



1 tsp. mixed sweet herbs. 
1 tbsp. each vegetable cut 
fine. 



If allspice, mace, and celery seed be used, less of each 
spice will be required. The herbs are whole thyme, 
marjoram, summer savory, and bay leaves. Strip off 
the leaves and blossoms, break the small stalks in tiny 
pieces, mix them, and keep them in a tin box. Use a 
teaspoonful of the mixture, not of each herb. The vege- 
tables generally used are onion, carrot, turnip, celery, and 
parsley. If you have only two kinds, use more of each. 
They are only intended to give additional flavor to the 
broth. Wlien it is desired to eat them with the soup 
they should be cooked separately, and added to the soup 
just before serving. 

There are some kinds of soup in which portions of 
tlie meat are served with the broth. These are made 
from chicken, veal, ox-tails, calf's head, etc. The meat 
is not cut as small as when it is to be used for stock. 
As soon as it is tender it is removed, and then added to 
the strained stock just before serving. 

Soups made from light meats, like veal and chicken, 



LESSON VII. — VEGETABLE SOUPS. 



and from fisli, are often made richer by the addition of 
milk or cream. 

Soups are also made from the water in whicli some 
veoetables have been boiled, and thickened with the 
pulp of the vegetables, mashed fine and sifted. Milk or 
cream is added to improve the flavor and make them 
more nutritious. The liquid and vegetable pulp should 
be blended with a little flour, or otlier starchy thicken- 
ing, to keep tliem from separating. Celery, tomatoes, 
green peas, green corn, carrot, and parsnip may be used 
for soup in the same general way as the potatoes. 

Suggestion to the Teacher. 

For further information about soups, with and '^'ithout 
stock, see " Boston Cook Book," pages 119-158. 



86 BOSTON SCHOOL KITCHEN TEXT-BOOK. 

RECEIPTS FOR LESSON YII. 

Soup Stock. 



2 lbs. hind shin of beef. 

2 qts. cold water. 

6 whole cloves. 

6 peppercorns. 

1 bunch of sweet herbs. 

1 inch blade mace. 



2 tsp. salt. 
1 small onion. 
]^ ' * carrot. 
^ * * turnip. 
1 sprig parsley. 



Wipe and cut the bones and meat into small pieces. 
Put the marrow, bones, and cold water into the kettle. 
Soak ^ h. before heating. Add spices and herbs, and 
the vegetables cut fine. Simmer 6 or 7 h., and strain. 
When needed for soup remove the fat, heat the stock to 
the boiling-point, and season to taste. 

Macaroni Soup. 

1 c. stock. I 1 ssp. salt, 

j^ stick macaroni. | 1 spk. pepper. 

Cook the macaroni in boiling salted water about J^ h., 
or till tender. Drain, and cut into thin slices or ring's ; 
put them into the soup tureen with the salt and pepper, 
and pour over them the boiling stock. 

Mixed Vegetable Soup. 

1 c. stock. I 1 tbsp. turnip. 

1 tbsp. carrot. | 1 ssp. salt. 

Wash and scrape the carrot, and pare the turnip. 
Cut into quarter-inch dice. Put into boiling salted 
water, and cook until tender. Drain and add, with 
the salt, to the boilins stock. 



RECEIPTS FOR LESSON VII. 87 



EicE Soup. 

1 c. stock. I 1 ssp. salt. 

Y2, tbsp. rice. I 

Cook the rice in boiling salted water yi h., or until 
tender. Drain and add to the boiling stock. 



*o 



Potato Soup. 



3 potatoes. 

1 pt. of milk or half milk 

and half water. 
1 tsp. chopped onion. 



1 tsp. salt. 
1 spk. white pepper. 
yi tbsp. flour. 
Yz tbsp. dripping. 



Wash and pare the potatoes, put them into boiling 
water and cook till very soft. Cook the onion in the 
milk in a double boiler. When the potatoes are done, 
drain and mash them. Add the boiling milk and the 
seasoning. Eub them through a strainer, and put them 
back into the double boiler to boil again. Melt the 
dripping in a small pan, add the flour, and stir till 
it thickens. Stir it into the boiling soup. Let it boil 
5 m. Add 1 tsp. finely chopped parsley, and serve very 
hot, with croutons. If the soup be too thick add a little 
more hot milk or water. 

BiVKED Bean Soup 

Take the cold baked beans, add twice the quantity 
of cold water, and let them simmer until soft. When 
nearly done add half as much tomato. Rub them 
through a purde strainer. Add more water till tlie 
right consistency, season to taste witli salt, pepper, and 
mustard. Heat again and serve with toasted crackers 
or fried dice of bread. 



88 



BOSTON SCHOOL KIT^CHEN TEXT-BOOK. 



.Questions on Lesson VII. 



What is the most economical 

way to use the bones and 

tough parts of men t ? 
What is stock ? 
Why do we use cold water in 

starting stock ? 
Why is it better to soak the 

meat before heating it ? 
Should we leave the meat 

whole ? 
What is the advantage of using 

e portion of uncooked meat ? 
May we also use any fragments 

of cooked meat ? 
Is it enough to put the kettle 



I on the stove, and leave the 

broth to simmer or not as 
the case may be ? 
9. Why do we cover the kettle ? 

10. What is tlic scum ? 

11. What shall we do with the 

residue ? 

12. Is soup a complete food ? 

13. How does fat help to keep the 

stock ? 

14. What is a general rule for 

stock ? 

15. What is thyme ? marjoram ? 

16. Can soups be made without 

meat ? 



LESSON VIII. 

DIGESTION, AND INVALID COOKERY. 
DIGESTION. 

In studying digestion it is well to keep in mind the 
nitrogenous and carbonaceous classification of food, be- 
cause the process of digestion differs with the different 
foods. 

The use of digestion is to get the food into a liquid 
form ; for food in the stomach is not really in tlie tissues 
of tlie body, and cannot enter the body through the 
stomach or intestinal surfaces, except in a fluid form. 

There are several steps in the process, — mastication, 
swallowing, and stomach and intestinal digestion. Each 
portion of the alimentary canal has its own specific work 
to do, and is furnished with its own distinctive fluid to 
help it do that work. 

All food should be first divided or crushed, if neces- 
sary, by the teeth, then mixed with the saliva and thus 
softened, and above all moistened thorouglily. The 
saliva is poured into the mouth in large quantities when 
the presence of food in the mouth excites the salivary 
glands to secrete it; and sometimes even tlie sight or 
thought of food makes the mouth water. The saliva is 
alkaline, and helps to digest in part the starchy foods 
by rapidly changing them into sugar, — provided they 
are kept in the mouth long enough for a thorough 
mingling with the saliva, — but it does not cause any 



92 BOSTON SCHOOL KITCHEN TEXT-BOOK. 



important change in the nitrogenous foods. Bread, po- 
tatoes, rice, and all other starchy foods sliould therefore 
be thoroughly masticated and mingled witli the saliva. 
Some substances that are very soft, like thin, starchy 
gruels, or that become soft and pasty when moistened, 
like hot fresh bread, are swallowed quickly and almost 
involuntarily; and although the starch is mostly un- 
changed, and they may be difBcult of digestion by some, 
no permanent harm comes to healthy people from the 
absence of salivary digestion, as it is supplemented by 
the pancreatic. 

The stomach carries on the second part of digestion. 
It pours from its walls an acid fluid, and is furnished 
with muscles which, by alternate wave-like contraction 
and relaxation, produce a sort of churning, which helps 
materially to bring all parts of the food under the action 
of the gastric juice. This juice dissolves the albumen 
and fibrin of food, forming peptones, which are very 
soluble. Tiie starch, sugar, and fat are not changed, 
except mechanically, the fat being melted, and thus set 
free. 

Such of the albuminoids as are dissolved, and large 
portions of water, may at once be absorbed into the cir- 
culation by the veins of the stomach. The remaining 
food, in the form of chyme, passes from the stomach 
into the intestines. Here it meets the bile, originally 
made in the liver, but stored ready for meal-times in 
the gall bladder, and also the pancreatic juice, derived 
directly from the pancreas. These fluids are feebly alka- 
line, and readily neutralize the weak acid of the gastric 
juice. They convert the starches into sugar, the ni- 
trogenous foods left over by the stomach (if any) into 
soluble bodies, and the fats into a finely divided state 



LESSON VIII. — TiGESTION. 93 



called an "emulsion," in which the large granules of 
fat and oil are broken up into minute particles and held 
in this fluid, very much as cream is held in fresh milk. 

The intestinal juice secreted in the mucous membrane 
the entire length of the intestines has also feeble di- 
gestive powers. 

The contents of the intestines are now called chyle. 
The combined amount of the salivary, gastric, pan- 
creatic, biliary, and intestinal fluids secreted daily is 
said to be about twenty-one pints, of which the gastric 
juice forms more than one half. 

There are mechanical aids to intestinal as well as to 
stomach digestion. The writhing, worm-like, or "peri- 
staltic" movement of the muscular coats of the intestines, 
forces the food downward and tends to bring all portions 
of it in contact with the digestive fluids. 

Some of the nutritive and perfectly digested parts of 
the chyle are next absorbed into tlie lacteals, which are 
closely connected with the lining or mucous membrane 
of the intestines. From these tliey are emptied into the 
thoracic duct, and finally into the great veins above the 
heart. Other portions are carried by the finer branches 
of the portal vein into the liver, and thence pass into 
the great veins below the heart. 

Thus the venous blood, bringing raw materials from 
the portal veins and the lacteals, and from the lym- 
phatic vessels waste material, enters the heart through 
the rig] it auricle, passes through the valves down into 
the right ventricle, out through tlie pulmonary artery 
into the lungs, where as purple venous blood it is driven 
to the most remote capillaries of the lungs. If the lungs 
be full of fresh air, the oxygen of the air passes in and 
changes the purple blood into red oxygenated blood. 



94 BOSTON SCHOOL KITCHEN TEXT-BOOK. 

This oxygenated blood returns from tlie lungs and enters 
the heart through the left auricle, then, through the 
valves, passes into the left ventricle, then out through 
the aorta, — the great artery, or " main," — from which 
smaller arteries carry it to the capillaries all over the 
body. There this new material in the blood is given 
up to the cells and changed by them as described in 
Lesson 11. 



COOKING AND CARING FOR INVALIDS. 

In waiting upon invalids, several things are essential 
beside the careful preparation of their food, — perfect 
ventilation, cleanliness, quiet, and strict obedience to the 
physician's orders. 

Have plenty of fresh air and sunshine, but be careful 
to shield the patient from a draught and any glaring 
light. Allow nothing in the room that will vitiate the 
air, — like decaying flowers, kerosene lamps burning low, 
soiled clothing, etc. Keep the bed, the patient, the 
room, and everything about yourself, absolutely clean. 
Avoid all noise, whispering, loud talking, rustling, or 
any abrupt or suspicious movements. Admit no visitors 
except w^ith the consent of the physician. 

Anticipate the wants of the patient, but do not annoy 
by unnecessary attentions. When feeding the patient, 
do it gently and neatly. Serve in small quantities often, 
and in varied and tempting forms. 

Serve hot, liquids ordered to be served hot, and avoid 
slopping. Vf hen the meal is over, remove every trace of 
food from the room. 



LESSON VIIL— FOOD FOR INVALIDS. 95 

"^OOD FOR INVALIDS. 

When we are well aud strong, we need food to 
keep us so, and also to give us force or energy to do 
work. 

When we work we wear out faster, and so need more 
food. We need a variety of food, — some kinds that are 
digested quickly and some that are digested slowly, for 
if everything we ate were changed at once we should be 
faint and hungry again very soon. 

But when we are ill, sometimes we do not need any 
food for a time, as it is better for the system to have a 
period of complete rest or comparative inaction. At 
other times, we need only a small quantity of food, 
just enough to satisfy hunger ; but that little must 
be food that can be digested easily, or that will re- 
duce inflammation and quench thirst but will not 
stimulate. Food in a liquid form is quickly absorbed 
into the system. Mucilaginous, acid, and aromatic 
drinks, oranges, grapes, and other fruits, gelatinous 
broths and jellies, and starchy gruels are useful at 
such times. 

TEA. 

Boiling water draws out some flavors which are desir- 
able, if they are simply drawn out and not boiled. We 
pour boiling water on tea to draw out the flavor. If the 
tea is steeped, tlie infusion is agreeable ; but if boiled, 
other substances — tannin, etc. — are drawn out, wliich 
are not only unpalatable, but unwholesome. Infuse 
means "to pour into;" steep means "to soak." Infuse, 
or steep, tea ; never boil it. Tea should be steeped in 
an earthen teapot, never in tin. The water should be 
freshly boiled. 



9G BOSTON SCHOOL KITCHEN TEXT-BOOK. 



Suggestion to the Teacher. 

Pupils should be taught something about digestion. Even 
if they have never studied physiology they can comprehend 
the most important steps in the process. A calfs or sheep's 
heart and a pig's stomach may be procured from the market 
and used in illustration, or the teacher may illustrate from 
drawings on the blackboard. 



RECEIPTS FOR LESSON VIII. 97 

RECEIPTS FOR LESSON VIII. 
Lemonade. 

1 lemon. I Ij^ c. boiling water. 

1 tbsp. sugar. | 

Remove the peel in very thin parings, put them into 
a bowl, add the boiling water, and let it stand 10 m.. 
covered. Add the lemon juice and sugar, and when 
cold strain it, and add ice if liked. 

Apple Water. 

1 apple. I 1 c. boiling water. 

1 tbsp. sugar. | 1 strip lemon peel. 

Wipe a large, sour apple, and cut it, without paring, 
into thin slices. Put them into a bowl with the lemon 
peel and boiling water; cover it, and let it stand till 
cold. Add the sugar and when dissolved strain it. 

Rhubarb Water. 

1 small stalk rhubarb. I 1 strip lemon peel. 

1 c. boiling water. | 1 tbsp. sugar. 

Wipe the rhubarb, cut into pieces an inch long. Add 
lemon peel and boiling water. Let it stand till cold. 
Add sutrar, and when dissolved strain it. 



Irish Moss Jelly 



}4 c. Irish moss. 

4 figs. 

1 pt. boiling water. 



1 lemon or orange. 



»/ 



^ c. sugar. 



Soak, pick over, and wash the moss. Put it into 
the boiling water, add the figs and the thin rind of the 

7 



98 BOSTON SCHOOL KITCHEN TEXT-BOOK. 

lemon. Simmer until tlie moss is dissolved. Add 
the lemon juice and sugar, and strain into a cold, wet 
mould. 

Milk Porridge. 

2 doz. raisins, quartered. I 1 tbsp. flour. 

2 c. milk. I 1 ssp. salt. 

Boil the raisins in a little water 20 m. Let the 
water boil away, and add the milk. When boiling, 
add the flour rubbed to a thin paste with a little cold 
milk. Boil 8 or 10 m. Season with salt, and strain 
before serving. 

Oatmeal Gruel. 

Pound ^ c. of coarse oatmeal till it is mealy. Put 
it in a tumbler with cold water. Stir w^ell, let it settle, 
then pour off the mealy water into a saucepan. Fill 
again and pour off the water, and again repeat this, 
being careful each time not to disturb the sediment in 
tlie bottom of the tumbler. Then boil the water 20 m., 
stirring often. Add 1 ssp. salt. If too thick add a 
little cream or milk. Strain, and sers^e hot. 

To Prepare an Orange for an Invalid. 

Pare (not peel) around the orange, cutting in deep 
enoufrh to cut off the inner white membrane. Cut near 
the membrane of one of the sections straight in to the 
core ; cut in again on the opposite edge. Slip the knife 
under and scoop out the pulp, but leave the membrane 
on the core. Lay the membrane back under the left 
thumb, and cut in the same way into the next section. 
When all the pulp is removed the membrane should be 
left on the core. The pulp and juice are miore delicious 



QUESTIONS ON LESSON VIII. 



99 



when taken out in this way than when squeezed out. 
Eemove all the seeds, sweeten to taste, and serve with 
chipped ice, if desired. 

To Chip Ice. 
With a thimble on your finger press a large needle 
into a piece of ice, and chip it off into bits as large as 
a pea. Mix it with an equal quantity of acid jelly or 
fruit juice. 

Tea. 

1 tsp. tea. I 1 c. freshly boiling water. 

Steep 5 m. in an earthen teapot. 



yi c. shells. 

Boil 20 ni. 



Cocoa Shells. 

I 1 pt. freshly boiling water. 



Questions on Lesson VIII. 



10. 

11. 

12. 
13. 
14. 



"What is the use of digestion ? 
Where is our food digested ? 
What is the first step in the 

process ? 
How is our food crushed? 
Is it necessary to chew soft 

food? 
What is the saliva ? 
Is it in the mouth except when 

food is there? 
Is the saliva acid or alkaline ? 
What kinds of food does it 

affect ? 
How does the food get into 

the stomach ? 
What is the gastric juice ? 
What kinds of food does it 

affect ? 
What are the digested albu- 
minous foods called ? 
What is chyme ? 



15. What happens to fats and 

starchy food in the stomach ? 

16. How is the food moved about 

in the stomach ? 

17. Where is the bile secreted ? 

18. Where is it stored ? 

19. What is the pancreatic fluid ? 

20. How is the food changed in 

the intestines? 

21. What is an emulsion ? 

22. What is chyle ? 

23. How much digestive fluid is 

secreted daily ? 

24. What pushes the food along 

in the intestines ? 

25. How does the chyle leave the 

intestines ? 

26. How does it enter the blood ? 

27. How is the blood oxygenated ? 

28. Describe the circulation of the 

blood. 



LESSON IX. 

INVALID COOKERY, — Continued. 

When there is a lack of nutrition from any cause, or 
after any long-continued or prostrating disease, the sys- 
tem demands immediate nourishment. Food that con- 
tains the most nutriment in the most easily assimilated 
form is now needed. 

Milk, to be taken slowly, — sipped by the spoonful, — - 
is given in many cases. Eggnog, meat broth, farina and 
oatmeal gruel, beef juice, and beef tea are suitable at 
such times. 

After the crisis of disease is past, the system needi^ 
gradual but complete nutrition. The appetite is clamor- 
ous, fickle, or perhaps altogether wanting. Much de- 
pends upon judicious diet, and care must be taken 
against over-feeding. Broiled game, chicken, chops, and 
steak are the most easily assimilated meats. Eggs, 
cream toast, baked potatoes, ice-cream, blanc-mange, 
simple puddings, and stewed fruits may be used. 

TOAST. 

AVe toast bread not merely to brown it, but to take 
out all the moisture possible, that it may be more per- 
fectly moistened with the saliva and thus easily di- 
gested ; then we brown it to give it a better flavor. If 
the slice be thick and carelessly exposed to a blazing 
fire, the outside is blackened and made into charcoal 



102 BOSTON SCHOOL KITCHEN TEXT-BOOK. 

before the heat can reach the inside. The moisture 
is only heated, not evaporated, and makes the inside 
doughy or clammy ; and butter, when spread upon the 
bread, cannot penetrate it, but floats on the surface in 
the form of oil, and the result is one of the most 
indigestible compounds. 

The correct way is to have the bread stale and cut 
into thin uniform slices, and to dry it thoroughly before 
browning it. Such toast, even if moistened with water 
or milk, may be easily and thoroughly acted upon by 
the digestive fluids. 

ICE-CREAM. 

Some foods are more palatable when cold, especially 
in hot weather, and means are often used to make them 
very cold. This is done by freezing. Ice-creams — 
mixtures of cream, milk, eggs, sugar, and flavoring — and 
sherbets — or fruit and water ices — are often tempting 
to an invalid. They should be eaten slowly and in 
small quantity, or the digestive fluids will be too quickly 
chilled. 

A patent freezer is a convenient article to have, but it 
is not a necessity, for a small quantity of cream may be 
frozen in a covered can or pail which is surrounded Ijy 
broken ice and coarse salt. 

Salt has a great attraction for water, and causes the 
ice to melt; and ice, in changing from a solid to a 
liquid, absorbs heat. The mixture of melted ice and 
coarse rock salt is many degrees colder than the ice 
alone; cold enough to reduce to the freezing-point 
the temperature of any substance placed in the ice 
and salt. The finer the ice is crushed the quicker it 
melts, and the more the mixture is stirred the sooner 
all parts become chilled. 



LESSON IX. — STIMULATING FOODS. 103 



NUTRITIOUS AND INNUTRITIOUS FOODS, AND 
THE PROPER PROPORTIONS OF FOOD. 

Nutritious foods are those which contain substances 
tliat can be digested, absorbed into the blood, and as- 
similated or made a part of our bodies, and so promote 
growth and supply the waste. 

ISTutritious foods are nourishing or stimulating. 

Koiirisliing foods are those that supply all the nutri- 
tion that the body needs, and develop perfectly every 
animal function, but do not increase the strength and 
rapidity of organic actions beyond the point of full 
nutrition. 

Bread, vegetables, fruits, grains, sugar, salt, and water 
are nourishing foods. 

Stimidating foods. All food that nourishes the body 
is in one sense stimulating, as it gives renewed energy 
to the bodily functions. But there are foods which 
impart more speed and energy to the organs than are 
necessary to perfect nutrition. Animal food is of this 
class. People who work, either with their brains or 
their muscles, wear out faster than people who only live 
and grow ; and they need stimulating food to give the 
excess of energy that work demands, — not stimulants, 
but stimulating food. Stimulants are quite different. 

Sti/mdants. Condiments and alcoholic drinks are 
classed as stimulants, because they impart no nourish- 
ment, do not make new tissue, nor help to remove the 
waste. They simply excite the bodily organs to greater 
activity for the time being, as a whip spurs an animal to 
greater speed ; and the result is either greater weakness 
after the stimulating effect has passed, or a craving for 
these excitants that nothing else will satisfy. The 



104 BOSTON SCHOOL KITCHEN TEXT-BOOK. 

bodily functions are spurred to unnatural activity; and 
there is truth, in more senses than one, in the expression, 
" He is living too fast." 

Innutritious foods are those which are not assimi- 
lated, which are by nature indigestible, or have been 
made so by improper combinations and modes of 
cooking. 

The bran of wheat and other grains, the skins of peas, 
beans, and corn, the skins, cores, and seeds of fruit, 
neavy bread, soggy pastry, rich heavy cake, and all 
greasy fried food are eitlier entirely unassimilated, and 
therefore do not nourish, or they are so difficult of diges- 
tion that some of the organs are excited to excessive 
action to rid the system of them, and so the digestive 
organs and, in time, the whole system suffer from being 
overtaxed. We often speak of food as digestible and 
indigestible, and many suppose that indigestible food 
should never be eaten. But there are some foods, por- 
tions of which are entirely indigestible and pass from 
the system unchanged and without causing any disturb- 
ance in the digestive canal. And it is evidently the 
provision of Nature that such foods should be eaten, for 
a certain bulk seems necessary in our food to stimulate 
a thorouoh action of the diojestive fluids. If we do not 
eat enough to distend the stomach, so that the churning 
motion of the muscular coats can affect every part of the 
food, the digestion is imperfect. Or if the food be suf- 
ficient in quantity, but be wholly nutritious or higldy 
condensed food, that is capable of entire absorption, tlie 
effect is too stimulating, and serious disorders of the ali- 
mentary canal are the result. To remedy this, it is 
generally necessary for persons in health, and who have 
strong digestion, to eat a certain amount of innutritious 



LESSON IX. —MIXED DIET. 105 



food, which furbishes tlie bulk required and gives all 
parts of the digestive apparatus tlieir proper amount of 
work to perform. While there is a marked difference in 
the length of time required for digestion by the various 
nutritious foods, there is often as great a difference in 
the digestive power of individuals, so it is impossible tXD 
prescribe the same diet for everybody. Milk is con- 
sidered a wholesome food, and cheese is a cheap and 
nourishing food for laboring people ; yet there are some 
persons who cannot take milk, and others to whom 
cheese is an active poison. 

Many argue in favor of an exclusive vegetable diet 
because we :^aa obtain from vegetables or grains all the 
necessary elements of food. No doubt many people eat 
too much animal food, but it is unwise to go to the ex- 
treme of excluding it altogether. The structure and 
conformation of the teeth and alimentary canal are 
equally well adapted to the digestion of animal or 
vegetable food or an admixture of both, and the highest 
degree of bodily and mental vigor is found usually 
among those who use a mixed diet. It was evidently 
intended by Nature that we should eat both animal and 
vegetable food, and until Nature's laws have been vio- 
lated and our appetites perverted, it is safe to follow 
them in our choice of food. "A natural, healthful ap- 
petite for plain, wholesome food is the voice of the 
physical system making known its needs, and may 
always be trusted as an unerring guide to the proper 
choice of diet." But when we have to resort to condi- 
ments or stimulants to excite an appetite, we may be 
sure that something is wrong. 

A fair proportion by weight is one third animal and 
two thirds vegetable food. 



10(3 BOSTON SCHOOL KITCHEN TEXT-BOOK. 

It has been estimated that an average daily diet 
should contain the different substances proportioned 
as follows : ^ — 



Proteids, .40 pounds. 

Starch, etc., 1.00 
Fats, .40 *' 



Salts, .10 pounds. 

AVater, 6.00 



Suggestion to the Teacher. 

For further information and receipts on cookery for inva- 
lids, see "Boston Cook Book," pages 407-413, and "Diet 
for the Sick," by Mrs. Henderson. Do not allow the pupils 
to make any dish in the lesson involving any principle not 
explained in this or previous lessons. 

1 See " The Chemistry of Foods and Nutrition," by Professor At- 
water, beginning in the "Century," May, 1887. 



RECEIPTS FOR LESSON IX. 107 

RECEIPTS FOR LESSON IX. 

Toast. 

Cut stale bread in slices J^ inch thick. Put it on a 
toaster or fork. Move it gently over the fire till dry, 
then hold it nearer until golden brown. Serve dry. 

Water Toast. 

Have a shallow pan with 1 pt. of boiling water and 
^ tsp. of salt. Dip each slice of dry toast quickly in 
the water, then spread with butter and serve very hot. 



Milk Toast. 



1 c. milk, scalded. 
Yz tbsp. cornstarch, or 1 
tbsp. flour. 



Vz tbsp. butter. 
Vz ssp. salt. 



Melt the butter in a granite saucepan, add the dry 
cornstarch, mix well, add ^ of the milk, stir well as 
it boils and thickens, then add more milk, stir again, 
and when smootli add the remainder of the milk and 
the salt. Pour this between each slice of toast, and over 
the whole. If liked very soft, dip the slices first in hot 
salted water. 

Eggnog. 

Beat the yolk of one ^gg, adtl 1 tbsp. sugar and beat 
till creamy. Add ^ c. of milk. Beat the white of 
the egg till foamy (but not stiff and dry) and stir it in 
lightly. 

1 c. of tea, or coffee, or beef tea may be added to make 
a variety. 



108 boston scpiool kitchen tkxt-jjonic. 

Beef Juice. 

^ lb. lean, juicy beef. Cut into quarter-iucb dice. Put 
tliem in a wide-mouthed bottle, cover, and set on a trivet 
in a kettle of cold water. Heat gradually, and keep it 
simmering 2 h., or until the meat is white. Strain, press 
out all the juice, and season with salt to taste. 

Ice-Ckeam for an Invalii). 

yi c. cream. Yz tsp. melted chocolate, or 

2 tsp. sugar. 1 tsp. coffee, or 

2 tsp. fruit juice. 

Put into a pint pail having a tight tin cover, or into 
a water-tioht tin can. Beat with an e^^gj-beater until 
foamy. Set this pail into a larger pail, and fill the 
space with snow, or fine ice, and salt. Turn the small 
pail back and forth, tlien open and scrape the cream 
from the sides. Cover and turn again. Eepeat this 
until the cream is hard. 

Blanc-Mange. 

X c. Irish moss. Yz ssp. salt. 

1 pt. milk. Yi tsp. vanilla. 

Soak the moss in cold water till soft, pick over, wash, 
tie in a thin lace bag, and put it into the double boiler 
with the milk ; boil until it thickens wdien dropped on 
a cold plate. Add the salt, strain, and add flavoring. 
Turn into a mould that has been wet with cold water. 

AVheatena. 

1 c. hoiling water. I 3 tbsp. vvheateiia. 

% tsp. salt. I 

Put the salt in the water. Add the meal and stir 
quickly. Bpil 2 m. Eat with cream. 



QUESTIONS ON LESSON IX. 



109 



Questions on Lesson IX. 



10. 



11. 



What do invalids need beside 
daintily prepared food ? 

"What objectionable things are 
sometimes left in a sick- 
room ? 

What can you think of that 
would give comfort to an 
invalid ? 

What would cause them dis- 
comfort ? 

Is it ever well for us to do 
without food for a day or 
two ? 

What kinds of food are suita- 
ble in the beginning of sick- 
ness ? 

What are infusions ? 

Why do we infuse our tea in- 
stead of boiling it ? 

What foods are suitable when 
the system demands imme- 
diate nourishment ? 

What are the most easily 
assimilated foods ? 

Why do we toast our bread ? 



12. What is the proper way to 

prepare toast ? 

13. How do we freeze ice-cream 

without a patent freezer ? 

14. Why is melting ice colder 

than the ice itself? 

15. What is the meaning of "nu- 

tritious " ? 

16. What are stimulating foods ? 

17. What are stimulants ? 

18. What foods are nourishing and 

not stimulating ? 

19. What is the after-effect of 

stimulants ? 

20. Is it necessary to eat some in- 

digestible foods ? 

21. What proof have we that it 

was not intended we should 
confine ourselves to one form 
of food ? 

22. What is the best guide as to a 

choice in our diet ? 

23. How should food be proj'or- 

tioned in our daily diet < 



LESSON X. 

BROILING. 

Broiling, from hruler, meaning " to burn," is cooking 
directly over the hot coals. It is the hottest form of 
cooking. The heat is so intense that the food would 
be quickly burned if allowed to remain continuously 
over the fire. We avoid burning by turning it fre- 
quently. This rapid cooking by such direct, intense heat 
combined with the action of the air, which has free access 
to the meat, gives a flavor quite unlike that obtained by 
cooking meat in water. 

It is only certain kinds of meat that are suitable for 
broiling. A pound of beef cut in cubical form could 
not be cooked inside sufficiently without burning the 
outside. But the same weight of beef, if cut in the form 
of a slice about an inch thick, could be broiled perfectly, 
and would have a better flavor than when cooked in any 
other way. 

Meat for broiling should have tender fibres, much 
juice, and but little fat, bone, or gristle. There is neither 
time nor moisture to soften tough fibres, and we learned 
in the first lesson on meat that water, and slow, long- 
continued heat are necessary to cook tough meat. If 
there be much fat it will melt, drip into the fire, and 
smoke tlie meat. Slices, cut from three fourths of an 
inch to an inch and a quarter in thickness, and taken 
from the thick part of the round, the rump, and the 



112 BOSTON SCHOOL KITCHEN TEXT-BOOK. 

sirloin, are the best for broiling. The tender parts of 
mutton may be broiled, but uot veal and pork, for these 
need to be very thoroughly cooked. Very small chick- 
ens, some kinds of game and birds, tripe and liver, thin 
slices of ham and bacon, any small, thin fish, and oysters 
are also cooked by broiling. 

The fire for broiling should be bright-red, but not 
blazing, and should bt near the top of the fire-box. It 
should be made ready some time before it is needed that 
it may be in the proper condition at the last moment. 
There should be little or no flame, as that will smoke 
the meat. The oven damper should always be open dur- 
ing the broiling, that the smoke of the dripping fat, and 
the poisonous gases may be carried into the chimney. 
A bed of hard-wood coals is the best fire for broiling. 
Next to this is a charcoal fire. Wood gives an entirely 
different flavor to steak from that obtained by a coal 
fire. Some stoves for burning wood have a hearth in 
front into wliich tlie bright coals may be drawn for the 
cooking of the steak. 

There is nothino^ better to use for broiling: than a 
double wire broiler. Grease it with a bit of fat from 
the meat, or with salt pork, to keep the meat from stick- 
ing. Place the thickest part of whatever is to be 
cooked next to the middle of the broiler. If there is a 
fat edge on the steak, place this uppermost. Then, as 
the fat melts, it drips down over the meat, and by thus 
basting it keeps it from becoming too dry. Hold the 
broiler slanting down into the fire, and if there is a 
blaze do not lift the broiler up into the smoke, but keep 
it in the flame, turning it often. Use a coarse towel to 
protect the hand if the heat be very great. 

In every form of cooking meat, where the meat itself 



LESSON X. — BROILING. Il3 

is to be eateu, we want to keep the juices in the meat ; 
and this is especially important in broiling, for if not 
retained in tlie meat they drip into the fire. Do not 
salt the meat, as salt draws out the juices. Eemove the 
bone and part of the fat. ir'lace the meat close to the 
fire. The intense heat instantly sears the albumen and 
fibrin on that side, and starts the flow of the juices ; as 
they become hot they rise ; and if the meat be cooked 
long on one side they will force their way through the 
fibres, and form little pools on the surface of the meat, 
which run off and drip into the fire, and so we feed the 
fire with the best part of the meat. But if we turn the 
meat before the juices ooze out, this other surface is 
brought next to the fire and seared, and the juices can- 
not escape in that direction, so they rise again and try 
to get through the top. But that being already hardened 
tbey have to stay inside the meat. As tlie water of the 
juices is converted into steam by the heat, it expands 
and gives the meat a puffy appearance. If the meat be 
not turned often, or the broiling be carried on too long, 
these watery juices will gradually ooze between the fibres 
to the surface and be evaporated, leaving the meat dry, 
leathery, and indigestible. 

Meat should be broiled only long enough to loosen all 
the fibres and start the flow of the juices. As long as 
there is juice inside, the steam will cause the meat to 
spring up instantly when pressed with a knife, and when 
it ceases to do this the juices have begun to evaporate, 
and the meat shrinks. When cooked it should be pink 
and juicy, not raw and purple, nor brown and dry. It 
should be so full of juice tlmt when cut on the platter no 
other gravy will be req^uired than its own hot savory 
juices. 



114 BOSTON SCHOOL KITCHEN TEXT-BOOK. 

Broiled food should be served very liot. All other 
dishes should be prepared first, the platter hot and 
the seasoning ready. Have a long shallow pan near 
to hold under the broiler when you remove it from the 
fire, and thus avoid dropping the grease on the floor. 
When everything else is ready, begin to broil, and do 
not leave the broiler an instant until the meat is cooked. 
Turn the broiler over every ten seconds, counting as 
the clock ticks, and always keep the broiler over the 
fire while turning, and not off over the stove or floor. 
If there be much fat, lift the broiler over the pan while 
turning, and let the fat drip into the pan. The burning 
fat will not smoke the meat if the meat be kept close to 
the coals, but if held on the top of the flame it will 
soon be smoked. After the first thorough searing hold 
the broiler farther from the fire. When the meat is 
done, rest the broiler on the pan; take the meat off care- 
fully, without sticking the fork into it, and put it on 
the hot platter. Season with salt and, if desired, with 
butter and pepper, but it is much nicer with only salt. 
Wipe the edge of the platter before sending it to the 
table. 

PAN BROILING. 

It is sometimes inconvenient to broil over the coals, 
and nearly the same effect may be obtained by cooking 
in a dry, hissing-hot frying-pan. Heat the pan to a 
blue heat, and with a perfectly smooth pan no greasing 
is necessary. Sear the meat quickly on one side, then 
turn with a broad knife and fork, — without cutting in- 
to the meat, — and brown the other side, before any juice 
escapes into the pan. Cook from 4 to 8 m., turning 
twice, and add a sprinkling of salt just before the last 
turnins. 



LESSON X. — FIKST LESSON IN DOUGH. 115 

Chops are much nicer broiled in this way than when 
l)roiled over coals, as the fat may be cooked till crisp, 
without becoming smoked, and the lean meat will not 
be over-cooked. 

If the pan be hot enough and no fat used (and it 
seems difficult to convince some people that none need 
be used), this is not frying ; it is broiling on hot iron ; and 
the flavor and texture are very different from those of 
fried meat. If there be much fat on the meat it should 
be drained off as it melts. 

The smaller and thinner the article to be cooked, the 
hotter should be the fire. 

The larger the article, the more temperate the fire, or 
the greater the distance from the fire. 

Meat, of close, compact fibre takes longer to soften and 
start the flow of the juices than meat of tender fibre. 

TIME-TABLE FOR BROILING. 

Steak, one inch thick 4 to 6 m. 

Steak, one and a half inch thick 6 to 10 " 

Small, thin fish 5 to 8 " 

Thick fish 12 to 15 ** 

Chops, broiled in paper 8 to 10 " 

Chickens 20 " 

FIRST LESSON IN DOUGH. 

Thus far in our lessons we have learned about only 
two ways of cooking the various grains which form so 
large and so important a part of our diet, namely, that of 
steaming the whole or broken grains, making a form of 
mush ; and that of boiling them in a large quantity 
of liquid, making gruels. 

Wheat, rye, corn, buckwheat, and some other grains 



11(3 BOSTON SCHOOL KITCHEN TEXT-BOOK. 

are ground coarse, and called meal, or tine, and called 
flour; and in these coarse or fine forms they are used in 
a great variety of ways, but always with water or some 
other liquid, for tlie same reason that we learned about 
in makino: mush. 

These mixtures of moistened meal or flour are called 
doughs if the mass is only slightly moistened, and hatters 
if enough liquid is used to make a mixture that will 
pour, or that can be beaten. Dough is from a word 
meaning *' to wet or moisten ; " and hatter is from a 
word meaning " to beat." 

Other ingredients are added to change and improve 
the texture and flavor, and then these mixtures are 
cooked in a great variety of ways, — boiling, steaming, 
baking, and frying. They may all be classed under the 
general names of breads, cakes, pastry, and puddings, 
and in one form or another are probably used in every 
family at every meal. 

When properly combined and prepared they afford 
cheap, wholesome, and palatable forms of food. But 
their proper combinations involve so much knowledge 
of the principles of chemistry as applied to cookery, that 
we have purposely left the study of them till you shall 
have become familiar with some of the simpler forms of 
cooking. 

Flour or meal, if merely wet, and then heated or 
cooked, will be dry, tough, and compact, and when eaten 
it will be difficult for the digestive fluids to penetrate the 
mass. To be digestible, doughs and batters must be 
light and porous. There are various ways of making 
them so. For the present we shall consider only one of 
these ways, as illustrated in our receipt for suet pudding, 
and that is by the use of baking-powder. 



LESSON X.— BAKING-POWDER. 117 

llaking-powder is a mixture of an acid salt (cream of 
tartar) and a carbonate of an alkali (soda), — substances 
which do not act upon each other when dry. We will 
put a teaspoonful of baking-powder in two tablespoonfids 
of water and see what happens. A chemical action takes 
place, by which carbonic acid gas is liberated. This gas, 
as it tries to escape, fills the liquid, and causes effer- 
vescence. Soon the gas disappears and the liquid is 
still, and is neither acid nor alkaline, because the soda 
and cream of tartar have neutralized each other. But if 
there had been too much soda in the baking-powder the 
liquid would liave had an alkaline taste, and if too mucli 
acid, an acid taste. 

On account of the difficulty of measuring in the 
kitchen these two substances in the correct proportion, 
some manufacturers have mixed them by weight for us 
and called them baking-powders. And until you have 
learned more about cooking, it wdll be safest to use soda 
and cream of tartar in the form of baking-powder. 

Now in making our pudding, if we put baking-pow- 
der in the flour, and mix it thoroughly, so that every 
particle of flour will liave its share of the powder, wlien 
the flour is wet and made into dough carbonic acid gas 
will be liberated and try to escape, as it did from tlie 
water; but on account of the sticky and elastic nature of 
the gluten in the wheat flour, the gas cannot escape so 
readily, but will stretch and expand the dough and 
make it full of bubbles or air cells. Then, if the dough 
be cooked quickly, before the gas escapes, the starch 
grains will be ruptured by the combined effect of heat 
and moisture, the glutinous walls of the air cells will be 
hardened, and we shall have a light, porous loaf of pud- 
ding. Loaf is from the word Idifian, " to raise, to lift up.** 



118 BOSTON SCHOOL KITCHEN TEXT-BOOK. 

This receipt also shows ns how dough mny be made 
more tender by the use of fat or sliortening. Suet is 
one form of beef fat. Tt is used in doughs or flour 
mixtures to make them tender. It is a wholesome and 
economical form of fat, and particularly suitable for 
winter diet. By adding different flavoring ingredients, 
such as ginger, molasses, nutmeg, or fruit, we may make 
a variety of puddings with one formula. 

Suggestion to the Teacher. 

Broiling is an important lesson, and follows the lesson on 
Invalid Cookery, as it is the most wholesome way of cooking 
meat for invalids. 

It will be impossible to give the pupils a lesson in roast- 
ing meat, either before the fire or in a hot oven ; but by a 
thorough explanation of the action of heat in broiling the 
principles of roasting may be made clear. See " Boston Cook 
Book," pages 13, 14, 20, 21, 220-223, 233, 239, 24G, 256, 
257, 261, 263. 

As the proper making of flour or dough mixtures is one 
of the most difficult forms of cooking, do not attempt to 
crowd much of it into one lesson. The action of baking- 
powder in the suet pudding, briefly explained, is enough for 
the first lesson. 



BECEIPTS FOR LE«8()N K. 119 



r.-GCEIPTS FOR LESSON X. 

Broiled Steak. 

Wipe, trim off the supertluoub fat and remove tlie 
boue. Grease the gridiron with some of the fat. Broil 
over a clear fire, turning eveiy ten seconds. Cook 3 or 
4 m. if liked rare : longer, if Wdll done. Serve on a hot 
platter, season with salt, and butter and pepper, if 
desired. 

Mutton Chop. {Pan Broiled.) 

Wipe, remove the pink skin and extra fat. Have a 
frying-pan hissing hot, without any fat ; put in the 
ch.ops and cook 1 m., turn and sear the other side, 
tlien cook more slowly until done, — 5 m., if liked rare. 
Stand them up on the fat edge to brown the fat, without 
over-cooking the meat. When nearly done sprinkle a 
little salt on each side. Drain on paper and serve very 
hot, on a hot dish, without a drop of grease. 

Broiled Meat Cakes. 

Chop tough, raw, lean beef quite fine. Season witli 
salt, pepper, and a few drops of onion juice. ]\lake it 
into small flat cakes and broil on a hot frying-pan. 
Spread with a little butter and serve very hot. 

Plain Suet Pudding. 



1 pt. flour. 

1 tsp. baking powder, 

1 ssp. salt. 



2 oz. bocf suet (4 thsp whrn 

cliopped). 
Cold -.vatcr to make a soft dou(;li. 



Mix the flour, baking-powder, and snlt ; add the 
chopped suet and mix it well. Add the cold water 



120 BOSTON SCHOOL KITCHEN TEXT-BOOK. 

gradually to form a soft dough. Grease a mould or 
several cups, fill to within an inch of the top, and cover 
v/ith greased paper. Put them into a kettle of boiling 
water enough to come half way up the mould. Cover 
the kettle and steam 2 h. if in a mould, and 1 h. if in 
cups. Serve on a hot platter, and eat with hot gravy or 
a sweet sauce. 

Ginger Suet Pudding. 

Add to the plain suet pudding i^ c. molasses and ^ 
tbsp. ground ginger. Serve with lemon sauce. 

Fruit Suet Pudding. 

Make the same as for plain suet pudding, adding to 
the dry ingredients : — 



% c. currants. 
2 tbsp, raiijins. 
2 sq. in. citron, sliced. 



% c. sugar, 
spk. nutmeg. 



Boil 2 to 3 h. 



Lemon Sauce. 



2 c. hot water. 
1 c. sugar. 

3 level tbsp. cornstarch. 



Grated rind and juice 

of 1 lemon. 
1 tbsp. butter. 



Mix the sugar and cornstarch thoroughly; add the boil- 
iiig water. Cook 8 or 10 m., stirring often, add the 
lemon rind aud juice, and the butter. Stir until the 
butter is melted, and serve at once. If the water boil 
away and the sauce become too thick, add more hot 
water till of the right consistency. By mixing the 
cornstarch with tlie sugar, the boiling water may be 
poured directly upon it without making it lumpy. 



LESSON X. — SUET, CUK RANTS, AND RAISINS. 121 

To Chop Suet. 

Cut into small pieces, remove the membranes, shave 
each piece in thin slices, and chop on a board. Or, if a 
large quantity is to be prepared, sprinkle the pieces 
with flour, and chop them in a tray in a cold room. 
This will prevent the suet from becoming soft and 
sticky. 

To Clean Currants. 

Put them m a squash strainer, and sprinkle thickly 
witli flour. Rub them well until they are separated, and 
the flour, grit, and fine stems have passed through the 
strainer. Then place the strainer and currants in a pan 
of water and wash thoroughly. Lift the strainer and 
currants together, and change tlie water and wash again 
until the water is clear. Drain between towels, tlien 
pick over carefully and dry tliem in a sunny place or 
between towels, but do not harden them by putting 
them into the oven. 

To StOXE IiAISINS. 

Pour boiliiiLC water over them, a few at a time. 
When cool enough to handle, drain and rub each raisin 
between the thumb and finger till the seeds come out 
clean, then cut or tear apart, or chop if wanted very 
fine. 



122 



BOSTON SCHOOL KITCHEN TEXT-BOOK. 



Questions on Lesson X. 



L What is the meaning of 
*♦ broil " ? 

2. How does the degree of heat 

in broiling compare with 
other forms of cooking ? 

3. How do we avoid burning food 

when broiling it ? 

4. How should meat be cut, and 

what kinds of meat are suit- 
able for broiling ? 
6. What kind of a fire is needed 
in broiling ? 

6. Why should the oven damper 

be open during broiling ? 

7. Why do we grease the grid- 

iron ? 

8. How do you place the meat in 

the broiler ? 

9. Do we hold the meat over the 

flame or in the flame near 
the coals ? 
10. Why not cook the meat wholly 
on one side before turning it ? 



13. 



14, 



15. 



What is pan broiling ? 

What two ways of cooking 

grains have we learned 

about ? 
What are the grains colled 

when ground? 
Are there any other kinds of 

flour beside that made from 

wheat ? 
Why do we cook grains, 

whether whole or ground, 

in water ? 
What is dough ? 
AVhat is a batter ? 
In what forms are flour and 

meal cooked ? 
What is the easiest way to 

make dough light ? 
What is baking-powder ? 
What is suet ? 
How do you prepare raisins, 

currants, and suet for cook- 

ing? 



LESSON XI. 
STEWS. 

In the third and last way which we are to learn about 
of cooking meat in water, the object is to have the 
nutriment partly in the meat and partly in the water. 

We use a small quantity of water, — less than in mak- 
ing soups, — and cook at a moderate heat for a long time. 
This mode of cooking is called stewing. The word 
means a slow, moist, gentle heat, — a sort of sweating. 
As some of the nutriment is to be in the meat we do 
not cut it as small as for soups, but into pieces conven- 
ient for serving. We put the bones, gristly portions, and 
the poorer parts of tlie lean meat into cold water. This 
draws out enough nutriment to enrich the broth. When 
the water boils we add the tender portions, that their 
juices may be kept in them. By this slow, steady sim- 
mering, rather than by fierce boiling, the fibres are soft- 
ened, and the coarsest and cheapest kinds of meat are 
made tender and nutritious. 

Any meat that is quite juicy and not very tough may 
be first browned on the outside to keep in the juices, 
and improve the flavor ; but if you have any cold pieces 
of roast beef or steak, these may be used and will have 
the same effect. Some proteids are soluble in vegetable 
acids, like acetic acid, lemon juice, etc., so if coarse, 
tough pieces of meat are soaked awhile in vinegar, the 
fibres will be softened and the meat made more tender. 



126 BOSTON SCHOOL KITCHEN TEXT-BOOK. 

Pieces containing much gristle should be put into cohl 
water. Cheap pieces of meat from tlie upper part of 
the shin, the aitch bone, the flank, the neck, and shoul- 
der, are suitable for stews. 

Fowls, tough game, the tougher parts of mutton, land), 
or veal, any meats which have been previously cooked, 
and any kind of large white fish may be stewed. Meat 
that has some bone and fat makes a richer stew. A 
great variety of economical, wdiolesome, and palatable 
dishes may be prepared as stews, and there are many 
names given to this form of cooking. 

A stew usually has vegetables and dumplings cooked 
with the meat. 

A haricot of mutton or any other meat is a stew with 
the meat and vegetables cut fine, — into small bits, the 
size of a haricot bean. 

A ragout is a stew highly flavored with wine. 

A salmi is a stew of game. 

A clioivder is a stew of fish. 

A fricassee is a form of stewing where the meat is 
fried or browned in fat, either before or after stewin£r, 
and is usually served without vegetables. 

A pot pie is a stew with the dough put on as a crust 
instead of in the form of dumplings. 

Braising is a form of stewing usually done in a 
covered pan in the oven. The slow, uniform heat from 
the confined hot air in the oven gives a richer, stronger 
flavor than that obtained by stewing over the fire. The 
calf s heart as cooked in the fifth lesson was really a 
form of braising. 

Onions, carrots, turnips, and potatoes are often used 
in a stew. Onions may be put in with the meat, but 
the other vesfetables should be cut small, and added 



LESSON XL— DUMPLINGS. 127 

about half an hour before the stew is done. Tiie kettle 
should be drawn forward, that the water may boil, not 
sinnner, while the vegetables are cooking. This will 
not harm the meat as it would if boiled rapidly at first. 
Eemove the bones and fat before adding the vegetables. 
A dumpling is a small ball or portion of dough 
dropped or dumped quickly into the boiling liquid. 
There should be only liquid enough to come nearly to 
the top of the meat and vegetables, that the dumplings 
may rest on them and not sink into the liquid. The 
steam from the savory broth will cook the dumplings 
and impart a cicher flavor than that obtained when 
they are cooked in a steamer over the stew. Cover the 
kettle closely, as soon as the dumplings are in, and let 
the stew boil steadily ten minutes, without lifting the 
cover. Serve them at once. These dumplings are 
another form of dough made on the same principle as 
the pudding in the last lesson. As they are to be eaten 
with meat they require no shortening. The same dough 
may be cut into small cakes and baked as biscuit. 

Suggestion to the Teacher. 

In this, as well as iu other lessons where there is some 
time between the first and last steps in the preparation of a 
dish, it will be well to give the class practice in sharpening 
the knives, polishing the tins, etc. All this work has to be 
done, and must be taught. Do not feel that all the time 
must be spent iu cooking. See " Lostou Cook Book/' page 
226. 



128 BOSTON SCHOOL KITCHEN TEXT-BOOK. 



RECEIPTS FOR LESSON XI. 



Beef Stew. 



yi lb. beef. 

y^ onion. 

% c. turnip, cut in half-inch dice. 

]^ c. carrot, diced. 



2 potatoes. 
Salt and pepper. 
Flour. 
"Water to cover. 



Wipe the meat, cut it into small pieces, and remove 
all the fine crumbly bones. Put the larger bones 
and tough meat into the kettle and cover with cold 
water. Melt the fat in a frying-pan, dredge the 
tender meat with salt, pepper, and flour, and brown it 
in the hot fat. Brown the sliced onions also, then put 
the meat and onions into the kettle. Add boiling 
water to cover. Simmer from 2 to 3 h., or till the 
meat is tender. Half an hour before serving remove 
the fat and bones, and add the other vegetables. Pare 
the potatoes, cut them into quarters, parboil them 5 m., 
then add them to the stew. Cook 20 m. When ready 
to serve, skim out the meat and potatoes, put them on a 
dish, thicken the gravy if needed, add more seasoning, 
and yi c. of strained tomato if desired. Pour the gravy 
over the meat. 

Dumplings. 

1 pt. flour. I 2 tsp. baking-powder. 

Yz tsp. salt. I 1 scant c. milk. 

Mix the dry ingredients, stir in the milk gradually to 
make a soft dough. Drop quickly by the spoonful into 
the boiling stew, letting them rest on the meat and pota- 
toes. Cover closely to keep in the steam, and cook just 
10 m., without lifting? the cover. Serve at once. 



RECEIPTS FOK LESSON XI. 



1-9 



Biscuit. 

Make the same as for dumplings, and if liked shorter 
rub y^ tbsp. of lard or dripping into the flour. Mix 
just as soil as can be handled easily, turn the dough 
out on a floured board, pat it down with the roller until 
^ inch thick. Cut in small rounds and bake in a 
very hot oven. 

Baked Apple-Sauce. 

Fill a deep pudding-dish with apples, quartered, pared, 
and cored. For 1 qt. of apples allow yi, c. of sugar and 
y^ c. of water. Bake, closely covered, in a very moder- 
ate oven several hours, or till dark-red. 

Stewed Prunes. 

Wash carefully, and if liard and dry soak 1 h. before 
cooking. Put them in a granite pan and cover with 
boiling water. Simmer, closely covered, until swollen 
and tender. Add 1 tbsp. of sugar for 1 pt. of prunes, 
cook 5 m. longer, and set away to cool. 



Questions on Lesson XI, 



1. What is the most economical 

way of cooking meat ? 

2. What is stewing ? 

3. How do we prepare the meat 

for stewing ? 

4. What parts of meat are to be 

put into boiling water ? 

5. What into cold water, and wliy ? 

6. Can a stew be made of cold 

steak or roast beef i 

7. How may we make tough moat 

tender before stewing it ? 



10. 



n, 



12. 



What kinds of meat are suit- 
able for a stew ? 

What is a haricot; a ragout; a 
salmi; a ciiowder ; a fricas- 
see ; a pot pie ? 

What besides meat do we put 
into a stew ? 

What are dumplings, and how 
do you make them ? 

What are the important points 
to remember iu cooking 
dumplings ? 



9 



LESSON XII. 

FIRST LESSON IN BATTERS. 

Batters are thin mixtures of flour and liquid made 
in the proportion of one scant measure of liquid to one 
full measure of flour. If merely mixed and cooked 
slowly they would be hard and compact. But they are 
made light by the admixture of air or gas and by quick 
cooking before the air has a chance to escape. 

Air at 70** expands to about tln-ee times its volume 
when exposed to the temperature of a hot oven. So, 
as the mixture heats in cooking, the expansion of the 
air in the batter makes it light and porous. 

We entangle air in batters by beating the mixture 
thoroughly, as in whole- wheat gems ; by beating air 
into eggs, and using the beaten eggs in the mixture, as 
in pop-overs ; and by the air or gas obtained by the 
union of an acid witli an alkaline carbonate, as in the 
use of baking-powder in the griddle cakes. Sometime?; 
we may use newly fallen snow. The expansion of tlin 
snow as it is changed to water, and tlien to steam, light- 
ens the batter, if used quickly. 

As it is important tliat batters be leaked at once be- 
fore the gas escapes, it is always well to see that tlie 
fire is in the proper condition, and to liave the pans 
and ingredients ready before you begin to put the ma- 
terials together, that there may be no needless delay. 



132 UOSTOX SCHOOL KITCHEN TEXT-BOOK. 

The general rule for mixing all batters is to mix tlie 
salt and baking-powder (if that is to l»e used) witli the 
flour, beat the eggs, add half the lic^uid to the beaten 
eggs, and stir this gradually into the flour, then add 
the remainder of tlie liquid, beat all thoroughly, and 
bake quickly. When the expression " beat the eggs se[)- 
arately " occurs in a receipt it means beat the yolks and 
whites separately. 

This lesson illustrates two of tlie ways of mixing, 
namely, stirring and beating. Also the simplest way of 
cooking in hot fat. 

Stirring. We stir simply to blend or mix two or 
more materials. In mixing dry materials, stir or move 
the spoon round and round in the materials till you can- 
not tell one from another. In mixing dry materials 
with liquids, add the liquid gradually, and stir slowly at 
first to avoid spattering. Be sure that the bowl of the 
spoon — not the edge nor the tip merely — touches the 
bottom and sides of the bowL This is mashing as well 
as stirring, and the mixture soon becomes a paste. 
When perfectly smooth, add more liquid till you have 
the desired consistency. We stir flour and water to- 
gether for a thickening, and we stir flour and butter and 
milk for a sauce, but when we wish to add air to the 
mixture, we teat. 

Beating, Tip the bowl slightly, and hold the spoon 
so that the edge scrapes the bowl, and bring it up 
through the mixture, and over with a long quick stroke 
to the opposite side ; under and up through again, lifting 
the spoon out of the mass, cutting clear through, and 
scraping from the bottom at every stroke. We beat 
eggs and batters and soft doughs. The albumen of 
the efrirs and the gluten of the flour, owing to thei» 



LESSON XII. — BEATIXG. 



viscidity or glutiuous properties, catch the air aud hold 
it in the form of bubbles, something as we make soap 
bubbles by blowing air into soapy water. The faster 
we beat, and the more we bring the material up from 
the bowl into the air, the more bubbles we have ; but 
one stirring motion will break them. So in any mixture 
where we wish to obtain all the air possible we must be 
careful to beat and not to stir. 

Tliin batters, like gems made without eggs, and pop- 
overs should be beaten vigorously just before baking. 
Batters require to be baked in a hot oven, but if it be 
too hot, the sudden expansion of the air bursts the bub- 
bles, and the mixture falls. 

All the mixtures we are to make to-day are to be 
cooked in iron or tin, and we grease the dishes to keep 
the mixture from sticking. The fat on the dish heats 
quickly, aud so helps to cook the outside of the mix- 
ture, and this heat gives a flavor and texture to the 
crust different from those of the inside ; and the greater 
heat of the fat on the hot -iriddle £!'ives a crust different 
from that obtained by baking in the oven. There the 
crust that comes in contact with the greased pan is 
unlike the top crust which had no fat in contact with 
it, and all these crusts are unlike that of the steamed 
pudding, because they have been subjected to gTcater 
heat. The brown color and the flavor of crusts are 
probably caused by the change of some of the starch 
into dextrine. 

Cooking on a greased griddle is a two-sided baking, 
• — first on one side, then turning and bakinc; the other 
side. It is one form of cooking with hot fat, and from 
carelessness, too much fat is often used. It is called fry- 
ing; but true frying is immersion m hot fat. A " well 



134 BOSTON SCHOOL KITCHEN TEXT-BOOK. 

gi-eased gridclle or pan " is one greased uniformly, — not 
a daub here and there, nor masses of grease in the cor- 
ners, but just a thin coating of fat laid uniformly over 
the entire surface. Any more fat than enough to pre- 
vent the food from sticking is unnecessary, and is ab- 
sorbed by the food, making it unwholesome. 

Very thin batters, or those containing eggs and sugar, 
require more fat than other kinds ; but stiff douglis like 
pastry and plain cookies often need none. 

Suggestion to the Teacher. 

In these lessons on batters and doughs the general 
principles should be clearly explained, for these are really 
the most intricate forms of cooking. Much depends upon 
the heat of the oven, and experience is the best teacher 
in determining this. See "Baking," page 153. The qual- 
ity of materials will vary, and though definite proportions 
are given in many of the receipts, the teacher must use 
judgment, and change them if necessary. See "Bostur 
Cook Book," pages 80- 1 07 . 



KECEIPTS FUK LESSON XII. 135 

RECEIPTS FOR LESSON XII. 

Griddle Cakes. 



1 c. flour. 

1 ssp. salt. 

1 tsp. baking-powder. 



1 c. sweet milk (scant). 
1 tsp. melted butter. 



Sift flour, baking-powder, and salt together. Add tKe 
milk, using enough to make a batter about like thick 
cream. The amount will vary with the quality of the 
flour, and the surest way is to fry a spoonful, and add 
more liquid if the batter be too thick to run easily on 
the griddle, and more flour if they spread too much or 
will not hold their sliape in turning. Add the butter 
last. Pour from the end of a large spoon on a hot, well- 
greased griddle. When one side is full of bubbles turn 
the cakes over and brown the other side until it stops 
puffing. 

One egg may be used, but it is not necessary. With 
sour milk, use Yt, tsp. soda and omit the baking-powder, 
and with sour cream, omit the butter. Half flour and 
half fine white corn meal, or whole-wheat flour may be 
used. 

Whole-wheat or Graham Gems. 

yi c. Graham flour. I H c. milk or water. 

y2 ssp. salt. I 

Mix salt with flour, a<ld liquid gradually till smooth. 
Beat thorouglily. Drop by spoonfuls on a hot, well- 
greased griddle, or bake in hissing hot, buttered gem- 
pans, 30 na. 



135 



BOSTON SCHOOL KITCIIKN TEXT-BOOK. 



Pop-overs. 

1 c. flour. I 1 e. milk. 

1 ssp. salt. I 1 e'^g. 

Mix the salt with the flour, add hcalf of the milk 
slowly, and when a smooth paste is formed, add the 
remainder and the eg^^ beaten thoroughly. Beat well 
before filling the pans. Cook in hot, buttered gem- 
pans, or earthen cups, in a quick oven half an hour, or 
until the puffs are brown and well popped over. 



Snow Pancakes. 



^ c. flour. 
1 ssp. salt. 



}4 c. milk. 

1 hp. tbsp. snow. 



Mix the same as Graham gems, and after beating 
w^ell, fold in the snow (which must be freshly fallen). 
Cook like large griddle cakes, and when done spread 
them with sugar or jam and roll them over and over. 



Questions on Lesson XII. 



What are hatters ? 

Why should batters be light 

and porous ? 
How does ail make a batter 

light ? 
How are pop-overs made light ? 
What do we use in the griddle 

cakes to make them rise ? 
Why should batters be cooked 

soon after they are mixed ? 
What is the proportion of flour 

and liquid for a batter ? 
What is the difference between 

stirring and beating ? 



9. How do you mix a batter ? 

10. When do we stir, and when do 

we beat, a mixture ? 

11. Why do we grease a dish in 

which a batter is to be 
cooked ? 

12. What causes the differences in 

crusts of anything cooked 
on a griddle, in the oven, 
and by steam ? 

13. How many kinds of griddle 

cakes may be made ? 

14. How could you vary the pop- 

overs ? 



LESSON XIII. 

THICKER BATTERS, MUFFINS, AND 
DOUGHNUTS; ROLLING AND FRYING. 

There are several degrees of thickness in batters. 
Thin batters are about the consistency of thin cream ; 
thick batters are like thick cream ; still thicker batters 
are stiff enough to keep their shape when poured from 
a spoon. Any batter is a pour batter until it is made 
so stiff that it breaks in the pouring and drops from the 
spoon. Then we call it a drop batter. So long as it is 
soft enough to be beaten it is a batter, but when a spoon 
can no longer be made to go through it easily, with a 
beating motion, it is a dough. Doughs may be of any 
thickness, from " just stiff enough to be shaped," or " as 
soft as can be handled easily," to those that are so stiff 
that they may be rolled thin as a wafer. It is better 
to become familiar with the proper consistency of batters 
and doughs by learning these descriptions, than to trust 
to such phrases as these, — " stiff as pound cake," "solt 
as ginger-bread," etc., which one often hears. 

Muffin mixtures are thicker than the batters we 
learned to make in Lesson XII. The general propor- 
tion is one scant measure of liquid to two full measures 
of flour. The proportions will vary somewhat accord- 
ing to the thickness of the liquid — cream, milk, or 
water — and the thickening quality of the meal or 
flour. 



140 BOSTON SCHOOL KITCHKX TKXT-lJOOIv. 

This lesson shows us another way oi' ohUiiniu;^- cai- 
boiiic acid gas to lighten batter, namely, by tlie union of 
.soda with molasses. Old-fashioned molasses (not syrup) 
contains acetic acid, and when it is mixed properly with 
soda, carbonic acid gas is liberated, and the soda is 
neutralized. 

Soda may also be neutralized by tlie lactic acid in 
sour milk. In using soda with any acid, care must be 
taken to use the correct proportion, so that no alkali 
may be left, as any excess of alkali hinders digestion. 

As the amount of acid in sour milk varies, it is often 
difficult to know how much soda to use. Sour milk is 
best when it sours quickly and becomes thick and solid. 
Then the proportion is 1 even tsp. of soda to 1 pt. of 
milk. When the milk is so old that it becomes watery 
and separates, or has a mouldy scum on the surface, it 
is unfit to use. 

In winter, milk grows bitter before it sours, and often 
tastes sour but is not thick. Then it may be used as if 
it were sweet milk, with baking-powder, or in ginger- 
bread or brown bread where you have molasses to com- 
plete the acidity. 

Some people dissolve the soda in water, but as some 
of the gas escapes as soon as the soda is wet, a better 
way is to mix the soda with the flour, or other dry in- 
gredients. Soda becomes lumpy in keeping, and should 
always be finely pulverized before it is measured, and 
then sifted through a fine wire strainer, and thoroughly 
mixed with the flour. Then when the liquid is added, 
the chemical action takes place in the dough, and none 
of the gas is lost, provided the mixture be quickly 
cooked. 

Cream of tartar, made from the crystals which collect 



t> 



LESSON XIII. — SODA ANr> ACIDS. 141 

in wine casks, is Uie most couvenieiit acid to use \vith 
soda ; for it unites with soda only when heated, and the 
IS therefore is not all liberated until the mixture is in 
the oven. Unless you have pure cream of tartar, it is 
safer to use a reliable baking-powder. 

The proportion of soda and acids is as follows : — • 

1 level tsp. soda and 2 slightly rounding tsp. cream of tartar for 

1 qt. of flour. 
1 level tsp. baking-powder for eacli cup of flour. - 
1 level tsp. soda to 1 pt. of thick sour milk. 
1 level tsp. soda to 1 c. of molasses for batters. 
yi tsp. soda to 1 c. of molasses for stiff doughs. 

In any receipt where soda is to be used with cream 
of tartar yon may substitute baking-powder, in tlie pro- 
portion of one level teaspoonful of baking-powder to 
each cup of flour or meal. 

Where only a small amount of carbonic acid gas is 
desired, it is safer to use baking-powder, as it is more 
accurately measured than fractions of a spoonful of soda 
and cream of tartar. 

In preparing all kinds of batters and soft doughs, 
which are made liirht with soda and an acid, mix the 
dry ingredients in one bowl ; then mix the liquids with 
the beaten eggs, stir this quickly into the dry mixture ; 
add the butter, melted, and when these are thoroughly 
mixed, bake or fry immediately. 

ROLLING. 

Soft doughs which are to be cut into shapes should be 
mixed as soft as can be handled easily, then tossed out 
liglitly on the floured board until they are well floured, 
patted with the rolling-pin until half an inch thick, 
then cut with a floured, sharp-edged cutter. 



142 BOSTON SCHOOL KITCHEN TEXT-BOOK. 

Stiff douglis which are to be rolled very thin, like 
cookies, etc., require about four measures of Hour to one 
of liquid. Koll only a small portion at a time, and roll 
with a light quick stroke, uot bearing down hard enough 
to make the dough stick. Cut the shapes close together 
and put the scraps with another portion, knead i:hem 
slightly, just enough to make a smooth mass, then roll 
again. In rolling any soft dough, use enough flour to 
prevent sticking, but no more, and be sure that the 
dough does not stick. When it has adhered to the 
board, always scrape it off before adding more flour. 

Flour the roller, and keep that and the board free 
from lumps of dough. 

FRYING. 

Jurying is cooking in hot fat. To be done properly 
there should be fat enough to float the articles to be 
cooked, or in some instances to cover them. Lard and 
dripping may be used, and as they often contain water 
tliey should be heated until all the water is evaporated. 
So long as there is water in them they can be made no 
hotter than boiling water, and they will bubble and 
sputter until the water has all evaporated. It is useless 
to attempt to cook anything in the fat until it is still. 
Clear fat may be made very hot, but for cooking pur- 
poses it is never boiling hot, as some receipts indicate, 
as it would burn before it reached that point. When it 
smokes in the centre as w^ell as on the edge it is about 
385°, and is hot enough for the quickest kind of frying. 

For flour mixtures like the doughnuts we are to make 
to-day, it is better to test the heat w4th a bit of the mix- 
ture. It should rise at once to the surface, swell, and 



LESSON XIII. — FRYING. 14^ 

begin to brown on the under side. The hot fat hardens 
the gluten in the dough, and forms a crust through 
which the fat cannot penetrate ; but if the fat be not 
hot enough, the dough will soak the fat and the cakes 
will be greasy. 

If too great a proportion of soda be used, more than 
can be neutralized, doughnuts will soak the fat. It is 
not extravagant to use eggs in doughnuts, as the albumen 
in the eggs hardens quickly, and helps to keep out the 
fat, and thus makes them more wholesome. 

Drop cakes, or fried muffins, are mixed soft, and 
dropped from a spoon into the fat, and shape them- 
selves in cooking. They will also turn over when half 
done. Doughnuts are mixed stiff, rolled and cut into 
different shapes, and must be turned over in the fat. 

After every frying, as soon as the fat is slightlj^ cooled, 
strain it through a fine cloth into a pail. Never set it 
away to harden in the frying kettle without straining 
it, for the flour or crumbs which settle on the bottom 
will burn easily when it is heated again, and will ad- 
here to anything that may be fried in it. 

Suggestion to the Teacher. 

For further information see " Boston Cook Book," pages 
14-17, 80-82, 102; Williams's "Chemistry of Cookery," 
pages 84-110. 



144 BOSTON SC'HOOL KITCIJEN TEXT-BOOK. 



RECEIPTS FOR LESSON XIII. 

General Directions. 

Have the pans ready and greased, if necessary, the 
fire in good condition, and all the ingredients at hand 
before you begin to put together. By measuring dry 
things first, then the liquid, one cup will do for all, 
without washing. Beat the eggs in a small bowl, and 
use some of the liquid (milk or water) to rinse the egg 
from the bowl. Measure accurately, and use every grain 
of dry material and every drop of liquid. Scrape all the 
dough from the bowl, but never scrape the dough from 
the knife on the edge of the pan. Put it into the spoon, 
and then from the spoon into the corner of the pan. 
Fill the mixing bowl with cold water if not ready to 
w^ash it immediately, but if an egg-beater be used, wipe 
it at once w4th a damp cloth and then with a dry one. 



Corn Cake. 



1 c. sweet milk ; if sour 
milk be used, omit the 
cream of tartar. 

1 egg. 

1 tbsp. butter or dripping. 



1 c. flour. 

j^ c. fine yellow com meal. 

% e. sugar. 

y2 t.sp. salt. 

1 tsp. cream of tartar.* 

•^ tsp. soda (mashed hue). 

Mix the dry ingredients thoroughly in the order 
given. Add the milk with the egg (well beaten), and 
the miilted butter last. Beat well and bake in muftin- 
pans, or a shallow }>an in a liot oven about 20 m. Tiiis 
cake is very good without the egg, and when it is to b? 
eaten with meat the egg is unnecessary; but when this 
is the most substantial part of the meal, the egg should 
be used. 

1 Use 2 tsp. baking powder in place of soda and cream of tartar if 
preferred. 



RECEIPTS FOR LESSON XIII. 145 



Eye Muffins. 



1 c. rye meal (sifted). 
1 c. white flour. 
% c. sugar. 
^ tsp. salt. 



2 tsp. baking-powder. 

1 pgg- 
1 e. milk. 



^lix the dry ingredients thoroughly. Beat the Qg^ 
add the milk, and stir quickly into the dry mixture, 
Bake in hot gem pans, 25 m. • 



Ginger-bread. 



yi c. molasses 
Yi tbsp. ginger 
X tsp. salt. 
y^ tsp. soda. 



1 tbsp. dripping. 
% c. boiling water. 
1 c. flour. 



Sift the ginger, salt, and soda into the molasses, add 
the dripping softened ; beat well, add the boiling water 
and flour. Beat thoroughly and bake in a shallow pan 
in a hot oven about 20 m. 



Soft Molasses Cookies. 



y^ c. molasses. 
}i tsp. salt. 
^ tbsp. ginger. 
]4. tsp. soda. 



1 tbsp. warm water. 
Y- c. dripping, softened- 
Flour to mix soft enough 
to be rolled. 



PtoU out yi inch thick, cut with a small round cutter, 
and bake about 10 m. Handle as little as possible, and 
do not use much flour. 

These may be made into balls, and placed some dis- 
tance apart on a greased tin, then flattened with the 
bottom of a round tin box. 

10 



146 



BOSTON SrilOOL KITCHEN TEXT-BOOK. 



Wheat Ckisps. 



% c. cream. 
1 tbsp. sugar, 
spk. salt. 



^ c. fine granulated wheat 
flour, or enough to mak;e 
a stiir douirh. 



Mix quite stiff, koead well, roll out thin as a wafer, 
cut with a small round cutter, and bake on uugrea.^ed 
tins in a very hot oven. 

Fried Rye Muffins. 



^ c. rye meal. 

^ c. flour. 

yi tsp. soda (mashed fine). 

1 tsp. cream of tartar.^ 



1 tbsp. sugar. 
1 ssp. salt. 

l4 c. milk. 



Mix the dry ingredients thoroughly, beat the Qg^, 
add the milk, stir this into the dry mixture. Take up 
yi tbsp. on the end of a spoon, and with a knife scrape 
it into the hot fat. Cook until the muffins will not 
stick when tried with a fork. 



Doughnuts. 



1 pt. flour. 

% c. sugar. 

y^ tsp. salt. 

y^ tsp. soda (mashed fine). 

1 tsp. cream of tartar. ^ 



^ ssp. cinnamon. 
}^ to Ji^ c. milk. 
1 egg. 
1 tsp. butter (melted). 



Mix in the order given, add 5^ c. of milk to tlie beaten 
egg, and use enough more milk to make the dough as 
soft as can be handled. Take a small portion at a time, 
roll out Yz inch thick, and cut with a ring cutter. Put 
the scraps with another portion and roll again. When 
all are rolled, fry in deep hot fat. Turn when brown, 
and when done drain on paper or in a colander. 

1 Use 2 tsp. baking powder if preferred. 



QUESTIONS ON LESSON XIII. 



147 



Questions on Lesson XIII. 



1. What is the consistency of a 

tliin batter ? 

2. What are some of the terms 

used to designate the thick- 
ness of batters ? 

3. What is the proportion of flour 

and liquid in muffin mix- 
tures ? 

4. In how many ways may we 

use soda in cooking and 
obtain carbonic acid gas ? 

5. How much soda shoukl be 

used with 1 pt. of sour 
milk ? 

6. How much with 1 tsp. of 

cream of tartar ? 

7. How much with 1 c. of mo- 

lasses ? 



"Why is it l)etter to mix the 
soda with the flour rather 
than to dissolve it ? 

Why should soda be finely 
pulverized ? 

What is cooking soda ? 

What is cream of tartar ? 

What should be the propor- 
tion of baking-powder to 
one cup of flour ? 

How would you roll soft 
doughs ? 

What is frying ? 

What kinds of fat may be used? 

How may you tell when fat is 
hot enough for frying ? 

Why should fried food be 
drained ? 



The combined amount of the old-style measurement of 
one level teaspoon of soda and two slightly rounded tea- 
spoons of cream of tartar, and the fraction of cornstarch or 
rice flour which is a necessary ingredient of pure baking 
[)owder, Mould be from four to five level teaspoons. This 
is the average amount for one quart of flour fur biscuits, 
making the amount for one cup of flour a trifle more than 
one level teaspoon. Mixtures that are rich in butter require 
a trifle more, as it is harder for the gas to lift up a dough 
heavy with fat; and those tl)at have eggs to help make 
them light, require slightly less than this proportion. Use 
always as little as will make the dough light, and as flours 
vary and baking powders vary, the right amount must often 
be determined by experience. Too much baking powder 
gives a salty taste, causes doughnuts to soak fat and makes 
cake too porous. 



LESSON XIV. 

BREAD. 

Bread is a form of food made from tlie meal or flour 
of certain grains. 

The word is derived from the verb "to bray or pound," 
expressive of the old method of preparing the grain. 
Bread is therefore made of something brayed, as brayed 
wheat or corn. The brayed grain is moistened and 
made into dough ; various substances are used to raise 
the dough, and the raised mass is stiffened by the heat 
in cooking, and thus lield in shape, and becomes a loaf. 

Bread is made principally from wheat flour, because 
wheat is the only grain which contains the right pro- 
portion of gluten essential to the making of light, spongy 
bread. Eye used alone makes a moist, close, sticky 
bread. Corn meal alone makes too dry and crumbly a 
loaf, but eitlier of these grains may be used to advan- 
taii;e w^ith wheat. 

The gluten of wheat is a tough, gray, elastic sub- 
stance, consisting chiefly of vegetable fibrin. It will 
swell to four or five times its original bulk. Wheat 
also contains a large amount of starcli, and more min- 
eral matter than any other grain. When the whole of 
the nutritious part is used, wheat is the most useful food 
we have, but fine white flour contains only a portion of 
the desirable elements. 

Bread is sometimes made by using soda and an acid 
to make the dough light ; but these mixtures are usually 



150 BOSTON SCHOOL KITCHEN TEXT-BOOK. 

baked in small foriiis, and called biscuit, muffins, etc. 
In all these methods there is no chemical change in the 
Hour ; the dough is simply made light by the gas from 
the soda. 

But the perfect loaf of light, spongy bread is made 
by a process quite unlike anything we have studied 
about, and that is, by the addition of a ferment which 
causes chemical changes in the flour. 

A ferment is some albuminous substance in a state of 
change or decomposition, and when introduced under 
proper conditions into any other albuminous substance, 
in however minute a quantity, causes a change or fer- 
mentation in the whole mass. 

The germs of tliese ferments are always present in 
the air, and when any substances which are rich in 
sugar, starch, and gluten are exposed to air, warmth, 
and moisture, these ferments cause a change by which 
new compounds are formed. 

There are several kinds of fermentation. Lactic fer- 
mentation is the change in milk when it sours. 

Alcoholic fermentation is the change in fruit juices 
wlien preserves ferment, or when wine is made from 
grape-juice, cider from apple-juice, and beer fiom 
grains. 

Acetic fermentation is caused by allowing alcoholic 
fermentation to go on too long, or in too warm a place, 
as when cider changes to vinegar. 

In lactic and acetic fermentation, a sour taste is de- 
veloped ; but in alcoholic fermentation, if not carried too 
far, there is no unpleasant taste, since the acid produced 
is carbonic acid gas, which goes off into the air ; and as 
a large amount of carbonic acid gas is formed, this kind 
of fermentation is most suitable for bread making ; the 



LESSON XIV. — YEAST. 151 

ol)ject being not to produce alcohol, but to puff up the 
dou^h and make the bread light. 

Wheat flour contains starch and gluten, and a ferment 
called diastase, and if moistened and kept warm it would 
in time change, or ferment; but wlien this change takes 
place slowly the dough will be sour. This change may 
be hastened by the addition of a ferment or some albu- 
minous substance which has already begun to change, 
and which will leave no unpleasant taste. The ferment 
commonly used is yeast. 

Yeast, in its natural state, when viewed under the 
microscope is found to be a plant or germ of the fungus 
tribe, of which mould, mildew, etc., are familiar forms. 
It is one of the simplest and smallest forms of vege- 
table life. Each little cell has an albuminous skin or 
membrane, and contains liquid or sap. These cells are 
found in fruit juices and sprouting grains, and they bud 
off from each other, and expand rapidly when they are 
exposed to air and warmth, and in this change or growth 
they decompose the sugar. But they can be made to 
grow even more rapidly, and this is what happens when 
yeast, which is made from sprouting grains, is added to 
anything containing starch or sugar. Grains which 
contain starch and gluten are moistened and left for 
these ferment germs or yeast cells to grow for a while ; 
then the fermentation is checked, and they are prepared 
in various ways for keeping, and sold under the forms 
of dry, liquid, and compressed yeast. But the life of 
the yeast cells is not destroyed, and they will grow 
again when exposed to warmth and moisture, and given 
food to live upon ; the same as other forms of vegetable 
life, after being kept for a time, will grow when planted 
in proper soil. Tlie temperature of boiling water will 



152 B\/STOX SCHOOL KITCHEN TP: XT-BOOK. 

kill the yeast plant, and so we must be careful, in using 
yeast, to have the proper temperature. In making 
bread, we put yeast with the flour, moisten it, keep it 
warm, and we have just the food and conditions neces- 
sary to waken the yeast plant into life again. The 
yeast cells begin to grow in the dough, and in thus 
growing they cause a change in the flour. The dias- 
tase ferments and causes some of the starch to change 
into a kind of sugar ; the sugar changes into carbonic 
acid gas and alcohol. In converting the starch into 
sugar in the dough, there is no change evident to the 
eye, but as soon as the sugar is changed to carbonic 
acid gas and alcohol, large bubbles of gas appear. The 
gas, being lighter than the dough, rises, and in its efforts 
to escape puffs up the gluten, and as the gluten is veiy 
elastic it can stretch to several times its original "bulk. 
It is on account of the peculiar tenacity or power of the 
wheat gluten to hold the gas that wheat flour makes 
the lightest bread. The gas fills the dough with minute 
air cells, which — if the yeast have been uniformly 
mixed with the flour — make it light and spongy. 
When this expansion has reached the desired limit, — 
that is, before the alcoholic fermentation has changed 
to the acetic and soured the dougli, or the tough, gluti- 
nous walls of the air cells are broken, making large, un- 
equal holes, — we check the fermentation by baking the 
dough in a hot oven. The alcohol escapes into the 
oven, the starch is swollen and ruptured, and absorbs 
water, some of the starch is changed to gum and forms 
the crust, which by the intense heat assumes a brown 
color. 

In yeast bread the chemical change in some of the 
starch is similar to the change which takes place in 



LESSON XIV.— BAKING. 153 

starch during digestion, namely, its conversion into sugar. 
This gives a sweet, nutty flavor and a light, spongy tex- 
ture, very different from those of soda bread. It is, 
when properly made and baked, usually considered the 
most wholesome form of bread. 

THE HEAT FOR BAKING. 

The heat of the oven for baking is a very difficult 
matter for a beginner to determine. There are no rules 
that can be strictly followed in every case. Testing 
the heat by a thermometer is not always practicable. 
Testing by the length of time one can bear the hand in 
the oven will vary with every hand that tries it. Much 
depends upon the construction of the stove, the condi- 
tion of the fire, and the nature of the fuel. You may 
learn to judge of the oven in this stove, but your stove 
at home may be different, and the same rules will not 
apply to both. 

Experience is the best teacher, and by care in observ- 
ing and comparing results, much may be learned. Study 
carefully your own stove, and remember which kinds of 
fuel give a quick, flashing fire, and which a steady, long- 
continued heat. Observe the amount of fuel needed to 
produce greater or less heat in tlie oven. Learn how to 
increase the heat quickly or gradually, or to diminish it 
as the case may require. Also liow to detect the differ- 
ence between a fire tliat is bright red on top but all 
ashes underneath, and one that is a solid bed of glowing 
coals. Test the oven by opening the door quickly, and 
notice how the heat puffs out into your lace, or see how 
long you can keep your hand in the oven. 

Compare the heat when there is a quick, Ijlazing fire 



154 BOSTON SCHOOL KITCHEN TEXT-BOOK. 

and all the draughts are open, with that when there is a 
large body of fire and the dampers are closed, and still 
again with that when there is but little fire. In this 
way make your own standard of a very hot, a hot and a 
moderate oven. 

The general rules are as follows : — Rolls, biscuit, 
breakfast-cakes, puff paste, game, and small pieces of 
meat, require a very hot oven, and quick baking, — half 
an hour or less. Have a bright fresh fire of clear glow- 
ing coals, all through. Large pieces of meat, poultry, 
etc., require a verij hot oven at first. After five or ten 
minutes check the fire. Have sufficient body to the 
fire to last the required time without replenishing, or if 
that be impossible, add a little fuel often that the heat 
may be kept uniform. 

Bread, pastry, and fish require a hot oven. Cakes, 
ginger-bread, puddings, etc., a moderate oven. 

Flour mixtures and other things that have to rise in 
the oven, require heat from underneath to ^lelp in the 
rising, and should be placed on the bottom of the oven, 
with the rack underneath, if there be danger of burning. 
If the oven be too hot on the top they will brow^n before 
rising. A pan of water on the middle rack, or a paper 
hood over the pan, will prevent them from browning 
too fast. See page 205, Lesson XIX. 

Meat requires more heat above than below, and should 
be placed on a rack in the pan, witli the oven rack or 
another pan underneath the dripping-pan to prevent burn- 
ing the fat in the pan. In some stoves the heat may 
be turned away from the bottom of the oven. Small 
pieces of meat, scalloped dishes, and other things which 
require only a browning of the surface, may be placed 
on the rack near the top of the oven. 



TLME-TABLE FOR T3AKIXG. 



155 



The old notion that yoii must not look at anything 
in the oven is erroneous, and until you have learned by 
experience how to regulate the fire and oven, it is better 
to look at tilings as tliey are baking, and turn and watch 
till you are sure they can be left without further care. 
But look for only an instant at a time. Cultivate the 
habit of opening and shutting the oven door quickly 
but gently. 

TIME-TABLE FOR BAKING. 



Baking Bread, Cake, and Puddings. 



Loaf bread . 






. 40 to 60 m. 


Rolls, biscuit 






. 10 to 20 » 


Graham gems 






30 " 


Ginger-bread 






. 20 to 30 " 


Sponge cake . 






45 to 60 " 


Plain " . . 






30 to 40 " 


Fruit " . . 






2 to 3 hrs 


Cookies . . . 






10 to 15 m. 


Bread pudding . 






1 h. 


Rice and tapioca 




1 " 


Indian pudding 




2 to 3 " 


Plum " 




2 to 3 " 


Custards . . . 




15 to 20 m. 


Steamed brown bread 


3 hrs 


Steamed puddings 


1 to 3 " 


Pie crust 


about 30 m. 


Potatoes .... 




30 to 45 " 


Baked beans . . 


. 


6 to 8 hrs 


Braised meat . . 


. 


3 to 4 " 


Scalloped dishes 


. 




15 to 20 m. 



Baking Meats. 

Beef, sirloin, rare, per lb. 8 to 10 m. 
Beef, sirloin, well done, 

per lb 12 to 15 " 

Beef, rolled rib or rump, 

per lb 12 to 15 " 

Beef, long or short fillet, 20 to 30 " 
Mutton, rare, per lb. . 10 " 

Mutton, well done, per 

lb 15 " 

Lamb, well done, per lb. 15 " 

Veal " " " 20 " 

Pork '' " " 30 " 

Turkey, 10 lbs. wt. . . 3 hrs 

Chickens, 3 to 4 lbs. wt. 1 to li " 

Goose, 8 lbs 2 " 

Tame duck . . . . 40 to CO m. 
Game " .... 30 to 40 " 

Grouse 30 " 

Pigeons ...... 30 " 

Small birds . . . . 15 to 20 " 

Venison, per lb. . . . 15 " 

Fish, 6 to 8 lbs. ^ long, 

thin fish 1 h. 

Fish, 4 to lbs.; thick 

halibut 1 " 

Fish, small . . . . 20 to 30 ni 



156 BOSTON SCHOOL KITCHEN TEXT-BOOK. 



Suggestion to the Teacher. 

This lesson should be combined with the following one. 
Morning classes should mix the bread and make the pastry 
as given in Lesson XV. 

Afternoon classes bake the bread and prepare the warmed 
over potatoes. Follow the same order the next week. 

For full information about bread and yeast, see " Boston 
Cook Book," pages 3G-7G. " Food Materials and their 
Adulterations," by Mrs. Richards, pages 150-156. "Chem- 
istry of Cookery," by M. Williams, pages 194-210. 



RECEIPTS FOR LESSON XIV. 157 



BECEIPTS FOR LESSON XIV. 

Yeast. 



1 largo potato. 
1 tbsp. hops (loose). 
1 pt boiling water. 
1 hp. tbsp. flour. 



1 lip. tsp. sugar. 

1 hp. tsp. salt. 

% tsp. ginger. 

}i yeast cake or }i c. yeast. 



Wash, pare, and soak the potato. Steep the ho]is 
in the water. Mix the flour, sugar, ginger, and salt in 
a large bowl. Grate the potato into tlie flour mixture. 
Let the hop water boil briskly for 1 m., strain it over 
the potato, and mix quickly. If it does not thicken 
like starch place it over the fire for a few moments. 
If too thick add boiling water till thick as cream. 
When lukewarm or at 70° add the yeast. Rise in a 
warm place till frothy. Beat it down every >^ h. 
Bottle and keep cooL 



Bread. 



1 c. water or milk (lukewarm). 
y<2, tsp. salt. 
j4. tsp. sugar. 



}( c. yeast or yi yeast cake dis- 
solved in % c. water. 
3 to V/z c. flour. 



Put the salt, sugar, and yeast in the mixing bowl, 
add the water, and when the sugar is dissolved add 
about 3 c. of the flour and mix with a knife. Add 
more flour till stiff enough to knead. Turn it out on a 
floured board, and knead till it is soft and elastic and can 
be worked without any flour. Put it back in the bowl, 
cover with a cloth and tin cover, and let it rise in a 
warm place (80°) till doul)le its bulk (over niglit in 
winter, 3 or 4 h. in summer). When light, work it 
over in the bowl, doubling it over from the edges to the 
centre of the bowl until smooth. Let it rise a<:rain till 



158 BOSTON SCHOOL KITCHEN TEXT-BO(HC. 

double its bulk, then divide into two parts, shape into 
round or long loaves, or into biscuit. Once more let it 
rise, closely covered, till double its bulk. Bake in a hot 
oven (400° or 12 seconds by the hand). Bake a loaf 
40 to 60 m., biscuit from 10 to 20 m. 

One third white flour and two thirds brown flour 
may be used in the same way, but without kneading. 
Brown flour means any good flour prepared from the 
whole grain. The Health Food Company's fine granu- 
lated wheat flour and some other brands, are improved 
varieties of what was formerly called Graham flour. 

Questions on Lesson XIV. 



10. 



11. 



"What is the meaning of bread ? 
From what grains is bread 

made ? 
Why does wheat make the 

best bread? 
What is ghiten ? 
What is fermentation ? 
How is bread dough made 

light ? 
How many kinds of fermenta- 
tion ? 
What is yeast ? 
What conditions are necessary 

to enable yeast to grow in 

flour? 
What change takes place in 

the flour when yeast is 

added to dough ? 
How can we tell when dough 

is risen enough ? 



12. What happens if it should rise 

too long ? 

13. Why do we bake bread ? 

14. What foods require to be 

baked in a very hot oven; 
a hot oven ; a moderate 
oven ? 

15. What kind of a fire do we 

need for quick baking ? 

16. What for baking meat ? 

17. What for baking puddings ? 

18. What is pastry ? 

19. How do you make plain pas- 

try? 

20. What would you do if any- 

thing baked too rapidly ? 

21. What are the objections to 

pastry as food ? 

22. Can it be made in a whole- 

some manner ? 



LESSON XV. 
THE CARE OF FOOD. 

Your instruction would not be complete if we omitted 
to tell you how to take care of food, both before and 
after cooking, and how to prevent the waste that is so 
often occasioned by lack of such knowledge. 

It is a well-known fact that all albuminous substances 
when exposed to the air soon pass into a state of de- 
composition, or putrefaction. ]\Iilk sours ; eggs, fish, and 
meat putrefy ; fruits and vegetables decay ; butter, fat, 
and oils become rancid ; preserves ferment ; meal and 
flour become musty, and bread and cake mouldy. It 
is therefore quite important to know how to care for 
our food, so that it may be kept in good condition as 
long as possible. 

As it is air, moisture, and warmth that occasion the 
change in food, these must be excluded. So it is well 
to have our store-rooms in a cool and dry part of tlie 
house, and to keep many of our materials in air-tight 
cans or jars. But even with all these precautions much 
food will be lost unless it is examined daily. 

Nearly all groceries, such as rice, tapioca, raisins, meal, 
and grains of all kinds, are best kept in large, wide- 
mouthed bottles or jars. These are easily cleansed, and 
the contents are plainly seen, and may be kept air-tight. 
Small jars or bottles are suitable for soda, cream of tar- 
tar, spices, and other articles usually purchased in small 

11 



162 BOSTON SCHOOL KITCHEN TEXT-BOOK. 

quantities. Air-tight tin cans are suitable for tea, coffee, 
crackers, etc. Covered buckets are convenient for flour 
and sugar. 

Keep the jars and boxes clean on the outside, and 
when they are empty, or at regular intervals, cleanse the 
inside. Be careful never to handle them with sticky or 
floured fingers. 

Do not put moist articles in tin. Do not keep any- 
thing in paper bags ; they break easily and give a very 
untidy appearance to a pantry. Empty the bags as 
soon as the stores are sent in from the market. Fold 
the bags and put them away neatly to use for other 
purposes. 

Do not keep milk in a tin can. Pour it into a large- 
mouthed pitcher or jar, or into a shallow pan. All 
dishes in which milk is kept. must be thoroughly washed 
first in cold water, then in hot suds and scalded with clear 
boiling water and dried perfectly, or the milk will sour 
quickly. Keep anything that has a strong odor away 
from milk, cream, or butter^ as these articles absorb 
odors readily. 

Fruit should be kept uncovered in a cool, dark place. 
Examine it often and remove all decaying portions. 

Salt fish has a disagreeable odor, and it should be cut 
into small portions and packed in glass jars. Onions 
and other strong vegetables should be kept covered in a 
dark cool place, and where there are no other foods. 

Lemons should be put into a jar and covered with 
cold water, with a saucer over them to keep them under 
the water. They will keep fresh and juicy for a long 
time. The water must be changed twice a week. Lemon 
and orange peel may be dried and grated, or put into al- 
cohol and used for flavoring. Cranberries may also be 



LESSON XV. —CARE OF FOOD. 163 

kept for some time, if covered with cold water. Extracts, 
spices, etc., should be kept air-tight that their strength 
be not wasted. 

Meat and fish should be examined as soon as they 
come from the market and be wiped all over with a damp 
cloth. Then put them on a plate, never in paper, in a 
cool dark place, not on the ice, but near it. In warm 
weather examine tlie meat carefully, particularly in the 
folds and crevices, as sometimes there are minute eggs 
on it. The marrow, or soft, fatty substance, should be 
removed from the backbone in mutton and lamb ; also 
the pink skin over the fat, and the thin shiny membranes 
under the chops and steaks, as these spoil quickly and 
then taint the whole piece. 

Fresh vegetables should also be examined daily. 

Dripping and other fats should be re-melted often, as 
they keep better in a solid than in a broken form. 

Eggs should be wiped as soon as brought in, and the 
sliells may then be used for clearing coffee. 

Cooked food should not be shut up tightly when hot. 

Clean and scald the bread and cake jars every other 
day, and never let the crumbs and broken pieces accu- 
mulate in the jars. 

Eemnants of food should never be put away on the 
large table dishes, but on small ones kept for that pur- 
pose. They should be utilized in some way as soon as 
possible. In preparing a breakfast or lunch see what 
use you can make of the " left overs " before you decide 
on using new material. 

Cooked vegetables will sour quickly in hot weather, 
especially if seasoned w^ith butter or milk. It is better 
to cook in small quantities and have just enough, than 
to have large portions left over. 



164 BOSTON SCHOOL KITCHEN TEXT-BOOK. 

Keep everything in a pantry absolutely clean ; the 
shelves washed and wiped dry, the crumbs removed ; the 
molasses jug outside, free from stickinesp ; the lard and 
dripping pail free from grease. And be sure that no 
rancid fat, or wormy meal, or mould, or anything objec- 
tionable be allowed to remain there. 

Inspect the refrigerator daily, and clean the spout and 
pan as well as the inside. 

Suggestion to the Teacher. 

The chapter on the Care of Food is inserted here merely 
as a matter of convenience. The information contained in 
it should be given in connection with the foods as they are 
used in the various lessons. 



RECEIPTS FOR LESSON XV. 165 

RECEIPTS FOR LESSON XV. 
Pastry. 



1 hp. c. pastry flour. 
1 ssp. baking-powder. 
1 ssp. salt. 



1 tbsp. dripping or butter. 
1 tbsp. lard. 



Sift flour, salt, and baking-powder together, and rub 
or chop in the dripping. Mix quite stiff with cold 
water (^ c. or more). Turn out on a floured board, 
pat into a flat cake, roll out % inch thick, and spread 
the lard over the surface. Sprinkle with flour, fold over 
and over, and roll out again into a long narrow strip. 
Then roll over and over like a jelly roll, and cut off 
from the end as needed. This receipt makes just 
enough for two crusts for plates of the usual size. Divide 
the dough into two parts, turn each half over on the 
side and pat into a round shape. Then roll uniformly, 
keeping the shape circular till it will fit the plate. 

Pies with no Under Crust. 

Make all fruit pies in a deep earthen dish and without 
an under crust. Fill the dish with fruit, add sugar and 
cold water. Cut a strip of paste y^ inch v.'ide, wet tlie 
edge of the dish, lay the strip of paste on the wet edge, 
wet the paste, then cover with a piece of paste the size 
of the top of the dish, press the edges gently, trim and 
bake in a hot oven about 30 m., or until the fruit is soft 

Apple Pie. 

Wipe and cut sour apples in quarters, remove the 
cores and skins, and cut each quarter in two pieces 



]6d BO.STON SCHOOL KITCHEN TEXT-BOOK. 

lengthwise. Allow 1 tbsp. sugar for an ordiuary apple, 
and if not juicy add ^ tbsp. water. 

Rhubarb Pie. 

Wash and cut the stalks into inch-pieces. Allow 
yi 0. sugar and ^ c. water to each c. of fruit. 

Pies with no Upper Crust. 

Line a shallow plate with the paste, let it come ^ 
inch over the edge, turn the paste under to fit the plate, 
and make a scalloped edge by pressing it with the 
right forefinger between the thumb and finger of the left 
hand; or roll the crust to fit the plate, wet the edge, and 
lay a narrow strip of paste on the rim. 



Squash Pie. 



IK c. squash. 
1 c. boiling milk. 
% c. sugar. 



% tsp. salt. 

1 ssp. cinnamon. 

1 egg. 



Use a dry mealy squash, stew and sift it, then add 
the other materials. Bake 30 m., or until it puffs up 
all over. 



Custard Pie. 



3 eggs. 

3 tbsp. sugar. 

1 ssp. salt. 



1 ssp. nutmeg. 
3 c. scalded milk. 



Beat the eggs until light, add sugar and salt, and beat 
again ; add spice and scalded milk. Strain into the 
plate. Bake slowly, and the moment it puffs and a 
knife-blade comes out clean it is done. 



receipts for lesson xv. 167 

Pies with Two Crusts. 

Mince and other pies which are to have both upper 
and under crusts should be baked on flat or very shal- 
low plates. 

Roll each crust to fit the plate that there may be no 
waste. The upper crust may be rolled a trifle larger, 
and the fulness throw^n back into the centre to allow for 
the shrinking in baking. Make several holes in the 
upper crust of meat pies to let the steam escape. 



Plain Mince Pies. 



1 c. meat. 

2 c. apples. 
1 tsp. salt. 

1 tsp. cinnamon. 
1 tsp. allspice. 
1 c. brown sugar. 



Yz c. raisins. 
yi c. currants. 

1 c. of sweet-pickle vinegar, or 
%, c. water and juice of 
2 lemons. 



Use any remnants of cold steak or beef, which have 
been simmered till tender. Chop fine, the meat, ap- 
ples, and the stoned raisins. If you have no sweet- 
pickle vinegar boil the plain vinegar, sugar, spice, and 
raisins together for 10 m. Then add the other mate- 
rials and cook until the applet are soft. 

Lyonnaise Potatoes. 



1 pt. cold boiled potatoes. 
^ tsp. salt. 
Yz ssp. pepper. 



1 tbsp. Tiinced onion. 

1 tbsp. dripping. 

1 tbsp. chopped parsley. 



Cut the potatoes into half-inch dice and season with 
gait and pepper. Fry tlie onion in the liot dripping 
until light brown, add the potato. Stir with a fork till 
they have absorbed the fat. Add the parsie} and serve 
hot. 1 tsp. of vinegar gives the potatoes a good flavor. 



168 



BOSTON SCHOOL KITCHEN TEXT-BOOK. 



Creamed Potatoes. 



1 pt. cold potatoes. 
\^ c. milk, 
spk. pepper. 

Cut the potatoes into dice or thin slices 



1 tbsp. butter. 

Yz tsp. salt. 

1 tsp. chopped parsley. 

Put the 



milk into a shallow pan, and when hot add the potatoes 
and cook until they have absorbed nearly all the milk. 
Add the butter and seasoning, cook 5 m. longer, and 
serve hot. 



Questions on Lesson XV. 



How may cold boiled potatoes 

be utilized ? 
What is parsley ? 
What happens to our food if 

it is left exposed to air and 

moisture ? 
How should groceries and dry 

materials be kept ? 
Why not keep moist articles 

in tin ? 
Why should canned food be 

poured at once from the 

cans when opened ? 



Are paper bags suitable to 

keep food in ? 
Why is it better to keep milk 

in a shallow pan rather than 

in a can ? 
How are lemons and cranber- 
ries best kept ? 
Shall we keep butter and 

onions in the same closet ? 
How often shall we examine 

the bread and cake jars ? 
Why should we clean the pan 

and spout of a refrigerator \ 



LESSON XVI. 

THE ADAPTATION OF FOOD TO AGE, OCCUPA- 
TION, CLIMATE, AND MEANS. 

We have learned that we need a variety of food in 
our daily diet, and that the selection of food should be 
determined by the state of health, and by individual di- 
gestive power. Age, occupation, climate, and our means, 
should also influence our choice. 

Children and growing persons need the most nutri- 
tious food, and plenty of it at regular intervals, but 
nothing stimulating or exciting. They should be re- 
quired to take sufficient time for eating, and should be 
taught to masticate everything slowly and thoroughly. 
They should eat milk, whole- wheat and corn-meal bread, 
oatmeal, farina, wheatena, and hominy mush ; plenty of 
ripe fruit, raw and stewed fruit sweetened. 

They may liave a small portion of beef, mutton, veni- 
son, or poultry, either roasted, broiled, or boiled ; baked 
potatoes, asparagus, lettuce, celery, and spinach ; green 
peas, beans, and sweet corn provided every hull be first 
broken or cut. They may eat eggs sparingly, either 
plain or in omelets and custards ; plain sponge cake and 
ginger-bread ; ice-cream, if eaten slowly and not too hard 
and cold; simple puddings made of fruit and bread, 
tapioca or farina ; plain molasses cookies, whole-wheat 
cookies and wafers. 



172 BOSTON SCHOOL KITCHEN TEXT-BOOK. 

Cliiklreii should avoid eatin<>' hot bread and oriddle 
cakes ; fried meats, lYied cakes or doughnuts ; any higlily 
seasoned food, rich gravies, rich pastry and cake ; pickles 
and preserves ; sago, arrow-root, and other starchy foods 
except when combined with milk, eggs, or fruit, and eaten 
with cream and sugar ; raisins unless stoned and cooked 
three hours; and especially veal and pork. They should 
not drink tea, cofTee, or any other stimulant. 

Milk should enter largely into the diet of cliildren. 
It contains caseine or flesh-forming material, cream and 
sugar, which are heat producers, mineral salts for the 
bony structure, and water as a solvent for all the other 
materials necessary in nutrition. It should be taken 
slowly and with rolls or mush, or sipped by the spoon- 
ful. Milk as taken into the stomach is a fluid, but as 
soon as it meets the acid of the gastric juice, it is changed 
to a soft cheese-like substance. If a large portion of milk 
be swallowed suddenly it will form a lump of dense 
curd which rolls over and over in the stomach like a 
heavy weight, and as the gastric juice can only attack 
its surface, it digests slowly. But if taken slowly, the 
curd forms in small lumps which break up easily every 
time tlie stomach turns them over, and the gastric juice 
readily dissolves them. 

All children have a fondness for sugar, which is nat- 
ural and should be gratified in moderation, rather than 
repressed. Do not give them candy, cake, and sweet- 
meats, however, between meals ; but give them occasion- 
ally, as a part of the dessert, either pure Ijlock sugar, 
maple sugar, or simple home-made candies. 

Aged 2^eople should have a diet much like that of 
children, only less abundant. They should eat in small 
quantities often and regularly, and eat only plain whole- 



LESSON XVI. — OCCUPATION, CLIMATE, ETC. 173 

some food that may be easily digested. Many of the 
ills of old age might be avoided by a simple diet. 

Adults may have a variety of wholesome food cooked 
in different ways and adapted to their occupation. 

Occupation. If the occupation tax the muscular 
strength use muscle-making food ; not wholly meat as 
many suppose, for you will see by the charts that there 
are many foods that contain as much as, or more, pro- 
teid matter than meat, namely, peas, beans, cheese, and 
some grains. 

Those who labor or exercise in the open air need a 
large quantity of wdiolesome food, and it need not be the 
most digestible, as they require food that will stay by 
them. 

Persons engaged in sedentary occupations, or who 
take little exercise and live in close, confined rooms, 
cannot digest as much, or as easily as those who labor 
out of doors. Tliey should have food that contains a 
great amount of nutriment in a small compass, and it 
should be prepared in the most digestible form. Those 
who tax their brains severely, sliould have some animal 
food, and the most digestible forms of starchy and 
warmth-giving food, and avoid any excess of fat. 

Climate and Season. People who live in cold climates 
find it necessary to consume large quantities of fat in 
the form of blubber oil and oily fish, as a protection 
against the severe cold. 

Those in extremely hot climates live on rice with a 
small amount of olive oil, flesh, or fish. 

Animal food is a better diet for cold wreath er than for 
hot. Fat is not digested easily unless some exercise 
be taken. It is therefore a suitable winter diet for labor- 
ing people. Fruits, vegetables, and grains eaten with 



174 BOSTON SCHOOL KITCHEN TKXT-BOOK. 

milk, butter, or oil furnish the carbo-hydrates needed in 
smnnier. 

Means. People who have only limited means should 
clioose the foods that contain the greatest amount of nu- 
triment for the least money. 

It will be seen by the charts that corn meal, whole- 
wheat flour, oatmeal, dried peas and beans are 

THE CHEAPEST FOODS. 

Indian corn is used in many forms. Some varieties 
which contain a large proportion of sugar are eaten 
green from the cob as a vegetable. The whole grains, 
hulled, are eaten as samp, or hulled corn ; broken grains 
of various sizes, as hominy ; the ground grains, as either 
coarse or fine meal. Cornstarch, a very fine powder, 
is prepared from Indian corn. ]\Ieal grows musty very 
quickly when ground by the old process, owing to the 
moisture of the corn and the heat of the stones. In 
the new-process, or granulated meal, the corn is first 
dried for two years, then ground into coarse grains like 
sugar. Corn meal, when cooked, is best made into small 
loaves or cakes and eaten hot. It is rich in nitrogen, 
and contains more fat than the other grains. This 
causes it to attract the oxygen from the air, and spoil 
rapidly. It should be purchased in small quantities. 
It is suitable for a winter diet and is a cheap, whole- 
some food, adapted to strong laboring people, and to 
those who are deficient in natural warmth ; but it is 
heating for persons with weak digestion, and should not 
be given to scrofulous children, or to invalids when there 
is any inflammatory condition of the system. 

Oatmeal is highly nutritious, being richer in nitrogen 



LESSON XVI. — CHEAPEST FOOD. 175 

than any other grain ; but as it does not contain a tough, 
adhesive gluten, like wheat, it is not easily made into 
fermented bread. Its nitrogenous matter resembles 
caseine more than gluten, and is called avenin (from 
ave7ia, "the oat "). It is used as a mush or porridge, eaten 
with sugar and milk. It is rich in food for muscle and 
brain, useful for children and laboring people, but irritat- 
ing to many people whose digestive powers are weak. 

Bf/e meal and flour are used, more especially in New 
England, in the form of bread and mush. Eye is sweeter 
than wheat, and makes a moist bread which can be kept 
for some time without becoming hard and unpalatable. 
Eye should be purchased in small quantities, kept in a 
cool dry place, sifted and examined thoroughly before 
using. 

Barley is used in soups and sometimes in gruels. It 
cannot be made into good bread, as it has too little glu- 
ten. It is nutritious, being rich in phosphates. It con- 
tains starch and mucilage, and in the form of gruel 
makes a soothing drink in fevers. The husk is removed, 
the grains are ground and polished, and then it is termed 
pearl harley. 

Buckwluat has less flesh -forming and more heat-giving 
elements than wheat. It is therefore suitable only when 
used in cold weatlier and by those who labor hard or 
exercise freely. It is used principally in the form of 
griddle-cakes. These should be eaten sparingly and not 
be depended upon for nourisliment. Cbaldren should 
never eat them. The custom of making a breakfast of 
buckwheat cakes and syrup has been tlie cause of 
years of indigestion with many people. 

Rice contains very little of the flesh-forming element. 
It lias more starch and less fat than any otlier grain. 



17G BOSTON SCHOOL KITCHEN TEXT-BOOK. 

It is cheap, and is largely used by people in very liot 
climates. It should always be used with milk, eggs, 
or some fatty substance, and is a suitable summer diet. 
When rice is cooked in a large quantity of water, some 
of the nitrogenous and mineral constituents, of which 
rice has but a small amount, are lost in the boiling 
water, and unless the water be used for soup, to boil 
rice is a wasteful process. Steaming is a much easier 
method and more economical. 



PEAS AND BEANS. 

The seeds of leguminous plants, such as peag and beans, 
contain a large proportion of albuminoids in the form 
of vegetable caseine. They are deficient in fat, but rich 
in mineral matter. 

They are used in the green unripe state as a fresh vege- 
table. They should be cooked in soft water, using just 
enouf^h to soften them, and when done the water should 
boil nearly away, and the little that is left should be 
served with the vegetables that all the soluble matter 
may be saved. Green peas and beans are easily digested 
if the hulls are broken by a fork or the teeth, but if swal- 
lowed whole none of the digestive fluids can penetrate 
the hull, and serious illness often results. 

The dried varieties are less digestible than the green, 
and need long, slow cooking in water to render them 
suitable for food. They contain a bitter substance, 
which may be removed by soaking and changing the 
water. 

As they are deficient in potash salts, some authorities 
recommend adding a small amount of bicarbonate of 
potash to the water in which they are cooked as well as 



LESSON XVL- BEANS AND PEAS. 177 

to that in which they are soaked. This makes them 
more soluble. 

Peas are used for soups or purees ; the split peas are 
better than the wliole, for the hull being removed they 
are more easily cooked and more digestible. Dried 
beans are used in soups, bean porridge, and balked with 
pork. 

Suggestion to the Teacher. 

Much valuable information may be given to the pupils, 
by means of the charts and museum, but as all schools will 
not be furnished with these aids to instruction the teacher 
should thoroughly inform herself, and teach the pupils at 
each lesson respecting the composition of food, its cost, and 
the amount of nutriment as proportioned to the cost. 



n 



178 BOSTON SCHOOL KITCHEN TEXT-BOOK. 

RECEIPTS FOR LESSON XYI. 
Split-pea Soup. 



^ c. dried split peas. 
3 c. cold water. 
Yz tbsp. butter. 
Yz tbsp. flour. 



Yz tsp. sugar. 
Y2 tsp. salt. 
1 ssp, white pepper. 
Milk to thin it. 



Pick over and wash the peas. Put them with the 
cold water ou the back of the stove. Let them soak 
Yo h. then simmer 2 h. or until soft. Eub them through 
a fine strainer, and put on to boil again. Add milk or 
water to make it like a thick soup. Cook the flour in 
the hot butter, and add it to the strained soup when 
boiling. Add the seasoning, and serve with croutons 
or crisped crackers. 

A small slice of onion may be boiled with the peas. 
When there is sufficient time the peas should be soaked 
before cookings. 



*0' 

Scotch Broth. 



Yi c. pearl barley. 
2 lbs. neck of mutton. 
2 qts. cold water. 
Y c. each of carrot, turnip, 
onion, and celery. 



2 tbsp. butter or dripping. 

1 tbsp. flour. 

2 tsp. salt, 

1 ssp. white pepper. 
1 tbsp. chopped parsley. 



Pick over, and soak the barley over night or several 
hours in cold water. Wipe the meat with a clean wet 
cloth. Ptemove the fat and skin. Scrape the meat 
from the bones and cut it into half-inch dice. Put the 
bones on to boil in 1 pt. of cold water, and the meat in 
o pt. of cold water. Let the latter boil quickly, and 
after it has boiled 20 m. skim off the fat, and then add 
the barley. Cut the vegetables into Y^ inch dice, fry 



RECEIPTS FOR LESSON XVI. 179 

tlieiii 5m. in 1 tbsp. of the butter, and add them to the 
meat. Simmer 3 or 4 hours, or until the meat and 
barley are tender. Strain the water in which the bones 
have simmered. Cook 1 tbsp. of butter in a saucepan 
with 1 tbsp. of flour. When smooth, add the strained 
water gradually, and stir into the broth. Add the salt, 
pepper, and parsley. Simmer 10 m. and serve without 



straining. 



Steamed Brown Bread. 



1 c. corn meal. 
1 c. rye meal. 
y^ c. wheat flour. 
1^ tsp. salt. 



%, tsp. soda. 
X c. molasses. 
1 ^ c. sweet milk. 



Mix meal, flour, and salt. Mash the soda, sift it into 
the meal, and mix thoroughly. Add the molasses and 
milk, then beat well and turn into a greased mould, 
cover and steam 2j^ h. Or use small cups, cover with 
greased paper, and steam 1 h. 

Scalded Corn Cake. 

yi c. fine white corn meal. I Boiling milk, or water 

1 ssp. salt. I enough to scald it. 

Mix the meal and salt. Stir in boiling milk until 
the meal is all swollen and the mixture is thick enou<^h 
not to spread when put on the griddle. Grease the 
griddle with salt pork fat, drop the mixture on with a 
tablespoon. Pat the cakes till about ^ of an inch 
thick. Cook them slowly, and when browned put a 
few drops of fat on the top of each cake and turn them 
over. When the other side is browned serve tliem, and 
eat with syrup or in tlie place of bread witli meat. 



180 



BOSTON 3CH00L KITCHEN TEXT-BOOK. 



Fried Corx-meal Mush. 



1 c. com meal. 
^ tsp. salt. 
Yz tbsp. flour. 



1 c. cold milk. 

1 pt. boiling water. 



Mix the meal, salt, and flour, and wet the mixture 
with the milk. Stir it gradually into the boiling water. 
Stir often, and after 10 m. cook it over boiling water for 
30 m. Then turn it into a wet bread-pan, and when 
cool cut in half-inch slices. Cut each slice in two pieces 
and dip them in flour. Fry several slices of breakfast- 
bacon or salt pork, drain them, fry the mush in the fat, 
and serve the bacon with the mush. 



Questions on Lesson XVI. 



"What kinds of food are suita- 
ble for children ; old people ; 
for those who labor in the 
open air ; for those who work 
with their brains ; for those 
who live in cold climates ? 

How should milk be taken ? 

How are beans and peas used ? 



What are some of the cheapest 

foods ? 
In how manj' forms is Indian 

corn used ? 
"What is its value as food ? 
How is rye meal used ? 
Wliat is the best wa}' to cook 

rice? 



LESSON XVII. 

POULTRY. 

The flesh of poultry has less red blood and is drier 
than the flesh of animals. It is not marbled with fat, 
and as it abounds in phosphates it is valuable food, par- 
ticularly for invalids. The fibres are not closely con- 
nected by tough membranes, and are therefore easily 
separated and digested. 

The best chickens have soft yellow feet, short thick 
legs, smooth moist skin, plump breast, and the cartilage 
on the end of the breastbone is soft and pliable. 

Pin feathers always indicate a young bird and long 
hairs an older one. Old fowls have long thin necks 
and feet, and sharp scales ; the end of the breastbone is 
hard, the flesh has a purplish tinge, and there is usually 
a large amount of fat. 

To Prepare a Fowl for Cooking. 

Pick out the pin feathers, remove the hairs by singe- 
ing over a blaze, and wipe with a damp cloth. Cut off 
the head, slip the skin back from the neck and cut the 
neck off close to the body, leaving skin enough to fold 
over on the back. Eemove the windpipe, pull the crop 
away from the skin on the neck and breast and cut it 
olf close to the body. 

Never cut the skin on tlie breast to remove the crop, 
but take it out from the end of the neck. Cut out the 



184 BOSTON SCHOOL KITCHEN TEXT-BOOK. 

oil bag in the tail. IMake an incision near the vent, in- 
sert two fingers, loosen the fat from the skin, and sepa- 
rate the membranes lying close to the body. Keep the 
fingers up close to the breastbone until you can reacli 
in beyond the liver and heart, and loosen on either side 
down toward the back. This will enable you to avoid 
breaking the gall bladder which lies on the left side 
under the liver. When the membranes are all loosened, 
clasp the fingers round the gizzard and draw everything 
out. The kidneys and lungs will not come witli the 
others, and must be looked for in the hollows near the 
backbone and between the ribs. Wipe the chicken in- 
side and outside with a damp cloth. 

If the chicken is to he baked or boiled whole fill the skin 
where the crop was with stuffing, and put some inside 
the body. Skewer or tie the legs and wings close to 
the body. 

If the chicken is to he broiled split it down the entire 
length of the backbone, before removing the entrails. 

If to he stewed or fricasseed, cut off the legs and wings 
at the joints. Cut from near the vent through the mem- 
brane lying between the end of the breastbone and tail, 
down to the backbone, on either side. Then remove the 
entrails. Break off the backbone just below the ribs, cut 
through the cartilage dividing the ribs, and separate the 
collar-bone from the breast. 

To clean the giblets : Slip off the thin sac round the 
heart and cut out the veins and arteries. Remove the liver 
and cut off all that looks green near tlie gall bladder. 
Be careful not to break the gall bladder. Trim off the 
fat and membranes from tlie gizzard, cut through the 
thick part, open it and remove the inner lining without 
breaking it. Cut off all the white gristle and use only 



LESSON XVII.— VEAL. 185 

tlie thick fleshy part. The trimmed gizzard, liver, and 
heart are all that are used. Wash and soak them in 
cold water, then stew them until tender. 

VEAL. 

The fat of veal should be white and clear, and the 
lean meat pink or flesh-color. White veal, or that from 
a calf less than six wrecks old, is unfit to eat. Veal has 
but little juice, flavor, and nutriment, but as the fibres 
are tender and it contains much gelatine, it is a favorite 
food with many people. It may be cooked in a variety 
of ways and is made palatable by the addition of proper 
seasoning and savory sauces. It sliould always be 
thoroughly cooked, as under-done veal is not wholesome. 
It should never be depended upon for nourishment, but 
may be used occasionally to give a variety. 

Suggestion to the Teacher. 

This will be an expensive lesson if a whole fowl be used 
for each of ten lessons, therefore I would suggest that two 
fowls be purchased and made to serve for five lessons each. 
If three can be afforded, use two for four lessons each, and 
the third one for the last two lessons. Keep one fowl whole 
as long as possible to use for illustration. Singe half of tlie 
fowl and show how to remove the crop, oil bag, and entrails, 
and the kidney and lung from one side. 

The pupils have learned how to prepare stuffing in the 
fifth lesson ; but it will be well to show them where and how 
to stuff a fowl, and also how to truss it for baking, but do 
not have them bake it. 

From the half of the fowl that has been cleaned take off 
the leg and wing, and use these for a fricassee in the first 
lesson. Use the other leg and wing in the second lesson. 



186 BOSTON SCHOOL KITCHEN TEXT-BOOK. 

The second day split the fowl down the back and use half 
the breast and half the back for each of the third and fourth 
lessons. Use the second fowl in the same way for the next 
four lessons, and for the fifth day use half the third fowl at 
each lesson. This will enable you to have at each lesson a 
whole fowl or half of one for illustration, and show how to 
bake a fowl and also how to make soup and fricassee at each 
lesson. 

Proportion the receipt for the chicken soup and fricassee, 
according to the amount of fowl used. Simmer the por- 
tions of fowl until tender, brown them in hot fat, and serve 
on toast or not, as you please. Reserve part of the broth 
and i)ut it with the bones and boil again for soup. For the 
soup use as much milk as chicken broth, boil it, thicken 
with flour in the proportion of 3^ tbsp. of flour to 1 c. of 
liquid and season to taste with salt and pepper. Serve with 
croutons or crisped crackers. 

This lesson may be given as a dinner and the pupils may 
have some practice in estimating its cost (see table of cost 
of food, pages 223-225), and may become fiimiliar with the 
time required for its preparation, and with the proper order 
of work. 

In the spring classes, veal may be substituted for chicken, 
cream rice pudding for the scalloped apple, steamed rhu- 
barb for the cranberries, and lettuce for the cold slaw. 



KECEIPTS FOR LESSON XVII. 187 

I 

RECEIPTS FOR LESSON XVII. 

Chicken Fricassee. 

Clean the chicken, and at the joints cut into pieces 
for serving. Cover with boiling water, add 2 tsp. salt 
and 1 ssp. pepper. 

Simmer till the meat is tender. Remove the large 
bones and cook them again in the water. Dredge the 
meat with flour and bro\vn in hot dripping. Put on 
toast on a hot dish. 

Strain the broth, and remove the fat. To 1 c, chicken 
broth add 1 c. milk and thicken with 2 tbsp. flour 
cooked in 1 tbsp. butter, as directed for white sauce. 
Add more salt and pepper if needed, and 1 ssp. celery 
salt and 1 tsp. lemon juice. 

Veal Fricassee. 

The ends of the ribs, the breast, the neck, and the 
smaller part of the knuckle may be utilized in a stew 
or fricassee. 

Cut the meat, 2 lbs., in small pieces and remove all 
the fine crumbly bones. Dredge with flour and brown 
it in dripping or salt pork fat. Cover the meat with 
boiling water, skim as it begins to boil, and add 2 small 
onions, 1 tsp. salt, and 1 ssp. pepper. Simmer until 
very tender. Eemove the larger bones, add a flour 
thickening and more seasoning if necessary. Cook 10 
m., add ^ c. of milk and 1 tbsp. of butter. 

Potatoes and dumplings may be cooked witli the veal 
if a stew be desired. 



188 BOSTON SCHOOL KITCHEN TEXT-BOOK. 



Cranberries. 

1 c. cranberries. I % c. cold water. 

yi c. sugar. I 

Pick over and wash the cranberries, put them in a 
granite saucepan, sprinkle the sugar on top of them, 
pour on the water, and after they begin to boil cook 
them 10 ra., closely covered, and do not stir them. 
Push them down with a wooden spoon if they are in- 
clined to boil over. The berries will be tender, will 
jelly when cold, and are much nicer than when sifted. 

Steamed Ehubarb. 

1 c. rhubarb. | ^ c. sugar. 

Wash the rhubarb and cut into inch-pieces. Put it 
into a granite double boiler, sprinkle tlie sugar over it 
and steam until soft. Do not stir it. 

Cabbage or Cold Slaw. 



1 c. shaved cabbage. 


1 egg. 


1 tsp. salt. 


}4 c. milk. 


^2 tsp. mustard. 


1 tbsp. butter. 


spk. cayenne. 


% c. vinegar. 


1 tbsp. sugar. 





Trim off the decayed leaves, cut into quarters, soak 
awhile in cold water, drain, cut off the hard stalk, then 
slice or shave it off in thin strips. Mix the salt, mustard, 
cayenne, and sugar, add the beaten egg, the milk, butter, 
and vinegar. Cook it in a small saucepan over the 
fire, or in a double boiler, stirring constantly until it 
thickens like a custard. Pour it while hot over the 
cabbage and set away to cool. 



RECEIPTS FOR LESSON XVII. 189 

Lettuce. 

Pick off each leaf and wash it separately in cold 
water; remove any decayed portions, drain and arrange 
in a deep dish, the outside leaves on the edge and the 
inner ones in the centre. Serve -svith salt, pepper, oil, 
and vinegar, and sugar if preferred, or with a dressing 
like that given with cold slaw. 



^ c. butter. 

1 c. soft bread crumbs. 

3 c. sliced api)les. 



Scalloped Apple. 

^ c. sugar. 

% ssp. cinnamon. 

% lemon rind grated. 

Mix the sugar, cinnamon, and lemon rind. Melt 
the butter and stir it into the crumbs. Butter a pud- 
ding-dish, put in ]^ of the crumbs, ^ of the apple, and 
sprinkle with ^ of the sugar. Then put in another 
layer of crumbs, apple, and sugar and tlie remaining 
half of the crumbs on the top. If the apples are not very 
tart add the lemon juice to each layer ; and if they 
are not juicy add % c. of cold water. Bake slowly, 
covered at first, and when the apples are soft remove 
the cover and brown the crumbs. Serve with cream. 

You may use ripe berries in place of the apples, and 
oatmeal or wheat mush in place of the bread crumbs. 



Cream Rice Pudding. 



2 tbsp. rice. 
2 tbsp. sugar. 



2 c. milk, 
spk. salt. 



Pick over and wash the rice. Put it in a shallow 
baking-dish. Dissolve the sugar and salt in the milk, 



190 



BOSTON SCHOOL KITCHEN TEXT-BOOK. 



add the nutmeg, and pour it over the rice. Bake slowly 
the first lialf hour, stirring often, then increase the heat 
and cook until the rice is tender and slightly browned. 
Serve hot with butter. Kaisins may be added, if 
preferred. 

Questions on Lesson XVII. 



1. How does the flesh of poultry 

diff'er from that of animals ^ 

2. How would you prepare a fowl 

for a fricassee ? 

3. What parts of a fowl are not 

used as food ? 



4. Why should veal be thoroughly 

cooked ? 

5. How do cranberries grow ? 

6. How should they be cooked ? 

7. What part of a plant is rhu« 

barb ; lettuce ; cabbage ? 



LESSON XVIII. 

FISH. 

Fish, on account of its abundance, cheapness, and 
wliolesomeness, is invaluable as an article of food. It 
is pound for pound less nutritious and less stimulating 
than meat, but is rich in phosphorus and has a large 
proportion of nitrogenous material. The white varieties, 
like flounder, halibut, cod, and haddock, have the oil in 
the liver, and are the cheapest and most digestible. 
Red-blooded fish, like salmon, mackerel, and blue-fish, 
have the oil distributed through the body, and the flesh 
is dark. They are nutritious for those who can digest 
them, but they are too rich and oily for invalids. 

Fish should be perfectly fresh and thoroughly cooked, 
or it will be very indigestible and sometimes poisonous. 
The flesh of good fresh fish is firm and hard ; if not 
fresh it will be soft and flabby. 

Fish, after being dressed at the market, should be 
cleaned by scraping, if necessary, and by wiping with a 
cloth wet in cold salted water. As they are slippery 
to handle, dip the fingers into salt while dressing them. 

Fish may be cooked in a variety of ways, but broiling 
and baking are tlie most wholesome methods. Small 
fish and pieces of large white fish are good if fried, b"<" 
oily fish should never be fried. 

18 



194 BOSTON SCHOOL KITCHEN TEXT- BOOK. 



Suggestion to the Teacher. 

It will be impossible in twenty lessons to give more than 
one lesson on fish ; but several ways of cooking may be 
shown from one fish, then, by following the general direc- 
tions as given in the receipts, the pupils may cook any kind 
of fish at home. 

For the lesson : Procure a haddock, weighing 2^ or 3 
lbs., also a cod's head. Have the fish cleaned, but left 
whole. Show how it may be stuffed and prepared for bak- 
ing. Then cut off the head and end near the tail, and re- 
serve them with the cod's head for a chowder. Cut off" the 
thick end as far down as the opening, till the inside with 
stuffing proportioned after the rule on page 197. Sew and 
bake, or steam it, in milk enough to baste it. Cut off a square 
piece from the thicker end remaining, and strip off the skin ; 
remove the flesh from the bone, and keep it as whole as pos- 
sible, and prepare it according to the directions for fried 
fish, dipping it in batter instead of in egg. Save all the 
remainder of the fish, scrape the small bits from the bones, 
and use these with the bones for a chowder. A small por- 
tion of fish may be steamed for fifteen minutes, between two 
buttered plates. 

Any pieces of cooked fish may be freed from bones and 
skin, moistened with white or tomato sauce, covered with 
buttered crumbs and baked. See directions for scalloped 
meat, pages 73, 77. 



LESSON XVIII. — BROILED FISH. 195 

RECEIPTS FOR COOKING FISH. 
Broiled Fish. 

To broil mackerel, white fish, small bhie-fish, trout, 
small cod, shad, or any other thin fish, split them down 
the back, and remove the head and tail. Sometimes it 
is well to remove the backbone also. 

To broil halibut, salmon, and other thick fish, cut 
them into inch-slices across the backbone, and remove 
tlie skin and bone. Cut flounder, bass, and chicken 
halibut into fillets, or the natural divisions each side of 
the bone. Oily fish need only salt and pepper, but dry, 
white fish should be spread with soft butter before 
broilincj. 

Grease a double wire broiler with salt pork rind. 
Put the thickest edge of the fish next the middle of the 
broiler ; broil the flesh side first until it is brown, lift- 
ing it up often that it may not burn. Cook the other 
side just enough to crisp the skin. The time will vary 
with the thickness of the fish. 

The flesh, when done, should look white and firm, 
and should separate easily from the bone. Loosen tlie 
fisli from each side of the broiler, open the broiler and 
slide off the fish, or hold a platter over the skin side of 
the fish, and invei't platter and broiler together. Season 
with butter, salt, and pepper, and lemon juice, if liked. 

Some acid condiment is usually agreeable with fish. 

Baked Fish. 

Cod, haddock, blue-fish, small salmon, bass, and shad, 
may be stuffed and baked whole. 



19G BOSTON SCHOOL KITCHEN TEXT-BOOK. 

Clean, wipe, and dry the fish, rub with salt, fill with 
stuffing, and sew the edges together. Cut gashes two 
inches apart on each side. Put narrow strips of fat salt 
pork in the gashes, and in the pan under tlie fish. Place 
the fish upriglit in the pan by propping it up with pota- 
toes, or by skewering the head one way and the tail tlie 
other. Dredge the fish with flour. Put it into a hot 
oven without water; when the flour is brown, baste 
with the pork fat, and baste often. It is done when 
the flesh separates easily from the bone. Eemove it 
carefully to a hot platter, draw out the strings or skew- 
ers, and serve with drawn butter or egg sauce. 

Thick pieces of halibut or cod may be stuffed, or not, 
and baked in the same way. Fish may also be baked 
in milk enough to cover the bottom of the pan. When 
cooked in this way no pork or flour is needed. The 
milk keeps the fish moist, and makes it brown better. 
It is a good substitute for pork, and is especially nice 
for any dry, white fish. 

Boiled Fish. 

To boil nicely, without breaking, fish should be of 
uniform thickness. A small salmon, or the middle cut 
of a large one, or the thickest part of cod or blue- fish, 
or a thick piece of halibut, snould be selected for 
boiling. 

The most economical way is to cook the fish in a 
steamer over boiling water. If that is not convenient, 
put the fish in a wire basket, or on a plate, and the 
plate in a square of cloth ; when done lift cloth, plate, 
and fish together. Put the fish into boiling salted water, 
and let it simmer (not boil) till done. The time will 



LESSON XVIIL — FRIED FISH. 197 

vary with the shape of the fish. See time- table for 
boiling, page 39. Boiled fish should be well drained 
and be served witli a rich sauce. 

Fried Fish. 

Smelts, percli, trout, and other small pan fish may be 
fried whole. Cod, halibut, and other thick fish should 
be skinned and boned and cut into slices one inch 
thick and two or three inches square. Fish for frying 
should be thoroughly cleaned, dried, and seasoned with 
Sdlt, then covered with flour, or fine meal, or fine bread 
crumbs, then dipped in beaten egg, then in crumbs 
again. Or they may be dipped in flour paste instead 
of egg, before dipping in the crumbs. Fry in deep, 
smoking hot fat, or in a small amount of hot salt pork 
fat, from two to five minutes. Drain on paper, and 
serve with tomato sauce. The fat ibr frying fish should 
be hot enough to brown a bit of bread while you count 
40. 

Stuffing for Baked Fish. 

Weiyhing from four to six pounds. 



1 c. cracker crumbs. 

1 ssp. salt. 

1 ssp. pepper. 

1 tsp. chopped onion. 



1 tsp. choj)ped parsley. 

1 tsp. capers. 

1 tsp. pickles. 

X c. melted butter. 



This makes a dry, crumbly stuffing. If a moist stufl- 
ing be desired, moisten the crackers with cold water, or 
use stale (uot dried) bread crumbs, and moisten with 
one beaten egg and the butter. 

It is not necessary to liave all the seasoning given in 
the receipt, but some acid, like pickles, lemon, or vin- 
egar, is more agreeable than sweet lierbs, in a stuffing 
for fish. 



19S BOSTON SCHOOL KITCHEN TEXT-BOOK. 



Drawn-Butter Sauce. 



1 pt. liot water or milk. 
y2 c. butter, scant. 

2 tbsp. flour. 



Yz tsp. salt. 
Yi ssp. pepper. 



Put half the butter in a saucepan ; be careful not to 
let it become brown ; when melted add the dry flour, 
and mix well. Add the hot water, a little at a time, 
and stir rapidly as it thickens. When perfectly smooth 
add the remainder of the butter, one small piece at a 
time, and stir till it is absorbed. Add the salt and 
pepper. When carefully made, this sauce should be 
free from lumps; but if not smooth, strain it before 
serving. 

For sauce for boiled fish use the water in which the 
fish was boiled. 

Egg Sauce. Add to the drawn butter two or three 
hard boiled eggs, either chopped or sliced. 



Fish Chowder. 



1 lb. cod or haddock. 

1 inch cube salt pork. 
Y onion. 

2 potatoes. 
spk. pepper. 



1 tbsp. flour. 
1 tbsp. butter. 

1 c. milk. 

2 crackers. 
1 tsp. salt. 



Cook the fish bones and head half an hour, then strain 
the water. Cut the salt pork and onion into dice, and 
fry till light brown. Slice the potatoes, scald them 
5 m., pour off the water, add the strained pork fat^ 
and the bone water. When boiling add the fish, sim- 
mer 10 m., or until the potatoes are tender. Add the 
seasoning, and the butter, flour, and milk cooked to- 
gether as for wiiite sauce ; serve with crackers. 



QUESTIONS ON LESSON XVIII. 



199 



Salt Fish Balls. 



1 c. potatoes. 
^ c. salt fish. 
1 tsp. butter. 



spk. pepper. 
Fat for frying. 



Wash the fish and shred it into half-inch pieces. 
Pare the potatoes, and if large cut into quarters. Put 
the potatoes and fish in a stew-pan and cover with boil- 
ing water. Cook 25 m., or until potatoes are soft. 
Drain very dry, masli fine, add butter, seasoning, and 
beaten egg. Beat well, shape on a spoon, drop into 
smoking hot fat, fry till brown and drain on paper. 

The same mixture may be cooked as hash. 



Questions on Lesson XVIII. 



1. AVI13" is fish a valuable food ? 

2. How does fish compare with 

meat ? 

3. How do the white varieties of 

fish ditler from the dark or 
red-blooded fish ? 

4. Which are better for invalids ? 

5. "What is the test for the fresh- 

ness of fish ? 

6. How may salt cod be used ? 



What kinds of fish may be 

baked ? 
"Which are best broiled ; fried ; 

boiled ? 
How do you prepare fish -for 

frying ? 
"Why is it necessary to have 

the fat smoking hot ? 
How do you make a fish 

chowder ? 



LESSON XIX. 
EGGS. 

Some people consider it extravagant to use many eggs 
in cooking. It is extravagant to use them unnecessarily, 
that is, to use four in a place where one would answer 
the same purpose, as in muffins or corn cake, or to use 
them in the ways in which we get the least good from 
them, as in rich, heavy cake, or to use them freely in 
the season when they cost the most. But in the spring, 
when the price is low, they may be used in any of the 
sim])le ways of boiling, poaching, etc., or in plain cake 
and custards and other wholesome combinations. Eggs 
are nutritious and contain all the elements we need in 
food ; but as they are too highly concentrated we must 
supply what they lack by using bread, rice, butter, or 
milk with them. 

The shells of newly-laid eggs are almost full, but as 
the shells are porous, on exposure to the air the water 
inside evaporates, and the eggs grow ligliter, wliile air 
entering in fills the place of tlie water, and causes the 
elements in the egg to change, and the eggs soon spoil. 
This explains why a good fresh egg is heavy and will 
sink in water, and wliy a stale egg is lighter, lias a rat- 
tling or gurgling sound, and floats in the water. 

Eggs should be kept in a cool dark }»lace and handled 
carefully, as any jarring motion may rupture the mem- 



202 BOSTON SCHOOL KITCIIKN TEXT-BOOK. 

brane which separates the white from the yolk, and if 
they become mixed, the egg spoils quickly. Anything 
which will entirely exclude the air from the eggs will 
help to keep them. 

OYSTERS. 

Oysters are used more extensively and are more 
highly prized than any other shell-fish. They are easily 
digested when fresh and only slightly cooked, but when 
over-cooked they are tough and leathery. 

They contain so little nutriment, however, in propor- 
tion to their cost, that they are a very expensive food, 
and are more suitable for a convalescent, or to give 
variety, than to furnish vigor for either brain or muscular 
effort. 

LOBSTERS. 

The city markets are now so well supplied with these 
delicious shell-fish that they may be obtained in good 
condition all the year, but they are usually cheaper in 
the spring. Lobsters are put alive into boiling salted 
water, and cooked twenty minutes from the time the 
water boils. The shells are dark green when alive, but 
turn bright red when put into boiling water. 

Lobsters should not be eaten until cold, and should 
never be kept more than eighteen hours after boiling. 
They have been considered difficult of digestion, prob- 
ably on account of their being eaten when not fresh, or 
with an excess of condiments, or in unwholesome com- 
binations ; for it has been proved repeatedly that per- 
sons whose digestive organs are weak can eat plain 
lobster without any unpleasant effect. 



LESSON XIX. —CAKE. 203 



CAKE MAKING AND BAKING. 

It is uot our purpose to give much time or attention 
to cake making in these lessons. There is little danger 
of this branch of cooking being neglected ; and gratifying 
as it would be to scliool-girls generally, to make cake in 
every lesson, there are so many more important things 
to learn, that this subject must be kept in the back- 
ground. It is well for girls to emulate their mother's 
and grandmother's skill in cooking, but not in the art of 
making " eleven kinds of cake for a party." 

There are really only two kinds of cake, those with 
butter and those without. If you understand the pro- 
per metliods of mixing and how to regulate the baking, 
you will be successful with any reliable receipt. 

You have become familiar with the general rules for 
batters and doughs; and the principles underlying these 
a[)i)ly in cake making, only in the latter a greater 
amount of butter and sugar is used, and there is some 
variation in the manner of mixing. 

Batter calces, or those made with butter, include all 
tlie varieties of cup cake, pound cake, fruit cake, etc. 
There are two ways of mixing. First, soften the butter 
and rub it to a cream, add the sugar and beat both until 
creamy ; beat the yolks till light-colored and thick, then 
beat them into the sugar and butter. Mix tlie soda, 
cream of tartar, and spice with the Hour; then add milk 
and tlour alternately, beating well, and lastly add the 
whites beaten stiff. All butter cakes should be l)eaten 
just before being poured into the pan until smooth and 
fine-grained. If fruit is used, Hour it well to keep it 
from sticking, and add it last. 



204 BOSTON SCHOOL KITCHEN TEXT-BOOK. 

The second and easier way of mixing })lain cake is 
similar to that of mixing breakfast cakes. Put the flour 
in the mixing bowl, and sift and mix with it the soda, 
cream of tartar, and spice. Add the sugar and mix 
thoroughly. Beat the yolks, add the milk, and stir this 
into tlie flour mixture. Then stir in the butter melted, 
and the stiffly beaten whites last, and beat all together 
vigorously, just before putting it into the pans. 

Sponge Cakes. These are made without butter, and 
when quite rich contain only eggs, sugar, flavoring, and 
flour. A cheaper kind is made by using some liquid, 
usually w\ater, and more flour, and substituting soda and 
cream of tartar for part of the eggs. In mixing, beat the 
yolks of the eggs until light and thick, add the sugar, 
flavoring, and water, then the flour mixed wath the soda 
and cream of tartar, and lastly the beaten whites of the 
eggs. When only eggs, sugar, and flour are used, there 
must be vigorous beating of the yolks and sugar, and no 
beating at all after the whites and flour are added, — 
only a mixing of the ingredients. 

Baking Cake. Do not attempt to make cake unless 
you can have entire control of the fire. It should be 
rather low, but sufficient to heat the oven moderately, 
and to last without replenishing through the entire 
baking. Thin cakes require a hotter oven than those 
baked in thick loaves. Cakes made with baking-powders 
or soda and cream of tartar should bake more quickly 
than pound cake or sponge cake made light with eggs 
alone. Cakes with molasses in them require a quick 
oven, but as they burn quickly they must be baked with 
care : whichever kind vou are baking^, ascertain from the 
time-table on page 155 the time required and divide it 
into quarters. Look at it quickly, within five minutes 



LESSON XIX. —BAKING CAKE. 205 

During the first quarter of the time tlie cake should 
merely rise aud not browu. 

If it brown before rising, the oven is too hot and must 
be cooled. It should continue to rise on the edges dur- 
ing the second quarter and begin to brown in spots. In 
the third quarter it should rise in the centre and become 
all over a rich golden brown, and perhaps crack a little 
in the middle. In tlie last quarter it should settle to a 
level, brown in the crack and shrink from the pan. 

During the first and second quarter the cake may be 
moved carefully if necessary, but in the third quarter, or 
when it is fully risen but not stiffened by the heat, there 
is danger of its falling, and it is better to protect it by 
a paper liood^ than to move it. Slamming the oven 
door will often cause the cake to fall. 

Cake is done when it shrinks from the pan and stops 
hissing, or when a straw inserted in the centre comes 
out clean. 

Loosen the edges of the cake with a knife and turn 
the pan over carefully upon a cloth laid over a bread 
cooler or sieve. 

Suggestion to the Teacher. 

In this lesson, use oysters in the fall and lobster in tlie 
spring. One or two receipts will be sufficient for illustra- 
tion, ^fake the smallest possible quantity of cake. The 
receipt for plain cake may be halved. Poach one egg to 
show how it is done, then cook the same egg longer until 
hard and use it in making the e*rg vermicelli. 

1 Crease a piece of stiff paper on each end so that tlie edges will 
rest on the oven bottom, and the to;? of the paper will be at least an 
inch above the cake. 



206 BOSTON SCHOOL KITCHEN TEXT-BOOK. 

RECEIPTS FOR LESSON XIX. 
Plain Cake. 



% c. butter. 

1 c. sugar. 

2 eggs. 

J^ c. milk. 



1 tsp. baking-powder. 
1% c. flour. 
1 ssp. spice, or 
%, tsp. flavoring. 



See that the fire and oven are right, and have all the 
ingredients at hand. Line the pans with buttered paper. 
Mix the baking-powder and spice w4th the flour. Sepa- 
rate the eggs. Measure the butter, rub it till creamy, 
add the sugar, and in scraping out the sugar take all 
the butter that has adhered to the cup. Beat well, add 
tlie well-beaten yolks and the flavoring. Rinse out the 
yolk with the milk, then add milk and flour alternately, 
and the whites, beaten to a stiff froth, last. Beat well, 
bake in a shallow pan about 20 m., or until it shrinks 
from the pan. 

Vary the cake by adding y^ c. currants, or nuts 
chopped fine, or by coloring a part with dark spices or 
chocolate. 



Water Sponge Cake. 



1 egg. 

yi c. sugar. 

yi tep- lemon juice. 



3 tbsp. cold water. 

% c. flour. 

1 even tsp. baking-powder. 



Beat the yolk of the egg, add the sugar and beat 
again, add the lemon juice and water, then the flour in 
which the baking-powder has been mixed, and lastly 
the whites beaten stiff. Bake in a small shallow pan. 
or in scalloped tins. 



RECEIPTS FOR LESSON XIX. 207 



Fkosting. 

1 c. powdered sugar. I 1 tbsp. lemon juice 

1 tbcp. boiling water. I (not extract). 

Add a few drops more of boiling water until it is 
thin enough to settle when you stop stirring. 

A little melted chocolate may be used to give variety. 



Dropped or Poached Eggs on Toast. 

Toast a slice of bread for each egg and trim neatly. 
Have a clean shallow pan nearly full of salted boiling 
water. Eemove all the scum and let the water simmer. 
Break each egg carefully into a saucer, and slip it 
gently into the simmering water. Dip the water over 
them with a spoon, and when a film has formed over 
the yolk and the white is firm, take eacli egg up with a 
skimmer, drain, trim off any rough edges, and place it on 
the toast. Sprinkle salt and pepper on each egg. 

Omelet. 

2 eggs. I 1 ssp. salt. 

2 tbsp. milk. I 1 ss]). pepper. 

Beat the yolks of tlie eggs till liglit-colored and 
creamy, add the milk, salt, and pepper. Beat the wliites 
till they are stiff and dry. Cut and fold tliem lightly 
into the yolks till just covered. Have a clean smootli 
omelet pan or small spider. When hot, rub it round 
the edge with 1 tsp. of butter on a broad knife ; let the 
butter run all over the pan, and when bubbling turn in 
tlie omelet quickly and spread it evenly on the pan. 
Lift the pan from the hottest part of the fire and cook 



208 BOSTON SCHOOL KITCHEN TEXT-BOOK 

carel'ully, until slightly browned underneath. Put it 
on the oven grate to dry but not to brown on the top. 
When dry in the centre run a knife round the edge, 
then under the half nearest the handle and fold over 
toward the right. Hold the edge of a hot platter 
against the lower edge of the pan, and invert the omelet 
upon the platter. 

Egg Vermicelli. 

Separate the yolk from the white of hard-boiled eggs. 
Chop the white fine, and mix it with a little hot milk 
or thin white sauce. Season with salt and pepper, pour 
it on toast, and rub the yolk through a strainer over 
the top. 

To Prepare Oysters for Cooking. 

Pour j^ c. cold water over 1 qt. of oysters ; then with 
clean hands take out the oysters separately, and remove 
any bits of shell or sea-weed. Serious accidents have 
often resulted from the presence of pieces of shell. The 
oyster liquor is seldom used, as enough comes from the 
oysters in cooking, but if desired it should be strained 
before using. 

To Parboil Oysters in their Liquor. 

Put them in a saucepan without water; stir them, 
or shake the pan slightly ; as soon as heated, sufficient 
liquor comes from them to keep them from burning. 
When the edges curl and the oysters look plump in- 
stead of flat, they are cooked. It takes but a few 
xninutes, and care must be taken not to over-cook them. 



LESSON XIX. — OYSTERS. 209 

When seasoued with salt, pepper, and butter it is called 
Q. plain roa*st ; if put on toast, a fancy roast. 

Fried Oysters. 

Season large prepared oysters with salt and pepper, 
lioll them in fine cracker crumbs. Melt a little butter 
in a frying-pan. Brown the oysters on each side and 
serve very hot. Or cover with fine bread crumbs, eggy 
and crumbs, and fry in deep, smoking hot fat. 

Stewed Oysters. 

1 c. milk scalded. I ^ ssp. pepper. 

] pt. oysters. I }4 tbsp, butter. 

When the milk is scalding hot, put the prepared oys- 
ters in another saucepan and heat them until the edges 
curl ; add the pepper, butter, and salt, if needed, and 
the hot milk. Serve at once. 



Scalloped Oysters. 



1 pt. oysters. 

1 c. cracker crumbs. 

^ e. melted butter. 



3^ tsp. salt. 
}4 ssp. pepper. 



Prepare the oysters and season them with the salt 
and pepper. Stir the crumbs in the butter with a fork. 
Butter a shallow dish, put in }^ of the crumbs, then }4 
of the oysters, another ^ of the crumbs, the remaining 
oysters, and a thick layer of crumbs on the top. Bake 
20 m., or until the crumbs are brown and the juice 
bubbles up on the edges. 

In doubling the rule do not double the crackers, for 
u 



210 BOSTON SCHOOL KITCHEN TEXT-BOOK. 

it takes no more for the lower and ui)per layers, only 
for the middle layer. Half as many more will be 
sufficient. 

To Select and Open Lobsters. 

Choose one that is heavy, of medium size, with a hard 
shell streaked with black. 

Wipe it, break off the claws, separate tlie tail from 
the body, and the under part of the body from tlie shell. 
Remove the meat from the tail, claws, and the body, 
save the green liver and the coral, but be careful to 
discard the vein in the tail, and also the gills, stomach, 
and head. 

Plain Lobster. 

Cut the meat into small pieces and mix the liver 
with it ; dry the coral and rub it through a strainer 
over the meat. Serve with vinegar, melted butter, or 
with cold slaw dressing ; or mash the liver to a smooth 
paste, season it with salt and pepper. Thin it with 
oil or melted butter and vinegar and pour it over the 
lobster. 

Steweu Lobster. 

Cut the lobster fine. Allow ^ c. milk to 1 pt. lob- 
ster. Heat the milk, add the lobster, 1 tbsp. butter, 
and a little pepper. Boil up once and serve plain or on 
crisped crackers. 

Cook the lobster just long enough to heat it, as longer 
cooking renders it tough. 



QUESTIONS ON LESSON XIX. 



211 



Questions on Lesson XIX. 



2. 



3. 



"When is it extravagant to use 

eggs? 
"What should be eaten with 

^eggs ? 
Why is a fresh egg heavier 

than a stale egg ? 
Does it injure eggs to handle 

them roughly even if the 

shell is not broken ? 
"What is the value of oysters 

as food ? 



How may they be cooked ? 
How are lobsters prepared for 

the table ? 
What are the two principal 

varieties of cake ? 
How are butter cakes mixed ? 
How are sponge cakes mixed? 
What is the general rule for 

all cake baking ? 



LESSON XX. 
LAYING THE TABLE. 

These directions are not intended merely for occa- 
sional dinners. They are for ever3^-day home life ; and 
tliough every detail may not be adapted to all families, 
vet any housekeeper, no matter how limited her means, 
wlio lias a table, a cloth to cover it, and dishes for food, 
may follow the principal suggestions. Habits of order 
and neatness may be cultivated at a pine table, with 
twenty-five cent table-linen, and the cheapest crockery. 
Meals may be served in a proper way, even if one can- 
not follow every change which fashion may suggest. 

Place the centre of the cloth in the centre of the 
table, and have the middle fold outside, and straight 
with the edge of the table. A spotless cloth, smootli and 
straight, is essential to the enjoyment of a meal. Lay a 
plate, right side up, for each person, one plate at eacli end, 
and those at the sides opposite each other. At break- 
fast and dinner, or when hot plates are needed, place 
tliem all in a pile, in front of the one who is to serve. 
Lay the knife with the sliarp edge toward the plate, tlie 
tumbler witli the top up, and the butter-plate at the 
riudit of each plate ; the fork with tines up and the 
napkin, at the left ; the spoons with the handles toward 
tlie riglit, in front of tlie plate. Place a small dish at 
the left corner, to be used for potato skins, bones, egg 
shells, liot rolls, etc., to prevent soiling the cloth. 



214 BOSTON SCHOOL KITCHEN TEXT-BOOK. 

Fruit or flowers, if used, should occupy the centre of 
the table. The salt and pepper, vinegar and oil, pickles 
or jelly, butter, etc., place at the corners. Lay a soup- 
ladle in front of the hostess, the handle toward the 
right ; the carving knife, steel, and fork, on the carving- 
rests in front of the host; tlie butter-knife beside the 
butter, and two large tablespoons crosswise, at opposite 
corners. Have spoons, or knives and forks, suitable 
and sufficient in number for each dish to be served. 

Arrange^ the various dishes on tlie table in regular 
order, straight with the table, and exactly in front of 
those who are to serve them ; or if at an angle, let there 
be some uniformity. The cups, plates, and dishes for 
hot food should be heated. 

At breakfast or supper, arrange in a semicircle in 
front of the hostess the tea or coffee, tray-bowl, spoon- 
glass, sugar-bowl, cream-pitcher, and hot water, with 
the cups and saucers inside the circle. 

Finger-bowls are by some people considered a luxury, 
and are not usually placed on the table until the des- 
sert ; but there are other occasions when tliey are 
equally necessary, and there is no reason why they 
should not be used. They may be put on at the left 
of the plate, at the beginning of the meal. When fruit 
is used as a first course at breakfast, and wdien sweet 
corn is served on the cob, finger-l^owls are almost 
indispensable. 

Arrange the chairs so far aw^ay that they will not 
have to be drawn out when the family are being 
seated. 

In announcing the meal, do not ring the bell when 
there are invited guests, but tell the hostess that dinner, 
or whatever, tlie meal may be, is servo.d. In simple 



LE«SCN XX. — WAITING ON THE TABLE. 215 



family life a be-H is allowable, but it would be better to 
have a regular hour for each meal, and theu for each 
member to come promptly at the hour. 

WAITING ON THE TABLE. 

The want of a maid to wait on the table is no excuse 
for the sort of every-one-for-himself style of serving 
which is too often seen. Children, boys as well as girls, 
should be taught and allowed to help in the serving, 
even if one have a waitress. If they can have a daily 
share in the duties, filling the glasses, passing butter or 
sauce, removing the dishes between the courses, etc., 
nothing will give them more ease and self-possession 
when unexpectedly called to fill the place of mother or 
father at the- table, or better help to counteract the evil 
liabits of hurried eating and indifference to the wants of 
others, or better enable them to direct if they should 
ever have homes and domestics of their rwn. The 
following general directions may be adapted to any 
style of living. 

If the serving be done wholly by the family, special 
pains should be taken, in laying the table, to provide 
everything necessary, that there may be no occasion to 
leave the table. Spoons for tea or sauce may be laid 
at the plates, butter-plates and glasses filled, and other 
things made ready before the family are seated. 

At breakfast, nearly every one wants coffee or other 
drink first, and there should be no uudue haste in pass- 
ing the substantials until these have been served. As- 
certain the preference of each one as to sugar and cream, 
and put them in the cups, instead of passing them 
separatelv. 



216 BOSTON SCHOOL KITCHEN TKXT-BOOK. 

Do not fill the plates indiscriuiinately, and send them 
to go the round of the table, but consult individual tastes 
or needs, and give each one the opportunity of choice 
as to the various dishes. Serve first those whom you 
wish most to honor. 

It makes less confusion for some one to sit near the 
one who carves, and to help to the vegetables and vari- 
ous dishes that are to be served on the same plate with 
the meat, instead of passing them back and forth. 
Be careful to pass all the accompaniments with the 
principal dishes, — the butter and syrup with hot cakes, 
the cream and sucrar with mush and fruit, the coiidi- 
nieuts and relishes where they are needed, etc., and 
avoid having many things passing round at the same 
time. 

There are many families where the lady of the house 
is the only person who can leave the table to arrange 
for the change of courses, but if there be other and 
younger members of the family capable of ruch service, 
it should be performed by them. No girl, old enough 
to carry a dish without breaking it, should ever permit 
her mother to leave the table for any such purpose. A 
side table on castors may be placed within easy reach, 
and will save much confusion in family serving. 

Whether the waitress be one trained to the work, or 
one of the children, the same rules will apply. The 
waitress should remove the cover from the tureen or 
any other dish, turning it over deftly so it will not drip 
on the cloth, and lay it on the side table. Stand at tlie 
left of the one who is serving, and take on the tray each 
plate in turn to the one for whom it is intended. 

In passing a plate of soup or meat, set it on the table 
in front of the person ; the cup of coffee or any other 



LESSON XX. — WAITING ON THE TABLE. 2l7 

driuk place at the right liauil, ami thus avoid reaching 
across tlie plate, and also relie\e the one at the table 
from the awkwardness of taking tlio dish from the tray. 
But in passing vegetables or any dishes from which a 
person is to tnke a portion, pass them on the tray at tlia 
left, that it may be taken with the riglit hand. The 
tray sliould be held firmly, and low and near enough 
that the dish may be within easy reach. Put the dishes 
back on the table in their places, and keep everything 
on tlie table in good order. 

In passing a plate liold it so the thumb will not rest 
on tlie upper surface. In filling glasses, take the <^]; s.s 
near the bottom, never with the liand over tlio top, draw 
it to the edge of the table, but do not remove it, and iill 
only three-quarters full. When a change of plates is 
required, remove the plate on the table with the left 
hand, before attempting to put the other plate in its 
place. 

At a dinner of many courses, as soon as a guest has 
finislied the course remove his plate ; but at the family 
dinner do not remove any plates until all are through. 
When one course is finished, take the tray in one hand, 
and with the other remove from the left all the spoons, 
or knives and forks ; this will prevent the danger of 
dropping them if taken away on the plates, and make less 
confusion in washing. Take away the plates, never more 
than one in each hand; and also everything not needed 
for the next course. Before the dessert, remove the 
crumbs with a broad knife or semper into a plate. 

After a meal, first set the chairs in their places, and 
always brush up the crumbs that may have fallen, lest 
they be trodden into the carpet. In clearing a break- 
fast or tea table, where therp has been no cluuiue of 



'21S BOSTON SCHOOL KITCHEN TEXT-BOOK. 

courses, remove the glasses and silver first. Put any 
food that may be used again on small dishes, never on 
the table dishes. Scrape the dishes, empty and rinse 
the cups, and neatly pack together those of a kind, near 
where they are to be washed. Brush tlie crumbs from the 
cloth, fold it in the creases, and put it away carefully. 

TABLE MANNERS. 

There is no place where it is more essential, or where 
there is a better opportunity to observe the golden rule, 
than at the daily home table. 

" If you please," and " No, I thank you," are in far 
better taste than " Yes, thanks," and " No, thanks." 
Accept what is offered or placed before you ; but should 
your preference be asked, and you have any, it is allow- 
able to name it at once. When a plate has been filled for 
you, keep it, and do not from mistaken courtesy pass it 
to the next person. Make some sign of acknowledgment 
for what is served you, either by an inclination of tlie 
head or a quiet "thank you," whether it be offered by 
those presiding at tlie table or by the waitress. Cour- 
tesy to all, and especially to a child or a servant, should 
be the daily habit. 

In family serving, wait until all are helped before 
you begin to eat, and be on the alert to assist in the 
serving as much as possible. But where there are 
trained waiters and several courses, begin as soon as 
you are helped that there may be no delay. 

Keep the spoon in the saucer, because if left in the 
cup, both are liable to be overturned. 

Do not talk or drink while food is in the mouth. 

Take your soup quietly, from the side of the spoon, 



LESSON XX. — TABLE MAXXEKS. 219 

lest in bending your arm to put the end of the sj^oon in 
your mouth you interfere with your next neiglibor. 
Dip it into tlie plate from instead of toward you, and 
thus avoid dripping the soup. 

Break the bread or roll, and eat it separately, not in 
the soup, because it is awkward to take the bread from 
the side of the spoon. Never lay the bread on the 
table while spreading it with butter, nor bite from a 
large piece. Break off a small portion, and spread with 
butter as needed. 

Use the knife only as a divider; use the fork to con- 
vey the food to the mouth. Do not pile food on the 
back of the fork, but pick it up with the fork, or when 
necessary hold the fork inside up and use it as you 
would a spoon. Keep a bit of bread in the left hand to 
assist in the use of the fork. 

In passing your plate for a second portion remove the 
knife and fork, letting them rest on the edge of tlie 
butter-plate, or on a bit of bread, but do not hold them 
in your hand. When not using the knife as a divider, 
keep it on the butter-plate, and then if you have occasion 
to pass your plate the knife is already out of the way. 

During the meal keep everything about your plate 
as neat as possible, and after passing anything put it 
back in its place. 

When your meal or one course is finished, place the 
knife and fork in the centre of the phite, the tines down 
and liandles directly in front, that they may not be in 
ilie way in removing the phite. This signifies to a 
trained waitress that you are ready to liave your plate 
removed. 

At the close of the meal fold your napkin, that the 
iable may be left in an orderly condition. 



220 BOSTON SCHOOL kitciip:x text-book. 

Whether serving, waiting, or eating, do everything 
quietly, easily, and neatly. Never be so absorbed in 
your own enjoyment of a meal as to be unmindful of 
the needs of others. 

If you are in doubt as to what to do, imitate as far as 
possible those whose habits show that their opportuni- 
ties for cultivating good manners have been superior to 
yours ; but un the other hand, when with those whose 
privileges are less than yours, make no pretentious or 
unnecessary display, and never cause any one discom- 
fort by noticing any habit that may not be in accord- 
ance with your notions. Should you be at a table 
where butter-knives are not provided, it would be more 
courteous quietly to use your own knife than to call 
attention to the omission. If an elderly guest prefers 
to drink her tea from the saucer, make her feel more at 
ease by taking yours in the same way. Should a friend 
prefer sugar and vinegar, rather than French dressing 
on lettuce, or prefer to eat celery with the other dishes 
instead of by itself, allow her to do so and never call 
attention to any personal preferences. 

It is not a breach of good manners if you happen to 
eat your oysters with the connnon fork because you arc 
unfamiliar with the one provided for that purpose, or 
choose a small spoon instead of a large one for your 
soup, or prefer to soak your bread or toast in your soup 
or coftee ; but it is unpardonable to annoy others by 
noisily eating, or drinking, or smacking the lips, or by 
picking the teeth at the table or doing anything that 
would interfere with another person's liberty or enjoy- 
ment. And it is equally unpardonable and even more 
impolite to be anno^'ed by anj-tliing in others whom you 
are nut at liberty to correct and whose intentions are 



LESSON XX. — TABLE MANNERS. 221 

kind even if some of their habits may be awkward. Xo 
matter how you may feel or what the blunder or accident 
may be, never show any displeasure to either servant or 
guest. " Be mistress of yourself though china fall." 

Many more hints might be given but the following 
general suggestion will apply to every occasion. 

In table etiquette any custom is commendable that 
is based on the golden rule, or is sanctioned by those 
whose general behavior — not table manners, merely — 
sliows that good-breeding with them means, not selfish- 
ness, but thouglitfulness for others. But all notions 
whose root is in a desire to imitate persons whose style 
of living is pretentious, and whose tastes and habits 
are capricious are worse than useless. They destroy 
alike our happiness and our self-respect. 

Suggestion to the Teacher. 

All schools should have dishes sufficient to set a table, for 
it is highly desirable that the pupils occasionally prepare 
a complete meal and be trained in the proper serving of it. 
But if the table conveniences be limited, much may be taught 
by using the common cooking dishes, and if there be not 
time to prepare a dinner, a form or ceremony may be gone 
through with, which will impress upon the minds of the 
pupils all the important points in laying the table, waiting 
upon people, and in personal habits at the table. This in- 
struction need not be left until the last lesson, but may be 
given in portions whenever there is opportunity. 



222 J5()ST()N SCHOOL KITCHEN TEXT-BOOK. 

RECEIPTS FOR LESSON XX. 

Chocolate and Cocoa. 

1 c. milk scalded. I 1 oz. or square chocolate. 

1 c. hot water. | 1 tbsp. sugar. 

Cut the chocolate in small pieces and put it with tlie 
sugar and 2 tbsp. of the water into a saucepan. Stir 
ov^er the fire until smooth and glossy. Add the re- 
mainder of the water gradually, and then the milk. 
Serve at once. Use twice as much chocolate if a richer 
drink be desired. For cocoa use 1 tbsp. 

Coffee. 

1 hp. tbsp. coffee to 1 c. boiling water. 

Eeduce the proportion of coffee, taking level tbsp. 
when several cups are required. Mix the coffee with 
1 clean egg shell or 1 inch of fish skin. Put it in the 
pot, add the boiling water, and boil only 5 m. Set it 
where it will keep hot but not boil. Add >^ c. of cold 
water. Pour out a little and pour it back, to clean the 
Q-rounds from tlie spout. 



o 



Questions on Lesson XX. 

This is to be a general examination. Each teacher 
should therefore be left to prepare her own questions, being 
expected so to frame them as to bring out in the answer the 
various and complete knowledge of the pupils. 



COST OF FOOD MATERIAL. 



223 



TABLE OF AVERAGE COST OF MATERLVL USED IN COOKIXG. 



I cup of flour or meal 




80.01 


1 pound of spaghetti . . . 


$0.16 


t " sugar . . 




.06 


1 " cornstarch . . 


.10 


1 " butter . . 




.20 


1 can of tomatoes . . . 


.15 


1 egg 




.03 


1 " salmon .... 


.18 


1 cup of molasses . . 




.05 


1 " lob^^ter .... 


.15 


1 " milk . . . 




.02 


1 " devilled ham and ton 


gue .30 


1 tablespoonful of wine . 


.02 


1 tumbler of jelly . . . 


.35 


1 " " brand}' 


.04 


1 jar of marmalade . . . 


.25 


1 teaspoonful of vanilla . 


.02 


1 pound of tea .... 


.75 


1 u ,i gpice . . 


.02 


1 " coffee. . . . 


.38 


1 " " soda, and S 




1 " chocolate . . 


.40 


teaspoonf uls of cream of tar 


tar .02 


i " nutmeg . . . 


.32 


] tablespoonful of butter . 


.03 


\ " mace .... 


.60 


Butter size of an egg . . 


.05 


^ " cloves, cassia . 


.15 


1 tablespoonful of olive oil 


.02 


I " ginger . . . 


.10 


2 tablespoon f uls of coffee . 


.05 


i " mustard . . . 


.12 


2 teaspoonfuls of tea . . 


.01 


^ " herbs, ground . 


.10 


1 quart of milkman's cream 


.25 


Package of whole herbs 


.OS 


1 " Deerfoot cream . 


.60 


1 pound of cheese . . . 


.18 


1 box of gelatine .... 


.16 


1 " Parmesan cheese 


.50 






.02 


1 peck of potatoes . . . 
" apples .... 


.25 


1 orange .... 




.03 


.50 


1 pound of raisins . 




.18 


1 quart of onions .... 


.10 






.10 
18 




.02 


1 " citron 


1 turnio . 


05 


1 '* crackers . 




.10 


1 bunch of celery .... 


.20 


1 " tapioca . 




.07 


1 handful of parsley . . 


.05 


1 " rice • . 




.09 


1 bunch of watercresses . 


.05 


I '• macaroni 




.18 


1 head of lettuce .... 


.10 



These prices are for the best materials, and are estimated 
for the season, from October to June, when butter and eggs 



are higher than dui 



the summer. 



224 BOSTON SCHOOL KITCHEN TEXT-BOOK. 



TABLE OF COST OF MEAT AND GAME. 



Shin of beef, 


3 to 6 cts. per lb. 


Middlecutof shin, 7 tolO " 


Lower part of 




round, 


13 to 15 " " 


Vein, 


20 to 25 " 


Top of round, 


20 to 25 " 


Aitch bone, 


8 to 10 " 


Face of rump, 


17 to 22 " 


Middle '' 


25 to 28 " 


Back 


22 to 30 " 


Sirloin, 


28 to 33 " 


Whole tenderloin,75c. to $1.00 " 


Small " 


30 to 45 cts. " 


Tip of sirloin. 


22 to 30 " 


First cut of rib. 


17 to 25 " 


Second cut of rib 


15 to 20 " " 


Chuck rib, 


7 toll " " 


Second cut rib, 




corned. 


12 to 15 " 


Brisket, 


8 to 12 " 


Boneless brisket. 


15 " 


Flank, 


6 to 11 " " 


Liver, 


10 to 12 " 


Tripe, plain. 


6 to 18 " " 


Tripe, honey-comb, 15 " " 


Heart, 


3 to 10 " 


Suet, 


7 to 12 " 


Mutton, leg, 


12 to 20 " " 


Mutton, loin, 


14 to 20 '• 


Mutton, saddle. 


15 to 20 " 


Mutton, chops, 


15 to 25 " 


Mutton, fore 




quarter, 


8 to 12 " 


Mutton, neck, 


6 to 9 " 



Lamb, leg, 
Lamb, chops. 
Lamb, fore 

quarter, 
Veal, knuckle, 
Veal, cutlet. 
Veal, breast, 
Sweetbreads, 
Calf's liver, 
Calf's heart, 
Calf's head. 
Fresh pork. 
Salt pork, 
Bacon, bag. 
Bacon, sliced, 
Ham, bag, 
Ham, sliced. 
Lard, 
Leaf lard. 
Sausage, 
Turkeys, 
Fowl, 
Chickens, 
Ducks, wild, 
Ducks, tame. 
Ducks, Canvas- 
back, 
Grouse, 
Partridge, 
Pigeon, wild, 
Pigeon, tame, 
Squab, 
Quail, 



each. 



per lb. 



14 to 30 cts. per lb. 

15 to 40 '• " 

10 to 25 " " 
12 to 17 " 

22 to 28 " 

9 to 14 " 

25 to 70 " wlude. 
25 to 70 " 

5 to 8 
25 to 60 

9 to 15 

11 to 15 
17 to 20 
15 to 18 

17 to 20 
20 to 25 

11 to 15 
10 to 15 " " 

12 to 20 " " 
20 to 35 " " 
12 to 30 " 

18 to 75 " 

25 c. to $1.50 each. 
20 to 37 cts. per lb. 

$1.50 to $2.00 each. 
75 c. to $1.25 " 
75 c. to $1.25 " 
75 c. to $2.00 per d. 
12^ to 25 cts. each. 
$2.50 to $4.50 per d. 
$;L50to$3.00 '♦ 



<( 



TABLE OF THE COST, Etc., OF FISH. 



225 



TABLE OF THE COST, Etc., OF FISH. 

[Where no time is soccified the fish are always in season.] 





Cost. 


Weight. 


How Sold. 


When in 
Season. 


Cod. 


8 cts. per lb. 


3 to 20 lbs. 


Whole. 




Haddock. 


6 to 8 cts per lb. 


5 to 8 lbs. 


Whole. 




Cusk. 


8 cts. per lb. 


5 to 8 lbs. 


Whole. 


Winter. 


Halibut. 


12 to 20 cts. per lb. 




By the lb. 




Flounders. 


6 to 10 cts. per lb. 


1 to 5 lbs. 


Whole. 




Salmon. 


25 to 50 cts. per lb. 




By the lb. 


May to Sept. 


Shad. 


^ 1.25 in March 
25 cts. in May. 




Whole. 


Spring. 


Blue-fish. 


7 to 15 cts. per lb. 


4 to 10 lbs 


Whole. 


.Tune to Oct. 


Tautog. 


12 cts. per lb. 





Whole. 


July to Sept. 


White-fish. 


20 cts. per lb. 


4 lbs. 


Whole. 


Winter. 


Bass. 


12 to 25 cts. per lb. 


3 to 8 lbs. 


Whole. 




Sword-fish. 


15 cts. per. lb. 




By the lb. 


July to Sept. 


Smelts. 


10to25cts. per lb. 


j Average 
1 8 to a lb. 


.... 


Sept. to Mar. 


Perch. 


20 cts. per dozen. 




.... 


Summer. 


Pickerel. 


15 cts. per lb. 


1 to 4 lbs. 


Whole. 




Trout, Brook. 


75 cts. per lb. 




Whole. 


Spring. 


Mackerel. 


5 to 25 cts. each. 




Whole. 


April to Oct. 


Eels. 


15 cts. per lb. 


i to 1 lb. 


Whole. 




Lobsters. 


12 cts. per lb. 


1 to 2 lbs. 






Oysters. 


35 to 50 cts. per qt. 





.... 


Sept. to May. 


Clams. 


20 cts. per qt. ; 40 
cts. per pk. in 
the shell. 








Crabs. 


$1.25 to .$1.50 per 
dozen. 


.... 


.... 


Summer. 


Herring. 


20 cts. per dozen. 





.... 


^Lir. & Apr. 


Salt Cod-fish. 


10 cts. per lb., best. 








Smoked Fish. 


20 to 35 cts. per lb. 









ADDITIONAL KECEIPTS. 

As a lesson in some dishes which are in common 
use would require too long a time, or would be too ex- 
pensive to attempt at the school, the following receipts 
are given for those pupils who wish to try them at 
home : — 



Baked Beans. 



1 qt. pea beans. 

y^ lb. salt pork, fat and lean. 

1 tsp. salt. 



1 tsp. mustard. 
y% c. molasses. 



Soak the beans in cold water over night. In the 
morning put them into fresh cold water, and simmer 
till soft enough to pierce with a pin, being careful not 
to let them cook enough to break. If you like, cook one 
onion with them. When soft, turn them into a colander, 
and pour cold water through them. Place them with 
the onion in a bean-pot. Pour boiling water over the 
pork ; scrape the rind till white ; cut the rind in half- 
inch strips ; bury the pork iu tlie beans, leaving only 
the rind exposed. Mix the salt — use more if the pork 
is not very salt — and mustard with tlie molasses. Fill 
the cup with hot water, and when well mixed pour it 
over the beans ; add enough more water to cover tliem. 
Keep them covered with water until the last hour, then 
lift the pork to the surface and let it crisp. Bake 8 h. 
in a moderate oven. Use more salt and yi c. butter 
if you dislike pork, or use ^4 lb. fat and lean corned 
beef. If liked richer use 1 lb. pork. 



ADDITIONAL RECEIPTS. 227 

The mustard gives the beans a delicious flavor, and 
also renders them more wholesome. Many add a tea- 
spoonful of soda to the water in which the beans are 
boiled, to destroy the acid in the skin of the beans. 
Yellow-eyed beans and Lima beans are also good when 
baked. 

Corned Beef. 

Select a piece of beef which has a fair proportion of 
fat — the brisket or second cut of rattle rand — and has 
not been in the brine more tlian three or four days. 
Wash quickly in cold water. Beef that is very salt 
should be soaked in cold water ; but if only slightly 
salted, use boiling water that the goodness may be kept 
in the meat. Cover with boiling water and skim care- 
fully when it begins to boil. Cook slowly, simmering 
(not boiling) until so tender that you can pick it to 
pieces with a fork. Let the water boil away toward 
the last, and let the beef stand in the water until par- 
tially cooled. Lift it out of the water with a skimmer, 
and pack it in a brick-loaf pan ; let the long fibres run 
the length of the pan ; mix in the fat so that it will be 
well marbled. Put a thin board, a trifle smaller than 
the inside of the pan, over the meat, and press by put- 
ting a heavy weight on the board. When cold, cut in 
thin slices. It has a very attractive appearance, and is 
a delicious way of preparing the meat. It is also the 
most appetizing way of serving the fat of the meat, 
whicli in corned beef is the most nutritious part, and 
is often untouched if offered in a mass on the edge of 
the lean. 



228 BOSTON SCHOOL KITCHEN TEXT-BOOK. 



Boiled Dinner. 



4 lbs. corned beef. 
2 beets. 

1 small cabbage. 

2 small carrots. 



1 small French turnip, 

6 potatoes. 

1 small squash. 



Wash the meat quickly in cold water, and if very 
salt, soak it y^, h. Put it in the kettle, cover with 
boiling water, and simmer about three hours, or till 
tender. Wash the vegetables, scrape the carrots, and 
cut the cabbage into quarters ; pare the turnip and 
squash, cut into three-quarter inch slices, and pare the 
potatoes. Two hours before dinner-time skim off all 
the fat from the liquid, and add more boiling water. Re- 
move the meat when tender, then put in the carrots, 
afterward the cabbage and turnip, and ^ h. before din- 
ner add the squash and potatoes. Cook the beets sepa- 
rately. When tender take the vegetables up carefully, 
drain the water from the cabbage by pressing it in a col- 
ander, slice the carrots and beets, and cover the beets 
with vinegar. Put the meat in the centre of a large 
dish, and serve the carrots, turnips, and potatoes round 
the edge, with the squash, cabbage, and beets in sepa- 
rate dishes. 

General Rule for Baked Meat. 

All meat for baking or roasting should be dredged 
all over with salt and flour, but not until just before 
cooking. Salt draws out a little of the juice, but the 
flour absorbs it, and when the heat hardens the albumen, 
this helps to make a thick crust through which the 
juices cannot escape. 



ADDITIONAL RECEIPTS. 229 

Use 110 water at first, nor at all with small pieces 
which require quick cooking or to be done rare ; but 
after the first searing, large pieces that require to be 
cooked thoroughly may have a little water added to 
prevent them from burning or becoming too dry. Baste 
often, and bake according to the table on page 155. 

EoAST Chicken. 

Clean and prepare the chicken as directed in Lesson 
XVII. 

Stuffing. — Moisten 1 c. cracker or soft bread crumbs 
with i^ c. melted butter, season highly with mixed 
sweet herbs. 

Place the chicken on one side on a rack in a drip- 
ping-pan. Rub all over with salt, soft butter, or 
dripping and flour. Put 3 tbsp. of chicken fat or beef 
dripping over it and in the pan. Use no water at first. 
Put the pan in a very hot oven with the oven rack 
underneath to keep the fat from burning. 

In 5 m. check the heat, baste with the fat, and 
wlien the flour is brown add a cup of hot water and 
baste often, adding more hot water as it boils away. 
Turu the chicken that it may brown uniformly, and 
baste often tliat it may not become dry. 

Bake a 4-lb. chicken 1]4 h., or until the joints sepa- 
rate easily. Pour off nearly all the fat, thicken the 
liquid in the pan with flour wet in cold water, cook 
10 m., and strain the gravy before serving. 

Indian-Meal Pudding. 

Rub 1 tbsp. of butter around the bottom and sides 
of a smooth iron kettle, — i?raiii^6 or porcelain will 



230 BOSTON SCHOOL KITCHEN TEXT-BOOK. 

do ; when melted, add >^ c. boiling water. This will 
prevent the milk from burning. Add 1 qt. milk. Let 
it boil up and almost over the kettle ; then sift ia 
1 pt. of fine yellow granulated corn-meal, sifting with 
the left hand, and holding the meal high, that every 
grain may be thoroughly scalded. Stir constantly; add 
^ tsp. salt, and set away till cold. Then add ^ pt. of 
New Orleans molasses and 1 qt. of cold milk. Put 
into a well-buttered deep pudding-dish, cover with a 
plate, and bake very slowly 10 or 12 h. Put it in a 
" Saturday-afternoon oven," where the fire will keep 
low nearly all night. Let it remain over night, and 
serve for a Sunday breakfast. 

Berry Charlotte. 

Stew 1 pt. of berries, — either blueberries, raspber- 
ries, or blackberries, — sweeten to taste, mash well, and 
pour it, boiling hot, over soft white bread. Have the 
bread cut in small, thin squares, arrange a layer in a 
bowl or mould, and pour on enough sirup to w^et the 
bread, then another layer of bread and sirup. When 
cold, turn out and serve with cream. Berries that have 
large seeds may be strained after stewdng. 

Chocolate Creams. 

Put the white of 1 egg in a small glass, then measure 
an equal quantity of cold water, add 1 tsp. of vanilla, 
and beat thoroughly. Beat in gradually enough con- 
fectioner's sugar, sifted, to make a stiff dough. Mould 
small pieces of the mixture into the shape of thimbles ; 
put them on a buttered pan in a cool place to harden. 
Melt 2 squares of Baker's chocolate in a saucer over the 



ADDITIONAL KECEIPTS. 231 

teakettle. When the cream balls are hard, dip them 
in the melted chocolate. Use two steel forks, let the 
balls drain on the forks, then put them on the tins 
again till dry. 

Creamed Walnuts. 

The white of 1 egg and an equal amount of cold 
water, flavored with 1 tsp. of lemon or vanilla. Beat 
until thoroughly mixed, then beat in confectioner's 
sugar, sifted, until the dough is stiff enough to mould. 
Break off pieces the size of a nutmeg, roll them in the 
palm of the hands until smooth and round. Press the 
halved walnut-meats on each side, letting the cream 
show slightly between the meats. One egg will require 
about 1 y^ lb. of sugar. 

Creamed Dates, Almonds, etc. 

Stone the dates and shell the almonds. Make the 
sugar dough as directed for creamed walnuts. Put a 
ball of the dough into the centre of tlie date and cover 
the almonds with the dough. Creamed nut-cakes may 
be prepared by stirring the chopped nuts into the dough. 
Press it out into a flat sheet J{ inch thick, then cut in 
inch squares. 

Banana and Lemon-Jelly Cream. 



)2 box gelatine. 
1 c. cold water. 
1 pt. boiling water. 



1 c. suf^ar. 

34' c. lemon juice. 

1 square inch stick cinnamon. 



Soak the gelatine in the cold water. Shave tlie 
lemon rind, using none of the white. Steep it with 
the ciunamon in the boiling water 10 m. ; add the 



232 BOSTON SCHOOL KITCHEN TEXT-BOOK. 

soaked gelatine, sugar, and lemon juice, and when dis- 
solved, strain into shallow dishes. When cold, cut it 
in dice or break it up with a fork, put it in a glass dish 
in layers with sliced bananas. Pour a cold boiled cus- 
tard over them, and cover with a meringue. Brown the 
meringue on a plate, and slip it off over the custard. 

Orange Jelly. 

Yz box gelatine.i I Juice 1 lemon. 

^ c. cold water. 1 c. sugar. 

1 e. boiling water. 1 1 pt. orange juice. 

Soak the gelatine in cold water until soft. Add the 
boiling water, the lemon juice, sugar, and orange juice. 
Stir till the sugar is dissolved, then strain through fine 
linen into moulds or shallow pans, wiiicli have been w^et 
in cold water. 



Fruit Ice-Cream. 



3 oranges. 
3 lemons. 
3 bananas. 



3^ can apricots. 

3 c. sugar. 

3 c. cold water. 



Place a strainer over a large bowl, squeeze into it the 
juice of the oranges and lemons, then add the bananas 
and apricots, and rub them through the strainer. Add the 
cold water to help in the sifting. Add the sugar, and 
v.dien it is dissolved, freeze the same as any ice-cream. 
Add from 3^ c. to 1 pt. of cream if you have it, but the 
mixture is delicious without the cream. 

^ lyi tbsp. granulated gelatine equals yi box. 



ALPHABETICAL INDEX. 



Abbreviations 
Albumen ... 
Albuminous Foods 
Almonds, Creamed 
Apple, Baked 

Pie . . 

Sauce 

Scalloped 

Steamed 

Water . 
Ash ... 
Ashes . . . 
Asparagus 



PAGE 

. 11 

20, 33 

20 

231 

25 

1G5 

129 

189 

53 

97 

22 

6, 7 

38 



Baking, Heat for 153 

Time-table for .... 155 

Bakiiii,^-Powdcr 117 

Ikinaiia and Lemon-Jelly Cream 231 

Bailey ' . . . 175 

Batters 131, 139 

Beans 38, 176 

Baked 220 

Soup 87 

Beating' 132 

Beef, Corned 227 

Juice 108 

Smothered 63 

Stew 128 

Tea 42, 04 

To Choose 55, 59 

Beets 38 

Berry Charlotte 230 

Biscuit 129 

lUanc Mange 108 

Boiled Dinner 2J8 



PAGE 

Boiling 29 

Braizing 126 

Brass, To Clean xvii 

Bread Boards, To Clean . . . xvii 

Bread, Chemistry of ... . 149 

Crumbs 11 

Receipt for 154 

Brewis 25 

Broiled Chops 119 

Meat Cakes 119 

Steak 119 

Broiling Ill 

Pan 114 

Time-table for .... 115 

Broth, Scotch 178 

Buckwheat 175 

Burning Point 5 

Butter, Drawn 198 

Cabbage 38, 39, 138 

Cake 203 

Plain 206 

Water Sponge . . . . 20f? 

Caper Sauce 03 

Carbo-IIydrates 21 

Carbon xxii, 2, 4 

Carbonaceous Food .... 21 
Carbonic Acid Gas . 117, 140, 141 

Caulillower 38 

Celery 38 

Charcoal 3 

Charlotte, Berry 230 

Charts xvii 

Cheese 25 

Chicken, Fricassee .... 187 



234 



ALPHABETICAL INDEX. 



PA( ; F, 

Chicken, Roast 229 

Soup 38U 

Chocolate 232 

Creams 230 

Chops 119 

Chowder 126 

Cleaning, Rules 'or .... xvi 

Coal 3,4 

Cocoa Shells 99 

Coffee 222 

Coke 4 

Cold Slaw 188 

Combustion 5 

Animal 19 

Cookies 145 

Cooking, Meaning of ... . 1 

Copper, To Clean xvii 

Corn Cake . 144 

Scalded 179 

Meal 174 

Mush 180 

Corned Beef 227 

Cottage Pie 77 

Cracker Brew is 25 

Crackers, Baked . . ; . . 25 

Cranberries 188 

Cream of tartar 140 

Crisps, Wheat 146 

Croutons 10 

Currants 121 

Custard 52 

Dates, Creamed 231 

Diastase 151 

Diet, Animal or Vegetable . . 105 

for Children, etc. . 171, 173 

Digestion 91 

Dishes, Rules for Cleaning . . xvi 

Dough 115 

Dou^jhnuts 146 

Drawn Butter 1'j8 

Dropped Eggs , 207 

Dumplings 127, 128 

Eggnog 107 

Eggs 201 



PAOB 

Eggs, Boiled . . .41, 42, 49 

Coddled 53 

Dropped or Poached . . 207 

Egg Vermicelli 208 

Fat of Meat 61 

Clarified 62, 64 

Fats 21 

Ferment 150 

Fermentation 150 

Fires 5, 7, 8 

Fish 193 

Paked 195 

Balls 199 

Boiled 196 

Broiled 195 

Chowder 198 

Fried 197 

Scalloped ...... 194 

Steamed 194 

Flame 4 

Food, Adaptation of . . . 171-174 

Care of 161-164 

Cheapest 174 

Classification of ... . 20 

Combination of ... . 50 

for an Invalid . ... 95 

Nourishing 103 

Nutritious 103 

Object of ..... -"S-IS 

Proportion of 103 

Stimulating 103 

Fowl, To Prepare for Cooking . 183 

Fricassee 126 

Chicken 187 

Veal 187 

Frosting 207 

Fruit Ice-Cream 232 

Pudding 120 

Frying 142 

Fuel 3 

Gas 4 

Giblets 184 

Ginger-bread 145 

Gluten 149 

C^ahain Gems ...... 135 



ALPHABETICAL INDEX. 



235 



PACE 

Gravies 73 

Griddle Cakes 135 

Gruels 98 



Haricot 


. . 136 


Hash 


72,78 


Heart, Baked .... 


. 63 


Heat 


2 


for Baking .... 


. Voi 


Hominv 


. 52 


Housekeepers, Rules lor . . 


XIV, XV 


Hydrogen 


. XXll 



Ice-Cream 102 

for ail Invalid .... 108 

Fruit 232 

Ice, To Chip 9'J 

Indian Corn 174 

Meal Pudding .... 229 

Indigestible Food 104 

Invalid Caring for an . . . 94 

Cookery 91-101 

Food for an 95 

Iri^h Moss Jolly 97 

(talian Paste 75 



Jelly, Irisli Moss 
Lemon 
Orange 



Keh»)SENE. 



97 
2;]1 
232 



Lemonade 97 

Lemon Jelly 231 

Sauce ' 120 

Lettuce 189 

Lobsters 202 

Plain 210 

Stewed 210 

To Select and Open . . . 210 

Macaroni 75, 77 

Management of Classes ... xi 



PAGE 

Meat 55 

Baked 228 

Boiled 59 

Pie 77 

Roasted 60 

Smothered 61 

Steamed 61 

Warmed over .... 71-78 

Measuring 24 

Milk 48, 172 

Porridge L.8 

Toast . . .... 107 

Minced Meat 77 

Mince Pies KiiJ 

Mineral Food 22 

Mixing Uz, 141 

Molasses 140, 141 

Cookies 145 

Ginger-bread 145 

Muffins 139 

Fried Rye 146 

Rye 145 

Mutton, Boiled 63 

Scalloped 77 

Nickel Plate, To Clean . . xvii 
Nitrogen xxi 

Nitrogenous Foods .... 20 



Oat.meal . . 




. . 47, 174 


Gruel . . 




. . 'j8 


Mush 




. . r.2 


Omelet . . . 




. . 207 


Orange, for an Ln 


■alid . 


. . 18 


Jellv . . 




. . 252 


Ox, Diagram of 




. 65, tjt; 


Oxvgeii . . • 




. . XXI 


Ovsters 




. . 202 


Fried . . . 




. . 2t)9 


Scalloped . 




. . 209 


Stewed . 




. . 209 


To I'arhoil . 




. . 208 


To Prepare 




. . 208 


Pan Buoillno 




. . 114 


l^ancalu's. Snow 




. . 136 


Pur.slev Sauce 




. '^ 



23G 



ALPHABETICAL INDEX. 



pa(.;k 

Pastry 165 

Peas 176 

]*ea Soup 178 

Petroleum 4 

Phosphorus 5 

Pies 165 

Apple 165 

Custard 106 

Mince 166 

Rhubarb 166 

Squash 166 

Pop-overs 136 

Porridge, Milk 98 

Potato Cakes 41 

Soup 87 

Potatoes 34 

Baked 11 

Boiled 41 

Creamed 168 

Lyonnaise 167 

ftlashed 41 

E-iced 41 

Steamed 53 

Pot Pie 126 

Poultry, To Prepare .... 183 

Proteids 20 

Prunes 129 

Puddings, Berry Charlotte . . 230 

Cream Rice 189 

Fruit Suet ]20 

Ginger 120 

Indian Meal 229 

Plain 120 

Scalloped Apple .... 189 

Pudding Sauce 120 

Ragout 126 

Raisins 121 

Rhubarb, Steamed .... 188 

Water 60 

dice 48 

Pudding 189 

Steamed 52, 175 

Roasting Meat 60, 118 

Rolling 141 

Rye Meal and Flour .... 175 

Muffins 145 

Fried 146 



PAQB 

Salmi 126 

Salt 22 

Sauce, Caper 63 

Drawn Butter .... 198 

Egg 198 

Lemon 120 

Pudding 120 

Tomato 78 

AVhite 78 

Sauces 74 

Scalloped Apple 189 

Dishes 73 

Fish 194 

Meat 77 

Mutton 77 

Oysters 209 

Scotch Broth 178 

Shells, Cocoa 99 

Soda 14C 

Soup 81 

Baked Bean 87 

Chicken 186 

Macaroni 86 

Pea 178 

Potato 87 

Rice 87 

Scotch Broth 178 

Stock 82, 86 

Vegetable 85, 86 

Sour Milk 140 

Spaghetti 75 

Starch 32 

Steak 119 

Steaming 43 

Stews 125 

Beef 128 

Oyster 209 

Stimulants 103 

Stimulating Food 103 

Stirring 132 

Stock 82, 86 

Stoves 6 

Stuffing, for Chicken . . . . 229 

Fish 197 

Baked Heart . . 63 

Suet 118 

Pudding .... 119, 120 

To Chop 121 



ALPHABETICAL INDEX. 



237 



Tables, To Clean . . 
of the Cost of Food 

Tea 

Thickening .... 

Time-table for Baking 
Boiling 
Broiling 

Toast 



. xvu 
. 225 
95,99 
33, 73 
. 155 
. 39 
. 115 
101, 107 
Tomato Sauce 78 



Veal 185 

Fricassee 187 

Vegetables, General Rules for . 37 

Soup 85 



I'AGK 

Vermicelli 75 

^gg 208 

Walnuts, Creamed . . . . 23J 

Warming over VI 

Water 2-3 

Weights, Table of 24 

Wheat 52, 149 

Crisps 146 

Wheatena 108 

Wood 3 

Yeast 151 

rotate 157 



THE NEW YORK PUBLIC LIBRARY 

REFERENCE DEPARTMENT 



This book is under no circumstances to be 
taken from the Building 



np t n n 


If 




SEP z f m 


-. 




ocr ^ 2f9js 




1 








fHAY ' ^ ' 






i^f^-> 












f«*** 






,■.,:■ ■ ■] 


i3 








































forni 410 







