liHiilPiiMv 



ROMAN COOKS 






CORNELIA GASKINS HARCUM 

Instructor in Greek, Wellesley College 



a )a[)t0s;ertatio«^ 



SUBMITTED TO THB BOARD OF UNIVERSITY STUDIES OF THE JOHNS HOPKINS X7NIVEB8ITY 

IN CONFORMITY WITH THE REQUIREMENTS FOB THE DECREE OP 

DOCTOR OF PHILOSOPHY 

1913 



BALTIMORE 

J. H. FURST COMPANY 
1914 



ROMAN COOKS 



j* 9-i) 



CORNELIA GASKINS HARCUM 

Instructor in Greek, Wellesley College 



2 Disfgertacion 



8UBUITTBD TO THE BOARD OF UNIVKRSlTy STUDIES OF THE JOHNS HOPKINS UKIVEBSITY 

IN CONFORMITY WITH THE REQUIREMENTS FOE THB DB«BKE OF 

DOCTOR OF PHILOSOPHY 

1913 



BALTIMORE 
J. H. FURST COMPANY 

1914 






1 ■ i .- f 



CONTENTS 



Page 

Introductory Remarks ------ 5 



Chapter I, — The Latin Word for Cook 



^-4W' 1 ''7 -S 



Chapter II. — A Brief Sketch of the Development of 

Cooking as an Art Among the Romans, 9 

Chapter III. — Cooks in Plautus, Greek or Roman ? - 15 

Chapter IV. — The Nationality of Cooks - - - 21 

Chapter V. — Names of Cooks - - - - 25 

Chapter VI. — Characteristics of Cooks - - - 39 

Chapter VIL— The Cost of Cooks - - - - 51 

Chapter y III. —The 'Macellum' - - - - 58 

Chapter IX. — The Social Position of Cooks and the 

Esteem in Which They Were Held - 62 

Chapter X. — Chief Cook and His Assistants - - 69 

Chapter XI. — 'Collegia' ----- 73 

Bibliography - --83 

Vita ---------- 85 



INTRODUCTORY REMARKS 



This study of Roman cooks may be considered a companion 
piece to Edwin Moore Rankin's dissertation whicli was pub- 
lished in Chicago, 1907, on The Role of the MdjeipoL in the 
Life of the Ancient Greeks. I have consulted his work par- 
ticularly on all questions concerning the cook in Greece, and 
wish to express acknowledgment for the information thus 
gained. 

While the Roman cook occupies a far less prominent place 
in literature than does the Greek, he doubtless was quite as 
V important a factor, at least in later Roman times, in the daily 
life of the people. The very fact of the scarcity of material 
and consequent lack of information in regard to him, may be 
given as the raison d'etre of the following study. 

Aside from Plautus and Petronius, Latin authors mention 
cooks only in scattered passages. While the baker has received 
rather much attention from modern writers, the cook has been 
comparatively neglected. The most comprehensive study of 
the subject is to be found in the article by E. Pettier, in Darem- 
berg et Saglio, Dictionnaire des Antiquites grecques et ro- 
maines, under ' coquus,' and this on the Roman side covers only 
a page. Other works which devote a small space to the cook 
are Bllimner's Technologie mid Terminologie der Gewerhe und 
Kiinste bei Griechen und R'6mer7i, Leipzig und Berlin, 1912, 
pp. 91-92, and his Romische Privat-Altertiitner, in Miiller's 
Handhuch, rv, 2, ii, 192, 594; Marquardt, Das Privatlehen der 
Romer, Leipzig, 1886, i, 146; and De Ruggiero's Dizionario 
Epigrafico di Antichita Romane, under ' cocus.' These works, 
however, have little to say on the subject, and other books on 
Roman private life dismiss the cook with a line, a paragraph, 
or at most a page. 

The following study is an attempt to bring together as far 

5 



6 Roman Cooks 

as possible all literary and epigraphieal evidence on the hnmble 
profession of the cook, and from this evidence to draw some 
conclusions vrhich will bring us in closer touch with the daily 
private life of the old Romans. 



Roman Cooks 

CHAPTER I 
THE LATIN WORD FOR OOOK 



The usual word for cook in Latin is ' coquus/ or ' oociis/ for 
both of these spellings are constantly found, Priscian, how- 
ever (Keil, Orammatici Latini, ii, 36, 14), says, that ' apud 
antiquos frequentissime loco ' cu ' syllaba ' quu ' ponebatur 
. . . ut ' coquus ' . . . pro ' cocus.' In inscriptions ' cocus ' is 
the common form, but in literature, to quote the Thesawras Lin- 
guae Latinae under ' coquus,' ' utraque forma prorsus promiscue 
habetur.' ' Coquos ' is also a form of the nominative singular in 
some manuscripts of Plautus. Donatus on Terence, Adelplwe, 
423, says, ' apud veteres coquus non per ' c ' litteram sed per ' q ' 
scribebatur,' and in Plautus, Aulularia, 346, the nominative 
plural is ' quoqui.' The pun of Cicero, quoted by Quintilian, 
Institutiones Oratoriae, vi, 3, 47, seems to point to a later use 
of a nominative singular ' quoquus,' but this play on words in 
the remark addressed to the son of a cook, " Ego quoque tibi 
favebo," probably depends on the similar pronunciation of c 
and qu. Most of the manuscripts of Plautus, Menaechmi, 141, 
give a nominative singular ' quocus.' For other forms of the 
word in Plautus see Lodge's Lexicon Plant inum, under ' coquos.' 
In C. I. L. XI, 3078, we find a nominative plural ^ ququei,' and 
in C. I. L. xiv^ 2875, ' coques.' C. I. L. iv, Supplement, 6853, 
reads ' coco venit.' ' Cocula ' is the diminutive for cook, Varro 
apud ISTonium, 531, 532. By metonymy the adjective 'coquinus' 
may also be used for cook, Hieronymus, Regula, 8 ; Pachomii, 
80. For spelling of the word for cook consult also Georges, 
Lexihon der lateinischen Wortformen, under ' coquos.' 

The verb ^ coquere ' is derived, like Greek Trecrao), from the 
root ' peq^J to cook. For this derivation see Lindsay, The Latin 
Langimge, 291; Stolz and Schmalz, Lateinische Grammatik, 



8 Roman Cooks 

Miiller's HandhucJi, ii, 107, 108 and 115; Vanicek, Griech- 
isch-Lateinisches Etymologisches Worterbuch, p. 455 ; Our- 
tius, Griechische \Etymologie, p. 459 ; and Thesaurus Linguae 
Lathiae, under ' coquus.' In the article on ' coquus ' in Darem- 
berg and Saglio, Dictionnaire des Antiquites grecques et ro- 
maines. Pettier gives a derivation from the Greek verb KVKdco, 
but for this he seems to stand alone. 

In addition to the usual word for cook, several others also 
are found. Rarer than ' coquus ' is ' coctor,' Petronius, Satirae, 
95. It is used in C. I. L. iv, suppL, 6823, and C. I. L. iv, 
1658. From the Greeks the Romans took the name of the pro- 
fessional cook ' magirus.' In Latin this is used chiefly in the 
word ' archimagirus.' This term was applied to the chief cook 
of a wealthy or imperial household, who had under his direct 
command many other special cooks of a greater or less degree of 
importance. We find him in inscriptions and in literature : C. 
L L. VI, 8751; C. I. L. vi, 7458; C. I. L. vi, 8750; Juvenal, 
9, 109 ; and Sidonius Apollinaris, ii^, 9, 6. The same person 
seems to have been called ' praepositus cocorum,' C. I. L. vi, 
8752. Perhaps the ' supra cocos ' in C. /. L. \i, 9261, also held 
the same position. In the Tesiamentum Porcelli, the ill-fated 
pig speaks of ' Magirus, eocus.' The word is also post-classical, 
and occurs in Lampridius, Heliogabalus, 10, 5, Scriptores 
Eistoriae Augustae, p. 210. The word ' magiriscia' is applied 
to tiny figures of cooks on a celebrated piece of work by the 
engraver Pytheas, Pliny, N. H. xxxiii^ 157. In Scribonius 
Largus, 230, * Culinarii ' seems to be used for the cook's subor- 
dinates. It is found also in C. I. L. iv, 373, and C. I. L. xii, 
4470 ( ?). 



Roman Cooks 



CHAPTEK II 



A BEIEF SKETCH OF THE DEVELOPMENT 
OF COOKING AS AN AET 



It may be interesting before considering cooks in particular, 
to look briefly at the gradual growth in importance of the art 
of cooking among the Romans. In the city of Rome, and in 
Italy, in the good old days of the very early Republic, the 
utmost simplicity prevailed in the preparation of food. The 
cooking was done by the slaves, or the women of the family, in 
the ' atrium,' where all the simple life of the family was lived. 
The large ' focus ' placed there served both as an altar, and for 
the cooking of food, Servius on The Aeneid, i, 726. The stock 
dish of the Romans at this time was a kind of porridge called 
' puis,' which certainly did not require any great skill in the art 
of cooking for its preparation, cf. Varro, De Lingua Ldtina, 
V, 105. Athenaeus, vi^ 274 f. contrasts this early simplicity 
of the Romans with their later extravagance, and says that in 
former times the inhabitants of Italy were so easily contented 
as he learned from Posidonius, that even those who were in very 
easy circumstances accustomed their sons to drink as much 
water as possible, and to eat whatever happened to be at hand. 
And very often, he continues, the father and mother asked their 
son whether he wished pears or walnuts for his supper, and 
when he had eaten some of these things he went content to bed, 
but now, says Athenaeus, as Theopompus tells us in the first 
book of his (^iXiTnriKci, there is no one who is even moderately 
well off who does not provide a sumptuous table, and who has 
not cooks, and a great many more attendants, and who does 
not spend more on his daily living than men were formerly 
wont to spend on their festivals and sacrifices. 

The early simplicity of the Romans naturally prevailed 
much longer in the country districts than in the city of Rome. 



10 Roman Cooks 

There by the time of Plautus considerable progress seems to 
have been made, for in Casina, 7G4 ; Mostellaria, 1 ; Persae, 
631 ; and Trucule7itus, 615, a ' culina ' is mentioned, thus show- 
ing that a special room for the preparation of meals had been 
added to the house by this time. In the following century 
Yarro, Nonius, page 78, recommends placing the kitchen in 
the posterior part of the house. ^ While the plain everyday 
cooking of the family was still attended to doubtless by the 
^ matronse ' or slaves, they were not sufficiently skilled in the art 
to prepare meals for special occasions, and therefore a profes- 
sional cook was hired from the forum for banquets, dinner 
parties, birthday entertainments, and wedding feasts. Up to 
this time, however, there was probably no slave even in the 
households of the wealthy, whose only duty it was to cook. 
That the slave who cooked had many other duties to perform 
also, is shown by a passage from Plautus, Mercator, 413 ff., 
in which Demipho says that the kind of maid they need is 
a lusty one who can grind, spin, be cudgeled, and cook 
the dinner for the family: in a word, a general maid-of- 
all-work. In the Menaechmi of Plautus, Cylindrus, the oook, 
is the private slave of the courtesan Erotium, but this is the 
only instance of a private slave as a professional cook in Plau- 
tus, and even he may have had other duties to attend to. 
We know at least that he did the marketing from Menaechmi, 
273. Indeed, we have a direct statement from Pliny, N. H. 
18, 108, that the ancient Romans did not have cooks as slaves, 
but hired them from the market-place. 

After the war with Antiochus, when the army returned from 
the East, Oriental luxury invaded Rome, bringing with it 
among other things dainty dishes and cooks from Asia Minor. 

^ For ' culina ' see Bliimner, Romische Privat-Altertumer, pp. 46 and 47, 
in Miiller's Eandhuch der Klassischen Altertumsicissenschaft, iv, 2, ii; 
Becker's Gallus, li, 231; Daremberg and Saglio, Dictionnaire des Antiqui- 
t4s grecques et romaines, II, 1580, in the article by Pettier under ' culina ' ; 
and Pauly-Wissowa, Rcal-Encyclopddie der Classischen Altertumswissen- 
schaft, IV, 1742. Cf. also Cicero, Ad Familiares, xv, 18; Horace, Satires, 
I, 5, 73; II, 5, 80, and Lucilius apud Nonium, p. 217, 20. 



Roman Cooks 11 

Then, as Livy, xxxix^ 6, puts it, ' turn coqims vilissimum anti- 
quis mancipium, et sestiraatione, et usu in pretio esse, et quod 
ministerium fuerat, ars haberi coepta.' Then scientific cooking 
began to prevail: Mommsen in his History of Rome, iii, 122, 
says: Hitherto without exception the Romans had partaken of 
hot dishes only once a day, now hot dishes were frequently 
produced at the second meal, the ' prandium,' and for the princi- 
pal meal the two courses formerly in use were no longer suffi- 
cient. No doubt, shortly after the war with Antiochus there 
was a special slave who was cook in every well-to-do family, 
but culinary arrangements were much simpler than in later 
times. The luxury of the table cannot have been very great, 
for Pliny, N. H., xviii^ 107, says, ' Pistores Romae non fuere 
ad Persicum usque bellum annis ab urbe condita super dlxxx. 
Ipsi panem faciebant Quirites, mulierumque id opus erat sicut 
etiam nunc in plurimis gentium,' and in 161 B. C. the fattening 
of hens aroused great indignation and was forbidden by the 
' Lex Fannia,' Pliny, N. H. x, 139. 

I From this time on luxury and high living continually 
increased at Rome, Gluttony became the style ; emetics were 
taken to increase the enjoyment of the palate, the cook became 
a more and more important factor in society, and large sums 
were paid for skilled members of his calling. Even in the 
country the early simplicity of former times finally gave way. 
In late Republican and early Imperial days there may have 
been some who would have enjoyed a dinner like that at which 
Cicero entertained Caesar, Ad Atticum, xiii^ 52, of which the 
entertainer implies that the conversation was quite as enjoyable 
a feature as the cooking. Yet large sums were now spent for 
elaborate dinners. Plutarch, Lucullus, xli^ tells us that this 
epicure entertained Pompey and Cicero in one of his ban- 
quet rooms, the Apollo, at a cost of fifty thousand drachmas. 
In his Antony, xxviii, Plutarch also tells another story relative 
to the luxurious folly of the triumvir. Antony, says Plutarch, 
went to Alexandria with Cleopatra and there they had a kind 
of company of inimitable gourmands, and daily feasted one 



12 Roman Cooks 

another. N"ow Philotas of Amphissa, he continues, used to 
say that he became acquainted with one of the cooks, and was 
persuaded by him to view the costliness of the preparation for 
the table. He was introduced into the kitchen, where he saw 
everything in abundance, and eight wild boars were roasting 
whole, which made him wonder at the number of guests. 
Hereupon the cook laughed, and said that the party at supper 
was only twelve, but that it was necessary that everything 
should be served in perfection which a moment of time might 
spoil. ^' And," said he, " maybe Antony will sup just now, 
maybe not for an hour; hence it is that not one but many sup- 
pers must be in readiness." 

As an example of extreme extravagance Seneca in his Dia- 
logues, xii, x, 8 and 9, gives the story of the gourmand Apicius, 
who spent one hundred million ' sesterii ' on his appetite. Then 
when he balanced his accounts, and discovered that he had only 
ten million ' sestertii ' left, despairing of being able to satisfy 
the cravings of hunger and thirst with so paltry a sum, he took 
as a last draught a dose of poison. Martial, iii^ 22, tells the 
same story. 

This author also informs us that not only were the Romans 
lavish in their expenditure for food, and careful about its 
preparation, but some of them were even fastidious about the 
personal appearance of their cooks. Martial addresses x, 63, 
to a beautiful youth, Theopompus. ' Who,' says he, ' was so 
hard-hearted, Theopompus, as to make you a cook, to defile such 
a face as yours with the smut of the kitchen, to pollute such 
locks with greasy soot? If this is the destiny of such brilliant 
beauty, let Jove make a cook of Ganymede.' Again the same 
author tells us, xii^ 64, that Cinna appointed as cook one of his 
rosy attendants, who surpassed all the rest in beauty of features 
and hair. 

The rich of the Empire truly lived to eat, and interesting 
stories could be told of the luxurious propensities of Nero, 
Caligula, and Heliogabalus. The latter, according to Lampri- 
dius, Heliogabalus, 20, was content only with such dainties as 



Boman Cooks 13 

the heels of camels, combs of live cocks, tongues of peacocks 
and nightingales, and other similar articles of food. This same 
emperor ' aliquando autem tribus milibus sestertium cenavit 
omnibus supputatis quae impendit,' Lampridius, Heliogabalus, 
24. To cater to such connoisseurs in the art of eating a very 
expert cook was necessarily required, and Martial, xiv^ 220, 
tells us that in his day, 

i^on satis est ars sola coco ; servire palatum 
JSTolo : oocus domini debet habere gulam. 

Another part of the cooks' art consisted in disguising arti- 
cles of food so as to make them appear entirely different from 
what they really were. Compare Martial, xi^ 31, where deli- 
cacies of various kinds are said to have been prepared from 
common gourds. The stories which have been told are sufficient 
to show how great the number of cooks must have been to pro- 
vide for the elaborate entertainments of the Empire, and that 
a division of their work was absolutely necessary. This divi- 
sion was actually made, for in the house of the emperor and 
the establishments of the wealthy, we find an ' archimagirus,' 
whose business it was to superintend the host of subordinates 
who made ready the meals for their lords. Of this superin- 
tendent and his assistants we shall have more to say later on. 

The Romans as well as the Greeks had cook-books. Only one 
of these has come down to us entire. This bears the title Apici 
Caeli de re coquinaria, lihri X. A famous gastronome who 
lived in the time of Tiberius bears the name of Apicius, and 
because of his unusual extravagance and gluttony the name 
seems to have become a synonym for foolish expenditure and 
abnormal high living. So famous was this character as a gour- 
mand that Athenneus, vii, 294, f., tells us that Apion wrote a 
book on his luxurious living. Countless anecdotes were current 
about him, and many of his recipes were so famous that they 
bear his name. See Athenseus, i, 7, a. The cook-book which 
we possess is not, however, the work of this gastronome, for 
his name was M. Gavius Apicius and not Caelius. Moreover, 



14 Roman Cooks 

some of the recipes which it contains are a proof of a later 
date; for example, 205 is named for the Emperor Commodus. 
It is then probably a late work of about the third century, 
which was compiled from numerous Greek manuals on the 
subject of cooking. It is probable that it is not the work of an 
Apicius at all, but that a certain Caelius collected a number of 
recipes for cooking under the name of Apicius, and that the 
original title of the work was Cseli Apicius de re coquinaria, 
after the model of Cicero's Cato de senectute. This is the view 
taken by Schanz in his Romische Litteratur-Geschichte, in 
Miiller's Handbuch der Massischen AUertumswissenschaft, 
VIII, II, 2, p. 506. The work is in ten books, each with a Greek 
name, and contains recipes for preparing and dressing all kinds 
of flesh, fish, and fowls, for compounding sauces, baking cakes, 
preserving sweetmeats, and flavoring wines. It is full of 
Greek terms, a proof, if one were needed, that the art of cook- 
ing had attained the highest development in Greece. 



Roman CooJcs 15 

CHAPTER III 
COOKS IN PLAUTUS. GREEK OR ROMAN ? 



In our study of Roman cooks the first source to which we 
turn is naturally Plautus, for he gives more examples of fol- 
lowers of this vocation than any other author. When we con- 
sider cooks in Plautus, however, we are at once puzzled by the 
following problem: to what extent is that author describing 
actual members of the culinary profession in Rome, and how 
far does he portray the calling as found in Greek Comedy? 
It may be impossible to unravel the puzzle fully, for Plautus, 
as we know, is in many respects a hopeless tangle of Roman 
and Greek elements. The scene of his plays is always laid in a 
Greek town, and yet he frequently refers to definite places in 
the city of Rome, such as the ' Macellum,' the ' Forum ' with 
its money changers, and well known Roman temples. His 
characters have Greek names, but often Roman characteristics. 
While laws and the names of ofiicials are usually Roman, and 
the gods have their Roman names, money and utensils seem to 
be Greek. Even the lowest slaves are quite familiar with the 
old stories of Greek mythology. Customs referred to are often 
Roman, and Roman festivals are frequently mentioned. So 
the mixture runs. Yet, as may be seen at once, while there is 
so much that is Greek in Plautus, he is nowhere a slavish imi- 
tator of his originals, ti id as Friedrich Leo, Plautinische 
Forschungen, 85, says, 'Aber Handlung und Charakter, 
Costum und Scenerie des Griechen, die er beibehielt mit 
souveriiner Freiheit zu behandeln hatte er von Naevius gelernt.' 
It is then very difficult to separate the Roman and the Greek 
features in the comedi^es of Plautus, and to say just how far 
his characters are directly taken from, or exact imitations of 
those found in his Greek originals, and how much they are 



16 Roman Cooks 

modified by actual conditions existing in the city of Eome. 
It is, however, important for us to consider this question in 
our study of cooks, in order to decide to what extent we may 
draw on Plautus, who gives us more examples of cooks than 
any other author, for the characteristics of purely Roman mem- 
bers of that profession. 

We may at least be sure that there were cooks in Italy, and 
in Rome, as early as the days of Plautus. For this assumption 
we find evidence both in inscriptions and in literature. C, I. L. 
XI, 3078 states that a gift was given to Jupiter, Juno, and 
Minerva by a collegium of Faliscan cooks who were in Sar- 
dinia. It reads: 

lovei, lunonei, Minervai, Falesce quel in Sardinia sunt, 
donum dederunt; magistreis L. Latrius K. F. C. Salv[e]na 
Voltai F. coiraveront. 

Conlegium quod est aciptum aetatei age(n)d[ai], 
Opiparum a[d] veitam quolundam festosque dies, 
Quei soveis a[rg]utieis opidque Volgani 
Condecorant sai[pi]sume comvivia loidosque 
Ququoi hue dederu[nt] [i]nperatoribus summeis, 
Utei sesed lubent[es] [be]ne iovent optantis. 

This inscription may be dated with certainty as far back 
as the time of Plautus. Falerii was destroyed by the Romans 
in the year 241 B. C. At this time the Faliscans were driven 
out of their city and compelled to settle elsewhere. As this 
was just about the time of the occupation of Sardinia by the 
Romans, a colony of Faliscans may have been placed on that 
island, hence the inscription which cannot be earlier than 241 
B. C. If we examine the language of the inscription, we find 
there abundant evidence of an early date. Gemination of 
consonants began about 189 B. C. That this document stands 
at the transition period between the single and the double con- 
sonant is shown by the fact that there is a double consonant 
in ' summeis ' but not in ' aciptum.' Other spelling would 
seem to point to even an earlier date, for example, ' loidosque ' 



Roman Cooks 17 

and ' eoiraveront ' ; for ' oi ' became ' oe ' and finally ' u ' about 
the middle of the second century, B. C. Another evidence of 
early date is the old ablative in ' d ' in ' opidqne.' Lindsay in 
his Latin Inscriptions, p. 50, says, that in the poetry of Livius 
Andronicus and N^aevius there are traces of this older form of 
the ablative. There is probably no trace of it in Plautus, cer- 
tainly none in his dialogue verses. In the ^ Senatus Consultum 
de Bacchanalibus ' of 186 B. C, cf. C. I. L. i, 581, Diehl, 
Altlat&insche Inschriften, 188, it is invariably written, a 
practice quite in keeping with the archaic orthography of a 
state decree. On the earlier and less formal edict of Aemilius 
Pauhis, 189 B. C, it is not found, cf. C. I. L. ii, 5041. 

According, then, both to the probable origin of this inscrip- 
tion, and the internal evidence found in its language, the con- 
clusion may be drawn that it is at least a contemporaneous docu- 
ment with the works of Plautus, and a proof that cooks were 
of considerable importance in other parts of Italy besides 
Rome, and hence also in that city by his time. 

Literature also furnishes evidence of cooks in Rome as 
early as the time of Plautus. Livy, xxxix, 6, says, as we have 
seen, that foreign luxury was brought to Rome by the Asiatic 
army after the war with Antiochus, and, ' Turn coquus vilis- 
simum antiquis mancipium, et aestimatione, et usu in pretio 
esse, et quod ministerium fuerat, ars haberi coepta.' The 
words ' Tum coquus vilissimum antiquis mancipium ' show that 
there were cooks in Rome before this time, 191 B. C, even if 
their vocation was not counted among the arts. They were 
probably the ordinary slaves of the household, for Pliny, N. H. 
xviii^ 108, says in speaking of the early Romans, ' ISTec cocos 
vero habebant in servitiis eosque ex macello conducebant.' He 
is referring here not to cooks as unimportant members of the 
household of slaves, but to professional cooks who took their 
stand in the market, as we shall see the cooks in Plautus did, 
and were hired for special occasions, although there must have 
been slaves belonging to each family who prepared the ordinary 
meals. These two passages, then, would lead us to suppose 



18 Roman Cooks 

that, at Eome in early times, the regular daily cooking was 
done by some common slave belonging to the household ; but 
that, just as in Greece up to Alexandrian times, the ordinary 
house slaves were not able to meet the requirements for the 
preparation of feasts and great dinners, so in Eome for special 
occasions an expert cook was hired from the ' Forum.' This 
is exactly the condition of affairs found in Plautus. In the 
Mercator, 390 ff., we see that cooking as well as various other 
duties was performed by ordinary slaves of the household. 
Demipho asks Charinus if he has not brought a slave from 
Ehodes to wait upon his mother. Charinus replies that he has, 
but Demipho objects that her person is too delicate, and says 
that a maid is of no use to them who cannot weave, grind, cut 
wood, spin, sweep the house, take a whipping, and cook the daily 
meals for the family. On the contrary, the cook for a special 
occasion: wedding feast, dinner party, or birthday entertain- 
ment was hired from the ' Forum ' as Aulularia, 280 ; Merca- 
ior, 697 ; and Pseudolus, 798 if., show. The only exception to 
this general rule is in the Menaechmi, where, as already stated, 
the courtesan Erotium is sufficiently wealthy to have a special 
cook as one of her slaves. 

Even if we were to admit that there were no professional 
cooks at Eome before the time of Plautus, we must remem- 
ber that the period of that author's greatest productivity lay 
between 204 and 184 B. C, and that the latter part of this 
period coincides with the time when Livy tells us that cookery 
became an art, and the cook became a person of importance. 
For this reason, then, if Plautus is not describing conditions 
existing in Eome before his own day when he says that cooks 
for special occasions were hired from the market place, he is 
at least giving a custom which was just then being introduced 
into Eome from Greece, with which his audience was thor- 
oughly familiar. 

One reason for believing that Plautus is describing Eoman 
rather than Greek cooks is that in Greek Comedy the profes- 
sional cook is never represented as a slave, except in a play of 



Roman CooTcs 19 

Posidippus, cf. Athenaeus, xiv^ 658 f. Rankin in his disserta- 
tion on The Role of the Md^eipot in the Life of the Ancient 
Greeks, p. 20, thinks that even this cook was not a slave but an 
apprentice or understudy to a higher fMayeipo'i. Athenaeus 
continues in the passage just cited that the introduction of 
slaves as cooks took place first among the Macedonians, but 
Plautus's cooks, if purely Greek, would most probably be 
taken from Greek Comedy, and there they are not portrayed 
in a slavish condition. In Plautus, on the contrary, cooks 
seem always to be slaves. As has been said, Cylindrus, the 
cook in the Menaechmi, is the private slave of the courtesan 
Erotium. Aulularia,, 309, shows that the two cooks in that 
play arc slaves, for they speak of purchasing their freedom. 
The treatment of cooks in Plautus would also indicate that 
they were slaves. In the Aulularia, 345 ff., one of the cooks 
says, ' If any thing be missing they will say the cooks have 
stolen it, seize them, flog them, and thrust them into the dun- 
geon.' Again, Aulularia, 409, Congrio, the cook, says, ' They 
have pounded me so, poor wretch, and my pupils, too, that I 
am sore all over, so lustily has that old fellow belabored me by 
way of exercise.' Cylindrus, Menaechmi, 275, fearing punish- 
ment because he is late, says, ' Vae tergo meo.' In Greek 
Comedy, on the other hand, cooks usually received treatment 
worthy of free men, and even a certain amount of respect, 
cf. Rankin in the dissertation referred to above, in the chap- 
ter on the Social Status of the Mdjetpoi, p. 11 ff. 

The fact that the cooks in the comedies of Plautus have in 
general the same personal characteristics as those in Greek 
Comedy may seem to indicate that his cooks were taken directly 
from the Greek. The long scene beginning Pseudolus, 790, in 
which the cook boasts of his accomplishments, is really typi- 
cally Greek. Ballio, jipon his return from the ' Forum Coqui- 
num,' says, ' Were I on my oath I could not find a greater 
rascal than this cook whom I bring, a prating, boastful, silly, 
worthless fellow.' , Later the chef lives up to his bragging 
reputation, and says, 843 if., that Jupiter sups daily on the 



20 Roman Cooks 

odors from his saucepans, and that when he does not cook, the 
king of gods goes hungry to bed. In this play, too, 850 ff., 
we are reminded of the thievish propensities of cooks. Other 
examples of the characteristics of cooks will be given in a later 
chapter, but these are sufficient to show that in the main they 
agree with those of members of the same calling in Greece. 
This, however, may prove nothing more than that cooks the 
world over, and for all time, have the same besetting sins, for 
if we compare Roman cooks with those of our own time, we 
fihall find a startling similarity in their thievish and other 
propensities. 

To sum up what has been said in this chapter: — We have 
both inscriptional and literary evidence for cooks in Rome as 
early as the time of Plautus ; we know that he was writing at 
the very time when luxury and professional cooks were brought 
in from the East ;. the cooks in Plautus are slaves and not free 
as they were in Greek Comedy from which his cooks, if Greek, 
would most probably be taken. The fact that the characteris- 
tics of Greek and Roman cooks are the same proves nothing. 
Hence we may conclude that Plautus, while undoubtedly de- 
pending to some extent on his Greek originals, is nevertheless 
largely describing culinary artists as he actually saw them in 
the city of Rome. 



Roman Cooks 21 

CHAPTER IV 
THE NATIO]^ALITy OF COOKS 



The Roman cook was a slave from the time of Plautus, and 
even earlier, until the ' chef ' became of sufficient importance at 
Rome to gain his freedom, either as a gift for some especially 
happy work of genius, or to purchase it by savings from the 
enormous sums which were paid him in later days. M. Bang, 
in Die Herkunft der Romischen Shlaven, published in the 
Rdmis,che Mittheilungen, 1910, p. 247, says that the slave land 
' par excellence ' for all times was Syria. The ancients thought 
that the Syrians were born and predestined to slavery. Cicero, 
de Provinciis Consvlarihus, 5, 10, says, ' lam vero publicanos 

miseros tradidit in servitutem ludaeis et Syris, 

nationibus natis servituti.' With this compare also Livy, xxxv, 

49, 8, and xxxvi^ 17, 5, ' Syri et Asiatici Graeci 

vilissima genera hominum et servituti nata ' ; and also Plautus, 
Trinummus, 542, ' Syrorum, genus quod patientissumumst 
hominum.' With the Syrians and the Jews the Greeks of Asia 
Minor shared this doubtful fame as nations born to slavery. 
The exportation of slaves flourished especially in Phrygia, 
Bithynia, Cappadocia and Cilicia. 

The passage in Plautus, Mercator, 413-416, suggests that 
even at that early date Syrian slaves were regarded as espe- 
cially fitted for performing the menial tasks of the household, 

, ego emero matri tuae 

Ancillam viraginem aliquam non malam, forma mala, 
lit matrem addecet familias, aut Syram aut Aegyptiam; 
Ea molet, coquet, conficiet pensum, pinsetur flagro. 

As slaves were often given the name of the country from which 
they came, the baker C. I. L. vi, 6338, 



22 Boman Cooks 

' Prima Sura 
Alexandri L. Pist.' 

was no doubt a Syrian. Athenaeus, iii^ 112, tells us that the 
most celebrated bakers were from Lydia, Phoenicia, and Cap- 
padocia. Croesus, according to Herodotus, i^ 51, honored the 
woman who made his bread with a statue of gold. Scribonius 
Largus, iii, mentions Syrian cooks. Perhaps, however, the 
strongest evidence we have that cooks came from Asia is to be 
found in the oft-quoted passage from Livy, xxxix^ 6, that after 
the war with Antiochus, eastern luxury was brought into 
Rome. Then ' epulae quoque ipsae et cura et sumptu maiore 
apparari coeptae.' Doubtless the cooks who prepared these 
' epulae ' were those brought with the army from Asia, who 
had been trained to concoct dainty dishes in their own country, 
and who later instructed the ordinary Roman cook in the trade 
which was soon to become an art. Pliny, N. H. x, 140, says 
that ' Dedere et Parthi cocis suos mores.' 

The belief that many cooks came from Asia and Asia Minor 
is strengthened by their names, which in several cases point to 
the East. Adrastus, the name of a cook C. I. L. vi, 9263, is 
clearly an Asia Minor name, as will be shown in a later chap- 
ter on names. Eros, the name of a cook C. I. L. \i, 6246, and 
also vi^ 875 3, and the cognomen of the cooks C. I. L. vi, 
33838, and C. I. L. vi, 9270, although a common name of 
slaves and freedmen, seems, according to M. Bang's list in the 
article quoted above, to suggest Cappadocia. Compare C. I. L. 
VI, 6510, 11188, and xi, 864. C. I. L. vi, 8752 gives a cook's 
name, ' M. Aurelius Bit.' Mommsen makes the full cogno- 
men Bithus. Maifei suggests Bith^Tiicus. According to Pape, 
Worierbuch der griechischen Eigennamen, one Bithus was the 
son of Zeus, from whom the Bithynians are said to have been 
named, another the son of Mars, from whom Bithynia took its 
name. Either cognomen, ' Bithus ' or ' Bithynicus,' points to 
Bithynia in Asia Minor, which supplied many slaves. C. I. L. 
VI, 9266, ' Arax. cocus,' suggests the 'Apd^r]<;, a river in 
Armenia. C. I. L. x, 5211 reads, ' L. Clodius Antioc. Tuscus/ 



Roman Cooks 23 

The cognomen ' Antioc' may indicate Syria as the native land 
either of this cook or of his ancestors, for Antiochus was the 
name of several kings of Syria from the family of the 
Seleucidae. In C. I. L. xii^ 4468 we have a cook, 'M. Egnatius 
Lugius.' Pape says that the Avjiol were a people in Mysia. 
More will be said about these names in a later chapter, but this 
is sufficient to show that the names of several cooks seem to 
point to Asia Minor. That the Greeks also used Asiatics for 
cooks, is shown by the fact that many dishes mentioned in 
Athenaeus come from Lydia. 

The most famous cooks were, however, from Sicily, as pas- 
sages from Greek Comedy and Athenaeus testify. For these 
cf. Eankin, The Role of the Mdryeipot in the Life of the 
Ancient Oreehs, p. 40. The Sicilian Labdacus was represented, 
Meineke, Fragmenta Comicorum Graecorum iv, 459, and 
Kock, Fragmenta Comicorum Atticorum iii, 296, as the 
teacher of other famous /xdyeipoi. Plato, Gorgias, 518 b, refers 
to a treatise on Sicilian cookery by Mithaecus, and Athenaeus, 
III, 101 and 102, mentions a work of Archestratus of Gela. 
'liKeXiKf] TpaTrePa was a proverbial phrase for a table furnished 
profusely and luxuriously. For this expression, cf. Otto, 
Sprichworter der Ronier, under ' Siculus.' That the Romans 
also especially esteemed Sicilian cooks is shown by their use of 
a similar phrase, ^ Siculae dapes,' to designate peculiarly 
appetizing dishes. Compare Horace, Carmina, iii;, 1, 18, 
' ISTon Siculae dapes dulcem elaborabunt saporem ' ; Macrobius, 
Saturn, vii, 5, 24, ' Modum vero servat qui sui potens est et in 
mensa Sicula vel Asiana ' ; Cicero, Tusculan Disputations, y, 
35 ; Plautus, Rudens, 53. 

Iniit lenoni suadere ut secum simul 
Eat in Siciliam: ibi esse homines voluptarios. 
Dicit, potesse ibi eum fieri divitem. 

The luxurious life at the court of the tyrants of Syracuse was 
probably not without influence on the origin of the proverb. 



24 Boman Cooks 

One cook from Syracuse so disguised a herring that Domitian 
thought it was a lamprey. 

' Many Roman cooks were Greek slaves, as their names bear 
witness, but it is often impossible to find out from what part 
of Greece they or their ancestors came. 

That some were of the same nationality as the servants in 
our own sunny Southland is the evidence of Martial, vi^ 39, 
6 : ' Hie qui retorto crine Maurus incedit, subolem f atetur 
esse se coci Santrae.' Another African cook is the ' Cattosus 
bene Christianus,' an anomaly among cooks because of his 
honesty, who lived in Hippo and of whom Augustinus tells in 
De Civitate Dei, xxii, 8. His strange story runs as follows: 
There was a certain old man of Hippo, Florentius, who was 
religious but poor. He lost his coat, and had not the money 
with which to buy another, so he prayed in a loud voice to the 
twenty martyrs. A little later, while walking silently by the 
shore, he found a huge fish panting on the sand. He picked it 
up and sold it to a cook, Cattosus, who was a Christian, then 
went off to buy the wool from which his wife might make a 
coat for him. But the cook, in the meantime cutting the fish, 
found in it a gold ring, and moved by compassion and terrified 
by his religious fear, he gave it to Florentius, saying, ' Behold 
how the twenty martyrs have clothed you.' 

It is possible that the Romans may have derived some of 
their table customs and probably their cooks also from the 
Etruscans. Posidonius in his history, book ii^ is quoted by 
Athenaeus, iv, 153, d, as saying that among the Etruscans 
luxurious tables were spread twice a day, that they had couches 
embroidered with flowers, and silver drinking cups of every 
sort. The cognomen of the cook C. I. L. x, 5211, ' L. Clodius 
Antioc. Tuscus,' may imply that he was of Etruscan origin, 
although the double cognomen here complicates the question 
and makes us uncertain whether to look to Syria or to Etruria 
for this cook's ancestors. The cognomen Tuscus is often found 
in inscriptions of Etruria, C. I. L. xi, 1810, and others. 



Roman CooJcs 25 

CHAPTER V 
NAMES OF COOKS 



Alphabetical List 

Acas(tus), C. I. L. vi, Y602. 

Adrastus, C. I. L. vi, 9263. 

Aelius Ep(a)phroditus, C. I. L. vi, 9262. 

Titus Aelius Primitivus, C. I. L. vi, 7458. 

Titus Aelius Primitivus, C. I. L. vi, 8750. 

Alexand(e)r ( ?), C. I. L. vi, 9264. 

Anthrax, Plautus, Aulularia, 287. 

Apoli(naris), C. I. L. xiv, 2875. 

Apollonius, C. I. L. vi, 9265. 

Aprilis, C. I. L. iv, 6823. 

Arax(us) ( ?), C. I. L. vi, 9266. 

Lucius Arruntius Hilario, C. I. L. xi, 3850. 

Aurelius Zoticus, Dio Cassius, lxxix, 16, 3. 

Marcus Aurelius Bit(lius), C. I. L. vi, 8752. 

Caecilius Felix, C. I. L., \i, 7433. 

Carlo, Plautus, Miles Gloriosus, 1397, 1427. 

Quintus Catius Herma, C. I. L. xii^ 4470. 

Cattosus, Augustinus, De Civitate Dei, xxii^ 8. 

Citrio, Plautus, Casina, 744. 

Lucius Clodius Antioc. Tuscus, C. I. L. x, 5211. 

Congrio, Plautus, Aulularia, 285. 

Cylindrus, Plautus, Menaechmi, 294. 

Daedalus, Petronius, Cena Trimalchionis, 70. 

Dama, Porphyrion on Horace, Satires, i, 1, 101. 

Artemo Dindius, C. I. L. xiv, 2875. 

Dromo, Plautus, Aulularia, 398. 

M. Egnatius Lugius, C. I. L. xii, 4468. 

Eros, C. I. L. Yi, 6246. 



26 Roman Cooks 

Eros Cornufi(cianus), C. I, L. vi, 8753. 

Faustiis Eros, C. I. L. vi, 9261. 

Eirmus, C. I. L. xi, 5197. 

Marcus Fiificius Eros, C. I. L. \i, 9270. 

Gains Genicilius Domesticus, C. I. L. vi, 9271. 

Hephaestio, Apuleius, Metamorphoses, ix^ 2. 

Herma, C. I. L. vi, 9267. 

Hilarus Barbianus, C. I. L. \i, 6247. 

Gaius lulius Eros, C. I. L. \i, 33838. 

L. Latrius, C. I. L. xi, 3078. 

Machaerio, Plautus, Aulularia, 398. 

Marcius Faustus, C. I. L. ix, 3938. 

Menogenes, Pliny, N. II. vii^ 54. 

Mistjllos, Martial, i^ 50, 1 (fictitious). 

Philargurus, C. I. L. vi, 9268. 

(Pli)ileros, C. I. L. \i, 6248. 

Photio Sestianus ( ?), C. I. L. vi, 8754. 

L. Plotius ( ?), Orelli, 7227. Compare C. I. L. iv, 373. 

Protus, (7. 7. L. XIV, 2875. 

Rodo, C. I. L. XIV, 2875. 

C. Salv[elna, C. I. L. xi, 3078. 

Santra, Martial, vi, 39, 7. 

Seleucus Germanicus, C. I. L. yi, 33767. 

Sosias, Ausonius, iv, 6, 1. 

Suellius(?), Orelli, 7227. 

Svinpli(orus), C. I. L. vi, 8751. 

Taratalla, Martial, i, 50, 2 (fictitious). 

Tasus(?), C. I. L. VI, 5197. 

Theopompus, Martial, x, 66. 

Tyrannus, C. I. L. vi, 9269. 

Marcus Valerius Optatus, C. I. L. v, 2544. 

Zena, 0. I. L. vi, 6249. 

Zethus, C. I. L. VI, 8755. 

To this list may be added tbe names of some cooks of Roman 
times found in Greek inscriptions, papyri, and literature: 



Roman Cooks 27 

'AjdOcov, I. G. VII, 1562. 

'AXe|a9, Dittenberger und Purgold, Die Inschriften von 

Olympia, 64. 
^A/jifi(t)vd<;, Oxyrhynchus Pap., i, No. 118. 
Beo-/3etTi9, Aegyptische Urkunden aus den Koenig. Mus. zu 

Berlin, Griecli. Urkund., 1, 'No. 6. 
Tpr}>y6pio<i, Papiri Greci Egizii, ii. 

" Fiorentini, 166. 
AiSu/io?, 1. G. XII, 8, 595. 
At6a-Kopo<;, Oxyrhynchus Pap., i, Ko. 118. 
'E7ra(f){p68etTo<i), Dittenberger und Purgold, Die Inschriften 

von Olympia, No. 74. 
EtVTpoTTicov, Plutarch, Moralia, irepl iraihwv djcoyrj';, 11, B. 
TiivvLo^, Aegyptische Urhunden aus den Koenig. Mus. zu 

Berlin., Griech. Urkund. 3, No. 932. 
Za)tX.o9, Griech. Pap. im Museum des Oberhessischen Ges- 

chichtsvereins zu Giessen, Band i. Heft. 3, No. 101. 
Zioaifio^, I. G. XIV, 617. 

'Io-ta9, Aegyptische Urkunden aus den Koenig. Mus. zu Ber- 
lin, Griech. Urkund. i. No. 151. 
KaXa9, Amherst Pap. ii. No. 127. 
Hdpwv, I. G. XII, 5, No. 54. 
Ho'XXwy, Greek Papyri in the British Museum, iii, p. 236, 

No. 1254. 
'PoS(coi;), I. G. XII, 5, 646. 
[S] vvrpo(f)o^, Dittenberger und Purgold, Die Insfihriften von 

Olympia, No. 87. 
Seventy-nine in all. 



Names in Literature 

The majority of the names of cooks found in Latin literature 
are used for comic effect, or as indicative of their occupation. 
In this class, as might be expected, may be placed the names 
of nearly all the cooks in Plautus. 

In the Aulularia the cooks are Congrio and Anthrax. Con- 



28 Roman Cooks 

grio is derived from ' conger/ sea eel, and may possibly have 
been given to the cook as a testimony of the slippery, thievish 
propensities belonging to the followers of his profession, or 
else because it was the name of an article of food. Somewhat 
similar names are found in Greek Comedy. BolSicov is the 
name of a cook in Sosipater. Kock, iii, p. 314; and Moax^fov 
of another, Athenaeus, xii^ 542 f. The latter is also the 
name of a parasite, Alexis, Kock, ii^ p. 383. Fick-Bechtel, 
Griechische Personennamen, pp. 314 ff., has a section devoted 
to ' Tiernamen als Menschennamen.' 

! Anthrax, the name of another cook in the same comedy, 
means coal, and this suggests at once the calling to which he 
belongs, since it is with the element of fire that cooks are most 
engaged. ^ The association of cooks with Vulcan is not at all 
unusual. He is mentioned in the inscription of Faliscan cooks, 
C. I. L. XI, 3078. In the ludicium Coci et Pistoris, Poetae 
Latini Minores, Baehrens, iv, 379, Vulcan is the judge. In 
the Menaechmi, 329 f ., the cook says. 

Ire hercle meliust te interim atque accumbere, 
Dum ego haec adpono ad Volcani violentiam. 

In the Aulularia, 359 ff. the following words are addressed to 
the cook: 

Quid? Impurate, quamquam Volcano studes, 
Cenaene causa aut tuae mercedis gratia 
lS[os nostras aedis postulas comburere? 

For 'AvdpaKiov as the name of a female slave, compare Fick- 
Bechtel, op. cit., pp. 330 f. The name Anthrax is not found 
elsewhere in literature. It occurs, however C. I. L. vi, 6405, 
^Anthrax Sosian(us) hie,' and C. I. L. x, 3282, thus showing 
that it is not purely fictitious. 

In the Aulularia, 398 f., we get also two names belonging 
probably to a cook's attendants or apprentices. Anthrax is 
giving his orders. He says: 



Roman Cooks 29 

Dromo, desquama piscis ; tu Machaerio, 
Congrum, murenam ex dorsua quantum potest. 

Dromo, Greek Apu^cov = a runner, is a rather common name 
in Greek Comedy, cf. Athenaeus, xiv, 644, e; ix^ 377, d; vi^ 
240, d; IX, 409, e. It is the name of a cook in Dionysius, 
quoted by Athenaeus, ix^ 381, d. Among the Romans it is a 
slave's name, and a cognomen of freedmen. It occurs as the 
latter C. I. L. v, 994, and elsewhere. It is the name of a slave 
in Plautus, Asinaria, 441 ; and also in Terence, Andria, 860 ; 
Adelplioe, 376 ; and Heauton Timorumenos, 249. This name 
and that of the cook in the Miles Gloriosus are the only ones 
connected with the culinary profession in Plautus which are 
not used for comic effect and to suggest the owner's occupation. 
Machaerio, Aulularia, 398, suggests an implement which was 
much used by cooks. Compare the conversation between Eu- 
clio and the cook, Aulularia, 416 ff. 

Euc. Quia ad trisviros iam ego deferam nomen tuom. 

Cong. Quam ob rem ? 
Euc. Quia cultrum habes. Cong. Cecum decet. 

In the Truculentus, 615, Cuamus says, 

Si tu legioni bellator clues, at ego in culina clueo. 

And in 627 he says again to the soldier Stratophanes, 

Captiost: istam machaeram longiorem habes quam haec est. 

In the Miles, 1397, the following command is addressed to the 
cook, Cario : ' culter probe.' In Petronius, Cena Trimalchionis, 
49, the cook seizes his knife and slashes the hog. Apuleius, 
Metamorphoses, viii^ 31, the cook begins sharpening his 
knives to slay an ass. In C. I. L. ix, 767, b, ' Machaera ' 

is a cognomen. In the Testamentum Porcelli, ' Magirus co- 
cus' said, ' Transi puer affer mihi de cocina cultrum ut hunc 
porcellum faciam cruentum.' Maxaipicov is the name of a 



30 Roman Coohs 

physician in Galen, of the man who killed Epaminondas, Pans. 
VIII, 11, 5. Karl Schmidt in an article on Oriechische Per- 
sonennamen hei Plautus, Hermes, 37, 196, says, ' Der Trager 
des ISTamens ist nach dem Messer benannt das er zu handhaben 
versteht, wie F/atTro? nach dem Fischernetze.' 

In the Casina the name of the culinary artist is Citrio, which 
is probably derived from Xvrpa, meaning an earthen pot or 
kettle for boiling. Similar names in Greek Comedy are llara- 
vLcov, the name of a cook, Athenaeus, iv, 169, e; and Aayvviwv 
from \d<yvvo<i, the name of a parasite, Athenaeus, xiii, 584, f. 

In the MenaecliTni, too, the cook, Cylindrus, probably gets 
is name from the utensil which he frequently uses in making 
pastry, namely the rolling pin. j Schmidt, however, in the 
article previously mentioned {Hermes 37, p. 365) says, ' Der 
I^ame bezeichnet das Aussehen des Mannes.' 

Carlo, Greek ^apiwv, Miles, 1397, is found in Greek Com- 
edy, and is a common name for slaves. Compare Aristophanes, 
Plutus, 1100 if. It is the name of a cook in Euphorion, quoted 
by Athenaeus, ix, 377, d. In Latin it is also found as the 
name of a slave in Petronius, Satirae, 71, 5. It occurs as a 
' cognomen ' in C. I. L. v, 5817, and ii, 819. It is derived 
from Kap, and is a formation in icov, see Fick-Bechtel, op. cit., 
p. 342, hence means a little Carian or is contemptuous. For 
meaning compare also the following lines, Kock, in, 481 : 

AfSol TTOVrjpol, Sevrepoc 8' AlyinrrLOt 
rpiTOi he TTcivTCOv Ka/ae? e^coXea-jaroi. 

Besides the names of cooks in Plautus, several of the others 
found in literature seem to be used for comic effect, or as in- 
dicative of the calling. In Petronius, Cena Trimalchionis, 
70, Trimalchio fittingly named his cook Daedalus, for accord- 
ing to his master's story he could make a fish from the paunch 
of a pig, a wood pigeon from fat bacon, a turtle dove from a 
ham, and a fowl from the knuckle bone. Daedalus is always 
the name of an artist of some kind, and here it is a kitchen 
expert. In Pausanias, ix, 3, 2, Daedalus the father of Icarus 



Roman CooJcs 31 

is mentioned from whom a line of artists in Athens and Crete 
bore the name. Cf. Homer, IL, xviii, 592; Herodotus, vii, 
170; Xenophon, Memordhilia, tv, 2, 33. In later times it is 
the name of a Bithynian artist, and of others also. Indeed, 
the name seems to have passed almost into a proverb for one 
who was skilled. Hence Trimalchio called his cook Daedalus. 
A Greek udryeLpo<; bears this name in Athenaeus, vii^ 293, a. 
See also Philostephanus, Kock, iii^ 393. Schmidt, op. cit., 
p. 185, says, ' Bedeutet es so viel wie Tausendklinstler.' 

In Apuleius, Metamorphos^es, 9, 2, Hephaestio reminds us 
once more of the frequent association of cooks with the god 
of fire. For this compare the passages referred to under An- 
thrax, and also Scaenicae Romanoruni Poesis Fragmenta, 
iN^aevius, FragTaenta Incerta, xiv: 

Cocus edit Weptunum, Cererem, 
Et Venerem expertam, Volcanom, Liberumque obsorbuit 
Pariter. 

In Martial, i, 50, we get two fanciful names for cooks, Mistjl- 
los and Taratalla. These come from a meaningless pun on 
Homer, II. i, 465. Compare also II. n, 428, and Od. ui, 462. 

Another cook's name recorded in literature is Dama, Por- 
phyrion on Horace's Satires, i, 1. 101. It is a slave's name 
also in Persius, v, 76 ; and Horace, Satires, i, 6, 38 ; ii^ 5, 
18 and 101 ; and ii^ 7, 54. A certain Dama is the son of a 
baker, Martial, vi^ 39, 11 and the name is also found in 
Martial, xii^ 17, 10. Another Dama is a ' conviva ' at the Cena 
Trimalchionis, Petronius, 41. As the context in which it is 
found shows, the name is usually a slave-name. 

Menogenes, Pliny, N. H. vir^ 54, and Valerius Maximus, ix, 
14, 2, is the cook of Pompeius Strabo. Among the Eomans 
this too is a name of slaves and a cognomen of freedmen. Com- 
pare C. 7. L. Ill, 391 ; C. I. L. xiv, 3959 ; Epliem. Epigr. v, 
p. 55, 139. In Martial, xii^ 82, Menogenes is the name of 
a famous parasite, and in Val. Max. 9, 145, is referred to as 
the name of an actor. 



32 Roman Cooks 

The names of cooks in literature are, as we may judge from 
these examples, in the main fanciful. They are used for 
comic effect, and often suggest the occupation of the owner. 
They are often taken from slaves' names in Greek Comedy, 
and are in several cases the same as those of cooks found there. 
We can draw few if any conclusions from them, because of 
their fanciful nature. On the contrary, when we consider 
names on stone we are sure that we are dealing with actual fact. 
These old Eoman cooks whom the Latin authors usually con- 
sidered of too little importance to give passing mention have 
left in the inscriptions a truthful record both of their own 
names, and also of certain members of their families. 

Names in Insceiptions 

Let us consider first those names on stone which are indica- 
tive of nationality. It was, as we know, a common custom for 
a slave to hear the name of the country from which he came. 
While we have no cook's name which tells us directly the land 
of his origin, there are several that indicate nationality in as 
much as they are frequently found in certain localities. For 
example, Adrastus, C. I. L. vi, 9263, is undoubtedly an Asia 
Minor name. American Journal of Archaeology, xvi^ 1912, 
p. 29, Greelc Inscriptions from Sardes by Mr. W. H. Buckler 
and Prof. D. M. Robinson. To quote from this article: 
Adrastus is especially common in Phrygia and is known in 
Lydia. On coins of Phrygia and Lydia we find Adrasteia 
nursing the infant Zeus. Cf. Head, Hisioria Nummorum, 
pp. 660-667. Strabo, 588 mentions a place, Adrasteia in 
Mysia, which was named from King Adrastus. Herodotus, 
1, 35, tells the story of a Phrygian nobleman Adrastus who came 
to Croesus and was purified by him. Pausanias, vii, 6, 6, 9, 
mentions a Lydian Adrastus. An Adrastus is found also on 
Carian coins. Among the Romans Adrastus was a name of 
slaves and a cognomen of freedmen from the beginning of Im- 
perial times. In C. I. L. vi, 6337, we find a baker with this 



Roman Cooks 33 

name. Compare C. I. L. x, 2342. Freedmen are found C. I. L. 
VI, 33608, 1585, b, 9263; ix, 5673; x, 741; v, 978, 2629, 
3023; VI, 21617; xiv, 1623; xii, 871; iii, 7985; and others. 

Arax(us) the name of the cook in C. I. L. vi, 9266, suggests 
the Araxes river in Armenia, which flows into the Caspian Sea 
and is mentioned in Strabo, i, 61; Seneca, Medea, 376; Pro- 
pertius, iii, 12, 8, and iv, 3, 35. There was a king of Armenia 
by this name from whom the river may have taken its title, 
Plutarch, Fluv. 23. The Thesauriis Linguae Latinae prefers, 
however, to consider the name Araxus from Greek" A pa^o?. As 
it is a question of restoration, it is impossible to say which was 
the actual name. 

C. I. L. VI, 8752, reads ' Marcus Aurelius Bit.' There are 
two suggestions for this cognomen. Maffei says Bithynicus, 
which would point to Asia Minor, especially Bithynia, as the 
land of this cook's origin, for we know that the cognomen fre- 
quently indicated nationality. Bithynicus is found as a cog- 
nomen both in literature and inscriptions. Compare Cicero, 
Brutus, 240, 4, ' Pompeius A. F. qui Bithynicus est ' ; Paulus 
ex Festo, De Ponor, 354, ' Pompeius Bithynicus ' ; also C. I. L. 
VI, 33087, 7749, 9624; ix, 1414, and others. Mommsen, how- 
ever, thinks that the cognomen should be ' Bithus,' a Thracian 
name often found in inscriptions. In these the word ' Bithus ' 
is often followed by ' Thrax ' or ' Trax,' C. I. L. vi, 2601, 3195, 
34619. Even ' Bithus,' although it is a Thracian name, may 
point to Bith^aiia as the land from which Marcus Aurelius 
came, for Pape, Worterhuch der gr. Eigennamen under ' Bi- 
thus,' says that there was a son of Zeus by this name, from, 
whom the Bithynians were said to have derived their title. 
Hence this cognomen also seems to point to Asia Minor. 

The next name which may suggest nationality is ' Lucius 
Clodius Antioc. Tuscus,' C. L L. x, 5211. The cognomen 
^Antiochus ' was probably originally this cook's slave-name, 
and this would indicate Syria either as his land or that of his 
ancestors. For ' Antiochus ' was the name of several kings of 
Syria from the family of the Seleucidae. See De Vit's Totius 



34 Roman Cooks 

Latinitatis Onomasticon, under the word ' Antiochus/ for their 
family tree. Other kings from Commagene, a northern pro- 
vince of Syria, also hear this name. Antiochia, a city of Syria 
near the Orontes river, was no doubt named for one of these 
kings. See Pape, op. cit._, for many famous Syrians who 
were called ' Antiochus.' Among the Romans the name occurs 
rather frequently as a name of slaves and a cognomen of freed- 
men, cf. the Thesaurus Linguae Latinae under the word for 
examples. 

The name ' M. Egnatius Lugius,' C. I. L. xii^ 4468, may also 
point to Asia Minor, for Pape says that the Avjioi [were a peo- 
ple of Mysia, D. Cass. 67, 5. Mommsen^ however, suggests 
another cognomen, and would emend the inscription [M.']l. 
Ugius (i. e. Hygius) ?. 

' Seleucus Germanicus,' if this is really the cook's name in 
€. I. L. Yi, 33767, calls to mind once more the famous Syrian 
family of the Seleucidae. 

' Gario,' the name of the cook in Plautus, Miles Gloriosus, 
1397, is the Greek Kapicov, derived from Kdp with the diminu- 
tive ending icoi, hence may suggest that this cook was a Carian. 
This is, however, doubtful, as Carlo in this case is probably a 
slave-name which is taken from comedy. 

Aurelius Zoticus, who had such influence in the days of 
Heliogabalus, was a cook, and as Dio Cassius, lxxix, 16, 3, tells 
us, the son of a Smyrnean /j,d<yetpo<;. 

From this consideration of names we may draw the conclu- 
sion that many cooks or their ancestors came from Asia Minor 
or the East. 

Let us next consider the names of cooks which contain th3 
* nomina ' of Roman ' gentes.' When a slave was freed by his 
master's good will, or when he purchased his freedom, he took 
as his ' nomen ' the ' nomen ' of his master ; sometimes he took 
also the ' praenomen.' Por his third name or ' cognomen ' he 
kept his own slave-name. As in late Republican and in Impe- 
rial times cooks were doubtless in the possession of many fami- 
lies, and as thev were often freed for their excellent services 



Roman Coolcs 35 

or bought their independence, we find in the names of these 
freedmen those of the Roman ' gentes.' 

The ' gens Aelia ' is represented by two cooks, who probably 
belonged to the household of Hadrian, ' Aelius Ephproditus,' 
6'. 7. L. VI, 9262 ; and ' T. Aelius Primitivus,' C. I. L. vi, 8750 
and 7458. This family then, which counts in Roman history a 
great number of illustrious representatives, and from which the 
Antonines sprang, holds among its humbler claimants our two 
cooks mentioned above. 

The ' gens Aurelia,' of plebeian origin, which was consecrated 
from all antiquity to the service of the gods, particularly to the 
cult of the sun, from which Marcus Aurelius sprang, is repre- 
sented by an imperial cook, 'Marcus Aurelius Bit (bus),' 
C. I. L. \i, 8752, who was doubtless very proud of his name. 

The ' gens Arruntia ' of Etruscan origin is represented by 
' Lucius Arruntius Hilario,' C. I. L. xi, 3850. 

From the ' gens Caecilia ' we have ' Caecilius F,elix,' C. I. L. 
VI, 7433. This family was of plebeian origin, but after the 
third century B. C. it always occupied a brilliant place in the 
Republic, and its members forged a mythological origin. They 
pretended to be descended from Caeculus, the legendary founder 
of Praeneste, who was called the son of Vulcan. Another tra- 
dition gave them as an ancestor ' Caecus,' one of the companions 
of Aeneas. 

From the ' gens Catia ' comes ' Quintus Catius Herma,' 
C. I. L. XII, 4470. This family is known both from Latin 
writers and inscriptions. In the latter it occurs frequently in 
Cisalpine Gaul and l^arbonensis. The inscription just cited 
is from ISTarbo. See W. Schulze, Zur Oeschichte lateinischer 
Eir/ennamen, p. 76 ; Pauly-Wissowa, Real-Encyclopddie der 
classischen Altertumswissenscliaft, iii, 1792. 

The ' gens Clodia,' from which comes ' Lucius Clodius Antioc. 
Tuscus,' C. I. L. X, 5211, was originally of the country of the 
Sabines. It contained a number of illustrious representatives 
who posed as champions of the patricians. The decemvir Appius 
Claudius comes from this family, as did also the emperors 



36 Roman Cooks 

Tiberius and Claudius. It counted little for men of war, but 
rendered immense services to science and literature. Cf. De 
Vit, Onomasticon. 

The ' Dindia/ which is a very ancient ' gens/ is represented 
by ' Artemo Dindius/ C. I. L. xiv, 2875. 

From the ' gens Egnatia ' comes ' M. Egnatius Lugius/ 
C. I. L. xii^ 4468. This was originally from Samnium. It 
was established at Rome and admitted to the senate. 

Of the ' gens Funcia ' is ' Marcus Fuficius Eros/ C. I. L. vi, 
9270. This seems to have been derived from the ' gens Fufia ' 
by adding a syllable. The ' Fufia ' was a very old plebeian 
' gens ' of Campanian origin. 

The ' gens Genicilia ' has ' Gains Genicilius Domesticus/ 
C. I. L. \i, 9271. This family is probably known only from 
inscriptions. See Fabretti, p. 625, n. 211. 

' Gains lulius Eros,' C. I. L. \i, 33838 belongs to what was 
regarded as the most illustrious of the patrician families. The 
members gave themselves divine origin, and claimed to be 
descended from Ascanius, the son of Venus and Anchises. 

The ^ gens Latria ' is represented by ' Lucius Latrius,' 
C. I. L. XI, 3078. This family seems to be known from inscrip- 
tions only. 

From the patrician ' gens Marcia ' comes ' Marcius Faustus,' 
C. I. L. IX, 3938. The members of this family boasted counting 
among their ancestors the kings JSTuma Pompilius and Ancus 
Marcius. 

According to Orelli, 7227, from the ' gens Plotia ' we have 
' Lucius Plotius.' From the time of C. Plotius who obtained 
the consulship in 358 B. C. the Plotii occupied high offices in 
the Republic. Lucius is one of their regular ' praenomina.' 

' Marcus Valerius Optatus/ C. I. L. y, 2544, belongs to the 
* gens Valeria.' This was one of the most ancient and most 
illustrious families. From 245 B. C. to the end of the Imperial 
period it occupied a prominent place in Roman history. Sev- 
eral emperors were descended from it. 

In addition to the above Roman ' gentes ' which we may be 
sure possessed cooks, because their names are found as the ' nom- 



Roman Coohs 37 

ina ' of cooks, several other families are given in the ' cogno- 
mina ' of men of the same calling. When a slave passed from one 
master to another by sale or inheritance, or a ' libertus ' from 
one patron to another, he received a ' cognomen ' which was 
formed of the name of his previous master or patron com- 
pounded with ' anus ' to show whence he came. This is almost 
the only class of ' cognomina ' of whose origin we can be cer- 
tain, says Emil Hiibner in his article on Romische Epigraphik, 
Miiller's Handhuch, Vol. i^ p. 515. Several families are repre- 
sented thus in the names of our cooks. The ' gens Cornuficia ' 
has ' Eros Cornufi(cianus),' C. I. L. vi, 8Y53 ; the ' gens Sestia, 
Photio Sestianus,' C. I. L. vi, 8754 ; and the ' gens Barbia, 
Hilarus Barbianus,' C. I. L. vi, 6247. 

The study of the ' gentes ' which our cooks represent and by 
whose members they were freed may be useless. It will be noted, 
however, that the families represented above are usually the 
more prominent of the Roman ' gentes.' While members of the 
more obscure families of course had cooks, it seems probable 
that they were generally slaves, and that freedmen as cooks 
usually occur in the more distinguished or imperial families, 
although they, too, had both slaves and ' liberti.' It is probable 
that prominent families had more skilled cooks, men who for 
this reason were better able to purchase or win their freedom. 



Additional Observations on I^ames 

Cooks' names with few exceptions are originally Greek 
names. Of course, when the cook was a ' libertus,' his ' nomen ' 
and ' praenomen ' are Roman, but his ' cognomen,' which shows 
his original name, was nearly always Greek. Latin ' cogno- 
mina ' are ' Domesticus, Faustus, Felix, Optatus, Primitivus,' 
and ' Tuscus.' All the rest are Greek. In cases where the 
cook was a slave, hence had only one name, ' Firmus ' and 
' S antra ? ' are the only Latin ones. The ' cognomina ' of cooks 
as we find them in inscriptions may be classed under three or 
four heads : 



38 Roman CooJcs 

1. Those whicli may indicate nationality — Antiochus, Bi- 
tlius, Lugius, Tuscus; 

2. Those which show whence the cook was procured — 
Barbianus, Corniific(ianus), Sestianus; 

3. Those which seem to refer to the cooks' occupation or 
character — Domesticus, Faustus, Felix, Optatus, and Primi- 
tivus ; 

4. Other cognomina, Eros, Epaphroditus. 

In C. I. L. VI, 33838, we find a cook Gains lulius Eros, a 
* libertus ' of Polybius. Gaius lulius Polybius is a common 
name at Pompeii. It occurs in C. I. L. iv, 108, 133, 146, 523, 
909, 316, 94, 99, 113, 121, 132, 134, 147, 271, 429, 699, 875, 
886, 973, 1050, 1226, 258, 1060. 

It is possible that this cook was freed in Pompeii by his 
master, and, after gaining his freedom traveled to Rome, took 
up his abode there and died there. 



Roman Cooks 39 

CHAPTER VI 
THE CHAEACTERISTICS OF COOKS 



As a rule cooks in ancient Rome appear to have the same 
general characteristics as their more or less direct prototypes in 
Greek Comedy. This is what we should naturally expect in 
Plautus, for while there were no doubt professional cooks in 
Rome in his day, and while he to a certain extent described the 
members of this calling as he saw them in his own city, it is no 
less certainly true, that in this as in all else he drew largely 
on his Greek originals. 

As depicted in comedy, Greek cooks were boastful. Rankin 
in the work previously cited, p. 77, says that along with the 
physicians of ancient times, the fidyeipo'?, appears to have been 
the a\.a^(ov ' par excellence.' He boasts of skill in many sciences 
besides his own, namely, astronomy, military tactics, architec- 
ture, geometry, painting, and medicine ; and says that the train- 
ing in his own art is not a matter of two short years, but of a 
lifetime. He boasts, too, of his ability to please men of all 
nationalities, and claims to study not only the tastes but also 
the temperaments of his guests. One member of the profession, 
Athenaeus, iv^ 169, d, makes this claim for his skill that when 
sojourning in Italy he learned to cook with such dexterity that 
at times he made all the guests eagerly lay hold of the dishes 
with their teeth. Athenaeus, vii^ 290, c, quotes another as 
saying, ' When men return from funerals I take the lids from 
my saucepans, and the weeping partakers thereof I clothe with 
smiling faces. I have known many who because of me have 
eaten their whole estates.' That the Greek cook was thievish is 
shown by the speech of a cook to his pupils in Dionysius's drama 
'OfiQivv/xot, quoted Athenaeus, ix, 381, d, ' For,' says he, 
' They'll count the joints they give you, and they'll watch you.' 



40 Roman Cooks 

Many other passages might be cited to show the rivalry among 
members of the profession, the pride in their art, and the respect 
considered due it, for one claims that civilization arose from 
fiajeipiKT} Texvrj, M., iv^ 557; K., iii, 369. Other qualities 
which Greek cooks possessed were ingenuity, wit, ability to 
adapt themselves to various situations, curiosity, and skill in 
the preparation of special dishes ; but as we are concerned 
chiefly with Koman cooks, what has been said about their proto- 
types will be sufficient. For fuller details on this point, consult 
Eankin in the work previously cited, especially chapter xi. 
Characteristics of the MdyeipoL' 

Let us consider now the qualities which Roman cooks pos- 
sessed. As in Greek culinary artists, the boastful tendency is 
still found. Ballio, Pseud olus,, 790 if. sums up the characteris- 
tics of members of this profession as follows: 

Forum coquinum qui vocant, stulte vocant: 

Nam non coquinumst, verum furinumst forum. 

IsTam ego si iuratus peiorem hominem quaererem 

Coqum non potui quam hunc quern duco ducere 

Multilocum, gloriosum, insulsum, inutilem. 

Quin ob eam rem Orcus recipere ad se hunc noluit, 

Ut esset hie qui mortui cenam coquat ; 

Here we find ' gloriosum ' one of the prominent characteris- 
tics. The cook lives up to his reputation, 828 ff., when he says, 

Audacter dicito ; 
!N^am vel ducenos annos poterunt vivere 
Meas qui ,essitabunt escas quas condivero. 
!N"am ego cocilendrum quando in patinas indidi 
Aut cepolendrum aut maccidem aut saucaptidem, 
Eaepsae sese patinae fervefaciunt ilico. 

In 840 ff. he boasts that Jupiter himself sups on the odors from 
his saucepans, and that when he does not cook the king of gods 
goes to bed hungry. 



Roman Cooks 41 

Ubi omnes patinae fervont, omnis aperio: 
Is odos dimissis pedibus in caelum volat. 
Eum odorem cenat Juppiter cottidie. 

Ballio remarks scornfully, 845, 

Si nusquam is coctum, quidnam cenat luppiter? 
The cooks' replies. 

It incenatus cubitum. 

Lines 848 and 849 also show his full appreciation of his own 
merit ; 

Fateor equidem esse me coquom carissumum ;. 
Verum pro pretio facio ut opera adpareat 
Mea quo conductus venio. 

That his employer is not so confident of getting value received 
is the implication of his reply, 

Ad furandum quidem. 

Lines 868 ff. this same cook continues his boastful strain, and 
proudly displays his knowledge of Greek mythology, 

Quia sorbitione faciam ego hodie te mea, 
Item ut Medea Peliam concoxit senem. 
Quern medicamento ,et suis venenis dicitur 
Fecisse rursus ex sene adulescentulum. 
Item ego te faciam. 

Again, 881 if., he boasts of his skill in his art, 

ISTam ego ita convivis cenam conditam dabo 
Hodie atque ita suavi suavitate condiam : 
Ut quisque quidque conditum gustaverit, 
Ipsus sibi faciam ut digitos praerodat suos. 



42 Roman Cooks 

We may be sure that cooks boasted in later times also, espe- 
cially when we recall the treatment which they received at the 
hands of gourmands, who for some special service rendered their 
palates, permitted the cook to enter the festive halls, allowed 
him to mimic the tragic actor Ephesus, and to offer a bet to his 
master that the greens would win at the next show in the circus, 
cf. Petronius, Cena Trimalcliionis, 70. 

The thievish propensities of cooks are emphasized even more 
in 'Plautus than in Greek literature. As has been said, Ballio, 
Pseudolus, 790, affirms that the ' forum coquinum ' should be 
called the market of thieves instead. In the same play, 851, 
the cook admits that stealing is a fault common to men of his 
calling. 

An tu invenire postulas quemquam coquom 
Nisi milvinis aut aquilinis ungulis ? 

Their employers were fully conscious of this defect in their 
character, hence took every possible precaution in order to 
guard themselves against it. P&eudolus, 855 ff., Ballio gives 
his boy orders for keeping a sharp watch on the cook, 

Nunc adeo tu, qui mens es, iam edico tibi 

Ut nostra properes amoliri hinc omnia. 

Turn ut huius oculos in oculis habeas tuis : 

Quoquo hie spectabit, eo tu spectato simul ; 

Si quo hie gradietur, pariter (tu) progredimino ; 

Manum si protollet, pariter proferto manum: 

Suum siquid sumet, id tu sinito sumere ; 

Si nostrum sumet, tu teneto altrinsecus. 

Si iste ibit, ito: stabit, astato simul; 

Si conquiniscet istic, conquiniscito. 

Item his discipulis privos custodes dabo. 

Note also Aulularia, 363-370. Even the closest watching was 
not a safeguard against such clever rogues, according to ths 
words of Euclio, Aulularia, 551 ff., 



Roman Cooks 43 

Mihi omnis angulos 
Furum implevisti in aedibus misero mihi ; 
Qui mi intromisti in aedibus quingentos cocos 
Cum senis manibus genere Geryonaceo ; 
Quos si Argus servet, qui oculeus totus fuit, 
Quem quondam lovi luno custodem addidit, 
Is numquam servet. 

This, however, must be regarded as an exaggerated statement 
of the case by a miser who thought that everyone was looking 
for his precious gold. In Aulularia, 344 and 345, the only 
conditions are given under which a cook could refrain from 
stealing : 

Quod te scio 
Facile abstinere posse, si nil obviamst. 

In the houses of the wealthy, however. 

Si perierit quippiam, 
Dicant, coqui abstulerunt; comprehendite, 
Vincite, verberate, in puteum condite. 
Horum tibi istic nil eveniet ; quippe qui 
Ubi quid subripias, nil est. 

The words of the cook in the Mercaior indicate that in ancient 
days as well as in modern times food from an employer's pantry 
often found its way to the cook's larder, Mercator, 741 ff., 

Agite ite actutum, nam mihi amatori seni 
Coquendast cena: Atque, quom recogito, 
l^obis coquendast, non quoi conducti sumus, 
]^am qui amat quod amat si habet, id habet pro cibo. 
Sed nos confido onustos redituros domum. 

Cooks in Plautus were not the only ones who went home loaded, 
according to a story which is told by Apuleius, Metamorphoses, 
iCj 13. The unfortunate Lucius, in the form of a donkey, has 



44 Roman Cooks 

the good luck to become the property of two brothers who are 
the slaves of a wealthy personage. One was a ' pistor dulci- 
arius ' who made bread and sweetmeats, the other a cook who 
dressed rich stews, which were seasoned with the relishing 
juices of pounded herbs and aromatics. ' In the evening/ says 
Lucius, ' after the supper, which was always on a magnificent 
scale, my masters were in the habit of bringing home to their 
little room numerous fragments that were left. The one brought 
large quantities of roast pig, chickens, fish, and other delicate 
dishes; the other brought bread, pastry, sugar plums, hook 
cakes, lizard cakes, and many kinds of honied sweetmeats.' 
When his masters w.ere not present, Lucius feasted upon these 
dainties. Since the thievish cooks did not suppose that a 
donkey relished food of this kind, naturally each suspected the 
other of stealing his booty. 

Besides taking large quantities of food to their homes, the 
host of cooks in the kitchen probably enjoyed samples, the 
result of their own skill, before passing them on to the guests. 
Compare the passage in the Aulularia, 363-368, where Pythodi- 
cus, the slave who seems to be in charge of the cooks says, 

Ego intervisam quid faciant coqui: 
Quos pol ut ego hodie servem cura maxumast. 
Nisi unum hoc f aciam, ut in puteo cenam coquant : 
Inde coctam sursum subducemus corbulis. 
Si autem deorsum comedent, siquid coxerint, 
Superi incenati sunt, et cenati inferi. 

Ausonius, Ephemeris, vi, Locusi Ordinandi Coqui, describes the 
gentle pleasure with which the cook tastes the plates of his own 
making. 

An vegeto madeant condita opsonia gustu 
(Fallere namque solent) experiundo proba. 
Concute ferventes palmis volventibus ollas. 
Tinge celer digitos iure calente tuos 
Vibranti lambat quos umida lingua recursu. 



Roman Cooks 45 

However, a Pompeian ' graffito ' paints the cook's condition 
under colors less favorable, for it says, C. I. L. iy, 1896, 

Ubi perna cocta est si convivae apponitur 

IsTon gustat pernam. Lingit ollam aut caccabmn. 

Another evidence that cooks were thieves is found in Plau- 
tus, Casina, 720 ff. Oljmpio calls the cook's assistants briars. 
Citrio, the cook, replies, 

Qui vero hi sunt sentis? 

Olympio says, 

Quia quod tetigere, ilico rapiunt; si eas ereptum, ilico 

scindunt. 
Ita quoquo adveniunt, ubi sunt duplici damno dominos 

multant. 

Not only did cooks steal, but their patron goddess even was 
Laverna, the goddess of thieves,, for in Plautus, Aulularia, 445, 
Congrio says, 

Ita me bene amet Laverna. 

Paulus ex Festo, De Ponor under ' Laverniones ' tells us, ' La- 
verniones fures antiqui dicebant, quod sub tutela deae Lavernae 
essent.' The only story that we have of an honest cook is the 
one told by Augustinus, De Civitate Dei, xxii^ 8. A certain 
cook ' Cattosus ' found an ' anulum aureum in ventriculo piscis, 
miseratione flexus et religione perterritus homini eum reddidit ' 
who sold him the fish. 

C. I. L. Yi, 49, gives a characteristic which cooks should 
possess. Whether they really conformed to this fitting standard 
is another question. 

Bacchum et Sylenum sobrios vides 
Sic cecum decet. 

In Greek Comedy, scenes which were composed of the jests 
of cooks were frequently introduced. These were similar to 



46 Roman Cooks 

Pseudolus, iii^ 2. Athenaeus, xiv^ 659, says, ixaXiaTa ^ap 
eladyovrai, (sc. iv rrj via kco/xcoSlo) oi fid<y€LpoL cfkcotttucoi Ttv€<i. 
Roman cooks also were fond of jokes, and somewhat given to 
puns. In Plautus, Mercator, 748 ff., the cook, who has been 
hired by Lysimachus to dress a dinner for his sweetheart, meets 
the old gentleman on the street, with his wife, and thoroughly 
enjoys the discomfiture to which he puts him, as he slyly 
reveals the situation to the jealous wife: that her husband had 
employed him to prepare a dinner for another woman, that he 
had said that his wife, whom he loathed as a serpent, was in the 
country. The old man is at his wits' end and can only say, 
762, 

Ita me amabit luppiter. 
Uxor, ut ego illud numquam deixi. 

In line 768 the cook slyly remarks, 

Nisi metuis tu istanc. 

In the Menaechmi, 220, Cylindrus is directed to buy provis- 
ions for three guests. He inquires who they are, and on being 
told that one is a parasite, he replies, 

lam isti sunt decem 
Nam parasitus octo hominum munus facile fungitur. 

Note also Aulularia, 280, where for the sake of a pun the cook 
perhaps wilfully misunderstands, 

Strobilus — Postquam obsonavit ,erus et conduxit coquos, 
Tibicinasque hasce, apud forum, edixit mihi, 
Ut dispertirem obsonium hie bifariam 

Anthrax the cook replies. 

Me quidem Hercle dicam palam non divides. 
Siquo tu totum me ire vis, operam dabo. 

Congrio, Aulularia, 325 calls his colleagues in the culinary art 
a man of three letters. 



Roman CooJcs 47 

Tun trium litterarum homo me vituperas ? fur. 

In Aulularia, 413, even under trying circumstances, Congrio 
has enough sense of humor left to play on the word ' ligna,' as 
meaning logs for his fire, rather than blows for his back, 

Neque ligna ego usquam gentium praeberi vidi pulcrius, 
Itaque omnis exegit foras me atque hos onustos fustibus. 

When the cook in the Miles Gloriosus, Act V, is called in with 
his knife to settle the fate of the boastful soldier, he enters 
heartily into the grim humor of the situation, and when advised 
to see that his knife is sharp, replies, 1398, 

Quin iam dudum gestit moecho hoc abdomen adimere, 
Faciam uti quasi puero in collo pendeant crepundia. 

It will only be necessary to mention a few of the dishes which 

cooks were credited with concocting, in order to prove that 

ingenuity was one of their characteristics. Euphron, M. iv^ 

€94; K. Ill, 323, tells the story of a cook, Soterides, who 

deceived a king by his clever cooking. It was winter, and the 

sea was far away, but the king of Bithynia was seized by a 

longing for anchovies. Soterides therefore prepared and cooked 

turnips in such a way as to imitate the desired dainties, and 

so quenched the king's passion for fish. There were Roman 

cooks also who were equally skilled, and when we read of some 

of their dishes, we do not wonder that Seneca blamed them for 

most of the maladies from which the rich Romans suffered. 

He says, Epistulae ad Lucilium, 95, 23, ' Innumerabiles esse 

morbos non miraberis: cocos numera.' Martial, xi, 31, speaks 

of a cook who prepared gourds so ingeniously that you would 

fancy you saw lentils and beans on the table. Moreover, from 

them he created sausages, fish, mushrooms, and many other 

things. Trimalchio, Petronius, Cena, 70, named his cook 

Daedalus because he was such a wonder worker in the art of 

dressing and transforming foods. ' Cocks and pheasants and 

such bagatelles,' says Trimalchio, 47, ' are jobs for country- 



48 Roman Cooks 

bred cooks. Mine are in the habit of sending a calf boiled 
whole to the table.' One of his cooks dressed a whole boar, in 
a remarkably short time, for his master's banquet, and stuffed 
it with puddings and sausages, Cena, 49. "When another pig 
which had been roasted in the same kitchen was carved, thrushes 
flew out about the dining room. One dish which was served on 
Trimalchio's table looked at first sight like a fat goose sur- 
rounded by fish and fowls of all sorts, but the master declared, 
* My cook has made all this out of a pig ... he will make you 
a fish from the paunch, a wood pigeon from the fat bacon, a 
turtle dove from the gammon, and a fowl from the shoulder.' 
Many of the stories in Petronius are, no doubt, fanciful; yet 
we have only to read the work of Apicius, and the recipes in 
Martial, to be convinced that Roman cooks were quite capable 
of such feats of ingenuity. In earlier times the tragic actor 
Aesopus was celebrated for his dish of singing birds which cost 
him more than a hundred thousand sesterces, Pliny, N. H. 
-K, 141 ; xxxv^ 163. 

Suetonius, Vitellius, xiii^ tells of a feast which that em- 
peror gave upon the first use of a dish which had been made for 
him, which because of its extraordinary size he called The 
Shield of Minerva. In this wonderful dish there were tossed 
together the livers of fish, the brains of pheasants and peacocks, 
with the tongues of flamingoes, and the .entrails of lampreys, 
which had been brought in ships of war as far as from the 
Carpathian Sea. Certainly no one would accuse of lack of im- 
agination a cook who could conceive of or compound such a mix- 
ture. Many other strange dishes might be described, but this 
is not the place to discuss the cookery of the Romans. At 
some later time I hope to work up carefully the whole subject 
of Roman dishes. At present just a few have been mentioned, 
to show that ingenuity must have been one of the characteristics 
of the Roman cook. 

]N'oise and turmoil often reigned supreme in the kitchen, and 
cooks were frequently inclined to quarrel about their respective 
merits. In the Aulularia, 403, Congrio says, 



Roman Cooks 49 

Sed quid hoc clamoris oritur hinc ex proxumo ? 
Coqui hercle, credo, faciunt officium suom. 
rugiam intro, ne quid turbae hie itidem fuat. 

In the same play, 324 f,, the two cooks get into a dispute and 
Anthrax says of Congrio, 

Coquos ille nundinalist, in nonum diem 
Solet ire coctum. 

Congrio replies. 

Tun, trium litterarum homo, 
Me vituperas ? fur. 

Anthrax retorts, 

Etiam fur, trifurcifer. 

We have seen already how the cook in the Fseudolus, 808 ff., 
disparages other members of his calling. iNot only did cooks 
quarrel among themselves, but they seemed to enjoy creating a 
domestic disturbance of any kind. Compare the scene in the 
Casina, 759 if., where they overturn the kettles and pour water 
on the fire to keep the old man from having his dinner. In the 
Pseudolus, 889, Ballio chides the cook whom he has hired for 
his prating and says, 

Molestus ne sis; nimium iam tinnis; tace. 

If, then, we conjure up a mental image of the average Roman 
cook, we get anything but an attractive personage. He was a 
noisy, prating, impertinent, old fellow, probably fat with feed- 
ing on stolen dainties from his master's provisions. His face 
was covered with smut, his locks polluted with greasy soot, 
and his clothes steeped in the odor of the kitchen. This disagree- 
able feature seems to have been almost proverbial as the passage 
in Petronius, Cena TrimalcJiionisi, 2 shows : ' Qui inter haee 
nutriuntur non magis sapere possunt, quam bene olere qui in 

4 



60 Roman Cooks 

culina habitant.' At his side or in his hand was the ever-present 
knife. There were, however, occasional exceptions when his 
appearance was more pleasing, for Martial, xii^ 64, tells us 
that Cinna appointed as cook one of his rosy attendants who 
surpassed all others in beauty of features and hair, and again, 
x^ 66, he mentions a handsome youth, Theopompus, who became 
a cook. 

While many of the characteristics of Greek and Eoman cooks 
are the same, although the latter is boastful, he does not have 
the same respect for his art that the former did, and it is 
probable that cooking was always regarded as a more menial 
calling in Rome than in Greece. 



Roman Cooks 51 

CHAPTEK VII 
THE COST OF COOKS 



Before the days of Plautus the cost of cooks was probably a 
matter of very little importance even in the homes of the wealth- 
ier Romans. As has been already said, up to that time the daily 
cooking was usually done by the ' matronae ' or the ordinary 
slaves, and the cook was, as Livy puts it, ' vilissimum manci- 
pium.' Even in the time of Plautus, if we can trust his plays, 
when a professional cook was hired from the ' macellum ' for 
the preparation of an entertainment, the price paid him was 
abnormally small. This seems especially true when we remem- 
ber that he brought with him his assistants and the necessary 
kitchen utensils. , Reference is made to the latter Aulularia, 
445, where the cook says, 

Ita me bene Laverna (uti) te iam nisi reddi 
Mihi vasa iubes, pipulo te hie differam ante aedis. 

M creator, 781, the cook, when leaving, says, 

Haec vassa aut mox aut eras iubebo abs te peti. 

In Plautus the regular price paid a professional cook for the 
preparation of an entertainment was a drachma. In the Mer- 
cator, ^11, the cook demands his pay, saying, ' Give me a 
drachma.' The passage following this seems to indicate that 
it was not always an easy matter for a cook to collect what was 
due him, and that he accepted no promises but cash alone, for 
he refuses to be off until he receives his money. Pseudolus, 
80.8 ff.,also shows that the price paid to the average cook was a 
drachma, but that there were special artists in the profession 
who valued their services more highly and who charged a 
' nummus.' Ramsay, in his edition of the Mostellaria of Plan- 



62 Roman Cooks 

tus, p. 247, proves that this term is almost always used by that 
author to mean a didrachma. Ballio, Pseudolus, 800, asks the 
cook whom he has just hired from the ' forum coquinum ' why 
he was left sitting there so long; if, as he claims, he is an 
expert. The cook replies that this is duo to man's avarice, not 
to his lack of genius. He says, 804 ff., 

Quom extemplo veniunt conductum coquom 
Nemo ilium quaerit qui optumus et carissumust; 
Ilium conducunt potius qui vilissumust. 
Hoc lOgo fui hodie solus obsessor fori. 
Illi drachumissent miseri : me nemo potest 
Minoris quisquam nummo ut surgam subigere. 
!Non ego item cenam condio ut alii coqui, 
Qui mihi condita prata in patinis proferunt, 
Boves qui convivas faciunt herbasque oggerunt, 
Eas herbas herbis aliis porro condiunt. 

This same cook's pay is mentioned again in line 847, where 
Ballio says, 

I in malam crucem. 
Istacine caussa tibi hodie nummum dabo? 

The cook replies, 

Fateor equidem .esse me coquom carissumum ; 
Verum pro pretio facio ut opera appareat 
Mea quo conductus venio. 

Ballio's next remark may explain in part why the hire of a cook 
was so cheap, for even if you place the purchasing power of a 
drachma or a didrachma at the highest limit possible, it still 
seems a rather small sum to pay for the preparation of a dinner. 
Ballio's words, however, Pseudolus, 850, ' Ad furandum qui- 
dem,' imply that this regular stipend was supplemented by pur- 
loining on the part of the cook of anything he could lay his 
hands on. The cook's retort, 851, suggests the same idea, for 
he says, 



Roman Cooks 6S 

An tu invenire postulas quemquam coquom 
Nisi milvinis aut aquilinis ungulis ? 

It was true, no doubt, that then as well as in later times the 
cook took away from his employer's house much more than the 
actual money paid for his services. Compare Martial, xiii, 
52 : ' Let a duck be brought to the table whole, but only the 
breast and the neck are worth eating. Return the rest to the 
cook.' The amount paid a cook is stated again Aulularia, 448, 
where Congrio the cook, who has been severely cudgeled by the 
old miser, observes, 

ISTummo sum conductus; plus iam medico mercedist opus. 

Aulularia, 309 indicates that cooks sometimes received from 
their patrons additional compensation besides their regular pay, 
for Anthrax says, 

Censen talentum magnum exorari potis 
Ab istoc sene, ut det qui fiamus liberi ? 

There is, then, in Plautus sufficient evidence to show that a 
cook was paid a drachma, or at most a didrachma for the 
preparation of a dinner or entertainment. To settle the exact 
purchasing value of this amount is a more difficult question. 
William Ramsay, Mostelldria, 241 ff., in the article on Terms 
Employed With Reference to Money, gives the clearest expla- 
nation of money in Plautus. He says, ' In the works of the 
Latin dramatists all computations in Greek money must be 
referred to the Attic standard and wherever moderate sums are 
named we shall not commit any grave error if we consider the 
value of the Attic drachma = 9 d. sterling.' We know that there 
was a close relation between the Greek drachma and the Roman 
' denarius' and Friedrich Hultsch in his Griechische und 
Romische Metrologie, p. 149, says that in later times in Rome 
instead of the ' drachma wurde der Denar gebraucht und der 
Name Drachme auf diesen iibertragen.' 

It was just after the war vnth Antiochus, as we have seen,) 
Livy, xxxix, 6, that ' coquus vilissimum mancipium et aestima- 



54 Roman Cooks 

tione et usu in pretio esse.' After this time interesting stories 
are found of the amount paid for cooks, and of the valuable pres- 
ents made them as a reward for tickling the palate of their mas- 
ter or employer. Plutarch, Antony, xxiv, says that Antony 
presented to his cook the house of a citizen of Magnesia. In 
Petronius, Cenxi Trimalchionis, 50, ' nee non cocus potione ho- 
noratus est, et argentea corona, poculumque in lance accepit 
Corinthia ' for a happy device which met with the approval of 
his master. Again, in paragraph 70 of the same work, 
Trimalchio says that since his cook Daedalus is a clever fellow 
he brought him from Rome a present of ISToric steel. Cato is 
quoted by Aulus Gellius, xi, 2, 5, as saying that ' Equos carius, 
quam coquos emebant,' but the price of cooks soon outgrew this 
limit. In the time of the first Roman emperors, when the pleas- 
ures of the table were carried to the extreme, we find enormous 
prices paid for cooks. Porphyrion, commenting on Horace, 
Satires, i, 1, 101, says that ' Oassius l^omentanus, adeo sine 
respectu calculorum suorum prodigus ut sestertium septuagies 
gulae ac libidini impenderit. Huius libertum, Damam nomine, 
cecum Sallustius Crispus historiarum scriptor fertur centenis 
milibus annuls conductum habuisse.' Compare with this the 
statement of Sallust, BelluTn lugurthinum, 85, 39, who makes 
Marius say that he is called stingy and ' incultus moribus ' 
because he has no cook who is of greater value than a ' vilicus.' 
' Sordidum me et incultus moribus aiunt, quia parum scite con- 
vivium exorno, neque histrionem ullum, neque pluris preti 
cecum quam vilicum habeo.' 

Even in Varro's day skilled bakers were purchased at a 
great price, as one sees from a fragment of his satire jrepl 
iSea/idrcov, Aulus Gellius, xv, 19, ' Si quantum operae sump- 
sisti, ut tuus pistor bonum faceret panem, eius duodecimam 
philosophiae dedisses, ipse bonus iampridem esses factus. Nunc 
ilium qui norunt volunt emere milibus centum, te qui novit 
nemo centussis.' 

Pliny, N. H. ix, 67, makes an interesting commentary on the 
rise in the value of cooks and the increase in luxury in Impe- 
rial times. He says that Asinius Celer, a man of consular 



Roman Cooks 55 

rank, bought a fish in Rome during the reign of Caligula for 
which he paid 8,000 sesterces. A reflection, says he, upon such 
a fact as this will at once lead us to turn our thoughts to those 
who, making loud complaints against luxury, used to lament 
that a single cook cost more than a horse, while at the present 
day a cook is only to be obtained for the same sum that a tri- 
umph would cost, and a fish is only to be purchased at what 
was formerly the price of a cook. Indeed, there is hardly any- 
one held in higher esteem than the man who understands how 
in the most scientific fashion to get rid of his master's property. 
Juvenal, Satires, vii, 184 ff., implies that the cook was con- 
sidered of more importance for a household than, and was 
procured at the expense of, a son's education, for he says, 

Quanticumque domus, veniet qui fercula docte 
Conponat, veniet qui pulmentaria condit. 
Hos inter sumptus sestertia Quintiliano, 
Ut multum, duo sufficient ; res nulla minoris 
Constabit patri quam filius. 

In later days Tertullian, De Anima, 33, speaks of ' cocos 
pretiosissimos,' and Hieronymus, Epistulae, 100, 6, 5 reads 
' magni pretii cocos.' 

After Plautus it is difficult to tell the exact cost of cooks in 
later generations. A brief glance at a few of the successive 
sumptuary laws of the Romans, which endeavored to regulate 
the expenses of the table, will give us some idea of the way in 
which luxury and high living constantly grew, and consequently 
of the gradual increase in the cost and value of cooks, although 
they are not mentioned in these laws. The ' lex Orchia,' Ma- 
crobius, Satwm. iii^ 17, 2, 181 B. C, was perhaps the earliest 
of these laws, and regulated the number of guests. The Fan- 
nian law, Macrobius, Saturn, iii, 17, 4 ff., Aulus Gellius, ii, 
24, 161 B. C, fixed the maximum expenditure for a dinner on 
festal days at one hundred asses. On other days the amount to 
be expended was set at a limit of thirty asses for ten days of 
the month, and ten asses for the rest. It forbade having more 
than five guests on market days, and more than three other days. 



56 Roman Cooks 

It proliibited the serving of any fowl at repasts except a hen, 
and this was not to be fattened. 

The luxury of the day soon outgrew this law, and the need 
for a new regulation made itself felt. Consequently eighteen 
years after the Fannian law the ' lex Didia ' was passed, Mac- 
robius, Saturn, iii, 17, 6. This extended the regulations of the 
previous law to the whole of Italy, whereas the Italians claimed 
that it had applied previously to Eome alone. 

In 107 B. C. the ' lex Licinia ' followed, Macrobius, Saturn. 
Ill, 17, 8 ; Aulus Gellius, ii, 24, 7. It fixed the expense of a 
repast at one hundred asses for festal days and days of public 
ceremonies, at two hundred asses for wedding feasts, and at 
thirty asses for ordinary days. It limited to three pounds the 
amount of meat to be consumed daily. 

By the 'lex Cornelia,' Macrobius, Saturn, ui, 17, 11, Sulla 
placed a limit of thr<3e sesterces on the expenditure for the 
table for usual days, but allowed this to be stretched to thirty 
for the ISTones, the Ides and the Kalends, and also for feast days. 
He set a high price on the dainties which gourmands particu- 
larly desired. Even the originator of this law violated it. 

Luxurious living was the vogue in the time of Lucullus. This 
tendency explains the multitude of sumptuary laws in his day, 
but luxury increased just as the number of laws designed to 
restrain it did. Sulla's law had discouraged so little the sale 
of taxed foods that a little after 79 B. C. the ' lex Aemilia,' 
Aulus Gellius, ii, 24, 12, endeavored to regulate not only the 
price, but the kind of food and the manner of its preparation. 
This law, as well as the ' lex Antia ' which followed it, was not 
observed, consequently the would-be reformers relaxed their 
efforts somewhat, and luxury continued its ravages undisturbed 
until the time of Julius Caesar. 

By the ' lex lulia,' Aulus Gellius, ii, 24, 14, he fixed the 
maximum expenditure for the table at two hundred sesterces 
for ordinary days, and at three hundred for feast days. For 
the wedding feast, and the one on the following day one thou- 
sand sesterces might be spent. Caesar placed guards in the 
markets who were charged with the execution of his law. 



Roman Cooks 57 

Under Augustus or Tiberius, according to Aulus Gellius, ii^ 
24, 15, there was another sumptuary law. By this the cost of 
a dinner was not to exceed two hundred sesterces on ordinary 
days. It was limited to three hundred sesterces for certain 
feast days, and could even reach two thousand for wedding 
celebrations and anniversaries. 

Under Tiberius extravagance with regard to the table con- 
tinued to assume unheard of proportions, and sumptuary laws 
were not observed. The aediles appealed to the senate, and the 
senate referred the matter to the emperor, Tacitus, Annates, iii, 
52 if. In his response Tiberius showed that he was very scepti- 
cal about the efficacy of such regulations. 

This is not the place to discuss the ineffectiveness of Roman 
as of all sumptuary laws. A few have been cited merely to show 
the continuous increase, in successive generations, of the amount 
spent upon the table, and also to indicate how the value of skilled 
cooks must have risen in a world where high-living played 
such a large part that successive laws were considered neces- 
sary in order to keep it down even a little.^ These very laws 
made the expert ' chef ' a most important personage, for when 
there was a tax on certain foods the cook would be valued greatly 
who could dress other dishes so as to resemble the forbidden 
dainties. This was one of the special accomplishments both of 
Greek and Roman cooks. Compare the story told of Soterides 
in Euphron, Meineke, iv, 494; Kock, iii, 323, who deceived a 
king with his imitation of anchovies at a time when the king 
was not able to secure them. Martial, xi, 31, tells the story of 
a cook who metamorphosed gourds in such a way that you would 
fancy you saw lentils, beans, mushrooms, sausages, and tails of 
tunnies and anchovies on the table. Thus he filled his dishes 
and side dishes, and congratulated himself on his skill in fur- 
nishing so many dishes at the cost of a penny. Compare also 
Cicero, Ad Familiares, vii;, 26. 



* For Roman sumptuary laws I consulted particularly a dissertation by 
Charles Bauthian, Droit Romain, le Luxe et les Lois Somptuaires, Paris, 
1891. 



58 Roman Cooks 

CHAPTEK VIII 
THE 'MACELLUM' 



If we are correct in saying that tke Romans hired their cooks 
for special entertainments as did the Greeks, there must neces- 
sarily have been in Rome as in Athens some definite place 
where these artists could be found when their services were 
desired. For the haunts of Greek cooks, cf. Rankin, work pre- 
viously cited, pp. 42 flp. As has been already stated, Pliny, 
N. H. xviii^ 108, tells us that the early Roirians hired their 
cooks from the ' macellum.' Plautus, too, in several pas- 
sages in his plays, speaks of hiring cooks for entertainments, 
and sometimes he tells us where they were procured. In the 
Aulularia, 280, Strobilus, a slave, says: 

Postquam obsonavit erus, et conduxit coquos 
Tibicinasque hasce apud forum. 

Mercator, 69Y, Lysimachus says, 

Egomet conduxi coquom, 
Sed eum demiror non venire ut iusseram. 

In the Pseudolus, 790 ff., Ballio, returning home with his cooks, 

says : 

Forum coquinum qui vocant, stulte vocant 
]^am non coquinumst, verum furinumst forum. 

Compare also the words of the cook 798, 

Si me arbitrabare isto pacto ut praedicas 
Cur conducebas ? 

And Ballio's reply, 



Roman CooJcs 69 

Inopia: alius non erat 
Sed cur sedebas in foro, si eras coquos, 
Tu solus praeter alios ? 

In lines 804-806 also, the cook speaks of the custom of hiring 
members of his profession. The same custom is referred to in 
Terence, Eunuchtts, 255 : 

Dum haec loquimur, interea loci ad macellum ubi 

adventamus 
Concurrunt laeti mihi obviam cuppedinarii omnes ; 
Cetarii, lanii, coqui, fartores, piscatores 
Quibus et re salva et perdita profueram. 

f According, then, to these three authors — Plautus, Terence, 
and Pliny — professional cooks took their stand in the ' macel- 
lum,' and probably waited there with their utensils and their 
pupils to be hired. They were, as it seems, slaves who were let 
out by their masters. Plautus, as we have seen, says also that 
cooks were hired from the ' forum,' but in this case he is per- 
haps speaking generally and does not designate the special part 
of the ' forum ' from which they were to be obtained. ' Forum 
coquinum,' Pseudolus, 790, is merely another term for ' macel- 
lum,' as Jordan, Topographic der Stadt Rom, i, 2, 434 ; and 
Eichter, Topographie der Stadt Rom,, Mliller's Handhuch, in, 
3, 2, 310, think. Bliimner, Privat-Altertiimer, in Miiller's 
Handhuch, iv, 2, ii^ p. 192, suggests that 'forum coquinum' 
may be merely a translation of the Greek. 

Let us now consider what the ' macellum ' was, where it was 

located, why cooks resorted there, and something of its history. 

/It was always a provision-market in which fish, fowls, meat, 

vegetables, and other edibles could be purchased. As proof of 

this statement may be quoted Plautus, Rudens, 979. 

Quippe quom extemplo in macellum pisces prolati sient, 
N"emo emat ; 

Pseudolus, 169, 

Ego eo in macellum, ut piscium quidquid ibist pretio 
praestinem. 



60 Roman Cooks 

and Aulularia, 373 ff., 

Venio ad macellum, rogito pisces ; indicant 
Caros: agninam caram, caram bubiilam, 
Vitulinam, cetum, porcinam, cara omnia: 
Atque eo fuerunt cariosa aes non erat. 

Varro, De Lingua Latina, x, 146 and 147, sajs : ' Forum boa- 
rium, olitoriiim, piscarium cuppedinis . . . haec omnia postea- 
quam contracta in unum locum quae ad victum pertinebant et 
aedificatus locus, appellatum macellum.' Compare also Horace, 
Satires, ii^ 3, 229 ; Epistulae, i, 15, 31, ' Pernicies et tempestas 
barathrumque macelli, quidquid quaesierat ventri donabat 
avaro ' ; Martial, a, 59, ' Dives et omni posita est instructa 
macello cena tibi ' ; Juvenal, v, 95, and xi, 9, 

Multos porro vides, quos saepe elusus ad ipsum 
Creditor introitum solet expectare macelli, 
Et quibus in solo vivendi causa palato est. 

We see, then, that the ' macellum ' was a provision-market. 
Naturally enough the most opportune place for professional 
cooks to take their stand was where food could be procured, so 
that the old Roman might at the same time buy food for his 
party, engage his caterer, and then turn his attention to other 
matters. This place was the ' macellum,' and here cooks really 
did resort, according to the witness of Plautus, Terence and 
Pliny. 

The history of the ' macellum ' in brief is about as follows : 
In consequence of the rapid growth of Rome after the downfall 
of the might of Etruria, the conqueror of the Latins Gains 
Maenius, consul 338 B. C, removed the butchers and vegetable 
dealers from the crowds of tradespeople in the ' forum.' Their 
place was taken by the nobler trade of the money-changers. 
Many of the passages in Plautus which refer to the ^ forum ' 
mention the money-changers there. In 179 B. C. M. Eulvius 
Nobilior built a market house, the ' macellum,' into which the 
different markets were brought together. Thig" structure con- 



Roman Coohs 6-1 

sisted of an open square surrounded by shops, in the center of 
which there was a circular structure, the ' tholus.' This 
* Macellum Magnum ' disappeared in the course of time, to give 
place to other buildings, the Forum of Peace, as Richter thinks, 
and after the first century of the Empire we find no mention 
of it. We may be certain at least that it was situated on the 
north side of the ' Forum.' Remains of ' macella ' which were 
probably modeled after the Roman are found in Pompeii, 
Puteoli, and cities of Asia Minor, cf. Liebenam, Stddteverwalt- 
ung im romiscJien Kaiserreiche, p. 161. 



62 Roman Cooks 



CHAPTER IX 



THE SOCIAL POSITION OF COOKS AND THE 
ESTEEM IN WHICH THEY WERE HELD 



The profession of cooking, and the cook himself, were re- 
garded with more esteem, and treated with greater respect in 
Greece than in Rome. In the former country, as we have seen, 
the cook was never represented as a slave in comedy, with pos- 
sibly the exception of one author, cf. Rankin, op. cit., in the 
chapter on The Social Status of the MdyetpoL ; nor have we 
any other evidence for believing that he was a slave until Mace- 
donian times. The respect with which he was treated, his varied 
knowledge, and his own pride and respect for his art, the public 
honors conferred on the /xd'yeipo'i would lead us to believe that 
before 300 B. C. he did not occupy a servile position. In the 
first book of his History of Attica, Clidemus, quoted by Athe- 
naeus, xiv^ 660, a, says that there was a tribe of cooks who were 
entitled to public honors, and that it was their business to see 
that the sacrifice was performed with due regularity. An 
inscription in Hicks and Hill, Greek Historical Inscriptions,, 
No. 80, date 404-403 B. C, shows that a cook received the honor 
of citizenship. After 300 B. C. we have Athenaeus, xiv^ 659, a, 
as witness of changed conditions, and the status of the cook in 
Greece agrees more nearly with what we find in Rome. 

A passage in Plutarch's Moralia, Quaestiones Romanae, 
284, F, implies that in Rome from the earliest times the act of 
preparing food was regarded as menial. He says : Aia ti t<^9 
<yvvalKa<i ovt aXelv eccov, ovt oyfroiroielv to irakaLov ; rj, Ta<i 
(7Vv6rjKa<i SLafiVTj /jLovevovre^ , a? eTronqcravTO irpb^ rouf SaySiVoy? ; 
eTret fyap rfpiraaav Ta<i Ovyarepa'i avrwv elra 'TroXefJbrja-avTe'i 
SLrjWdjTjcrav, iv Tal<; dWat'i 6fio\o<yiai<i Koi tout iypd(f)rj, ixrjr 
aXelv avBpl 'Pw/xato) yvvatKa fxrjre fxayeipeveLv. 

In Plautus the cook is always depicted as in a servile condi- 



Roman Cooks 63 

tion. In the Mo&tellaria, 1-5, the cook is not a professional, but 
one of the common household slaves. In the 3Lenaechmi the 
courtesan Erotium seems to have had a professional cook as a 
slave. The cook's name in Plautus is always a slave-name, 
Carlo, Miles, 1397; Citrio, Casina, 74:4:;. Congrio, Aulularia, 
285 ; and Anthrax, Aulularia, 287. Line 310 in the Aulularia 
also shows that the cook was a slave, for he speaks of purchasing 
his freedom. In the same play, the treatment accorded to mem- 
bers of the culinary profession would indicate a servile condi- 
tion. Compare Aulularia, 409 f., and 344. An early Eepubli- 
can inscription, C. I. L. xiv, 2875, gives us the names of four 
cooks who were slaves. 

In early times, then, at Rome, days of plain living and high 
thinking, the cook was not only a slave, but a slave of low 
order — ' vilissimum mancipium.' Under the Empire in pro- 
portion as luxury increased the cook occupied a position more 
and more important. Several passages may be quoted from 
Cicero, however, which will show in what esteem he held the 
calling. In Pro Roscio, 134, he says, ' Mitto hasce artes vul- 
garis, cocos, pistores, lecticarios.' De Officiis, i, 42, 150, places 
cooking among the sordid trades and professions, and those not 
becoming a gentleman. ' Minimeque artes eae probandae, quae 
ministrae sunt voluptatura : cetarii, lanii, coqui, f artores, pisca- 
tores, ut ait Terentius. Adde hue, si placet, unguentarios, 
saltatores, totumque ludum talarium.' But even with hid[ dis- 
dain for the occupation, Cicero realized that civilized man could 
not live without cooks, for in a solicitous letter to Tiro, a favor- 
ite slave. Ad Familiares, xvi, 15, 2, he says, ' I have sent you 
Aegypta to stay with you, because he is not a bad companion, 
and with him a cook whom you may find useful.^ However, 
even in Cicero's time the son of a cook could become a person of 
some importance in the city, and could canvass for an ofiice, as 
the pun quoted by Quintilian, Institutiones, vi, 3, 47, shows. 
' Ut dixit (Cicero) cum is candidatus qui coci filius habebatur, 
coram eo suifragium ab alio peteret; "Ego quoque tibi 
favebo." ' 



64 Roman Cooks 

In Imperial times the cook was both, a more important and a 
more infamous personage according to the point of view from 
which he is regarded. He is now found both as a ' servus/ and 
as a ' libertus/ as inscriptions hear witness. Probably there 
were not many cooks who were ^ liberti ' until the days of the 
emperors, but then the increase in salaries which they received 
and the greater value placed upon their services enabled many 
either to purchase their freedom from their savings, or to obtain 
it las a gift for some particularly pleasing service which they 
rendered to their masters. Inscriptions tell us of cooks who 
form a part of the imperial household for ^ coci ex f amilia 
Augusta sunt ' in C. I. L. vi, 8750-8755, also 7458, and 6069 a. 
As such they took the names of members of the imperial family. 
C. I. L. Yi, 8750, reads, ' T. Aelius Primitivus archimagirus ' ; 
and C. 7. L. vi, 8752, * Marcus Aurelus Bit(hus) praepositus 
cocorum.' C. I. L. \i, 8751, is on a monument which an * archi- 
magirus ' made for himself and his wives, ' Aelia Agrippina 
and lulia Cleopatra.' These imperial cooks formed ' collegia ' 
among themselves of which we shall speak later. 

Not only did cooks gain their own freedom under the Empire, 
but some of them acquired sufficient property to own slaves of 
their own, as C. I. L. vi, 6248, shows: ' ISTireus (Ph)ilerotis L. 
Coci ser(vus).' Some of them may even have changed their 
calling after securing their freedom, for Martial, viii, 16, says, 
' You, Cyperus, who were long a baker, now plead causes and 
are seeking to gain two hundred thousand sesterces,' Under 
the Empire, according to Petronius, Cena Triinalchionis, 70, 
even the cooks who were slaves seem to have been allowed more 
privileges than formerly, for Trimalehio's cook is sufficiently 
important to come into the dining room and not only to recline 
at the table but to begin to imitate Ephesus the tragedian, and 
to offer his master a bet that in the next chariot races the gi-eens 
will win. The treatment of the cook in the Cena, however, 
proves nothing except that he was dependent upon the caprice of 
his master, for on account of a petty offence he was called into 
the festal hall, stripped and threatened with a flogging, which 
he escaped only through the entreaties of the guests. On 



^Roman Cooks 65 

another occasion his master threatens to degrade him to the rank 
of a farm-servant if his work is not done quickly. 

^ In Pliny's time cooks even figured on works of art, for he 
tells us, N. H. xsxiii, 157, of a Pytheas, one of whose works 
sold at the rate of ten thousand ' denarii ' for two ounces. It 
was a drinking bowl, the figures on which represented Ulysses 
and Diomedes stealing the Palladium. The same artist also 
engraved on some small drinking vessels cooks in miniature, of 
such remarkably fine workmanship that it was quite impossible 
to take copies of them. 

In the time of Heliogabalus, cf. Lampridius, Heliogahalus, 
10, Zoticus, the son of a Smymaean cook, was a very influential 
man at court, and sold all that the emperor did or said under 
false pretences, hoping for boundless wealth. He used to 
threaten one man, lavish promises on another, and deceive them 
all. He would tell each singly, I said this of you, or heard that 
of you, or your fate will be this or that. 

Perhaps, however, the most important ,evidence we have of 
the position which it was possible for a cook to occupy, and the 
amount of property which as a ' libertus ' he might acquire, is 
found in an inscription from Alba Fucens, C. I. L. ix, 3938. 
It reads, ' Halicius Marcio Fausto liberto, Sevir. Aug., Dendro- 
foro Albensi et Trophime matri.' On the sides of the pedestal 
on which this inscription is found are the words ' coco optimo.^ 
The ' seviri Augustales ' were boards composed of important 
men in municipal towns. They occupied a rank between the 
' decuriones ' and the citizens. The post of the sevirate was 
conferred by the town senate or council. Six members were 
appointed yearly to maintain the cult of the emperor worship, 
hence they were called ' Augustales.' They had to pay fixed 
sums on their election to office. On the numerous days conse- 
crated to the cult of the emperor the ' seviri ' had to bring offer- 
ings, and to manage or arrange the festivities, hence the duties 
which their office entailed often involved a heavy expenditure of 
money. Sometimes, however, 'honoris causa,' the initiatory 
fees were remitted, as in a case mentioned in Petronius, Cena 
Trimalchionis, 71. During their term of office they wore gold 
5 



QQ Roman Cooks 

rings and a ' toga praetexta.' The right of wearing the former 
was not extended beyond the year of office, but the official robe 
might be used at the feasts of the emperor even after the termi- 
nation of this period. They were allowed two lictors, and the 
right of using the ' bisellium ' during the year of office, and 
were also given a place of honor at the games and in processions. 
They are found only in one author, Petronius, but the numerous 
honorary and sepulchral inscriptions devoted to them, give us 
laany facts concerning their order. On one the insignia of the 
' decuriones ' were bestowed, for another the admission fee to 
the sevirate was remitted, a third had the title of the first of the 

* Augustales.' The ^ Augustales ' were for the most part 

* liberti,' especially tradesmen and artisans, craftsmen and mer- 
chants, who had amassed a considerable fortune by their busi- 
ness, and who, by their generosity to the people, endeavored to 
surpass in popularity and influence even the ' decuriones.' 

Petronius gives us an interesting picture of a ' Sevir Augus- 
talis ' in his Cend Trimalchionis. Trimalchio, a wealthy freed- 
man, held this position in Puteoli. Of his riches we may judge 
by the elaborate banquet which he gave, of the importance which 
he attached to the office of ' sevir Augustalis ' by the directions 
which he left for the erection of his tomb. He vdshed to be 
represented as sitting on a judicial bench, in magistrate's dress, 
with five gold rings, and scattering bounty among the people. 
' For you know,' he says, ' I gave a public banquet and a gift of 
two shillings to everyone.' He wished the inscription on his 
tomb to say, ' Gains Pompeius Trimalchio Maecenatianus lies 
here. He could have been in any decury in Rome, but preferred 
not to be. Devout, courageous and loyal, he started with small 
means and left a quarter of a million, and never listened to a 
philosopher. Peace to his ashes and peace to thee.' The above 
is taken from Lowe's translation of the C&na Trimalchionis, 72. 

What we have said about the office of ' Sevir Augnstalis ' ^ is 

' For ' Seviri Augustales ' see Friedliinder, Petronius, Introduction, pp. 
36 ff.; De Ruggiero, Dizionario Epigrafico, under 'Augustales'; Daremberg 
and Saglio, Dictionnaire des Antiqtiites grecques et romaines under 'Augus- 



Roman Cooks 6y 

sufficient to indicate to what a prominent position our cook 
' Marcius Faustus/ C. I. L. ix, 3938, had risen. 
( B,ecause of the eminence to which cooks were raised by luxuri- 
ous emperors and gourmands, the Romans of the more abstemi- 
ous class, who sighed for the simplicity of early Roman times, 
protested. Seneca particularly wrote against all ministers of 
luxury. He says, Epistulae ad Lucilium, 88, 18, ' Non enim 
addiicor ut in niimerum liberalium artium pictores recipiam, 
non magis quam statuaries aut marmorarios, aut ceteros luxu- 
riae ministros, aeque luctatores et totam oleo ac luto constantem 
scientiam expello ,ex his studiis liberalibus ; aut et unguentarios 
recipiam, et cocos, et ceteros voluptatibus nostris ingenia 
accomodantes sua.' He characterizes the cook again in Epist. 
ad Lucilium, 87, 17, ' Qui non est vir bonus potest nihilominus 
medicus esse, potest gubernator, potest grammaticus, tam me 
hercules quam cocus.' Like Plato, Gorgias, 500 B, and E, 
he associated cooks with doctors, or at least with diseases. Com- 
pare also Isidorus, Sententiae, ii^ 42, 10, ' Omnes animae virtu- 
tes edacitatis vitio destruuntur. Inde est, quod et princeps 
coquorum muros Jerusalem subvertit; quia et venter cui servi- 
tur a coquis, virtutes animae destruit.' 

As has already been said, cooks were both ' servi ' and 
' liherti.' Inscriptions give examples of both classes. G. I. L. 
XIV, 2875, records a ' collegium ' of ' coques atrienses ' of Repub- 
lican times of which the ' magistri ' were four slaves. It is 
expressly stated that the cook was a slave in G. I. L. vi, 6246, 
*Eros cocus Posidippi ser(vus) hie situs est'; G. I. L. yi, 
8754, ' D. M. Photioni CfPsaris IST. servo coco Sestiano Fabia 
Tulia fratri. B. M. F.' ; G. I. L. vi, 9264, ' Alexandr L. Aemili 
Eronis ser. cocus.' The name indicates that he was a slave. 
G. I. L. VI, 6249 'Zena cocus'; C';. I. L. xi, 5197, ' Firmus 
cocus, Tasus cocus'; G. I. L. vi, 7602, 'Acas(tus) cocus'; 
C. I. L. VI, 8753, 'Eros Comuii.' ; G. I. L. vi, 8755, ' Zethus 

tales'; Pauly-Wissowa. Real-Encyclopddie der classischen Altertums- 
vnssenschaft under the same word and pp. 51 ff., in The Cults of Ostia, 
a dissertation by Lily Ross Taylor, Bryn Mawr, 1912. 



68 Roman Cooks 

cocus ^ ;C.I. L. VI, 9265, ' Apollonius cocus ' ; C. I. L. vi, 9266, 
* Arax. cocus ' ; C. I. L. vi, 92 6T, ' Hermae coco ' ; C. I. L. vi, 
9268, ' Philarguriis cocus ' ; C. I. L. vi, 9269, ' Tyrannus 
cocus '; C. I. L. IV, 6283, ^ Aprilis coctor.' 

The ' magistri ' of the ' collegium ' of cooks mentioned in 
C. I. L. XI, 3078, are two ' ingenii.' In the following inscrip- 
tions the cooks are ' liberti ''•.C.I. L. v, 2544, ' M. Valerius 
Bucinae L. Optatus cocus ' ; CI. L. vi, 7433, * Caecili P. L. 
Felicis coci ^ ; C. I. L. vi, 9262, ' D. M. S. Valeriae Epicone con- 
iugi B. M. F. Ael. Ephroditus scriba cocorum' ; C. I. L. vi, 9263, 
' Adrastus libertus cocus ' ; C. L L. vi, 9270, ' M. Fuficius M. L. 
Eros ' ; C.I. L. ix, 3938, ' Halicius Marcio Fausto Liberto ' ; 
C. I. L. X, 5211, ' L. Clodius L. L. Antioc. Tuscus ' ; C. L L. xi, 
3850, ' L. Arruntius L. L. Hilario Coc' ; C. I. L. xii, 4468, ' M. 
Egnatius Lugius cocus '; C. I. L. vi, 33838, ' C. lulius Polybi 
L. Eros cocus ^ ;C. I. L. vi, 8750, ' Diis Manibus T. Aelius Aug. 
Lib. Primitivus archimagirus ^ ; C. I. L. vi, 8751, (D. M. A)ug. 
Lib. Symph(orus arc)himagir(us)' ; C. I. L. vi, 8752, 'T>. M. 
M. Aurelius Aug. Lib. Bit(hus) praepositus cocorum'; and 
C. I. L. VI, 7458. 

The cook was originally a slave in Rome, but as his calling 
assumed greater importance sometimes gained his freedom so 
that in Imperial times many ' liberti ' are numbered among men 
of this calling. 



Roman Cooks 69 

CHAPTER X 
THE CHIEF COOK AND HIS ASSISTANTS 



In Rome in the olden days, even after cooking became an art, 
there is little doubt that modest households were satisfied with 
one cook, who probably cared for the baking also. On special 
occasions, when the cook was hired from the market-place, he 
brought with him not only his utensils, but also one or more 
assistants or pupils. There are frequent allusions in Greek 
Comedy to the subordinates and ' discipuli ' of the /xdjeipot, 
Athenaeus, ix, 3Y6, e, quotes Posidippus, who in his Xopevovcrat 
represents a cook as making a speech to his pupils : ' My pupil 
Leucon and the rest of you, fellow servants ... so when a 
cook with helpers and attendants comes to some stranger and 
brings his pupils.' Dionysius also, in his 'Ofidovvfioi, Athen- 
aeus, IX, 381, d, gives the speech of another fidyeLpo^; to his 
pupils. He begins, ' Come now, O Dromon. . . . I'm leading 
you into an enemy's country.' Note too, Athenaeus, ix, 403, e, 
where a cook says, 

2o(^ci)f 'AKapvav /cal 'PoSio? Aa/io'^ei/o? 
ijevovO' eavroiv avfi/jbadrjral tt}? T€')(yr]^, 
iSiSacTKe 8' auT0U9 2t/ceXt(»T7;9 Aa/3Sa«o9. 

Cf. also the fragments quoted from Damoxenus, M. iv, 530 ; 
K. Ill, 349 ; and Antiphanes, M. iii, 125 ; K. ii, 105, by Rankin, 
work previously cited. Chapter viii, pp. 67 f. For all special 
occasions Greek /xdjetpoL had their subordinates, and several 
passages in Plautus show that Roman cooks held to the same 
custom. In the Casina, 720 ff., Olympio the ' vilicus ' says to 
the cook, 'See to it, you rogue, that you lead these briars,' 
meaning the cook's thievish assistants, * under their standards.' 
PsevdoluSj 855 ff., Ballio gives his boy directions for watching 



70 Roman Cooks 

the cook, then says, 865, ^ Item his discipulis privos custodes 
dabo.' He says to the cook also, 885-888, 

Quaeso hercle, prius qiiam quoiquam convivae dabis, 
Gustato tute prius et discipulis dato, 
Ut praerodatis vostras furtificas manus. 

In the Aulularia, 398 ff., a cook gives orders to two slaves, prob- 
ably assistants or pupils, 

Dromo, desquama piscis : tu, Machaerio 
Congrum, murenam exdorsua quantum potest. 

Congrio, Aulularia, 409, says, ' Ita me miserum et meos disci- 
pulos fustibus male contuderunt' In the same play, 553, the 
miser Euclio says, ' Qui mi intromis[is]ti in aedis quingentos 
coquos.' Even if we allow something for his exaggeration, ho 
would hardly say five hundred cooks, if only the one whom we 
have mentioned by name was in his house. The command in 
the Mercator, 741, is addressed by a cook to his assistants most 
probably, as is also that in 779 f. : 

Agite apponite 
Opsonium istuc ante pedes illi seni. 

Although when professional cooks were first numbered among 
the household slaves one in a family was sufficient, in later 
times, in the establishments of the great, the number of cooks 
increased. In a ' columbarium ' on the ' Via Appia,' near the 
tomb of the Scipios, there is a gravestone of a principal ' dis- 
pensator ' of Gallia Lugdunensis, a slave of Tiberius, C. I. L. 
VI, 5197. It was erected to him by sixteen of his slaves, 
' vicarii,' who accompanied him on his return to Kome, where 
he died. Such a retinue gives a perspective of the size of 
his whole household, and also of the number of cooks he must 
have had, for in it there were one physician and two cooks. 
Seneca refers to the nimiber of cooks in Imperial times, Epistur 
lae ad Lucilium, 114, 26, ' Aspice culinas nostras et concursan- 



Roman CooJcs 71 

tis inter tot ignes cocos: unum videri putas ventrem, cni tanto 
tumultu comparatur cibus ' ; Epistulae ad Luc ilium, 95, 23, 
' Quam celebres culinae sunt ' ; Epistulae ad Lucilium, 122, 16, 
' Circa lucem discurritur, pueri vocantur, celarii, coqui tumul- 
tuantiir.' In the imperial house so great was the number of 
cooks that they formed a ' collegium ' among themselves, of 
which we shall speak later. To this multiplicity of cooks is due 
also a kind of hierarchy of the culinary art, at the head of 
which, according to Greek custom, was placed an ' archima- 
girus ' or ' princeps coquorum,' under whose supervision and 
direction the other cooks worked.' C. I. L. yi, 7458, reads, ' T. 
Aelius Aug. Lib. Primitivus archimagirus et Aelia Aug. Lib. 
Tyche coniunx fecerunt sibi et suis Lib. libertabvisq. posterisque 
eorum.' C. I. L. yi, 8750, is so much like this that Mommsen 
thinks it may have been on the other side of the same monu- 
ment, and may refer to the same person. It reads, ' Diis Mani- 
bus T. Aelius Aug, Lib. Primitivus archimagirus fecit Aelia 
Tyche et sibi, et Aeliae Tyrannidi coniugi, et libertis liber- 
tabusq meis vel. xleliae Tyrannydis posterisque eorum etc' 
Another ' archimagirus ' is found in C. I. L. vi, 8751, ' (Diis 
manibus A)ug. Lib. Symph(orus arc)himagir(us) (fecit sibi, 
et) Aeliae Agr(ipp)inae, (e)t luliae Cleopatrae, (m)aritae 
bene merentibus et (Ae)liae Agrippnae I^epoti suae libert(is) 
libertabusque posterisque eorum.' In literature, also, the 
' archimagirus ' is mentioned. Juvenal, ix^ 109, says that he 
will go to the inn early in the morning, and with the ' libarius ' 
and ' carptores ' regale the inn-keeper with lies about his mas- 
ter, to revenge himself for the strappings he had received. 
Such treatment would indicate that he was a slave in this case, 
whereas in each of the inscriptions quoted above his position 
was that of a freedman. Sidonius Apollinaris, Epistulae, 2, 
9, 6, says, ' Ecce et ab archimagiro adventans qui tempus in- 
stare curandi corpora moneret.' Hieronymus, Quaestiones 
Hehr., in Gen. 37, 36, calls the ' archimagirus ' the prince of 
cooks, as does Augustinus also, Quaest. Hept. 1, 127; 1, 136. 
Instead of ' archimagirus ' this ' princeps cocorum ' is given in 



72 Roman Coolcs 

one inscription the title ' praepositus cocorum/ C. I. L. vi, 
■8752, ' D. M. M. Aurelius Aug. Lib. Bit(hiis), praepositus co- 
corum.' Compare with this 'praepositus cubiculo/ Suetonius, 
Domitian, 16. In still another inscription he is designated 
' supra cocos/ C. I. L. vi, 9261, ' Hie ossa sita sunt Fausti 
Eronis vicari supra cocos.' In C. I. L. vi, 3954, there is a 
' supra cubicularius,' and another C. I. L. vi, 4439. In the 
Biilletino della C onimissione Arclieologica Comunale di Roma, 
viii^ p. 64, we get a ' supra paedagog(us) ' in an inscription. 
In the same journal, xv^ 263, ' supra cursores ' are found. 

The great number of cooks in the kitchens of the emperors 
and of the wealthy brought about a division and specialization 
of labor. Therefore there was under the direction of the 
' archimagirus ' a great host of assistants, each with his special 
task to perform. In this number were found the ' focarii, for- 
iiacarii, obsonatores, fartores, culinarii,' and perhaps the ' pis- 
tores ' of various kinds. The ' focarii ' were the scullions who 
performed the common drudgery of the kitchen,' Dig esia, i\, 9, 
1, 5 ; xxxiir, 7, 12, 5 ; Paulus, Sent, iii, 6, 37 ; Vulgate, i, 
Reges, 8, 13. They probably had something to do with taking 
care of the fire, for Corpus Glossariorum Latinorum, ii^ 557, 
explains ' focarius ' by ^vXokotto^. 

Besides the ' focarii ' there were also the ' fornacarii,' whose 
duty it was to tend the furnaeeJ cf . Digesta, iy, 9,1,5; ix, 2, 27, 
9 ; xxxiii, 7, 12, 5. This name is applied also to the slaves 
who attended to the furnace at the baths. 

The ' obsonatores ' did the marketing 'for the ' archimagirus.' 
Plautus in the Captivi, 474, says that this was once the duty of 
the parasite. Gnatho does the marketing in Terence's Eunu- 
chus, cf. line 258. Plautus, Miles Gloriosus, 667, reads, ' Vel 
primarium parasitum atque opsonatorem optumum.' In the 
Menaeclimi, 220, the cook Cylindrus is ordered to do the mar- 
keting, but in wealthy families there were no doubt special 
slaves who performed this task under the supervision of the 
chief cook. A passage from Seneca, Epistulae ad Lucilium, 
47, 8, indicates how skilled the ' obsonatores ' were, ' Adice ob- 



Boman Cooks 73 

sonatores, quibus dominici palati notitia subtilis est, qui sciunt, 
cuius ilium rei sapor excitet, cuius delectet adspectus, cuius 
novitate nausiabundus erigi possit, quid iam ipsa satietate fas- 
tidiat, quid illo die esuriat. Cum his cenar,e non sustinet et 
maiestatis suae diminutionem putat ad eandem mensam cum 
servo suo accedere.' Martial, xiv^ 217, refers to the ' obso- 
nator,' and the instructions which it was necessary for him to 
receive, " Tell me how many there are of you, and at what 
price you wish to dine. Not a word more, dinner is ready for 
you." C. I. L. VI, 8946, contains the name of an ' obsonator ' 
belonging to the imperial household, ' Dis Manibus Taurionis 
opsonatoris Poppaeae Aug.' Another mentioned, C. I. L. vi. 
8945, is a ' libertus, Aphareus luliae Aug. L. Opson. dat Liviae 
Hilarae.' In C. I. L. vi, 5353, found in a ' columbarium,' we 
read, ' Lectus opsonator L. Caes(aris).' Spartianus, Hadrian, 
17, refers to other imperial ' obsonatores, Ad deprehendendas 
obsonatorum fraudes, cum plurimis simmatibus pasceret.' 

Among the cook's assistants perhaps should be placed also as 
Bliimner thinks, Romische Privai-AUertiimer in Miiller's 
Handhuch, iy, 2, ii, p. 193, as ' Kiichengehilfen and TJnter- 
Koche ' the ' coctores ' mentioned in Petronius, 95, 8, and the 
' culinarii ' in Scribonius Largus, 230. The latter are proba- 
bly found in inscriptions also. Cf. C. /. L. xii, 4470, ' Q. 
Catio Q. Lib. Hermae culina ' ; although Mommsen says ' N^um 
de culinario cogitari possit, dubito.' Compare also C. /. L. 
lY, 373. Pictured representations of kitchen aids are found in 
Etruscan paintings in Golini e Contestabile, Pitture Scoperto 
Presso Orvieto, plates 5 and 6. In the first a slave is engaged 
in pounding or kneading food; in the second two slaves with 
their kitchen utensils are busied around a furnace, in which 
we see the fire. 

Probably the ' f artores ' also were more or less closely asso- 
ciated with the ' archimagirus.' They were found in the 
' macellum ' with the ' lanii, coqui, and piscatores,' Terence, 
Eunuchus, 255; Cicero, De Ojficiis, i, 42, 150. They are men- 
tioned also Plautus, Truculentus, 107, and Horace, Satires, ii^ 



74 Roman Cooks 

3, 229. In the imperial house they constituted a part of the 
host whose duty was to supply the emperor's table, and so 
would come under the sway of the ' archimagirus.' C. I. L. vi, 
8848 and 8849 give us two ' fartores ex familia Augusta.' 
8848 reads, ' Antigonus Drusi Caesaris avium fartor prim, fecit 
coniugi,' and 8849, ' Cinnamus Ti. Caesaris fartor avium.' 
ISTote also C. I. L. xi, 6286, ' Ophilio fartor'; and an inscrip- 
tion of Caesarea in Mauretania, C. I. L. viii^ 9432, ' Ossuarum 
Vitli fartoris.' The ' fartor ' seems to have had two distinct 
functions — first that of sausage maker, and second that of 
raiser and f attener of fowls. , Donatus on Terence, Eunuchus, 
257, says ' Fartores qui insicia et farcimina faciunt.' This 
was probably also their function in Plautus, Truculentus, 107. 
That they fattened fowls is shown by two of the inscriptions 
just noted, C. I. L. vi, 8848 and 8849. Columella, De Re 
Rustica, VIII,, 7, says too, ' Pinguem quoque f acere gallinam 
quamvis fartoris non rustici fit officium.' According to Pliny, 
N. H. X, 139, the Fannian Law must have interfered some- 
what with this side of the ' fartores' ' business, for he tells us, 
' Gallinas saginare Deliaci coepere, unde pestis exorta opimas 
avis et suopte corpore unctas devorandi. Hoc primum anti- 
quis cenarum interdictis exceptum invenio iam lege C. Fanni 
Cos. XI annis ante tertium Punicum helium ne quid volucre 
poneretur praeter unam gallinam, quae non esset altilis, quod 
deinde caput translatum per omnis leges ambulavit.' 

The relation of the cook to the baker is an interesting ques- 
tion. Originally the two were the same, as is shown by a frag- 
ment from Naevius, cf. Scaenicae Romanorum Poesis Frag- 
menta, Naevius, Fragmenta Incerta, xiv: 

Cocus edit Neptunum, Cererem, 
Et Venerem expertam Volcanom 
Liberumque obsorbuit 
Pariter. 

Paulus ex Festo, De Ponor, p. 41, says that from this passage 
it is that w^^e learn ' cocum et pistorem apud antiques eundem 



Roman Cooks 76 

fuisse.' He says further that ' Naevius significat per Cererem 
panem, per Neptunum pisces, per Venerem holera.' Cf. Cor- 
pus Glossarioru7n Latinorum, v, 521, 565, where the passage is 
explained as follows : ' Ceres f rumentum vel panem, Liber vitem 
vel vinum, Venns libidinem vel holera, Keptunus aquani vel pis- 
ces, Vulcanus ignem vel solem significant . . . obsorbuit, id est 
cocus comedit pisces, et panem, et olera cocta ad ignem, et 
vinum pariter bibit.' Pliny also says that in ancient Kome the 
cook was also the baker of bread. N. H. xviii, 108, ' Pistores 
Romae non fuere ad Persicum usque bellum annis ab urbe 
condita super dlxxx. Ipsi panem faciebant Quirites, mulier- 
umque, id opus erat, sicut etiam nunc in plurimis gentium. 
, - . Certumque fit Atei Capitonis sententia cocos turn panem 
lautioribus coquere solitos, pistoresque tantum eos qui far pise- 
bant nominates. Nee cocos vero habebant in servitiis, eosque 
ex Macello conducebant.' The professional cook then was in- 
troduced into Rome earlier than the professional baker, and 
either he or the women of the family attended to the baking in 
early times. In the Aulularia, 400, Anthrax, a cook, goes next 
door to borrow an ' artopta ' from Congrio, another cook. 
' Pistor ' in Plautine language means a miller, not a baker. 
Cf. also a passage from Varro, De Vita Populi Romani, Lib. 
I, quoted by Nonius, p. 223, ' Nee pistoris nomen erat nisi 
eius qui ruri far pinsebat. Nominati ita eo quod pinsunt ' ; 
Professional bakers were introduced into Rome about 173 B. C, 
but in the country even later baking was the business of women 
and slaves, Digesta, xxxiii^ 7, 12, 5. After this time bakers 
are often mentioned in close connection with cooks. Compare 
Columella, De Re Rustica, xii, 4, 2, and many other passages. 
In the Anthologia Latino, i, pt. 1, 199, Vespae, there is a Indi- 
cium Coci et Pistoris, of which Vulcan is the judge. The cook 
and the baker contend as to which is more powerful. The 
latter says that bread is the staff of life, and without this there 
is nothing. Finally Vulcan dismisses them and bids them agree 
in future. 

There were public bakers, but in some establishments the 
, bread making was done in the home, as ovens and mills which 



76 Roman Coohs 

have been found in certain Pompeian houses testify. Where 
this was the case, as it probably was in the imperial house and 
in the wealthier private homes, bakers of bread may have been 
under the supervision of the ' archimagirus,' as were also their 
aids the pastry and sweetmeat makers ; the ' placentarii, dul- 
ciarii, panchr^starii, scriblitarii, crustularii, botularii, lactarii 
and libarii.' 

The ' dulciarius,' or ' dulciarius pistor,' made various kinds 
of sweetmeats and cakes, of flour and honey. Apuleius, Meta- 
morphoses^ X, 13, YOl, describes a ' pistor dulciarius qui panes 
et mellita concinnabat edulia.' At night he brought home as 
specimens of his art ' panes, crustula, lucunculos, hamos, lac- 
ertulos, et plura scitamenta mellita.' Compare Isidorus, 
Origines, xx, 2, 18, ' Dulcia sunt genera pistorii operis a sopore 
dicta. Melle enim adsperso sumuntur. Crusta est superficies 
panis.' Martial, xiv^ 222, says of the ' pistor dulciarius,' 
' That hand will construct for you a thousand sweet figures of 
art; for it the frugal bee principally labors.' Lampridius, 
Heliogahahis, 27, speaks of skilled sweetmeat makers in that 
emperor's household, ' Dulciarios et lactarios tales habuit ut 
quaecumque coqui de diversis edulibus exhibuissent, vel struc- 
tores, vel pomarii, illi modo de dulciis modo de lactariis 
exhiberent.' ISTote also Corpus Gloss. Lat. ii, 263, 31 ; 408, 34, 
and Trebellius Pollio, Claudius, 14, 11. The ' dulciarius ' is 
found in inscriptions also. C. I. L. vi^ 93Y4, reads, ' Locus 
Leopardi dulciari, etc.,' and C. I. L. vi, 33854, ' Locus Cice- 
ronis dulciari,' cf. also Anthologia Latina, Vespae, ludicium, 
Coci et Pistoris, i, 1, 199, 1. 50; Vegetius, De Re Militari, i, 7; 
Vopiscus, Tacitus, 6. 

The ' placentarius,' from ' placenta,' was a pastry cook who 
made a kind of cheese cake, Martial, v, 39, 3, ' Misi Hyblaeis 
madidas thymis placentas,' which were often sent as presents 
during the Saturnalia. ' Inter urbana ministerea continentur 
. . . placentarii, says Paulus, Sententia, iii, 6, 72. Cf. also , 
Corpus Glossariorum Latinorum, ii, 408. x 

Another pastry cook was the ' scriblitarius,' a tart baker. * 
' Scriblita,' from a-rpe^Xelv, was a twist or tart of pastry made 



Roman Cooks 77 

of cheese, flour, and honey, and seems to have been served hot, 
Martial, iii, xvii, 1. Plautus, Poenulus, 43, says, ' Nunc dum 
scribilitae aestuant, occurrite.' Petronius, however. Sat. 66, 
speaks of ' scribilita frigida.' Cf. also Petronius, Sat. 35. Afra- 
nius, quoted in ISTonius, 191, says, ' Pistori nubat; — cur non 
scribilitario ? ' Ut mittat f ratris filio lucunculos.' See also 
Scaenicae Ronianorum Poesis Fragmenta, Ribheck, ii^ p. 218. 

The ' panchrestarius ' was a confectioner, and is mentioned 
in Arnobius. Adversus Gentes, u, 38. 

Other assistants were the 'lactarii, Lampridius, Helioga- 
halus, 27, 3. An inscription of a ' libarius ' too was found at 
Pompei, C. I. L. iy, 1768, ' Verecunnus libarius hie cc' 



78 Roman CooJcs 

CHAPTER XI 
'COLLEGIA' OF COOKS 



We now come to a fact in regard to cooks of which we should 
be entirely ignorant were it not for the .evidence which we find 
in inscriptions. The authors do not deem it of sufficient impor- 
tance to mention that cooks formed ' collegia ' both in Republi- 
can and Imperial times. 

Industrial guilds of various kinds existed at Rome under the 
Republic, and although the senate had the right to abolish them 
if it thought best to do so, it did not exercise this right as long 
as they observed the laws and were not troublesome. Conse- 
quently we find artisans and tradesmen of various kinds repre- 
sented in the collegia of that city. There were corporations of 
makers of rings, of fullers, of gold workers, of potters, of car- 
penters, of butchers, of poets, of actors, of flute-players, and of 
various other occupations. We have no evidence of a ' col- 
legium cocorum ' in the city of Rome during Republican days, 
yet there is little doubt that such an organization actually did 
exist there; for we find one at Praeneste, and another in Sar- 
dinia,, and the smaller towns of course took Rome as their 
model. We have previously given the contents and discussed 
the date of the earliest known inscription of a ' collegium 
cocorum,' C. I. L. xi, 3078, which says that the ' magistri ' of 
a guild of Faliscan cooks in Sardinia gave a gift to Jupiter, 
Juno, and Minerva. It reads, ' Jovei, lunonei, Minervai, 
Palesce quel in Sardinia sunt, donum dederunt; magistreis L. 
Latrius, K. F. C. Salv[e]na, Voltai F. coiraveront.' On the 
other side are found the words, ' conlegium quod est aciptum 
aetatei age(n)d[ai], opiparum a[d] veitam quolundam fes- 
tosque dies, quel soueis a[rg]utieis opidque Volgani condeco- 
rant sai[pi]sume comvivia loidosque ququei hue dederu[nt] 



Roman Cooks 79 

[i]nperatoribus siimmeis, utei sesed liibent[es] [be]ne iovent 
optantis. 

C. I. L. XIV, 2875 = I, 1540, has reference to another Repub- 
lican collegium of cooks: ' Coques atriensis (f. p. d. d.) Magis- 
tres Eodo Or(ceui s.), Artemo, Dind. Q. S., Apoli(naris s) 
Protus Ae(mili s).' This was probably a dedication to For- 
tuna Primigenia, who was worshipped at Praeneste, and whose 
name is often found in inscriptions of that town: C. I. L. 
XIV, 2874, 2876, 2878, 2880, 2881, 2884, 2886, 2885, 2888, 
and others. It is not clear why these cooks were called 
' atriensis,' but Mommsen's conjecture seems to be the best, that 
the ' coqui Praenestini ' had their station in the atrium of some 
temple, probably that of ' Fortuna Primigenia ' herself. J. P. 
Waltzing in his Etude Historique sur les Corporations Profes- 
sionnelles cliez les Romains, i, 346, says that this was probably 
a domestic ' collegium.' 

' Collegia Domestica ' w.ere very numerous from the time of 
Augustus on. The imperial household and rich families pos- 
sessed legions of slaves and freedmen. These slaves and freed- 
men of the same house often formed ' collegia,' whose members 
worshipped the ' Lares ' of their master, to whose liberality 
they owed a place of shelter during life. The object of the 
association was to procure a fitting burial for the members. 
The slaves of a wealthy family or of an emperor were often 
divided according to their trades into families, and each family 
which was sufficiently numerous perhaps formed a ' collegium.') 
Of this kind are the ' collegia ' found C. I. L. vi, 8750, and 
7458, in which the cooks of the Emperor Hadrian founded a 
^ collegium cocorum.' ' T. Aelius Aug. Lib. Primitivus archi- 
magirus et Aelia Aug. Lib. Tyche Coniunx fecerunt sibi et 
suis Lib. libertabusq(ue) posterisque eorum. Custodia moni- 
menti inhabitandi ne quis interdioere vellit quod si nemo de 
hac memoria nostra extiterit, pertinere debebit ad collegium 
cocorum Aug. N, quod consistit in Palatio, quod neque donari 
neque veniri permittimus, quod si quis contra sic legem s. s. 
fecerit, dare debebit corpori qui sunt in hac stationem HS. 



80 Roman Coohs 

L M. K' C. I. L. VI, 8750, reads, ' Diis Manibus T AeHus 
Aug. Lib. Primitivus archimagirus fecit Aelia Tyche et sibi 
et Aeliae Tyrannidi coniugi et libertis libertabusq. meis vel 
Aeliae Tyrannidis posterisque eorum Custodia moiii(m)eiiti 
inbabitandi ne quis interdicere velit, quotsi nemo de N memoria 
exstiterit, pertinebit ad collegium cocoru(m) Caesaris IST. quot 
veniri donarive vetamus si adversus ea quis fecerit poenae 
nomine feret arcae cocorum HS. L. M. N. Ate ex usuris eorum 
celebretur suo. quoq. anno.' 

Tbese two inscriptions are so mucb alike tbat Mommsen 
thinks tbat they were originally placed on different sides of tbe 
same monument, and tbat lines 3 and 4 of C. I. L. 7458 were 
originally 4 and 5 of 8750 ; but tbat after tbe deatb of Aelia 
Tycbe, Titus Aelius married Aelia Tyrannis. Tben lines 4 
and 5, cf. 8750, in C. I. L. were erased and tbe inscription 
cbanged so as to include ber, by putting in lines 4-7. 

Eacb ' collegium ' bad its ' area ' wbicb is mentioned in tbe 
two inscriptions just quoted. For tbe funds of ' collegia ' com- 
pare also C. I. L. VI, 10237; xiv, 3659; vi, 9354; vi, 9044; 
VI, 10348; VI, 14413; vi, 1682; vi, 9626; ii, 2102; xiv, 2299. 
Revenues came into tbe ' area ' from various sources, of wbicb 
one is mentioned in C. I. L. vi, 8750, and 7458. ' Titus Aelius 
Primitivus arcbimagirus ' constructed a family sepulcber, 
wbicb be wisbed to remain tbe property of bis descendants. 
If, bowever, bis family became extinct, tbe tomb was to pass 
to an imperial ' collegium ' of cooks. Wboever sbould trans- 
gress tbe ' lex monumenti ' must pay 50,000 sesterces to tbis 
same college. We find anotber example of a fine wbicb was to 
be paid to a corporation in C. I. L. vi, 9485. By means of tbese 
penalties tbe owners boped to frigbten tbose wbo would wisb 
to profane tbe tomb. Sucb fines, says Waltzing, in tbe work 
previously cited, i, 468, were rarely paid, and contributed 
little to tbe budget of tbe ' collegium.' 

In C. I. L. VI, 9262, one of tbe officials of tbe ' collegia ' is 
given, ' D. M. S. Valeriae Epicene coniugi B. M. F. Ael. Epb- 
proditus scriba cocorum.' Tbis Aelius Epbproditus or Epa- 



Roman Cooks 81 

phroditus was doubtless a member of the same family as the 
T. Aeliiis Primitivus in C. I. L. vi, 7458 and 8750, and held 
the office of ' scriba ' in the ' collegium cocorum.' In some of 
the ' collegia ' the president fulfilled the duties of secretary, 
and took the name of ' scriba ' et ' magister.' See C. I. L. xiv, 
2299; XIV, 418, and 419. However, most of the corporations 
had one or more special secretaries ^ scriba, tabularius,' or 
' notarius.' See C. I. L. vi, 1060, and compare also C. I. L. vi, 
868. The ' scriba ' was not appointed annually, but was 
named for life, for according to Mommsen, De Colle., p. 106, 
n. 1, we never find ' scriba iterum.' Although inferior to other 
officers in the 'collegia,' he figures beside them in inscriptions, 
C. I. L. VI, 868 ; and 1060. In some of the organizations he 
was free from the monthly tribute which was usually exacted. 

The ' collegia domestica ' which were formed by the slaves 
and freedmen of an emperor, or wealthy personage, naturally 
had their location in the house of the master. In C. I. L. yi, 
7458, we read, ' collegium cocorum Aug(usti) n(ostri) quod 
consistit in Palatio,' and a little further on, ' corpori qui sunt 
in hac stationem.' Compare also C. I. L. \i, 8750, and C. I. L. 
XII, 4449 '(collegium sa)lutare (f)amilia(e) tabellarior(um) 
Caesaris n(osiri), quae sunt Narbone in domu ' ; C. I. L. vi, 
9148, ' collegium quod est in domu Sergiae Paullinae,' and also 
C. I. L. VI, 9149, 10260, and 10264. 

/ In the Italian and provincial cities the guilds of tradesmen 
played quite an important role, even in political matters which 
indicates that they may have done so at Rome also. Under 
Tiberius the senate suppressed the ' collegia ' of artisans and 
tradesmen at Pompeii. They, however, remained united, says, 
Waltzing, in the work cited, i, 16, and took an active part in 
the election of 79 ; when Pompeii chose its ' duumviri iure 
dicundo,' and its aediles some months before the terrible erup- 
tion which swallowed it up. The struggle was a hot one, and 
these high offices were ardently contested. The walls of the 
houses of Pompeii, which were brought to light after eighteen 
hundred years, still bear about fourteen hundred electoral 

6 



82 Roman CooTcs 

posters, in which societies and individuals recommended their 
candidates. A great many of these belong to professional 
guilds, for example, the ' caupones, pistores, libarii and ful- 
lones.' The cooks also are represented in C. I. L. tv, 373 
'(epid?) ium Sue(t)tium ii vir D. R. P. O. F. culinari rogant/ 
Garrucci however and following him Orelli Y227 read this, ' L. 
Plotium et Suellium ii vir dignum re publica oro vos faciatis 
culinari rogant.' Whatever the names may be, this inscription, 
which was scratched on an old Pompeian wall, shows that the 
cooks of that city were united, even if their corporation was not 
recognized. Although in the face of a formal prohibition of 
Tiberius they did not dare to take the name ' collegium,' they 
nevertheless played an active part in the election of 79, and 
asked votes for their candidates. 



Roman Coohs 83 



BIBLIOGEAPHY 



Bang, ^I. Die Herhunft der Roemischen Shlaven, Mitteilun- 

gen des Kaiserlich deutschen Archaeologischen Instituts, 

Eoemisclie Abteihmg, 1910, pp. 223-251. 
Bliimner, Hugo Technologie und Terniinologie der Gewerbe 

und Kunste hei Griechen und Romern, Leipzig, and 

Berlin, 1912. 
Die Romische Privat-Altertilmer, in Miiller's Handbuch 

der hlassischen Altertuinswissenschaft, iv^ 2, ii, Munich, 

1911. 
Corpus Inscriptionum Latinarum, Vols, i-xv^ Berlin. 
Daremberg et Saglio, Dictionnaire des Antiquites grecques et 

romaines, Paris, 1892. 
Deecke, Wilhelm. Die Falisker, Strassburg, 1888. 
Diehl, Ernst. AUlaieinische Inscliriften, Bonn, 1909. 
Pompeianische Wandinschriften und Verwandtes, Bonn, 

1910. 
De Vit. Totiv^ Latinitatis Onomasticon, 1859-1887. 
Fick-Bechtel. GriecM-sche Personennamen, Gottingen, 1894. 
Friedlander, L. Darstellungen aus der Sittengeschichte Roms 

in der Zeit von August his zum Av^gang der Antonine, 

Leipzig, 1910. 
Georges, K. E. LexiJcon der lateinischen Wortformen, Leipzig, 

1890. 
Hiilsen, Ch. Das Forum Romanum, Rome, 1904. 
Jordan, H. Topographie der Stadt Rom, Berlin, 1878. 
Kock, T. C omicorum Atticorum Fragmenta, Leipzig, 1880. 
Lindsay, W. M. The Latin Language: An Historical Account 

of Latin Sounds, Stems, and Flexions, Oxford, Claren- 
don Press, 1894. 
Marquardt, J. Das Privatlehen der Romer, Leipzig, 1886. 
Meineke, A. Fragmenta C omicorum Graecorum, Paris, 1855. 



84 Roman Cooks 

Pape, W. Worterhuch der griechischen Eigennamen, 1875. 
Paiily-Wissowa. Real-Encyclopddie der classischen AUertums- 

wissenschaft, Stuttgart, 1901- 
Rankin, Edward Moore, The Role of the Mdyeipoi in the Life 

of the Ancient Greeks, Chicago, 1907. 
Richter, O. Topographie der Stadt Rom, in Mliller's Hand- 

huch, iii^ 3, Munich, 1901. 
De Ruggiero, E. Dizionario Epigrafico di Antichitd Romane, 

1908- 
Schulze, W. Geschichte lateinischer Eigennamen, Berlin, 

1904. 
Schmidt, Karl. Griechische Personennamen hei Plautus, in 

Hermes, 37, 1902. 
Thesaurus Linguae Latinae, Leipzig, 1900- 
Waltzing, J. P. Etude Historique sur les Corporations Pro- 

fessionnelles chez les Romains, 1896. 



VITA 



Cornelia Gaskins Harcum was born in Reedville, Virginia, 
July 3, 1881. She received her preliminary training at home 
and in the Public Schools of Baltimore. In September, 1904, 
she entered Goucher College, and was graduated with the degree 
of Bachelor of Arts in June, 1907. From 1907-1910 she was 
a teacher in the secondary schools of Baltimore. She spent the 
years 1910-1913 as a graduate student in Johns Hopkins Uni- 
versity, pursuing courses in Classical Archaeology, Latin, and 
Greek, and Comparative Philololgy under Professors Harry L. 
Wilson, David M. Robinson, Kirby Flower Smith, Basil L. 
Gildersleeve, C. W. E. Miller, and Maurice Bloomfield. Dur- 
ing this time she held a resident fellowship from Goucher Col- 
lege, 1910-1911, a scholarship in Latin from the Johns Hopkins 
University, 1911-1912, and the University fellowship in Classi- 
cal Archaeology, 1912-1913. In June, 1912, she received the 
degree of Master of Arts from the Johns Hopkins University. 
She wishes to express her sincere gratitude and appreciation to 
all of the professors under whom she has studied for the con- 
stant interest, inspiration, and help which she has received from 
them. Especially are thanks due to the late Professor Harry 
L. Wilson, at whose suggestion the preceding study was begun, 
and to Professor David M. Robinson and Professor Kirby 
Flower Smith, by whose kind assistance it has been completed. 



•*J 



BOSTON PUBLIC LIBRARY 



3 9999 05987 769 4 



Boston Public Library 
Central Library, Copley Square 

Division of 
Reference and Research Services 



The Date Due Card in the pocket indi- 
cates the date on or before which this 
book should be returTied to the Library. 

Please do not remove cards from this 
pocket. 



FE3 11 ISII 



•\ir^\ '.' 



