55 




Aa-1 








i^^^^B V 


'^^^^^^H 




* 







■<y' X'- 



-■(f- 



v>^ 



■x^ 












.<i> 






* A 


O- '' / " 


' Vs ,6^^ 






.Nc, -^^^^^ 




-, V ' « * 


- 


"o 


0^ 






.y 


-''^.. 






c^ 




r. 




'^^ 




"/■ 




^- 




- ■'c 




'''', -^ 












c.^"". 









"" ,->.^ c »•'•<■« -'b 



,v 









It' 



^>^. «\ 



V 



\ 
V 






^-"^ ..i^'"!!!r^ '.■ .i- .'V 



.0- 






\' 






. * v^ 






•f ' " ' c- 



vX^ 






,-Js^ 



<<• ,v. ^' *^_^-«fe , .^-v c.- 






"^^ 






.A^ 



,-0' 



,d^ 









V 



0' 





.:■ .' ^ % 




■-/ - ' 

C^^ 









<<■• 






'bo' 



• 0- 









C- X' ^ 



>^ ''i'^ 



S o \^.^^. 



v*--\/ 



.0 



^-J^- 






•x'^' 'V 



c'^ 



:.X' 






>>, r^X 



:%■ 



N>\- 












-.X 






.«(?-'''>.,.,. ^ 



p .^_ 






_^v. ^• 



■#. 



o 0' 



,,^ 



^^.:^ 






-^y. V^ 



-.-^ V^ 



,^^ ■<:^. 



,.'^-- 



.\>' -f. 



?-,. .-^^ 



'CO' 



s^'a^'^X^ 












X^^^ 





















-0' 



.^'^^ ^-^ 



4: ''^ :lr- 









-^^• 












"^A v^' 






N^" -^<^ '. 



.^-' 



\^" 



Fo 




Published by 

AMERICAN ADVERTISING ASSOCIATION 

Memphis, Tennessee 






1^ 

AUG -3 1914 




}mi 



\/^OUR close attention is 
called to the many special 
inducements offered you by the 
advertisers represented herein. 
They are Atlanta's most reputa- 
ble firms and we tal^e pleasure 
in recommending them. 



mi 





SOUPS 



CRAB GUMBO — Hard or soft-shelled crabs may be used, though more fre- 
quently the former, as they are always procurable and far cheaper than the 
latter. Crabs are always sold alive. Scald the hard-shell crabs and clean very 
carefully. Then cut off the claws, crack and cut the body of the crab in quar- 
ters. Season with salt and pepper. Put butter into the pot and when hot throw 
in the bodies and claws. Cover closely, and after five or ten minutes add the 
skinned tomatoes, chopped onions, thyme and parsley, stirring occasionally to 
prevent scorching. After five minutes add okras sliced fine, and when well 
browned add the bay leaf chopped fine and the juice of the tomatoes. Pour 
over about two quarts of boiling water, set back of stove and let simmer well 
for almost an hour, having thrown in the pepper pod. When nearly ready to 
serve season according to taste with cayenne and added salt. Pour into a tureen 
and serve with boiled rice. This quantity will allow two soft-shell crabs or 
two bodies of hard-shelled crabs to each person. 

CREAM TOMATO SOUP— One pint water, one can tomatoes, one cup hot 
cream, two tablespoons sugar, one tablespoonful butter, three tablespoons XTapi- 
tola flour, one small bay leaf, two teaspoons salt, two slices onion. Cook all the 
ingredients except flour and butter for twenty minutes. Strain through a 
colander. Rub the flour and butter together. Pour over them the hot liquid, 
stirring meanwhile. Let boil for five minutes. Add the hot cream and serve 
at once with star croutons, which are toasts cut in star shape. Two or three 
slices of lemon in this makes nice acid flavor. 

CREAM CHICKEN SOUP— Fut on an old hen cut up and well covered 
with water and let simmer well all day on the back of the stove. Strain stock 
into a bowl and set away to cool. When cold take off all the grease. The stock 
should be a jelly and is ready for use. To one quart of stock add one pint of 
milk; let boil and season with celery salt. Pour in tureen and cover top with 
whipped cream (should look like white of eggs on custard). Serve with crou- 
tons. Delicious and pretty. If you serve it by plate, put spoonful of whipped 
cream in each plate and have a few croutons on your bread and butter plate. 

TOMATO SOUP — Put one can of tomatoes in one quart of boiling water. 
Let boil hard, then add one level tablespoonful of soda. When this foams up, 
add immediately one quart of sweet milk, six crackers broken up, one table- 
spoonful of butter and one of salt. A little celery is an improvement. Let 
come to a boil and serve at once. 

VEGETABLE PEA SOUP— Cook one pint split peas until dissolved. When 
nearly done, put to cooking one and one-half pints of sliced potato and one 
medium-sized onion sliced thin. When tender rub all through a colander. Add 
water to make consistency of thin cream and salt to taste. Reheat and serve. 

Pa(/e Four 



®0 tlj^ N^mlgm^bs 



May all your married life be as hap- 
py as the time you spend looking at 
our pictures and listening to our sing- 
ers and orchestra. Our policy is the 
best at all times, especially for the 
Newlyweds. First-run pictures daily. 

ALAMO NUMBER 2 

The House With a Clean Policy 




Pa(/e Five 



SOUPS— Continued 

SOUTHERN GUMBO SOUP— Fry very brown a large, tender chicken: take 
upon a dish and fry in the gravy one quart of sHced okra. Add okra to the 
chicken, but do not add the grease. Put chicken and okra in porcelain vessel 
of cold water, add one large onion sliced thin, one pint of peeled tomatoes 
sliced, a few pieces of ham and salt to taste. Cook for one hour, slowly, then 
add twelve soda crackers, one large tablespoonful of butter to make it rich and 
six hard-boiled eggs sliced. The last thing before taking up, add one teaspoonful 
of black pepper. 

BROWN SOUP — Simmer together one quart sliced potato and one-third as 
much of thin brown shavings (not thicker than a dime) from top of loaf of 
whole wheat bread, in one quart of water. The crusts must not be burned or 
blackened and must not include any of the soft portion of loaf. When potato 
is tender, mash all through colander. Flavor with cup of strained stewed toma- 
toes, little salt, and return to fire. When hot add. cup of cream and boiHng 
water to make proper consistency. Serve at once. This soup will have brown 
color and fine pungent flavor, exceedingly pleasant to the taste. 

SOUPS WITH MILK OR CREAM— Bean and Corn Soup— Cold boiled or 
stewed corn and cold beans form basis of this soup. Take one pint of each, 
rub through colander, add slice of onion, three cups of boiling water or milk, 
and boil for ten minutes. Turn through the colander a second time to remove 
the onion and any lumps or skins which may remain. Season with salt and 
half cup cream. 

PEANUT AND TOMATO PUREE—SheW the raw peanuts and blanch. 
Add to a pint of the blanched nuts about two quarts of water. Put them into 
a beanpot, heat to boiling, then place in a slow oven and cook for nine to ten 
hours. When done they should be soft and mealy and rich with juices. Rub 
three cupfuls of cooked peanuts through colander and add one cup of strained 
stewed tomatoes. Season with salt, heat and serve. One teaspoon of olive oil 
and lump of butter size of black walnut serves for meat in any bean, nut, lentil 
or potato soup. Vegetables may be added, as many or few as liked. 




Page Six 



> 




The Bride's Store 



TREMENDOUS stocks of 
elegant GRAND RAP- 
IDS FURNITURE, the 
largest and most varied as- 
sortments ever shown in the 
South, and surprisingly low 
prices in every department, 
make our store a popular fa- 
vorite with newly married 
couples. 



You must come down and 
SEE our goods to appreci- 
ate their real worth. We 
can furnish your home 
COMPLETE for 20% to 
35% LESS than any other 
store in the South, regard- 
less of size or locality, and 
will be glad to arrange 
terms. 



EMPIRE FURNITURE CO. 



129-131 Whitehall St. 



ATLANTA, GEORGIA 



FREE $10.00 CERTIFICATE 

This certificate presented at our store by the bride or groom 
will be accepted as a 

$10.00 PAYMENT 

on any purchase of $50.00 or over 

Empire Furniture Company 



129-131 Whitehall Street 
ATLANTA, GA. 



Page Seven 



uy 


. . MEATS . . 


yM 



TIMBALES — One chicken; boil until done, grind fine. Cook two sets of 
brains, mash well, add to chicken. One spoonful onion, juice of two lemons, 
heaping tablespoon butter, celery salt, pepper, salt to taste. Beat separately 
two eggs; add to chicken with one-half cup cracker crumbs; grease molds, fill 
one-half full, place mold in pan of hot oven, put in oven, cook until brown, 
turn out of molds while hot. 

SAUCE FOR CHICKEN— Melt one tablespoon butter, add smoothly one 
tablespoon of Capitola flour. Put on stove and add slowly one-half cup of hot 
milk or cream; season salt, pepper, celery salt and teaspoon chopped parsley. 
Pour over chicken and serve. 

HOT T AM ALE LOAF — Fifteen-cent soup bone; boil in plenty of water until 
quite tender. When done, grind fine, also one good-sized onion. Take one 
sifter of cornmeal and make a soft mush with liquid meat has been cooked in. 
Cook mush until done. Take one can tomatoes and add half to the mush and 
half to meat. Take about four tablespoons of Chili powder and mix half with 
mush and half with meat. Salt to taste. Use a little garlic if desired. Line 
pan with scalded shucks and put layer of mush and layer of meat alternately. 
Steam for fully forty-five minutes. 

PRESSED CHICKEN — Take a large chicken; boil in very little water. 
When done take the meat from the bones and put it through the meat grinder. 
In the meantime put the chicken bones over in cold water and boil down to a 
good liquor; add to this a tablespoon of gelatine which has first been thoroughly 
dissolved in a little water; pour this over the chicken and season thoroughly 
with salt and red pepper. Pour into mold and set on ice to harden. Should 
be served with tomato catsup or some good relish. 

CHICKEN TAMALES — One large, fat hen boiled tender and ground fine, 
one 3-pound can tomatoes cooked stiff, two large onions fried and ground .with 
chicken. Put chicken, tomatoes and onions on together; make very hot with red 
pepper, salt to taste. Make a stiff mush of nice, firm meal well salted; put one 
teaspoon in corn shuck, which has been selected and trimmed even at ends and 
soaked in hot water. Lay on mush, one teaspoon of mixture, fold over, tie 
ends around with coarse thread and steam three hours. Take tamales out when 
they have steamed two hours, untie, put back and steam the last hour. Serve 
hot. This will make fifty. 

COLD BOILED TONGUE— V^'ash a beef tongue thoroughly in soda water 
and put over in plenty of boiling water. Add about two pods of garlic, pod of 
very hot pepper, plenty of salt and two tablespoons of vinegar. Boil about 
three hours and then let it cool in the liquor. Slice and serve cold with English 
mustard. 

P<t(ie K HI III 



H 



i'l 




The Brides' Market 

PINK CHERRY 



IJ For the best that tKe market af- 
j;i 'fords you can aWays depend on 
us at all times for - 



FRESH MEATS 
VEGETABLES 
POULTRY and GAME 
OYSTERS, IN SEASON 



Do Your Marketing With Us Over the Phone 
Quality and Service Our Motto 



Pink Cherry Market 



12 North Broad Street 



Bell Phones, Ivy 1180 and 1181 



Atlanta Phone 763 



Pnae Nine 



MEATS— Continiied 

BON DINES — Two pounds of catfish; boil until done. Mash one-half cup 
cracker crumbs, juice of one lemon; beat separate two eggs; add teacup of milk 
to yolks, Capitola flour over fish; add tablespoon Worcester sauce, tablespoon 
butter, salt, pepper to taste. Bake in shells. 

CROQUETTES — One tablespoon of butter melted in a double boiler, one 
tablespoon of Capitola flour stirred in the butter, one pint of milk. Add three 
eggs beaten light, one pint of chopped cold fowl or cold meat. Boil until thick. 
Shape, dip in egg, roll in cracker crumbs and fry brown. 

MEAT CROQUETTES — Two cups of any cold meat ground fine, one cup 
bread crumbs, two large Irish potatoes boiled and mashed, one onion chopped 
fine, a pinch of sage, salt and pepper to taste. Mix thoroughly. If the mixture 
will not hold together when moulded flat or in cylinder shapes, mix in a raw egg. 
Roll in egg and bread crumbs, then brown them in boiling "Simon Pure" lard. 
Rice or peas may be used instead of the potato. 

CREAMED BEEF — Put a cupful of cold steak, roast, or in fact any cold 
meat through the meat grinder, also one pimento pepper. Make a cream sauce 
of butter, Capitola flour and milk and add the meat and pepper, also salt to taste, 
and cook in a double boiler until thoroughly heated. Serve on toast. This makes 
a nice breakfast dish. 



CHEESE AND EGGS 



BAKED EGGS — Use a shallow baking pan, cover the bottom with milk 
thickened with butter and Capitola flour rubber together, seasoned and cooked 
three minutes. Break in the eggs, season with salt and pepper, dot with butter 
and put into oven long enough for whites "to set." 

COLD EGGS — When boiled hard and shelled, cut the eggs in half lengthwise, 
take out the yolks and chop fine with cold chicken or any tender meat. Season 
with salt, pepper and melted butter and add a little catsup if liked. Fill the 
cavities of eggs with the mixture and press together, roll in beaten egg, then in 
cracker crumbs and fry in hot lard a nice brown. Drain on blotting paper. 
This may be served on lettuce leaves as a salad if not fried. 

WELSH RABBIT — Two teaspoons Worcester sauce, two drops of tobasco 
sauce, one small teaspoon mustard, one pinch cayenne. Put lump of butter size 
of walnut in double boiler, add two pounds of cheese cut in small pieces. Melt, 
stirring constantly, add above, also one egg well beaten and one wine glass of 
beer. Have crackers heated and pour hot mixture over them. 

NEUFCHATEL CHEESE BALLS— Ont ten-cent cake cheese, one-half the 
quantity of butter; add salt and white pepper. Mix thoroughly, form into balls 
and roll in chopped nuts. 

I'aqe Tei.i 



Modern Home -Making 
With Haverty's Help 



No young couple need now hesitate about furnishing a 
home by reason of the lack of ready cash. Haverty's Di- 
vided Payment Plan makes it possible to use and enjoy the 
furniture while paying for it. Talk to us about it and learn 
w^hat an easy, pleasant way ours is. 

Here's an immense establishment with six floors con- 
taining practically everything in furniture and housefur- 
nishings — and you can choose at will from this tremendous 
collection, fit your home up just as you wish it and pay as 
it suits you. 

The Haverty Plan is far different from the old-time "in- 
stallment system." There are no hard and fast rules — we 
make Terms to Suit YOU. 

Twenty-five years of fair-dealing and thousands of sat- 
isfied customers is the record back of the HAVERTY 
GUARANTEE that protects you in every purchase you 
make here. 

The primary object in every sale w^e make is to PLEASE 
THE BUYER; our store service is founded on that idea 
and we are never content unless the customer is PER- 
FECTLY SATISFIED. You'll find our salespeople not 
only thoroughly competent, but eagerly anxious to Please 
YOU. 

If you are a stranger to the store, now is a good time 
to become acquainted. The new lines are ready and many 
special values are offered. 




m 



13-15 AUBURN AVE., COR. PRYOR 
Just Off Peachtree 



Page Eleven 




FISH 



CREAMED OYSTERS — One pint oysters, one pint milk, two eggs, four 
tablespoons Capitola flour, heaping; one tablespoon butter. Beat eggs light, add 
Capitola flour and mix well. Pour over this gradually and stirring well the 
scalded milk. Return to fire in double boiler and cook until nearly thick, then 
add oysters, which have been previously cut. Add mushrooms if you like; also 
use liquor of oysters. Add salt and pepper. A little cayenne is an improvement. 

CREAMED SHRIMP — One and one-half cups of milk or cream, two table- 
spoonfuls of butter, two of Capitola flour, salt and pepper to taste and a pinch 
of mustard. When cooked till thick add one pint of shrimps and one cup of 
mushrooms. Serve hot in patty shells. Garnish with parsley and lemon. 

LOBSTER A LA NEW BURG — One can lobster shredded, one egg, one cup 
of milk, dash of cayenne pepper and salt to taste, one wine glass of sherry. 
Cook on chafing dish till done, then serve on toast. 

CRAB AND MUSHROOM PATTIES— To three tablespoons of melted but- 
ter add three tablespoons of Capitola flour and stir till well blended. Then pour 
in slowly while stirring constantly one cup chicken stock and one-half cup 
cream. Add one and one-half cups crab meat and half pound mushrooms cut in 
small pieces and scrambled in butter. As soon as thoroughly heated, add two 
tablespoons grated Parmesan cheese, three tablespoons sherry wine and salt, 
pepper and paprika to taste. 

SHRIMPS WITH GREEN PEPPERS— Make one-half pint of cream sauce 
of two tablespoons butter, two of Capitola flour and a cup of rich milk. Season 
to taste with salt and white pepper. Drop into the sauce a large green pepper 
previously seeded and cut into shreds. Cook three minutes, then turn in one 
pint of shrimps which have been tossed for a few minutes in a little hot butter 
and a few drops of onion juice. Let it thoroughly heat. Serve in ramekins 
garnished with a whole shrimp and serve with slice of lemon and sprig of 
parsley. 

DEVILED CRAB — Pick to pieces one large can of crab meat. Beat one 
egg well; add one teacup cream (or milk), butter size of an egg, melted; one 
sherry glass of sherry, one large spoonful of Worcestershire sauce, mace, allspice 
and cloves to taste, a good deal of cayenne and a little black pepper and salt. 
Stir this all together over the fire until it boils, then pour over the crab and mix 
well. Fill empty shells and sprinkle over the top a layer of crumbs and bits of 
butter. Brown in oven. 

FISH WITH LEMON SAUCE— One and one-half pints of water, one large 
onion, celery, cayenne pepper and salt to taste, one sliced lemon. Boil a few 
minutes, add sliced fish (preferably trout or small catfish), about two and one- 
half pounds, and cook until tender. Remove fish to large platter. Allow broth 
to cool, then add three or four yolks of eggs well beaten with one tablespoon of 
Capitola flour to thicken, juice of one and one-half lemons, one package of seed- 
less raisins, and boil until it thickens. Pour over fish in large platter and serve 
either hot or cold. Garnish with sliced lemon. This may also be served on 
lettuce leaf individually. Brains with lemon sauce may be prepared the same 
way. 

Page Twelve 



THIS BEING USED ONLY IN 




NOT SOLD IN STORES 




Is the source of their 
perfect support with 
constant comfort — the 
modish uncorseted effect. 

Fitted in your home by 
an expert corsetiere. 

Phone or drop a card 
for corsetiere to call. 



c ^ ^ - . 

Spirella Corset Shop 



821 Hurt Buildmg 



Phone Ivy 3590 



Page Thirteen 



FISH— Continued 

FRiCAiiSEE LOBSTER — Have your rice cooking in double boiler and have 
meat of lobsters picked over. Melt good-sized piece of butter, brown Capitola 
flour, add can of tomatoes after straining, season with salt and drop meat of 
lobsters in and let boil for few minutes. Season with little cayenne pepper to 
suit the taste. When ready to serve, lay the rice mound shape in center of 
platter and pour the sauce around the rice, or, if preferred, serve individually. 

LOBSTER A LA NEWBURG— One pound of meat of boiled lobster from 
the tail and claws; cut them into small pieces, place in shallow saucepan, add 
hot clarified butter, season with salt and pepper and cook lightly. Then add 
cream enough to cover lobsters. Reduce on good fire to about two-thirds. 
Remove and add one gill good sherry wine, let cook to boiling point, remove 
and thicken with four yolks of eggs and cream. Let cook without boiling and 
add little cayenne pepper and butter and serve hot. Chafing dish may be used 
if one likes. 

OYSTER AND SHRIMP NEWBURG— Clean and parboil one pint of oys- 
ters and drain from liquor. Clean and break in small pieces one can of shrimp. 
Put oysters and shrimp in stew pan and one-fourth cup of sherry wine. Cover 
and let stand for one hour. Add one-fourth cup butter and cook five minutes. 
Sprinkle with one and one-half tablespoons of Capitola flour and cook two min- 
utes. Add one cup of cream and, when thickened, the yolks of two eggs slightly 
beaten and diluted with two tablespoons of cream. Season with salt, nutmeg, 
paprika, cayenne and two tablespoons of brandy. Serve in puff paste shells. 

SALMON CROQUETTES— One can of salmon from which has been picked 
all the skin and bones. Take one tablespoon butter and mix on stove with one 
tablespoon Capitola flour. Pour into this one cup of hot milk and stir until 
thickened. Into this mixture pour the salmon and stir well. Add one-half cup 
rolled cracker crumbs and lastly two well-beaten eggs. Stir well for two min- 
utes and when mixed thoroughly remove from stove. Season with salt, also 
pepper, a little cayenne and juice cf one-half a lemon. .When cool, shape and 
roll in cracker crumbs and eggs and fry a light brown. 

STUFFED QUAIL WITH OYSTER DRESSING— AWow three oysters and 
one-half cracker to each quail. Roll crackers fine, season oysters with salt, pep- 
per and Worcester sauce, dip them in the rolled crackers and put three in each 
quail. Scar and fill the cuts with butter. Bake fifteen or twenty minutes in 
hot oven. 

FRICASSEE OYSTER— Buttered toast should be ready. This only takes 
few minutes to prepare and should net be allowed to stand; serve hot. Brown 
a little Capitola flour in hot melted butter, add large quantity of tomato catsup, 
season with salt and cayenne pepper, let cook short while and drop oysters in 
(without any of the water), pour over toast and serve individually with potato 
chips. 




Page Fourteen 




^ BELL PHONE 3437M ATLANTA PHONE 1 1 56 ^ 



MESSENGER SERVICE 



IMPORTED DELICATESSEN STORE 

B. COHEN, Proprietor 

13-15 VIADUCT PLACE 

ALL KINDS LUNCHES FOR 
PICNICS 



^ ONLY ONE OF ITS KIND IN THE SOUTH. IM- ^ 
m PORTED GOODS FROM ALL OVER the WORLD M 



Page Fifteen 




SPAGHETTI A LA ITALIENNE— Boil half a pound of spaghetti in httle 
salt water. Make a dressing of one large onion chopped fine and fry a light 
brown in two ounces of butter; then add one tablespoon Capitola flour, one-half 
pint strained tomatoes, one-fourth teaspoon salt, a dash of cayenne pepper, one- 
fourth teaspoon nutmeg (grated). Let all come to a boil and just before serving 
add six ounces of grated cream cheese. When ready to serve, pour over the 
spaghetti. 

CORN ROAST — Two eggs, three-fourths cup of milk, three-fourths cup of 
cream, two cups toasted bread crumbs, a cup canned or fresh corn, one-half 
teaspoon grated onion, one teaspoon salt. Mix ingredients in order given. Let 
stand twenty or thirty minutes. Bake in an oiled bread pan thirty to forty-five 
minutes. 

MINCED EGGPLANT — One cup of bread crumbs, one-half cup of sweet 
milk, two eggs, one tablespoon butter, one onion chopped fine. Boil the egg- 
plant until thoroughly done, chop fine and mix with it crumbs, milk, eggs, onion 
and butter. Season highly with salt and pepper. Pour the mixture into a pud- 
ding dish, sprinkle with crumbs and bake. 

ECONOMICAL MAYONNAISE— Four eggs, one teaspoon each of mustard, 
salt and Capitola flour, two teaspoons of sugar and a pinch of cayenne pepper. 
Mix them all together well, then add one full teacup of water and three-fourths 
of a teacup of vinegar. Beat the eggs very light. Add to the other ingredients, 
put on stove, stirring constantly till it thickens. Take from the fire and add a 
heaping tablespoon of butter. When cool, is ready for use. Very nice. 

CHARLEVOIX SALAD DRESSING— One quart vinegar, three-fourths cup 
granulated sugar, two heaping tablespoonfuls mustard, two heaping tablespoon- 
fuls corn starch, two tablespoonfuls salt. Blend sugar, mustard, corn starch and 
salt with a little of the vinegar and add beaten yolks of twelve eggs. Add to 
remainder of vinegar and cook until smooth, stirring constantly. Add one cup 
melted butter and cayenne pepper to taste. When thoroughly blended remove 
from stove and place in fruit jars. The above dressing will keep indefini|^ely 
and only needs the addition of whipped cream for instant use. 

TOMATO SAUCE — Put one can best tomatoes into a saucepan, add one 
pint of water, one onion chopped fine, salt and pepper to taste, also sugar, if 
preferred. Let this boil fifteen minutes, then mash through a wire sieve. Put 
back on the fire, add one tablespoon of butter browned a little with half as 
much Capitola flour. Stir till tomatoes thicken just a little. Instead of black 
pepper, a dash of cayenne is good, also a small quantity of ground cinnamon. 
Excellent served hot with meat, fish or game. 

Pa ye Sixteen 



START HOUSEKEEPING RIGHT 

By Stocking Your Pantry with 

KAMPER'S 

PURE FOODS 

For variety, selection and quality, our store "will 
prove a veritable paradise. 

GOOD FOODS 

are the most important problems confronting the 
young, bride. 

With every $7.00 first order we >vill ^ive FREE 

V2 lb. Kamper's Coffee 
14 lb. Kamper's Teas 
'/2 lb. Can Club House 

Baking Powder 
12 lb. Sack Club House 
Self-Raising Flour 



Make yourself -wel- 
come in our new 

Pure Food 
Department 
Store 

Cor. Linden & Peach- 
— tree Streets 

C. J. KAMPER GROCERY CO. 

IVY 5000 




PcHfe Seventeen 



VEGETABLES— Continued 

RELISH FOR COLD iW£.-l 16— Two cans of tomatoes, large size; two cups 
of vinegar, one cup sugar, two teaspoons each whole cloves and spice, one onion, 
salt and pepper to taste, a pinch of cayenne. This should be cooked about 
three-quarters of an hour until thick and served cold with meats. Will keep 
indefinitely in cool place. 

CREAM SALAD DRESSING— Two eggs beaten light, six tablespoonfuls of 
lemon juice, two tablespoonfuls of sugar, one teaspoon of salt. Cook in double 
boiler till thick and creamy. When cool add one-half pint of whipped cream. 
Serve on fruit salad made of cherries. One can of large white cherries; stuff 
them with blanched almonds. Serve on lettuce with butter thins. 

FOAMING SAUCE — Beat one-half cup of butter to a Hght cream, add grad- 
ually one cup of powdered sugar. When very creamy whip in one by one the 
unbeaten whites of two eggs. Just before serving, turn in one-half cup of 
boiling water. Stand the bowl in pan or basin of boiling water on the stove 
and stir until the sauce froths — no longer. Remove from fire and add one-half 
teaspoon of vanilla extract. 




Never boil black pepper in your soup; add when done. 

Beans and peas should never be shelled until needed. 

A bag of hot sand relieves neuralgia and other pains. 

To cure a cold in the head, powdered borax should be snuffed up the nostrils. 

If an artery is severed, tie a small cord or handkerchief above it. 

To take spots from wash goods rub them with yolks of eggs before washing. 

Sweet oil will remove finger marks from varnished furniture and kerosene 
from oiled furniture. 

To make tough meat tender lay it in vinegar for a few minutes. 

To remove ink, wine or fruit stains, saturate well in tomato juice. It is also 
an excellent thing to remove stains from hands. 

To set colors in washable goods, soak in a bucket of cold water with a table- 
spoonful of turpentine. 

For Cleaning Carpets : One bar of Ivory soap cut in fine shavings and boiled 
in one gallon of water until melted. Add four ounces of powdered borax and 
eight ounces of sal soda. Stir it five minutes and add four gallons of cold water. 
When this boils add half pint of alcohol. 



PiKie /'Jli/hfeen 




SPECIAL NOTICE 

The J. M. HIGH CO. will, on presentation of this 
"BRIDES" BOOK at their CxROCERY DEPARTMENT, 
make an allowance of 5% on the initial order, and be 
pleased to open a charge account by proper arrangements 
Avith the CREDIT MANAGER on the 2nd floor. THIS IS 
THE ONLY DRY GOODS STORE IN ATLANTA which 
has a PURE FOOD STORE in connection, and where you 
can secure everything necessary for the home, wearing, and 
the table and kitchen. 

We were the ones who "cut the cost of living" and vou 
just keep your eyes upon J. M. HIGH CO. GROCERY ADS 
every day and see what savings you can obtain. 

The 4th and 5th floors are full and complete with the 
newest and best in FURNITURE, CARPETS, RUGS, 
FLOOR COVERINGS OF ALL KINDS, CURTAINS, 
DRAPERIES, PORCH NEEDS, ICE CHESTS— the fa- 
mous "WHITE MOUNTAIN" here. Range from $7.50 to 
$67.50 each. 

We will assure you of the lowest prices, back them up, 
take them back if not the BEST and the measurements 
the largest to be found, and you also have the advantage 
of our divided payment plan, which the salesman will ex- 
plain to you. 

Brides will always find here the best selections of CUT 
GLASS, SILVERWARE, CHINA, PICTURES, ETC. 

"IT PAYS TO BE A TRADER AT HIGH'S" 

/. M HIGH COMPANY 

Hunter, Whitehall and Broad Streets 

JTLANTA, GA. 



Page Nineteen 



SALADS 



GINGER GRAPEFRUIT— Qui the fruit in half, remove the hard, pithy 
center, the skin between the sections and the seed. Shred the pulp with a silver 
fork, adding to each half a heaping teaspoonful of sugar, a heaping teaspoonful 
of grated cocoanut, one tablespoonful of preserved ginger cut into dice and a 
tablespoonful of ginger syrup. Cool for several hours before serving. When 
ready to serve, place in grapefruit dishes, cover with whipped cream and top 
with a little chopped ginger. 

FISH SALAD — Boil a medium-sized red snapper and remove all skin and 
bones. Pick fish to pieces and add one-third as much chopped celery as fish. 
Season to taste and mix thoroughly with mayonnaise dressing. Serve on lettuce 
with spoonful of mayonnaise and whipped cream. Garnish with stuffed olives 
or sliced lemon. 

EVER-READY MAYONNAISE — Mayonnaise is essential to all salads and 
the following is a good one for general use : Mix well six teaspoonfuls salt, four 
of mustard and one of cayenne pepper. Bottle this dry and use one teaspoonful 
whenever you make the dressing. Heat five tablespoonfuls vinegar, then beat 
in the yolks of live eggs, stirring all the time, until a thick, smooth paste. Add 
one tablespoonful melted butter and one teaspoonful of the dry seasoning. This 
will do for salad or sandwiches. 

FRUIT SALAD — Alternate bits of grapefruit, white (seeded) cherries and 
pineapple (though any combination of fruits or fruits and nuts is good), and 
fill halves of large, nice peaches. Pour over dressing made as follows: Two 
lemons, two eggs, one-half teaspoon salt, one teaspoon celery salt, one scant 
tablespoon sugar (or more). Beat eggs thoroughly, add lemon juice and season- 
ing, stirring well. Cook until thick, then remove from the fire and heat until 
cold. Some prefer whipped cream added to this, also peppers and mustard. 
This is a fine dressing for lettuce or any salads, easily and quickly made. 

ORANGE AND BANANA SALAD — Peel and slice four bananas; peel, tear 
in sections, remove seed and white parts of six sweet oranges. Arrange the fruit 
in layers and cover with orange dressing or sprinkle with sugar and pour over 
it the juice of a large lemon, or use one-third each of sliced bananas, shredded 
orange and seeded Malaga grapes. Serve with orange or lemon dressing. Sweet 
oranges, peeled and shredded, used in the proportion of three oranges to .a quart 
of well-ripened strawberries make a pleasant salad. This will serve six or eight 
people. 

DATE AND WALNUT SALAD— Crack English walnuts so as to have some 
in halves and some in quarters. Fill dates that have been washed and seeded 
with the broken pieces and quarter nuts. Reserve the halves for decorating. 
Fifteen minutes before serving pour over the dates a French dressing made by 

Page Twenty 




o 



ur 



First Duty 



aiW^litb^iJiii UnHiOiiJjftjf 




ui«M»ii.LJ«urt~'uiiniMi« 



to you and ourselves is to sell you shoes 
that will be satisfactory to you. The 
phenomenzd 

"WALK-OVER" 

success is due to the millions of satisfied 
WALK-OVER wearers. 
The secret of our success is the cour- 
teous treatment you receive at the 
hands of our clerks and the wonderful 
store service w^hich w^e have adopted for 
your convenience. 

You will find the fitting and wearing 
qualities of all WALK-OVER models to 
your comfort and satisfaction. 
Let your next pair be WALK-OVERS. 

Walk-Over SKoe Shop 

8 PEACHTREE ST. 



Pdj^e Twenty-One 



SALADS — Continued 

beating together equal parts of lemon juice and sugar. For one-half pound of 
dates and one-half pound of walnuts use one-half cup of lemon juice and one- 
half cup of sugar. If desired, the heated lemon juice and sugar may be poured 
over the beaten white of one egg, beating until the juice is well in, then pour 
the dressing on and garnish with lettuce leaves and the half nuts. 

A DELICIOUS SALAD — Take a bunch of celery, half a pound of stoned 
dates and half a pound of almost any kind of nuts except almonds. Chop these 
ingredients into quite small pieces and when they have been well mixed add the 
pulp of two grapefruit. Arrange on lettuce leaves and dress with mayonnaise. 

CELERY STICKS — Use the crisp, tender stalks of celery and fill the hollow 
with the following mixture: One cup cream cheese grated, one onion chopped 
fine, a pinch of cayenne pepper, one-fourth cup chopped nuts. Mix to a thick 
paste with salad dressing. This filling makes a fine sandwich. 

JAP SALAD — Select even-sized beets, boil until tender, peel and hollow out 
with a teaspoon. Place in weak vinegar water on ice for two hours. Dice cold 
boiled potatoes (Irish) and celery until you have the desired quantity. Add 
chopped nuts, cream cheese cut in small cubes, sweet bell pepper, hard-boiled 
egg, two small cucumber pickles. Season with chopped onion, paprika and salt. 
Mix with salad dressing, fill the beet cups and place a spoonful of mayonnaise 
dressing on top. Serve on lettuce leaf. 

SHRIMP SALAD — To one can of shrimp, not too finely chopped, add one 
stalk celery, one apple, three hard-boiled eggs. Season highly with cayenne, add 
salt and mix with mayonnaise. Serve on lettuce leaf with dressing. 

FAVORITE SALAD — One tomato cut fine, one cucumber cut into rings, one 
green pepper cut fine. Mix with French dressing made of three tablespoonfuls 
of olive oil, two of vinegar, salt and pepper to taste. Serve in green peppers. 




MISCELLANEOUS 



MINCE MEAT — Four pounds of boiled beef chopped fine, twice as much 
of chopped green tart apples, one pound of suet chopped, three pounds of raisins, 
two pounds of currants, half pound of citron cut fine, one pound of brown sugar, 
one quart of molasses, two quarts of sweet cider, one tablespoonful of salt, one 
tablespoonful pepper, one tablespoonful of mace, one of allspice, four table- 
spoonfuls of cinnamon, two grated nutmegs, one tablespoonful of cloves. Mix 
thoroughly and warm it on the range until heated through. Remove from fire 
and when cool add one pint of good brandy and one pint of wine. Put into jars 
and cover tightly. 

Pacje Twenty-Two 



les ai 




Send for my plan book ''"•^c/qq 




Book contains photos, floor plans and descriptions 


of 


nearly one hundred beautiful, practical and inexpensive bun 


ga- 


lows and two-story houses costing $1250 and up to build. 11 


Architect's complete blueprint plans and specifications 


of 


houses shown in book, $5,00 to $10.00. 




Have drawn plans for more than 1 ,200 homes in the South. 


LEILA ROSS WILBURN, Architect 




Dept. "D," 305 Peters Building 




ATLANTA, GA. 





'tu/e Tweiii;/-Three 



PICKLES 



RAIiilN PICKLEb — Seven pounds sliced tomatoes, three of sugar, two 
quarts of vinegar, three pounds raisins. Soak in salt water over night, rinse in 
alum water. Cook thoroughly; add three pounds raisins and one sliced lemon. 

SWEET CHOW CHOW PICKLE— Ont pint can tomatoes, two large heads 
of cabbage, forty white onions, one-fourth pint white mustard seed, one-fourth 
pint black mustard seed. Add some allspice and cloves. Cut tomatoes, onions 
and cabbage in small pieces; salt them down over night, using one pint table 
salt. In the morning drain off and add one ounce celery seed, one-half cup 
tumeric, one-half cup cinnamon. Press all the brine out. Take one quart of 
vinegar and two quarts of water. Pour over and heat thoroughly; drain this off 
and press water out. Take one-half gallon vinegar, four pounds brown sugar 
and the above spices. Put on to boil. Cook till you think it is done, stirring 
constantly. 

SWEET PICKLES— PEAR OR PEACH— Steam the fruit until you can 
pierce with a straw. Cool and place in a jar. To seven pounds of fiuit, three 
pounds of sugar, one quart of vinegar, one tablespoon each of spice, cloves, 
cinnamon and one teaspoon nutmeg. Boil the syrup three mornings and pour on 
the fruit each time. Seal while hot. 

DILL PICKLES — Select good, sound cucumbers, wash and cut off stem end. 
Put a layer of grape leaves in stone jar, a layer of dill, then a layer of cucum- 
bers, salt, black pepper and some pod red pepper, then more dill, grape leaves 
and dill, then cucumbers until jar is filled, using plenty of salt with each layer. 
Next fill jar with vinegar and water equally mixed. Place a weight on top and 
let stand about a week, when they are ready to use. 

PICKLED HERRING — Get herring which come put up in brine. Soak 
and wash thoroughly until free from salt. Skin and remove heads. Slice lemon 
and onion, as much as desired. Place layer of herring and layer of onion and 
lemon. Season with whole black pepper, bay leaves and pod of red pepper. 
Cover with half vinegar and half water. Place in stone jar. Ready to use in 
a few days. 




Page Twenty-F(yur 



■ RETAIL 



WHOLESALE m 



ATLANTA TRUNK 

■ AND 

BAG FACTORY 



92 WHITEHALL ST. 



We will make you a trunk according to 
YOUR OWN IDEAS or Requirements 

We can remodel your old wardrobe trunks 
and make them comply witK railroad 
requirements 

Special trunks and sample cases made to 
order. Old trunks repaired and made as 
^ood as new 




PHONE MAIN 466 



■ MANUFACTURERS 



iiliilHMIIIIIIIIIII 



IMPORTERS m 



Piiif)^ Twenty-Five 



yiy 


. . BREAD - - 


uy 



GOOD LIGHT ROLLS — One quart Capitola flour, teaspoon salt, tablespoon 
lard, tablespoon sugar, one cup milk, one-half cake compound yeast. Mix all 
with warm milk; pour over Capitola flour. Set to rise ii o'clock. Make rolls 
at 5 o'clock for 7 o'clock supper. 

SALT-RISING BREAD — Boil one cup of fresh milk and add enough meal 
to make a mush. Let stand over night and add one-half pint warm water, one 
teaspoon of salt, one tablespoon of sugar, enough Capitola flour to make a batter, 
and set in warm water to rise. Take two quarts of Capitola flour, two teaspoons 
of salt, one tablespoon of sugar, one tablespoon of lard, and mix with batter. 
Knead well, make into loaves and set in a warm place to rise. 

MRS. STEPHENSON'S BROWN BREAD— Take one (rounded up) cup 
of corn meal, one cup graham flour (rounded), then fill the same cup half full 
of corn meal and put in enough graham flour to make the cup rounded full. Put 
into this one dessertspoonful of soda and sift into a pan. Add two cups of 
sweet milk and one cup of sour milk and a half cup of molasses. Put into tin 
cans with covers and place in a covered steamer and steam three hours. Take 
out of the cans and put into the oven for twenty minutes. 

QUICK SALLY LUNN— One cupful of sugar, half cupful of butter, stir well 
together and then add one or two eggs; put in one good pint of sweet milk and 
with sufficient Capitola flour to make a batter about as stiff as cake; put in three 
teaspoonfuls of baking powder. Bake and eat with butter. 

COFFEE BREAD — Dissolve one cake compressed yeast in one-fourth cup 
lukewarm water, mix with one-half cup warm water and add enough Capitola 
flour to make a batter. Set this sponge in a warm place to rise. When light 
use about three pints Capitola flour, one tablespoon of butter and one of lard 
softened in one cup of lukewarm water. Add one-half cup sugar, one egg, some 
salt. Mix all well and set in a warm place to rise, first moulding it in two 
loaves. When risen and ready to bake, wet the top with a little melted butter 
and sweet milk and sprinkle thickly with ground cinnamon and sugar. Make 
the loaves thin. 

DIXIE BISCUIT — Put one pint sweet milk in double boiler, add one table- 
spoonful of lard and one of butter softened, one teaspoonful each of sugar and 
salt. Let this all get warm, not boil. Take from stove. Beat in one egg; add 
one-half cake compressed yeast dissolved in warm water. Beat into this about 
five cups of sifted Capitola flour. Put in warm place to rise about four hours. 
When risen, roll thin, cut with biscuit cutter; put one on the other, greasing 
with melted butter between. Place about two inches apart in pan. Let rise 
about one and one-half hours. Bake quickly. 

Page Twenty-Six 



Bread is the staff of life. See that what you 
consume is of the very best qiiahty. We recom- 
mend our 

Domestic Bread 

A pure white loaf unsurpassed in quality. We 
do not sell this bread wholesale, but direct to you, 
thus saving the middleman's (your grocer's) profit 
and giving you an extra large loaf and thereby help- 
ing you to reduce the high cost of living. 



Our Whole-Wheat Loaf is the best health bread 
made. Recommended by physicians for its easy 
digestive and nutritive quality — Nature's perfect 
food. 



Our Cake Department is fitted up to give you 
the best of service. When in need of Fancy Cakes 
for your entertainments, give us your order. We 
fill them promptly and right. 



Hannemann's Bakery 

Bell Ivy 7072 64 N. Forsyth St. Atlanta 2736 



Pafje Twenty-Seven 



BREAD— Continued 

VIRGINIA SPOON BREAD— Scald one cup of sifted corn meal with one 
and one-half cups of boiling water. Let cool and add one and one-half cups 
of buttermilk with half teaspoonful of soda dissolved in it. Add to batter also 
one egg and teaspoonful of salt and one teaspoonful of melted butter. Grease 
a pan and pour in and bake first at top of oven, then at the bottom, about fifteen 
minutes. Eat hot with butter as soon as baked and dip out with spoon. 

QUICK POCKETBOOK ROLLS— Ont quart Capitola flour, two teaspoonfuls 
of yeast powder, one-half cup butter, one egg, one teaspoonful of sugar. Mix 
with warm sweet milk. Cut with biscuit cutter, spread with melted butter and 
fold over. Bake quickly. 

ENGLISH FRUIT BREAD— Put one quart sifted Capitola flour into a 
bucket, one teaspoon salt; add warm water to make a stiff batter. Dissolve 
one-half cake compressed yeast in one-half cup lukewarm water; add to batter, 
beat thoroughly five minutes, put on cover, wrap in blanket and set away to 
rise one and one-half hours. Put a quart or more of Capitola flour in a pan; 
make a hole in the middle; pour in the raised batter, add one cup sugar, two 
kitchenspoons of butter or lard, one and one-half cups of seeded raisins chopped 
slightly, one-half cup citron chopped fine, one-half cup currants, tablespoonful 
ground cinnamon and a pinch of cloves. Work well with the hands and add 
more Capitola flour, if needed. Put in a pan; spread cloth over top and let rise 
one and one-half hours. Put in greased pans; let rise again and bake as bread. 

NUT BREAD — Two cups of graham flour, two cups of white Capitola flour, 
one cup of nuts, two cups of sweet milk, one cup of sugar, four teaspoons baking 
powder, one egg, one teaspoon salt. Sift flour, baking powder, salt and sugar 
together, add nuts with milk and egg thoroughly beaten. Let rise twenty min- 
utes. Bake from forty-five to sixty minutes. 

A FAMOUS KENTUCKY BREAD— One quart of buttermilk, one teaspoon 
salt, three-fourths spoon of soda, one cup of molasses, two cups of graham flour, 
four cups of meal, one egg. Add soda, salt, egg and milk together, then mo- 
lasses, then flour, and lastly, meal. Grease vessel to bake in most thoroughly 
and turn mixture into same and bake in moderate oven several hours. 

POPOVERS — Two eggs, two cups Capitola flour, two cups milk, one teaspoon 
salt. Cook on greased gem pans in hot oven. 

SALT-RISING BREAD — Slice two medium-sized potatoes thin, add two 
tablespoons corn meal, one teaspoon sugar, one scant teaspoon salt. Pour over 
this one and one-half pints boiling water. Put in a warm place over night.^ In 
the morning stir well and strain off the liquid. Add one scant teaspoon soda, 
one-half teaspoon salt. Thicken to stiff batter with Capitola flour. Put in warm 
place to rise. When risen, take one pint of milk, one-half pint of water, table- 
spoon of lard and mix and knead. Make into loaves and bake. 

, Page Twentif-Eiyht 



For a Quarter of a Century 

the Premier Flour of 

the South 





The Master Stroke in Milling 



pU RE— Healthful and Wholesome— 
Made of the Choicest Selected 
'Farm. Lots" Wheat — ?/<?/ elevator sift- 
ings and sortings. OUR OWN Buyers 
personally select every bushel of grain that "goes 
to the grist" for Capitola. The wheat is prime — 
sound — plump and scientifically blended — there- 
fore Capitola is unvarying in quality and strong 
in gluten. Buy it — it's the best for baking bread, 
pastry and cake — none better. 

Atlanta Milling Co., Atlanta, Ga. 



Georgia's Most Celebrated 
Product 




I'lKic T'lrent y-N'me 



SANDWICHES 



FRUIT SANDWICH — Between slices of bread which have been cut about 
one-fourth inch thick and spread with butter or nut butter put a filling made by 
chopping fine equal parts of steamed figs and nuts, moistening them with water 
and lemon juice to form a paste. Dates, prunes, raisins or currants may be 
used in place of figs. 

NUT SANDWICHES — Over ground English walnuts or pecans or any kind 
of nuts or combination thereof pour the following dressing: Four yolks of eggs 
well beaten, juice of two lemons in a cup and enough water to fill cup, one 
teaspoon salt and one of sugar. Let cook till eggs thicken. Spread between 
slices of bread or wafers, inserting lettuce leaf. A slice of cucumber added 
gives nice flavor. 

RAISIN SANDWICH — Mix together equal quantities of pecan nuts and 
seedless raisins well pounded. Spread between thin slices of buttered white 
bread. 

HOT POTATO SANDWICH—Form mashed potatoes into patties the thick- 
ness of ordinary crackers. Put into an oiled baking dish and bake until the 
under crust is nice and brown. While the patties are in the oven put one cup 
of cream into small pan, salt slightly and when at boiling point add two hard- 
boiled eggs, yolks minced fine; then moisten a level teaspoonful of corn starch 
in cold water and stir rapidly into the cream. Remove patties from the oven, 
place on a heated platter, alternately covering with the corresponding patty, 
putting the brown side up. Garnish with parsley or lettuce leaves. Serve hot. 

NUT SANDWICHES — Grind black walnuts, one-half cup pecans and hickory 
nuts each. Mix all together with enough of following dressing to moisten: Beat 
two eggs well, add juice of two lemons, one-half teaspoon salt, one tablespoon 
sugar, one teaspoon celery salt, one-half cup whipped cream. Butter whole- 
wheat bread slices. Use lettuce leaf between and spread with the filling. A 
slice of tomato adds to the beauty and taste of this sandwich. 

SANDWICHES — Take one cup of butter and cream it. Add a chopped can 
(small) of pimentos, one cup of grated ham, one cup of cold chopped chicken, 
season with salt and pepper. Use bread as fresh as can be sliced. Slice very 
thin, put a crisp lettuce leaf on one side of the bread, add the above, spread on 
well, put two pieces together and cut the desired shape. 




Par/e Thirfi/ 



"SOMETHING NEW" 



IN THE LINE OF 



Easy Nut Cracking 

Bostrom's Nut Gun 



Patented April 28, 1914 




The latest invention out for Craclviug Nuts. It slioots tlie 
sliell off and leaves the meat whole. It adds to the pleasure of 
eating nuts by making it so simple and easy to get at the meat. 
Women and children can use it and liave the fun of their lives. 
No chance to get hurt with it. It is attractive and an ornament 
to the table, dresser or the mantelpiece. 

PRICE: Nickel Plated $1.00 

Gun Metal, Silver Plated 2.00 

Delivered by Parcel Post anywhere in the United States. Address : 

BOSTROM MFG. CO. 

289 Edgewood Avenue ATLANTA, QA. 

DIRECTIONS : Place the nut as shown, between the threaded 
part and the base; turn the threaded part until it clamps the nut 
firmly, hold the base in your left hand and pull the plunger head 
Avith your right hand until it (your right hand) slips off; the 
spring will do the rest. 



PnijC Thirty-One 



CAKES 




FRUIT CAKE — One pound sugar, one pound Capitola flour, one pound 
English walnuts, one pound pecans, one pound preserved cherries, one pound 
blanched almonds, one pound figs, sixteen eggs, one pound butter, one teacup of 
molasses with a teaspoonful of soda dissolved in it, one glass fruit jelly, one 
goblet of wine or whiskey, four pounds of seeded raisins or two pounds of rais- 
ins, and two pounds of currants, one pound of citron, one tablespoonful of 
allspice, one teaspoon of cloves, two tablespoonfuls cinnamon, two nutmegs. In- 
stead of putting the Capitola flour in the batter as for other cake, mix thor- 
oughly with the fruit, then add to the batter. Bake from four to five hours. 

ALMOND OR HAZELNUT TART—S'ix eggs, six kitchenspoons of sugar, 
eight kitchenspoons of ground-up nuts (skin and all), one kitchenspoon cracker 
meal, one teaspoon baking powder. 

WHITE CAKE — Whites of six eggs beaten until very light. Take three- 
fourths cup of butter; add two level cups of sugar and three-fourths cup milk. 
Beat until very light. Add three level cups of flour, with heaping teaspoon of 
baking powder. Beat well, then add whites of two eggs. 

CARAMEL FILLING — Two cups of sugar, one cup sweet milk. Put on to 
boil. One cup sugar put in skillet; place on stove; stir until it is melted, then 
add to the boiling sugar. Drop in water. If it holds together it is done. Drop 
in spoon of butter, Capitola flour, with vanilla. Take off; beat until it sugars; 
put on cake. 

BROWN CARAMEL CAKE — One cup butter, two cups sugar, four cups 
Capitola flour after it has been sifted four times, one cup sweet milk, one tea- 
spoonful soda, two teaspoonfuls cream of tartar. Cream butter thoroughly. 
Beat whites to stiff froth. With half the beaten whites beat the sugar thor- 
oughly. Into the butter cream one cupful of Capitola flour. Add some of the 
sugar mixture, then some of the milk. Repeat this till all the sugar, milk and 
flour are used. With the last cup of Capitola flour sift in the soda and cream of 
tartar. Last, add the well-beaten whites. Flavor with vanilla. 

PINEAPPLE MOUSSE — One quart cream sweetened to taste, six table- 
spoons of sherry, one-half pound of crystallized pineapple and one-half pound of 
crystallized cherries, one-third box of gelatine (scant) dissolved in two cups 
of milk. Whip cream until stiff and add to milk and gelatine. Put layer of 
cream and layer of fruit and pack in ice for twelve hours, 

SPONGE CAKE — Six eggs. leaving out two whites for icing. Beat yolks 
very lightly. Add two cups sugar gradually, beating all until it puffs. Add one 
cup of boiling water, three cups of sifted Capitola flour and two teaspoonfuls 
baking powder sifted with the Capitola flour. Stir in the four whites lightly at 
the last. Grease and paper the pans. Bake in either loaf or layer pans. 

BUTTERMILK CAKE— Two cups of sugar, one-half cup of butter, two 
cups of buttermilk, one cup of raisins, one cup of chopped nuts, one teaspoon 
each cloves, allspice, cinnamon, nutmeg; three cups Capitola flour with one tea- 
spoon of soda. 

Page Thirty-Two 



COOKS 
OFTEN 



FAIL 




MGO.TIiAOe MARK. 



Don't run the risk of your cook failing just when you really need 
a first=class cake. 

Stone's Wrapped Cakes are rich, light and delicious. Made 
fresh daily, and delivered to grocers wrapped in waxed papers, 
Stone's name on the package guarantees you good cake — in per= 
feet condition. 

We operate plants in two large cities — Cincinnati, O., and 
Atlanta, Qa. We bake only cake. Practice makes perfect. Con= 
centration and efficiency are the watchwords of modern success. 

We are expert cake makers, we use strictly fresh, pure, high= 
quality materials to work with and bend our minds solely to bak= 
ing cake. 

Thus, we are able to give you better cake, than the average 
home methods can make. 

The price you pay has nothing to do with the quality of the 
cake. It's all in the materials. Fresh butter and eggs. We 
never use a particle of lard. 

The Bride and Qroom visiting our bakery will be presented 
with a GOLDEN SUNBEAM and SILVER SLICE. 

Sold by the leading Grocer in every town from 
the Lakes to the Gulf. 



Silver Slice 
10c 

A Pure White Cake 



Mephisto 
10c 

A Chocolate Cake 



Spanish Cake 

10c 

Sour Cream Spice 




The F. O. Stone Baking Co. 

ATLANTA, GA. 



Golden Sunbeam 

10c 
Rich Yellow Cake 



Raisin Cake 

10c 

Yellow Raisin Cake 



Creole Fruit 

10c 

Spiced Raisin Cake 



Pa<ie Thirty-Three 



CAKES — Coiitiimed 

WHITE CAKE — Whites of ten eggs, one cup butter, one cup sweet milk, 
two cup sugar sifted once before measuring, four cups Capitola flour sifted 
twice before measuring, one teaspoonful of extract, one heaping teaspoonful of 
Price's baking powder. Use a measuring cup for all. 'Cream butter and one cup 
sugar very light. Beat eggs with other cup sugar, then mix about one-half of 
Capitola flour with creamed butter and sugar, then add one-half milk, then 
remainder flour, then milk. If too stiff to beat add enough of the whites to 
soften and beat very light. Add extract and baking powder and stir the remain- 
ing whites in very lightly. 

ORANGE CAKE — One cup butter, two cups sugar, four cups Capitola flour, 
after sifting; whites of seven eggs, two spoons of baking powder, one spoon of 
vanilla. Mix as other white cakes and put this filling between layers: Two 
large cups of sugar, one-half cup of butter, one-half cup water. Cook until thick 
or will not cream. Beat until stiff. Add gradually the juice of one orange and 
one-half a lemon. Grate rind of orange; let soak in juice for nearly an hour; 
strain before using. Color with orange coloring. When the filling is well beaten 
it will cream, not sugar. Spread between layers. 

CHOCOLATE NOUGAT CAKE— Quarter cup butter, one and one-half cups 
powdered sugar, two eggs, one cup milk, two and a quarter cups Capitola flour, 
two teaspoons baking powder, one-half teaspoon vanilla, two squares baking 
chocolate, one-third cup powdered sugar, two-thirds cup of almonds blanched 
and shredded. Cream butter; add gradually sugar, then add eggs, unbeaten. 
When well mixed add two-thirds of the milk and the Capitola flour sifted with 
the baking powder; then add vanilla. To the melted chocolate add the remain- 
ing milk and one-third cup sugar. Cook and add to the cake mixture. Add 
almonds and bake in loaf or layers and ice heavily with chocolate. 

LADY BALTIMORE CAKE— One cupful of butter, two cupfuls of sugar, 
three and one-half cupfuls of Capitola flour, the whites of six eggs, two level 
teaspoonfuls of baking powder, one teaspoonful of rose water, one cupful of 
sweet milk. Cream the butter; add the sugar gradually, beating continuously; 
then the milk and flavoring, next the Capitola flour, into which the baking powder 
has been sifted, and lastly the stiffly-beaten whites of the eggs, which should be 
folded lightly into the dough. Bake in three-layer cake pans in an oven that is 
hotter than it would be for loaf cake. To make the filling, dissolve three cupfuls 
of granulated sugar in one cupful of boiling water. Cook it until it threads, 
then pour it over the stiffly-beaten whites of three eggs, stirring constantly. 
To this icing add one cupful of chopped raisins, one cupful of chopped nut 
meats (pecans preferred), five figs cut into very thin strips. With this ice both 
the top and sides of the cake, also putting between the layers of the cake. 

MAYO DEVIL FOOD CAKE — Six eggs, two cups of sugar, one cup of 
butter, three cups of Capitola flour, one cup buttermilk, one teaspoonful soda, 
one square of bitter chocolate. White icing: Three cups of sugar in a little 
water. W^ork until it melts, then pour it into the whites of two eggs which have 
been beaten very stiff. 

SPONGE CAKE — Seven eggs, separated and beat very lightly; two large 
cups of sugar, after sifting; three cups of Capitola flour, after sifting three times; 
one-half cup of hot water, one light spoon baking powder, one spoon vanilla. 
Pour hot water on sugar; let stand while beating yolks, then mix sugar and eggs 
and beat well. Add Capitola flour with yeast powder, and lastly fold in whites, 
but do not beat. 

Page Thirty-Four 



The Pride of a Bride's Home 
— is a — 

Majestic Ran;^e 




Majestic Ranges are Good, 
Verv Good 

FREE DEMONSTRATION DAILY 

Driver Hardw^are Company 

No. 5 South Broad St. ATLANTA, GA. 



I'lujc Thirtif-Five 



CAKES — Continued 

PECAN WHISKEY CAKE — One cup butter, two cups sugar, six eggs, well 
beaten separately, one large tumbler of whiskey, four cups of Capitola flour, two 
teaspoons of baking powder, one pound of pecans shelled, one-half pound of 
raisins, one nutmeg grated. Cream butter and sugar together; add yolks of 
eggs, well beaten. Whiskey and flour alternately. Add baking powder in last 
cup of flour. Add pecans and nutmeg, and last, add whites of eggs. Place in a 
moderate oven immediately and bake two hours. 

FEATHER CAKE — One cup of butter, two cups of sugar, one cup of sweet 
milk, four eggs, four cups of Capitola flour, two teaspoonfuls of baking powder. 
Flavor with lemon. Mix as you would any other cake. 

FUDGE FILLING FOR CAKE— One cup of sugar, one cup of sweet milk 
or cream, two tablespoonfuls of butter, one small cake of sweet chocolate. Cook 
till thick and creamy, then beat till it hardens enough to spread. Sprinkle with 
chopped nuts. 

MOTHER'S CAKE — Two Layers — Cream one-half cup butter; add one cup 
of sugar and yolks of three eggs, well beaten. Mix and sift one and three- 
fourths cups of Capitola flour; add to mixture, alternating with one-half cup of 
milk. Add beaten whites of two eggs. Add two and one-half teaspoons of 
baking powder. 

ALMOND CAKE — Whites of eleven eggs, two cups of sugar, one cup of 
sweet milk, one cup butter, two teaspoonfuls baking powder, four cups Capitola 
flour. Filling: One cup sour milk, one and one-half cups blanched almonds, 
powdered fine. Thicken with granulated sugar and spread thickly between the 
layers. 

WHITE LAYER CAKE WITH CHOCOLATE FILLING— One cup butter, 
two cups sifted sugar, three cups of sifted Capitola flour, one-half cup of water, 
whites of eight eggs, well beaten, one heaping teaspoonful Price's baking powder, 
one teaspoonful lemon extract. Filling: The yolks of three eggs beaten well, 
then add three cups of sugar and one cup of sweet milk. Cook this eight min- 
utes, then add one quarter of a cake of Baker's bitter chocolate, melted and beat 
until thick; then add two teaspoonfuls of lemon extract and put on cake. 

WONDER CAKE — One-third cup of melted butter, one cup of sugar, one 
cup of Capitola flour before sifting, two eggs, one spoon of baking powder, milk. 
To the melted butter add eggs in same cup and fill it with sweet milk. Add 
this to sugar, then add Capitola flour and baking powder. A quick dessert. Nice 
for berries and fruit; also economical. 

WHOLE-WHEAT LOAF CAKE— One cup of sugar, whites of three eggs, 
one and one-half teaspoons baking powder, one teaspoon vanilla, one-third cup 
butter, one and one-half cups whole-wheat Capitola flour, one-half cup milk, one 
cup nut meats. Cream butter, add sugar and beat till light. Add one cup of 
Capitola flour, then milk and vanilla. Beat well. Now add remainder of Capi- 
tola flour and baking powder, sifted together. Lastly cut and fold in whites of 
eggs and nuts. 

COCOA CAKE — Four yolks beaten with three-fourths cup of water; one and 
one-half cups of sugar, one and one-half cups Capitola flour, three tablespoons 
cocoa sifted, one and one-half teaspoons of yeast powder, vanilla. Whites 
beaten and put in last. 

Page Thirlti-Slj- 



THURSTON HATCHER 




yltlanta's Best Photographer 

Invites any bride presenting this hoot^ to his 

Photographic Studio 

at 

Fift^-eight and one-half Whitehall Street 

to have made one handsome 

photo of herself in her wedding gown 

Absolutely Free 

Mr. Hatcher is a photographer of the modern school 

and his photographs possess an individuality 

and that peculiar softness of tone which 

characterize the work, of an artist 

Ivory Miniatures Photographic Portraiture 

THURSTON HATCHER 



I'df/ii Thirty-Seven 



CAKES — Continued 

PREMIUM CHOCOLATE CAKE— 'Two cups of sugar, one cup of butter 
stirred to a cream with the yolks of five eggs added after they have been beaten 
well. Then stir into that one cup of milk. Beat the whites of two eggs to a 
stiff froth and add that also. Now put three and one-half cups of sifted Capi- 
tola flour, two heaping teaspoons of baking powder having been stirred with it. 
Bake in jelly cake pans. Mixture for filling: Take the remaining three whites 
of eggs beaten very stiff, two cups of sugar boiled until it ropes. Take from the 
stove and pour very slowly over the whites, beating rapidly while pouring. Add 
one-half cake of grated chocolate, one spoonful of vanilla. Stir until cooked 
and put between your cake. This is fine. 

POUND FRUIT CAKE — One pound butter, one pound sugar, one pound 
Capitola flour (extra besides flour that goes to flour the fruit), two pounds rais- 
ins, two pounds currants, one dozen eggs, one cup molasses into which put a tea- 
spoon of soda, one tumbler of whiskey, one pound of citron, one pound figs, 
one pound pecan kernels, one pound almonds (blanched), one pound candied 
pineapple, one pound candied cherries, two teaspoons each of ground cinnamon, 
cloves, allspice and nutmeg. Cream sugar and butter together, then add beaten 
yolks, then add whiskey and spices. Stir soda and molasses until foamy, then 
add next Capitola flour and whites of e:2;gs beaten very lightly. Then add fruits 
to this. Flour fruit plentifully. Bake four and one-half hours. 

CHOCOLATE MUFFIN C/1A"£6— One-half cup butter, melted; one cup of 
brown sugar, one-half cup of sweet milk, one and one-half cups of Capitola flour, 
one-half teaspoon soda, one and one-half squares Baker's chocolate (melted), 
one egg, one-half pound nuts. Icing: One cup pulverized or confectioners" 
sugar, two squares melted chocolate, one egg broken in; one tablespoon cream. 
Beat well, but do not cook. If too thick, add little cream. 

KISSES — Beat whites of three eggs real light, then gradually add one cup 
of sugar. Drop in six parts on oiled paper and bake in moderate oven. When 
cool open top and fill with pecans. Serve with whipped cream flavored with 
whiskey. 

PRUNE SOUFFLE — Fourteen prunes, whites eight eggs, one cup of sugar. 
Boil prunes till tender, remove seed and mash the remainder very fine; then beat 
eggs till they strand, and sugar gradually, then prunes. Put in double boiler and 
steam for two hours. Sauce for prune merangue: One egg, three tablespoonfuls 
of sugar, well beaten together; one teaspoon of butter, four spoonfuls of water. 
Set on stove and let come to boil. Flavor with vanilla or nutmeg. 

MACAROONS — One pound shelled almonds, two pounds powdered sugar, 
whites of nine or ten eggs. Flavor with vanilla. Blanch and pound the almonds 
to fine paste by adding the whites gradually. Bake on paper about two inches 
apart in a moderate oven. 

JELLY ROLL MADE AND BAKED IN TEN MINUTES— Four eggs and 
one cup sugar beaten very lightly. Sift one level teaspoonful of cream of tartar 
and half teaspoonful of soda into one large cup of Capitola flour and add to the 
eggs, beating all five minutes. Bake in a quick oven in a large pan so it will be 
thin when baked. Turn out on a paper sprinkled with sugar. Spread quickly 
with jelly and roll. 

l'<i(fc Tblrl ii-Ri.(ili I 







D 







TVOV^— 

^'TTiaf CupiW^s dart 
Has pierced your heart. 
Let Rhodes- Wood 
Give you a start. '^ 

We make a specialty of 
furnishing homes com- 
plete for all " Newlyweds " 

Our prices, our goods, and 
our terms are all in your fa- 
vor. Come to our store and 
let us give you an estimate on 
furnishings for your home. 

Pretty Bed-room Suite $49.50 Pretty Dining-room Suite $60 



The Rhodes-Wood Furniture Co. 

Corner Whitehall and Mitchell Streets 



I'll iff Thirl ii-Ninc 



CAKES — Continued 

OAT MEAL COOKlEb — Two eggs, one-half cup butter, one-half cup lard, 
two cups sugar, three cups of Capitola flour, four cups oat meal, one teaspoon 
of cinnamon, one teaspoon soda, ten tablespoons of buttermilk, one cup raisins 
and one cup nuts. Drop from spoon. 

LITTLE FELLOWS — Line tiny scalloped tins with pie paste and drop a 
teaspoonful of lemon filling in each. Bake in moderate oven. Lemon filling: 
Yolks of four or five eggs, two cups sugar, juice and grated rind of about two 
lemons, one teaspoonful of Capitola flour, three-fourths cup butter. Flavor with 
extract of lemon if wished. Delightful for picnics or to add to dessert at 
Christmas. 

FLANNEL CAKES — One pint Capitola flour, two eggs, one teaspoonful 
sugar, one tablespoonful of yeast, salt. Let rise and half hour before cooking 
pour into the batter one cup of sweet milk. 

WAFERS — One pint Capitola flour, one teacup sugar, two eggs, one table- 
spoonful butter, a little salt. Mix with sv.^et milk into a batter as for cake. 
Flavor with vanilla and bake in wafer irons 

CREAM MUFFINS — Beat whites and yolks of three eggs separately, mix 
them and add one-half pint of sweet milk, one tablespoonful of melted butter; 
mix in gradually one quart of Capitola flour with one teaspoonful baking powder. 

LOVE KNOTS — Five tablespoons white sugar, three eggs, butter the size of 
walnut, one-half teaspoon soda dissolved in two tablespoons milk, flour to roll 
them like pie crust. Cut in small strips one-half inch wide. Tie in bow knots. 
Fry in lard like doughnuts. 

CHEESE SAVORY — Cut the crusts from enough slices of stale bread to 
make two cups when cut in inch squares. Put the bread into a baking dish suit- 
able to send to the table and alternate the layers of bread with shavings of 
cheese and a little butt^. Beat two eggs; add half a teaspoon of salt, a dash 
of paprika and three cups of milk and pour over the bread and cheese in dish. 
Let bake in a very moderate oven until the mixture is firm in the center and the 
bread is slightly brow'ned. Serve hot at luncheon or supper. 

ROCKS — One cup dark brown sugar, one cup white sugar, one cup lard, 
three and one-half cups Capitola flour, three eggs, one teaspoon of soda in little 
water, one-half cup each of fruit and nuts, two tablespoons hot water, one tea- 
spoon cinnamon, one-half teaspoon cloves. 

MARGUERITES — Beat two eggs slightly and add one cup brown sugar, 
one-half cup Capitola flour, one-fourth teaspoon baking powder, one-third tea- 
spoon salt, one cup pecan. nuts, cut in small pieces. Fill small buttered indi- 
vidual tins two-thirds full of the mixture and place a pecan nut in each. Bake 
in a moderate oven fifteen minutes. 

VIRGINIA DOUGHNUTS— Three eggs beaten very lightly; add one and 
one-fourth cups of sugar continue beating; add three tablespoons of warm lard, 
one and one-fourth cups of milk. Take one sifter of Capitola flour, one heaping 
teaspoonful of .soda, two heaping teaspoonfuls of cream of tartar, one pinch of 
salt. Sift three times. Put the above mixture in the Capitola flour with a spoon. 
Roll out about one-half inch and fry very carefully in boiling lard; turn twice. 
When cool roll in powdered sugar. Season with cinnamon or nutmeg. 

Page Forty 



f^ 




®0 ICouf, 



Have you protected Her? 
Words without deeds are bogus! 



You will protect and provide for her, if you live; suppose you die? 
A Penn Mutual Life Income Policy will answer the question. 
It is a protection against death; a provision for future needs; 
furnishes the monthly check to pay the monthly rent and bills. 
A few cents a day will buy a monthly income for life. 
Ask us for particulars. 

BAGLEY & WILLET 

GENERAL AGENTS 

P^nn iiutual ICtfr 3nauranrF (Ho. 



Jfourtlj Nattunal lank IBuil&tng 



Atlanta. Oipurgia 



Piufn Forty-One 



CAKES — Continued 

; NUT BUNS — One cup sweet milk, one-half teaspoon salt, one-third cup 
sugar, one cake Fleischman's yeast, dissolved in one-half cup of lukewarm 
water; one-half cup cream, one cup chopped nuts, three cups Capitola flour. 
Have all ingredients warm. Make sponge of milk, salt, dissolved yeast and one 
and one-half cups Capitola flour. Let rise two hours; add sugar, nuts and cream 
and knead in Capitola flour sufficient for soft dough. Let rise one hour. Form 
into small buns, brush with beaten egg and sprinkle with sugar and nuts. Let 
rise until light and bake slowly. 

CORN MUFFINS — One quart of good meal, three eggs beaten very lightly, 
one tablespoonful butter and lard mixed, one teaspoonful soda and two of cream 
of tartar, sweet milk to make a moderately stiff batter. Buttermilk and soda 
may be used instead of the sweet milk. 

CHEESE STRAWS — Make good pastry and roll out thin, spread on grated 
cheese, fold over and roll again. Continue t.ntil full of cheese. Cut in narrow 
strips and bake a very light brown. 

LARD TARTS — One pound of butter, one pound of sugar, one pound Cap- 
itola flour, three eggs beaten separately. Flavor with rose water or brandy. 
Cream butter and sugar; add yolks of eggs, flour and beaten whites. Make stiff 
dough to roll very thin; cut with diamond shape cutter; brush the top of the 
cake with the yellow of egg and a little milk. Add a pinch of sugar and cinna- 
mon and one pecan or peanut. Bake in quick oven. 

QUEEN FRITTERS — Put one-half pint of water and two ounces of butter 
in a saucepan to boil. When boiling, throw in four ounces of Capitola flour, stir 
rapidly and continually until it sticks together and forms a ball. Take from 
fire and give a thorough beating and stand aside to cool. When cold add one 
egg without beating, and beat until the mixture is thoroughly amalgamated, then 
add another egg, beat again, and so on till you have added four eggs. Then beat 
the whole for a minute. Have ready a kettle of hot lard and drop in the mix- 
ture by spoonfuls, allowing plenty of room, as they swell four times their original 
size. They will turn themselves and must be cooked until they stop popping. 
Dust with sugar and cinnamon and serve hot. 

APPLE FRITTERS — To four eggs, well beaten, add one and one-half pints 
of sweet milk, one teaspoonful soda, two teaspoonfuls cream of tartar and Cap- 
itola flour enough to make a nice batter. Peel and cut apples into rather thin 
slices and stir into the batter. Fry in boiling fat and see that apples are well 
covered with batter. Serve hot with lots of powdered sugar sprinkled on them. 




P(i(ie Fori if-Trco 






AV/E WISH you long life and hap- 
^ piness — that happiness which is 
made up of a contented spirit, rather 
than material wealth or satisfied ambi- 
tion. 

We think this is made possible by 
a well stored mind and constant com- 
panionship with good books and good 
pictures, and when you get in your new 
home, we hope you will remember 

The Cole Book and Art Company 

85 WHITEHALL STREET 
ATLANTA, GA. 





I'<uie Forty-Three 




TRANSPARENT CUSTARD— \ nice way to use yolks of eggs left from 
white cake: Beat well with half pound crushed sugar the yolks of eight eggs. 
Set upon the fire the pan containing them and add in small pieces half pound 
of butter. Stir constantly till butter melts. Remove from fire and stir in a 
wineglass of thick cream. Flavor and bake in crisp pastes. Place shredded 
citron on pastry before pouring in butter. (Excellent.) 

MOLASSES PIE — Two cups good molasses, boiled until moderately thick 
and cooled; one cup sugar and three eggs beaten well together, and pour into 
the molasses and stirred until thoroughly mixed. Then add two tablespoons 
sweet milk and one nutmeg and pour into crusts and bake. 

FLUMMERY — Make a sponge cake with four eggs beaten separately, one 
cup sugar, one cup Capitola flour. Flavor to taste and bake in two layers. Place 
in a deep bowl and between layers sprinkle thickly pecan nuts, citron and can- 
died cherries (chopped fine). Make a custard of two eggs, one and a half pints 
of milk, two tablespoonfuls sugar. While hot pour over cake. When cool whip 
half pint cream, pour over the top and garnish with cherries. This is a delicious 
recipe used by many famous cooks before the war. 

STRAWBERRY SHORTCAKE— For the pastry: One pint of Capitola 
flour, three heaping tablespoons of butter, pinch of salt, enough ice water to 
make a soft dough. Stir the salt in the flour. Mix the flour and butter thor- 
oughly together, then add the water. Knead as little as possible, roll quarter of 
an inch thick, bake in tins a half hour before wanted. Sweeten the berries, add 
a layer of the cake, one of berries, after generously buttering the cakes, while 
hot. Cover the whole with whipped cream, sweetened and flavored with the 
strawberry juice. 

MT. VERNON DESSERT— T^vo eggs beaten lightly. Beat in gradually one 
cup of sugar, one cup of Capitola flour sifted with one teaspoon of cream of tartar 
and half teaspoon of soda and a pinch of salt. Add one teaspoon of vanilla, and 
at the last half cup of boiling milk, into which stir one tablespoon of butter. 
Bake in two layers (about fifteen minutes). For the filling scald one cup of 
milk, beat one egg with a heaping tablespoon of Capitola flour, sugar to taste. 
Stir in milk and cook until it thickens. Flavor with one teaspoon of vanilla or 
almond extract and spread between layers when cold. Sweeten and flavor 
whipped cream and put all over the top of cake. 

CHOCOLATE PIE — One pint sweet milk, yolks of five eggs, two cups of 
sugar, one tablespoonful of butter, four tablespoonfuls sifted Capitola flour, one 
cake grated chocolate. Cook in double boiler till thick. When cool flavor with 
vanilla. Have pie crusts ready baked. Fill with this chocolate. Make meringue 
of the five whites with a tablespoonful of sugar to each egg. Spread on and 
brown in a slow oven. 

LEMON PIE — Juice and grated rind of one lemon, yolks of four eggs well 
beaten, two cups of sugar, two cups boiling water, one tablespoon melted butter, 
one tablespoon flour. Mix well together and let it thicken in double boiler or 
in pan placed over boiling water. The whites of eggs to a stiff froth, add two 
tablespoons sugar, spread over tops of pies and place in oven for a delicate 
browning. This is for two pies. 

Pa(/e Forty-Four 



Did You Think of Making 

A Home For the Bride? 



If you did not; now is tKe time to 
g,et her a home and lay the founda- 
tion for eternal happiness. 

Let the EASTMAN REALTY 
COMPANY BUILD THAT 
HOME FOR YOU IN BEAUTI- 
FUL EASTMAN PARK. 

Come and consult us before you 
buy. 

We make terms to suit you. Our 
way is the easy-payment plan. 



Eastman Realty Company 

214 EQUITABLE BUILDING 
ATLANTA -:- -:- GEORGIA 



Page Forty-Five 



PIES— Continued 

APPLE COMPOTE — Peel and core apples. To every pound of apples put 
three-fourths of a pound of sugar. Put the sugar, with enough water to cover it, 
on the stove and let come to a boil. Then put in apples and cook until tender, 
but do not let come to pieces. As fast as they are done lift out of the syrup 
and put into the bowl you want to serve them in. Now dissolve one-half box of 
gelatine in a half cup of hot water and strain into the syrup, first taking off of 
th6 stove. Pour this syrup over the apples and set away to cool. Slice a lemon 
and lay a slice over each apple before it congeals. Serve with boiled custard or 
whipped cream. 

OLD VIRGIN LA CHEESE CAKE PIE— Four eggs; beat in sugar until eggs 
are thick; half cupful butter, one cupful sweet milk, two tablespoonfuls sifted 
corn meal. Bake on a rich crust. 

CREAM MERINGUES — Beat the white of seven eggs to a stiff froth. Beat 
in gradually one and a half cups of sugar, add one teaspoonful of vanilla, then 
fold in three-fourths cup of sugar. Drop by the spoonful on a large pan cov- 
ered with manilla paper. Bake forty or fifty minutes in a very slow oven. 
Let them cool before taking off the paper. When perfectly fresh break the 
smooth side in and fill with whipped cream or ice cream and serve two with the 
smooth sides pressed together. 

A DELECTABLE PIE — One cup sour cream, one egg, one cup sugar, one 
cup raisins, one cup currants (washed thoroughly in warm water), cinnamon to 
taste. This makes filling for two pies baked either in one or two crusts. 

BANANA PIE — Line a pie plate with rich crust and bake. When ready to 
serve, slice bananas enough to fill crust; add few pecans if liked. Heap with 
sweetened whipped cream and serve at once. 

PIE CRUST WITH HOT WATER— Into one-half cup of lard pour enough 
boiling water to fill the cup. Mix this with Capitola flour, into which a half 
teaspoon of salt has been added, until stiff enough to knead. Roll very thin. 
This dough makes nice patty shells, strawberry shortcake, etc. Can be placed 
in ice box for days and when warmed a bit becomes very pliable and can be 
used as fresh. Always keep the dough warm when using it. 

PINEAPPLE PIE — Six eggs, two cups sugar, one cup milk, piece of butter 
size of a walnut, one can grated pineapple, one teaspoon of Capitola flour. Cook 
in double boiler until thick. Cook two pastries and fill with mixture. Spread 
whipped cream on top. Serve all very cold. 

CHOCOLATE CUSTARD PIE— One and one-half cups of granulated sugar, 
yolks three eggs, one and one-half tablespoons Capitola flour, one cup sweet milk, 
butter size of egg, one-third cake chocolate. Cook till thick. Cook crust till 
done. Pour custard into it, cover with meringue and brown. Serve hot or cold. 




Paije Forli/SiM 



CHAS. S. ROBISON 
Pres. & Treas. 



PAUL W. DUFFEE 

V.-Pies. & Mgr. 



GEO. P. FREEMAN 

Secretary 



CKas. S. Robison Furniture Co. 

ATLANTA, GEORGIA 




The above is only one of the man}- l)eautiful Suits on exhibi- 
tion at our store. 

In trading with us you are assured of correctness of style 
and design, combined with high-class workmanship and ma- 
terial. 

We invite your careful inspection and consideration of our 
goods before furnishing your home. 

Call at our office and get a certiticate good for 10 per cent 
discount on your purchases. 

Chas. S. Robison Furniture Co. 

25-27 E. Hunter St. 53-55 S. Pryor St. 



Page Forty-Seven 



PUDDINGS 



PRUNE WHIP — Ten cents' worth prunes worked till tender and seeds are 
easily removed, half cup of sugar, whites of two eggs. Place in stove from six 
to eight minutes. To be eaten with whipped cream. 

CARAMEL PUDDING — One quart milk, four eggs (two whites for me- 
ringue), one cup sugar melted until brown; add to milk; beat half cup sugar into 
eggs, two heaping tablespoons Capitola flour, one tablespoon gelatine dissolved 
in milk. 

MACAROON PUDDING— UaU box Cox gelatine dissolved in enough 
water to cover, yolks of four eggs, one cup sugar; beat well. One pint milk; 
let come to boil; while hot pour over yolk of eggs; put in gelatine; cook for five 
minutes; don't let boil. Rinse mould with half glass whiskey, then pour whiskey 
into pudding. Line mould with macaroons, half cup or more. Beat whites stiff, 
stir in custard, pour in moulds, place on ice. When ready to serve turn out of 
mould slice and eat with whipped cream. 

CHARLOTTE RUSSE— One quart cream; sweeten to taste and flavor with 
vanilla; dissolve half box gelatine in a little milk, put on stove to melt; whip 
cream until stiff; mix gelatine; put on ice to congeal. 

DATE LOAF- — Two cups sugar, one cup milk. Cook until congeals in cold 
water. When done put in one pound dates after seed have been removed, one 
cup nuts; mix well until dates are melted. Pour out on damp cloth; roll. Serve 
next day in slices. 

PLUM PUDDING — One pound of Capitola flour, one pound sugar, one pound 
butter, one pound currants, two pounds raisins, one dozen eggs, half pound of 
citron, half pound figs, quarter pound of crystallized cherries, quarter pound 
crystallized pineapple, one and a half pounds of shelled almonds, one ounce of 
allspice, cloves, cinnamon and four nutmegs, wineglass of brandy. Steam in 
bucket for five hours. 

QUEEN-OF-ALL PUDDING— To one pint of grated bread crumbs add one 
quart of sweet milk, one cup of sugar, yolks of four eggs beaten light, grated 
rind of one lemon, butter size of an egg. Bake this mixture till done, then spread 
over the top some acid jelly, and then spread over the meringue made of the 
whites beaten to a stiff froth with one cup of sugar and juice of the lemon. 
Put into the oven and brown slowly. 

POP-CORN PUDDING — Take a scant pint of the pop-corn, which is ground 
and put in boxes, or, if not available, freshly popped corn rolled fine is just as 
good. Add to it three cups of new milk, half cup of sugar, two whole eggs and 
yolk of another, well beaten. Bake in a pudding dish placed inside of another 
filled with hot water till the custard is set. Cover with a meringue made of the 
remaining white of eggs, a teaspoon of sugar and a sprinkling of the pop-corn. 

MACAROON RUSSE — Three tablespoons corn starch rubbed smooth in 
cold water; add one cup boiling water and boil until transparent. Pour into the 
stiffly beaten whites of three eggs and stir constantly. When light add six 
crushed macaroons and half cup nut meats, also some bitter almond flavoring. 
Line bowl with lady fingers and pour mixture in. Set aside to harden and serve 
with whipped cream. 

Page Portp-Eipht 



Sixty Seconds from 
Everywhere 

When you want anything you want it. 
We are prepared at any time to go on any 
errand for you at a very small cost and 
give you prompt and reliable service. 




I 

W. V. MILLER, Gen. Mgr. ^ 

' MILLER'S MINUTE MESSENGERS I 

Are Always on the Job 
If you want anything in a hurry, call 

Bell Phone Ivy 4372 - Atlanta Phone 23 



P<i(/r Forty-Nine 



PUDDINGS— Continued 

PLUM PUDDING — One pound Capitola flour, one pound sugar, one pound 
butter, leaving out half of butter and sugar for sauce; eleven eggs beaten sepa- 
rately, one and a half pounds raisins. Mix all flour and raisins; add to butter, 
sugar and yolks, which must be mixed in the usual way for pound cake. Flavor 
with wineglass of whiskey, teaspoonful each of mace and nutmeg. Lastly add 
two spoonfuls baking powder. Tie in pudding bag, which has been scalded and 
floured. Boil two and a half hours. Serve with hard sauce, flavored with 
sherry wine. 

WOODFORD PUDDING — Three eggs, one cup sugar, one-half cup butter, 
one-half cup Capitola flour, one cup of jam, one teaspoonful of soda dissolved 
in three of sour milk, cinnamon and nutmeg to taste. Mix well together and 
bake in pudding dish. Serve with sauce. 

SUET PUDDING — Three cups of Capitola flour, one cup of sweet milk, one 
cup molasses, one coffee cup of fruit, one teaspoon of soda, one cup suet, nut- 
meg, cinnamon, cloves. Season to taste. Steam three hours. 

BANANA WHIP — Press the pulp of three bananas through a sieve; cook 
with one-third a cup of sugar and a tablespoonful of lemon juice until scalded; 
cool and flavor with a few drops of vanilla or a little wine ; add also a few grains 
of salt, then beat gradually into a cup of doublecream beateij solid with a Dover 
egg-beater. Set aside to become chilled, then serve piled high in small glasses 
with a sprinkling of fine chopped pistachio nuts on top. Line the glasses before 
filling with slices of bananas. This makes a particularly good charlotte russe 
filling. 

MARSHMALLOW PUDDING— Ua\i pound of mashmallows cut in small 
pieces, one pint of cream whipped and sweetened to taste, flavored with vanilla. 
Mix the mashmallows with the cream and beat. Serve in sherbet cup and 
sprinkle with pecans (rolled) and a maraschino cherry. 

PARADISE PUDDING — Three tablespoons of Peter Cooper's gelatine dis- 
solved in a pint of milk for twenty minutes, then put over steam until dissolved 
(stir) ; one quart of cream whipped and sweetened, one pound of dates cut in 
small pieces; add to the cream; mix with above and whip. Serve in sherbet 
cups and sprinkle with rolled pecans. 

CAKE SYLLABUB — Moisten a thin sponge cake with sherry wine, then 
cut off in pieces of loaf sugar the rind of two lemons. Dissolve this sugar in 
one pint of rich cream; add the juice of the lemons to a little more sugar, then 
add gradually to the cream. Whip the cream until solid, then pour it on the 
cake, which has been put in a glass bowl. Pile this until it is high above the 
edge of the bowl. Ornament the top with strawberries or bits of solid fruit 
jelly. This makes a very pretty as well as a delicious dish. 

TWENTIETH CENTURY PUDDING— Line a dish with macaroons, one 
can white cherries poured on macaroons, a thick custard poured on this and 
served with whipped cream. 

NESSELRODE PUDDING— One pint milk, scalded; two yolks of eggs, 
beaten; half cup sugar added to eggs; put in milk and cook until it thickens. 
One large tablespoon gelatine dissolved in a little water added to mixture when 
it is cooling. Not quite half pound macaroons, one-fourth cup chopped raisins, 
one-fourth cup chopped nuts; add flavoring. Serve with whipped cream. 

Page Fifty 




TBf^^TOtf 



mi 

WHITEHALL STREET 

MAIN 342MJ 



I'll (J e Fifty-One. 



PUDDINGS— Continued 

A DAINTY DESSERT — Take marshmallows. cut in quarters; dates, quite 
fine, and English walnuts chopped rather fine. Mix these ingredients in it for 
each pint of cream, which has been sweetened and flavored. Serve in sherbet 
glasses. 

CABINET PUDDING — Beat yolks of six eggs thoroughly with tumbler of 
sugar, then add tumbler of white wine and cook in double boiler until thick like 
custard. Watch closely; keep from lumping. Whites of eggs should be beaten 
first and small quantity of Cooper's gelatine dissolved in little cold water; the 
whites of eggs, after beaten, should be added first little to gelatine and beaten 
in gradually and carefully so as not to see any of the gelatine separated. After 
custard is somewhat cool, and having beaten the whites of eggs with gelatine 
all together, add your flavor and pour either into large pan and cut afterwards, 
or into small moulds. You should have macaroon cakes rolled out, chopped 
pecans to sprinkle over the custard, also crystallized cherries (maraschino cher- 
ries, if possible), and serve with whipped cream sugared and flavored. 

CANDY PUDDING — Three pints sugar, one tablespoon vinegar; wet thor- 
oughly with water. Cook until it balls soft in cold water. Pour on buttered 
marble slab. As soon as cool enough pull until white. Put back on marble 
slab and work in one grated cocoanut, one cup pecans and a few raisins. As 
soon as it begins to cream pour in tin that has been buttered and dusted with 
cinnamon. Slice when ready to serve. 

PINEAPPLE OR ORANGE CREAM^Take a cup of orange or pineapple 
juice and a cup of sugar; put in a double boiler. Beat the yolks of four eggs 
with another cup of sugar. Add this to the juice and cook until thick. Dissolve 
three or four tablespoonfuls of gelatine; add this after removing from the fire. 
Use sliced pineapple cut into small pieces. Into the whole contents put four cups 
of cream. Mold in jelly glasses. Serve with whipped cream over top; garnish 
with pineapple. A cup of nuts may also be added to contents. This amount 
will serve twelve people. 




]^(U/e Fiftif-T^e'ii 




NE of tKe first things to do in ar- 
ran^in^ to keep house is to select 
a GOOD LAUNDRY. 

You will make no mistake in Kavin^ us 
call and consult witK you about our taking 
care of this very important part of the house- 
hold duties. 



PRES &,MGR. 

W.HCOPPEDGE 

5EC&TREA3. 



,, Georgia;, 
UuwDRY rQ 

^116-120 5. FORSYTH 5T.^ 
'atl 471 ATLANTA be:ll47i 



PROGRESSIVE 



Whether it be 

Laundering or Dry Cleaning, 

We do it to a "State" of perfection. 



Both Phones, 471 



l^(i(jp Fifty -Three 



uy 


• I C T^ S 


bM 



Creole punch — Three cups orange juice, three cups water, one cup port 
wine, one and a half cups brandy, two cups sugar, two lemons. Freeze. 

ORANGE PUNCH SHERBET — Use the juice of six lemons and six oranges. 
Dissolve two tablespoonfuls of gelatine; a cup of raisins, a cup of chopped 
almonds, six mashed bananas, a pint of cream sweetened; make a syrup of 
two cups of sugar. Mix all of these in the freezer, except the cream, which 
add just before the sherbet begins to freeze. Fill the freezer with cold water 
after the ingredients have been put in. Color with orange coloring and serve 
in orange cups. Garnish with sunflowers or any other yellow flower. 

TORTONI — Beat together six yolks, two ounces of sugar, two tablespoons 
of maraschino (sherry will answer about as well, but takes nearly a glassful), 
one tablespoon of Kirsch. Whip slowly, warming ov'er hot water while beating. 
When thick and light add one teaspoonful of vanilla and one pint of cream that 
has been whipped. Add dozen finely powdered macaroons. Whip all well 
and freeze. 

STRAWBERRY SURPRISE— Two quarts of ripe berries, crushed; one 
pint of sugar, one quart of water, juice of two lemons, whites of six eggs. After 
crushing berries strain through a cloth. Freeze. 

NUT CREAM — Make a rich vanilla ice cream and when partly frozen add 
two cups of finely chopped and pounded peanut brittle. Freeze till solid. 

ORANGE SHERBET — Squeeze the juice from one dozen oranges and pick 
the pulp to pieces; mix the grated yellow rind of one orange with three pounds 
of sugar and one quart of water and make a rich syrup by boiling a few minutes. 
Pour this hot syrup over the juice and pulp and let stand two hours. Strain 
and pour a half gallon of cold water on the pulp and strain again. Mix all and 
freeze, first adding the juice of three lemons and beaten whites of six eggs. 

CHOCOLATE SAUCE FOR ICE CREAM— One quarter pound of choco- 
late, one cup of boiling water, one cup of sugar, one tablespoon of Capitola 
flour, butter size of a walnut. Boil all together until thick and serve cold over 
the plain cream. 

PEPPERMINT ICE CREAM— Dissolve five small sticks of peppermint 
candy in a quart of cream. Break candy in small pieces and let it sand several 
hours. Freeze. When frozen it is a lovely color of rose-pink. 

BURNT ALMOND ICE — One quart cream, four ounces shelled almonds, 
one-half pound sugar, one teaspoon caramel, one teaspoon vanilla. Blanch and 
roast almonds. Pound them to a smooth paste. 

SHERRY TABBLER — One quart of sherry wine, one quart of water, six 
lemons, some of the peel cut very thin in fine rings. Sweeten to taste and freeze. 

VEGETABLE ICE — Juice from two cans of tomatoes; strain and add chop- 
ped pulp from one-half can and two tablespoons of sugar, one-half dozen good- 
sized cucumbers, one-half dozen bell peppers chopped fine. Salt and pepper to 
taste. Freeze and serve in punch cups with any meat course. 

Page Fifty-Four 



FOR THE 

Young, Housekeeper 




Our enormous stock 
of housef urnishing 
goods offers exception- 
al opportunities to those 
beginning housekeep- 
ing. We have what 
you need and can fur- 
nish you promptly. 

As a special induce- 
ment, we offer to each 
bride presenting this 
book at our Peachtree 
Street store a present 
valued at $1.00 and 
a I per cent discount 
on the initial pur- 
chase. 



Kin^ Hard^vare Co. 

53 Peachtree 87 Whitehall 

ATLANTA 



l^uije Fifty-Five 



ICES — Continued 

TAPIOCA CREAM — Cook in a double boiler for fifteen minutes one quart 
of sweet milk and two heaping tablespoonfuls minute tapioca and a little salt, 
stirring frequently. Beat yolks of two eggs and one-half cup sugar and at the 
end of the fifteen minutes stir into the tapioca the eggs and sugar. Cook till it 
begins to thicken. Remove from fire and beat in the beaten whites of eggs until 
no white is seen. Flavor. 

CREAMED APPLE TAPIOCA— Cook two level tablespoonfuls tapioca in 
one and a half pints of milk fifteen minutes. Remove from fire, add two well- 
beaten eggs, one-half cup sugar, a little salt. Pare and quarter six apples and 
sprinkle with sugar and nutmeg. Pour over them the tapioca custard and bake 
until the apples are soft. 

CHOCOLATE CREAM — One and one-half quarts of cream, one quart of 
sugar, two blocks of sweet chocolate, two teaspoons of gelatine dissolved in one 
cup of cold milk. Scald milk and add sugar and pinch of salt while heating. 
Have the chocolate in separate pan with a little of the hot milk and let boil 
until it thickens. Then mix with the hot sweet milk and pour over the gelatine, 
stirring until gelatine is dissolved. Put on ice until cool; add the cream, well 
whipped; flavor with vanilla and freeze. This makes a smooth, delicious cream. 



CANDY 




NUT CARAMEL — ^Two cups of sugar, one cup milk; boil. Put one cup 
sugar in vessel, melt, pour together, drop in water. If it holds together it is 
done. Add piece of butter, vanilla to taste, add cup of pecans, beat until creams, 
pour in buttered dish. 

Fruit balls — One pound seeded raisins, one pound figs, one-half pint 
nuts, one cup sugar, one-half cup water. Grate cocoanut. cut figs fine and boil 
sugar and water to good syrup. Mix well; form into balls size English walnuts; 
roll in granulated sugar; lay in pans to harden. Pack in box or bucket with 
tight lid. 

SEA FOAM FUDGE (NUT)— Fut into a saucepan three cupfuls of light 
brown sugar, a cupful of cold water and a tablespoonful of vinegar. Bring this 
to a boil gradually and do not stir after it is once heated. Boil steadily, and 
when a little of it dropped into cold water forms a hard ball take it from the 
fire. Beat stiff the whites of two eggs, and when the syrup has stopped bubbling 
pour it on these and beat well. When it begins to stiffen flavor with one tea- 
spoonful of vanilla and add a cupful of chopped nut kernels, hickory, pecan or 
English walnuts. Drop on paper or turn into a greased pan and mark off in 
squares or triangles. 

NOUGAT — One and one-fourth pints of sugar, three tablespoons of glucose, 
water to dissolve. In another vessel put three-fourths pint of sugar with water 
to dissolve. Let cook until it ropes from spoon, then pour over the whites of 
three eggs well beaten, just as you make icing. When the glucose mixture cooks 
to the hard crack pour into the icing all at once and beat vigorously. Pour one 
and one-half teacups of nuts in and keep beating until creamy, then pour on a 
buttered dish to cool. Cut in squares when cool. 

Piii/e Fiflj/SLi' 




(( 



Outfitters for the Bride 



yf 



It is now time to attend to your housefurnishings, so 
everything will be in "ship shape" when you return from 
the honeymoon. 

Our store is now replete with suggestions for the 
home. Our stock is complete to the fullest sense of the 
word. 

Here you will find furniture of every kind, from the 
pretty and inexpensive sort for cottage, porch and bunga- 
low to the luxurious effects for the mansion in solid ma- 
hogany, Circassian walnut and other woods. 

Rugs, carpets and linoleum of good quality in wide 
range of prices — curtains, draperies, kitchen cabinets and 
ranges — in fact, everything to furnish the home to suit 
every taste and appropriation. 

It is to your interest to see us before making your 
selection. 

This advertisement {presented at our store is worth 
10% DISCOUNT ON THE PURCHASES 

BauJ^night Furniture Company 

Whitehall ana Trinify Avenue 
Bell Phone, Main 2422 A TLANTA, GA. 



Page Fifty-Seven 



CANDV— Continued 

DIVINITY CANDY — Two and one-half glasses of sugar, one-half glass of 
corn syrup, one-half glass of water, cooked until the consistency of a thick 
syrup. Take half of the syrup and beat into the well-beaten whites of three 
eggs. The other half of the syrup is cooked several minutes longer, so that it 
will form a hard ball in cold water, then it is beaten into the icing, and lastly 
beat into that a glass of chopped English walnuts. 

FRENCH CANDY — Fondant is the foundation of all the different varieties 
of French candy. Never use over two cups of sugar at a time. Take two cups 
of granulated sugar, piece of butter the size of a hickory nut and sweet milk 
enough to moisten thoroughly. Place on back of stove and stir until sugar is 
dissolved and melted to a syrup, then bring forward and let boil, removing the 
spoon and not stirring at all while cooking. Let it boil all over about five min- 
utes, when try by beating a little on a saucer. If it creams the candy is done. 
Pour into a china dish, not buttered, and do not scrape the vessel. When cool 
enough to bear the finger add one-half teaspoon of vanilla and beat until stiff 
enough to handle. Knead as you would bread to get it smooth and pliable. 
A delicious fruit roll is made by cutting fine cherries, pineapple and any kind of 
nuts. Work this mixture into the fondant. Then make in a roll and wrap in 
a damp napkin. When the napkin is dry cut the roll into slices. 

TURKISH DELIGHT — One box gelatine in one cup of cold water, one quart 
of granulated sugar, half cup cold water, juice of one lemon, juice and grated 
rind of one orange, half pound almonds blanched and chopped fine, two table- 
spoonfuls of whiskey. Let water come to a boil, add gelatine and let boil ten 
minutes, then add juice of lemon and orange and boil ten minutes longer. Add 
whiskey and nuts. Pour into a dish which has been wet with cold water and let 
cool on ice. Cut in squares and dip in powdered sugar. 

DIVINITY CANDY — One-half cup of granulated sugar, enough boiling 
water to dissolve it. Cook it until you can form a little into a ball (after drop- 
ping it into cold water). Pour this over whites of three eggs well beaten. Pour 
very slowly, beating all the while, and continue to beat until Part B is ready to 
pour in. Part B: Three cups of granulated sugar, one teacup boiling water. 
Stir until dissolved. Add one teacup of thick corn syrup. Cook until right 
consistency (like Part A). Pour over Part A and beat until it stands alone. 
Then put in one-half or three-fourths pound of nuts. Flavor with vanilla. Have' 
ready greased pans to put candy in. It is very nice to melt chpcolate and put 
in part of it. 



Pufle FiftifEiiiht 



FREE! 



Your choice from our stock of lace 
door panels to each bride who 
makes a purchase at our store within 
three months after receiving this book. :: :: :: 










DOOR PANEL S4297 



Lace Curtains Rugs 

Sheets Blanl^ets 

Portieres Clocks 



Art Squares 
Silverware 
Kitchen Cabinets 



Bed Spreads 

Table Linen 

Furniture 



HOME ART SUPPLY COMPANY 



Bell Main 5069 



172-174 Whitehall Street 
Telephone and Our Man Will Call 



Atlanta 5072 



P(i(fe Fifty-Nine 



For the Entertainer 



ABblNTHE FRAPPE — Fill mixing glass with crushed ice, one pony of 
anaset, one-half jigger of absinthe. Shake well until outside of shaker is frosted ; 
strain into sour glass and serve. 

ABSINTHE DRIP — Use pony glass of absinthe set in a 7-oz. glass. Fill 
dripper with crushed ice and water; let the contents drip into glass containing 
the absinthe until the cooler shows a sufficiency, then take pony glass out, add 
dash of syphon seltzer and serve. 

BEEF TEA (HOT)— Use Tom and Jerry mug; one teaspoonful of beef 
extract, one dash of celery bitters. Fill with hot water and stir well. Hand 
guest salt and pepper so that he may season to his own taste. 

APPLE BLOW FIZZ— Use mixing glass half full of crushed ice, three dashes 
of lemon juice, one tablespoonful of sugar, white of an egg, one drink of apple- 
jack. Shake well; strain into fizz glass; add a dash of syphon seltzer and serve. 

ABSINTHE COCKTAIL— Use mixing glass full of crushed ice, one dash of 
Peychaud bitters, one pony of absinthe, one dash of rock candy syrup. Stir 
well and strain into cocktail glass and serve. 

ABSINTHE SWISS ESSE—Vst mixing glass half full crushed ice, one 
white of an egg, one pony of absinthe, dash of rock candy syrup, dash of pure 
milk or cream. Shake well and strain into a 4-oz. stem glass; if necessary, add 
a dash of syphon seltzer and serve. 

BLACKBERRY WINE— Measure the height of the berries in a vessel, 
then mash them and fill the vessel with water as high as the berries were before 
they were mashed. Cover the vessel with a cloth and let it stand thirty-six 
hours, then strain the berries through a thin cloth and to every gallon of juice 
add two pounds and a half of sugar and set it away from three to six weeks to 
ferment; then strain, bottle, seal and set away for a year or more in a cool 
place. 

BRANDY COCKTAIL— Use mixing glass half full of crushed ice, three 
dashes of rock candy syrup, one dash of Peychaud bitters, one drink of brandy. 
Stir well, strain into cocktail glass and serve. 

BRANDY DAISY — Use mixing glass half full of crushed ice, three or four 
dashes of lemon juice, teaspoonful of sugar, two dashes of curacoa, one jigger 
of brandy. Shake well, strain into whiskey-sour glass with slice of pineapple 
and serve. 

BRANDY FLIP — Use mixing glass half full of crushed ice, one teaspoonful 
of sugar, one fresh egg, jigger of brandy with a dash of milk or cream. Shake 
well, strain into 6-oz. glass with nutmeg on top and serve. 

BRANDY SANGAREE—Use mixing glass half full of crushed ice, one table- 
spoonful of sugar dissolved in a little carbonated water, one drink of brandy. 
Stir well, strain into stem glass, float little claret on top and serve. 

BRANDY SMASH — Use long toddy glass, one lump of cut-loaf sugar, one 
dash of seltzer, enough to dissolve sugar; four or five sprigs of fresh mint, press 
slightly with muddler; one lump of ice. Place bottle of brandy in front of 
guest, allowing him to pour his own brandy. 

Page Sixty 



Now That You Are 
MARRIED 

Turn Your Thoughts Toward a 
HOME of Your Own 



Let us show you an ideal lot for home-building — 

wherever you want to locate. We have many beau- 
tiful home lots that we can sell you at unusually 
knv prices and on most reasonable terms, or — we 
can build that bungalow for you, if you wish, on a 
monthly j)ayment plan — just like paying rent. 

If, however, you are looking for an investment 
in vacant lots on Atlanta suburban property which 
oft'ers to you profitable returns on your money, 
com.niunicate with us. WE HAVE IT. 

Whether for a home or for an investment it is to 

\(>ur advantage to at least see our properties. 

We also handle mortgage loans. 



Feld Realty Co. 

BUILDERS OF FINE HOMES ON EASY TERMS 
Hut'i Building Bell Phone Ivy 7122 



Pddc Si.vtii-Onc 



FOR THE ENTERTAINER— Continued 

BURNT BRANDY — Use regular-size saucer with one cut-loaf sugar in cen- 
ter of saucer, pouring one drink of brandy over sugar, then light the brandy and 
let it burn out, then pour into whiskey glass with little nutmeg on top and serve. 

CLOVER LEAF — Use mixing glass half full of crushed ice, squeeze jiiice 
of one-half lime, two dashes of abricotine, white of an egg, one-half jigger of 
Gordon dry gin, one-half jigger of Italian vermuth. Shake well, strain into 
cocktail glass and serve. 

CLOVER LEAF COCKTAIL— Md^de same as Clover Leaf. 

CATAWBA COBBLER— Use 8-oz. thin goblet, tablespoonful of sugar dis- 
solved in a little carbonated water, one drink of catawba; fill remaining part of 
glass with crushed ice. Stir well, dress with fruit in season and serve with 
straws. 

CHAMPAGNE JULEP— Use 8-oz. thin goblet; use teaspoonful of sugar, 
dissolved in carbonated water; five or six sprigs of fresh mint; fill remaining 
part of glass with crushed ice; pour champagne over ice; stir slowly; dress with 
fruit with few sprigs of mint in top and serve with straws. 

CHAMPAGNE COBBLER— Use 8-oz. thin goblet; dissolve teaspoonful of 
sugar in carbonated water; fill remaining part of glass with crushed ice; pour 
balance with champagne; stir with spoon slowly; dress with fruit and serve 
with straws. 

CHAMPAGNE COCKTAIL— Take champagne goblet; place one lump of 
loaf sugar with dash of angostura bitters on sugar; drop into champagne goblet 
with a twist of lemon peel in each goblet; fill glass with champagne and .serve. 

CHAMPAGNE FRAPP E — Place champagne in wine cooler; place crushed 
ice around the bottle, then twirl the bottle until the wine becomes almost of 
freezing temperature, then serve. 

CHAMPAGNE— HOW TO ^ERVE—VUce as many glasses on the table as 
required, take the wine carefully from ice, remove the cork from the wine, use 
damp towel in wiping the neck of the bottle off; while doing this do not move 
the bottle from the table; draw the cork slowly; fill each glass the same; never 
run the glass over; always leave the bottle on the table after empty, until the 
party has finished his wine. 

CHAMPAGNE VELVET— Use 12-oz^ thin goblet; nip of porter, the balance 
with champagne; stir slowly and serve. 

CHOCOLATE PUNCH — Use mixing glass half full of crushed ice, one fresh 
egg, tablespoonful of sugar, dash of brandy, one drink of port wine, one dash 
of milk or cream. Shake well, strain into 6-oz. thin glass and serve. 

CREOLE COCKTAIL — Use mixing glass half full of crushed ice, two dashes 
pecan bitters, one-third jigger of vermuth (Italian), two-thirds jigger of whis- 
key. Stir well, strain into cocktail glass and serve. 

ELK FIZZ — Use mixing glass half full of crushed ice, four or five dashes of 
lemon juice, tablespoonful of sugar, white of an egg, one drink of Gordon gin, 
one or two dashes of orange flower water, one dash of milk or cream. Shake 
well, strain into fizz glass with dash of syphon seltzer and serve. 

Page Sixly-Two 




ANY BRIDE 



Presenting this book ^^11 
he entitled to 1 per cent 
reduction on any Portable 
Lamp, any pair of And- 
irons, Fire Set or Fender, 

When building that home 
remember our Hardwood 



and Tile Man- 
tels, Electric or 
Gas Lighting 
Fixtures, 

Tile Floors and 

Walls for the BatK 
Kitchen and Porch. 



QUEEN MANTEL & 
TILE COMPANY 




56 W. Mitchell St. 



Phone 681 Mam 



Page Sixty-Three 



FOR THE ENTERTAINER— Continued 

CLOVER CLUB COCKTAIL— Made same as Clover Leaf. 

EGGNOG — One egg, one tablespoonful sugar, three tablespoonfuls of good 
whiskey, six tablespoonfuls of thick cream (beaten stiff). Beat yellow and sugar 
until light. Add whiskey, then cream, lastly beaten white. Some like a little 
grated nutmeg. 

GIN EIZZ (GOLDEN) — Use mixing glass half full of crushed ice, four or 
five dashes of lemon juice, one drink of dry gin, one yolk of an egg; add dash 
of syphon seltzer, one dash of milk or cream. Shake well, strain into regular- 
size fizz glass and serve. 

GIN FIZZ (SILVER) — Use mixing glass half full of crushed ice, four or 
five dashes of lemon juice, tablespoonful of sugar, white of one egg, one drink 
of dry gin; add dash of milk or cream. Shake well, strain into regular-size fizz 
glass, add dash of syphon seltzer and serve. 

GIN FIZZ (GRAND ROYAL)— Use mixing glass half full of crushed ice, 
four or five dashes of lemon juice, one drink of dry gin, one egg, one dash of 
milk or cream. Shake well, strain into regular-size fizz glass, float a little claret 
on top and serve. 

GIN SMASH — Use long toddy glass, one lump of cut loaf sugar, one dash 
of syphon seltzer, three or four sprigs of fresh mint; press muddler slightly 
together so as to crush the mint and sugar together; one lump of ice. Give 
guest bottle of gin, allowing him to pour his own gin. 

GRAPE JUICE— Extract the juice from the grapes by scalding them in 
water that just covers the fruit, pressing out all the juice. To each pint of 
juice add one-half pint of sugar. Put on stove and boil two or three minutes 
after the sugar has dissolved. Bottle while hot and seal tightly. 

HOLLAND GIN COCKTAIL— Use mixing glass half full of crushed ice, 
one or two dashes rock candy syrup, one dash of orange bitters, one drink of 
Holland gin. Stir well, strain into cocktail glass and serve. 

HOT APPLEJACK — Use stem glass; place spoon in glass, one lump of loaf 
sugar, two-thirds glass of boiling water, dissolve the sugar, one drink of apple- 
jack. Grate a little nutmeg on top and serve. 

HOT TODDY — Use toddy glass, one loaf of sugar, place small spoon in 
glass, one-half glass of boiling water, dissolve sugar, one drink of apple brandy. 
Stir well; little nutmeg on top and serve. 

MANHATTAN COCKTAIL (SWEET)— Use mixing glass half full of 
crushed ice, one dash Peychaud bitters, two-thirds jigger of whiskey, one-third 
jigger Italian vermuth. Stir, strain into cocktail glass with cherry or olive, as 
desired, and serve. 

MARTINI (DRY) — Use mixing glass half full of crushed ice, one, or two 
dashes of orange bitters, two-thirds drink of Gordon gin, one-third drink of 
French vermuth. Stir, strain into cocktail glass with olive and serve. 

MILK PUNCH — Use mixing glass one-third full crushed ice, one tablespoon- 
ful of sugar, one drink of Bourbon whiskey, one or two dashes of Jamaica rum. 
Fill remaining part of glass with milk, shake well, strain into long, thin glass 
with a little nutmeg on top and servT with straws. 

Page Sixlif-Fovr 




BUTTERMILK KID 



SUDAN'S Special 
Buttermilk 

SERVED AT ALL 

Soda Founts 
5c 



Page Sixty-Five 



FOR THE ENTERTAINER— Continued 

MINT JULEP — Use 7-oz. thin glass, one tablespoonful of sugar dissolved in 
syphon seltzer, four or five sprigs of fresh mint ; press mint slightly in bottom of 
glass; one drink of Bourbon whiskey. Fill remaining part of glass with crushed 
ice, decorate with fruit, take four or five sprigs of mint with long stems with 
stems inside of glass, run your straws directly behind mint, allowing straws to 
extend a little above mint, and serve. 

MONTE CARLO PUNCH— Use 7-oz. thin glass; use juice of one-half 
orange, one tablespoonful of sugar, one drink of brandy. Fill remaining part of 
glass with crushed ice, allowing a little space to float a little claret on top, dress 
with fruit and serve with straws. 

MORNING AFTER— Use mixing glass half full of crushed ice, two or three 
dashes of lemon juice, tablespoonful of sugar, three or four dashes of absinthe, 
one drink of Tom gin. Shake well, fill fizz glass two-thirds full of carbonated 
water, strain above mixture in the seltzer water, stir slowly and serve. 

NUT FRENCH 6 06' /'—One-eighth cup nut meat stock (get in cans), three 
and one-half cups water, five-eighths cup tomato juice, one-quarter of a large 
onion, one-fourth teaspoon brown Capitola flour, one-half bay leaf, one-eighth 
teaspoon sage, one-eighth teaspoon thyme, one-half tablespoon salt. Braid flour 
in cold water and add to ingredients. 

OLD-FASHIONED WHISKEY COCKTAIL— Use long toddy glass, one 
lump of loaf sugar, one dash of Peychaud bitters or angostura bitters, one dash 
of seltzer to muddle sugar, one lump of ice, one drink of Bourbon whiskey, one 
twist of lemon peel on top. Stir and serve. 

ORANGEADE — Peel three oranges thin; boil the peel with three-fourths of 
a pound or cup sugar in a pint of water; add the juice of fifteen oranges and 
three pints of cold water. Strain all and set on ice for an hour. Serve as 
lemonade. 

POUSSE CAFE— SIX COLORS— Use pousse cafe glass. Float carefully 
upon each other the following cordials: One-sixth glass of raspberry syrup, 
one-sixth glass of maraschino, one-sixth glass of vanilla (green), one-sixth glass 
of curacoa (red), one-sixth glass of chartreuse (yellow), one-sixth glass of 
French brandy on top and serve. 

ROY ROY COCKTAIL— Use mixing glass half full of crushed ice, one or 
two dashes of lemon juice, one dash of orange bitters, one dash rock candy 
syrup, two-thirds drink of Scotch whiskey, one-third drink of French vermuth. 
Stir, strain into cocktail glass and serve. 

SARATOGA SOUR — Use stem glass, one teaspoonful of sugar, three or four 
dashes lemon juice, one or two lumps of ice. Hand guest whiskey, allowing him 
to help himself; fill remaining part of glass with carbonated water and serve 
with spoon. 

SAZERAC COCKTAIL — Use two long toddy glasses; bury one in ice, using 
other one to mix in; muddle one loaf of lump sugar, one dash of Peychaud bit- 
ters one dash of absinthe, one dash of Italian vermuth, one drink of Bourbon 
whiskey, one lump of ice. Stir until contents are very cold. Use other glass 
that has been buried in the ice, one dash of anaset, one dash of absinthe; run 
it around inside of glass. Strain cocktail into glass; serve with chaser. 

Page Sixty-Six 



While you may have thoug,htlessly 
ordered your 

Wedding Flo^vers 

else^vhere, you should not overlook 

the fact, ^vhen a^ain in need 

of the services of a 

florist, that the 

BEST IN FLOWERS 

can be supplied at reasonable 
prices by 




Atlanta's Leading Florist 

Candler Building 123 Peachtree St. 



1*^1 ■II' Si.rl (/-Sfven 



FOR THE ENTERTAINER— Continued 

CHERRY COBBLER — Use 7-oz. thin glass, tablespoonful of sugar, dissolve 
in seltzer water, one drink of sherry wine. Fill remaining part of glass with 
crushed ice, dress with fruit, serve with straws. 

SHERRY WINE COCKTAIL— Use mixing glass half full of crushed ice, 
one dash of angostura bitters, one drink of sherry wine. Stir, strain into cock- 
tail glass and serve. 

SHERRY WINE FLIP—Vse mixing glass half full of crushed ice, table- 
spoonful of sugar, one fresh egg, one drink of sherry wine, one dash of milk or 
cream. Shake well, strain into 6-oz. glass, nutmeg on top, and serve. 

SHERRY PUNCH — Use 7-oz. thin goblet, tablespoonful of sugar, dissolve 
in seltzer water, three or four dashes of lemon juice, one drink of sherry. Fill 
the remaining part of glass with crushed ice, dress with fruit and serve with 
straws. 

SLOE GIN RICKEY — Made same as highball, squeezing one-half lime in 
glass, allowing guest to pour his own gin. Fill remaining part with seltzer and 
serve. 

SODA NECTAR — Use mixing glass half full of crushed ice, teaspoonful of 
sugar, three or four dashes of lemon juice. Fill remaining part of glass with 
soda water, using one-half teaspoonful of bicarbonate of soda, stir slowly and 
serve. 

STRAWBERRY LEMONADE— Made same as plain lemonade, using one 
or two dashes of strawberry syrup and one or two strawberries on top and serve. 

STRAWBERRY NECTAR— Kighl pounds of fruit mashed and put in jar 
with one quart of vinegar. Set aside for four days to ferment, then strain 
through a bag. To every pint of juice add one pound of granulated sugar. Boil 
for half an hour. When cold, bottle. 

THE REMINDER— Vse mixing glass half full of crushed ice, "one-third 
jigger of Italian vermuth, one-third jigger of port wine, one-third jigger of 
sherry wine, one dash of abricotine. Stir, strain into cocktail glass and serve. 

ITALIAN VERMUTH COCKTAIL— Use mixing glass half full of crushed 
ice, one dash of Peychaud bitters, one jigger of Italian vermuth. Stir and strain 
into cocktail glass and serve. 

FRENCH VERMUTH COCKTAIL— Made same as Italian vermuth cock- 
tail, using French vermuth instead of Italian. 

WHISKEY COCKTAIL (DRY)— Use mixing glass half full of crushed ice, 
one dash of angostura bitters, one drink of whiskey, one twist of lemon peel. 
Stir, strain into cocktail glass and serve with olive. 

WHISKEY COCKTAIL WITH ABSINTHE— Use mixing glass half full of 
crushed ice, one or two dashes of angostura bitters, one or two dashes of ab- 
sinthe, one jigger of whiskey. Stir well, strain into cocktail glass and serve. 

WHISKEY PUNCH — Use 7-oz. thin goblet, tablespoonful of sugar, dissolve 
in seltzer water, three or four dashes of lemon juice, one drink of Bourbon 
whiskey. Fill remaining part of glass with crushed ice, stir, dress with fruit and 
serve with straws. 

Pat/e Su-tif-Eiffht 




START the new Kome ri^Kt, blend tKe atmosphere 
in the household with music ; buy your PIANO 
of LUDDEN & BATES and receive a bridal g,ift 
of a handsome duet Piano Bench with music compart- 
ment complete. 

Ludden & Bates Piano, $400 value, $297 
Ludden & Bates Player, $700 value, $547 

Also Chickering,, Mathushek, Packard, Lindman, 
Melodig,rand and various other makes. 

Come, make your selection and secure the ^ift — 
Beautiful Piano Bench. 

LUDDEN & BATES, 63 Peachtree street 



PiKje Sixty-Nine 



FOR THK ENTERTAINKR— Continued 

WHIiiKEV iiANGAREE — Use mixing glass half full of crushed ice, dissolve 
tablespoonful of sugar in a little seltzer water, one drink of Bourbon whiskey. 
Stir well, strain into fancy-stem glass, float a little claret or port wine on top 
and serve. 

WHUiKEY !:iOUR — Use mixing glass half full of crushed ice, tablespoonful 
of sugar, three or four dashes of lemon juice, one drink of Bourbon whiskey. 
Shake well, strain into sour glass, top with seltzer and serve. 

WHIiiKEY TODDY — Use whiskey glass, small bar spoon full of sugar, 
dissolve in seltzer water, allowing guest to pour his own whiskey. Serve with 
chaser. 

BOTTLED COCKTAIL WHISKEY (i QUART)— Use quart measure to 
mix in; five or six dashes of angostura bitters, one tablespoonful of rock candy 
syrup, one or two lumps of ice, fill balance with whiskey, one or two cuts of 
lemon peel. Stir well, put into quart bottle and cork tightly. 

BOTTLE OF MANHATTAN COCKTAIL (i QUART)— Use quart measure 
to mix in; seven or eight dashes of Peychaud bitters, two-thirds measure of 
whiskey, one-third Italian vermuth. Stir, strain into bottle and cork tightly. 

BOTTLE OF MARTINI COCKTAIL (i QUART)— Use quart measure to 
mix in; six or seven dashes orange bitters, two-thirds measure of dry gin. one- 
third measure of French vermuth. Stir into quart bottle and cork. 

BOTTLE OF RHINE WINE CUP (i QUART)— Use one-quart glass pitcher, 
with pint of carbonated water, six or seven lumps of sugar, dissolve well, two 
ounces curacoa (red), two ounces French brandy, one square piece of ice cut 
just to fit pitcher, one pint of Rhine wine. Stir well, dress with fruit, with a few 
cucumber rinds around inside edge of glass. This may be served in champagne 
glasses. 

BOTTLE OF SAUTERNE CUP (i QUART)— Use one-quart glass pitcher 
to mix in; two-thirds pint of carbonated water, two ounces abricotine, two 
ounces brandy, two ounces rock candy syrup, one pint of Sauterne wine, three 
or four slices of lemon, orange and pineapple. Mix above mixture well, adding 
a nice square piece of ice and cucumber rinds around pitcher. Serve in stem 
glasses. 

BOTTLE OF MOSELLE CUP (i QUART)— Use one-quart glass pitcher 
to mix in; six or seven lumps of loaf sugar, dissolve in two-thirds pint of car- 
bonated water, two ounces abricotine, two ounces brandy, one ounce curacoa, 
six or seven slices of orange and lemon, square piece of ice to fit pitcher. Stir; 
serve in hollow-stem glasses. 

CLARET CUP BOTTLE (i QUART)— Use one-quart pitcher to mix in: 
six or seven lumps of loaf sugar, dissolve in two-thirds pint of carbonated water, 
2 ounces abricotine, one ounce benedictine, one ounce curacoa, six or seven 
slices of orange and pineapple, six or seven cherries, one square piece of ice to 
fit pitcher. Serve in stem glasses. 

BOTTLE OF CHAMPAGNE PUNCH (i QUART)— Use quart glass pitcher 
to mix in; two-thirds pint of carbonated water, six or seven lumps of loaf sugar, 
dissolve well, two ounces benedictine, two ounces curacoa, five or six slices of 
lemon, orange and pineapple, one square piece of ice to fit pitcher, one-half dozen 
cherries, one pint of champagne. Stir and serve in champagne glasses. 

Page Scvettlti 



=^ 1 


Start Right 


and send your clothes 
to the 


Excelsior 


It's a 
Good Laundry 


Either Phone 





Pcuje ISeventy-One 



FOR THE ENTERTAIINER— Coiitiiiiied 

BOTTLE OF CHAMPAGNE CUP (i QUART)— \]st one-quart pitcher to 
mix in; six or seven lumps of sugar, dissolve well in two-thirds pint of car- 
bonated water, five or six slices of lemon, orange and pineapple, two ounces 
brandy, two ounces abricotine, one square piece of ice to fit pitcher, one pint 
of champagne. Stir slowly; dress with fruit; use two or three slices of cucumber 
rind inside of pitcher. Use stem glasses to serve in. 

CLARET PUNCH (i GALLON)— V%q one-gallon vessel to mix in; one 
pound of loaf sugar, dissolve in one and one-half quarts of carbonated water, 
two quarts claret wine, one or two lemons and oranges sliced, one dozen slices 
of pineapple. Stir well; use punch bowl with square piece of ice in center; 
pour above mixture around ice and serve with punch glasses. 

WHISKEY COCKTAIL [SWEET)— Ua^At same as whiskey cocktail, dry, 
using two or three dashes of rock candy syrup and cherry instead of olive. 

UNFERMENTED GRAPE JUICE (i GALLON)— Use one-gallon vessel 
to mix in; juice of seven or eight lemons, strained; two oranges, sliced; two 
lemons, sliced; three ounces rock candy syrup, three quarts unfermented grape 
juice, one quart carbonated water. Mix well; put into punch bowl with square 
piece of ice in center; serve in punch cups. 

JERSEY LILY PUNCH (i GALLON)— Vse one-gallon vessel to mix in; 
seven ounces lemon juice, strained; seven ounces orange juice, strained; one 
pound of granulated sugar, dissolved in the orange and lemon juice; six ounces 
abricotine, three quarts sweet Catawba wine, one pint of apple brandy. Mix 
well with one piece of ice cut square in center of punch bowl, using sliced fruit 
in season. Serve in punch glasses. 

CHAMPAGNE BOWL (i GALLON)— Use one-gallon vessel to mix in; one 
dozen lumps loaf sugar, two quarts of Moselle wine, one pint of sparkling Bur- 
gundy wine, one quart and one pint of champagne. Place above ingredients in 
ice box covered for a couple of hours. Three lemons, three oranges and one 
pineapple sliced into a punch bowl with a square piece of ice in center when 
ready to serve. Pour into punch bowl and serve with punch cups. 

LADIES' PUNCH (i GALLON)— Use one-gallon vessel to mix in; one 
pound of sugar, dissolved in one-half gallon of carbonated water; two quarts of 
claret wine, three or four lemons, sliced; one pint of lemon juice, strained. 
Mix above thoroughly; place into punch bowl with square piece of ice in center 
and serve in punch cups. 

CLARET PUNCH (i G/lZ,Z,OiV)— Use one-gallon vessel to mix in; two 
ounces curacoa (red), two ounces abricotine, one quart carbonated water, three 
quarts claret wine, two or three lemons, two or three oranges, sliced, and half 
can sliced pineapple. Mix above ingredients well; let stand in ice box for a 
couple of hours; pour into punch bowl with squar ~ piece of ice in center, adding 
one pint of champagne, and serve in punch cups 

SHERRY PUNCH (i GALLON)— Use one-gallon vessel to mix in; six 
ounces lemon juice, one pound of sugar dissolved in juice, two ounces abricotine, 
two ounces Jamaica rum, three quarts sherry wine, one quart of Bourbon whis- 
key, one or two lemons, one or two oranges, sliced, and half can of pineapple, 
sliced. Put into punch bowl with square piece of ice in center. Serve in stem 
glasses. 

Pa(^e Seventy-TxtH) 



Ydu rlavocho oncia 



PH^^jEGIN your married life 
in your own home. 
Don't start out paying, 
rent, but let the rent pay for 
your home. Invest your dol- 
lars in a home at the rig,ht price 
and you are on the road to suc- 
cess and happiness. Call us up, 
we will find what you want 
and make satisfactory terms. 






(V 



1017 TKIRO NATIONAI, IvXNK l-UiKjJliNi 



Pai/e Sevenf y-Three 



FOR THE ENTFIRTAINER— Continued 

. CLUB PUNCH (i GALLON )—\] St one-gallon vessel to mix in; seven 
ounces peach juice, seven ounces lemon juice, seven ounces rock candy syrup, 
two ounces abricotine, six ounces brandy, two quarts sweet Catawba wine, one 
quart claret wine. Mix well; put into punch bowl with square piece of ice in 
center, one or two lemons, one or two oranges, sliced, and half can sliced pine- 
apple, and serve in punch glasses. 

BRANDY PUNCH (i GALLON)— \jst one-gallon vessel to mix in; one 
pound of sugar, dissolved in seven ounces lemon juice; four ounces orange 
juice, two ounces curacoa, one quart of distilled water, two quarts French 
brandy, two or three lemons, two or three oranges, shced, and half can sliced 
pineapple. Pour into punch bowl with square piece of ice in center. Serve in 
stem glasses. 

WEDDING BOWL (i GALLON)— \]st one-gallon vessel to mix in; four 
ounces lemon juice, four ounces orange juice, one pint of seltzer water, one-half 
pint Jamaica rum. one-half pint French brandy, two ounces curacoa. two 
ounces Maraschino, one quart sparkling Burgundy, one quart champagne, two 
or three lemons, two or three sliced oranges, half can sliced pineapple. Put into 
punch bowl with square piece of ice in center of bowl. Serve in punch cups. 

ROMAN PUNCH (i GALLON)— Use one-gallon vessel to mix in; one-half 
pint of orange and lemon juice, dissolve three pounds of sugar in juice, six 
ounces Maraschino, six ounces Jamaica rum, one pint of Rhine wine, two quarts 
of champagne, twelve fresh eggs, separate; beat the yolks in with the mix- 
ture and the whites into a stiff froth so as to place in bowl when ready to serve; 
grate the peeling of two oranges and two lemons in with the mixture. Serve 
very cold; serve in punch glasses. 

^AUTERNE PUNCH (i GALLON)— Use one-gallon vessel to mix in; four 
ounces lemon juice, four ounces orange juice, strained; dissolve one pound of 
sugar in juice of same; four ounces abricotine, tW'O or three lemons, two or 
three sliced oranges, half can of sliced pineapple, two quarts Sauterne wine, one 
quart carbonated water. Mix above well; put into bowl with square piece of 
ice in center; serve in punch cups. 

CLARET CUP (i GALLON) — Use onergallon vessel to mix in; dissolve 
one-half pound of sugar in one quart of seltzer water, two ounces curacoa, two 
ounces brandy, two or three lemons, two or three sliced oranges, half can sliced 
pineapple, three quarts claret wine. Mix above well; place in punch bowl with 
square piece of ice in center; serve '" rjunch cups. 

CHAMPAGNE PUNCH (i GALLON)— Use one-gallon vessel to mix in; 
one pound of sugar dissolved in little seltzer water, four ounces lemon juice, 
strained; one ounce abricotine, one ounce French brandy, two or three lemons, 
two or three sliced oranges, three quarts champagne, one quart dry Catawba 
wine. Mix above well; put into punch bowl with square piece of ice in center; 
serve in punch cups. 

NEW YEAR'^ PUNCH (i GALLON)— Use one-gallon vessel to mix in; 
one-half pound of sugar, one quart sweet Catawba wine, one quart Rhine wine, 
one quart brandy, tw^o or three lemons, two or three sliced oranges, half can 
sliced pineapple. Mix above well; let stand a few hours; put into punch bowl 
with large piece of ice in center of bowl and serve with punch cups. 

Page Seventy-Four 



The personal health can not be maintained in its highest 
degree without good teeth. 

You should have your teeth looked after by a reliable 
experienced dentist at regular intervals. 




Without Good Teeth there can not be thorough 
Mastication. 

Without thorough mastication there can not be perfect 
Digestion. 

Without perfect digestion there can not be proper 
Assimilation. 

Without proper assimilation there can not be 
Nutrition. 

Without nutrition there can not be 
Health. 

Without health what is 
Life? 



Dr. B. E. Hall 

DENTIST 



83y2 WHITEHALL ST. 



ATLANTA. GA. 



Pa(f(' Seventy -Five 




J. H. FALKS 



THE REAL VIRTUE OF THE TERM 

"SAFETY FIRST" 

Is in the Quality and Cleanliness of 
tKe FOOD we eat ! 

THE NAME 

— FALKS— 



Is synonymous with "Safety First" in Foods! ! 

The Falks Lunch Rooms in various sections t)f the city 
and the GLISTENING WHITE "CAFETERIA" at 170 
Peachtree are examples of how quickly and successfully a 
business builds when the interests of its patrons are prop- 
erly catered to. 

FALKS went in to WIN on these lines ; and the best 
evidence of the public's full appreciation of this policy is 
the remarkable patronage his restaurants have enjoyed 
since being started a year ago. Mr. Falks is an Atlanta boy 
who has made HIS OWN capital — and increased his busi- 
ness as his capital has increased — not a dollar of outside 
money from any source Avas sought c:>r used. 

The preparation of all the foods of the FALKS Restau- 
rants is done with the same care as in your own home — as 
is the cooking itself. The rigid enforcement of hygienic 
conditions in the Falks Kitchens insures ABSOLUTE clean- 
liness and purity and safety of foods. Daily inspection of 
kitchens by Mr. Falks insures tirst-hand attention to the 
most vital feature of his business. 

EAT Avith FALKS and eat in security and safety. 

Falks' Fooderies 

LOCATED AS FOLLOWS : 

Falks' Cafeteria, 170 Peachtree St. 
Falks' Lunch Room, 90 N. Forsyth St., Opens July 10. 

Falks' Lunch Room, 142 Peachtree St. 
Falks' Lunch Room, 3 Washington St. Viaduct. 



Pn(je S<'Z'('nti/-Sev('ii 



What a Mother Should Know and D^ 



1 1 KM. it r I )(' 



When a rubber hot-water bag is not at hand, a very good substitute is a 
stone bottle with a perfectly tight cork. The hottest water can be put into it 
without fear of cracking, and it will retain heat the greater part of the night. 
Even a glass bottle can be used in an extremity, for occasionally, during a 
severe chill, a doctor orders hot applications put all around the body and it is 
impossible always to find enough hot-water bags to supply the demand. The 
greatest care must be exercised in seeing that the corks are perfectly tight. 
If the bottles are too hot, slip them into stocking legs, tying them at an end. 

Simple as the task of making poultices is, a certain knack is needed. Mix 
flaxseed with boiling water, stirring constantly with a palette knife. When the 
mixture is thick enough to drop from the knife, lift it from the fire, heat well 
to make it light, and spread, a quarter of an inch thick, between old soft muslin 
or surgeon's gauze. Turn over the edges, lay it on a hot plate, cover with 
another plate, and carry it to the sick room as hot as possible. Before laying 
it on the patient, test its temperature by holding it against your own cheek. 
If it is too hot for you, it requires cooling before applying. When put on by 
degrees, as it were, letting down one small piece at a time, it will not feel as 
hot as if put on all at once. No poultice should remain on longer than an 
hour; by that time it is not as warm as the body. After removing, wipe the 
skin dry and rub the sore place with oil or vaseline. 

Fomentations are not easily applied, unless one knows exactly how to handle 
them. In every household which has due care for emergencies there ought to 
be a set of fomentation cloths — three large ones of heavy blanket flannel about 
three-quarters of a yard square. These are necessary in cases of pain in the 
stomach or abdomen or in any extended ache in the body. Smaller fomentation 
cloths of a thinner flannel are necessary in an attack of neuralgia, pain in the 
muscles of the neck, toothache, or pains about the head. These cloths should 
be about eight or ten inches square. Some a few inches smaller are handy for 
pain in the ears or eyes. The way to use a large fomentation cloth is to carry 
into the sick room on a tray a kettle of water which has been- taken off at the 
boiling point. Fold the large cloth four times. Hold the ends, dipping the 
center of the cloth into the hot water, but keeping the ends dry. Then twist 
the flannel into a rope-like roll until every drop of moisture is squeezed out. 
It will be very hot, still almost dry. Lay this on the aching part of the body, 
folding it quite smooth and applying it gradually, keeping the hand beneath to 
save from a sudden shock of intense heat. Over the fomentation cloth lay a 
second square of flannel, dry and warm, to keep in the heat. If this is bandaged 
loosely around the body, a fomentation cloth will retain its heat for ten or 
fifteen minutes. Pain may sometimes be relieved with one application. If it 
continues, take the other flannel square and wring from the water in the same 
fashion. An easy way to wring the smaller cloths used about the head is to 
fold them into a square and lay in a potato ricer. Dip the ricer into boiling 
water and squeeze the cloth dry, covering it with another flannel to keep in 
the heat. After these squares have been used launder them and lay away, ready 

for another emergency. 

t 

Page Seventy-Eight 



WE CONGRATULATE 
YOU 




Now yoii are happily married let vis furnish your 
happy home, and remember the hajjpiest s/jot on 
earth is "Home, Sweet Home." So it behooves you 
in the beginning to furnish it with dependable fur- 
niture. We make a specialty of feathering nests 
for newlyweds. Call in and let our clerks show you 
through our stock, and if you should find any piece 
or pieces you can use in your home we will take 
pleasure in sending it out with small cash payment 
and balance to suit your convenience. 

20 Per Cent Discount to any Bride Presenting This 
Book on any Amount Purchased. 

Jones -Kennedy Furniture Co. 

"The Home of Dependable Furniture" 
1 37 Whitehall Street 



Page Seventy-Nine 



WHAT A MOTHER SHOULD KNOW AND DO. 

Continued. 

A very handy thing to have in the sickroom is a small nursery refrigerator, 
but when it cannot be obtained you can keep ice with small amount of waste 
by a simple, home-made contrivance. Get a large flowerpot with a saucer a 
size or two bigger than the pot. On the saucer set a wire trivet. Put the ice 
on this and over it turn the flowerpot upside down, stopping up the hole in the 
bottom with a wad of absorbent cotton. Cover with a piece of flannel and 
uncover only when ice is needed. The quietest thing to use for an ice pick is 
a strong hatpin. Stick it in the ice, pick with a small hammer, and break off 
a piece as large as you want. 

In the summer when the range fire is allowed to go down and there is no 
gas stove, or where the sickroom is some distance from the kitchen, it is a 
good plan to have some way of heating water in the sickroom. Do not use a 
stov^ which burns kerosene or gasoline; in spite of utmost care it will exude 
odors. The use of gas is no better, as it consumes oxygen, and it is seldom that 
a pipe can be attached tightly enough to prevent all odor from the gas. The 
best arrangement is an alcohol lamp. If that is not in the house you can man- 
age with a five-o'clock teakettle or a chafing dish, which over a hot alcohol flame 
will boil a pint of water in a very few minutes. 

The instructions that a doctor lays down about medicine, feeding, or any 
sort of treatment, must be carried out to the letter. The best plan is to write 
his instructions every visit. If he orders medicine to be given every two hours, 
do not trust to memory, but reckon the time ahead and write it down — medi- 
cine at 6, 8, 10, 12, or whatever the case may be. Be perfectly accurate in 
measuring, using a medicine dropper for drugs and the average-sized teaspoon 
for a teaspoonful. 

Occasionally a doctor orders an application of hot spirits. This is a process 
which must be very carefully carried out, as the alcohol is liable to take fire. 
The best way to heat it is to set the whiskey into a cup, put in a chafing dish, 
pour hot water around it, then put on the lid. Afterwards light the flame of 
the lamp and let the water boil gently for a few minutes. Fold old muslin or 
gauze into the shape required, dip it in boiling water and press dry in a potato 
ricer. Dip it again in hot whiskey, squeeze as dry as possible, apply it as hot 
as can be borne and cover with a piece of dry flannel. Keep the whiskey hot 
as long as it is needed, and have two bits of muslin, so one can be changed 
while the other is on the patient. 

When it is necessary to change a nightshirt or nightgown, and the patient 
is too sick to sit up in bed, draw it well up under the arms, slip off a sleeve at 
a time, and push it up toward the neck, getting it over the head as deftly as 
possible. Roll the skirt of the fresh nightdress into a coil till it reaches the 
sleeve, slip the patient's arm into the sleeve before lifting the head from the 
pillow, and the nightdress can then be pulled down over the neck very quickly, 
afterwards straightening the skirt. The easiest plan in severe sickness is to 
have a nightdress which is open all the way down the front. It can be easily 
changed by turning the patient on one side and adjusting the nightdress from 
head to foot, then doing the same on the other side. 

The patient's hair should be combed twice a day at least. If it is a woman's, 
part it in the middle and back, brush and comb one side at a time, and make 
it into two neat braids. 

'V\^hen a patient is allowed to sit up for the first time, it is a good idea to 
make it half an hour at meal time. It is much easier to eat when in a com- 

Pa(/e Eiffhtif 



To Begin Your 
Wedded Life 



Own your own home amid happy, joyous, care- 
free surroundings. Thus will you begin wisely and 
well. 

If you want a home or investment see what we 
have to offer before you buy. 

Let us know what you can afford and we will do 
the rest. 

If you will come to oin- office you will be sur- 
prised at what we have to offer. Prices right; 
terms to suit. 

Suburban homes on large lots 
our Specialty. 



Ernest Parker Co. 



1133 HealeyBldg. 
Bell Phone Ivy 8378 



Page Eighty-One 



WHAT A MOTHER SHOULD KNOW AND DO. 

Continued. 

fortable, upright position, as the food tray can then be put in a more convenient 
place. Besides, the novelty of being able to sit up and eat is apt to create a 
new relish for food. If it can be obtained, a handy thing to have in a sickroom 
is a one-leg adjustable table, which can be set high or low, as needed, and be 
used for various needs — to serve a meal on, to place the basin on,, for the 
patient to wash his face and hands, or, during convalescence, to hold a book on, 
or for a game of solitaire. Although it is not quite as handy, a good substitute 
for this useful bit of furniture is an ordinary sewing table. Unfold two legs, 
set it on the floor beside the bed, leaving the other legs tucked under. To 
prevent the weight of the table from resting upon the patient's body, put a 
couple of props under it on the bed. If nothing else is handy, a few books or 
wooden blocks will serve to keep it steady. 

Occasionally the doctor orders an ice compress for the head. To make it, 
fold two large handkerchiefs (to be used alternately) so they will not be so 
wide as to come over the eyes or wet the hair or pillows, and turn in the edges. 
Put a block of ice with a little water about it in a basin, wring out a handker- 
chief and lay it on the ice till very cold; then apply, keeping one on ice, the 
other on the patient's head. 

Occasionally a room is situated so that it is almost impossible to let the air 
sweep through it as it ought without blowing on the patient. Arrange a little 
tent by placing around the invalid a low clotheshorse, with three panels. Over 
this spread a sheet or blanket. If the air is very cold, put a hot bottle at the 
feet and cover the lower part of the body with extra clothing. In this way 
there will be no danger of the patient catching cold. 

THE MEDICINE CLOSET. 

Even in the household where every member is strong and healthy there 
ought to be in reserve all sorts of simple medicines and emergency requirements 
which are ready at the moment needed. The medicine closet should be high 
enough to be out of the reach of children's hands. If made of wood, enamel 
it white inside and out, thus making it very easy to keep clean. Put a secure 
lock on the door and keep the key where it can be found instantly by anyone 
in the household. Divide the shelves into different departments for all sorts 
of needs. In one side store everything that is poisonous or in any way dan- 
gerous. In another keep rolls of antiseptic gauze, absorbent cotton, sterilized 
linen, bags for poultices, lint and court-plaster. Reserve one shelf for such 
common, everyday remedies as calomel, camphor, castor oil, cascara, Epsom 
salts, Jamaica ginger, glycerin, paregoric, limewater, magnesia, sweet spirits of 
niter, oil of peppermint, quinine, rhubarb, flowers of sulphur. Upon another 
keep such drugs as are used for cleansing wounds or bruises and healing burns, 
also things to be used in cases of emergency, as alcohol, boracic acid, carbolic 
acid, borax, charcoal, collodion, witch-hazel, iodoform, turpentine, dioxygen, 
Hsterine and peroxide. There ought to be a corner for poultice and plaster 
necessities. There one would find mustard, flaxseed, oil silk, bran, linseed meal 
and antiphlogistine. Here, too, have small supplies kept together of such 
things as might have to be looked for in different parts of the house — carbonate 
of soda, ammonia, whiskey and brandy, olive oil, sweet oil, camphorated oil, 
limewater and oil liniment. 

Save every morsel of old linen, as it comes from the laundry, for emergencies. 
Cut it into strips two to three inches wide and join them, laying one end upon 

Page Eighty-Two 



To the Newly weds: 

Date your relations with this store from the begin- 
ning of your honeymoon. 

Many are the needs that will be yours as you journey 
through life. 



The Best Drugs 

That is What You Want 

It is bad enough to be sick, without having to take 
medicines of doubtful strength and value. If you need a 
particular medicine, or if your doctor has ordered some- 
thing special for you, let us supply it and you will be sure 
of the QUALITY and SERVICE. We give the most 
painstaking and thorough care to the filling of prescrip- 
tions. There is no need to worry about the drugs you 
take if we supply them. Place your drug orders and 
prescriptions in our hands. We guarantee Satisfaction. 

It will be a pleasure to have you become our friends 
and patrons. Begin with us with your honeymoon. 



Gunter-Watkins 
Drug Company 

CORNER PEACHTREE AND WALTON STS. 
Phones: Ivy 592 or Ivy 537 Atlanta Phone 425 



Piuje Ei()hty-Three 



WHAT A MOTHER SHOULD KNOW AND DO. 

Continued. 

the other and sewing around the edge. Cut off ravelings. then begin at one end 
and roll up. Make as many of these rolls as will go into a wide-mouthed fruit 
jar. Fill the top with absorbent cotton, set the jar upon a trivet in a kettle 
of cold w^ater deep enough to have the water come nearly to the neck, and 
allow it to come almost to the boiling point. The jar will need a weight laid 
across th*e top to hold it steady. Keep the water about i8o degrees F. for three 
hours. Lift off the kettle and let stand until water becomes cold. Then take 
the jar out, screw on the top tightly, wipe and put away. The Imen will then 
be so perfectly sterilized that in using it there will be no possible danger of 
infecting a fresh wound. Save old pocket handkerchiefs and bits of soft linen 
and lawn for poultice bags, making them of different sizes, some as large as an 
eight-inch square, others just big enough to poultice a boil. Stitch them around 
three sides on the machine, then they can be tied tightly at the neck. When 
they are wanted, fill the bag half full of whatever the poultice is made of and 
press it into shape between the palms. When poulticing a boil, lay over it first 
a scrap of thin sterilized linen moistened with olive oil and on top of that place 
the hot poultice. When poultices must be applied very hot, fill three bags and 
keep them in the oven, where two can be kept as hot as possible. After putting 
the poultice on, cover with several folds of old flannel, which helps to retain 
the heat. In making mustard plasters, mix with the white of an egg instead of 
water, as it has all the drawing power necessary, yet it never blisters the skin. 
Use half mustard and half flour, then cover the top of the plaster with thin 
old linen. 

THE SICKROOM. 

Perfect ventilation, a sunny exposure and, if possible, a fireplace, which has 
much to do with keeping the air pure, are necessary for the sick room, which 
should be kept perfectly neat and clean in every detail. A bare floor with a few 
small rugs, which can be taken up and shaken, is very much better than a 
carpet, or even matting. A string mop, used noiselessly about the floor, carries 
away all the dirt without raising dust. The bed should be placed so the patient 
can be shut off from any draughts, also in a position that will not allow the sun 
or a gas light to glare in his eyes. A single bed is far better than a double one. 
for various reasons. The best frame is of iron or brass with a woven-wire or 
national spring, both of which can readily be kept clean and free from dust. 
It ought to be set on strong, noiseless casters, so it can be moved quietly and 
easily whenever necessary. The higher the bed the better, as it is much easier 
for a nurse to lift a helpless patient when not obliged to bend very low. If 
obliged to use a double bed, try to have the patient sleep on one side during 
the day, leaving the other side comfortable for night. A good hair or felt mat- 
tress is a necessity, and it ought to be in one piece, as steady use of a divided 
mattress is liable to make it slip around and become very uncomfortable. Cot- 
ton sheets are superior to linen, even in summer, when coolness is desired, 
because cotton is not a quick producer of heat, and it does not absorb perspi- 
ration, as linen does, afterwards chilling the body. Wool blankets, light or 
warm, according to the season of the year, are much better than comfortables. 
A dimity covering or linen sheet is more comfortable than a heavy Marseilles 
counterpane. The pillows are better thin and narrow than thick and square. 

The furniture of a sickroom should be as simple as possible, all heavy 
draperies and upholstered chairs being removed. Thin mushn curtains add to 

Paffe Ei<fhfi/-F(>ur 



GET UP-STAIRS PRICES 

GATE CITY GUN & LOCKSMITHS 



F. N. RAY 



MANAGER 




Any bride coming to 
our shop and present- 
ing this book will 
be entitled to have 
her first key made 
free of charge; use this 
privilege. .*. 

Anything in metal, 
gan-worl^, mechanic- 
al or electric repairing 

Outside Work a Specialty 



A II Work Guaranteed 

Phone Main 83 



231/2 South Broad Street ATLANTA 



Pagu Eighty-Five 



WHAT A MOTHER SHOULD KNOW AND DO. 

Continued. 

the cheerfulness, and a dark shade, if there are no outside shutters, is almost 
a necessity during long summer days, when the chamber has to be darkened 
during sleeping hours. A small table that is steady on its legs and light enough 
to be easily lifted is a necessary article of furniture. Do not allow it, however, 
to get piled up with all sorts of useless things. Keep it covered with a clean 
towel and reserve it for the necessary articles which should be found there — the 
thermometer in its glass of bora.x water, a pad and pencil, which may be needed 
during the doctor's visit, and a movable hand-screen, to use on occasions when 
the patient wishes to be shaded from the light. A small night lamp which 
burns with a dull glow is frequently a necessity. If sick nursing has to be done 
during cold weather, when artificial heat is necessary, try to alleviate the dryness 
of the atmosphere. This can be done by keeping a basin of water upon the 
radiator, or setting before the register a three-fold screen of cheese cloth, which 
should be kept constantly wet. 

A light screen is another sickroom necessity. The best is one of plain 
bamboo, "which does not hold dust, the panels made of some washable stuff run 
on rods, so they can be quickly changed for laundering. If possible, have no 
plumbing fixtures in a sickroom, and when it opens into a bathroom keep the 
adjoining door closed as much as possible. 

An excellent way to admit fresh air to a sickroom in winter, when a window 
is near the bed, is to open it the desired height, then stretch a piece of cheese- 
cloth over the opening and tack it fast. A still more convenient way is to put 
the cheesecloth on a small frame that will fit into this opening. It can then be 
removed at any time. 

A handy way to fumigate the sickroom is to place a brick in a large wash 
basin and on this set a baking tin containing sulphur. If the sulphur is burned 
directly in the basin you are liable to crack or break it. 

A valuable remedy for proud flesh, an obstinate outgrowth of the flesh from 
small sores, consists of alum. A lump of alum is placed upon a stove just hot 
enough to enable it to turn to dry powder. The powder, placed on the affected 
part repeatedly and covered with a bandage, can be rehed upon to effect a 
speedy and inexpensive cure. It has never failed to cure when even the services 
of a physician were vainly resorted to. 

Another good remedy: Use powdered resin. Apply as above; do not heat 
the resin, however. 

If there is an invalid in the family who must be fanned, have your "handy 
man" make wooden handles for several large palm-leaf fans. These should be 
longer than the stem handles, nicely polished, and nearly as large as that of a 
broom. The center of the stick is hollowed, then the stem of the fan is inserted 
and fastened firmly with glue. These handles may be made at home by using 
the hollow end of a window-shade roller. The w'ooden handle, on account of 
its size, does not cramp the hand as does the small st-em. 

All winter keep in the medicine closet a small jar of turpentine and lard, 
riielted together in equal quantities. If one shows signs of hoarseness, give the 
neck and chest a vigorous rubbing with this home-made liniment. 

For jammed fingers, immerse the hand in water as hot as can be borne and 
rub vigorously. Po up in sweet oil or vaseline. If the bruise is on the face, 
apply a cloth wrung from hot water, to prevent the blood from settling; after- 
Wards apply the oil. 

Page Eighty-Six 



The Man 

Who spends all of his money on a diamond ring 
and fails to provide a life insurance policy 
for the good woman he has prom- 
ised to protect, needs a guar- 
dian more than a 

Wife 



Income Insurance guarantees the contin- 
uance of the monthly salary if anything should 
happen to the bread- winner. Let me send 
you a specimen policy. 



The 

Mutual Benefit Life 
Insurance Company 

Of Newark, N„ J. 



ROBERT L. FOREMAN, State Agent 

8th Floor 4th National Bank Building 

ATLANTA 



Pmje Eitihty-Seven 



WHAT A MOTHER SHOULD KNOW AND DO. 

Continued. 

Castor oil will not be objectionable to children if put in a bottle with an 
equal quantity of pure glycerin, heated and shaken well. Each drop of oil will 
be coated with glycerin and rendered almost tasteless. 

FOOD FOR INVALIDS. 

Sickroom diets are classified as liquid, light and convalescent. The first 
consists wholly of liquid food and is given in cases of typhoid fever and other 
severe illnesses. In typhoid nothing is allowed for some time except milk, but 
during the run of other diseases, gruels, beef tea and broths are prescribed to 
keep up the strength. In fevers a large number of cooling drinks, characterized 
as acid, starchy or albuminous, are frequently ordered. Cocoa, hot milk and 
various malt preparations are given at night to produce sleep, while occasionally 
doctors prescribe drinks containing rum, sherry or brandy, when the patient is 
in need of such stimulation. 

A "light diet" is the term used for the food that is given when a patient who 
has been very sick is beginning to improve. It includes almost everything that 
is found in the liquid diet and, in addition, soft-boiled eggs, soups, broths, raw 
oysters, toast, delicate cream soups, chicken broth, soft custard, fruit, gelatines, 
light puddings and a small amount of poultry, game or tender meat. 

Convalescent diet includes all the dishes which have been already spoken of, 
only as the patient grows stronger the amount grows a little larger day by day 
and includes more nourishing foods, with a larger variety. Baked potatoes 
begin to appear on the tray, beefsteak, broiled mutton chops, sweetbreads, broiled 
chicken, sponge cake, boiled rice, small pieces of broiled fresh fish, a slice of 
tender, rare roast beef and ice cream. 

The utmost daintiness is a necessity when a tray for the sickroom is being 
set. Food that is tempting in appearance will often create an appetite where 
none existed. You must remember that an invalid's recovery depends as much 
upon the diet as upon medicine. Therefore, everything that is taken to the 
sickroom must be of the best quality — -eggs that are really fresh laid, the best 
of butter, the tenderest chicken and meats and milk that is perfectly sweet. 
If the physician orders food served every three hours, carry the tray into the 
room on the stroke of the hour. He knows when the stomach requires nutrition, 
and unless you have been sick you can never understand what a terrible sinking 
sensation the patient experiences when the lunch hour is forgotten for even 
fifteen minutes. By making each menu just a little different from the one 
before you can keep your invalid guessing. Anticipation creates appetite. If 
the tiny meal is delicately cooked and daintily served, it will probably be eaten 
with a relish. Never offer a sick person as much as is required by a healthy 
appetite. 

For the most nourishing kind of beef tea, choose a piece of meat from the 
lower part of the round. There is more juice in a piece of the animal which 
has been toughened by steady exercise than in a verj' tender cut. If we wish to 
keep in the juices, the meat should be seared on the outside by exposing it to a 
strong heat, as in roasting, broiling or boiling, but in this case the fiber should 
be rejected. 

Free from fat, put through the finest knife of the meat chopper and cover 
with a pint of cold water. Heat slowly in a double boiler. In two hours the 
juices will be drawn out and the fiber left bleached white. A square of wet 

Page Eighty-Rl(jht, 




M,i 



Let Us Build or Repair That 

HAPPY HOME 

Special Inducement to 
the Bride and Groom 

Embrey Construction Company 
CONTRACTORS and BUILDERS 

Painting and Tinting Repair Work a Specialty 



Phone Main 1455 



318 Fouith National Bank Building 



Paf/f, Eighty-Nine 



WHAT A MOTHER SHOULD KNOW AND DO. 

Continued. 

cheesecloth may be doubled and spread over a strainer, and through this the 
chopped meat be wrung perfectly dry. The juice ought to be red. If it cooks 
long it will turn brown; then the albumen, w'hich we wish to preserve in liquid 
form, would coagulate, taking from the beef tea most of its nutrition. If the 
patient objects to the uncooked look of beef tea, serve in a red tumbler which 
is well heated, because the liquid cannot be brought to the boiling point. 

Occasionally a patient is found who has such an aversion to milk that he 
will not take it as a liquid. Then try to include it in the menu in every pos- 
sible form; that is, if the doctor prescribes it. It can be prepared as junket 
and clabbered milk; in custards, oyster and cream soups, eggnog, gruels, milk 
toast, cocoa and blancmange; in the shape of cream served with cereals and 
soft puddings, and if chilled foods are allowed, give ice cream. 

bC RAPED BEEF — Tack down to a meat board with a couple of skewers 
one-half pound of steak cut from the top of the round. With a sharp knife 
scrape it and lift off all the meaty substance, laying it on a platter. When one 
side is scraped bare, turn over and get all that is possible off the other side. 
When finished, there will be nothing left but tough fiber. Mould the scraped 
meat with a knife into a little cake and broil it over the coals for a few min- 
utes. Season with pepper and salt and serve on buttered toast. 

CHICKEN BROTH — Cut up a small fowl, wash thoroughly and skin it; 
also cut away all the fat possible. Pour over it a quart of cold water. Set it 
back far enough on the stove to take at least half an hour to come to a boil; 
simmer very gently. When the meat" begins to get tender, lift it out, strip it 
off the bones and put the carcass back to simmer until all the good is out of it. 
Allow the soup to cool and skim off the fat. Reheat, when needed, with a little 
rice, and serve quite hot. A nourishing veal soup may be made from a shank 
of veal in the same way. 

CREAMED TOAST — Two slices of bread, three-fourths cupful of rice milk, 
one-half tablespoonful of butter, one teaspoonful of cornstarch, dash of salt. 
Toast the bread a delicate brown and butter lightly. Scald the milk, thicken 
slightly with cornstarch, season with salt and pour over the toast. A very tasty 
dish of toast may be made from one-half cupful of clam juice, taken fresh from 
steamed clams and poured without thickening over toast. 

BROILED OYSTERS — Choose the largest oysters possible, pour a httle 
water over them and rinse in the liquor before lifting out, then drain in a 
napkin till dry. Dip into melted butter, then into cracker crumbs which have 
been seasoned with pepper and salt and lay them between the wires of an oyster 
broiler. Move gently over a clear, hot fire until the juice begins to run out. 
Lay them on toast and serve hot. 

CREAMED OYSTERS— One-hali pint of oysters, one tablespoonful of 
butter, one and one-half tablespoonfuls of cornstarch, pepper and salt, one cupful 
of thin cream. Put the oysters in a bowl, add a little water and rinse carefully, 
lifting each one out separately. Dry in a napkin. Make the cream, butter and 
cornstarch into a smooth sauce, season with pepper and salt and drop in the 
oysters. Cook until they begin to curl up at the edges, then pour over buttered 
toast. 

GOLDEN-ROD EGGS — Perpare a white sauce as given in the recipe for 
creamed chicken. Add to it the white of a hard-boiled egg, chopped. Pour this, 
mixture over a shce of toast and on top scatter the hard-boiled 5^olk rubbed into 
tiny strings through a sieve. Serve very hot. 

Page Ninety 



FROM YOUR FRONT HALL TO THE 
BACK DOOR OF YOUR KITCHEN 




WE FURNISH YOUR NEW HOME COMPLETE 

We own and operate twelve larg,e stores 
and are in position to make low prices on 
everything, that g,oes into the home that 
is well furnished, comfortable and cosy. 




Beautiful brass bed, like picture 
above, head end 60 inches high, full 
size, 2-inch post, made from guaran- 
teed brass tubing, for only 114.75. 

The same bed in white or Vernis 
Martin finish, 2-inch post, steel tubing, 
for ?5.75. 

Our Personal Guarantee is Back of Every Purchase You Make From Us. 

AGENTS GLOBE-WERNICKE SECTIONAL BOOK CASES 



This beautiful brass bed, 2-inch post, 
head end 56 inches high, good size fill- 
ers, finish and workmanship positively 
guaranteed by us, for only $10.00. 



9-11 East 
Mitchell St. 

J. E. JOHNSON 



STERCHI'S 



Just Off 
Whitehall 



EARL E. DUNAWAY 



H. M. McCAMMON 



Page Ninety-One 



WHAT A MOTHER SHOULD KNOW AND DO. 

Continued. 

SCALLOPED OYSTERS (individual portion)— One-half cupful of oysters, 
one-half cupful of cracker and bread crumbs mixed, one tablespoonful of butter, 
pepper and salt, one tablespoonful of cream, one tablespoon of strained oyster 
liquor. Wash the oysters and lift them from the hquor. Mix the crumbs with 
the melted butter. Scatter a layer of crumbs over a deep saucer, then a layer 
of oysters; sprinkle with salt and pepper and cover with the rest of the crumbs. 
Pour over the cream and oyster liquor. Bake until the top is delicately 
browned. Serve hot. 

BROILED SQUAB — Singe a squab, wash and wipe dry; then with a sharp 
knife split it down the back from the neck to the tail. Lay it open and clean 
the inside. Cut through at the joints, releasing the tendons. Brush over inside 
and out with melted butter, season with pepper and salt and dust with flour. 
Broil over a hot fire ten minutes. Serve on hot buttered toast and garnish the 
little dish prettily with parsley. Quail or any small bird may be cooked in .the 
same way. 

CREAMED ASPARAGUS — Wash a few stalks of asparagus and cut off the 
white part. Divide the tender green portion into pieces an inch long. Cook in 
boiling salted water until tender. Arrange on a piece of buttered toast, seasoning 
with pepper and salt, and pour a little melted butter over it. If the invalid 
desires, a few tablespoonfuls of white sauce may be used instead of the butter. 

CREAMED CHICKEN— One-haU cupful of thin cream, one-half table- 
spoonful of cornstarch, one tablespoonful of butter, pepper and salt, three- 
fourths cupful of cold chicken breast. Make a white sauce from the cream, 
cornstarch, butter and seasoning. Cut the chicken into cubes and heat in the 
sauce. Serve on buttered Toast with a baked potato. The meat which is taken 
from the bones when preparing chicken broth may be utilized for this dish; 
or, if desired, and if the patient can digest it, it can be made into a chicken 
salad. 

BROILED SWEETBREADS — Before sweetbreads are prepared in any way 
they have to be parboiled. When they come from the market put them into 
ice water and let them stand an, hour, then drop in boiling salted water to which 
a tablespoonful of lemon juice has been added. This preserves the white color 
of the sweetbread and keeps the flesh firm. After cooking slowly for twenty 
minutes, drop them in ice water and pull off the skin, fiber and all waste scraps, 
divide into pieces and they are ready to serve as desired. They make a very 
savory dish for the invalid's tray when broiled. Do not separate them when 
cooking this way, but cut in slices, sprinkle with salt and pepper, brush with 
melted butter and broil a delicate brown. Season with pepper, salt and lemon 
juice and, if the doctor allows, a tablespoonful of tomato sauce. 

Sweetbreads are delicious when creamed. When served in this way they are 
simply reheated in a white sauce, as directed for creamed chicken, and poured 
over buttered toast. If you have a small portion left of both chicken and 
sweetbread, it makes a delicious dish blended with cream sauce. They are also 
nice rjeheated in a cup of strong chicken stock with a dash of lemon juice for 
seasoning. 

EGG SANDWICHES — Boil an egg hard and chop fine; add salt, mustard, 
a few drops of vinegar and a dash of pepper for seasoning. Soften one-half 
tablespoonful of butter, beat to a cream and mix the egg with it till it is a paste. 
Butter slices of bread, spread on the mixture and make into a sandwich. 

Pa(/e Ninety-Two 




YES! 

I AM 

"THE KODAKERS' FRIEND" 

And I congratulate you on the joyous step you have just taken. 
My wish to you both is 

A LONG AND HAPPY MARRIED LIFE 

Why not let me loan you a KODAK free of charge to take 
on your honeymoon trip ? 

If you have a KODAK, don't forg,et that my finishing is 
the finest in the SOUTHLAND. 

You are both cordially invited to visit me at my office, I 
have a little surprise for you. 

G. W. ROMER 
"THE KODAKERS' FRIEND" 



BELL PHONE 
MAIN 2505 



COR. BROAD & ALABAMA STS. 
Over The Linen Store 



/*rt// e Nin et if-Tlt re e 



WHAT A MOTHER SHOULD KNOW AND DO. 

Continued. 

FRENCH CHOPS — Trim from the bones of tender little lamb chops all the 
fat and skin, leaving nothing but the tiny round of meat at the end. Brush with 
butter, dust with pepper and salt and broil over a hot fire. Slip little paper 
frills on the bones and serve with a spoon of green peas. A delicious way to 
cook chops for an invalid is to broil them inside paper cases. Make an 
envelope of thick glazed notepaper and rub it with butter. Slip the chop inside. 
Fold the paper so there are two sheets covering the meat, put the little case 
between the wires of the broiler and move about over a clear, hot fire. If it is 
turned quickly and often, there will be no danger of the paper taking fire. 
A chop ought to cook in this fashion in five or eight minutes. It is constantly 
basted in the butter and its own juices, and is very sweet and tender. Turn out 
onto a hot plate, being careful that all the gravy is saved. Chicken or birds 
may be cooked in the same fashion. 

BROILED CHICKEN — Prepare a tender chicken in the same fashion as 
directed for squab. Unless it is exceedingly small, half a portion will be enough 
to cook for an invalid, and if the appetite is only equal to very dainty meals the 
tender little breast may be sufficient. Season with pepper and salt, brush with 
melted butter, put in a greased broiler and cook for twenty minutes, turning 
the broiler frequently. Keep the flesh side longer over the coals than the bony 
portion. When the chicken is delicately browned, put it in a pan and set in a 
hot oven for ten or twelve minutes. Serve hot witb toast. 

LEMON ICE — One-half cupful of water, one-fourth cupful of sugar, one 
lemon. Boil sugar and water together with a thick piece of lemon rind for three 
minutes. Cool, add lemon juice and freeze like ice cream. 

GUM GLUTEN BISCUITS— One cupful of self-raising gum gluten, dash of 
salt, one tablespoonful of butter, milk. Sift the dry ingredients, rub the butter 
into the flour and add enough milk to make a soft dough. Roll it out, cut into 
little biscuits and bake quickly. 

RAW -BEEF SANDWICHES— Meat is often served in this fashion to a 
patient whose stomach will not retain it when cooked. Take about two table- 
spoonfuls of the raw meat prepared as described in scraped beef, season lightly 
with pepper and salt, spread it between two slices of buttered bread and toast 
the outside delicately. Be careful not to allow the meat to reach the edges of 
the bread or it may nauseate the patient. 

OYSTER BROTH — One pint of oysters, one cupful of cold water. Mince 
the oysters fine, put in cold water and let simmer for fifteen minutes over a 
slow fire, skim, strain and season. 

CLAM BROTH — Six clams, one cupful of boiling water, one teaspoonful of 
powdered cracker, one teaspoonful of butter. Let clams stand in boiling water 
until the shells open; drain off the liquor, add cracker, butter and seasoning. 

TAPIOCA — Two tablespoonfuls of minute tapico, one and one-half cupfuls 
of boiling water, one cupful of cold water. Cover tapioca with cold water and 
let soak ten minutes; put into boiling water and boil until clear; sweeten and 
add nutmeg or wine, if desired. 

JUNKET — One-half cupful of milk, a few drops of Mclllhenny's vanilla, 
one-half tablespoonful of sugar, one-half junket tablet, grating of nutmeg. Heat 
the milk till lukewarm; add vanilla, sugar and tablet, which has been dissolved 
in a teaspoonful of water. Mix well, pour into a sherbet cup, cover and stand 
in a warm place till the mixture jellies. Grate nutmeg over the top and keep in 
a cold place till ready to use. 

Page Ninety-Four 



''Buy a Hoirie 



n 




Every married couple should 
o\vn their home. 

Why pay rent when you can 
buy on easy terms, where every 
dollar you pay is an 

Investment. 

When you are ready to buy, see 
us, and we will find what you 
want, at the 

Rig^ht Price 



EDWIN P. ANSLEY 

REALTY TRUST BUILDING 

Phone, Ivy 1600 



Page Ninety-Five 



WHAT A MOTHER SHOULD KNOW AND DO. 

Continued. 

INVALID'S ICE CREAM — One-half cupful of cream, one-fourth cupful of 
milk, one and one-half tablespoonfuls of sugar, one-half teaspoonful of Mclll- 
henny's vanilla. Mix ingredients in a baking powder tin; put on cover, set can 
in a pail or dish and surround with crushed ice and salt. Turn the can around 
often; occasionally take off the cover, scrape the cream from the sides as it 
freezes, and beat it well. When frozen, pour off the brine, beat cream with a 
spoon, pack it evenly in the can and put on the cover. Let stand till ready to 
serve. Put more ice around the can if needed. 

BRAN MUFFINS — One cupful of flour, two cupfuls of bran, one teaspoonful 
of soda, three tablespoonfuls of molasses, four tablespoonfuls of butter, one and 
one-half cupfuls of sour milk, dash of salt. Mix the dry ingredients, rub the 
butter between the fingers, add the molasses and sour milk. Beat hard for five 
minutes. Pour into greased, hot pop-over irons and bake in a quick oven. 

ORANGE ICE — One-half cupful of water, two small oranges, three table- 
spoonfuls of sugar. Make and freeze like lemon ice. 

PRUNE JELLY — One cupful of prunes, one and one-half tablespoonfuls of 
gelatin, three tablespoonfuls of sugar. Stew prunes in sufficient water to cover 
them well. When tender, press through a potato ricer, add gelatin previously 
soaked for half an hour in a little water, return to the fire, add sugar, reheat 
and pour in molds to cool. 

APPLE AND CUSTARD — One large apple, one tablespoonful of sugar, one 
teaspoonful of cornstarch, yolk of one egg. Pare and core apple, fill the cavity 
with sugar, put a little water in the bottom of a dish, and bake. Make a cus- 
tard of a cupful of milk, sugar, cornstarch and egg. Flavor to taste after boil- 
ing thick and pour around the baked apple. Use the white for a meringue. 
Eat cold. 

SLIP — One tablespoonful of cornstarch, two cupfuls of boiling water, one- 
fourth cupful of sugar, juice and rind of one lemon, white of one egg. Boil the 
cornstarch till thick in water, add sugar and lemon and pour into a baking dish. 
Beat the white of egg with a tablespoonful of powdered sugar, spread on top, 
brown slightly and serve cold with cold boiled custard. 

EGG CREAM — Two eggs, two tablespoonfuls of sugar, juice and rind of 
one-half lemon. Separate yolks from whites of eggs and beat the yolks with 
sugar in bowl until well mixed, then add lemon and place bowl in a dish on the 
stove. Stir slowly until the mixture begins to thicken, add the beaten whites of 
eggs and stir until it is like thick cream. 

WHAT AN INVALID MAY DRINK. 

IRISH MOSS LEMONADE— Two cupfuls of boiling water, one-fourth cup- 
ful of Irish moss, one-fourth cupful of lemon juice, three tablespoonfuls of 
sugar. Soak the Irish moss over night, then pick it over very carefully. It is 
generally full of sand and all sorts of foreign matter and can never be made 
palatable unless it has been through a number of waters. When clean put it in 
a double boiler, pour boiling water over it and let it steep until dissolved. 
Strain through a square of cheesecloth, then add the lemon juice and sugar. 
Serve very hot. This is one of the most soothing drinks to give a patient who 
is suffering from a sore throat or lung trouble. 

APPLE WATER — Six sour apples, two tablespoonfuls of sugar, one quart 
of boiling water. Slice apples, add sugar and boiling water. Cover closely and 
cool; strain. 

Page Ninety-Six 



Wedding Gowns 
Dress Suits 



Send your fine gowns, tailored suit, as well as 
"hubby's" clothes, to us if you would keep them 
exquisitely fresh and dainty. 

Our methods were originated b}^ experts who 
prepared for every problem in French-cleaning 
dainty fabrics. When we clean them they show 
no trace of the cleaner's operations, but look like 
new. We also dye and clean all articles of the 
household — Rugs, Carpets, Portieres, etc. Quick 
service, moderate charges. 



French Dry Cleaning Co. 

Joseph May & Sons 
(Thousands of Satisfied Customers Our Reference) 

169 Peachtree Street 
Phones: Ivy 676, 677, 3370 Atlanta 4246 



Page Ninety-Seven 



WHAT A MOTHER SHOULD KNOW AND DO. 

Continued. 

GRAPE WATER — One-half cupful of boiling water, four tablespoonfuls of 
grape jelly, one-half cupful of cold water, one teaspoonful of lemon juice, one 
tablespoonful of sugar. Pour boiling water over the jelly and stir until dis- 
solved. Then add the cold water, sugar and lemon juice and a piece of ice suflfi- 
cient to chill it thoroughly. Another delicious drink may be made in the same 
way from red currant jelly. Blackberry, barberry and black currant jelly are 
also excellent for this refreshing drink. 

CINNAMON PUNCH — One stick of cinnamon, one cupful of rich milk, two 
teaspoonfuls of sugar, one teaspoonful of brandy. Put the cinnamon with the 
milk in a double boiler and steep till the flavor is all soaked out. Add the sugar 
and brandy. It may be used hot or ice cold, as desired. 

BARLEY WATER — ^Two tablespoonfuls of barley, four cupfuls of cold 
water, one-half teaspoonful of salt. Wash the barley thoroughly and let it soak 
over night in cold water. In the morning set on the back of the stove where it 
will merely simmer and cook for three hours. It ought to be reduced one-half 
and be as thick as cream. Season with salt and, if the patient likes it, a little 
sugar. Pour through a fine strainer and drink hot. 

OATMEAL GRUEL — One-fourth cupful of oatmeal, one quart of cold water, 
one teaspoonful of salt. Cook in double boiler two hours. Press through a 
strainer, dilute with cream, reheat and serve. The well-beaten white of one egg 
or a few tablespoonfuls of thick cream stirred into the gruel adds nutrition. 

CORN MEAL GRUEL — Two tablespoonfuls of cornmeal, one tablespoonful 
of flour, one teaspoonful of salt, one-fourth cupful of cold water, three cupfuls 
of boiling hot water or milk. Mix meal, flour and salt; stir into the mixture 
enough cold milk or water to make a thick paste and pour this into the hot milk 
or water. If water is used, cook one hour in a saucepan; if milk, three hours in 
a double boiler. Serve hot, diluted with cream. 

EGG GRUEL — One egg, one teaspoonful of sugar, one cupful of hot milk 
(not scalded), nutmeg or lemon juice to flavor. While the milk heats, beat the 
yolk of the egg till thick and light colored, the white till stiff. Stir into the 
yolk the other ingredients in the following order : Sugar, milk, beaten white and 
flavoring. 

EGGNOG — One egg, two teaspoonfuls of sugar, one and one-half tablespoon- 
fuls of lemon juice, one or two tablespoonfuls of wine, nutmeg. Beat the yolk 
till thoroughly foamy; stir in the other ingredients. Nutmeg may be omitted. 

LEMON WHEY — One pint of hot milk (not scalded), juice of two lemons. 
Add the lemon juice to the milk; when the latter has curdled strain it through 
a cloth. Serve the whey hot or cold in a glass. 

TOAST WATER — One slice of stale bread, two cupfuls of boiling water, one 
slice of lemon. Have bread one-half inch thick, toast brown; pour upon it 
boiling water, cover closely and cool; strain it. A slice of lemon may be added. 

BARLEY WATER — Two ounces of pearl barley, three cupfuls of water. 
Wash barley in cold water; boil twenty mintues in a covered dish; strain, 
sweeten and add lemon, if permitted. 

LEMONADE — One lemon, one tablespoonful of sugar. Squeeze lemon, add 
sugar, mix with ice water and strain; rub the rim of the glass with a slice of 
lemon peel and allow it to float. 

Page Ninety-Eight 



There are two essentials to happiness, 

LOVE AND A COMPETENCY 



Nine-tenths of all the unhappiness in the family arises from want of 
or necessity for MONEY. 

Marriage is a partnership as well as a holy state. The man furnishes 
the brawn and the ability to get out and take from the world a living 
for himself and those dependent upon him, while the woman has a no 
less important responsibility — that of making and maintaining the home. 

All the family income should be apportioned between the husband and 
wife equally, share and share alike. Out of the total income should be 
paid all the bills, expenses, etc., and the remainder divided between 
them, just as business partners divide their profits. Each should lay 
aside a portion of this surplus for emergency, so that when sickness, 
accident or unforeseen expense arises there will be a fund on hand with 
which to meet the occasion. 

This "safety fund" should be in the care of a sound, solid and suc- 
cessful bank. As it may not be checked upon regularly, it should be in 
the Savings Department, wliere, in addition to being safe, it will earn a 
reasonable interest. 

Moneys paid out to merchants and others should always be by cneck, 
so that you will have the receipt of the party to wliom paid and thus 
avoid mistakes and the possibility of having to pay the same bill twice. 

The bank requires whoever cashes your check to sign their names on 
the back thereof, which is their receipt for and acknowledgement that 
they got the money. Then if anyone should claim a bill is not paid, you 
have but to refer to the cancelled check, which will bear their receipt 
and acknowledgement that they DID get the money. 

Handle this account through a "checking" account in our Commercial 
Department. 

Make an allowance each week or each month for your safety fund 
and pay it in to your bank for your credit just as you would pay a bill 
to anyone else you owe, and then live upon the balance, and the love 
which brought you together will abide with you and you will be part- 
ners as well as lovers, and time will but strengthen the tie that binds 
you one to the other. 

We offer you our service, calling your attention to the convenient 
hours in our Savings Department, which are from 9 to 5 daily, and 
Saturdays, 9 to 6. Our central location, eorner Broad and Marietta 
streets, and our ample capital and surplus, which amounts to $1,800,000, 
with total assets of about seven millions of dollars. 

You are esijecially invited to do vour banking with us. 

THE THIRD NATIONAL BANK 

OFFICERS. 

Frank Hawkins President Thomas C. Erwin Cashier 

Jos. A. McCord Vice-President ' R. W. Byers Assistant Cashier 

John W. Grant Vice-President A. M. Bergstrom__ Assistant Cashier 

J. N. Ooddard Vice-President W. B. Syminers-.. Assistant Cashier 

A. J. Hansell Assistant Cashier 

DIRECTORS. 
H. M. Atkinson Capitalist John W. Grant Capitalist 

Dr. F. Phinizy Calhoun__Capitalist Frank Hawkins President 

Milton Dargan, H. Y. McCord, 

Mgr. Southern Dept. Royal Ins. Co. Pres. McCord-Stewart Co. 

Thos. C. Erwin Cashier Jos. A. McCord Vice-President 

J. N. Goddard, James H. Nunnally. 

Mgr. Conklin Tin Plate & Metal Co. Pres. The Nunnally Co. 

J. Carroll Payne Attorney 



Page Ninety-Nine 



WHAT A MOTHER SHOULD KNOW AND DO. 

Continued. 

EGG LEMONADE — Two tablespoonfuls of sugar, one egg, three tablespoon- 
fuls of cold water, one lemon. Beat sugar and egg thoroughly, then mix cold 
water and the lemon juice, put chipped ice in the glass and fill with ice water. 

EGG AND COFFEE — One egg, one tablespoonful of sugar, one-fourth cupful 
of boiling coffee. Beat egg and sugar together and add the boiling coffee grad- 
ually; stir and add hot cream. 

PICK-ME-UP — One tablespoonful of powdered sugar, one egg, dash of salt, 
one tablespoonful of brandy. Separate the egg and beat the yolk until thick and 
lemon-colored; add the powdered sugar and brandy, beat again, then blend with 
white of the egg whipped to a stiff froth. This is so thick that it may be eaten 
with a spoon. 

RUM AND MILK — One cupful of rich milk, one egg, one tablespoonful of 
powdered sugar, dash of salt, one tablespoonful of rum, scraping of nutmeg. 
Separate the egg, beat the yolk until quite thick, add the powdered sugar, then 
the nutmeg, salt, rum and, last of all, the white of the egg beaten thick. Put 
in a shaker with a few pieces of ice and shake till cold, then strain into a glass. 

MULLED WINE — One cupful of port wine, two tablespoonfuls of powdered 
sugar, one egg, one stick of cinnamon, one-half cupful of water. Pour the water 
over the cinnamon and let it steep in a double boiler for ten minutes, add the 
sugar, beat the egg stiff, pour over it the flavored water, lifting out the cinnamon, 
add the wine, pour it all into a shaker and shake hard till the drink is thoroughly 
blended. If liked cold, add a bit of ice to it; if hot, set the shaker in boiling 
water for a few minutes. 

FLAXSEED LEMONADE— Two cupfuls of cold water, one tablespoonful 
of whole flaxseed, two tablespoonfuls of sugar, juice of one lemon. Wash the 
flaxseed, put in a double boiler, pour water over it and steep for an hour. 
Sweeten, add the lemon juice and strain. This is a valuable remedy in a case 
of hoarseness or inflamed throat. 

SLIPPERY-ELM TEA — Four teaspoonfuls of slippery-elm powder, two 
cupfuls of boiling water, two tablespoonfuls of sugar, juice of one lemon. Pour 
the boiling water over the slippery-elm; when cool, strain, sweeten and flavor 
with the lemon juice. 

ICE CHOCOLATE— One-ha.U cupful of milk, one-fourth cupful of Apolli- 
naris, two tablespoonfuls of chipped ice, two tablespoonfuls of chocolate syrup, 
one-third cupful of whipped cream. Put these ingredients into a shaker and 
shake till frothy. Strain into a tumbler. 

RICE MILK — Two tablespoonfuls of rice, two cupfuls of scalded milk, one 
teaspoonful of sugar, dash of salt. Soak the rice over night in cold water. Next 
morning put in a double boiler with the milk and seasoning; stir occasionally 
and let it steam for an hour and a half. Rub through a sieve, grate a scraping 
of nutmeg over it and, if desired, put a tablespoonful of whipped cream on top. 
Serve hot or cold. 

HOME REMEDIES. 

Gruels are more tempting to the sick if whipped to a froth with an egg 
beater before serving in a pretty cup. 

Beef tea is wanted frequently when there is little time to prepare it. It can 
be made quickly in the following manner: Take a lean piece of beef, run it 
through a food cutter, using the finest cutter, cover with cold water and set at 
the back part of the range to heat. Do not let it boil, as that coagulates the 

Par/e One Hundred 




OFFICE HOURS: 
8 TO 12 1:30 TO 5 



RESIDENCE: 
20 DRUID CIRCLE 
PHONE IVY 6273-J 



DR H. L. MELDRiM 

DENTIST 

461-2-3 CANDLER ANNEX 
DELL PHONE IVY 7439 ATLANTA, GA. 




Pa(/e One Hundred One 



WHAT A MOTHER SHOULD KNOW AND DO. 

Continued. 

albumen. Stir thoroughly, strain and squeeze dry in a potato masher. This 
will extract all the juice of the beef quickly and easily. 

As a "pick-me-up," nothing is more nourishing than the white of a fresh 
egg beaten to a froth, slightly sweetened and blended with the juice of a sweet 
orange. 



HOT WEATHER CARE AND THE PROPER NOURISHMENT FOR 
INFANTS AND CHILDREN. 

One-third of the total yearly deaths of infants and young children in this 
country occur in the two hottest months of the year — July and August. 

Heat kills off babies and young children largely because it spoils their milk 
and other food quickly. Even breast milk, when the mother is overheated, may 
give the baby colic or "summer complaint." If a mother is very hot she should 
draw a teaspoonful or so from the breast before nursing her baby. If the breast 
has not been given for two hours or more, it should be drawn off in the same 
way. And if the mother has been badly frightened or very angry or excited, 
it is not safe to give the breast at all; it should be drawn and the milk thrown 
away. 

The proper food for babies is mothers' milk. No sensible mother needs 
advice on this point. If she is fairly healthy her breast will give all the nour- 
ishment the child should have until it begins to cut its teeth — the sixth or eighth 
month. Up to this time it is a sin to give an infant one morsel of sohd food 
of any kind, or anything but breast milk (if the mother is healthy), except 
water in moderate quantity occasionally, but never soon after nursing. 

Many infants are killed every year by bringing them to the table with the 
family and giving them a little bit of this, that and the other — meat, vegetables, 
pie, pickles, etc., w'hich the little stomach is not fitted for. They are killed just 
as surely, though not so quickly, as if they had been fed poison out of a drug 
store. 

When the baby that is fed this way sickens and dies it is said that the baby 
died of "diarrhea," or "dysentery," or "cholera infantum," or "summer com- 
plaint," or "teething," or "convulsions," or "brain fever." But these are only 
names for the result of poisoning with unfit food. 

Wait until the baby gets its teeth before you put food into its mouth that 
needs to be chewed. 

If the breast milk gives out, or becomes thin or watery, or if the mother 
has consumption or any other long-standing sickness, the baby must be put on 
the bottle and fed with cows' milk. 

As soon as the milk is received, take what is to be used for the baby and 
"scald" it. Don't let it boil. 

A good way is to set a pan of cold w^ater on the stove and put the vessel 
containing baby's milk into this pan. Just as soon as the water comes to a boil, 
take it off. This amounts to what is called "sterilizing" or "pasteurizing" the 
milk. Add a pinch of baking soda to the hot milk, a little less than half a 
teaspoonful to a quart. 

If the milk was sweet and hadn't begun to "turn" when it was received, it 
will keep for twenty-four hours or more after being treated this way, even in 

Page One Hundred Two 



Atlanta Made Paints 
for Atlanta Use 



We manufacture a full line 
of 

Paints, Oils and Varnishes 

FOR ALL PURPOSES 



All Kinds of Household Helps 



Office and Factory: Nos. 117-119 Central Avenue 
Retail Store: No. 24 Luckie Street 



Southern Paint & Varnish Works 



BOTH PHONES 



Poije One Hnndred Hirer 



WHAT A MOTHER SHOULD KNOW AND DO. 

Continued. 

hot weather. But, of course, it should be kept in a close-covered vessel or fruit 
jar or stoppered bottle. Whatever it is kept in should be thoroughly scalded — 
cover, stopper and all — just before the milk is put in. 

If you have an ice box or refrigerator to put the milk .in, or can in any 
other way keep it from "turning," it is better to let it stand for about six hours 
and then pour off the upper half for the baby's milk. This should then be 
"scalded" and soda added, as before described. If you can't do this, a little 
cream should be added to the baby's milk, say one tablespoonful of cream to 
two or three of the milk. 

To make this nearly like breast milk, add two cupfuls of water that has been 
boiled to each cupful of milk and enough white sugar to make it as sweet as 
breast milk. 

(Milk sugar, if perfectly pure, is better than white or cane sugar.) 

If this mixture is too rich, the baby will vomit it in curds or lumps, or it 
will pass through the bowels in white flakes and shreds. If this happens, add 
more boiled water to the mixture until you find just what strength the baby's 
stomach will stand — what it can digest. 

When the baby is about a month old barley water should be used instead of 
plain water. Put two tablespoonfuls of pearl barley in four cupfuls of cold 
water. Boil an hour or more — down to two cupfuls — strain through a close 
cloth, add a pinch of salt and sweeten to breast-milk taste. Add this to a 
cupful of "scalded" cow's milk treated as before described and begin feeding 
this strength. 

Gradually use more milk and less barley water, until at about six months 
of age the child is getting two-thirds milk and one-third barley water. 

Next to healthy breast milk, this will make as good food as the infant can 
get during teething and weaning. Then comes the pure milk — always "scalded" 
— bread and milk, baked potato and milk, oatmeal porridge — which can't be 
boiled too long, never less than two hours, and always eaten with milk, and the 
milk always "scalded," not boiled. 

Don't' over jeed the baby. Once in two or three hours is often enough to 
suckle or feed a baby until it is four or five weeks old; after that do not feed 
so often. 

When a baby is about six months old it will generally thrive best if fed only 
once during the night and four or five times regularly during the day. It is 
bad for a baby's stomach and bowels to feed it too often or too much at a 
time, especially in hot weather. 

A new-born baby's stomach will hold from two to three tablespoonfuls, and 
not more than this amount — rather less — should be given at a time during the 
first week or so of a bottle-fed baby's life. 

As the baby grows the quantity should be gradually increased, so that at the 
end of the first month it may be taking about four tablespoonfuls at a meal. 
Some children will require more and others will not stand so much; but there 
is more danger of giving too much at a time than too little. 

Don't stick the nipple in the baby's mouth every time it cries. 

If the baby is properly fed at regular times it won't get hungry enough to 
make it cry, and it is foolish to feed it whenever it cries instead of trying to 
find out the trouble. It may be thirsty, and a swallow or two of cold water — 

Page One Hundred Four 



How to Deal in Atlanta Real Estate 
Without Taking Any Risk 



Buy a Profit-Sharing Bond of the 
Atlanta Development Company 



They are earning 20% — 6% is guaranteed (free of cor- 
porate taxes) under any circumstances. 

They have paid an average of 10% in cash per year dur- 
ing past three years. 

They are secured absolutely against loss. Behind them 
are State of Georgia Bonds, dollar for dollar, at matu- 
rity ; also choice Atlanta residence property, equal to 
$3.00 for every $1.00 of Bonds issued. 

The money from sale of Bonds goes back into property 
and becomes additional security behind the Bonds. 
The issue of Bonds is limited. 

Investors are appreciating this opportunity more and 
more, as they become acquainted with this new system of 
dealing in Atlanta real estate without risk of the capital 
invested. The Bonds are in $100, $500, $1,000 denomina- 
tions. Full information gladly furnished. 



R. H. Jones, Fiscal Agent of the 

Atlanta Development Company 

Real Estate Developers. 1403-6 Third Nat'l Bank Bldg. 

Ivy 2181. 



Pa(je One Hundred Five 



WHAT A MOTHER SHOULD KNOW AND DO. 

Continued. 

not a big drink — will stop it; or its clothes may be uncomfortable, or its napkin 
need changing. 

Try to find out what makes it cry, and then use "mother wit." And don't 
be afraid of giving the baby a drink of water. It needs water as much as milk. 
It needs more water, in proportion to its size and weight, and oftener, than its 
mother does. Thirst causes more needless suffering to babies than anything 
else. Give the baby a drink, but be sure the water is pure by having been 
either boiled or filtered. 

Don't feed the baby with a spoon. Sucking is the natural way that a baby 
takes its food. It needs the sucking action of the lips and mouth and tongue 
to mix its food with the fluids of the mouth and to keep it from getting into 
the stomach too fast. 

Use a plain, common bottle for feeding, with a rubber nipple. 

Fancy nursing bottles, with long rubber tubes and patent contrivances, be- 
sides costing money, can't be cleaned easily, and babies don't do well with them 
in other ways. The more simple the bottle and the nipple, the better for the 
baby. The rubber-tube bottle is a device of the Evil One for lazy mothers. 
It is bad enough when a mother can't suckle her own infant at her own breast; 
let her at least take it in her arms and hold the bottle and "mother" it while 
it feeds. 

Take the nipple off after each feeding and at once boil both bottle and 
nipple for at least ten minutes. Before using again, rinse the bottle and nipple 
in water that has been boiled — about a quart of water with half a teaspoonful of 
soda in it — or keep them in a pan of soda and water when not in use. 

More babies get "sore mouth" and "wind colic" and "summer complaint" 
for want of care of the nursing bottle than from any other one cause. A little 
stale milk around the neck of the bottle or in the nipple will set up a ferment 
which is poison to the delicate lining of a baby's mouth and throat and stomach. 

Of course the baby's bottle food should be warm — about the same as breast 
milk, or "blood heat;" that is, as warm as the inside of the mouth. 

Keep the baby clean and it will stand the heat better. When the thermom- 
eter is at eighty or ninety in the shade it isn't easy to keep the baby cool. But 
it can always be kept clean and will then be more comfortable and have a 
better chance of living through the hot weather. It should have at least one 
full bath every day, and oftener during extreme heat. Never bathe within one 
hour after feeding it. Bathe first; feed afterwards. 

Dress as lightly as possible. It will be better stark naked, except for a 
napkin and binder, some hours a day during the hot weather when indoors. 
But keep it in the open air, out of the hot sun, as much as you can between 
sunrise and sunset. The outdoor air, even of a dirty street, is fresher and 
better than the air in the house. 

Fresh air is the breath of life in a baby's nostrils. Take it or send it to the 
parks, or open squares, or the lake shore as often as you can. 

In the changeable summer climate of the East, care must be taken against 
sudden chilling. A thin, soft flannel binder, wound two or three times around 
the body, will do more to guard against this chilling than the ordinary full 
dress of frock, vest, skirts, drawers, socks, etc. 

Page One Hundred Six 






PHONE MAIN 3573-J 



(incorporated) 




SKampooin^ 

Hair Dressing, 

Scalp and Facial Massage 

Hair Goods 

Toilet Articles 

Hair Dyes 

Hair Dyeing 

Manicuring 



58 '/2 WHITEHALL STREET 

ATLANTA, GA. 



Paqc One Hviidred Seven 



WHAT A MOTHER SHOULD KNOW AND DO. 

Continued. 

This binder should be only wide enough to cover the belly an inch or so 
above the navel and a couple of inches below. It should be wound smooth and 
free from creases or folds and fitted with a few stitches of soft darning cotton 
— not pins. 

This binder and a napkin are all the dress a baby needs during the heat of 
the day in the house in summer. 

Do not let the baby sleep in the same bed with any other person. If there is 
no crib the mother should put a couple of chairs at her bedside, with any sort 
of soft covering on them — not feather pillows or hot woolen stuffs — and let the 
baby sleep there. It will be more comfortable on a summer night than lying 
against the hot body of its mother, and will not be so apt to disturb or be 
disturbed. 

The backs of the chairs will keep the feaby from falling, and the mother can 
readily reach over to care for it when necessary. 

Do not drug the baby. If after all your care the baby should fall sick, do 
not "pour drugs of which you know nothing into a body of which you know less." 

There is no mother that cannot get the best of medical treatment for her 
sick baby without money and without price, if she is unable to pay. Call a 
doctor instead of spending money for patent medicines, "soothing syrups," or 
"cure-alls," which will probably do your baby more harm than good. 

Although this advice is more directly for babies during the first year of life, 
the sense of it applies quite as well to older children. 

Don't overfeed them, and don't let them overfeed themselves. 

Don't give them rich food, meats, gravies, pastries, cake, etc., nor a great 
variety. The simpler and plainer the better — plenty of milk, whole-wheat bread, 
oatmeal, baked potatoes, baked apples and fresh fruit of all kinds in season, but 
be sure the fruit is ripe and fresh. Roast and stews and made dishes and pie 
will come soon enough, and so will dyspepsia. 

Keep up the daily full bath until it becomes a fixed habit. 

Keep them out in the open air as much as possible the whole year round, and 
send them into the country whenever you can do so, but only to places where 
the water is pure. 

If a baby or child is worth having, it is worth saving, and more than half of 
the babies and young children that die every year could be saved by following 
the advice here given. 




Page One Hundred Eight 



Start Right 

— to— 

Kenny Furniture Company 



We carry a good assortment of — 
BEDROOM SUITS (wood, iron or brass beds). 
DINING-ROOM SUITS. 
PARLOR SUITS. 
DAVENPORTS AND TABLES. 
KITCHEN OUTFITS, with Ranges and Cabinets. 
PORCH SETS, including Swings. 
ART SQUARES, RUGS and LINOLEUMS for any 
room. 

ODD BEDS, DRESSERS and ROCKERS. 

WARDROBES, CHIFFOROBES. 

TRUNKS and REFRIGERATORS. 

LACE CURTAINS, SHADES, PORTIERES, 

POLES. 
COMFORTS and BLANKETS. 

We are in the low-rent district and can save you 
money. Come to see us before you buy and be 
convinced. 



Kenny Furniture Company 

246 Peters Street, Near Junction of Walker Street. 
Take Walker to Westvie^v or Lucile Avenue Cars. 



Pa(je One Hundred Nine 



General Health Hiefc 



What to Do imi Time of Accident — First Aid in Time of 
Injury — How to Treat Poisonous and Special Parts. 

HEALH HINTS — It is much better to prevent disease than to cure it. 
Health depends upon strict adherence to a few simple rules. Most of the 
sickness of today is preventable and is due primarily to carelessness in living 
habits. It is not enough, however, simply not to be ill. Many people who are 
not sick still are not well. To really enjoy life one should be at his best and 
know the thrill of abounding health and the joy of well-being. Many people 
never experience this and the slightest change in their environment makes them 
uncomfortable; yet they would not say they were ill. 

Plenty of fresh air, a sane and simple diet and regular exercise, combined 
with a care-free state of mind, are the secrets of a normal, healthy life. They 
are so simple that people overlook them. 

FRESH AIR — Sleep with the windows open, but be protected from direct 
wind. Night air is not only not harmful, but absolutely healthful. See to it 
also that you work under conditions of fresh air; it will prove a tonic. Bad 
air depresses all the organs of the body. Houses, working places, offices, hotels, 
trains are abominably ventilated; keep on the lookout or you will be con- 
stantly poisoned. Tenting out in the summer time or sleeping on a screened 
porch or roof will prove to the tired worker who is run down a wonderful 
restorer. Make friends with the fresh air. 

EXERCISE — Just this simple but important suggestion: Each person must 
have during each day a fair amount of rather vigorous exercise of the large 
muscles of the body. By this I mean the muscles of the trunk. These muscles 
are closely related to the most important organs of the body and the latter 
depend upon the muscles for their vitality. Bending the body forward and 
backward at the hips and sideways and twisting at the waist are very valuable 
exercises. 

Walking and slow running are exceedingly important, especially if indulged 
in until they cause deep breathing and perspiration. Of course, outdoor exercise 
is best. Hill-climbing is splendid, especially for a weak heart, if done with 
frequent intervals of rest. Everyone should have a favorite outdoor recreation 
aside from and different from his daily work. Baseball and tennis for the vig- 
orous, golf and horseback riding and wheeling for the more mature are excellent. 

BATHING — The day's work should be followed by a short, refreshing bath. 
Nothing will prove so cheering as this. When depressed or irritable, a bath will 
oftentimes drive dull care away. People with weak hearts must be cautioned 
in using very cold water, as it is quite a shock to the nervous system. The 
average person, however, will find a quick, cool sponge bath decidedly stimu- 
lating. Many prefer it on arising in the morning. If one's work causes the 
skin to be moist during the day, it will be more refreshing to take it at the 
close of the day's work, possibly, and best before the evening meal, allowing 
some time between. 

Returning for the moment to the subject of exercise, may I hold out one 
word of warning? Housewives and men on farms are particularly liable when 
alone without help nearby to often lift an object or move it which in the act 
demands great effort. This is exceedingly dangerous, as in efforts of strain the 
blood pressure increases and harm may result. Don't attempt to lift or move 
any object requiring great effort. 

Page One Hundred Ten 



Best Wishes from 

Ghas. J. Gofer & Bros 

20 Marietta St. 



Right at Five Points and most conven- 
ient for your furnishings at all times 



Men's Furnishings 

Tailoring, Hats and Umbrellas 

First Class Barber Shop 

$1 — Suit Ticket — $1 

PRESSING DEPARTMENT 
Good for 5 Baths or 5 Pressings 

If you haven't been to see us, come, 
present this book and get a press Free 

Ghas. J. Gofer & Bros. 

Main 3495 -:- 20 Marietta Street 



Page One Hundred Eleven 



General Health Hints — Continued. 

FATIGUE — This is a day when men and women are constantly overwork- 
ing. Some housewives and many business men never know when to stop. 
Consequently they constantly overwork and never get fully rested. They are 
tired and often don't know it. Thy wonder why they are peevish and irritable. 
The truth is their blood is filled with fatigue products, their nerves are tired 
and insensible. Nothing but complete rest will help. Under such physical con- 
ditions a housewife cannot be a good mother nor a man a good father. Working 
habits must be adjusted so as to permit of rest, or living becomes miserable. 
The housewife should learn to regulate her working hours just as workingmen 
do, or health will pay the penalty. 

GENERAL HINTS IN TIME OF ACCIDENT. 

Keep cool. Try and keep others cool. This is the great need. In time of 
accident, panic or fire, serious results may be avoided if some person is calm 
enough to take charge of things and inspire confidence. It is well for one to 
get accustomed to the sight of blood. Many cannot control themselves under 
such circumstances. It is a good practice to witness an operation occasionally, 
or to assist in dressing a wound for the purpose of schooling oneself. Always 
send for a surgeon immediately in time of accident. In doing so, explain as 
fully as possible what the difficulty is, or probably may be, so that the physician 
can come prepared. Always see that the patient is made comfortable in a quiet 
place. Keep curious people away. Loosen collars and corset, especially all 
clothing about the neck and chest. If the face of the injured or unconscious 
person is pale, lower the head. In sunstroke, or where the individual's face is 
flushed, have the head high. Do not do too much. Do not touch affected parts 
with the hands. Moisten clothing in removing from wounds. In many instances 
it will be best to cut off the clothing to prevent further injury. 

HOW TO DRESS WOUNDS— The first essential is to thoroughly cleanse 
the wound and remove all foreign material. This can be done with clean water 
which has been boiled for at least ten minutes. The hands and arms to the 
elbow should be cleansed. The water can be applied with sterilized absorbent 
cotton. After the wound is thus cleansed, use a mild antiseptic v.'ash. A sat- 
urated solution of boric acid (not borax) may be used. By saturated solution 
is meant as much boric acid as water will contain in solution. 

If the wound is a smooth cut, it will bleed profusely, as the blood has diffi- 
culty in securing a hold in order to clot. After the wound is cleansed, the edges 
of it can be brought together by means of adhesive plaster. Where this cannot 
be done, a surgeon will be required to sitch the edges together. 

If the head be injured, the patient should lie down with the head resting 
upon a pillow or cushion covered with a clean towel, taking care that the injured 
part be kept from contact with surrounding articles. 

If the arm be injured it should, as a rule, be brought across in front of the 
chest and supported in a sling. 

If the lower limb be wounded it may be supported in a comfortable position 
by resting upon a cushion or blanket. 

In wounds of the chest, the head and shoulders should be raised by one or 
more pillows until the patient is able to breathe comfortably. 

If the abdomen be wounded, the patient should be made to lie down, with 
his knees drawn up, and turned over toward the uninjured side, or upon the 
back if the wound be in front. 

Page One Hundred Twelve 



YOUR BAGGAGE 

Reflects Your Personality 
Therefore 

Have It Good 

The Imperial 

LUGGAGE 

Gives you every assurance that your belongings 
will reach destination in perfect safety 

OUR GUARANTEE 



THIS PIECE OF BAGGAGE is built of care- 
fully selected materials by expert workmen, 
and is fully guaranteed by us. If repairs 
become necessary, we will make them 
FREE OF CHARGE within a period of one 
year from the date of your purchase. 

ATLANTA TRUNK & BAG FACTORY 



Our Goods MUST Make Good 

"For That's Our Way" 

Atlanta Trunk & Bag Factory 

The Trunk Store 

92 Whitehall St. 



Ptij/e One Hundred Thirteen 



General Health Hints — Continued. 

Before dressing the wound the nails should be thoroughly cleansed with a 
brush and rings removed from the fingers. After cleansing the hands, do not 
touch anything not absolutely clean. All vessels used should be cleansed with 
boiling water before using. 

If the wound is jagged, the dead pieces of tissue must be removed and extra 
precaution taken to remove all foreign particles; the latter can be removed with 
pincers. Never close up a wound until the bleeding has been stopped, as a 
small artery may be ruptured and this must be controlled first. If the wound 
is covered with grease or soot or dirt, it can be removed by using gauze moist- 
ened in turpentine or benzine. 

A punctured wound, such as an injury produced by stepping on a nail or 
form the penetration of an ice pick, is dangerous, because the wound closes and 
excludes the air, thus making the wound favorable to the development of lockjaw 
germ. This is all the more likely to occur if one steps on a rusty nail in the 
vicinity of a stable, as the lockjaw germ, or tetanus germ, is a dirt germ and 
thrives in such localities. 

The best treatment for a closed wound is to open it and let the air in, and 
keep it thus exposed, as the lockjaw germ cannot thrive in the presence of air. 
Of course the wound when thus opened should be cleansed the same as any 
other wound. 

If a needle or splinter has been the cause of the wound, see that not a par- 
ticle remains. 

In removing a splinter, see that a fair amount of the splinter is exposed so 
that a good hold can be got on it by inserting the blade of a penknife under it 
and press down upon the flesh around the top of the splinter with the thumb 
nail and draw it out gently. Sometimes it is necessary to enlarge the wound 
some to get at the splinter or other object. If the splinter is under a finger 
nail, it may be necessary to pare away much of the nail in order to expose the 
splinter. 

After the wounds are ready for final dressing, cover the wound with felted 
cotton, then apply bandages. Fish-hooks usually have to be pushed through 
the tissues, as they cannot be withdrawn. The eyelet of the hook will have to 
be filed or cut off to allow it to pass through. 

FIRST AID IN TIME OF ACCIDENT. 

WHISKEY — Whiskey of a good quality is valuable for many conditions, 
especially in case of snake bite, when it is a specific. Care should be used in 
giving it to children. 

TINCTURE OF PEPPERMINT is splendid for relieving colic, bowel trou- 
bles, and is a remedy for vomiting. The dose is ten to twenty drops on sugar. 

TINCTURE OF GINGER is also good for similar conditions, and the dose 
is ten to forty drops in sweetened water. 

AROMATIC SPIRITS OF AMMONIA is an indispensable remedy to have 
about. It is a strong stimulant as an inhalant and can also be administered 
internally, the dose being ten to thirty drops in sweetened water. It is efficient 
in restoring people in a fainting condition by letting them use it as a smelling 
bottle. 

AMMONIA WATER is quite a different remedy, and is not for internal 
use. It is good for insect bites of any kind. 

Page One Hundred Fourteen 




H. W, Railey & Co. 

Real Estate 

^ It is easy to give figures and so hard to show "Real Bar- 
gains," that it must suffice to say — you will find values to re- 
pay a journey of many miles if you come to my office and 
let me show you "just" what I have to offer. 

^ Such bargains in beautiful home sites — never — before — 
equalled. You need us, we need each other — let's get 
together. 

^ We sell on terms to suit your income at prices to suit your 
purse. 

BOARDING & RENTING BUREA U 

H. W. Railey & Co. 

1130 Candler Bldg, ATLANTA ^^°"^ ^^y ^833 



•je One Hundred Fifteen 



General Health Hints — Continued. 

TINCTURE OF ARNICA is used for bruises, wounds and cuts. Cloths 
wet with it and applied to bruises are valuable helps. 

WITCH-HAZEL likewise is helpful as a lotion for sprains, wounds and 
contusions. 

SPIRITS OF CAMPHOR is also valuable for smelling purposes and for 
inflammations. The internal dose is one to twenty drops on sugar. It is good 
to overcome gas in the bowels. 

BICARBONATE OF SODA, namely baking soda — not washing soda — is a 
good powder for burns and is an antidote for acid poisoning of any kind. 

VASELINE is a salve which can be put to many uses in treating burns, 
wounds, chafing and scalds. 

ANTISEPTIC SOLUTION— In addition to the above, it is very important 
to have a good antiseptic wash with which to cleanse wounds of all kinds. 

CARBOLIC ACID SOLUTION is good in the strength of one part of car- 
bolic acid to tWenty-five of water. 

In addition to the above, a few roll bandages of various sizes should be 
secured, as well as adhesive plaster and a good-sized package of sterilized 
absorbent cotton. In a camp, or in places where accidents occur frequently, 
this should be supplemented by some splints of pliable wood. Good, complete 
first-aid outfits, containing most of the above, can be secured from such firms 
as Johnson & Johnson, of New Brunswick, N. J., or from the National First 
Aid to the Injured Society of Boston, or the New York First Aid Society, of 
New York City. 

POISONS AND THEIR ANTIDOTES. 

In treating this important subject much could be said, but as it might prove 
confusing, I shall try and condense the information in the smallest possible 
space and make my suggestions very simple and clear. 

In cases of poisoning one must act quickly and keep cool. If the person 
affected is unconscious an empty bottle or burns upon the mouth may reveal 
the cause of poisoning. 

There are several things to be done in the treatment of poisoning: ( i) Elim- 
inate the poison from the stomach; (2) neutralize the poison by giving an anti- 
dote; (3) treat the general symptoms produced by the poisoning. Get these 
three things clear in the mind in acting. 

The material is eliminated by being vomited. Vomiting can be induced in 
the following ways: Use mustard and warm water, beginning with a glassful 
and repeating if necessary. If ipecac is in the house — and it is a good thing 
to have it about — give about a teaspoonful of syrup of ipecac to a child or a 
tablespoonful to a grow^n person every few minutes until vomiting is induced. 
Tickling the throat by inserting the forefinger in it usually brings quick results. 
In irritating poisons, like carbolic or mercury, it is wise not to produce vom- 
iting owing to the lacerated condition of the walls of the stomach. In most 
instances, however, it is wise to induce vomiting. Frequently the poison itself 
produces it. 

ANTIDOTES — In nearly all cases of poisoning, olive oil, if available, can 
be given in large doses, namely, a pint or more, as it neutralizes most poisons 
except phosphorus. This can be followed by the whites of two eggs. When in 
doubt, use the oil followed by the eggs. 

Pa(/e One Hundred SLvteen 



TAYLOR'S 



240 Marietta Street 



DEPARTMENTS 



Dress Goods, 
Wash Goods, 

Table Linens, 
Men's Clothing 
Boys' Clothing 
Ladies' Dresses 
Window Shades 


" 


Linings 

Notions 

Hosiery 

Ribbons 

Millinery 

SkirU 

Curtains 




Gent's Furnishings 

Ladies' Furnishings 

Laces and Embroideries 

Flannels and Blankets 

Hats and Caps 

Waists 


Shoes 


Shoes 







This Is The Economy Store 

TT/'E sell goods cheaper than 
other good stores — have 
one price, plain figures, and your 
money back if you want it. 

Trade where cash prices prevail, and the chances 

for your happiness and prosperity through 

life will be multiplied. 



All Street Cars Transfer to TA YLOR 'S 

MARIETTA, FOUNDRY and WALTON 
STREETS 



Pdj/c One Hundred Seventeen 



General Health Hints — Continued. 

In giving antidotes two general principles should be observed, namely, that 
acids tend to neutralize alkalies and alkalies neutralize acids. 

For poisoning from acids, such as muriatic, oxalic, acetic, sulphuric (oil of 
vitriol), nitric, or tartaric, use soapsuds, magnesia, limewater, whiting, plaster 
scraped from the wall, milk, oil and baking soda. Also by vomiting. In feeding 
the patient, do so by rectum, as the stomach will be sore. 

For poisoning from alkalies, such as ammonia, potash or soda, use acids as 
an antidote, such as vinegar, lemon juice and orange juice, followed by large 
doses of olive oil, castor oil and emetics. 

Another group of poisons are the narcotics. In this class are chloroform, 
chloral, ether and the opium preparations, such as opium, morphine, laudanum, 
paregoric and soothing syrups. Provide plenty of fresh air, induce artificial 
breathing, apply ammonia to nostrils, give cathartics and stimulants, such as 
coffee, brandy and strychnine. Compel the patient to move about. If uncon- 
scious, keep head low. 

The following poisons are mentioned specifically with their treatment: 

CARBOLIC ACID AND CREOSOTE— Vse powdered chalk, Epsom salts, 
white of egg, milk, glycerin and oil. Empty the stomach. 

ALCOHOL (Treatment) — Keep the patient active by pinching, slapping 
with wet towel or hot and cold douches to head and spine; give plenty of strong 
coffee; inhale ammonia cautiously and use artificial respiration if unconscious. 

BELLADONNA (Deadly Nightshade) — This drug is contained in cough 
mixtures, liniments, ointments and plasters. Its active principle, atropine, is 
used in eye ointments and washes. Treatment: Give emetics, stimulants, apply 
warmth to extremities and mustard plaster to feet. If insensible, use artificial 
respiration. 

FOXGLOVE (Digitalis) — Give emetics, strong tea, apply mustard plaster 
over the heart and calves of the legs and give stimulants. 

PHOSPHORUS — Poisoning frequently occurs as the result of sucking or 
swallowing the heads of matches. Treatment: Give emetics, followed by mag- 
nesia, white of egg and olive oil. 

ZINC — Bicarbonate of soda (baking powder) in water, milk, eggs, strong 
tea or warm drinks. 

TARTAR EMETIC (Antimony or Stibium)— Give warm water freely and 
stimulants, strong tea or coffee. Apply heat. 

LEAD (Red Lead, Sugar Lead, White Lead, Paints) — These poisons cause 
cramps, paralysis, convulsions, giddiness, stupor. Cause vomiting, give large 
doses of Epsom or Glauber salts, apply mustard plaster to extremities and give 
stimulating drinks. In acute attacks of lead colic the same treatment may be 
pursued, except to omit the vomiting. 

PRUSSIC ACID, a violent poison, is sometimes taken by children in eating 
the pits of stone fruits or bitter almonds, which contain it. The antidote is to 
empty the stomach by an emetic and give water of ammonia. Apply cold water 
all over the body, followed by warm-hand friction. Apply a bottle of smelling 
salts to the nose, dash cold water on the face and give stimulants, as whiskey, etc. 

VEGETABLE POISONS — Known or unknown herbs such as hellebore, bit- 
tersweet, pokeberries, hemlock, Jamestown weed, tobacco, etc. The most of 
these cause vomiting, intoxication, stupor, etc. It is a safe rule to cause vom- 
iting, give warm drinks and stimulants. 

Page One Hundred Eighteen 



WE UVE ON OLD SHOES 

THE SHOE RENURY 

o 

We are equipped with the latest and 
most up-to-date s hoe repair shop in the 
South, IVork called for and delivered 

Leather and worl^manship guaranteed 
Give us a trial and be convinced 
Free shines with all repair worl^ 



THE SHOE RENURY 

2 Auburn Avenue 

(One Door from Peachtree) 



Bell Phone Ivy 2310 :: Atlanta Phone 1493 



PcK/e One Hundred Nineteen 



General Health Hints- 

lODINE OR IODOFORM— Give freely starch or flour mixed in water, 
chalk, magnesia and stimulants, if necessary. 

BLUE VITRIOL, BLUE ^rOA'K (Sulphate of Copper)— Copper poisoning, 
due to substances which have been cooked in copper vessels. Give large drinks 
of warm water, emetic, raw eggs, milk, stimulants. 

NUX VOMICA (Strychnine) — Strong tea, animal charcoal, inhalations of 
chloroform or ether, artificial respiration. 

ACONITE — This drug is commonly found in liniments and ointments. Give 
emetics; use stimulants, ammonia and brandy; apply warmth to extremities, 
mustard plaster over heart and calves of legs. If unconscious, use artificial 
respiration. 

ARSENIC — This is a frequent cause of poisoning. It is found in insect 
powders, rat poison and Paris green, and is also used in coloring wall paper and 
artificial flowers. Give emetics promptly, large amounts of magnesia, lime 
scraped from the walls or ceilings, castor oil, sweet oil, or equal parts of sweet 
oil and limewater, or limewater alone, raw eggs, milk, stimulants. Dialyzed iron 
may be obtained at nearly every drug store. This is a prompt and perfect anti- 
dote to arsenic. 

Another class of poisons is known as the irritating gases — carbonic acid, 
chlorine, nitrous acid and hydrochloric acid. To overcome the effect from these 
gases provide plenty of fresh air, inhalations of ammonia, ether, the vapor of 
hot water, or, if handy, inhale amyl nitrite or nitro-glycerine. Produce artificial 
respiration if unconscious. 

Note — Poison ivy, snake bite, etc., are treated under "Poisonous Wounds." 
(See page — .) 

FAINTING — ^Loss of consciousness often causes considerable alarm, and, 
in fact, should not be treated as a light matter, because it may be a prelimi- 
nary to a grave illness. 

The first thing to discover in the case of insensibihty is the cause. Notice 
the surroundings. The condition may be due to a fall, fright, loss of blood, 
drunkenness, or poisoning. Convulsions would suggest epileptic fits, hysteria, 
or kidney disease. If, however, the cause of the injury is unknown, then a syste- 
matic examination of the body should be made. The presence of a wound or 
bruise or bleeding would throw light upon the cause. Examine the eyes. If 
they are sensitive to the touch, brain injuries may be eliminated. If the pupils 
are contracted, it is indicative of opium poisoning, while unequal contraction is 
a sign of brain lesions. If face be drawn to one side, it would suggest paralysis. 
A bloated face or the odor of liquor would be the sign of intoxication. 

Treatment : Lay the patient on his back. If the face is white and blood- 
less, have his head lower than his body. Let him have plenty of fresh air. 
Loosen the clothing. Apply cold water to the face. This in most cases will 
bring a return to consciousness. Aromatic spirits of ammonia is a good thing 
to use as a smelling salts and to give internally when consciousness returns. 

The above treatment is applicable in all cases of simple fainting due to 
weakness, mental emotions and close, warm atmosphere of crowds. 

In the event of fainting from shock following an accident, there may be 
more marked symptoms, such as coldness of the skin, dilation of the pupils 
and weak heart action. 

In addition to the above treatment the skin should be rubbed briskly. 

Page One Hundred Ticenfi/ 



Phone Main 365 1 Residence Phone M. 5425 



E. Y. CROCKETT 

Contractor 

For All Kinds of 

Store and Office Work 
Counters, Shelving, 
Book and Wall Cases 
Office Partitions, Store 
Fronts, Painting and 
Wall Tinting 



We furnish men by the hour for any small job 



Number 160 SOUTH PRYOR STREET 

ATLANTA - GEORGIA 



J'lii/c One Hundred Tiventy-One 



General Health Hints — Continued. 

bleeding, if any, controlled, wounds dressed and broken bones -wound up. Hot 
water bottles, flatirons or plates should be applied to the extremities. Hot 
coffee is a good stimulant. 

The temperament of the injured person is an important factor in determining 
the amount of shock. Some people go into hysterics over a very simple thing. 
I have known people to faint at the very sight of blood. One experience comes 
to my mind of a young lady who was the sweetheart of a member of a volunteer 
regiment. He had violated some rule of the regiment and was placed in the 
guardhouse for twenty-four hours as a penalty. The young lady was told of 
the circumstance and was so overcome that she fell in a dead faint. She was 
picked up from the street and carried into a store. Seizing a glass of water 
from the counter in the store, I soaked a handkerchief in it and applied it to 
her face. She immediately revived. She seemed composed for a time, but 
suddenly she seemed overwhelmed with the terrible thought that her lover was 
imprisoned behind iron bars unjustly and that she would not be able to see 
him nor hear his familiar voice for twenty-four long hours. She ran down the 
street toward the armory, but fell in a dead faint in the middle of the car 
tracks. I rushed out and dragged her from in front of a rapidly approaching 
car. Again I applied the wet cloth, and she immediately revived. This time 
I held on to her wrist and gave her a good talking to. This proved a very 
effective means of treatment. 

STUNNING — A condition of the mind extending from bewilderment to 
insensibility, due to shaking of the brain by sudden violence. Concussion of 
the brain. Pilcher mentions three varieties: 

(i) Slight Stunning— After a blow or fall the patient is confused and pale 
and the pulse weak for a few moments. Treatment: Rest, lying down, and 
apply wet cloth to head. 

(2) Moderate Stunning — Patient insensible and immovable, skin cold, pulse 
weak, eyes closed, pupils contracted. May be aroused, but returns to uncon- 
sciousness. Then comes a period of returning consciousness and restlessness; 
vomiting often occurs on return to consciousness. Treatment: Rest, lying 
down, quiet of body. Apply heat to feet and lower part of body and cold to 
head. 

(3) Severe Stunning— Serious. Patient cannot be aroused. Pulse very weak 
and irregular. Skin cold and clammy. Recovery is very slow and death often 
occurs. Liability to excessive reaction and complication of congestion of the 
brain. No stimulants of any kind are to be given where the brain is affected. 

In all cases of complete shock, such as may come from those cases men- 
tioned in this and other articles, and in cases of apoplexy and compression of 
brain, the treatment outlined above should be pursued. The patient must be 
kept quiet, placed in a comfortable position, the head kept cool and the extremi- 
ties warm. This to be done until the physician arrives, who should be called 
immediately. 

INSENSIBILITY FROM SUNSTROKE— Tht attack is usually preceded 
by giddiness, weakness and nausea, eyes bloodshot and contracted, skin hot and 
dry, subject unconscious, breathing quick and loud, heart rapid and tumultuous. 

Treatment: Place patient on back in a cool place with head raised. The 
chief object is to reduce his excessive heat. Remove clothing; pour cold water 
all over the body. Pilcher says to hold the vessel four or five feet above the 
patient and pour first on the head, then on the chest and abdomen, and then on 

Page One Hundred Twenty-Two 



No. 325 EMPll<^', lUJILDING 




WILL BE GLAD TO 
M SHOW YOU PLANS AND SPECIFICATIONS 

WHEN YOU ARE IN THE 
MARKET TO 
j BUILD 



P(i(/e One Hundred Twenty-Three 



General Health Hints — Continued, 

the extremities, and to repeat until conscious. Bags of cracked ice may be 
applied to the head and under armpits. The patient should be wrapped in cold 
sheets or placed in a tub containing cold water. Continue until patient is con- 
scious or the heat greatly diminished. Repeat if symptoms return. 

In prostration from excessive heat — not sunstroke — place the patient on his 
back, with his head on a level with his body, and loosen clothing. Apply heat 
to the surface of the body and extremities. Bathe the face with warm water 
into which a little alcohol or whiskey has been poured. In prostration from 
drinking too much ice water when overheated, loosen clothing, place on back 
with head slightly elevated, give hot drinks, apply heat to the spine and the 
extremities. Don't give any alcoholic stimulants. Tea, coffee or warm milk 
may be used. 

In exhaustion from heat due to hard work and confinement in close, hot 
atmosphere, cover the body with blankets and apply heat to the extremities. 
Send for a physician. 

ELECTRICITY ACCIDENTS— Proceed as follows: (i) Shut off the cur- 
rent or release the injured person from contact with it. ( 2) Don't touch the 
person affected or the live wire with the bare hands. 

If rubber shoes and gloves can be secured, well and good. Stand on a dry 
board and cover the hands with woolen cloths or paper. If a tool of any kind 
is used, it should have a wooden handle. 

After shutting off the current, lay the patient down, keep him warm and 
apply artiiicial respiration. 

LIGHTNING ACCIDENTS— To prevent accident: (i) Avoid standing 
under trees to escape from the rain during a thunder storm, but boldly expose 
yourself to the wet; it will preserve you from the lightning. ( 2) Avoid standing 
close to any metallic bodies, as lead pipes or iron railings, etc. (3) When 
indoors during a thunder storm, sit or stand as near to the middle of the room 
as convenient. Avoid standing at the window or sitting near the wall. 

TREATMENT OF SPECIAL PARTS. 

RUPTURE OF VARICOSE VEINS— Zlevate the limb, loosen garters and 
apply bandage below the wound and also over it. Blood clots help to stop the 
bleeding and should not be removed. 

BLEEDING OF HAND, WRIST OR .4/?M— Elevate the arm. In arterial 
bleeding, make pressure on the inner side of the arm, midway between the 
elbow and the armpit. 

FOREARM — Raise the forearm above the head. In addition to the pressure 
on the wound or above it, place a hard pad, such as a small bottle or stick, in 
the front of the elbow, then bend the forearm of the elbow and bandage firmly 
to the upper arm. 

FINGERS — Pressure may be made at the wrist by using a rubber band. 
If a single finger is affected, a band on the finger close to the hand will suffice. 

PALM OF HAND — A hard, round object like a billiard ball or a hard apple, 
covered with gauze, gra.sped tightly in the hand will prove effective in stopping 
the hemorrhage. The hand can be bound down upon the ball. 

ARMPIT — Pack the armpit with a hard substance, such as a rolled or 
knotted towel, and then press the arm upon it; or, if the latter is severed, 
bind the material tight to parts by running a bandage about the body or shoul- 

Pa(/e One Hundred Twentif-Four 






U ATLANTA PHONE 276 BELL PHONE IVY 5974 j;;t 

ill; * \"f 

III jiii 

II LISTEN — You are now probably happy but you will be i;;| 

Ij more so when you move into a nice || 

I Cozy Home |j 



Of your own. Can pay for it like rent. | 
If you have not already found it, let || 
us help you locate it. I 



I Your interest will be our interest, and 
l| it will be our pleasure to count you 
! as one of our satisfied customers. 



Phone Us Your Wishes 

Kesner Realty Company 

3rd Floor Walton Building 

I'df/e One Ilnndred Twenty-Five 



Gei 



ealth oints — Continu^i 



der. Pressure should be made upon the artery which lies back of the collar 
bone. 

THIGH AND LEGS — In bleeding of the lower limb, pressure should be 
made on the inner side of the thigh near the groin, over the femoral artery. 
This can easily be found. Pressure can be made by the fingers, elastic bands 
or tourniquet. Remember always that such pressure must not be kept on 
too long. 

Bleeding below the knee can also be arrested by placing a stick back of 
the knee and doubling the leg back upon it tightly, binding it with a bandage. 

Elevation of the leg assists in overcoming the blood flow in all wounds of 
the lower leg. 

NOSEBLEED — Packing the nose with gauze usually is effective in severe 
cases. If bleeding continues, summon a surgeon. 

INTERNAL BLEEDING— Apply iced cloths to abdomen. Have the pa- 
tient lie quietly. If faint, lower head. If bleeding is from lungs or stomach, 
give lumps of ice and apply iced cloths to chest or stomach. In accidents, 
bleeding from tongue or cut lips may sometimes deceive one, and it may be 
thought to come from the lungs or stomach. The mouth should be examined 
carefully. It seems needless to remind one that in internal bleeding a surgeon 
should be sent for at once. 

BLEEDING OF NECK AND F^C£— Bleeding of the neck is very dan- 
gerous, as it is near the large trunk blood vessels. Pressure with the thumb 
should be made at the base of the neck, outside the windpipe and near the 
collar bone. Make the pressure against the spine. For bleeding of the face, 
pressure can be made underneath the lower jawbone. A little notch can be 
found about midway between the chin and back part of the jaw, on its lower 
portion, through which this artery passes and which supplies the face. Pressure 
on it shuts off the supply. 

BLEEDING OF THE TEMPLE can be readily suppressed by pressure on 
the temporal artery, which can readily be seen on the outer side of the forehead. 

SCALP — Bleeding of the scalp can easily be stopped, usually by direct pres- 
sure upon the bleeding point. 

CHEST AND ABDOMEN— All that can be done is to apply direct pressure 
by means of a large supply of gauze, holding it there with the hand until sur- 
gical help comes, or possibly binding it on the wound by running the bandage 
about the body. 

POISONED WOUNDS. 

INSECT BITES — For mosquito bites, stings from gnats, wasps, bees and 
spiders, ammonia is the best treatment. Oil may follow, or the parts washed 
in salt water. Baking soda dissolved in warm water is also good. The sting 
should be removed. Benzine is said to be good for bites of harvest bugs. Cam- 
phor is a good preventive of bug and gnat bites. 

SNAKE BITE— Act quickly. When bitten by a snake the first thing to 
do is to prevent the poison from getting into the general circulation. This can 
be done by immediately sucking the wound. Precaution must be used in seeing 
that the mouth is not sore or the poison swallowed. Shut off the circulation 
from the part by bandaging the limb — if such it be — tightly, or, if in another 
part, by pressure over the vein. Open the wound with a knife blade and let 
the blood flow freely and squeeze the poison out. Some advise use of a cup- 

Page One Hundred Twenty-Six 



MYERS^MILLER 

WILL DIVIDE YOUR PA YMENTS 



Before the Wedding — 
select your Furniture 
and Household needs 
— at this Store! Then 
you can move right into 
a cozy, handsome home 
of your own — when 
you re married! 

Our prices, are, indeed, 
reasonable! Come and 
see! 




MYERS-MILLER 

FURNITURE CO. 

6 and 8 W. Mitchell Si, 2 Doors from Whitehall 



J'iKje One Hundred Twenty-Seven 



ijieiieral Jnleaim omte — i^ontmueo, 

ping glass. Wash the wound with an antiseptic. If a caustic can be had, burn 
out the wound with it. This can be done also with a hot iron. Keep the 
bandage on several hours, and when releasing it do so gradually. Whiskey is 
recommended as a stimulant. 

DOG BITE — The same treatment as used for snake bite can be used for 
dog bite. People frequently get very much excited over a bite from a dog. 
Hydrophobia is rare. I would advise, if the dog shows no sign of being mad, 
that it be not killed, but penned up and watched. This will, if the dog is nor- 
mal, relieve the patient and his friends from anxiety. Later, when the patient's 
condition is absolutely known, such measures may be taken with the dog as 
may assure the protection of society. In cities where antihydrophobia serum 
is provided this may be used as a preventive measure. 

All animal and rodent bites should receive the same attention as has been 
recommended for dog bites. 

POISON IVY AND POISON OAK, SUMAC, ETC.— When poisoned from 
these plants an irritating rash appears and is frequently accompanied by a pain- 
ful swelling of the parts affected. A strong solution of baking soda is good. 
Zinc ointment is also recommended, or, in the absence of these, plain vaseline 
is good. Several authorities recommend bathing the parts two or three times 
a day with sweet spirits of niter. 

FOREIGN BODIES IN THE NOSE—'B\o^N the nose hard while holding 
the opposite nostril closed. Excite sneezing by tickling the nose or by giving 
snuff. Instruct the patient to take a full breath and close the mouth, then 
give a sharp blow on the back between the shoulders. The best way to remove 
a foreign body is with a syringe, but this should be done by an experienced 
physician. 

FOREIGN BODIES IN THE THROAT— An obstruction can generally be 
carried down by swallowing pieces of bread or potato slightly masticated, or, 
better still, a raw egg, fresh from the shell and with its original consistency 
broken as little as possible. Slapping on the back sometimes helps. Sometimes 
the obstruction will go down too far to be reached by the fingers. In such 
cases copious draughts of water should be swallowed rapidly, and if this fails 
to remove it, give mustard water or any other emetic. Should vomiting fail to 
bring up the obstruction, then mechanical means must be tried. Take a long 
spoon, bend it slightly, make the patient throw his head well back and push 
the handle boldly down the throat. If it is kept well to the back of the throat 
no harm can be done. The same operation may more conveniently be per- 
formed by a bit of sponge attached to a piece of whalebone. Occasionally sub- 
stances will get into such a position in the throat as to necessitate a surgical 
operation. 

BURNS — Burns are caused by contact with fire, the rays of the sun, very 
hot bodies or chemicals. Pilcher divides them into three classes, according to 
their degree of severity: (i) Mere painful redness, (2)' formation of blisters. 
(3) charring. In severe burns there may be considerable destruction of tissue 
and great shock. 

To treat a burn, first remove the clothing by cutting it away with a pair 
of scissors. If it sticks, do not pull it off, but flood it with oil. 

If blisters are present, let the water out by pricking them with a needle 
after passing it through a flame to sterilize it. Take care not to break the 
blisters so as to avoid exposing the tender surface to the air. 

Page One Hundred Twenty-EUiht 



Atlanta Phone 3066 B 



Parisian Pressing 
Parlor 

DENNIS DAVIS, Proprietor 

Steam Pressing and Dry Cleaning 



Work Called for and Delivered 
in 30 Minutes 



Suits Pressed While You Wait 
Five Minutes 



Satisfaction Guaranteed 



Dressing Rooms 11 Auburn Ave. 



Paye One Hundred Twenty-Nine 



General Health Hints — Continued, 

Promptly exclude the air by applying a compress wet with water in which 
is dissolved a liberal amount of baking soda. Apply any oil, such as olive oil, 
sweet oil, fresh lard, unsalted butter, vaseline, etc. One of the best oils to 
use is a solution of equal parts of linseed oil and limewater. 
, In the absence of oil, dust boric acid over it or apply clay. Cover the wound 
in cotton or some soft material. If the wound is wet, always see to it that oil 
has been used freely before using cotton, as whea dry the latter will stick and 
reopen the burned surface when an attempt is made to remove it. 

Burns caused by acids should be thoroughly washed with water, then with 
a solution of baking soda and water, and then treated like an ordinary burn. 

Burns caused by alkalies, such as caustic potash, caustic soda or ammonia, 
should be washed with vinegar or some other dilute acid. 

Treat shock as explained under "Fainting." 

Cover severe burns as quickly as possible, so as to exclude the air. An 
application should be ready to apply immediately. Do not expose the wound, 
as it may prove fatal. If burn is extensive, dress but a small portion at a time. 

The bicarbonate of soda and oils are best applied by dipping cloths into 
them, ointments by spreading on cloths and then applying. 

In burns of the mouth or throat, apply the oil or white of an egg by drinking 
them. If caused by chemicals, the mouth and throat should be rinsed by the 
proper antidote— vinegar or dilute acid in case of caustic soda; potash, ammonia 
or lye, and a solution of baking soda for acid burns. 

In severe burns, summon physician at once, as there may be considerable 
destruction of tissue and danger of great shock. Burns often heal slowly and 
are frequently attended by fearful scars and deformity. 

Sunburn is a burn of the first degree and should be treated as such. 

A person whose clothing is burning should be made to lie down — if neces- 
sary, thrown down — as the tendency of the flames is to rise upward. When 
the patient is lying down the flames have less to feed on and there is not so 
much danger of their reaching the face or inhaling the fumes. The person 
should be quickly wrapped in a shawl or blanket of wool — not cotton — and the 
fire smothered by pressing on the burning part. 

BLEEDING — To be efficient in stopping a hemorrhage it is necessary to 
know that blood comes from two sources, namely, arteries and veins. It must 
also be remembered that blood in an artery comes from the heart, and that 
blood in a vein is on its way to the heart. Thus, in stopping the bleeding from 
an artery pressure must be made between the heart and the wound, while in 
bleeding from a vein pressure must be made on the distant side of the wound. 

It is not difficult to determine whether the bleeding is from an artery or a 
vein, as in an artery the blood spurts and pulsates, while blood from a vein 
oozes and flows without pulsation in a steady stream. 

Bleeding from an artery, especially one of considerable size, is very serious, 
and prompt efforts must be made to stop it. 

GENERAL RULES FOR TREATMENT— Send for a physician immedi- 
ately. Have the injured person lie down and elevate the wounded part. This 
can be done readily if an arm or leg is affected. Remove clothing from the 
affected part — it may be necessary to cut it off. Keep the patient as quiet as 
possible. Apply pressure direct upon the bleeding point by pressing the finger, 
covered with gauze, upon it. If the bleeding is from an artery, make the pres- 

Paffe One Hundred Thirty 






Ai 

iiiimuig*)* 



The S. A. Clayton Company 



Successors to CLAYTON & ZAHN 



Manicuring, Chiropodist and 

Hair Dressing Parlors 

Facial Massage 



Manufacturers of Hair Goods and 
Toilet Requisites 



Bell Phone 1 769 .'. 361/2 Whitehall Street 



Pa(/e One Hundred Thirly-One 



General Health Hints — I 

sure above the wound; that is, between it and the heart. This can be done with 
an elastic band, a pair of elastic suspenders or tightly wound bandages. In 
severe cases a tourniquet must be used. This can be made by first strapping 
the limb with a bandage, making a knot in it, which should be placed at a point 
above the wound directly over the artery supplying the bleeding point. The 
artery can be located with the index finger, as its pulsations can be detected. 
When the knot is made, a loop should be made also directly over it, through 
which a small stick can be placed. This can be twisted and thus pressure is 
brought to bear upon the artery until the bleeding ceases. The bleeding point 
must be watched in the event that the flow may recur. Such a tourniquet must 
not be left on the arm or leg for too long a time. In minor wounds the bleed- 
ing will be arrested in fifteen to twenty minutes, when the pressure can be 
reduced. In severe cases of bleeding, apply cold by means of ice bandages; in 
ordinary bleeding, pressure by means of gauze upon the wound is sufficient 
to stop it. 

In excessive bleeding, general treatment of the patient is needful. The 
patient may faint or become very weak. In the lattr case heat should be ap- 
plied to the extremities and blankets secured. To overcome the fainting, see 
directions for this purpose. 

After the bleeding has stopped, treat as a wound. Apply gauze which has 
been saturated in a mild antiseptic solution, then apply absorbent cotton and 
dress with bandages. Absolute cleanliness must be observed. There are some 
popular ideas that cobwebs, tobacco and salves are good to stop bleeding. They 
should never be used, as they may cause blood poisoning. 

DISLOCATIONS — In dislocations the patient cannot move the limb; there 
is deformity, shortening and pain. It is usually an easy matter to diagnose a 
dislocation, whereas it is often very difficult to detect a fracture. 

Treatments: Send for a physician immediately, and while awaiting his 
arrival place the patient in as comfortable position as possible. Support the 
injured part with pillows or bandages and apply hot towels to the part to reduce 
the pain and inflammation. Dislocations are not so serious if reduced imme- 
diately before inflammation has begun seriously. 

Long delay makes the work of adjustment very hard, and in severe cases 
the swelling must be reduced before the dislocation can be treated. Yet, while 
this is true, unskilled handling may prove very serious, and where it is possible 
to secure a surgeon the dislocation had better remain untouched until his 
arrival. Where, however, a surgeon cannot be secured for several hours, an 
attempt may be made to correct the dislocation and a few hints are given 
how to act. 

The most common dislocation, no doubt, is that of the fingers. This occurs 
very frequently in games of baseball. Often the first joint of the finger is 
thrown out of place and is turned upward and backward. The first act in the 
treatment is to grasp the tip of the finger firmly. Then increase slightly the 
deformity in order to loosen the impaction; at the same time press the dislo- 
cated end into place and pull forward firmly but not roughly. When reduced, 
it would be wise to use a small stick as a splint and bandage the finger, making 
it absolutely immovable. Frequent baths in water as hot as can be borne will 
help to soothe and heal. 

Page One Hundred Thirty-Two 



MATJ',RNITY 




iiiii!liijilii|i!l|l|||jiiip 



EtKical, Exclusive, Home-Like 
Trained Nurses 



Homes for Infants Provided by Adoption if 
Desired 



For terms address 



RS, M. T, MITCimLL 

26 Windsor St., ATLANTA, GA. 



Page One Hundred Thirty-Three 



The Bride's Time Table 



BOILING 

Eggs, Soft 3 or 4 Minutes 

Eggs, Medium --p. —5 or 6 Minutes 

Eggs, Hard ■ l__Half an hour 

Rice, in Double Boiler 1 Hour 

Rice, in Boiling Water 20 Minutes 

Hominy 2 to 4 Hours 

Corn Meal, in Double Boiler 4 Hours 

Green Corn 10 Minutes 

Asparagus 20 to 40 Minutes 

Spinach 15 to 30 Minutes 

Chicken 2 Hours, Simmering 

Corned Beef 5 or 6 Hours, Simm^ing 

Ham, Medium Size 5 Hours 

Tongue, Smoked 4 Hours 

Cod 6 Minutes for Each Pound 

Salmon 15 Minutes for Each Pound 

Halibut 15 Minutes for Each Pound 



BROILING 

Thin Fish 5 to 8 Minutes 

Thick Fish 12 to 15 Minutes 

Thin Steak, Rare 5 Minutes 

Thin Steak, Well Done .—8 Minutes, Turning Often 

Thick Steak, Rare 1 to 12 Minutes 

Thick Steak, Well Done .__15 to -20 Minutes, Turning Often 

Lamp Chops — 8 to 15 Minutes 

Spring Chicken 20 Minutes 

BAKING 

Loaf Cake 20 to 40 Minutes 

Sponge Cake - 50 to 60 Minutes 

Gingerbread, in 2-inch Sheet 20 Minutes 

Gingerbread, in 3-inch Cake --30 Minutes 

Rolls 15 Minutes 

Bread Muffins 30 Minutes 

Pie Crust 30 to 40 Minutes 

Biscuits '—-Z 15 to 20 Minutes 

Cookies 8 to 15 Minutes 

Lamb or Mutton 15 Minutes for Each Pound 

Roast Beef, Well Done . 15 Minutes for Each Pound 

Roast Beef, Rftre 1 12 Minutes for Each Pound 

Chicken 25 Minutes for Each Pound 

Small Birds 15 Minutes 

Tame Duck 45 Minutes to 1 Hour 

Wild Duck '. 30 to 45 Minutes 



Page One Hundred Thirty-Four 



Warm Air Heating 



C. A. GOUGE 



Ji \ 




Tin and 
Sheet 
Metal 
Work 

Warm Air 
Heating 

and 
General 
Jobbing 

Both 
Phones 



Our Work is Its Own Best 
Recommendation 

Call Us Up for Prompt Service 

C. A. GOUGE 



66 IVY STREET 



ATLANTA, GA. 



Pa<jc One IJinidred Thirty-Five 



Index to Contents 



Page. 

Accidents, What To Do 112 — 116 

Advertisers 137 

Bread 26 — 28 

Bride's (Cooking) Time Table 134 

Cakes 32 — 42 

Candy 56 — 58 

Care of Infants 102 — 108 

Cheese and Eggs 10 

Dislocations 132 

Drinks 60 — 74 

Drinks for Invalids 96 — 100 

Eggs 10 

Fish 12 — 14 

Food for Invalids 88 — 96 

For the Entertainer 60 — 74 

General Health Hints no — 132 

Home Remedies 100 — 102 

Household Hints 18 

Ices 54— 56 

Index to Advertisers _ 137 

Meats 8— 10. 

Miscellaneous 22 

Nourishment for Infants 102 — 108 

Pickles 24 

Pies 44 — 46 

Poisons and Antidotes 116 — 122 

Poisoned Wounds 126 — 130 

Puddings 48 — 52 

Salads 20 — 22 

Sandwiches 30 

Soups 4 — 6 

Time Table (Cooking) 134 

Treatment of Special Parts 124 — 126 

Vegetables 16 — 18 

What a Mother Should Know and Do 78 — 108 

Page One Hundred Thirty-Six 



Index to Advertisers 



Page 

Alamo Theatre 5 

Ansley, Edwin P 95 

Atlanta Development Co 105 

Atlanta Milling Co 29 

Atlanta Trunk & Bag 

Factory 25 and 113 

Bagley & Willett 41 

Bauknight Furn. Co 57 

Bostrom Mfg. Co 31 

Bowles, Linden 123 

Cherry, Pink Market 9 

Clayton, S. A. 131 

Cofer, Chas. J. & Bro iii 

Cohen, B. 15 

Cole Book Co 43 

Crockett. E. Y 121 

Dahl, C. A., Floral Co 67 

Driver Hardware Co 35 

Eastman Realty Co 45 

Embrey Construction Co 89 

Empire Furniture Co 7 

Eureka Hair Dressing Parlors 51 

Excelsior Laundry 71 

Falks' Fooderies 76 — 77 

Feld Realty Co 61 

French Dry Cleaning Co 97 

Gate City Gun and Locksmith__ 85 

Georgia Laundry 53 

Gouge, C. A. 135 

Gunter-Watkins Drug Co 83 

Hall, Dr. B. E 75 

Hannemann's Bakery 27 

Haverty Furniture Co 11 

I'df/f (hie Ilninlrcd Thirty-Seven 



Page 

Hatcher, Thurston 37 

High, J. M. Co 19 

Home Art Supply Co 59 

Jones-Kennedy Furniture Co 79 

Kamper, C. J. Grocery Co 17 

Kenney Furniture Co. 109 

Kesner Realty Co 125 

King Hardware Co 55 

Ludden & Bates 69 

Mitchell, Mrs. H. M 133 

Meldrim, Dr. H. L loi 

Miller Minute Messenger Service 49 

Mutual Benefit Life Ins. Co 87 

Myers-Miller Furniture Co. 127 

Parker, Ernest Co. 81 

Parisian Pressing Parlors__ 129 

Queen Mantel & Tile Co 63 

Railey, H. W. & Co 115 

Randolph, The Co 107 

Reid, Arthur M 73 

Rhodes-Wood Furniture Co 39 

Robinson, Chas. S. Furniture Co. 47 

Romer, G. W 93 

Shoe Renury 119 

Southern Paint & Varn. Works__i03 

Spirella Corset Co 13 

Sterchi Furniture & Carpet Co._ 91 

Stone, F. O. Baking Co 33 

Sudan's Buttermilk Co 65 

Taylor's Department Store 117 

Third National Bank 99 

Walk-Over Shoe Shop 21 

Wilburn, Leila Ross 23 



PRESS OF 

WEBB & VARY CO.. 

ATLANTA. GA. 



BIRTHS 



MEMORANDA 



s^ "^. 



' .. '^- ^ N " ^v 






'^^ .<^ 



av 
























<^^ 






/^V., '^^ X^/f'Af.^^/'^ 









.-5^^ 



%. C^^ ^^ 






o^\^^ 



xV . 






\^ 



,A r , 



'i' /- 



A^- 






.^'^ %. 






'-^^^ 



V^ 






ft s "■ V^ 






.0^ 









^^- V^^ 



^' 



'^^ \""^^^'^, 






V.y 



- 



\^ 






:^ 



■'^c^ ,<x^' 



^^^ .^ 



^^^ ^^ 



,#\'^'«* -'< 






% ^"^ 






^^^v^ 

.$^% 



a\ 



N 



o.'«-' 



.^^ -^^^ 






x-^' 




'Ca. <» 









0^^ 



c>y 



rO' 



Oo. 










'r O 










^ 




/ 








\ ! 








/ 


■^-^.. v-^^ 













' ,0 



'^ 



V->v s- ' * ?/, *C 




^- V ..,■•>. . . 




-- c,- 




<- ^• 




A^"'^. . ,V^ 


■ , 


<<■ 


■^^. ^ .^^ 




^.S' '~ • 


: '>'■. 




"-^^ ' "- 


.'"OO^ 







u .<^ 



i^^. 















^.^' "%^'''' --r 









K^A^^' ^''^ %, .^^^' *^ ^ ^<^- 



,00 



LIDHMnT U/r owiiv-"! 



014 183 406 A 




'».^ 



