HARVARD HEALTH TALKS 

THE CARE AND FEEDING OF 

CHILDREN 
BY JOHN LOVETT MORSE 

PRESERVATIVES AND OTHER 
CHEMICALS IN FOODS: THEIR USE 

AND ABUSE 
BY OTTO FOLIN 

THE CARE OF THE SKIN 
BY CHARLES JAMES WHITE 

THE CARE OF THE SICK ROOM 
BY ELBRIDGE GERRY CUTLER 

THE CARE OF THE TEETH 

BY CHARLES ALBERT BRACKETT 

In Preparation 



HARVARD HEALTH TALKS 



HARVARD HEALTH TALKS 



PRESERVATIVES AND 

OTHER CHEMICALS IN FOODS: 

THEIR USE AND ABUSE 



BY 



OTTO FOLIN, PH.D. 

HAMILTON KUHN PROFESSOR OF BIOLOGICAL CHEMISTRY 

IN HARVARD UNIVERSITY 





CAMBRIDGE 

HARVARD UNIVERSITY PRESS 
1914 



COPYRIGHT, 1914 
HARVARD UNIVERSITY PRESS 



HARVARD HEALTH TALKS 

PRESENTING the substance of some 
* of the public lectures delivered at 
the Medical School of Harvard Univer- 
sity, this series aims to provide in easily 
accessible form modern and authorita- 
tive information on medical subjects 
of general importance. The following 
committee, composed of members of 
the Faculty of Medicine, has editorial 
supervision of the volumes published: 

EDWARD HICKLING BRADFORD, 
A.M., M.D., Dean of the Faculty of 
Medicine, and Professor of Orthopedic 
Surgery, Emeritus. 

HAROLD CLARENCE ERNST, A.M., 
M.D., Professor of Bacteriology. 

WALTER BRADFORD CANNON, A.M., 
M.D., George Higginson Professor of 
Physiology. 



PRESERVATIVES AND 

OTHER CHEMICALS IN FOODS: 

THEIR USE AND ABUSE 



PRESERVATIVES AND 

OTHER CHEMICALS IN FOODS 

THEIR USE AND ABUSE 

THE practice of preserving perishable 
food materials for longer or shorter 
periods is by no means a modern innova- 
tion. The applications of heat and cold 
represent old family methods which have 
only been extended and improved in the 
modern canning and cold storage indus- 
tries. The drying of fruits, fish, and 
meats is a practice of very ancient ori- 
gin. The use of salt for similar purposes 
doubtless antedates all historical records. 
The use of sugar, either alone or together 
with acetic acid in the form of vinegar, 
and with various spices, is an old con- 
trivance. The application of creosote 
obtained crudely from the smoke of in- 
completely burned wood materials is the 



HARVARD HEALTH TALKS 

ancient forerunner of some of the modern 
packing-house processes. This process 
was probably accidentally discovered in 
connection with crude attempts to use 
artificial heat for drying purposes. 

Concerning the value and legitimacy 
of these old family methods there is com- 
paratively little difference of opinion. 
It is generally understood that salt meat 
is less good than the fresh article, that 
dried apples do not make the best apple 
pie, that chipped dried beef is not an 
adequate substitute for a fresh piece of 
steak; but for all that, these various 
substitutes for the fresh materials are 
accepted as more or less indispensable 
articles of food. The only reason prob- 
ably why no one attempts to invoke 
the law as a protection for the people 
against these embalmed or mummified 
food products is that the people have 
been familiar with them from time im- 
memorial, and know, or are supposed to 
know, how to use them. 
10 



PRESERVATIVES IN FOODS 

The cause of the decay of food ma- 
terials, as is of course now very generally 
known, is the presence of bacteria in 
them. With the discovery of these organ- 
isms (the study of which has since devel- 
oped into the science of Bacteriology) it 
became clear that the way to prevent the 
decay of organic materials is to exclude 
the bacteria or to kill them. And as to 
exclude them mechanically from foods is 
practically impossible, the problem of pre- 
serving foods became the problem of ren- 
dering foods unfit for bacteria to live in. 

The underlying principle on which the 
art of preserving perishable organic ma- 
terials is built is thus a contribution of 
the science of Bacteriology, and became 
clearly understood during the latter half 
of the nineteenth century. With the 
advent of that science and the develop- 
ment of the miscroscope, began the battle 
against the countless hosts of micro- 
organisms which were found to invade 
practically everything fit for human food, 
11 



HARVARD HEALTH TALKS 

and which were thought to be also the 
cause of all diseases. The investigations 
which followed brought out rapidly and 
systematically the potency and relative 
efficiency of a great many chemicals in 
destroying the different forms of these 
new enemies, which made up in number 
what they lacked in size. 

The chief early use of such chemicals 
was their application in medicine as 
antiseptics rather than as preservatives 
of food materials. Corrosive sublimate, 
silver nitrate, carbolic acid, boric acid 
and borax, benzoic acid and benzoates, 
salicylic acid and salicylates, formalde- 
hyde, hydrogen peroxide, iodoform, to- 
gether with a great many other less 
familiar substances, became known as 
germicides and antiseptics, i. e., as sub- 
stances possessing the property of kill- 
ing more or less effectively the various 
microorganisms, or at least of preventing 
their development and multiplication. 
The medical antiseptics are of course also 
12 



PRESERVATIVES IN FOODS 

" preservatives," and the application of 
the milder antiseptics to perishable food 
materials for purposes of preservation 
was not long in coming, and was easily 
found to be not only more convenient, 
but also far more effective for the preser- 
vation of all kinds of food materials than 
the more primitive methods of the house- 
wives. 

Unfortunately the application of these 
new methods for preserving food was not 
left where it belonged, with critical and 
disinterested scientific investigators, but 
was seized upon by alert men whose chief 
interest was of the pecuniary kind. The 
outcome might have been foreseen. The 
investigation along this line which their 
interests called for resolved itself into the 
simple one of finding the smallest per- 
centage of this or that antiseptic which 
would prevent the decay of some parti- 
cular food product, and trusting to luck 
that the chemical used might prove 

13 



HARVARD HEALTH TALKS 

harmless to the consumer. By means of 
greater liberality with the antiseptics, 
which are cheap, the enterprising manu- 
facturer also succeeded in preparing 
food products for the market from ma- 
terials already so decayed as to be unsal- 
able in their original condition. With 
characteristic optimism the manufac- 
turer doubtless believed, or hoped, that 
such decayed materials containing a 
mixture of dead bacteria and their de- 
composition products, when joined with 
the antiseptic and sufficient spices, would 
turn out to be good food as well as good 
money makers. 

Unfortunately the most difficult, in 
fact the only difficult problem, to solve 
in connection with the use of these newer 
chemicals as food preservatives is the 
question as to their effect on the health 
of the consumer. By the national Pure 
Food and Drug Act of 1906, as inter- 
preted under the rules and regulations 

14 



PRESERVATIVES IN FOODS 

formulated by Dr. Wiley and his asso- 
ciates, any food article which contains 
some " added poisonous or other dele- 
terious ingredient which may render such 
article injurious to health " is adulter- 
ated. But in the absence of specific and 
adequate evidence to the contrary, it 
follows practically as a matter of course 
that chemicals which are effective in 
killing or in preventing the develop- 
ment of bacteria must be injurious to the 
more highly organized and more sensi- 
tive living cells which go to make up the 
human body. As Dr. Wiley would put 
it, the drugs and chemicals now used for 
preserving food are poisons, and the sale 
of food containing poison must be stop- 
ped. By this Pure Food and Drug Act 
which represents the culminating point 
of Dr. Wiley's long, untiring and honor- 
able fight for pure food, the products 
containing the modern preservatives 
have become outlawed, and the zeal of 
manufacturers to preserve everything 

15 



HARVARD HEALTH TALKS 

that might once have been fit for human 
food was checked at least in some 
measure. 

The manufacturers involved reacted 
promptly to the stimulus of the Pure 
Food and Drug Act as interpreted by the 
Department of Agriculture. After hav- 
ing for a generation used all the inge- 
nuity and all the chemical skill which 
they could command, to elude and to fool 
when they could not defy Dr. Wiley and 
his chemical detectives, they now began 
to clamor vigorously and effectively for 
the kind of investigations which should 
have been sought before they began to 
go into the business of doctoring the food 
of the people with chemicals of unknown 
or disputed poisonous character. The 
magnitude of their business was suffi- 
cient to command attention, and the 
federal government appointed a com- 
mittee of scientific experts, the so-called 
Referee Board, to determine the poison- 
ous or deleterious character of the chemi- 
cals used. 



PRESERVATIVES IN FOODS 

The situation which has thus arisen, 
and which has been forced on us by com- 
mercial interests, is not altogether a 
happy one. Scientific investigations of 
permanent or incontestable validity can 
rarely be made to order. They must all 
stand the fire of criticisms and counter- 
experiments and can be accepted as 
final only after a substantial agreement 
has been reached. 

The clamor for prompt investigations, 
definite conclusions, and final decisions 
made by manufacturers of foods adulter- 
ated in the sense of the Pure Food and 
Drug Act is easily understood. They 
can appeal to the courts for further 
action on any decision which may prove 
unfavorable to them. 

Dr. Wiley and the Department of Ag- 
riculture are in part responsible for the 
present anomalous situation. In turn- 
ing out reports and bulletins purporting 
to prove by means of " poison squads " 
that certain chemicals used in the pre- 
17 



HARVARD HEALTH TALKS 

paration of foods have rendered such 
foods demonstrably injurious to health, 
they assumed a burden of proof which 
there was no need of assuming in such 
concrete fashion. By means of such re- 
ports and by many extravagant speeches, 
Dr. Wiley undoubtedly aroused public 
interest in the subject of pure, unadulter- 
ated food; but in claiming to have 
proved by direct feeding experiments the 
injuriousness of certain foods containing 
preservatives, benzoate, borax, sulphites, 
etc., he led the public to believe that it 
is comparatively easy for scientific men 
to furnish such proof and thus paved the 
way for the manufacturers' demand that 
the Government should engage other 
high-grade, unbiased experts to deter- 
mine the facts. 

The Referee Board appointed by Pres- 
ident Roosevelt to pass judgment on 
various preservatives and chemicals used 
in foods thus came into existence under 
very unfavorable circumstances. A con- 
is 



PRESERVATIVES IN FOODS 

siderable part of the people and of the 
press had accepted Dr. Wiley's results 
and interpretations as final, and were ex- 
tremely suspicious and hostile toward 
the new Board appointed at the request 
of dealers in adulterated and " poison- 
ous " food materials. 

The first report published by the new 
committee of scientific experts involved 
the important question of the effects of 
benzoates and benzoic acid on the hu- 
man system. 

Conclusions of the Referee Board, 1909 

(1) " Sodium benzoate in small doses 
(under five-tenths of a gram per day) 
mixed with the food is without deleteri- 
ous or poisonous action and is not inju- 
rious to health. 

(2) " Sodium benzoate in large doses 
(up to four grams per day) mixed with 
the food has not been found to exert any 
deleterious effect on the general health, 
nor to act as a poison in the general ac- 

19 



HARVARD HEALTH TALKS 

captation of the term. In some direc- 
tions there were slight modifications in 
certain physiological processes, the exact 
significance of which modifications is not 
known. 

(3) " The admixture of sodium ben- 
zoate with food in small or large doses 
has not been found to injuriously affect 
or impair the quality or nutritive value 
of such food." 

Four grams of sodium benzoate, the 
" large " quantity which according to the 
Referee Board may be taken daily with 
impunity, would be contained in four 
and a half pounds, or two and a half 
quarts of food, carrying two-tenths of 
one per cent of the chemical. According 
to the present federal regulations no 
more than one-tenth of one per cent of 
sodium benzoate is allowed. 

It is no reflection on the Referee Board 
to say that this report must be regarded 
as a valuable contribution to the import- 
ant question involved, rather than as a 
20 



PRESERVATIVES IN FOODS 

final settlement of it. Among scientific 
men opinions are still divided, and I 
think they will continue to be divided for 
some time to come, on the question as 
to whether benzoic acid and benzoates 
are or are not deleterious to health. 

Dr. Wiley had reached entirely differ- 
ent conclusions in the report published 
by the Department of Agriculture the 
year before (1908). 

Dr. Wiley's General Conclusions, 1908 

" From a careful study of the data in 
the individual cases and of the sum- 
maries of the results, it is evident that 
the administration of benzoic acid, 
either as such or in the form of benzoate 
of soda, is highly objectionable and pro- 
duces a very serious disturbance of the 
metabolic functions, attended with in- 
jury to digestion and health. 

" As in the case of boric acid, salicylic 
acid, and sulphurous acid, this injury 
manifests itself in a number of different 
21 



HARVARD HEALTH TALKS 

ways, both in the production of un- 
favorable symptoms and in the disturb- 
ance of metabolism. These injurious 
effects are evident in the medical and 
clinical data which show grave disturb- 
ances of digestion, attended by phe- 
nomena which are clearly indicative of 
irritation, nausea, headache, and in a few 
cases vomiting. These symptoms were 
not only well marked, but they were 
produced upon healthy individuals re- 
ceiving good and nourishing food and 
living under proper sanitary conditions. 
It is only fair to conclude, therefore, that 
under similar conditions of administra- 
tion of benzoic acid or benzoate of soda 
in the case of weaker systems, or less 
resistant conditions of health, much 
more serious and lasting injury would be 
produced. 

" It was also noticed that the admin- 
istration of benzoic acid and benzoate of 
soda was attended with a distinct loss of 
weight, indicative of either a disturb- 
22 



PRESERVATIVES IN FOODS 

ance of assimilation or an increased 
activity in those processes of the body 
which result in destruction of tissue. 
The production of a loss of weight in 
cases of this kind must be regarded as 
indicative of injurious effects. 

' The influence of the benzoic acid and 
benzoate of soda upon metabolism was 
never of a character indicative of a fa- 
vorable change therein. While often the 
metabolic changes were not strongly 
marked, such changes as were estab- 
lished were of an injurious nature. It is 
evident that the administration of these 
bodies, therefore, in the food tends to 
derange metabolism in an injurious way. 
" An important fact in connection 
with the administration of these bodies is 
found in the efforts which nature makes 
to eliminate them from the system. In 
so far as possible the benzoic acid is con- 
verted into hippuric acid. There is a ten- 
dency usually manifested, however, to 
retain the benzoic acid in the body for a 



HARVARD HEALTH TALKS 

notable length of time, and this is much 
more marked in the case of benzoate of 
soda than in the case of benzoic acid. 

" While the administration of both 
these bodies, therefore, is undoubtedly 
harmful, the injurious effects are pro- 
duced more rapidly in the case of ben- 
zoic acid than they are in the case of 
benzoate of soda; the data, however, 
will show that the total harmful effect 
produced in the end is practically the 
same in both cases, hence there appears 
to be no reason for supposing that the 
administration of the preservative in the 
form of benzoate of soda can be justified 
by any argument relating to the less in- 
jurious effect thereof upon health. 

" The occurrence of microscopic bodies 
in the urine is undoubtedly increased 
under the administration of benzoic 
acid in both forms, thus showing conclu- 
sively the tendency to stimulate the de- 
structive activities of the body. 

" Coming to the final consideration of 

24 



PRESERVATIVES IN FOODS 

all of these different phases of the sub- 
ject, there is only one conclusion to be 
drawn from the data which have been 
presented, and that is that in the inter- 
ests of health both benzoic acid and 
benzoate of soda should be excluded 
from food products. This conclusion is 
reached independently of any considera- 
tion of the conditions which, it is alleged, 
surround the processes of manufac- 
ture, and which result in the demands 
of manufacturers to be allowed to con- 
tinue the use of these substances. This 
is a subject which must be discussed 
from an entirely different point of view 
and has no bearing whatever upon the 
general conclusions which have been 
reached, namely, that both benzoic acid 
and benzoate of soda are bodies which, 
when added to foods, are injurious to 
health." 

The Referee Board reached conclusions 
diametrically opposite to those expressed 

25 



HARVARD HEALTH TALKS 

in the above general summary of Dr. 
Wiley's report, yet made no comments or 
criticisms on his findings. I have no de- 
sire to supply such criticisms or to try to 
harmonize these two reports published 
by the Department of Agriculture. I 
venture to repeat, however, what I said 
before: " Scientific investigations of 
permanent or incontestable validity can 
rarely be made to order. They must all 
stand the fire of criticisms and counter- 
experiments and can be accepted as final 
only after a substantial agreement has 
been reached." 

The report of the Referee Board 
published in 1909, and embodying the 
favorable conclusions cited concerning 
benzoate of soda, elicited much hostile 
criticism. One statement assiduously 
circulated in the press was to the effect 
that investigations conducted in Ger- 
many under the auspices of the German 
Government had verified Dr. Wiley's 
conclusions with regard to the deleteri- 



PRESERVATIVES IN FOODS 

ous effects of benzoates and benzoic acid. 
The German report was finally published 
a few months ago (December, 1913). A 
somewhat free but true translation of the 
non-technical conclusions reached by the 
German investigators is as follows: 

General Conclusions of the Royal Depart- 
ment of Public Health, Berlin, 1913 l 

1. "A single sufficiently large dose of 
benzoic acid (benzoate) produces vomit- 
ing in animals capable of vomiting 
[dogs]; it is difficult to produce general 
symptoms of poisoning in such animals 
[by means of a single dose]. 

" By the daily administration of 
benzoic acid for several successive days 
a characteristic form of poisoning re- 
vealed by sudden attacks of epileptic- 
like cramps is obtained. These attacks 
are preceded for hours or days by oc- 
casional light prodromal symptoms, and 

1 The bracketed phrases are not contained in the 
original. 

27 



HARVARD HEALTH TALKS 

they are followed by ataxia [lack of co- 
ordination] and hallucinations. In many 
respects (the prodromal appearances, the 
course of the cramps, and accompanying 
symptoms) the attacks resemble epilepsy 
in man. 

" By further continuation of the ad- 
ministration of benzoic acid the poison- 
ing results in death through paralysis of 
the central nervous system. 

" A picture resembling so closely a 
disease cannot be produced experimen- 
tally [so far as we know] by any other 
well defined chemical. 

2. ' : * The amount of benzoic acid 
required to produce toxic symptoms, by 
repeated doses, is relatively large; with 
dogs weighing from five to eighteen 
pounds, seven grams of sodium benzoate 
was necessary. In no case could any 
symptoms be obtained with less than 
seven grams. The effective amount of 
sodium benzoate, about four-tenths of a 
gram per pound of body weight, is also 



PRESERVATIVES IN FOODS 

the lowest toxic dose. Smaller amounts 
than this toxic dose even though they be 
very nearly as large could be adminis- 
tered indefinitely, certainly for weeks or 
for months, without producing benzoic 
acid poisoning. In some cases the mini- 
mum toxic dose was found to be consid- 
erably greater than the amount indi- 
cated above. In the case of some dogs 
(weight five to eighteen pounds) eight 
to eleven grams of sodium benzoate had 
to be given before any toxic symptoms 
were obtained. Therefore, notwithstand- 
ing the fact that the experimental condi- 
tions were kept uniform, the lower limits 
of demonstrable toxicity are subject to 
considerable individual variations above 
the lowest limit indicated (four-tenths 
of a gram per pound of body weight). 

;< There is no difference in the effects 
whether benzoic acid or sodium ben- 
zoate is used. 

3. "In the case of rabbits no differ- 
ence was found between acutely toxic 

29 



HARVARD HEALTH TALKS 

effects and the effects resulting from 
repeated administrations of the drug 
[rabbits cannot vomit]. A definite mini- 
mum toxic dose for rabbits could not be 
found. The effective dose varied consid- 
erably and lay between seven-tenths 
gram and one and one-tenth gram ben- 
zoic acid per pound of animal." 

According to this report four-tenths of 
one gram of benzoic acid per pound of 
dog, or seven-tenths of one gram per 
pound of rabbit, is necessary to produce 
the characteristic symptoms of benzoic 
acid poisoning, and smaller amounts pro- 
duce no demonstrable effects of any kind. 
The smaller figure (obtained in the case 
of dogs) would correspond to sixty grams 
of benzoic acid in the case of a man 
weighing one hundred and fifty pounds. 
The Referee Board concluded that four 
grams per day is harmless. 

It will be observed that the German 
report does not deal with the effects of 
so 



PRESERVATIVES IN FOODS 

benzole acid on man, and results obtain- 
ed with rabbits and dogs do not neces- 
sarily prove anything with reference to 
definite quantities which would be inju- 
rious to man. The purport of the Ger- 
man investigation must, however, be in- 
tended to elucidate the effects of benzoic 
acid on man, since the Royal Depart- 
ment of Public Health cannot be sup- 
posed to contemplate regulations for the 
protection of rabbits and dogs. 

Among all the preservatives of recent 
origin there is probably no one more 
likely to prove practically harmless to 
human beings than benzoic acid and 
benzoates. It is well known that certain 
food materials, as for example, cran- 
berries and to a lesser degree many other 
fruits, contain notable quantities of ben- 
zoic acid, or rather substances which give 
rise to benzoic acid in the human sys- 
tem. In fact practically all foods contain 
substances which are transformed first 

31 



HARVARD HEALTH TALKS 

into benzole acid and then into hippuric 
acid within the system. We invariably 
find considerable quantities of hippuric 
acid in urine, and hippuric acid is simply 
benzoic acid in combination with glyco- 
coll, one of the decomposition products 
of albumin. From hippuric acid we can 
easily recover again the benzoic acid. It 
may be interesting in this connection to 
note that cows' urine was once the source 
for the hippuric acid of commerce. In 
the course of twenty-four hours a horse 
eliminates from half a pound to a pound 
of benzoic acid in the form of hippuric 
acid. 

We know that the human organism is 
prepared to take care of and render 
harmless those small quantities of ben- 
zoic acid and benzoic acid compounds 
which occur in food products or which 
are formed within the body; we know 
how this is accomplished and are rea- 
sonably sure as to the particular organ 
which does it. We also know that the 

32 



PRESERVATIVES IN FOODS 

mechanism by means of which the poi- 
sonous benzoic acid is converted into the 
harmless hippuric acid is an extremely 
efficient one, and that it is capable of 
taking care of relatively enormous quan- 
tities of benzoic acid. In this case, as 
in a great many others, the normal ani- 
mal organism is abundantly capable of 
performing the function which it must 
regularly perform in order to survive. 
From this point of view it can be argued, 
and it has been argued with considerable 
force, that the human organism is abun- 
dantly capable of rendering harmless 
reasonable amounts of benzoic acid or 
benzoate which are added for purposes 
of preservation to certain articles of our 
food. In my opinion this point of view 
is going to prevail, and the strife will re- 
solve itself into a controversy over how 
much benzoic acid shall be permitted to 
go into our daily food. 

But we ought to be exceedingly cau- 
tious about accepting any definite figure, 

33 



HARVARD HEALTH TALKS 

certainly any large figure, as represent- 
ing the permissible amount of added 
benzoic acid in our food. The very fact 
that we are in possession of an efficient 
process for converting poisonous benzoic 
acid into harmless hippuric acid indi- 
cates that there is a necessity for doing 
so. It suggests that even the small 
quantities of benzoic acid which we get 
with unadulterated food, or produce 
within ourselves, might be deleterious 
to health except for the saving hippuric 
acid forming process. And because that 
" factor of safety " is a large one with 
respect to the normal benzoic acid con- 
tent of our food it does not follow that 
we can encroach on it with perfect im- 
punity. What the effect of a general, 
regular encroachment on it would be 
cannot be determined by a few relatively 
short feeding experiments. It is known 
that while certain chemicals may be 
taken in substantial quantities for a 
month or a year without producing 

34 



PRESERVATIVES IN FOODS 

demonstrably injurious effects, neverthe- 
less the continued use of the same sub- 
stances, even in smaller quantities, will 
eventually undermine the health. Per- 
haps the final solution of the benzoic acid 
problem could be best obtained directly 
from the people at large. If they were to 
consume benzoic acid as knowingly as 
they consume, for example, sodic carbon- 
ate in soda biscuits, or caffein and theo- 
bromine in coffee and tea, it would not 
require more than a decade or two before 
we should have a well defined and well 
founded public opinion on the subject, 
at least in the medical profession. 

For centuries we have consumed the 
preserved food materials which our 
mothers used to make, and there is, in 
my judgment, absolutely no basis for the 
assumption that some of the concoc- 
tions which they prepared are less in- 
jurious to health than the corresponding 
products made from equally good ma- 
terials and preserved by the help of ben- 

35 



HARVARD HEALTH TALKS 

zoic acid. It is a mistake to assume that 
within certain classes of preserved foods 
we have the choice between those which 
are injurious and those which are entirely 
wholesome. For example, there is at pre- 
sent no evidence to lead us to believe 
that the cinnamon, oil of cloves, and 
other similar ingredients used by our 
mothers are wholesome as compared with 
benzoic acid. In fact both cinnamon and 
cloves are said to contain benzoic acid. 

It must not be overlooked, however, 
that the free use of vigorous chemicals 
in the home in the form of condiments 
and preservatives is a different thing 
from a similar use of the same chemicals 
by manufacturers, because their interest 
in the welfare of the consumer is subordi- 
nate to other more immediate interests. 
Nor should it be forgotten that the food 
manufacturers have already in a large 
measure crowded out the home indus- 
tries so that preservation of food in the 
home is rapidly becoming a lost art, 



PRESERVATIVES IN FOODS 

while the consumption of preserved 
foods is constantly increasing. 

I have dwelt at some length on the ben- 
zoic acid question because this chemical 
represents to my mind the most prom- 
ising among the different newer chemi- 
cals which have been used for the preser- 
vation of food materials, and if it were 
to be entirely excluded on the basis of 
the experience so far obtained, I would 
unhesitatingly also eliminate from arti- 
cles of food every other chemical or drug 
mixture, whether new or old, excepting 
sugar and common salt. Smoked meats 
of all kinds certainly contain more dan- 
gerous chemicals than benzoic acid. 

It is perhaps not superfluous to state 
that the approval of a limited use of ben- 
zoic acid or sodium benzoate for the pres- 
ervation of good but perishable food 
materials does not imply approval of 
similar preservation of decayed materi- 
als; or of materials which are regularly 

37 



HARVARD HEALTH TALKS 

consumed in large quantities, as for ex- 
ample, milk; or of foods which do not 
need any chemical preservatives, as for 
example, most canned goods. The sub- 
stitution of benzoic acid for cleanliness in 
the preparation of food is doubtless a 
real and practical temptation to manu- 
facturers of cheap foods, however much 
they may be disposed to deny it. 

The other common preservatives such as 
formaldehyde, salicylic acid, boric acid 
and borax, sulphurous acid and sulphites 
can be passed over much more briefly. 
Not a single one of them can be defend- 
ed as an ingredient of human food on 
the same basis as benzoic acid. So far 
as we know the human organism does 
not produce them and has not had to 
deal with them as natural ingredients 
of any common food product and has not 
developed any special mechanism or 
process for rendering them harmless. In 
the case of these preservatives we have 

38 



PRESERVATIVES IN FOODS 

no evidence save that of experience 
derived from their comparatively recent 
use, and of the few experiments which 
have accumulated since they became 
known as preservatives. 

It is, however, extremely difficult, 
in fact almost impossible, to deter- 
mine experimentally in a short time, 
with any degree of certainty, whether a 
comparatively mild chemical is or is not 
injurious to health. As I have already 
indicated, the fact that considerable 
quantities of a chemical can be taken for 
months at a time with apparently per- 
fect impunity does not prove that that 
chemical does not impair the health and 
shorten life, if taken from childhood to 
the end of one's career. 

Man is a comparatively large animal. 
In addition, he is provided with an effi- 
cient mechanism for eliminating from 
his system poisonous or useless products 
which are taken in from without, or 
which are produced by his own metabo- 

39 



HARVARD HEALTH TALKS 

lism. It is therefore not particularly 
remarkable or significant, that chemicals 
sufficient to kill millions or billions of 
bacteria can be poured daily through 
this relatively huge animal for weeks and 
months without producing a demon- 
strable effect. That this same big animal 
may be more or less damaged without 
the fact being known, demonstrable or 
detectable, is also a fact that must com- 
pel us to hesitate about accepting nega- 
tive results from feeding experiments 
with preservatives. If we cannot de- 
monstrate in their earlier stages the 
presence of tuberculosis, cancer, or gen- 
eral paralysis to mention only a few 
progressive serious diseases it is clearly 
out of the question that we should be 
able to say that a given preservative has 
done no harm, because the person taking 
it is, or seems to be, perfectly well after 
having taken it three times a day for a 
month or for six months. It is import- 
ant that such experiments should be 

40 



PRESERVATIVES IN FOODS 

made, for in the case of the more per- 
nicious chemicals some hint, some danger 
signal may be discovered which would 
serve as a sufficient basis for the definite 
exclusion of that chemical from any and 
all articles used as food. Negative re- 
sults indicate, however, only the absence 
of gross, demonstrable injury, and do not 
prove that the chemical investigated is 
entirely harmless. 

So far as concerns the preservatives 
mentioned, formaldehyde, salicylic acid, 
boric acid and borax, there is therefore 
no sound reason as yet why they should 
be permitted in any article that is used 
as a food. By this I do not mean that 
they should necessarily be forever ex- 
cluded. On the contrary it is possible 
that any one or all of them may be found 
in the course of time to be unobjection- 
able or relatively so. The propriety of 
using boric acid or borax in such a pecu- 
liar food product as cheese, for example, 
is fairly debatable, and the same may be 

41 



HARVARD HEALTH TALKS 

said concerning the use of sulphurous 
acid and sulphites in the drying of fruits. 
All the chemicals mentioned are now 
suspicious characters, but it is possible 
that their effects on the human system 
are not such as to warrant their com- 
plete exclusion from all articles of food. 

There is, I think, only one way to get at 
the facts with regard to the various 
chemicals which have been used for the 
preservation of foods, and that is by 
trying them and keeping track of the 
results. To try them properly, on a suffi- 
ciently extensive scale and for a suffi- 
ciently long time, is, however, more of a 
task than can be undertaken by private 
investigators; for it is only by their con- 
tinuous use for many years under compe- 
tent supervision and control that we can 
hope to attain adequate information for 
final conclusions. Work of this sort 
should be done and could very well be 
done at large government institutions, 

42 



PRESERVATIVES IN FOODS 

as for example among certain classes 
of prison inmates. I do not know how 
many life prisoners or long term prison- 
ers may be available, but there must be 
an abundance of them. They would 
make better subjects than students on 
whom to try out a substance like boric 
acid. This not because they are prison- 
ers whose fate or health is of compara- 
tively little consequence, but because 
they represent a body of persons whose 
mode of life is essentially uniform and 
whose health record could easily be kept 
for a long period of years. I am well 
aware that this suggestion will impress 
many persons as heartless and brutal, 
but such an experiment would be a mild 
and humane one when compared with 
the unrecorded boric acid experiments 
which have been made by manufac- 
turers, on all kinds and conditions of 
people. Prisoners are unfortunate in not 
being able to render any useful service to 
society. Probably not a few would be 

43 



HARVARD HEALTH TALKS 

willing to cooperate in prolonged feed- 
ing experiments, similar to the short 
ones conducted by Dr. Wiley and by the 
Referee Board. Acceptable reward in 
the way of well prepared food of suffi- 
cient variety would attract volunteers. 
If additional inducement were necessary, 
shortened term of service would prob- 
ably appeal to many. And in the face 
of the fact that every civilized country 
is prepared to sacrifice thousands of 
its most virile citizens for the honor of 
its flag (and its foreign trade), the sen- 
timent against endangering the health 
of a handful of men in the interest of all 
mankind is not particularly intelligent. 

Primitive man must have learned 
what was safe to eat on the basis of cost- 
ly experience, and it is still only by expe- 
rience and experiments that we can hope 
to solve the new problems, which have 
arisen out of the discovery that it is 
possible to preserve perishable food ma- 
terials by means of a variety of cheap, 

44 



PRESERVATIVES IN FOODS 

but more or less dangerous chemicals. 
While we may well hesitate to commit 
ourselves one way or another on a prob- 
lem of so great importance from the 
standpoint of economics and of health, 
we must recognize that it is a problem 
which must be solved, and that it cannot 
be solved by mere argument and dis- 
cussion. 

While there is still abundant room for 
differences of opinion as to the legiti- 
mate (or useful and safe) employment of 
chemical preservatives, the addition of 
dangerous chemicals to food products 
for no other purpose than to hide in- 
feriority is a practice which, from the 
standpoint of the consumer, has nothing 
to recommend it. Take for example the 
notorious case of bleached flour which 
has been before the courts for the last 
four years. One of the natural and more 
or less reliable indexes to the baking 
quality of flour is its color. The only 

45 



HARVARD HEALTH TALKS 

purpose of the bleaching was to make the 
flour from dark wheat look as white as 
the best patent flour. To accomplish 
this purpose had been the aim of com- 
mercial chemists for many years, and 
they finally succeeded. The reward for 
their success was contributed by the con- 
sumers of the bleached flour at the rate of 
from fifty cents to a dollar extra per barrel. 
This " artificially aged " flour, as its 
owners and defenders liked to call it, was 
produced by mixing the flour with a very 
poisonous gas called nitrogen peroxide. 
The flour absorbed this gas as a sponge 
absorbs water and instantly became 
white. The millers themselves, and in 
fact the leading attorney for the millers, 
had probably never been thoroughly in- 
formed as to the nature of their bleaching 
process. The nitrogen peroxide which 
they used was prepared in their mills 
electrically, and they endeavored to 
make out that they had simply mixed the 
flour with air which had been electrically 

46 



PRESERVATIVES IN FOODS 

purified, somewhat in the same way as a 
thunder storm is held to purify the at- 
mosphere. What they were really using, 
however, was nitrogen peroxide, which is 
equivalent to a mixture of nitric acid and 
nitrous acid, both very poisonous. The 
addition of the bleaching agent had to 
be regulated with great care, for if too 
much was introduced the flour turned 
yellow and became wholly unfit for food. 
This fact was interpreted by the pro- 
moters of the process and their attor- 
neys as a natural and effective protec- 
tion for the consumer ! 

After some preliminary seizures of 
bleached and over-bleached flour by the 
Government, a legal contest over the 
subject was begun in Kansas City, the 
center of the bleached flour district, in 
1910. The millers and the owners of the 
patented bleaching process lost their 
case, but promptly appealed. In the 
course of time the circuit court reversed 
the decision, and in the course of more 

47 



HARVARD HEALTH TALKS 

time the United States Supreme Court 
decided that the trial judge in Kansas 
City had made an error in his charge to 
the jury, and ordered a new trial. 

The fatal legal error committed by the 
trial judge according to the Supreme 
Court decision consisted in interpreting 
one paragraph of Section 7 of the Pure 
Food Law as meaning that any article 
of food which contains added poisonous 
or other added deleterious ingredient is 
adulterated, whereas the paragraph in 
question says that any food article 
which contains " any added poisonous or 
other added deleterious ingredient which 
may render such article injurious to 
health " is adulterated. Notwithstand- 
ing the fact that " other parts of the 
charge (to the jury) seem to recognize 
that in order to prove adulteration it is 
necessary to show that the flour may be 
injurious to health," the Supreme Court 
decided that the charge was " mislead- 
ing " and ordered a new trial. 

48 



PRESERVATIVES IN FOODS 

The decision of the Supreme Court has 
been interpreted as virtually nullifying 
altogether the Pure Food Law. It has 
been construed to mean that the Govern- 
ment is now compelled to prove by more 
direct evidence than heretofore that a 
given food product containing a given 
added ingredient is poisonous or injuri- 
ous to health, because of the presence of 
the added injurious substance, in 
other words, that the Government must 
be able to produce demonstrably injuri- 
ous effects by feeding experiments with 
the adulterated food. If that is the con- 
sequence of the decision, the Pure Food 
Law is indeed " dead." 

The amount of the poisonous sub- 
stance, nitrogen peroxide, in bleached 
flour is very small, and is not sufficient 
to render such flour, or bread baked 
from such flour, poisonous in the ordin- 
ary meaning of that term. The amount 
present is entirely too small to produce 
any such violent effects. Such is prac- 

49 



HARVARD HEALTH TALKS 

tically always the case in the application 
of dangerous chemicals to food products. 
The amounts present are always so 
small that it is practically impossible to 
secure concrete and legally convincing 
instances of any one being made sick 
from the consumption of the food. Dr. 
Wiley may have been able to secure such 
concrete results in the early period of his 
crusade against the manufacturers of 
adulterated foods; but, thanks to his 
efforts, the manufacturers have learned 
to be more careful, and now it is no 
longer possible to " poison " a person by 
means of reasonable amounts of adul- 
terated food. This is the opening of 
escape into which the attorneys for the 
defense always try with all their skill to 
steer the jury. Every expert is challeng- 
ed to tell how many persons he has seen, 
or has treated, who had become ill from 
eating the product involved in the suit. 
It is, I believe, a generally accepted 
precept of pharmacology that the poi- 

50 



PRESERVATIVES IN FOODS 

sonousness of a drug or chemical is al- 
ways as much a question of the amount, 
as of the kind of substance used. There 
is no known chemical poison whose effect 
is so deadly that a person cannot take a 
little of it without suffering any serious 
consequences. If this were not so, such 
poisonous chemicals could not be used 
for medicinal purposes. 

While this is unquestionably the cor- 
rect position, so far as producing demon- 
strably injurious effects in a relatively 
short time is concerned, it is, I think, not 
a theoretically sound position, when it 
becomes a question of the consumer's 
being called on to take the drug or 
chemical to the end of his days. Here it 
is not a question of being poisonous, 
but rather of being merely injurious to 
health. And here we are, in my judg- 
ment, bound to take the position that 
any substance known as a poison must 
be assumed to be injurious to health, 
even when taken in the smallest doses, 

51 



HARVARD HEALTH TALKS 

unless we have definite and specific rea- 
sons for believing that it fails to have any 
effect when the dose is minute. Hydro- 
chloric acid, common salt, and possibly 
acetic acid, benzoic acid, and alcohol 
might be named as substances which 
are poisonous in large amounts, but 
which may be regarded as harmless if the 
amounts taken are sufficiently minute. 
In the case of most dangerous chemicals 
it is, I think, neither safe nor sound pub- 
lic policy to assume that they may be 
made ingredients of our daily food even 
though the quantities used may be small 
as compared with the doses capable of 
producing demonstrable results. So 
long as failing health before old age is as 
common as it is, we cannot afford to ex- 
tend the benefits of reasonable doubts 
to any poisonous or deleterious ingre- 
dients added to our food. 

The bleached flour decision does not 
necessarily imply that the Government 
must prove the consumption of an adul- 

52 



PRESERVATIVES IN FOODS 

terated food product the cause of the 
consumer's sickness. The phrase " may 
render such article injurious to health " 
can just as well be interpreted as throw- 
ing the burden of proof on the manufac- 
turer of foods containing added chemi- 
cals. In fact, I think that the Bureau 
of Chemistry made a mistake in ever 
assuming the burden of proof, as Dr. 
Wiley did in so many of his bulletins on 
chemicals in food products. In the in- 
terests of the public it should be enough 
to show that adulterated foods contain 
added poisonous or deleterious ingre- 
dients, and to insist that the presence of 
such admittedly injurious substances of 
necessity renders the product containing 
them injurious to health, unless the 
defendant can show that in the case of 
his particular adulterated product the 
injurious added chemical in the quanti- 
ties used cannot render the product in- 
jurious to health. 

The bleaching of flour with nitrogen 

53 



HARVARD HEALTH TALKS 

peroxide is a conspicuous example of the 
heroic measures that are taken for the 
essentially useless purpose of modifying 
the natural colors of food products. It is 
conspicuous, however, only because the 
food material involved is the most im- 
portant of all food materials, and because 
the chemical used happened to be one of 
which the poisonous character had never 
been disputed. It is unique in no other 
respect. The practice of applying to 
food products any and all highly colored 
chemicals, from the innocuous caramel 
through the entire realm of the num- 
erous coal-tar products (the aniline dyes) 
down to arsenic, is a practice which, 
however general and however clever it 
may be, is without intrinsic merit and 
might very well be prohibited. That 
practice rests on the assumption that 
the people are and will remain as gul- 
lible as little children to whom painted 
glucose seems something almost, though 
not quite, too good to eat. 

54 



PRESERVATIVES IN FOODS 

The Referee Board issued a bulletin a 
short time ago (1913) with reference to 
the inexcusable practice of coloring cer- 
tain vegetables, such as peas, beans and 
asparagus with the germicide, copper 
sulphate. For hundreds of years the 
people of Europe have carefully tinned 
their copper cooking utensils to avoid 
being poisoned by the green copper com- 
pound, verdigris; though it must also 
be admitted that in certain sections of 
Europe vegetables have been cooked in 
untinned copper vessels in order to make 
the cooked food green. The Referee 
Board finds that the copper is absorbed 
and accumulates in certain tissues, and 
that even such small amounts of copper 
as one one-hundredth of a gram may 
have deleterious action and must be 
considered injurious to health. 

Silver salts are stronger germicides 
than the salts of copper, yet the candy 
makers have defeated before the courts 
the endeavor of the Government to ex- 

55 



HARVARD HEALTH TALKS 

elude metallic silver coatings on candy. 
The Government was of course unable 
to sustain the burden of proving that 
the silver as used is deleterious to health, 
and the manufacturers were given the 
benefit of the doubt. 

The process of educating the mass of 
the people to the point where they can- 
not be deceived into accepting color as a 
substitute for flavor must of necessity be 
a slow one. The attractiveness of the 
" fresh green color " of canned peas and 
beans is gone only to the person who 
knows something about the copper salts. 
Highly colored jellies, fruit juices and 
ices will continue to appear appetizing 
until one begins to speculate as to how 
the dyes which they contain will color 
the digestive tract and how long they 
will remain there. Whether Mr. Bar- 
num's or Mr. Lincoln's estimate of the 
people be correct, the market for adul- 
terated food will remain good for a long 
time, unless the Government succeeds 

56 



PRESERVATIVES IN FOODS 

in closing it. It is clear that the market 
for fraudulent articles cannot be closed on 
the basis of the present Pure Food Law. 

The outcome of the bleached flour liti- 
gation illustrates once more the diffi- 
culty in securing appeal-proof legislation 
where there is a conflict between special 
interests and the public welfare. A gen- 
eral law like the Pure Food Law, the ap- 
plication of which to special cases must 
be secured through the courts, is of ne- 
cessity inadequate, because the courts 
cannot take cognizance of the intrinsic 
merits of the case. No matter how use- 
less or preposterous in spirit and purpose 
a given blending of food and chemicals 
may be, by the time the case comes be- 
fore the courts the practice represents 
certain " rights of property," and against 
such rights the intrinsic worthlessness or 
even viciousness of the practice has vir- 
tually nothing to do with the decision 
rendered by the court. 

57 



HARVARD HEALTH TALKS 

Effective legislation on the use of chem- 
icals in food products can be obtained, 
I think, only by making the laws regulat- 
ing their use as detailed and specific as 
the tariff. Moreover, to prevent conflict 
between property rights and the inter- 
ests of the public, and to keep the law 
from constantly falling " behind the 
times," it should not consist of a list of 
prohibitions, but should rather comprise 
a series of permissions formulated as ex- 
ceptions, under a general law to the effect 
that no chemicals or drugs of any kind 
whatsoever may be added to any article 
of food. By means of such regulations 
it would be possible to protect the now 
helpless public against the boldness, rest- 
lessness, and ingenuity of commercial 
" food chemists " and their employers. 
Permits for the use of new combinations 
of proved merit could be issued under 
some such conditions as now prevail with 
regard to the issue of patents. 



PRESERVATIVES IN FOODS 

I have not attempted to go into details or 
even to give a list of the chemicals used 
in foods, or of the food products with 
which they are used. I have said noth- 
ing about the substitution of cheap chem- 
icals for high-priced natural flavoring 
extracts, nothing about substituting di- 
lute acetic acid or even mineral acids, for 
genuine vinegar, nothing about alum or 
saltpetre, nothing about substituting 
one pound of the coal-tar product, sac- 
charin, for five hundred pounds of sugar, 
nothing about paraffin polish on rice, or 
about painters' shellac on candy not 
to mention scores of other well known 
and strictly objectionable devices. 

To sum up the problem of the use of 
chemicals in foods: 

1. We need preserved foods, now 
more than ever, and there is therefore 
a legitimate and highly important field 
for the application of suitable chemicals, 
(if such preservatives can be found) 

59 



HARVARD HEALTH TALKS 

to foods which would otherwise be 
wasted. 

2. Benzoic acid and sodic benzoate 
are the most promising of the modern 
chemical preservatives, though we are 
not yet justified in saying that they are 
strictly harmless. 

3. Competent and disinterested ex- 
perimentation with different chemical 
preservatives is much needed, and should 
be encouraged. 

4. It is not clear that the use of even 
a somewhat harmful preservative might 
not on the whole be desirable in the case 
of certain products, which, without the 
use of a preservative, would be eaten 
in various stages of decay. 

5. The use of chemicals in foods for 
coloring purposes is essentially barba- 
rian, and both this and all unnecessary 
addition of chemicals to foods for purely 
commercial ends might with advantage 
be altogether forbidden. 



PRINTED AT 

THE HARVARD UNIVERSITY PR1 
CAMBRIDGE, MASS., U.S.A. 






o 

O 

o 



o 

00 tt 

CO iH 

co cd 

CO i O 

] e 

<D 



^ > 

^> rt 

o +. 

t 



o! 

t*+ 



W 



\ 



DNIVERSITY OF TORONTO 
LIBRARY 



the card 
from this 
Pocket. 



Acme Library Card Pocket 

Under Pat. " Ref. Index File." 
Made by LIBRARY BUREAU 




