&SE 

IN THE CI-JEMI 



OF THE GARDEN 



IVR JI DmRDES ~KEP 




A COURSE OF PRACTICAL WORK IN 
THE CHEMISTRY OF THE GARDEN 



PRACTICAL 
AGRICULTURAL CHEMISTRY 

BY S. J. M. AULD 

D.Sc.(Lond.), Ph.D. (Wiirzburg), P.I.C., P.C.S. 
Professor of Agricultural Chemistry at Univertity College, Reading 

And D. R. EDWARDES-KER 

B.A.(Oxon.), B.Sc.(Lond.) 

Head of the Chemical Dtpartment, Southeastern Agricultural College 
(Univertity of London), Wye, Kent 

Large Crown 8vo. xxiv+244 Pages. 32 Illustrations. SB. net. 

This book is intended as a practical handbook in Agricultural 
Chemistry for students working through courses of instruction for 
the London B.Sc. degree in Agriculture and other examinations 
of a similar type and standard. 



BY A. D. HALL, M.A., F.R.S. 

THE SOIL 

AN INTRODUCTION TO THE SCIENTIFIC STUDY OF THE 
GROWTH OF CROPS 

Second Edition, Revised and Enlarged. 16 Illustrations. 55. net, 

FERTILISERS AND MANURES 

9 Illustrations. 55. net. 

THE FEEDING OF CROPS AND 
STOCK 

AN INTRODUCTION TO THE SCIENCE OF 
THE NUTRITION OF PLANTS AND ANIMALS 

24 Illustrations. 55. net. 



A COURSE OF PRACTICAL 

WORK IN THE CHEMISTRY 

OF THE GARDEN 

FOR TEACHERS AND STUDENTS OF HORTICULTURE 
GARDENING AND RURAL SCIENCE 



BY D;R? J EDWARDES-KER 

B.A. (OXON.), B.SC. (LOND.) 

HEAD OP THE CHEMICAL DEPARTMENT AND LECTURER IN AGRICULTURAL 

CHEMISTRY AT THE SOUTH-EASTERN AGRICULTURAL COLLEGE (UNIVERSITY 
OF LONDON), WYE, KENT. 

JOINT AUTHOR OF "PRACTICAL AGRICULTURAL CHEMISTRY." 




LONDON 
JOHN MURRAY, ALBEMARLE STREET, W, 

1914 



All rights reserved. 



CONTENTS 

CHAPTER I 
THE CHEMISTRY OF PLANTS 

PAGE 

Preparation of Plant Ash . . . . < 7 

Chemical Examination of Plant Ash . . 

Detection of Chemical Elements in Plants . 9 
Detection of Sugar ...... 10 

Detection of Starch . . . . .11 

Preparation and Properties of Cellulose . . .11 

Tests for Proteins . . . . . 1 3 

Preparation of Essential Oils . . . .14 

CHAPTER II 
THE CHEMISTRY OF SOILS 

Detection of Phosphates in Soil . . . 15 

Detection of Potash in Soil . . 15 

Proof of Organic Nitrogen in Soil . . . 16 

Preparation of Humus . . . . .16 

Detection of Nitrates in Soil . .18 

Nitrification by Soil Bacteria . . . .19 
Detection of Calcium Carbonate in Soil ... 20 

Comparison of Water-holding Capacity of Soils . . 20 

Flocculation of Clay . . . .21 



6 CONTENTS 

CHAPTER III 
THE CHEMISTRY OF MANURES AND FERTILISERS 

PAGE 

Examination of Farmyard Manure . . .23 

Examination of Guano . . . . .24 

Examination of Shoddy . . . . .24 

Examination of Nitrate of Soda . . . .25 

Examination of Sulphate of Ammonia . . .26 

Examination of Superphosphate . . . .27 

Examination of Basic Slag . . . .27 

Examination of Kainit . . .28 

Examination of Sulphate of Potash . . .29 

Incompatible Mixture of Superphosphate and Nitrate 

of Soda ...... 29 

Incompatible Mixture of Basic Slag and Sulphate of 

Ammonia ...... 30 

Examination of Lime ..... 30 



CHAPTER IV 
THE CHEMISTRY OF SPRAYS AND WASHES 

Preparation of Lead Arsenate Wash . . -33 

Determination of Lathering Power of Soap . . 34 

Preparation of Paraffin Soft- Soap Emulsion . . 35 

Preparation of Paraffin Jelly . . . .36 

Preparation of Bordeaux Mixture . . . 37 

Preparation of Lime-Sulphur . . . .38 

APPENDIX .... 39 



CHEMISTRY OF THE GARDEN 

CHAPTER I 

THE CHEMISTRY OF PLANTS 

THE ash obtained by ignition of leaves and other parts of 
plants represents the mineral constituents that have been 
obtained from the soil during the life of the plant. The 
ash contains calcium (lime), potassium, iron, carbonates, 
sulphates, phosphates, etc., and in those cases in which it is 
obtained in quantity (e.g. bonfire ashes), is of value as a 
fertiliser. 

EXPERIMENT I. Preparation of Plant Ash. 

Some leaves or other portions of plants are placed 
in a porcelain basin, and heated over a Bunsen 
burner. Steam is at first produced from water in 
the material, and then charring occurs owing to 
the burning of the dry matter. The heating is 
continued until all blackness due to the presence 
of unburnt carbonaceous matter disappears, and the 
greyish or white residue of plant ash is allowed 
to cool and used for the next experiment. 



8 THE CHEMISTRY OF PLANTS [CHAP. 

EXPERIMENT 2. Chemical Examination of 
Plant Ash. 

(a) Some of the ash is dissolved in a very small 
quantity of concentrated hydrochloric acid. The 
effervescence noticeable is due to the presence of 
carbonates in the ash. 

(b) Some of the solution so obtained is diluted 
with its own volume of water,, and then treated 
in two portions with potassium ferrocyanide and 
potassium thiocyanate respectively. In the first 
case a blue precipitate, in the second a red colora- 
tion, show the presence of iron. 

(c) To some of the solution of the ash in hydro- 
chloric acid is added a few drops of barium chloride 
solution. The presence of sulphates is indicated by the 
production of a white precipitate of barium sulphate. 

(d) Some of the original ash is dissolved in a 
little concentrated nitric acid, some ammonium 
molybdate solution added, and the whole boiled. 
A canary-yellow precipitate shows the presence of 
phosphates. 

(e) To a solution of the ash in dilute nitric acid 
is added some silver nitrate solution. The presence 
of chlorides is indicated by the white precipitate of 
silver chloride. 

The presence of the above constituents, and, in addition, 
nitrogen, which is lost during the process of ignition, may 
be shown directly in plants without incineration. 



i.] CHEMICAL ELEMENTS IN PLANTS 9 

EXPERIMENT 3. Detection of Chemical 
Elements in Plants. 

(a) Carbon. Some leaves are cut into pieces, 
placed in a test-tube, and granulated copper oxide 
added. A cork provided with a delivery-tube is 
placed in the end of the tube, and the contents are 
then heated over a Bunsen burner. Carbon dioxide 
will be produced, as shown by passing the gases 
evolved into lime water contained in another test- 
tube, when the lime water will become milky. 

C + 2CuO = CO 2 +2Cu 

(b) Nitrogen. Some pea- meal, or other plant 
material finely chopped, is mixed with twice its bulk 
of soda-lime and heated in a test-tube. Under 
these conditions the nitrogen-containing bodies give 
ammonia, the presence of which can be demonstrated 
by holding a piece of red litmus paper in the gases 
evolved at the mouth of the test-tube. 

(c) Phosphorus. A few crystals of potassium 
nitrate (saltpetre) are heated in a test-tube until 
they melt, and many successive small portions of 
pea-meal added on the point of a knife. After each 
addition of material the nitrate should be heated 
until all action is at an end. The mass is then 
allowed to become quite cold, after which it is 
dissolved in warm water and the solution obtained 
divided into two portions. To one is added nitric 

B 



10 THE CHEMISTRY OF PLANTS [CUAP. 

acid and ammonium molybdate, and the mixture 
warmed. A yellow precipitate indicates phosphate 
that has been formed from phosphorus-containing 
bodies in the pea-meal. 

(d) Sulphur. The second portion of the solution 
obtained is treated with hydrochloric acid and barium 
chloride, the formation of a white precipitate showing 
the presence of sulphate produced from sulphur- 
containing bodies in the peas. 

The presence may be shown in plants of many substances 
which are destroyed during the process of ashing or ignition 
with potassium nitrate. Starch, sugar, cellulose (fibre), gum 
and other similar carbohydrates containing no nitrogen and 
built up by the plant from the carbon dioxide of the air, and 
proteins or nitrogenous bodies formed from carbon dioxide in 
conjunction with nitrates obtained from the soil, are examples 
of such compounds. The value of plants as human and 
animal foods depends largely upon the presence of these 
bodies. 

EXPERIMENT 4. Detection ofSttgar. 

Some carrots, raisins, or ripe fruits (plums, apples) 
are cut up and boiled with water in a flask for some 
little time. The sugars are thereby extracted 
together with other water-soluble constituents, and 
their presence may be shown by boiling some of the 
aqueous extract with Fehling's solution, 1 when a 
brick-red precipitate of cuprous oxide, Cu 2 O, will 
be obtained. 

1 See Appendix. 



I.] STARCH AND CELLULOSE 11 

Starch exists in plants in the form of granules, which vary 
in size and shape according to the plant in which they are 
produced. 

EXPERIMENT 5. Detection of Starch. 

A small potato, after washing and peeling, is grated 
to a pulp, and the latter tied up in a piece of linen. 
The bag and contents are then well kneaded under 
water in a beaker, whereby the fine starch granules 
pass through the interstices of the cloth. The 
turbid liquid is allowed to settle, and the water 
poured off from the starch. A very small quantity 
of the latter is transferred by a glass rod to a test- 
tube half full of water, which is then boiled for a few 
minutes. After cooling, a single drop of a solution 
of iodine in potassium iodide 1 is added, the deep 
blue colour produced being indicative of starch. 
This blue colour is discharged on heating to 80 C, 
but returns on cooling. 

Cellulose is found in largest quantity in the woody or fibrous 
parts of plants, and gives rigidity to the structure. The older 
the plant, the more fibrous and tougher is the texture of the 
cellulose. 

EXPERIMENT 6. Preparation and Properties of 
Cellulose. 

Some stalks of plants, or full-grown leaves, are finely 
chopped, and boiled with dilute sulphuric acid for 
half an hour. The undissolved matter is collected 
1 See Appendix. 



12 THE CHEMISTRY OF PLANTS [CHAP. 

on a piece of cloth, washed with hot water, and 
then boiled for another half-hour with dilute caustic 
soda solution. After washing with water, the cellu- 
lose so obtained is subjected to the following tests : 

(a) A small portion is vigorously shaken in a 
corked test-tube with Schweizer's reagent 1 The 
cellulose will become disintegrated and gradually 
dissolved. The common solvents, water, ether, 
alcohol, dilute acids and alkalis, are without action 
on cellulose. 

(b) About I c.c. of concentrated sulphuric acid is 
placed in a test-tube and small pellets of the 
cellulose dropped in at intervals, as the previous 
portions dissolve with shaking. When the rate of 
dissolution of the cellulose becomes slow, the test- 
tube is nearly filled with water, and the solution 
so obtained boiled in a beaker for five minutes. A 
portion is then rendered alkaline with very strong 
(syrupy) 1 caustic soda solution, Fehling's solution 
added, and the mixture boiled. The red precipitate 
shows the presence of sugar that has been formed 
from the cellulose, the chemical structure of these 
two bodies being very similar. By suitable fermen- 
tation of this sugar, alcohol could be obtained, and 
this is the basis of the process of manufacture of 
alcohol from sawdust, wood pulp, etc. 

C H 10 6 + H 2 = C C H 12 6 

(Cellulose) (Grape Sugar) 

1 See Appendix. 



L] TESTS FOR PROTEINS 13 

The complex nitrogenous compounds called proteins make 
up the " flesh " of plants, and are especially abundant in peas, 
beans, and other plants of' the leguminous order. These 
plants do not, however, require excessive nitrogenous manuring 
on this account, as they alone of all plants possess the 
power of obtaining the nitrogen they require from the air 
(nitrogen fixation}. 



EXPERIMENT 7. Tests for Proteins. 

Pea-meal, which contains about one quarter of its 
weight of a protein called legumin^ is examined 
as follows : 

(a) Xantho-proteic reaction. A small quantity of 
the meal is heated with i c.c. of concentrated nitric 
acid in a test-tube until completely dissolved. To 
the light yellow solution is cautiously added syrupy 
caustic soda solution 1 until alkaline. Immediately 
the acidity is neutralised the colour will suddenly 
deepen to dark yellow or orange. 

(b) Biuret reaction. A trace of pea-meal is dis- 
solved in caustic soda solution with the application 
of heat, and to the resulting liquid after cooling is 
added I or 2 drops of a very dilute solution 
of copper sulphate. A violet colour will be 
produced. 

(c) Adamkiewicz 's reaction. A little pea-meal is 
dissolved in glacial acetic acid with gentle heating. 
The test-tube containing this solution is inclined 

1 See Appendix. 



14 THE CHEMISTRY OF PLANTS [CHAP. i. 

at an angle of 45, and about i c.c. of concentrated 
sulphuric acid poured slowly down the inside so as 
to form a layer at the bottom of the acetic solution. 
A violet ring appears at the junction of the two 
liquids, the colour deepening on standing. 

Many garden plants, lavender, rosemary, sage, mint, etc., 
contain essential oils, to which their odour and their value 
is due. 

EXPERIMENT 8. Preparation of Essential Oils. 

Some lavender heads, or finely chopped leaves of 
the plants mentioned, are placed in a retort together 
with sufficient water. A round-bottomed flask large 
enough to allow the neck of the retort to reach well 
into it, is clamped almost horizontally, and a steady 
stream of water arranged to run over it. On 
boiling the contents of the retort, steam together 
with essential oil passes into the flask, and both are 
there condensed. The essential oil may be readily 
extracted by shaking the distillate with about one 
quarter of its bulk of petroleum ether, separating 
the ethereal layer, and distilling off the ether on a 
water-bath by means of suitable apparatus. 

(Caution. Petroleum ether should not be brought 
within six feet of a flame?) 



CHAPTER II 

CHEMISTRY OF SOILS 

THE soil is the source of all the mineral constituents, and also 
the nitrogen, of plants. Fertile soils can hence be shown to 
contain phosphates, sulphates, lime, potash, magnesia, organic 
nitrogen, nitrates, etc. 

EXPERIMENT 9. Detection of Phosphates in Soil. 

A small quantity of a fertile soil is ignited in a 
porcelain basin in order to burn off organic matter. 
The material is then boiled in a test-tube with a few 
cubic centimetres of concentrated nitric acid, and 
after cooling and settling, the clear liquid decanted 
off. Ammonia solution insufficient in amount to 
neutralise all the acid is added, followed by 
ammonium molybdate solution. On warming, the 
characteristic yellow precipitate indicating phosphates 
is observed. 

EXPERIMENT 10. Detection of Potash in Soil. 

By boiling some soil with dilute hydrochloric acid 
in a test-tube, potash salts together with certain 

15 



16 CHEMISTRY OF SOILS [CHAP. 

other compounds are extracted. The solution is 
filtered, the filtrate evaporated to dryness in a basin, 
and the residue heated to redness over a Bunsen 
burner. Silica and other bodies are rendered in- 
soluble by this treatment. The cooled mass is then 
scraped into a test-tube, shaken with a little cold 
water, and the solution of potassium chloride so 
obtained filtered from insoluble matter. The pres- 
ence of potash is shown in the clear liquid by the 
addition of a little acetic acid, followed by some 
sodium cobaltinitrite x solution, when a reddish pre- 
cipitate will be obtained. 

All plants excepting those of the pea and bean family 
(leguminosa) are entirely dependent on the soil for their 
nitrogen. The reserve form in which this nitrogen exists in the 
soil is humus, a complex nitrogenous organic compound pro- 
duced by the bacterial decay of vegetable and animal matter. 

EXPERIMENT 1 1. Proof of Organic Nitrogen 
in Soil. 

A small quantity of soil is tested as in experiment 
3 (#) above. 

EXPERIMENT 12. Preparation of Humus. 

Thirty or forty grams of a peaty soil are placed in 
a beaker of suitable size, and about half full of dilute 
hydrochloric acid. The mixture is well stirred as 

1 See Appendix. 



ii.] HUMUS 17 

long as it effervesces, after which it is poured into a 
piece of calico about a foot square. The corners of 
the cloth are gathered together, and as much liquid 
as possible squeezed out. The residue is returned to 
the beaker, well stirred with water, and the mixture 
again poured into the calico and squeezed dry. This 
process is repeated until the water squeezed out does 
not give an acid reaction (red coloration) [with litmus 
paper. The solid matter which is now free from 
acid is once again placed in the beaker, and dilute 
ammonia solution added to the half-way mark. The 
whole is thoroughly mixed and allowed to stand for 
some hours, or even days, whereby the humus is 
dissolved out in the ammonia. The coffee-coloured 
liquid is then separated from the solid matter, using 
a piece of cloth as before, but this time the liquid 
portion is saved. To this liquid is carefully added 
strong hydrochloric acid until a bulky precipitate of 
humus (humic acid) is formed. This precipitate is 
filtered off by means of a funnel and filter paper, and 
a portion tested for organic nitrogen as in experi- 
ments 3 (b) and n. 

Although humus is the reserve form of nitrogen in the soil, 
this nitrogen is not assimilable by plants until it has been 
converted into nitrate by bacterial agencies. The necessary 
nitrifying bacteria are present in all soils, consequently all 
soils contain appreciable amounts of nitrates. The nitrates 
never accumulate in ordinary soils, as they are too rapidly 
removed by growing plants, and by the washing or leaching 
action of rain water. 

C 



18 CHEMISTRY OF SOILS [CHAP. 



EXPERIMENT 13. Detection of Nitrates in Soil. 

About twenty grams of soil are shaken with 100 
c.c. of distilled water, the soil allowed to settle and 
the clear liquid filtered off. About 2 c.c. of this 
filtered extract are poured into a test-tube, and a 
sufficient amount (3 to 5 drops) of a solution of 
diphenylamine x in pure sulphuric acid added to give 
a distinct milkiness. This milky liquid is then care- 
fully poured on to the surface of i c.c. of pure nitrate- 
free sulphuric acid contained in another test-tube, 
and the junction of the two liquids examined. A 
blue ring should be immediately produced, or, if the 
amount of nitrate present is small, will gradually 
develop. If there is no visible blue ring after five 
minutes, some of the filtered soil extract should be 
concentrated to a small bulk by boiling, and then 
again tested. 

The experiment is of course valueless if there is 
the slightest trace of nitrates in either the sulphuric 
acid or distilled water used, and these reagents should 
be carefully tested prior to making the examination. 

Nitrification is the term applied to the conversion in the 
soil of ammonium salts into nitrates by the agency of specific 
bacteria in conjunction with the oxygen of the air. Organic 
nitrogen (in humus, farmyard manure, shoddy, etc.) is first 
changed into ammonium salts by other bacterial action, 
nitrification of these ammonium compounds then taking 

1 See Appendix. 



IL] NITRIFICATION 19 

place. As a plentiful supply of air is required for this latter 
change, it is stimulated by tillage, owing to the resultant 
aeration of the soil. 

EXPERIMENT 14. Nitrification by Soil Bacteria. 

A solution for the nutrition of the bacteria is 
made up as follows : 3 grams potassium phosphate, 
2 grams ammonium sulphate, i gram magnesium 
sulphate, a trace of common salt, and 2 drops of 
dilute ferric chloride solution, are added to I litre 
of water and well shaken. One hundred c.c. of this 
solution are placed in each of two flasks, the mouths 
of which are .then plugged with cotton wool The 
flasks and their contents are sterilised by boiling for 
five minutes, and after cooling the plugs are removed, 
and about J gram of chalk, previously sterilised by 
heating, introduced into each. To one flask only is 
also added a pinch of arable soil. The two flasks 
are again plugged and placed in a warm cupboard. 
Every three or four days some of the solution is 
removed from each flask and tested separately for 
nitrates with diphenylamine and sulphuric acid. If 
the experiment has been carefully carried out, the 
liquid in the flask to which no soil was added should 
show no nitrate reaction for some weeks, while the 
contents of the other flask should give a pronounced 
blue ring at the first time of testing. 

The presence in soil of a certain percentage of calcium 
carbonate (chalk), or " lime " as it is wrongly called, is of the 



20 CHEMISTRY OF SOILS [CHAP. 

utmost importance for many reasons (see page 30), and the 
cropping power of many soils may be considerably increased 
by the application of chalk, or lime which rapidly undergoes 
conversion into chalk. 

EXPERIMENT 15. Detection of Calcium Carbonate 
in Soil. 

About a gram of dry soil is placed in a test-tube, 
and covered with a few cubic centimetres of dilute 
hydrochloric acid. The mixture is shaken, and the 
amount of effervescence produced by the action of 
the acid on the chalk is observed. If there is a 
visible effervescence, it may be concluded that the 
soil contains a sufficiency of chalk. If the mouth of 
the test-tube has to be brought to the ear before the 
effervescence can be heard, an application of chalk 
or lime would probably be beneficial, while if no 
effervescence can be detected at all, the soil examined 
is badly in want of treatment in this direction. 
CaCO 3 +2HCl = CaCl 2 +H 2 + C0 2 

(Chalk) 

The water-holding capacity of soils, and consequently their 
ability to withstand drought, depends mainly upon the fineness 
of division of the soil particles ; the smaller the particles, the 
greater the retentive power for water. 

EXPERIMENT 16. Comparison of Water-holding 
Capacity of Soils. 

Four ordinary lamp glasses are fitted at the 
bottom with pieces of calico tightly stretched and 



IT.] FLOCCULATION OF CLAY 21 

firmly tied. The four vessels so improvised are 
filled to exactly the same height with air-dry 
samples of (a) coarse sand, (&) a loam, (c) a heavy 
clay soil, (d) a peaty soil or peat moss, in the 
respective cases, and they are then clamped in 
vertical positions over medium-sized beakers. Two 
hundred c.c. of water are then poured on the top of 
the soil in each of the glasses, and the drainings 
collected in the beakers below. By measuring the 
volumes of liquid collected when drainage is com- 
plete, a comparison of the water-retaining capacities 
is made. 

Successful treatment of heavy clay land is one of the most 
difficult problems of work in the garden or field. Clay if 
treated or worked when in a wet condition, readily becomes 
sticky and " puddled," or " deflocculated " as it i s scientifically 
termed. Such puddled clay is unworkable, and even after 
drying is extremely intractable and difficult to deal with. 
This undesirable condition can be corrected by several 
different agencies that bring about flocculation, such as the 
action of frost, or by treatment with lime, chalk, or certain 
salts. 

. EXPERIMENT 17. Flocculation of Clay. 

A small quantity of clay is deflocculated by knead- 
ing with distilled water in a beaker, more water then 
being added to the sticky mass to bring it to the 
consistency of a thin cream after well mixing. This 
cream is diluted to about i litre with water, and 
after allowing any stones or other large particles to 



22 CHEMISTRY OF SOILS [CHAP. n. 

settle, the turbid liquid is poured in lots of 200 c.c. 
into four gas cylinders. 

To No. i is added I c.c. dilute hydrochloric acid. 

To No. 2 is added 5 c.c. lime water. 

To No. 3 is added i c.c. dilute caustic soda solution. 

While 4 is kept as a control. 

The contents of each cylinder are well stirred, and 
are then allowed to settle. The rapidity of clearing 
of the columns of liquid is noted, when it will be 
found that the acid is strongly deflocculating in its 
effect, the lime water also fairly strongly so, while 
the caustic soda has the effect of keeping the clay 
particles permanently deflocculated. 



CHAPTER 111 

CHEMISTRY OF MANURES AND FERTILISERS 

CONTINUED cropping results in an impoverishment of the 
soil by a gradual removal of the mineral constituents and 
nitrogen. The constituents on which these losses fall most 
heavily are nitrogen, phosphates, and potash salts, and the 
supply of these is kept up by the addition of fertilisers con- 
taining them. Such artificially added plant foods may be 
either of organic (animal or vegetable) origin, e.g. farmyard 
manure, shoddy, guanos, bone meal, in which case they add 
also valuable humus to the soil ; or of inorganic origin, e.g. 
nitrate of soda, superphosphate, potash salts. 

MANURES OF ORGANIC ORIGIN. 

Farmyard manure contains nitrogen, phosphates, and 
potash, but varies considerably in composition. The large 
amount of organic matter present is converted on decomposi- 
tion into humus, a substance of great value on account of the 
improvement it effects in the texture and water-holding 
capacity of soil. 

EXPERIMENT 18. Examination of Farmyard 
Manure. 

The presence of nitrogen in farmyard manure is 
shown by the method used in Experiment 3 (#). 

28 



24 MANURES AND FERTILISERS [CHAP. 

Some of the manure is dried, and then strongly 
ignited, the ash so obtained being tested for phos- 
phates and potash as in Experiments 2 (d) and 10 
respectively. 

Guanos are valuable fertilisers possessed of an extremely 
high reputation, and commanding a high price in consequence. 
Consisting of the consolidated dung of sea-birds, they contain 
when fresh both nitrogen (up to 14 per cent.) and phosphates 
(up to 9 per cent.). If originally deposited on islands subject 
to occasional rains, the more soluble nitrogenous constituents 
have been washed out, and the material is then phosphatic 
only. Fish "guano" and meat "guano" are not guanos in 
the true sense of the term, but are nevertheless valuable 
manures. 

EXPERIMENT 19. Examination of Guano. 

The colour of the material should be noted, as 
guanos containing both nitrogen and phosphates are 
grey, while the phosphatic guanos are reddish or 
brown. Chemical tests for nitrogen and phosphates 
should be applied. 

Other manures of organic origin are shoddy (nitrogenous 
only, and especially valued for hops and fruit trees), bone 
meal (nitrogenous and phosphatic), dried blood (nitrogenous), 
steamed bone flour (phosphatic only), and rape dust (mainly 
nitrogenous, traces of phosphates and potash). 

EXPERIMENT 20. Examination of Shoddy. 

The points on which shoddy is valued are: (i) 
content of nitrogen ; (2) texture. A sample of 



ill.] NITRATE OF SODA 25 

shoddy should be examined to determine whether 
the material is lumpy or homogeneous, and coarse 
or finely divided The best shoddies (above 9 
per cent, nitrogen) are like wool in appearance, while 
low-grade samples (below 4 per cent, nitrogen) are 
generally dirty, lumpy, with little of the texture 
of the original wool. 

FERTILISERS NOT OF ORGANIC ORIGIN. 

Nitrogenous. Nitrate of Soda, Sulphate of Ammonia, and 
the new fertilisers prepared from atmospheric nitrogen, nitrolim 
or calcium cyanamide, and nitrate of lime. 

Phosphatic. Superphosphate. Basic Slag. 

Potassic. Kainit. Sulphate of Potash. Potash Salts. 

Nitrate of soda is a natural deposit found a few feet below 
the surface in Chile, Bolivia, and Peru. It is subjected to a 
crude method of purification on the spot by crystallisation 
from water. It contains 16 per cent, of nitrogen. 

EXPERIMENT 21. Examination of Nitrate 
of Soda, NaNO 3 . 

(i.) A few crystals are exposed to the air for an 
hour or so. They rapidly become moist, and finally 
dissolve in the water they absorb from the atmo- 
sphere. Nitrate of soda should therefore not be 
stored in sacks in moist localities. (The same 
applies to nitrate of lime.) 

(ii.) A few crystals are shaken up with water in 
a test-tube and will be found rapidly to dissolve. 
Nitrate of soda is hence speedily dissolved in the 
soil water, and coming into quick contact with the 

D 



26 MANURES AND FERTILISERS [CHAP. 

plant roots, acts as an extremely rapid fertiliser. For 
the same reason it is washed away into the drains, 
if there be not already growing plants in possession 
of the ground ready to utilise it. 

Sulphate of ammonia is a by-product in the manufacture of 
ordinary coal gas. Most samples are greenish in colour, 
and contain about 20 per cent, of nitrogen. 

EXPERIMENT 22. Examination of Sulphate of 
Ammonia, (NH 4 ) 2 SO 4 '. 

(i.) A little 'of the fertiliser is heatdfcl in a basin 
or on a piece of sheet iron over a Bunsen burner. 
The substance is entirely converted into vapour, 
and no residue should be left. 

(ii.) A few crystals are exposed to the air as in 
Experiment 21 (i.). There will be no absorption of 
atmospheric moisture. 

(iii.) Some of the substance is dissolved in water, 
and will be found to do so readily. It is not so 
quick-acting a fertiliser as nitrate of soda, however, 
as it has first to undergo nitrification before it can 
be utilised by plants. In spite of its ready solubility 
it is not washed out of even fallow land, as it is held 
firmly by certain soil constituents. 

(iv.) Some of the solution obtained is boiled with 
caustic soda and the smell of ammonia so produced 
is noticed, and tested with red litmus paper. 

Superphosphate is prepared by treating certain ground 



IIL] SUPERPHOSPHATE 27 

mineral phosphates with sulphuric acid, whereby a large pro- 
portion of the insoluble phosphate is rendered soluble. 

EXPERIMENT 23. Examination of Superphosphate. 

(i.) A little superphosphate is moistened with 
water and tested with blue litmus paper. It will 
be found to be strongly acid; hence it should not 
be employed on sour or acid soils, or indeed on those 
deficient in calcium carbonate. 

(ii.) Some superphosphate is shaken with water 
in a test-tube, the liquid filtered free from insoluble 
matter, and the clear filtrate tested for phosphate with 
nitric acid and ammonium molybdate. 

Superphosphate contains a large percentage of its 
phosphate in the water-soluble form, hence is quick in 
its action. It is not washed out of soils by rain, being 
retained by constituents of the soil. 

Basic slag is a by-product in the removal of phosphorus 
from iron in the manufacture of steel. 

EXPERIMENT 24. Examination of Basic Slag. 

(i.) Some slag is rubbed between the fingers. It 
should be an impalpable powder, otherwise it is too 
slow in action. 

(ii.) Some basic slag is moistened with water and 
tested with red litmus paper. It will be found to be 
alkaline in reaction, a condition due to the presence 
of free lime; hence basic slag is of especial value 
on sour, acid land. 



28 MANURES AND FERTILISERS [CHAP. 

(iii.) Some slag is shaken up with water, the 
solution filtered, and the filtrate tested for phosphate 
as usual. It will be found that there is no water- 
soluble phosphate, hence the fertiliser is not so 
quick in its action as is superphosphate. 

(iv.) A small quantity is shaken up with dilute 
citric acid solution, and after filtering, the solution 
tested for phosphate, a good indication of which 
will be obtained. The phosphate is therefore not 
entirely insoluble, although it does not dissolve in 
water. 

Practically all the potash fertilisers on the market are 
derived from the natural salt deposits at Stassfurt in Germany. 
Kainit, the commonest in use, is marketed as mined, but 
sulphate of potash and muriate of potash are prepared by 
methods of crystallisation of the natural salts. 

EXPERIMENT 25. Examination of Kainit. 

(i.) A sample of kainit is examined, and the 
different coloured particles picked out and placed 
together in small heaps. It will be evident that 
kainit is not a pure salt but a mixture; in fact, it 
contains sulphates, chlorides, salts of soda and lime, 
as well as of potash. 

(ii.) The presence of sulphates, chlorides, lime, and 
potash should be demonstrated by the chemical tests 
that have been described. 

Kainit cannot be employed as a fertiliser for potatoes if it 
be applied immediately before the " seed " is sown, as the 



ill.] SULPHATE OF POTASH 29 

chlorides it contains have the effect of rendering the tubers of 
bad quality and waxy in texture ; for the same reason, muriate 
of potash is even worse, and for application at the time 
of sowing, sulphate of potash alone can be employed. The 
use of the cheaper kainit is, however, possible if it be applied 
some months before sowing, as the chlorides are then washed 
away, while the potash is retained as carbonate by the soil. 

EXPERIMENT 26. Examination of Sulphate 
of Potash, K 2 SO 4 . 

The pure white colour of the salt is noticed, 
indicative of the fact that this fertiliser is a pure 
chemical compound and not a mixture, as is kainit. 
When tested for chlorides by nitric acid and silver 
nitrate, only the slightest opalescence should be 
obtained. 

Incompatible Mixtures. A soil often requires manuring with 
regard to more than one constituent, and it is convenient to 
mix the separate fertilisers. Certain of the substances 
mentioned above cannot be left in contact without undergoing 
a loss of valuable constituents, and care should be taken 
not to make a mixture of fertilisers that deteriorates in this 
way. 

EXPERIMENT 27. Superphosphate and Nitrate 
of Soda (or Nitrate of Lime). 

Equal parts of nitrate of soda and superphosphate 
are well mixed, placed in a stoppered bottle, and 
allowed to stand overnight. If the air in the bottle 
be tested with moist blue litmus paper next day, 
it will be found to be distinctly acid. This acidity 



30 MANURES AND FERTILISERS [CHAP. 

is due to the production of free nitric acid, the 
evolution of which naturally results in the loss of 
part of the fertilising constituent (nitrate) of the 
nitrate of soda. 

EXPERIMENT 27. Basic Slag and Sulphate 
of Ammonia. 

A test similar to the last is carried out with these 
two fertilisers, a piece of red litmus paper being 
employed. The alkalinity detected is due to the 
volatilisation of ammonia liberated by the action of 
the free lime in the basic slag. (Similarly, lime or 
chalk and sulphate of ammonia should not be mixed 
in practice.) 

Lime and chalk, although not direct plant foods, are largely 
used for the treatment of soil, and should doubtless be more 
frequently applied than is often the case. The beneficial 
effect of these substances is due to several different actions : 
(i.) Neutralisation of acidity, especially in those soils that tend 
to become sour after repeated heavy dressings of dung ; (ii.) 
a favouring of the growth of the nitrifying and other bacteria 
in soils ; (iii.) liberation of insoluble potash compounds, 
especially in heavy clay soils ; (iv.) improvement in the 
texture of heavy land. Although both lime and chalk act 
similarly, the former should not be brought into contact with 
plants, owing to its caustic nature, but should only be applied 
to soil which is at the moment fallow. 

EXPERIMENT 29. Examination of Lime. 

(i.) A sample of lime is sprinkled with a little 
water, when a considerable rise in temperature 



IIL] LIME 31 

should be noticed, and the lime should swell up and 
fall to powder. This phenomenon is due to the 
slaking of the lime, and the quality of the latter 
can be roughly gauged from the vigour of the action, 
poor or " grey " limes showing practically no change. 

CaO + H 2 O = CaH 2 O 2 

(Quicklime) (Slaked lime) 

(ii.) A small quantity of the lime is boiled with 
strong hydrochloric acid in a test-tube. The greater 
the undissolved residue, the poorer the quality of the 
lime. 

(iii.) Some lime is exposed to the air for about 
twenty-four hours, is then placed in a test-tube and 
treated with dilute hydrochloric acid. The effer- 
vescence noticed is due to the fact that the lime has 
been converted into chalk by absorption of the 
carbon dioxide of the air. CaO + CO 2 = CaCO 3 . 
This action of course takes place in the field when 
lime is applied, and it might be thought that it 
would be more economical to employ, in the first 
instance, the cheaper chalk. This is not entirely so, 
however, as (i) the cost of carriage of lime is cheaper 
than for an equivalent quantity of chalk ; (2) the lime 
on slaking falls to a fine powder which is much more 
easily distributed than chalk, unless the latter be 
finely ground ; (3) lime exerts a certain sterilising 
action on harmful organisms in the soil, a property 
not possessed by chalk. 



CHAPTER IV 

CHEMISTRY OF SPRAYS AND WASHES 

WASHES and sprays of various compositions are used largely 
for combating the different insect and fungous pests from 
which fruit trees, flowers, and vegetables are liable to suffer. 
The sprays in general use may be conveniently considered in 
the following classes : 

Insecticides. (a) Toxic washes for caterpillars and other 
biting-mouthed insects. Arsenic in some form or another is 
the poisonous constituent of most of these sprays. 

(6) Contact washes for aphides and other sucking-mouthed 
insects. As these insects live on the sap of the plants, they 
are naturally not poisoned by treating the plants superficially 
with toxic washes, and have to be dealt with by the use of 
sprays that either block up their breathing pores and act as 
corrosives (e.g. soft soap, paraffin) or exert a poisonous action 
on their bodies (e.g. nicotine). Quassia is also employed for 
the sake of the astringent and cleansing properties it possesses. 

(c) Winter washes of caustic alkali for use on dormant 
wood. The hibernating quarters of many insects are thus 
removed. 

Fungicides. (d) Various copper compounds. 

(2) Sulphur, either in the free form (flowers of sulphur) or 
else combined (liver of sulphur, lime-sulphur). 

82 



CHAP, iv.] LEAD ARSENATE WASH 33 

EXPERIMENT 30. Preparation of Lead Ar senate 
Wash. 

In 100 c.c. of water is dissolved \ gram of 
anhydrous sodium arsenate or J gram of the crystal- 
line salt, and in another 100 c.c. water is dissolved i 
gram of lead acetate (sugar of lead). The latter 
solution is then slowly added to the former with 
constant stirring, when a precipitation of insoluble 
lead arsenate in a finely divided form takes place. 

2Na 3 AsO 4 + s(CH 3 . COO) 2 Pb 

= Pb 3 (AsO 4 ) 2 +6CH 3 .COONa 

(Lead arsenate) 

The wash so prepared when sprayed on to the 
leaves will rapidly kill caterpillars, but containing as 
it does both soluble arsenic and free acetic acid, may 
produce a certain amount of scorching of the foliage 
in some cases. 

(For making the wash in quantity, use 2 ozs. 
anhydrous or 3| ozs. crystalline sodium arsenate to 5 
gallons water, and 7 ozs. lead acetate to another 5 
gallons, and mix as directed.) 

Soft soap is used alone in solution for combating the 
attacks of various insects such as aphides, while it is also 
employed in conjunction with nicotine and quassia in many 
cases, giving greater adherence to the sprays. It is also 
valuable for diminishing the surface-tension of water in the 
preparation of paraffin emulsions, and a permanent emulsion 
of paraffin can be prepared for use when required by melting 

E 



34 SPRAYS AND WASHES [CHAP. 

together soft soap and paraffin to give a paraffin jelly in which 
the oil is in the form of an emulsion. 

EXPERIMENT 31. Determination of Lathering 
Power of Soap. 

The value of soap when used either alone or in 
conjunction with other substances depends upon 
its lathering power, a property which varies both 
with the quality of the soap and the hardness of 
the water used. Five grams of soft soap are dissolved 
in dilute alcohol, and made up to 500 c.c. with dis- 
tilled water. Fifty cubic centimetres of tap water 
are placed in a flask, and a few cubic centimetres of 
the soap solution run in from a burette. On shak- 
ing, no lather will generally be produced, the soap 
having been precipitated in the form of a curd by the 
calcium and magnesium compounds in the water. 
More soap solution is then added, the mixture being 
well shaken after each addition, and the procedure 
repeated until a permanent lather is formed. The 
volume of soap solution required to produce the 
lather is then noted. 

The lathering power of soap with any certain 
water is generally given in pounds of soap required 
to produce a permanent lather with 100 gallons of 
water ; this value can be calculated from the number 
of cubic centimetres of soap solution required in the 
above titration, thus : 

Suppose 20 c.c. soap solution were required to 
produce a lather. Then 20 c.c. soap solution = -2 



iv.] PARAFFIN EMULSION 35 

grams soap, for 5 grams of soap are present in 500 
c.c. of the soap solution prepared. 
Hence -2 grams soap lather with 

50 c.c. = 50 grams tap water, 

therefore -2 x 20 ( = 4) grams soap lather with 
50 x 20 = i coo grams tap water ; 

or, expressed in pounds, 

1000 Ibs. tap water require 4 Ibs. soap, 
100 gallons tap water require 4 Ibs. soap. 

It may be generally stated that with a water of 16- 
20 degrees of hardness (a medium hard water), a 
good soap should be found to have a lathering power 
of from 3 \ to 4. 

As stated above, paraffin has a distinct insecticidal value, 
but cannot be applied in the concentrated form. It will not 
dissolve in water, but can be made to form an emulsion, 
especially in the presence of soap. 

EXPERIMENT 32. Preparation of Paraffin 
Soft- Soap Emulsion. 

Thirty-five grams of soft soap are dissolved in i litre 
of water in a suitable vessel, and TOO c.c. of paraffin 
poured on to the surface of the liquid. By means of 
an ordinary garden syringe, with a "rose" nozzle 
containing a large number of fine openings, the 
paraffin layer and some of the water is sucked up, 
and then forced vigorously into the bulk of the liquid. 
This operation is performed several times, in fact 



36 SPRAYS AND WASHES [CHAP. 

until there is no visible oily layer on the surface. 
The emulsion so prepared will contain the paraffin 
suspended in extremely small globules in the body 
of the soap solution. The emulsion cannot be kept, 
as the paraffin will gradually rise to the surface. 

(For the preparation of the emulsion in quantity, 
take water, 10 gallons; soap, 3^ Ibs. ; paraffin, i 
gallon.) 

EXPERIMENT 33. Preparation of Paraffin Jelly. 

Fifty cubic centimetres of paraffin and 8 grams soft 
soap are placed in a beaker, which is then covered 
with a plate of glass. The covered beaker and its 
contents are heated until the mixture boils, and i c.c. 
of water is then poured in. On cooling, the liquid 
becomes a jelly, of which i gram is taken and stirred 
with 40 c.c. of water. The jelly will readily dissolve 
to give a liquid suitable for spraying, and, as the jelly 
will keep for any length of time, furnishes a con- 
venient means of preparing an emulsion at short 
notice for treatment of red spider, aphis, etc. 

(For preparation in quantity, 5 gallons paraffin, 8 
Ibs. soft soap, i pint water when boiling. For use, 
10 Ibs. jelly to 40 gallons water.) 

"Bordeaux mixture" is a copper fungicide that is very 
largely used. Its method of preparation is due to the fact that 
the copper must be obtained in the form of an insoluble precipi- 
tate of sufficient fineness not to settle rapidly nor to clog the 
fine nozzle of the spraying machine. The presence in the mix- 
ture of any soluble copper results in a scorching of the foliage. 



iv.] BORDEAUX MIXTURE 37 

EXPERIMENT 34. Preparation of Bordeaux Mixture. 

Eight grams of crystallised copper sulphate are 
dissolved in 500 c.c. water, and the same weight of 
quicklime is shaken up with an equal volume of 
water. The copper sulphate solution is then 
gradually added to the other solution with con- 
stant stirring, and the mixture poured into a tall gas 
jar or measuring cylinder. The blue precipitate of 
basic copper sulphate will gradually fall to the 
bottom, and the longer this settling takes, the more 
satisfactory may be regarded the preparation. 

A few cubic centimetres of the supernatant liquid 
are filtered, and the filtrate tested for soluble copper 
by adding some potassium ferrocyanide solution. 
The production of a chocolate precipitate must be 
regarded as unsatisfactory, as indicating the presence 
of soluble copper compounds. 

(For preparation in quantity, 4 Ibs. copper sulphate 
in 25 gallons water, and 4 Ibs. quicklime in 25 gallons 
water.) 

" Lime-sulphur " is a new fungicidal wash of American origin 
which is undergoing extensive trials in this country. The 
sulphur is in a completely soluble form, but after spraying is 
deposited in a very finely divided condition which has the 
advantage over flowers of sulphur in that it is not washed off. 
The successful application of the wash so as to avoid a certain 
amount of damage demands, however, a considerable amount 
of skill. 



38 SPRAYS AND WASHES [CHAP iv. 

EXPERIMENT 35. Preparation of " Lime- Sulphur" 

Wash. 

One hundred c.c. of water are placed in a litre 
flask or other vessel, and 50 grams of quicklime 
added. After well mixing, 100 grams of flowers of 
sulphur are added, and the whole stirred to a thin 
homogeneous paste. Four hundred c.c. of water are 
then poured into the mixture, and the solution 
boiled for half an hour. The orange-red liquid, con- 
sisting of a solution of polysulphides of calcium, 
contains a certain amount of undissolved sulphur 
and impurities from the lime, and should be filtered 
through cloth. The concentrated wash so obtained 
must not be exposed to the air, but should be kept 
in closed bottles until required. Before use, the 
stock solution is diluted with twenty or forty times 
its volume of water according to the variety of plant 
to be treated, the dilute solutions so obtained 
possessing specific quantities of i-oi and 1-005 
respectively. 

(For preparation of stock solution in quantity, 10 
gallons water, 48 Ibs. quicklime, 96 Ibs. flowers of 
sulphur ; mix, and add 40 gallons water.) 



APPENDIX 



IN most cases, the solutions mentioned in the text are 
prepared of any convenient concentration, and need be 
made of no especial strength. 

Special reagents, which are required of certain definite 
concentrations, should be made according to the follow- 
ing directions : 

Fehling's solution should be made in the form of two 
solutions, which are mixed in equal volumes for use as 
required. 

Solution A. 17.32 grams copper sulphate dissolved in 
150 c.c. water, and the cold solution made up to 250 c.c. 

Solution B. 35 grams stick caustic soda and 90 grams 
sodium potassium tartrate (Rochelle salt) dissolved in 
150 c.c. water, and the cold solution made up to 250 c.c. 

Iodine in potassium iodide solution. 5 grams potassium 
iodide dissolved in 100 c.c. water and J gram iodine 
added. 

Schweizer^s reagent consists of an ammoniacal solution 
of cupric hydroxide. 10 grams copper sulphate are dis- 
solved in 200 c.c. water, a little ammonium chloride 
solution added, and then caustic soda solution in 
sufficient amount just to precipitate all the copper as 
copper hydroxide. The precipitate is collected on a 
piece of linen, well washed with cold water, and squeezed 
as dry as possible. The copper hydroxide so obtained is 



40 APPENDIX 

then added to a mixture of I part strong ammonia 
solution and 3 parts water until no more of the 
hydroxide dissolves. 

Syrupy caustic soda is prepared by dissolving successive 
quantities of solid caustic soda in water until the solution 
so obtained is quite viscous and treacly in consistency. 

Sodium cobaltinitrite solution is prepared by dissolving 
a little of the salt in water as required. The solution 
deteriorates on keeping. 

Diphenylamine in sulphuric acid is made by dissolving 
sufficient of the solid in pure nitrate-free sulphuric acid, 
so that a few drops of the solution obtained give a dis- 
tinct milkiness when added to i c.c. distilled water. 






PU1NTKD BY OLIVKB AND BOYD, EDINBURGH 



ttf 



o 

m 
CM 
to 
tn 



H 

*i 
c ^ 



o 

JS 

p 

V 

^l 



s .tj 
^5 H 



University of Toronto 
Library 



DO NOT 

REMOVE 

THE 

CARD 

FROM 

THIS 

POCKET 




Acme Library Card Pocket 

Under Pat. "Ref. Index File" 
Made by LIBRARY BUREAU 



