P* 40 um 



\ / 





e n« iWAtT at o 



3 




/ 



iQ AeVtfSlt }H1 



\ 



Ji 



• ta Mvnn 9u • 



lo 



8 



\ 



h 



\ 



\ 



\ 



O TH6 IIBRARV Of o 



m I I 1 — 

6 3g: 



e n«E USItAltY OF « 



OQ^j 






^b3 



\ 



/ 







• tlHC UBKASV OF o 



dSi 



V(N>IO^nwi ;(> e 



o JuisajAiNO iHi IB, 



e THE UBIItMY 0» o 



9 we UNWEItSITT o 



'«"'»ORNIA e 



THE ELEGANT ART OF DINING 



^•v 




THE OLD 

CODWEH PALACE AT 

MEIGGS'S WHARF 



BOHEMIAN 
SAN FRANCISCO 

ITS RESTAURANTS 

AND THEIR MOST FAMOUS 

RECIPES • THE ELEGANT 

ART OF DINING 

By 
CLARENCE E. EDWORDS 




PAUL ELDER AND COMPANY 
PUBLISHERS • SAN FRANCISCO 



COPYRIGHT, 1914, BY 

PALL ELDER AND COMPANY 

SAN FRANCISCO 



f 



LIBRARY 

UMVERSITY OF CAT.IFORNIA 

SA.\TA BARBARA 



DEDICATION 

TO WHOM SHALL I DEDICATE THIS BOOK? 

TO SOME GOOD FRIEND? TO SOME PLEASANT COMPANION? 

TO NONE OF THESE, FOR FROM THEM CAME NOT THE INSPIRATION. 

TO WHOM, THEN? 

TO THE BEST OF ALL BOHEMIAN COMRADES, 

MY WIFE. 



FOREWORD 

No apologies are offered for this book. In fact, we 
rather like it. Many years have been spent in gathering 
this information, and naught is written in malice, nor 
through favoritism, our expressions of opinion being 
unbiased by favor or compensation. We have made 
our own investigation and given our own ideas. 

That our opinion does not coincide with that of 
others does not concern us in the least, for we are 
pleased only with that which pleases us, and not that 
with which others say we ought to be pleased. 

If this sound egotistical we are sorry, for it is not 
meant in that way. We believe that each and every 
individual should judge for him or herself, considering 
ourselves fortunate that our ideas and tastes are held in 
common. 

San Franciscans, both residential and transient, are 
a pleasure-loving people, and dining out is a distinc- 
tive feature of their pleasure. With hundreds of res- 
taurants to select from, each specializing on some 
particular dish, or some peculiar mode of preparation, 
one often becomes bewildered and turns to familiar 
names on the menu card rather than venture into fields 
that are new, of strange and rare dishes whose un- 
pronounceable names of themselves frequently are 
sufficient to discourage those unaccustomed to the art 
and science of cooking practiced by those whose lives 
have been spent devising means of tickling fastidious 
palates of a city of gourmets. 

In order that those who come within our gates, and 
many others who have resided here in blindness for 
years, may know where to go and what to eat, and 
that they may carry away with them a knowledge of 
how to prepare some of the dishes pleasing to the taste 
and nourishing to the body, that have spread San 
Francisco's fame over the world, we have decided to 
set down the result of our experience and study of 

ix 



FOREWORD 

our Bohemian population and their ways, and also tell 
where to find and how to order the best special dishes. 
Over North Beach way we asked the chef of a little 
restaurant how he cooked crab. He replied: 
"The right way." 
One often wonders how certain dishes are cooked 
and we shall tell you "the right way." 

It is hoped that when you read what is herein 
written some of our pleasure may be imparted to you, 
and with this hope the story of San Francisco's Bo- 
hemianism is presented. 

Clarence E. Edwords. 
San Francisco, California, 
September 22, lOU. 



Our Toast 

Not to the Future, nor to the Past; 
No drink of Joy or Sorrow; 
We drink alone to what will last; 
Memories on the Morrow. 
Let us live as Old Time passes; 
To the Present let Bohemia bow. 
Let us raise on high our glasses 
To Eternity -the ever-living Now. 



CONTENTS 

Foreword ix 

The Good Gray City 3 

The Land of Bohemia 6 

As It Was in the Beginning 8 

When the Gringo Game 10 

Early Italian Impression 12 

Birth of the French Restaurant ... 16 

At the Cliff House 21 

Some Italian Restaurants 23 

Impress of Mexico 29 

On the Barbary Coast 33 

The City That Was Passes 35 

Sang the Swan Song 36 

Bohemia of the Present 41 

As It Is in Germany 46 

In the Heart of Italy 50 

A Breath of the Orient 54 

Artistic Japan 57 

Old and New Palace 60 

At the Hotel St. Francis 63 

Amid the Bright Lights 65 

Around Little Italy 66 

Where Fish Come in 76 

Fish in Their Variety 80 

Lobsters and Lobsters 85 

King of Shell Fish 87 

Lobster in Miniature 89 

Clams and Abalones 91 

Where Fish Abound 94 

Some Food Variants 97 

xiii 



CONTENTS 

About Dining 100 

SoMKTiiiNG About Cooking 106 

Told in a Whisper 110 

Out of Nothing 115 

Paste Makes Waist 117 

Tips and Tipping 119 

The Mythical Land 121 

Appendix (How to Serve Wines, Recipes) . . 125 
Index 137 



TUf 



BOHEMIAN 
SAN FRANCISCO 



"The best of all ways 
To lengthen our days 
Is to steal a few hours 
From the night, my dear. 



1 



SAN FRANCISCO 

San Francisco! Is there a land where the magic 
of that name has not been felt? Bohemian San Fran- 
cisco ! Pleasure-loving San Francisco ! 
Care-free San Francisco ! Yet withal THE GOOD 
the city where liberty never means GRAY 

license and where Bohemianism is CITY 

not synonymous with Boorishness. 

It was in Paris that a world traveler said to us: 
"San Francisco! That wonderful city where you get 
the best there is to eat, served in a manner that en- 
hances its flavor and establishes it forever in your 
memory." 

Were one to write of San Francisco and omit men- 
tion of its gustatory delights the whole world would 
protest, for in San Francisco eating is an art and cook- 
ing a science, and he who knows not what San Fran- 
cisco provides knows neither art nor science. 

Here have congregated the world's greatest chefs, 
and when one exclaims in ecstacy over a wonderful 
flavor found in some dingy restaurant, let him not be 
surprised if he learn that the chef who concocted the 
dish boasts royal decoration for tickling the palate of 
some epicurean ruler of foreign land. 

And why should San Francisco have achieved this 
distinction in the minds of the gourmets? 

Do not other cities have equally as good chefs, and 
do not the people of other cities have equally as fine 
gastronomic taste? 

They have all this but with them is lacking "at- 
mosphere." 

Where do we find such romanticism as in San 
Francisco? Where do we find so many strange char- 
acters and happenings? All lending almost mystic 
charm to the environment surrounding queer little 
restaurants, where rare dishes are served, and where 
one feels that he is in foreign land, even though he be 
in the center of a high representative American city. 



BOHEMIAN 

San Francisco's cosmopolitanism is peculiar to 

itself. Here are represented the nations of earth in 

such distinctive colonies that one 

THE GOOD might well imagine himself pos- 

GRAY sessed of the magic carpet told of 

CITY in Arabian Nights Talcs, as he is 

transported in the twinkling of an 

eye from country to country. It is but a step across a 

street from America into Japan, then another step into 

China. Cross another street and you are in Mexico, 

close neighbor to France. Around the corner lies Italy, 

and from Italy you pass to Lombardy, and on to Greece. 

So it goes until one feels that he has been around the 

world in an afternoon. 

But the stepping across the street and one passes 
from one land to the other, finding all the peculiar 
characteristics of the various countries as indelibly 
fixed as if they were thousands of miles away. Speech, 
manners, customs, costumes and religions change with 
startling rapidity, and as you enter into the life of the 
nation you find that each has brought the best of its 
gastronomy for your delectation. 

San Francisco has called to the world for its best, 
and the response has been so prompt that no country 
has failed to send its tribute and give the best thought 
of those who cater to the men and women who know. 

This aggregation of cuisinaire, gathered where is to 
be found a most wonderful variety of food products in 
highest state of excellence, has made San Francisco the 
Mecca for lovers of gustatory delights, and this is why 
the name of San Francisco is known wherever men and 
women sit at table. 

It has taken us years of patient research to learn 
how these chefs j)repare their combinations of fish, 
Hesli, fowl, and herbs, in order that we might put them 
down, giving recipes of dishes whose memories linger 
in the minds of world wanderers, and to which their 



SAN FRANCISCO 

thoughts revert with a sigh as they partake of unsatis- 
factory viands in other countries and other cosmopol- 
itan cities. 

Those to whom only the surface THE GOOD 
of things is visible are prone to ex- GRAY 

press wonder at the love and enthu- CITY 

siasm of the San Franciscan for his 
home city. The casual visitor cannot understand the 
enchantment, the mystery, the witchery that holds one; 
they do not know that we steal the hours from the 
night to lengthen our days because the gray, whispering 
wraiths of fog hold for us the very breath of life; they 
do not know that the call of the wind, and of the sea, 
and of the air, is the inspiration that makes San Fran- 
cisco the pleasure-ground of the world. 

It is this that makes San Francisco the home of 
Bohemia, and whether it be in the early morning hours 
as one rises to greet the first gray streaks of dawn, or 
as the sun drops through the Golden Gate to its ocean 
bed, so slowly that it seems loth to leave; whether it be 
in the broad glare of noon-day sun, or under the daz- 
zling blaze of midnight lights, San Francisco ever holds 
out her arms, wide in welcome, to those who see more 
in life than the dull routine of working each day in 
order that they may gain sufficient to enable them to 
work again on the morrow. 



BOHEMIAN 

Bohemia! What vulgarities are perpetrated in thy 
name! How abused is the word! Because of a miscon- 
ception of an idea it has suffered 
THE LAND more than any other in the English 
OF language. It has done duty in de- 

BOHEMIA scribing almost every form of license 
and licentiousness. It has been the 
cloak of debauchery and the excuse for sex degrada- 
tion. It has been so misused as to bring the very word 
into disrepute. 

To us Bohemianism means the naturalism of re- 
fined people. 

That it may be protected from vulgarians Society 
prescribes conventional rules and regulations, which, 
like morals, change with environment. 

Bohemianism is the protest of naturalism against 
the too rigid, and, oft-times, absurd restrictions estab- 
lished by Society. 

The Bohemian requires no prescribed rules, for his 
or her innate gentility prevents those things Society 
guards against. In Bohemia men and women mingle 
in good fellowship and camaraderie without finding the 
sex question a necessary topic of conversation. They 
do not find it necessary to push exhilaration to intoxi- 
cation; to increase their animation to boisterousness. 
Their lack of conventionality does not tend to boor- 
ishness. 

Some of the most enjoyable Bohemian affairs we 
know of have been full dress gatherings, carefully 
planned and delightfully carried out; others have been 
impromptu, neither the hour, the place, nor the dress 
being taken into consideration. 

The unrefined get everywhere, even into the draw- 
ing rooms of royalty, consequently we must expect to 
meet them in Bohemia. But the true Bohemian has a 
way of forgetting to meet obnoxious personages and, 
as a rule, is more choice in the selection of associates 



SAN FRANCISCO 

than the vaunted "400." With the Bohemian but one 
thing counts: Fitness. Money, position, personal ap- 
pearance and even brains are of no 
avail if there be the bar sinister — THE LAND 
unfit. OF 

In a restaurant, one evening, a BOHEMIA 
number of men and women were 
seated conspicuously at a table in the center of the 
room. Flowing neckties such as are affected by Par- 
isian art students were worn by the men; all were 
coarse, loud and much in evidence. They not only 
attracted attention by their loudness and outre actions, 
but they called notice by pelting other diners with mis- 
siles of bread. To us they were the last word in vul- 
garity, but to a young woman who had come to the 
place because she had heard it was "so Bohemian" they 
were ideal, and she remarked to her companion : 

"I do so love to associate with real Bohemians like 
these. Can't we get acquainted with them?" 

"Sure," was the response. "All we have to do is to 
buy them a drink." 

In San Francisco there are Bohemians and Near- 
Bohemians, and if you are like the young woman men- 
tioned you are apt to miss the real and take the imita- 
tion for the genuine article. 

We mean no derogation of San Francisco's restau- 
rants when we say that San Francisco's highest form of 
Bohemianism is rarely in evidence in restaurants. We 
have enjoyed wonderful Bohemian dinners in restau- 
rants, but the other diners were not aware of it. Some 
far more interesting gatherings have been in the rooms 
of Bohemian friends. Not always is it the artistic com- 
bination of famous chef that brings greatest delight, for 
we have as frequently had pleasure over a supper of 
some simple dish in the attic room of a good friend. 
This brings us to the crux of Bohemianism. It de- 
pends so little on environment that it means nothing, 
and so much on companionship that it means all. 



BOHEMIAN 

lo achieve a comprehensive idea of San Francisco's 
Bohemianism let us divide its history into five eras. 
First we have the old Spanish days — 
AS IT WAS the days "before the Gringo came." 
IN THE Then reigned conviviality held within 

BEGINNINCi most discreet bounds of convention, 
and it would be a misnomer, indeed, 
lo call the pre-pioneer daj^s of San Francisco "Bo- 
hemian" in any sense of the word. 

Courtesy unfailing, good-fellowship always in tune, 
and lavish hospitality, marked the days of the Dons — 
those wonderfully considerate hosts who always placed 
a pile of gold and silver coins on the table of the guest 
chamber, in order that none might go away in need. 
Their feasts were events of careful consideration and 
long preparation, and those w^hose memories carry 
them back to the early days, recall bounteous loading 
of tables when festal occasion called for display. 

Lips linger lovingly over such names as the Vallejos, 
the Picos, and those other Spanish families who spread 
their hospitality with such wondrous prodigality that 
their open welcome became a by-word in all parts of 
the West. 

But it was not in the grand fiestas that the finest and 
most palatable dishes were to be found. In the family 
of each of these Spanish Grandees were culinary secrets 
known to none except the "Senora de la Casa," and 
transmitted by her to her sons and daughters. 

We have considered ourselves fortunate in being 
taken into the confidence of one of the descendants of 
Senora Benicia Vallejo, and honored with some of her 
prize recipes, which find place in this book, not as the 
famous recipe of some Bohemian restaurants but as the 
tribute to the spirit of the land that made those Bo- 
hemian restaurants possible. Of these there is no more 
tasty and satisfying dish than Spanish Eggs, prepared 
as follows: 

8 



SAN FRANCISCO 

Empty a can of tomatoes in a frying SPANISH 

pan; thicken with bread and add two or EGGS 

three small green peppers and an onion 

sliced fine. Add a little butter and salt to taste. Let this sim- 
mer gently and then carefully break on top the number of eggs 
desired. Dip the simmering tomato mixture over the eggs until 
they are cooked. 

Another favorite recipe of Mrs. Vallejo was Spanish 
Beefsteak prepared as follows: 

Cut the steak into pieces the size de- SPANISH 

sired for serving. Place these pieces on a BEEFSTEAK 
meat board and sprinkle liberally with 

flour. With a wooden corrugated mallet beat the flour into the 
steak. Fry the steak in a pan with olive oil. In another frying 
pan, at the same time, fry three good-sized onions and three 
green peppers. When the steak is cooked sufliciently put it to 
one side of the pan and let the oil run to the other side. On the 
oil pour suflicient water to cover the meat and add the onions 
and peppers, letting all simmer for a few minutes. Serve on 
hot platter. 

Spanish mode of cooking rice is savory and most 
palatable, and Mrs. Vallejo's recipe for this is as fol- 
lows : 

Slice together three good-sized onions SPANISH 

and three small green peppers. Fry them RICE 

in olive oil. Take one-half cup of rice and 

boil it until nearly done, then drain it well and add it to the 
frying onions and peppers. Fry all together until thoroughly 
brown, which will take some time. Season with salt and serve. 

These three recipes are given because they are 
simple and easily prepared. Many complex recipes 
could be given, and some of these will appear in the 
part of the book devoted to recipes, but when one con- 
siders the simplicity of the recipes mentioned, it can 
readily be seen that it takes little preparation to get 
something out of the ordinary. 



BOHEMIAN 

To its pioneer days much of San Francisco's Bo- 
hemian spirit is due. When the cry of "Gold" rang 
around the world adventurous wan- 
WHEN THE derers of all lands answered the call, 

GRINGO ^^^ during the year following Mar- 

CAME shall's discovery two thousand ships 

sailed into San Francisco Bay, many 
to be abandoned on the beach by the gold-mad throng, 
and it was in some of these deserted sailing vessels that 
San Francisco's restaurant life had its inception. With 
the immediately succeeding years the horde of gold 
hunters was augmented by those who brought necessi- 
ties and luxuries to exchange for the yellow metal given 
up by the streams flowing from the Mother Lode. With 
them also came cooks to prepare delectable dishes for 
those who had passed the flap-jack stage, and desired 
the good things of life to repay them for the hardships, 
privations and dearth of woman's companionship. As 
the male human was largely dominant in numbers it 
was but natural that they should gather together for 
companionship, and here began the Bohemian spirit 
that has marked the city for its own to the present day. 

These men were all individualists, and their indi- 
vidualism has been transmitted to their offspring to- 
gether with independence of action. Hence comes the 
Bohemianism born of individuality and independence. 

It was only natural that the early San Franciscans 
should foregather where good cheer was to be found, 
and the old El Dorado House, at Portsmouth Square, 
was really what may be called the first Bohemian res- 
taurant of the city. So well was this place patronized 
and so exorbitant the prices charged that twenty-five 
thousand dollars a month was not considered an impos- 
sible rental. 

Next in importance was the most fashionable res- 
taurant of early days, the Iron House. It was built of 
heavy sheet iron that had been brought around the 

to 



SAN FRANCISCO 

Horn in a sailing vessel, and catered well, becoming for 
several years the most famed restaurant of the city. 
Here, in Montgomery street, between 
Jackson and Pacific, was the rendez- WHEN THE 
vous of pioneers, and here the Society GRINGO 
of California Pioneers had its incep- CAME 

tion, receiving impressions felt to the 
present day in San Francisco and California history. 
Here, also, was first served Chicken in the Shell, the dish 
from which so many later restaurants gained fame. The 
recipe for this as prepared by the Iron House is still 
extant, and we are indebted to a lady, who was a little 
girl when that restaurant was waning, whose mother 
secured the recipe. It was prepared as follows : 

Into a kettle containing a quart of water CHICKEN IN 
put a young chicken, one sliced onion, a THE 

bay leaf, two cloves, a blade of mace and SHFI I 

six pepper-corns. Simmer in the covered 

kettle for one hour and set aside to cool. When cool remove 
the meat from the bones, rejecting the skin. Cut the meat into 
small dice. Mix in a saucepan, over a fire without browning, 
a tablespoonful of butter, a tablespoonful of flour, then add 
half a pint of cream. Stir this constantly until it boils, then 
add a truffle, two dozen mushrooms chopped fine, a dash of 
white pepper and then the dice of chicken. Let the whole 
stand in a bain marie, or chafing dish, until quite hot. Add the 
yolks of two eggs and let cook two minutes. Stir in half a 
glass of sherry and serve in cockle shells. 



11 



BOHEMIAN 

Almost coincident with the opening of the Iron 

House an Italian named Bazzuro took possession of one 

of the stranded sailing vessels encum- 

EARLY bering the Bay, and anchored it out 

ITALIAN in the water at the point where Davis 

IMPRESSION and Pacific streets now intersect. He 
opened a restaurant which immedi- 
ately attracted attention and gained good reputation 
for its service and its cooking. Later, when the land 
was iilled in, Bazzuro built a house at almost the same 
spot and opened his restaurant there, continuing it up 
to the time of the great fire in 1906. 

After the fire one of the earliest restaurants to be 
established in that part of the city was Bazzuro's, at 
the same corner, and it is still run by the family, who 
took charge after the death of the original proprietor. 
Here one can get the finest Italian peasant meal in the 
city, and many of the Italian merchants and bankers 
still go there for their luncheons every day, preferring 
it to the more pretentious establishments. 

The French peasant style came a little later, begin- 
ning in a little dining room opened in Washington 
street, just above Kearny, by a French woman whose 
name was a carefully guarded secret. She was known 
far and wide as "Ma Tanta" (My Aunt). Her cooking 
was considered the best of all in the city, and her 
patrons sat at a long common table, neat and clean to 
the last degree. Peasant style of serving was followed. 
First appeared Ma Tanta with a great bowl of salad 
which she passed around, each patron helping himself. 
This was followed by an immense tureen of soup, held 
aloft in the hands of Ma Tanta, and again each was his 
own waiter. Fish, entree, roast, and dessert, were 
served in the same manner, and with the black colfee 
Ma Tanta changed from servitor to hostess and sat with 
her guests and discussed the topics of the day on equal 
terms. 

12 



SAN FRANCISCO 

In California street, just below Dupont, the Cali- 
fornia House boasted a great chef in the person of John 
Somali, who in later years opened the 
Maison Riche, a famous restaurant EARLY 

that went out of existence in the fire ITALIAN 

of 1906. Gourmets soon discovered IMPRESSION 
that the California House offered 
something unusual and it became a famed resort. 
Somali's specialties were roast turkey, Chateaubriand 
steak and coffee frappe. It is said of his turkeys that 
their flavor was of such excellence that one of the gour- 
mands of that day, Michael Reece, would always order 
two when he gave a dinner — one for his guests and one 
for himself. It is also said that our well-beloved Bo- 
hemian, Rafael Weill, still holds memories of the old 
California House, of which he was an habitue, and from 
whose excellent chef he learned to appreciate the art 
and science of cooking as evidenced by the breakfasts 
and dinners with which he regales his guests at the 
present day. 

But many of the hardy pioneers were of English and 
American stock and preferred the plainer foods of their 
old homes to the highly seasoned dishes of the Latin 
chefs, and to cater to this growing demand the Nevada 
was opened in Pine street between Montgomery and 
Kearny. This place became noted for its roast beef and 
also for its corned beef and cabbage, which was said to 
be of most excellent flavor. 

Most famous of all the old oyster houses was Man- 
nings, at the corner of Pine and Webb streets. He spec- 
ialized in oysters and many of his dishes have survived 
to the present day. It is said that the style now called 
"Oysters Kirkpatrick," is but a variant of Manning's 
"Oyster Salt Roast." 

At the corner of California and Sansome streets, 
where now stands the Bank of California, was the 
Tehama House, one of the most famous of the city's 

13 



BOHEMIAN 

early hostclries, whose restaurant was famed for its 

excellence. The Tehama House was the rendezvous of 

army and navy officers and high state 

EARLY ofTicials. Lieutenant John Derby, of 

ITALIAN the United States Army, one of the 
IMPRESSION most widely known western authors 
of that day, made it his headquar- 
ters. Derbv wrote under the names of "John Phoenix," 
and "Squibob." 

Perini's, in Post street between Grant avenue and 
Stockton, specialized in pastes and veal rissotto, and 
was much patronized by uptown men. 

The original Marchand began business in a little 
room in Dupont street, between Jackson and Washing- 
ton, which district at that time had not been given over 
to the Chinese, and he cooked over a charcoal brazier, 
in his window, in view of passing people who were at- 
tracted by the novelty and retained by the good cook- 
ing. With the extension of his fame he found his room 
too small and he rented a cottage at Bush and Dupont 
street, but his business grew so rapidly that he was com- 
pelled to move to more commodious quarters at Post 
and Dupont and later to a much larger place at Geary 
and Stockton, where he enjoyed good patronage until 
the fire destroyed his place. There is now a restaurant 
in Geary street near Mason which has on its windows 
in very small letters "Michael, formerly of," and then in 
bold lettering, "Marchands." But Michael has neither 
the art nor the viands that made Marchands famous, 
and he is content to say that his most famous dish is 
tripe — just plain, plebeian tripe. 

Christian Good, at Washington and Kearny, Big 
John, at Merchant street between Montgomery and San- 
some, Marsliall's Chop House, in the old Center Market, 
and Johnson's Oyster House, in a basement at Clay and 
Leidcsdorff streets, were all noted places and much pat- 
ronized, the latter laying the foundation of one of San 

U 



SAN FRANCISCO 

Francisco's "First Families." Martin's was much pat- 
ronized by the Old Comstock crowd, and this was the 
favorite dining place of the late 
William C. Ralston. EARLY 

One of the most famous restau- ITALIAN 
rants of the early '70s was the Mint, IMPRESSION 
in Commercial street, between Mont- 
gomery and Kearny, where the present restaurant of the 
same name is located. It was noted for its Southern 
cooking and was the favorite resort of W. W. Foote and 
other prominent Southerners. The kitchen was pre- 
sided over by old Billy Jackson, an old-time Southern 
darkey, who made a specialty of fried chicken, cream 
gravy, and corn fritters. 



15 



BOHEMIAN 

French impression came strongly about this time, and 
the Poodle Dog, of Paris, had its prototype at Bush and 

Dupont streets. This was one of the 

BIUTll OF THE earliest of the type known as "French 

FRENCH Restaurants," and numerous conviv- 

RESTAURANT ial parties of men and women found 

its private rooms convenient for ren- 
dezvous. Old Pierre of later days, who was found dead 
out on the Colma road some two years after the fire of 
1906, was a waiter at the Poodle Dog when it started, 
and by saving his tips and making good investments he 
was able to open a similar restaurant at Stockton and 
Market, which he called the Pup. The Pup was famous 
for its frogs' legs a la poulette. In this venture Pierre 
had a partner, to whom he sold out a few years later 
and then he opened the Tortoni in O'Farrcll street, 
which became one of the most famous of the pre-fire 
restaurants, its table d'hote dinners being considered 
the best in the city. When Glaus Spreckcls built the 
tall Spreckcls building Pierre and his partner opened 
the Call restaurant in the top stories. With the fire 
both of the restaurants went out of existence, and the 
old proprietor of the Poodle Dog having died, Pierre 
and a partner named Pon bought the place, and for a 
year or so after the fire it was one of the best French 
restaurants in the city. After Pierre's untimely death 
the restaurant was merged with Bergez and Frank's, 
and is now in Bush street above Kearny. 

Much romance attached to Pierre, it being generally 
believed that he belonged to a wealthy French family, 
because of his education, his unfailing courtesy, his 
ready wit and his gentility. Pierre specialized in fish 
cooked with wine, and as a favor to his patrons he 
would go to the kitchen and prepare the dish with his 
own hands. 

In O'Farrcll street the Dclmonico was one of the 
most famous of the French restaurants until the fire. 

16 



SAN FRANCISCO 

It was several stories high, and each story contained 
private rooms. Carriages drove directly into the 
building from the street and the 
occupants went by elevator to sound- BIRTH OF THE 
proof rooms above, where they were FRENCH 
served by discreet waiters. RESTAURANT 

The Poodle Dog, the Pup, Del- 
monico's, Jacques, Frank's, the Mint, Bergez, Felix and 
Campi's are the connecting links between the fire and 
the pioneer days. Some of them still carry the names 
and memories of the old days. All were noted for their 
good dinners and remarkably low prices. 

Shortly after the fire Blanco, formerly connected 
wdth the old Poodle Dog, opened a place in O'Farrell 
street, between Hyde and Larkin, calling it "Blanco's." 
During the reconstruction period this was by far the 
best restaurant in the city, and it is still one of the 
noted places. Later Blanco opened a fine restaurant 
in Mason street, between Turk and Eddy, reviving the 
old name of the Poodle Dog, and here all the old tradi- 
tions have been revived. Both of these savor of the old 
type of French restaurants, catering to a class of quiet 
spenders who carefully guard their indiscretions. 

In the early '50s and '60s the most noted places were 
not considered respectable enough for ladies, and at 
restaurants like the Three Trees, in Dupont just above 
Bush street, ladies went into little private rooms 
through an alley. Peter Job saw his opportunity and 
opened a restaurant where special attention was paid 
to lady patrons, and shortly after the New York restau- 
rant, in Kearny street, did the same. 

Merging the post-pioneer era with the pre-fire era 
came the Maison Doree, which became famous in many 
ways. It was noted for oysters a la poulette, prepared 
after the following recipe : 

One-half cup butter, three tablespoons flour, yolks of three 
eggs. One pint chicken stock (or veal), one tablespoonful 

17 



BOHEMIAN 

lemon juice, one-eighth teaspoon pepper, one level teaspoon 
salt. Beat the butter and flour together until smooth and 
white. Then add salt, pepper and lemon 
OYSTERS juice. Gradually pour boiling stock on 

\ l^\ this mixture and simmer for ten minutes. 

POri.r.TTF Beat the yolks of eggs in a saucepan, grad- 

ually pouring the cooked sauce upon them. 
Pour into a double boiler containing boiling water in lower part 
of utensil. Stir the mixture for one and one-half minutes. Into 
this put two dozen large oysters and let cook until edges curl up 
and serve hot. 

Captain Cropper, an old Marylander, had a restau- 
rant that was much patronized by good livers, and in 
addition to the usual Southern dishes he specialized on 
terrapin a la Maryland, sending back to his native State 
for the famous diamond-back terrapin. His recipe for 
this was as follows : 

TERRAPIN ^"* ^ terrapin in small pieces, about one 
^ j^^ inch long, after boiling it. Put the pieces 

MARYLAND ^" ^ saute pan with two ounces of sweet 
butter, salt, pepper, a very little celery 
salt, a pinch of paprika. Simmer for a few minutes and 
then add one glass of sherry wine, which reduce to half by 
boiling. Then add one cup of cream, bring to a boil and thicken 
with two yolks of eggs mixed with a half cup of cream. Let it 
come to a near boil and add half a glass of dry sherry and serve. 

You may thicken the terrapin with the following mixture: 
Two raw yolks of eggs, two boiled yolks of eggs, one ounce of 
butter, one ounce corn starch. Rub together and pass through 
a fine sieve. 

Uncle Tom's Cabin, Tony Oakes, the Hermitage, 
and Cornelius Stagg's were noted road-houses where 
fine meals were served, but these are scarcely to be con- 
sidered as San Francisco Bohemian restaurants. 

The Reception, on the corner of Sutter and Webb 
streets, which continued up to the time of the fire, w\is 
noted for its terrapin specialties, but it was rather mal- 
odorous and ladies who patronized it usually went in 
through the We])b street entrance to keep from being 
seen. The old Baldwin Hotel, which stood where the 

18 



SAN FRANCISCO 

Flood building now stands, at the corner of Market and 
Powell, and which was destroyed by fire some fourteen 
years ago, was the favorite resort of 
many of the noted men of the West, BIRTH OF THE 
and the grill had the distinction of FRENCH 
being the best in San Francisco at RESTAURANT 
that time. The grill of the Old Pal- 
ace Hotel was also of highest order, and this was espec- 
ially true of the Ladies' Grill which was then, as now, 
noted for its artistic preparation of a wondrous variety 
of good things. 

Probably the most unique place of the pioneer and 
post-pioneer eras was the Cobweb Palace, at Meiggs's 
Wharf, run by queer old Abe Warner. It was a little 
ramshackle building extending back through two or 
three rooms filled with all manner of old curios such as 
comes from sailing vessels that go to different parts of 
the world. These curios were piled indiscriminately 
everywhere, and there were boxes and barrels piled 
with no regard whatever for regularity. This hetero- 
geneous conglomeration was covered with years of dust 
and cobwebs, hence the name. Around and over these 
played bears, monkeys, parrots, cats, and dogs, and 
whatever sort of bird or animal that could be accommo- 
dated until it had the appearance of a small menagerie. 
Warner served crab in various ways and clams. In 
the rear room, which was reached by a devious path 
through the debris, he had a bar where he served the 
finest of imported liquors, French brandy, Spanish 
wines, English ale, all in the original wood. He served 
no ordinary liquor of any sort, saying that if anybody 
wanted whiskey they could get it at any saloon. He 
catered to a class of men who knew good liquors, and 
his place was a great resort for children, of whom he 
was fond and who went there to see the animals. The 
frontispiece of this book is from one of the few existing 
(if not the only one) photographs of the place. 

19 



BOHEMIAN 

Equally unique, yet of higher standard, was the 
Palace of Art, run by the Hackett brothers, in Post 
street near Market. Here were some 
BIRTH OF THE of the finest paintings and marble 
FRENCH carvings to be found in the city, to- 
RESTAURANT gethcr with beautiful hammered sil- 
ver plaques and cups. Curios of all 
sorts were displayed on the walls, and among them 
were many queer wood growths showing odd shapes as 
well as odd colorings. A large and ornate bar extended 
along one side of the immense room and tables were 
placed about the room and in a balcony that ran along 
one side. Here meals were served to both men and 
women, the latter being attracted by the artistic display 
and unique character of the place. This was destroyed 
by the fire and all the works of art lost. 



20 



SAN FRANCISCO 

Three times destroyed by fire, and tliree times re- 
built, the Cliff House stands on a rocky promontory 
overlooking the Sundown Sea, where 
San Francisco's beach is laved by the AT THE 

waves of the Ocean. Since the first CLIFF 

Cliff House was erected this has been HOUSE 

a place famous the world over be- 
cause of its scenic beauty and its overlooking the Seal 
Rocks, where congregate a large herd of sealions dis- 
porting much to the edification of the visitors. Appeal- 
ing from its romantic surroundings, interesting because 
of its history, and attractive through its combination of 
dashing waves and beautiful beach extending miles in 
one direction, with the rugged entrance to Golden Gate 
in the other, with the mysterious Farallones in the dim 
distance, the Cliff House may well be classed as one of 
the great Bohemian restaurants of San Francisco. 

Lovers of the night life know it well for it is the 
destination of many an automobile party. During the 
day its terraces are filled with visitors from abroad who 
make this a part of their itinerary, and here, as they 
drink in the wondrous beauty of the scene spread be- 
fore them, partake of well prepared and well served 
dishes such as inade both the Cliff House and San Fran- 
cisco well and favorably known and whose fame is not 
bounded by the continent. 

But for a most pleasant visit to the Cliff House one 
should choose the early morning hours, and go out when 
the air is blowing free and fresh from the sea, the waves 
cresting wdth amber under the magic touch of the east- 
erly sun. Select a table next to one of the western win- 
dows and order a breakfast that is served here better 
than any place we have tried. This breakfast will con- 
sist of broiled breast of young turkey, served with 
broiled Virginia ham with a side dish of corn fritters. 
When you sit down to this after a brisk ride out through 
Golden Gate Park, you have the great sauce, appetite, 

21 



BOHEMIAN 

and with a pot of steaming coffee whose aroma rises 

like the incense to the Sea Gods, you will feel that 

while j'^ou have thought you had good 

AT THE breakfasts before this, you know that 

CLIFF now you are having the best of them 

HOUSE all. Of course there are many other 

good things to order if you like, but 

we have discovered nothing that makes so complete a 

breakfast as this. 



3t 



SAN FRANCISCO 

"Is everybody happy? Oh, it is only nine o'clock and 
we've got all night." It was a clear, fresh young voice, 
full of the joy of living and came 
from a young woman whose care- SOME 

free air seemed to say of her exist- ITALIAN 
ence as of the night "We've got all RESTAURANTS 
life before us." The voice, the health- 
ful face and vigorous form, the very live and joyous 
expression were all significant of the time and place. 
It was Sunday night and the place was Steve Sangui- 
netti's, with roysterers in full swing and every table 
filled and dozens of patrons waiting along the walls 
ready to take each seat as it was emptied. Here were 
young men and women just returned from their vari- 
ous picnics across the Bay to their one great event of 
the week — a Sunday dinner at Sanguinetti's. 

Over in one corner of the stifling room, on a raised 
platform, sat two oily and fat negroes, making the place 
hideous with their ribald songs and the twanging of a 
guitar and banjo. When a familiar air was sounded 
the entire gathering joined in chorus, and when such 
tunes as "There'll Be a Hot Time in the Old Town To- 
night" came, the place was pandemonium. Yet through 
it all perfect order was kept by the fat proprietor, his 
muscular "bouncer" and two policemen stationed at the 
doors. Noise was rather invited than frowned upon, 
and the only line drawn regarding conduct was the 
throwing of bread. Probably Steve did not want it 
wasted. 

It was all free and easy and nobody took offense at 
anything said or done. In fact if one were squeamish 
about such things Sanguinetti's was no place for him or 
her. One found one's self talking and laughing with the 
people about as if they were old friends. It made no 
difference how you were dressed, nor how dignified you 
tried to be, it was all one with the crowd around the 
tables. If you wished to stay there in comfort you had 

23 



BOHEMIAN 

to be one of them, and dignity had to be left outside or 

it would make you so uncomfortable that you would 

carry it out, to an accompaniment of 

SOME laughter and jeers of the rest of the 

ITALIAN diners. 

RESTAURANTS So far as eating was concerned 

that was not one of the considerations 

when discussing Sanguinetti's. It was a table d'hote 

dinner served with a bottle of "Dago red," for fifty 

cents. You gave the waiter a tip of fifteen cents or 

"two bits" as you felt liberal, and he was satisfied. If 

you were especially pleased you gave the darkeys ten 

cents, not because you enjoyed the music, but just 

"because." 

The one merit of Sanguinetti's before the fire was 
the fact that all the regular customers were unaffected 
and natural. They came from the factories, canneries, 
shops, and drays, and after a week of heart-breaking 
work this was their one relaxation and they enjoyed it 
to the full. Many people from the residential part of 
the city, and many visitors at the hotels, went there as 
a part of slumming trips, but the real sentiment was ex- 
pressed by the young girl when she sang out "Is every- 
body happy?" 

Sanguinetti still has his restaurant, and there is still 
to be found the perspiring darkeys, playing and singing 
their impossible music, and a crowd still congregates 
there, but it is not the old crowd for this, like all tilings 
else in San Francisco, has changed, and instead of the 
old-time assemblage of j'oung men and women whose 
lack of convention came from their natural environ- 
ment, there is now a crowd of young and old peo- 
ple who patronize it because they have heard it is "so 
Bohemian." 

Thrifty hotel guides take tourists there and tell them 
it is "the only real Bohemian restaurant in San Fran- 
cisco," and when the outlantlers see the antics of the 

24 



SAN FRANCISCO 

people and listen to the ribald jests and bad music of 
the darkej'^s, they go back to their hotels and tell with 
bated breath of one of the most won- 
derful things they have ever seen, SOME 
and it is one of the wonderful things ITALIAN 
of their limited experience. RESTAURANTS 

Among the pre-fire restaurants of 
note were several Italian places which appealed to the 
Rohemian spirit through their good cooking and ab- 
sence of conventionality, together with the inexpensive- 
ness of the dinners. Among these were the Ruon Gusto, 
the Fior d'ltalia. La Estrella, Campi's and the Gianduja. 
Of these Campi's, in Clay street below Sansome, was the 
most noted, and the primitive style of serving combined 
with his excellent cooking brought him fame. All of 
these places, or at least restaurants with these names, 
are still in existence. 

Jule's, the Fly Trap, the St. Germain and the Cosmos 
laid claim to distinction through their inexpensiveness, 
up to the time of the fire. All of these names are still 
to be seen over restaurants and they are still in that 
class, Jule's, possibly, being better than it was before 
the fire. A good dinner of seven or eight courses, well 
cooked and well served, could be had in these places for 
fifty cents. Lombardi's was of the same type but his 
price was but twenty-five cents for a course dinner in 
many respects the equal of the others. 

Pop Floyd, recently killed by his bartender in an 
altercation, had a place down in California street much 
patronized by business men. He had very good service 
and the best of cooking, and for many years hundreds 
of business men gathered there at luncheon in lieu of a 
club. The place is still in existence and good service 
and good food is to be had there, but it has lost its Ro- 
hemian atmosphere. 

In Pine street above Montgomery was the Viticul- 
tural, a restaurant that had great vogue owing to the 

25 



BOHEMIAN 

excellence of its cooking. Its specialty was marrow on 
toast and broiled mushrooms, and game. 

To speak of Bohemian San Fran- 
bUMh Cisco and say nothing of the old Hoflf- 

ITALIAN man saloon, on Second and Market 
RESTAURANTS streets, would be like the play of 
Hamlet with Hamlet left out. "Pop" 
Sullivan, or "Billy" Sullivan, according to the degree of 
familiarity of the acquaintance, boasted of the fact that 
from the day this place opened until he sold the doors 
were closed but once, the keys having been thrown 
away on opening day. During all the years of its exist- 
ence the only day it was closed was the day of the 
funeral of Sullivan's mother. Here was the most mag- 
nificent bar in San Francisco, and in connection was a 
restaurant that catered to people who not only knew 
good things but ordered them. The back part of the 
place with entrance on Second street was divided off 
into little rooms with tables large enough for four. 
These rooms were most lavish in their decoration, the 
most interesting feature being that they were all made 
of different beautiful woods, highly polished. Woods 
were here from all parts of the world, each being dis- 
tinctive. In these rooms guests were served with the 
best the market afforded, by discreet darkeys. This 
place was the best patronized of all the Bohemian re- 
sorts of the city up to the time of the fire. One of the 
special dainties served were the Hoffman House biscuits, 
light and flaky, such as could be found nowhere else. 

Out by Marshall Square, by the City Hall, was Good 
Fellow's Grotto, started by Techau, who afterward built 
and ran the Techau Tavern. This place was in a base- 
ment and had much vogue among politicians and those 
connected with the city government. It specialized on 
beefsteaks. 

Under the St. Ann building, at Eddy and Powell 
streets, was the Louvre, started and managed by Carl 

26 



SAN FRANCISCO 

Zinkand, who afterward opened the place in Market 
above Fourth street, called Zinkand's. This was dis- 
tinctly German in appointments and 
cooking and was the best of its kind SOME 

in the city. Under the Phelan build- ITALIAN 
ing at O'Farrell and Market was the RESTAURANTS 
Old Louvre in which place one could 
get German cooking, but it was not a place that ap- 
pealed to those who knew good service. 

Bab's had a meteoric career and was worthy of 
much longer life, but Babcock had too high an idealiza- 
tion of what San Francisco wanted. He emulated the 
Parisian restaurants in oddities, one of his rooms being 
patterned after the famous Cabaret de la Mort, and one 
dined off a coffin and was lighted by green colored 
tapers affixed to skulls. Aside from its oddities it was 
one of the best places for a good meal for Bab had the 
art of catering down to a nicety. There were rooms 
decorated to represent various countries and in each 
room you could get a dinner of the country represented. 

Thompson's was another place that was too elab- 
orate for its patronage and after a varied existence from 
the old Oyster Loaf to a cafeteria Thompson was com- 
pelled to leave for other fields and San Francisco lost a 
splendid restaurateur. He opened the place under the 
Flood building, after the fire, in most magnificent style, 
taking in two partners. The enormous expense and 
necessary debt contracted to open the place was too 
much and Thompson had to give up his interest. This 
place is now running as the Portola-Louvre. 

Much could be written of these old-time restaurants, 
and as we write story after story amusing, interesting, 
and instructive come to mind, each indicative of the 
period when true Bohemianism, was to be found in the 
City that Was. 

An incident that occurred in the old Fior d'ltalia 
well illustrates this spirit of camaraderie, as it shows 

27 



BOHEMIAN 

the good-fellowship that then obtained. We went to 
that restaurant for dinner one evening, and the propri- 
etor, knowing our interest in human 
SOME nature studies, showed us to a little 

ITALIAN table in the back part of the room, 

RESTAURANTS where we could have a good view of 
all the tables. Our table was large 
enough to scat four comfortably, and presently, as the 
room became crowded, the proprietor, with many ex- 
cuses, asked if he could seat tw^o gentlemen with us. 
They were upper class Italians, exceedingly polite, and 
apologized profusely for intruding upon us. In a few 
minutes another gentleman entered and our compan- 
ions at once began frantic gesticulations and called him 
to our table, where room was made and another cover 
laid. Again and again this occurred until finally at a 
table suited for four, nine of us were eating, laughing, 
and talking together, we being taken into the comrade- 
ship without question. When it came time for us to 
depart the entire seven rose and stood, bowing as we 
passed from the restaurant. 



28 



SAN FRANCISCO 

Running through all the fabric of San Francisco's 
history is the thread of Mexican and Spanish romance 
and tradition, carrying us back to the 
very days when the trooper sent out IMPRESS 

by Portola first set eyes on the great OF 

inland sea now known as San Fran- MEXICO 

Cisco Bay. It would seem that the 
cuisinaire most indelibly stamped on the taste of the old 
San Franciscan would, therefore, be of either Spanish 
or Mexican origin. That this is not a fact is because 
among the earliest comers to California after it passed 
from Mexican hands to those of the United States, were 
French and Italian cooks, and the bon vivants of both 
lands who wanted their own style of cooking. While 
the Spanish did not impress their cooking on San Fran- 
cisco, it is the cuisine of the Latin races that has given 
to it its greatest gastronomic prestige, and there still re- 
mains from those very early days recipes of the famous 
dishes which had their beginnings either in Spain or 
Mexico. 

There is much misconception regarding both Span- 
ish and Mexican cooking, for it is generally accepted as 
a fact that all Mexican and Spanish dishes are so filled 
with red pepper as to be unpalatable to the normal 
stomach of those trained to what is called "plain Ameri- 
can cooking." Certain dishes of Mexican and Spanish 
origin owe their fine flavor to discriminating use of chili 
caliente or chili dulce, but many of the best dishes are 
entirely innocent of either. The difference between 
Spanish and Mexican cooking is largely a matter of 
sentiment. It is a peculiarity of the Spaniard that he 
does not wish to be classed as a Mexican, and on the 
other hand the Mexican is angry if he be called a Span- 
iard. But the fact remains that their cooking is much 
alike, so much so, in fact, as to be indistinguishable ex- 
cept by different names for similar dishes, and fre- 
quently these are the same. 

29 



BOHEMIAN 

The two famous and world-known dishes of this 

class of cooking are tortillas and tamales. It is generally 

supposed that both of these are the 

IMPRESS product of Mexico, but this is not the 

OF case. The tamale had its origin in 

MEXICO Spain and was carried to Mexico by 

the conquistadors, and taken up as 

a national dish by the natives after many years. The 

tortilla, on the other hand, is made now exactly as it 

was made by the Mexican Indian when the Spanish 

found the country. The aborigine prepared his corn on 

a stone metate and made it into cakes by patting it with 

the hand, then cooked it on a hot stone before an open 

fire. It is still made in that manner in the heart of 

Mexico, and we could tell a story of how we saw this 

done one night in the midst of a dense tropical forest, 

while muleteers and mozas of a great caravan sat 

around their little camp-fires, whose fitful light served 

to intensify the weird appearance of the shadows of the 

Indians as they passed to and fro among their packs, 

but this is not the place for such stories. 

Of the old Mexican restaurants, those of us who can 
look back to the days of a quarter of a century ago re- 
member old Felipe and Maria, the Mexican couple who 
kept the little place in the alley back of the old county 
jail, off Broadway. Here one had to depend entirely 
upon sentiment, or rather sentimentality, to be pleased. 
The cooking was truly Mexican for it included the usual 
Mexican disregard for dirt. Chattering monkeys and 
parrots were hanging around the kitchen, peering into 
pots and fingering viands, and they served to attract at- 
tention from myriads of cockroaches that swarmed 
about the walls. One could go to this place just on the 
theory that one is willing to try anything once, but aside 
from its picturesque old couple, and its Dantesque ap- 
pearance, it offered nothing to induce a return unless it 
was to entertain a friend. 

30 



SAN FRANCISCO 

Everyone who lived in San Francisco before the fire 
remembers Ricardo, he of the one eye, who served so 
well at Luna's, on Vallejo and Du- 
pont streets. Ricardo had but one IMPRESS 
eye but he could see the wants of his OF 

patrons much better than many of MEXICO 
the later day waiters who have two. 
Luna's brought fame to San Francisco and in more than 
one novel of San Francisco life it was featured. Enter- 
ing the place one came into the home life of the Luna 
family, and reached the dining room through the par- 
lor, where Mrs. Luna, busy with her drawn work, and 
all the little Lunas and the neighbors and their children 
foregathered in the window spaces behind the torn Not- 
tingham curtains which partially concealed the interior 
from passers on the street. The elder sons and daugh- 
ters attended to the wants of those who fancied any of 
the curios displayed in the long showcase that extended 
from the door to the rear of the room. 

Passing through this family group one came to the 
curtained dining room proper, although there were a 
number of tables in the family parlor to be used in case 
of a rush of patrons. Luna's dinners were a feature of 
the old San Francisco. They were strictly Mexican, 
from the unpalatable soup (Mexicans do not under- 
stand how to make good soup) to the "dulce" served at 
the close of the meal. First came the appetizers in form 
of thin slices of salami and of a peculiar Mexican 
sausage, so extremely hot with chili pepino as to imme- 
diately call for a drink of claret to assauge the burning. 
Then came the soup which we experienced ones always 
passed over. The salad of modern tables was replaced 
by an enchilada, and then came either chili con carne 
or chili con polle according to the day of the week, 
Sundays having as the extra attraction the chili con 
polio, or chicken with pepper. In place of bread they 
served tortillas, which were rolled and used as a spoon 

31 



BOHEMIAN 

or fork if one were so inclined. Following this w^as 
what is known among unenlightened as "stuffed pep- 
per," but which is called by the Span- 
IMPRESS ish, from which country it gets its 
OF name, "chili reinas." To signify the 

MEXICO close of the meal came frijoles fritas 

or fried beans, and these were fol- 
lowed by the dessert consisting of some preserved fruit 
or of a sweet tamale. Fifty cents paid the bill and a tip 
of fifteen cents to Ricardo made him as happy and as 
profuse with his thanks as the present day waiter on 
receipt of half a dollar. 

Accepting Luna's as the best type of the Mexican 
restaurant of the days before the fire, our inquiry devel- 
oped the fact that the dish on which he specialized was 
chili reinas, and this is the recipe he used in their 
preparation: 

CHILIS Roast large bell peppers until the skin 

REINAS turns black. Wash in cold water and rub 

off the blackened skin. Cut around the 

stem and remove the seed and coarse veins. Take some dry 

Monterey cheese, grated fine, and with this fill the peppers, 

closing the end with a wooden toothpick. 

Prepare a batter made as follows: Beat the yolks and 
whites of six eggs separately, then mix, and stir in a little 
flour to make a thin batter. Have a pan of boiling lard ready 
and after dipping tlie stuffed pepper into the batter dip it into 
the lard. Remove cjuickly and dip again in the batter and then 
again in the lard where it is to remain until fried a light, 
golden brown, keeping the peppers entirely covered with the 
boiling lard. 

Take the seeds of the peppers, one small white onion and 
two tomatoes and grind all together into a pulp, add a little 
salt and let cook ten minutes. When the chilis are fried turn 
the remainder of the batter into the tomatoes and boil twenty 
minutes, then turn this sauce over the peppers. 

This is a most delicious dish and can be varied by using 
finely ground meat to stuff the peppers instead of the cheese. 

Mexican restaurants of the present day in San Fran- 
cisco are a delusion, and unsatisfactory. 

32 



SAN FRANCISCO 

Much has been said and more printed regarding San 
Francisco's Barbary Coast — much of truth and much 
mythical. Probably no other indi- 
vidual district has been so instru- qN THE 
mental in giving to people of other BARBARY 
parts of the country an erroneous COAST 
idea of San Francisco. It is generally 
accepted as a fact that in Barbary Coast Vice flaunted 
itself in reckless abandon before the eyes of the world, 
showing those things usually concealed behind walls 
and under cover of the darkness. According to the 
purists here youth of both sexes was debauched, losing 
both money and souls. To speak of seeing Barbary 
Coast brought furtive looks and lowered voices, as if 
contamination even from the thought were possible. No 
slumming party was completed without a visit to the 
"Coast," after Chinatown's manufactured horrors had 
been shuddered at. 

One cannot well speak of the Barbary Coast without 
bringing into consideration the Social Evil, for here was 
concentrated dozens of the poor unfortunates of the 
underworld, compelled to eke out miserable existence 
through playing on the foibles and vanities of men, or 
seek oblivion in a suicide's grave. We do not propose 
to discuss this phase of Barbary Coast as that is not a 
part of Bohemianism. 

We have visited the Coast many times, at all hours 
of the night, and beyond the unconcealed license of 
open caresses we have seen nothing shocking to our 
moral sense that equalled what we have seen in Broad- 
way, New York, or in some of the most fashionable 
hotels and restaurants of San Francisco on New Year's 
Eve. Dancing, singing and music — all that is embodied 
in the "wine, women and song" of the poets, was to be 
found there, biit it was open, and had none of the veiled 
suggestion to be found in places considered among the 
best. 

33 



BOHEMIAN 

In Barbary Coast we have seen more beautiful danc- 
ing than on any stage, or in the famous Moulin Rouge, 
or Jardin Mabile of Paris. In fact, 
OX THE many of the modern dances that have 

BARBARY become the vogue all over the coun- 
COAST try, even being carried to Europe, 

had their origin in Pacific street 
dance halls. Texas Tommy, the Grizzly Bear, and many 
others were first danced here, and some of the finest 
Texas Tommy dancers on eastern stages went from the 
dance halls of San Francisco's Barbary Coast. 

Vice was there — yes. It was open — yes. But there 
was the attraction of light and life and laughter that 
drew crowds nightly. 

Barbary Coast was a part of San Francisco's Bo- 
hemianism because of its unconventionality, for, you 
know, there is conventionality even in Vice. Here was 
the rendezvous of sailormen from all parts of the world, 
for here they found companionship and joviality. 

Up to the time of the closing of Barbary Coast mo- 
lestation of women on the streets of San Francisco was 
almost unheard of. Since its closing it is becoming more 
and more hazardous for women to walk alone at night 
in the only large city in the world that always had the 
reputation of guarding its womankind. 



54 



SAN FRANCISCO 

Times change and we change with them is well evi- 
denced by the restaurant life of the present day San 
Francisco. Now, as before the fire, we 
have the greatest restaurant city of IrltLLllY 
the world — a city where home life is IHAl WAS 
subordinated to the convenience of FASSbS 

apartment dwelling and restaurant 
meals — but the old-time Bohemian finds neither the 
same atmosphere nor the same restaurants. 

True, many of the old names have been retained or 
revived, but there is not felt the old spirit of camarad- 
erie. Old personalities have passed away and old cus- 
toms have degenerated. Those who aw^ait The Gall 
feel that with the passing of the old city there passed 
much that made life worth living, and as they prepare 
to cross to the Great Beyond, they live in their mem- 
ories of the Past. 

With reverence we think of the men and women of 
the early San Francisco— those who made the city the 
Home of Bohemia — and it is with this feeling that we 
now come to discuss the Bohemian restaurants of the 
New San Francisco. 



35 



BOHEMIAN 

In the latter part of April, 1906, when the fire-swept 

sb'cets presented their most forbidding aspect, and 

when the only moving figures to be 

SANG seen after nightfall were armed sol- 

THE SWAN diers guarding the little remaining of 
SONG value from depredations of skulking 

vagabonds, a number of the old Bo- 
hemian spirits gathered at the corner of Montgomery 
and Commercial streets, and gazed through the shat- 
tered windows into the old dining room where they had 
held many a royal feast. On the blackened walls might 
still be seen scarred pictures, fringed by a row of black 
cats along the ceiling. They turned their steps out to- 
ward the Presidio, hunted among the Italian refugees 
and there found Coppa — he of the wonderful black cats, 
and it took little persuasion to induce him to go back 
to his ruined restaurant and prepare a dinner, such as 
had made his place famous among artists, writers, and 
other Bohemians, in the days when San Francisco was 
care-free and held her arms wide open in welcome to 
all the world. 

It was such a dinner as has been accorded to few. 
Few there are who have the heart to make merry amid 
crumbling ruins of all they held dear in the material 
world. The favored ones who assembled there will al- 
ways hold that dinner in most alTcclionate memory, and 
to this day not one thinks of it without the choking that 
comes from over-full emotion. It was more than a 
tribute to the days of old — it marked the passing of the 
old San Francisco and the inauguration of the new. 

It was Bohemia's Swan Song, sung by those to whom 
San Francisco held more than pleasure — more than sen- 
timentality. It held for them close-knit ties that noth- 
ing less than a world-shaking cataclysm could sever — 
and the cataclysm had arrived. 

The old Coppa restaurant in Montgomery street be- 
came a memory and on its ashes came the new one, 

36 



SAN FRANCISCO 

located in Pine street between Montgomery and Kearny 
streets, and for a number of j^ears this remained the 
idol of Bohemia until changed condi- 
tions drove the tide of patronage far SANG 
up toward Powell, Ellis, Eddy and THE SWAN 
O'Farrell streets. At that time there SONG 
grew up a mushroom crop of so- 
called restaurants in Columbus avenue close to Barbary 
Coast such as Caesar's, the Follies Cabaret, Jupiter and 
El Paradiso, where space was reserved in the middle of 
the floor for dancing. Coppa emulated the new idea by 
fitting out a gorgeous basement room at the corner of 
Kearny and Jackson, which he called the Neptune Pal- 
ace. It represented a great grotto under the ocean, and 
here throngs gathered nightly to dance and eat until the 
police commissioners closed all of these resorts, as well 
as Barbary Coast. 

Coppa became financially injured by this venture 
and was forced to take a partner in his old restaurant, 
and finally gave up his share and went beyond the city 
limits and opened the Pompeiian Garden, on the San 
Mateo road, and there with his heroic little wife tried to 
rebuild his shrunken fortunes, leaving the historic res- 
taurant with its string of black cats and its memorable 
pictures on the walls to less skilled hands. He strug- 
gled against hard times and at the time of this writing 
he, with his wife, their son and his wife, are giving the 
old-time dinners and trying to make the venture a 
success. 

In the old days it was considered a feat of gorman- 
dizing to go through one of Coppa's dinners and eat 
everything set before you for one dollar. Notwith- 
standing the delicious dishes he prepared and the won- 
derful recipes, the quantity served was so great that one 
would have to be possessed of enormous capacity, in- 
deed, to be able to say at the end of the meal that he 
had eaten all that was given him. 

57 



BOHEMIAN 

In his Pompeiian Garden Coppa still maintains his 
old reputation for most tasty viands and liberal por- 
tions, and if one desire to find the 
SANG true Bohemian restaurant of San 

THE SWAN Francisco today, one that approaches 
SONG the old spirit of the days before the 

fire, he need but go out to Coppa's 
and while he will not have his eyes regaled by the 
quaint drawings with which the old-time artists decor- 
ated the walls, nor the hurrying footsteps along the 
ceiling to the famous center table where sat some of the 
world's most notable Bohemians on their visits to San 
Francisco, nor the frieze of black cats around the cor- 
nice, nor the Bohemian verse, written under inspiration 
of "Dago red," he will find the same old cooking, done 
by Coppa himself. 

We asked Coppa what he considered his best dish 
and he gave us the Irishman's reply by asking another 
question: 

"What do you think of it?" 
There are so many to choose from that our answer 
was difiicult but we finally stopped at "Chicken Por- 
tola." It was then that the old smile came back to 
Coppa's face. 

"Ah! Chicken Portola. That is my own idea. It is 
the most delicious way chicken was ever cooked." 

This is the recipe as Coppa gave it to us, his little 
wife standing at his side and giving, now and then, a 
suggestion as Coppa's memory halted : 

/MjuM/rv Take a fresh cocoanut and cut off the 

POHTOI A ''' •'t'"i"^''"fi nearly all of the meat. Put 

\I \('()PP\ together three tablespoonfuls of chopped 
cocoanut meat and two ears of fresh, green 
corn, taken from the cob. Slice two onions into four tablespoon- 
fuls of olive oil, together with a tablespoonful of diced bacon 
fried in olive oil, add one chopped green pepper, half a dozen 
toniat(K's stewed with salt and pepper, one clove of garlic, and 
cook all together until it thickens. Strain this into the corn and 

38 



SAN FRANCISCO 

cocoanut and add one spring chicken cut in four pieces. Put 

the mixture into the shell of the cocoanut, using the cut-otf 
top as a cover, and close tightly with a 

covering of paste around the jointure to QAXTr" 

keep in the flavors. Put the cocoanut into oAISLt 
a pan with water in it and set in the oven, THE SWAN 

well heated, for one hour, basting fre- SONG 
quently to prevent the cocoanut's burning. 

A bare recital of the terms of the recipe cannot bring 
to the uninitiated even a suspicion of the delightful 
aroma that comes from the cocoanut when its top is 
lifted, nor can it give the slightest idea of the delicacy 
of the savor arising from the combination of the cocoa- 
nut with young chicken. It is not a difficult dish to pre- 
pare, and if you cannot get it at any of the restaurants, 
and we are sure you cannot, try it at home some time 
and surprise your friends with a dish to be found in 
only one restaurant in the world. If you desire it at 
Coppa's on your visit to San Francisco you will have to 
telephone out to him in advance (unless he has suc- 
ceeded in getting back to the city, which he contem- 
plates) so that he can prepare it for j^ou, and, take our 
word for it, you will never regret doing so. 

Coppa has many wonderful dishes to serve, and he 
delights so much in your appreciation that he is always 
fearful something is wrong if you fail to do full justice 
to his meal. He showed this one evening when he had 
filled a little party of us to repletion by his lavish 
provision for our entertainment, and nature rebelled 
against anything more. To us came Coppa in tears. 

"What is the matter with the chicken. Doctor? Is it 
not cooked just right?" 

It was with difficulty that we made him understand 
that there was a limit to capacity, and that he had fed us 
with such bountiful hand we could eat no more. Even 
now when we go to Coppa's we have a little feeling of 
fear lest we offend him by not eating enough to con- 
vince him that we are pleased. 

39 



BOHEMIAN 

Coppa's walls were always adorned with strange 
conceits of the artists and writers who frequented his 
place, and after a picture, or a bit of 
SANG verse had remained until it was too 

THE SWAN familiar some one erased it and re- 

SOXG placed it wdth something he thought 

was better. We preserved one writ- 
ten by an unknown Bohemian. We give it just as it was : 

Through the fog of centuries, dim and dense, 

I sometimes seem to see 

The shadowy line of a back-yard fence 

And a feline shape of me. 

I hear the growl, and yowl and howl 

Of each nocturnal fight, 

And the throaty stir, half cry, half purr 

Of passionate delight, 

As seeking an amorous rendezvous 

My ancient brothers go stealing 

Through the purple gloom of night. 

I've seen your eyes, with a greenish glint; 

You move with a feline grace; 

And when you are pleased I catch the hint 

Of a purr in your throat and face. 

Then I wonder if you are dreaming, too, 

Of temples along the Nile, 

Where you yowled and howled, and loved and prowled, 

\Vith many a sensuous wile. 

And borrowed the grace you own today 

From that other life in the far-away; 

And if such dreams beguile. 

I know that you sit by your cozy fire, 

When shadows crowd the room. 

And my soul responds to an old desire 

To roam through the velvet}' gloom, 

So stealthily stealing, softly shod. 

My spirit is hurrying thence 

To the lure of an ancient mystic god, 

W^hose magnet is intense. 

Where I know your soul, too, roams in fur. 

For I hear it call witli a throaty purr, 

From the shadowy back-yard fence. 



SAN FRANCISCO 

San Francisco's care-free spirit was fully exem- 
plified before the ashes of the great fire of 1906 were 
cold. On every hand one could find 
little eating places established in the BOHEMIA 
streets, some made of abandoned OF THE 
boxes, others of debris from the PIU^SENT 
burned buildings, and some in vacant 
basements and little store rooms, while a few enterpris- 
ing individuals improvised wheeled dining rooms and 
went from one part of the city to another serving meals. 

The vein of humor of irrepressible eft'ervescence of 
spirit born of Bohemianism gave to these eating places 
high sounding names, and many were covered with 
witty signs which laughed in the face of Fate. 

Fillmore became the great business street of the city 
now in ashes, and here were established the first restau- 
rants of any pretensions, the Louvre being first to open 
an establishment that had the old-time appearance. 
This was on the corner of Fillmore and Ellis, and had 
large patronage, it being crowded nightly with men and 
women who seemed to forget that San Francisco had 
been destroyed. Thompson opened a large restaurant 
in O'Farrell street, just above Fillmore, and for two 
years or more did a thriving business, his place being 
noted for its good cooking and its splendid service. One 
of his waiters, Phil Tyson, was one of the earlier ones to 
go back into the burned district to begin business and he 
opened a restaurant called the Del Monte in Powell 
street near Market, but it was too early for success and 
closed after a short career. 

Thompson enlisted others to join with him in open- 
ing a magnificent place under the new Flood building 
at the gore of Powell and Market street, but through 
faulty understanding of financial power Thompson was 
compelled to give up his interest and the place after- 
ward closed. It has since been reopened under the 
name of the Portola-Louvre, where now crowds assem- 

4i 



BOHEMIAN 

ble nightly to listen to music and witness cabaret per- 
formances. Here, as well as in a number of other 
places, one can well appreciate the 

BOHEMIA colloquial definition of "cabaret." 
OF THE That which takes the rest out of res- 

PRESENT taurant and puts the din in dinner. 
If one likes noise and distraction 
while eating such places are good to patronize. 

Across the street from the Portola-Louvre at 15 
Powell street is the modernized Techau Tavern now 
known as "Techau's". Here there is always good music 
and food well cooked and well served, and always a 
lively crowd during the luncheon, dinner and after- 
theatre hours. The room is not large but its dimensions 
are greatly magnified owing to the covering of mirrors 
which line the walls. This garish display of mirrors, 
and elaborate decoration of ceiling and pillars, gives it 
the appearance of the abode of Saturnalia, but decorum 
is the rule among the patrons. 

Around at 168 O'Farrell street, just opposite the 
Orpheum theatre, is Tait-Zinkand restaurant, or as it is 
more popularly known, "Tait's". John Tait is the pre- 
siding spirit here, he having made reputation as club 
manager, and then as manager of the Cliff House. One 
of the partners here was Carl Zinkand, who ran the old 
Zinkand's before the fire. 

While these three restaurants are of similar type 
neither has the pre-fire atmosphere. They are lively, 
always, with music and gay throngs, and serve good 
food. 

One of the early restaurants established after the 
fire was Blanco's, at 857 O'Farrell street, and later 
Blanco opened the Poodle Dog in Mason street just 
above Eddy. Both of these restaurants are of the old 
French type and are high class in every respect. The 
Poodle Dog has a hotel attachment where one may get 
rooms or full apartments. 

42 



SAN FRANCISCO 

If you know how to order, and do not care to count 
the cost when you order, probably the best dinner at 
these restaurants can be had at either 
Blanco's or the Poodle Dog. The BOHEMIA 
cuisine is of the best and the chefs OF THE 
rank at the top of their art. Prices PRESENT 
are higher than at the other restau- 
rants mentioned, but one certainly gets the best there is 
prepared in the best way. 

But the same food, prepared equally well, is to be 
found in a number of less pretentious places. At the 
two mentioned one pays for the surroundings as well as 
for the food, and sometimes this is worth paying for. 

The restaurants of the present day that approach 
nearest the old Bohemian restaurants of pre-fire days, 
of the French class, are Jack's in Sacramento street be- 
tween Montgomery and Kearny; Felix, in Montgomery 
street between Clay and Washington, and the Poodle 
Dog-Bergez-Franks, in Bush street between Kearny and 
Grant avenue. In either of these restaurants you will 
be served with the best the market affords, cooked "the 
right way." In Clay street opposite the California Mar- 
ket is the New Frank's, one of the best of the Italian 
restaurants, and much patronized by Italian merchants. 
Next to it is Coppa's, but it is no longer run by Coppa. 
In this same district is the Mint, in Commercial street 
between Montgomery and Kearny streets. It has changed 
from what it was in the old days, but is still an excellent 
place to dine. 

Negro's, at 625 Merchant street, near the Hall of 
Justice, has quite a following of those whose business 
attaches them to the courts, and while many claim this 
to be one of the best of its class, we believe the claim to 
be based less on good cooking than on the fact that the 
habitues are intimate, making it a pleasant resort for 
them. The cooking is good and the variety what the 
market affords. 

45 



BOHEMIAN 

In Washington street, just off Columbus avenue, is 

Bonini's Barn, making great pretense through an unique 

idea. So far as the restaurant is con- 

BOHEMIA cerned the food is a little below the 

OF THE average of Italian restaurants. One 

PRESENT goes there once through curiosity and 

finds himself in a room that has all 
the appearance of the interior of a barn, with chickens 
and pigeons strutting around, harness hanging on pegs, 
and hay in mangers, and all the farming utensils around 
to give it the verisimilitude of country. Tables and 
chairs are crude in the extreme and old-time lanterns 
are used for lighting. It is an idea that is worth while, 
but, unfortunately, the proprietors depend too much on 
the decorative feature and too little on the food and 
how they serve it. 

The Fly Trap, and Charlie's Fashion, the first in 
Sutter street near Kearny and the other in Market near 
Sutter, serve well-cooked foods, especially soup, salads, 
and fish. Of course these are not the entire menus but 
of all the well-prepared dishes these are their best. 
Felix, mentioned before, also makes a specialty of his 
family soup, which is excellent. 

Spanish dinners of good quality are to be had at the 
Madrilena, at 177 Eddy street, and at the Castilian, at 
344 Sutter street. Both serve good Spanish dinners at 
reasonable prices. They serve table d'hote dinners, but 
you can also get Spanish dishes on special order. 

Under the Monadnock building, in Market street 
near Third, is Jule's, well liked and well patronized be- 
cause of its good cooking and good service. Jule is one 
of the noted restaurateurs of the city, having attained 
high cck'hrily before the fire. His prices are moderate 
and his cooking and viands of the best, and will satisfy 
the most critical of the gourmets. 

At the corner of Market and Eddy streets is the 
Odeon, down in a basement, with decorations of most 

U 



SAN FRANCISCO 

garish order. There is a good chef and the place has 
quite a vogue among lovers of good things to eat. 
Probably at no place in San Fran- 
cisco can one find game cooked better BOHEMIA 
than at Jack's, 615 Sacramento street. OF THE 

His ducks are always cooked so as to PRESENT 

elicit high praise. He has an old-style 
French table d'hote dinner which he serves for $1.25, 
including wine. Or you may order anything in the mar- 
ket and you will find it cooked "the best way." One of 
the specialties of Jack's is fish, for which the restaurant 
is noted. It is always strictly fresh and cooked to suit 
the most fastidious taste. 



i5 



BOHEMIAN 

When you see August (do not fail to pronounce it 

Owgoost) in repose you involuntarily say, that is if you 

understand German, "Mir ist alles 

AS IT IS an," which is the German equivalent 

IN of "I should worry." When August 

GERMANY is in action you immediately get a 
thirst that nothing but a stein of cold 
beer will quench. August is the pride of the Heidelberg 
Inn at 35 Ellis street. All you can see from the street as 
you pass around the corner from Market, is a sign and 
some stairs leading down into a basement, but do not 
draw back just because it is a basement restaurant, for 
if you do you will miss one of the very few real Bo- 
hemian restaurants of San Francisco. Possibly our 
point of view will not coincide with that of others, but 
while there are dozens of other Bohemian restaurants 
there is but one Heidelberg Inn. Here is absolute free- 
dom from irksome conventionality of other people, and 
none of the near Bohemianism of so many places claim- 
ing the title. 

At the Heidelberg Inn one need never fear obtrusive- 
ness on the part of other visitors, for here everybody 
attends strictly to his or her own party, enjoying a 
camaraderie that has all the genuine,whole-souled com- 
panionship found only where German families are ac- 
customed to congregate to seek relaxation from the toil 
and worry of the day. 

An evening spent in Heidelberg Inn is one replete 
with character study that cannot be excelled any^vhere 
in San Francisco — and this means that everybody there 
is worth while as a study, from the little, bald-headed 
waiter, Heine, and the big, imposing waiter, August, to 
the "Herr Doctor" who comes to forget the serious sur- 
gical case that has been worrying him at the hospital. 
Here you do not find obtrusive waiters brushing imag- 
inary crumbs from your cliair with obsequious hand, 
nor over zealous stewards solicitous of your food's qual- 

46 



SAN FRANCISCO 

ity. It is all perfect because it is made perfect by good 
management. Here are (ierman families, from Gross- 
fader and Grossmuttcr, down to the 
newest grandchild, sitting and enjoy- AS IT IS 

ing their beer and listening to such IN 

music as can be heard nowhere else GERMANY 
in San Francisco, as they eat their 
sandwiches of limburgcr, or more dainty dishes accord- 
ing to their tastes. 

One can almost imagine himself in one of the fa- 
mous rathskellers of Old Heidelberg — not at the Schloss, 
of course, for here you cannot look down on the Weiser 
as it flows beneath the windows of the great wine stube 
on the hill. But you have the real atmosphere, and this 
is enhanced by the mottoes in decoration and the flag- 
ons, steins and plaques that adorn the pillars as well as 
typical German enviromnent. 

It is when the martial strains of "De Wacht am 
Rhein" are heard from the orchestra, which of itself is 
an institution, that the true camaraderie of the place is 
appreciated, for then guests, waiters, barkeepers, and 
even the eagle-eyed, gray-haired manager, join in the 
swelling chorus, and you can well understand why Ger- 
man soldiers are inspired to march to victory when they 
hear these stirring chords. 

But there is other music — sometimes neither inspir- 
ing nor beautiful when heard in a German rathskeller 
— the music of rag time. If there is anything funnier 
than a German orchestra trying to play rag-time music 
we have never heard it. It is unconscious humor on 
part of the orchestra, consequently is all the more ex- 
cruciating. 

But if you really love good music — music that has 
melody and rhythm and soothing cadences, go to the 
Heidelberg Inn and listen to the concert which is a fea- 
ture of the place every evening. And while you are 
listening to the music you can enjoy such food as is to 

47 



BOHEMIAN 

be found nowhere else in San Francisco, for it is dis- 
tinctly Heidelbcrgian. We asked for the recipe that 
they considered the very best in the 
AS IT IS restaurant, and Hirsch, with a shrug 
IN of his shoulders, said: "Oh, we have 

GERMANY ^^ many fine dishes." We finally got 
him to select the one prized above all 
others and this is what Chef Scheiler gave us: 

GERMAN Take four pounds of clear beef, from 
SAUER either the sliouhJer or rump, and pickle it 

"^RATEN ^^^ ^'^^'^ days in one-half gallon of claret 
and one-half gallon of good wine vinegar 
(not cider). To the pickle add two large onions cut in quar- 
ters, two fresh carrots and about one ounce of mixed whole all- 
spice, black peppers, cloves and bay leaves. 

When ready for cooking take the meat out of the brine and 
put in a roasting pan. Put in the oven and brown to a golden 
color. Then take it out of the roasting pan and put it into a 
casserole, after sprinkling it with two ounces of flour. Put into 
the oven again and cook for half an hour, basting frequently 
with the original brine. 

When done take the meat out of the sauce. Strain the 
sauce through a fine collander and add a few raisins, a piece 
of honey cake, or ginger snaps and the meat of one fresh to- 
mato. Season with salt and pepper and a little sugar to taste. 
Slice and serve with the sauce over it. 

For those who like German dishes and German 
cooking it is not necessary to confine ^''ourself to the 
Heidelberg Inn, for both the Hof Brau, in Market just 
above Fourth street, and the German House Rathskel- 
ler, at Turk and Polk streets are good places where you 
can get what you want. The Hof Brau, however, is less 
distinctively German as the greater number of its pa- 
trons are Americans. The specialty of the Hof Brau is 
abalones, and they have as a feature this shell fish 
cooked in several ways. They also have as the chef in 
charge of the abalone dishes, Herbert, formerly chef for 
one of the yacht clubs of the coast, who claims to have 
the only j)roper recipe for making abalones tender. 

48 



SAN FRANCISCO 

Under ordinary circumstances the abalone is tough and 
unpalatable, but after the deft manipulation of Herbert 
they are tender and make a fine dish, 
either fried, as chowder or a la New- ^^^ ^^ ^^ 

berg. In addition to abalones the Hof ^^ 

Brau makes a specialty of little Ore- GERMANY 
gon crawfish. While there is a dis- 
tinctive German atmosphere at the Rathskeller of the 
German House, the place is too far out to gather such 
numbers as congregate at either the Heidelberg or the 
Hof Brau, but one can get the best of German cooking 
here and splendid service, and for a quiet little "Dutch 
supper" we know of no place that will accommodate 
you better than the Rathskeller. 

On special occasions, when some German society or 
club is giving a dance or holding a meeting at the Ger- 
man House, the Rathskeller is the most typical German 
place in San Francisco, and if you go at such a time you 
will get all the "atmosphere" you will desire, as well as 
the best the market affords in the way of good viands. 



49 



BOHEMIAN 

What a relief it is sometimes to have a good waiter 

say: "You do not know what you want? Will you let 

me bring you the best there is in the 

IN THE HEART house ?" Sometimes, you know, you 

OF really do not know what you want, 

ITALY and usually when that is the case you 

are not very hungry. That is always 

a good time to try new things. It is also possible that 

j'ou do not know what you want because you do not 

know how to order. In either instance our advice is, if 

the waiter gets confidential and offers his assistance you 

will certainly miss something if you do not accept his 

good offices. 

This was the case with us, one day when we were 
over at 1549 Stockton street, near Washington Square, 
at the Gianduja. The proper pronunciation of this is as 
if it were spelled Zhan-du-ya. This is one of the good 
Italian restaurants of the Latin quarter. At the Gian- 
duja you get the two prime essentials to a good meal — 
good cooking and excellent service. It matters not 
whether you take their thirty-five cent luncheon or or- 
der a most elaborate meal, you will find that the sers'ice 
is just what it ought to be. We asked Brenti what he 
considered his most famous dish, and like all other pro- 
prietors, he shrugged his shoulders and said, with hands 
emphasizing his words: 

"We have so many fine dishes." 

"Of course we know that, but what do you consider 
the very best?" 

"There is no one the 'very best'. I could give you 
two." 

"Let it be two, then," was our immediate rejoinder, 
and here is what he gave us as the best recipes of the 
Gianduja. 

First, let us give you an idea of the difficulty under 
which we secured these recipes by printing them just as 
he wrote them down for us, and then we shall elaborate 

50 



SAN FRANCISCO 

a little and show the result of skillful questioning. This 
is the way he wrote the recipe for Risotto Milanaise: 

"Onions chop fine — marrow and little 
butter — rice — saffron — chicken broth — ^^im Vnjat\p^ 
wen cook add fresh butter and Parmesan MILANAISE 

cheese seasoned. 

What was embodied in the words "wen cook" was 
the essential of the recipe and here is the way we got it: 

Chop one large onion fine. Cut a beef marrow into small 
dice and stir it with the chopped onion. Put a small piece of 
butter in a frying pan and into this put the onion and marrow 
and fry to a delicate brown. Now add one scant cup of rice, 
stirring constantly, and into this put a pinch of saffron that has 
been bruised. When the rice takes on a brown color add, 
slowly, chicken broth as needed, until the rice is thoroughly 
cooked. Then add a lump of fresh butter about the size of a 
walnut, and sprinkle liberally with grated Parmesan cheese, 
seasoning to taste with pepper and salt. This is to be served 
with chicken or veal. 

The second recipe was for Fritto Misto, and he wrote 
it as follows : 

"Lamb chops and brains breaded — MTVrn 

sweetbreads — escallop of veal — fresh MlblU 

mushrooms — Italian squash when in sea- 
son — asparagus or cauliflower — fried in fresh butter — dipped 
in beaten eggs — lime jus." 

"Fritto Misto" means fried mixture, and the recipe as 
we finally elucidated it is as follows: 

Take a lamb chop, a piece of calf brain, one sweetbread, a 
slice of veal, a fresh mushroom, sliced Italian squash, a piece 
of asparagus or of cauliflower and dip these into a batter made 
of an egg well beaten with a little flour. Sprinkle these with a 
little lime juice and fry to a delicate brown in butter, adding 
salt and pepper to taste. 

At the Gianduja, as at all other Italian restaurants 
not much affected by Americans, you will find an at- 
mosphere of unconventionality that is delightful to the 
Bohemian. There is no irksome espionage on the part 

51 



BOHEMIAN 

of other patrons, all of whom are there for the purpose 
of attending strictly to their own business, and the af- 
fairs of other diners are of no conse- 
IN THE HEART quence to them. There is freedom 
Qp of expression and unconsciousness, 

j'j'^LY most pleasing after having experi- 

enced those other restaurants where 
it seems to be the business of all the rest of the guests 
to know just what you are eating and drinking. There 
is little of the obnoxious posing that one finds in res- 
taurants of the down-town districts, for while Italians, 
in common with all other Latins, are natural born 
poseurs, they are not offensive in it, but rather impress 
you with the same feeling as the antics of a child. 

One of the little, out-of-the way restaurants of the 
Italian quarter is the Leon d'Oro, at 1525 Grant avenue, 
and it is one of the surprises of that district. Lazzarini, 
he with the big voice, presides over the tiny kitchen in 
the rear of the room devoted to public service and fam- 
ily affairs. Soft-voiced Rita, with her demure air and 
her resemblance to Evangeline, with her crossed apron 
strings and delicate features, takes your order, and soon 
comes the booming sound from the neighborhood of the 
range, that announces to all patrons, as well as to some 
who may be in the vicinity on the street, that your order 
is ready, and then everybody knows what you are eat- 
ing. As you sit, either in curtained alcove or at the com- 
mon table in the main room, little Andrea will visit you 
with his cat. Both are institutions of the place and one 
is prone to wonder how a cat can have so much patience 
with a little boy. Andrea speaks Italian so fluently and 
so rapidly that it gives you the impression of a quick 
rushing stream of pure water, tumbling over the stones 
of a sleep declivity. He is not yd old enough to under- 
stand that it is not everybody who knows how to speak 
Italian, but that makes not the slightest difference with 
him, for he talks without ever expecting an answer. 

52 



SAN FRANCISCO 

Lazzarini understands the art and science of cook- 
ing, and some of the dishes he prepares are so unusual 
that one goes again and again to partake of them : Pos- 
sibly his best dish is the following : 

Cut a spring chicken into pieces. Place these in a pan con- 
taining hot olive oil, and season with salt and pepper. Turn 
the chicken until it is thoroughly browned, nxjirvv^'-M 

and add finely chopped green peppers. Let at a 

it cook awhile then add a finely chopped rrvM rw^nn 

clove of garlic and a little sage. Put in a LEON D ORO 
small glass of Marsala wine, tomato sauce 

and French mushrooms and let simmer for ten minutes. Before 
taking from the pan add half a tablespoonful of butter and 
serve on a hot plate. 

Lazzarini also makes a specialty of snails, and they 
are well worth trying while you are experimenting wdth 
the unusual things to eat. The recipe for these is as 
follows : 

Put ten pounds of snails in a covered SNAILS 

barrel and keep for ten days. Then put in A LA 

a tub with a handful of salt and a quar- BORDELAISE 
ter of a gallon of vinegar. Stir for twenty 

minutes until a foam rises, then take out and wash thoroughly 
until the water runs clear. Put in a large pot a pint of virgin 
olive oil, four large onions and eight cloves of garlic, all 
chopped fine, and a small bunch of parsley, chopped fine. Put 
the pot over the fire and when the onions are browned stir in 
some white wine or Marsala and then put in the snails. Cover 
and let simmer for thirty-five minutes. "While cooking add a 
pint of meat stock, a little butter and some anise seed. When 
done put in a soup tureen and serve. To remove the snails use 
small wooden toothpicks. 



53 



BOHEMIAN 

San Francisco's world-famed Chinatown, like the 
rest of the city, is changed since the big fire, and the 
Chinatown of today is but a remi- 
A BREATH OF niscence of the old Oriental city that 
THE was set in the midst of the most thriv- 

ORIENT ing Occidental metropolis — The City 

That Was. There has never been 
much of Chinatown that savored of Bohemianism, but 
it has always been the vogue for visitors to make a trip 
through its mysterious alleys, peering into the fearsome 
dark doorways, listening to the ominous slamming 
doors of the "clubs," and shuddering in a delightful 
horror at the recumbent opium smokers, pointed out to 
them by the industrious guide. And when they were 
taken into one of the gambling houses and shown the 
double doors, and the many contrivances used to pre- 
vent police interference with the innocent games of fan 
tan and then were shown the secret underground pass- 
age leading from one of the gambling houses to the 
stage of the great Chinese theatre, two blocks away, 
they went home ready to believe anything told them 
about "the ways that are dark and tricks that are vain," 
for they were sure "the heathen Chinee was peculiar." 

Chinese restaurant life never appealed to Bohe- 
mians, and when it became necessary to entertain vis- 
itors with a trip to a Chinatown restaurant the ordinary 
service was of tea and rice cakes, served from lacquered 
trays, in gaudy rooms, and the admiring visitors could 
well imagine themselves in "far off Cathay." 

Then came the fire and Chinatown, with the rest of 
the down-town portion of San Francisco, passed away. 
In the rebuilding the owners of the properties concluded 
to give the quarter a more Chinese aspect and pagoda- 
like structures are now to be found in all parts of the 
section. The curiosity of the tourist is an available 
asset to Chinatown, and with queer houses and queerer 
articles on sale there is always plenty of uninitiated to 

54 



SAN FRANCISCO 

keep the guides busy, but from a city of more than 
twenty-five thousand Orientals in the midst of an en- 
lightened city — an Asiatic city that had 
its own laws and executed its crim- A BREATH OF 
als with the most utter disregard for THE 

American laws, it has changed into ORIENT 

one of the most law-abiding parts of 
the great city. With the passing of the queue came the 
adoption of the American style of dressing, and much 
of the picturesqueness of the old Chinatown has disap- 
peared. 

But with the changed conditions there has come a 
change in the restaurant life of the quarter, and now a 
number of places have been opened to cater to Ameri- 
cans, and on every hand one sees "chop suey" signs, and 
"Chinese noodles." It goes without saying that one sel- 
dom sees a Chinaman eating in the restaurants that are 
most attractive to Americans. Some serve both white 
and yellow and others serve but the Chinese, and a few 
favored white friends. 

Probably the best restaurant in Chinatown is that of 
the Hang Far Low Company, at 723 Grant avenue. Here 
is served such a variety of strange dishes that one has to 
be a brave Bohemian, indeed, to partake without ques- 
tion. Ordinarily when Chinese restaurants are men- 
tioned but two dishes are thought of — chop suey and 
chow main. But neither is considered among the fine 
dishes served to Chinese epicures. It is much as if one 
of our best restaurants were to advertise hash as its 
specialty. Both these dishes might be termed glorified 
hash. The ingredients are so numerous and so varied 
with occasion that one is tempted to imagine them made 
of the table leavings, and that is not at all pleasant to 
contemplate. 

We asked one of the managers at the Hang Far Low 
what he would order if he wished to get the best dish 
prepared in the restaurant, and he was even more em- 

55 



BOHEMIAN 

phatic in his shrugs than the French or Italian man- 
agers. He protested that there were so many good 

things it was impossible to name just 

A BREATH OF one as being the best. "You see, we 

THE have fish fins, they are very good. 

ORIENT Snails, China style. Very good, too. 

Then we have turtle brought from 
China, different from the turtle they have here, and we 
cook it China style. Eels come from China and they are 
cooked China style, too. What is China style? That I 
cannot tell j'ou for the cook knows and nobody else. 
When we cook China style everj'thing is more better. 
We have here the very best tea." 

This may be taken as a sample of what to expect 
when visiting Chinatown's restaurants, and while we 
confess to having some excellent dishes served us in 
Chinatown, our preference lies in other paths of en- 
deavor. We suppose it is all in the point of view, and 
our point of view is that there is nothing except super- 
ficiality in the ordinary Chinese restaurants frequented 
by Americans, and those not so frequented are impos- 
sible because of the average Chinaman's disregard for 
dirt and the usual niceties of food preparation. 



56 



SAN FRANCISCO 

We wish it were in our power to describe a certain 
dinner as served us in a Japanese restaurant in the days 
that followed the great fire. Desiring 
to observe in fitting manner a birth- ARTISTIC 
day anniversary, we asked a Japanese JAPAN 

friend if he could secure admission 
for a little party at a restaurant noted for serving none 
but the highest class Japanese. We did not even know 
where the restaurant was but had heard of such a place, 
and when we received word that we would be permitted 
to have a dinner there we invited a newspaper friend 
who was in the city from New York, together with two 
other friends and the Japanese, who was the editor of 
the Soko Shimbun. He took us to a dwelling house in 
O'Farrell street, having given previous notice of our 
coming. There was nothing on the outside to indicate 
that it was anything but a residence, but when we were 
ushered into the large front room, we found it beauti- 
fully decorated with immense chrysanthemums, and 
glittering with silver and cut glass on a magnificently 
arranged table. 

In deference to the fact that all but our Japanese 
friend were unaccustomed to chopsticks, forks were 
placed on the table as well as the little sticks that the 
Orientals use so deftly. At each place was a beautiful 
lacquer tray, about twelve by eighteen inches, a pair of 
chopsticks, a fork and a teaspoon. Before the meal was 
over several of us became quite expert in using the 
chopsticks. 

When we were seated in came two little Japanese 
women, in full native costume, bearing a service of tea. 
The cups and saucers were of a most delicate blue and 
white ware, with teapot to match. Our first cup was 
taken standing in deference to a Japanese custom where 
all drank to the host. Then followed saki in little 
artistic bottles and saki cups that hold not much more 
than a double tablespoonful. Saki is the Japanese wine 

S7 



BOHEMIAN 

made of rice, and is taken in liberal quantities. At each 

serving some one drank to some one else, then a return 

of the compliment was necessary. 

AHTISTIC Having always heard that Orientals 

JAPAN turned menus topsy-turvy we were 

not at all surprised when the little 
serving women brought to each of us two silver plates 
and set them on our trays. These plates contained what 
appeared to be cake, one seeming to be angel food with 
icing, and the other fruit cake with the same covering. 
With these came bowls of soup, served in lacquer ware, 
made of glutinous nests of swallows, and also a salad 
made of shark fms. We ate the soup and salad and 
found it good, and then made tentative investigation of 
the "cake." To our great surprise we discovered the 
angel food to be fish and the "icing" was shredded and 
pressed lobster. The "fruit cake" developed into pressed 
dark meat of chicken, with an icing of pressed and 
glazed white meat of the same fowl. 

Following this came the second service of tea, this 
time in cups of a rare yellow color and beautiful design, 
with similar teapot. 

The next course was a mixture of immature vege- 
tables, served in a sort of saute. These were sprouting 
beans, lentils, peas and a number of others with which 
we were unfamiliar. The whole was delicately flavored 
with a peculiar sauce. 

After a short wait, during which the saki bottles cir- 
culated freely, one of the women came in bearing aloft 
a large silver tray on which reposed a mammoth cray- 
fish, or California lobster. This appeared to be covered 
with shredded cocoanut, and when it was placed before 
the host for serving he was at loss, for no previous ex- 
perience told him what to do. It developed that the 
shredded mass on top was the meat of the lobster which 
had been removed leaving the shell-lish in perfect form. 
It was served cold, with a peculiar sauce. 

58 



SAN FRANCISCO 

Now followed the piece de resistance. A tub of 
water was brought in and in this was swimming a live 
fish, apparently of the carp family. 
After being on view for a few min- ARTISTIC 
utes it was removed and soon the JAPAN 

handmaidens appeared with thinly 
sliced raw fish, served with soy sauce. Ordinarily one 
can imagine nothing more repulsive than a dish of raw 
fish, but we were tempted and did eat, and found it 
most delicious, delicate, and with a flavor of raw oysters. 

Next came the third service of tea, this time in a 
deep red ware. Then came a dessert of unusual flavor 
and appearance, followed by preserved ginger and fruit. 

It must be remembered that during the meal, which 
lasted from seven until past midnight, saki was served 
constantly yet no one felt its influence in more than a 
sense of increased exhilaration. It is customary to let 
the emptied bottles remain on the table until the close 
of the meal, and there was a mighty showing. 

It was impossible to eat all that was set before us, 
but Japanese custom forbids such a breach of etiquette 
as an indication that the food was not perfection, conse- 
quently the serving maids appeared bearing six carved 
teak boxes, and placed one at each plate. Into these we 
arranged the food that was unconsumed, and when we 
went away we carried it with us. To cap the climax the 
Japanese stripped the room of its bounteous decoration 
of chrysanthemums and piled them into our arms and 
we went home loaded with food and flowers. 

Proprietor and all his household accompanied us to 
the door with many bows and gesticulations, wishing us 
best of luck, and we went back to our homes in the 
desolated city with the feeling of having been trans- 
ported to Fairyland of the Orient. 

We discovered later that our Japanese friend was 
of the family of the Emperor and was here on a diplo- 
matic mission. 

59 



BOHEMIAN 

One cannot well write a book on Bohemian restau- 
rants of San Francisco without saying something about 
the great hotel whose history is so 

OLD AM) intimately intertwined with that of 
NEW the city since 1873, when William C, 

PALACE Ralston determined that the city by 

the Golden Gate should have a hotel 
commensurate with its importance. San Francisco and 
the Palace Hotel were almost synonymous all over the 
world, and it was conceded by travelers that nowhere 
else was there a hostelry to equal this great hotel. 

To the bon vivant the grills of the Palace Hotel con- 
tained more to enhance the joy of living than anywhere 
else, and here the chefs prided themselves with provid- 
ing the best in the land, prepared in such perfect ways 
as to make a meal at the Palace the perfection of gastro- 
nomic art. 

There are three distinct eras to the history of the 
Palace Hotel, the first being from 1876 to 1890, the sec- 
ond from 1890 to 190G, and the third from 1900 to the 
present day. In the earlier days the grills, both that for 
gentlemen and that for ladies, were noted for their 
magnificent service and their wonderful cooking. A 
breakfast in the Ladies' Grill, with an omelet of Cali- 
fornia oysters, toast atod coti'ee, was a meal long to be 
remembered. Possibly the most famous dish of the old 
Palace was this one of omelet with California oysters, 
and it was prepared in the following manner: 

OYSTER (For two) : Take six eggs, one hundred 

OMELET California oysters, one small onion, one 

tablespoonful of butter, one tablcspoon- 
ful of flour, salt and pepper to taste. Beat the eggs to a 
froth and stir in the onion chopped fine. Put the eggs into an 
omelet pan over a slow fire. Mix the flour and butter to a 
soft i)aste with a little cream, and stir in with the oysters, add- 
ing salt and pepper to taste. When the eggs begin to stiffen 
pour the oysters over and tuin the omelet together. Serve on 
hot plate with a dash of paprika. 

60 



SAN FRANCISCO 

This is the recipe of Ernest Arbogast, the chef for 
many years of the old Palace. The slightly coppery 
taste of the California oysters gives a 
piquancy to the flavor of the omelet OLD AND 
that can be obtained in no other way, NEW 

and those who once ate of Arbogast's PALACE 
California oyster omelet, invariably 
called for it again and again. 

We asked Jules Dauviller, the present chef of the 
Palace, for the recipe of what he considered the best 
dish now prepared at the Palace and he said he would 
give us two, as it was difficult to decide which was the 
best and most distinctive. These are the recipes as 
he wrote them for us: 

Trim some select fillet mignon of beef, PLANKED 
about four ounces of each, nicely. Saute FILLET 

these in a frying pan with clarified butter MIGNON 

on a hot fire. Dress on a small round 

plank, about four and a half inches in diameter, decorated wifh 
a border of mashed potatoes. Over the fillet mignon pour 
stuffed pimentoes, covered with a sauce made of fresh mush- 
rooms, sauteed sec over which has been poured a little Chateau- 
briand sauce. Serve Chateaubriand sauce in a bowl. 

The second is: 

Select six nice fresh sand-dabs. Raise f^oLD FILLET OF 
the fillets from the bone, skin and pare " SAND-DABS 
nicely, and season with salt and paprika. PALACE ' 

Arrange them in an earthenware dish. Cut 

in Julienne one stalk of celery, one green pepper, one cucum- 
ber, two or three tomatoes, depending on their size. 

With the bone of the sand-dab, well cleaned, make a stock 
with one bottle of Riesling, juice of one lemon and seasoning. 
Add chervil and tarragon. Season to taste and cook the Juli- 
enne ingredients with some of the stock. When the rest of the 
stock is boiling poach it in the fillets of sand-dab, then remove 
from the fire and let get cold. Put the garnishing around the 
fillets and put on ice to get in jelly. When ready to serve dec- 
orate around the dish with any kind of salad you like, and with 
beets, capers, olives and marinated mushrooms. This must be 
served very cold and you may serve mayonnaise sauce on the 
side. 

61 



BOHEMIAN 

We asked Dauviller what he considered his most 
delicate salad and he gave us this recipe: 

PALACE Select three hearts of celery and cut them 

GRILL Julienne. Cut some pineapple and pimen- 

SALAD toes into dice. Mix all well together in 

a bowl and add mayonnaise sauce and a 

little whipped cream. Sprinkle some finely chopped green 

peppers on top and serve very cold. 



62 



SAN FRANCISCO 

On the morning of April 18, 1906, one of us stood 
in the doorway of the Hotel St. Francis, and watched 
approaching fires that came from at-t 

three directions. It was but a few ^ ^ inK 

hours later when all that part of the ^ iP \ r 
city was a mass of seething flames, ^^- FRANCIS 
and in the ruins that lay in the wake 
of devastation was this magnificent hostelry. 

Before business in the down-town district was reor- 
ganized, and while the work of removing the tangled 
masses of debris was still in progress the Merchants 
Association of San Francisco called its members to- 
gether in its annual banquet, and this banquet was held 
in the basement of the Hotel St. Francis, the crumbling 
walls, and charred and blackened timbers hidden under 
a mass of bunting and foliage and flowers. Here was 
emphasized the spirit of Bohemian San Francisco, and 
it was one of the most merry and enjoyable of feasts 
ever held in the city. 

It was made possible by the fact that the manage- 
ment of the Hotel St. Francis was undaunted in the face 
of almost overwhelming disaster. The same spirit has 
carried the hotel through stress of storm and it stands 
now, almost as a monument to the energy of James 
Woods, its manager. There has always been a soft 
spot in our hearts for the Hotel St. Francis, and it is 
here that we have always felt a most pleasurable emo- 
tion when seeking a place where good things are served. 
Whether it be in the magnificent white and gold dining 
room, or the old tapestry room that has been remodeled 
into a dining room, or in the electric grill below stairs, 
it has always been the same. 

We asked Chef Victor Hertzler what he considered 
his best recipe and his answer was characteristic of him. 

"I shall give you Sole Edward VII. If this is not sat- 
isfactory I can give you a meat, or a salad or a soup 
recipe." We considered it satisfactory, and here it is: 

63 



BOHEMIAN 

Cut the fillets out of one sole and lay them flat on a buttered 
pan, and season with salt and pepper. Make the following mix- 
ture and spread over each fillet of sole: 
SOLE Take one-half pound of sweet butter, three 

EDWARD VII ounces of chopped salted almonds, one- 
fourth pound of chopped fresh mush- 
rooms, a little chopped parsley, the juice of a lemon, salt, pep- 
per and a little grated nutmeg. 

Add to the pan one-half glassful of white wine and put in 
the oven for twenty minutes. 

"When done serve in the pan by placing it on a platter, with 
a napkin under it. 

Hertzler has another recipe which he prizes greatly 
and which he calls "Celery Victor," and this is the 
recipe which he gave us: 

CELERY Take six stalks of celery well washed. 

VICTOR Make a stock of one soup hen or chicken 

bones, and five pounds of veal bones in 

the usual manner, with carrots, onions, parsley, bay leaves, salt 

and pepper. Place the celery in a vessel and strain the broth 

over it. Boil until soft and let cool off in its own broth. 

When cold press the broth out of the celery with the hand, 
gently, and place on a plafe. Season with salt, fresh ground 
black pepper, chervil, and one-quarter white wine vinegar with 
tarragon to three-quarters of best olive oil. 



64 



SAN FRANCISCO 

Streets centering around Powell from Market up to 
Geary, may well be termed the "Great White Way" of 
San Francisco, if New York will per- 
mit the plagiarism. Here are congre- AMID 
gated the most noted of the lively BRIGHT 
restaurants of the present day San LIGHTS 
Francisco. Here the streets are 
ablaze with light at night, and thronged with people, 
for here is the restaurant and theatre district proper of 
the city. 

Among the restaurants deserving of special men- 
tion in this district are the two Solaris. When Solari 
opened his restaurant at 354 Geary street, where he 
continues to attract good livers by the excellence of his 
cooking, he at once achieved fame which has never 
waned. It so happened that there were two brothers, 
and as sometimes occurs brothers disagreed with the 
result that Fred Solari withdrew and opened a restau- 
rant at Geary and Mason, just a short distance from the 
original place. 

Evidently the recipe for what is considered best in 
both of the Solari restaurants came from common own- 
ership, for each of these places gave in response to a 
request for its best recipe, the following: 

Cut a chicken in eight pieces and drop CHICKEN 

them into some cold milk, seasoning with COUNTRY 

salt. After soaking for a few minutes dry STYLE 

the chicken in flour and lay in a frying 

pan in good butter. Place in the oven and let them cook slowly, 
turning them occasionally until they are nice and brown on all 
sides, when remove them. In the gravy put a tumblerful of 
cream and a pinch of paprika, mix well and let it cook for ten 
minutes, until it gets thick, then strain and pour over the 
chicken and serve. 

The following "don'ts" are added to the recipe: Don't use 
frozen poultry. Don't substitute corn starch and milk for 
cream. 



65 



BOHEMIAN 

San Francisco holds no more interesting district 

than that lying around the base of Telegraph Hill, and 

extending over toward North Beach, 

AROLND even as far as Fisherman's Wharf. 
LITTLE ..Here is the part of San Francisco 
ITALi ^Y^ryi fjrst felt the restoration impulse, 

and this was the first part of San 
Francisco rebuilt after the great fire, and in its rebuild- 
ing it recovered all of its former characteristics, which 
is more than can be said of any other part of the re- 
built city. 

Here, extending north from Jackson street to the 
Bay, are congregated Italians, French, Portuguese and 
Mexicans, each in a distinct colony, and each main- 
taining the life, manners and customs, and in some in- 
stances the costumes, of the parent countries, as fully 
as if they were in their native lands. Here are stores, 
markets, fish and vegetable stalls, bakeries, paste fac- 
tories, sausage factories, cheese factories, wine presses, 
tortilla bakeries, hotels, pensions, and restaurants; each 
distinctive and full of foreign life and animation, and 
each breathing an atmosphere characteristic of the 
country' from which the parent stock came. 

Walk along the streets on the side of Telegraph 
Hill and one can well imagine himself transported to a 
sunny hillside in Italy, for here he hears no other lan- 
guage than that which came from the shores of the 
Mediterranean, Here are Italians of all ages, sexes and 
conditions of servitude, from the padrone to the boot- 
black who works for a pittance until he obtains enough 
to start himself in business. If one investigate closely 
it will be found that many of the people of this part of 
San Francisco have been here for years and still under- 
stand no other language than that of their native home. 
Why sliould they learn anytliing else, they say. Every- 
body around them, and with whom they come in con- 
tact speaks Italian. Here are the Corsicans, with their 

66 



SAN FRANCISCO 

peculiar ideas of the vendetta and the cheapness of life 
in general, and the Sicilians and Genoese and Milanese. 
Here are some from the slopes of 
Vesuvius or Aetna, with inborn knowl- AROUND 

edge of the grape and of wine making. LITTLE 

All have brought with them recipes ITALY 

and traditions, some dating back for 
hundreds of years, or even thousands, to the days be- 
fore the Christian Era was born. It is just the same to 
them as it was across the ocean, for they hear the same 
dialect and have the same customs. Do they desire 
any special delicacy from their home district, they need 
but go to the nearest Italian grocery store and get it, 
for these stores are supplied direct from Genoa or 
Naples. This is the reason that many of the older men 
and women still speak the soft dialect of their native 
communities, and if you are so unfortunate as not to 
be able to understand them, then it is you who are 
the loser. 

Do you wish to know something about conditions in 
Mexico? Would you like to learn what the Mexicans 
themselves really think about affairs down in that dis- 
turbed republic? Go along Broadway west of Grant 
avenue, and then around the corner on Stockton, and 
you will see strange signs, and perhaps you will not 
know that "Fonda" means restaurant, or that "Tienda," 
means a store. But these are the signs you will see, and 
when you go inside you will hear nothing but the gentle 
Spanish of the Mexican, so toned down and so changed 
that some of the Castilians profess to be unable to un- 
derstand it. 

Here you will find all the articles of household use 
that are to be found in the heart of Mexico, and that 
have been used for hundreds of years despite the prog- 
ress of civilization in other countries. You will find all 
the strange foods and all the inconsequentials that go to 
make the sum of Mexican happiness, and if you can get 

67 



BOHEMIAN 

sufliciently close in acquaintance you will find that not 

only will they talk freely to you, but they will tell you 

things about Mexico that not even the 

AROUND heads of the departments in Wash- 
LITTLE ington are aware of. 

ITAL\ Perhaps you would like to know 

something about the bourgeoise 
French, those who have come from the peasant district 
of the mother country. Go a little further up Broadway 
and you will begin to see the signs changing from Span- 
ish to French, and if you can understand them you will 
know that here you will be given a dinner for twenty- 
five cents on week days and for thirty-five cents on Sun- 
days. The difference is brought about by the differ- 
ence between the price of cheap beef or mutton and the 
dearer chicken. 

Up in the second story on a large building you may 
see a sign that tells you meals will be served and rooms 
provided. One of these is the rendezvous of Anarchists, 
who gather each evening and discuss the affairs of the 
world, and how to regulate them. But they are harm- 
less Anarchists in San Francisco, for here they have no 
wrongs to redress, so they sit and drink their forbidden 
absinthe, and dream their dreams of fire and sword, 
while they talk in whispers of what they are going to do 
to the crowned heads of Europe. It is their dream and 
we have no quarrel with it or them. 

But for real interest one must get back to the slope 
of Telegraph Hill; to the streets running up from Co- 
lumbus avenue, until they are so steep that only goats 
and babies can play on them with safety. At least we 
suppose the l)nl)ies are as active as the goats for the 
sides of the hill are alive with them. 

Let us walk first along drant avenue and do a little 
window shc)j)ping. Just before you turn off Broadway 
into Grant avenue, after passing the Fior d'ltalia, the 
Buon Gusto, the Dante and II Trovatorc restaurants, we 

68 



SAN FRANCISCO 

come to a most interesting window where is displayed 

such a variety of sausages as to make one wonder at the 

inventive genius who thought of them 

all. As you wonder you peep timidly AROUND 

in the door and then walk in from LITTLE 

sheer amazement. You now find ITALY 

yourself surrounded with sausages, 

from floor to ceiling, and from side wall to side wall on 

both ceiling and floor, and such sausage it is ! 

From strings so thin as to appear about the size of 
a lady's little linger, to individual sausages as large as 
the thigh of a giant, they hang in festoons, crawl over 
beams, lie along shelves, decorate counters, peep from 
boxes on the floor, and invite you to taste them in the 
slices that lay on the butcher's block. One can well 
imagine being in a cave of flesh, yet if you look closely 
you will discover that sausage is but a part of the 
strange edible things to be had here. 

Here are cheeses in wonderful variety. Cheeses from 
Italy that are made from goats' milk, asses' milk, cows' 
milk and mares' milk, and also cheeses from Spain, 
Mexico, Germany, Switzerland, and all the other coun- 
tries where they make cheese, even including the United 
States. These cheeses are of all sizes and all shapes, 
from the great, round, flat cheese that we are accus- 
tomed to see in country grocery stores, to the queer- 
shaped caciocavallo, which looks like an Indian club 
and is eaten with fruit. 

There are dried vegetables and dried fruits such as 
were never dreamed of in your limited experience, and 
even the grocer himself, the smiling and cosmopolitan 
Verga, confesses that he does not know the names of all 
of them. 

As you go out into the street you blink at the trans- 
formation, for you have been thousands of miles away. 
You think that surely there can be nothing more. Wait 
a bit. Turn the corner and walk along Grant avenue 

69 



BOHEMIAN 

toward the Hill. See, here is a window full of bread. 

Look closely at it and you will notice that it is not 

like the bread you are accustomed to. 

AROUND Count the different kinds. Fourteen 

LITTLE of them in all, from the long sticks 

ITALY of grissini to the great solid loaves 

weighing many pounds. Light bread, 
heavy bread, good bread, soft bread, hard bread, deli- 
cate bread, each having its especial use, and all satisfy- 
ing to different appetites. 

Now go a little further to the corner, cross the street 
and enter the store of the Costa Brothers. It is a big 
grocerj"^ store and while you will not find the sausage 
and mystifying mass of food products in such lavish 
display and profuseness, as in the previous place, if you 
look around you will find this even more interesting, 
for it is on a difierent plane. Here you find the delica- 
cies and the niceties of Italian living. At first glance it 
looks as if you were in any one of the American grocery 
stores of down-town, but a closer examination reveals 
the fact that these canned goods and these boxes and 
jars, hold peculiar foods that you are unaccustomed to. 
Perhaps you will find a clerk who can speak good 
English, but if you cannot either of the Costa brothers 
will be glad to show you the courtesy of answering your 
questions. 

Turn around and look at the shelves filled with bot- 
tles of wine. Now you feel that you are on safe ground, 
for you know about wines and can talk about Cresta 
Blanca, and Mont Rouge, and Asti Colony Tipo Chianti. 
But wait a minute. Here are labels that you do not un- 
derstand and wines that you never even heard of. Here 
are wines whose taste is so delicious that you wonder 
why it is the whole world is not talking about it and 
drinking it. 

Here are wines from the slopes of Aetna, sparkling 
and sweet. Here are wines from grapes grown on the 

70 



SAN FRANCISCO 

warm slopes of Vesuvius, and brought to early perfec- 
tion by the underground fires. Here are wines from the 
colder slopes of mountains; wines 
from Parma and from Sicily and Pal- AROUND 
ermo where the warm Italian sunshine LITTLE 
has been the arch-chemist to bring ITALY 

perfection to the fruit of the vine. 
Here are still wines and those that sparkle. Here the 
famed Lacrima Christi, both spumanti and fresco, 
said to be the finest wine made in all Italy, and the 
spumanti have the unusual quality for an Italian wine 
of being dry. But to tell you of all the interesting 
articles to be found in these Italian, and French and 
Mexican stores, would be impossible, for some of them 
have not been translated into English, and even the 
storekeepers would be at a loss for words to explain 
them. 

This is all a part of the Bohemianism of San Fran- 
cisco, and that is why we are telling you about it in a 
book that is supposed to be devoted to the Bohemian 
restaurants. The fact is that San Francisco's Bohemian 
restaurants would be far less interesting were it not for 
the fact that they can secure the delicacies imported by 
these foreign storekeepers to supply the wants of their 
people. 

But do not think you have exhausted the wonders of 
Little Italy when you have left the stores, for there is 
still more to see. If you were ever in Palermo and went 
into the little side streets, you saw the strings of maca- 
roni, spaghetti and other pastes drying in the sun while 
children and dogs played through and around it, giving 
you such a distaste for it that you have not eaten any 
Italian paste since. 

But in San Francisco they do things differently. 
There are a number of paste factories, all good and all 
clean. Take that of P. Fiorini, for instance, at a point 
a short distance above Costa Brothers. You cannot miss 

71 



BOHEMIAN 

it for it has a picture of Fiorini himself as a sign, and on 

it he tells you that if you eat his paste you Avili get to be 

as fat as he is. Go inside and you 

AROUND will find that F'iorini can talk just 
LITTLE enough English to make himself un- 

ITALY derstood, while his good wife, his sole 

assistant, can neither speak nor un- 
derstand any but her native Italian. But that does not 
bother her in the least, for she can make signs, and you 
can understand them even better than you understand 
the English of her husband. 

Here you will see the making of raviolis by the 
hundred at a time. Tagliarini, tortilini, macaroni, spa- 
ghetti, capellini, percatelli, tagliatelli, and all the sev- 
enty and two other varieties. The number of kinds of 
paste is most astonishing, and one wonders why there 
are so many kinds and what is done with them. Fiorini 
will tell you that each kind has its distinctive use. 
Some are for soups, some for sauces, and all for spec- 
ial edibility. There are hundreds of recipes for cook- 
ing the various pastes and each one is said to be a 
little better than the others, if you can imagine such a 
thing. 

Turn another corner after leaving Fiorini's and look 
down into a basement. You do not have to go to the 
country to see wine making. Here is one of the prim- 
itive wine presses of Italy, and if you want to know 
why some irreverent people call the red wine of the 
Italians "Chateau la Feet," you have but to watch the 
process of its making in these Telegraph Hill wine 
houses. The grapes are poured into a big tub and a 
burly man takes off his shoes and socks and emulates 
the oxen of Biblical times when it treaded out the 
grain. Of course he washes his feet before he gets into 
the wine tui). But, at that, it is not a pleasant thing to 
contemplate. Now you look around with wider and 
more comprehensive eyes, and now you begin to uuder- 

72 



SAN FRANCISCO 

stand something about these strange foreign quarters in 
San Francisco. As you look around you note another 
thing. Italian fecundity is apparent 
everywhere, and the farther up the AROUND 

steep slope of the Hill you go the LITTLE 

more children you see. They are ITALY 

everywhere, and of all sizes and ages, 
in such reckless profusion that you no longer wonder if 
the world is to be depopulated through the coming of 
the fad of Eugenics. The Italian mother has but two 
thoughts — her God and her children, and it is to care 
for her children that she has brought from her native 
land the knowledge of cookery, and of those things that 
help to put life and strength in their bodies. 

An Italian girl said to us one day: 
"Mama knows nothing but cooking and going to 
church. She cooks from daylight until dark, and stops 
cooking only when she is at church." 

It was evident that her domestic and religious duties 
dominated her life, and she knew but two things — to 
please her God and to care for her family, and without 
question if occasion demanded the pleasure of her fam- 
ily took precedence. 

San Francisco's Latin quarter is appealing, enticing 
and hypnotizing. Go there and you will learn why San 
Francisco is a Bohemian city. \ou will find out that so 
many things you have thought important are really not 
at all worth while. Go there and you will lind the root 
of Bohemian restaurants. These people have studied 
gastronomy as a science, and they have imparted their 
knowledge to San Francisco, with the result that the Bo- 
hemian spirit enters into our very lives, and our minds 
are broadened, and our views of life and our ideas have 
a wider scope. It is because of this condition, born on 
the slopes of Telegraph Hill, that we are drawn out of 
depressing influences, out of the spirit of self-conscious- 
ness, and lind a world of pleasure, innocent and educa- 

73 



BOHEMIAN 

tional, the inspiration for which has been handed down 

through generations of Latins since the days of early 

Roman empire, wliich inspiration is 

AROUND still a power for good because it 

LITTLE takes people out of themselves and 

ITALY places them where they can look 

with understanding and speak the 
language of perception. Little Italy's charm has long 
been recognized by artists and writers, and many of 
them began their careers which led to fame and fortune 
in little cheap rooms on Telegraph Hill. Here have 
lived many whose names are now known to fame, and 
to name them would be almost like a directory of world 
renowned artists and writers. Here is still the memory 
of Bret Harte and Mark Twain. Here is where Keith 
had his early studio. Cadenasso, Martinez, and many 
others know these slopes and love them. 

To all these and many more the Latin Quarter of 
San Francisco possessed a charm they could find no- 
where else, and if one desire to bring a saddened look 
to the faces of many now living elsewhere it is but 
necessary to talk of the good old days when Bohemia 
was on Telegraph Hill in San Francisco. Here they had 
their domicile, and here they foregathered in the little 
restaurants, whose claims to merit lay chiefly in the 
fact that they were rarely visited by other than the 
Italians of the quarter and these Bohemians who lived 
there. 

Here was the inspiration of many a good book and 
many a famous picture whose inception came from 
thoughts that crystallized amid these surroundings, and 
here many a needy Bohemian struggled through the 
lean days with the help of these kind-hearted Latins. 
Here they, even as we, were taught something of the 
art of cooking. 

Of course, if one desire to learn various methods of 
preparing food, it is necessary to keep both eyes open 

7* 



SAN FRANCISCO 

and to ask many questions, seeking the information that 

sometimes comes from unlooked for sources. Even at 

that it is not always a good idea to 

take everything for granted or to ac- AROUND 

cept every suggestion, for you may LITILE 

meet with the Italian vegetable ITALY 

dealer who is so eager to please his 

customers that he pretends a knowledge he does not 

possess. We discovered him one day when he had on 

display a vegetable that was strange to us. 

"How do you cook it?" was our question. 

"Fry it." 
Then his partner shouted his laughter and derision. 

"Oh, he's one fine cook. All the time he say 'fry it.' 
One day a lady she come into da store an' she see da 
big bucket of ripe olives. Da lady she from the East 
and she never see olives like dat before. 'How you cook 
it?' say da lady. 'Fry it,' say my partner. Everything 
he say fry it." 

In another vegetable stand we found an Italian girl, 
whose soft lisping accent pronounced her a Genoese, 
and she diffidently suggested "a fine Italian dessert." 

"You take macaroons and strawberries. A FINE 
Put a layer of macaroons in a dish and then DESSERT 
a layer of strawberries, cover these with 

sugar, and then another layer of macaroons and strawberries 
and sugar until you have all you want. Over these pour some 
rum and set fire to it. After it is burned out you have a fine 
dessert." 

We bought the macaroons and strawberries on the 
way home and did not even wait for dinner time to try 
it. We pronounce it good. 

It was made the right way and we advise you to try 
it, for it is simple and leaves a most delicious memory. 



75 



BOHEMIAN 

It was very early one morning. So early that one 

of us strenuously pretended sleep while the other gave 

urgent reminder that this was the day 

WHERE we were to go to Fishermen's Wharf. 

FISH Daylight came early and it was just 

COME IN four o'clock when we began prepara- 

tions. A cup of hot cotiee while 
dressing served to get us wide-awake, and we were off 
to see the fish come in. 

Fishermen's Wharf lies over at North Beach, at the 
end of Meiggs's Wharf, where the Customs Ollicers have 
their station, and to reach it one takes either the Powell 
and North Beach cars, or the Kearny and North Beach 
cars, and at the end of either walks two blocks. When 
you get that far anybody you see can tell you where 
to go. 

Fog mist was stealing along the Marin shore, and 
hiding Golden Gate when we arrived, and the rays of 
the sun took some time to make a clear path out to sea. 
Out of the bank of white came gliding the heavy power 
boats of the Sicilian andCorsican fishermen, while from 
off shore were the ghostly lateen rigged boats of those 
who had been fishing up the Sacramento and San 
Joaquin rivers, their yards aslant to catch the faint 
morning breeze. As they slipped through the leaden 
water to their mooring at the wharf we could see the 
decks and holds piled with fish and crabs. 

Roosting on piles, and lining the water's edge on 
everything that served to give foothold, were countless 
seagulls, all waiting for the breakfast they knew was 
coming from the discarded fish, and fit companions 
were the women with shawls over their heads irrever- 
ently called mud hens, and old men in dilapidated 
clothing, who sat along the stringers of the wharf, some 
with baskets, some with buckets and others with little 
paper bags, in which to put the fish which they could 
get so cheaply it meant a meal for them when olher- 

76 



SAN FRANCISCO 

wise they would have to go without. The earlier boats 
were moored and on the decks fires were burning in 
charcoal braziers, on which the fish- 
ermen cooked their breakfasts of fish WHERE 
and coffee, with the hea\y black FISH 
loaves of bread for which they seem COME IN 
to have special fancy. As the odor of 
the cooking fish came up from the water the waiting 
gulls and men and women moved a little closer. 

Breakfast over the fishermen turned to the expect- 
ant crowd and began taking notice of the pitiful offer- 
ings of coin. Tin buckets, newspapers, bags, rags and 
even scooped hands were held down, each containing 
such coin as the owner possessed, and in return came 
bountiful supply of fish. A fine, fat crab for which your 
market man would charge you forty cents was sold for 
ten. Beautiful, fresh sand-dabs, but an hour or two out 
of the water, were five cents a pound, while sea bass, 
fresh cod, mackerel, and similar fish went at the same 
price. Small fish, or white bait, went by quantity, ten 
cents securing about half a gallon. Smelt, herring, 
flounder, sole, all went at equally low prices, and as 
each buyer secured his allotment he went hurr\dng off 
through the mist, as silently as the floating gulls. When 
these were all supplied the rest of the fish and crabs 
were taken up to the wharf and put on the counters of 
the free market, where they were sold at prices most 
tempting. 

Shrimps, alive and active, crayfish, clams, squid and 
similar sea food was in profusion and sold at prices on a 
parity with that of the fish. As the dny wore on the early 
buyers were replaced bj^ those who knew of the free fish 
market and came to get good supplies for their money. 
Here were boarding-house keepers, unmistakable any- 
where, Bohemians in hard luck who remembered that 
they could get good food here at a minimum of price, 
and came now while on the down turn of the wheel. 



BOHEMIAN 

As a human interest study it was better than a study of 

fish. Fishermen's "Wharf is where the independent 

fishermen bring their catches to San 

WHERE Francisco, but it is not where the 
FISH city's great supply comes in. To see 

COME IN that we had to go along the docks 
until we came to the Broadway wharf 
where Paladini, the head of the fish trust, unloads his 
tugs of their tons and tons of fish. It is not nearly so 
interesting to look at, but it gives a good idea of what 
comes out of the sea every day to supply the needs of 
San Francisco and the surrounding countr5\ These 
tugs bring in the catches of dozens of smaller boats 
manned by fishermen who are toiling out beyond the 
heads, and up the two great rivers. From far out 
around the Farallones, from up around the Potato 
Patch with its mournful fog bell constantly tolling, from 
down the coast as far as Monterey Bay where fish are in 
such abundance that it is said they have to give a signal 
when they want to turn around, from up the rivers, 
come fish to the man who has grown from the owner of 
a small sail boat to be the power who controls prices of 
all the fish that go to the markets of the city. 

By the time we finished with Paladini's fish we felt 
ready for breakfast and took a car down to Davis and 
Pacific street where we found Bazzuro's serving break- 
fast to dozens of market gardeners who had finished 
their unloading, and there, while partaking of the fresh 
fish we had brought from Fishermen's Wharf, we saw 
another phase of San Francisco's early morning life. 
Here were gardeners who came in the darkness of early 
morning to supply hucksters, small traders and a few 
thrifty people who knew of the cheapness, and in Co- 
lumbo market they drove their great wagons and dis- 
charged their day's gathering of vegetables of all kinds. 

But a few steps away is the great fruit market of the 
early morning and here tons of the finest fruits are dis- 

78 



SAN FRANCISCO 

tributed to the hundreds of wagons that crowd the 
street to such an extent that it takes all the ingenuity 
of experienced policemen to keep 
clearway for trafilc. Threading their WHERE 

way in and out between the wheels FISH 

and the heels of horses, were men COME IN 

and women, all looking for bargains 
in food. Amid a din almost deafening business was 
transacted with such celerity that in three hours the 
streets were cleared, fruits and vegetables sold and on 
their w^ay to distant stands, and the tired policemen 
leaning gainst friendly walls, recuperating after the 
strenuous work of keeping order in chaos. 

It is when one goes to these places in the morning 
and sees the cheapness of these foods that he can un- 
derstand in a small way why it is that so many Italian 
restaurants can give such good meals for so little money. 
One wonders at a table d'hote dinner of six or seven 
courses for twenty-five cents, or even for half a dollar, 
and one accustomed to buying meats, fish, vegetables 
and fruits at the exorbitant prices charged at most of 
the markets and fruit and vegetable stands now sees 
why the thrifty foreigner can make and save money 
while the average American can hardly keep more than 
two jumps ahead of the sheriff. 



79 



BOHEMIAN 

Probably the most frequent question asked us by 

those who come to San Francisco is: "Where can we 

, get the best fish?" With San Fran- 

T^uT^m Cisco's wonderful natural advantages 

^'-Anrcrxv ^^ ^ ^^^ market one is sometimes 

vAHlbli surprised that more attention is not 

given to preparing fish as a specialty. 

But one restaurant in the city deals exclusively with sea 

food, and even there one is astonished at an overlooked 

opportunity. 

Darbee & Immel have catered to San Francisco in 
ovsters for many years and after the fire they opened 
the Shell Fish Grotto, in O'Farrell street, between Powell 
and Mason streets, and this is one of the very few dis- 
tinctive fish restaurants of the countrv. It is when one 
considers the possibilities that a shock comes from the 
environing decorations. White and gold pillars, with 
twining ivv renching to the old gold and rose mural and 
ceiling embollishments seem out of place in a restau- 
rant that is devoted entirely to catering to lovers of fish. 
Nothing in the place indicates its character except the 
big lobster in front of the building. Not even so much 
as a picture to bring a sentiment of the ocean to the 
mind. 

We are going to take a liberty, and possibly Darbee 
& Tmmel may call it an impertinence, and give them a 
bit of advice. It costs them nothing consequently they 
can act on it or not and it will make no difference. This 
is our suggestion : 

Change the interior of the place entirely by having 
aroimd fbe walls a series of large glass aquaria, with as 
mnnv different kinds of fish swimming about as it is 
possible to get; something on the order of the interior 
of the nquarium in Pottery Park in New York. Paint 
the ceiling to reorescnt the surface of the water as seen 
from bolow. Have seaweed and kelp in place of ivy, 
and a fish net or two caught up in the corners of the 

80 



SAN FRANCISCO 

room, with here and there a star fish or a crab — not too 
many, for profuseness in this sort of decoration is an 
abomination. Then you will have a 
restaurant that will be talked about FISH IN 

wherever people sit at meat. But to THEIR 

get back to our talk about fish, and VARIETY 

where to get it prepared and cooked 
the best. We must say that the finest fish we have eaten 
in San Francisco was not in the high-priced restaurants 
at all, but in a little, dingy back room, down at Fisher- 
men's Wharf, where there was sand on the floor and all 
the sounds of the kitchen were audible in the dining 
room. The place was patronized almost solely by the 
Italian fishermen who not only know how to catch a fish 
but how it ought to be cooked. One may always rest as- 
sured that when he gets a fish in one of the Italian res- 
taurants it is perfectly fresh, for there are two things 
that an Italian demands in eating, and they are fresh 
fish and fresh vegetables. 

At the Gianduja at Union and Stockton streets, one 
is certain to get fish cooked well and that it is perfectly 
fresh. The variety is not so good as at the Shell Fish 
Grotto, but otherwise it is just as good in every respect. 
At the Grotto there is a wonderful variety but the quan- 
tity is at the minimum because there, too, they will have 
no fish that has been twenty-four hours out of the 
water. 

One wonders hew a full course dinner entirely of 
fish can be prepared, but if you will go to the Shell Fish 
Grotto you will find that it is done, and done well at 
that. Here you can get a good dinner for one dollar, or 
if you prefer it they have a Fish Dinner de Luxe for 
which they charge two dollars. Both are good, the lat- 
ter having additional wines and delicacies. 

Down in Washington street, just off Columbus ave- 
nue, is the Vesuvius, an Italian restaurant of low price, 
but excellent cooking. A specialty there is fish which 

8i 



BOHEMIAN 

is always brought fresh from the nearby Clay street 

market as ordered, consequently is perfect. When you 

give your order a messenger is dis- 

FISH IN patched to the market and usually he 

THEIR brings the fish alive and the chef pre- 

VARIETY pares it in one of his many ways, for 

he is said to have more secrets about 

the cooking of fish than one would think it possible for 

one brain to contain. The trouble about this restaurant 

is that the rest of the menu does not come up to the fish 

standard, but if you desire a simple luncheon of fish 

there is no better place to get it. 

There are three things in which an Easterner will be 
disappointed in San Francisco, and these are oysters. 
Pacific Coast oysters fail in size, flavor and cooking, 
when compared with the luscious bivalve of the At- 
lantic, so far as the ordinary forms of preparation is 
concerned. Even fancy dishes, such as Oysters Kirk- 
patrick, would be better if made of the eastern 03'ster, 
not what they call the eastern oyster here, for that is a 
misnomer, but the oysters that grow in the Atlantic 
Ocean. 

Of the Pacific oysters the best is the Toke Point, that 
comes from Oregon. They are similar in size to the 
Blue Point, but lack the flavor. "When, in a San Fran- 
cisco restaurant, you are asked what sort of oyster you 
will have, and you see the familiar names on the menu 
card, remember that these are transplanted oysters, and 
have lost much of their flavor in the transplanting, or 
else they are oysters that have been shipped across the 
continent and have thereby lost their freshness. 

The California oyster proper, is very small, and it 
has a peculiar coppery taste, which bon vivants declare 
adds to its piquancy. Instead of ordering these by the 
dozen you order them by the hundred, it being no difll- 
cult task to cat an hundred at a meal, especially when 
prepared in a pepper roast. 

82 



SAN FRANCISCO 

Everyone knows the staple ways of preparing 
oysters, and every chef looks upon the oyster as the 
source of new flavors in many dishes, 
but to our mind the best way we have i" Ibii lA 

found in San Francisco was at a little THEIR 

restaurant down in Washington street VARIETY 
before the fire. It was the Buon Gusto, 
where they served fish and oysters better than anything 
else because the owners were the chefs, and they were 
from the island of Catalan, off the coast of Italy. Their 
specialty was called "Oysters a la Catalan," and their 
recipe, which is given, can be prepared excellently in 
a chafing dish: 

Take one tablespoonful of butter, two OYSTERS A LA 
teaspoonfuls grated Edam or Parmesan CATALAN 

cheese, four tablespoonfuls catsup, one- 
half teaspoonful Worcestershire sauce, two tablespoonfuls 
cream, meat of one good-sized crab cut fine and two dozen 
oysters. Put the cheese and butter into a double boiler and 
when melted smooth add the catsup and Worcestershire sauce. 
Mix well and add the cream and then the crab meat. When 
creamy and boiling hot drop in the oysters. As soon as the 
oysters are crinkled serve on hot buttered toast on hot plates. 

In the days before the fire when you went to a res- 
taurant and ordered fish or oysters the waiter invari- 
ably put before you either a plate of crab salad or a 
dish of shrimps, with which you were supposed to 
amuse yourself while the meal was being prepared. 
Shrimps and crabs were then so plentiful that their 
price was never considered. Under our new conditions 
these always appear on the bill when ordered, and if 
they be not ordered they do not appear for they now 
are made to increase the income. 

To the uninitated visitor the shrimps so served were 
always something of a mystery, and after a few futile 
efforts to get at the meat they generally gave it up as too 
much work for the little good derived. The Old Timer, 
hov/ever, cracked the shrimp's neck, pinched its tail, 

83 



BOHEMIAN 

and out popped a delicious bonne bouche which added 
to tlie jo}^ of the meal and increased the appetite. But 

there are many other ways of serv- 

tLsii i.\ ing shrimps, and they are also much 

IHEIR used to give flavor to certain fish 

VARIETY sauces. One of the most delicious 

ways of preparing shrimp is what is 
known as "Shrimp Creole, a la Antoine," so named 
after the famous New Orleans Antoine by a chef in San 
Francisco who had regard for the New Orleans caterer. 
We doubt if it can be had anywhere in San Francisco 
now unless you are well enough known to have it pre- 
pared according to the recipe. This recipe, by the way, 
is a good one to use in a chafing dish supper. This is 
the way it was prepared at the old Pup restaurant, one 
of the noted restaurants before the fire and earthquake 
changed conditions: 

SHRIMP Take three pints of unshelled shrimps 
CREOLE and shell them, one-half pint of cream, 
two tablespoonfuls of butter, two table- 
spoonfuls of flour, two tablespoonfuls of catsup, one wine glass 
of sherry, paprika, chili powder and parsley. Brown the flour 
in the butter and add the milk until it is thickened. Color with 
the catsup and season with paprika and chili powder. Stir in 
the sherry and make a pink cream which is to be mixed through 
the shrimps and not cooked. Sprinkle with chopped parsley 
and serve with squares of toast or crackers. 



84 



SAN FRANCISCO 

When is a lobster not a lobster? When it is a cray- 
fish. This question and answer might well go into the 
primer of information for those who 
come to San Francisco from the East, LOBSTERS 
for what is called a lobster in San AND 

Francisco is not a lobster at all but LOBSTERS 
a crayfish. The true lobster is not 
found in the Pacific along the California coast, and so 
far efforts at transplanting have not been successful. 
The Pacific crayfish, however, serves every purpose, and 
while many contend that its meat is not so delicate in 
flavor as that of its eastern cousin, the Calif ornian will 
as strenuousl}'^ insist that it is better, but, of course, 
something must always be allowed for the patriotism of 
the Californian. 

Lobster, served cold with mayonnaise, or broiled 
live lobster are most frequently called for, and while 
they are both excellent, we find so many other ways of 
preparing this crustacean that we rarely take the com- 
mon variety of lobster dishes into consideration. Prob- 
ably nowhere in San Francisco could one get lobster 
better served than in the Old Delmonico restaurant of 
the days before the fire. A book could be written about 
this restaurant and then all would not be told for all its 
secrets can never be known. 

In New York City they have what they are pleased 
to call "Lobster Palaces," but there is not a restaurant 
in that great metropolis that could approach the Del- 
monico of San Francisco in its splendid service and its 
cuisine arrangements; neither could they approach the 
romance that always surrounded the O'Farrell street 
restaurant. It was here that most magnificent dinners 
were arranged; it was here that extraordinary dishes 
were concocted by chefs of world-wide fame; it was 
here that Lobster a la Newberg reached its highest per- 
fection, and this is the recipe that was followed when it 
was prepared in the Delmonico : 

85 



BOHEMIAN 

One pound of lobster meat, one teaspoonful of butter, one- 
half pint of creaiu, yolks of four eggs, one wine glass of sherry, 
lobster fat. Three hours before cooking 
LOBSTER pour the sherry over the lobster meat and 
A LA let it stand until ready to cook. Heat the 

NE^VHERCl butter and stir in with the lobster and 
wine, then place this in a stewpan, or chaf- 
ing dish, and cook for eight minutes. Have the yolks of eggs 
well beaten and add to them the cream and lobster fat, stir well 
and then stir in a teaspoonful of flour. Put this in a double 
boiler and let cook until thick, stirring constantly. When this 
is cooked pour it over the lobster and let all cook together for 
three minutes. Serve in a chafing dish with thin slices of dry 
toast. 



86 



SAN FRANCISCO 

One has to come to San Francisco to partake of the 
king of shell fish — the mammoth Pacific crab. I say 
"come to San Francisco" advisedly, 
for while the crab is found all along KING OF 

the coast it is prepared nowhere so SHELL 

deliciously as in San Francisco. Of FISH 

course our friends in Portland will 
take exception to this, but the fact remains that no- 
where except in San Francisco have so many restau- 
rants become famous because of the way they prepare 
the crab. The Pacific crab is peculiar, and while it has 
not the gigantic claws such as are to be seen on those 
in the Parisian and London markets, its meat is much 
more delicate in flavor, and the dishes of crab prepared 
by artists of the gastronomic profession in San Fran- 
cisco are more savory than those found elsewhere. 

In the pre-fire days there were many places which 
paid especial attention to the cooking of the crab, 
among them being the Cobweb Palace, previously men- 
tioned, and Gobey's. Gobey ran one of those places 
which was not in good repute, consequently when ladies 
went there they were usually veiled and slipped in 
through an alley, but the enticement of Gobey's crab 
stew was too much for conventionality and his little 
private rooms were always full. 

Gobey's passed with the fire, and the little restau- 
rant bearing his name, and in charge of his widow, in 
Union Square avenue, has not attained the fame of the 
old place. It is possible that she knows the secret of 
preparing crab as it was prepared in the Gobey's of be- 
fore the fire, but his prestige did not descend to her. 

Almost all of the Italian restaurants will give you 
crab in many forms, and all of them are good; many 
restaurants use crab meat for flavoring other dishes, 
but of all the recipes for cooking crab we have found 
none that we consider so good as that of Gobey's. It is 
as follows: 

87 



BOHEMIAN 

Take the meat of one large crab, scraping out all of the fat 
from the shell. One good-sized onion, one tomato, one sweet 
pepper, one teaspoonful of butter, one tea- 
GOBEY'S spoonful of flour, half a glass of sherry, a 

CRAB pinch of rosemary, one clove of garlic, 

STFW paprika, salt and minionette pepper. Soak 

the crab meat in the sherry two hours be- 
fore cooking. Chop fine the onion, sweet pepper and tomato 
with the rosemary. Mash the clove of garlic, rubbing thor- 
oughly in a mortar and on this put the butler and flour, mixing 
well together, and gradually adding the salt and minionette 
pepper, and stir in two tablespoonfuls of cream. Heat this in a 
stewpan and when simmering add the sherry and crab meat 
and let all cook together with a slow fire for eight minutes, 
serve in a chafing dish with toasted crackers or thin slices of 
toasted bread. A dash of Worcestershire sauce just before it is 
taken up adds to the flavor. 



88 



SAN FRANCISCO 

Crawfish, or ecravisse, has never been very popular 
in San Francisco, probably because there are so many 
other delicate crustaceans that are 
more easily handled, yet the crawfish LOBSTER 
grows to perfection in Pacific waters, IN 

and importations of them from Port- MINIATURE 
land, Oregon, are becoming quite an 
industry. So far it has been used mostly for garnish- 
ment of other dishes, and it is only recently that the 
Hof Brau has been making a specialty of them. All of 
the better class restaurants, however, will serve them if 
you order them. 

The full flavor of the crawfish is best obtained in a 
bisque, and the best recipe for this is by the famous chef 
Francatelli, who boasts having been the head of the 
cuisine of Queen Victoria. His recipe is long, and its 
preparation requires much patience, but the result is 
such a gastronomic marvel that one never regrets the 
time spent in its accomplishment. This is the recipe for 
eight people, and it is well worth trying if you are giv- 
ing a dinner of importance: 

Take thirty crawfish, from which re- BISQUE 
move the gut containing the gall in the fol- OF 

lowing manner: Take firm hold of the CRAWFISH 
crawfish with the left hand so as to avoid 

being pinched by its claws; with the thumb and forefinger of 
the right hand pinch the extreme end of the central fin of the 
tail, and, with a sudden jerk, the gut will be withdrawn. 

Mince or cut into small dice a carrot, an onion, one head 
of celery and a few parsley roots, and to these add a bay leaf, a 
sprig of thyme, a little minionette pepper and two ounces of 
butter. Put these ingredients into a stewpan and fry them ten 
minutes, then throw in the crawfish and pour on them half a 
bottle of French white wine. Allow this to boil and then add a 
quart of strong consomme and let all continue boiling for half 
an hour. Pick out the crawfish and strain the broth through a 
napkin by pressure into a basin in order to extract all the es- 
sence from the vegetables. 

Pick the shells off twenty-five of the crawfish tails, trim 
them neatly and set them aside until wanted. Reserve some of 

89 



BOHEMIAN 

the spawn, also half of the body shells with which to make the 
crawlish butler to flnish the soup. This butter is made as fol- 
lows: Place the shells on a baking sheet 
BISQUE in the oven to dry; let the shells cool and 

OF then pound them in a mortar with a little 

CRA>VFISH lobster coral and four ounces of fresh 
butter, thoroughly bruising the whole to- 
gether so as to make a fine paste. Put this in a stcwpan and set 
it over a slow fire to simmer for about five minutes, then rub 
it through a sieve with considerable pressure into a basin con- 
taining ice water. As soon as the colored crawfish butter is be- 
come firmly set, through the coldness of the water, take it out 
and put it into a small basin and set in the refrigerator until 
wanted. 

Reverting to the original recipe: Take the remainder of 
the crawfish and add thereto three anchovies, washed for the 
purpose, and also the crusts of French rolls, fried to a light 
brown color in butter. Pound all these thoroughly together and 
then put them into a stewpan with the broth that has been re- 
served in a basin, and having warmed the bisque thus prepared 
rub it through a sieve into a fine puree. Put this puree into a 
soup pot and finish by incorporating therewith the crawfish 
butter and season with a little cayenne pepper and the juice of 
half a lemon. Pour the bisque quite hot into the tureen in 
which have been placed the crawfish tails, and send to the 
table. 

This is not so difficult as it appears when you are 
reading it and if you wish to have something extra fine 
take the necessary time and patience and prepare it. 



90 



SAN FRANCISCO 

We cannot dispose of the shell fish of San Francisco 
without a word or two about clams, for certainly there 
is no place where they are in greater 
variety and better flavor. In fact the CLAMS 

clam is the only bivalve of this part AND 

of the coast that has a distinctive and ABALONES 
good flavor. Several varieties are to 
be found in the markets, the best and rarest being the 
little rock clams that come from around Drake's Bay, 
just above the entrance to Golden Gate. These are most 
delicious in flavor and should never be eaten otherwise 
than raw. The sand, or hard shell, or as they are some- 
times called little necks, are next in choiceness, and 
then come the Pismo beach clams, noted for their flavor 
and enormous size. The mud clam is good for chowder 
but not so good as either of the other varieties men- 
tioned. 

The Bohemian way to have your clams is to go to 
the shore of Bolinas Bay or some other equally retired 
spot, and have a clam bake, or else take a pot along 
with the other ingredients and have a good clam chow- 
der. This, however, may be prepared at any time and 
is always a good meal. 

Clam fritters when prepared according to the recipe 
given herein, is one of the best methods of preparing 
the clam, and it has the peculiarity of being so tasty 
that one feels that there is never enough cooked. 

Of all the ways of cooking clams chowder takes 
precedence as a rule, and it is good when made prop- 
erly. By that we do not mean the thin, watery stuff that 
is served in most of the restaurants and called clam 
chowder just because it happens to be made every Fri- 
day. That is fairly good as a clam soup but it is no 
more chowder than a Mexican soup approaches a craw- 
fish bisque. There is but one right way to make clam 
chowder, and that is either to make it yourself or closely 
superintend the making, and this is the way to make it : 

91 



BOHEMIAN 

Take one quart of shelled sand clams, two large potatoes, 
two large onions, one clove of garlic, one sweet pepper, one thick 

slice of salt pork, one-half pound small 

CLAM oyster crackers, one-half glass sherry, one 

CHOWDER tablespoonful \Vorcestershire sauce, one 

tomato, salt, and pepper. In a large stew- 
pan place the salt pork cut into small dice, and let this fry 
slightly over a slow fire until the bottom of the stewpan is well 
greased. Take this off the fire and put in a layer of potatoes 
sliced thin, on top of the salt pork, then a layer of onions sliced 
thin, and a layer of clams. Put on this salt and pepper and 
sprinkle with a little flour and then a layer of crackers. Chop 
the sweet pepper and tomato fine and mix with them the 
bruised and mashed garlic. On top of each succession of layers 
put a little of the mixture. Continue making these layers until 
all the ingredients are placed in the stewpan, and then pour on 
the top sufficient water to just show. Cover tightly and let cook 
gently for half an hour. Pour on the Worcestershire sauce and 
sherry just before serving. Do not stir this while cooking, and 
in order to prevent its burning it should be cooked over an 
asbestos cover. 

When done this should be thick enough to be eaten with 
a fork. 

Among the good Bohemians who lived in San Fran- 
cisco as a child when it was in the post-pioneer days, 
and who has enjoyed the good things of all the famous 
restaurants is Mrs. Emma Sterett, who has given us the 
following recipe for clam fritters which we consider the 
most delicious of all we have ever eaten, and when you 
try them you will agree with us: 

J J ^-^1 Take two dozen clams, washed thoroughly 

FRITTERS ^"^ drained. Put in chopping bowl and 

chop, not too fine. Add to tliese one clove 
of garlic mashed, one medium-sized onion chopped fine, add 
bread crumbs sufficient to stiffen the mass, chopped parsley, 
celery and herbs to taste. Beat two eggs separately and add to 
the clams. If too stiff to drop from a spoon add the strained 
liquor of clams. Drop tablespoonfuls of this mixture into hot 
fat, turn and cook for sufficient time to cook through, then 
drain on brown paper and serve. 

Ahaloncs are a univalve that has hecn much in 
vogue among the Chinese but has seldom found place 

92 



k 



SAN FRANCISCO 

on the tables of restaurants owing to the difficulty in 
preparing them, as they are tough and insipid under 
ordinary circumstances. When made 
tender either by the Chinese method CLAMS 

of pounding, or by steeping in vine- AND 

gar, they serve the purpose of clams ABALONES 

but have not the fine flavor. The Hof 
Brau restaurant is now making a specialty of abalones, 
but it takes sentiment to say that one really finds any- 
thing extra good in them. 

Another shell fish much in vogue among the Italian 
restaurants is mussels, which are found to perfection 
along the coast. These are usually served Bordelaise, 
and make quite a pleasant change when one is sur- 
feited with other shell fish, but the best recipe is : 

Thoroughly clean the mussels and MUSSELS 

then put them in a deep pan and pour over MARINIERE 

them half a glass of white wine. Chop an 
onion, a clove of garlic and some parsley fine and put in the 
pan, together with a tablespoonful of butter. Let these boil 
very quick for twelve minutes, keeping the pan tightly covered. 
Take oflf half shells and place the mussels in a chafing dish and 
pour over them Bechamel sauce and then add sufficient milk 
gravy to cover. Serve hot from chafing dish. 



93 



BOHEMIAN 

According to David Starr Jordan, acknowledged 

world authority on fish, there is greater variety of fish 

in Monterey Bay than anywhere else 

WHERE in the world. Monterey Bay is one 

FISH of San Francisco's sources of supply 

ABOUND consequently we have a greater vari- 

ety of fish in our markets than are to 
be found anvAvhere else. In the markets are fish from 
all parts of the Pacific Ocean, from the Tropics to far 
north in the Arctics, while denizens of the waters all the 
way between add to the variety. 

The essential element of goodness in fish is fresh- 
ness, and it is always fresh in San Francisco markets, 
and also in the restaurants. Of all varieties two rank 
first in the estimation of gourmets, but, of course, that 
is purely a matter of individual taste. According to the 
above-mentioned authority, "the finest fish that swims 
is the sand-dab." Some gourmets, however, will take 
issue with him on this and say the pompano is bet- 
ter. Others will prefer the mountain trout. Be that as 
it may they all are good, with many others following 
close in choice. 

Fine striped bass from the ocean, or black bass from 
the fresh water takes high place in preference. Then 
there is sole, both in the fillet and Rex, as prepared at 
Jule's under the Monadnock building. Tom cod, rock 
cod, fresh mackerel and fresh cod, white bait and boned 
smelt all are excellent fish, but were we to attempt to 
tell of all the fish to be found here we would have to 
reproduce a piscatorial directory. There are two good 
methods of acquiring knowledge of the fish of San 
Francisco. Go to the wharves and see them come and 
and go to the wholesale markets down in Clay street, 
below Montgomery. You will then begin to realize that 
we certainly do have a variety of good fish. 

Now for a little Bohemianism of a different sort: 
Recently there came to San Francisco, with his wtfe, an 

9/f 



SAN FRANCISCO 

actor whose name used to be almost a household word 
among theater- goers, and when we say "the villain still 
pursued her," all you oldtimers will 
know whom we mean. When he was vviii^uE 
here in the years long gone by it was FISH 

his custom to go to the old California ABOUND 
market, select what he desired to eat, 
then take it to the restaurant and have it cooked, and 
the old atmosphere came back to him on his recent ar- 
rival and he revived the old custom. 

"Meet us at the California market," was the tele- 
phone message that came to us, and we were there, for 
we knew that something good was in store for us. 

First we went through the market from end to end 
and all the side aisles, "spying out the land." It is not 
possible to enumerate what we saw. If you want to 
know go there and see for yourselves. Having seen we 
were told to go and select what we wished to have for 
our dinner, and then the selection began and there was 
a feast of buying fish, meats, vegetables and delicacies 
of all sorts, even to French pastry. 

Our purchases were ordered sent to the restaurant 
in the corner of the market where the chef had already 
been duly "seen," and then came each particular idea 
as to how the food was to be cooked. We had sand- 
dabs munier, Chateaubriand with mushrooms, Italian 
squash, fried in oil with a flavor of garlic, French pastry, 
and coffee, together with some good California Tipo 
Chianti, all flavored with such a stream of reminiscence 
that we forgot that such things as clocks existed. 

It was the first time our theatrical friends had tasted 
sand-dabs, for this fish has come to San Francisco mar- 
kets only in recent years, and they declared that it was 
the "only" fish fit to be eaten. It is possible that they 
were prejudiced by the sentiment of the surroundings 
and consequently not exactly in position to be good 
judges. 

95 



BOHEMIAN 

All Italian restaurants serve fish well. At the New 
Buon Gusto you will find a most excellent cippino with 
polenti, and if you have not experi- 
WHERE enced this we advise you to try it as 
FISH soon as possible. At the Gianduja you 

ABOUND will find sand-dabs au gratin to be 
very fine. At Jack's, striped bass 
cooked in wine is what we think the best of the fish to 
be found in the market, or at the restaurants, cooked 
that way. Jule's is famous for his Rex sole. At all of 
the French and Italian restaurants small fry is cooked 
to perfection. If you wish fish in any way or of any 
kind you will make no mistake in asking for it at any 
of the French or Italian restaurants, or at the Shell Fish 
Grotto, and if you are in doubt regarding what to order 
just take the proprietor into your confidence, tell him 
you are a stranger in the city and ask him to serve you 
fish the best way he prepares it. You will not be disap- 
pointed. 



96 



SAN FRANCISCO 

Variants of food preparation sometimes typify na- 
tionalities better even than variants of language or 
clothing. Take the lowly corn meal, 
for instance. We find that Italian SOME 

polenti, Spanish tamale, Philadelphia FOOD 

scrapple and Southern Darkey crack- VARIANTS 
ling corn bread are but variants of 
the preparation of corn meal in delectable foods. It is 
a long step from plain corn meal mush to scrapple, 
which we consider the highest and best form of prepar- 
ing this sort of dish, but all the intermediate steps come 
from a desire to please the taste with a change from 
simple corn meal. Crackling corn bread is the first 
step, and here we find that the darkies of the South 
found good use for the remnants of the pork after lard 
was tried out at hog-killing time, by mixing the crack- 
lings with their corn meal and making a pone which 
they cooked before an open fire on a hoe blade, the 
first of this being called "cracklin' hoe cake." 

Good scrapple is one of the finest breakfast dishes 
that we know during the winter, and when prepared 
after the recipe given here it precedes all other forms of 
serving corn meal. To mix it properly one must know 
the proper values of herbs and condiments, and this 
recipe is the result of much discriminating study. Mod- 
esty prevents us giving it more than the name of 
"scrapple." It is prepared in the following manner, dif- 
fering from that made in Philadelphia: 

Take a young pig's head and boil it un- SCRAPPLE 

til the flesh drops from the bones, in water 

to which has been added two good-sized onions, quartered, five 
bruised cloves of garlic, one bay leaf, sweet marjoram, thyme, 
rosemary, a little sage, salt, and pepper. Separate the meat 
from the bones and chop fine. Strain off the liquor and boil 
with corn meal, adding the chopped meat. Put in the corn 
meal gradually, until it makes a stiifT mush, then cook for half 
an hour with the meat. Put in shallow pans and let cool. To 
serve slice about half an inch thick and fry in olive oil or but- 
ter to a light brown. 

91 



BOHEMIAN 

As originally prepared the tamale was made for 
conveyance, hence the wrappings of corn husk. This 
is a Spanish dish, having been brought 
SOML ^Q ^j^jg country by the early Spanish 

rOOU explorers, and adopted by the Indian 

VARIANTS tribes with whom they came in con- 
tact. In the genuine tamale the in- 
terior is the sauce and meat that goes with the corn 
meal which is alternately laid with the husks, and when 
made the ends are tied with fine husk. For meat, 
chicken, pork, and veal are considered the best. There 
is also a sweet tamale, made with raisins or preserves. 
The following recipe for tamales was given us by 
Luna: 

TAMALES Boil one chicken until the meat comes 
from the bones. Chop the meat fine and 
moisten it with the liquor in which it was boiled. Boil six 
large chili peppers in a little water until cooked so they can be 
strained through a fine strainer, and add to this the chopped 
chicken, with salt to taste and a little chopped parsley. Take 
corn meal and work into it a lump of butter the size of an 
egg, adding boiling water and working constantly until it makes 
a paste the consistency of biscuit dough. Have ready a pile of 
the soft inner husks of green corn and on each husk spread a 
lump of dough, the size of a walnut, into a flat cake covering 
the husk. In the center of the dough put a teaspoonful of the 
chopped meat with minced olive. On a large husk put several 
tablespoonfuls of chopped meat with olives. Roll this together 
and lay on them other husks until tlie tamale is of the size de- 
sired. Tie the ends together with strips of fine husk and put 
in boiling: water for twenty minutes. Either veal or pork may 
be used instead of chicken. 

Polenti, properly prepared, is a dish that requires 
much labor, and scarcely repays for the time and ex- 
ertion spent in its making. It differs from scrapple in 
that the ingredients are mixed in a sauce and poured 
over the musli instead of being mixed in the meal. In 
the New Buon Gusto restaurant, in Broadway, they cook 
polenti to perfection, and when it is served with cippino 
it leaves nothing to be desired. This is the recipe: 

98 



SAN FRANCISCO 

For the gravy: Make a little broth with veal bone, a small 
piece of beef, a pig's foot, neck, feet and gizzard of chicken. 
In a separate kettle cook in hot oil one 
sliced onion, one clove of garlic, a little POLENT' 

parsley, one bell pepper, one tomato, a 

small piece of celery, and a carrot. Cook until soft and then 
add this to the broth with a few dried mushrooms. Cook slowly 
for thirty minutes and then strain. 

For the mush: Boil corn meal until it is thoroughly done 
and then cool it until it can be cut in slices for frying. Mix 
butter and olive oil and heat in a frying pan and into this put 
the slices of corn meal, frying to a light brown. Place the fried 
corn meal in a platter in layers, sprinkling each with grated 
Parmesan cheese, salt, and pepper. Take parsley and one clove 
of garlic chopped fine and a can of French mushrooms cut in 
quarters, and Try in butter, then add enough gravy to pour over 
the fried corn meal. Place this in an oven for a few minutes 
then serve. 



99 



BOHEMIAN 

Table d'hote is the feature of San Francisco's res- 
taurant life. It is the ideal method for those who wish 
a good dinner and who have not the 
ABOUT inclination, or the knowledge, to or- 

DINING der a special dinner. It is also the 

least expensive way of getting a good 
dinner. It also saves an exhibition of ignorance regard- 
ing the dishes, for if you are in doubt all you have to do 
is to leave it to the waiter, and he will bring the best 
there is on the day's menu and will serve it properly. 

It is really something to elicit wonder when one con- 
siders the possibilities of a table d'hote dinner in some 
of the less expensive restaurants. Take, for instance, 
the Buon Gusto, in Broadway. This restaurant boasts 
a good chef, and the food is the finest the market af- 
fords. Here is served a six course dinner for fifty cents, 
and the menu card is typical of this class of restaurants. 
What is provided is shown by the following taken from 
the bill of fare as it was served us : 

Hor d'ouvres — four kinds; five kinds of salad; two kinds 
of soup; seven kinds of fish; four kinds of paste; broiled spring 
chicken; green salad with French dressing; ice cream or rum 
omelet; mixed fruits; demi tasse. 

With this is served a pint of good table wine. 

As one goes up with the scale of prices in the res- 
taurants that charge J?l, $1.25, -$1.50, $2, $2.50, and $3 for 
their dinners it will be found that the difference lies 
chiefly in the variety from which to choose and from 
the surroundings and service. 

Take, for example, the following typical menu for 
a dollar dinner, served at the Fior d'ltalia, and compare 
it with the fifty-cent dinner just mentioned: 

Salami and anchovies; salad; chicken broth with Italian 
paste; fillet of English sole, sauce tartare; spaghetti or ravioli; 
escallop of veal, caper sauce; French peas with butter; roast 
chicken with chifi^on salad; ice cream or fried cream; assorted 
fruits and cakes; demi tasse. Wine with this dinner is extra. 

100 



SAN FRANCISCO 

Now going a step up in the scale we come to the 
$1.50 dinner as follows: 

Anchovies, salami (note that it is the ARnTTT* 

same as above); combination salad; tortel- ArJUUl 

lini di Bologna soup; striped bass a la DINING 

Livornaise; ravioli a la Genoese and spa- 
ghetti with mushrooms; chicken saute, 

Italian style, with green peas; squab with lettuce; zabaione; 
fruit; cheese; coffee. Wine is extra. 

Let us now look at the menu of the $3.50 dinner, 
without wine: 

Pate de foie gras — truffles on toast; salad; olives; Alice 
Fallstaff; Italian ham "Prosciutto;" soup — semino Italiani with 
Brodo de Cappone; pompano a la papillote; tortellini with 
fungi a funghetto; fritto misto; spring chicken saute; Carcioffi 
airinferno; Capretto al Forno con Insallata; omelet Celestine; 
fruit; cheese, and black coffee. 

This dinner must be ordered three days in advance. 

These menus will give a good idea of the different 
classes of dinners that can be obtained. Between are 
dinners to suit all tastes and pocketbooks. If you wish 
to go beyond these there is no limit except the amount 
of money you have. If but the food value be taken into 
consideration then one will be as well pleased with the 
fifty-cent dinner as he will be at the higher priced meals, 
but if light and music and brilliant surroundings are 
desired, then one must pay for them as well as for the 
meal he eats. 

All of the restaurants mentioned serve good table 
d'hote dinners, giving an astonishing variety of foods 
for the money, and it is all cooked and served in a man- 
ner that leaves nothing to be desired. As before men- 
tioned if you wish a table d'hote dinner composed en- 
tirely of sea food you can get it at the Shell Fish Grotto 
for one dollar. 

A good rule to follow when dining at any of the res- 
taurants is: When in doubt order a table d'hote din- 
ner. You will always get a good meal, for the least out- 

101 



BOHEMIAN 

lay of money and least expenditure of thought. Often 
one desires something a little different, and this is easy, 
too, and you can conserve your brain 
ABOUT energ)^ and get the most for the least 

DINING money by seeing the proprietor or 

manager of the restaurant and tell- 
ing him that you wish to give a little dinner. Tell him 
how many will be in the party and give him the amount 
you wish to spend. It will be surprising, sometimes, to 
see how much more you can get for a slight increase in 
the price. Of course your wines and cocktails will be 
extra and these must be reckoned in the cost. 

From this we come to the ordered dinner, and here 
is where j'our own knowledge and special desires come 
in. Here, too, comes a marked increase in the cost. 
You now^ have the widest range of possibilities both as 
to viands and as to price. It is not at all difficult to 
have a dinner, without wine, that costs twenty-five dol- 
lars a plate, and when you come down to the more 
normal dinners, unless you confine yourself to one or 
tw^o dishes you will find that you far exceed in price 
the table d'hote dinners of equal gastronomic value. 

While this is true it is well to be able to order your 
dinner for it frequently occurs that one docs not care 
to go through the heavy course dinner provided table 
d'hote. Sometimes one wants a simple dish, or perhaps 
two, and it is well to know something about them and 
how to order them. We have made it a rule whenever 
we have seen something new on the bill of fare to order 
it, on the theory that we are willing to try anything 
once, and in this way we have greatly enlarged our 
knowledge of good things. 

It is also well to remember national characteristics 
and understand that certain dishes arc at their best at 
certain restaurants. For instance, you will be served 
with an excellent paste at a French restaurant, but if 
you want it at its best you wdll get it at an Italian res- 

102 



JLt 



SAN FRANCISCO 

taurant. On the other hand if you desire a delicate 
entree you will get the best at a French restaurant. For 
instance, one would not ask for sauer 
braten anywhere except at a German ABOUT 

restaurant. It will readily be seen DINING 

that the Elegant Art of Dining in San 
Francisco means much more than the sitting at table 
and partaking of what is put before you. Dining is an 
art, and its pleasure is greatly enhanced by a knowl- 
edge of foods, cooking, serving, national characteristics, 
and combinations of both foods and wines. How few 
people are there, for instance, who know that one should 
never drink any hard liquor, like whisky, brandy, or 
gin, with oysters. Many a fit of acute stomach trouble 
has been attributed to some food that was either bad or 
badly prepared when the cause of the trouble was the 
fact that a cocktail had been taken just prior to eating 
oysters. 

Some of the possibilities of dining in San Francisco 
may be understood when we tell you of a progressive 
dinner. We had entertained one of the Exposition 
Commissioners from a sister State and he was so well 
pleased with what he had learned in a gastronomic way 
that he said to us: 

"The Governor of my State is coming and I should 
like to give him a dinner that will open his eyes to San 
Francisco's possibilities. Would it be asking too much 
of you to have you help me do it?" 

"We shall be glad to. What do you want us to do?" 

"Take charge of the whole business, do as you please 
and go as far as you like." 

"That is a wide order, General. What is the limit of 
price, and how many will be in the party?" 

"Just six. That will include the Governor and his 
wife, you two and myself and wife. Let it be something 
unusual and do not let the cost interfere. What I want 



is something unusual." 



lOS 



BOHEMIAN 

It has been told us that when the Governor got back 

home he tried to tell some of his friends about that 

dinner, but they told him he had ac- 

ABOUT quired the California habit of talking 

DINING wide. This is the way we carried out 

the dinner, everything being arranged 
in advance: At 6:30 we called at the rooms of the 
Governor in the Palace Hotel and had served there dry 
Martini cocktails with Russian caviar on toasted rye 
bread. 

An automobile was in waiting, and at seven o'clock 
we were set down at Felix's, in Montgomery street, 
where a table was ready for us and on it were served 
salami of various kinds, artichokes in oil and ripe 
olives. Then came a service of soup, for which this res- 
taurant is famous, followed by a combination salad, 
with which was served a bottle of Pontet Canet. 

The automobile carried us then over to Broadway 
and at the Fior d'ltalia our table was waiting and here 
we were served with sand-dabs au gratin, and a small 
glass of sauterne. 

All the haste we made was on the streets, and when 
we finished our course at the Fior d'ltalia we whirled 
away over toward North Beach to the Gianduja, where 
had been prepared especially for us tagliarini with 
chicken livers and mushrooms, and because of its suc- 
cess we had a bottle of Lacrima Chrisli Spumanti, the 
enjoyment of which delayed us. 

Again in the automobile to Coppa's where Chicken 
Portola was served, with green peas. Accompanying 
this was a glass of Krug, and this was followed by a 
glass of zabaione for dessert. 

Back again to the heart of the city and we stopped 
at Raggi's, in Montgomery street near Commercial 
where we had a glass of brandy in which was a chinotti 
(a peculiar Italian preserved fruit which is said to be a 
cross between a citron and an orange). 

10^ 



SAN FRANCISCO 

Then around the corner to Gouailhardou& Rondel's, 
the Market Cafe, where from a plain pine table, and on 
sanded floor, we had our coff'ee royal. 
As a fitting climax for this evening ABOUT 

we directed the chauffeur to drive to DINING 

the Cliff House, where, over a bottle 
of Krug, we talked it all over as we watched the dancing 
and listened to the singing of the cabaret performers. 

This dinner, including everything from the automo- 
bile to the tips cost but fifteen dollars for each one in 
the party. 



105 



BOHEMIAN 

Cooking is sometimes a pleasure, sometimes a duty, 

sometimes a burden and sometimes a martj'rdom, all 

according to the point of view. The 

SOMETHING extremes are rarities, and sometimes 

ABOUT duty and burden are synonymous. 

COOKINCi In ordinary understanding we have 

American cooking and Foreign cook- 
ing, and to one accustomed to plain American cooking, 
all variants, and all additions of spices, herbs, or un- 
usual condiments is classed under the head of Foreign. 
In the average American family cooking is a duty 
usually considered as one of the necessary evils of ex- 
istence, and food is prepared as it is usually eaten — 
hastily — something to fill the stomach. 

The excuse most frequently heard in San Francisco 
for the restaurant habit, and for living in cooped-up 
apartments, is that the wife wants to get away from the 
burden of the kitchen and drudgery of housework. And 
like many other effects this eventually becomes a cause, 
for both husband and wife become accustomed to bet- 
ter cooking than they could get at home and there is a 
continuance of the custom, for both get a distaste for 
plainly cooked food, and the wife does not know how 
to cook any other way. 

Yet when all is considered the difference between 
plain American cooking and what is termed Foreign 
cooking, is but the proper use of condiments and sea- 
soning, combined with proper variety of the food sup- 
ply from the markets. Herein lies the secret of a good 
table — proper combination of ingredients and proper 
variation and selection of the provisions together with 
proper preparation and cooking of the food. 

We have met with many well educated and wtU 
raised men and women whose gastronomic knowledge 
was so limited as to be appalling. All they knew of 
meats was confiiied to ordinary poultry, i. e., chickens 
and turkeys, and to beef, veal, pork, and mutton. Of 

106 



SAN FRANCISCO 

these there were but three modes of cooking — frying, 
stewing and baking, sometimes boiling. Their chops 
were always fried as they knew noth- 
ing of the delicate flavor imparted by SOMETHING 
broiling. In fact their knowledge was ABOUT 

confined to the least healthful and COOKING 
least nutritious modes of preparation 
and cooking. Not only is this true of the average Ameri- 
can family, but their lack of knowledge of the funda- 
mentals of cooking and food values brings about a 
waste largely responsible for what is called the "high 
cost of living." It is a trite, but nevertheless true saying 
that a French family could live well on what an Ameri- 
can family wastes. Waste in preparation is but the 
mildest form of waste. Waste consequent upon lack of 
knowledge of food values is the waste that is doubly 
expensive for it not only wastes food but it also wastes 
the system whose energy is exhausted in trying to as- 
similate improper alimentation. 

It is a well recognized medical fact that much of the 
illness of Americans arises from two causes, improper 
food and improper eating methods. In Europe this fact 
was recognized and generally known so long ago that the 
study of food values and preparation for proper assimi- 
lation is one of the essential parts of every woman's 
education, and to such a degree has this become raised 
to a science that schools and even colleges in cooking 
are to be found in many parts of England, France and 
Germany. Francatelli, the great chef who was at the 
head of Queen Victoria's kitchen, boasts proudly of his 
diploma from the Parisian College of Cooking. 

The United States is now beginning to wake up to 
the fact that the preparation of food is something more 
than a necessary evil, and from the old cooking classes 
of our common schools has developed the classes in 
Domestic Science, that which was formerly considered 
drudgery now being elevated to an art and digniiied as 

107 



BOHEMIAN 

a science. In Europe this stage was reached many gen- 
erations ago, and there it is now an art which has ele- 
vated the primitive process of feed- 
SOMETHING ^"S to the elegant art of dining. In 

ABOUT ^^" Francisco probably more than in 

COOKING ^^y other city in the United States, 

not even excepting New Orleans, this 
art has flourished for many years with the result that 
the average San Franciscan is disappointed at the food 
served in other cities of his country, and always longs 
for his favorite restaurant even as the children of Israel 
longed for the flesh pots of Egj-^pt. 

One needs to spend a day in the Italian quarter of 
San Francisco to come to a full realization of the dif- 
ference between the requirements of even the poorest 
Italian family and the average American family of the 
better class. We need but say that we have been study- 
ing this question for nearly twenty years yet even now 
we meet with surprises in the way of new delicacies and 
modes of using herbs and spices in food preparation. 

If we were to attempt even to enumerate the various 
herbs, spices, flavorings, delicacies, and pastes to be 
found in a well regulated Italian shop it would take 
many pages of this book, yet every one of these articles 
has its own individual and peculiar use, and the knowl- 
edge of these articles and how to use them is what 
makes the difference between American and Foreign 
cooking. Each herb has a peculiar quality as a stom- 
achic and it must be as delicately measured as if it were 
a medicine. The use of garlic, so much decried as 
plebeian, is the secret of some of the finest dishes pre- 
pared by the highest chefs. It must not be forgotten 
that in the use of all flavors and condiments there may 
be an intemperance, there lying the root of much of the 
bad cooking. 

Garlic, for instance, is a flavor and not a food, yet 
many of the lower class foreigners eat it on bread, mak- 

108 



i 



SAN FRANCISCO 

ing a meal of dark bread, garlic and red wine. It is of- 
fensive to sensitive nostrils and vitiates the taste when 
thus used, but when properly added 
to certain foods it gives an intangible SOMETHING 
flavor which never fails to elicit ABOUT 

praise. What is true of garlic is also COOKING 

true of the many herbs that are used. 
It is easy to pass from a rare flavor that makes a most 
savory dish to a taste of medicine that spoils a dinner. 
With the well-known prodigal and wasteful habits of 
America the American who learns the use of herbs 
usually makes the initial mistake of putting in the fla- 
voring herbs with too lavish a hand, and it is only after 
years of experience that a knowledge of proper com- 
binations is obtained. 

Visitors have often expressed wonder at the variety 
of foods and delicate flavors in San Francisco restau- 
rants, and possibly this brief explanation may give 
some comprehension of why San Franciscans always 
want to get back to where they "can get something 
to eat." 



109 



BOHEMIAN 

"Surely the old Bohemians of San Francisco did not 

spend all their time in restaurants. How did they live 

when at home?" This is what was 

TOLD said to us one day when we were talk- 

INA ing about the old days and the old 

WHISPER people. Indeed they did not live all 
their time in restaurants. Some of 
the most enjoyable meals we have eaten have been in 
the rooms and apartments of our Bohemian friends, 
and these meals were prepared generally by each one 
present doing his or her part in making it a success. 
One would make the salad, another the main dish, and 
others do various forms of scullery work, and in the 
end we would have a meal that would often put to blush 
the efforts of many of the renowned chefs. 

Many people who come to San Francisco will wish 
to conserve their finances as much as possible, and they 
will wish to enjoy life in their apartments. There are 
also many people who live in San Francisco who need a 
little advice on how to get the best out of life, and we 
are going to whisper a few words to all such as these we 
have mentioned. 

You can be a Bohemian and have the very best sort 
of living in your own room for less than half the money 
it will take to live at the hotels and restaurants, and we 
are sure many of you would like to know something 
about how to do it. It is not necessary to confine your- 
self to the few things in your limited experience. If you 
are going to be in San Francisco for more than a week, 
you will find that a little apartment, furnished ready for 
housekeeping, will give j'ou opportunity to be indepen- 
dent and free. You will get your own breakfasts, when 
and how you want them. Your luncheons and dinners 
can be gotten in your rooms or at the restaurants just as 
you are inclined. 

You will find delight and education in visiting the 
markets, and the foreign stores where all the strange 

HO 



SAN FRANCISCO 

and unusual foods of all nations are to be found. You 

will discover belter articles at less prices at the little 

Italian, French, Mexican or Chinese 

stores and stalls than can be had in lOLU 

the most aristocratic stores in the city. ^N A 

Above all you will find a joy of in- WHISPER 

vention and will be surprised at the 

delectable dishes you can prepare at a minimum of cost. 

When you visit San Francisco you are desirous of 
so arranging j'^our finances that you may see the most 
for the least outlay of money. After a strenuous day of 
sight-seeing j'^ou will scarcely feel like getting up a good 
meal, consequently then you will follow the ideas sug- 
gested in this book and visit the various restaurants, 
thus obtaining a variety both in foods and in informa- 
tion of an educational nature. But sometimes you will 
not be tired, or you will wish to get up a little late sup- 
per after theatre, and it is then that you will be glad of 
the opportunity afforded by having your own kitchen 
arrangements so that you can carry out your tastes, and 
cook some of the strange and new foods that you 
have discovered in your rambles through the foreign 
quarters. 

Take the simple matter of sausage, for instance. 
Ordinarily we know of but three kinds — pork sausage, 
frankfurter and bologna — neither very appetizing or ap- 
pealing, except sometimes the pork sausage for break- 
fast. Over in the little Italian and French shops you 
will find some of the most wonderful sausages that 
mind can conceive of. Some of these are so elaborate 
in their preparation that they cost even in that inex- 
pensive part of the city, seventy cents a pound, and the 
variety is almost as infinite as that of the pastes. In the 
Mexican stores you will find a sausage that gives a de- 
lightful flavor to anything it is cooked with, and it is 
when you see these sausages that your eyes begin to be 
opened. 

ill 



BOHEMIAN 

You now take cognizance of many things that here- 
tofore escaped your observation. You see new canned 
goods ; a wonderful variety of cheeses ; 
TOLD strange dried vegetables and delica- 

IN A cies unheard of; preserved vegetables 

WHISPER and fish and meats in oil; queer fish 
pickled and dried. You begin to learn 
of the many uses of olive oil in cooking and in food pre- 
paration. You see the queer shapes of bread, and note 
the numerous kinds of cakes and pastry that you never 
saw or heard of before. You see boxes of dried herbs, 
and begin to realize why you have never been able to 
reproduce certain flavors you have tasted in restau- 
rants. You see strange-looking, flat hams, and are told 
that they are Italian hams, and if you buy some you will 
find that they cut the ham the wrong way, and instead 
of slicing it across the grain they cut in very thin slices 
down the length of the bone. Their flavor is more de- 
licious than that of any ham you have tasted since you 
used to get the old-time, genuine country smoked hams. 
But if you investigate a little deeper you will learn that 
these hams were not put up in Italy at all, but that it 
is a special brand that is prepared in Virginia for the 
Italians. 

In the French stores you will find preserved cocks- 
combs, snails, marvelous blood sausages with nuts in 
them, rare cheeses, prepared meats in jellies, and hun- 
dreds of delicacies unknown to you. You can spend 
days in these stores, finding something new all the lime. 
We have been going there for years and still run across 
new things. 

Remember that to the people of the Latin Quarter 
these things are all usual consequently they think you 
know as much about them as they do, and will volun- 
teer no information regarding them. Possibly they will 
smile at your ignorance when you ask them questions, 
but do not hesitate to ask, for they are courteous and 

112 



SAN FRANCISCO 

that is the only way you can find out tilings, and learn 
what all these new edibles are and what they are good 
for. There is no greater possibility 
of interest than is to be found in the TOLD 

stores of San Francisco's Latin Quar- IN A 

ter, and we mean by this the stores WHISPER 
that cater to the people of the Quar- 
ter. In stores and restaurants frequented by Americans 
they cater to American tastes and lose much of the for- 
eign flavor. 

It is also well to bear in mind that it is not in the 
largest stores that you find the greatest variety when it 
comes to odd and new goods. A little shop, barely large 
enough to turn around in between counter and wall, 
may have enough of interest to entertain you for half 
an hour, and here the prices will be remarkably low, 
for these people have so little of the outside trade that 
they have not learned to add to their prices when they 
see an American face coming. 

What is true of the stores is also true of the vege- 
table stands, the meat shops, the fish stalls, and bakeries. 
Here you will find better and fresher food supplies than 
in any of the similar places in other parts of the city, 
and the price is generally one-third less. The high cost 
of living has not reached this thrifty people with their 
inborn knowledge of the values of foods. They live 
twice as well as the average American family at half the 
cost. They combine knowledge of food values with the 
art of preparation and have a resultant meal that is 
tasty, full flavored, and nourishing at a minimum of 
expense. 

Perhaps you want a meal. Your thoughts at once 
run to steaks and chops, and fried potatoes. Nothing 
but a porterhouse or tenderloin steak or a kidney chop 
will do. It is the most expensive meat and you think 
that of course it is the best and most nourishing. If the 
knov/ledge of food values were with you, you would get 

113 



BOHEMIAN 

the less expensive and more nourishing cuts. A flank 
steak, perhaps, prepared en casserole, and you would 

have a fine dish for half the money. 

TOLD As it is in meats so it is in all foods. 

IN A For ten cents two people can have a 

WHISPEPi dinner of tagliarini that is at once 

nourishing and salisfj-^ing in flavor. 
Of course all this requires knowledge, but that is easily 
acquired, and it adds to the zest of life to know that you 
can do that which lifts eating from the plane of feeding 
to that of dining; that you can change existence into 
living. All because you dare to break away from con- 
ventionalities which make so many people affect igno- 
rance of how to live because they imagine it is an 
evidence of refinement. If they but knew it, their affec- 
tation and their ignorance is the hall mark of low caste. 
Now about this whisper: We have a friend who 
has a little apartment where he has kept bachelor's hall 
for many years. Here some of our most pleasant eve- 
nings have been spent, and we never fear to go on ac- 
count of the possibility that he may be embarrassed or 
inconvenienced through lack of something to eat or 
drink, for he is never at a loss to prepare something 
dainty and appetizing for us, and it really seems, some- 
times, that he makes a meal out of nothing. Often 
Charlie telephones us that he has discovered a new dish 
and hurries us over to pass judgment on it. And, by 
the way, many of the good dishes of Bohemia are the 
result of accident rather than design. 



liff 



SAN FRANCISCO 

It is surprising what a good meal you can get up 
sometimes when "there's not a thing in the house to eat." 
Let us give you an example. One eve- 
ning two of our young friends came OUT OF 
over to tell us their sweet secret, and NOTHING 
with them was another young lady. 
While we were talking it over and making plans for the 
wedding another friend dropped in because he said our 
"light looked inviting." 

An hour or so of talk and then one of us signalled 
to the other and received the shocking signal back, 
"There's not a thing to eat in the house." This called 
for an investigation of the larder in which all joined 
with the following result : Item — two cans of reed birds 
from China, each containing twelve of the little birds 
as large as your thumb. Item — one egg. Other items — 
one onion, two slices of dry bread, one green pepper, 
rather small, one dozen crackers. Item — one case of 
imported Italian Vin d'Oro Spumanti. Item — six hearty 
appetites to be appeased. 

The gentleman who saw our light saw another, and 
rushed off to a barber shop, and got four more eggs. 
Barbers use eggs, and they must be fresh ones, in sham- 
pooing, and our friend remembered it. 

The two young ladies and the young man prepared 
the table, and the other lady and the two gentlemen set 
about getting a meal. One of us made an omelet of the 
five eggs, the onion and the green pepper, with crumbs 
of bread, and this is the recipe : 

Take five eggs and beat until very light. qMELET A LA 
Roll two slices of dried bread to crumbs PERUOUIER 
and mix with the beaten eggs. Chop fine 

one onion and one green pepper, season with salt and pepper. 
Pour a tablespoonful of olive oil in an omelet pan and in this 
fry the peppers and onion to a light brown. When ready turn 
into this the beaten eggs, and cook until done. Follow the rule 
of never disturbing a cooking egg or a sleeping child. Serve on 
a hot dish. 

il5 



BOHEMIAN 

Take two cans of Chinese reed birds, open them and take 

therefrom the two dozen birds contained therein. In a hot 

frying pan place the birds in the grease 

REED BIRDS that comes around them and heat them 

A LA CHINOISE through. Toast twelve square crackers 

and on each place two reed birds, and 

serve two on each of six hot plates. With both the omelet and 

the reed birds serve Vin d'Oro. 



116 



SAN FRANCISCO 

In an Italian grocery store we noticed a great variety 
of pastes in boxes arranged along the counter and be- 
gan counting them. The proprietor 
noticed us and, with a characteristic PASTE 

shrug of his shoulders, said: "That is MAKES 

but a few of them. We have not room WAIST 

to show them all." In response to our 
inquiry regarding the number of kinds of paste made 
by Italians he said there were more than seventy-five. 
Ordinarily we think of one — spaghetti — or possibly two, 
including macaroni. If our knowledge goes a little 
farther we think also of tagliarini, which is the Italian 
equivalent of noodles, as it is made with eggs. 

In New York we were much impressed with the 
stress they laid on the serving of spaghetti, and one res- 
taurant went so far as to advertise dinners given "under 
the spaghetti vine." It appears that this is the only 
paste they know anything about. 

After one eats tagliarini or ravioli one feels like 
paraphrasing the darkey and saying, "go waj'^ spaghetti, 
yo done los' yo tase." 

Then comes tortelini which, like ravioli, combines 
paste witti meat and spinach. These may be considered 
the most prominent of the pastes, the others being vari- 
ants in the making and cutting, each serving a special 
purpose in cooking, some being for soups, others for 
sauces and others for dressing for meats. It is more 
than probable that the great variety comes from indi- 
vidual tastes in cutting or rolling. 

All Italian restaurants serve the paste as a releve 
rather than as an entree, which it usually follows, pre- 
ceding the roast in the dinner. As a separate and dis- 
tinct dish it can well be made to serve as a full meal, 
especially when tagliarini is prepared after the follow- 
ing recipe : 

Cook one pound of tagliarini in boiling water twenty-five 
minutes, tlien draw off the water. To ttie tagliarini add a hand- 

117 



BOHEMIAN 

ful of mushrooms which have been sliced and fried in butter. 

Then add three chicken livers which have been chopped small 

and fried, one sliced truHle, one red pep- 

TAGLIAULM P^^'' chopped line and a little Parmesan 

DES cheese. Make a brown sauce of one-third 

BEAUX ARTS beef broth thickened with melted butter 

and flour and two-thirds tomato sauce, and 

pour this over the tagliarini. Sprinkle with the Parmesan 

cheese and serve very hot from a chafing dish. (By Oliver, chef 

of the Restaurant des Beaux Arts, Paris.) 

In San Francisco one finds both the imported and 
the domestic paste, and frequently one hears the asser- 
tion that the imported is the better. This idea is born of 
the thought that all things from Europe are better than 
the same made in America. In fact the paste that comes 
from Italy is neither so good in taste, nor is it so clean in 
the making. We have visited a number of paste fac- 
tories in San Francisco and have found them all scrupu- 
lously clean, with the best of materials in the composi- 
tion of the pastes. 

One often wonders how the pastes came to be so 
many and how they received their names. Names of 
some of them are accidents, as is illustrated by maca- 
roni. According to an Italian friend who vouches for 
the fact, it received its name from an expression of 
pleasure. "Macari" means "fine, excellent," and the 
superlative is "macaroni." A famous Italian gourmet 
constantly desired new dishes to please his taste, and 
one day his chef carried to him something that was 
unusual. The gourmet tasted it, cried out "macari!" 
Tasted again, threw out his arms in delight and cried 
"macaroni!" 

"What is the name of this wonderful dish?" 

"You have named it. It is macaroni." 



118 



SAN FRANCISCO 

Tipping is variously designated. Some say it is a 
nuisance and should be abolished. Some call it an out- 
rage and ask for legislative interfer- 
ence. Some say it is an extortion and ^ ^^^ 
refuse to pay it. Some say it is a AND 
necessary evil and suffer it. The wise TIPPING 
ones look at it a little differently. 
Possibly it is best explained or excused, whichever way 
you wish to call it, by one of Gouverneur Morris's char- 
acters in a recent story, who says : 

"Whenever I go anywhere I find persons in humble 
situations who smile at me and wish me well. I smile 
back and wish them well. It is because at some time or 
other I have tipped them. To me the system has never 
been an annoyance but a delightful opportunity for the 
exercise of tact and judgment." 

We look upon tipping as a part of expense to be cal- 
culated upon, necessary to insure good service, not only 
now but in the future, and it should always be com- 
puted in the expense of a trip or a dinner. Tipping, to 
our minds, is the oil that makes the wheels of life run 
smoothly. 

The amount of the tip is always a matter of indi- 
vidual judgment, dependent upon the service rendered, 
and the way it is rendered. The good traveler wants to 
tip properly, neither too little nor too much, thereby 
getting the l3est service, for in the last analysis the pleas- 
ure of a trip depends upon the service received. Ameri- 
can prodigality and asininity is responsible for much 
of the abuse of tipping. Too many Americans when 
they travel desire to appear important and the only way 
they can accomplish this is by buying the subserviency 
of menials who laugh at them behind their backs. 

A tip should always depend upon the service ren- 
dered. We make it a rule to withhold the tip from a 
careless or inconsiderate waiter, and always add to the 
tip a word of commendation when there has been extra 

119 



BOHEMIAN 

good service. The amount of the tip depends, first on 

the service, second on the amount of the bill, and third, 

on the character of the place where 

TIPS you are served. When we order a 

AND specially prepared dinner, with our 

TIPPING suggestions as to its composition and 

service, we tip the head waiter, the 
chef, the waiter and the bus boy. We have given din- 
ners where the tips amounted to fully half as much as 
the dinner itself, and w^e felt that this part of the ex- 
pense brought us the greatest pleasure. 

It is impossible to make a hard and fast rule regard- 
ing how much to give a waiter. Each person must use 
his or her own judgment. If you are in a foreign coun- 
try you might do as we did on our first trip to Paris. 
We wanted to do what was right but not what most 
Americans think is right. We were at a hotel where 
only French were usually guests, and in order to do the 
right thing we took the proprietor into our confidence 
and explained to him our dilemma. We asked him 
whom to tip and how much to give, and he got us out 
of our diiliculty and we found that the tips amounted to 
about as much for one whole week as we had been held 
up for in one day at the Waldorf-Astoria. 



IW 



SAN FRANCISCO 

Notwithstanding the fact that Webster gives no rec- 
ognition in his dictionary to the Land of Bohemia or the 
occupants thereof, the land exists, per- 
haps not in a material way, but cer- THE 
tainly mentally. Some have not the MYTHICAL 
perception to see it; some know not LAND 
the language that admits entrance; 
some pass it by every day without understanding it. 
Yet it as truly exists as any of the lands told of in our 
childhood fables and fairy stories. 

The old definition of Bohemian was "a vagabond, a 
wayfarer." Possibly that definition may, to a certain 
extent, be true of the present-day Bohemian, for he is 
a mental vagabond and a mental wayfarer. 

In our judgment the word comes from the French 
"Bon Homme," for surely the Bohemian is a "good 
man." 

Whatever may be the derivation the fact remains 
that not to all is given the perception to understand, nor 
the eyes to see, and therein lies one of the dangers of 
writing such a book as this. If you read this and then 
hurry off to a specified restaurant with the expectation 
of finding the Bohemian atmosphere in evidence you 
are apt to be disappointed, for frequently it is necessary 
to create your own Bohemian atmosphere. 

Then, too, all nights are not the same at restau- 
rants. For instance if you desire the best service af- 
forded in any restaurant do not select Saturday or 
Sunday night, but if you will lay aside your desire for 
personal comfort in service, and wish to study charac- 
ter, then take Saturday or Sunday night for your visit. 
It is very possible that you will think the restaurant has 
changed hands between Friday and Saturday. On Sat- 
urday and Sunday evening the mass of San Francisco's 
great cosmopolitan population holds holiday and the 
great feature of the holiday is a restaurant dinner, 
where there is music, and glitter, and joyous, human 

121 



APPENDIX 



HOW TO SERVE WINES 

A few hints regarding the proper serving of wines may not 
be amiss, and we give you here the consensus of opinion of the 
most noted gourmets who liave made a study of the best results 
from combinations: 

Never drink any hard liquors, such as whisky, brandy, gin, 
or cocktails, with oysters or clams, as it is liable to upset you 
for the rest of the evening. 

With the hor d'ouvres serve vermouth, sherry, marsala or 
madeira wine. 

With soup and fish serve white wines, such as Rhein wine, 
sauterne or white burgundy. 

With entrees serve clarets or other red wines, such as 
Swiss, Bordeaux, Hungarian or Italian wines. 

Burgundy may also be served at any of the later courses. 

With roasts serve champagne or any of the sparkling wines. 

With the coffee serve kirsch, French brandy or fine cham- 
pagne. 

After coff"ee serve a liqueur. Never serve more than one 
glass of any liqueur. 

The following wines may be considered the best types: 
Amontillado, Montilo and Olorosa sherries. 
Austrian burgundy is one of the finest wines, possessing 
rich flavor and fine perfume. 

Other burgundies are: 

Chablis: A white burgundy, dry and of agreeable aroma. 

Chambertin: A sound, delicate wine with a flavor resem- 
ling raspberry. 

Clos de Vogeot: Similar to chambertin, and often called 
the king of burgundy. 

Romance: A very rare and costly wine of rich, ruby color, 
with a delicate bouquet. 

Clarets are valued for their flavor and for their tonic prop- 
erties. Some of the best are: 

Chateau Grille: A dessert wine of good flavor and fine 
aroma. 

Chateau Lafitte: Has beautiful color and delicate flavor. 

Chateau la Rose: Greater alcoholic strength and of fine 
flavor. 

Chateau Margaux : Rich, with delicate flavor and excellent 
bouquet. 

Pontet Canet: A heavier wine with good bouquet and fine 
flavor. 

St. Julien : A lighter claret with good bouquet. 

i27 



HOW TO SERVE WINES 

German wines are of lighter cliaracter, and are generally 
termed Rhein wines. The best varieties are: 

Hochheiraer: A light, pleasing and wholesome wine. 

Brauneberger: A good variety with pleasing flavor and 
aroma. 

Dreimanner: Similar to Brauneberger. 

Dcidesheimer: Similar to Brauneberger. 

Graflenberg: Light and pleasant. Good aroma. 

Johannisberger Schloss: One of the best of the German 
wines. 

Rudcsheimer Schloss: In class with Johannisberger. 

Italian wines are mostly red, the most noted in California 
being Chianti, and its California prototype, Tipo Chianti, made 
by the Asti Colony. 

Lacrima Christi Spumanti: The finest Italian champagne. 
Dry and of magnificent bouquet. 

Yin d'Oro Spumanti: A high-class champagne. Sweet and 
of fine bouquet and flavor. 

Lacrima Christi: A still wine of excellent flavor and bou- 
quet. 

Malaga: A wine of high repute. Sweet and powerful. A 
peculiar flavor is given to it through the addition of a small 
quantity of burned wine. 

Marsala: Is a golden wine of most agreeable color and 
aroma. 

Sauterne: Is a white Bordeaux, a strong luscious wine, 
the best known varieties being: 

Chateau Yquem: Remarkable for its rich and velvety soft- 
ness. 

Barsac: Rich and good. 

Chateau Filhot: Of rich color and good flavor. 

Chateau Latour Blanche: A white sauterne of exquisite 
bouquet. 

Haut Sauterne: Soft and mild. Of good flavor. 

Vin de Graves: Good and strong. Good aroma and flavor. 

"Vintage years have much to do with the quality of wines. 
The best vintage years are as follows: 
Champagnes: 1892. 
Rhein and Moselle: 1803. 
Rurgundv: 1892, 1899 and 1904. 
Claret: 1898 and 1904. 
Port: 1890 and 1904. 
Sherrv: 1882, 1890, 1898 and 1900. 



12S 



A GOOD BOHEMIAN DINNER 

Sometimes people desire to give a dinner and are at loss 
as to the proper time to serve wines. The following menu will 
give some ideas on the subject: 



MENU 

Gibson Cocktail Canape Norwegian 

(Serve these before entering dining room) 

Artichoke Hearts in Oil Ripe Olives Celery 

Amontillado Sherry 

Oysters on Half Shell 

Bisque of Ecrevisse Chablis, or White Sauterne 

Sand-dabs Edward VH Sliced Cucumbers, Iced 

Escargot Francais Chateau Lafitte 

Cassolette of Terrapin, Maryland Romanee 

Tagliarini des Beaux Arts 

Punch Pistache Cigarettes 

Alligator Pears with Cumquats, French Dressing 



Chicken Portola 
Creamed New Potatoes 



Coffee Royal 



Krug Private Cuvee Brut 
Celery Victor French Peas 



Zabaione 
Reina Cabot 

Grand Marnier 



Cigarettes 



129 



A FEW RARE RECIPES 

In our travels through Boliemia it has been our good for- 
tune to gather hundreds of recipes of new, strange and rare 
dishes, prepared by those who look farther than the stoking of 
the physical system in the preparation of foods. Some of these 
are from chefs in restaurants and hotels, some from men and 
women of the foreign colonies and some from good friends 
who lent their aid in our pleasurable occupation. That we can- 
not print them all in a volume of this size is our regret, but 
anotlicr book now in preparation will contain them, together 
with other talks about San Francisco's foreign quarters. 

From our store we have selected the following as being 
well worth trying: 

0\I0\ ^"* ^^^^ large onions in large pieces and 

SOUP P^* them in six ounces of butter with pep- 

per and salt. Slowly stew this in a little 
beef stock and a little milk, stirring constantly, for one hour. 
Add more stock and milk and let cook slowly for another hour. 
In a tureen place slices of bread sprinkled with two tablespoon- 
fuls of Parmesan cheese. Beat the yolks of four eggs and mix 
them with a tablespoonful of the soup and pour this over the 
bread and cheese. Cover this for five minutes and then pour 
over it the rest of the soup. 

CREOLE Take two young chickens, cut in pieces, 

Cl'MBO SOUP r<^^l ^" flour and fry to light brown. Take 
the fried chicken, a ham bone stripped of 
meat for flavor, a tablespoonful of chopped thyme, of rose- 
mary, two bay leaves, a sprig of tarragon and boil in four 
quarts of water until the meat loosens from the bones. Slice 
and fry brown two large onions and add two heaping quarts of 
sliced okra and one cut up pod of red pepper. Stir all over 
the fire until the okra is thoroughly wilted then remove the 
larper bones and let cook three quarters of an hour before 
serving. Half an hour before serving add a can of tomatoes or 
an equal quantity of fresh ones, and a pint of shrimps, boiled 
and shredded. Have a dish of well boiled and dry rice and 
serve with two or three tablespoonfuls in each soup plate. 

OYS'l'l-ll To a solid pint of oysters use a dressing 

SALAD made as follows: Beat well two eggs and 

add to them half a gill each of cream and 
vinegar, half teaspoonful mustard, celery seed, salt each, one- 
tenth teaspoonful cayenne, and a tablespoonful of butter. Put 
all in a double boiler and cook until it all is as thick as soft 
custard (about six minutes), stirring constantly. Take from 

130 



A FEW RARE RECIPES 

the fire. Heat the oysters in their own liquor to a boiling point 
then drain and add the dressing, mixing lightly. Set away in 
cold place until needed. 

Soak two salt herrings in milk over ITALIAN 

night and then remove the bones and skin SALAD 

and cut up in small pieces. Cut in small 

pieces one and one-half pounds each of cold roast veal and cold 
boiled tongue and add to these and the herrings six boiled po- 
tatoes, half a dozen small cucumber pickles and two small 
boiled beets, all cut up, and two raw apples, three boiled car- 
rots and one large boiled celery root, all minced. Mix all the 
above in salad bowl and pour over it mayonnaise dressing. 
Garnish the tops with hard boiled eggs, sliced, and capers, and 
ripe olives from which the stones have been removed. Garnish 
the bowl with parsley and in the center put hard boiled eggs 
stuffed with capers. 

Take meat of crab in large pieces and SOLARI'S 

dress with the following: One-third may- CRAB LOUIS 
onnaise, two-thirds chili sauce, small quan- 
tity chopped English chow-chow, a little Worcestershire sauce 
and minced tarragon, shallots and sweet parsley. Season with 
salt and pepper and keep on ice. 

Take fillets of sole and pound lightly SOLES 

with blade of knife then soak them two WITH WINE 
hours in beaten eggs seasoned with salt 

and pepper. When ready to cook roll them in bread crumbs 
and fry in olive oil. Take a little of that oil and put in another 
pan with a tablespoonful of butter and season with salt and 
pepper and again cook fish in this, adding half a glass of dry 
white wine. Sprinkle with chopped parsley and let cook five 
minutes. Sprinkle with Parmesan cheese and put slices of 
lemon around it. Serve on hot plates. 

Skin and remove stalks from large fresh GRILLED 

mushrooms and lay on a dish with a little MUSHROOMS 
fine olive oil, pepper, and salt, over them 

for one hour. Broil on a gridiron over a clear sharp fire and 
serve them with the following sauce: 

Mince the stalks or any spare pieces MUSHROOM 
of mushrooms fine, put in a stewpan with SAUCE 

a little broth, some chopped parsley, young 

onions, butter and the juice of a lemon, or instead of the latter 
the yolk of an egg beaten up in cream. Beat all together and 
pour around the mushrooms. 

131 



A FEW RARE RECIPES 

ITALIAN ^"* ^'^^y ^^"^ *'^^ tender part of one 

TL'RT\ dozen artichokes. Take one loaf of stale 

bread crumbs, moisten and squeeze, and 
add three tablespoonfuls of grated cheese, three cloves of garlic, 
bruised, one onion chopped fine, several sprigs of parsley 
chopped fine, a little celer\' and half a cup of olive oil. Mix all 
together thoroughly \vith plenty of pepper and salt and make 
into a loaf. Bake slowly forty-five minutes. 

OEUFS Poach eight fresh eggs then take them out 

AU SOLIEL ^"^ place in cold water until cool; lay 

them for a quarter of an hour to marinade 

in a glass of white wine with sweet herbs. Dry on a cloth and 

dip in a batter of flour mixed with equal quantities of ale and 

water to the consistency of double cream. Fry to light brown. 

EGGS WITH ^"* three cupfuls of red wine into a cas- 
WINE serole and add three tablespoonfuls of 

sugar, rind of half a lemon, raisins, and 
sweet almonds, blanched and chopped. When the wine boils 
break the eggs into it as in poaching eggs. Let them cook well 
and then put in serving dish. Add one tablespoonful of flour 
to the wine and cook to a cream then pour over the eggs, 

ITALIAN Soak two level teacups of rice. Mash two 

RISOTTO cloves of garlic and mix with a little 

minced parsley. Soak a dozen dried mush- 
rooms in a little water until soft, then chop fine and drain. 
Cover the bottom of a saucepan with olive oil, place over the 
fire until quite hot, then put in the garlic, parsley, and mush- 
rooms, add half a can of tomatoes and cook half an hour. 
Drain the rice and put in a saucepan, adding a little broth, half 
a cup at a time, to keep from burning, and add, stirring con- 
stantly, the other ingredients, cooking all together until the rice 
is done. Salt to taste; sprinkle with Parmesan cheese. 

SCALLOPS OF Parboil the sweetbreads and then glaze in 

SWEETBREAD reduced Allcmande sauce. Dip in bread 

crumbs and fry in butter until a light 

brown. When done dish in close order and fill center with 

Toulouse Ragout, as follows: 

TOULOUSE Prepare half a dozen fine, large cocks- 

R \GOU'i' ^ combs, two dozen bulton mushrooms, small 

pieces of sweetbreads and a proportionate 

quantity of truffles. Place all in a stcwpan and add a small 

ladleful of drawn butter sauce, and the juice of a lemon. Cook 

a few minutes. 

132 



A FEW RARE RECIPES 

Soak kidney lamb chops in the follow- LAMB CHOPS 
ing mixture for twelve hours and then MARINADE 
broil: Four tablespoonfuls olive oil, one 

tablespoonful tarragon vinegar, one small sliced onion, one 
mashed clove of garlic, one broken up bay leaf, twelve whole 
black peppers, six cloves, one saltspoon of salt, two teaspoon- 
fuls dried thyme, strips of parsley and lemon peel. 

Cut up a chicken and boil until tender. SPANISH 

Cut up and fry in chicken fat two onions, CHICKEN PIE 
two green peppers, stirring in one and 

one-half tablespoonfuls of flour. Have ready five tomatoes, 
stewed, and put in two dozen ripe olives with a small clove of 
garlic, mashed. Grate seven large ears of corn, season with salt 
and put a layer in a greased baking pan, then chicken, then the 
other ingredients, with a little of the gravy. Stir all together 
and bake until brown. 

Cut a young chicken into small pieces CHICKEN 

and stew until tender, having the meat cov- JAMBALAYA 
ered with the broth when done. Remove 

the meat, drain and fry to light brown with two slices of onion. 
Put in the chicken, onion, and one hundred California oysters, 
back into the broth and season with salt, pepper, juice of a 
lemon, bruised clove of garlic, chopped green pepper, and a 
pinch of red pepper. Let all come to a boil. Wash and dry 
two cups of rice and put into the soup and cook until thor- 
oughly done and moderately dry (twenty-five minutes). Serve 
hot or cold. 

This is Mexican Turkey in Red Pep- QUAJATALE 

per, a favorite banquet dish. Cut a young EN MOLE 

turkey into small pieces and boil with 

shallots and salt. Take half a pound of red peppers, scalded 
and seeded, and grind fine with black peppers, celery seed, 
cloves, allspice, and mustard (about half a teaspoonful of each) 
and add to this some of the broth in which the turkey was 
cooked. Put a pound of lard in a skillet and, when boiling, 
put in the mixture with the turkey and let cook ten minutes, 
sending it to the table hot. 

Brown butter in a skillet and stir in DELMONICO 

a teaspoonful of flour, forming a smooth RAISIN SAUCE 
paste. Add one cup of hot soup stock, 

stirring constantly. While boiling put into this a handful of 
raisins, handful of blanched almonds, pounded, half a lemon, 
sliced thin, a few cloves, a pinch of cinnamon, and a little 
horseradish. Fine for roast beef. 

133 



A FEW RARE RECIPES 

POULET ^"* ^^^ trim a chicken as for fricas- 

\ LA NAPOLI ^^^' i^ke ^^^ wings, drumsticks, thighs 

and two pieces of the breast and steep 

them in cold water half an hour. Drain and wipe dry and 

dust over with Hour and set aside. 

Take the rest of the chicken with the giblets and chop 
small. \Vith water let this simmer for two hours, making a 
strong broth with a little veal (two ounces or more). Slice an 
onion into rings which place in the bottom of a stewpan with 
an ounce of butter. To this add the meat and giblets and a 
pint of white broth. Let all simmer but not boil or let color. 
Over this pour common broth until covered and bring slowly 
to boiling point. Add a small bouquet of herbs and simmer 
for an hour, then strain. Thicken a little and then simmer in 
this the stalks and peelings of a quarter of a pound of mush- 
rooms and the chicken that was previously prepared and 
dusted with flour. When done strain them and drain the 
chicken. Strain the sauce and thicken with Hour until it is 
of the consistency of a rather thin batter. 

Dip the pieces of chicken into the batter until well coated 
and set aside until it is cold. Then dip the chicken into well- 
beaten eggs and cover with bread crumbs. Let set and then re- 
peat. In hot olive oil fry the chicken until a golden brown. Serve 
on a napkin and garnish with parsley and potatoes Duchesse. 
Cook the peeled mushrooms in the remaining sauce before the 
last thickening, and serve in gravy boat to pour over the 
chicken. 

ZABAIONE Beat together, hard, for six minutes, six 

eggs and four teaspoonfuls of powdered 
sugar in a double boiler and place over a gentle lire, never ceas- 
ing to whip until the contents become stiff enough to sustain a 
coffee spoon upright in the middle. While whipping add three 
wineglassfuls of Marsala and one liqueur glass of Maraschino 
brandy. Pour into tall glasses or cups and serve either hot 
or cold. 

PLAUllbSALA Halve six fine peaches, not too ripe, and 
PHINXESSE place in saucepan with concave side up. 
Take one peach, peeled, and mince with a 
dozen macaroons, adding the yolk of an egg and half an ounce 
of sugar. Mix all well together and with this fdl the half 
peaches. Moisten all with half a cup of white wine and 
sprinkle with sugar. Bake in a hot oven ten minutes and pour 
over zabaione and serve. This will make a most delicious 
dessert dish. 

134 



A FEW RARE RECIPES 

Add the beaten yolks of seven eggs to 
one pint of boiling milk, one cup of sugar, SULTANA 

one-half teaspoonful of vanilla, one-quarter ROLL 

teaspoonful of almond extract. When thick add two and a half 
cups of thick cream. Cool and freeze. Line the bottom of a 
mold with Sultana raisins which have been soaked in sherry 
wine twenty-four hours. Put a layer of frozen cream, then 
raisins, continuing until all is used. Pack in ice and salt two 
hours and serve with caramel sauce. 

Butter the inside of a saucepan. Put rvR/vMPT 

in two ounces of unsweetened chocolate ^^irrF 

and melt over hot water. Add two cups of bALLn 

light brown sugar and mix well. Add one ounce of butter and 
half a cup of rich milk. Cook until mixture forms a soft ball 
when tested in cold water. Flavor with vanilla and pour, while 
hot, over each service of the roll. It immediately hardens, 
forming a delicious caramel covering to the ice cream. 

Take one pound of mild American \vt7t qm 

cheese and put in saucepan. Add five oAR^nrr 

wineglassful of old ale, place over the fire RAREBir 

and stir until it is thoroughly blended and melted. Pour this 
over slices of delicately browned toast, serving hot. 

Take of the best Mocha coffee one part, 
of the best Java coffee two parts. Put six COFFEE 

tablespoonfuls of the mixture into a bowl ROYAL 

and add an egg, well beaten. Stir the mixture five minutes. Add 
half a cup of cold water, cover tightly and let stand several 
hours. Put into a coffeepot the coffee mixture and add four 
large cups of boiling water, stirring constantly. Let it boil 
briskly for five minutes only then set on the back of the stove 
five minutes. Before serving add a small tablespoonful of pure 
French brandy to each cup. Sweeten to taste. 

Mix at table and serve on hot, toasted rftna 

Bent's biscuit. Take a quarter of a pound rVROT 

of ripe, dark Roquefort cheese and rub 

with a piece of butter the size of a walnut until smooth, adding 
a teaspoonful of Worcestershire sauce and a wineglassful of 
sherry, with a pinch of paprika, rubbing until it is smooth. 
This is best mixed in shallow bowl or soup plate. 

Beat separately the yolks and whites VTRTTXTA 

of ten eggs, the yolks to a soft cream. To "prr \Tnrr 

the beaten yolks add one pound of granu- ^^^ isubu 

lated sugar, beating until fully blended and very light. Let one 
quart of fresh milk come to a boil and pour over the yolk of 

135 



A FEW RARE RECIPES 

egg and sugar, stirring constantly until well blended. To this 
add one gill of French brandy or one-half pint of good whisky. 
On top of this place the beaten white of egg and grated nutmeg. 
Serve either hot or cold. 

MINT Bruise several sprigs of mint in a mix- 

JULEP ^"S glass with pulverized sugar. Fill the 

glass with ice and pour over it a jigger of 

whisky. Let stand for ten minutes and then put in a dash of 

Jamaica rum. Dress with sprigs of mint, and sprinkle with 

powdered sugar. Serve with straws. 



136 



INDEX 

Bills of Fare . 100, 101, 129 

Beefsteak Spanish . 9 

Celery Victor ... 64 

Chicken, Country Style 65 

In the Shell . .11 

Jambalaya . . 133 

Leon d'Oro . . 53 

A la Napoli . . 134 

Pie (Spanish) . . 133 

Portola ... 38 

Chili Rienas ... 32 

Clam Fritters . . 92 

Chowder ... 92 

Coffee Royal . . 135 

Crab Louis . . . 131 

Stew ... 88 

Dessert (Italian) . . 75 

Egg Nog (Virginia) . 135 

Eggs, Spanish ... 9 

With Wine . . 132 

Des Soliel . . .132 

Fish: Soles with Wine 131 

Sole Edward VII . 64 

Sand-dab Fillet, Cold 61 

Fritto Misto ... 51 

Lobster a la Newburg . 86 

Lamb Chops Marinade . 133 

Mussels Mariniere . 93 

Mushrooms, Grilled . .131 

Mint Julep ... 136 

Menu (Model) . . .129 

Oysters a la Catalan . 83 

A la Poulette . .17 

Omelette . . 60 

Peaches a la Princesse . 134 

Planked Fillet Mignon 61 

Polenti .... 99 

Quajatole en Mole . 133 

Rice, Spanish ... 9 

Milanaise . . 51 

Italian . . .132 

Riena Cabot . . 135 

Salad, Italian . . .131 

Palace Grill . . 62 

Oyster . . .130 

Sauer Braten . . 48 

Sauce, Delmonico Raisin 33 

Caramel . . 135 

Mushroom . . .131 

Scrapple ... 97 

Shrimp Creole, Antoine . 84 



Snails Bordelaise . 53 

Soup: Bisque of Crawfish 89 
Creole Gumbo . 130 
Onion . . .130 

Sultana Roll . . 135 
Sweetbreads Scalloped . 132 
Turta (Italian) . . 132 
Toulous Ragout . .132 
Tamales ... 98 

Tagliarini des Beaux Arts 117 
Terrapin a la Maryland 18 

Wines, How to Serve . 127 
Welsh Rarebit . . 135 
Zabaoine . . . 134 

Restaurants 

Blanco's . . 17, 42 
Bonini's Barn . 44 

Buon Gusto . . 25 

Castilian . . 44 

Coppa's ... 36 
Fashion, Charlie's . 44 

Felix . . . 17.43 
Fior d'ltalia . . 25 

Fly Trap ... 44 
Frank's ... 43 

Fred Solari's . . 65 
Gianduja . . 50 

Hang Far Low . . 55 
Heidelberg Inn . 46 

Hof Brau ... 48 
Hotel St. Francis . 63 

Jack's ... 43 

Jule's . . . 25,44 
La Madrelina . . 44 
Leon d'Oro . . 52 

Luna's ... 31 

Mint . . . 15.43 
Negro's ... 43 
Odeon ... 44 

Palace Hotel . 19,60 
Poodle Dog . . 17,42 
Poodle Dog — Bergez- 



Frank's 
Portola-Louvre 
Rathskeller 
Shell Fish Grotto 
Solari's 
Tail's 
Techau's 
Vesuvius 
Old Time Restaurants 



16.43 

41 
. 48 

80 
. 65 

42 
. 42 

81 

137 



INDEX 



Bab's ... 27 

Baldwin Hotel . .18 
Bazzuro's . . 12, 78 
Bergez . . .17 

California House . 13 

Call . . . . IG 
Captain Cropper . 18 

Campi's ... 25 
Christian Good . 14 

Cliir House . . 21 

Cobweb Palace . 19 

Delmonico . . . 16 
El Dorado House . 10 

Frank's . . .17 
Gobey's ... 87 

Good Fellows' Grotto . 26 
Hollinan House . 26 

Iron House ... 10 
Johnson's Oyster House 14 
Jack's . . .17 

Louvre ... 26 

Ma Tanta . . .12 
Manning's . . 13 



Marchand's 
Marshall's Chop 
Martin's 
Maison Doree 
Nevada 
New York 
Old Louvre 
Perini's . 
Pierre 
Poodle Dog 
Pup . 
Peter Job 
Palace of Art 
Pop Floyd 
Reception . 
Sanguinetti's 
Tehama House 
Three Trees 
Tortoni 
Thompson's 
Viticultural 
Zinkand's 



. 14 
House 14 
. 15 

17 
. 13 

17 
. 27 

14 
. 16 

16 
. 16 

17 
. 20 

25 
. 18 

23 
. 13 

17 
. 16 
27,41 
. 25 

27 



138 



HERE END BOHEMIAN SAN FRANCISCO- 
ITS RESTAURANTS AND THEIR MOST FA- 
MOUS RECIPES, AS WRITTEN BY CLARENCE 
E. EDWORDS. PUBLISHED IN BOOK FORM 
BY PAUL ELDER & COMPANY, AND SEEN 
THROUGH THEIR TOMOYE PRESS BY JOHN 
SWART IN THE CITY OF SAN FRANCISCO. 
DURING THE MONTH OF NOVEMBER, NINE- 
TEEN HUNDRED AND FOURTEEN. 



',- 



^ 



l^fl ^^ 



irL 



\% 




<0V3HV^ S\t 



/ 


a 

T 


...... .. 



/ 



\ 



e 



*> SANIA BAMAM < 



\ 



X 





I: . * 



/ 



w^ 



I 

• <6 AM 



/ 



\ 



e> VJVWV9 VlNWf 



3 1205 01022 4622 






MisnAiNn Mi 



o 


or Cft 


1 


1 1 r ■ ' 



\ 



; SOUTHl RN Rl GIONAL l-l«'\';j!/, ' '^li'f.jJ.n 



AA 000 915 485 7 



/ 



Oft 



» wiNSOJi; ... 



e 

1 

d 


VINDOf 



OPCA> 



<=hii 



^ AKvaan aHi » 



\ 

o 

Ui. 


TKt 

rr 



\ 



^ 



" i NTA BARBARA « , 



c-,— .., — t- 



• VIN«0«1V3 40 « 



\ 














^ • 


1 


ft 


■I* 


^ i 


3 


'* 


± 


^ 1 


$ 


JT 


Ti|$ 


• 


AllSUBA 


NO 


3HI < 




> 






1. 

i 




































KJL fS^0 






THE ELEGANT ART OF DINING 




THE OLD 

COBWEB PALACE AT 

MEIGGS'S WHARF 



BOHEMIAN 
SAN FRANCISCO 

ITS RESTAURANTS 

AND THEIR MOST FAMOUS 

RECIPES • THE ELEGANT 

ART OF DINING 

By 
CLARENCE E. ED WORDS 




PAUL ELDER AND COMPANY 
PUBLISHERS • SAN FRANCISCO 



COPYRIGHT, 1914, BY 

PAUL ELDER AND COMPANY 

SAN FRANCISCO 



DEDICATION 

TO WHOM SHALL I DEDICATE THIS BOOK? 

TO SOME GOOD FRIEND? TO SOME PLEASANT COMPANION? 

TO NONE OF THESE, FOR FROM THEM CAME NOT THE INSPIRATION. 

TO WHOM, THEN? 
TO THE BEST OF ALL BOHEMIAN COMRADES, 

MY WIFE. 



FOREWORD 

No apologies are offered for this book. In fact, we 
rather like it. Many years have been spent in gathering 
this information, and naught is written in malice, nor 
through favoritism, our expressions of opinion being 
unbiased by favor or compensation. We have made 
our own investigation and given our own ideas. 

That our opinion does not coincide with that of 
others does not concern us in the least, for we are 
pleased only with that which pleases us, and not that 
with which others say we ought to be pleased. 

If this sound egotistical we are sorry, for it is not 
meant in that way. We believe that each and every 
individual should judge for him or herself, considering 
ourselves fortunate that our ideas and tastes are held in 

common. 

San Franciscans, both residential and transient, are 
a pleasure-loving people, and dining out is a distinc- 
tive feature of their pleasure. With hundreds of res- 
taurants to select from, each specializing on some 
particular dish, or some peculiar mode of preparation, 
one often becomes bewildered and turns to familiar 
names on the menu card rather than venture into fields 
that are new, of strange and rare dishes whose un- 
pronounceable names of themselves frequently are 
sufficient to discourage those unaccustomed to the art 
and science of cooking practiced by those whose lives 
have been spent devising means of tickling fastidious 
palates of a city of gourmets. 

In order that those who come within our gates, and 
many others who have resided here in blindness for 
years, may know where to go and what to eat, and 
that they may carry away with them a knowledge of 
how to prepare some of the dishes pleasing to the taste 
and nourishing to the body, that have spread San 
Francisco's fame over the world, we have decided to 
set down the result of our experience and study of 

ix 



FOREWORD 

our Bohemian population and their ways, and also tell 
where to find and how to order the best special dishes. 
Over North Beach way we asked the chef of a little 
restaurant how he cooked crab. He replied: 
"The right wayr 
One often wonders how certain dishes are cooked 
and we shall tell you "the right way." 

It is hoped that when you read what is herein 
written some of our pleasure may be imparted to you, 
and with this hope the story of San Francisco's Bo- 
hemianism is presented. 

Clarence E. Edwords. 
San Francisco, California, 
September 22, 1914. 



Our Toast 

Not to the Future, nor to the Past; 
No drink of Joy or Sorrow; 
We drink alone to what will last; 
Memories on the Morrow. 
Let us live as Old Time passes; 
To the Present let Bohemia bow. 
Let us raise on high our glasses 
To Eternity-the ever-living Now. 



CONTENTS 

Foreword ix 

The Good Gray City . 3 

The Land of Bohemia 6 

As It Was in the Beginning 8 

When the Gringo Came 10 

Early Italian Impression 12 

Birth of the French Restaurant ... 16 

At the Cliff House 21 

Some Italian Restaurants 23 

Impress of Mexico 29 

On the Barbary Coast .33 

The City That Was Passes 35 

Sang the Swan Song 36 

Bohemia of the Present 41 

As It Is in Germany 46 

In the Heart of Italy 50 

A Breath of the Orient 54 

Artistic Japan 57 

Old and New Palace 60 

At the Hotel St. Francis 63 

Amid the Bright Lights 65 

Around Little Italy 66 

Where Fish Come in 76 

Fish in Their Variety 80 

Lobsters and Lobsters 85 

King of Shell Fish 87 

Lobster in Miniature 89 

Clams and Abalones 91 

Where Fish Abound 94 

Some Food Variants 97 

xiii 



i 



CONTENTS 

About Dining 100 

Something About Cooking 106 

Told in a Whisper 110 

Out of Nothing 115 

Paste Makes Waist 117 

Tips and Tipping 119 

The Mythical Land 121 

Appendix (How to Serve Wines, Recipes) . . 125 
Index 137 



xw 



BOHEMIAN 
SAN FRANCISCO 



"The best of all ways 
To lengthen our days 
Is to steal a few hours 
From the night, my dear.' 



SAN FRANCISCO 

San Francisco! Is there a land where the magic 
of that name has not been felt? Bohemian San Fran- 
cisco ! Pleasure-loving San Francisco ! 
Care-free San Francisco ! Yet withal 
the city where liberty never means 
license and where Bohemianism is 
not synonymous with Boorishness. 

It was in Paris that a world traveler said to us: 
"San Francisco ! That wonderful city where you get 
the best there is to eat, served in a manner that en- 
hances its flavor and establishes it forever in your 
memory." 

Were one to write of San Francisco and omit men- 
tion of its gustatory delights the whole world would 
protest, for in San Francisco eating is an art and cook- 
ing a science, and he who knows not what San Fran- 
cisco provides knows neither art nor science. 

Here have congregated the world's greatest chefs, 
and when one exclaims in ecstacy over a wonderful 
flavor found in some dingy restaurant, let him not be 
surprised if he learn that the chef who concocted the 
dish boasts royal decoration for tickling the palate of 
some epicurean ruler of foreign land. 

And why should San Francisco have achieved this 
distinction in the minds of the gourmets? 

Do not other cities have equally as good chefs, and 
do not the people of other cities have equally as fine 
gastronomic taste? 

They have all this but with them is lacking "at- 
mosphere." 

Where do we find such romanticism as in San 
Francisco? Where do we find so many strange char- 
acters and happenings? All lending almost mystic 
charm to the environment surrounding queer little 
restaurants, where rare dishes are served, and where 
one feels that he is in foreign land, even though he be 
in the center of a high representative American city. 



BOHEMIAN 

San Francisco's cosmopolitanism is peculiar to 
itself. Here are represented the nations of earth in 

such distinctive colonies that one 
might well imagine himself pos- 
sessed of the magic carpet told of 
in Arabian Nights Tales, as he is 
transported in the twinkling of an 
eye from country to country. It is but a step across a 
street from America into Japan, then another step into 
China. Cross another street and you are in Mexico, 
close neighbor to France. Around the corner lies Italy, 
and from Italy you pass to Lombardy, and on to Greece. 
So it goes until one feels that he has been around the 
world in an afternoon. 

But the stepping across the street and one passes 
from one land to the other, finding all the peculiar 
characteristics of the various countries as indelibly 
fixed as if they were thousands of miles away. Speech, 
manners, customs, costumes and religions change with 
startling rapidity, and as you enter into the life of the 
nation you find that each has brought the best of its 
gastronomy for your delectation. 

San Francisco has called to the world for its best, 
and the response has been so prompt that no country 
has failed to send its tribute and give the best thought 
of those who cater to the men and women who know. 

This aggregation of cuisinaire, gathered where is to 
be found a most wonderful variety of food products in 
highest state of excellence, has made San Francisco the 
Mecca for lovers of gustatory delights, and this is why 
the name of San Francisco is known wherever men and 
women sit at table. 

It has taken us years of patient research to learn 
how these chefs prepare their combinations of fish, 
flesh, fowl, and herbs, in order that we might put them 
down, giving recipes of dishes whose memories linger 
in the minds of world wanderers, and to which their 

4 



SAN FRANCISCO 

thoughts revert with a sigh as they partake of unsatis- 
factory viands in other countries and other cosmopol- 
itan cities. 

Those to whom only the surface THE GOOD 
of things is visible are prone to ex- GRAY 

press wonder at the love and enthu- CITY 

siasm of the San Franciscan for his 
home city. The casual visitor cannot understand the 
enchantment, the mystery, the witchery that holds one; 
they do not know that we steal the hours from the 
night to lengthen our days because the gray, whispering 
wraiths of fog hold for us the very breath of life; they 
do not know that the call of the wind, and of the sea, 
and of the air, is the inspiration that makes San Fran- 
cisco the pleasure-ground of the world. 

It is this that makes San Francisco the home of 
Bohemia, and whether it be in the early morning hours 
as one rises to greet the first gray streaks of dawn, or 
as the sun drops through the Golden Gate to its ocean 
bed, so slowly that it seems loth to leave; whether it be 
in the broad glare of noon-day sun, or under the daz- 
zling blaze of midnight lights, San Francisco ever holds 
out her arms, wide in welcome, to those who see more 
in life than the dull routine of working each day in 
order that they may gain sufficient to enable them to 
work again on the morrow. 



BOHEMIAN 

Bohemia ! What vulgarities are perpetrated in thy 
name ! How abused is the word ! Because of a miscon- 
ception of an idea it has suffered 
THE LAND more than any other in the English 
language. It has done duty in de- 
scribing almost every form of license 
and licentiousness. It has been the 
cloak of debauchery and the excuse for sex degrada- 
tion. It has been so misused as to bring the very word 
into disrepute. 

To us Bohemianism means the naturalism of re- 
fined people. 

That it may be protected from vulgarians Society 
prescribes conventional rules and regulations, which, 
like morals, change with environment. 

Bohemianism is the protest of naturalism against 
the too rigid, and, oft-times, absurd restrictions estab- 
lished by Society. 

The Bohemian requires no prescribed rules, for his 
or her innate gentility prevents those things Society 
guards against. In Bohemia men and women mingle 
in good fellowship and camaraderie without finding the 
sex question a necessary topic of conversation. They 
do not find it necessary to push exhilaration to intoxi- 
cation; to increase their animation to boisterousness. 
Their lack of conventionality does not tend to boor- 
ishness. 

Some of the most enjoyable Bohemian affairs we 
know of have been full dress gatherings, carefully 
planned and delightfully carried out; others have been 
impromptu, neither the hour, the place, nor the dress 
being taken into consideration. 

The unrefined get everywhere, even into the draw- 
ing rooms of royalty, consequently we must expect to 
meet them in Bohemia. But the true Bohemian has a 
way of forgetting to meet obnoxious personages and, 
as a rule, is more choice in the selection of associates 



SAN FRANCISCO 

than the vaunted "400." With the Bohemian but one 
thing counts: Fitness. Money, position, personal ap- 
pearance and even brains are of no 
avail if there be the bar sinister — THE LAND 
unfit. q F 

In a restaurant, one evening, a BOHEMIA 
number of men and women were 
seated conspicuously at a table in the center of the 
room. Flowing neckties such as are affected by Par- 
isian art students were worn by the men; all were 
coarse, loud and much in evidence. They not only 
attracted attention by their loudness and outre actions, 
but they called notice by pelting other diners with mis- 
siles of bread. To us they were the last word in vul- 
garity, but to a young woman who had come to the 
place because she had heard it was "so Bohemian" they 
were ideal, and she remarked to her companion : 

"I do so love to associate with real Bohemians like 
these. Can't we get acquainted with them?" 

"Sure," was the response. "All we have to do is to 
buy them a drink." 

In San Francisco there are Bohemians and Near- 
Bohemians, and if you are like the young woman men- 
tioned you are apt to miss the real and take the imita- 
tion for the genuine article. 

We mean no derogation of San Francisco's restau- 
rants when we say that San Francisco's highest form of 
Bohemianism is rarely in evidence in restaurants. We 
have enjoyed wonderful Bohemian dinners in restau- 
rants, but the other diners were not aware of it. Some 
far more interesting gatherings have been in the rooms 
of Bohemian friends. Not always is it the artistic com- 
bination of famous chef that brings greatest delight, for 
we have as frequently had pleasure over a supper of 
some simple dish in the attic room of a good friend. 

This brings us to the crux of Bohemianism. It de- 
pends so little on environment that it means nothing, 
and so much on companionship that it means all. 



BOHEMIAN 

To achieve a comprehensive idea of San Francisco's 
Bohemianism let us divide its history into five eras. 

First we have the old Spanish days — 
AS IT WAS the days "before the Gringo came." 
Then reigned conviviality held within 
most discreet bounds of convention, 
and it would be a misnomer, indeed, 
to call the pre-pioneer days of San Francisco "Bo- 
hemian" in any sense of the word. 

Courtesy unfailing, good-fellowship always in tune, 
and lavish hospitality, marked the days of the Dons — 
those wonderfully considerate hosts who always placed 
a pile of gold and silver coins on the table of the guest 
chamber, in order that none might go away in need. 
Their feasts were events of careful consideration and 
long preparation, and those whose memories carry 
them back to the early days, recall bounteous loading 
of tables when festal occasion called for display. 

Lips linger lovingly over such names as the Vallejos, 
the Picos, and those other Spanish families who spread 
their hospitality with such wondrous prodigality that 
their open welcome became a by-word in all parts of 
the West. 

But it was not in the grand fiestas that the finest and 
most palatable dishes were to be found. In the family 
of each of these Spanish Grandees were culinary secrets 
known to none except the "Senora de la Gasa," and 
transmitted by her to her sons and daughters. 

We have considered ourselves fortunate in being 
taken into the confidence of one of the descendants of 
Senora Benicia Vallejo, and honored with some of her 
prize recipes, which find place in this book, not as the 
famous recipe of some Bohemian restaurants but as the 
tribute to the spirit of the land that made those Bo- 
hemian restaurants possible. Of these there is no more 
tasty and satisfying dish than Spanish Eggs, prepared 
as follows : 

8 



SAN FRANCISCO 

Empty a can of tomatoes in a frying SPANISH 

pan; thicken with bread and add two or g( 

three small green peppers and an onion 

sliced fine. Add a little butter and salt to taste. Let this sim- 
mer gently and then carefully break on top the number of eggs 
desired. Dip the simmering tomato mixture over the eggs until 
they are cooked. 

Another favorite recipe of Mrs. Vallejo was Spanish 
Beefsteak prepared as follows : 

Cut the steak into pieces the size de- SPANISH 

sired for serving. Place these pieces on a BEEFSTEAK 
meat board and sprinkle liberally with 

flour. With a wooden corrugated mallet beat the flour into the 
steak. Fry the steak in a pan with olive oil. In another frying 
pan, at the same time, fry three good-sized onions and three 
green peppers. When the steak is cooked sufficiently put it to 
one side of the pan and let the oil run to the other side. On the 
oil pour sufficient water to cover the meat and add the onions 
and peppers, letting all simmer for a few minutes. Serve on 
hot platter. 

Spanish mode of cooking rice is savory and most 
palatable, and Mrs. Vallejo's recipe for this is as fol- 
lows : 

Slice together three good-sized onions SPANISH 

and three small green peppers. Fry them ' RICF 

in olive oil. Take one-half cup of rice and 

boil it until nearly done, then drain it well and add it to the 
frying onions and peppers. Fry all together until thoroughly 
brown, which will take some time. Season with salt and serve. 

These three recipes are given because they are 
simple and easily prepared. Many complex recipes 
could be given, and some of these will appear in the 
part of the book devoted to recipes, but when one con- 
siders the simplicity of the recipes mentioned, it can 
readily be seen that it takes little preparation to get 
something out of the ordinary. 



BOHEMIAN 

To its pioneer days much of San Francisco's Bo- 
hemian spirit is due. When the cry of "Gold" rang 

around the world adventurous wan- 
derers of all lands answered the call, 
and during the year following Mar- 
shall's discovery two thousand ships 
sailed into San Francisco Bay, many 
to be abandoned on the beach by the gold-mad throng, 
and it was in some of these deserted sailing vessels that 
San Francisco's restaurant life had its inception. With 
the immediately succeeding years the horde of gold 
hunters was augmented by those who brought necessi- 
ties and luxuries to exchange for the yellow metal given 
up by the streams flowing from the Mother Lode. With 
them also came cooks to prepare delectable dishes for 
those who had passed the flap-jack stage, and desired 
the good things of life to repay them for the hardships, 
privations and dearth of woman's companionship. As 
the male human was largely dominant in numbers it 
was but natural that they should gather together for 
companionship, and here began the Bohemian spirit 
that has marked the city for its own to the present day. 
These men were all individualists, and their indi- 
vidualism has been transmitted to their offspring to- 
gether with independence of action. Hence comes the 
Bohemianism born of individuality and independence. 
It was only natural that the early San Franciscans 
should foregather where good cheer was to be found, 
and the old El Dorado House, at Portsmouth Square, 
was really what may be called the first Bohemian res- 
taurant of the city. So well was this place patronized 
and so exorbitant the prices charged that twenty-five 
thousand dollars a month was not considered an impos- 
sible rental. 

Next in importance was the most fashionable res- 
taurant of early days, the Iron House. It was built of 
heavy sheet iron that had been brought around the 

10 



SAN FRANCISCO 

Horn in a sailing vessel, and catered well, becoming for 
several years the most famed restaurant of the city. 
Here, in Montgomery street, between 
Jackson and Pacific, was the rendez- WHEN THE 
vous of pioneers, and here the Society GRINGO 
of California Pioneers had its incep- GAME 

tion, receiving impressions felt to the 
present day in San Francisco and California history. 
Here, also, was first served Chicken in the Shell, the dish 
from which so many later restaurants gained fame. The 
recipe for this as prepared by the Iron House is still 
extant, and we are indebted to a lady, who was a little 
girl when that restaurant was waning, whose mother 
secured the recipe. It was prepared as follows : 

Into a kettle containing a quart of water rmrKFN in 
put a young chicken, one sliced onion, a 
bay leaf, two cloves, a blade of mace and qhft t 

six pepper-corns. Simmer in the covered 
kettle for one hour and set aside to cool. When cool remove 
the meat from the bones, rejecting the skin. Cut the meat into 
small dice. Mix in a saucepan, over a fire without browning, 
a tablespoonful of butter, a tablespoonful of flour, then add 
half a pint of cream. Stir this constantly until it boils, then 
add a truffle, two dozen mushrooms chopped fine, a dash of 
white pepper and then the dice of chicken. Let the whole 
stand in a bain marie, or chafing dish, until quite hot. Add the 
yolks of two eggs and let cook two minutes. Stir in half a 
glass of sherry and serve in cockle shells. 



u 



BOHEMIAN 

Almost coincident with the opening of the Iron 
House an Italian named Bazzuro took possession of one 

of the stranded sailing vessels encum- 
bering the Bay, and anchored it out 
in the water at the point where Davis 
and Pacific streets now intersect. He 
opened a restaurant which immedi- 
ately attracted attention and gained good reputation 
for its service and its cooking. Later, when the land 
was filled in, Bazzuro built a house at almost the same 
spot and opened his restaurant there, continuing it up 
to the time of the great fire in 1906. 

After the fire one of the earliest restaurants to be 
established in that part of the city was Bazzuro's, at 
the same corner, and it is still run by the family, who 
took charge after the death of the original proprietor. 
Here one can get the finest Italian peasant meal in the 
city, and many of the Italian merchants and bankers 
still go there for their luncheons every day, preferring 
it to the more pretentious establishments. 

The French peasant style came a little later, begin- 
ning in a little dining room opened in Washington 
street, just above Kearny, by a French woman whose 
name was a carefully guarded secret. She was known 
far and wide as "Ma Tanta" (My Aunt). Her cooking 
was considered the best of all in the city, and her 
patrons sat at a long common table, neat and clean to 
the last degree. Peasant style of serving was followed. 
First appeared Ma Tanta with a great bowl of salad 
which she passed around, each patron helping himself. 
This was followed by an immense tureen of soup, held 
aloft in the hands of Ma Tanta, and again each was his 
own waiter. Fish, entree, roast, and dessert, were 
served in the same manner, and with the black coffee 
Ma Tanta changed from servitor to hostess and sat with 
her guests and discussed the topics of the day on equal 
terms. 

12 



SAN FRANCISCO 

In California street, just below Dupont, the Cali- 
fornia House boasted a great chef in the person of John 
Somali, who in later years opened the 
Maison Riche, a famous restaurant 
that went out of existence in the fire 
of 1906. Gourmets soon discovered 
that the California House offered 
something unusual and it became a famed resort. 
Somali's specialties were roast turkey, Chateaubriand 
steak and coffee frappe. It is said of his turkeys that 
their flavor was of such excellence that one of the gour- 
mands of that day, Michael Reece, would always order 
two when he gave a dinner — one for his guests and one 
for himself. It is also said that our well-beloved Ro- 
hemian, Rafael Weill, still holds memories of the old 
California House, of which he was an habitue, and from 
whose excellent chef he learned to appreciate the art 
and science of cooking as evidenced by the breakfasts 
and dinners with which he regales his guests at the 
present day. 

Rut many of the hardy pioneers were of English and 
American stock and preferred the plainer foods of their 
old homes to the highly seasoned dishes of the Latin 
chefs, and to cater to this growing demand the Nevada 
was opened in Pine street between Montgomery and 
Kearny. This place became noted for its roast beef and 
also for its corned beef and cabbage, which was said to 
be of most excellent flavor. 

Most famous of all the old oyster houses was Man- 
nings, at the corner of Pine and Webb streets. He spec- 
ialized in oysters and many of his dishes have survived 
to the present day. It is said that the style now called 
"Oysters Kirkpatrick," is but a variant of Manning's 
"Oyster Salt Roast." 

At the corner of California and Sansome streets, 
where now stands the Rank of California, was the 
Tehama House, one of the most famous of the city's 

13 



BOHEMIAN 

early hostelries, whose restaurant was famed for its 
excellence. The Tehama House was the rendezvous of 

army and navy officers and high state 
officials. Lieutenant John Derby, of 
the United States Army, one of the 
most widely known western authors 
of that day, made it his headquar- 
ters. Derby wrote under the names of "John Phoenix," 
and "Squibob." 

Perini's, in Post street between Grant avenue and 
Stockton, specialized in pastes and veal rissotto, and 
was much patronized by uptown men. 

The original Marchand began business in a little 
room in Dupont street, between Jackson and Washing- 
ton, which district at that time had not been given over 
to the Chinese, and he cooked over a charcoal brazier, 
in his window, in view of passing people who were at- 
tracted by the novelty and retained by the good cook- 
ing. With the extension of his fame he found his room 
too small and he rented a cottage at Bush and Dupont 
street, but his business grew so rapidly that he was com- 
pelled to move to more commodious quarters at Post 
and Dupont and later to a much larger place at Geary 
and Stockton, where he enjoyed good patronage until 
the fire destroyed his place. There is now a restaurant 
in Geary street near Mason which has on its windows 
in very small letters "Michael, formerly of," and then in 
bold lettering, "Marchands." But Michael has neither 
the art nor the viands that made Marchands famous, 
and he is content to say that his most famous dish is 
tripe — just plain, plebeian tripe. 

Christian Good, at Washington and Kearny, Big 
John, at Merchant street between Montgomery and San- 
some, Marshall's Chop House, in the old Center Market, 
and Johnson's Oyster House, in a basement at Clay and 
Leidesdorff streets, were all noted places and much pat- 
ronized, the latter laying the foundation of one of San 

U 



SAN FRANCISCO 

Francisco's "First Families." Martin's was much pat- 
ronized by the Old Gomstock crowd, and this was the 
favorite dining place of the late 
William C. Ralston. EARLY 

One of the most famous restau- 
rants of the early 70s was the Mint, IMPRESSION 
in Commercial street, between Mont- 
gomery and Kearny, where the present restaurant of the 
same name is located. It was noted for its Southern 
cooking and was the favorite resort of W. W. Foote and 
other prominent Southerners. The kitchen was pre- 
sided over by old Billy Jackson, an old-time Southern 
darkey, who made a specialty of fried chicken, cream 
gravy, and corn fritters. 



15 



BOHEMIAN 

French impression came strongly about this time, and 
the Poodle Dog, of Paris, had its prototype at Bush and 

Dupont streets. This was one of the 
IE earliest of the type known as "French 
Restaurants," and numerous conviv- 
ial parties of men and women found 
its private rooms convenient for ren- 
dezvous. Old Pierre of later days, who was found dead 
out on the Colma road some two years after the fire of 
1906, was a waiter at the Poodle Dog when it started, 
and by saving his tips and making good investments he 
was able to open a similar restaurant at Stockton and 
Market, which he called the Pup. The Pup was famous 
for its frogs' legs a la poulette. In this venture Pierre 
had a partner, to whom he sold out a few years later 
and then he opened the Tortoni in O'Farrell street, 
which became one of the most famous of the pre-fire 
restaurants, its table d'hote dinners being considered 
the best in the city. When Claus Spreckels built the 
tall Spreckels building Pierre and his partner opened 
the Call restaurant in the top stories. With the fire 
both of the restaurants went out of existence, and the 
old proprietor of the Poodle Dog having died, Pierre 
and a partner named Pon bought the place, and for a 
year or so after the fire it was one of the best French 
restaurants in the city. After Pierre's untimely death 
the restaurant was merged with Bergez and Frank's, 
and is now in Bush street above Kearny. 

Much romance attached to Pierre, it being generally 
believed that he belonged to a wealthy French family, 
because of his education, his unfailing courtesy, his 
ready wit and his gentility. Pierre specialized in fish 
cooked with wine, and as a favor to his patrons he 
would go to the kitchen and prepare the dish with his 
own hands. 

In O'Farrell street the Delmonico was one of the 
most famous of the French restaurants until the fire. 

16 



SAN FRANCISCO 

It was several stories high, and each story contained 
private rooms. Carriages drove directly into the 
building from the street and the 
occupants went by elevator to sound- BIRTH OF THE 
proof rooms above, where they were FRENCH 
served by discreet waiters. RESTAURANT 

The Poodle Dog, the Pup, Del- 
monico's, Jacques, Frank's, the Mint, Bergez, Felix and 
Campi's are the connecting links between the fire and 
the pioneer days. Some of them still carry the names 
and memories of the old days. All were noted for their 
good dinners and remarkably low prices. 

Shortly after the fire Blanco, formerly connected 
with the old Poodle Dog, opened a place in O'Farrell 
street, between Hyde and Larkin, calling it "Blanco's." 
During the reconstruction period this was by far the 
best restaurant in the city, and it is still one of the 
noted places. Later Blanco opened a fine restaurant 
in Mason street, between Turk and Eddy, reviving the 
old name of the Poodle Dog, and here all the old tradi- 
tions have been revived. Both of these savor of the old 
type of French restaurants, catering to a class of quiet 
spenders who carefully guard their indiscretions. 

In the early '50s and '60s the most noted places were 
not considered respectable enough for ladies, and at 
restaurants like the Three Trees, in Dupont just above 
Bush street, ladies went into little private rooms 
through an alley. Peter Job saw his opportunity and 
opened a restaurant where special attention was paid 
to lady patrons, and shortly after the New York restau- 
rant, in Kearny street, did the same. 

Merging the post-pioneer era with the pre-fire era 
came the Maison Doree, which became famous in many 
ways. It was noted for oysters a la poulette, prepared 
after the following recipe : 

One-half cup butter, three tablespoons flour, yolks of three 
eggs. One pint chicken stock (or veal), one tablespoonful 

17 



BOHEMIAN 

lemon juice, one-eighth teaspoon pepper, one level teaspoon 
salt. Beat the butter and flour together until smooth and 

white. Then add salt, pepper and lemon 
juice. Gradually pour boiling stock on 
this mixture and simmer for ten minutes. 
Beat the yolks of eggs in a saucepan, grad- 
ually pouring the cooked sauce upon them. 
Pour into a double boiler containing boiling water in lower part 
of utensil. Stir the mixture for one and one-half minutes. Into 
this put two dozen large oysters and let cook until edges curl up 
and serve hot. 

Captain Cropper, an old Marylander, had a restau- 
rant that was much patronized by good livers, and in 
addition to the usual Southern dishes he specialized on 
terrapin a la Maryland, sending back to his native State 
for the famous diamond-back terrapin. His recipe for 
this was as follows : 

TERRAPIN ^ u * a terrapin in small pieces, about one 

inch long, after boiling it. Put the pieces 

in a saute pan with two ounces of sweet 

butter, salt, pepper, a very little celery 

salt, a pinch of paprika. Simmer for a few minutes and 

then add one glass of sherry wine, which reduce to half by 

boiling. Then add one cup of cream, bring to a boil and thicken 

with two yolks of eggs mixed with a half cup of cream. Let it 

come to a near boil and add half a glass of dry sherry and serve. 

You may thicken the terrapin with the following mixture: 

Two raw yolks of eggs, two boiled yolks of eggs, one ounce of 

butter, one ounce corn starch. Rub together and pass through 

a fine sieve. 

Uncle Tom's Cabin, Tony Oakes, the Hermitage, 
and Cornelius Stagg's were noted road-houses where 
fine meals were served, but these are scarcely to be con- 
sidered as San Francisco Bohemian restaurants. 

The Reception, on the corner of Sutter and Webb 
streets, which continued up to the time of the fire, was 
noted for its terrapin specialties, but it was rather mal- 
odorous and ladies who patronized it usually went in 
through the Webb street entrance to keep from being 
seen. The old Baldwin Hotel, which stood where the 

18 



SAN FRANCISCO 

Flood building now stands, at the corner of Market and 
Powell, and which was destroyed by fire some fourteen 
years ago, was the favorite resort of 
many of the noted men of the West, BIRTH OF THE 
and the grill had the distinction of FRENCH 
being the best in San Francisco at RESTAURANT 
that time. The grill of the Old Pal- 
ace Hotel was also of highest order, and this was espec- 
ially true of the Ladies' Grill which was then, as now, 
noted for its artistic preparation of a wondrous variety 
of good things. 

Probably the most unique place of the pioneer and 
post-pioneer eras was the Cobweb Palace, at Meiggs's 
Wharf, run by queer old Abe Warner. It was a little 
ramshackle building extending back through two or 
three rooms filled with all manner of old curios such as 
comes from sailing vessels that go to different parts of 
the world. These curios were piled indiscriminately 
everywhere, and there were boxes and barrels piled 
with no regard whatever for regularity. This hetero- 
geneous conglomeration was covered with years of dust 
and cobwebs, hence the name. Around and over these 
played bears, monkeys, parrots, cats, and dogs, and 
whatever sort of bird or animal that could be accommo- 
dated until it had the appearance of a small menagerie. 
Warner served crab in various ways and clams. In 
the rear room, which was reached by a devious path 
through the debris, he had a bar where he served the 
finest of imported liquors, French brandy, Spanish 
wines, English ale, all in the original wood. He served 
no ordinary liquor of any sort, saying that if anybody 
wanted whiskey they could get it at any saloon. He 
catered to a class of men who knew good liquors, and 
his place was a great resort for children, of whom he 
was fond and who went there to see the animals. The 
frontispiece of this book is from one of the few existing 
(if not the only one) photographs of the place. 

19 



BOHEMIAN 

Equally unique, yet of higher standard, was the 
Palace of Art, run by the Hackett brothers, in Post 

street near Market. Here were some 
BIRTH OF THE °^ me fi nes * paintings and marble 
FRENCH carvings to be found in the city, to- 
RESTAURANT g emer with beautiful hammered sil- 
ver plaques and cups. Curios of all 
sorts were displayed on the walls, and among them 
were many queer wood growths showing odd shapes as 
well as odd colorings. A large and ornate bar extended 
along one side of the immense room and tables were 
placed about the room and in a balcony that ran along 
one side. Here meals were served to both men and 
women, the latter being attracted by the artistic display 
and unique character of the place. This was destroyed 
by the fire and all the works of art lost. 



20 



SAN FRANCISCO 

Three times destroyed by fire, and three times re- 
built, the Cliff House stands on a rocky promontory 
overlooking the Sundown Sea, where 
San Francisco's beach is laved by the AT THE 

waves of the Ocean. Since the first CLIFF 

Cliff House was erected this has been HOUSE 

a place famous the world over be- 
cause of its scenic beauty and its overlooking the Seal 
Rocks, where congregate a large herd of sealions dis- 
porting much to the edification of the visitors. Appeal- 
ing from its romantic surroundings, interesting because 
of its history, and attractive through its combination of 
dashing waves and beautiful beach extending miles in 
one direction, with the rugged entrance to Golden Gate 
in the other, with the mysterious Farallones in the dim 
distance, the Cliff House may well be classed as one of 
the great Bohemian restaurants of San Francisco. 

Lovers of the night life know it well for it is the 
destination of many an automobile party. During the 
day its terraces are filled with visitors from abroad who 
make this a part of their itinerary, and here, as they 
drink in the wondrous beauty of the scene spread be- 
fore them, partake of well prepared and well served 
dishes such as made both the Cliff House and San Fran- 
cisco well and favorably known and whose fame is not 
bounded by the continent. 

But for a most pleasant visit to the Cliff House one 
should choose the early morning hours, and go out when 
the air is blowing free and fresh from the sea, the waves 
cresting with amber under the magic touch of the east- 
erly sun. Select a table next to one of the western win- 
dows and order a breakfast that is served here better 
than any place we have tried. This breakfast will con- 
sist of broiled breast of young turkey, served with 
broiled Virginia ham with a side dish of corn fritters. 
When you sit down to this after a brisk ride out through 
Golden Gate Park, you have the great sauce, appetite, 

21 



BOHEMIAN 

and with a pot of steaming coffee whose aroma rises 

like the incense to the Sea Gods, you will feel that 

while you have thought you had good 
breakfasts before this, you know that 
now you are having the best of them 
all. Of course there are many other 
good things to order if you like, but 

we have discovered nothing that makes so complete a 

breakfast as this. 



22 



SAN FRANCISCO 

"Is everybody happy? Oh, it is only nine o'clock and 
we've got all night." It was a clear, fresh young voice, 
full of the joy of living and came 
from a young woman whose care- 
free air seemed to say of her exist- 
ence as of the night "We've got all RESTAURANTS 
life before us." The voice, the health- 
ful face and vigorous form, the very live and joyous 
expression were all significant of the time and place. 
It was Sunday night and the place was Steve Sangui- 
netti's, with roysterers in full swing and every table 
filled and dozens of patrons waiting along the walls 
ready to take each seat as it was emptied. Here were 
young men and women just returned from their vari- 
ous picnics across the Bay to their one great event of 
the week — a Sunday dinner at Sanguinetti's. 

Over in one corner of the stifling room, on a raised 
platform, sat two oily and fat negroes, making the place 
hideous with their ribald songs and the twanging of a 
guitar and banjo. When a familiar air was sounded 
the entire gathering joined in chorus, and when such 
tunes as "There'll Be a Hot Time in the Old Town To- 
night" came, the place was pandemonium. Yet through 
it all perfect order was kept by the fat proprietor, his 
muscular "bouncer" and two policemen stationed at the 
doors. Noise was rather invited than frowned upon, 
and the only line drawn regarding conduct was the 
throwing of bread. Probably Steve did not want it 
wasted. 

It was all free and easy and nobody took offense at 
anything said or done. In fact if one were squeamish 
about such things Sanguinetti's was no place for him or 
her. One found one's self talking and laughing with the 
people about as if they were old friends. It made no 
difference how you were dressed, nor how dignified you 
tried to be, it was all one with the crowd around the 
tables. If you wished to stay there in comfort you had 

23 



BOHEMIAN 

to be one of them, and dignity had to be left outside or 
it would make you so uncomfortable that you would 

carry it out, to an accompaniment of 
laughter and jeers of the rest of the 

ITALIAN diners. 

RESTAURANTS So far as eating was concerned 

that was not one of the considerations 
when discussing Sanguinetti's. It was a table d'hote 
dinner served with a bottle of "Dago red," for fifty 
cents. You gave the waiter a tip of fifteen cents or 
"two bits" as you felt liberal, and he was satisfied. If 
you were especially pleased you gave the darkeys ten 
cents, not because you enjoyed the music, but just 
"because." 

The one merit of Sanguinetti's before the fire was 
the fact that all the regular customers were unaffected 
and natural. They came from the factories, canneries, 
shops, and drays, and after a week of heart-breaking 
work this was their one relaxation and they enjoyed it 
to the full. Many people from the residential part of 
the city, and many visitors at the hotels, went there as 
a part of slumming trips, but the real sentiment was ex- 
pressed by the young girl when she sang out "Is every- 
body happy?" 

Sanguinetti still has his restaurant, and there is still 
to be found the perspiring darkeys, playing and singing 
their impossible music, and a crowd still congregates 
there, but it is not the old crowd for this, like all things 
else in San Francisco, has changed, and instead of the 
old-time assemblage of young men and women whose 
lack of convention came from their natural environ- 
ment, there is now a crowd of young and old peo- 
ple who patronize it because they have heard it is "so 
Bohemian." 

Thrifty hotel guides take tourists there and tell them 
it is "the only real Bohemian restaurant in San Fran- 
cisco," and when the outlanders see the antics of the 

24 



SAN FRANCISCO 

people and listen to the ribald jests and bad music of 
the darkeys, they go back to their hotels and tell with 
bated breath of one of the most won- 
derful things they have ever seen, 
and it is one of the wonderful things 
of their limited experience. 

Among the pre-fire restaurants of 
note were several Italian places which appealed to the 
Bohemian spirit through their good cooking and ab- 
sence of conventionality, together with the inexpensive- 
ness of the dinners. Among these were the Buon Gusto, 
the Fior d'ltalia, La Estrella, Campi's and the Gianduja. 
Of these Campi's, in Clay street below Sansome, was the 
most noted, and the primitive style of serving combined 
with his excellent cooking brought him fame. All of 
these places, or at least restaurants with these names, 
are still in existence. 

Jule's, the Fly Trap, the St. Germain and the Cosmos 
laid claim to distinction through their inexpensiveness, 
up to the time of the fire. All of these names are still 
to be seen over restaurants and they are still in that 
class, Jule's, possibly, being better than it was before 
the fire. A good dinner of seven or eight courses, well 
cooked and well served, could be had in these places for 
fifty cents. Lombardi's was of the same type but his 
price was but twenty-five cents for a course dinner in 
many respects the equal of the others. 

Pop Floyd, recently killed by his bartender in an 
altercation, had a place down in California street much 
patronized by business men. He had very good service 
and the best of cooking, and for many years hundreds 
of business men gathered there at luncheon in lieu of a 
club. The place is still in existence and good service 
and good food is to be had there, but it has lost its Bo- 
hemian atmosphere. 

In Pine street above Montgomery was the Viticul- 
tural, a restaurant that had great vogue owing to the 

25 



BOHEMIAN 

excellence of its cooking. Its specialty was marrow on 
toast and broiled mushrooms, and game. 

To speak of Bohemian San Fran- 
cisco and say nothing of the old Hoff- 
man saloon, on Second and Market 
RESTAURANTS streets, would be like the play of 

Hamlet with Hamlet left out. "Pop" 
Sullivan, or "Billy" Sullivan, according to the degree of 
familiarity of the acquaintance, boasted of the fact that 
from the day this place opened until he sold the doors 
were closed but once, the keys having been thrown 
away on opening day. During all the years of its exist- 
ence the only day it was closed was the day of the 
funeral of Sullivan's mother. Here was the most mag- 
nificent bar in San Francisco, and in connection was a 
restaurant that catered to people who not only knew 
good things but ordered them. The back part of the 
place with entrance on Second street was divided off 
into little rooms with tables large enough for four. 
These rooms were most lavish in their decoration, the 
most interesting feature being that they were all made 
of different beautiful woods, highly polished. Woods 
were here from all parts of the world, each being dis- 
tinctive. In these rooms guests were served with the 
best the market afforded, by discreet darkeys. This 
place was the best patronized of all the Bohemian re- 
sorts of the city up to the time of the fire. One of the 
special dainties served were the Hoffman House biscuits, 
light and flaky, such as could be found nowhere else. 

Out by Marshall Square, by the City Hall, was Good 
Fellow's Grotto, started by Techau, who afterward built 
and ran the Techau Tavern. This place was in a base- 
ment and had much vogue among politicians and those 
connected with the city government. It specialized on 
beefsteaks. 

Under the St. Ann building, at Eddy and Powell 
streets, was the Louvre, started and managed by Carl 

26 



SAN FRANCISCO 

Zinkand, who afterward opened the place in Market 
above Fourth street, called Zinkand's. This was dis- 
tinctly German in appointments and 
cooking and was the best of its kind SOME 

in the city. Under the Phelan build- ITALIAN 
ing at O'Farrell and Market was the RESTAURANTS 
Old Louvre in which place one could 
get German cooking, but it was not a place that ap- 
pealed to those who knew good service. 

Bab's had a meteoric career and was worthy of 
much longer life, but Babcock had too high an idealiza- 
tion of what San Francisco wanted. He emulated the 
Parisian restaurants in oddities, one of his rooms being 
patterned after the famous Cabaret de la Mort, and one 
dined off a coffin and was lighted by green colored 
tapers affixed to skulls. Aside from its oddities it was 
one of the best places for a good meal for Bab had the 
art of catering down to a nicety. There were rooms 
decorated to represent various countries and in each 
room you could get a dinner of the country represented. 

Thompson's was another place that was too elab- 
orate for its patronage and after a varied existence from 
the old Oyster Loaf to a cafeteria Thompson was com- 
pelled to leave for other fields and San Francisco lost a 
splendid restaurateur. He opened the place under the 
Flood building, after the fire, in most magnificent style, 
taking in two partners. The enormous expense and 
necessary debt contracted to open the place was too 
much and Thompson had to give up his interest. This 
place is now running as the Portola-Louvre. 

Much could be written of these old-time restaurants, 
and as we write story after story amusing, interesting, 
and instructive come to mind, each indicative of the 
period when true Bohemianism was to be found in the 
City that Was. 

An incident that occurred in the old Fior d'ltalia 
well illustrates this spirit of camaraderie, as it shows 

27 



BOHEMIAN 

the good-fellowship that then obtained. We went to 
that restaurant for dinner one evening, and the propri- 
etor, knowing our interest in human 
nature studies, showed us to a little 
table in the back part of the room, 
where we could have a good view of 
all the tables. Our table was large 
enough to seat four comfortably, and presently, as the 
room became crowded, the proprietor, with many ex- 
cuses, asked if he could seat two gentlemen with us. 
They were upper class Italians, exceedingly polite, and 
apologized profusely for intruding upon us. In a few 
minutes another gentleman entered and our compan- 
ions at once began frantic gesticulations and called him 
to our table, where room was made and another cover 
laid. Again and again this occurred until finally at a 
table suited for four, nine of us were eating, laughing, 
and talking together, we being taken into the comrade- 
ship without question. When it came time for us to 
depart the entire seven rose and stood, bowing as we 
passed from the restaurant. 



28 



SAN FRANCISCO 

Running through all the fabric of San Francisco's 
history is the thread of Mexican and Spanish romance 
and tradition, carrying us back to the 
very days when the trooper sent out IMPRESS 

by Portola first set eyes on the great 
inland sea now known as San Fran- MEXICO 

cisco Bay. It would seem that the 
cuisinaire most indelibly stamped on the taste of the old 
San Franciscan would, therefore, be of either Spanish 
or Mexican origin. That this is not a fact is because 
among the earliest comers to California after it passed 
from Mexican hands to those of the United States, were 
French and Italian cooks, and the bon vivants of both 
lands who wanted their own style of cooking. While 
the Spanish did not impress their cooking on San Fran- 
cisco, it is the cuisine of the Latin races that has given 
to it its greatest gastronomic prestige, and there still re- 
mains from those very early days recipes of the famous 
dishes which had their beginnings either in Spain or 
Mexico. 

There is much misconception regarding both Span- 
ish and Mexican cooking, for it is generally accepted as 
a fact that all Mexican and Spanish dishes are so filled 
with red pepper as to be unpalatable to the normal 
stomach of those trained to what is called "plain Ameri- 
can cooking." Certain dishes of Mexican and Spanish 
origin owe their fine flavor to discriminating use of chili 
caliente or chili dulce, but many of the best dishes are 
entirely innocent of either. The difference between 
Spanish and Mexican cooking is largely a matter of 
sentiment. It is a peculiarity of the Spaniard that he 
does not wish to be classed as a Mexican, and on the 
other hand the Mexican is angry if he be called a Span- 
iard. But the fact remains that their cooking is much 
alike, so much so, in fact, as to be indistinguishable ex- 
cept by different names for similar dishes, and fre- 
quently these are the same. 

29 



BOHEMIAN 

The two famous and world-known dishes of this 
class of cooking are tortillas and tamales. It is generally 

supposed that both of these are the 

product of Mexico, but this is not the 

case. The tamale had its origin in 

Spain and was carried to Mexico by 

the conquistadors, and taken up as 

a national dish by the natives after inany years. The 

tortilla, on the other hand, is made now exactly as it 

was made by the Mexican Indian when the Spanish 

found the country. The aborigine prepared his corn on 

a stone metate and made it into cakes by patting it with 

the hand, then cooked it on a hot stone before an open 

fire. It is still made in that manner in the heart of 

Mexico, and we could tell a story of how we saw this 

done one night in the midst of a dense tropical forest, 

while muleteers and mozas of a great caravan sat 

around their little camp-fires, whose fitful light served 

to intensify the weird appearance of the shadows of the 

Indians as they passed to and fro among their packs, 

but this is not the place for such stories. 

Of the old Mexican restaurants, those of us who can 
look back to the days of a quarter of a century ago re- 
member old Felipe and Maria, the Mexican couple who 
kept the little place in the alley back of the old county 
jail, off Broadway. Here one had to depend entirely 
upon sentiment, or rather sentimentality, to be pleased. 
The cooking was truly Mexican for it included the usual 
Mexican disregard for dirt. Chattering monkeys and 
parrots were hanging around the kitchen, peering into 
pots and fingering viands, and they served to attract at- 
tention from myriads of cockroaches that swarmed 
about the walls. One could go to this place just on the 
theory that one is willing to try anything once, but aside 
from its picturesque old couple, and its Dantesque ap- 
pearance, it offered nothing to induce a return unless it 
was to entertain a friend. 

30 



SAN FRANCISCO 

' Everyone who lived in San Francisco before the fire 
remembers Ricardo, he of the one eye, who served so 
well at Luna's, on Vallejo and Du- 
pont streets. Ricardo had but one 
eye but he could see the wants of his 
patrons much better than many of 
the later day waiters who have two. 
Luna's brought fame to San Francisco and in more than 
one novel of San Francisco life it was featured. Enter- 
ing the place one came into the home life of the Luna 
family, and reached the dining room through the par- 
lor, where Mrs. Luna, busy with her drawn work, and 
all the little Lunas and the neighbors and their children 
foregathered in the window spaces behind the torn Not- 
tingham curtains which partially concealed the interior 
from passers on the street. The elder sons and daugh- 
ters attended to the wants of those who fancied any of 
the curios displayed in the long showcase that extended 
from the door to the rear of the room. 

Passing through this family group one came to the 
curtained dining room proper, although there were a 
number of tables in the family parlor to be used in case 
of a rush of patrons. Luna's dinners were a feature of 
the old San Francisco. They were strictly Mexican, 
from the unpalatable soup (Mexicans do not under- 
stand how to make good soup) to the "dulce" served at 
the close of the meal. First came the appetizers in form 
of thin slices of salami and of a peculiar Mexican 
sausage, so extremely hot with chili pepino as to imme- 
diately call for a drink of claret to assauge the burning. 
Then came the soup which we experienced ones always 
passed over. The salad of modern tables was replaced 
by an enchilada, and then came either chili con carne 
or chili con polle according to the day of the week, 
Sundays having as the extra attraction the chili con 
polio, or chicken with pepper. In place of bread they 
served tortillas, which were rolled and used as a spoon 

31 



BOHEMIAN 

or fork if one were so inclined. Following this was 
what is known among unenlightened as "stuffed pep- 
per," but which is called by the Span- 
ish, from which country it gets its 
name, "chili reinas." To signify the 
close of the meal came frijoles fritas 
or fried beans, and these were fol- 
lowed by the dessert consisting of some preserved fruit 
or of a sweet tamale. Fifty cents paid the bill and a tip 
of fifteen cents to Ricardo made him as happy and as 
profuse with his thanks as the present day waiter on 
receipt of half a dollar. 

Accepting Luna's as the best type of the Mexican 
restaurant of the days before the fire, our inquiry devel- 
oped the fact that the dish on which he specialized was 
chili reinas, and this is the recipe he used in their 
preparation: 

Roast large bell peppers until the skin 

turns black. Wash in cold water and rub 

off the blackened skin. Cut around the 

stem and remove the seed and coarse veins. Take some dry 

Monterey cheese, grated fine, and with this fill the peppers, 

closing the end with a wooden toothpick. 

Prepare a batter made as follows: Beat the yolks and 
whites of six eggs separately, then mix, and stir in a little 
flour to make a thin batter. Have a pan of boiling lard ready 
and after dipping the stuffed pepper into the batter dip it into 
the lard. Remove quickly and dip again in the batter and then 
again in the lard where it is to remain until fried a light, 
golden brown, keeping the peppers entirely covered with the 
boiling lard. 

Take the seeds of the peppers, one small white onion and 
two tomatoes and grind all together into a pulp, add a little 
salt and let cook ten minutes. When the chilis are fried turn 
the remainder of the batter into the tomatoes and boil twenty 
minutes, then turn this sauce over the peppers. 

This is a most delicious dish and can be varied by using 
finely ground meat to stuff the peppers instead of the cheese. 

Mexican restaurants of the present day in San Fran- 
cisco are a delusion, and unsatisfactory. 

32 



SAN FRANCISCO 

Much has been said and more printed regarding San 
Francisco's Barbary Coast — much of truth and much 
mythical. Probably no other indi- 
vidual district has been so instru- QN THE 
mental in giving to people of other BARBARY 
parts of the country an erroneous COAST 
idea of San Francisco. It is generally 
accepted as a fact that in Barbary Coast Vice flaunted 
itself in reckless abandon before the eyes of the world, 
showing those things usually concealed behind walls 
and under cover of the darkness. According to the 
purists here youth of both sexes was debauched, losing 
both money and souls. To speak of seeing Barbary 
Coast brought furtive looks and lowered voices, as if 
contamination even from the thought were possible. No 
slumming party was completed without a visit to the 
"Coast," after Chinatown's manufactured horrors had 
been shuddered at. 

One cannot well speak of the Barbary Coast without 
bringing into consideration the Social Evil, for here was 
concentrated dozens of the poor unfortunates of the 
underworld, compelled to eke out miserable existence 
through playing on the foibles and vanities of men, or 
seek oblivion in a suicide's grave. We do not propose 
to discuss this phase of Barbary Coast as that is not a 
part of Bohemianism. 

We have visited the Coast many times, at all hours 
of the night, and beyond the unconcealed license of 
open caresses we have seen nothing shocking to our 
moral sense that equalled what we have seen in Broad- 
way, New York, or in some of the most fashionable 
hotels and restaurants of San Francisco on New Year's 
Eve. Dancing, singing and music — all that is embodied 
in the "wine, women and song" of the poets, was to be 
found there, but it was open, and had none of the veiled 
suggestion to be found in places considered among the 
best. 

33 



BOHEMIAN 

In Barbary Coast we have seen more beautiful danc- 
ing than on any stage, or in the famous Moulin Rouge, 

or Jardin Mabile of Paris. In fact, 
many of the modern dances that have 
become the vogue all over the coun- 
try, even being carried to Europe, 
had their origin in Pacific street 
dance halls. Texas Tommy, the Grizzly Bear, and many 
others were first danced here, and some of the finest 
Texas Tommy dancers on eastern stages went from the 
dance halls of San Francisco's Barbary Coast. 

Vice was there — yes. It was open — yes. But there 
was the attraction of light and life and laughter that 
drew crowds nightly. 

Barbary Coast was a part of San Francisco's Bo- 
hemianism because of its unconventionality, for, you 
know, there is conventionality even in Vice. Here was 
the rendezvous of sailormen from all parts of the world, 
for here they found companionship and joviality. 

Up to the time of the closing of Barbary Coast mo- 
lestation of women on the streets of San Francisco was 
almost unheard of. Since its closing it is becoming more 
and more hazardous for women to walk alone at night 
in the only large city in the world that always had the 
reputation of guarding its womankind. 



3k 



SAN FRANCISCO 

Times change and we change with them is well evi- 
denced by the restaurant life of the present day San 
Francisco. Now, as before the fire, we 
have the greatest restaurant city of 
the world — a city where home life is 
subordinated to the convenience of 
apartment dwelling and restaurant 
meals — but the old-time Bohemian finds neither the 
same atmosphere nor the same restaurants. 

True, many of the old names have been retained or 
revived, but there is not felt the old spirit of camarad- 
erie. Old personalities have passed away and old cus- 
toms have degenerated. Those who await The Call 
feel that with the passing of the old city there passed 
much that made life worth living, and as they prepare 
to cross to the Great Beyond, they live in their mem- 
ories of the Past. 

With reverence we think of the men and women of 
the early San Francisco — those who made the city the 
Home of Bohemia — and it is with this feeling that we 
now come to discuss the Bohemian restaurants of the 
New San Francisco. 



35 



BOHEMIAN 

In the latter part of April, 1906, when the fire-swept 
streets presented their most forbidding aspect, and 

when the only moving figures to be 
SANG seen after nightfall were armed sol- 

iWAN diers guarding the little remaining of 
value from depredations of skulking 
vagabonds, a number of the old Bo- 
hemian spirits gathered at the corner of Montgomery 
and Commercial streets, and gazed through the shat- 
tered windows into the old dining room where they had 
held many a royal feast. On the blackened walls might 
still be seen scarred pictures, fringed by a row of black 
cats along the ceiling. They turned their steps out to- 
ward the Presidio, hunted among the Italian refugees 
and there found Coppa — he of the wonderful black cats, 
and it took little persuasion to induce him to go back 
to his ruined restaurant and prepare a dinner, such as 
had made his place famous among artists, writers, and 
other Bohemians, in the days when San Francisco was 
care-free and held her arms wide open in welcome to 
all the world. 

It was such a dinner as has been accorded to few. 
Few there are who have the heart to make merry amid 
crumbling ruins of all they held dear in the material 
world. The favored ones who assembled there will al- 
ways hold that dinner in most affectionate memory, and 
to this day not one thinks of it without the choking that 
comes from over-full emotion. It was more than a 
tribute to the days of old — it marked the passing of the 
old San Francisco and the inauguration of the new. 

It was Bohemia's Swan Song, sung by those to whom 
San Francisco held more than pleasure — more than sen- 
timentality. It held for them close-knit ties that noth- 
ing less than a world-shaking cataclysm could sever — 
and the cataclysm had arrived. 

The old Coppa restaurant in Montgomery street be- 
came a memory and on its ashes came the new one, 

36 



SAN FRANCISCO 

located in Pine street between Montgomery and Kearny 
streets, and for a number of years this remained the 
idol of Bohemia until changed condi- 
tions drove the tide of patronage far SANG 
up toward Powell, Ellis, Eddy and THE >WAN 
O'Farrell streets. At that time there SONG 
grew up a mushroom crop of so- 
called restaurants in Columbus avenue close to Barbary 
Coast such as Caesar's, the Follies Cabaret, Jupiter and 
El Paradiso, where space was reserved in the middle of 
the floor for dancing. Coppa emulated the new idea by 
fitting out a gorgeous basement room at the corner of 
Kearny and Jackson, which he called the Neptune Pal- 
ace. It represented a great grotto under the ocean, and 
here throngs gathered nightly to dance and eat until the 
police commissioners closed all of these resorts, as well 
as Barbary Coast. 

Coppa became financially injured by this venture 
and was forced to take a partner in his old restaurant, 
and finally gave up his share and went beyond the city 
limits and opened the Pompeiian Garden, on the San 
Mateo road, and there with his heroic little wife tried to 
rebuild his shrunken fortunes, leaving the historic res- 
taurant with its string of black cats and its memorable 
pictures on the walls to less skilled hands. He strug- 
gled against hard times and at the time of this writing 
he, with his wife, their son and his wife, are giving the 
old-time dinners and trying to make the venture a 
success. 

In the old days it was considered a feat of gorman- 
dizing to go through one of Coppa's dinners and eat 
everything set before you for one dollar. Notwith- 
standing the delicious dishes he prepared and the won- 
derful recipes, the quantity served was so great that one 
would have to be possessed of enormous capacity, in- 
deed, to be able to say at the end of the meal that he 
had eaten all that was given him. 

37 



BOHEMIAN 

In his Pompeiian Garden Goppa still maintains his 
old reputation for most tasty viands and liberal por- 
tions, and if one desire to find the 
true Bohemian restaurant of San 
Francisco today, one that approaches 
the old spirit of the days before the 
fire, he need but go out to Coppa's 
and while he will not have his eyes regaled by the 
quaint drawings with which the old-time artists decor- 
ated the walls, nor the hurrying footsteps along the 
ceiling to the famous center table where sat some of the 
world's most notable Bohemians on their visits to San 
Francisco, nor the frieze of black cats around the cor- 
nice, nor the Bohemian verse, written under inspiration 
of "Dago red," he will find the same old cooking, done 
by Coppa himself. 

We asked Coppa what he considered his best dish 
and he gave us the Irishman's reply by asking another 
question : 

"What do you think of it?" 
There are so many to choose from that our answer 
was difficult but we finally stopped at "Chicken Por- 
tola." It was then that the old smile came back to 
Coppa's face. 

"Ah! Chicken Portola. That is my own idea. It is 
the most delicious way chicken was ever cooked." 

This is the recipe as Coppa gave it to us, his little 
wife standing at his side and giving, now and then, a 
suggestion as Coppa's memory halted: 

CHICKEN Take a fresh cocoanut and cut off the 

top, removing nearly all of the meat. Put 
together three tablespoonfuls of chopped 
cocoanut meat and two ears of fresh, green 
corn, taken from the cob. Slice two onions into four tablespoon- 
fuls of olive oil, together with a tablespoonful of diced bacon 
fried in olive oil, add one chopped green pepper, half a dozen 
tomatoes stewed with salt and pepper, one clove of garlic, and 
cook all together until it thickens. Strain this into the corn and 

38 



SAN FRANCISCO 

cocoanut and add one spring chicken cut in four pieces. Put 
the mixture into the shell of the cocoanut, using the cut-off 
top as a cover, and close tightly with a 
covering of paste around the jointure to QAivr 

keep in the flavors. Put the cocoanut into oAINlt 

a pan with water in it and set in the oven, 
well heated, for one hour, basting fre- 
quently to prevent the cocoanut's burning. 

A bare recital of the terms of the recipe cannot bring 
to the uninitiated even a suspicion of the delightful 
aroma that comes from the cocoanut when its top is 
lifted, nor can it give the slightest idea of the delicacy 
of the savor arising from the combination of the cocoa- 
nut with young chicken. It is not a difficult dish to pre- 
pare, and if you cannot get it at any of the restaurants, 
and we are sure you cannot, try it at home some time 
and surprise your friends with a dish to be found in 
only one restaurant in the world. If you desire it at 
Coppa's on your visit to San Francisco you will have to 
telephone out to him in advance (unless he has suc- 
ceeded in getting back to the city, which he contem- 
plates) so that he can prepare it for you, and, take our 
word for it, you will never regret doing so. 

Coppa has many wonderful dishes to serve, and he 
delights so much in your appreciation that he is always 
fearful something is wrong if you fail to do full justice 
to his meal. He showed this one evening when he had 
filled a little party of us to repletion by his lavish 
provision for our entertainment, and nature rebelled 
against anything more. To us came Coppa in tears. 

"What is the matter with the chicken, Doctor? Is it 
not cooked just right?" 

It was with difficulty that we made him understand 
that there was a limit to capacity, and that he had fed us 
with such bountiful hand we could eat no more. Even 
now when we go to Coppa's we have a little feeling of 
fear lest we offend him by not eating enough to con- 
vince him that we are pleased. 

39 



BOHEMIAN 

Coppa's walls were always adorned with strange 
conceits of the artists and writers who frequented his 

place, and after a picture, or a bit of 
verse had remained until it was too 
THE SWAN familiar some one erased it and re- 

placed it with something he thought 
was better. We preserved one writ- 
ten by an unknown Bohemian. We give it just as it was : 

Through the fog of centuries, dim and dense, 

I sometimes seem to see 

The shadowy line of a back-yard fence 

And a feline shape of me. 

I hear the growl, and yowl and howl 

Of each nocturnal fight, 

And the throaty stir, half cry, half purr 

Of passionate delight, 

As seeking an amorous rendezvous 

My ancient brothers go stealing 

Through the purple gloom of night. 

I've seen your eyes, with a greenish glint; 

You move with a feline grace; 

And when you are pleased I catch the hint 

Of a purr in your throat and face. 

Then I wonder if you are dreaming, too, 

Of temples along the Nile, 

Where you yowled and howled, and loved and prowled, 

With many a sensuous wile, 

And borrowed the grace you own today 

From that other life in the far-away; 

And if such dreams beguile. 

I know that you sit by your cozy fire, 

When shadows crowd the room, 

And my soul responds to an old desire 

To roam through the velvety gloom, 

So stealthily stealing, softly shod, 

My spirit is hurrying thence 

To the lure of an ancient mystic god, 

Whose magnet is intense, 

Where I know your soul, too, roams in fur, 

For I hear it call with a throaty purr, 

From the shadowy back-yard fence. 

40 



SAN FRANCISCO 

San Francisco's care-free spirit was fully exem- 
plified before the ashes of the great fire of 1906 were 
cold. On every hand one could find 
little eating places established in the BOHEMIA 
streets, some made of abandoned OF THE 
boxes, others of debris from the PRESENT 
burned buildings, and some in vacant 
basements and little store rooms, while a few enterpris- 
ing individuals improvised wheeled dining rooms and 
went from one part of the city to another serving meals. 

The vein of humor of irrepressible effervescence of 
spirit born of Bohemianism gave to these eating places 
high sounding names, and many were covered with 
witty signs which laughed in the face of Fate. 

Fillmore became the great business street of the city 
now in ashes, and here were established the first restau- 
rants of any pretensions, the Louvre being first to open 
an establishment that had the old-time appearance. 
This was on the corner of Fillmore and Ellis, and had 
large patronage, it being crowded nightly with men and 
women who seemed to forget that San Francisco had 
been destroyed. Thompson opened a large restaurant 
in O'Farrell street, just above Fillmore, and for two 
years or more did a thriving business, his place being 
noted for its good cooking and its splendid service. One 
of his waiters, Phil Tyson, was one of the earlier ones to 
go back into the burned district to begin business and he 
opened a restaurant called the Del Monte in Powell 
street near Market, but it was too early for success and 
closed after a short career. 

Thompson enlisted others to join with him in open- 
ing a magnificent place under the new Flood building 
at the gore of Powell and Market street, but through 
faulty understanding of financial power Thompson was 
compelled to give up his interest and the place after- 
ward closed. It has since been reopened under the 
name of the Portola-Louvre, where now crowds assem- 



BOHEMIAN 

ble nightly to listen to music and witness cabaret per- 
formances. Here, as well as in a number of other 

places, one can well appreciate the 

BOHEMIA colloquial definition of "cabaret." 
That which takes the rest out of res- 
taurant and puts the din in dinner. 
If one likes noise and distraction 
while eating such places are good to patronize. 

Across the street from the Portola-Louvre at 15 
Powell street is the modernized Techau Tavern now 
known as "Techau's". Here there is always good music 
and food well cooked and well served, and always a 
lively crowd during the luncheon, dinner and after- 
theatre hours. The room is not large but its dimensions 
are greatly magnified owing to the covering of mirrors 
which line the walls. This garish display of mirrors, 
and elaborate decoration of ceiling and pillars, gives it 
the appearance of the abode of Saturnalia, but decorum 
is the rule among the patrons. 

Around at 168 O'Farrell street, just opposite the 
Orpheum theatre, is Tait-Zinkand restaurant, or as it is 
more popularly known, "Tait's". John Tait is the pre- 
siding spirit here, he having made reputation as club 
manager, and then as manager of the Cliff House. One 
of the partners here was Carl Zinkand, who ran the old 
Zinkand's before the fire. 

While these three restaurants are of similar type 
neither has the pre-fire atmosphere. They are lively, 
always, with music and gay throngs, and serve good 
food. 

One of the early restaurants established after the 
fire was Blanco's, at 857 O'Farrell street, and later 
Blanco opened the Poodle Dog in Mason street just 
above Eddy. Both of these restaurants are of the old 
French type and are high class in every respect. The 
Poodle Dog has a hotel attachment where one may get 
rooms or full apartments. 

42 



SAN FRANCI|SCO 

If you know how to order, and do not care to count 
the cost when you order, probably the best dinner at 
these restaurants can be had at either 
Blanco's or the Poodle Dog. The BOHEMIA 
cuisine is of the best and the chefs 
rank at the top of their art. Prices 
are higher than at the other restau- 
rants mentioned, but one certainly gets the best there is 
prepared in the best way. 

But the same food, prepared equally well, is to be 
found in a number of less pretentious places. At the 
two mentioned one pays for the surroundings as well as 
for the food, and sometimes this is worth paying for. 

The restaurants of the present day that approach 
nearest the old Bohemian restaurants of pre-fire days, 
of the French class, are Jack's in Sacramento street be- 
tween Montgomery and Kearny; Felix, in Montgomery 
street between Clay and Washington, and the Poodle 
Dog-Bergez-Franks, in Bush street between Kearny and 
Grant avenue. In either of these restaurants you will 
be served with the best the market affords, cooked "the 
right way." In Clay street opposite the California Mar- 
ket is the New Frank's, one of the best of the Italian 
restaurants, and much patronized by Italian merchants. 
Next to it is Coppa's, but it is no longer run by Coppa. 
In this same district is the Mint, in Commercial street 
between Montgomery and Kearny streets. It has changed 
from what it was in the old days, but is still an excellent 
place to dine. 

Negro's, at 625 Merchant street, near the Hall of 
Justice, has quite a following of those whose business 
attaches them to the courts, and while many claim this 
to be one of the best of its class, we believe the claim to 
be based less on good cooking than on the fact that the 
habitues are intimate, making it a pleasant resort for 
them. The cooking is good and the variety what the 
market affords. 

43 



BOHEMIAN 

In Washington street, just off Columbus avenue, is 
Bonini's Barn, making great pretense through an unique 

idea. So far as the restaurant is con- 
cerned the food is a little below the 
average of Italian restaurants. One 
goes there once through curiosity and 
finds himself in a room that has all 
the appearance of the interior of a barn, with chickens 
and pigeons strutting around, harness hanging on pegs, 
and hay in mangers, and all the farming utensils around 
to give it the verisimilitude of country. Tables and 
chairs are crude in the extreme and old-time lanterns 
are used for lighting. It is an idea that is worth while, 
but, unfortunately, the proprietors depend too much on 
the decorative feature and too little on the food and 
how they serve it. 

The Fly Trap, and Charlie's Fashion, the first in 
Sutter street near Kearny and the other in Market near 
Sutter, serve well-cooked foods, especially soup, salads, 
and fish. Of course these are not the entire menus but 
of all the well-prepared dishes these are their best. 
Felix, mentioned before, also makes a specialty of his 
family soup, which is excellent. 

Spanish dinners of good quality are to be had at the 
Madrilena, at 177 Eddy street, and at the Castilian, at 
344 Sutter street. Both serve good Spanish dinners at 
reasonable prices. They serve table d'hote dinners, but 
you can also get Spanish dishes on special order. 

Under the Monadnock building, in Market street 
near Third, is Jule's, well liked and well patronized be- 
cause of its good cooking and good service. Jule is one 
of the noted restaurateurs of the city, having attained 
high celebrity before the fire. His prices are moderate 
and his cooking and viands of the best, and will satisfy 
the most critical of the gourmets. 

At the corner of Market and Eddy streets is the 
Odeon, down in a basement, with decorations of most 

U 



SAN FRANCISCO 

garish order. There is a good chef and the place has 
quite a vogue among lovers of good things to eat 
Probably at no place in San Fran- 
cisco can one find game cooked better BOHEMIA 
than at Jack's, 615 Sacramento street. OF THE 
His ducks are always cooked so as to 
elicit high praise. He has an old-style 
French table d'hote dinner which he serves for $1.25, 
including wine. Or you may order anything in the mar- 
ket and you will find it cooked "the best way." One of 
the specialties of Jack's is fish, for which the restaurant 
is noted. It is always strictly fresh and cooked to suit 
the most fastidious taste. 



45 



BOHEMIAN 

When you see August (do not fail to pronounce it 
Owgoost) in repose you involuntarily say, that is if you 

understand German, "Mir ist alles 
an," which is the German equivalent 
of "I should worry." When August 
GERMANY is in action you immediately get a 
thirst that nothing but a stein of cold 
beer will quench. August is the pride of the Heidelberg 
Inn at 35 Ellis street. All you can see from the street as 
you pass around the corner from Market, is a sign and 
some stairs leading down into a basement, but do not 
draw back just because it is a basement restaurant, for 
if you do you will miss one of the very few real Bo- 
hemian restaurants of San Francisco. Possibly our 
point of view will not coincide with that of others, but 
while there are dozens of other Bohemian restaurants 
there is but one Heidelberg Inn. Here is absolute free- 
dom from irksome conventionality of other people, and 
none of the near Bohemianism of so many places claim- 
ing the title. 

At the Heidelberg Inn one need never fear obtrusive- 
ness on the part of other visitors, for here everybody 
attends strictly to his or her own party, enjoying a 
camaraderie that has all the genuine,whole-souled com- 
panionship found only where German families are ac- 
customed to congregate to seek relaxation from the toil 
and worry of the day. 

An evening spent in Heidelberg Inn is one replete 
with character study that cannot be excelled anywhere 
in San Francisco — and this means that everybody there 
is worth while as a study, from the little, bald-headed 
waiter, Heine, and the big, imposing waiter, August, to 
the "Herr Doctor" who comes to forget the serious sur- 
gical case that has been worrying him at the hospital. 
Here you do not find obtrusive waiters brushing imag- 
inary crumbs from your chair with obsequious hand, 
nor over zealous stewards solicitous of your food's qual- 

46 



SAN FRANCISCO 

ity. It is all perfect because it is made perfect by good 
management. Here are German families, from Gross- 
fader and Grossmutter, down to the 
newest grandchild, sitting and enjoy- AS IT IS 
ing their beer and listening to such 
music as can be heard nowhere else GERMANY 
in San Francisco, as they eat their 
sandwiches of limburger, or more dainty dishes accord- 
ing to their tastes. 

One can almost imagine himself in one of the fa- 
mous rathskellers of Old Heidelberg — not at the Schloss, 
of course, for here you cannot look down on the Weiser 
as it flows beneath the windows of the great wine stube 
on the hill. But you have the real atmosphere, and this 
is enhanced by the mottoes in decoration and the flag- 
ons, steins and plaques that adorn the pillars as well as 
typical German environment. 

It is when the martial strains of "De Wacht am 
Rhein" are heard from the orchestra, which of itself is 
an institution, that the true camaraderie of the place is 
appreciated, for then guests, waiters, barkeepers, and 
even the eagle-eyed, gray-haired manager, join in the 
swelling chorus, and you can well understand why Ger- 
man soldiers are inspired to march to victory when they 
hear these stirring chords. 

But there is other music — sometimes neither inspir- 
ing nor beautiful when heard in a German rathskeller 
— the music of rag time. If there is anything funnier 
than a German orchestra trying to play rag-time music 
we have never heard it. It is unconscious humor on 
part of the orchestra, consequently is all the more ex- 
cruciating. 

But if you really love good music — music that has 
melody and rhythm and soothing cadences, go to the 
Heidelberg Inn and listen to the concert which is a fea- 
ture of the place every evening. And while you are 
listening to the music you can enjoy such food as is to 

47 



BOHEMIAN 

be found nowhere else in San Francisco, for it is dis- 
tinctly Heidelbergian. We asked for the recipe that 

they considered the very best in the 

AS IT IS restaurant, and Hirsch, with a shrug 

IN of his shoulders, said: "Oh, we have 

GERMANY so many fine dishes." We finally got 

him to select the one prized above all 

others and this is what Chef Scheiler gave us: 

Take four pounds of clear beef, from 
either the shoulder or rump, and pickle it 
BRATEN f° r * wo days in one-half gallon of claret 
and one-half gallon of good wine vinegar 
(not cider). To the pickle add two large onions cut in quar- 
ters, two fresh carrots and about one ounce of mixed whole all- 
spice, black peppers, cloves and bay leaves. 

When ready for cooking take the meat out of the brine and 
put in a roasting pan. Put in the oven and brown to a golden 
color. Then take it out of the roasting pan and put it into a 
casserole, after sprinkling it with two ounces of flour. Put into 
the oven again and cook for half an hour, basting frequently 
with the original brine. 

When done take the meat out of the sauce. Strain the 
sauce through a fine collander and add a few raisins, a piece 
of honey cake, or ginger snaps and the meat of one fresh to- 
mato. Season with salt and pepper and a little sugar to taste. 
Slice and serve with the sauce over it. 

For those who like German dishes and German 
cooking it is not necessary to confine yourself to the 
Heidelberg Inn, for both the Hof Brau, in Market just 
above Fourth street, and the German House Rathskel- 
ler, at Turk and Polk streets are good places where you 
can get what you want. The Hof Brau, however, is less 
distinctively German as the greater number of its pa- 
trons are Americans. The specialty of the Hof Brau is 
abalones, and they have as a feature this shell fish 
cooked in several ways. They also have as the chef in 
charge of the abalone dishes, Herbert, formerly chef for 
one of the yacht clubs of the coast, who claims to have 
the only proper recipe for making abalones tender. 

48 



SAN FRANCISCO 

Under ordinary circumstances the abalone is tough and 
unpalatable, but after the deft manipulation of Herbert 
they are tender and make a fine dish, 
either fried, as chowder or a la New- 
berg. In addition to abalones the Hof 
Brau makes a specialty of little Ore- 
gon crawfish. While there is a dis- 
tinctive German atmosphere at the Rathskeller of the 
German House, the place is too far out to gather such 
numbers as congregate at either the Heidelberg or the 
Hof Brau, but one can get the best of German cooking 
here and splendid service, and for a quiet little "Dutch 
supper" we know of no place that will accommodate 
you better than the Rathskeller. 

On special occasions, when some German society or 
club is giving a dance or holding a meeting at the Ger- 
man House, the Rathskeller is the most typical German 
place in San Francisco, and if you go at such a time you 
will get all the "atmosphere" you will desire, as well as 
the best the market affords in the way of good viands. 



W 



BOHEMIAN 

What a relief it is sometimes to have a good waiter 
say: "You do not know what you want? Will you let 

me bring you the best there is in the 

] HEART house?" Sometimes, you know, you 

really do not know what you want, 

and usually when that is the case you 

are not very hungry. That is always 

a good time to try new things. It is also possible that 

you do not know what you want because you do not 

know how to order. In either instance our advice is, if 

the waiter gets confidential and offers his assistance you 

will certainly miss something if you do not accept his 

good offices. 

This was the case with us, one day when we were 
over at 1549 Stockton street, near Washington Square, 
at the Gianduja. The proper pronunciation of this is as 
if it were spelled Zhan-du-ya. This is one of the good 
Italian restaurants of the Latin quarter. At the Gian- 
duja you get the two prime essentials to a good meal — 
good cooking and excellent service. It matters not 
whether you take their thirty-five cent luncheon or or- 
der a most elaborate meal, you will find that the service 
is just what it ought to be. We asked Brenti what he 
considered his most famous dish, and like all other pro- 
prietors, he shrugged his shoulders and said, with hands 
emphasizing his words: 

"We have so many fine dishes." 

"Of course we know that, but what do you consider 
the very best?" 

"There is no one the Very best'. I could give you 
two." 

"Let it be two, then," was our immediate rejoinder, 
and here is what he gave us as the best recipes of the 
Gianduja. 

First, let us give you an idea of the difficulty under 
which we secured these recipes by printing them just as 
he wrote them down for us, and then we shall elaborate 

50 



SAN FRANCISCO 

a little and show the result of skillful questioning. This 
is the way he wrote the recipe for Risotto Milanaise: 

"Onions chop fine — marrow and little 
butter — rice — saffron — chicken broth — 
wen cook add fresh butter and Parmesan 
cheese seasoned. 

What was embodied in the words "wen cook" was 
the essential of the recipe and here is the way we got it: 

Chop one large onion fine. Cut a beef marrow into small 
dice and stir it with the chopped onion. Put a small piece of 
butter in a frying pan and into this put the onion and marrow 
and fry to a delicate brown. Now add one scant cup of rice, 
stirring constantly, and into this put a pinch of saffron that has 
been bruised. When the rice takes on a brown color add, 
slowly, chicken broth as needed, until the rice is thoroughly 
cooked. Then add a lump of fresh butter about the size of a 
walnut, and sprinkle liberally with grated Parmesan cheese, 
seasoning to taste with pepper and salt. This is to be served 
with chicken or veal. 

The second recipe was for Fritto Misto, and he wrote 
it as follows : 

"Lamb chops and brains breaded — 
sweetbreads — escallop of veal — fresh 
mushrooms — Italian squash when in sea- 
son — asparagus or cauliflower — fried in fresh butter — dipped 
in beaten eggs — lime jus." 

"Fritto Misto" means fried mixture, and the recipe as 
we finally elucidated it is as follows: 

Take a lamb chop, a piece of calf brain, one sweetbread, a 
slice of veal, a fresh mushroom, sliced Italian squash, a piece 
of asparagus or of cauliflower and dip these into a batter made 
of an egg well beaten with a little flour. Sprinkle these with a 
little lime juice and fry to a delicate brown in butter, adding 
salt and pepper to taste. 

At the Gianduja, as at all other Italian restaurants 
not much affected by Americans, you will find an at- 
mosphere of unconventionality that is delightful to the 
Bohemian. There is no irksome espionage on the part 

51 



BOHEMIAN 

of other patrons, all of whom are there for the purpose 
of attending strictly to their own business, and the af- 
fairs of other diners are of no conse- 
IN THE HEART quence to them. There is freedom 

of expression and unconsciousness, 
ITALY most pleasing after having experi- 

enced those other restaurants where 
it seems to be the business of all the rest of the guests 
to know just what you are eating and drinking. There 
is little of the obnoxious posing that one finds in res- 
taurants of the down-town districts, for while Italians, 
in common with all other Latins, are natural born 
poseurs, they are not offensive in it, but rather impress 
you with the same feeling as the antics of a child. 

One of the little, out-of-the way restaurants of the 
Italian quarter is the Leon d'Oro, at 1525 Grant avenue, 
and it is one of the surprises of that district. Lazzarini, 
he with the big voice, presides over the tiny kitchen in 
the rear of the room devoted to public service and fam- 
ily affairs. Soft-voiced Rita, with her demure air and 
her resemblance to Evangeline, with her crossed apron 
strings and delicate features, takes your order, and soon 
comes the booming sound from the neighborhood of the 
range, that announces to all patrons, as well as to some 
who may be in the vicinity on the street, that your order 
is ready, and then everybody knows what you are eat- 
ing. As you sit, either in curtained alcove or at the com- 
mon table in the main room, little Andrea will visit you 
with his cat. Both are institutions of the place and one 
is prone to wonder how a cat can have so much patience 
with a little boy. Andrea speaks Italian so fluently and 
so rapidly that it gives you the impression of a quick 
rushing stream of pure water, tumbling over the stones 
of a steep declivity. He is not yet old enough to under- 
stand that it is not everybody who knows how to speak 
Italian, but that makes not the slightest difference with 
him, for he talks without ever expecting an answer. 

52 



SAN FRANCISCO 

Lazzarini understands the art and science of cook- 
ing, and some of the dishes he prepares are so unusual 
that one goes again and again to partake of them : Pos- 
sibly his best dish is the following : 

Cut a spring chicken into pieces. Place these in a pan con- 
taining hot olive oil, and season with salt and pepper. Turn 
the chicken until it is thoroughly browned, 
and add finely chopped green peppers. Let 
it cook awhile then add a finely chopped 
clove of garlic and a little sage. Put in a 
small glass of Marsala wine, tomato sauce 

and French mushrooms and let simmer for ten minutes. Before 
taking from the pan add half a tablespoonful of butter and 
serve on a hot plate. 

Lazzarini also makes a specialty of snails, and they 

are well worth trying while you are experimenting with 

the unusual things to eat. The recipe for these is as 

follows : 

Put ten pounds of snails in a covered SNAILS 

barrel and keep for ten days. Then put in A LA 

a tub with a handful of salt and a quar- 
ter of a gallon of vinegar. Stir for twenty 

minutes until a foam rises, then take out and wash thoroughly 
until the water runs clear. Put in a large pot a pint of virgin 
olive oil, four large onions and eight cloves of garlic, all 
chopped fine, and a small bunch of parsley, chopped fine. Put 
the pot over the fire and when the onions are browned stir in 
some white wine or Marsala and then put in the snails. Cover 
and let simmer for thirty-five minutes. While cooking add a 
pint of meat stock, a little butter and some anise seed. When 
done put in a soup tureen and serve. To remove the snails use 
small wooden toothpicks. 



53 



BOHEMIAN 

San Francisco's world-famed Chinatown, like the 
rest of the city, is changed since the big fire, and the 

Chinatown of today is but a remi- 
niscence of the old Oriental city that 
was set in the midst of the most thriv- 
ing Occidental metropolis— The City 
That Was. There has never been 
much of Chinatown that savored of Bohemianism, but 
it has always been the vogue for visitors to make a trip 
through its mysterious alleys, peering into the fearsome 
dark doorways, listening to the ominous slamming 
doors of the "clubs," and shuddering in a delightful 
horror at the recumbent opium smokers, pointed out to 
them by the industrious guide. And when they were 
taken into one of the gambling houses and shown the 
double doors, and the many contrivances used to pre- 
vent police interference with the innocent games of fan 
tan and then were shown the secret underground pass- 
age leading from one of the gambling houses to the 
stage of the great Chinese theatre, two blocks away, 
they went home ready to believe anything told them 
about "the ways that are dark and tricks that are vain," 
for they were sure "the heathen Chinee was peculiar." 
Chinese restaurant life never appealed to Bohe- 
mians, and when it became necessary to entertain vis- 
itors with a trip to a Chinatown restaurant the ordinary 
service was of tea and rice cakes, served from lacquered 
trays, in gaudy rooms, and the admiring visitors could 
well imagine themselves in "far off Cathay." 

Then came the fire and Chinatown, with the rest of 
the down-town portion of San Francisco, passed away. 
In the rebuilding the owners of the properties concluded 
to give the quarter a more Chinese aspect and pagoda- 
like structures are now to be found in all parts of the 
section. The curiosity of the tourist is an available 
asset to Chinatown, and with queer houses and queerer 
articles on sale there is always plenty of uninitiated to 

54 



SAN FRANCISCO 

keep the guides busy, but from a city of more than 
twenty-five thousand Orientals in the midst of an en- 
lightened city — an Asiatic city that had 
its own laws and executed its crim- A BREATH OF 
als with the most utter disregard for 
American laws, it has changed into 
one of the most law-abiding parts of 
the great city. With the passing of the queue came the 
adoption of the American style of dressing, and much 
of the picturesqueness of the old Chinatown has disap- 
peared. 

But with the changed conditions there has come a 
change in the restaurant life of the quarter, and now a 
number of places have been opened to cater to Ameri- 
cans, and on every hand one sees "chop suey" signs, and 
"Chinese noodles." It goes without saying that one sel- 
dom sees a Chinaman eating in the restaurants that are 
most attractive to Americans. Some serve both white 
and yellow and others serve but the Chinese, and a few 
favored white friends. 

Probably the best restaurant in Chinatown is that of 
the Hang Far Low Company, at 723 Grant avenue. Here 
is served such a variety of strange dishes that one has to 
be a brave Bohemian, indeed, to partake without ques- 
tion. Ordinarily when Chinese restaurants are men- 
tioned but two dishes are thought of — chop suey and 
chow main. But neither is considered among the fine 
dishes served to Chinese epicures. It is much as if one 
of our best restaurants were to advertise hash as its 
specialty. Both these dishes might be termed glorified 
hash. The ingredients are so numerous and so varied 
with occasion that one is tempted to imagine them made 
of the table leavings, and that is not at all pleasant to 
contemplate. 

We asked one of the managers at the Hang Far Low 
what he would order if he wished to get the best dish 
prepared in the restaurant, and he was even more em- 

55 



BOHEMIAN 

phatic in his shrugs than the French or Italian man- 
agers. He protested that there were so many good 

things it was impossible to name just 

one as being the best. "You see, we 

have fish fins, they are very good. 

Snails, China style. Very good, too. 

Then we have turtle brought from 

China, different from the turtle they have here, and we 

cook it China style. Eels come from China and they are 

cooked China style, too. What is China style? That I 

cannot tell you for the cook knows and nobody else. 

When we cook China style everything is more better. 

We have here the very best tea." 

This may be taken as a sample of what to expect 
when visiting Chinatown's restaurants, and while we 
confess to having some excellent dishes served us in 
Chinatown, our preference lies in other paths of en- 
deavor. We suppose it is all in the point of view, and 
our point of view is that there is nothing except super- 
ficiality in the ordinary Chinese restaurants frequented 
by Americans, and those not so frequented are impos- 
sible because of the average Chinaman's disregard for 
dirt and the usual niceties of food preparation. 



56 



SAN FRANCISCO 

We wish it were in our power to describe a certain 
dinner as served us in a Japanese restaurant in the days 
that followed the great fire. Desiring 
to observe in fitting manner a birth- ARTISTIC 
day anniversary, we asked a Japanese JAPAN 

friend if he could secure admission 
for a little party at a restaurant noted for serving none 
but the highest class Japanese. We did not even know 
where the restaurant was but had heard of such a place, 
and when we received word that we would be permitted 
to have a dinner there we invited a newspaper friend 
who was in the city from New York, together with two 
other friends and the Japanese, who was the editor of 
the Soko Shimbun. He took us to a dwelling house in 
O'Farrell street, having given previous notice of our 
coming. There was nothing on the outside to indicate 
that it was anything but a residence, but when we were 
ushered into the large front room, we found it beauti- 
fully decorated with immense chrysanthemums, and 
glittering with silver and cut glass on a magnificently 
arranged table. 

In deference to the fact that all but our Japanese 
friend were unaccustomed to chopsticks, forks were 
placed on the table as well as the little sticks that the 
Orientals use so deftly. At each place was a beautiful 
lacquer tray, about twelve by eighteen inches, a pair of 
chopsticks, a fork and a teaspoon. Before the meal was 
over several of us became quite expert in using the 
chopsticks. 

When we were seated in came two little Japanese 
women, in full native costume, bearing a service of tea. 
The cups and saucers were of a most delicate blue and 
white ware, with teapot to match. Our first cup was 
taken standing in deference to a Japanese custom where 
all drank to the host. Then followed saki in little 
artistic bottles and saki cups that hold not much more 
than a double tablespoonful. Saki is the Japanese wine 

57 



BOHEMIAN 

made of rice, and is taken in liberal quantities. At each 
serving some one drank to some one else, then a return 

of the compliment was necessary. 
ARTISTIC Having always heard that Orientals 

JAPAN turned menus topsy-turvy we were 

not at all surprised when the little 
serving women brought to each of us two silver plates 
and set them on our trays. These plates contained what 
appeared to be cake, one seeming to be angel food with 
icing, and the other fruit cake with the same covering. 
With these came bowls of soup, served in lacquer ware, 
made of glutinous nests of swallows, and also a salad 
made of shark fins. We ate the soup and salad and 
found it good, and then made tentative investigation of 
the "cake." To our great surprise we discovered the 
angel food to be fish and the "icing" was shredded and 
pressed lobster. The "fruit cake" developed into pressed 
dark meat of chicken, with an icing of pressed and 
glazed white meat of the same fowl. 

Following this came the second service of tea, this 
time in cups of a rare yellow color and beautiful design, 
with similar teapot. 

The next course was a mixture of immature vege- 
tables, served in a sort of saute. These were sprouting 
beans, lentils, peas and a number of others with which 
we were unfamiliar. The whole was delicately flavored 
with a peculiar sauce. 

After a short wait, during which the saki bottles cir- 
culated freely, one of the women came in bearing aloft 
a large silver tray on which reposed a mammoth cray- 
fish, or California lobster. This appeared to be covered 
with shredded cocoanut, and when it was placed before 
the host for serving he was at loss, for no previous ex- 
perience told him what to do. It developed that the 
shredded mass on top was the meat of the lobster which 
had been removed leaving the shell-fish in perfect form. 
It was served cold, with a peculiar sauce. 

58 



SAN FRANCISCO 

Now followed the piece de resistance, A tub of 
water was brought in and in this was swimming a live 
fish, apparently of the carp family. 
After being on view for a few min- 
utes it was removed and soon the JAPAN 
handmaidens appeared with thinly 
sliced raw fish, served with soy sauce. Ordinarily one 
can imagine nothing more repulsive than a dish of raw 
fish, but we were tempted and did eat, and found it 
most delicious, delicate, and with a flavor of raw oysters. 

Next came the third service of tea, this time in a 
deep red ware. Then came a dessert of unusual flavor 
and appearance, followed by preserved ginger and fruit. 

It must be remembered that during the meal, which 
lasted from seven until past midnight, saki was served 
constantly yet no one felt its influence in more than a 
sense of increased exhilaration. It is customary to let 
the emptied bottles remain on the table until the close 
of the meal, and there was a mighty showing. 

It was impossible to eat all that was set before us, 
but Japanese custom forbids such a breach of etiquette 
as an indication that the food was not perfection, conse- 
quently the serving maids appeared bearing six carved 
teak boxes, and placed one at each plate. Into these we 
arranged the food that was unconsumed, and when we 
went away we carried it with us. To cap the climax the 
Japanese stripped the room of its bounteous decoration 
of chrysanthemums and piled them into our arms and 
we went home loaded with food and flowers. 

Proprietor and all his household accompanied us to 
the door with many bows and gesticulations, wishing us 
best of luck, and we went back to our homes in the 
desolated city with the feeling of having been trans- 
ported to Fairyland of the Orient. 

We discovered later that our Japanese friend was 
of the family of the Emperor and was here on a diplo- 
matic mission. 

59 



BOHEMIAN 

One cannot well write a book on Bohemian restau- 
rants of San Francisco without saying something about 

the great hotel whose history is so 
OLD AND intimately intertwined with that of 

the city since 1873, when William G. 

Ralston determined that the city by 

the Golden Gate should have a hotel 
commensurate with its importance. San Francisco and 
the Palace Hotel were almost synonymous all over the 
world, and it was conceded by travelers that nowhere 
else was there a hostelry to equal this great hotel. 

To the bon vivant the grills of the Palace Hotel con- 
tained more to enhance the joy of living than anywhere 
else, and here the chefs prided themselves with provid- 
ing the best in the land, prepared in such perfect ways 
as to make a meal at the Palace the perfection of gastro- 
nomic art. 

There are three distinct eras to the history of the 
Palace Hotel, the first being from 1876 to 1890, the sec- 
ond from 1890 to 1906, and the third from 1906 to the 
present day. In the earlier days the grills, both that for 
gentlemen and that for ladies, were noted for their 
magnificent service and their wonderful cooking. A 
breakfast in the Ladies' Grill, with an omelet of Cali- 
fornia oysters, toast and coffee, was a meal long to be 
remembered. Possibly the most famous dish of the old 
Palace was this one of omelet with California oysters, 
and it was prepared in the following manner: 

(For two) : Take six eggs, one hundred 
California oysters, one small onion, one 
tablespoonful of butter, one tablespoon- 
ful of flour, salt and pepper to taste. Beat the eggs to a 
froth and stir in the onion chopped fine. Put the eggs into an 
omelet pan over a slow fire. Mix the flour and butter to a 
soft paste with a little cream, and stir in with the oysters, add- 
ing salt and pepper to taste. When the eggs begin to stiffen 
pour the oysters over and turn the omelet together. Serve on 
hot plate with a dash of paprika. 

60 



SAN FRANCISCO 

This is the recipe of Ernest Arbogast, the chef for 
many years of the old Palace. The slightly coppery 
taste of the California oysters gives a 
piquancy to the flavor of the omelet OLD AND 
that can be obtained in no other way, 
and those who once ate of Arbogast's 
California oyster omelet, invariably 
called for it again and again. 

We asked Jules Dauviller, the present chef of the 
Palace, for the recipe of what he considered the best 
dish now prepared at the Palace and he said he would 
give us two, as it was difficult to decide which was the 
best and most distinctive. These are the recipes as 
he wrote them for us: 

Trim some select fillet mignon of beef, PLANKED 
about four ounces of each, nicely. Saute FILLET 

these in a frying pan with clarified butter 
on a hot fire. Dress on a small round 

plank, about four and a half inches in diameter, decorated wilh 
a border of mashed potatoes. Over the fillet mignon pour 
stuffed pimentoes, covered with a sauce made of fresh mush- 
rooms, sauteed sec over which has been poured a little Chateau- 
briand sauce. Serve Chateaubriand sauce in a bowl. 

The second is: 

Select six nice fresh sand-dabs. Raise coLD FILLET OF 
the fillets from the bone, skin and pare 
nicely, and season with salt and paprika. PALACI 

Arrange them in an earthenware dish. Cut 
in Julienne one stalk of celery, one green pepper, one cucum- 
ber, two or three tomatoes, depending on their size. 

With the bone of the sand-dab, well cleaned, make a stock 
with one bottle of Riesling, juice of one lemon and seasoning. 
Add chervil and tarragon. Season to taste and cook the Juli- 
enne ingredients with some of the stock. When the rest of the 
stock is boiling poach it in the fillets of sand-dab, then remove 
from the fire and let get cold. Put the garnishing around the 
fillets and put on ice to get in jelly. When ready to serve dec- 
orate around the dish with any kind of salad you like, and with 
beets, capers, olives and marinated mushrooms. This must be 
served very cold and you may serve mayonnaise sauce on the 
side. 

61 



BOHEMIAN 

We asked Dauviller what he considered his most 
delicate salad and he gave us this recipe: 

Select three hearts of celery and cut them 
Julienne. Cut some pineapple and pimen- 
toes into dice. Mix all well together in 
a bowl and add mayonnaise sauce and a 

little whipped cream. Sprinkle some finely chopped green 

peppers on top and serve very cold. 



62 



SAN FRANCISCO 

On the morning of April 18, 1906, one of us stood 
in the doorway of the Hotel St. Francis, and watched 
approaching fires that came from 
three directions. It was but a few 
hours later when all that part of the 
city was a mass of seething flames, 
and in the ruins that lay in the wake 
of devastation was this magnificent hostelry. 

Before business in the down-town district was reor- 
ganized, and while the work of removing the tangled 
masses of debris was still in progress the Merchants 
Association of San Francisco called its members to- 
gether in its annual banquet, and this banquet was held 
in the basement of the Hotel St. Francis, the crumbling 
walls, and charred and blackened timbers hidden under 
a mass of bunting and foliage and flowers. Here was 
emphasized the spirit of Bohemian San Francisco, and 
it was one of the most merry and enjoyable of feasts 
ever held in the city. 

It was made possible by the fact that the manage- 
ment of the Hotel St. Francis was undaunted in the face 
of almost overwhelming disaster. The same spirit has 
carried the hotel through stress of storm and it stands 
now, almost as a monument to the energy of James 
Woods, its manager. There has always been a soft 
spot in our hearts for the Hotel St. Francis, and it is 
here that we have always felt a most pleasurable emo- 
tion when seeking a place where good things are served. 
Whether it be in the magnificent white and gold dining 
room, or the old tapestry room that has been remodeled 
into a dining room, or in the electric grill below stairs, 
it has always been the same. 

We asked Chef Victor Hertzler what he considered 
his best recipe and his answer was characteristic of him. 
"I shall give you Sole Edward VII. If this is not sat- 
isfactory I can give you a meat, or a salad or a soup 
recipe." We considered it satisfactory, and here it is: 

63 



BOHEMIAN 

Cut the fillets out of one sole and lay them flat on a buttered 
pan, and season with salt and pepper. Make the following mix- 
ture and spread over each fillet of sole: 
Take one-half pound of sweet butter, three 
ounces of chopped salted almonds, one- 
fourth pound of chopped fresh mush- 
rooms, a little chopped parsley, the juice of a lemon, salt, pep- 
per and a little grated nutmeg. 

Add to the pan one-half glassful of white wine and put in 
the oven for twenty minutes. 

When done serve in the pan by placing it on a platter, with 
a napkin under it. 

Hertzler has another recipe which he prizes greatly 
and which he calls "Celery Victor," and this is the 
recipe which he gave us : 

CELERY Take six stalks of celery well washed. 

Make a stock of one soup hen or chicken 

bones, and five pounds of veal bones in 

the usual manner, with carrots, onions, parsley, bay leaves, salt 

and pepper. Place the celery in a vessel and strain the broth 

over it. Boil until soft and let cool off in its own broth. 

When cold press the broth out of the celery with the hand, 
gently, and place on a plate. Season with salt, fresh ground 
black pepper, chervil, and one-quarter white wine vinegar with 
tarragon to three-quarters of best olive oil. 



64 



SAN FRANCISCO 

Streets centering around Powell from Market up to 
Geary, may well be termed the "Great White Way" of 
San Francisco, if New York will per- 
mit the plagiarism. Here are congre- 
gated the most noted of the lively 
restaurants of the present day San LIGHTS 
Francisco. Here the streets are 
ablaze with light at night, and thronged with people, 
for here is the restaurant and theatre district proper of 
the city. 

Among the restaurants deserving of special men- 
tion in this district are the two Solaris. When Solari 
opened his restaurant at 354 Geary street, where he 
continues to attract good livers by the excellence of his 
cooking, he at once achieved fame which has never 
waned. It so happened that there were two brothers, 
and as sometimes occurs brothers disagreed with the 
result that Fred Solari withdrew and opened a restau- 
rant at Geary and Mason, just a short distance from the 
original place. 

Evidently the recipe for what is considered best in 
both of the Solari restaurants came from common own- 
ership, for each of these places gave in response to a 
request for its best recipe, the following: 

Cut a chicken in eight pieces and drop CHICKEN 

them into some cold milk, seasoning with COUNTRY 

salt. After soaking for a few minutes dry STYLE 

the chicken in flour and lay in a frying 

pan in good butter. Place in the oven and let them cook slowly, 
turning them occasionally until they are nice and brown on all 
sides, when remove them. In the gravy put a tumblerful of 
cream and a pinch of paprika, mix well and let it cook for ten 
minutes, until it gets thick, then strain and pour over the 
chicken and serve. 

The following "don'ts" are added to the recipe: Don't use 
frozen poultry. Don't substitute corn starch and milk for 
cream. 



65 



BOHEMIAN 

San Francisco holds no more interesting district 
than that lying around the base of Telegraph Hill, and 

extending over toward North Beach, 
even as far as Fisherman's Wharf. 
..Here is the part of San Francisco 
that first felt the restoration impulse, 
and this was the first part of San 
Francisco rebuilt after the great fire, and in its rebuild- 
ing it recovered all of its former characteristics, which 
is more than can be said of any other part of the re- 
built city. 

Here, extending north from Jackson street to the 
Bay, are congregated Italians, French, Portuguese and 
Mexicans, each in a distinct colony, and each main- 
taining the life, manners and customs, and in some in- 
stances the costumes, of the parent countries, as fully 
as if they were in their native lands. Here are stores, 
markets, fish and vegetable stalls, bakeries, paste fac- 
tories, sausage factories, cheese factories, wine presses, 
tortilla bakeries, hotels, pensions, and restaurants; each 
distinctive and full of foreign life and animation, and 
each breathing an atmosphere characteristic of the 
country from which the parent stock came. 

Walk along the streets on the side of Telegraph 
Hill and one can well imagine himself transported to a 
sunny hillside in Italy, for here he hears no other lan- 
guage than that which came from the shores of the 
Mediterranean. Here are Italians of all ages, sexes and 
conditions of servitude, from the padrone to the boot- 
black who works for a pittance until he obtains enough 
to start himself in business. If one investigate closely 
it will be found that many of the people of this part of 
San Francisco have been here for years and still under- 
stand no other language than that of their native home. 
Why should they learn anything else, they say. Every- 
body around them, and with whom they come in con- 
tact speaks Italian. Here are the Corsicans, with their 

66 



SAN FRANCISCO 

peculiar ideas of the vendetta and the cheapness of life 
in general, and the Sicilians and Genoese and Milanese. 
Here are some from the slopes of 
Vesuvius or Aetna, with inborn knowl- 
edge of the grape and of wine making. 
All have brought with them recipes 
and traditions, some dating back for 
hundreds of years, or even thousands, to the days be- 
fore the Christian Era was born. It is just the same to 
them as it was across the ocean, for they hear the same 
dialect and have the same customs. Do they desire 
any special delicacy from their home district, they need 
but go to the nearest Italian grocery store and get it, 
for these stores are supplied direct from Genoa or 
Naples. This is the reason that many of the older men 
and women still speak the soft dialect of their native 
communities, and if you are so unfortunate as not to 
be able to understand them, then it is you who are 
the loser. 

Do you wish to know something about conditions in 
Mexico? Would you like to learn what the Mexicans 
themselves really think about affairs down in that dis- 
turbed republic? Go along Broadway west of Grant 
avenue, and then around the corner on Stockton, and 
you will see strange signs, and perhaps you will not 
know that "Fonda" means restaurant, or that "Tienda," 
means a store. But these are the signs you will see, and 
when you go inside you will hear nothing but the gentle 
Spanish of the Mexican, so toned down and so changed 
that some of the Castilians profess to be unable to un- 
derstand it. 

Here you will find all the articles of household use 
that are to be found in the heart of Mexico, and that 
have been used for hundreds of years despite the prog- 
ress of civilization in other countries. You will find all 
the strange foods and all the inconsequentials that go to 
make the sum of Mexican happiness, and if you can get 

67 



BOHEMIAN 

sufficiently close in acquaintance you will find that not 
only will they talk freely to you, but they will tell you 

things about Mexico that not even the 

AROUND heads of the departments in Wash- 

LITTLE ington are aware of. 

ITALY Perhaps you would like to know 

something about the bourgeoise 
French, those who have come from the peasant district 
of the mother country. Go a little further up Broadway 
and you will begin to see the signs changing from Span- 
ish to French, and if you can understand them you will 
know that here you will be given a dinner for twenty- 
five cents on week days and for thirty-five cents on Sun- 
days. The difference is brought about by the differ- 
ence between the price of cheap beef or mutton and the 
dearer chicken. 

Up in the second story on a large building you may 
see a sign that tells you meals will be served and rooms 
provided. One of these is the rendezvous of Anarchists, 
who gather each evening and discuss the affairs of the 
world, and how to regulate them. But they are harm- 
less Anarchists in San Francisco, for here they have no 
wrongs to redress, so they sit and drink their forbidden 
absinthe, and dream their dreams of fire and sword, 
while they talk in whispers of what they are going to do 
to the crowned heads of Europe. It is their dream and 
we have no quarrel with it or them. 

But for real interest one must get back to the slope 
of Telegraph Hill; to the streets running up from Co- 
lumbus avenue, until they are so steep that only goats 
and babies can play on them with safety. At least we 
suppose the babies are as active as the goats for the 
sides of the hill are alive with them. 

Let us walk first along Grant avenue and do a little 
window shopping. Just before you turn off Broadway 
into Grant avenue, after passing the Fior dTtalia, the 
Buon Gusto, the Dante and II Trovatore restaurants, we 

68 



SAN FRANCISCO 

come to a most interesting window where is displayed 

such a variety of sausages as to make one wonder at the 

inventive genius who thought of them 

all. As you wonder you peep timidly 

in the door and then walk in from 

sheer amazement. You now find 

yourself surrounded with sausages, 

from floor to ceiling, and from side wall to side wall on 

both ceiling and floor, and such sausage it is ! 

From strings so thin as to appear about the size of 
a lady's little finger, to individual sausages as large as 
the thigh of a giant, they hang in festoons, crawl over 
beams, lie along shelves, decorate counters, peep from 
boxes on the floor, and invite you to taste them in the 
slices that lay on the butcher's block. One can well 
imagine being in a cave of flesh, yet if you look closely 
you will discover that sausage is but a part of the 
strange edible things to be had here. 

Here are cheeses in wonderful variety. Cheeses from 
Italy that are made from goats' milk, asses' milk, cows' 
milk and mares' milk, and also cheeses from Spain, 
Mexico, Germany, Switzerland, and all the other coun- 
tries where they make cheese, even including the United 
States. These cheeses are of all sizes and all shapes, 
from the great, round, flat cheese that we are accus- 
tomed to see in country grocery stores, to the queer- 
shaped caciocavallo, which looks like an Indian club 
and is eaten with fruit. 

There are dried vegetables and dried fruits such as 
were never dreamed of in your limited experience, and 
even the grocer himself, the smiling and cosmopolitan 
Verga, confesses that he does not know the names of all 
of them. 

As you go out into the street you blink at the trans- 
formation, for you have been thousands of miles away. 
You think that surely there can be nothing more. Wait 
a bit. Turn the corner and walk along Grant avenue 

69 



BOHEMIAN 

toward the Hill. See, here is a window full of bread. 
Look closely at it and you will notice that it is not 

like the bread you are accustomed to. 
Count the different kinds. Fourteen 
of them in all, from the long sticks 
of grissini to the great solid loaves 
weighing many pounds. Light bread, 
heavy bread, good bread, soft bread, hard bread, deli- 
cate bread, each having its especial use, and all satisfy- 
ing to different appetites. 

Now go a little further to the corner, cross the street 
and enter the store of the Costa Brothers. It is a big 
grocery store and while you will not find the sausage 
and mystifying mass of food products in such lavish 
display and profuseness, as in the previous place, if you 
look around you will find this even more interesting, 
for it is on a different plane. Here you find the delica- 
cies and the niceties of Italian living. At first glance it 
looks as if you were in any one of the American grocery 
stores of down-town, but a closer examination reveals 
the fact that these canned goods and these boxes and 
jars, hold peculiar foods that you are unaccustomed to. 
Perhaps you will find a clerk who can speak good 
English, but if you cannot either of the Costa brothers 
will be glad to show you the courtesy of answering your 
questions. 

Turn around and look at the shelves filled with bot- 
tles of wine. Now you feel that you are on safe ground, 
for you know about wines and can talk about Cresta 
Blanca, and Mont Rouge, and Asti Colony Tipo Chianti. 
But wait a minute. Here are labels that you do not un- 
derstand and wines that you never even heard of. Here 
are wines whose taste is so delicious that you wonder 
why it is the whole world is not talking about it and 
drinking it. 

Here are wines from the slopes of Aetna, sparkling 
and sweet. Here are wines from grapes grown on the 

70 



SAN FRANCISCO 

warm slopes of Vesuvius, and brought to early perfec- 
tion by the underground fires. Here are wines from the 
colder slopes of mountains; wines 
from Parma and from Sicily and Pal- AROUND 
ermo where the warm Italian sunshine 
has been the arch-chemist to bring ITALY 
perfection to the fruit of the vine. 
Here are still wines and those that sparkle. Here the 
famed Lacrima Christi, both spumanti and fresco, 
said to be the finest wine made in all Italy, and the 
spumanti have the unusual quality for an Italian wine 
of being dry. But to tell you of all the interesting 
articles to be found in these Italian, and French and 
Mexican stores, would be impossible, for some of them 
have not been translated into English, and even the 
storekeepers would be at a loss for words to explain 
them. 

This is all a part of the Bohemianism of San Fran- 
cisco, and that is why we are telling you about it in a 
book that is supposed to be devoted to the Bohemian 
restaurants. The fact is that San Francisco's Bohemian 
restaurants would be far less interesting were it not for 
the fact that they can secure the delicacies imported by 
these foreign storekeepers to supply the wants of their 
people. 

But do not think you have exhausted the wonders of 
Little Italy when you have left the stores, for there is 
still more to see. If you were ever in Palermo and went 
into the little side streets, you saw the strings of maca- 
roni, spaghetti and other pastes drying in the sun while 
children and dogs played through and around it, giving 
you such a distaste for it that you have not eaten any 
Italian paste since. 

But in San Francisco they do things differently. 
There are a number of paste factories, all good and all 
clean. Take that of P. Fiorini, for instance, at a point 
a short distance above Costa Brothers. You cannot miss 

71 



BOHEMIAN 

it for it has a picture of Fiorini himself as a sign, and on 
it he tells you that if you eat his paste you will get to be 

as fat as he is. Go inside and you 
will find that Fiorini can talk just 
LITTLE enough English to make himself un- 
ITALY derstood, while his good wife, his sole 

assistant, can neither speak nor un- 
derstand any but her native Italian. But that does not 
bother her in the least, for she can make signs, and you 
can understand them even better than you understand 
the English of her husband. 

Here you will see the making of raviolis by the 
hundred at a time. Tagliarini, tortilini, macaroni, spa- 
ghetti, capellini, percatelli, tagliatelli, and all the sev- 
enty and two other varieties. The number of kinds of 
paste is most astonishing, and one wonders why there 
are so many kinds and what is done with them. Fiorini 
will tell you that each kind has its distinctive use. 
Some are for soups, some for sauces, and all for spec- 
ial edibility. There are hundreds of recipes for cook- 
ing the various pastes and each one is said to be a 
little better than the others, if you can imagine such a 
thing. 

Turn another corner after leaving Fiorini's and look 
down into a basement. You do not have to go to the 
country to see wine making. Here is one of the prim- 
itive wine presses of Italy, and if you want to know 
why some irreverent people call the red wine of the 
Italians "Chateau la Feet," you have but to watch the 
process of its making in these Telegraph Hill wine 
houses. The grapes are poured into a big tub and a 
burly man takes off his shoes and socks and emulates 
the oxen of Biblical times when it treaded out the 
grain. Of course he washes his feet before he gets into 
the wine tub. But, at that, it is not a pleasant thing to 
contemplate. Now you look around with wider and 
more comprehensive eyes, and now you begin to under- 

72 



SAN FRANCISCO 

stand something about these strange foreign quarters in 

San Francisco. As you look around you note another 

thing. Italian fecundity is apparent 

everywhere, and the farther up the AROUND 

steep slope of the Hill you go the 

more children you see. They are ITALY 

everywhere, and of all sizes and ages, 

in such reckless profusion that you no longer wonder if 

the world is to be depopulated through the coming of 

the fad of Eugenics. The Italian mother has but two 

thoughts — her God and her children, and it is to care 

for her children that she has brought from her native 

land the knowledge of cookery, and of those things that 

help to put life and strength in their bodies. 

An Italian girl said to us one day: 
"Mama knows nothing but cooking and going to 
church. She cooks from daylight until dark, and stops 
cooking only when she is at church." 

It was evident that her domestic and religious duties 
dominated her life, and she knew but two things — to 
please her God and to care for her family, and without 
question if occasion demanded the pleasure of her fam- 
ily took precedence. 

San Francisco's Latin quarter is appealing, enticing 
and hypnotizing. Go there and you will learn why San 
Francisco is a Bohemian city. You will find out that so 
many things you have thought important are really not 
at all worth while. Go there and you will find the root 
of Bohemian restaurants. These people have studied 
gastronomy as a science, and they have imparted their 
knowledge to San Francisco, with the result that the Bo- 
hemian spirit enters into our very lives, and our minds 
are broadened, and our views of life and our ideas have 
a wider scope. It is because of this condition, born on 
the slopes of Telegraph Hill, that we are drawn out of 
depressing influences, out of the spirit of self-conscious- 
ness, and find a world of pleasure, innocent and educa- 

73 



BOHEMIAN 

tional, the inspiration for which has been handed down 
through generations of Latins since the days of early 

Roman empire, which inspiration is 

still a power for good because it 

takes people out of themselves and 

places them where they can look 

with understanding and speak the 

language of perception. Little Italy's charm has long 

been recognized by artists and writers, and many of 

them began their careers which led to fame and fortune 

in little cheap rooms on Telegraph Hill. Here have 

lived many whose names are now known to fame, and 

to name them would be almost like a directory of world 

renowned artists and writers. Here is still the memory 

of Bret Harte and Mark Twain. Here is where Keith 

had his early studio. Cadenasso, Martinez, and many 

others know these slopes and love them. 

To all these and many more the Latin Quarter of 
San Francisco possessed a charm they could find no- 
where else, and if one desire to bring a saddened look 
to the faces of many now living elsewhere it is but 
necessary to talk of the good old days when Bohemia 
was on Telegraph Hill in San Francisco. Here they had 
their domicile, and here they foregathered in the little 
restaurants, whose claims to merit lay chiefly in the 
fact that they were rarely visited by other than the 
Italians of the quarter and these Bohemians who lived 
there. 

Here was the inspiration of many a good book and 
many a famous picture whose inception came from 
thoughts that crystallized amid these surroundings, and 
here many a needy Bohemian struggled through the 
lean days with the help of these kind-hearted Latins. 
Here they, even as we, were taught something of the 
art of cooking. 

Of course, if one desire to learn various methods of 
preparing food, it is necessary to keep both eyes open 

74 



SAN FRANCISCO 

and to ask many questions, seeking the information that 
sometimes comes from unlooked for sources. Even at 
that it is not always a good idea to 
take everything for granted or to ac- 
cept every suggestion, for you may 
meet with the Italian vegetable 
dealer who is so eager to please his 
customers that he pretends a knowledge he does not 
possess. We discovered him one day when he had on 
display a vegetable that was strange to us. 

"How do you cook it?" was our question. 

"Fry it." ' 
Then his partner shouted his laughter and derision. 

"Oh, he's one fine cook. All the time he say 'fry it.' 
One day a lady she come into da store an' she see da 
big bucket of ripe olives. Da lady she from the East 
and she never see olives like dat before. 'How you cook 
it?' say da lady. 'Fry it,' say my partner. Everything 
he say fry it." 

In another vegetable stand we found an Italian girl, 
whose soft lisping accent pronounced her a Genoese, 
and she diffidently suggested "a fine Italian dessert." 

"You take macaroons and strawberries. A FINE 
Put a layer of macaroons in a dish and then DESSERT 
a layer of strawberries, cover these with 
sugar, and then another layer of macaroons and strawberries 
and sugar until you have all you want. Over these pour some 
rum and set fire to it. After it is burned out you have a fine 
dessert." 

We bought the macaroons and strawberries on the 
way home and did not even wait for dinner time to try 
it. We pronounce it good. 

It was made the right way and we advise you to try 
it, for it is simple and leaves a most delicious memory. 



75 



BOHEMIAN 

It was very early one morning. So early that one 
of us strenuously pretended sleep while the other gave 

urgent reminder that this was the day 
we were to go to Fishermen's Wharf. 
Daylight came early and it was just 
four o'clock when we began prepara- 
tions. A cup of hot coffee while 
dressing served to get us wide-awake, and we were off 
to see the fish come in. 

Fishermen's Wharf lies over at North Beach, at the 
end of Meiggs's Wharf, where the Customs Officers have 
their station, and to reach it one takes either the Powell 
and North Beach cars, or the Kearny and North Beach 
cars, and at the end of either walks two blocks. When 
you get that far anybody you see can tell you where 
to go. 

Fog mist was stealing along the Marin shore, and 
hiding Golden Gate when we arrived, and the rays of 
the sun took some time to make a clear path out to sea. 
Out of the bank of white came gliding the heavy power 
boats of the Sicilian and Gorsican fishermen, while from 
off' shore were the ghostly lateen rigged boats of those 
who had been fishing up the Sacramento and San 
Joaquin rivers, their yards aslant to catch the faint 
morning breeze. As they slipped through the leaden 
water to their mooring at the wharf we could see the 
decks and holds piled with fish and crabs. 

Roosting on piles, and lining the water's edge on 
everything that served to give foothold, were countless 
seagulls, all waiting for the breakfast they knew was 
coming from the discarded fish, and fit companions 
were the women with shawls over their heads irrever- 
ently called mud hens, and old men in dilapidated 
clothing, who sat along the stringers of the wharf, some 
with baskets, some with buckets and others with little 
paper bags, in which to put the fish which they could 
get so cheaply it meant a meal for them when other- 

76 



SAN FRANCISCO 

wise they would have to go without. The earlier boats 
were moored and on the decks fires were burning in 
charcoal braziers, on which the fish- 
ermen cooked their breakfasts of fish WHERE 
and coffee, with the heavy black 
loaves of bread for which they seem GOME IN 
to have special fancy. As the odor of 
the cooking fish came up from the water the waiting 
gulls and men and women moved a little closer. 

Breakfast over the fishermen turned to the expect- 
ant crowd and began taking notice of the pitiful offer- 
ings of coin. Tin buckets, newspapers, bags, rags and 
even scooped hands were held down, each containing 
such coin as the owner possessed, and in return came 
bountiful supply of fish. A fine, fat crab for which your 
market man would charge you forty cents was sold for 
ten. Beautiful, fresh sand-dabs, but an hour or two out 
of the water, were five cents a pound, while sea bass, 
fresh cod, mackerel, and similar fish went at the same 
price. Small fish, or white bait, went by quantity, ten 
cents securing about half a gallon. Smelt, herring, 
flounder, sole, all went at equally low prices, and as 
each buyer secured his allotment he went hurrying off 
through the mist, as silently as the floating gulls. When 
these were all supplied the rest of the fish and crabs 
were taken up to the wharf and put on the counters of 
the free market, where they were sold at prices most 
tempting. 

Shrimps, alive and active, crayfish, clams, squid and 
similar sea food was in profusion and sold at prices on a 
parity with that of the fish. As the day wore on the early 
buyers were replaced by those who knew of the free fish 
market and came to get good supplies for their money. 
Here were boarding-house keepers, unmistakable any- 
where, Bohemians in hard luck who remembered that 
they could get good food here at a minimum of price, 
and came now while on the down turn of the wheel. 

77 



BOHEMIAN 

As a human interest study it was better than a study of 
fish. Fishermen's Wharf is where the independent 

fishermen bring their catches to San 
Francisco, but it is not where the 
city's great supply comes in. To see 
that we had to go along the docks 
until we came to the Broadway wharf 
where Paladini, the head of the fish trust, unloads his 
tugs of their tons and tons of fish. It is not nearly so 
interesting to look at, but it gives a good idea of what 
comes out of the sea every day to supply the needs of 
San Francisco and the surrounding country. These 
tugs bring in the catches of dozens of smaller boats 
manned by fishermen who are toiling out beyond the 
heads, and up the two great rivers. From far out 
around the Farallones, from up around the Potato 
Patch with its mournful fog bell constantly tolling, from 
down the coast as far as Monterey Bay where fish are in 
such abundance that it is said they have to give a signal 
when they want to turn around, from up the rivers, 
come fish to the man who has grown from the owner of 
a small sail boat to be the power who controls prices of 
all the fish that go to the markets of the city. 

By the time we finished with Paladini's fish we felt 
ready for breakfast and took a car down to Davis and 
Pacific street where we found Bazzuro's serving break- 
fast to dozens of market gardeners who had finished 
their unloading, and there, while partaking of the fresh 
fish we had brought from Fishermen's Wharf, we saw 
another phase of San Francisco's early morning life. 
Here were gardeners who came in the darkness of early 
morning to supply hucksters, small traders and a few 
thrifty people who knew of the cheapness, and in Co- 
lumbo market they drove their great wagons and dis- 
charged their day's gathering of vegetables of all kinds. 
But a few steps away is the great fruit market of the 
early morning and here tons of the finest fruits are dis- 

78 



SAN FRANCISCO 

tributed to the hundreds of wagons that crowd the 
street to such an extent that it takes all the ingenuity 
of experienced policemen to keep 
clearway for traffic. Threading their 
way in and out between the wheels 
and the heels of horses, were men 
and women, all looking for bargains 
in food. Amid a din almost deafening business was 
transacted with such celerity that in three hours the 
streets were cleared, fruits and vegetables sold and on 
their way to distant stands, and the tired policemen 
leaning gainst friendly walls, recuperating after the 
strenuous work of keeping order in chaos. 

It is when one goes to these places in the morning 
and sees the cheapness of these foods that he can un- 
derstand in a small way why it is that so many Italian 
restaurants can give such good meals for so little money. 
One wonders at a table d'hote dinner of six or seven 
courses for twenty-five cents, or even for half a dollar, 
and one accustomed to buying meats, fish, vegetables 
and fruits at the exorbitant prices charged at most of 
the markets and fruit and vegetable stands now sees 
why the thrifty foreigner can make and save money 
while the average American can hardly keep more than 
two jumps ahead of the sheriff. 



i 
79 



BOHEMIAN 

Probably the most frequent question asked us by 
those who come to San Francisco is: "Where can we 

get the best fish?" With San Fran- 
cisco's wonderful natural advantages 
as a fish market one is sometimes 
surprised that more attention is not 
given to preparing fish as a specialty. 
But one restaurant in the city deals exclusively with sea 
food, and even there one is astonished at an overlooked 
opportunity. 

Darbee & Immel have catered to San Francisco in 
oysters for many years and after the fire they opened 
the Shell Fish Grotto, in O'Farrell street, between Powell 
and Mason streets, and this is one of the very few dis- 
tinctive fish restaurants of the country. It is when one 
considers the possibilities that a shock comes from the 
environing decorations. White and gold pillars, with 
twining ivy reaching to the old gold and rose mural and 
ceiling embellishments seem out of place in a restau- 
rant that is devoted entirely to catering to lovers of fish. 
Nothing in the place indicates its character except the 
big lobster in front of the building. Not even so much 
as a picture to bring a sentiment of the ocean to the 
mind. 

We are going to take a liberty, and possibly Darbee 
& Immel may call it an impertinence, and give them a 
bit of advice. It costs them nothing consequently they 
can act on it or not and it will make no difference. This 
is our suggestion: 

Change the interior of the place entirely by having 
around the walls a series of large glass aquaria, with as 
manv different kinds of fish swimming about as it is 
possible to get; something on the order of the interior 
of the aquarium in Battery Park in New York. Paint 
the ceiling to represent the surface of the water as seen 
from below. Have seaweed and kelp in place of ivy, 
and a fish net or two caught up in the corners of the 

80 



SAN FRANCISCO 

room, with here and there a star fish or a crab — not too 
many, for profuseness in this sort of decoration is an 
abomination. Then you will have a 
restaurant that will be talked about FISH IN 

wherever people sit at meat. But to THEIR 

get back to our talk about fish, and VARIETY 

where to get it prepared and cooked 
the best. We must say that the finest fish we have eaten 
in San Francisco was not in the high-priced restaurants 
at all, but in a little, dingy back room, down at Fisher- 
men's Wharf, where there was sand on the floor and all 
the sounds of the kitchen were audible in the dining 
room. The place was patronized almost solely by the 
Italian fishermen who not only know how to catch a fish 
but how it ought to be cooked. One may always rest as- 
sured that when he gets a fish in one of the Italian res- 
taurants it is perfectly fresh, for there are two things 
that an Italian demands in eating, and they are fresh 
fish and fresh vegetables. 

At the Gianduja at Union and Stockton streets, one 
is certain to get fish cooked well and that it is perfectly 
fresh. The variety is not so good as at the Shell Fish 
Grotto, but otherwise it is just as good in every respect. 
At the Grotto there is a wonderful variety but the quan- 
tity is at the minimum because there, too, they will have 
no fish that has been twenty-four hours out of the 
water. 

One wonders how a full course dinner entirely of 
fish can be prepared, but if you will go to the Shell Fish 
Grotto you will find that it is done, and done well at 
that. Here you can get a good dinner for one dollar, or 
if you prefer it they have a Fish Dinner de Luxe for 
which they charge two dollars. Both are good, the lat- 
ter having additional wines and delicacies. 

Down in Washington street, just off Columbus ave- 
nue, is the Vesuvius, an Italian restaurant of low price, 
but excellent cooking. A specialty there is fish which 

81 



BOHEMIAN 

is always brought fresh from the nearby Clay street 
market as ordered, consequently is perfect. When you 

give your order a messenger is dis- 
patched to the market and usually he 
brings the fish alive and the chef pre- 
pares it in one of his many ways, for 
he is said to have more secrets about 
the cooking of fish than one would think it possible for 
one brain to contain. The trouble about this restaurant 
is that the rest of the menu does not come up to the fish 
standard, but if you desire a simple luncheon of fish 
there is no better place to get it. 

There are three things in which an Easterner will be 
disappointed in San Francisco, and these are oysters. 
Pacific Coast oysters fail in size, flavor and cooking, 
when compared with the luscious bivalve of the At- 
lantic, so far as the ordinary forms of preparation is 
concerned. Even fancy dishes, such as Oysters Kirk- 
patrick, would be better if made of the eastern oyster, 
not what they call the eastern oyster here, for that is a 
misnomer, but the oysters that grow in the Atlantic 
Ocean. 

Of the Pacific oysters the best is the Toke Point, that 
comes from Oregon. They are similar in size to the 
Blue Point, but lack the flavor. When, in a San Fran- 
cisco restaurant, you are asked what sort of oyster you 
will have, and you see the familiar names on the menu 
card, remember that these are transplanted oysters, and 
have lost much of their flavor in the transplanting, or 
else they are oysters that have been shipped across the 
continent and have thereby lost their freshness. 

The California oyster proper, is very small, and it 
has a peculiar coppery taste, which bon vivants declare 
adds to its piquancy. Instead of ordering these by the 
dozen you order them by the hundred, it being no diffi- 
cult task to eat an hundred at a meal, especially when 
prepared in a pepper roast. 

82 



SAN FRANCISCO 

Everyone knows the staple ways of preparing 
oysters, and every chef looks upon the oyster as the 
source of new flavors in many dishes, 
but to our mind the best way we have 
found in San Francisco was at a little 
restaurant down in Washington street 
before the fire. It was the Buon Gusto, 
where they served fish and oysters better than anything 
else because the owners were the chefs, and they were 
from the island of Catalan, off the coast of Italy. Their 
specialty was called "Oysters a la Catalan," and their 
recipe, which is given, can be prepared excellently in 
a chafing dish: 

Take one tablespoonful of butter, two OYSTERS A LA 
teaspoonfuls grated Edam or Parmesan CATALAN 
cheese, four tablespoonfuls catsup, one- 
half teaspoonful Worcestershire sauce, two tablespoonfuls 
cream, meat of one good-sized crab cut fine and two dozen 
oysters. Put the cheese and butter into a double boiler and 
when melted smooth add the catsup and Worcestershire sauce. 
Mix well and add the cream and then the crab meat. When 
creamy and boiling hot drop in the oysters. As soon as the 
oysters are crinkled serve on hot buttered toast on hot plates. 

In the days before the fire when you went to a res- 
taurant and ordered fish or oysters the waiter invari- 
ably put before you either a plate of crab salad or a 
dish of shrimps, with which you were supposed to 
amuse yourself while the meal was being prepared. 
Shrimps and crabs were then so plentiful that their 
price was never considered. Under our new conditions 
these always appear on the bill when ordered, and if 
they be not ordered they do not appear for they now 
are made to increase the income. 

To the uninitated visitor the shrimps so served were 
always something of a mystery, and after a few futile 
efforts to get at the meat they generally gave it up as too 
much work for the little good derived. The Old Timer, 
however, cracked the shrimp's neck, pinched its tail, 

83 



BOHEMIAN 

and out popped a delicious bonne bouche which added 
to the joy of the meal and increased the appetite. But 

there are many other ways of serv- 
ing shrimps, and they are also much 
used to give flavor to certain fish 
sauces. One of the most delicious 
ways of preparing shrimp is what is 
known as "Shrimp Creole, a la Antoine," so named 
after the famous New Orleans Antoine by a chef in San 
Francisco who had regard for the New Orleans caterer. 
We doubt if it can be had anywhere in San Francisco 
now unless you are well enough known to have it pre- 
pared according to the recipe. This recipe, by the way, 
is a good one to use in a chafing dish supper. This is 
the way it was prepared at the old Pup restaurant, one 
of the noted restaurants before the fire and earthquake 
changed conditions: 

SHRIMP Take three pints of unshelled shrimps 
CREOLE an( l shell them, one-half pint of cream, 
two tablespoonfuls of butter, two table- 
spoonfuls of flour, two tablespoonfuls of catsup, one wine glass 
of sherry, paprika, chili powder and parsley. Brown the flour 
in the butter and add the milk until it is thickened. Color with 
the catsup and season with paprika and chili powder. Stir in 
the sherry and make a pink cream which is to be mixed through 
the shrimps and not cooked. Sprinkle with chopped parsley 
and serve with squares of toast or crackers. 



84 



SAN FRANCISCO 

When is a lobster not a lobster? When it is a cray- 
fish. This question and answer might well go into the 
primer of information for those who 
come to San Francisco from the East, LOBSTERS 
for what is called a lobster in San AND 

Francisco is not a lobster at all but LOBSTERS 
a crayfish. The true lobster is not 
found in the Pacific along the California coast, and so 
far efforts at transplanting have not been successful. 
The Pacific crayfish, however, serves every purpose, and 
while many contend that its meat is not so delicate in 
flavor as that of its eastern cousin, the Californian will 
as strenuously insist that it is better, but, of course, 
something must always be allowed for the patriotism of 
the Californian. 

Lobster, served cold with mayonnaise, or broiled 
live lobster are most frequently called for, and while 
they are both excellent, we find so many other ways of 
preparing this crustacean that we rarely take the com- 
mon variety of lobster dishes into consideration. Prob- 
ably nowhere in San Francisco could one get lobster 
better served than in the Old Delmonico restaurant of 
the days before the fire. A book could be written about 
this restaurant and then all would not be told for all its 
secrets can never be known. 

In New York City they have what they are pleased 
to call "Lobster Palaces," but there is not a restaurant 
in that great metropolis that could approach the Del- 
monico of San Francisco in its splendid service and its 
cuisine arrangements; neither could they approach the 
romance that always surrounded the O'Farrell street 
restaurant. It was here that most magnificent dinners 
were arranged; it was here that extraordinary dishes 
were concocted by chefs of world-wide fame; it was 
here that Lobster a la Newberg reached its highest per- 
fection, and this is the recipe that was followed when it 
was prepared in the Delmonico : 

85 



BOHEMIAN 

One pound of lobster meat, one teaspoonful of butter, one- 
half pint of cream, yolks of four eggs, one wine glass of sherry, 

lobster fat. Three hours before cooking 
pour the sherry over the lobster meat and 
let it stand until ready to cook. Heat the 
butter and stir in with the lobster and 
wine, then place this in a stewpan, or chaf- 
ing dish, and cook for eight minutes. Have the yolks of eggs 
well beaten and add to them the cream and lobster fat, stir well 
and then stir in a teaspoonful of flour. Put this in a double 
boiler and let cook until thick, stirring constantly. When this 
is cooked pour it over the lobster and let all cook together for 
three minutes. Serve in a chafing dish with thin slices of dry 
toast. 



86 



SAN FRANCISCO 

One has to come to San Francisco to partake of the 
king of shell fish — the mammoth Pacific crab. I say 
"come to San Francisco" advisedly, 
for while the crab is found all along 
the coast it is prepared nowhere so SHELL 

deliciously as in San Francisco. Of 
course our friends in Portland will 
take exception to this, but the fact remains that no- 
where except in San Francisco have so many restau- 
rants become famous because of the way they prepare 
the crab. The Pacific crab is peculiar, and while it has 
not the gigantic claws such as are to be seen on those 
in the Parisian and London markets, its meat is much 
more delicate in flavor, and the dishes of crab prepared 
by artists of the gastronomic profession in San Fran- 
cisco are more savory than those found elsewhere. 

In the pre-fire days there were many places which 
paid especial attention to the cooking of the crab, 
among them being the Cobweb Palace, previously men- 
tioned, and Gobey's. Gobey ran one of those places 
which was not in good repute, consequently when ladies 
went there they were usually veiled and slipped in 
through an alley, but the enticement of Gobey's crab 
stew was too much for conventionality and his little 
private rooms were always full. 

Gobey's passed with the fire, and the little restau- 
rant bearing his name, and in charge of his widow, in 
Union Square avenue, has not attained the fame of the 
old place. It is possible that she knows the secret of 
preparing crab as it was prepared in the Gobey's of be- 
fore the fire, but his prestige did not descend to her. 

Almost all of the Italian restaurants will give you 
crab in many forms, and all of them are good; many 
restaurants use crab meat for flavoring other dishes, 
but of all the recipes for cooking crab we have found 
none that we consider so good as that of Gobey's. It is 
as follows: 

87 



BOHEMIAN 

Take the meat of one large crab, scraping out all of the fat 
from the shell. One good-sized onion, one tomato, one sweet 

pepper, one teaspoonful of butter, one tea- 
GOBEY'S spoonful of flour, half a glass of sherry, a 

pinch of rosemary, one clove of garlic, 
paprika, salt and minionette pepper. Soak 
the crab meat in the sherry two hours be- 
fore cooking. Chop fine the onion, sweet pepper and tomato 
with the rosemary. Mash the clove of garlic, rubbing thor- 
oughly in a mortar and on this put the butter and flour, mixing 
well together, and gradually adding the salt and minionette 
pepper, and stir in two tablespoonfuls of cream. Heat this in a 
stewpan and when simmering add the sherry and crab meat 
and let all cook together with a slow fire for eight minutes, 
serve in a chafing dish with toasted crackers or thin slices of 
toasted bread. A dash of Worcestershire sauce just before it is 
taken up adds to the flavor. 



88 



SAN FRANCISCO 

Crawfish, or ecravisse, has never been very popular 
in San Francisco, probably because there are so many 
other delicate crustaceans that are 
more easily handled, yet the crawfish LOBSTER 
grows to perfection in Pacific waters, 
and importations of them from Port- MINIATURE 
land, Oregon, are becoming quite an 
industry. So far it has been used mostly for garnish- 
ment of other dishes, and it is only recently that the 
Hof Brau has been making a specialty of them. All of 
the better class restaurants, however, will serve them if 
you order them. 

The full flavor of the crawfish is best obtained in a 
bisque, and the best recipe for this is by the famous chef 
Francatelli, who boasts having been the head of the 
cuisine of Queen Victoria. His recipe is long, and its 
preparation requires much patience, but the result is 
such a gastronomic marvel that one never regrets the 
time spent in its accomplishment. This is the recipe for 
eight people, and it is well worth trying if you are giv- 
ing a dinner of importance : 

Take thirty crawfish, from which re- 
move the gut containing the gall in the fol- 
lowing manner: Take firm hold of the CRAWFISH 
crawfish with the left hand so as to avoid 

being pinched by its claws; with the thumb and forefinger of 
the right hand pinch the extreme end of the central fin of the 
tail, and, with a sudden jerk, the gut will be withdrawn. 

Mince or cut into small dice a carrot, an onion, one head 
of celery and a few parsley roots, and to these add a bay leaf, a 
sprig of thyme, a little minionette pepper and two ounces of 
butter. Put these ingredients into a stewpan and fry them ten 
minutes, then throw in the crawfish and pour on them half a 
bottle of French white wine. Allow this to boil and then add a 
quart of strong consomme and let all continue boiling for half 
an hour. Pick out the crawfish and strain the broth through a 
napkin by pressure into a basin in order to extract all the es- 
sence from the vegetables. 

Pick the shells off twenty-five of the crawfish tails, trim 
them neatly and set them aside until wanted. Reserve some of 

89 



BOHEMIAN 

the spawn, also half of the body shells with which to make the 
crawfish butter to finish the soup. This butter is made as fol- 
lows: Place the shells on a baking sheet 
in the oven to dry; let the shells cool and 
then pound them in a mortar with a little 
lobster coral and four ounces of fresh 
butter, thoroughly bruising the whole to- 
gether so as to make a fine paste. Put this in a stewpan and set 
it over a slow fire to simmer for about five minutes, then rub 
it through a sieve with considerable pressure into a basin con- 
taining ice water. As soon as the colored crawfish butter is be- 
come firmly set, through the coldness of the water, take it out 
and put it into a small basin and set in the refrigerator until 
wanted. 

Reverting to the original recipe: Take the remainder of 
the crawfish and add thereto three anchovies, washed for the 
purpose, and also the crusts of French rolls, fried to a light 
brown color in butter. Pound all these thoroughly together and 
then put them into a stewpan with the broth that has been re- 
served in a basin, and having warmed the bisque thus prepared 
rub it through a sieve into a fine puree. Put this puree into a 
soup pot and finish by incorporating therewith the crawfish 
butter and season with a little cayenne pepper and the juice of 
half a lemon. Pour the bisque quite hot into the tureen in 
which have been placed the crawfish tails, and send to the 
table. 

This is not so difficult as it appears when you are 
reading it and if you wish to have something extra fine 
take the necessary time and patience and prepare it. 



90 



SAN FRANCISCO 

We cannot dispose of the shell fish of San Francisco 
without a word or two about clams, for certainly there 
is no place where they are in greater 
variety and better flavor. In fact the CLAMS 

clam is the only bivalve of this part 
of the coast that has a distinctive and ABALONES 
good flavor. Several varieties are to 
be found in the markets, the best and rarest being the 
little rock clams that come from around Drake's Bay, 
just above the entrance to Golden Gate. These are most 
delicious in flavor and should never be eaten otherwise 
than raw. The sand, or hard shell, or as they are some- 
times called little necks, are next in choiceness, and 
then come the Pismo beach clams, noted for their flavor 
and enormous size. The mud clam is good for chowder 
but not so good as either of the other varieties men- 
tioned. 

The Bohemian way to have your clams is to go to 
the shore of Bolinas Bay or some other equally retired 
spot, and have a clam bake, or else take a pot along 
with the other ingredients and have a good clam chow- 
der. This, however, may be prepared at any time and 
is always a good meal. 

Clam fritters when prepared according to the recipe 
given herein, is one of the best methods of preparing 
the clam, and it has the peculiarity of being so tasty 
that one feels that there is never enough cooked. 

Of all the ways of cooking clams chowder takes 
precedence as a rule, and it is good when made prop- 
erly. By that we do not mean the thin, watery stuff that 
is served in most of the restaurants and called clam 
chowder just because it happens to be made every Fri- 
day. That is fairly good as a clam soup but it is no 
more chowder than a Mexican soup approaches a craw- 
fish bisque. There is but one right way to make clam 
chowder, and that is either to make it yourself or closely 
superintend the making, and this is the way to make it : 

91 



BOHEMIAN 

Take one quart of shelled sand clams, two large potatoes, 
two large onions, one clove of garlic, one sweet pepper, one thick 

slice of salt pork, one-half pound small 
oyster crackers, one-half glass sherry, one 
tablespoonful Worcestershire sauce, one 
tomato, salt, and pepper. In a large stew- 
pan place the salt pork cut into small dice, and let this fry 
slightly over a slow fire until the bottom of the stewpan is well 
greased. Take this off" the fire and put in a layer of potatoes 
sliced thin, on top of the salt pork, then a layer of onions sliced 
thin, and a layer of clams. Put on this salt and pepper and 
sprinkle with a little flour and then a layer of crackers. Chop 
the sweet pepper and tomato fine and mix with them the 
bruised and mashed garlic. On top of each succession of layers 
put a little of the mixture. Continue making these layers until 
all the ingredients are placed in the stewpan, and then pour on 
the top sufficient water to just show. Cover tightly and let cook 
gently for half an hour. Pour on the Worcestershire sauce and 
sherry just before serving. Do not stir this while cooking, and 
in order to prevent its burning it should be cooked over an 
asbestos cover. 

When done this should be thick enough to be eaten with 
a fork. 

Among the good Bohemians who lived in San Fran- 
cisco as a child when it was in the post-pioneer days, 
and who has enjoyed the good things of all the famous 
restaurants is Mrs. Emma Sterett, who has given us the 
following recipe for clam fritters which we consider the 
most delicious of all we have ever eaten, and when you 
try them you will agree with us: 

Take two dozen clams, washed thoroughly 
and drained. Put in chopping bowl and 
chop, not too fine. Add to these one clove 
of garlic mashed, one medium-sized onion chopped fine, add 
bread crumbs sufficient to stiffen the mass, chopped parsley, 
celery and herbs to taste. Beat two eggs separately and add to 
the clams. If too stiff to drop from a spoon add the strained 
liquor of clams. Drop tablespoonfuls of this mixture into hot 
fat, turn and cook for sufficient time to cook through, then 
drain on brown paper and serve. 

Abalones are a univalve that has been much in 
vogue among the Chinese but has seldom found place 

92 



SAN FRANCISCO 

on the tables of restaurants owing to the difficulty in 
preparing them, as they are tough and insipid under 
ordinary circumstances. When made 
tender either by the Chinese method CLAMS 

of pounding, or by steeping in vine- 
gar, they serve the purpose of clams 
but have not the fine flavor. The Hof 
Brau restaurant is now making a specialty of abalones, 
but it takes sentiment to say that one really finds any- 
thing extra good in them. 

Another shell fish much in vogue among the Italian 
restaurants is mussels, which are found to perfection 
along the coast. These are usually served Bordelaise, 
and make quite a pleasant change when one is sur- 
feited with other shell fish, but the best recipe is : 

Thoroughly clean the mussels and MUSSELS 

then put them in a deep pan and pour over MARINIERE 

them half a glass of white wine. Chop an 
onion, a clove of garlic and some parsley fine and put in the 
pan, together with a tablespoonful of butter. Let these boil 
very quick for twelve minutes, keeping the pan tightly covered. 
Take off half shells and place the mussels in a chafing dish and 
pour over them Bechamel sauce and then add sufficient milk 
gravy to cover. Serve hot from chafing dish. 



93 



BOHEMIAN 

According to David Starr Jordan, acknowledged 
world authority on fish, there is greater variety of fish 

in Monterey Bay than anywhere else 
in the world. Monterey Bay is one 
of San Francisco's sources of supply 
ABOUND consequently we have a greater vari- 

ety of fish in our markets than are to 
be found anywhere else. In the markets are fish from 
all parts of the Pacific Ocean, from the Tropics to far 
north in the Arctics, while denizens of the waters all the 
way between add to the variety. 

The essential element of goodness in fish is fresh- 
ness, and it is always fresh in San Francisco markets, 
and also in the restaurants. Of all varieties two rank 
first in the estimation of gourmets, but, of course, that 
is purely a matter of individual taste. According to the 
above-mentioned authority, "the finest fish that swims 
is the sand-dab." Some gourmets, however, will take 
issue with him on this and say the pompano is bet- 
ter. Others will prefer the mountain trout. Be that as 
it may they all are good, with many others following 
close in choice. 

Fine striped bass from the ocean, or black bass from 
the fresh water takes high place in preference. Then 
there is sole, both in the fillet and Rex, as prepared at 
Jule's under the Monadnock building. Tom cod, rock 
cod, fresh mackerel and fresh cod, white bait and boned 
smelt all are excellent fish, but were we to attempt to 
tell of all the fish to be found here we would have to 
reproduce a piscatorial directory. There are two good 
methods of acquiring knowledge of the fish of San 
Francisco. Go to the wharves and see them come and 
and go to the wholesale markets down in Clay street, 
below Montgomery. You will then begin to realize that 
we certainly do have a variety of good fish. 

Now for a little Bohemianism of a different sort: 
Recently there came to San Francisco, with his wife, an 

94 



SAN FRANCISCO 

actor whose name used to be almost a household word 
among theater-goers, and when we say "the villain still 
pursued her," all you oldtimers will 
know whom we mean. When he was 
here in the years long gone by it was 
his custom to go to the old California ABOUND 
market, select what he desired to eat, 
then take it to the restaurant and have it cooked, and 
the old atmosphere came back to him on his recent ar- 
rival and he revived the old custom. 

"Meet us at the California market," was the tele- 
phone message that came to us, and we were there, for 
we knew that something good was in store for us. 

First we went through the market from end to end 
and all the side aisles, "spying out the land." It is not 
possible to enumerate what we saw. If you want to 
know go there and see for yourselves. Having seen we 
were told to go and select what we wished to have for 
our dinner, and then the selection began and there was 
a feast of buying fish, meats, vegetables and delicacies 
of all sorts, even to French pastry. 

Our purchases were ordered sent to the restaurant 
in the corner of the market where the chef had already 
been duly "seen," and then came each particular idea 
as to how the food was to be cooked. We had sand- 
dabs municr, Chateaubriand with mushrooms, Italian 
squash, fried in oil with a flavor of garlic, French pastry, 
and coffee, together with some good California Tipo 
Chianti, all flavored with such a stream of reminiscence 
that we forgot that such things as clocks existed. 

It was the first time our theatrical friends had tasted 
sand-dabs, for this fish has come to San Francisco mar- 
kets only in recent years, and they declared that it was 
the "only" fish fit to be eaten. It is possible that they 
were prejudiced by the sentiment of the surroundings 
and consequently not exactly in position to be good 
judges. 

95 



BOHEMIAN 

All Italian restaurants serve fish well. At the New 
Buon Gusto you will find a most excellent cippino with 

polenti, and if you have not experi- 
enced this we advise you to try it as 
soon as possible. At the Gianduja you 
will find sand-dabs au gratin to be 
very fine. At Jack's, striped bass 
cooked in wine is what we think the best of the fish to 
be found in the market, or at the restaurants, cooked 
that way. Jule's is famous for his Rex sole. At all of 
the French and Italian restaurants small fry is cooked 
to perfection. If you wish fish in any way or of any 
kind you will make no mistake in asking for it at any 
of the French or Italian restaurants, or at the Shell Fish 
Grotto, and if you are in doubt regarding what to order 
just take the proprietor into your confidence, tell him 
you are a stranger in the city and ask him to serve you 
fish the best way he prepares it. You will not be disap- 
pointed. 



96 



SAN FRANCISCO 

Variants of food preparation sometimes typify na- 
tionalities better even than variants of language or 
clothing. Take the lowly corn meal, 
for instance. We find that Italian 
polenti, Spanish tamale, Philadelphia 
scrapple and Southern Darkey crack- 
ling corn bread are but variants of 
the preparation of corn meal in delectable foods. It is 
a long step from plain corn meal mush to scrapple, 
which we consider the highest and best form of prepar- 
ing this sort of dish, but all the intermediate steps come 
from a desire to please the taste with a change from 
simple corn meal. Crackling corn bread is the first 
step, and here we find that the darkies of the South 
found good use for the remnants of the pork after lard 
was tried out at hog-killing time, by mixing the crack- 
lings with their corn meal and making a pone which 
they cooked before an open fire on a hoe blade, the 
first of this being called "cracklin' hoe cake." 

Good scrapple is one of the finest breakfast dishes 
that we know during the winter, and when prepared 
after the recipe given here it precedes all other forms of 
serving corn meal. To mix it properly one must know 
the proper values of herbs and condiments, and this 
recipe is the result of much discriminating study. Mod- 
esty prevents us giving it more than the name of 
"scrapple." It is prepared in the following manner, dif- 
fering from that made in Philadelphia: 

Take a young pig's head and boil it un- 
til the flesh drops from the bones, in water 

to which has been added two good-sized onions, quartered, five 
bruised cloves of garlic, one bay leaf, sweet marjoram, thyme, 
rosemary, a little sage, salt, and pepper. Separate the meat 
from the bones and chop fine. Strain off the liquor and boil 
with corn meal, adding the chopped meat. Put in the corn 
meal gradually, until it makes a stiff mush, then cook for half 
an hour with the meat. Put in shallow pans and let cool. To 
serve slice about half an inch thick and fry in olive oil or but- 
ter to a light brown. 

97 



BOHEMIAN 

As originally prepared the tamale was made for 
conveyance, hence the wrappings of corn husk. This 

is a Spanish dish, having been brought 
to this country by the early Spanish 
explorers, and adopted by the Indian 
tribes with whom they came in con- 
tact. In the genuine tamale the in- 
terior is the sauce and meat that goes with the corn 
meal which is alternately laid with the husks, and when 
made the ends are tied w T ith fine husk. For meat, 
chicken, pork, and veal are considered the best. There 
is also a sweet tamale, made with raisins or preserves. 
The following recipe for tamales was given us by 
Luna: 

TAMALES Boil one chicken until the meat comes 
from the bones. Chop the meat fine and 
moisten it with the liquor in which it was boiled. Boil six 
large chili peppers in a little water until cooked so they can be 
strained through a fine strainer, and add to this the chopped 
chicken, with salt to taste and a little chopped parsley. Take 
corn meal and work into it a lump of butter the size of an 
egg, adding boiling water and working constantly until it makes 
a paste the consistency of biscuit dough. Have ready a pile of 
the soft inner husks of green corn and on each husk spread a 
lump of dough, the size of a walnut, into a flat cake covering 
the husk. In the center of the dough put a teaspoonful of the 
chopped meat wfth minced olive. On a large husk put several 
tablespoonfuls of chopped meat with olives. Roll this together 
and lay on them other husks until the tamale is of the size de- 
sired. Tie the ends together with strips of fine husk and put 
in boiling water for twenty minutes. Either veal or pork may 
be used instead of chicken. 

Polenti, properly prepared, is a dish that requires 
much labor, and scarcely repays for the time and ex- 
ertion spent in its making. It differs from scrapple in 
that the ingredients are mixed in a sauce and poured 
over the mush instead of being mixed in the meal. In 
the New Buon Gusto restaurant, in Broadway, they cook 
polenti to perfection, and when it is served with cippino 
it leaves nothing to be desired. This is the recipe : 

98 



SAN FRANCISCO 

For the gravy : Make a little broth with veal bone, a small 
piece of beef, a pig's foot, neck, feet and gizzard of chicken. 
In a separate kettle cook in hot oil one 
sliced onion, one clove of garlic, a little POLENTI 

parsley, one bell pepper, one tomato, a 
small piece of celery, and a carrot. Cook until soft and then 
add this to the broth with a few dried mushrooms. Cook slowly 
for thirty minutes and then strain. 

For the mush: Boil corn meal until it is thoroughly done 
and then cool it until it can be cut in slices for frying. Mix 
butter and olive oil and heat in a frying pan and into this put 
the slices of corn meal, frying to a light brown. Place the fried 
corn meal in a platter in layers, sprinkling each with grated 
Parmesan cheese, salt, and pepper. Take parsley and one clove 
of garlic chopped fine and a can of French mushrooms cut in 
quarters, and fry in butter, then add enough gravy to pour over 
the fried corn meal. Place this in an oven for a few minutes 
then serve. 



99 



BOHEMIAN 

Table d'hote is the feature of San Francisco's res- 
taurant life. It is the ideal method for those who wish 

a good dinner and who have not the 
inclination, or the knowledge, to or- 
der a special dinner. It is also the 
least expensive way of getting a good 
dinner. It also saves an exhibition of ignorance regard- 
ing the dishes, for if you are in doubt all you have to do 
is to leave it to the waiter, and he will bring the best 
there is on the day's menu and will serve it properly. 

It is really something to elicit wonder when one con- 
siders the possibilities of a table d'hote dinner in some 
of the less expensive restaurants. Take, for instance, 
the Buon Gusto, in Broadway. This restaurant boasts 
a good chef, and the food is the finest the market af- 
fords. Here is served a six course dinner for fifty cents, 
and the menu card is typical of this class of restaurants. 
What is provided is shown by the following taken from 
the bill of fare as it was served us : 

Hor d'ouvres — four kinds; five kinds of salad; two kinds 
of soup; seven kinds of fish: four kinds of paste; broiled spring 
chicken; green salad with French dressing; ice cream or rum 
omelet; mixed fruits; demi tasse. 

With this is served a pint of good table wine. 

As one goes up with the scale of prices in the res- 
taurants that charge $1, $1.25, $1.50, $2, $2.50, and $3 for 
their dinners it will be found that the difference lies 
chiefly in the variety from which to choose and from 
the surroundings and service. 

Take, for example, the following typical menu for 
a dollar dinner, served at the Fior d'ltalia, and compare 
it with the fifty-cent dinner just mentioned : 

Salami and anchovies; salad; chicken broth with Italian 
paste: fillet of English sole, sauce tartare; spaghetti or ravioli; 
escallop of veal, caper sauce; French peas with butter; roast 
chicken with chiffon salad; ice cream or fried cream; assorted 
fruits and cakes; demi tasse. Wine with this dinner is extra. 

100 



SAN FRANCISCO 

Now going a step up in the scale we come to the 
$1.50 dinner as follows: 

Anchovies, salami (note that it is the 
same as above); combination salad; tortel- 
lini di Bologna soup; striped bass a la 
Livornaise; ravioli a la Genoese and spa- 
ghetti with mushrooms; chicken saute, 
Italian style, with green peas; squab with lettuce; zabaione; 
fruit; cheese; coffee. Wine is extra. 

Let us now look at the menu of the $3.50 dinner, 
without wine: 

Pate de foie gras — truffles on toast; salad; olives; Alice 
Fallstaff; Italian ham "Prosciutto;" soup — semino Italiani with 
Brodo de Cappone; pompano a la papillote; tortellini with 
fungi a funghetto; fritto misto; spring chicken saute; Carcioffi 
all'Inferno; Capretto al Forno con Insallata; omelet Gelestine; 
fruit; cheese, and black coffee. 

This dinner must be ordered three days in advance. 

These menus will give a good idea of the different 
classes of dinners that can be obtained. Between are 
dinners to suit all tastes and pocketbooks. If you wish 
to go beyond these there is no limit except the amount 
of money you have. If but the food value be taken into 
consideration then one will be as well pleased with the 
fifty-cent dinner as he will be at the higher priced meals, 
but if light and music and brilliant surroundings are 
desired, then one must pay for them as well as for the 
meal he eats. 

All of the restaurants mentioned serve good table 
d'hote dinners, giving an astonishing variety of foods 
for the money, and it is all cooked and served in a man- 
ner that leaves nothing to be desired. As before men- 
tioned if you wish a table d'hote dinner composed en- 
tirely of sea food you can get it at the Shell Fish Grotto 
for one dollar. 

A good rule to follow when dining at any of the res- 
taurants is: When in doubt order a table d'hote din- 
ner. You will always get a good meal, for the least out- 

101 



BOHEMIAN 

lay of money and least expenditure of thought. Often 
one desires something a little different, and this is easy, 

too, and you can conserve your brain 
energy and get the most for the least 
money by seeing the proprietor or 
manager of the restaurant and tell- 
ing him that you wish to give a little dinner. Tell him 
how many will be in the party and give him the amount 
you wish to spend. It will be surprising, sometimes, to 
see how much more you can get for a slight increase in 
the price. Of course your wines and cocktails will be 
extra and these must be reckoned in the cost. 

From this we come to the ordered dinner, and here 
is where your own knowledge and special desires come 
in. Here, too, comes a marked increase in the cost. 
You now have the widest range of possibilities both as 
to viands and as to price. It is not at all difficult to 
have a dinner, without wine, that costs twenty-five dol- 
lars a plate, and when you come down to the more 
normal dinners, unless you confine yourself to one or 
two dishes you will find that you far exceed in price 
the table d'hote dinners of equal gastronomic value. 

While this is true it is well to be able to order your 
dinner for it frequently occurs that one does not care 
to go through the heavy course dinner provided table 
d'hote. Sometimes one wants a simple dish, or perhaps 
two, and it is well to know something about them and 
how to order them. We have made it a rule whenever 
we have seen something new on the bill of fare to order 
it, on the theory that we are willing to try anything 
once, and in this way we have greatly enlarged our 
knowledge of good things. 

It is also well to remember national characteristics 
and understand that certain dishes are at their best at 
certain restaurants. For instance, you will be served 
with an excellent paste at a French restaurant, but if 
you want it at its best you will get it at an Italian res- 

102 



SAN FRANCISCO 

taurant. On the other hand if you desire a delicate 
entree you will get the best at a French restaurant. For 
instance, one would not ask for sauer 
braten anywhere except at a German ABOUT 

restaurant. It will readily be seen DINING 

that the Elegant Art of Dining in San 
Francisco means much more than the sitting at table 
and partaking of what is put before you. Dining is an 
art, and its pleasure is greatly enhanced by a knowl- 
edge of foods, cooking, serving, national characteristics, 
and combinations of both foods and wines. How few 
people are there, for instance, who know that one should 
never drink any hard liquor, like whisky, brandy, or 
gin, with oysters. Many a fit of acute stomach trouble 
has been attributed to some food that was either bad or 
badly prepared when the cause of the trouble was the 
fact that a cocktail had been taken just prior to eating 
oysters. 

Some of the possibilities of dining in San Francisco 
may be understood when we tell you of a progressive 
dinner. We had entertained one of the Exposition 
Commissioners from a sister State and he was so well 
pleased with what he had learned in a gastronomic way 
that he said to us : 

"The Governor of my State is coming and I should 
like to give him a dinner that will open his eyes to San 
Francisco's possibilities. Would it be asking too much 
of you to have you help me do it?" 

"We shall be glad to. What do you want us to do?" 

"Take charge of the whole business, do as you please 
and go as far as you like." 

"That is a wide order, General. What is the limit of 
price, and how many will be in the party?" 

"Just six. That will include the Governor and his 
wife, you two and myself and wife. Let it be something 
unusual and do not let the cost interfere. What I want 
is something unusual." 

103 



BOHEMIAN 

It has been told us that when the Governor got back 
home he tried to tell some of his friends about that 

dinner, but they told him he had ac- 
quired the California habit of talking 
wide. This is the way we carried out 
the dinner, everything being arranged 
in advance: At 6:30 we called at the rooms of the 
Governor in the Palace Hotel and had served there dry 
Martini cocktails with Russian caviar on toasted rye 
bread. 

An automobile was in waiting, and at seven o'clock 
we were set down at Felix's, in Montgomery street, 
where a table was ready for us and on it were served 
salami of various kinds, artichokes in oil and ripe 
olives. Then came a service of soup, for which this res- 
taurant is famous, followed by a combination salad, 
with which was served a bottle of Pontet Ganet. 

The automobile carried us then over to Broadway 
and at the Fior d'ltalia our table was waiting and here 
we were served with sand-dabs au gratin, and a small 
glass of sauterne. 

All the haste we made was on the streets, and when 
we finished our course at the Fior d'ltalia we whirled 
away over toward North Beach to the Gianduja, where 
had been prepared especially for us tagliarini with 
chicken livers and mushrooms, and because of its suc- 
cess we had a bottle of Lacrima Ghristi Spumanti, the 
enjoyment of which delayed us. 

Again in the automobile to Coppa's where Chicken 
Portola was served, with green peas. Accompanying 
this was a glass of Krug, and this was followed by a 
glass of zabaione for dessert. 

Back again to the heart of the city and we stopped 
at Raggi's, in Montgomery street near Commercial 
where we had a glass of brandy in which was a chinotti 
(a peculiar Italian preserved fruit which is said to be a 
cross between a citron and an orange) . 

m 



SAN FRANCISCO 

Then around the corner to Gouailhardou & Rondel's, 
the Market Cafe, where from a plain pine table, and on 
sanded floor, we had our coffee royal. 
As a fitting climax for this evening AROTTT 

we directed the chauffeur to drive to 
the Cliff House, where, over a bottle 
of Krug, we talked it all over as we watched the dancing 
and listened to the singing of the cabaret performers. 

This dinner, including everything from the automo- 
bile to the tips cost but fifteen dollars for each one in 
the party. 



105 



BOHEMIAN 

Cooking is sometimes a pleasure, sometimes a duty, 
sometimes a burden and sometimes a martyrdom, all 

according to the point of view. The 
extremes are rarities, and sometimes 
duty and burden are synonymous. 
In ordinary understanding we have 
American cooking and Foreign cook- 
ing, and to one accustomed to plain American cooking, 
all variants, and all additions of spices, herbs, or un- 
usual condiments is classed under the head of Foreign. 
In the average American family cooking is a duty 
usually considered as one of the necessary evils of ex- 
istence, and food is prepared as it is usually eaten — 
hastily — something to fill the stomach. 

The excuse most frequently heard in San Francisco 
for the restaurant habit, and for living in cooped-up 
apartments, is that the wife wants to get away from the 
burden of the kitchen and drudgery of housework. And 
like many other effects this eventually becomes a cause, 
for both husband and wife become accustomed to bet- 
ter cooking than they could get at home and there is a 
continuance of the custom, for both get a distaste for 
plainly cooked food, and the wife does not know how 
to cook any other way. 

Yet when all is considered the difference between 
plain American cooking and what is termed Foreign 
cooking, is but the proper use of condiments and sea- 
soning, combined with proper variety of the food sup- 
ply from the markets. Herein lies the secret of a good 
table — proper combination of ingredients and proper 
variation and selection of the provisions together with 
proper preparation and cooking of the food. 

We have met with many well educated and well 
raised men and women whose gastronomic knowledge 
was so limited as to be appalling. All they knew of 
meats was confined to ordinary poultry, i. e., chickens 
and turkeys, and to beef, veal, pork, and mutton. Of 

106 



SAN FRA1NCISCO 

these there were but three modes of cooking — frying, 
stewing and baking, sometimes boiling. Their chops 
were always fried as they knew noth- 
ing of the delicate flavor imparted by SOMETHING 
broiling. In fact their knowledge was 
confined to the least healthful and COOKING 
least nutritious modes of preparation 
and cooking. Not only is this true of the average Ameri- 
can family, but their lack of knowledge of the funda- 
mentals of cooking and food values brings about a 
waste largely responsible for what is called the "high 
cost of living." It is a trite, but nevertheless true saying 
that a French family could live well on what an Ameri- 
can family wastes. Waste in preparation is but the 
mildest form of waste. Waste consequent upon lack of 
knowledge of food values is the waste that is doubly 
expensive for it not only wastes food but it also wastes 
the system whose energy is exhausted in trying to as- 
similate improper alimentation. 

It is a well recognized medical fact that much of the 
illness of Americans arises from two causes, improper 
food and improper eating methods. In Europe this fact 
was recognized and generally known so long ago that the 
study of food values and preparation for proper assimi- 
lation is one of the essential parts of every woman's 
education, and to such a degree has this become raised 
to a science that schools and even colleges in cooking 
are to be found in many parts of England, France and 
Germany. Francatelli, the great chef who was at the 
head of Queen Victoria's kitchen, boasts proudly of his 
diploma from the Parisian College of Cooking. 

The United States is now beginning to wake up to 
the fact that the preparation of food is something more 
than a necessary evil, and from the old cooking classes 
of our common schools has developed the classes in 
Domestic Science, that which was formerly considered 
drudgery now being elevated to an art and dignified as 

107 



BOHEMIAN 

a science. In Europe this stage was reached many gen- 
erations ago, and there it is now an art which has ele- 
vated the primitive process of feed- 

snMFTHTivr **& to tne ele S ant art of fining. In 

San Francisco probably more than in 
any other city in the United States, 
not even excepting New Orleans, this 
art has flourished for many years with the result that 
the average San Franciscan is disappointed at the food 
served in other cities of his country, and always longs 
for his favorite restaurant even as the children of Israel 
longed for the flesh pots of Egypt. 

One needs to spend a day in the Italian quarter of 
San Francisco to come to a full realization of the dif- 
ference between the requirements of even the poorest 
Italian family and the average American family of the 
better class. We need but say that we have been study- 
ing this question for nearly twenty years yet even now 
we meet with surprises in the way of new delicacies and 
modes of using herbs and spices in food preparation. 

If we were to attempt even to enumerate the various 
herbs, spices, flavorings, delicacies, and pastes to be 
found in a well regulated Italian shop it would take 
many pages of this book, yet every one of these articles 
has its own individual and peculiar use, and the knowl- 
edge of these articles and how to use them is what 
makes the difference between American and Foreign 
cooking. Each herb has a peculiar quality as a stom- 
achic and it must be as delicately measured as if it were 
a medicine. The use of garlic, so much decried as 
plebeian, is the secret of some of the finest dishes pre- 
pared by the highest chefs. It must not be forgotten 
that in the use of all flavors and condiments there may 
be an intemperance, there lying the root of much of the 
bad cooking. 

Garlic, for instance, is a flavor and not a food, yet 
many of the lower class foreigners eat it on bread, mak- 

108 



SAN FRANCISCO 

ing a meal of dark bread, garlic and red wine. It is of- 
fensive to sensitive nostrils and vitiates the taste when 
thus used, but when properly added 
to certain foods it gives an intangible 
flavor which never fails to elicit 
praise. What is true of garlic is also 
true of the many herbs that are used. 
It is easy to pass from a rare flavor that makes a most 
savory dish to a taste of medicine that spoils a dinner. 
With the well-known prodigal and wasteful habits of 
America the American who learns the use of herbs 
usually makes the initial mistake of putting in the fla- 
voring herbs with too lavish a hand, and it is only after 
years of experience that a knowledge of proper com- 
binations is obtained. 

Visitors have often expressed wonder at the variety 
of foods and delicate flavors in San Francisco restau- 
rants, and possibly this brief explanation may give 
some comprehension of why San Franciscans always 
want to get back to where they "can get something 
to eat." 



109 



BOHEMIAN 

"Surely the old Bohemians of San Francisco did not 
spend all their time in restaurants. How did they live 

when at home?" This is what was 

TOLD said to us one day when we were talk- 

INA ing about the old days and the old 

WHISPER people. Indeed they did not live all 

their time in restaurants. Some of 

the most enjoyable meals we have eaten have been in 

the rooms and apartments of our Bohemian friends, 

and these meals were prepared generally by each one 

present doing his or her part in making it a success. 

One would make the salad, another the main dish, and 

others do various forms of scullery work, and in the 

end we would have a meal that would often put to blush 

the efforts of many of the renowned chefs. 

Many people who come to San Francisco will wish 
to conserve their finances as much as possible, and they 
will wish to enjoy life in their apartments. There are 
also many people who live in San Francisco who need a 
little advice on how to get the best out of life, and we 
are going to whisper a few words to all such as these we 
have mentioned. 

You can be a Bohemian and have the very best sort 
of living in your own room for less than half the money 
it will take to live at the hotels and restaurants, and we 
are sure many of you would like to know something 
about how to do it. It is not necessary to confine your- 
self to the few things in your limited experience. If you 
are going to be in San Francisco for more than a week, 
you will find that a little apartment, furnished ready for 
housekeeping, will give you opportunity to be indepen- 
dent and free. You will get your own breakfasts, when 
and how you want them. Your luncheons and dinners 
can be gotten in your rooms or at the restaurants just as 
you are inclined. 

You will find delight and education in visiting the 
markets, and the foreign stores where all the strange 

110 



SAN FRANCISCO 

and unusual foods of all nations are to be found. You 

will discover better articles at less prices at the little 

Italian, French, Mexican or Chinese 

stores and stalls than can be had in 

the most aristocratic stores in the city. 

Above all you will find a joy of in- WHISPER 

vention and will be surprised at the 

delectable dishes you can prepare at a minimum of cost. 

When you visit San Francisco you are desirous of 
so arranging your finances that you may see the most 
for the least outlay of money. After a strenuous day of 
sight-seeing you will scarcely feel like getting up a good 
meal, consequently then you will follow the ideas sug- 
gested in this book and visit the various restaurants, 
thus obtaining a variety both in foods and in informa- 
tion of an educational nature. But sometimes you will 
not be tired, or you will wish to get up a little late sup- 
per after theatre, and it is then that you will be glad of 
the opportunity afforded by having your own kitchen 
arrangements so that you can carry out your tastes, and 
cook some of the strange and new foods that you 
have discovered in your rambles through the foreign 
quarters. 

Take the simple matter of sausage, for instance. 
Ordinarily we know of but three kinds — pork sausage, 
frankfurter and bologna — neither very appetizing or ap- 
pealing, except sometimes the pork sausage for break- 
fast. Over in the little Italian and French shops you 
will find some of the most wonderful sausages that 
mind can conceive of. Some of these are so elaborate 
in their preparation that they cost even in that inex- 
pensive part of the city, seventy cents a pound, and the 
variety is almost as infinite as that of the pastes. In the 
Mexican stores you will find a sausage that gives a de- 
lightful flavor to anything it is cooked with, and it is 
when you see these sausages that your eyes begin to be 
opened. 

Ill 



BOHEMIAN 

You now take cognizance of many things that here- 
tofore escaped your observation. You see new canned 

goods ; a wonderful variety of cheeses ; 
strange dried vegetables and delica- 
cies unheard of; preserved vegetables 
and fish and meats in oil; queer fish 
pickled and dried. You begin to learn 
of the many uses of olive oil in cooking and in food pre- 
paration. You see the queer shapes of bread, and note 
the numerous kinds of cakes and pastry that you never 
saw or heard of before. You see boxes of dried herbs, 
and begin to realize why you have never been able to 
reproduce certain flavors you have tasted in restau- 
rants. You see strange-looking, flat hams, and are told 
that they are Italian hams, and if you buy some you will 
find that they cut the ham the wrong way, and instead 
of slicing it across the grain they cut in very thin slices 
down the length of the bone. Their flavor is more de- 
licious than that of any ham you have tasted since you 
used to get the old-time, genuine country smoked hams. 
But if you investigate a little deeper you will learn that 
these hams were not put up in Italy at all, but that it 
is a special brand that is prepared in Virginia for the 
Italians. 

In the French stores you will find preserved cocks- 
combs, snails, marvelous blood sausages with nuts in 
them, rare cheeses, prepared meats in jellies, and hun- 
dreds of delicacies unknown to you. You can spend 
days in these stores, finding something new all the lime. 
We have been going there for years and still run across 
new things. 

Remember that to the people of the Latin Quarter 
these things are all usual consequently they think you 
know as much about them as they do, and will volun- 
teer no information regarding them. Possibly they will 
smile at your ignorance when you ask them questions, 
but do not hesitate to ask, for they are courteous and 

112 



SAN FRANCISCO 

that is the only way you can find out things, and learn 
what all these new edibles are and what they are good 
for. There is no greater possibility 
of interest than is to be found in the TOLD 

stores of San Francisco's Latin Quar- IN A 

ter, and we mean by this the stores WHISPER 
that cater to the people of the Quar- 
ter. In stores and restaurants frequented by Americans 
they cater to American tastes and lose much of the for- 
eign flavor. 

It is also well to bear in mind that it is not in the 
largest stores that you find the greatest variety when it 
comes to odd and new goods. A little shop, barely large 
enough to turn around in between counter and wall, 
may have enough of interest to entertain you for half 
an hour, and here the prices will be remarkably low, 
for these people have so little of the outside trade that 
they have not learned to add to. their prices when they 
see an American face coming. 

What is true of the stores is also true of the vege- 
table stands, the meat shops, the fish stalls, and bakeries. 
Here you will find better and fresher food supplies than 
in any of the similar places in other parts of the city, 
and the price is generally one-third less. The high cost 
of living has not reached this thrifty people with their 
inborn knowledge of the values of foods. They live 
twice as well as the average American family at half the 
cost. They combine knowledge of food values with the 
art of preparation and have a resultant meal that is 
tasty, full flavored, and nourishing at a minimum of 
expense. 

Perhaps you want a meal. Your thoughts at once 
run to steaks and chops, and fried potatoes. Nothing 
but a porterhouse or tenderloin steak or a kidney chop 
will do. It is the most expensive meat and you think 
that of course it is the best and most nourishing. If the 
knowledge of food values were with you, you would get 

US 



BOHEMIAN 

the less expensive and more nourishing cuts. A flank 
steak, perhaps, prepared en casserole, and you would 

have a fine dish for half the money. 
As it is in meats so it is in all foods. 
For ten cents two people can have a 
dinner of tagliarini that is at once 
nourishing and satisfying in flavor. 
Of course all this requires knowledge, but that is easily 
acquired, and it adds to the zest of life to know that you 
can do that which lifts eating from the plane of feeding 
to that of dining; that you can change existence into 
living. All because you dare to break away from con- 
ventionalities which make so many people affect igno- 
rance of how to live because they imagine it is an 
evidence of refinement. If they but knew it, their affec- 
tation and their ignorance is the hall mark of low caste. 
Now about this whisper: We have a friend who 
has a little apartment where he has kept bachelor's hall 
for many years. Here some of our most pleasant eve- 
nings have been spent, and we never fear to go on ac- 
count of the possibility that he may be embarrassed or 
inconvenienced through lack of something to eat or 
drink, for he is never at a loss to prepare something 
dainty and appetizing for us, and it really seems, some- 
times, that he makes a meal out of nothing. Often 
Charlie telephones us that he has discovered a new dish 
and hurries us over to pass judgment on it. And, by 
the way, many of the good dishes of Bohemia are the 
result of accident rather than design. 



iU 



SAN FRANCISCO 

It is surprising what a good meal you can get up 
sometimes when "there's not a thing in the house to eat." 
Let us give you an example. One eve- 
ning two of our young friends came 
over to tell us their sweet secret, and 
with them was another young lady. 
While we were talking it over and making plans for the 
wedding another friend dropped in because he said our 
"light looked inviting." 

An hour or so of talk and then one of us signalled 
to the other and received the shocking signal back, 
"There's not a thing to eat in the house." This called 
for an investigation of the larder in which all joined 
with the following result : Item — two cans of reed birds 
from China, each containing twelve of the little birds 
as large as your thumb. Item — one egg. Other items — 
one onion, two slices of dry bread, one green pepper, 
rather small, one dozen crackers. Item — one case of 
imported Italian Vin d'Oro Spumanti. Item — six hearty 
appetites to be appeased. 

The gentleman who saw our light saw another, and 
rushed off to a barber shop, and got four more eggs. 
Barbers use eggs, and they must be fresh ones, in sham- 
pooing, and our friend remembered it. 

The two young ladies and the young man prepared 
the table, and the other lady and the two gentlemen set 
about getting a meal. One of us made an omelet of the 
five eggs, the onion and the green pepper, with crumbs 
of bread, and this is the recipe: 

Take five eggs and beat until very light. OMELET A LA 
Roll two slices of dried bread to crumbs 
and mix with the beaten eggs. Chop fine 
one onion and one green pepper, season with salt and pepper. 
Pour a tablespoonful of olive oil in an omelet pan and in this 
fry the peppers and onion to a light brown. When ready turn 
into this the beaten eggs, and cook until done. Follow the rule 
of never disturbing a cooking egg or a sleeping child. Serve on 
a hot dish. 

115 



BOHEMIAN 



Take two cans of Chinese reed birds, open them and take 
therefrom the two dozen birds contained therein. In a hot 

frying pan place the birds in the grease 
that comes around them and heat them 
through. Toast twelve square crackers 
and on each place two reed birds, and 
serve two on each of six hot plates. With both the omelet and 
the reed birds serve Vin d'Oro. 



REED BIRDS 
A LA CHINOISE 



116 



SAN FRANCISCO 

In an Italian grocery store we noticed a great variety 
of pastes in boxes arranged along the counter and be- 
gan counting them. The proprietor 
noticed us and, with a characteristic PASTE 

shrug of his shoulders, said : "That is 
but a few of them. We have not room WAIST 

to show them all." In response to our 
inquiry regarding the number of kinds of paste made 
by Italians he said there were more than seventy-five. 
Ordinarily we think of one — spaghetti — or possibly two, 
including macaroni. If our knowledge goes a little 
farther we think also of tagliarini, which is the Italian 
equivalent of noodles, as it is made with eggs. 

In New York we were much impressed with the 
stress they laid on the serving of spaghetti, and one res- 
taurant went so far as to advertise dinners given "under 
the spaghetti vine." It appears that this is the only 
paste they know anything about. 

After one eats tagliarini or ravioli one feels like 
paraphrasing the darkey and saying, "go way spaghetti, 
yo done los' yo tase." 

Then comes tortelini which, like ravioli, combines 
paste with meat and spinach. These may be considered 
the most prominent of the pastes, the others being vari- 
ants in the making and cutting, each serving a special 
purpose in cooking, some being for soups, others for 
sauces and others for dressing for meats. It is more 
than probable that the great variety comes from indi- 
vidual tastes in cutting or rolling. 

All Italian restaurants serve the paste as a releve 
rather than as an entree, which it usually follows, pre- 
ceding the roast in the dinner. As a separate and dis- 
tinct dish it can well be made to serve as a full meal, 
especially when tagliarini is prepared after the follow- 
ing recipe : 

Cook one pound of tagliarini in boiling water twenty-five 
minutes, then draw off the water. To the tagliarini add a hand- 

117 



BOHEMIAN 

ful of mushrooms which have been sliced and fried in butter. 

Then add three chicken livers which have been chopped small 

and fried, one sliced truffle, one red pep- 
per chopped fine and a little Parmesan 
cheese. Make a brown sauce of one-third 
beef broth thickened with melted butter 
and flour and two-thirds tomato sauce, and 

pour this over the tagliarini. Sprinkle with the Parmesan 

cheese and serve very hot from a chafing dish. (By Oliver, chef 

of the Restaurant des Beaux Arts, Paris.) 

In San Francisco one finds both the imported and 
the domestic paste, and frequently one hears the asser- 
tion that the imported is the better. This idea is born of 
the thought that all things from Europe are better than 
the same made in America. In fact the paste that comes 
from Italy is neither so good in taste, nor is it so clean in 
the making. We have visited a number of paste fac- 
tories in San Francisco and have found them all scrupu- 
lously clean, with the best of materials in the composi- 
tion of the pastes. 

One often wonders how the pastes came to be so 
many and how they received their names. Names of 
some of them are accidents, as is illustrated by maca- 
roni. According to an Italian friend who vouches for 
the fact, it received its name from an expression of 
pleasure. "Macari" means "fine, excellent," and the 
superlative is "macaroni." A famous Italian gourmet 
constantly desired new dishes to please his taste, and 
one day his chef carried to him something that was 
unusual. The gourmet tasted it, cried out "macari!" 
Tasted again, threw out his arms in delight and cried 
"macaroni!" 

"What is the name of this wonderful dish?" 

"You have named it. It is macaroni." 



118 



SAN FRANCISCO 

1 

Tipping is variously designated. Some say it is a 
nuisance and should be abolished. Some call it an out- 
rage and ask for legislative interfer- 
ence. Some say it is an extortion and 
refuse to pay it. Some say it is a 
necessary evil and suffer it. The wise 
ones look at it a little differently. 
Possibly it is best explained or excused, whichever way 
you wish to call it, by one of Gouverneur Morris's char- 
acters in a recent story, who says : 

"Whenever I go anywhere I find persons in humble 
situations who smile at me and wish me well. I smile 
back and wish them well. It is because at some time or 
other I have tipped them. To me the system has never 
been an annoyance but a delightful opportunity for the 
exercise of tact and judgment." 

We look upon tipping as a part of expense to be cal- 
culated upon, necessary to insure good service, not only 
now but in the future, and it should always be com- 
puted in the expense of a trip or a dinner. Tipping, to 
our minds, is the oil that makes the wheels of life run 
smoothly. 

The amount of the tip is always a matter of indi- 
vidual judgment, dependent upon the service rendered, 
and the way it is rendered. The good traveler wants to 
tip properly, neither too little nor too much, thereby 
getting the best service, for in the last analysis the pleas- 
ure of a trip depends upon the service received. Ameri- 
can prodigality and asininity is responsible for much 
of the abuse of tipping. Too many Americans when 
they travel desire to appear important and the only way 
they can accomplish this is by buying the subserviency 
of menials who laugh at them behind their backs. 

A tip should always depend upon the service ren- 
dered. We make it a rule to withhold the tip from a 
careless or inconsiderate waiter, and always add to the 
tip a word of commendation when there has been extra 

119 



BOHEMIAN 

good service. The amount of the tip depends, first on 
the service, second on the amount of the bill, and third, 

on the character of the place where 
you are served. When we order a 
specially prepared dinner, with our 
suggestions as to its composition and 
service, we tip the head waiter, the 
chef, the waiter and the bus boy. We have given din- 
ners where the tips amounted to fully half as much as 
the dinner itself, and we felt that this part of the ex- 
pense brought us the greatest pleasure. 

It is impossible to make a hard and fast rule regard- 
ing how much to give a waiter. Each person must use 
his or her own judgment. If you are in a foreign coun- 
try you might do as we did on our first trip to Paris. 
We wanted to do what was right but not what most 
Americans think is right. We were at a hotel where 
only French were usually guests, and in order to do the 
right thing we took the proprietor into our confidence 
and explained to him our dilemma. We asked him 
whom to tip and how much to give, and he got us out 
of our difficulty and we found that the tips amounted to 
about as much for one whole week as we had been held 
up for in one day at the Waldorf-Astoria. 



120 



SAN FRANCISCO 

Notwithstanding the fact that Webster gives no rec- 
ognition in his dictionary to the Land of Bohemia or the 
occupants thereof, the land exists, per- 
haps not in a material way, but cer- 
tainly mentally. Some have not the 
perception to see it; some know not 
the language that admits entrance; 
some pass it by every day without understanding it. 
Yet it as truly exists as any of the lands told of in our 
childhood fables and fairy stories. 

The old definition of Bohemian was "a vagabond, a 
wayfarer." Possibly that definition may, to a certain 
extent, be true of the present-day Bohemian, for he is 
a mental vagabond and a mental wayfarer. 

In our judgment the word comes from the French 
"Bon Homme," for surely the Bohemian is a "good 



man." 



Whatever may be the derivation the fact remains 
that not to all is given the perception to understand, nor 
the eyes to see, and therein lies one of the dangers of 
writing such a book as this. If you read this and then 
hurry off to a specified restaurant with the expectation 
of finding the Bohemian atmosphere in evidence you 
are apt to be disappointed, for frequently it is necessary 
to create your own Bohemian atmosphere. 

Then, too, all nights are not the same at restau- 
rants. For instance if you desire the best service af- 
forded in any restaurant do not select Saturday or 
Sunday night, but if you will lay aside your desire for 
personal comfort in service, and wish to study charac- 
ter, then take Saturday or Sunday night for your visit. 
It is very possible that you will think the restaurant has 
changed hands between Friday and Saturday. On Sat- 
urday and Sunday evening the mass of San Francisco's 
great cosmopolitan population holds holiday and the 
great feature of the holiday is a restaurant dinner, 
where there is music, and glitter, and joyous, human 

121 



BOHEMIAN 

companionship. At such times waiters become careless 
and sometimes familiar. Cooks are rushed to such an ex- 
tent that they do not give the care to 
their preparation that they take pride 

MVTHTP AT • 

in on other nights, consoling them- 
selves frequently with the thought 
that the Saturday and Sunday night 
patrons do not know or appreciate the highest form of 
gastronomic art. 

Remember, also, that the world is a looking glass. 
Smile into it and it smiles back; frown and you get 
black looks. In Bohemia we sometimes find it well to 
overlook soiled table napery, sanded floor or untidy ap- 
pearance. Of course this is not in the higher class of 
restaurants, but there are times and places when you 
must remember you are making a study of human in- 
terest and not getting a meal, and you must leave your 
fastidiousness and squeamishness at home. 

It takes some time to get well within the inner circle 
of Bohemianism, but after you have arrived you have 
the password and all doors are open to you. If our 
friends think of a new story they save it up until our 
next coming and tell us something that always has a 
bearing on Bohemia. For instance, how few of us know 
the origin of the menu card. It seems to be a natural 
thing, yet, like all things, it had a beginning, and this is 
the way it began (according to a good friend who told 
it to us) : 

Frederick the Great was a lover of good eating and 
his chef took pride in providing new and rare dishes for 
his delectation. But it frequently occurred that the 
great ruler permitted his appetite to overcome his judg- 
ment, and he would eat so heartily of the food first set be- 
fore him that when later and more delicious dishes came 
to the table he was unable to do them justice. To obvi- 
ate this he ordered his chef to prepare each day a list 
of what was to be served, and to show their rotation 

122 



SAN FRANCISCO 

during the meal, and in compliance with this order the 
first menu card was written. To Frederick the Great 
is also attributed the naming of the 
German bread now called pumper- 
nickel. According to one of our 
Italian friends the story runs this 
way: Frederick wished some bread 
and his chef sent him in a loaf that was of unusual color 
and flavor. It did not please the king and he was not 
slow to express his disapproval. He owned a horse 
named Nicholas but commonly called "Nichol," and 
when the chef appeared before him to receive his cen- 
sure for sending in distasteful bread, Frederick threw 
the loaf at his head, exclaiming, "Bon pour Nichol." 
From this it received its name which has become cor- 
rupted to "pumpernickel." 

After the doors are open to you, you will find not 
only many new stories, but you will learn of customs 
unusual and discover their origin dating back to the 
days whose history remains only in Folk Lore. You will 
be let into family secrets of the alien quarters, and will 
learn of hopes, aspirations, and desires, that will startle 
you with their strangeness. You will find artists, sculp- 
tors, and writers of verse in embryo, and if you remain 
long enough in the atmosphere you may see, as we have, 
some of these embryonic thinkers achieve fame that be- 
comes nation wide. 

It is said of the Islands of the South Seas that when 
one eats of certain fruit it creates such a longing that 
the mind is never content until another visit is made. 
San Francisco's Bohemia lays no claim to persuasive 
fruit, but it is true that when one breathes in the at- 
mosphere of this mythical world it leaves an unrest that 
is only appeased by a return to where the whispering 
winds tell of Enchanted Land where "you get the best 
there is to eat, served in a manner that enhances its 
flavor and establishes it forever in your memory." 

123 



APPENDIX 



HOW TO SERVE WINES 

A few hints regarding the proper serving of wines may not 
be amiss, and we give you here the consensus of opinion of the 
most noted gourmets who have made a study of the best results 
from combinations: 

Never drink any hard liquors, such as whisky, brandy, gin, 
or cocktails, with oysters or clams, as it is liable to upset you 
for the rest of the evening. 

With the hor d'ouvres serve vermouth, sherry, marsala or 
madeira wine. 

With soup and fish serve white wines, such as Rhein wine, 
sauterne or white burgundy. 

With entrees serve clarets or other red wines, such as 
Swiss, Bordeaux, Hungarian or Italian wines. 

Burgundy may also be served at any of the later courses. 

With roasts serve champagne or any of the sparkling wines. 

W r ith the coffee serve kirsch, French brandy or fine cham- 
pagne. 

After coffee serve a liqueur. Never serve more than one 
glass of any liqueur. 

The following wines may be considered the best types: 
Amontillado, Montilo and Olorosa sherries. 
Austrian burgundy is one of the finest wines, possessing 
rich flavor and fine perfume. 

Other burgundies are: 

Chablis: A white burgundy, dry and of agreeable aroma. 

Chambertin: A sound, delicate wine with a flavor resem- 
ling raspberry. 

Clos de Vogeot: Similar to chambertin, and often called 
the king of burgundy. 

Romanee : A very rare and costly wine of rich, ruby color, 
with a delicate bouquet. 

Clarets are valued for their flavor and for their tonic prop- 
erties. Some of the best are: 

Chateau Grille: A dessert wine of good flavor and fine 
aroma. 

Chateau Lafitte: Has beautiful color and delicate flavor. 

Chateau la Rose: Greater alcoholic strength and of fine 
flavor. 

Chateau Margaux: Rich, with delicate flavor and excellent 
bouquet. 

Pontet Canet: A heavier wine with good bouquet and fine 
flavor. 

St. Julien : A lighter claret with good bouquet. 

127 



HOW TO SERVE WINES 

German wines are of lighter character, and are generally 
termed Rhein wines. The best varieties are: 

Hochheimer: A light, pleasing and wholesome wine. 

Brauneberger : A good variety with pleasing flavor and 
aroma. 

Dreimanner: Similar to Brauneberger. 

Deidesheimer: Similar to Brauneberger. 

Graff enberg: Light and pleasant. Good aroma. 

Johannisberger Schloss: One of the best of the German 
wines. 

Rudesheimer Schloss: In class with Johannisberger. 

Italian wines are mostly red, the most noted in California 
being Chianti, and its California prototype, Tipo Chianti, made 
by the Asti Colony. 

Lacrima Christi Spumanti: The finest Italian champagne. 
Dry and of magnificent bouquet. 

Vin d'Oro Spumanti: A high-class champagne. Sweet and 
of fine bouquet and flavor. 

Lacrima Christi: A still wine of excellent flavor and bou- 
quet. 

Malaga: A wine of high repute. Sweet and powerful. A 
peculiar flavor is given to it through the addition of a small 
quantity of burned wine. 

Marsala: Is a golden wine of most agreeable color and 
aroma. 

Sauterne: Is a white Bordeaux, a strong luscious wine, 
the best known varieties being: 

Chateau Yquem : Remarkable for its rich and velvety soft- 
ness. 

Barsac: Rich and good. 

Chateau Filhot: Of rich color and good flavor. 

Chateau Latour Blanche: A white sauterne of exquisite 
bouquet. 

Haut Sauterne: Soft and mild. Of good flavor. 

Vin de Graves: Good and strong. Good aroma and flavor. 

Vintage years have much to do with the quality of wines. 
The best vintage years are as follows : 
Champagnes: 1892. 
Rhein and Moselle: 1893. 
Burgundy: 1892, 1899 and 1904. 
Claret: 1898 and 1904. 
Port: 1896 and 1904. 
Sherry: 1882, 1890, 1898 and 1900. 



128 



A GOOD BOHEMIAN DINNER 

Sometimes people desire to give a dinner and are at loss 
as to the proper time to serve wines. The following menu will 
give some ideas on the subject: 



MENU 

Gibson Cocktail Canape Norwegian 

(Serve these before entering dining room) 

Artichoke Hearts in Oil Ripe Olives Celery 

Amontillado Sherry 

Oysters on Half Shell 

Bisque of Ecrevisse Chablis, or White Sauterne 

Sand-dabs Edward VII Sliced Cucumbers, Iced 

Escargot Francais Chateau Lafitte 

Cassolette of Terrapin, Maryland Romanee 

Tagliarini des Beaux Arts 

Punch Pistache Cigarettes 

Alligator Pears with Cumquats, French Dressing 



Chicken Portola 
Creamed New Potatoes 



Coffee Royal 



Krug Private Cuvee Brut 
Celery Victor French Peas 



Zabaione 
Reina Cabot 

Grand Marnier 



Cigarettes 



129 



A FEW RARE RECIPES 

In our travels through Bohemia it has been our good for- 
tune to gather hundreds of recipes of new, strange and rare 
dishes, prepared by those who look farther than the stoking of 
the physical system in the preparation of foods. Some of these 
are from chefs in restaurants and hotels, some from men and 
women of the foreign colonies and some from good friends 
who lent their aid in our pleasurable occupation. That we can- 
not print them all in a volume of this size is our regret, but 
another book now in preparation will contain them, together 
with other talks about San Francisco's foreign quarters. 

From our store we have selected the following as being 
well worth trying: 

ONION ^ u * ^ our * ar 8 e on i° ns * n large pieces and 

SOUP P u * * nem * n s * x ounces of butter with pep- 

per and salt. SlowJy stew this in a little 
beef stock and a little milk, stirring constantly, for one hour. 
Add more stock and milk and let cook slowly for another hour. 
In a tureen place slices of bread sprinkled with two tablespoon- 
fuls of Parmesan cheese. Beat the yolks of four eggs and mix 
them with a tablespoonful of the soup and pour this over the 
bread and cheese. Cover this for five minutes and then pour 
over it the rest of the soup. 

Take two young chickens, cut in pieces, 
roll in flour and fry to light brown. Take 
the fried chicken, a ham bone stripped of 
meat for flavor, a tablespoonful of chopped thyme, of rose- 
mary, two bay leaves, a sprig of tarragon and boil in four 
quarts of water until the meat loosens from the bones. Slice 
and fry brown two large onions and add two heaping quarts of 
sliced okra and one cut up pod of red pepper. Stir all over 
the fire until the okra is thoroughly wilted then remove the 
larger bones and let cook three quarters of an hour before 
serving. Half an hour before serving add a can of tomatoes or 
an equal quantity of fresh ones, and a pint of shrimps, boiled 
and shredded. Have a dish of well boiled and dry rice and 
serve with two or three tablespoon fuls in each soup plate. 

To a solid pint of oysters use a dressing 
made as follows: Beat well two eggs and 
add to them half a gill each of cream and 
vinegar, half teaspoonful mustard, celery seed, salt each, one- 
tenth teaspoonful cayenne, and a tablespoonful of butter. Put 
all in a double boiler and cook until it all is as thick as soft 
custard (about six minutes), stirring constantly. Take from 

130 



A FEW RARE RECIPES 

the fire. Heat the oysters in their own liquor to a boiling point 
then drain and add the dressing, mixing lightly. Set away in 
cold place until needed. 

Soak two salt herrings in milk over ITALIAN 

night and then remove the bones and skin SALAD 

and cut up in small pieces. Cut in small 

pieces one and one-half pounds each of cold roast veal and cold 
boiled tongue and add to these and the herrings six boiled po- 
tatoes, half a dozen small cucumber pickles and two small 
boiled beets, all cut up, and two raw apples, three boiled car- 
rots and one large boiled celery root, all minced. Mix all the 
above in salad bowl and pour over it mayonnaise dressing. 
Garnish the tops with hard boiled eggs, sliced, and capers, and 
ripe olives from which the stones have been removed. Garnish 
the bowl with parsley and in the center put hard boiled eggs 
stuffed with capers. 

Take meat of crab in large pieces and 
dress with the following: One-third may- CRAB LOUIS 
onnaise, two-thirds chili sauce, small quan- 
tity chopped English chow-chow, a little Worcestershire sauce 
and minced tarragon, shallots and sweet parsley. Season with 
salt and pepper and keep on ice. 

Take fillets of sole and pound lightly 
with blade of knife then soak them two WITH WINE 

hours in beaten eggs seasoned with salt 

and pepper. When ready to cook roll them in bread crumbs 
and fry in olive oil. Take a little of that oil and put in another 
pan with a tablespoonful of butter and season with salt and 
pepper and again cook fish in this, adding half a glass of dry 
white wine. Sprinkle with chopped parsley and let cook five 
minutes. Sprinkle with Parmesan cheese and put slices of 
lemon around it. Serve on hot plates. 

Skin and remove stalks from large fresh GRILLED 

mushrooms and lay on a dish with a little MUSHROOMS 
fine olive oil, pepper, and salt, over them 
for one hour. Broil on a gridiron over a clear sharp fire and 
serve them with the following sauce: 

Mince the stalks or any spare pieces MUSHROOM 

of mushrooms fine, put in a stewpan with 
a little broth, some chopped parsley, young 
onions, butter and the juice of a lemon, or instead of the latter 
the yolk of an egg beaten up in cream. Beat all together and 
pour around the mushrooms. 

131 



A FEW RARE RECIPES 

ITALIAN ^ u * ver y fi ne * ne tender part of one 

dozen artichokes. Take one loaf of stale 
bread crumbs, moisten and squeeze, and 
add three tablespoonf uls of grated cheese, three cloves of garlic, 
bruised, one onion chopped fine, several sprigs of parsley 
chopped fine, a little celery and half a cup of olive oil. Mix all 
together thoroughly with plenty of pepper and salt and make 
into a loaf. Bake slowly forty-five minutes. 

Poach eight fresh eggs then take them out 

and place in cold water until cool; lay 

them for a quarter of an hour to marinade 

in a glass of white wine with sweet herbs. Dry on a cloth and 

dip in a batter of flour mixed with equal quantities of ale and 

water to the consistency of double cream. Fry to light brown. 

Put three cupfuls of red wine into a cas- 
serole and add three tablespoonfuls of 
sugar, rind of half a lemon, raisins, and 
sweet almonds, blanched and chopped. When the wine boils 
break the eggs into it as in poaching eggs. Let them cook well 
and then put in serving dish. Add one tablespoonful of flour 
to the wine and cook to a cream then pour over the eggs. 

Soak two level teacups of rice. Mash two 
cloves of garlic and mix with a little 
minced parsley. Soak a dozen dried mush- 
rooms in a little water until soft, then chop fine and drain. 
Cover the bottom of a saucepan with olive oil, place over the 
fire until quite hot, then put in the garlic, parsley, and mush- 
rooms, add half a can of tomatoes and cook half an hour. 
Drain the rice and put in a saucepan, adding a little broth, half 
a cup at a time, to keep from burning, and add, stirring con- 
stantly, the other ingredients, cooking all together until the rice 
is done. Salt to taste; sprinkle with Parmesan cheese. 

Parboil the sweetbreads and then glaze in 
reduced Allemande sauce. Dip in bread 
crumbs and fry in butter until a light 

brown. When done dish in close order and fill center with 

Toulouse Ragout, as follows: 

TOULOUSE Prepare half a dozen fine, large cocks- 

combs, two dozen button mushrooms, small 
pieces of sweetbreads and a proportionate 
quantity of truffles. Place all in a stewpan and add a small 
ladleful of drawn butter sauce, and the juice of a lemon. Cook 
a few minutes. 

132 



A FEW RARE RECIPES 

Soak kidney lamb chops in the follow- LAMB CHOPS 
ing mixture for twelve hours and then MARINADE 
broil: Four tablespoonfuls olive oil, one 
tablespoonful tarragon viryegar, one small sliced onion, one 
mashed clove of garlic, one broken up bay leaf, twelve whole 
black peppers, six cloves, one saltspoon of salt, two teaspoon- 
fuls dried thyme, strips of parsley and lemon peel. 

Cut up a chicken and boil until tender. SPANISH 

Cut up and fry in chicken fat two onions, CHICKEN PIE 
two green peppers, stirring in one and 

one-half tablespoonfuls of flour. Have ready five tomatoes, 
stewed, and put in two dozen ripe olives with a small clove of 
garlic, mashed. Grate seven large ears of corn, season with salt 
and put a layer in a greased baking pan, then chicken, then the 
other ingredients, with a little of the gravy. Stir all together 
and bake until brown. 

Cut a young chicken into small pieces 
and stew until tender, having the meat cov- 
ered with the broth when done. Remove 

the meat, drain and fry to light brown with two slices of onion. 
Put in the chicken, onion, and one hundred California oysters, 
back into the broth and season with salt, pepper, juice of a 
lemon, bruised clove of garlic, chopped green pepper, and a 
pinch of red pepper. Let all come to a boil. Wash and dry 
two cups of rice and put into the soup and cook until thor- 
oughly done and moderately dry (twenty-five minutes). Serve 
hot or cold. 

This is Mexican Turkey in Red Pep- QUAJATALE 

per, a favorite banquet dish. Cut a young EN MOLE 

turkey into small pieces and boil with 
shallots and salt. Take half a pound of red peppers, scalded 
and seeded, and grind fine with black peppers, celery seed, 
cloves, allspice, and mustard (about half a teaspoonful of each) 
and add to this some of the broth in which the turkey was 
cooked. Put a pound of lard in a skillet and, when boiling, 
put in the mixture with the turkey and let cook ten minutes, 
sending it to the table hot. 

Brown butter in a skillet and stir in DELMONICO 

a teaspoonful of flour, forming a smooth RAISIN SAUCE 
paste. Add one cup of hot soup stock, 
stirring constantly. While boiling put into this a handful of 
raisins, handful of blanched almonds, pounded, half a lemon, 
sliced thin, a few cloves, a pinch of cinnamon, and a little 
horseradish. Fine for roast beef. 

133 



A FEW RARE RECIPES 

Cut and trim a chicken as for fricas- 

A LA NAPOLI see * Take the wings, drumsticks, thighs 

and two pieces of the breast and steep 

them in cold water half an hour. Drain and wipe dry and 

dust over with flour and set aside. 

Take the rest of the chicken with the giblets and chop 
small. With water let this simmer for two hours, making a 
strong broth with a little veal (two ounces or more) . Slice an 
onion into rings which place in the bottom of a stewpan with 
an ounce of butter. To this add the meat and giblets and a 
pint of white broth. Let all simmer but not boil or let color. 
Over this pour common broth until covered and bring slowly 
to boiling point. Add a small bouquet of herbs and simmer 
for an hour, then strain. Thicken a little and then simmer in 
this the stalks and peelings of a quarter of a pound of mush- 
rooms and the chicken that was previously prepared and 
dusted with flour. When done strain them and drain the 
chicken. Strain the sauce and thicken with flour until it is 
of the consistency of a rather thin batter. 

Dip the pieces of chicken into the batter until well coated 
and set aside until it is cold. Then dip the chicken into well- 
beaten eggs and cover with bread crumbs. Let set and then re- 
peat. In hot olive oil fry the chicken until a golden brown. Serve 
on a napkin and garnish with parsley and potatoes Duchesse. 
Cook the peeled mushrooms in the remaining sauce before the 
last thickening, and serve in gravy boat to pour over the 
chicken. 

Beat together, hard, for six minutes, six 
eggs and four teaspoonfuls of powdered 
sugar in a double boiler and place over a gentle fire, never ceas- 
ing to whip until the contents become stiff enough to sustain a 
coffee spoon upright in the middle. While whipping add three 
wineglassfuls of Marsala and one liqueur glass of Maraschino 
brandy. Pour into tall glasses or cups and serve either hot 
or cold. 

\. LA Halve six fine peaches, not too ripe, and 
place in saucepan with concave side up. 
Take one peach, peeled, and mince with a 
dozen macaroons, adding the yolk of an egg and half an ounce 
of sugar. Mix all well together and with this fill the half 
peaches. Moisten all with half a cup of white wine and 
sprinkle with sugar. Bake in a hot oven ten minutes and pour 
over zabaione and serve. This will make a most delicious 
dessert dish. 

234 



A FEW RARE RECIPES 

Add the beaten yolks of seven eggs to 
one pint of boiling milk, one cup of sugar, 
one-half teaspoonful of vanilla, one-quarter 

teaspoonful of almond extract. When thick add two and a half 
cups of thick cream. Cool and freeze. Line the bottom of a 
mold with Sultana raisins which have been soaked in sherry 
wine twenty-four hours. Put a layer of frozen cream, then 
raisins, continuing until all is used. Pack in ice and salt two 
hours and serve with caramel sauce. 

Butter the inside of a saucepan. Put TARAMFT 

in two ounces of unsweetened chocolate SAIICF 

and melt over hot water. Add two cups of 

light brown sugar and mix well. Add one ounce of butter and 
half a cup of rich milk. Cook until mixture forms a soft ball 
when tested in cold water. Flavor with vanilla and pour, while 
hot, over each service of the roll. It immediately hardens, 
forming a delicious caramel covering to the ice cream. 

Take one pound of mild American 
cheese and put in saucepan. Add five 
wineglassful of old ale, place over the fire 
and stir until it is thoroughly blended and melted. Pour this 
over slices of delicately browned toast, serving hot. 

Take of the best Mocha coffee one part, 
of the best Java coffee two parts. Put six 
tablespoonfuls of the mixture into a bowl 
and add an egg, well beaten. Stir the mixture five minutes. Add 
half a cup of cold water, cover tightly and let stand several 
hours. Put into a coffeepot the coffee mixture and add four 
large cups of boiling water, stirring constantly. Let it boil 
briskly for five minutes only then set on the back of the stove 
five minutes. Before serving add a small tablespoonful of pure 
French brandy to each cup. Sweeten to taste. 

Mix at table and serve on hot, toasted RFTVA 

Bent's biscuit. Take a quarter of a pound C \ROT 

of ripe, dark Roquefort cheese and rub 

with a piece of butter the size of a walnut until smooth, adding 
a teaspoonful of Worcestershire sauce and a wineglassful of 
sherry, with a pinch of paprika, rubbing until it is smooth. 
This is best mixed in shallow bowl or soup plate. 

Beat separately the yolks and whites 
of ten eggs, the yolks to a soft cream. To 
the beaten yolks add one pound of granu- 
lated sugar, beating until fully blended and very light. Let one 
quart of fresh milk come to a boil and pour over the yolk of 

135 



A FEW RARE RECIPES 

egg and sugar, stirring constantly until well blended. To this 
add one gill of French brandy or one-half pint of good whisky. 
On top of this place the beaten white of egg and grated nutmeg. 
Serve either hot or cold. 

MINT Bruise several sprigs of mint in a mix- 

ing glass with pulverized sugar. Fill the 
glass with ice and pour over it a jigger of 
whisky. Let stand for ten minutes and then put in a dash of 
Jamaica rum. Dress with sprigs of mint, and sprinkle with 
powdered sugar. Serve with straws. 



136 



INDEX 








Bills of Fare . 100, 101, 129 


Snails Bordelaise 


53 


Beefsteak Spanish 


9 


Soup: Bisque of Crawfish 89 


Celery Victor . 


. 64 


Creole Gumbo 


130 


Chicken, Country Style 


65 


Onion 


. 130 


In the Shell 


11 


Sultana Roll 


135 


Jambalaya 
Leon d'Oro 


133 


Sweetbreads Scalloped 


. 132 


53 


Turta (Italian) 


132 


A la Napoli 


134 


Toulous Ragout 


. 132 


Pie (Spanish) 


. 133 


Tamales 


98 


Portola . 


38 


Tagliarini des Beaux Arts 


Chili Rienas 


. 32 


Terrapin a la Maryland 


18 


Clam Fritters 


92 


Wines, How to Serve 


. 127 


Chowder 


. 92 


Welsh Rarebit 


135 


Coffee Royal 


135 


Zabaoine 


. 134 


Crab Louis 


. 131 


Restaurants 




Stew 


88 


Blanco's 


17,42 


Dessert (Italian) 


, 75 


Bonini's Barn 


44 


Egg Nog (Virginia) 


135 


Buon Gusto 


. 25 


Eggs, Spanish . 


9 


Castilian 


44 


With Wine . 


132 


Coppa's 


. 36 


Des Soliel . 


132 


Fashion, Charlie's . 


44 


Fish: Soles with Wine 


131 


Felix . 


17,43 


Sole Edward VII 


64 


Fior d'ltalia . 


25 


Sand-dab Fillet, Cold 


61 


Fly Trap . 


. 44 


Fritto Misto 


51 


Frank's . 


43 


Lobster a la Newburg . 


86 


Fred Solari's 


. 65 


Lamb Chops Marinade 


133 


Gianduja 


50 


Mussels Mariniere 


93 


Hang Far Low . 


. 55 


Mushrooms, Grilled . 


131 


Heidelberg Inn 


46 


Mint Julep . 


136 


Hof Brau . 


. 48 


Menu (Model) . 


129 


Hotel St. Francis . 


63 


Oysters a la Catalan . 


83 


Jack's 


. 43 


A la Poulette 


17 


Jule's 


25,44 


Omelette 


60 


La Madrelina 


. 44 


Peaches a la Princesse 


134 


Leon d'Oro 


52 


Planked Fillet Mignon . 


61 


Luna's 


. 31 


Polenti .... 


99 


Mint 


15,43 


Quajatole en Mole 


133 


Negro's 


. 43 


Rice, Spanish . 


9 


Odeon 


44 


Milanaise 


51 


Palace Hotel 


19,60 


Italian 


132 


Poodle Dog . 


17,42 


Riena Cabot 


135 


Poodle Dog — Bergez- 




Salad, Italian . 


131 


Frank's . 


16,43 


Palace Grill . 


62 


Portola-Louvre 


41 


Oyster 


130 


Rathskeller 


. 48 


Sauer Braten 


48 


Shell Fish Grotto . 


80 


Sauce, Delmonico Raisin 


33 


Solari's 


. 65 


Caramel 


135 


Tait's 


42 


Mushroom . 


131 


Techau's 


. 42 


Scrapple 


97 


Vesuvius 


81 


Shrimp Creole, Antoine 


84 


Old Time Restaurants 





137 



Bab's ... 27 

Baldwin Hotel . .18 
Bazzuro's . . 12, 78 
Bergez . . .17 

California House . 13 

Gall .... 16 
Captain Cropper . 18 

Campi's ... 25 
Christian Good . 14 

Cliff House . . 21 

Cobweb Palace . 19 

Delmonico ... 16 
El Dorado House . 10 

Frank's . . .17 
Gobey's ... 87 

Good Fellows' Grotto . 26 
Hoffman House . 26 

Iron House . . .10 
Johnson's Oyster House 14 
Jack's . . .17 

Louvre ... 26 

Ma Tanta ... 12 
Manning's . . 13 





INDEX 


Marchand's 


. 14 


Marshall's Chop 


House 14 


Martin's 


. 15 


Maison Doree 


. 


Nevada 




. 13 


New York 




17 


Old Louvre 






. 27 


Perini's . 






14 


Pierre 






. 16 


Poodle Dog 






16 


Pup . 






. 16 


Peter Job 






17 


Palace of Art 






. 20 


Pop Floyd 






25 


Reception . 






. 18 


Sanguinetti's 






23 


Tehama House 




. 13 


Three Trees 






17 


Tortoni 






. 16 


Thompson's 






27,41 


Viticultural 






. 25 


Zinkand's 






27 



138 



HERE END BOHEMIAN SAN FRANCISCO- 
ITS RESTAURANTS AND THEIR MOST FA- 
MOUS RECIPES, AS WRITTEN BY CLARENCE 
E. EDWORDS. PUBLISHED IN BOOK FORM 
BY PAUL ELDER & COMPANY, AND SEEN 
THROUGH THEIR TOMOYE PRESS BY JOHN 
SWART IN THE CITY OF SAN FRANCISCO. 
DURING THE MONTH OF NOVEMBER, NINE- 
TEEN HUNDRED AND FOURTEEN. 



:j 



