
"We can live without jriends, 
We can live without books. 
But civilized man 

Cannot live without cooks.' 

from the Kitchen of 
MarshallBlum 



\^ — f?6 



vLBERT R MANN LI 
Cornell University 



Gift of 
Thomas Bass 




From Hi'iiw Rokin\^\, hy Edriii Evai 
San Fi-aruisco. 1912. 



CORNELL UNIVERSITY LIBRARY 




8 




Cornell University 
Library 



The original of tiiis book is in 
tine Cornell University Library. 

There are no known copyright restrictions in 
the United States on the use of the text. 



http://www.archive.org/details/cu31924090151618 



CASSEROLE 



TWO HUNDRED 

RECIPES FOR COOKING IN 

CASSEROLES 



BY 
OLIVE M. HULSE 



"Human nature is made up 
of sentiment and hunger." 

— DOKAN. 



THE HOPEWELL PRESS 

NE HUNDRED TWENTY-TWO 

)UTH MICHIGAN AVENUE 

H I C A G O, U. S. A. 



COFYKIGHT I914 
BY 

Olive M. Hulsb, 



R. R. DONMELLBY ft SONS COMPANY 
CHICAGO 



Preface 

rHE casserole deserves to be better known. 
The purpose of this book is to bring it into 
more general use by the successful hostess, 
•who is always ready to receive and apply new sug- 
gestions, and it is the wish of the author that it 
will meet nuith her hearty co-operation and ap- 
proval. 

To those who accepted "Salads" and "Des- 
serts" as helpful adjuncts to their culinary de- 
partments "Casseroles" is offered, and it is hoped 
it may be granted as gracious a reception. 

This book is the result of practical experience 
and close observation, and includes the favorite 
recipes of many famous modern chefs. 

Some of the recipes call for expensive materials, 
but the majority contain simple, inexpensive in- 
gredients which are quite as acceptable when 
carefully prepared and daintily served. 



[V] 



Casserole Lore 

THE origin of the casserole is rather obscure, 
but good authority has it that the dish gets 
its name from France. The utensils are 
mostly made of earthenware, which is a combina- 
tion of clay and flint, although some are developed 
in porcelain, and even in the finest kind of china. 
Until the last century earthenware was brought 
mostly from Holland; later the potteries of Eng- 
land began sending great quantities of it to foreign 
countries, and now our own American manufac- 
turers have turned their attention toward the prob- 
lem of lightening the work in the kitchen, and are 
meeting the demand for this fascinating ware with 
a supply of styles andsizes of these dishes second to 
no other in attractiveness and durability. 

The cooking en casserole craze has doubtless 
come to stay, for the modern housekeeper is no 
longer content to drift along vowing allegiance to 
the kitchen technique of her foremothers, but she 
studies the newest methods, learns what other 
women are doing, and informs herself as to the 
latest tools of her trade. When she comes to 
appreciate thoroughly the advantages of casserole 
cooking, she will be so impressed with its possibili- 
ties that she will consider it an indispensable part 
of her kitchen outfit and adopt all sorts of foods to 
fit the various utensils. 

[vii] 



Earthen dishes are developed in all sorts of 
quaint and curious shapes and sizes, and those 
should be purchased which are best suited in size 
to the needs of the family. 

The casserole enthusiast will avail herself of 
many different varieties as they have their indivi- 
dual usefulness; the deep oval casserole in which 
to cook a whole chicken, game salmi, or a few 
slices of veal; the shallow oval dishes for steaks, 
ham or souffles ; the round pots with ears or handles 
fqr vegetables or meat, or combinations of both; 
and the fiat dishes for braising and shirring. There 
are also cunning little ramekins, with and without 
handles, which are just big enough to cook an egg, 
a tomato, a floweret of cauliflower, or a portion of 
creamed chicken for one person. Others larger for 
individual chicken pies, creamed and deviled 
dishes, au gratin, shirred egg, and mushroom 
dishes, all of which give to the simplest meal a 
little touch of elegance which it is not possible to 
attain with utensils improvised for these dishes. 

Casserole sounds formidable and expensive, but 
it is neither one. The price is within the reach of 
all. The most frugal housewife can have ufensils 
aplenty at a trivial cost, while the epicure may 
gratify his most luxurius taste in the more expen- 
sive wares, and in the handsome metal holders in 
which the casseroles are placed for serving. ( 

The keystone to the charm of casserole cooking 
is the economical features. It is a saver of time, 
fuel, labor and materials. 

[viii] 



Left-overs may be easily and quickly trans- 
formed into creamed or deviled dishes, scalloped 
dishes, and souffles, which are wholesome, savory, 
and sightly. The slow cooking process being em- 
ployed, the woman whose time is limited can pre- 
pare the dish, put it in the oven and go on about 
her other duties or pleasures, as it will require no 
attention. No time is lost in transferring to an- 
other dish, as it is both cooked and served in the 
casserole. 

Earthenware cooking is carried on at a compara- 
tively low temperature, which is a considerable 
fuel saver. In nearly all recipes the heat of the 
oven should be about 212 degrees Fahrenheit. 
The modern idea of economy in labor is well illus- 
trated in the fact that practically all of the meal 
is cooked in one utensil, eliminating the necessity 
for washing up a lot of extra pots and pans, and a 
grease splattered stove. 

But the crowning joy of casserole cooking is the 
saving of materials. The unreasoning belief that 
the most expensive products must necessarily be 
the best is largely responsible for the present high 
cost of living problems. Therefore, each woman 
who bears the burden of managing a household 
should analyze the condition, and determine if she 
herself is not partly to blame for the increasing 
living bills. 

You do not require tender meats for casserole 
cooking, so it is well to studiy the cheap cuts. The 
tougher the meat the more delicious the gravy, and 

[ix] 



the greater your achievement in transforming a 
plain food into a nutritious and pkasing dish. 

French and Italian cooks know better than any 
other nation the value of these cheap cuts. At any 
table d'hote place you find very inexpensive meats 
which have been converted to goodness by this 
method. Certain pieces of beef such as cuts from 
the round, shoulder, flank, brisket, chuck and rump, 
if cut according to correct methods are well 
adapted for casserole cooking. 

Before casseroling any meat, the first process is 
to cut it in pieces convenient for serving; flour, 
season, and brown it in a frying pan in the fat fried 
from salt pork. Transfer to casserole, put in the 
vegetables with white sauce, or a gravy made with 
a cup of water and the brown juice in the spider, 
or stock, if you have it. Pour it over the meat, 
cover tight, and put in oven until it bubbles, then 
turn down the gas and let it cook very slowly for 
two or three hours. 

If you have a good recipe for a stew or ragout, 
which you desire to cook in the oven instead of on 
direct heat, allow twice the time for it 

Nearly all vegetables are vastly more delicate 
cooked in the oven. When boiled in quantities of 
water much of the fine flavor is boiled away; 
while, if placed in a casserole with only enough 
water, stock, tomatoes or liquid of any kind to 
cover, the full flavor is preserved. 

The recipes given here will never fail, and the 



ambitious housewife will soon learn to evolve 
variations from them, such variations as may suit 
the kind and quantity of ingredients she has on 
hand. When the recipe calls for stock, hot water 
or milk can be used instead, and vice versa, stock 
of course being always preferred. When chicken is 
mentioned, veal may be substituted. In the dishes 
made of noodles, macaroni and spaghetti may 
nearly always be used. With a little originality and 
discrimination one may allow fancy to have some 
sway, and there is hardly a limit to what may be 
accomplished in culinary economics. 

Fashion has reverted to the old style of having 
very little upon the table. A few well-chosen 
courses, simply garnished and well served, make 
any home dinner a success. 

It is the religious duty of every housewife to 
accomplish the art of cooking. As a modern 
philosopher writes, "A man who would just as soon 
have uncooked chipped' beef, sour bread and tea 
for supper as to have delicious stuffed tomatoes, an 
egg souffle, or perfectly done chops, ought to be 
sentenced for life to an American plan hotel, where 
all meats and vegetables are steamed in the same 
pot, and where the waitress, having brought on 
your dose in little cold stone-china boats, goes 
away-way-ofif and never speaks to you again." 

Simplicity allied with good taste is the chief 
characteristic of the modern cuisine. Humanity is 
tired of complicated effort. There is a great deal 
of fuss and flutter in the world over nothing, and it 
is the kind of fuss that is becoming unfashionable. 

Fxil 



It has been reported that even the ruling monarchs 
of the world have rebelled against the agonizing, 
drawn-out meals. 

Why not? 

There is nothing more dreadful than the sight of 
food when one has appeased one's hunger. 

That is nature's clever device to keep us from 
becoming too greedy. 

The last word in the preparation of a meal is 
daintiness. A little care in its arrangement will 
more than pay for itself in added savor and enjoy- 
ment, and the extra care is worth the while for the 
pleasure attained. 

It has been the aim of the author to explain each 
recipe so completely that any one can readily un- 
derstand it. A careful application of the directions 
is all that is necessary to produce the results that 
have made many chefs and housewives famous. 

Olive M. Hulse. 



[xii] 



CASSEROLE 



A Word About Sauce 
Making 

MELT a tablespoonful of butter in a pan. 
Gradually sprinkle in two tablespoonfuls 
of flour, and stir constantly until tfie flour 
is smoothly blended with the butter. As soon as 
the sauce leaves the sides of the pan, add a pint of 
hot milk, stirring it briskly. Boil carefully from 
five to ten minutes, according to the quantity. Add 
salt and pepper to taste and a speck of cayenne. 
This makes a plain White Sauce. 

From this foundation all sorts of sauces can be 
made. When the butter and flour are allowed 
to brown, it is called a Brown Sauce, a few drops 
of essence of anchovy added makes an Anchovy 
Sauce ; chopped parsley for Parsley Sauce ; capers 
for Caper Sauce; add chopped hard-boiled eggs 
for Egg Sauce; always adding more butter if a 
richer sauce is needed. This foundation can be 
prepared before hand and easily added to when 
wanted. 



[1] 



Artichokes, Stuffed 

Parboil six artichokes long enough to remove the 
choke, throw them into cold water for five 
minutes, and put them to drain. Mince fine half 
a cupful of salt pork, and fry it a little with two 
tablespoonfuls of chopped shallots, add a pint of 
chopped mushrooms, a teaspoonful of minced 
parsley and simmer ten minutes. Blend with it 
a tablespoonful of flour, add a teaspoonful of but- 
ter, half a cupful of Chili sauce, salt, pepper and 
a speck of nutmeg. Fill the artichokes and tie 
them. Brown the outside with olive oil, place 
them in the casserole, pour over half a cupful of 
stock, and two tablespoonfuls of lemon juice. 
Cover and cook for an hour in moderate oven. 
Place a whole mushroom on top of each, and 
serve hot in the casserole. 

Asparagus in Ambush 

Cut off the tops of six light rolls, remove the 
crumb, place in casserole and set in oven to get 
crisp. Heat a cupful of milk to boiling point, and 
pour it into two well-beaten eggs, add a spoonful of 
butter cut in bits and rolled in flour, and the soft 
parts of two pounds of asparagus, which has been 
boiled and cut fine. Stir well and season to taste. 
Fill the rolls, put on the tops, and serve hot. 



Have you this spring eaten any 'sparagus yet? 

— Brome. 

[2] 



Bean-Pot Roast 

Cover two pounds of chuck steak with boiling 
water; place the cover on the bean-pot and let 
the meat cook in a moderate oven for two hours. 
Add a cupful each of diced carrots and potatoes, 
and half a cupful of sliced onions. Season with 
salt and pepper to taste, cook about an hour longer. 
Thicken the liquor in which the meat is cooked 
with two tablespoonfuls of flour, and serve from 
the bean-pot. 

Beans and Sausage 

Chop fine a pint of cooked green beans. Season 
with half a teaspoonful each of salt and pepper, 
and place a layer in the bottom of the casserole. 
Pour in a cupful of milk. Prick the casings of a 
pound of sausages, and lower them in a frying 
basket into a kettle of boiling water. Let stand 
ifor two iminutes, remove and dispose over the 
beans. Pour over a cupful of thick white sauce 
and the remainder of the beans, with a layer of 
cracker crumbs on top. Bake for fifteen minutes. 



// this be magic, let it he an art lawful as 
eating. — Winters Tale. 

[3] 



Beans, Baked 

Soak a pint of beans over night in plenty of water. 
Parboil for two hours in the morning, and pour off 
nearly all of the water. Peel and place a large 
onion in the bottom of the bean-pot. Pour the 
beans into the pot, and add a teaspoonful of salt, 
half a pound of salt pork, half a cupful of New 
Orleans molasses, and water enough to cover. 
Bake for at least six hours in a covered pot, add- 
ing water as the beans bake dry. Uncover and 
brown. 

Beef Roast, Creole Fashion 

Cut a quarter of a pound of fat salt pork into thin 
shreds. Chop fine an onion, a clove of garlic, two 
bay leaves, two sprigs each of thyme and parsley. 
Lard five pounds of the round of beef with the 
pork, rubbing the mixture of onion and spices into 
the meat, with plenty of salt and pepper. Quarter 
two large onions and put into the casserole with 
a tablespoonful of lard, and set the beef on them 
when browned. Cover and cook slowly until the 
meat is browned about ten minutes. Add two large 
onions chopped fine, and two turnips and five car- 
rots cut in inch cubes. Turn the meat and cook 
ten minutes more. Add enough boiling water to 
cover the meat or, better, the same amount of soup 
stock in which a glass of sherry or Madeira has 
been poured. Cook slowly for three hours or until 
tender. It may be served hot or cold. 

"Give zest and flavor to a mess of pottage." 
[4] 



Beef and Sausages 

Cut a pound and a half of beef into thin strips. 
Season two tablespoonfuls of flour with salt and 
pepper, toss the meat in this, place a teaspoon- 
ful of light bread stuffing in each strip, and fold 
it into rolls. Prick and divide three-quarters of 
a pound of sausages. Place a layer of sausage in 
a casserole, then the beef, then sausages again. 
Sprinkle in the remaining flour, and a tablespoon- 
ful of chopped parsley. Cover with hot water, 
put on the lid, and cook slowly for two hours and a 
half. 

Beef and Tomatoes 

Cut two pounds of beef, a bunch of celery, and 
four onions into small pieces, and put them into a 
frying-pan. Set on the stove and stir constantly 
until browned. Remove from the fire and put 
into a large casserole. Add a can of tomatoes, 
a quarter of a package of cooked macaroni, half a 
pound of grated cheese, a cupful of small mush- 
roonia, a tablespoonful of soy sauce, and salt and 
pepper to taste. Simmer in moderately hot oven 
for two hours, and serve from casserole. 



JFe fat all creatures to fat us. 

— Hamlet. 

[5] 



Beefettes 

Cut a pound and a half of tender round steak into 
pieces half an inch thick, six inches long and four 
inches wide. Place on each a large tablespoonful 
of bread stuffing. Roll up the beefettes and fasten 
with wooden toothpicks. Put a tablespoonful of 
butter and a cupful of water into a casserole with 
beefettes, and bake for forty minutes in a hot oven 
without cover. Baste often, and when done thick- 
en the gravy, and serve hot. 

Beefsteak a la Cuba 

Spread a pound and a half of steak out flat, and 
cover with a sliced onion, a sliced sweet pepper, 
half a cupful of tomatoes, and salt and pepper. 
Roll up and tie securely. Put a tablespoonful of 
suet and a tablespoonful of butter into a frying- 
pan. When piping hot, drop the steak into it and 
brown on all sides. Lift into a deep casserole. 
Pour a pint of water into the frying-pan, thicken 
with a tablespoonful of flour, and pour over the 
steak. Bake in moderate oven for an hour and a 
half. Add six whole medium sized potatoes, more 
water if needed, and cook for three-quarters of an 
hour longer. Serve in the casserole. 



He that would eat a good dinner, let him eat a 
good breakfast. 

— Old Proverb. 

[6] 



Beefsteak Braised Creole 
Fashion 

Melt a tablespoonful of lard in a deep casserole, 
and add six onions sliced. Lay on the onions a 
three-pound beefsteak, well seasoned with salt and 
pepper and dredged with flour. Cover, let it sim- 
mer for a few minutes, and turn the steak. Chop 
together a clove of garlic, three sprigs of parsley, 
two sprigs each of thyme and bay leaf, add two 
tablespoonfuls of vinegar, and pour this over the 
steak after three minutes. Turn the steak at three- 
minute intervals until it is thoroughly browned on 
both sides. Add a pint of water, enough to cover 
the steak, and let it simmer gently for two hours. 

Beefsteak en Casserole 

No. 1 

Cut two pounds of round steak two inches thick 
into pieces two inches square. Sear in a frying- 
pan, and put them into the casserole with two 
tablespoonfuls each of diced carrots and turnips, 
a dozen small onions, and a pint of brown stock or 
boiling water. Cover and cook slowly in the oven 
for an hour and a half. Add salt and a little more 
water, and cook half an hour longer. Serve from 
the casserole. 



Dinner was made for eatin', not for talkin', 
— William Makepeace Thackeray. 

[7] 



Beefsteak en Casserole 

No. 2 

Take two or three pounds of round steak. Cut 
in pieces convenient for serving, salt and pepper, 
and roll it in flour. Sear in hot fat. Have the 
casserole hot, add two cupfuls of canned toma- 
toes, an onion sliced, a carrot and a turnip, two 
stalks of celery, and half a teaspoonful of mixed 
spices. Pour a cupful of water into a spider, add 
a teaspoonful of kitchen bouquet and pour over 
the meat, cover tightly, and set in hot oven. As 
soon as the meat begins to cook turn the gas low 
and cook very slowly for two or three hours. 
Fifteen minutes before taking the casserolfe from 
the oven, add two cupfuls of Parisienne potatoes 
which have been parboiled for fifteen minutes. 

Beefsteak en Casserole a 
la Savarin 

Sear two pounds of sirloin or tenderloin on both 
sides in a frying-pan, turning frequently. Brown 
four l;ablespoonfuls of flour in half a cupful of 
melted butter, add a teaspoonful of salt, and a 
cupful and a half of hot water. Put in half a cup- 
ful each of balls cut from carrots and turnips, a 
dozen and a half small onions, and a dozen canned 
mushrooms. Put steak into the caSserole, and 
pour the sauce and vegetables over it. Let stand in 
a hot oven for about ten minutes, garnish with 
chopped parsley, and serve at once from the cas- 
serole. 

' / am a great eater of beef. 

— Twelfth Night. 
[8] 



Beefsteak Pie with Potato 
Crust 

Cut a pound and a half of steak into pieces an inch 
square, fry until brown on all sides, turn in enough 
water to cover the meat, and stew until tender, 
Season well, add a speck of thyme and flour to 
thicken the gravy. For the crust use two cupfuls 
of flour, half a cupful of lard, a pinch of salt, three 
teaspoonfuls of baking powder, a cupful of cold 
mashed potatoes, and half a cupful of milk. Roll 
out half an inch thick, put over the top of baking 
dish in which you have placed the meat and gravy, 
and bake to a light brown. 

Beefsteak Pudding 

Cut a pound and a half of chuck steak into small 
pieces. Add three-quarters of a pound of ham cut 
thin. Fry a large onion until brown in a table- 
spoonful of butter, and add the beef and ham. 
Dissolve a tablespoonful of flour in a little cold 
water, and add sufficient boiling water to cover the 
meat. Season with salt, pepper, chopped parsley, 
and a tablespoonful of Worcestershire sauce. 
Simmer slowly for fifteen minutes, then add six 
diced potatoes. Cook twenty minutes longer. 
Line a deep casserole with biscuit dough, and pour 
in the mixture. Slice two hard boiled eggs and 
lay over the top. Cover with a thin crust of dough 
and bake for half an hour. Serve from the cas- 
serole. 

Let you and I, sir, go together and eat a beefsteak. 
— Samuel Johnson. 

[9] 



Beefsteak Smothered with 
Mushrooms 

Melt a tablespoonful of butter in a deep casserole 
and add six sliced onions. Lay on these a tender- 
loin of beef, well peppered and salted, and dredged 
with flour. Add a clove of garlic and two sprigs 
each of thylne and bay leaf, chopped together. 
Cook for half an hour, and add a can of mush- 
rooms with a pint of boiling water. Let it simmer 
an hour and a half. Pour in a glass of sherry or 
white wine and let it cook ten minutes. The steak 
can be smothered in truffles if preferred, using half 
a can instead of the mushrooms. 

Beefsteak Smothered with 
Tom^atoes 

Proceed as for Beefsteak smothered with Mush- 
rooms, but instead of adding the mushrooms and 
water, add half a can of tomatoes or six large fresh 
tomatoes sliced in their juice. Cook for an hour 
and a half, pour in a wine-glassful of sherry or 
white wine, if desired, cook for ten minutes, and 
serve. 



That all softening, overpowering knell, 
The tocsin of the soul — the dinner-bell. 

— Byron. 

[10] 



Beef Tenderloin with 
Mushrooms 

Cut a pound and a half of beef tenderloin into four 
slices. Trim, season, and flour them. Try out a 
tablespoonful of beef fat in a frying-pan, add a 
teaspoonful of butter, and fry the meat in this four 
minutes, turning often. Cover and let stand for 
three minutes more. Peel half a pound of fresh 
mushrooms, cut into small pieces and simmer in 
butter for fifteen minutes. Place the meat in the 
casserole. Put a teaspoonful of flour and a cupful 
of boiling water in the frying-pan, season to taste, 
and add the mushrooms. Pour the mushroom 
sauce over the meat, and cook in a hot oven for 
five minutes. Serve in the casserole. 

Beef Tongue 

Put a beef tongue into a kettle of boiling water. 
Add a teaspoonful of salt, a small onion, half a 
teaspoonful of peppercorns, six cloves, and three 
bay leaves. Cook slowly until tender. Take from 
the water and remove the skin. Put the tongue 
into a shallow casserole, surround it with tomato 
sauce, cover closely, and bake about an hour, bast- 
ing frequently. Add a can of mushrooms, and 
serve hot. 



Come let us four to dinner. 

— Henry VI. 

[11] 



Cabbage and Meat, 
Scalloped 



\ 



IBoil a head of cabbage in two waters. Drain, cool, 
and chop fine. Butter a casserole and sprinkle 
over with fine crumbs. On this put a layer of cab- 
bage, salt and pepper, and dot it with butter. Add 
more crumbs, and a layer of chopped corned beef. 
Continue in this way until the dish is full. Pour 
in a cupful of the water in which the corned beef 
was boiled, sprinkle crumbs on top, and over this 
grated cheese. Bake covered for half an hour, 
then uncover and brown. Serve in the casserole. 
Ham may be used instead of the corned beef. 

Cabbage with Bacon 

Chop half a large head of cabbage, stir into it a 
tablespoonful of flour, a teaspoonful of salt, a table- 
spoonful of butter, a dash of red pepper, and half 
a cupful of cold water. Put into a well-buttered 
casserole, lay moderately thin slices of bacon over 
it, and cover. Bake in a hot oven for an hour and 
a quarter. 



Good worts! good cabbage. 

— Merry Wives. 

[12] 



Calf's Liver en Casserole 

Soak a calf's liver in cold water for half an hour. 
Drain and dry, and lard well with fat bacon strips. 
Chop an onion, dice a carrot, a small white turnip 
and a parsnip. Fry these in butter and add to them 
a cupful of chopped ham, half a cupful of butter, 
a bay leaf, and a pinch of mace. Place in the cas- 
serole the liver, and fry a light brown. Pour over 
all two cupfuls of hot water, season well with salt 
and pepper, the juice of half a lemon, and a dash 
of paprika. Place in the oven and cook slowly for 
an hour and a half. Thicken the gravy with a 
tablespoonful of flour, add a tablespoonful of 
chopped parsley, and cook for another five min- 
utes. Serve from the casserole. 

Carrots a la Cyrano 

Take a dozen young sweet carrots, scrape, and boil 
until tender. Cut them lengthwise in halves, dip 
in thick honey, and place in a casserole with the 
bottom thinly covered with olive oil. Sprinkle 
with grated cheese and salt, place in a hot oven 
and brown for fifteen minutes. Brown sugar may 
be used in place of honey. 



Thou shall not die for lack of a dinner. 
— As You Like It. 

[13] 



Casserole Dinner 

Cut a pound and a half of round steak into pieces 
of serving size, season with salt, pepper and a little 
sifted flour, and place in a buttered casserole. 
Cover with a layer of sliced onions which have 
been parboiled for a few minutes. Add a layer of 
tomatoes, either fresh or canned, and more salt, 
pepper and flour. For the top layer use potatoes 
cut in quarters. Fill the dish with water, and bake 
slowly for two or three hours. 

Cauliflower with Cheese 
au Gratin 

Boil cauliflower in salted water until tender. Sep- 
arate into flowerets, and place them stem down- 
ward into ramekins. Melt three tablespoonfuls of 
butter, and cook in it three tablespoonfuls of flour, 
half a teaspoonful of salt, and a dash of paprika. 
Add a cupful and a half of milk, and stir until the 
sauce boils. Stir in a cupful of grated cheese, and 
pour a little of the sauce over the cauliflower in 
each ramekin. Stir a cupful of fine cracker crumbs 
into a third of a cupful of melted butter; sprinkle 
these over the cauliflower and sauce, and set the 
ramekins in oven to brown the crumbs. Serve in 
the ramekins. 



You Banbury Cheese. 

— Merry Wives, 

[14] 



Cheese Corn Souffle 

Stir a cupful of grated cheese into a cupful of 
white sauce. When blended add a cupful of 
canned corn. Put in the well-beaten yolks of three 
eggs, season to taste with salt and pepper, and add 
the whites of the eggs beaten stiff. Bake in a cas- 
serole for half an hour. 

Cheese Souffle 

Soak a pint of bread crumbs in a pint of milk for 
two hours. Rub through a colander, add a table- 
spoonful of melted butter, a dash of cayenne pep- 
per, a little salt, a cupful of grated cheese, and four 
eggs, beaten separately. Stir briskly, and turn at 
once into a buttered casserole. Cover and bake for 
fifteen minutes. Uncover and brown. Serve im- 
mediately. This puff falls quickly and should not 
be allowed to stand after baking. 



Art thou corned Why, my cheese, my digestion. 

— Troilus. 

[15] 



Cheshire Pork Pie 

Cut two or three pounds of lean fresh pork into 
strips two inches long and an inch wide. Take an 
equal weight of juicy apples, pared, cored and cut 
in slices. Line a deep casserole with puff paste, but 
in a layer of pork, then of apples covered with an 
ounce of white sugar, then pork, and proceed un- 
til the dish is full, seasoning each layer of pork 
with salt, pepper, and a speck of sage. Pour in 
half a pint of sweet cider and stick bits of butter 
over the top. Cover with thick strips of puff paste, 
brush the top with a beaten egg, and bake for an 
hour and a half. 

Chicken a la King 

Dice the white meat of two Jjoiled young chickens 
into a saucepan with a tablespoonful of butter, and 
salt to season), and let get warm ; add enough double 
cream to cover the meat, and cook slowly for ten 
or fifteen minutes;, stirring steadily. Add a dash of 
cayenne, a peeled chopped green pepper, and six 
diced fresh mushrooms which have been cooked in 
butter. Pour all into a buttered casserole, sprinkle 
with a few buttered cracker crumbs, and put in the 
oven to set. Garnish with slices of black truffles 
and serve. 



Sit down and feed, and welcome to our dinner. 
[16] 



Chicken and Corn Pudding 

Joint the chicken and simmer in a close-covered 
kettle until it begins to get tender. Remove to 
casserole, seasoning well with salt and pepper. 
Mix a can of corn with three well-beaten eggs and 
a pint of milk. Season with salt and pepper, and 
a dust of cayenne. Pour this mixture over the 
chicken, dredge with flour, dot with bits of butter, 
and bake in a moderate oven until a delicate brown. 
Make a gravy with the water in which the chicken 
was cooked, and serve. 

Chicken Baked in Milk 

Joint the chicken as for frying, put into a casserole, 
and cover with half milk and half cream. Salt and 
pepper to taste. Add a piece of butter the isize of 
a walnut, and cook until tender. 



Let me order you a snug little dinner. 

— Pickwick Papers. 

[17] 



Chicken and Oyster Pie 

Melt a teaspoonful of butter in a quart casserole, 
scattering bread crumbs over it. Add a layer of 
flaked chicken meat, then a layer of oysters well 
seasoned with salt and pepper. Alternate until 
the dish is full. Pour over the whole the strained 
oyster liquor, to which has been added an egg well 
beaten in a cupful of milk. Dot the top with a 
tablespoonful of butter, cover and bake for an hour 
in a moderate oven. Turkey can be used in the 
same way. 

Chicken and Sweetbreads 

Boil a three-pound chicken and three sweetbreads 
in salted water until tender. Joint the chicken. 
Add a cupful of blanched almonds, and a can of 
mushrooms. Rub together half a cupful of flour 
and half a cupful of butter, and add five cupfuls 
of cream. Pour over the chicken and sweetbreads, 
sprinkle with pepper and a tablespoonful of 
chopped parsley. Bake for half an hour in a cov- 
ered casserole. 



Oft he fed with good dinner. 

— Robert of Gloucester. 

[18] 



Chicken en Casserole 

Joint a three-pound chicken. Line a large cas- 
serole with slices of bacon, put in the chicken, 
season with salt and pepper and a large onion 
chopped fine. Arrange around the chicken three 
large tomatoes, quartered and peeled, three celery 
stalks, a cupful of mushrooms, and a bay leaf. 
Add two cupfuls of hot water, cover the casserole, 
place in the oven and let it cook gently for an hour 
and a half. Baste frequently. Remove the bay 
leaf, thicken the gravy with browned flour, leave 
all in the casserole, and serve hot. 

Chicken en Casserole No. 2. 

Joint the chicken. Salt and saute in butter in a fry- 
ing-pan until delicately browned. Put into cas- 
serole and sprinkle with flour. Put a tablespoonful 
of butter into the frying pan and saute a cupful 
each of carrot and potato balls, and a dozen and a 
half small onions. When browned add a pint of 
hot water and a can of mushrooms. Pour over the 
chicken, cover and let simmer slowly for an hour 
and a half. 



^ little pot, and soon hot. 
— The Taming of the Shrew. 

[19] 



Chicken Livers and 
Chestnuts 

Drain and fry a pound of chicken livers in olive 
oil. Shell and boil a pint of chestnuts until tender, 
and put them through a meat chopper. Cover the 
bottom of the casserole with a layer of livers, then 
a layer of chestnuts, alternating until all are used. 
Rub together a tablespoonful of flour, and two 
tablespoonfuls of butter, add enough hot water to 
cover the mixture, salt and pepper to taste. Cover 
and bake for twenty minutes. 

Chicken Scalloped en 
Casserole 

Into the bottom of a casserole put a layer of 
stewed chicken which has been carefully boned, 
sprinkle with salt, pepper, bits of butter and some 
fine chopped ham, or omit the butter and use 
bacon instead of the ham. Cover with a thin 
layer of cracker crumbs, add another layer of 
chicken and continue until the dish is nearly full, 
finishing with cracker crumbs. Pour over a cup- 
ful of milk and a cupful of stock or hot water, 
cover, and cook in a moderate oven for half an 
hour. 



Prepare for dinner. 

— Lear. 

[20] 



Chicken Souffle 

Rub together a tablespoonful of 'flour and two of 
butter, add a cupful of milk, and cook in a double 
boiler until smooth. Season to taste, and put in a 
tablespoonful of bread crumbs. Add a pint of 
chopped chicken, a tablespoonful of chopped pars- 
ley, and the well-beaten yolks of three eggs. Fold 
in the stiffly beaten whites of eggs, put in buttered 
casserole, and bake for thirty-five minutes in slow 
oven. Veal can be used as well as chicken. Beef 
will answer, but if used, put in beef stock instead 
of milk. 

Chicken, Spanish Style 

Cut up a three pound chicken, boil until tender, 
and bone. Slice a dozen small onions and two 
green peppers, and fry in fat. Add a can of toma- 
toes, half a dozen chopped olives, and three cloves 
of garlic. Put all together with enough chicken 
broth to cover and simmer for fifteen minutes. 
iButter a casserole and put half a can of corn in the 
bottom. Put in the boned chicken with other in- 
gredients, and the remainder of the can of corn on 
top. Bake in the oven for twenty minutes. 



" // / like thee no worse after dinner I will not 
part with thee yet." ' ' 

[21] 



Chicken with Herbs 

Put four tablespoonfuls of butter into a frying pan, 
saute two medium sized onions in this. Joint and 
put in two young chickens and brown. Transfer 
them to a casserole. Season with salt and pepper 
and a dash of nutmeg. Brown four tablespoon- 
fuls of flour in half a cupful of butter, add a pint 
of stock, two tablespoonfuls of lean raw ham, a 
chopped carrot, a stalk of celery, two cloves, an 
onion, and a pinch of salt. Boil this sauce for 
fifteen minutes and turn it over the chicken. Cover 
the casserole, and cook in a moderate oven about 
an hour, or until the chicken is tender. Half an 
hour after the casserole is placed in the oven, add 
a dozen fresh mushrooms peeled and cut into slices. 

Chicken with Noodles 

Boil the chicken, remove from bones and cut into 
small dice. Boil the noodles for twenty minutes, 
and place in casserole with alternate layers of 
chicken. Thicken the broth to a cream with flour, 
season to taste, pour over the chicken and noodles. 
Sprinkle with cracker crumbs, and bake for fifteen 
minutes. 



li't near dinnertime? I would it were. 
[22] 



Chicken with Olives 

Joint the chicken and put into the casserole with 
three cupfuls of water, a chopped onion, and salt 
and pepper to taste. Cook slowly until tender. 
Lift out the chicken and drain and dry the pieces. 
Fry them in three tablespoonfuls of butter until 
they are brown. Stir a tablespoonful of flour into 
the casserole, add a pint of the broth in which the 
chicken was cooked, two dozen sliced olives, a 
tablespoonful of capers and a tablespoonful of 
onion juice. When quite smooth add the chicken 
and cook for ten minutes in hot oven. 

Chili Con Came 

Cut two pounds of lean beef into small pieces and 
dredge with flour. Brown a large onion in two 
tablespoonfuls of drippings, add the meat and 
slightly brown. Put the onion and meat into a 
soup kettle with a small can of tomatoes and two 
large green peppers fi'nely minced. Season to taste, 
cover with boiling water, and cook until tender. 
Parboil a cupful of kidney beans, which have been 
soaked over night, and add half of them to the stew. 
Mash the other half of the beans through a col- 
ander before adding to the mixture. Put all into 
the casserole, and serve, Mexican style. 



" /FAy muse you, sir? His dinnertime^ 
[23] 



Chipped Beef with 
Noodles 

Mix together a tablespoonful of butter and two 
tablespoonfuls of flour, add two cupfuls of hot 
milk, and cook until creamy. Add a cupful 
of chipped beef ground fine, and two cupfuls of 
boiled noodles. Turn into deep casserole, sprinkle 
over some cracker crumbs, and brown in oven for 
ten minutes. 

Clams, Scalloped 

Put six dozen clams in casserole, season with pep- 
per, and add two stalks of minced celery. Cut a 
piece or two of fat bacon into tiny bits, and mix 
thoroughly with the clams. Strew over the top a 
thin layer of cracker crumbs, and place a piece of 
butter the size of a walnut on top. Bake in the 
oven until brown. 



If you give me any conserves, give me con- 
serves of heef. 

— Taming of the Shrew. 

[24] 



Codfish, Baked 

Rub a shallow casserole dish with a clove of garlic. 
Put in a thick slice of cod, and add four tablespoon- 
f uls of olive oil. Put into the oven and when near- 
ly cooked, sprinkle in a tablespoonful of chopped 
capers, three chopped anchovies, a tablespoonful of 
chopped parsley, a tablespoonful of bread crumbs, 
with salt and pepper to taste. Divide a tablespoon- 
ful of butter into tiny bits, lay it on top, and return 
it to the oven to brown. 

Codfish, Scalloped 

Shred a cupful of codfish. Prepare a cupful of 
white sauce by cooking a tablespoonful of flour 
with one of butter, then adding a cupful of boiled 
milk and stirring until well cooked. Add the cod- 
fish to this and cook gently until the two are thor- 
oughly blended. Add a well beaten egg and cook 
until all the bubbles disappear. Add two or three 
fresh mushrooms chopped fine. Put into casserole 
between layers of bread crumbs. Brown in oven. 



/ know you think to dine with me to-day. 

— Taming of the Shrew. 

[25] 



Codfish Souffle 

Mix together two tablespoonfuls of flour and two 
of melted butter, add a pinch of pepper. Stir in 
a cupful and a half of milk, and cook until boil- 
ing. Add a teaspoonful of onion juice, a table- 
spoonful of finely chopped parsley, a pound of 
freshened codfish picked into bits, and the beaten 
yolks of three eggs. Mix all together thoroughly, 
then fold in the whites of three eggs beaten dry. 
Bake in a buttered casserole in a moderate oven 
until firm in the center. Serve at once with a 
cream sauce. 

Corn Chowder 

Boil two eggs hard. Mix two cupfuls of corn, two 
cupfuls of cold diced potatoes, two cupfuls of 
white sauce, and two cupfuls of diced toasted bread 
in the casserole. Put in oven long enough to heat 
through well, cut the eggs over the top, and serve. 

Corn Pudding 

Grate ten ears of raw sweet corn. Add a quart of 
sweet milk, three eggs well beaten, a tablespoonful 
of butter, a teaspoonful of salt, and half a teaspoon- 
ful of black pepper. Mix well. Pour into a but- 
tered casserole, and cook for thirty minutes in a 
hot oven. Canned corn may be used. 



" The Gods sent not corn for the rich men only.' 
[26]- 



Cottage Pie 

Cover bottom of greased casserole with hot mashed 
potatoes, add a thick layer of roast beef cut in small 
pieces, seasoned with salt and pepper and a few 
drops of onion juice, and moistened with its own 
gravy. Cover with a thin layer of mashed potatoes, 
and bake in a hot oven long enough to heat through. 
Dot with butter and black pepper. 

Crab Flake Sublime 

Fry six sliced fresh mushrooms, and six slices of 
Virginia ham in a spider until brown. Remove 
the ham, add a pint of crab flakes to the mush- 
rooms, and pour in a pint of cream. Season with 
salt and cayenne pepper, and let boil for ten 
minutes. Beat the yolks of two eggs with two 
tablespoonfuls of sherry, and with it thicken the 
mixture. Pour all into casserole, sprinkle with 
some buttered cracker crumbs, and garnish with 
truffles. Lay the slices of ham on toast, divide the 
crab meat over same, and serve. 



" When roasted crabs hiss in the bowl, then 
rightly sings the staring owl." 

[27] 



Crabmeat h la Carmen 

Boil a good sized crab and remove the meat. Put 
two tablespoonfuls of olive oil into casserole, add 
the crabmeat, a chopped onion, and a teaspoonful 
of chopped parsley. Stir over the fire until hot. 
Add two tablespoonfuls of bread crumbs, a tea- 
spoonful of tarragon vinegar, two tablespoonfuls 
of chopped, cooked chicken, a tablespoonful of 
cream and three tablespoonfuls of hot water. Salt 
and pepper to taste. Fill individual ramekins with 
the mixture, pour over each some white sauce, and 
the sifted yolks of two hard-boiled eggs. Stand 
them in a pan containing a little boiling water, 
place in the oven for fifteen minutes, and serve 
immediately. 

Crabs, Devilled 

Mix a tablespoonful of fine bread crumbs with 
the yolks of two hard-boiled eggs, the juice of a 
lemon, half a teaspoonful of mustard, salt, pepper, 
and a dash of paprika, a cupful of drawn butter, 
and a cupful of crabmeat chopped fine. With the 
mixture fill large clam, scallop, or crab shells, 
which have been boiled and cleansed, or individual 
ramekins. Sprinkle another tablespoonful of fine 
bread crumbs over the tops, with tiny bits of butter. 
Bake for twenty minutes in moderately hot oven. 



" Le(s to supper, come, and drown consideration." 
[28] 



Cucumber Farcie 

Peel and halve lengthwise six large cucumbers, 
and remove the soft pulp and seeds. Cook in boil- 
ing salted water until tender, drain and fill the 
shells with cooked halibut broken into flakes and 
moistened with cream sauce. Sprinkle with bread 
crumbs, dot with bits of butter, and bake in a 
shallow casserole until delicately browned. 

Cucumber Pudding 

Cut six cucumbers fine with a medium sized onion. 
Stew them in a little water for fifteen minutes. 
Prepare a rich dressing as for poultry. Pour off 
all the water from the cucumbers, add the dressing 
and a tablespoonful of butter. Bake in a deep 
casserole for twenty minutes. 

Cucumbers and Onions 

Slice three large cucumbers rather thick, and 
dredge with flour. Put a tablespoonful of butter 
in a frying pan, heat and fry the cucumbers and one 
large sliced onion until a pale brown. Place in the 
casserole, add a cupful of hot water and cook for 
half an hour. Rub together a tablespoonful of but- 
ter and a tablespoonful of flour. Add to the cucum- 
bers, stir and cook for five minutes. Add a table- 
spoonful of tomato catsup, salt and pepper. 



We will go walk a little in the orchard. And then 
to dinner. 

— Taming of the Shrew. 

[29] 



Curry of Lamb en 
Casserole 

Put two cupfuls of diced cold lamb, a cupful of 
diced apples, and a cupful of chopped onions 
which have been fried in butter into casserole. 
Add two cupfuls of hot milk, a piece of butter the 
size of an egg, a tablespoonful of fine curry pow- 
der, and a tablespoonful of flour, with salt to taste. 
Pour on the lamb in the casserole and let simmer 
for half an hour in a moderately hot oven. Serve 
with plain rice. 

Duck en Casserole 

Simmer a duck for an hour. Remove from the 
fire and joint. Fry brown in half a cupful of butter 
in the casserole, sprinkle with two tablespoonfuls 
of flour, and add salt to taste. Pour over them a 
cupful and a half of rich stock, with a small 
minced onion in it, a sprig of thyme, half a tea- 
spoonful of lemon juice, and some finely-minced 
parsley. Cover, and let simmer slowly for half an 
hour, and serve. 



An you'll come to supper tonight you may; 
and you will not, come when you are next 
prepared jor. 

— Othello. 

[30] 



Duckling h la Turque 

Put a layer of sliced Spanish onions and some pats 
of butter into a casserole, sprinkle with salt and 
pepper. Lay the duckling on this, put it into a 
hot oven and let it cook about three-quarters of 
an hour. Remove the duckling f rorn the casserole, 
pour in a glassful of v^rhite wine or old Madeira, 
put it over the fire, let it come to a boil, and add 
half a pint of hot water or stock, and two fresh 
tomatoes peeled and slicpd. Cook for half an hour, 
strain the gravy, and add two tablespoonfuls of 
butter. Return all to the casserole from which it 
is served on slices of toast with sliced oranges. 

Duckling Pot Roast 

Line a deep casserole with two slices of bacon cut 
into bits. Clean and truss two ducklings, put 
them in, and add enough hot water to half cover 
the birds. Add a sprig of celery, and two of pars- 
ley. Place a narrow strip of bacon on each bird, 
cover close and set the casserole in a moderate oven 
where the birds will cook slowly for two hours. 
Remove the ducklings, strain the sauce, and reduce 
it to one-third by boiling. Thicken with browned 
flour, simmer for fifteen minutes, add two table- 
spoonfuls of currant jelly, and serve with the duck. 



" The mustard is too hot a little, — Why then the 
beef and let the mustard rest." 

[31] 



Duck Ragout 

Joint a domestic duck. Melt two tablespoonfuls 
of butter in a casserole, toss the pieces of duck 
into it, sprinkle ii^ a tablespoonful of flour and fry 
a light brown. Add two cupfuls of stock, stirring 
it in smoothly, a sprig or two of parsley, a tea- 
spoonful of lemon juice, three chopped small 
onions, a teaspoonful of currant jelly, and a clove. 
Put on the cover and let it simmer for thirty min- 
utes. Season to taste with salt and pepper, and 
serve hot. 

Egg Plant en Casserole 

Pare a medium sized egg plant, cut into half inch 
cubes and put them into the casserole. Cover witli 
boiling water, containing a level teaspoonful of 
salt, and let stand for ten minutes. Pour ofif the 
water. Pare two onions chop coarse v^^ith a table- 
spoonful of parsley and add to the egg plant, to- 
gether with a teacupful of rice. Over all pour 
four cupfuls of boiling water, and set in hot oven 
until cooked dry. Add butter the size of an egg, 
and half a cupful of strained cooked tomatoes. 
Sprinkle with a few fine cracker crumbs and bake 
for fifteen minutes. 



All covered dishes! Royal cheer I warrant 
you — Doubt not that. 

— Shakespeare. 

[32] 



Eggs h la Coquelicot 

Butter freely six ramekins, and line with sweet 
pimentos. Trim off all that goes over the edge of 
the ramekin, and break in an egg. Stand the 
ramekins in a pan with half an inch of boiling 
water in it, and poach them slowly in the oven till 
cooked. Turn out on round pieces of toast, and 
pour some cream sauce around them. 

Eggs a la Mornay 

With two tablespoonfuls of butter and a pint of 
rich milk, make a thick cream sauce. Let it boil 
a few minutes, and add four tablespoonfuls of 
grated Parmesan cheese. Season with salt and 
paprika. Stir until well melted. Poach six eggs, 
and put them into a fiat casserole, pour the sauce 
over them, sprinkle with a little grated cheese, 
and bake in a hot oven for about two minutes, 
until golden brown. 

Eggs au Gratin with Green 
Peppers 

Chop five hard boiled eggs, add half a cupful of 
minced ham. Line a buttered casserole with bread 
crumbs, and fill with alternate layers of eggs and 
white sauce to which has been added two minced 
and parboiled green peppers and a tablespoonful 
of chopped chives. Spread crumbs on top, dot 
w'ith butter, and bake ten minutes. 

" Anchovies and sack after supper." 
[33] 



Eggs, Baked 

Butter a casserole, break as many eggs as may be 
needed into a saucer, one by one, and as found 
good slip into the dish, without crowding. Put 
a small piece of butter on each and sprinkle with 
salt and pepper. Place in a well heated oven, 
and bake until the whites are set. If the oven is 
properly heated it will take but a few minutes. 

Eggs Baked in Tomato 

Cut a slice from the stem end of a firm tomato, re-- 
move some of the pulp, set in a buttered ramekin, 
and sprinkle with salt and pepper. Drop one egg 
into this tomato cup, sprinkle with more salt and 
pepper, and place a little melted butter on top of 
both egg and tomato. Prepare as many of these in- 
dividual servings as may be required, and bake in 
a moderate oven until firm. 

Eggs Baked with Spinach 

Line six deep buttered ramekins with spinach pu- 
ree, drop an egg in each, dust with cheese, salt and 
pepper. Add a tiny piece of butter and cover 
with white sauce. Bake eight minutes. 



Some food we had and some fresh water, 

— Tempest. 

[34] 



Eggs, Creamed 

Boil six eggs hard and lay them in ice water to 
prevent discoloration. Shell and cut them in, 
sixths, whites and yolks together, keeping the pieces 
intact. Fill the casserole with the cut-up eggs. 
Season a cupful of white sauce with paprika, salt 
and onion juice and pour over the eggs. Set in 
a hot oven for a few minutes to heat. 

Eggs, Creamed, on Toast 

Boil six eggs twenty minutes. Put six slices of 
toast on a hot casserole, cover with a layer of 
white sauce and whites of eggs cut in strips. Rub 
part of the yolks through a sieve on top. Repeat 
this and finish with a layer of sauce. Place in the 
oven for about three minutes. Garnish with pars- 
ley and serve. 

Eggs in Cream 

spread a good tablespoonful of butter on the bot- 
tom of a shallow casserole. Pour in a cupful of 
cream, salt and pepper, and break six eggs into a 
dish. Partly cook several slices of bacon, then 
place them on top of the eggs and bake for ten 
minutes. Serve hot. 



What will you take for breakfast, sir? 
Pickwick Papers. 

[35] 



Eggs in Nests 

Beat the whites of eggs very stiff, put in individual 
.casseroles, and place the yolk of the egg in the 
center of the heap. Set in the oven for a few 
minutes to brown the whites. 

Eggs Souffle 

A cupful of bread crumbs, a, quarter of a pound 
of grated American cheese, a tablespoonful of but- 
ter, salt and pepper to taste. Over these pour a 
cupful of boiling milk, and the beaten yolks of 
three eggs. When cool beat the whites of the 
eggs stiff and stir them in lightly. Bake about 
thirty minutes in a rather shallow casserole in a 
slow oven. Serve with a slice or two of bacon. 

Eggs, Scalloped 

Boil four eggs hard. Lay crushed cracker crumbs 
in the bottom of a casserole, and on top of these 
a layer of the eggs sliced. Season with butter, pep- 
per and salt. Proceed with alternate layers of 
eggs and crumbs until the dish is full, mixing both 
for the top layer. Pour in a cupful of stock, and 
brown in the oven. 



// you love an addle egg as well as you love an 
idle head, you would eat chickens i' the shell. 

— Troilus. 

[36] 



Eggs, Shirred in Ramekins 

For each ramekin take three tablespoonfuls of 
bread crumbs from the center of a loaf and an 
equal quantity of fine chopped cooked chicken 
or ham. Add a few grains of salt, and cream or 
broth to make a thin batter. Put half of it into 
the ramekin, break in an egg, and cover it with 
the rest of the batter. Let it cook in a moderate 
oven until the egg is set. Serve in the ramekins. 

Eggs, Spanish 

Mince fine three onions and two cloves of garlic. 
Fry these a light brown in half a cupful of olive 
oil. Add a can of tomatoes and season slightly 
with sage, tabasco, a pinch of mace, a tablespoonful 
of minced parsley and a teaspoonful of brown 
sugar, with salt to suit. Cut in small pieces three 
slices of lean bacon and fry a little. Add the toma- 
toes and onions and cook for twenty minutes. 
Eutter a casserole, and when tomatoes are done 
pour them in. Drop in as many raw eggs as 
needed. Sprinkle with grated Parmesan cheese. 
Cover and bake slowly for eight or ten minutes 
or until eggs are set. Dust with parsley before 
serving. 



After I have cut the egg i' the middle and cut 
up the meat. 

— Lear. 

[37] 



Eggs, Sultana 

Put into a casserole the yolks of three eggs, two 
tablespoonfuls of chutney, two tablespoonfuls of 
olive oil, and beat well. Break half a dozen eggs, 
one at a time, into a cup and place carefully on the 
sauce and set casserole in moderate oven until eggs 
are set. Serve in the same dish. 

Eggs, Swiss 

Melt three tablespoonfuls of butter in a shallow 
casserole. Break into it six eggs. Cover with 
thin slices of Swiss cheese, and sprinkle over a 
little salt and pepper. Bake in a moderate oven 
until the eggs are set and the cheese melted. 

Eggs with Cheese 

Boil six eggs twenty minutes. Season a cupful of 
cream sauce with paprika, salt and onion juice and 
add a tablespoonful of grated cheese. Slice the 
eggs into a casserole, pour the cream sauce over 
the eggs, sift grated cheese upon the surface, and 
sprinkle over this some fine bread crumbs, dot with 
bits of butter, set in the oven and cook for five 
minutes. 



I would rather live with cheese and garlic in 
a windmill. — Henry IV. 

[38] 



Eggs with Kidneys 

Saute the kidneys until tender. Season, cut up in 
bits, and put a portion into individual casseroles. 
Drop one or two eggs in each, and set the dishes 
in a hot oven for the eggs to set. Fill the dish 
with a rich wine sauce, flavored with a speck of 
nutmeg. While piping hot, the casserole is set 
upon a plate of cresses. 

Eggs with Pimentos 

Butter six ramekins. From three canned pimentos 
cut out six stars, and set one in the bottom of each 
ramekin. Add a few drops of melted butter to 
each. Cut the rest of the pimentos into bits. Beat 
four eggs, add the pimento bits, half a teaspoonful 
of salt, and a dash of paprika. Put three table- 
spoonfuls of cream into a hot frying pan, turn in 
the eggs, set over a moderate fire and stir con- 
stantly. When slightly thickened, remove from the 
fire, add two eggs slightly beaten with salt and 
pepper to taste. Turn into the prepared ramekins, 
set the ramekins in a baking pan surrounded with 
boiling water and cook in the oven until the egg is 
set. Remove the ramekins from the water, and 
turn contents on rounds of toast over which a little 
cream or tomato sauce has been poured. 



"Dinners and suppers and sleeping hours 
excepted." 

[39] 



Eggs with Potatoes 

Shell five hard boiled eggs, and cut them into 
slices, not too thin. Mash four medium sized 
cooked potatoes, and mix with a tablespoonful of 
butter, and two tablespoonfuls of cream. Season 
with salt, pepper and a dash of nutmeg. Line the 
bottom of a buttered casserole with this, and place 
on it a layer of the sliced egg. Scatter over some 
chopped parsley, and cover with a little white 
sauce. Continue alternate layers of potato, sauce 
and egg until the quantities are used. Let the last 
layer be mashed potatoes, smooth over carefully 
with a wet knife, mark a neat pattern on top, brush 
over with beaten egg, and bake in a moderate oven 
for forty minutes. Decorate with parsley. 

Eggs with Sausage 

Put a slice of garlic sausage in bottom of ramekin, 
and set in oven to heat through. Break an egg in 
each, sprinkle with grated cheese and put back in 
oven until the egg is set and the cheese melted. 



My hunger's gone; but even before, I was at 
point to sink for food. 

— Cymbeline. 

[40] 



Eggs with Shrimps 

Butter ramekins and break into each an egg; put 
into the oven and cook until set but not hardened. 
Put a cupful of gravy into a saucepan, and a table- 
spoonful of sherry wine, three tablespoonfuls of 
chopped cooked tongue, and a dozen and a half of 
shrimps. Simmer for ten minutes. Season with 
salt and pepper, add half a cupful of cream, and 
pour over the eggs. Dash on a little paprika and 
place a sprig of parsley in the center of each. 

English Cottage Pie 

Put a beef bone from a roast on to stew with cold 
water, a sliced onion, a sprig of parsley, a bit of 
celery and three cloves. Chop the left-over meat 
fine, add a scant teaspoonful of salt and a dash of 
pepper. Strain the stock and make a brown sauce 
with it, using two tablespoonfuls of butter and 
three of flour to a pint of liquid. Season with a tea- 
spoonful of Worcestershire sauce and put half of it 
into the bottom of the casserole. Add the meat and 
the rest of the sauce, and cover with seasoned 
mashed potatoes one inch deep. Bake until heated 
through and delicately browned. 



" Tis very sweet and fresh, sir. The fish was 
taken but this night. 

— Beaumont and Fletcher. 

[41] 



Finnan Haddie 

Select a medium sized fish, taking care that it is 
well-cured. Wash it well, trim off the fins, the 
tail, and the bones at the head. Lay it in a buttered 
casserole, sprinkle with a little salt and pepper, 
pour in enough boiling water to cover it, and let it 
simmer for ten minutes. Drain it from the water, 
return it to the casserole with the butter, and cook 
it for ten minutes in the oven. See that it is 
thoroughly cooked but not hardened. 

Fish, Curried 

Melt two tablespoonfuls of butter in a casserole. 
Cut a good-sized apple and two large onions into 
small pieces. Fry together in the butter until 
brown, stir in two tablespoonfuls of flour, a table- 
spoonful of curry powder, a tablespoonful of chut- 
ney, the strained juice of a lemon, a teaspoonful 
of salt, and three cupfuls of fish stock. Simmer 
for an hour and add three cupfuls of cooked fish 
which has been put into the oven to set, freed from 
skin and bones. Arrange a cupful of boiled rice 
around a shallow casserole, turn the curry into the 
center, and garnish with half a cupful of shrimps 
heated in cream, and the quarters of two hard- 
boiled eggs. Mashed potatoes may be used instead 
of the rice. Serve hot. 



The beast, the fishes and the winged fowls. 
[42] 



Fish, Scalloped 

Butter a baking dish. Line with a layer of cold 
baked fish, a layer of the dressing with which the 
fish was stuffed, and one of buttered bread or 
cracker crumbs moistened with a white sauce, sweet 
cream or milk. Season well and repeat these alter- 
nate layers until the dish is filled. Cover the top 
with well buttered crumbs and bake until brown. 

Fish Souffle 

Boil six good sized potatoes and run them through 
a sieve. While hot, mix with them three table- 
spoonfuls of butter, salt and paprika to taste, a tea- 
spoonful of anchovy extract, a teaspoonful of 
mustard, half a cupful of thick cream, half a pound 
of cooked chopped fish, half a cupful of bread 
crumbs, three tablespoonfuls of chopped suet, a 
teaspoonful of chopped parsley, and the whites 
of six eggs beaten stiff. Mix well and pour into a 
well-buttered casserole; sprinkle the top of the 
souffle with browned bread crumbs, and spot with 
butter. Cook in a moderate oven about forty 
minutes. Serve at once. 



Either at flesh or fish, 

A table full of welcome makes scarce one 
'dainty dish. 

— Comedy of Errors. 

[43] 



Fish with Mashed Potato 

Line a well-buttered casserole with well-seasoned 
mashed potatoes beaten light with an egg. Add to 
the fish half its quantity of bread crumbs and 
enough white sauce to make it quite moist. Beat 
well. Season highly. Fill the space left in the 
potato with this mixture and bake in a hot oven. 
Serve in the casserole. 

Flounder au Gratin 

Clean and skin a large flounder. Salt and pepper 
both sides. Lay it in the casserole, sprinkle in two 
chopped shallots, and one tablespoonf ul of chopped 
parsley. Add two tablespoonfuls of butter cut in 
bits, half a cupful of white wine and half a cupful 
of bread crumbs. Cook it in oven for half an hour. 



A good dinner sharpens wft, while it softens 
the heart. — Doran. 

[44] 



Goose en Casserole 

Clean the goose and boil gently for an hour. Drain 
and wipe dry. Cook a large chopped onion in 
half a cupful of salt pork cubes until brown. Add 
two cupfuls of hot mashed potatoes, salt and pepper 
to taste, a tablespoonful of chopped parsley, and a 
cupful of cooked sausages cut in small bits. Mix 
thoroughly and stuff the goose with the mixture. 
Sew up. Lay it in the casserole and roast in a hot 
oven allowing twenty minutes to each pound. Mix 
half a cupful of vinegar with two tablespoonfuls 
of mustard, and a tablespoonful of white pepper. 
Pour them over the goose and baste it frequently. 

Guinea Hen, Braised 

Dress and truss a guinea fowl. Melt a tablespoon- 
ful of butter in the casserole ; when hot, lay in the 
bird and turn on all sides until lightly browned. 
Add a sliced carrot, a small onion, chopped fine, 
a diced stalk of celery, and a cup of tomato juice. 
Cover closely and cook until tender. Salt lightly 
after it has cooked an hour. 



Cover the table — serve in the meat and we will 
come in. 

— -^Merchant of Venice. 

[45] 



Haddock and Macaroni 

Break a quarter of a pound of macaroni into pieces 
from one to one and a half inches long; put them 
into a pan of boiling salted water, add a heaping 
tablespoonful of butter and boil until tender. 
Drain and wash the macaroni in cold water. Heat 
a cupful of white sauce in an earthen dish, stir in 
the flaked haddock without breaking the flakes, 
and season with salt and pepper. Arrange a bor- 
der of hot macaroni in a hot casserole, and pile the 
fish and sauce in the middle. Quarter three toma- 
toes, cook them for a few minutes, and arrange 
them around the fish. Cut three gherkins into 
shreds and place them in small heaps on the maca- 
roni. Heat in the oven for a few minutes and 
serve hot. 

Haddock au Gratin 

Boil a four pound haddock in salted water with two 
tablespoonfuls of butter, the strained juice of a 
lemon, and seasoning of salt and pepper. When 
done, remove the skin, put the fish into a buttered 
casserole, pour over it half a cupful of melted but- 
ter, with a dash of red pepper and lemon juice. 
Cover with half a cupful of grated Parmesan 
cheese and two tablespoonfuls of buttered bread 
crumbs, and brown in a hot oven. 



" Good meat, sir, is common; that every church 
affords." 

[46] 



Halibut a la Minute 

Select a thick firm slice of halibut, season it with 
salt and pepper, and roll it in flour. Place in a 
greased casserole, cover with slices of tomato, also 
seasoned, and bake until tender — from twenty to 
thirty minutes, according to the thickness of the 
fish. Serve plain or with oyster sauce. 

Halibut Major Domo 

Put eight nice pieces of halibut into a casserole, 
season with salt and pepper, and add the juice of 
half a lemon, and two tablespoonfuls of hot water. 
Cover and cook in the oven for five or six minutes, 
until nearly half cooked. With a cupful of milk 
and cream mixed with butter and flour prepare 
a thick cream sauce. Let it boil for ten minutes, 
and add two tablespoonfuls of butter and a table- 
spoonful of grated Parmesan cheese. Pour it over 
the fish, sprinkle with bread crumbs and cook in 
a moderate oven until browned. Put eight slices 
of thin .broiled bacon on the baked fish, and serve 
hot in the casserole. 



Sorrow of the saddest sort is subdued before 
the anguish of appetite. 

DORAN. 

[47] 



Halibut, Scalloped 

Wash two pounds of halibut and dip in flour. Fry 
ten minutes in hot butter, pick in small pieces, 
removing bones and skin. Put into a greased 
casserole a layer of bread crumbs, a layer of fish 
with salt and pepper, and have a layer of bread 
crumbs last. Add two cupfuls of milk before the 
last layer of bread crumbs, and dot with butter. 
Bake in a hot oven for twenty minutes. 

Halibut Souffle 

Chop a pound and a half of halibut fine. Add a 
teaspoonful of salt, a few specks of cayenne, half 
a cupful of thick whipped cream, and the whites 
of five eggs beaten stiff. Turn this into a well- 
buttered casserole, cover and steam for forty 
minutes. Uncover and set in the oven for two or 
three minutes to brown. 

Halibut Timbale 

Put a pound and a half of fresh halibut through a 
meat chopper, add to it a tablespoonful of chopped 
parsley, a teaspoonful of salt, a few grains of red 
pepper, half a cupful of whipped cream, and the 
whites of five eggs beaten stiff. Mix carefully 
and turn into a well-buttered casserole. Cover, 
and steam steadily for half an hour. Serve with 
egg sauce. 

" Sir, you are very welcome to our home. 
It must appear in other ways than words." 

[48] 



Ham and Eggs 

Chop or grind the trimmings of cold ham ; put a 
tablespoonful of butter into a saucepan and when 
melted stir in a level tablespoonful of flour, a tea- 
spoonful of vinegar, a dash of cayenne, and a fourth 
of a level teaspoonful of mustard. Let cook until 
thick and simmer a little. Stir in as much ham as 
. the seasoning will take up and simmer until heated, 
turn into casserole and make several depressions 
in the top. Into each hollow break an egg, dust 
with salt and set in the oven until the white of the 
egg is set. Serve in the casserole. 

Ham au Gratin 

Place a thick slice of ham in the casserole, peel 
several potatoes and put around the ham, cover 
with milk, about a pint or more. Bake slowly for 
an hour, or until the potatoes are done and the 
milk has evaporated, leaving a light brown skin 
over all. 



There's a very nice ham and a beautiful cold 
larded fowl. Shall I send 'em in, sir? 

— Pickwick Papers. 

[49] 



Hamburg Spaghetti 

Put a can of tomatoes, a sliced sweet green pepper, 
a sliced onion, a sprig of parsley and a pint of water 
into a stewpan and cook for half an hour, then 
press through a sieve into a deep casserole. Add 
a teaspoonful of salt and two tablespoonfuls of 
butter. Chop a pound of round steak fine, add a 
well beaten egg, two tablespoonfuls of grated 
bread crumbs, a tablespoonful of grated onion, half 
a teaspoonful of paprika, and a dash of salt. 
Divide into twelve portions and roll into balls. 
Heat a spider with a little butter or bacon fat, and 
roll and brown the balls in this. Drain and put 
into the sauce in the casserole. Cover and cook 
slowly for three-quarters of an hour. In the mean- 
time cook a package of spaghetti in plenty of boil- 
^ ing salted water for thirty minutes. Drain and 
rinse in cold water. When ready to serve remove 
the meat balls carefully without breaking. Turn 
in the spaghetti and half a cupful of Parmesan 
cheese, and mix all together. Return the meat 
balls, cover and put back in the oven until very 
hot. Serve in the casserole. 

Ham en Casserole, No. 1 

Take a slice of ham about two inches thick, place 
in a casserole and cover with milk. Bake in a slow 
oven until milk has soaked into the ham and until 
the ham is a light brown on top. Add milk to the 
grease and thicken with flour for a gravy. 

Feasts of reason, sir, and flows of soul. 
— Pickwick Papers. 

[50] 



Ham en Casserole, No. 2 

Secure a slice of ham about two inches thick. 
Dredge with flour and saute in its own fat. Brown 
two halved onions in this fat, also a carrot scraped 
and sliced. Place the meat in a casserole, cover 
with the vegetables, add a turnip pared and cut in- 
to small cubes. Add half a teaspoonful of pepper, 
then pour on a cupful of boiling water. Cover and 
cook for three hours in a moderate oven. Half 
an hour before the cooking is finished add a cup- 
ful of strained canned tomatoes. 

Ham Souffli 

Mix a cupful of chopped boiled ham with a cup- 
ful of white sauce, a teaspoonful of onion juice, 
a teaspoonful of minced parsley, and salt and 
pepper to taste. While over the fire add the beaten 
yolks of two eggs. Cook for two minutes, remove 
from the fire and fold in the stiffly beaten whites 
of the eggs. Bake half an hour in a butte'red 
casserole. 



/ wash, wring, brew, bake, scour, dress meat, 
and drink. 

— Merry Wives. 

[51] 



Hash, French 

Grind fine in a meat chopper two cupfuls of cold 
beef and a cupful of onions. Chop fine a cupful 
of fresh mushrooms, and cook all together in a 
casserole for half an hour in enough water to cover. 
Salt and pepper to taste. Cook nearly dry, cover 
with mashed potatoes, and brown in the oven. 
Serve in casserole. 

Hasenpfeffer 

Joint a young, full-grown rabbit, and let it lie in 
cold salt water. Wipe dry and lard it with narrow 
strips of salt pork. Sprinkle liberally with black 
pepper, and fry to a fine brown in hot fat. Put 
into a casserole, add half a dozen small white 
onions, and a teaspoonful of flour mixed with two 
tablespoonfuls of butter. Add a cupful of water 
and cook steadily for an hour in a slow oven. Add 
a tablespoonful of currant jelly, and a wineglassful 
of sherry. Cook for fifteen minutes more and 
serve hot. 



Do not grudge 
To pick out treasures from an earthen pot. 
— George Herbert. 

[52] 



Herring, Stuffed 

split six large herrings up the back, remove the 
backbones and lay three open on a buttered cas- 
serole. Mix together a cupful of bread crumbs, a 
tablespoonful of chopped parsley, salt and pepper 
to taste, a well beaten egg, and a tablespoonful of 
butter. Lay this on the split herrings, cover w^ith 
the other three, put a tablespoonful of butter on 
top, sprinkle with bread crumbs and bake in a hot 
oven for twenty minutes. Serve with parsley sauce. 

Hot-Pot 

Cut three pounds of the best end of neck of lamb 
or mutton into dainty pieces. Remove the fat, 
and put a layer of them into a casserole or earthen 
pot. Skin and slice three or four mutton kidneys 
very thin and cover lamb, then put in a layer of 
sliced onions, about six oysters and four sliced 
potatoes. Season each layer with pepper, salt and 
curry powder, if liked. Well moisten with cold 
water to which the oyster liquor has been added. 
Bake slowly for about four hours, adding more 
water as needed. Serve in the casserole. 



A hungry man is as slow at a joke as he is 
at a favour. 

— DORAN. 

[53] 



Hungarian Goulash 

Slice and brown a good-sized onion in hot fat, put 
in a pound and a half of lean veal cut in inch cubes, 
stir until slightly browned. Put the meat into a 
casserole, add a pint of boiling water and a tea- 
spoonful of paprika, cover the dish and set to cook 
in the oven for an hour. Add more fat to the 
frying pan; in it fry a dozen and a half potato 
balls, and a dozen small onions. When well 
browned add to the casserole. Cook together for 
twenty minutes or half an hour, and add two tea- 
spoonfuls of flour mixed to a paste with cold 
water. Let cook in all about two hours, season to 
taste with salt and pepper, and serve from the 
casserole. 



India Curry 



Tkke a pound and a half of veal, half a cupful of 
butter, two sliced onions, and half a tablespoonful 
of curry powder. Brown the meat without fat, 
and cut into small pieces. Fry the onions in the 
butter, and add the meat and curry powder. Cover 
the meat with boiling water, and cook until tender. 
Line the casserole with boiled rice, turn in the stew, 
and put in the oven a few minutes to set. 



" Anything thou wilt, — Why then the mustard 
without the beef." 

[54] 



Irish Stew 

Cut a neck of mutton into pieces and lay in a 
casserole with two sliced onions, a quart of boiling 
water, and a teaspoonful of thyme. Set in the 
oven for two or three hours. When it has cooked 
for an hour, add salt and pepper to taste. Add six 
potatoes cut in quarters three-quarters of an hour 
before the stew is done. Steam dumplings over 
water for ten minutes without taking off the cover. 
Take the meat from the pot and arrange on a 
shallow casserole ; add the yolks of two eggs to the 
liquid arid cook quickly. Strain over the meat, 
place the dumplings around the edge of the meat, 
and serve immediately. 

Italian Spaghetti 

Cook a cupful of spaghetti in two and a half quarts 
of boiling salted water, a tablespoonful of butter, 
and an onion stuck with three cloves. Drain and 
remove the onion. Reheat in two cupfuls of tomato 
sauce, adding half a cupful of grated Parmesan 
cheese. Fry three chopped fresh mushrooms in 
butter for five minutes, and add to the mixture. 
Turn in the casserole, sprinkle with grated Par- 
mesan cheese, and brown slightly. 



After a good dinner one can forgive anybody, 
even one's own relations. 

— Oscar Wilde. 

[55] 



Jambolaya 

Cover the bottom of a casserole with slices of 
breakfast bacon, joint a chicken as for frying, salt 
and pepper, dip in flour, and lay on top of bacon. 
Over this pour a pint of uncooked rice, two large 
ionions chopped fine, a quart of tomatoes, and two 
pods of red pepper chopped fine. Fill the pan with 
water and cook slowly two or three hours, adding 
water if.it begins to dry. When ready to serve stir 
in three or four tablespoonfuls of butter. If 
mushrooms are desired, they should be placed on ' 
the chicken. 

Kidney with Onion 

Skin three sheeps' kidneys, and slice them fine. 
Season with salt and pepper. Peel six Spanish 
onions, scoop out the centers and fill with the kid- 
neys. Place them in a shallow casserole, add a cup- 
ful and a half of brown gravy, and cook slowly for 
about two hours. Serve hot. 



" In the names of all the gods at once, upon 
what meat doth this our Caesar feed, that he is 
grown so great." 

[56] 



Kidney Saute en Casserole 

Split six kidneys, skin and roll them in flour. Fry 
half a pound of bacon until crisp. Take it from 
the frying pan and keep hot while you fry the 
kidneys. Cook for five minutes, add half a cupful 
of hot water, a tablespoonful of sherry, a dash of 
Worcestershire sauce, and thicken with browned 
flour rubbed smooth in cold water. When sauce 
is thick and brown, put the kidneys and bacon 
into a casserole, and pour the sauce over them. 
Garnish with sprigs of parsley. 

Kohlrabi au Gratin 

Peel and dice the kohlrabi and cook in boiling 
water until tender. Add salt when done. Place 
the vegetable in a shallow casserole, pour over 
a pint of rich cream sauce; sprinkle with grated 
cheese and set in the oven to melt the cheese. 
Serve in casserole. 



" You shall have the mustard or else you get no 
beef." 

[57] 



Lamb Chops en Casserole 

Put a teaspoonful of butter and one of lard into a 
frying pan. When hot, slice into it three onions 
and let them brown. Remove onions and put in 
eight lamb loin chops, cut an inch and a half thick 
and trimmed of all fat. Sear on each side, and ar- 
range in the bottom of the casserole. Over the 
chops put first the onions that were fried, then two 
good sized sliced tomatoes, and three medium sized 
new carrots cubed into inch pieces. Add three 
good sized potatoes that have been cut into small 
squares and boiled for a short time in salted water. 
Pepper to taste, and cover with the water in which 
the potatoes were boiled. Put into the oven and 
pook for an hour. When ready to serve pour off 
the liquid, thicken it to a gravy, and return it to 
the casserole. 

Little Turkeys 

Cut pork tenderloins lengthwise through the 
middle. Fill with turkey dressing, and pin together 
with toothpicks. Bake for twenty 'minutes in a 
shallow casserole in which there is enough water 
to cover the bottom when baked. Make a gravy 
of the water left in the pan. Cover with strips of 
bacon five minutes before removing from the stove. 
Serve in the casserole. 



Lamb and green peas is good, hut not good for 
the lamb. 

— Henry Wheeler Shaw. 

[58] 



Liver and Mushrooms 

Melt a tablespoonful of butter and add a table- 
spoonful and a half of flour. Brown by slow cook* 
ing. Add salt and pepper and two cupfuls of 
water. Cook until as thick as cream. Cut a pound 
of calf's liver into two inch cubes. Pour boiling 
water over them and drain immediately. Drop 
these into the brown sauce and cook slowly ten or 
twelve minutes. In the meantime peel some fresh 
mushrooms and drop them into melted butter to 
simmer. Just before taking up the liver add the 
mushrooms and serve in casserole. 

Liver Jardiniere 

Lard a large liver with strips of fat salt pork. 
Put in the bottom of a large casserole a carrot and 
three young turnips cut into dice, a handful of 
green peas, a handful of green beans cut into short 
lengths, and twelve tiny onions. Salt and pepper 
the liver and lay it on the vegetables. Pour in 
two cupfuls of hot water in which a tablespoonful 
of butter has been melted, cover closely and cook 
from one ta two hours in a moderate oven without 
opening. Add a tablespoonful of browned flour 
wet with cold water, cook for a minute and serve 
hot in casserole. 



The dinner is the capital institution. 

— Ralph Waldo Emerson. 

[59] 



Liver Rolls 

Cut up a quarter of a pound of bacon into dice. 
Peel six large fresh mushrooms, cut into small 
squares, and mix with the bacon, a chopped shallot, 
two tablespoonfuls of bread crumbs, a teaspoonful 
of chopped parsley, pepper and salt, and a dash 
of cayenne. Add a well-beaten tgg. Spread this 
mixture over six slices of liver, roll up, and place 
in shallow casserole, with a piece of fat on top of 
each. Cook in hot oven for twenty minutes, letting 
the outside get a brown color. Serve from the 
casserole on squares of toast. Decorate with 
parsley. 

Lobster a la Newburg 

Melt two tablespoonfuls of butter and stir into it 
two cupfuls of lobster meat cut into small pieces. 
Canned lobster can be used. Add salt to taste and 
a dash of paprika. Add three tablespoonfuls of 
sherry and mix thoroughly. Stir in the well 
beaten yolks of three eggs mixed with half a cupful 
of cream. Cook but do not boil, stirring constantly 
until the mixture thickens and is hot. Turn into 
hot ramekins, sprinkle slightly with cracker 
crumbs, and set in the oven for five minutes to 
brown. Send to the table piping hot. 



Of the self-important personages who daily 
cross our paths, perhaps the most important 
circumstance of their life is, that they have dined 
every day of it. 

DORAN. 

[60] 



Macaroni 

Break half a pound of macaroni into inch lengths, 
boil until tender in salted water. When clear and 
soft, drain ; put into an earthen baking dish. Cover 
with rich milk and mix with two well beaten 
eggs, salt and pepper to taste. Sprinkle some 
grated cheese over the top and bake for fifteen 
minutes in a hot oven. 

Macaroni and Ham 

Break half a pound of macaroni into inch lengths; 
boil it tender in hot salted water. Make a white 
sauce of a tablespoonful each of butter and flour 
and a cupful of milk, put into this the macaroni 
and a cupful of boiled ham chopped fine and sea- 
soned with a pinch of dry mustard a little red 
pepper, add a beaten egg and turn the mixture into 
a buttered casserole. Strew bread crumbs and 
grated cheese over the top and bake, covered, for 
half an hour, then uncover and brown. 



Thou'rt a scholar; let us therefore eat and 
drink. — Twelfth Night. 

[61] 



Macaroni en Casserole 

Break up enough macaroni into small pieces to fill 
a cup. Throw it into briskly boiling water and cook 
for twenty minutes. Drain well and cover the 
bottom of a buttered casserole. Sprinkle with salt 
and grated cheese and small cubes of butter. Add 
another layer of macaroni and proceed as before 
until the macaroni is used. Put plenty of the 
grated cheese and butter on top, and pour in enough 
milk to just cover the macaroni. Cook for half 
an hour in a moderate oven, covered for ten min- 
utes, and uncovered for twenty minutes. 

Macaroni, Milanaise 

Cook half a pound of macaroni in salted water 
until tender. Drain. Add half a cupful of tomato 
sauce, half a cupful of finely minced ham, a slice 
of minced beef tongue, and a crushed garlic bean. 
Slightly brown half a can of mushrooms in a little 
butter, salt and pepper, and add to the mixture. 
Put all into a casserole, sprinkle very lightly with 
grated cheese, and brown in the oven for five 
minutes. 



A good dinner, and company that please me 
mightily. 

— Samuel Pepys. 

[62] 



Macaroni with Celery 

Boil two cupfuls of diced celery in salt water to 
cover for fifteen minutes and drain. Cook the 
macaroni until tender, and put two cupfuls in alter- 
nate layers with the celery into the casserole. 
Dissolve a tablespoonful of flour in a little cold 
milk, add sufficient milk to cover the mixture in 
casserole. Dot generously with butter, and bake 
for forty minutes. 

Mackerel with Tomatoes 

Cook a medium sized mackerel in a covered earth- 
en dish, in the oven with a cupful of hot water, a 
tablespoonful of butter, salt and pepper, a wine- 
glassful of sherry, a teaspoonful of chopped par- 
sley, the strained juice of half a lemon, and a slice 
of onion. When 'cooked, remove the skin, split 
the fish open, and remove the bones. Butter a cas- 
serole, put in a layer of sliced tomatoes, a little salt 
and pepper, then a layer of fish and some tiny 
pieces of butter. Repeat this until the fish is used. 
Finally, put a layer of sliced tomatoes oii top, pour 
over the stock in which the fish was cooked, cover 
with bread crumbs and small pieces, of butter. 
Cook in a moderate oven for twenty minutes. 
Sprinkle chopped parsley over the top and serve 
at once in casserole. 



Feed me with food convenient for me. 

— The Proverbs of Solomon. 

[63] 



Meat Casserole 

Cook half a cupful of rice with two cupfuls of 
water until well done, drain, season with salt and 
pepper, and beat into it one egg. Line the sides 
and bottom of a casserole with the rice and set 
aside to cool, reserving a few tablespoonfuls of 
the rice to spread over the top. Melt a tablespoon- 
ful of butter in a sauce pan, add a tablespoonful 
of flour and a little chopped onion. Mix well and 
brown slightly. Add a cupful of water. With 
this put left-overs of meat, chopped coarsely, and 
pour the mixture into the rice mold. Spread the 
remaining rice over the top and bake half an hour 
in a hot oven, covered; then uncover and brown. 

Meat Pie 

Line a deep earthen pie plate with a rich pie 
crust. Cut cold roast beef into small bits, and mix 
with it three fresh tomatoes (or half a can of them) , 
two carrots, one chopped green pepper, and three 
chopped onions. Put all in the pie plate, sprinkle 
with flour, salt and a little pepper. Make a cover 
to the pie, and bake in a moderate oven for forty- 
five minutes. 



" Look to the baked meats, good Angelica; spare 
not for cost." 

[64] 



Mock Fillet of Beef 

Cut a pound and a half of round steak into six 
parts. Pound into each piece with potato masher 
as much flour as it will take. Arrange in layers 
in a casserole into which has been put two slices 
of onion and two tablespoonfuls of canned toma- 
toes. Cover with boiling water. Cover, and set 
in the oven to simmer slowly for two hours. 

Mock Squab 

Carefully clean, wash and dry six lamb or veal 
hearts. Stuff with highly seasoned savory bread 
dressing, and close the slits with toothpicks. Dip 
the hearts in flour and fry a rich color in hot fat. 
Drain and put aside. Fry a sliced onion and a 
sliced green pepper in a little butter in a hot skillet. 
Put in the bottom of the casserole the stuffed 
hearts, a few thin slices of bacon, and a tablespoon- 
ful of chopped parsley. Cover with boiling water, 
add a teaspoonful of salt, cover and cook slowly 
until tender, basting with the liquor in the pan as 
it boils down. 



Food is sweet for being hunted for. 
— Latin Proverb. 

[65] 



Mushrooms au Parmesan 

Peel and trim the mushrooms, and soak them for 
about an hour in oil, lemon juice, salt, and pepper, 
then flour them and fry a little. Have ready a 
white sauce; pour this over them, sprinkle thickly 
with grated Parmesan cheese, and brown in the 
oven. Serve very hot. 

Mushrooms en Casserole 

Select large fresh mushrooms that need not be 
peeled, cut off the stalks, and wipe off the thin 
outer skin with a wet cloth. Arrange in a double 
layer in a buttered casserole. Sprinkle slightly 
with powdered mace and place half a teaspoonful 
of butter on each of the mushrooms. Salt and 
pepper to taste. Bake for thirty minutes in a 
moderate oven, basting frequently with water and 
butter. When done serve hot in the casserole with 
maitre d'hotel sauce. 

Maitre d'hotel sauce : To a cupful of drawn but- 
ter add the juice of a lemon and a teaspoonful of 
finely minced piarslefy. Sprinkle with salt and 
cayenne to taste. Place on the fire and boil for 
about three minutes. 



Take a taste of my finding, and relish it with 
good observance. 

— As You Like It. 

[66] 



Mushrooms, Scalloped 

Peel half a pound of mushrooms, and scrape and 
trim the stalks. If very large, cut them in quarters. 
Throw them into boiling water for a few minutes, 
then drain and throw into cold water to whiten 
them. Dry well. Saute'in a tablespoonful of hot 
butter for three minutes; when almost done, add 
a teaspoonful of flour and a teaspoonful of chopped 
parsley. Stir and in three minutes add a cupful 
of boiling water. Let all simmer gently for about 
ten minutes. Add a teaspoonful of lemon juice, 
half a teaspoonful of salt, and a dash of pepper. 
Remove from the fire and stir in the yolk of an egg 
beaten with two teaspoonfuls of water or sherry 
wine. Have ready the greased raipekins, fill with 
the mixture, cover the top thoroughly with bread 
crumbs, dot with butter, place on a baking sheet 
in a quick oven until very hot throughout, then 
serve. 



/ pray you, jest sir, as you sit at dinner. 
— Comedy of Errors. 

[67] 



Mutton Stew {Black) 

Put eight or nine thickish slices from a cold saddle 
or loin of mutton in the casserole with plenty of 
the cold gravy and cover with water. After an 
hour and a quarter in the oven add two chopped 
onions, a rounded tablespoonful of powdered all- 
spice, a little thickening, black pepper and salt, 
and cook ten minutes. Add a large sliced pickled 
cucumber and cook five minutes more. Add a jill 
of currant jelly to the gravy. It may be served 
from the casserole or arranged on a hot dish. 

Noodles and Tomatoes 

Grind a pound of steak fine, add half a can of 
tomatoes!, and four good sized onions chopped 
fine. Cook all together until tender ; add two cup- 
fuls of boiled noodles and a tablespoonful of 
butter. Salt and pepper to taste. Cook for ten 
minutes, turn into a casserole, sprinkle over with 
cracker crumbs, and brown in oven. Serve from 
casserole. 



Give thanks, sweet Kate, or else shall I? 
What's this? mutton? 

— Taming of the Shrew. 

[68] 



Noodles, Buttered 

Boil two cupfuls of noodles for twenty minutes. 
Fry two cupfuls of bread crumbs in butter until 
light brown. Put noodles in casserole with alter- 
nate layers of bread crumbs, placing the bread 
crumbs on top. Cover with sweet cream and bake 
for twenty minutes. 

Onions au Gratin 

Six large onions of a size, peel and cut slices from 
the tops of each. Remove part of the centers and 
chop fine. Soak half a cupful of bread crumbs and 
squeeze out the water from them, add the yolks of 
two eggs, and half a pound of minced ham or ba- 
con. Mix all together and season with salt and 
pepper. Stuff the onions with this, cover the tops 
with grated Parmesan cheese and bake in a shallow 
ca:sserole until brown. 

Onions in Custard 

Boil half a dozen large onions in salted water until 
tender. Scald a pint of milk and add a tablespoon- 
ful of flour made smooth with cold milk or water. 
When cool, add a large tablespoonful of butter, a 
level teaspoonful of salt, a pinch of cayenne, and 
three well beaten eggs. Pour this custard over the 
onions in the baking dish, and place in a pan of 
hot water in a hot oven for thirty minutes. 

Onions can make even heirs and widows weep, , 

— Benjamin Franklin. 

[69] 



Oyster Curry 



Chop a Spanish onion and brown it in a table- 
spoonful of butter, add three tablespoonfuls of 
curry powder, another tablespoonful of butter, a 
chopped apple and a cupful of hot water. Simmer 
for an hour. Put a quart of oysters, their liquor 
and a cupful of tomatoes into another pan over 
the fire. When the edges of the oysters begin to 
ruffle, put the two mixtures together. Add a tea- 
spoonful of salt, and thicken with two tablespoon- 
fuls of flour moistened with a little cold water. 
Boil for five minutes, stirring constantly. Serve 
with plain boiled rice. 

Oyster Pie 

Line a deep casserole with pie crust.' Take a quart 
of oysters, and put a layer of them on the bottom 
of the dish. Season with salt and pepper, and a 
little celery seed. Add a layer of sliced boiled 
potatoes, a layer of pie crust cut up in bits, and 
another layer of oysters until the pan is nearly full. 
Add the liquid from the oysters. Cover with a 
pie crust, make several holes in the top, and bake 
about an hour. 



" Why, then, the world is mine oyster 
Which I with sword will open." 

[70] 



Oyster Potato Balls 

Grate six cold boiled potatoes and mix with a 
teaspoonful of salt, a teaspoonful of pepper, two 
tablespoonfuls of melted butter, the well beaten 
yolks of two eggs, and a tablespoonful of chopped 
parsley. Drain a quart of oysters. Take a table- 
spoonful of the mixture and shape into a round, 
flat cake. Place an oyster on the cake, and cover 
with another spoonful of the mixture. Press the 
edges together. Continue making the balls until 
all the potato mixture is used, then place them in a 
buttered casserole. Brush with melted butter and 
brown in a brisk oven. Garnish with parsley, and 
serve in the casserole. 

Oysters a la Belle 

Rub together two tablespoonfuls of butter and two 
of flour, add a cupful of oyster liquort, half a tea- 
spoonful of salt, a saltspoonful of celery salt, a 
teaspoonful of lemon juice, a speck of cayenne, the 
yolk of an egg and a tablespoonful of sherry wine. 
Add two cupfuls of oysters, a quarter of a cupful 
of chopped mushrooms, and pour all into casserole. 
Sprinkle some grated cracker crumbs on top and 
bake in a moderate oven for twenty-five minutes. 



He had often eaten oysters, but had never had 
enough. 

— William Schwenck Gilbert. 

[71] 



Oysters and Corn 

Chop a pint of canned corn fine and add to it half 
a teaspoonful of salt, a quarter of a teaspoonful 
of pepper, and half a cupful of thick cream. Drain 
a pint of small oysters. Butter small ramekins, 
and in the bottom of each place a layer of corn, a 
layer of the oysters, and so on alternately. Add 
a teaspoonful of melted butter to each, and cover 
with cracker crumbs. Bake in a brisk oven for 
twenty minutes. 

Oysters and Macaroni 

Break enough macaroni into inch pieces to fill a 
pint cup. Put into a sauce pan and cover with boil- 
ing water. Keep at the boiling point until ten- 
der — from twenty to thirty minutes. Have ready a 
pint of oysters, a teaspoonful of salt, a saltspoonful 
of pepper, and half a cupful of cream. Drain the 
macaroni and put into a buttered casserole, sprinkle 
over a little salt and pepper, add dots of butter 
and a little cream. Put in a layer of the oysters 
and another of the macaroni with more seasoning. 
Sprinkle cracker crumbs over the top, add bits of 
butter and more cream or rich milk, if necessary. 
Cover the dish and bake until nearly done, then 
uncover and brown. 



" Well, I promised you a dinner^' 
[72] 



Oysters, Baked 

Scald a quart of oysters in their liquor. When cool, 
cut each oyster in quarters. Melt two heaping 
tablespoonfuls of butter and stir into it two heap- 
ing tablespoonfuls of flour. Add gradually a cup- 
ful of milk and a cupful of cream. Stir until thick- 
ened, add a heaping tablespoonful of grated 
cheese, and season with salt and pepper to taste. 
Butter the casserole dish, half fill it with the 
oysters, fill up with the sauce, pour a little melted 
butter over, sprinkle some bread crumbs on the 
top, and bake in a moderate oven for ten minutes. 

Oysters, Scalloped 

Drain the liquor from a quart of oysters and wash 
them well. Butter a shallow casserole, and 
sprinkle it half an inch deep with crumbs. Put 
in half the oysters, and pour over them half a 
tablespoonful of melted butter, and half a table- 
spoonful of lemon juice mixed. Add another layer 
of crumbs, then the remaining oysters, and then 
the butter mixture again. Lastly, cover with 
crumbs, dot with pieces of butter and sprinkle with 
salt and pepper. Strain half a cupful of the oyster 
liquor and add it to as much cream. Heat and 
pour slowly over the oysters. Bake in a brisk oven 
for twenty minutes. Serve from the casserole. 



Four young oysters hurried up, 
All ready for the treat. 

— Charles Lutwidge Dodgson. 

[73] 



Ox Joints, Braised 

Cut two ox-tails at joints, parboil for five minutes. 
Put half a cupful of diced bacon and a cupful of 
sliced onion into the frying pan, and fry slowly un- 
til slightly browned. Dredge the ox-tail with flour 
and saute in the fat. Turn all into a deep casserole, 
salt and pepper to taste, add half a can of tomatoes, 
and cover with the broth in which the tails were 
boiled. Cover and cook in slow oven for three 
hours and a half. Remove the ox-tail, strain the 
sauce, and return ox-tail and sauce to oven to finish 
cooking. Add half a cupful each of diced carrots 
and turnips, and twelve Parisienne potatoes. As 
soon as the vegetables are soft, add a dash of sherry 
wine. 

Ox Tongue, Braised 

Cover a fresh tongue with boiling water, and cook 
slowly for two hours. Remove the skin and roots. 
Place in a deep casserole and surround with half 
a cupful each of diced carrots, onions, and celery, 
and a sprig of parsley. Pour over four cupfuls of 
sauce. Cover and bake for two hours, turning once 
or twice. Sauce: Brown two tablespoonfuls of 
butter, add two tablespoonfuls of flour, and stir 
together until well browned. Add gradually four 
cupfuls of the water in which the tongue was 
cooked. Season with salt and pepper, a teaspoon- 
ful of Worcestershire sauce, and two tablespoon- 
fuls of current jelly. Serve in the casserole. 



Just enough to boil the pot. 

— William Combe. 

[74] 



Pancakes with Meringue 

Make French pancakes as follows : A cupful and a 
half of flour, a cupful and a half of rich milk, two 
eggsi, a pinch of salt and a saltspoonful of sugar. 
Mix into a smooth batter, which should be very 
thin. Fry on a buttered griddle, making small 
cakes. They should be as thin as paper and very 
tender. Butter the cakes slightly as fried, and 
place in concentric rings in casserole until all the 
batter is used. Cover with a meringue made with 
the whites of four eggs beaten stiff, with two table- 
spoonfuls of powdered sugar. Set in the oven for 
a few seconds to brown. 

Partridge en Casserole 

Singe, draw and trim two partridges with their 
wings inside. Fry a quarter of a pound of salt pork 
in a spider, add a sliced carrot, an onion sliced, a 
sprig of thyme, and season with salt and pepper. 
Put into a casserole with the partridges on top. 
Baste with the pork fat, and set in a hot oven to 
brown. Pour in a cupful of hot water, and a cup- 
ful of hot celery sauce, and cook for half an hour 
longer. 



"Keep the pot a bilin', sir," said Sam. 

— Charles Dickens- 

[75] 



Peppers, Baked 

Plunge six large green peppers in hot fat a minute 
to remove the skin. Remove the stem end and take 
out the seeds. Fry a large sliced onion in oil or 
butter, and add some minced peppers. To half 
a cupful of this add a cupful of sausage meat, a 
cupful of minced mushrooms and a little tomato 
catsup. Mix well and thicken with bread crumbs, 
salt, pepper, and bind together with the yolks of 
two eggs. Fill the peppers with this, lay on top of 
thin slices of salt pork in casserole, add a speck of 
butter to each, and bake for fifteen minutes. Be- 
fore serving, pour a little tomato sauce over all, 
sprinkle with Parmesan cheese, and return to the 
oven to melt the cheese. 



Four woodcocks in a dish! 

— Love's Labor Lost. 

[76] 



Philadelphia Pepper Pot 

Cover three pounds of honeycomb tripe and three 
pounds of velvet tripe with hot water and boil for 
an hour. Pour off the water, add fresh boiling 
water and cook until the tripe is tender. In an- 
other kettle boil a knuckle of veal slowly for three 
hours. Cut the lean meat and the tripe into inch 
and a half pieces, and return to the veal broth. 
Pour into this kettle more than half of the tripe 
broth, add a few drops of kitchen bouquet, and a 
tablespoonful of sweet marjoram, summersavory, 
and thyme. Mix the dried herbs well together 
and tie in a cloth before putting them into the 
broth. Put into the pot a few peppercorns, a 
minced red pepper, and salt to taste. Cut a pint 
of potatoes into inch cubes, add light dumplings 
no larger than a marble, drop into the boiling pot, 
and cook for thirty minutes. This recipe should 
make a gallon. Serve in p elites marmites. 

Pigeons, Potted 

Prepare six pigeons as for baking. Put into the 
casserole two tablespoonfuls of butter, a stalk of 
diced celery, salt and pepper, and half a cupful 
of hot water. Stand the pigeons upright in the 
dish, and lay on a few slices of salt pork cut very 
thin. Cover and cook slowly for three hours, or 
until tender, basting with melted butter frequently. 
Thicken the sauce remaining in pan with flour, and 
serve from the casserole on pieces of toast. 

" Some pigeons, Davy, a couple of short legged 
hens, a joint of mutton." 

.[77] 



Pork Chops en Casserole 

Cover the bottom of casserole with a layer of sliced 
thin raw potatoes, sprinkle lightly with flour, a 
quarter of an onion minced finely, salt and pepper, 
and cover with milk. Lay on top of the potatoes 
lean pork chops, and bake slowly in the oven for 
about three-quarters of an hour. When the chops 
are brown, turn them on the other side. 

Pork Chops in Cream 

Mix two large chopped onions with a tablespoon- 
ful of powdered sage. Take six pork chops, salt 
and pepper, and dredge with flour. Put the onions 
into the casserole, lay the chops on top, cover with 
cream, and simmer in the oven for two hours. 
Serve from the casserple. 

Pork Tenderloins, Stuffed 

Split pork tenderloins almost through ; make a stuf- 
fing as for fowls, using bread crumbs, a seasoning 
of salt, pepper, a little thyme, and grated onion, 
and two tablespoonfuls of melted butter. Spread a 
thick layer of this over one of the loins, and place 
the second on top. Tie firmly together in several 
places. Put a little butter into a frying-pan and 
brown the meat in it on all sides. Remove to 
casserole, add two cupfuls of boiling water, cover 
and cook for an hour. Mix a tablespoonful of 
browned flour with a little cold water and use to 
thicken the gravy. 

" Let us entreat you stay till after dinner." 
[78] 



Potatoes au Gratin 

Chop, salt and pepper six peeled baked potatoes, 
and mix with a cupful of grated Parmesan cheese. 
Put into a buttered casserole, and cover with 
enough cream to moisten well. Sprinkle with a 
bit of cayenne, and bake slowly for three-quarters 
of an hour. Remove from oven, sprinkle liberally 
with cheese and return to oven for fifteen minutes 
to brown. 

Potatoes en Surprise 

Bake as many large potatoes as needed. Mince 
some chipped beef and saute in butter highly sea- 
soned with garlic. Break the potatoes open, place 
in casserole, and force a generous tablespoonful of 
the chipped beef into each potato. Set in oven for 
a few minutes to slightly brown. 



" The dinner is on the table; my father desires 
your worship's company." 

[79] 



Potatoes, Scalloped 

Pare and slice six medium potatoes. Put a layer 
into a buttered casserole, salt and pepper, and 
sprinkle with flour. Dot over with a tablespoonful 
of butter, and repeat until all are used. Add warm 
milk to cover and bake an hour and a half in 
covered casserole. Garnish with chopped parsley. 

Pot au Feu 

Put a small soup bone and four pounds of brisket 
of beef into cold water and let come slowly to boil- 
ing point. Add a soup bouquet and a bay leaf. 
Simmer slowly for three hours. Half an hour be- 
fore serving, put in a large potato, and an onion 
stuck with a clove for each person. Salt and pep- 
per to taste. When the potatoes and onions are 
done strain the soup. Cover pieces of toast with 
grated Parmesan cheese, and place one piece in the 
bottom of individual soup pots. Cut the meat in 
serving sizes and put a piece of the meat, a potato 
and an onion in each pot, and fill with the strained 
soup. Put on the covers and serve with toast. 



Pray you, who does the wolf love? 

CORIOLANUS. 

[80] 



Pot Roast 

Brown both sides of a five pound chuck roast in 
hot fat. Put into the casserole with half a cupful 
of butter, a large onion stuck with four or five 
cloves, a tablespoonful of vinegar, three bay leaves, 
salt and pepper and a cupful of water. Cover and 
simmer in the oven for three hours, basting fre- 
quently, and keeping plenty of juice around the 
meat. About twenty minutes before serving, re- 
move the meat and strain the gravy. Return both 
to the casserole and add twelve small potatoes. 
Thicken the gravy with a tablespoonful of 
browned flour mixed with a little cold water, and 
cook until the potatoes are tender. Serve in the 
casserole. 

Pot Roast, Spiced 

Put into a casserole four pounds of larded brisket 
of beef which has been seared on both sides in hot 
fat. Dredge with flour, salt and pepper. Pour 
over this two cupfuls of tomatoes, two shredded 
onions, and two tablespoonfuls of mixed spices. 
Add a cupful of water and bake for three hours 
slowly. 



I am a great eater of beef and I believe that 
does harm to my wit. 

— Twelfth Night. 

[81] 



Pot Roast with Raisin 
Sauce 

Sear four pounds of rump steak on both sides in 
hot fat. Put into the casserole and cover with boil- 
ing water. Add a large onion, a cupful and a half 
of diced carrots, two tablespoonfuls of vinegar, and 
four cloves. Simmer for four hours. Brown four 
tablespoonfuls of butter, add two tablespoonfuls 
of flour, a teaspoonful of salt, a dash of pepper, 
and a cupful of water. Cook, and when nearly 
thick, add half a cupful of Sultana raisins and a 
tablespoonful of lemon juice. Pour over the meat 
and serve in the casserole. 

Quails en Casserole 

Salt and pepper six quails both inside and out. 
Melt two heaping tablespoonfuls of butter in a 
frying pan, and simmer a sliced onion in this. Put 
in the quails and brown all over. Turn all into 
a casserole, cover, and bake in a moderate oven for 
an hour. Lift out the quails and keep hot. Drain 
the fat from the pan, add a cupful of hot water and 
a wineglassful of port wine. Simmer for ten min- 
utes, and stir in half a cupful of currant jelly. Re- 
turn the quails to oven for ten minutes, and add the 
strained juice of half a lemon. 



/ will eat and drink and sleep as soft as captain 
shall. 

— All's Well That Ends Well. 

[82] 



Ragout h la Deutsch 

Slice and fry separately a pound of beef tenderloin, 
two kidneys, and two medium sized potatoes. 
Place all in casserole. Brown a chopped green 
pepper, a tablespoonful of chopped parsley, and 
two tablespoonfuls of chopped chives in two table- 
spoonfuls of butter. Pour in two cupfuls of hot 
water, and thicken with a tablespoonful of 
browned flour. Season with salt and pepper, and 
pour into casserole. Set in oven for fifteen min- 
utes. 

Rice and Tomatoes 

Boil a cupful of rice in a cupful of hot salt water, 
until almost dry. Butter the casserole, put in a 
layer of rice, and a layer of tomatoes, seasoning 
each layer with salt, pepper, and a chopped onion. 
Dot with butter, and repeat until a quart of toma- 
toes has been used. Cover the top with a layer of 
bread crumbs, dot with butter and bake in a moder- 
ate oven for about an hour. 

Rice Souffle 

Beat into a cupful of white sauce a cupful of boiled 
rice, and the beaten yolks of three eggs. Season 
with salt, and a dash of nutmeg. Fold in the whites 
of three eggs, and bake in a casserole for fifteen 
minutes, keeping the dish covered for ten minutes. 



" / must attend the duke at dinner." 
[83] 



Rice with Celery 

Take a cupful of boiled rice and put a layer in the 
bottom of casserole, sprinkle with salt, and dot over 
with a tablespoonful of butter. Add a layer of 
diced cooked celery, a large sliced onion, and cover 
with the rest of the rice. Put in a cupful of chicken 
broth or enough to cover. Sprinkle with buttered 
cracker crumbs and bake in a moderate oven for 
twenty-five minutes. 

Salmi of Game 

Boil the game until tender and remove the meat 
from the bones. Break the bones and boil with the 
skin. Melt two tablespoonfuls of butter in a fry- 
ing pan, add two sliced onions, two stalks of celery, 
and two tablespoonfuls of chopped iean ham. 
Brown all together in the butter. Add two table- 
spoonfuls of browned flour which has been mixed 
with a little cold water, a bay leaf, two cloves and 
salt and pepper to taste. Cook for five minutes. 
Add the liquor in which the game was boiled, also 
the liquor from the crushed bones. Put in a dozen 
stoned olives, six mushrooms cut in quarters, and 
a dash of sherry wine. Garnish with croutons. 



There^s a partridge wing saved for the fool will 
eat no supper. 

— Much Ado About Nothing. 

[84] 



Salmon with Noodles 

Mile a tablespoonful of flour and two tablespoon- 
fuls of butter, add a cupful of hot milk, and cook 
until creamy. Add a can of salmon, broken up 
fine. Fill casserole with alternate layers of 
creamed salmon and two cupfuls of boiled noodles. 
Sprinkle over with bread crumbs and bake for 
fifteen minutes. Macaroni may be used instead of 
noodles. 

Sausage Rolls 

Place link sausages without separating in hot water 
and boil/'for twenty minutes. Let cool in water in 
which they were cooked. Make a rich biscuit 
dough as soft as can be handled and wrap each link 
in a thin layer of dough. Place in a hot buttered 
casserole, brush over with melted butter, and bake 
in a quick oven. Serve hot with white sauce. 



Do as adversaries do in law: Strive mightily, 
but eat and drink as friends. 

— Taming of the Shrew. 

[85] 



Scallops en Casserole 

Melt a tablespoonful of butter in casserole, and 
put in six chopped mushrooms and two dozen 
scallops. Chop fine two large onions, put them 
into a frying pan with a tablespoonful of butter 
and cook until a light brown. Stir in a tablespoon- 
ful of flour, mix for a few minutes over the fire, 
add a cupful of hot water and the liquor from the 
scallops. Simmer for fifteen minutes, stirring in 
the yolks of three eggs, one at a time, Season to 
taste with salt, pepper and a dash of red pepper. 
Add the mixture to the callops and mushrooms, 
and cook for three minutes. Mix in half a cupful 
of cream, sprinkle lightly with cracker crumbs and 
set in hot oven to brown the top. Garnish with a 
sprig or two of parsley. 

Smelts au Gratin, with 
Tomatoes 

Clean and dry six medium sized smelts. Put into a 
casserole a layer of grated bread crumbs, on top 
of which place a layer of sliced tomatoes. Cover 
with a layer of crumbs, and season with salt, pep- 
per and a few dots of butter. Add the fish, and 
strew over them a deep layer of crumbs. Add salt 
and pepper and a liberal tablespoonful of butter 
dotted on. Add a cupful of hot water, and bake 
for twenty minutes. 



Many a time and oft I ha' dined with him. 

— Shakespeare. 

[86] 



Smelts, Baked Newport 

Clean the smelts and remove the backbone. Stuff 
with a forcemeat made of bread crumbs, chopped 
fresh mushrooms, and minced oysters, with pep- 
per, salt, melted butter and chopped onion. Fast- 
en the fish together with tooth-picks, dip in melted 
butter, then in bread crumbs, and again in melted 
butter. Arrange in a casserole and bake for half 
an hour. Garnish with parsley, and serve from 
the casserole. 

Spaghetti with Eggs and 
Cheese 

Cook a quarter of a pound of spaghetti in fast boil- 
ing water until tender, then drain. Butter an 
earthenware dish, and put in a layer of spaghetti, 
then a layer of sliced hard boiled egg. Dust with 
salt and pepper, and repeat until the dish is full, 
ending with spaghetti. Use four eggs altogether. 
Pour half a cupful of white sauce over this, and 
sprinkle two tablespoonfuls of grated cheese on 
top. Dot with a tablespoonful of butter and bake 
in a quick oven for fifteen minutes. Decorate with 
sliced and chopped parsley. 



She prayed him to take a little morsel to dine. 
— Sir Thomas Mallory. 

[87] 



Spanish Stew 

Cut three pounds of mutton into pieces and brown 
on all sides in butter in a frying pan. Put it all into 
a deep casserole, and add water enough to cover. 
Season with salt, a teaspoonful of cinnamon, the 
same of allspice and of grated nutmeg. Add a 
tablespoonful of sugar, one of vinegar, and chili 
peppers to make hot or mild as may be preferred. 
Half an hour before serving add a quart of to- 
matoes. 

Squab en Casserole 

Clean six birds and dust lightly with flour, and 
put into the casserole with a piece of butter twice 
the size of an egg. Cook for twenty minutes. Cut 
half a pound of raw bacon into small bits and saute 
with a large sliced onion, a dozen chopped mush- 
rooms, and a bunch of chopped celery, which has 
been parboiled in salted water. Add to the squabs 
two cupfuls of hot water and two tablespoonfuls 
of sherry, and simmer slowly for an hour. Mix 
a tablespoonful of browned flour with a little cold 
water and thicken the gravy with this. 



He was not taken well; he had not dined. 
[88] 



Squab Pie, Devonshire 

Put a layer of fresh pork cut in small pieces on 
the bottom of the casserole, then a layer of sliced 
onions, season with salt and pepper, then a layer 
of sliced raw potatoes, next a layer of sliced apples : 
repeat until the dish is full. Add hot water to 
cover. Cook in moderate oven for an hour, cov- 
ered. Remove cover, put a rich crust on, and bake 
until brown. 

Squash, Scalloped 

Grind the skin and meat of a young and tender 
yellow, crookneck squash after seeds have been 
removed, with four large onions. Stir together 
and season with salt, pepper and a pinch of sugar. 
Place a layer of the squash in the casserole, dot 
with a tablespoonful of butter, then a layer of 
bread crumbs with another tablespoonful of but- 
ter, over this another layer of squash, and so on, 
making the top layer of bread crumbs. Pour milk 
enough over this to cover, and over all this place 
slices of bacon. Cover the dish and bake for forty 
minutes. Uncover for a few minutes to brown 
slightly. 



He hath eaten me out of house and home. 

— Henry IV. 

[89] 



Squirrels en Casserole 

Joint two squirrels and lay them in salted water 
for half an hour. Cover the bottom of a deep cas- 
serole with a layer of chopped salt pork, then a 
layer of two chopped onions, a layer of Parisienne 
potato balls. Season each layer with salt, pepper 
and paprika. Pour in three quarts of boiling water 
and put on the cover. Cook for three hours. Add 
a can of mushrooms, two tablespoonfuls of butter, 
and thicken the gravy with two tablespoonfuls of 
flour mixed with a little cold water. Cook for five 
minutes, and serve in the casserole. 

Squirrel Pie 

Skin and joint two small squirrels, wash in salt 
water, dry and roll in flour. Saute in pork fat 
until slightly browned and place in buttered casse- 
role. Add two cupfuls of stock, salt and pepper, 
cover and cook in oven for two hours. Take from 
the oven, thicken the gravy slightly with a table- 
spoonful of browned flour, and add two tablespoon- 
fuls of tomato catsup. 

Sweetbread Princess 

Prepare the sweetbreads as usual, salt, pepper and 
dredge with flour. Put a liberal quantity of butter 
into th,e frying pan, heat and put the sweetbreads 
in this, browning for fifteen minutes. Serve on 
artichoke bottoms. 

" Eat in measure and defy the doctor." 

[90] 



Sweetbreads en Casserole 

Soak four sweetbreads in warm water for twenty 
minutes, and lift out into cold water for fifteen 
minutes. Drain and remove the gristle and skin. 
Parboil for a few minutes then cool. Salt, pepper, 
and dredge with flour. Lard with thin strips of 
salt pork. Put into casserole, pour over half a cup- 
ful of melted butter and cover with thin slices of 
salt pork. Bake in a hot oven for half an hour cov- 
ered, then uncover for a few minutes. Baste fre- 
quently. Garnish with sprigs of parsley and serve 
in the casserole. 

Sweet Potatoes en 
Casserole 

Pare and cut the potatoes lengthwise about a 
quarter of an inch thick. Steam for twenty min- 
utes. Melt half a cupful of butter in the casserole, 
put in a layer of potatoes, sprinkle thick with 
brown sugar, then another layer of potatoes, sugar 
them, and so on, filling the pan. Dot with butter, 
and sprinkle wih sugar and a little salt. Add half 
a cupful of hot water, cover the dish and cook in 
a moderate oven until soft. After twenty minutes, 
remove the cover and brown. 



Wery good thing is a weal pie. 

— Pickwick Papers. 

[91] 



Sweet Potatoes with 
Cheese 

Pare and cut four sweet potatoes into thick slices. 
Place in a shallow pan, cover with water and cook 
until partly done. Drain, then place in layers in a 
buttered casserole. Between each layer sprinkle 
salt, pepper, a teaspoonful of sugar, and dot with 
bits of butter. When all is well packed, grate a 
thick layer of cheese over, pour in a cupful of milk, 
and bake until potatoes are tender and the cheese 
has formed a creamy crust. 

Terrapin Stew 

Put two live terrapin into boiling water for two 
minutes. With a towel take the white skin from 
the feet, neck and head. Put them back into boil- 
ing water and cook until feet are tender. The time 
for cooking depends upon the age of the terrapin, 
some taking a few minutes while others take two 
hours. When done, open the shell and remove the 
meat. Place in a casserole and cover with boiling 
water. Add a little grated nutmeg, salt and pep- 
per, and half a glass of dry sherry. Boil until half 
reduced then add a cupful of thick cream, boil, 
and thicken with the yolks of two eggs mixed and 
beaten with a quarter of a cupful of thick cream 
and an ounce of butter. Sprinkle a few cracker 
crumbs over the top and put in the oven to set. 



What shall he have that killed the deer, 
His leather skin and horns to wear. 

— As You Like It. 

[92] 



Tomatoes, Baked 

Remove the skins from six large, even-sized toma- 
toes. Butter a casserole and slice the tomatoes 
into it. Sprinkle some pepper and salt over them, 
and a layer of grated cheese. Over that put some 
fine bread crumbs, and several small bits of butter. 
Bake from twenty minutes to half an hour in the 
oven. 

Tomatoes, Italian Stuffed 

Cut off the stem end of six large tomatoes, and take 
out the pulp and seeds. Fill the cavity with a mix- 
ture of cold boiled rice and stewed celery, mixed 
with some of the pulp and juice. Cover the top 
with breadcrumbs and grated Parmesan cheese, 
with a little minced parsley, and half a teaspoonful 
t)f olive oil. Put half a cupful of olive oil in a deep 
casserole, heat, and add the remaining juice of the 
tomatoes, strained, a couple of bay leaves, and a 
crushed clove. Set the tomatoes in, and bake in 
the oven for half an hour. Serve hot in the liquor 
in which they were cooked. 



// it please you to dine with us — yes to smell 
pork. — Merchant of Venice. 

[93] 



Tomatoes, Spanish 

Butter a deep casserole. Put in a layer of cracker 
crumbs, then a layer of sliced peeled tomatoes, then 
cracker crumbs, and repeat until the dish is filled, 
having cracker crumbs on top. Season with salt 
and pepper and a few specks of butter. Pour 
cream to which a pinch of soda has been added 
over the tomatoes, and bake for fifteen minutes. 

Tomato Farcie 

Cut six large tomatoes in halves. Place them in 
a frying pan open side down in half an inch of hot 
fat. Move them about until they are cooked a 
little tender. Lift from the pan and place side by 
side in a shallow casserole. Pour around them 
four tablespoonfuls of olive oil sprinkled with a 
medium sized chopped onion, a tablespoonful of 
minced parsley, half a teaspoonful of salt, and a 
plentiful sprinkling of pepper. Dust with cracker 
crumbs, and bake in a hot oven for twenty minutes. 



The pot boils, friendship lives. 

— Ancient Greek Proverb. 

[94] 



Tongue ii la Carkme 

Boil a tongue in salt water until tender. Brown 
a tablespoonful of flour in two tablespoonfuls of 
butter, fry an onion in a tablespoonful of butter, 
and add to the flour with a can of tomatoes, a few 
cloves, a pinch of allspice, a bay leaf, and cook 
down. Strain through a gravy strainer into the 
stock the tongue was cooked in with the tongue, 
and let all simmer for two or three hours. Add 
half a cupful of chopped olives, half a cupful of 
raisins, a small bottle of capers, and half a cupful 
of sherry. Mix all together and simmer in oven 
for fifteen minutes. Serve from the casserole. 

Tripe a la Creole 

Cut honeycomb tripe in stripes two inches long 
by half an inch wide. Brown a chopped onion in 
two tablespoonfuls of butter, add the tripe, half a 
cupful of tomato sauce, a teaspoonful of lemon 
juice, and salt and pepper to season. Cook for 
fifteen minutes in open casserole. 



Who wanteth food and will not say he wants it. 
Or can conceal his hunger till he famish? 

— Pericles. 

[95] 



Trout with Potatoes 

Boil a pound and a half trout in salted water until 
cooked. When cold, bone and flake it, and lay it 
in a well-buttered casserole. Pour a cupful of 
boiling milk over the fish. Boil six medium sized 
potatoes, mash them with two tablespoonfuls of 
butter, half a cupful of cream, and salt and pepper, 
beat until very light and white, and spread over 
the fish. Smooth the surface and mark it in fancy 
design. Place the casserole in a hot oven for ten 
minutes. Remove it from the oven, beat up the 
white of an egg, spread it over the potatoes, and 
bake for fifteen minutes longer. Serve hot. 

Veal Collops 

Have two pounds of veal cut in three-quarter" inch 
slices. Cut in pieces for serving' and into each 
draw one or two fine bits of salt pork. Put four 
or five tablespoonfuls of hot fat in frying pan and 
in this brown the veal. Place it in the casserole 
and add an onion into which four cloves have been 
pressed, a sprig of parsley, and boiling water suf- 
ficient to cover the veal. Chop a green pepper and 
fry brown in butter, and add two or three peeled 
tomatoes cut in eighths, and salt to taste. Add a 
cupful of mushroom capsi, put these in the casserole 
and cook in a moderate oven for an hour and a half. 
Thicken the gravy with flour mixed with cold 
water to a thin paste. 



Better than old beef is tender veal. 

— Geoffrey Chaucer. 

[96] 



Venison en Casserole 

Cut up two and a half pounds of venison into small 
pieces; put them into an earthenware jar, add a 
clove of garlic, a bay leaf, a dozen whole peppers, 
a pinch of salt, and a glassful of port wine. Let 
this stand for six hours. Drain the pieces of veni- 
son and dry them. Melt butter in the casserole, 
put in the venison, and fry for ten minutes. Add 
two tablespoonfuls of flour and mix well. Add 
three cupfuls of' stock, two glassfuls of port 
wine, halft a cupful of currant jelly and stir until 
it boils. Set to one side of the fire, add a bunch 
of herbs, a dozen tiny white onions, two pickled 
walnuts, and salt and pepper. Simmer for forty 
minutes. Ten minutes before serving add twelve 
mushrooms. Remove the herbs before serving in 
the casserole. 



" Some hae meat and canna eat 
An' some wad eat that want it. 
But we hae meat an' we can eat, 
Sae let the Lord be thankit." 

[97] 



