X 757 
H6 
opy 1 



V-vv- 



:- 



HI 



Soups and 

Consommes 



of the 

WORLD FAMOUS CHEFS 

United States 

Canada 

Europe 



The Soup and Consomme Book 

From the 

INTERNATIONAL COOKING LIBRARY 



Compiled and Edited by 
A. C. HOFF 

Translations by Louis Sterzer, Los Angeles 



Los Angeles, Cal. 

International Publishing Co. 

1914 



301c 



TX757 



COMPILED, EDITED AND COPYRIGHTED 

BY 

A. C. HOFF 

ALL RIGHTS RESERVED 

1914 



OCT 13 »9I4 

! CU380835 



CONTRIBUTORS 



Emile Bailly, Chef Hotel St. Regis New York City 

Jean S. Berdou, Chef Hotel Astor New York City 

Jean Millon, Chef Ritz-Carlton New York City 

Henri Berger, Chef Frankfurter-Hof Frankfurt, Germany 

Jules Kohler, Chef Hotel Adlon Berlin, Germany 

G. Milhau, Chef Tait-Zinkand Cafe San Francisco 

Adrian Delvaux, Chef Hotel Baltimore Kansas City 

Otto Geutsch, Chef Hotel Windsor Montreal 

Joseph C. Campazzi, Chef. . . ..Royal Poinciana Palm Beach 

E. C. Perault, Chef Planters Hotel St. Louis 

John Chiappano, Chef Auditorium Hotel Chicago 

Geo. R. Meyer, Chef Rector's Cafe Chicago 

Gerard Embregts, Chef Chateau Frontenac Quebec 

Louis Pfaff, Chef New Willard Hotel Washington 

Henry Johannsen, Chef Hotel Royal Palm Miami 

Victor Hirtzler, Chef Hotel St. Francis San Francisco 

Emile Burgermeister, Chef. . .Hotel Fairmont San Francisco 

Martin Ginder, Chef Hotel Green Pasadena 

Joseph Stoltz, Chef Hotel Ponce de Leon St. Augustine 

Henri Boutroue, Chef Hotel Shelbourne Dublin, Ireland 

Thos. Cooney, Chef Van Nuys Hotel Los Angeles 

Jules Dauviller, Chef Palace Hotel San Francisco 

Arthur Taylor, Chef Hotel Raymond Pasadena 

Ernest Otzenberger, Chef. . . Hotel Dennis Atlantic City 

Cesar Obrecht, Chef Grand Hotel de L'Europe Lucerne, Switzerland 

Jules Boucher, Chef Arlington Hotel Hot Springs 

Chas. Grolimund, Chef Washington Hotel Seattle 

Jean Juillard, Chef Hotel Adolphus Dallas 

Chas. Pier Giorgi, Chef Hotel Alcazar St. Augustine 

Peter Bona, Chef Hotel Chamberlain Fortress Monroe 

Louis Lescarboura, Chef Ft. Pitt Hotel Pittsburgh 

John Pfaff, Chef Hotel Cape May Cape May 

Walter Jurenz, Chef Hotel Galvez Galveston 

S. B. Pettengill, Chef Hotel Ormond Ormond Beach 

Geo. E. Schaaf, Chef Hotel Albany Denver 

Ben E. Dupaquier, Chef Hotel Arlington Santa Barbara 

William Leon Benzeni, Chef.. Hotel Virginia Long Beach 

Chas. A. Frey, Chef Hotel Alexandria Los Angeles 

Lucien Fusier, Chef Grand Hotel Metropole. . .Interlaken, Switzer- 
land 

G. Cloux, Chef U. S. Grant Hotel San Diego 

A. Schloettke, Chef Westminster Hotel Dresden, Germany 

Lucien Raymond, Chef Hotel Congress & Annex. .Chicago 

Louis Thein, Chef Hotel Utah Salt Lake City 

Jules Edward Bole, Chef Hotel Jefferson St. Louis 

John Bicochi, Chef Hotel Piedmont Atlanta 

Edw. R. J. Fischel, Steward. .Hotel Piedmont Atlanta 

Leopold Saux, Steward Hotel Grunewald New Orleans 

Henri D. Fouilloux, Steward St. Charles Hotel New Orleans 




Wouw Renowned Hotel,/ 1 



preface 

In presenting to the public this book on SOUPS AND CON- 
SOMMES we feel that we are presenting the most complete author- 
itative and up-to-date book ever prepared on the subject. The con- 
tributors being the finest chefs in the United States, Canada and 
Europe insure every recipe shown as right. These world-famous chefs 
have given us their special recipes, and they have made the explanations 
so plain and so complete that any one can readily understand them. 

The great chefs who have prepared these recipes for us have 
all made cooking their life work and have been apprenticed under the 
finest and most practical teachers in the culinary lines in this country 
and abroad. 

A large portion of the copy has been translated from the French. 
The finest chefs are generally the French or Swiss. They are not 
literary men; their language is not flowery, but we know that even with 
the difficulty that exists in expressing in English many of the French 
terms that the work as a whole will be easily understood and greatly 
appreciated. 

This is the first time in history that such a wonderful collection 
of recipes have been made obtainable for general use. These men 
are giving, in these recipes, their "professional secrets." The calibre 
of the men who have prepared these recipes is great and represents as 
much as the great masters in other lines of the world's work. Napoleon 
Bonaparte was a great general; Shakespeare, a great author; George 
Washington, a wonderful statesman; and Thomas Edison, a masterful 
inventor; — but we feel that the master chefs represented here are to be 
considered just as great and doing just as much of the world's work as 
any of the famous men we have all been taught to revere and respect. 

The International Cooking Library, covering in twelve volumes 
every conceivable part, section or angle of the cooking question, makes 
it possible for any one who will follow these recipes to be an expert cook. 
The great masters who have prepared these recipes have spent their 




Their Ch ek/-Our Contributor/I 



lives studying and experimenting and are giving in these recipes their 
best ideas and suggestions. These are dishes of the millionaires and 
the most particular epicureans. 

We feel that this set of books is presented to the public at just 
the opportune time. All people are beginning to realize that there is 
really no more important art than cooking and this should be so; for 
what should be considered more important than what we eat? The 
best health insurance is having the right kind of foods, properly 
prepared. A man is at his best only when he is in robust health and 
nothing will undermine a person's constitution so quickly as poor 
food. The best dishes and the sure and absolute recipes for making 
them, are contained in this wonderful set of books. All the copy 
is from authorities just as positive and just as sure in this line as the 
noted Blackstone was on legal lines. We picked the best chefs in 
the world; we would accept copy from no others. 

A careful study of the recipes and careful application of the 
directions for same is all that is necessary to produce the results 
that have made these men famous. 

In the presentation of this book, we wish only that space would 
allow us to mention and pay courtesy to the many men who have 
assisted us in the various departments, copy preparation, translation, 
and editing, also the courtesies rendered by the managers of the world 
renowned hotels whose chefs have been our contributors. 

INTERNATIONAL BOOK PUBLISHING COMPANY 




S^^^O^toiiiTOR/| 





World Renowned Hotel/ 






THEIRCHERZ-OURfONTPI BUTOR/ 






QJjjgLp Renowned Hotel? 




index 



LECTURE ON SOUPS AND CONSOMMES 

THOS. COONEY, Chef de Cuisine, HOTEL VAN NUYS, Los Angeles, Calif 13 

HOW TO MAKE GENERAL STOCK PUREE OF TOMATOES 

CONSOMME TOMATO GUMBO CREOLE 

CHICKEN STOCK PUREE OF SPLIT PEAS 

CHICKEN BROTH MADRILENE VEAL BROTH OR STOCK 

CHICKEN BROTH BELLEVUE MOCK TURTLE 

CHICKEN BROTH CREOLE ENGLISH BEEF BROTH 

FAMILY STYLE CONEY ISLAND CLAM CHOWDER 

ROUX BOSTON CLAM CHOWDER 

MULLIGATAWNEY GREEN TURTLE AMOUTILLADO 

LAMB BROTH PUREE MONGOLE 

SCOTCH LAMB BROTH CREAM OF CELERY 

HOCHE POT OR HOTCH POTCH VEGETABLE SOUP 

ASPARAGUS BOUILLON POTATO AND LEEK SOUP NO. 1 

TOMATO BOUILLON POTATO AND LEEK SOUP NO. 2 

ONION SOUP AU GRATIN 
ADRIAN DELVAUX, Chef rte Cuisine, HOTEL BALTIMORE, Kansas Citv, Mo.. . 24 
( EICKEN BROTH, WINDSOR POTAGE A LA BONNE FEMME 
CLAM BROTH IN CUP W T ITH WHIPPED CREAM 
CREAM VELOURS OF TOMATO AUX PERLES TAPIOCA 
ESSENCE OF BEEF 

LOUIS THEIN, Chef de Cuisine, HOTEL UTAH, Salt Lake City, Utah 25 

CREAM OF TOMATO POTAGE PROVENCALE 

POTAGE AUX LENTILLES, MONTAGNARDE 

W ALTER JLRFNZ, Chef de Cuisine, HOTEL GALVEZ, Galveston, Tex 27 

GERMAN LIVER DUMPLING SOUP 
LENTIL SOUP, FARMER STYLE 
BISQUE OF CRAWFISH— GULF STYLE • 

GEO. R. MEYER, Chef de Cuisine, RECTOR'S CAFE, Chicago, 111 2s 

TOMATO CONSOMME SOUVERAINE 

JOHN PFAFF, Chef de Cuisine, HOTEL CAPE MAY, Cape May, N. J 30 

STRAINED GUMBO IN CUPS 

LEOPOLD SAUX, Steward, HOTEL GRUNEWALD, New Orleans, La 30 

CRAWFISH BISQUE, CREOLE 

GEORGE E. SCHAAF, Chef de Cuisine, HOTEL ALBANY, Denver, Colo 32 

TOMATO BOUILLON EN PASSE 
CREAM OF CHICKEN SOUP WITH ASPARAGUS 
HENRI D. FOUILLOUX, Steward, HOTEL ST. CHARLES, New Orleans, La. . . 33 
CLEAR GREEN TURTLE SOUP 

HENRI BOUTROUE. Chef de Cuisine, HOTEL SHELBOURNE, Dublin, Ire 154 

CONSOMME, CHANCELIER POTAGE LONDONDERRY 

ARTHUR TAYLOR, Chef de Cuisine, HOTEL RAY r MOND, Pasadena, Calif 34 

GUMBO A LA SAM WARD 
LUCIEN RAYMOND, Chef de Cuisine, HOTEL CONGRESS AND ANNEX, 

Chicago, HI 35 

CREME DE VOLAILLE .MARIE STUART CONSOMME CYRANO 

HENRI BERGER, Chef de Cuisine, FRANKFURTER-HOF, Frankfurt, Germany. 35 
CONSOMME— RICH EN TASSE 

10 




BtheirCher/QurContribut or/ 

y Sketn — . ■■ ■■ - ■■-'=■ .■■ _. .■ . . , . _= , 




LOUIS LESCARBOURA, Chef de Cuisine, HOTEL FT. PITT, Pittsburg, Pa 36 

POTAGE BONNE FEMME GARBURE POLIGNAC 

POT AU FEU HENRY IV. CHICKEN GUMBO GERMANINE 

ONION SOUP NORSE CREAM OF MUSHROOMS 

CONSOMME IN JELLY CREAM OF TAPIOCA 

JEAN JUILLARD, Chef de Cuisine, HOTEL ADOLPHUS, Dallas, Tex 39 

POTAGE SIDI BRAHIM POCHOUSE BOURGIGNONE 

POTAGE VENDANGEUSE POTAGE SIMONETTE 

PUMPKIN GRAND MERE PIGEON SOUP— FARMER STYLE 

DEEP SEA CONSOMME VEGETABLE SOUP PROVANCALE 

POTAGE A LTSEILLE JEUNE MARIEE 
CREAM OF DUCK LIVER VARSSOVIENNE 

JOHN CHIAPPANO, Chef de Cuisine, AUDiTORIUM HOTEL, Chicago . . 41 

BOUILLON BOSTONIENNE 

GERARD EMBREGTS, Chef de Cuisine, HOTEL CHATEAU FRONTENAC, 

Quebec, Canada ' 40 

POTAGE A LA REINE POTAGE CHASSEUR (Hunter's Potagej ' 

PETER BONA, Chef de Cuisine, HOTEL CHAMBERLIN, Fortress Monroe Va 43 
EGGS BOUILLON CLAM CHOWDER, VIRGINIA STYLE 

CONSOMME SUEDOISE POTAGE A LA PIEDMONTESE 

CONSOMME VERTE PRE CONSOMME A LA MONTE CARLO 

CHAS. GROLIMUND, Chef de Cuisine, HOTEL NEW WASHINGTON, Seattle, 

Wash 44 

PHILADELPHIA PEPPER POT POTATO SOUP CHIFFONADE 
CONSOMME COLBERT FISH BROTH A LA WASHINGTON 

S. B. PETTENGILL, Chef de Cuisine, HOTEL ORMOND, Ormond Beach, Fla 46 
COQUINA CLAM BROTH POTAGE UNCLE SAM 

HOT TOMATO BOUILLON IN CUPS 

JOSEPH STOLTZ, Chef de Cuisine, HOTEL PONCE DE LEON, St. Augustine, Fla 47 
TOMATO CHOWDER, VIRGINIENNE 

CHAS. A. FREY, Chef de Cuisine, HOTEL ALEXANDRIA, Los Angeles, Calif 47 

CHICKEN BROTH ALEXANDRIA, QUENELLES 
JEAN S. BERDOU, Chef de Cuisine, HOTEL ASTOR, New York City, N Y 4S 

BISQUE D'HOMARD AMERICANE SOUPE AU CRESSOX' 

EMILE BAILLY, Chef de Cuisine, HOTEL ST. REGIS, New York City, N. Y 49 

CONSOMME PARFAIT 
BEN E. DUPAQUIER, Chef de Cuisine, HOTEL ARLINGTON, Santa Barbara, Cal 50 

CONSOMME POTAGE PRINTAINIER 

MARTIN GINDER, Chef de Cuisine, HOTEL GREEN, Pasadena, Calif .->! 

TOMATO BROTH CREAM OF CHICKEN TAVERN 

JULES DAUVILLER, Chef de Cuisine, HOTEL PALACE, San Francisco, Cal 52 

BONED OXTAIL AYRSHIRE 

JULES BOUCHER, Chef de Cuisine, HOTEL ARLINGTON, Hot Springs \ v k f>3 

BOUILLON EN TASSE CLEAR GREEN TURTLE' 

EDW. R. J. FISCHEL, Steward, HOTEL PIEDMONT, Atlanta, Ga 54 

CHICKEN GUMBO STRAINED IN CUP 
CHAS. PIER GIORGI, Chef de Cuisine, HOTEL ALCAZAR. St. Augustine, Fit 55 
CHICKEN AND CELERY BOUILLON -OPORTO 
POTAGE— VICTORINE 
CESAR OBRECHT, Chef de Cuisine, GRAND HOTEL DE L'EUROPE, Lucerne, 

Switz r,i i 

CONSOMME PARFAIT 

11 




World Renowned Hotel/ 



in 



ERNEST OTZENBERGER, Chef de Cuisine, HOTEL DENNIS, Atlantic City, X. J. 57 

CREAM OF ASPARAGUS PUREE OF CUCUMBERS 

CLARIFIED CHICKEN CONSOMMK 

WILLIAM LEON BENZENI, Chef de Cuisine, HOTEL VIRGINIA, Long Beach, Cal. 52 
ESSENCE OF TOMATO EN TASSE 

LOUIS PFAFF, Chef de Cuisine, HOTEL NEW WILLARD, Washington, D. C. . . 58 
STRAINED GUMBO CLEAR GREEN TURTLE 

JULES KOHLER, Chef de Cuisine, HOTEL ADLON, Berlin, Germany 59 

CONSOMME JACOBINE MOUSSELINE SICILIENNE 

CONSOMME BEBAC 

LUCIEN FUSIER, Chef de Cuisine, GRAND HOTEL METROPOLE, Interlaken, 

Switz CO 

CONSOMME ANDALOUS 

VICTOR HIRTZLER, Chef de Cuisine, HOTEL ST. FRANCIS, San Francisco, Cal. 01 
VELVET SOUP CHICKEN BROTH L'ORANGE 

CONSOMME ADELE CREAM OF CHICKEN HORTENSF 

CLAM BROTH PUREE OF SPLIT PEAS 

PRINCESS SOUP CREAM OF POTATO SOUP 

CREAM OF TOMATO SOUP, ST. FRANCIS 



12 




LECTURE ON SOUPS AND CONSOMMES 

by Thomas Cooney 

Chef de Cuisine, Hotel Van Nuys 

Los Angeles, California 

As soup is one of the most important items on a bill of fare or in the 
household, too much care cannot be taken in its preparation. To 
make good soup is easy, although few know how. Some cooks through 
lack of knowledge and some through carelessness compound a soup 
which is tasteless and flavorless and of no food value whatever, not 
differing very much from what some people rightfully call "suds." If 
soup is properly prepared and served, it starts the meal right and 
anything following it has a far better chance to please, wherein if soup 
is inferior, it has a very bad effect upon a guest, in fact making him 
peeved and no matter how you try to please him or her it will avail 
not if given a poor start; hence the necessity of making good soup. 
Soup on "Party Bills of Fare" should be regulated by the size of the 
bill. If a heavy bill of fare, a light soup or consomme; and on a light 
bill of fare, a heavy soup, cream, etc. 

In the following article I will try as nearly as I can to define what, 
in my mind, is good soup and if directions are followed will prove 
satisfactory. 

As to soup as a food, it has very little value although many claim 
much for it. From time to time, many writers have expressed different 
views on soup, but the principal nutrition lies entirely in the way it is 
prepared and not as we read about it, so it is up to the cook to make 
soup that is nutritious or otherwise; so take upon yourself the responsi- 
bility. If it is nutritious, it is to your credit, if not, you are to blame. 

GENERAL STOCK 
Four pounds fresh beef shanks cracked, leaving all the meat on the 
bones, two pounds veal shanks, chicken trimmings, two carrots, Two 
turnips, three tomatoes, one leek, two onions and some celery peelings. 

13 



Have soup kettle on the stove with two gallons boiling water; 
plunge the bones into this, keeping the water boiling vigorously for 
five minutes, then draw back and let simmer for one hour (by plunging 
the soup bones into boiling water the most nutritious part of the meat 
is saved, namely, the albumen which, if the meat or bones were put into 
cold water and then brought to a boil would come to the top in skum 
and be thrown away), then add the vegetables cup up, also one table- 
spoonful of salt. Let simmer for four hours, take off the fire and strain 
through a soup towel made of fine cheese cloth. Set away in a stone 
crock in a cool place and when cold set in ice box for future use. This 
stock should always be made a day ahead. 

CONSOMME 

Have in a sauce pan one pound of chopped lean beef, one sliced 
carrot, half a leek, one stock celery, one bay leaf, two cloves, one 
whole spice, four beaten egg yolks, two ripe tomatoes, one tablespoonful 
of salt, and a little pepper. Mix thoroughly with a spatula adding 
one gallon of hot stock. Place on stove and bring slowly to a boil, 
stirring occasionally. When it begins to boil draw back and let simmer 
for two hours. Strain through a napkin into a stone crock; season 
to taste. 

Consomme is at its best the day it is made, except for jellies or 
frappe. If consomme is left to set, when it is heated up again it tastes 
flat and loses its brilliant color or becomes dull. Consomme should 
be of a dark amber color, if not dark enough, add a little caramel or 
burnt sugar. To this, many cooks object, but we find in Williams' 
Chemistry of Life that caramel is very healthy, and advocates its use 
in sauces, etc. Uniformity is the standard of excellency. Consomme 
is service with many garnishings a la this or a la that, but the main 
body always remains the same. 

Jellied consomme is very much appreciated on a hot day. First 
try consomme to be jellied by setting some in a glass and placing in 
chopped ice; let set and if not firm enough, add a little gelatine; 
bring to a boil, strain and set away to cool. If for frappe it should not 
be but slightly heavier than cold consomme. 

14 



CHICKEN STOCK 

Singe, draw and wash well, three fowls. Have on the fire a soup 
kettle containing one and a half gallons of water boiling vigorously. 
Plunge the fowls into this and let boil three minutes. Draw back and 
let simmer, adding one leek, two stalks of celery, one spoonful salt, 
one medium sized carrot, one bay leaf and two whole peppers. Skim 
off any scum coming to the top and let cook for three hours or until the 
fowls are done. 

Remove the fowls and let them stand in cold water for five minutes 
(by doing this the skin of the fowl remains soft when cold; if not put 
in cold water the skin gets dry and hard if left standing for any length 
of time) and set away for future use. If the broth is not strong enough, 
boil until required strength is attained; strain through a fine cheese 
cloth and set away in a stone crock for further use. 

CHICKEN BROTH MADRILENE 

Same as above, adding twelve ripe, peeled tomatoes, two chili and 
two bell peppers and one head celery, while cooking. 

CHICKEN BROTH BELLEVUE 

Wash well twenty-four clams. Put them in a sauce pan on the 
fire with just a little water. Cover tightly and let boil five minutes. 
Remove the cover and strain the juice through a napkin. Add one- 
third clam juice to two and two-thirds chicken broth or vice versa. 
If for Clam Bouillon Bellevue, serve in bouillon cups with whipped 
cream. 

CHICKEN BROTH CREOLE 

One chicken, boned and cut in dice; cut in julienne two leeks, two 
slices of Virginia ham, one onion cut small, three chili peppers and one 
bell pepper peeled, seeded and cut in strips, and a half crushed clove 
of garlic. Put all in a sauce pan with a quarter of a pound of butter, 
braise lightly, stirring occasionally for ten minutes. Then add one 
gallon of chicken broth and let cook for one hour. Have peeled and 
seeded six ripe tomatoes, cut up in one inch squares, and one quart of 

15 



cooked okras cut about one inch long; add to broth and season to 
taste. Do not boil again, but let simmer twenty minutes, lastly adding 
two cups of cooked rice and some parsley. Serve hot. 

Some prefer to cook rice with soup, but it is not, to my idea, a 
good policy, as rice gets so soft and mushy when thus cooked. 

FAMILY STYLE 
Cut up in small squares the breast of one raw fowl, one carrot, 
one turnip, one leek, one onion and one peeled and seeded bell pepper. 
Place in a sauce pan with some raw butter and set on the range. Braise 
lightly, then add one cooking spoonful of roux or thickening. Mix 
until smooth, add one gallon of hot chicken stock. Boil one hour, add 
some chopped parsley and a tablespoonful of chopped chives; season to 
taste. Serve hot. 

ROUX 

Roux is one of the most important elements in cooking and loo 
much care cannot be taken in its preparation. Many a fault in culinary 
can be traced to a roux improperly prepared. 

Melt one pound of butter in a heavy sauce pan and use only the 
clarified part; add to it one pound of flour; stir thoroughly until 
smooth, cook for fifteen minutes on the range, stirring continually. 
Then cover the sauce pan and set it in a moderate oven for thirty 
minutes, stirring occasionally, when it will be ready for use. This will 
thicken two gallons of any liquid to a good heavy sauce (not soup) as 
soup is light and requires so much less. 

For brown sauces or soups, continue the cooking of the roux until 
the proper color is attained from a light golden color to dark brown. 

MULLIGATAWNEY 

Cut in dice, two onions, two heads of celery, one peeled and 
seeded chili pepper and the breast of one raw fowl. Put all in a sauce 
pan with some drawn butter and braise ten minutes on a moderate fire; 
then add to it one large cooking spoonful of roux, mix until smooth, 
adding one gallon of chicken stock; season to taste and let cook one 
hour. Have peeled and cut in cubes, two apples sauted in a pan with 

16 



n 



Their Special Soi/R5& Consommes 




some butter three minutes, shaking continually. Then add to the 
soup with two tablespoonfuls of curry diluted in water and one cup 
cooked rice. Let simmer twenty minutes and serve. When using 
curry do not boil afterward, as it spoils the flavor. 

LAMB BROTH 

Take about six or seven lamb bones and place in a saucepan with 
enough cold water to cover, then set on the range and bring to a boil. 
Let cook five minutes, take them off and wash well. Place them again 
on the fire covered with water as before; bring to a boil and draw back ; 
let simmer for four hours adding two leeks, two medium sized onions, 
two carrots, two turnips and some celery peelings and a bouquet of 
parsley, skimming occasionally and keeping covered with water to 
make up for evaporation; now this broth should be clear. Take off 
and strain through a fine cloth and set away for further use. Many 
soups are made from this broth, the most popular being Scotch Hotch 
Potch and Scotch Lamb Broth. 

SCOTCH LAMB BROTH 

Cut up in dice four turnips, two leeks, one onion, two or three 
stalks of celery and one pound of lean lamb or mutton. Place the 
vegetables in a sauce pan with some drawn butter and set on the range. 
Let cook slowly stirring occasionally. Then take the diced lamb or 
mutton and plunge it into boiling water. Let boil one minute, take it 
out, wash off and add to the vegetable. Let all cook together for 
fifteen minutes, then add one cupful of Scotch oats and a little roux; 
mix thoroughly until smooth, adding one gallon of hot, but not boiling 
lamb broth. Let cook two hours slowly; skim off any impurities com- 
ing to the top, season to taste and when ready to serve, add a little 
chopped chives and parsley. 

HOCHE POT OR HOTCH POTCH 

This was a favorite soup of Edward the Seventh. Cut in dice, 
about an inch square, one pound of lean lamb or mutton. Cut in julienne 
or strips, two leeks, half a hard head of cabbage, and one head of celery. 
Place the vegetables in a sauce pan with some raw butter and set on 

17 




World Fam<w Chert 



the range. (Follow the same rule as in Scotch broth with diced mutton.) 
Let cook for fifteen minutes and add to it one gallon of clear lamb 
broth. Let cook an hour, adding one teacupful of cooked string beans, 
one cup of freshly cooked garden peas and one cup of fleurettes of 
cauliflower; season to taste and let simmer for twenty minutes more. 
Skim off the grease, add a spoonful of chopped chives and serve hot. 

ASPARAGUS BOUILLON 

This bouillon is best made from canned asparagus. Add the 
contents of two cans of asparagus, juice and all, to half a gallon of 
chicken broth. Season and boil ten minutes. Strain through a fine 
cloth, forcing as much of the asparagus through as possible. This 
bouillon is fine served cold on a hot day. 

TOMATO BOUILLON 
Two dozen ripe sound tomatoes, one leek, three chili peppers, 
one bell pepper, two stalks of celery, one onion tied in a cloth, three 
cloves, two bay leaves, three whole spices and some parsley; add one 
gallon chicken broth, set on the range, bring to a boil, draw back and 
let simmer for two hours. Season to taste. If too tart, add a little 
baking powder. Take off and strain through a fine strainer and 
afterwards through a cheese cloth. It should be of a nice red color. 
This is excellent served hot or cold. 

PUREE OF TOMATOES 

Cut in slices two onions, one head celery, one carrot, two chili 
peppers, one bell pepper, a small veal shank and a small ham bone. 
Place all in a sauce pan with some drawn butter and a kitchen bouquet 
containing the following ingredients; three cloves, four whole peppers 
and two bay leaves tied in a linen cloth. Braise for twenty minutes, 
then add to the amount of one gallon of peeled sound ripe tomatoes 
and a half gallon of general stock; bring to a boil and let simmer for 
two hours, stirring occasionally. Season to taste, adding a little baking 
powder to neutralize the acid and a little sugar; strain through a fine 
strainer and set again on the range in a clean sauce pan; bring to a boil. 
Have ready six tablespoonfuls of cornstarch diluted in cold chicken 

18 



broth or water will do if chicken broth is not handy. Add this to the 
soup, gradually stirring continually with a whip until it is of the 
required consistency. If for cream of tomatoes, make a little heavier 
or thicker, let boil two minutes after adding the thickening. Take off 
and strain through a fine cheese cloth. It is now ready for use as a 
soup or sauce. 

For Cream of Tomato, add one-third good hot cream to two- 
thirds tomato puree; let come to a boil, working in with a spoon, one 
ounce of hard or raw butter. Serve Crouton souffle. 

TOMATO GUMBO CREOLE 

Cut in strips, three chili peppers, one leek, three bell peppers and 
half a pound of cooked ham; place in a sauce pan with some butter, 
on the stove; braise ten minutes, then add a quart of chicken broth 
and three quarts puree of tomatoes. Mix thoroughly, bring to a boil, 
let simmer one hour, then add one quart of cooked okra including the 
liquor in which it was cooked, and one cup of cooked rice. Season to 
taste and serve hot. 

PUREE OF SPLIT PEAS 

Put in a sauce pan with some drawn butter, one sliced onion, one 
carrot, two stalks of celery, a kitchen bouquet as previously explained, 
one leek, half a pound of salt pork cut in small dice and blanched, and 
one ham bone. Place on the range and braise for twenty minutes, 
stirring occasionally, then add one pound of washed and soaked split 
peas and one gallon general stock. Boil slowly for three hours, stirring 
occasionally. Season to taste. Take off and remove the ham bone and 
bouquet and strain through a fine sieve. Put again into a clean sauce 
pan and set on the range and if too thick, dilute with stock. Work in 
some two or three pieces of cold butter and serve hot, (When the soup 
has been boiling about one hour, add a spoonful of roux, this keeps it 
together and makes it smooth.) 

VEAL BROTH OR STOCK 

Proceed as for lamb broth, using veal bones. 

For demi glace or brown sauce, brown veal broth forms the 
greater part and is made as follows: Two good sized ham shanks, two 

19 




World Famous Cher/ 1 



pounds veal bones chopped up and placed in a roasting pan in a moder- 
ate oven with some carrots, onions, celery and leeks cut up. Let cook 
gradually until of a deep brown color, then turn the whole into a sauce 
pan and cover with stock (after the stock has come to a boil in the pan 
the bones were cooked in), add some chili and bell peppers, also a 
good sized kitchen bouquet. Let cook six hours, adding some tomatoes, 
say one gallon to four gallons of stock. Take off and strain through a 
cloth. Place again on the range in a clean sauce pan and thicken with 
brown roux, say one pound to three gallons. Mix thoroughly, let cook 
one hour, stirring occasionally and season by adding one cup of walnut 
catsup, one cup mushroom catsup and about a pint of meat. Glace 
and mix thoroughly, then take off and strain through a cheese cloth. 
It should be of a light brown color, smooth and clear as many soups 
and sauces are made from this. Any one particular flavor should be 
easily imparted. The great trouble in many cases is that too much 
tomato is used, thus making it bitter and the imparting of any one 
particular flavor to a brown soup or sauce becomes an impossibility. 

MOCK TURTLE 

Procure one nice clean white calf's head; skin and cut in pieces 
about four inches square; remove all the lean from the inside and cook 
with lemon and spices. When cold, cut up six of these pieces in dice 
about a quarter of an inch square and add to a stock composed of two 
quarts of demi glace and two quarts of consomme. Boil for one hour; 
season to taste. Flavor with sherry and lastly two chopped eggs and 
half a lemon peeled and seeded. Serve hot. The consomme to be used 
in this soup should be made from veal broth. 

ENGLISH BEEF BROTH 
Cut in dice two carrots, two onions, one leek, one pound lean beef 
cut in dice about half an inch square, and one cup barley washed. 
Place all in a sauce pan with some butter and set on the range. Let 
cook fifteen minutes, stirring occasionally, then add one-third brown 
sauce and two-thirds consomme of beef. Let boil one hour, skim off, 
season to taste, flavor with sherry, besprinkle with parsley and serve. 

20 




TtiBiE Special Soupj&Comjmmes 




CONEY ISLAND CLAM CHOWDER 

To one quart of fresh opened clams, add one quart of water; 
bring to a boil, skim -off and strain through a napkin. Then cut up in 
dice a quarter of a pound of salt pork and place in a sauce pan. Set on 
the range and let slightly brown with one onion, one chili pepper, one 
bell pepper and a couple of stalks of celery cut in dice. Cook for 
fifteen minutes, stirring occasionally, then add the clam broth with an 
equal amount of chicken broth. Let cook slowly for thirty minutes; 
season to taste, adding a little sage, thyme and cayenne pepper. Then 
cut in dice two good sized Irish potatoes, eight ripe peeled and seeded 
tomatoes, add to the soup and let boil until the potatoes are cooked. 
Draw back and skim off the grease and lastly add the clams and a little 
chopped parsley. After adding the clams do not boil as this makes the 
clams tough. 

BOSTON CLAM CHOWDER 

Proceed as for Coney Island Chowder, but before putting in the 
clam broth, add two cooking spoonfuls of roux. Mix thoroughly until 
smooth, then add the clam and chicken broth. Season to taste. Let 
boil thirty minutes and add the potatoes cut in dice and when they are 
cooked, add one quart of hot cream; bring to a boil, then add the 
clams. It should be of the consistency of a heavy cream. Serve hot. 

GREEN TURTLE AMONTILLADO (Thick) 
Mix two quarts of good consomme with two quarts of brown 
sauce, and add to it one can of turtle meat cut in dice, accompanied 
with its liquor. Season to taste, flavor with Amontillado. Let cook 
fifteen minutes and add two chopped eggs and half a lemon, peeled, 
seeded and cut in very thin slices. Serve hot. 

For clear Green Turtle, add the diced turtle meat and liquor to a 
good consomme. Flavor with Amontillado or sherry. Cook ten 
minutes and serve in bouillon cups. 

PUREE MONGOLE 
Cut in julienne, two carrots, two leeks and a couple of stalks of 
good celery. Put in a sauce pan with a quarter of a pound of butter 

21 




World Famouj 1 CriERf 



and braise for ten minutes, stirring. Then add two quarts of tomato 
sauce and two quarts puree of split peas. Let boil one hour, adding 
half a can of French peas. Season to taste. Serve hot. 

CREAM OF CELERY 

Slice one carrot, two turnips, two leeks, one onion and half a 
gallon celery cut fine. Place in a sauce pan with some drawn butter 
and braise for twenty minutes. Then add one gallon general stock 
previously thickened with two cooking spoonfuls of roux. Let all cook 
two hours, season to taste, take off and strain through a fine sieve. 
Place again on the range in a clean sauce pan and have hot one quart of 
cream; add this to the soup with two or three pats of butter worked in 
Willi a spoon. It is now ready to serve. 

While some culinary writers advocate using a laison of egg yolks to 
thicken cream soup before serving, I do not believe it is practical, for 
if after adding the laison the soup boils, the egg yolks curdle and any 
amount of straining will not make the cream soup look smooth again. 
So many cooks make a great mistake in serving cream soup too heavy 
or too thick; especially to first class trade, thick soup is repulsive. A 
cream soup should be of the consistency of good cream, not any heavier. 

All cream soups are made as Cream of Celery, using the different 
ingredients such as cauliflower, barley or such instead of celery. No 
set time can be given for cooking soup; seasoning of soup is a matter 
hard to define; seasoning can always be added, but never removed. 

In cooking soup stocks or stews, the boiling point registers 212 
degrees. It cannot be made any hotter than this, so don't boil all the 
flavor and aroma away by letting it boil vigorously all the time. Let 
it drop to say 180 degrees and you will save much of the flavor thrown 
away in steam. It may take a little longer, but it is worth while. 

VEGETABLE SOUP 

Cut in julienne, three carrots, three turnips, three leeks, one head 

of cabbage and two onions cut fine. Set on the fire with some drawn 

butter; braise for twenty minutes, stirring occasionally. Then add to 

it, one gallon general stock; cook for one hour and add one head of 

22 



cauliflower fleurettes (cut out), one cup cooked green peas and a cup of 
string beans cut an inch long and twelve ripe peeled and seeded tomatoes 
cut coarse. Let cook one-half hour, season to taste and serve. 

POTATO AND LEEK SOUP NO. 1 
Cut up in thin slices twelve leeks and two onions; put in a sauce 
pan with a small ham bone and some drawn butter and place on a 
moderate fire. Let cook ten or twelve minutes, stirring occasionally. 
Add to it one gallon of stock and eight good sized potatoes quartered 
lengthways and cut thin. Season to taste; let simmer one hour until 
all is thoroughly cooked. Skim off the grease, if any, besprinkle with 
parsley and chives. Serve hot. 

POTATO AND LEEK SOUP NO. 2 

Proceed as in No. 1, but when cooked pass through a fine strainer. 
Place again in a clean sauce pan and set on the range. Bring to a boil. 
Work into it three pats of good butter and serve. (It should be of the 
consistency of a cream soup or puree.) 

ONION SOUP AU GRATIN 

Split twelve good sized onions in two and slice; then place in a 
saute pan with some good butter. Braise to a good brown color. Drain 
off the butter and add one gallon consomme. Cook for one hour; 
skim off all the grease and fill sixteen smarts or stone pots especially for 
the purpose. Place sippets of French bread (previously sprinkled with 
cheese and baked in the oven) on top, sprinkle with Swiss cheese and 
set in a hot oven. Let brown. Serve with it separate cheese and 
allumetus bread sticks. 

Let soup cool considerably before putting it in the oven, for if put 
in too hot, it will boil right away, making it impossible to brown. 



*^ftl*tu<ti+ @m**&S 



23 



f 



1 



r 



ADRIAN DELVAUX 

CHEF DE CUISINE 

HOTEL BALTIMORE 

Kansas City, Mo. 
Mr. Delvaux started 
in at the Grand Hotel 
in Reimes, Franco, and 
thence to the Bristol 
Hotel in Paris. In 
this country, at the 
Chicago Club, Hotel 
Congress and Annex, 
Chicago and at the 
Auditorium Hotel, 

Chicago. He has been 
at the Hotel Baltimore 
for five years, where 
he has made the Balti- 
more famous for its 
cuisine. 



CLAM BROTH IN CUP WITH WHIPPED 
CREAM 
Take four dozen clams, open and remove 
shells; put in a small sauce pan with two cups of 
water; boil eight to ten minutes slowly. Strain 
through a fine cloth, add a small piece of butter, 
bring to second boil, season to taste and pour 
into cups and add a tablespoonful of whipped 
cream in each cup. Serve. 

POTAGE A LA BONNE FEMME 
Boil a piece of bacon, some veal bones, leeks, 
carrots, turnips, celery, brown onion, small 
cabbage and two or three lettuce leaves and some 
roast chicken carcasses, in some stock. When 
the vegetables are done, take them out and cut, 
into small pieces; strain the stock, skim, add the 
vegetables and serve a half slice of toast on each 
plate. 



CREAM VELOURS OF TOMATOES Al X 
PERLES TAPIOCA 
Put six ounces of butter in a sauce pan. add 
half a pound of lean ham or ham bone and one 
pound of veal bone, chopped onions and carrots, 
twelve grains whole black pepper, one bay leaf; let this mixture simmer 
for ten minutes. Cut some ripe tomatoes into halves, put tlieni into the 
sauce pan with the mixture, add half a quart of stock and one spoonful 
of flour and boil for half an hour; season with salt and pepper to taste, 
then strain through a fine sieve. Before serving, add two cups of boiling 
cream. Boil tapioca in water, strain and add tapioca to soup. 



CHICKEN BROTH, WINDSOR 

Take a four pound hen, draw and singe. Chop very fine one 
carrot, two onions, a bay leaf, and put into a sauce pan. Add four 
quarts of water and cook slowly for two to two and a half hours. Strain 



24 



this liquid through a very fine cloth, then take two yolks of eggs and 
one cup of cream beaten well and add to the broth. Serve with one 
tablespoonful of whipped cream on top. 

ESSENCE OF BEEF 
Take two pounds of beef bones, four pounds of meat from beef 
shank, four whole onions, two carrots and put into roasting pan; then 
place in oven for five to twenty minutes until it is very brown in color. 
Remove from the roasting pan and put into a sauce pan; add four 
quarts of water and cook slowly for four hours. Strain this liquid 
through a very fine cloth, then season to taste and serve. 



SZ^P^jL^^ 



\ 



LOUIS THEIN 

FORMERLY 
CHEF DE CUISINE 

HOTEL UTAH 

Salt Lake City, Utah. 
Mr. Thein has been 
mth some of the best 
Hotels and Cafes in 
America. 



Bermuda onion and 
sauce pan with one 
stirring occasionally. 



CREAM OF TOMATO 

Melt an ounce of butter in a sauce pan; add 
an ounce of lean finely chopped raw ham, a sliced 
carrot, onion, parsley, green pepper, garlic, clove, 
bay leaf and thyme; let it brown nicely for 
fifteen minutes, stirring occasionally. Add one 
quart crushed tomatoes with a quart of chicken 
or veal broth. Season with a light tablespoonful 
each of salt and sugar. Let cook for thirty 
minutes and strain through a sieve. Add one 
quart of cream and half a pound of butter. 
Serve hot with unsweetened whipped cream. 

POTAGE PROVENCALE 

With a very small parisienne potato scoop, 
dig out all you can from two medium carrots and 
two white turnips. Keep these articles on a 
plate until required. Cut in very small pieces 
a quarter of a pound of raw, lean veal, ham, 
the white part of two leeks. Place all these in a 
ounce of butter and cook for fifteen minutes, 
Moisten with chicken broth and tomato juice, 



25 



season; let gently boil for twenty-five minutes; add two ounces of 
raw rice and let boil for thirty minutes longer. Finely chop together 
parsley, chervil and half a bean of garlic and add to the soup. Lightly 
mix and let boil for ten minutes longer. Pour soup into tureen and 
serve. 

POTAGE AUX LENTILLES, MONTAGNARDE 

Soak one and a half pints of lentils in cold water six hours at least; 
drain. Heat one ounce of butter in a sauce pan, add one finely sliced 
onion, four sliced leeks and half a pound of salt pork, cut in small 
pieces. Mix well and brown for ten minutes, stirring meanwhile. Then 
add the drained lentils with four medium sized peeled potatoes, two 
branches of parsley, one branch of chervil, one bean of sound garlic, 
two bay leaves, two cloves and one and a half teaspoonfuls crushed 
allspice. Moisten with three quarts cf hot water, season with one 
teaspoonful of salt and a half teaspoonful of white pepper. Mix well. 
Cover pan and let boil for two hours. Remove, press through a sieve 
into a basin. Replace in same sauce pan with half a pint of hot milk, 
one gill of cream and a quarter of an ounce of butter. Mix well, let 
boil ten minutes, strain through a china strainer into a soup tureen 
and serve croutons on the side. 



2(3 




Their Special Sours &Coft50fWES 




WALTER JURENZ 

CHEF DE CUISINE 

HOTEL GALVEZ 
Galveston, Tex. 

Mr. Jurenz, prior to 
corning to this country, 
was with some of the 
finest hotels in Italy, 
France and England. 
He was Chef to Count 
Waldersee and his staff 
to China, the Red Lion 
Hotel at Henley on the 
Thames, England, Roy- 
al Crown Hotel, the 
Belgravia Hotel, and 
the Vienna Cafe, 
London, England. In 
this country, at Hotel 
La Salle, Hotel Con- 
gress and Annex, 
Chicago, and the 
Chicago Yacht Club. 



will also flavor the 



GERMAN LIVER DUMPLING SOUP 

Use a strong consomme or chicken broth. 
Two pounds of beef livers grated very fine and 
strained through a fine colander, one very finely 
grated onion, three fried and finely chopped slices 
of bacon and two raw eggs. Add to it a teaspoon- 
ful of thyme, salt, pepper, paprika and a few 
dashes of Worcestershire sauce; thicken with 
white bread crumbs. Form this into balls about 
the size of a small egg and boil for about seven 
to ten minutes in boiling salted water, and serve 
with the soup. 

LENTIL SOUP, FARMER STYLE 

Soak half a pound of lentils over night, boil 
twice and then wash in cold water. Boil in 
strong beef stock for about two hours. Dice 
some carrots, turnips, potatoes and onions. When 
the lentils begin to get soft, add the carrots and 
turnips and let boil for about half an hour; then 
add the potatoes and onions and cook until done. 
Add some salt, pepper, paprika and Worcester- 
shire sauce. It is also advisable to put seme 
whole black peppers, whole allspice, green celery, 
parsley and thyme in a small linen bag which is 
to be tied up and hung in the soup, getting all 
the flavor out by cooking with the soup for about 
two hours. A nice ham bone or piece of bacon 
soup very nicely. 



SOUP, BISQUE OF CRAWFISH— GULF STYLE 
Take three dozen crawfish and after carefully cleaning, boil them 
for fifteen minutes in salted water, then cut the bodies apart from the 
tails. Mash up the tails and feet of the crawfish well to a powder, 
then put into a casserole with some very finely chopped onions, carrots 
and celery, plentv of paprika, parsley and allspice, two bay leaves and 
some butter. Saute for about fifteen minutes, then add two quarts of a 





World Famouj 1 Chert 



strong bouillon and keep this cooking slowly for about one hour. 
Strain and add a cup of sweet cream and a tablespoonful of fresh lump 
butter. Stuff the bodies of the crawfish with a mixture of fine grated 
veal, soaked bread, one whole egg, salt, pepper, paprika, chopped 
parsley and butter and boil the stuffed bodies for about ten minutes in 
salted water, then take them out and serve in the soup. 



U r c^S&~ y ^h'Scz^ z 




TOMATO BOUILLON 
To make a strong and tasty tomato bouillon, 
it requires a white 1 stock which is made as follows: 
Take about seven quarts of cold water and place 
in a stock pot with three pounds of veal knuckles 
or trimmings and about five pounds of chicken 
bones which may be smothered in the oven for 
flavor, but do not let them brown. Boil it up 
slowly, skimming well. Add one carrot, one 
1 urnip, one onion, a little trimming of celery and 
a little salt, a bay leaf and a few grains of whole 
pepper. Boil for about three hours. Strain 
through a fine sieve. Take three pounds of veal 
shanks, cut the meat off and chop fine. Place 
meat and bone in a soup kettle with one finely 
minced carrot, one onion, a little parsley, a little 
celery and one leek. Put all together with the 
meat in the kettle adding about five whites of 
eggs, a little salt and mix thoroughly. Add twelve to fourteen very 
ripe red tomatoes crushed, and work well together. St'"r in slowly the 
previously made cold white stock and let it boil for about an hour, 
stir occasionally until it begins to boil. Let it simmer slowly. To 
obtain a fine strong stock, take a chicken of about four pounds, roasted 
a little, but not permitted to brown and add to the rest, letting all 
simmer together for an hour. This improves the flavor and strength 
of the bouillon. The chicken may afterwards be used for any other 



G. R. MEYER 

CHEF 

RECTOR'S 
Chicago, 111. 
With finest hotels in 
Europe, also the Aud- 
itorium, Congress and 
College Inn, Chicago. 



28 



purpose. Strain through a silk tamy. The bouillon should be clear 
and red. After all the contents are boiled and strained, the liquid 
should measure about four quarts. Season to taste and serve in 
bouillon cups very hot. 

As many prefer tomato bouillon cold, it is packed in ice until 
thoroughly chilled, then served in the usual way. 

CONSOMME SOUVERAINE 
One and a half pounds of breasts of white fowl free from nerves and 
sinews, cut into small pieces, then pass through the meat machine. 
Put this into a mortar, pound it well into a fine paste. Have previously 
made a little panade which consists of butter, the size of an egg and half 
a cup of cream. Put both into a small sauce pan. When boiling, stir 
in about one and a half to two tablespoonfuls of best flour, stirring with 
a wooden spoon. Let boil until it loosens from the sides of the sauce 
pan, which will take about two minutes. Let this get cold. When cold, 
add with the chicken in the mortar, also season to taste and pound all 
well together into a fine paste, then add little by little, four whites of 
eggs. Work all together into a smooth paste. Take out and pass 
through a sieve and place sauce in an earthen bowl. When ready for 
use add about three-fourths to one cup of double cream and work this 
well together to a very smooth paste. Take about three truffles, 
pound or chop fine, mix with the chicken preparation, stirring well. 
Take a sheet of heavy white paper, butter it well and have it cool, 
spread the paste about three-sixteenths of an inch, smoothing it even 
with a knife, then put the paper into a shallow pan, butter side down, 
and put in oven or steamer for a few minutes to cook. When done, 
take out and let it. cool off; cut this with a round cutter, the size of a 
quarter and put all together in a soup tureen with previously cut 
julienne of white breast of chicken and mushrooms. Pour consomme 
over and serve hot. 



J? £) 2^S^*^ 



29 




World Famouj 1 Cher/ 1 




STRAINED GUMBO IN CUPS 
One and a half quarts of chicken broth, four 
tomatoes and twelve fresh okras cooked for 
fifteen minutes. Strain and serve. 



J2^/^ 



JOHN PFAFF 

CHEF DE CUISINE 

HOTEL CAPE MAY 
Cape May, N. J. 
Mr. John Pfaff has 
been at the following 
hotels: Hotel Marie 
Antoinette, New York 
City, Hotel Metropole, 
Philadelphia, Brighton 
Beach, at Coney Island, 
New York; the Hotel 
Kaater skill, Kaaterskill, 
N. Y 

CRAWFISH BISQUE— CREOLE 
Take about eight dozen fine, large crawfish 
and wash thoroughly, being careful to clean off 
every particle of dust or sand. Set to boil in 
about a gallon of water. Pick out two dozen of 
the largest crawfish, remove the inside of the 
tails and save the heads, cleansing them of every 
particle of meat. Set this meat to one side with 
the shells of the heads. Pick the meat from the 
rest of the fish, saving all the shells. Take one 
large onion, a carrot, a bunch of celery, a sprig of 
thyme, one bay leaf, three sprigs of parsley, six 
cloves, two blades of mace and one clove of 
garlic; chop all very fine ana put into the pot of 
water in which the crawfish were boiled. Add 




LEOPOLD SAUX 

STEWARD 

HOTEL 
GRUNEWALD 

New Orleans, La. 

Mr. Saux is a Grune- 
wald product. He has 
worked in every de- 
partment in the back of 
this hotel, and is con- 
sidered a very good 
authority in this line of 
work. 



30 





Their Special Sours* Comommes 



all the picked meat, except the reserved tails and all the shells 
of the bodies and heads, except the reserved heads. Add one cup 
of rice and let boil until the mixture becomes thick and mushy. 
When it is well cooked, take off the fire and mash the 
shells thoroughly, also the meat and strain all through a sieve. 
Take about a tablespoonful of butter and two quarts of oyster 
liquor and add this to the soup, seasoning to taste, with cayenne, 
salt and black pepper. Set to boil slowly. In the meantime, take the 
reserved crawfish meat and make a s tuning as follows for the 
reserved heads: Chop an onion very fine and let it brown in a table- 
spoonful of butter. Squeeze thoroughly a cup of bread wet with water. 
When well squeezed, mix with a little milk, sufficient to make a paste, 
season to taste and mix with the well seasoned crawfish meat. Chop 
another onion ana put in melted butter; add the crawfish stuffing, 
letting all fry about ten minutes and adding in the meantime, a finely 
chopped sprig each of thyme, parsley and a bay leaf, mixing thoroughly. 
Take off the fire and stuff the reserved heads of crawfish. Put on every 
stuffed head a dot of butter and set in the oven and bake for ten 
minutes. Place the stuffed heads in the tureen and pcur the soup over. 
Serve hot with croutons of buttered toast, passing the latter in a sep- 
arate dish. 




:;i 




World Famous Cher/ 1 




"> 



"i 



TOMATO BOUILLON EN TASSE 
Two quart cans of tomatoes or their equiva- 
lent in fresh tomatoes, one teaspoonful sugar, 
one whole clove, one quart strong chicken broth. 
Let boil one hour. Season with salt to taste. 
Strain and serve in cups. 



CREAM OF CHICKEN SOUP WITH 
. ASPARAGUS 

Dress a five-pound fowl and cut it in four 
parts. Place in a kettle with one gallon of cold 
water and a teaspoonful of salt, let boil slowly. 
Remove all the impurities that come to the top 
of the broth. When the fowl is tender, remove 
from the broth. Have one onion the size of an 
egg minced fine, one small stalk of celery minced; 
put in a sauce pan with one-third pound of good 
butter and let cook for fifteen minutes. Add 
a quarter of a pound of sifted flour and let cook 
on slow fire without coloring, for ten minutes; 
then add one quart of broth, stirring rapidly to avoid lumps. Let 
boil well for one hour; season with salt, white pepper and grated nut- 
meg to suit taste, then strain through a fine sieve. Before serving, add 
one cup rich cream with the yolks of two eggs well beaten. Do not let 
boil after this. Now add half the breast of chicken cut in small dice 
and the tips of asparagus which have been boiled in salt water. Serve. 



GEORGE E. SCHAAF 

CHEF DE CUISINE 

HOTEL ALBANY 
Denver, Colo. 

Mr. Schaaf has been 
connected with several 
prominent hotels in 
tlm country prior to 
coming to the Albany, 
and was at one time, 
Chef at the Minneapolis 
Club in Minneapolis. 




32 




Their Special 5ouR5&ConsowMEs 




HENRI 
D. FOUILLOUX 

CHEF-STEWARD 

ST. CHARLES 
HOTEL 

New Orleans, La. 
_ Mr. Fouilloux served 
his apprenticeship at 
the Maison Arwaud of 
Paris, France. Was 
later at the Hotel du 
Rliin, Paris, with Baron 
de Neaflize at Paris, 
with Mr. Vayne Mc- 
Veah — American Am- 
bassador in Rome, with 
Count Moroni Pecci at 
Rome, Leo XIII at the 
Vatican in Rome, 
Madame M e 1 b a in 
London, for Viscount 
Bulkeley at Beaumaris 
in North Wales and at 
the Grand Hote 1 in 
Rome. Coming to this 
country, he was at the 
Hollenden Hote' , Cleve- 
land. 



CLEAR GREEN TURTLE SOUP 

Take two pounds of fresh green turtle meat 
cut in dice with a little chopped onions and a 
piece of butter. Fry and season with a little 
paprika, salt, whole pepper and a small handful of 
odoriferous herbs, such as corienthe, romarin 
and basilie. Put the whole in a two quart stew 
pan, with a half nice fat hen and a little knuckle 
of veal, two whole tomatoes, half a pint of Samos 
wine and one gallon of chicken bouillon. Skim 
the liquid at the first bubbling and move it back 
to the side of the fire. When the meat is done, 
drain it, skim off the fat from the soup, pass it 
through a fine muslin cloth into another stew pan 
and put in again, one by one, your diced turtle 
meat with a few dice of black truffles and finish 
before serving with a glass of Samos wine. 




33 




World Famous Chert 




HENRI BOUTROUE 

CHEF DE CUISINE 

HOTEL 
SHELBOURNE 
Dublin, Ireland 
Mr. Boutroue was 
formerly with the Clif- 
ton Down Hotel at 
Bristol, England, the 
Queen's Hotel at Leeds, 
England, the Savoy 
Hotel in London; the 
Laugham, London, also 
the Hotel Metropole, 
London. 




CONSOMME, CHANCELIER 

Strong consomme, julienne garniture, com- 
posed of mushrooms, truffles, beets, diced chicken 
and royale of foie gras, one pint puree of peas, 
three yolks of eggs poached and cut in round 
shapes. 

POTAGE LONDONDERRY 

Make a light paste of rice flour, and cook in 
same a chopped calf's liver, one chicken, garniture 
of vegetables and a few mushrooms for about one 
hour. Take off the range and add two or three 
yolks of eggs and a few tablespoonfuls of cream; 
add butter at the last moment and garnish with 
scallops and combs of chicken. No stock. 



n 




GUMBO A LA SAM WARD 

One pint chicken gumbo, one pint clear 
green turtle. Mix before serving; add half a 
gill of good Sherry. Serve in tureens. 



J 



I 
ARTHUR TAYLOR 

CHEF DE CUISINE 

HOTEL RAYMOND 
Pasadena, Cal. 
Mr. Raymond is Chef 
at the Hotel Raymond, 
Pasadena, Cal. during 
the winter season, and 
at the Ocean Side 
Hotel, Magnolia, Mass., 
during the summer 



34 




Theie Special Soupj&Cootwe-s" 




LUCIEN RAYMOND 

CHEF DK CUISINE 

HOTEL CONGRESS 
AND ANNEX 
Chicago, 111. 
Prior to coming to 
this country, Mr. Ray- 
mond was at the Ritz 
Hotel in Paris, the Ritz 
Hotel in London, and 
the Trianon Palace at 
Versailles, France. On 
coming to this country 
he was at the famous 
Ritz-Carlton, New 
York. 



CREME DE VOLAILLE MARIE STUART 

(Cream of Chicken Soup Marie Stuart) 
Make a cream of chicken soup with plenty 
of cream and garnish with asparagus tips, 
shredded white meat of chicken and truffles. 

CONSOMME CYRANO 

Broth with duck stock. Garniture, small 
dumplings made of duck force-meat, form with a 
teaspoon and put on a buttered baking pan. 
When baked, poach and put into a special tureen, 
sprinkle with Parmesan cheese grated fine. 
Spread lightly with chicken glace and brown like 
au gratin. 



! v/* • 



CONSOMME— RICH EN TASSE 
(Rich Bouillon in Cups) 

Two pounds beef with bones of leg. Let 
boil four or five hours. Garniture, a quarter of a 
pound of carrots, three and a half ounces turnips, 
one parsnip, one small onion, one clove, a small 
piece of garlic, one stalk of celery, salt, and two 
quarts of water. 

Prepare in casserole four-fifths of a pound 
lean beef; hash a few turnips, carrots, leeks, one 
white of egg, a few fowl necks and bones. Wet 



HENRI BERGER 

CHEF DE CUISINE 

FRANKFURTER- 
HOF 

Frankfurt, 
A. M. Germany 
Mr. Berger has been 
with the following ho- 
tels: Hotel Chatham, 
Paris; the Hermitage at 
Monte Carlo, France; 
the Grand Hotel des 
Thermes, Salsomag- 
giore, Italy; the fa- 
mous Hotel Ritz, Paris, 
prior to coming to the 
Frankfurter-hof. 



35 




World Famouj 1 Cher/ 1 




with consomme and let boil two hours on moderate flame. Strain 
through cheese cloth and serve hot or cold, according to season. 




LOUIS 
LESCARBOURA 

CHEF DE CUISINE 

FT. PITT HOTEL 

Pittsburg, Pa. 
Prior to coming to the 
Fort Pitt Hotel, Mr. 
Lescarboura was Chef 
at the Hotel Marlbor- 
ough, New York City, 
and other prominent 
eastern hotels, and was 
Entremetier at the 
famous "Delmonioo's 
Cafe," New York City. 

let slowly boil for 
soup when starting 



POTAGE BONNE FEMME 

Cut very fine, two clean leeks and a medium 
sized onion. Put them in a sauce pan with a 
piece of butter and cook to a very light brown. 
Moisten with a quart of chicken broth and hot 
water; season with salt and pepper. Let boil for 
fifteen minutes, then add four sliced medium 
potatoes. Let cook until the potatoes are 
thoroughly soft, add a gill of cream, a piece of 
butter and boil once more. Serve. 

GARBURE POLIGNAC 

Finely chop two ounces of larding pork, 
two onions, two leeks and a bean of garlic. Place 
in a copper sauce pan and slowly cook until a 
light golden color. Pour in a gallon of water or 
stock; mix well. Season with a tablespoon of 
salt and teaspoonful of pepper; add half a pint 
of soaked white navy beans. Boil for half an 
hour. Add half a head of savoy cabbage and 
three potatoes, finely sliced. Cover the pan and 
one hour. A beef or ham bone added to the 
to boil will much improve it. 



POT AU FEU HENRY IV. 

Clean and wash one five-pound fowl, one pound lean beef, one 

marrow bone, two carrots, two onions, four leeks, two celery stalks, 

two branches parsley, four potatoes and a small head of cabbage. 

Wrap in a cloth, a tablespoonful of mixed whole spices. Boil the fowl 



36 




Their Special Soups&ConsowMEs 




and meat, then remove the water. Add two gallons of cold water, 
Season with a tablespoonful of salt and half a teaspoonful of ground 
pepper. Cover the po1 and let come to a boil. Add the carrots, onions 
and spice. Let simmer for one hour, then add the celery, parsley and 
leeks tied together in a bunch. Boil for a half an hour. Add the whole 
potatoes and the cabbage cut in quarters and let the whole slowly boil 
for another half hour or until the cabbage and potatoes are cooked. 
Remove the meat, fowl and bone. Place all the vegetables on a platter; 
strain the broth in a soup tureen, skim a little of the fat over the 
broth and serve with some slices of thin toasted dried bread in the soup 
and the vegetables separate. To give the broth a better appearance, 
color it with a little burned sugar. 

CHICKEN GUMBO GERMAINE 

Cut the meat of a raw fowl into small squares, also two White 
onions, two leeks, one green pepper and two ounces of raw lean ham. 
Place in a sauce pan with two tablespoonfuls of melted butter and 
gently brown. Moisten with three quarts of water or stock. Add the 
bones of the fowl, season with a light tablespoonful of salt and half a 
teaspoonful of pepper. Boil slowly for twenty-five minutes. Add a 
cupful of shelled raw green peas and boil for fifteen minutes; add an 
ounce of raw rice, twelve fresh cut okras and two peeled, crushed 
tomatoes. Cover the pot and let simmer for forty minutes. Remove 
bones, skim the fat from the surface and serve. 

OX ION SOUP NORSE 

Finely slice six white onions, place them in a sauce- pan with two 
tablespoonfuls of melted butter. Cook until very brown; then add a 
tablespoonful of flour and mix well. Pour in a quart of chicken broth, 
season with salt and cayenne pepper; mix well and boil for twenty 
minutes. Beat two egg yolks with a cup of rich cream. Remove the 
pot from the fire, then add this mixture, mixing all the while with a 
whip. Serve with toasted slices of French rolls and grated Parmesan 
cheese. 

CREAM OF MUSHROOMS 

Finely chop one pound of fresh mushrooms; place them in a sauce 
pan with two ounces of butter and slowly cook for eight minutes. Add 



37 




World Famous Chert 



one and a half ounces of flour, mix well, then pour in a quart of chicken 
broth and a half pint of milk. Briskly mix it with a whip, add one 
sliced onion, two sliced branches of celery, one branch of parsley, one 
branch of chervil, half a teaspoonful of grated nutmeg, one tablespoon- 
ful of salt and a pinch of cayenne pepper. Mix well. Boil for half an 
hour. Dilute two egg yolks with half a pint of cream and the juice of 
half a lemon. Add this to the vsoup with one ounce of good butter, mix 
while heating for one minute. Strain the soup through a fine sieve, 
then through a cheese cloth and serve. 

CONSOMME IN JELLY 
Place in a pan three pounds of chopped, raw, lean meat of beef, 
with one sliced carrot, one onion, one turnip, two branches of celery, 
one bean of garlic, 1 wo leeks, one tomato, one branch of parsley, one 
saltspoonful of mixed spices, one tablespoonful of salt, half a teaspoon- 
ful of pepper, two raw eggs and three leaves of gelatine. Mix well 
with a wooden spoon for a few minutes. Gradually add two quarts and 
a half of boiling water while mixing. Let it come to a boil, then pour in 
a gill of cold water. Set the pan beside the red fire and let it gently 
simmer for two hours. Strain through a doubled cheese cloth into a 
jar. Let. it get cold, then place it in the ice box over night. Never 
put any sou]) in the ice box while warm as it would turn sour. 

(REAM OF TAPIOCA 
Sprinkle in one and a half pints of clear, strong, boiling chicken 
broth, two ounces of French sage; mix well with a whisk and boil for 
twenty minutes. Beat together in a cup, a quarter of a pint of thick 
cream, the yolks of two eggs and a piece of good butter. Remove the 
soup from the fire, pour this cream gradually in, constantly mixing 
while adding. Pour into a soup tureen and serve. 



38 




Theig Special Soupj&Coasommes 




Vv 






/ 



JEAN JUILLARD 

CHEF DE CUISINE 

HOTEL ADOLPHUS 
Dallas, Tex. 
Mr. Juillard was for- 
merly at Cafe Anglais, 
Paris; Hotel Hermi- 
tage, Monte Carlo; Ho- 
tel d'Angleterre, Ven- 
ice; Savoy Hotel and 
Princess Restaurant, 
London; the Plaza, 
Belmont and Astor Ho- 
tels, New York City; 
Hotel La Salle, Rector's 
Cafe and University 
Club, Chicago. 



POTAGE SIDI BRAHIM 
Put six ounces of butter in a pot and add 
flour until you have a medium paste. Cock five 
minutes and add some chicken broth, mixing well. 
Cook a dozen Jerusalem artichokes for an hour, 
mash and strain into a fine china cup; have some 
chiffonade of sorrel, pass in butter first and finish 
with six yolks of eggs. Mix with half a pint of 
good cream, well buttered, also some French 
peas. 

POCHOUSE BOURGIGNONE 

Put six ounces salt pork cut in dice, three 
ounces butter and two good sized onions in a 
sauce pan. Cook to a golden color. Then add a 
few spoonfuls of flour. Brown it a little and add 
two quarts of good Claret and two quarts of 
water, mixed well. Let come to the boiling point 
and add the head and bones of a pickerel, carp, 
ells, tauch, perch and any other hard, fresh water 
fish, a bay leaf, thyme, celery, parsley and cloves, 
seasoned well. Boil for one good hour. Then 
strain in another pan and pour your soup on 
toasted sliced French bread. 



POTAGE A L'OSEILLE JEUNE MARIEE 

Take two or three potatoes, sliced fine and cook with some chicken 
broth. Have some fresh sorrel shredded and cook in a sauce pan with 
butter. When it becomes soft, add it to your potatoes, which are 
already cooked; let boil and add a little vermicelli; serve with toasted 
roll. A few yolks of eggs mixed with a little cream may be added. 
This will make your potage much richer. 

POTAGE" VENDANGEUSE 

Slice some new potatoes cut in small pieces, some fresh string 
beans and two leeks, one sweet lettuce shredded. Cook for an hour in 



39 




World Famouj 1 Chert 




small quantity of water; have some boiled milk, then mix up and boil 
together. Serve with croutons. 

POTAGE SIMONETTE 

Pul some butter in a pan oh the fire, ad< I some flour, cook fcr 
fifteen minutes on a slow fire, then add some chicken broth. Mix well 
and when boiling add some chopped celery, then let this cook for an 
hour; add some fresh tomato meat, leave ii lift ecu minutes more on 
the fire, then strain. Finish with good cream and sweei butter. Serve 
with croutons souffle. 

PUMPKIN GRAND MERE 
Cut some pumpkin in dice and cook if with half milk and water. 
Then add a cupful of cooked rice, sugar and ;i little orange blossom; 
water must not be too thick, 

PIGEON SOUP— FARMER STYLE 

Put in a sou)) kettle two old pigeons, one pound beef shank, one 
pound salt pork and cold water. Let boil and skim well; then add 
some julienne of cabbage, potato, one piece garlic, one bay leaf and 
two cloves; cook for two hours and serve with toasted bread, dish up 
the meat on the side. 

DEEP SEA CONSOMME 
Take a head of red fish, the raw shell of a Pacific lobster, some clam 
and Eastern oysters with the shell, one crab, celery, parsley, green 
onions, bay leaf, whole pepper and saffron; boil on low fire and skim 
the top very carefully. Serve some fresh shrimps in and toasted sliced 
French rolls on the side. 



CREAM OF DUCK LIVER VARSSOVIENNE 
Half a pound of liver, half a pound lentils, one gallon chicken broth, 
one pint cream. Cut some leeks, celery and onions in dice and pass 
in butter, then add three ounces of flour; let cook for five minutes, 
then add chicken broth; let boil and add one bay leaf, whole pepper, 
clove and liver and lentils, which have been blanched. Cook for two 

40 





Their Special Soi/pj&ConsoMMEs 



hours and strain in a very fine china cap or cloth. Boil again, thou add 
cream and about three ounces of sweet butter. Serve some croutons 
souffles stuffed with puree of game. 

VEGETABLE SOUP PROVANCALE 

Slice very fine one potato, one carrot, two leeks, one onion, a little 
celery and cabbage, a handful of fresh peas and string beans, one 
summer squash, three fresh tomatoes, from which the seeds and skins 
have been removed. Take a young hen, put in a pot and add the above" 
cook for one hour and then add a handful of spaghetti cut in small 
pieces; cook twenty minutes more; have one piece garlic and some 
fresh basil chopped very fine, and mix some parmesan cheese with it ■ 
then add to your soup two minutes before ready to serve. 





JOHN CHIAPPANO 

CHEF DE CUISINE 

AUDITORIUM 

HOTEL 

Chicago, HI. 

Mr. Chiappano has 

been with some of the 

finest Hotels in this 

country and Europe. 



BOUILLON BOSTONIENNE 
Draw and singe two good sized fowls. Place 
in a sauce pan with a carrot, turnip, onion, bay 
leaf and a couple of cloves, ('over with water 
and bring to a boil slowly. Skim off impurities 
coming to the top from time to time; let boil 
very slowly. When the fowls are cooked, strain 
through a cheese cloth, season and serve with 
unsweetened whipped cream. 



$&&yis 



ii 




World Famous Cher/ 1 




GERARD 
EMBREGTS 

CHEF DE CUISINE 

CHATEAU 
FROXTEXAC 
Quebec, Canada 
Prior to coming to 
America, Mr. Embregts 
was at the Maison- 
LeClerc, in Belgium; 
and the Hotel St. An- 
toine; the Tavern Ren- 
jeaux, in Belgium, the 
Grand Hotel de L'Em- 
pereur at Ostend, 
Holland, the Berkeley 
Hotel, Hyde Park Court 
Club, also at the Em- 
bassy de Russe, London. 



POTAGE A LA REINE 
Boil rice in chicken broth in which you have 
a good sized chicken. When cooked, take out 
white meat of chicken which will serve to make the 
croutons by cutting it in dice shape. Save the 
remainder and pile it altogether in a strainer. 
Then heat the potage to boiling point, and strain 
the wh( le. Add cream, butter and dice of white 
meat and serve. 

POTAGE CHASSEUR 

(Hunter's Tot age) 

Put in a casserole odds and ends of game, a 
variety of soups, vegetables and let cook in oven 
for a few minutes. Add a little white wine. When 
the whole is cooked, pass through a colander. 
Put it all back in a casserole; add good consomme 
with a little tomato sauce and cook for half an 
hour. Strain again and thicken with arrow- 
root. Before serving, add a glass of good brandy. 




42 




Their Special Sours s-Ommwes 





PETER BONA 

CHEF DE CUISINE 

HOTEL 
CHAMBERLAIN 
(Old Point Comfort) 
Fortress Monroe, Va. 
Mr. Bona's history 
since he arrived in this 
country is brief: three 
years at the Waldorf 
Astoria, New York 
City, in various capaci- 
ties in the kitchen. 



EGGS BOUILLON 

Four perfectly fresh eggs, salt and pepper, a 

little grated nutmeg and three cups strong 

chicken broth, very hot. Whip thoroughly 

together and serve at once in very hot cups. 

CLAM CHOWDER, VIRGINIA STYLE 

Salt pork cut in dice and fried until brown. 
Strained fish broth and clam liquor in equal 
parts brought to a boil and skimmed. Add sliced 
potatoes and onions; boil until barely done, then 
add the salt pork, bring to a boil again after 
adding the scalded clams cut up in suitable sizes. 
Add pepper, salt and a little ground mace to 
taste; thin to the required consistency with 
Bechamel sauce, but do not boil after. Add some 
rolled crackers and serve. 



CONSOMME SUEDOISE 

Chicken flavor. Run a couple of carrots, 

turnips and a small cabbage through a meat 

cutting machine, then braise until done. Add green peas and flagolets, 

a little grated parmesan cheese and season to taste. Make some small 

croustades, fill with the mixture and serve one on each plate. 

CONSOMME VERTE PRE 
Sprinkle two tablespoonfuls of tapioca into one quart of boiling 
consomme and set to ccok gently for a quarter of an hour. Put into 
the soup tureen one tablespoonful of asparagus heads, the same quan- 
tity of peas and French beans. Cut into lozenges a few roundels of 
sorrel leaves and as many roundels of poached lettuce leaves. Pour 
the boiling consomme over this garnish and add a large pinch of chei ril 

POT AGE A LA PIEDMONTESE 
One pound raw ham, one pound of bacon cut in dice, one pound 
navy beans, one pound lima beans, one small cabbage shredded and 



;."• 





World Famouj 1 Chert 



one pound minced celery root. Simmer all for half an hour in bouillon, 
blanc, then add one pint of green peas, one pint of asparagus heads, 
one quart of small sausage balls, one pound of rice, and a few chopped 
fresh tomatoes. Simmer until done. Season and serve with a little 
Parmesan cheese and croutons. 



CONSOMME A LA MONTE CARLO 



Stamp out of slices of vegetabL 
hearts. Make a chicken force-meal 
dominoes with a colum cutter. Out 
slices to imitate poker chips. Add a 



•s, spades, clubs, diamonds and 
dotted with truffles; slice like 
out of whole turnips and beets 
1 to a rich chicken consomme 




^^2^L_ 



CHAS. GROLIMl M) 

CHEF DE CUISINE 

WASHINGTON 
HOTEL 

Seattle, Wash. 
Mr. Grolinmnd was 
formerly at the Grand 
Hotel Neues Stahlb&d, 
St. Moritz-Bad ; Grand 
Hotel Brussels, Brus- 
sels ; Grand Hotel Quir- 
inal, Rome; Grand Ho- 
tel Anatre Nation, Bar- 
celona, Restaurant Del- 
monico, New York and 
the St. Francis, San 
Francisco. 



PHILADELPHIA PEPPER POT 
Out in small dice two large, green peppers, 
t wo leeks, one stalk celery, one onion and smother 
them slowly in very hot butter for about fifteen 
minutes. Then mix to it a tablespoonful of flour 
and t wo quarts of boiling soup stock well seasoned. 
Out two potatoes in small squares and add to the 
boiling sou]). Let cook until the potatoes are 
done. Also have ready half a pound of cooked 
tripe cut in dice and add to sou}). Serve with 
dumplings. To prepare the dumplings, break 
one egg into a bowl, add flour, salt and pepper 
and mix into a soft paste like hot cake batter. 
Then add one chopped pimento and six crushed 
pepper corns. Put this paste into a collander, 
place over the boiling soup and cook for one 
minute longer. 

POTATO SOUP CHIFFONADE 

Prepare a julienne of lettuce, chicory, 
celery and sorrel, well seasoned: let simmer in 



44 




butter for twenty minutes. Slice, four potatoes, three leeks and one 
onion and fry in butter until lightly colored. Add three pints of soup 
stock, let boil for half an hour and strain. Mix the prepared julienne 
to the strained soup, let boil once more and before serving add one 
teacup of cream. 

CONSOMME COLBERT 
Have ready two medium sized carrots, one turnip, half a dozen 
string beans, one stalk celery, two leeks, two asparagus. Cut into 
small dice and add one cup of peas. Smother all together for twenty 
minutes in butter. Then add to it two quarts of good seasoned soup 
stock and cook slowly ten minutes more. Free the soup from fat and 
serve with chopped chervil and a poached egg to each person. 

FISH BROTH A LA WASHINGTON 
Have ready two quarts of clarified plain fish broth. Cut in dice 
some carrots, leeks, parsley and celery roots. Cook in a sauce pan 
with half an ounce of butter and one cup of broth. Reduce to a glace 
and put with the fish broth; add the fillets of half a pound of bass cut 
in thin collups; boil five minutes longer. Pour into a soup tureen, add 
small rcunds of outer crusts of bread fried in butter and serve. 



<kul. 



n-wt/L/n-^7 



45 




World Famouj 1 Chert 







COQUINA CLAM BROTH 
Cover one quart of coquina clams with cold 
water and let come to a boil. Strain through 
cheese cloth and add half a teaspoonful cf salt 
and a aessert spoonful of whipped cream en top. 
Serve hot. 



S. B. PETTENGILL 

CHEF DE CUISINE 

HOTEL ORMOND 
Ormond Beach, Fla. 
Mr. Pettengill has 
been chef at the Hotel 
Ormond for fifteen sea- 
sons, and at the Craw- 
ford House, White 
Mountains, N. H. for 
twenty-five seasons. 



HOT TOMATO BOUILLON IN CUPS 

Take one quart of chicken stcck and the 
meat of half a raw fowl chopped very fine, the 
whites cf six eggs, one carrot, one onion and one 
quart fresh tomatoes. Mix all together and set 
on range. Let simmer until it comes to a boil, 
then strain through a cheese cloth. Serve hot in 
cups. 



POTAGE UNCLE SAM 
Take the juice of a pint of clams and the same 
amount of chicken stock. Put in sauce pan a quarter of a pound of 
butter and three tablespoonfuls of flour, add the clam juice and chicken 
stock and let come to a boil. Serve with a spoonful of whipped cream 
on top. 



^tf/Z^Z^c&L 



46 




TOMATO CHOWDER, VIRGINIENNE 

Shred fine two ounces of salt pork, one white 
onion and one peeled green pepper. Saute 
together for about ten minutes, then add two 
ounces fresh butter and saute five minutes longer, 
but do not let get brown. Add two tablespoonfuls 
of flour, mix together, then add one pint of tomato 
sauce and one pint of white broth, three raw 
potatoes cut in small dice and twelve young 
tender fresh okras cut into half inch pieces. Lot 
cook with a bouquet of garnishings for one hour. 
Add two ripe peeled fresh tomatoes and two 
dozen small raw oysters with the eyes cut off and 
a pinch of paprika, pepper and salt to taste and 
let boil five minutes longer. 




JOSEPH STOLTZ 

CHEF DE CUISINE 

HOTEL 
PONCE DE LEON 

St. Augustine, Fla. 

Mr. Stoltz was for- 
merly at the National 
Arts Club, New York 
City; later with the 
Metropole Hotel, New 
York City and the 
Country Club, Detroit, 
Mich 



CHICKEN BROTH ALEXANDRIA 

Consisting of chicken broth garnished with 
quenelles, cox-combs and rice. 

Chicken Broth 

Clean two hens of about five pounds each. 
Place in a casserole with cold water so they are 
covered with same and bring to a slow simmer; 
remove all fat and skum. Cut up two heads of 
celery, three carrots, three onions, two leeks, a 
little parsley, a teaspoonful of whole pepper, two 
bay leaves and some salt and put into the slow 
boiling stock. From time to time skim and 
remove the fat. When hens are boiled tender 
take them out and reduce the broth for about 



47 




CHAS. A. FREY 

CHEF 

HOTEL 
ALEXANDRIA 
Los Angeles, Cal. 
Mr. Frey was first at 
the Hotel von Konig 
von England in Mini- 
ster; later at the Dom 
Hotel, Cologne; Con- 
tinental Hotel, Paris; 
with the North German 
Lloyd and Hamburg- 
\ merican Steamship 
Lines and Hotel Belle- 
vue-Stratford, Philadel- 
phia. 




World Famous Chert 




two hours longer so it is good and strong. Strain through a Tamy (a 
heavy cheese cloth). 

Quenelles 
Half a raw skinless and boneless chicken ground very fine; 
pound in a mortar with two whole eggs, salt, ground pepper, nut- 
meg and finely chopped parsley. Then rub through a fine sieve. 
Add some whipped cream and mix well. Then shape like little 
eggs between two demi-tasse spoons and poach in chicken broth. 
Have half a dozen coxcombs blanched and skinned and bcil very 
tender. Cut in small pieces and serve in chicken broth. Also some 
washed and boiled rice. 




JEAN S. BERDOU 

CHEF DE CUISINE 

HOTEL ASTOR 
New York City, N. Y. 
Mr. Berdou took his 
apprenticeship under 
the celebrated Argeles 
Gasost, chef at the 
Hotel de France, Paris, 
after which he was with 
the Hotel Continental 
at Cauterets, France, 
Hotel de France at 
Paris, Hotel Continen- 
tal, Biarritz, France and 
Restaurant Francais, 
Madrid, Spain. Corn- 
ing to this country he 
was at the famous Louis 
Sherry's Cafe, New 
York City. 



BISQUE D'HOMARD AMERICANE 
(Bisque of Lobster American) 

Cook lobsters in short bouillon with a few 
vegetables and a glass of Rhine wine for about 
twenty-five minutes. Take out lobsters, separate 
bodies from carcass and place a piece of butter, 
a spoonful of flour and the lobster stock in a 
casserole and let simmer for a few minutes. Put 
the carca.ss in a mortar and mash fine; then add 
the stock which gives it a fine color. Also take 
peeled bodies and let simmer over fire for twenty- 
five minutes. Add a teacupful of double cream 
and one glass of Cognac; season with salt and 
cayenne pepper. Strain the whole and serve hot. 

SOUPE AU CRESSON (Watercress Soup) 
Take four potatoes, two large onions and a 
little thyme. Mince the wmole and put in pan 
with three quarts of water on stove. Add a 
piece of salt pork and cook twenty-five minutes. 
Remove salt pork and strain the rest through a 



48 





Theie Special Soupe&CoflsowrcEs 



fine sieve. Put back in pan and Let come to a boil. 'Fake a bunch 
of water cress, remove the leaves and chop fine. Add iliis to the 
soup and let boil half a minute. Serve with croutons. 



b c 






EMILE BAILLY, 

CHEF DE CUISINE 

HOTEL ST. REGIS 

New York City, N.Y. 
Mr. Bailly prior to 
coming to this country 
served in the very best 
hotels in Europe. He 
left the Grand Hotel 
of Monte Carlo, France 
ten years ago, to come 
to New York and open 
the St. Regis. 



CONSOMME PARFAIT 
Two pounds beef shin bone, four pounds 
beef meat, one hen. Put into a pot with one 
gallon cold water; let boil and skim. Put in 
one carrot, one large onion, two cloves, half a 
leek, celery, a small turnip and two soupspoonfuls 
of salt. Let boil five hours very slowly, until the 
hen and beef are well done. Skim the fat off the 
broth, strain through cheese cloth, put in another 
pan and let boil. Throw two soupspoonfuls of 
tapioca into it and let cook ten minutes. Season 
with salt. 



£L~,& f2asi<Xtf 



49 




World Famcw Cher/ 1 




BEN E. 
DUPAQUIER 

CHEF DE CUISINE 

HOTEL 
ARLINGTON 
Santa Barbara , Cal. 
Mr. Dupaquier's first 
position was in The 
Pendennis Club, of 
Louisville, Ky. Later 
at the Gault House, 
Louisville, the Missouri 
Athletic Club, the Mer- 
cantile Club and the 
New Jefferson Hotel of 
St. Louis; the Jonathan 
Ciub and the California 
Club, Los Angeles and 
the Hotel Maryland, 
Pasadena, Cal. 



CONSOMME 
Two pounds raw beef from a shin, cut into 
pieces, any parings of chicken, beef and bones of 
same on hand, one medium sliced carrot, one 
onion, one branch parsley chopped up, one clove 
of garlic chopped, one branch chopped celery, 
one chervil, one leek, one tablespoonful salt, 
ten whole black peppers, one clove, five allspice, 
one sprig bay leaf and one saltspoonful thyme. 
Place all the above in a saucepan, then pour in a 
little cold water to nearly cover the meat and 
other ingredients. Place the pan to one side and 
lei it stand to infuse for one hour. Then place 
the pan on a hot range and gently stir the con- 
tents with a wooden spoon while cooking, for 
five minutes. Pour in two and a half quarts of 
boiling water and stir well again until it comes to 
a boil. Cover the pan and let it slowly simmer 
for one and a half hours. Strain the consomme 
through a napkin into another sauce pan. 



POTAGE PRINTAINIER 

Prepare and strain a consomme into sauce 
pan. With a small Parisienne potato scoop take 
out all you can from two medium scraped carrots 
and two peeled sound turnips and place in a 
small sauce pan with half a pint of the consomme 
and half a pint of hot water. Season with two saltspoonfuls of salt and 
boil for thirty minutes, then add all the contents of the pan to the 
consomme; add also two tablespoonfuls of cooked string beans. Cut 
into half inch pieces; two leaves of clean lettuce and two leaves of 
clean sorrel, both cut into julienne strips; lightly mix, then boil for 
ten minutes and serve. 



X2 



//>^ 



50 




Theig Special Soups s-Coasommes 




L 






MARTIN GINDER 

CHEF DE CUISINE 

HOTEL GREEN 
Pasadena, Cal. 

Mr. Ginder was ap- 
prenticed i n France in 
the best hotels. He 
was at the New York 
Athletic Club, the 
Princeton Club, the old 
Hotel Metropole, Cafe 
Savarin and the Ven- 
dome Hotel, New York 
City. He has also held 
several i mportant posi- 
tions! n the middle west 
prior to taking his pres- 
ent position. 



TOMATO BROTH 
Twelve large, fresh tomatoes, one fowl, four 
pounds veal bones, one carrot, one onion, one red 
pepper, two whole cloves, one branch parsley, 
one stalk celery, one gallon water. Boil the 
tomatoes and veal bones in the water with the 
above vegetables. Clean a good sized fowl, 
roast it in a hot oven for about ten minutes until 
it gets nice and brown. Then put the fowl in the 
tomato broth and let cook until done. When the 
fowl is good and tender, take it out and let get 
cold, then strain the broth through a cheese 
cloth, season and serve hot in a bouillon cup. 



CREAM OF CHICKEN TAVERN 

Cook a good sized fowl in just enough water 
to cover it, add one onion, a tablespoonful of 
salt, a stalk of celery, one bay leaf, one clove, one 
carrot and one cup of rice. As soon as the fowl 
is cooked so you can pull the meat off, take it 
out and let cool. Then pound in a mortar until 
it is all mashed up. Turn it back into the liquid, 
and let boil for another few minutes; then pass 
through a fine puree sieve. Add half a pint of cream, a quarter of a 
pound of butter and half a cup of well-cooked rice. Serve hot m a soup 
tureen or in cups. 



"-^ffa^^e^"*" 



51 




World Famouj 1 Chert 




BONED OXTAIL AYRSHIRE 
Take one oxtail, cut in pieces and let stand 
for a few hours in cold water; then let cook in a 
white stock. When well done, take meat off the 
bones and put lightly into press. Strain the 
stock and thicken with arrowroot. Make a 
Brunoise, not too fine, composed of carrots, 
parsnips, leeks and celery. Add then to the stock, 
the oxtail and two spoonfuls of oatmeal cooked in 
bouillon of Sherry and a little cayenne. Serve. 



22^-^t^r 



JULES DAUVILLER 

CHEF DE CUISINE 

PALACE HOTEL 
San Francisco, Cal. 
Mr. Dauviller was 
formerly the $10,000 
a year dictator of the 
cuisine i n the home of 
Mr. and Mrs. Harry 
Payne Whitnev in New 
YoVk. The Whitneys 
got him from the Grand 
Hotel in Puris. He 
served his apprentice- 
ship i n the Cafe de la 
Paix at Marguery and 
the Hotel Chabot at the 
French Capital, before 
taking responsible posi- 
tions with the Hotel 
Riveria at Nice, Italy 
and the Grand Hotel 
at Paris. He succeeded 
to the position of 
Chef at the Palace in 
San Francisco upon the 
resignation of Mr. 
Ernest Arbogast. 



ESSENCE OF TOMATO EN TASSE 
Strain and boil Essence of Tomato with a 
half chicken and serve in bouillon cups. 



j/^^L' Vjw)M^^ 



WILLIAM 
LEON BENZENI 

CHEF DE CUISINE 

HOTEL VIRGINIA 
Long Beach, Cal. 
Mr. Benzeni learned 
his trade at the Hotel 
Metropole in Geneva, 
Switzerland. Afterward 
he was employed at 
Stutgart, Wurtemberg, 
Germany. He was con- 
nected with several 
prominent hotels in the 
East prior to coming 
west to take the posi- 
tion at the Hotel Vir- 
ginia. 



52 




Their Special Sour? & Consoles 







JULES BOUCHER 

CHEF DE CUISINE 

HOTEL ARLINGTON 

Hot Springs, Ark. 

Mr. Boucher served 
his apprenticeship at 
famous French Hotels 
and Cafes under Chefs 
world famous, such as 
Father Thiebout, of the 
Maison et Chabot of 
Paris, Chef Cassinin, 
of the Maisson Dorce, 
and was at the Res- 
taurant Marguery, Pal- 
ace Madelaine of Paris 
and the Cafe Royal of 
London. Coming to 
America he was at the 
Hotel Tourraine, Bos- 
ton, Auditorium Hotel, 
Chicago, and the De- 
troit Club, at Detroit. 



BOUILLON EN TASSE 
(Bouillon in Cups) 
Put beef bones in cold water and salt and let 
come to a boil. Then skim off and add carrots, 
onions, cloves, celery, whole pepper and let cook 
for two hours. Put aside, then add two or three 
pounds chopped beef, two eggs and mix the whole 
together. Replace on stove until all is well cooked 
then strain. Before serving add a glass of Madeira 
wine. 

CLEAR GREEN TURTLE 

Add to eight quarts of beef bouillon four 
pounds of veal bones and four pounds of chicken 
necks and wings, thyme, laurel leaf, celery, 
mushroom peelings, salt, pepper, parsley, 
marjoram and clarify same, then consomme. 
Cut the turtle meat in dice and keep in a "Bain 
Mari." Before serving, add Xeres Oloroso or 
Amontillado Sherry. Granday Turtle is the best 
to use. If desired, thicken the soup with arrow- 
root. 



53 




EDWARD 
R. J. FISCHEL 

STEWARD 

HOTEL PIEDMONT 
Atlanta, Ga. 
Mr. Fischel was ap- 
prenticed under the fa- 
mous Jean Marie La- 
porte and has been at 
the following hotels: 
Hoffman House, New 
York City, Cafe Sava- 
rin, N. Delmonico and 
the Congress and An- 
nex, Chicago. 



CHICKEN GUMBO STRAINED IN CUP 

Cut one tender well cleaned chicken in small 
square pieces. Place in a sauce pan with three 
ounces of butter, add four ounces of lean raw 
ham, two onions, two branches celery, two leeks, 
two green peppers cut in squares. Stir with a 
wooden spoon over fire until the moisture evapo- 
rates, then add about half a gallon chicken broth, 
three peeled tomatoes and ten pieces of well 
washed okra cut in pieces, a sprig of thyme, a 
teaspoonful of gumbo file and two bay lea vis; 
let all this simmer until the okra is well done. 
Remove fat from top and strain into cups and 
serve. 



(SL^B^^c 



54 




Their Special Sours s-ConsonroES 




CHARLES 
PIER GIORGI 

CHEF DE CUISINE 

HOTEL ALCAZAR 

St. Augustine, Fla. 
Prior to coming to 
the Hotel Alcazar, Mr. 
Giorgi was at the Hotel 
Walton and the Gilsey 
House, New York City; 
the Bay Shore House at 
City Island, N.Y. : the 
Hollywood Hote 1 at 
West End, N.J., and 
at the Hotel Kittatinny 
at Delaware Water Gap 
Pa. 



CHICKEN AND CELERY BOUILLON- 
OPORTO 
Prepare one good sized fowl. Cover in a pot 
with eold water. Add two stalks of celery 
chopped fine, six leeks, one bay leaf and one 
onion. Boil slowly for about three hours. Season 
with salt, and pepper. Strain both through 
cheesecloth. Add to each cup of broth one 
tablespoonful of Oporto Sherry and one tea- 
spoonful of whipped cream. Serve with a piece of 
toast very hot. 

POTAGE— VICTORINE 

One-quarter of a pound of butter, mince one- 
quarter of a pound of ham, one onion, one piece 
of celery, blanch and slice two sweetbreads. 
Add flour to form a thin paste. Rub all through a 
puree sieve. Heat again. Thin with chicken 
broth, season with salt and pepper and serve 
with shredded chicken, rice and bread croutons. 



uWi^A^ 



'AA«A 



55 




World Famous Chert 




CESAR OBRECHT 

CHEF DE CUISINE 

GRAND HOTEL 

DE L 'EUROPE 

Lucerne, Switzerland 

also 
PALACE HOTEL 
LTD. 
Murren, Switzerland 
Mr. Obrecht, prior 
to holding his present 
position, was at the 
Grand Savoi Hotel at 
Florence, at the Grand 
Hotel and Kurhaus, at 
St. Blasien; the Grand 
Hotel de Thouwe at 
Thouwe, the Grand 
Hotel Krasnapolsky at 
Amsterdam, the Grand 
Hotel de Salines at 
Reinfelden and the 
Grand Hotel Waldhaus 
at Vulpera. 



CONSOMME PARFAIT (Perfeci Consomme) 

Chop one pound lean beef as fine as possible 
and put in a casserole. Add one carrot, one leek 
chopped fine, one head of celery, chervil, two 
whites of eggs, and put in the whole about three 
quarts of cold bouillon. Bring to boil and stir. 
When boiling, let cook slowly for about two 
hours. Remove the grease and strain. Garniture, 
one and a half ounces tapioca and Royal a la 
cream in dice. 



Royal a La Cream 

One-fifth pint of cream, one whole egg and 
a little salt; beat egg and mix with cream. Fill 
into mould and let poach in a pan of hot water, 
but do not let come to a boil. When cooked and 
cooled, turn out on upturned cover of vessel and 
cut in dice. 



?e^d ' a*/ c?J^£*>At- 



56 




Their Special Soueo&Coasojwes 




ERN EST 
OTZENBERGER 

CHEF DE CUISINE 

HOTEL DENNIS 

Atlantic City, N.J. 

Mr. Otzenberger was 

formerly Chef for G. 

W. Vanderbilt in Paris, 

London and New York. 



CREAM OF ASPARAGUS 
Put four ounces of butter in a sauce pan. 
When very hot add one pound of the tender 
parts of asparagus and fry colorless on a brisk 
fire. Moisten with two quarts of chicken broth 
and when done drain and mash. Then pass 
through a fine sieve. Add one pint of veloute 
sauce, color with some spinach greens, season 
with salt, sugar, nutmeg and when serving thicken 
the soup with a raw egg yolk diluted in cream and 
work in two ounces of butter. Serve separately 
some croutons souffles made out of pate a chou 
rolled in flour and fried in hot fat, or asparagus 
tips may be served instead of the croutons. 



CLARIFIED CHICKEN CONSOMME 

Put into a soup pot five quarts of white 
chicken broth, add one pound chicken legs and 
a small knuckle of veal. Boil and skim. Put in 
two pounds of roasted, unbrowned chicken bones, one leek, one carrot, 
one onion stuck with a clove, a little parsley and celery roots; boil 
continually for three hours. Chop very fine one pound veal, mix in 
two whole eggs, dilute with one quart of cold broth and stir this in the 
consomme, using a whip. Salt it according to taste and strain through 
a silk sieve. 



PUREE OF CUCUMBERS 
Remove the seeds from two pounds of peeled cucumbers. Blanch 
them for a few minutes in boiling salted water; drain well. Mince and 
fry in four ounces of butter, then moisten with sufficient veal or chicken 
stock and reduce until all the broth is absorbed. Pound them in a 
mortar, adding a pint of very thick cream sauce. Press through a 
sieve, heating the puree and adding two ounces of butter before serving. 



57 




World Famouj 1 Cher/ 1 





_J 



LOUIS PFAFF 

CHEF DE CUISINE 

NEW WILLARD 
HOTEL 

Washington, D. C. 
Mr. Pfaff was for- 
merly at the following 
prominent New York 
City hotels. The St. 
Denis, The Union 
Square, The Albemarle, 
TheVendome.The New 
Amsterdam; also at the 
Royal Moskoko at On- 
tario, Canada. 



STRAINED GUMBO 

Chopped onions, green peppers, ham, okra 
cut in one inch lengths; saute. Add chicken 
broth, half a dozen peeled tomatoes cut in 
quarters. Season to taste. 

CLEAR GREEN TURTLE 

Sever head and cut up turtle in pieces and 
boil until done. Remove bones, cut in square 
inches and reduce stock until it becomes strong. 
Add some good Sherry. 



<"™ afyf- 



58 




Their Special SouR5&CoflsowME5 



JULES KOHLER 

CHEF DE CUISINE 

HOTEL ADLON 
Berlin, Germany 
Monsier Jules Kohler 
came to the Adlon from 
the most elegant and 
famous Restaurant in 
Paris, the "Cafe de 
Paris. " 




CONSOMME JACOBINE 

Prepare a strong consomme, rich in meat and 
lots of celery. Garniture of Royal cut lozenges, 
fine juliennes of red carrots, fine round cut 
pimentos and a little chervil. 

MOUSSELINE SICILIENNE 

(Sicilian Mousseline Soup) 

Cream of chicken soup to which add two 
ounces of white mushrooms, and a little lemon 
flavor; pass through a strainer, then let cook for 
fifteen minutes and add a quarter of a pint of 
cream and four yolks of eggs. Strain through 
cheesecloth and add one ounce of butter. Garni- 
ture, half an ounce ground pistache well sifted. 

NEBAC 



CONSOMME 

Usual consomme to which, for each quart of 
consomme, add one and a half ounces fresh truffles in order to 
obtain a strong truffle flavor. Garnish with truffles cut julienne 
style, the same of smoked ox tongue and serve. 




59 




World Famous Chert 



LUCIEN FUSIER 

CHEF DE CUISINE 

GRAND HOTEL 
METROPOLE 

Interlaken, Switzerland 
Mr. Fusier was for- 
merly at the Shep- 
heard's Hotel at Cairo, 
the Grand Hotel du 
Louvre at Menton, 
France, Hotel Schwei- 
zerhof at Interlaken, 
Switzerland; Tunisia 
Palace, Tunis; the 
Yongfraublick Hotel at 
Interlaken, Switzerland, 
and at the Cap Hotel, 
Bordighera, Portugal. 




CONSOMME ANDALOUS 

Broth of fowl besprinkled lightly with 
julienne vegetables, chopped carrots and coarse 
grains of wheat cooked in the consomme. 



£ 



t*OC£s*is 



^CH^d-^C^- 



60 




Their Special 5ours & Coitsommes 




VICTOR HIRTZLER 

CHEF DE CUISINE 

HOTEL 
ST. FRANCIS 

San Francisco, Cal. 

Mr. Hirtzler was 
born in Strasbourg, 
Alsace, Germany, and 
learned his profession 
under Emile Feypell 
in Strasbourg who is 
considered one of the 
finest Chefs in France. 
Mr. Hirtzler has been 
in the best hotels in 
France and Germany. 
Coming to the United 
States he started in at 
the Old Brunswick in 
New York City, and 
then at the Waldorf 
Astoria, New York City , 
then at Sherry 's famous 
Cafe, New York City. 
He came to San Fran- 
cisco to open the Hotel 
St. Francisinl904. 

flavored. Just befoi 
choke bottom, one 
dry sherry. 



CREAM OF TOMATO SOUP, ST. FRANCIS 

Put a shinbone on the stove with a large 
sized soup bouquet, adding plenty of salt. Start 
with cold water and cook very slowly on the back 
of the stove until the meat drops from the bone. 
Drain the broth through a cheesecloth. Cool 
and skim off the surplus fat. Add the contents of 
a can of good solid tomatoes, boiling with the 
stock for about half an hour. Strain through a 
sieve and put on to boil, thickening with corn 
starch or flour, the former making a lighter, 
daintier puree. Just before serving, add a 
quarter-pound of butter and half a pint of sweet 
cream. 

VELVET SOUP 

Mince up fine the red part of a few good 
carrots, stew them with butter, salt, sugar and a 
little broth and when done strain through a 
sieve. Put a quart of clear broth on to boil, 
mix in with four tablespoonfuls of tapioca, let 
stand for twenty-five minutes on the side of the 
fire, skimming it off well. At the last moment, 
add the carrot puree, season, boil up once or 
twice more and serve in a soup tureen. 

CONSOMME ADELE 

Make an extra fine beef consomme, well 
e serving, cut into strips like matches one aiii- 
trufrle and half a banana, adding also a glass of 



CHICKEN BROTH L'ORANGE 

Make a well flavored chicken broth and serve in cups. Take a 
slice of orange, leaving the skin on, and cut it into four pieces, putting 
one piece in each cup. 



61 




WORuTi^OlL/ 1 ChERjT 21 




CREAM OF CHICKEN HORTENSE 

Make a cream of chicken soup in the usual way. To a quart of 
the puree, take a cup of peeled almonds. Pound into a pulp or grind 
in a mortar, mixing with milk, thoroughly pulverizing the nuts. 
Strain and add to the soup. 

CLAM BROTH 

For six persons or so, take about five pounds of clams. Wash and 
put on to boil with a pint of water, a few sticks of celery and a bunch of 
parsley. Cook for ten minutes. Drain and strain. This makes about 
a quart and a half of juice. If necessary, add salt, also a bit of cayenne. 
To each cup add a big spoonful of whipped cream. Very dainty and 
generally liked. 

PUREE OF SPLIT PEAS 

One pound of green split peas, soaked in cold water over night. 
Drain and put into pot with two quarts of bouillon or soup stock. It is 
possible to use water, but this, of course, does not make rich puree. 
Add two onions, two ounces of leeks, two ounces of carrots, one pound 
of raw ham bone or a quarter pound of bacon. Boil until the peas 
melt , which takes about an hour. Remove the vegetables and the bone, 
strain the peas through a sieve, add two ounces of butter, and serve 
boiling hot. 

PRINCESS SOUP 

Thicken some soup stock or consomme with the yolks of two 
eggs, but do not boil. Add them after taking from fire, when still 
hot, but not boiling. Cook some carrots and turnips in salt water on 
the side, cutting the vegetables in lozenge-shaped bits and add just 
before serving. 

CREAM OF POTATO SOUP 

Slice four potatoes into a quart of bouillon. Cover tightly to 
prevent the escape of the aroma of the bouillon. Boil until the potatoes 

62 




Theie Special Soup^&Cootfies 




are soft. Strain though a seive. Add a pint of thick cream and 
three ounces of butter. Serve with croutons .souffle. 




63 



INTERNATIONAL COOKING LIBRARY 

By the 
World Famous Chefs 

Complete in Ten Volumes 

Vol. No. 1 Salads and Salad Dressings 
" " 2 — Dainty Sweets (Ices, Creams, Jellies and Pre- 
serves) 

3 — Ultra Select Dishes for Afternoon Teas 

4 — Chafing Dish Specialties 

5 — International Dessert and Pastry Special- 
ties 

6 — Bread and Pastry Recipes 

7 — Soups and Consommes 

8 — Fish, Oysters and Sea Foods 

9 — Roasts and Entrees 
10 — Relishes, Garnishings and Finishings 
11 — Steaks, Chops and Eggs 
12— Table Decorations 

EACH BOOK COMPLETE 

This is undoubtedly the finest, most complete and most 
select set of books ever published in the culinary line. The 
special dishes of the World Famous Chefs, United States, 
Canada and Europe. Forty-seven contributors. 

Price 50 cents per volume — NET 

Sold by dealers everywhere or mail orders to 

INTERNATIONAL BOOK PUBLISHING CO. 
Los Angeles, Cal. 

64 



