TX 715 
.L32 
1914a 
Copy 1 






DDDD THINGS TO EAT 

AND HOW TO PREPIRETHEM 



Good Things To Eat 

and 

How to Prepare Them 



MORE THAN TWO HUNDRED AND FIFTY 
CHOICE RECIPES COMPILED ESPECIALLY 
FOR CUSTOMERS AND FRIENDS OF THE 
LARKIN CO.. BY THE LARKIN KITCHEN. 
LABORATORY DEPARTMENT 



FOURTEENTH EDITION 
REVISED . . . 1914 



Price, 1 5 Cents 

PURE FOOD SPECIAUSTS 
EstabHshed. 1875 Buffalo. N. Y. 

EASTERM AND V^/E:STEFi^J BRAIMCHES: 

NEW YORK BOSTON PHILADELPHIA CLEVELAND 

CHICAGO PEORIA 

Copyrighted, 1906, 1907, 1908, 1909, 1910, 1911, 1912, 1913, 1914 by Larkin Co. 



4 






THE VALUM OF FOOD 



A LITTLE GIRL was once asked why she ate? She 
replied, ' ' There are a lot of little stoves in my stomach 
in which the fires need to be kept burning, so I will be 
warm." This little girl of eight summers had the right 
theory dimly in mind when she made this reply. 

When we ask ourselves, ' ' Why do we eat ? " we often 
carelessly reply, "To be fed." What does this mean to 
us? Hutchinson says: "Food is anything which, when 
taken into the body is capable of either repairing its waste, 
or of furnishing it with material from which to produce 
heat, or nervous and muscular work." 

The comparison of the body — the living physical 
machine — to a locomotive is an old one, but let us use it 
again. The locomotive is built for one purpose, to haul cars 
over two steel rails for the convenience of man. The sight 
of one, pufl&ng and screeching, with its great load of cars 
behind it, fills one with amazement at its complexity and 
power; yet it is but one of many wonderful inventions 
accomplished by man. Much more complex and powerful 
is he. How carefully an engineer chooses the fuel and 
lubricants to be used. How much more carefully should 
man choose his food. 

The analogy is evident in the material structure; in the 
fuel, in the form of coal,. coke and oil; in the air, which 
supplies the needed oxygeix -for combustion ; in the water 
supply, to be converted into steam; in the waste, in the form 
of cinders, ashes, gases; in the potential energy, or power 
to move, which gives the machine its place of worth in the 
world's progress. 

In the human body we have all this and more— the 
material structure; the fuel, food; air, furnishing the com- 
bustible force of the blood; the water supply, furnishing 
the needed moisture; the excretions in various forms; the 

APR II |9(f^CI,A369655 MXo^ 



THE VALUE OF FOOD 3 

potential energy, in the form of heat, repair, growth, motion, 
power to do — in truth, power to live. 

The man in control of the engine knows that a coal free 
from dirt and slate makes a hotter fire, generating more 
energy with less wear upon the machine itself. The same 
thing is true about the lubricants; these are chosen very 
carefully, because foreign substances scratch and wear 
the metal. 

These same things are true with the human machine — 
food, the fuel, should be chosen with still greater care. In 
these days of adulterations, it is not always easy for the 
housekeeper, without a knowledge of chemistry, to know 
when she is getting a pure food. There is one great remedy 
for this — buy your supplies from a firm in whom your con- 
fidence is well placed. 

The influence of food upon our lives is much greater 
than many realize. Being the fuel from which energy is 
generated, it must be of the right value to furnish sufficient 
power for our diflfering needs. 

A baby can live entirely upon milk, which is a type of 
perfect food balance. As activity increases, heavier foods 
must be eaten, but the same balance must be maintained. 

Balance means a proper proportion of the five classes 
of food: nitrogenous, carbohydrates, fats, mineral matter, 
water. These are the principles contained in all foods. 

Much pains should be taken to work out a satisfactory 
diet, because one mtist manufacture one's own energy; it 
cannot be given to him, but must be developed from the 
food eaten. 

Proper preparation is the final thing to be considered. 
No matter how carefully the food materials may be purchased 
or how thoughtfully the amount of proteid or starch may be 
proportioned, if the cook fails to combine the materials well 
and put before one dainty, appetizing dishes, the results will 
be poor — owing to one's keen appreciation and sympathy. 

"Let us live well, simply, economically, healthfully 
and artistically." 



THn DINING-ROOM 



" On hospitable thoughts intent." 

ONE of the most important rooms in the home is the 
dining-room as it is the room in which the housekeeper 
and home-maker show their greatest skill. It is also the 
room from which the man of the house goes directly to his 
daily task, and the remembrance of a bright, attractive 
room, with a breakfast well cooked and properly served, 
will greatly relieve the pressure of a severe day's work. 

When the day is done, it is into this room he returns 
for his dinner or supper, and again a cheerful, well-kept 
room will do much to make home the happiest place in the 
world, as it should be. 

It is not essential to have the furniture the most expen- 
sive in the market, let it be simple. The principal piece 
should be an extension table, either square or round. ' The 
chairs should be alike. A sideboard, as well as a china 
cabinet and a serving-table are desirable. If possible, the 
floor should be of hard wood, or if not, painted. By all 
means, use a rug for the floor. 

SETTING TH:^ TABl^ 

First put a silencer or pad on the table. Under this 
some people often put a sheet of asbestos to keep the heat 
from injuring the polish of the table. Over the pad lay the 
cloth carefully, making sure it is perfectly even. 

On the right of the plate place the 

§^^ knives in the order in which they are 

-=;=.^^^ -,ra to be used, with their edges turned 

SlT^^Vl^^S toward the plate, the soup spoon, and 
'J ^ the napkin, folded squarely with the 

Detail of Cover Open comer at the lower left hand. 

At the left of the plate place the forks 
with the tines turned up, ranging from the outside in, 




^ 



A DINING-ROOM 
FURNISHED WITH LARKIN PREMIUMS 




'1 

I i 



I 






i\r 




A PROPERLY SET TABLE 



6 ARRANGING THE TABLE 

according to the courses to be served. The glass should be 
placed at the right just above the knife, in line with the 
plate, and if a bread-and-butter plate is used, it should be 
at the left just above the forks. Salts and peppers should 
be placed, one set for two people. 

A few flowers add greatly to the general attractiveness 
of the table. 

It matters not how plain the table service; if it is clean 
and spotless, it will be pleasing. The tablecloth should be 
sufl&ciently large to extend over each end at least eighteen 
inches and twelve inches on the sides. The table linen 
should be all white. To protect your cloth have a carving 
cloth in front of the carver, and a tea cloth before the person 
who pours the tea and coffee. 

CHINA 

The needs and inclination of individual households 
differ regarding china. The fondness for pretty pieces and 
the ability to gratify it are the modifying elements, but 
there is one thought to be ever kept in mind: never use a 
broken, cracked, or nicked dish on the table. 

GhASSWARB 

Glasses for water should be thin and clear, as water 
tastes much better from such a glass. Cut glass may be 
added as people are able to acquire it. 

SILVER 

The use of silver adds much to the appearance 
of a table, but like cut glass, is not essential, 
with the exception of knives, forks and spoons. 
However, if you are the possessor of a silver ser- 
vice, and you can easily be, use it, keeping it 
clean and bright. It is much more attractive 
on a well-ordered table than on a sideboard. 

ARRANGING THH TABT,M 

Ordinarily the wife or hostess sits at the head, with the 
husband or host at the foot of the table, the other members 




THE MEALS 7 

of the family occupying seats at the sides. When a guest 
is at table, if a lady, she may occupy the seat at the right of 
the host ; if a gentleman, the one at the right of the hostess. 



THE MEALS 



BRHAKFAST 

In many families, fruit is served for the first course, as 
in some form it is now procurable during the entire year. 

Following this should come a well-cooked cereal ; then 
rolls, toast or popovers, with some eggs simply cooked. 
To these may be added a cup of coffee, tea or cocoa. Have 
the meal simple, but warm and appetizing. 

DINN£:R 

Whether dinner is served at noon or at night, it is the 
hearty meal of the day. It should consist of at least three 
simple courses, but often includes five or six. A dinner of 
three courses should consist of soup, meats with vegetables, 
dessert. The soup should be light ; the vegetables accom- 
panying the meat should never be more than two, a starchy 
one and a green vegetable served as a salad ; a light dessert 
and a cup of coffee. This may be enlarged to suit the 
occasion, but a careful balance should be kept. 

I^UNCH^ON 

Many people prefer having dinner at night. In that 
case, a simple meal is served at noon. 

SUPPMR 

This is the light meal of the day when the midday 
meal is the heavy one, and it usually consists of a simple 
warm dish, bread and butter, fruit and cake, with tea or 
cocoa. 



THE MENU 



T^HE attractive dining-table with its bright silver, pretty '"* 
* china and spotless linen is very important, but the 
meals served upon it are of greater account. 

The menu must be carefully planned, the food carefully 
cooked and served, to be of the most value to the partici- 
pants. 

It is not the purpose of this little book to tell you why 
certain combinations produce certain results, but to give 
you some recipes that will help you to use Larkin Products 
well. We have prepared the formulas with as much care as 
we have chosen the standard of the products, and you will 
find them of great help. 

In all work in cookery, more and more attention is 
paid to exact measurement. We know that cooking is a 
chemical process, because it is the combination of certain 
materials, submitted to varying degrees of heat to change 
them so that they may be more easily digested. In all 
forms of cookery, this is the underlying thought — cooking 
is done that food maybe more easily digested or assimilated. 

Because cooking is a chemical process, we know that 
it must be exact, and each step as well; the measurement, 
the combining of ingredients, the heat, and the time allow- 
ance. These are the elements that enter into successful 
cooking. If you have the "knack," so much the better, 
but one need not be "born a cook," as the old saying goes, 
to make a success of the work, if one is willing to learn as 
one learns other things essential to happiness. 



PROCJESSMS AND EXPLANATION 
OF TERMS 



'What does cooking mean? something good to eat." — Ruskin. 




Measuring-Cup 



Measurements. A scale is not absolutely needful, 
but is very useful, and we advise the Family Scale No. 310, 
which is one of our Premiums. 

The cup referred to in all recipes is 
the measuring-cup, divided into quarters, 
thirds and halves. It is the cup recognized 
by all cooking teachers and cooks of au- 
thority. The cup contains half a pint — two 
gills — of liquid, or half a pound of granu- 
lated sugar or butter. 

A tablespoon, holding half an ounce of sugar or butter, 
level measurement, and a teaspoon level full, holding 
sixty drops, are the standards of measurement. 

Flour is measured after sifting once 
and is put into the cup with a spoon, and 
a level cup is meant. A tablespoonful or 
a teaspoonful is measured level. 

Half a tablespoonful or teaspoonful is 
obtained by equally dividing a spoonful, 
lengthwise of the spoon. 

A quarter tablespoonful or teaspoon- 
ful is measured by equally dividing a half 
spoonful crosswise. 

COMBINING INGR]B:DI^NTS 

Stirring. Done by moving a spoon or knife hori- 
zontally round and round in widening circles until the 
ingredients are blended thoroughly. 

Beating. Done by striking the mixture vertically 
in long strokes, cutting through the entire mixture each 
time. Stirring is done simply to blend ingredients, while 
beating is done to incorporate into the mixture all air possible. 




Quarter Spoonful 



10 



COMBINING INGREDIENTS. 



Cutting and Folding. These are the terms used to 
express the incorporating of whites of eggs or cream, stiffly 
beaten, into another mixture without the loss of the air 
already contained in the eggs or cream. It is done by care- 
fully cutting through to the bottom of the dish and folding 
the mixture over the eggs until they are thoroughly blended. 

Cooking Over Hot Water, The food is cooked 
in a vessel which does not come in direct contact with the 
source of heat ; boiling water intervenes. The double- boiler 
is the proper utensil. 

Z/arding. Remove the rind from salt pork and cut 
the fat into threads a fourth of an inch square and two or 
three inches long. These must be cold when used. Put in 
a larding needle and take stitches into the meat to be larded, 

one-half inch deep and one inch 
apart. Larding greatly improves 
the flavor of such meats as veal 
^v, . and liver. 

Baker's Whisk 

Beating Mggs. When eggs are used to add 
lightness as well as to enrich food, they should be 
beaten stiff. Several forms of beaters are used. If 
a close texture is desired, use a Dover beater ; if a 
looser texture, use the Baker's whisk or the flat 
beater. 



Beating Cream, To be whipped or beaten 

well, cream must be what is known as double cream. 

Churn Beater that is, the crcam from milk which has stood 

twenty-four hours. This can be beaten stiff in a 

very few minutes, if chilled, with any beater, but the 

best results will be obtained by the use of the churn 

beater. A much closer texture results from its use. 





and Measur- 
ing-Glass. 




Blanching Almonds or Other Nuts. Shell 
the nuts and pour boiling water over the meats. Allow 
them to stand five minutes. Drain, cover with cold 
water, and the skins will come ojGE easily by pressure 
between the fingers. 



TERMS USED IN THE COOKING OF MEATS 11 

Caramelizing Sugar. To make caramel for ice- 
cream or custard, put the required amount of sugar into 
a small granite saucepan over the fire, stir constantly until 
melted and pour at once into the mixture to be flavored. 



TERMS USED IN THE COOKING 
OF MEATS 



Roasting and Baking. All methods of cooking 
are derived from these because these were the primitive 
ways in which heat was applied to food. Roasting, with 
its modifications, is the direct application of heat. This 
means the searing of the flesh on all sides, to close the 
pores so the juices do not escape, before the meat is cooked 
throughout. In our homes this is done in the oven, as the 
modern oven can be regulated so as to have a high tem- 
perature until the meat is seared and then the heat lowered 
until the entire joint is cooked. In the present time, roast- 
ing and baking as applied to meat, are synonymous terms. 

Broiling. This is one of the modifications of early 
roasting. It is exposing a slice or thin cut of meat to the 
direct rays of heat, which thoroughly cooks the outside and 
should but delicately cook the inside. 

Pan Broiling. Is cooking by means of a heated 
metal. Rub the surface of a very hot iron frying pan with 
a bit of fat; put in the meat and turn it constantly, keep- 
ing the pan very hot. 

Sauteing. This is really what many of us regard as 
frying. It is putting chops or the like into a pan and 
allowing them to cook in their own fat. Some of the fat 
should be first heated in the pan. 

Frying. This method of cooking is the immersion 
of the articles to be cooked in deep fat, heated smoking hot. 
Fat is hot enough to be used when a bit of dry bread thrown 
into it will brown at once. Do not make the mistake of 



12 TERMS USED IN THE COOKING OF MEATS 

using the fat before it is sufi&ciently heated, as the fats or 
oil will saturate the articles, making them unfit to eat. At 
the proper temperature, fish and fritters may be cooked 
simultaneously in the same fat without injuring the flavor of 
either. 

F'rying with Olive Oil, There is no medium 
for frying so good as olive oil. All the unpleasant fumes of 
natural fat are avoided. For croquettes, for an ordinary 
family of six, use one-half pint of olive oil. Put this into a 
deep saucepan and heat until a blue smoke is given off. Place 
the croquettes in a frying-basket and plunge the basket into 
the hot oil. If the fat is of the correct temperature, no 
grease will be absorbed by the croquettes. When the process 
of frying is finished, pour the heated oil through an ordinary 
unglazed paper or a cheese-cloth. This will strain all 
foreign particles from the oil, and it can be used again and 
again without appreciable loss. 

Boiling. This is the application of heat through the 
medium of boiling water. Water boils at 212° Fahrenheit. 
Starchy foods and some vegetables should be cooked in 
rapidly boiling salted water. Meat, however, if you wish 
to retain the juices within it, should be plunged into the 
boiling water to sear the outside, which is the same principle 
used in roasting, then the temperature lowered so as not to 
harden the albumen of the meat, making it insoluble and 
so indigestible. 

Stewing, In order to draw the juices and gelatinous 
substances into the liquid, the meat is cooked in water suffi- 
cient to cover it and not allowed to reach the boiling point 
at any time, gently simmering throughout the cooking. 
This is a method that is greatly varied by the flavorings 
and seasonings added. 

Braising. To braise is to combine a saute and a stew. 
The meat, cut in small pieces, is seared over in hot fat in a 
pan or casserole, and then a small portion of water added 
and kept at the simmering point until thoroughly cooked. 



TABLES OF PROPORTIONS, 
WEIGHTS, MEASURES, TIME 



"Know the valde of time." 



PROPORTIONS 



1 measure of liquid to 1 measure of flour for pour batter. 

1 " " " "2 measures " " " drop batter. 

1 " " " '♦ 3 " " " " doughs. 

1 teaspoon of Larkin Soda to pint thick sour milk. 

1 " <i «' <' " one cup of molasses. 

)^ " " " Table Salt to one quart of milk for custards. 

^ " " " '* '* " one cup of soup or sauce. 

X " " " " •' ♦• one pint of flour. 

}i " << «< Flavoring Extract for a medium sized cake. 

1 " '* " " '* to one quart of custard or cream. 

1 dessert spoon of Larkin Flavoring Extract to one quart of mixture 
to be frozen. 

% cup of sugar to a quart of milk. 
4 eggs to a quart of milk for plain cup custards. 

2 dessert spoons of I/arkin Gelatine to pint of liquid. 

8 " " (pl^g-) " " " two quarts of liquid. 

Meat from a 3)4 lb. chicken equals about one pint of meat cut 
for salad. 

W£)IGHTS AND M^ASUR^S 

4 teaspoons of liquid, = 1 tablespoon. 

4 tablespoons of liquid, = }i gill or X cup- 

}4 cup, = 1 gill. 

2 gills, = 1 cup. 

2 cups, = 1 pint. 

4 cups (2 pints), = 1 quart. 

4 cups of flour, =1 " or 1 pound. 

2 " " butter, = 1 pound. 

% cup of butter, = X pound or 4 ounces. 

2 cups of granulated sugar, = 1 pound. 

2% cups of powdered sugar, =1 *' 

1 pint of water or milk, =1 " 

4 tablespoons of coffee, = 1 ounce. 



TIME FOR ROASTING OR BAKING 
MEATS AND FISH 



Beef Ribs, rare, per pound, 


8 to 10 minutes. 


" " well done, per pound. 


12 " 16 


" " rolled, rare, per pound, 


12 " 15 


" Fillet, rare, per pound, 


20 " 35 


Mutton (leg), well done, per pound, 


14 minutes. 


" (shoulder)," 


13 


Lamb, well done, per pound. 


15 to 18 minutes. 


Pork, " '« 


20 minutes. 


Chicken, per pound, 


15 or more minutes 


Turkey, 8 to 10 pounds, 


3 hours. 


Goose, •' " •• 


2}4 hours. 


Ham, 


4 to 6 hours. 


Fish (large and whole), 


1 hour or more. 


Small Fish, 


20 to 30 minutes. 


Baked Beans (Boston), 


6 to 8 hours. < 


BROODING 


Steak one inch thick, 


4 to 10 minutes. 


" VA " " 


8 " 15 


Lamb or Mutton Chops, 


6 •• 10 


Spring Chicken, 


20 minutes. 


Slices of fish, 


12 to 15 minutes. 


FRYING 




Croquettes or Fish Balls, 


1 minute. 


Breaded Chops, 


5 to 8 minutes. 


BOUSING MIS ATS AND FISH 


Fresh Beef, 


4 to 6 hours. 


Corned Beef, 


4 " 8 " 


" Tongue, 


3 "4 •' 


Leg or Shoulder of Mutton, 


3>^ to 5 hours. 


" " " " Lamb, 


2 to 3 hours. 


Turkey, per pound. 


15 " 18 minutes. 


Fowl, 4 to 5 pounds. 


2 " 4 hours. 


Chicken, 3 pounds, 


1 " VA hours. 


Ham, 


4 "6 hours. 


Lobster, 


20 " 30 minutes. 


Codfish, per pound. 


6 minutes. 


Salmon, whole or large cut. 


10 to 15 minutes. 


Clams and Oysters, 


3 " 5 minutes. 


Braised Meats, 


3 "5 hours. 



MISCELLANEOUS 
COOKING OF VFOMTABI^MS 



15 



Asparagus, 
Beans (string), 
Beets (new), 
" (old), 
Beet Greens, 
Brussel Sprouts, 
Cabbage, 
Carrots, 
Cauliflower, 
Celery, 
Corn, 
Macaroni, 
Onions, 
Parsnips, 
Peas, 

Potatoes (white), 
'* (sweet), 
Rice, 
Squash, 
Spinach, 

Tomatoes (stewed). 
Turnips, 



20 to 25 minutes. 
1 to 2 hours. 
^ to 1 hour. 
4 to 6 hours. 
1 hour or more. 
15 to 20 minutes. 
% to lyi hours. 

1 hour or more. 
20 to 30 minutes. 

2 hours. 

10 to 20 minutes. 
20 " 30 

2 hours. 

%" hour. 

1 hour. 

30 minutes. 

25 



H 
% 



'30 
'45 
'20 
15 "20 
30 " 45 



MISCni^LANFOVS 



Loaf Bread (1 pound), 

Rolls, Biscuit, 

Muffins, 

Popovers, 

Sponge Cake (loaf). 

Layer Cake, 

Fruit, 

Small Cakes, 

Custards, 

Steamed Brown Bread, 

Steamed Puddings, 

Pie Crust, 

Potatoes, 

Scalloped or au Gratin Dishes, 

Timbales, 



40 to 60 minutes. 
10 " 30 
20 " 25 
30 
40 " 60 

' 20 

' 3 hours. 

' 20 minutes. 
20 min. to 1 hour. 
3 hours. 
1 to 3 hours. 
30 "45 minutes. 
30 " 45 
10 " 20 
20 " 25 '• 



15 

2 

15 



TMMPERA TURB 



% /lUCH of the success in preparing food depends on the 
'■^ '- temperature to which it is subjected. The degree of 
heat necessary to cook certain meats, for instance, would 
ruin bread and cake. 

The expressions, a "fast" or "quick" oven, 
a "moderate" oven, a "slow" oven are often 
seen, and many of us guess what they mean, but 
unless we use a thermometer we never can tell 
accurately. Good thermometers, one for the oven 
and one that can be used in liquids, cost very little, 
and pay for themselves quickly in the quality of 
flavor of the foods. 




Oven 
Thermometer 



Using a Fahrenheit Thermometer, it should register : 

For Baking Potatoes — 300° for 45 minutes. 

For Boiling Meats — 212° for five minutes, and 180° for the re- 
maining time of cooking. 

For Stews— 180°. 

For Roast Turkey or Chicken — 400° for 30 minutes and 280° 
for remaining time. 

For Roast Duck — 360° for 30 minutes, and 230° for remaining 
time. 

For Roasts (of all meats) — 400° for 30 minutes, and 260° to 
finish. 

For Bread in one-pound loaves — 300° for ten minutes, and 260" 
for fifty minutes. 

For Pastry — 360°. 

For Muffins — 360°. 

For Cakes without Butter — 300° to 360°. 
For Angel Foods — 230° to 260°. 



Glass Fahren- 
heit Ther- 
mometer for -ri ,-v 1 

testing Liquids For Cakes With Butter — 230° to 250' 



For Fruit Cake — 220° to 260°. 

For baking with gas, deduct twenty degfees from above table. 



SOUPS 



"What a clear way you have of putting things." — Carroll. 

SOUPS are classified in two or three ways. They are 
made with or without meat. If of meat, they are 
named from the flavoring of the more distinct vegetable, or 
according to their consistency, whether thick or thin. 

There are a few general rules that cover all soups made 
from stock. The chief object of making stock is to obtain 
in the quickest manner the largest possible amount of nutri- 
ment from the cheapest cuts of meat. 

Cut the meat into small pieces and let stand in cold 
water before heating, to extract all nutriment. Cold water 
dissolves the juices, while hot water hardens the albumen 
and prevents the escape of the juices into the liquid. Put 
the cold water and meat on top of stove and heat, keeping 
it at the simmering point, but do not boil. Make the 
stock the day before using, when possible, that the excess of 
fat, that is, the fat which is not emulsified in the stock, may 
be removed. Meats used in making stock must contain 
these essentials : the gelatine of the bones; tendonous and 
gristly portions; osmazome, the flavoring of the meat; a 
small amount of fat, and the alkaline and acid salts of the 
blood and flesh juices. 

Beef, mutton, veal and poultry may be used separately 
or together, but in a mixture avoid a large amount of 
mutton, owing to its strong flavor. 

ci,nAR SOUP m 

Clear Soup is made from a shin of beef, or from beef P 

and veal. Crack the bones, and cut the meat into fine r'' 

pieces. Cover with cold water in the proportion of one Wj^} 

quart of water to a half pound of meat and bone. Bring to ^^ 

the simmering-point and keep it at that temperature for r^iii 

several hours. To have good clear soup, the temperature r^^ 

must be kept even. If the water boils vigorously, the >^S 



18 SOUPS 

gelatines of the meat do not dissolve and so a portion of the good 
is lost. It is a mistake to skim off the scum during the cooking, 
because this is a needful part of the meat. Cool and skim off the fat. 
Re-heat, adding the flavorings : an onion, with a few cloves stuck 
into it, a small carrot chopped fine, a teaspoon of celery seed, a 
teaspoon of Larkin Black Pepper, two tablespoons of Larkin Table 
Salt. To make perfectly clear, add the white and shell of an egg, 
remembering that the soup must be cold when these are added. Bring 
only to the boiling point, strain and serve. 

This process is the basis of all soups made from meat, no matter 
what kind, and the stock thus made can be kept for several days. 

VMGMTABi:^ SOUP 

Chop and cook a choice of vegetables ; cabbage, carrot, potato, 
turnip, tomato. Cook these vegetables in boiling salted water and 
add to the stock. 

TOMATO SOUP 

Into a skillet put two tablespoons of butter and melt. Add to 
this an onion sliced, and fry until the onion is cooked. Remove the 
onion and into this fat blend two tablespoons of flour. Add the 
strained juice of one-quart can of tomatoes, which has been heated. 
Season with salt and pepper. Add one pint boiling water. 

TOMATO BISQUn 

Blend two tablespoons of butter melted with the same quantity 
of flour. Thin this with a pint of hot milk or cream. Add a pint of 
hot strained tomato. 

CR^AM OF CFIyFRY 
Cook one cup of finely cut celery in a pint of water. Then mash 
through a colander and add one pint of milk, one-half pint of cream, 
one-fourth teaspoon of Larkin White Pepper, two teaspoons of Larkin 
Table Salt. Do not let boil after the cream is added but heat 
thoroughly. 

Any vegetable can be made into a cream soup in this same 
proportion. 

SOUP MABn FROM 
J,F;FT'0VF;RI,ARKIN PORK AND BFANS 
Put two cups of beans with the pork in an agate 
sauce pan and cover them with two cups of cold water. 
Bring to a boil and cook until soft. Mash through a 
strainer and add one cup of milk, two tablespoons of 
butter, two teaspoons of Larkin Table Salt, one- 
eighth teaspoon of Larkin White Pepper. Heat again 
but do not boil, and serve very hot. These propor- 
tions will serve five people. 




SOUPS 19 

CONSOMME FROM EXTRACT OF BEFF 

Allow one-fourth teaspoon of extract of beef for each cup of 
consomme desired. Put into a saucepan and pour over the extract 
the required number of cups of boiling water. Season with Larkin 
Table Salt, Larkin White Pepper and with Larkin Celery Salt, 
allowing one-fourth teaspoon of Celery Salt to each cup of consomme. 

CONSOMMF WITH tARKIN TAPIOCA 

For six cups of consomme allow three teaspoons of Larkin Pearl 
Tapioca. Cook this in seven cups of boiling water to which has been 
added a bay-leaf. When the tapioca is clear, add one and one-half 
teaspoons of extract of beef and season to taste with Larkin Table Salt 
and Larkin White Pepper. 

CONSOMMF WITH RICF 

Follow the directions for consomme with Larkin Tapioca, sub- 
stituting the rice for the tapioca. 

CONSOMMF WITH SAGO 

Larkin Sago may be used in the consomme, preparing like the 
tapioca. 

CONSOMMF WITH FGG NOODI^FS 

Make the plain consomme, using extract of beef. Add to it a 
desired amount of Larkin Egg Noodles which have been previously 
cooked in boiling salted water. 

FNGI^ISH SOUP 

2 tablespoons of flour 2 tablespoons of butter 

2 tablespoons of sugar 1 tablespoon Larkin Salt 

1 teaspoon of extract of beef 1 medium-sized onion 
){ teaspoon White Pepper 3 pints of boiling water 

Chop onion and cook with sugar. 

Blend flour and butter, and add the water in which 
beef extract has been dissolved. Add onion cooked, boil 
for five minutes and strain. 







Vi 





\s-} 



> 



V 





^/) 



D 

a 
o 
a 
u 



MMA TS 

"I'LL SACRIFICE THB LAMB THAT I DO j^q-ve"— Shakespeare. 

Vegetarians regard meat as unnecessary in the diet of 
mankind, but most people still believe that it provides the 
most economic way of supplying the necessary percentage 
of proteids demanded by the system. That lean meat con- 
sists of proteid, is a recognized fact, and we must serve 
meats with the starches, as found in potatoes, rice, bread, 
etc. , in order to obtain a balanced diet. 

To accomplish best results, the subject must be studied. 
A good quality of meat must be bought and it must be 
properly cooked. This cannot be made a matter of guess- 
work but must be done according to recognized rules. The 
information under the headings, "Terms used in the Cook- 
ing of Meats," on pages ii and 12 and "Time for Roasting 
or Baking Meats and Fish," on page 14, will be found 
helpful in this connection. 

ROAST BnnF 

Choose a good rib-roast, but do not have the bones removed, as 
doing so impairs the flavor. The end of the ribs may be chopped off. 
Wipe and dry with a clean cloth, putting the roast bone-side down in 
the roasting-pan which has already been heated hot. Have the oven 
very hot so that the meat may be seared over on all sides. Put no 
more than half a cup of water into the pan, as the roast should be 
basted with the fat from the meat, and not with water. Allow from 
eight to ten minutes to the pound for beef rarely done: from twelve 
to sixteen minutes for beef very well done. Do not salt until about 
three-fourths roasted. 

BRoihniy sxnAK 

To broil a steak properly is an accomplishment. First, have the 
steak cut thick — from one and one-half to two inches 
Have the fire hot and the coals bright. Use a wire broiler. 
Grease the wires with a bit of fat, and put on the steak. 
Place over the coals or the gas. As soon as it is seared over 
on one side, turn the broiler ; continue doing so until the 
steak is done. When cooked, place on a hot platter, season 
with Larkin Table Salt, Pepper and butter, and serve at 
once. May be garnished with sauted Larkin Egg Noodles. 




22 MEATS 

RAGOUT OF BMMF 

Cut two pounds of round steak into one - inch cubes. Put two 
tablespoons of suet into saucepan and when hot add the meat, brown- 
ing on all sides. Into the fat blend two tablespoons of flour and 
then add one pint of water in which has been dissolved one teaspoon 
of extract of beef. Add one teaspoon of Larkin Table Salt and one- 
fourth teaspoon of I,arkin White Pepper and simmer for one and 
one-half hours. 

BFFF I,OAF 

2 lbs. of round steak, ground }4 cup of milk 2 eggs 

}4 cup of cracker crumbs 2 teaspoons of Larkin Table Salt 

2 tablespoons of butter X teaspoon of Larkin Pepper 

Mix well and bake an hour ; baste same as roast. 

CR^AMFD DRIFD BF^F 

Use one-half pound of dried beef ; if it is very salty, freshen by 
placing in cold water, bringing to the boiling point and draining. 
Put two tablespoons of butter in a frying-pan and when melted, add two 
tablespoons of flour. Mix until smooth, then add milk making a cream 
sauce. Bring to a boil ; add beef, one-half teaspoon of extract of beef 
and one-eighth teaspoon of Larkin White Pepper. Serve on croustades 
(toasted cubes of bread from which the center has been removed). 

CORNFB-BFFF HASH 

One cup of finely chopped cold cooked corned beef, two cups of 
finely chopped cold boiled potatoes, half cup of boiling water, two 
tablespoons of butter, Larkin Table Salt and Larkin Black Pepper to 
taste, with a little onion-juice. Put into a frying-pan and heat very 
hot. To brown, put into a hot oven until browned evenly. 

BAKFD HAM, SOUTHFRN STVI,F 

Choose a good-sized ham with a moderate amount of fat. Wash 
thoroughly, using a vegetable brush. Cover with cold water and soak for 
twenty-four hours ; then wipe dry. Put the ham into an agate kettle, 
cover with sweet cider and put upon the top of the stove, 
allowing it to simmer gently fifteen minutes for each pound. 
When cooked, cool in the liquor in which it has been cooked. 
Remove the skin and with a fresh, dry cloth take up all 
moisture from the fat. Stick cloves into the fat at about 
inch spaces, gash the top and rub it thoroughly with brown 
sugar. Put into a dripping-pan and let it cook until it is 
crisp and brown on the top, basting every ten minutes with 
cider and the drippings. Garnish with squares of Aspic Jelly. 
Vinegar and water may be used in place of the cider. 




MEATS 28 

ROAST i,:gg of v:^ai, 

Choose a firm leg of veal, which is of a good pink color — not blue 
and flabby. Wash it thoroughly with cold water and wipe dry 
with a fresh cloth, — preferably cheese-cloth. With a medium-sized 
knife follow the bones very carefully, cutting the flesh as closely and 
evenly as possible. The bone is in this way easily loosened and 
removed. Make a dressing by chopping, or grating, dry bread-crumbs, 
mixing with butter, and seasoning with Larkin White Pepper and 
Larkin Table Salt. The exact proportions for these cannot be given, 
as the size of the cavity to be filled will vary. Stuff the veal just as 
you would a turkey, and, with a clean white cord, tie into shape. On 
the top put three or four slices of bacon. Put into a hot oven so as to 
sear over the outside. Lower the temperature and bake, allowing 
twenty minutes per pound. 

VMAI, CUTI^EiTS 

Cut veal steaks into small pieces two inches square. Beat an egg 
light and add about the same quantity of milk. Prepare a cup of 
cracker-crumbs. Dip veal into egg and then into cracker-crumbs. 
Fry in deep fat. Serve with green peas. 

VJB^AI, 1,0 AF 

Put three poimds of fresh veal with two or three slices of salt 
pork, and six crackers through the meat chopper. Add three eggs, 
one tablespoon Larkin Table Salt, one-half teaspoon Larkin White 
Pepper. Mix well and pack in a solid loaf in a buttered tin. Dot the 
top with bits of butter, and fill the dish with water or stock. Bake 
from two to three hours. May be served hot, making gravy from 
drippings in the pan, or may be allowed to cool in the pan and served 
cold. 

TO BRFAD CHOPS 

Have your butcher cut the chops about an inch in thickness. 
Beat one egg. After freeing the chops from any adhering bits of fat 
or bone, dip into the egg and then into finely rolled bread 
crumbs. Bread-crumbs are preferable to cracker-crumbs, 
especially if the bread is made from whole wheat, and slices 
should be dried slowly in the oven before rolling. When 
breaded, put the chops carefully into a frying-pan in 
which the fat is sufficiently hot to give off a blue smoke. 
Brown quickly on one side, then on the other, cover and 
put the frying-pan on the back part of the stove where 
the chops may cook through slowly. 




24 MEATS 

CMCILS 

Chop enough cold cooked beef or mutton to make a quart, add 
one-half cup of dry bread crumbs, one tablespoon of chopped parsley, 
one teaspoon of Larkin Table Salt, one-eighth teaspoon of Larkin 
Black Pepper. Dissolve one-half teaspoon of extract of beef in one- 
half cup of boiling water; when thoroughly dissolved add to the meat, 
and then two well beaten eggs. Mold into small balls, dip in egg and 
cracker and fry in hot fat. Serve with brown sauce. 

TO ROAST A TLRKMY 

In choosing a turkey select one with firm flesh, with the wings 
and end of the breast-bone limber, and sufficiently fat to be plump 
without any excess. 

After the turkey has been picked and drawn, or as it ordinarily 
comes from the market, hold it over a gas-jet or over burning paper to 
singe, taking care lest the fumes impart a disagreeable flavor to the meat. 

Wash very thoroughly in cold water, not allowing it to stand, as 
that draws out the juices, and wipe dry. 

"When the turkey is stuffed, truss into shape as shown in the 
illustration, and roast, allowing twenty minutes to a pound, besides 
the first half-hour for the heating. Baste frequently with the fat in 
the pan. Put the turkey into a very hot oven to sear the skin so that 
the juices will not escape, and then modify the heat, keeping it at a 
moderate temperature. 

CHICKEN CROQUnTXnS 

Separate cooked meat from bone and remove all gristle. Season 
with one teaspoon lemon juice, a few drops onion juice, one-quarter 
teaspoon Larkin Celery Salt and chop fine. Mix with enough white 
sauce to moisten well. Shape ; roll in egg and crumbs, and fry in 
deep fat. Serve with white sauce and green peas, 

CHICKMN FRICASSJ^n 

Prepare the chicken as shown in the illustration. Put the rough 
pieces and dark meat in the bottom of the sauce pan, the white meat 
on top, flesh-side down. Pour over this one quart of 
boiling water, cover sauce pan, bring to boiling-point, 
and then push to back of stove, where it will simmer 
until the meat is tender. Season when nearly done. 
Serve with biscuits broken, or with dumplings cooked 
in the sauce pan. For the gravy, after the chicken is 
removed from the pan, thicken the liquor with butter 
and flour rubbed together. Usually, two tablespoons of 
each are sufficient. 






o 



r 



i S 




^'f-- 




26 SAUCES 

CHICKEN EN CASSEROI^E 

Put into the casserole three tablespoons of butter, a small onion 
and half a carrot cut into thin slices. Cook ten minutes and add the 
chicken, disjointed as for a fricassee. Brown, and cook for half an 
hour. Pour over the chicken, one and one-half cups of stock or boil- 
ing water, add the juice of half a lemon and two bay leaves. Bake in 
a moderate oven an hour and a half. Season with Larkin Salt and 
Larkin Pepper, and add a can of mushrooms. Cook fifteen minutes 
longer, and serve en casserole. 

CROWN ROAST OF PORK 

Choose a good piece of pork loin without too much fat. Have 
the butcher cut through the ribs part way down, trim off the meat at 
the end of bones, turning it down, as for Frenched chops. Roll with 
the bones outside, into a ring or roll. Rub the outside with Larkin 
Table Salt and flour, and add a seasoning of Larkin White Pepper. 
Roast as usual, allowing a little longer time than the usual twenty 
minutes to the pound allowance for roasting. This is because the 
meat is rolled rather than in a long piece. 

ASPIC JEI,I,Y 

2 slices of onion 2 slices of carrot 

1 bay leaf X teaspoon of Larkin Cayenne Pepper 

1 sprig of parsley The yellow rind of 1 lemon (grated) 

1 stalk of celery 1 teaspoon of Larkin Table Salt 

Put these ingredients into one and one-half pints of cold water, 
bring to a boil, and cook three minutes. Moisten one-half package 
of Larkin Gelatine in one cup of cold water, add to boiling mixture, 
together with two teaspoons of extract of beef. Take from fire, strain, 
and if it is not clear, clarify with the white and shell of one egg. Mix 
the egg with the liquid, return it to the stove until it boils. Strain 
again and pour into moulds. Garnish with cut vegetables or parsley. 



SAUCES 



"Neither fish nor flesh nor good red herring." — Haywood. 

CREAM OR WHITE SAUCE 

Cream or White Sauce is what the French know as roux, and is 
the sauce used with all sorts of mixtures and as the base of nearly all 
other sauces. To make thin White Sauce use one tablespoon of 
butter, one tablespoon of flour, and one cup of milk or cream. 

Melt the butter and blend the flour into it. Slowly add the milk, 
which must first be heated. Stir constantly until boiling point is 
reached and mixture is smooth. Salt and pepper to taste. 



PREPARATION OF EGGS 27 

£^GG SAUCn 

Make the White Sauce and into the quantity made by the fore, 
going recipe cut two hard-boiled eggs. This sauce is very good with 
boiled fish. 

BROWN SAUCIS 

One tablespoon of butter, one tablespoon of flour, blended 
together. To this add one cup of boiling water. When cooked, add 
one-foiurth teaspoon of extract of beef and season with Larkin Table 
Salt and Larkin White Pepper. 

HOI,I,ANDAIS£^ SAUCE 

Heat a bay-leaf and one tablespoon of chopped oniou in two table- 
spoons of vinegar to the boiling-point. Strain and cool. Blend two 
tablespoons of flour with one of butter ; add one-half pint boiling 
water and stir until it boils ; add vinegar. Take from fire and add 
the yolks of two eggs, one-half teaspoon of Larkin Table Salt, and 
one-eighth teaspoon of Larkin White Pepper. 

DRAWN BUTTER 

Two tablespoons of butter ; one tablespoon of flour ; one-half cup 
of boiling water ; the juice of one lemon ; one-fourth teaspoon Larkin 
White Pepper ; one-half teaspoon of Larkin Table Salt ; two table- 
spoons of chopped parsley. 

TOMATO SAUCE 

One tablespoon of butter ; one tablespoon of flour ; one cup of 
strained tomato ; one-fourth teaspoon of Larkin White Pepper ; one 
teaspoon of Larkin Table Salt. 



PREPARATION OF EGGS 



BOII^ED EGGS 

Eggs may be cooked in the shell in either one of two ways : 
First, put into cold water and bring to a boil. By the time the boiling- 
point is reached the whites will be sufficiently cooked and of a soft, 
jelly-like consistency. Second, put the eggs into rapidly boiling 
water. Remove to the back of the stove and allow the eggs to stand 
three or four minutes. 

POACHED EGGS 

Only the freshest eggs can be well poached, as the 
whites mix with the water and do not coagulate with the 
egg as a whole. 

Break the desired number of eggs on a plate and 
slide them into salted water that is boiling. Remove 
from over the fire. Baste the eggs, so that the whites 
will cover the yolks, and cook three minutes, below the 
boiling-point. 




28 VEGETABI^ES 

FRij^D :gggs 

Melt a tablespoon of butter in a frying-pan, but do not brown. 
Drop in the eggs and season with salt and pepper. Cover the pan and 
after the first minute, put the pan on the back of the stove or off the 
fire, and cook for three minutes. 

If fried in bacon or ham fat use the same proportions. A table- 
spoon of fat is sufficient for six eggs. To take from the pan, slide a 
spatula under the eggs to loosen and slide from the pan. 

PI,AIN OMnh:BiT 

4 eggs 4 tablespoons of water 

yi teaspoon of Larkin Table Salt i teaspoon of butter 
Beat the eggs without separating. Add the water and salt. Melt 
the butter in a hot frying-pan. Pour in the eggs, shake the pan gently, 
and as the eggs thicken, lift with a spatula, allowing uncooked por- 
tions to run underneath. When creamy throughout, roll. Slip onto 
a hot platter, garnish with parsley and serve immediately. 



VEGETABLES 



" Now WHO DOTH PLEASE TO EAT THE PEASE, AND CLEAN THE 

DISH WITH MS."—Macaulay. 

There is a great tendency on the part of American 
people to use too little vegetable food ; and when used, to 
eat it too hurriedly. The starchy vegetables, which include 
potato, rice and wheat, for instance, should be digested by 
the saliva in the mouth. To accomplish this the food must 
be thoroughly chewed. We bolt bread much too often, and 
suflFer gastric indigestion in consequence. 

Vegetables may be divided into four groups: those con- 
taining a great part of proteid or nitrogenous matter, as 
beans, peas, lentils ; those containing a large proportion of 
starch, as rice, potatoes, wheat ; those containing much fat, 
as some nuts and olives ; those succulent vegetables which 
are composed of mineral matter and water almost entirely, 
as lettuce, tomatoes, radishes, celery. 

Under the heading "Cooking of Vegetables," page 15, 
we have given the time of cooking. Most vegetables are 
better for being cooked in freshly boiling salted-water in an 
uncovered kettle. 



VEGETABLES 29 

MASHMD POTATOMS 

Pare the potatoes thin, and after allowing them to stand in cold 
water not more than five minutes, place in water that has just begun 
to boil vigorously. Without covering, keep at this temperature for 
twenty-five minutes, if potatoes are of medium size. Drain off the 
water, and shake the kettle over the fire until the moisture is entirely 
evaporated. Sprinkle with Larkin Table Salt and Larkin Pepper. 

Mash with a wire masher or put through a coarse strainer. Melt 
butter in hot milk or cream and add to potatoes. Beat with a fork 
until mixture is creamy. Reheat and pile lightly in hot serving dish. 

STUFFED POTATOFS 

Bake the potatoes, cut in two and scoop out the inside, being 
careful to keep the skins whole. Mash the potato, atid mix with a 
lump of butter, a cup of hot milk, Larkin Table Salt, Larkin Pepper 
and the beaten whites of one or two eggs. Heat the mixture in the 
skins and brown in the oven. 

DUCHFSS POTATO 

To two cups of potatoes, add one teaspoon melted butter. Beat until 
light and smooth, then add six tablespoons of milk or cream and the 
yolks of two eggs well beaten. When well mixed and seasoned with 
Larkin Table Salt and Larkin Pepper, add the beaten whites. Fill 
hot gem-pans and brown. 

POTATO ROI,I,S 

To five or six mashed potatoes, add Larkin Table Salt and Larkin 
Pepper and milk to moisten. Beat three eggs and mix with them. 
Make into little rolls and cover with flour. Fry in hot lard or butter. 

RICE 

In cooking rice do not put it into a double boiler and cook slowly 
into a pasty mass, but after cleansing it throw it into rapidly boiling 
salted water and keep it boiling furiously for thirty minutes. Drain 
into a colander and place in the oven for a few minutes. 

BOII^nO ONIONS 

Onions should be parboiled in boiling salted water, 
the water changed and the onions cooked until tender, 
without breaking ; about an hour is required. Drain, cover 
with cream, and season. If one does not have the cream, 
prepare a white sauce, and dip the onions into it. Serve 
very hot. 




30 VEGETABLES 

I,IMA BnANS WITH CRMAM SAUCM 

A cup of dried lima beans will make enough vegetable to serve six 
people. Soak the beans over night in a large pan filled with cold 
water. In the morning, drain and cook slowly for about two hours. 
Drain again, and keep hot. Make a cream sauce of two tablespoons 
of flour, two tablespoons of butter, a teaspoon of Larkin Table Salt, a 
pint of milk and a seasoning of Larkin White Pepper. Add the beans 
and serve very hot. The beans may also be served by adding only 
butter, pepper and salt. 

FRinD APPI^J^S 

Nothing is nicer than fried apples with a roast of pork -ribs or 
fresh ham. Pare and quarter the apples, possibly eight or nine for 
six portions. Put into the frying-pan a tablespoon of good gravy or 
meat-drippings, and heat quite hot. Put in the apples and cover for ten 
minutes. Remove the cover, and stir from the bottom with a spatula 
or dull knife. Turn them over and over again until soft and thor- 
oughly done. Salt as a vegetable and serve hot. 

GRMMN CORN GRIDDI^n CAKMS 

6 ears com (grated) 2 eggs 

2 cups milk 2 cups floiir 

1 tablespoon butter X teaspoon Larkin Table Salt 

Bake like pancakes. 

TO COOK MACARONI 

Macaroni must be cooked in rapidly boiling salted water until 
tender, or for about twenty minutes. Keep the water boiling vigor- 
ously. When finished, pour into colander and pour cold water over it, 
to thoroughly separate the pieces from each other. To use, re-heat. 

MACARONI au GRATIN 

Put a layer of cooked Larkin Macaroni in the bottom of a buttered 
pudding-dish, then a thin layer of ordinary creamery cheese, another 
layer of macaroni and so on until the dish is filled, scattering bits of 
butter among the layers, and add a cup of milk. Sprinkle top with 
buttered bread crumbs and brown in oven. 

MACARONI WITH CRMAM SAUCM 

Blend one tablespoon of butter with one tablespoon of 
flour, and add one cup of milk. Cook until thick, and 
season with salt and pepper. Pour this over one-half pack- 
age of Larkin Macaroni which has previously been cooked 
and drained. Cheese may be added to the sauce to taste. 

MACARONI WITH TOMATO SAUCH 

Make a tomato sauce by blending one tablespoon of butter 
and one of flour, and adding one cup of strained tomato, 
heated. Cook until thoroughly done, and pour over a 
half-package of Larkin Macaroni previously cooked. 





o 

c 
o 
c 

OJ 
m 

XI 

> 

r— 
> 








32 VEGETABLES 

MACARONI ITAI^IAN FASHION 

Cook in stock instead of plain boiling salted water. This may be 
done by adding one-half teaspoon of extract of beef to the water. 

Heat a pint of tomatoes, add a little onion, a bay-leaf, salt, pepper 
and a tablespoon of butter. Add the macaroni and serve with grated 

MGG noodi:gs with crfam saucm 

Use two tablespoons of butter, two tablespoons of flour, one pint of 
milk for the cream sauce. Season with one teaspoon of Larkin 
Table Salt, one-fourth teaspoon of Larkin White Pepper. When the 
sauce is cooked, add one-fourth package of Larkin Egg Noodles which 
have been cooked in boiling salted water. 

MGG NOODLES WITH MFAT GRAVIES 

A good luncheon dish is made by using the gravy left from the 
dinner-roast and re-heat without boiling. Then add a sufficient 
quantity of Larkin Egg Noodles, previously cooked in boiling salted 
water. 

J5GG NOODI^FS ^SCAIIOPnD WITH TOMATOES 

After the noodles have been cooked, put a layer of Larkin Egg 
Noodles and then a layer of tomatoes in a dish until the dish is nearly 
filled. Pour over them a sufficient quantity of cream sauce to moisten 
the contents, and bake fifteen minutes. Season with Larkin Table 
Salt and Larkin White Pepper. 

YORKSHIRB PUDDING 

Beat three eggs until light. Add one-half teaspoon Larkin Table 
Salt and two cups of milk. Pour gradually into two-thirds cup of 
flour. Strain and pour into pan with any roast and cook until eggs 
are set. 

CARROTS AND P^AS, CRFAM^D 

Scrub and cut into dice enough carrots to make a pint. Let 
stand in cold water for half an hour. Drain and cook in an uncovered 
kettle of boiling water until carrots are tender. (Old 
carrots require about three-quarters of an hour.) Add a 
pint of peas and a pint of cream sauce. 

FSCAIIOPMD TOMATOES 

Drain the juice from a quart can of tomatoes. Use the 
dryer portion, putting into a buttered dish with alternate 
layers of bread or cracker-crumbs. Add butter, Larkin Pep- 
per and Larkin Table Salt. Bake twenty to thirty minutes. 




SALADS 



" I ALWAYS THOUGHT COLD VICTUALS t^lCE."—Holme8. 



THERE is record of the use of salads in Roman times, 
when many ingredients were mixed together in a mortar 
to produce some delectable dish, but without doubt the simpler 
the salad the better it was. 

The list of plants eaten uncooked, as salads, by people 
generally, is quite small. Lettuce, cabbage, radishes, cucum- 
bers, watercress, endive, escarole, dandelion, purslane, and 
sorrel make up the number. These plants, fresh and crisp, 
served with a French dressing are very healthful, as they 
combine the mineral elements of the plant, so essential to 
the system, with the olive oil, which gives, according to 
the ancients, strength and suppleness. Olive oil is the 
dressing par excellence for a salad. It lubricates the 
alimentary tract and acts as a germicide. Its use is strongly 
advocated in health as well as in all wasting diseases. 

There are many salad combinations made with cooked 
and uncooked foods, and these with a few of the fruit salads, 
call for the heavier mayonnaise dressing, which provides a 
very hearty and enjoyable food. 



MAYONNAISE DR:ESSING 

Into the yolks of two eggs, stir one-half teaspoon of 
Larkin Mustard, one teaspoon of Larkin Table Salt, 
one-eighth teaspoon of Larkin Cayenne Pepper. Blend 
well and into this beat very slowly one-half pint of olive 
oil. When the mixture becomes too thick, thin with a 
few drops of lemon- juice or vinegar. If a greater 
quantity of dressing is desired, more oil may be added, 
alternating, as before, with a few drops of acid when it 
becomes too thick, as the yolks of two eggs will contain 
a full pint of oil. "When finished, add one-fourth cup 
of boiling water, which gives the dressing a very smooth 
flavor. Many experts advocate the addition of all the 
acid to the egg before the oil is added. 



^^^ 


^ III ifl 


^B 


lUl tt'-'iVtaow.".' 1 


(^■SES'irtss.^ 


ir-~"Sr"'2.-:-J| 


lffic^;K:-.-7ri.-5;'J|| 


M 



34 SALADS 

MAYONNAISE TARTAR 

Add to one cup of mayonnaise dressing, one-fourth cup of chopped 
olives, gherkins, capers and parsley. Serve with fish. 

FRE^NCH DR]^SSING 

Measure three tablespoons of olive oil and one tablespoon of 
vinegar. Mix one teaspoon of Larkin Table Salt, and one-fourth 
teaspoon of Larkin Cayenne Pepper together dry. Beat into these 
slowly the oil and then gradually the vinegar. This dressing must 
be thick and creamy, the oil being entirely emulsified. 

BOII^nD SAI,AD DKE^SSING 

Mix three teaspoons of sugar, one-half teaspoon of Larkin Mus- 
tard, one teaspoon of Larkin Corn Starch, one teaspoon of Larkin Table 
Salt. Beat the ingredients into the yolks of two eggs. Add three 
tablespoons of cream, either sweet or sour, one-half cup of vinegar 
and the beaten whites of two eggs. Cook until it thickens, stirring 
constantly. Remove from the stove and stir in four tablespoons of 
olive oil. This is a particularly good dressing for any one not 
accustomed to Mayonnaise Dressing, as a slight flavor of the oil is 
obtained. For use with fruit or vegetables, the amount of sugar may 
be changed to one's taste. 

CRMAM SAI^AD DRESSING 

Yolks of 4 eggs 2 tablespoons of Larkin Corn 

^2 teaspoon of Larkin Mustard Starch 

1 teaspoon of sugar 1 teaspoon of Larkin Table Salt 

Dash of Larkin Cayenne Pepper Juice of 1 lemon 

Cut an onion in half and scrape the juice. 

^ cup of vinegar 

Mix the dry ingredients with the eggs and vinegar. Add one 
quart of cream, sweet or sour, cooking until thickened ; add two table- 
spoons of olive oil, if desired. 

CHICKMN SALAD 

Measure twice as much of chicken as of celery, after both 
ingredients have been cut into small cubes. Marinate with French 
dressing. When ready to serve, add the mayonnaise and 
serve on lettuce leaves. 

I^OBST^R SAI^AD 

Use fresh lobster if it can be procured. Boil, remove 
the intestinal tract, and with a silver fork, remove the meat 
in small pieces from the shell. Mix with one-half the 
quantity of diced cucumbers or celery, and marinate. 
Cover with mayonnaise when ready to serve. 




SALADS 35 

SHRIMP SALAD 

Use either cooked or canned shrimps. If canned shrimps are 
used, remove from can, wash and chill thoroughly in ice water. Add 
an equal portion of celery or cucumber ; if cucumber, serve in cucum- 
ber boats on lettuce. Remove the pulp from the cucumbers with a 
scoop-spoon and with the shrimps, marinate. Add a tablespoon of 
mayonnaise just before serving. 

SAI^MON SAI,AD 

When using canned salmon be very careful not to break the fish 
when taking from the can, as it crumbles easily. Carefully separate 
it into pieces with a silver fork. Add an equal amount of diced celery, 
and use the cream salad dressing. Serve on lettuce. 

OYSTMR SAIAD 

The oysters should be parboiled. Cut into halves, mix with celery 
and serve with a mayonnaise tartar dressing. 

sardin:^ sai,ad 

The boneless sardines should be used, and mixed with the mayon- 
naise tartar dressing. 

VMAI, SAI,AD 

Use a nice firm piece of a leg of veal, roasted. Cut in small cubes 
and treat in exactly the same way as chicken salad. 

TONGUM SAI^AD 

Beef tongue, boiled, makes a very good salad served with a 
mayonnaise. 

vmg:gtabi,:g sai,ad 

Equal portions of potatoes and beets, one-half the quantity of 
celery or cabbage and a few English walnuts mixed with a French 
dressing and served on lettuce, make an appetizing salad. 

POTATO SAI,AD No. z 

Potatoes and celery in the proportion of two parts of potato to one 
part of celery may be mixed with cream salad dressing. 

POTATO SALAD No. a 

% pound of bacon % cup of water 

1 small onion 2 tablespoons of vinegar 

X teaspoon of Larkin White Pepper 
Put the bacon into the frying-pan with the water, 
cook until the water is evaporated and the bacon is brown 
and crisp. Remove bacon and cool the fat, adding pep- 
per and vinegar. Pour over the sliced potatoes and onion. 
nOG SALAD 
In the spring a pleasant change is made by slicing 
hard-boiled eggs on lettuce leaves and serving with a 
boiled dressing. 




36 SALADS 

JE^GG AND CUCUMBER SAI,AD 

The combination of hard-boiled eggs and crisp cucumbers served 
on lettuce with a boiled dressing or cream dressing is a pleasant one. 

CUCUMBER AND RADISH SAI,AD 

Another pleasing combination for a spring salad. Prepare the 
cucumbers by allowing them to stand in cold water for one-half hour 
Pare and dice, placing between cheese-cloth directly upon the ice. 
Prepare the radishes in like manner by simply washing and slicing 
before putting on ice ; the same treatment is used for the lettuce. 
When ready to serve, mix with a French dressing. 

TOMATO SAI,AD 

Select small, firm tomatoes, cutting a piece from the top about 
an inch-and-a-half in diameter. With a scoop-spoon take out the 
pulp and mix the firm parts (discarding the seeds) with chopped or 
finely cut cucumbers, and pecans or other nuts. Fill and cover with 
mayonnaise. 

TOMATO jni,I,Y SAI,AD 

Moisten one-half package of Larkin Gelatine in one-half cup of 
cold water. Heat and strain one quart-can of tomatoes, seasoning 
with salt and paprika. Pour over Gelatine and mold. Serve with 
mayonnaise or boiled dressing, on lettuce leaves. This makes a very 
pleasing winter salad, when ripe tomatoes are not procurable. 

cabbag:^ sai,ad 

Shred or chop the cabbage and mix with the boiled dressing. 

BOHEMIAN SAIAD 

Cover the bottom of a salad dish with crisp lettuce leaves ; on 
these put alternate slices of boiled beets and hard-boiled eggs; sprinkle 
with one tablespoon of chopped onion and serve with French dressing. 

RED CABBAGE WITH CELERY 

Trim one head of red cabbage and cut into quarters. Soak in cold 
water for thirty minutes and slice into shreds. Cut two heads of 
celery into very thin slices. At serving-time, mix and add one table- 
spoon of chopped onion. Mix with French dressing and serve. 

FRUIT SAIAD 

The fruit salad may be a combination of bananas, 
oranges and pineapple, to which a few almonds and 
candied cherries may be added. Serve with mayonnaise. 

MAI, AG A GRAPE SAIAD 

Cut the grapes endwise and take out the seeds. Mix 
with oranges and blanched almonds, and serve with either 
the mayonnaise or the boiled dressing. 




BREADS 37 

orang:b^ sai,ad 

Mix equal parts of oranges, bananas, and malaga grapes with 

Doiled dressing. Serve in orange cups with or without whipped cream. 

BANANA SALAD 

Banana salad may be served with either a boiled dressing or a 

mayonnaise, sprinkling a few chopped English walnuts over the 

dressing. 

WAI^DORF SAI,AD 

This salad consists of equal portions of finely cut tart apples, 
celery and English walnuts. Marinate with French dressing for several 
hours. Drain and serve with mayonnaise on lettuce or in apple cups. 



BREADS 



" Chief nourisher in life's feast." — Shakespeare . 

BREAD, "the staff of life," has been a noticeable cry 
throughout history. The starving in India, the French 
mobs, the Italian poor, have each in turn uttered the same 
appeal. It does not literally mean bread — it explains to us 
that bread is taken as a type of perfect food — because bread 
with butter is a perfect combination or food balance. 

Probably the breads of the earliest times were made from 
barley, and were baked upon heated stones. To the Greeks 
we doubtless owe the cultivation of the yeast plant. 

The evolution of bread from that made from the coarse 
grains, coarsely ground, without leavening, to the modern 
white loaf is very interesting, and there is doubt in many 
minds whether the present bread is not too high an 
exponent of the progress of civilization as shown in 
machinery. Many of us have grown to depend upon the 
baker of the town for our bread instead of having it made 
in our homes. 

I,et us make our own bread, using whole 
wheat flour and a good yeast. 

Wn01,n WH^AT BRX^AD 

Prepare the sponge the same as in the white bread 
recipe. In the morning, add three pints of warm water, 
two quarts of whole wheat flour, and two teaspoons of 
Larkin Table Salt. The quantity of flour may vary, 
owing to the brand used. Proceed as in any other bread. 




38 BREADS 

WHITn BR:E:AD {I^ong process) 

At noon mash two medium-sized potatoes, and add one pint 
of warm water. Moisten a cake of dry yeast in one-half cup of 
lukewarm water. To a pint of warm water, add one quart of flour 
and beat thoroughly in the bread mixer. When cool, but not cold, 
add the yeast and let rise until morning. Add three pints of ^varm 
water, three quarts of flour, two teaspoons of Larkin Table Salt. 
Again beat well, and let rise, keeping the dough in an even temperature 
of about 87° F. 

At the expiration of an hour, knead and make into loaves. Let 
rise until dough rebounds instantly if pressed in with the finger. For 
pound loaves, bake forty-five minutes ; if of more weight, bake pro- 
portionately longer. When taken from the oven, rub the tops with 
lard to soften the crust. 

WffJT^ BR:^AD {Short Process) 

6 cups of flour 1 tablespoon Larkin Table 

1 cup of water Salt 

1 yeast cake 1 tablespoon sugar 

Put yeast to soak in one-half cup of luke-warm water. Put one 
and one-half cups warm water in bread-pan. Add salt and sugar. 
Add four cups of flour, reserving remainder for use in kneading. Add 
yeast. Beat well. This may be done about 9 o'clock at night. 

In the morning take from pan and knead in the extra flour. Let 
rise again ; about an hour ought to be enough. Knead again, mold- 
ing into loaves. Raise until double in size. Bake fifty to sixty 
minutes. This makes two loaves. 

PARKER HOUS^ ROI,lS 

Rub one tablespoon of lard into two quarts of flour. Moisten one 
cake of dry yeast. Scald one pint of milk, and when cool, but not 
cold, add to the flotu". Beat well, adding one teaspoon of salt, one- 
half cup of sugar and the softened yeast. Let rise. 

These can be mixed in the morning and be ready to use for 

supper, or they may be mixed at noon, allowed to rise until bedtime, 

mixed again, and be baked for breakfast. The dough at the second 

kneading should be rolled thin, cut with a biscuit-cutter, spread with 

melted butter, folded, allowed to rise and then baked. 

CINNAMON ROI,lS 

Follow Parker House rolls formula and at the second 
kneading roll thin, spread with melted butter, brown sugar, 
cinnamon, currants and finely shaved citron. Roll, and 
cut off pieces an inch thick. Stand these on end. 
Allow to rise and bake. These are especially good break- 
fast rolls with coffee. 



BREADS 39 

GRAHAM BR^AD 

2 eggs 2 cups of sour milk 

2 teaspoons of Larkin Soda )4 teaspoon of Larkin Table Salt 
% cup of molasses 1 cup of wheat flour 

3 cups of Graham flour 

This makes two loaves. Bake in a moderate oven for an hour. 

stje:am:^d brown brhad 

% cup of molasses 2 cups of sour milk 

2 cups of corn meal 2 cups of flour 

2 teaspoons of Larkin Soda 1 teaspoon of Larkin Table Salt. 

Steam one and one-half hours and bake one-half hour. 

CORN BRnAD 

2 cups of sour milk 1 cup of sweet milk 

2 cups of corn meal 1 cup of flour 

1 teaspoon of Larkin Soda 1 teaspoon of Lark in Table Salt 

Steam two hours. Bake one-halt hour. 

WHoi,iii wh:e:at muffins 

1 egg 1 pint of sweet milk 

j^ teaspoon of Larkin Table 2 teaspoons of sugar 

Salt 2yz teaspoons of Larkin Baking 

4 cups of whole wheat flour Powder 

POPOVF^RS 

1 cup of flour 1 cup of milk 

X teaspoon of Larkin Table Salt 2 eggs 

Put the flour and salt into a bowl, add the eggs, unbeaten, and 
add the milk, gradually, — beating well. Pour into heated, greased 
muffin-pans and bake one-half hour in a hot oven. 

BAKING POWDFR BISCUIT 

1 quart of flour 1 teaspoon of Larkin Table Salt 

4 tablespoons of butter or lard 

6 teaspoons of Larkin Baking Powder. 

Sift the baking powder, flour and salt into a bowl, 
and add the shortening, cutting it through and through 
until well blended. 

Moisten with milk to make a very soft dough ; usually 
about a pint is needed, depending upon the flour. Turn 
onto a well-floured board, using the hands as little as 
possible, roll three-fourths of an inch thick, cut and bake 
quickly 




40 



BREADS 



BRiocnn past:^ 

4 cups of flour 1 cup butter 

^ cup water 1 tablespoon sugar 

1 yeast cake 8 small or 7 large eggs 

1 teaspoon Larkin Table Salt 

Moisten yeast in one-half cup of water. Pour boiling water into 
bowl to heat it ; then drain and dry. Place one cup of flour in bowl, 
add yeast and beat well. Cover and set in warm place until it doubles 
in bulk. Put rest of flour into a mixing bowl, add salt, sugar, butter 
(softened but not melted) and four of the eggs. Mix to a paste then 
beating thoroughly, add the remaining eggs one at a time until all 
have been used ; beat until smooth. When sponge is light, place 
sponge in center of egg mixture and stir together slowly until the two 
are well blended. Set in warm place until doubled in bulk ; then 
turn on board dredged with flour, pat out and fold over several times ; 
let rise a second time then turn on dredged board and knead very 
lightly. Place on ice or in a cold place as paste is rich and unless 
cold is difficult to handle. It is a good plan to let stand over night 
in a very cold place ; then make it up in the form of a coffee cake by 
twisting or in the form of buns ; let rise and bake. 

FINGMR ROI,I,S 



4 cups of warm water 

1 tablespoon L,arkin Table Salt 



9 cups of flour 

X cup of sugar 

1 yeast cake 

At noon, make a sponge by adding as much flour to one cup of 
warm water as will make a stiff batter, adding sugar. Moisten yeast 
cake in a half -cup of lukewarm water, and add. Set in a warm place 
and allow to rise. 

At night, mix nine cups of flour and three cups of lukewarm 
water, adding salt and sponge. Beat well, and allow to rise until 
morning. Early in the morning, mix and let rise again until double 
its size. Again mix and let rise and add a cup of softened butter to 
the dough. L,et rise and form into tiny rolls about an inch in diameter 
and four inches long. Let rise and bake. 

6 cups flour 1 cup milk 1 cup water 

}4 cup butter ^ cup sugar 1 yeast cake 

^2 cup lukewarm water 4 eggs 1 cup raisins 

Make sponge at night, mixing same as Parker 

House rolls, adding eggs whole, one by one. Beat 

thoroughly. L,et rise very light, so that finished loaf 

will be light and porous. 

CORN-M^AI, GRIDDI,n-CAKnS 

2 cups corn meal 2 cups sour milk 

1 egg 1 teaspoon Larkin Soda 

1 teaspoon Larkin Table Salt 

Bake on griddle. 




B 



CAKMS 

"You CANNOT EAT YOUR CAKE AND KEEP IT TOO."— Proz'erb. 

EFORE beginning to mix cake, prepare all ingredients, 
so there may be no delay in combining them quickly. 

1. Measure the butter. 

2. Sift and measure the sugar. 

3. Sift the flour once before measuring. 

4. Measure and sift again with the baking powder. 

5. Break the eggs one by one, separating them. 

6. Butter the tins and dredge a light covering of flour over the 

butter or line the tins with Larkin Waxed Paper. 

7. When fruit is used it should be prepared before other ingre- 

dients are ready. Wash, dry, and cover with flour, being 
sure to shake off excess flour. 

Method of mixing cakes containing butter. Cream butter thor- 
oughly ; add sugar and yolks of eggs. Beat well ; then add sifted 
dry materials alternately with the milk. Lastly fold in the whites of 
eggs beaten until stiff. Pour into pans greased or lined with Larkin 
Waxed Paper and bake. 

VTnNSII,S 

Cake should be mixed in an earthen bowl, with a wooden cake- 

spoon. Two measuring-cups, a tea- 

^ — ■ "^ spoon, an egg-beater and the tins are 

Wooden cake-spoon. the other utensils needed. 

SOLID CHOCOLATE CAK^ 

Blend two cups of brown sugar with one-half cup of butter, add 
the yolks of three eggs and one-half cup of sour milk. 
Melt four squares of Larkin Unsweetened Chocolate in one- 
half cup of boiiing water and cool. Add to the other 
ingredients. Stir in two cups of flour with one teaspoon of 
Larkin Baking Powder, and one teaspoon of Larkin Soda, 
the white of one egg beaten stiff and one-half teaspoon of 
Larkin Vanilla Flavoring Extract. Bake in a dripper, and 
cover with an icing made by boiling one and one-half cups 
of sugar with one-quarter of a cup of water until it will 
string, beating into it the well-beaten whites of two eggs, 
and flavoring with one-fourth teaspoon Larkin Vanilla 
Flavoring Extract. 




CAKES 43 

SPIC^ CAKn 

Blend two cups of sugar with one cup of butter. Add the yolks 
of three eggs, and one cup of sour milk, in which one teaspoon of 
Larkin Soda has been dissolved. Add three cups of flour, two and 
one-half teaspoons of Larkin Cinnamon, one-half teaspoon of Larkin 
Cloves, and the beaten whites of the eggs. Raisins, currants, citron, 
orange- or lemon-peel, or Larkin Shredded Cocoanut may be added to 
this formula in any desired proportion, with pleasing results. 

COCOANUT CR^AM CAKM 

Cream two cups of sugar with three-fourths of a cup of butter. 
Add the yolks of three eggs, one cup of milk, three cups of flour with 
two teaspoons of Larkin Baking Powder and fold in the beaten whites 
of the eggs. Flavor with one-half teaspoon of Larkin Vanilla 
Flavoring Extract. 

For the Cnstard. Scald two cups of milk. Beat together, 
one-half cup of sugar and one e^g^. Thicken with three tablespoons 
of Larkin Corn Starch moistened in a small part of the milk. Add 
one cup of Larkin Shredded Cocoanut and one-half teaspoon of 
Larkin Vanilla Flavoring Extract. Spread between the layers and 
over the top, sprinkling more of the cocoanut on the top-layer. 

COCOANUT MACAROONS 

Make a syrup of one-third cup of water and two-thirds cup of 
sugar. Boil ten minutes. Take from fire and stir in one-half pound 
of Larkin Shredded Cocoanut ; slowly add the beaten whites of three 
eggs. Mix thoroughly and drop with a spoon upon buttered tins. 
Bake in slow oven until slightly brown. 

HICKORY-NUT KISSES 

1 egg 1 cup- sugar 

X-cup flour 1 cup nuts, cut very fine 

Beat egg and sugar very light, add flour and nuts. Drop from a 
teaspoon into pan, 1)4 in. apart. Bake in slow oven about twenty 
minutes. 

TFHJTJ5 CAK£^ No. i 
Cream one-half cup of butter with one and one-half 
cups of sugar. Add one cup of milk, two and one-half 
cups of flour, two teaspoons of Larkin Baking Powder, 
the beaten whites of five eggs, one-fourth teaspoon of 
Larkin Almond Flavoring Extract, and one-half teaspoon 
of Larkin Orange Flavoring Extract. This cake should be 
delicate and fine grained. This can be accomplished only 
by thoroughly beating, before the whites of the eggs are 
added. The whites are folded in quickly and the cake 
baked in a moderate oven. 




44 



CAKES 



WHIXn CAKn No. 2 

Whites of 4 eggs 2 cups of sugar 

1 cup of butter 1 cup of milk 

2 cups of flour 1 cup of Larkin Corn Starch 

3 teaspoons of Larkin Baking }4 teaspoon of L,arkin Almond 

Powder Flavoring Extract 

X teaspoon of lyarkin Orange Flavoring Extract 
The method of mixing the ingredients of this cake is identical 
with White Cake No. i. 



*GOLB CAKn 



1 cup of sugar 
Yolks of 6 eggs 

2 cups of flour 



yi, cup of butter 

^ cup of milk 

2 teaspoons of Larkin Baking Powder 



Grated rind and juice of % lemon or Yz teaspoon of Larkin Nutmeg 

^COFFnn CAKn 

1 cup of brown sugar }{ cup of butter 

2 eggs }4 cup of strong infusion of Larkin 
X teaspoon of Larkin Table Cofltee 

Salt }4 teaspoon of Larkin Soda 

1 teaspoon of Larkin Ginger 1}4 cups of flour 

*I,AYMR CAKn 



1 cup of sugar 
Yolks of 2 eggs 

2 cups of flour 

% teaspoon of Larkin Vanilla 
Flavoring Extract 



3 tablespoons of butter 

1 cup of milk 

2 teaspoons of Larkin Baking 

Powder 




SPONGn CAKn No. I 

4 eggs 1 cup of sugar 

1 cup of flour 1 teaspoon of Larkin Baking Powder 

% teaspoon of Larkin Vanilla Flavoring Extract 

Beat yolks until thick; add sugar and continue beating; then add 
flour sifted with baking powder. Fold in whites of eggs 
beaten until stiff". Pour into tins and bake in a slow oven. 



SPONGn CAKn No. 2 

3 eggs 1 cup of sugar 

1 cup of flour 1 tablespoon of cold water 

2 teaspoons of Larkin Baking Powder 
Follow directions of Sponge Cake No. 1. 

* Follow directions for mixing cakes containing butter. (Page 42). 



CAKES 



45 



* CINNAMON CAKn 

2 cups of brown sugar % cup of butter 

3 eggs — reserve one wbite for 1 cup of water 

icing ^ teaspoon of Larkin Ginger 

2 teaspoons of Larkin Cinn- 3 cups of flour 

amon 2 teaspoons of Larkin Baking 

Powder 
Icing. Make a syrup of one cup of brown sugar and one- 
fourth cup of water. Add two teaspoons of Larkin Cinnamon. When 
the syrup strings, pour it over the beaten white of one egg and beat 
until thoroughly blended. 

* CHOCOI^AT^ FUDGM CAK^ 

1 cup of sugar yi. cup of butter 

2 eggs % cup of milk 

l}i cups of flour lyi teaspoons of Larkin Baking 

2 squares of Larkin Unsweet- Powder 



ened Chocolate 



% 



Vanilla 



teaspoon of Larkin 
Flavoring Kxtrac. 
Bake in two layers. 

Filling. One and one-half cups of sugar ; one-half cup of 
milk ; two tablespoons of butter. 

Make like fudge and spread between the layers, but do not ice 
the top of the cake. 

chocolate: cr^am cak^ 

Make the same cake as for Cocoanut Cream cake, using for the 
custard filling, one and one-half cups of milk, one-half cup of sugar, 
the yolk of one egg, three tablespoons of Larkin Corn Starch, and one 
and one-half teaspoons of Larkin Vanilla Flavoring Extract. Spread 
between the layers, and ice the top and sides with an icing made by 
melting two squares of Larkin Unsweetened Chocolate, and one and 
one-half cups of powdered sugar and the white of one egg, 

* FRUIT CAKn 

2 lbs. of currants 

>^ lb. of figs. 

1 lb. of almonds 

1 lb. of brown sugar 

1 tablespoon of Larkin 

Nutmeg 
1 teaspoon of Larkin Cloves 
1 teaspoon of Larkin Soda 1 lb. of flour 
Prepare the fruit the day before and in the morning 
mix the other ingredients as for any cake, adding fruit 
at the very last. Bake slowly for five hours. This cake 
should be baked several weeks before being used. 
* Follow directions for mixing cakes containing butter, (Page 42). 



2 lbs. of raisins 
1 lb. of citron 
^ lb. of dates 

1 lb. of butter 
12 eggs 

2 tablespoons of Larkin 

Cinnamon 




46 CAKES 

MNGI^ISH FRUIT CAKM 

2 lbs. flour 1 lb. sugar 

8 oz. butter 8 oz. lard 

2 oz. of Larkin Baking Powder X teaspoon Larkin Soda— dis- 

1 pt. of milk solve in part of milk 

4 eggs Large pinch Larkin Table Salt 

1 lb. currants 1 lb. sultana raisins 

2 oz. candied pineapple 4 oz. figs 
2 oz. citron 

Chopped almonds and cherries to taste. 

Rub flour and shortening together. Add sugar, fruit, etc. Milk 
last with beaten eggs. Bake one hour. This makes four loaves. 

* sour-cr:gam cakh 

2 cups of brown sugar >^ cup of butter 

1 cup of sour milk 1 cup of sour cream 

4 cups of flour 3 teaspoons of Larkin Soda 

1 teaspoon of Larkin Cloves 3 teaspoons of Larkin Cinnamon 
^ teaspoon of Larkin Almond 2 cups of raisins 

Flavoring Extract X lt». of orange-peel 

j^ lb. of citron X 1^- of lemon-peel 

* APPI,Fi-SAUCFi CAKn 

2 cups of brown sugar 1 cup of butter or shortening 
2,}i cups of apple-sauce 2 cups of raisins 

X lb. each of citron, lemon-peel 2 teaspoons of Larkin Salt 

and orange 2 teaspoons of Larkin Nutmeg 

2 teaspoons of Larkin Cinnamon 2 teaspoons of Larkin Cloves 
4 cups of flour 1 teaspoon of Larkin Soda 

FIG CAKn 
Make the layer-cake recipe and between the layers put a filling 
made by cooking eight good-sized figs with one cup of sugar and one- 
fourth cup of water until thick. Ice the top with the usual icing. 

I,FMON CAKn 

Use the Cocoanut Cream-Cake formula and for the cream : 

1^ cups of water The juice and rind of 1 lemon 

3 tablespoons of Larkin Corn ^ cup of sugar 

Starch 1 egg 

2 tablespoons of butter 

ORANGF CAKF^ 

i I A cake to be eaten while fresh is made by making the 

l^^i layer-cake formula, and putting between the layers, oranges 

' 111 that have been sliced thin, sprinkling them with powdered 

'^ sugar. 

^^ WHIPPFD-CRFAM CAKF^ 

Another cake to be eaten while fresh. Make the Sponge 
Cake No. i, baking it in two layers and spreading whipped 
cream between the layers and on the top. Chopped nuts or 
candied cherries may be added to this filling. 
* Follow directions for mixing cakes containing butter. ( Page 42). 



48 CAKES 

POUND CAKn 

% cup butter 2 cups flour 

1 cup of whole eggs \% cups sugar 

1 teaspoon I,arkin Baking Pinch of Larkin Table Salt 

Powder Larkin Flavoring 

Cream butter and flour. Beat eggs until very light ; add sugar and 
baking powder. Add to flour and butter, mixing well. Add flavoring 
and beat thoroughly in long, even strokes. Bake in shallow pan. 

Let stand until cold. Cut into small pieces, squares, diamonds 
and triangles and dip in fondant icing. The icing may be colored 
and flavored in a variety of ways, thus giving the assorted cakes. 
Will keep fresh indefinitely. This may be used for the small assorted 
cakes for parties or receptions. 

*I,ADY BAI^TIMORn CAKM 

1 cup butter 2 cups sugar 

Z% cups flour 2 teaspoons Larkin Baking 

1 cup milk Powder 

Whites of 6 eggs 

For the Filling 

3 cups sugar 1 cup boiling water 

1 cup chopped raisins 1 cup nuts 

Whites of 3 eggs 5 figs 

Boil the sugar and water to soft ball-stage. Beat the eggs and 
then add chopped fruit. 

* BI,ACKBnRRY-JAM CAKM 

1 cup sugar ^ cup butter 

3 eggs \}4. cups flour 

\]4. teaspoons Larkin Baking 3 tablespoons cream 

Powder 1 teaspoon Larkin Cinnamon 

yi. teaspoon Larkin Cloves 1 cup blackberry jam 

Bake in layers using blackberry jam as filling. 

SPONGn ROI^h 

Beat four eggs thoroughly. Beat in one cup of sugar ; add one 
cup of flour, sifted with one teaspoon of Larkin Baking Powder. Beat 
thoroughly, and add one-half teaspoon of Larkin Vanilla Flavoring 
Extract. Bake in moderate oven in large pan so that batter is not 
more than half an inch thick. When done, remove from pan, bottom 

side up, on a fresh towel. Spread with jelly and roll ; 

wrapping with towel to keep its shape. 

*MAPI,n-SUGAR CAKn 

2 cups maple sugar 2 eggs 

1 cup sour milk 1 teaspoon Larkin Soda 

% cup butter 
Stir as stifi" as possible with flour because the sugar dissolves. 
Bake in a loaf. 
* Follow directions for mixing cakes containing butter. (Page 42). 



p^BBB^B 



ICINGS 



49 



CR^AM PUFFS 

1 cup boiling water 1 cup butter 

2 cups flour 

L/et the water boil with the butter, then stir in the flour. Let it 
cool, add five eggs stiffly beaten ; beat all well ; drop in mufl&n-rings. 
Bake one-half hour. 

For the Filling. Heat one pint milk. Beat one-fourth cup 
flour, one cup sugar, two eggs together. Add this to the milk and boil 
three minutes. Fill the puffs with this cream, when wanted. 

GINGFR BRFAD No. i 

% cup of brown sugar 
1 cup of molasses 1 egg 

j4 cup of shortening 4 cups of flour 

1 cup of sour milk 2 teaspoons of Larkin Soda 

1 teaspoon of Larkin Ginger 1 teaspoon of L,arkin Cinnamon 

GINGFR BRFAD No. z 

% cup of melted butter 1 egg 

1 cup of molasses 1 cup of sour milk 

2]/^ cups of flour 2 teaspoons of Larkin Soda 

2 teaspoons of Larkin Ginger yi teaspoon of Larkin Table Salt 



ICINGS 



BOIliFD ICING 

1 cup of granulated sugar ^ cup of water 

White of one egg 

Boil the sugar and water until it will string when dropped from a 
spoon. Beat the white of the egg until stiff, and into it gradually 
beat the syrup. Flavor with Larkin Orange Flavoring Extract and 
beat until smooth. 

TJNCOOKFD ICING 

The whites of 2 eggs 1}4 cups of powdered sugar 

)4 teaspoon of a Larkin Flavoring Extract 

Beat the whites of the eggs until stiff and gradually 
beat in the sugar. 

QUICK ICING 

Make a paste of confectioner's sugar and cold water 
until of the proper consistency to spread. The proportions 
cannot be given, as the absorptive quality of the sugar 
varies. ' This icing should not be used on a cake that will 
stand long before being served. 




50 



COOKIES 



CHOCOI^ATn ICING 

Add Larkin Unsweetened Chocolate, melted, to any of foregoing 
recipes for icing. 

COCOANUT ICING 

Larkin Shredded Cocoanut may also be used with any of the three 
above recipes to alter the flavor. 

AIMOND ICING 

Add one-fourth teaspoon of Larkin Almond Flavoring Extract 
and one-fourth teaspoon of Larkin Orange Flavoring Extract to either 
of first two recipes for icing. 



COOKIES 



SOUR-CR^AM COOKinS 

2 cups of sugar 1 cup of sotor cream 
1 cup of butter or other shorten- 2 eggs 

ing Flour to stiffen 

1 teaspoon of Larkin Soda }4 teaspoon of Larkin Table Salt 

^ cup caraway seed or }i teaspoon of Larkin Vanilla Flavoring 
Extract. 

Cream butter, add sugar, and beat in yolks of eggs. Stir in sour 
cream, soda, salt, caraway seed and flavoring. Mix with enough 
flour to stiffen and fold in beaten whites of eggs. Add enough flour 
to make dough stiff enough to handle. Roll very thin, 

CHOCOIATM COOKinS 

4 eggs 1 cup of butter 

1 cup of sugar 3 cups of flour 

3 squares of Larkin Unsweetened % teaspoon of Larkin Vanilla 
Chocolate (melted) 

Flour sufficient to roll very thin. 



Flavoring Extract 



CAKnS 

2}^ tablespoons of butter 
1 cup of milk 

% teaspoon of Larkin Cinnamon 
% teaspoon of Larkin Ground 
Nutmeg 




FRinD 

1 cup of sugar 

3 eggs 

4 teaspoons of Larkin Baking 
Powder 

\]4. teaspoons of Larkin Table Salt 

Flour enough to roll. 

Cream the butter, and add one-half the sugar. Beat 
eggs with remainder of sugar, and combine mixtures. Add 
three and one-half cups of flour with the baking powder, 
salt and spices, and more flom- if not stiff enough to roll. 
Turn on to a floured board, knead slightly, and roll to 
about one-half inch in thickness. Cut out with a doughnut- 
cutter and fry in deep fat. 

Fat to be of right temperature for fried cakes should 
smoke and if a cube of white bread is dropped in, bread 
should become a golden brown in sixty seconds. 



PASTRY 51 

HERMITS 

2 cups of brown sugar ^ cup of butter 

2 eggs 1 cup of hot water 

1 cup of chopped seeded raisins 1 cup of hickory -nut meats 

1 teaspoon of Larkin Cloves 1 teaspoon of Larkin Cinnamon 

1 teaspoon Larkin Allspice 2 teaspoons of Larkin Baking 

Powder 
Add sufficient flour to make batter stiff enough to drop from 
spoon onto buttered tins. 

OATMMATy MACAROONS 

2 tablespoons of butter 1 cup of sugar 

2 eggs '/i teaspoon of Larkin Table 

1 teaspoon of Larkin Baking Salt 

Powder 3 cups of rolled oats 

Cream the butter and sugar, add eggs well beaten but not 
separated, salt, rolled oats and baking powder. Bake in a hot oven 
until brown and crisp. 

SPONGE SQUARES 

Bake the Sponge Cake No. i recipe in a dripper and when cool 
cut in inch squares with a sharp knife. Ice these squares with a 
chocolate-, vanilla-, or orange-icing. They are very nice with ice- 
cream. 



PASTRY 



"What a brave piece of cookery."— Ben Jonson. 

PASTRY is one of the difficult things in cookery. The 
fat incorporated into the flour surrounds the starch- 
globules and prevents the action of the saliva, thus interfer- 
ing with the process of digestion. Care must be taken 
therefore, to make the pastry light, dry and flaky. 

There are two kinds of paste used — pufi" and plain. 

Puff paste is made only with much care and difficulty 
by people with deft and light touch, as it must be handled 
very delicately to be a success. 

Puff paste is used for pastry-shells, vol-au-vents, tarts. 
Plain paste is easier to make and is what is commonly used 
for pie-shells. 



62 



PASTRY 



^^-''^^^^^Tffff 



MATMRIAI^S AND UT:^NSII,S 

A fine pastry flour. Shortening in plain paste may be either 
butter, beef-suet, lard or olive oil. The water should be about the 
same temperature as that of the room. 

The needful articles are a moulding-board, 
a rolling-pin, a flour-dredge, a spatula for 
Spatula or Mixing-Knife mixing. 

Any kind of paste will keep uncooked for a day or two, if kept 
cool, but a pie should be eaten the day it is made. A few pies such as 
piunpkin or mince, will keep a day or so, but mince pies should be 
re-heated before they are served. 

PI,AIN PAST£^ 

1 "A cups of flour }4 teaspoon of Larkin Table Salt 
j/j cup of lard Cold water 

Work the lard into the flour very carefully and mix into a dough 
with water sufl&cient to roll. Handle with great care, as the more the 
dough is handled, the less tender it becomes. 

orang:^ MnRiNGun Pin 

2 eggs J^ cup of sugar 

3 tablespoons of Larkin Corn Starch 1 pint of milk 
1 teaspoon of Larkin Orange Flavoring Ertract 
Juice and grated rind of ^^ medium size orange 

Beat the yolks of the eggs with the sugar. Moisten the Corn Starch 
in a portion of the milk. Scald the remainder. Stir the other ingre- 
dients into the milk and cook. Pour into a baked pastry-shell. 
Cover with a meringue made by adding to the beaten whites of the 
eggs, three-fourths cup of sugar. Brown in a moderate oven. 

COCOANUT Pin 

4 eggs 

% cup of butter 
1 quart of milk 
1 teaspoon of I,arkin Corn 

Starch 
This quantity is sufficient for two pies, 

i^nMON Pin 

3 eggs 2^ cup of sugar 

4 tablespoons of Larkin Juice and rind of 1 large 
Corn Starch lemon or 2 small 

1 pt. of water lemons 

Beat the yolks of the eggs with the sugar. Moisten 
the Corn Starch in a portion of the water. Boil remainder 
with the grated rind and juice of the lemon for twenty 
minutes. Strain and add to the water, the other ingre- 
dients. When thickened, pour into a paste-shell and 
cover with a meringue made from the whites of the eggs 
and one cup of sugar. 

Brown in a moderate oven and serve cold. 



1 cup of powdered sugar 
1 cup of Larkin Shredded 

Cocoanut 
}4. teaspoon of Larkin Vanilla 

Flavoring Extract 




PASTRY 53 

APPI,n M^RINGU^ PIBi 

Make an apple sauce from tart apples, sufl5cient for one pie. 
Flavor with the juice of a lemon and one-fourth teaspoon of Larkin 
Nutmeg. Put in a dish lined with paste, and bake. Make a meringue 
of the whites of two eggs and three-fourths cup of sugar. 

Brown and serve cold. 

PUMPKIN pm 

Stew the pumpkin, simmering it down to evaporate all possible 
moisture. Mash through a colander. To each cup of pumpkin allow 
three-fourths of a cup of rich milk, one egg, one teaspoon of Larkin 
Cinnamon, one-half teaspoon of Larkin Cloves, one teaspoon of Larkin 
Ginger, one-quarter cup of sugar. Bake in deep pie-plate lined with 
crust. One-half teaspoon of Lemon Flavoring Extract may also be 
used. 

MINCn PTB 

Make mince meat in this proportion : 
1 cup of chopped beef 2 cups of chopped apples 

1 teaspoon of Larkin Table Salt 1 teaspoon of Larkin Cin- 
1 cup of brown sugar namon 

yz cup of raisins %, cup of currants 

1 cup of cider ^ cup of citron, lemon and 

orange peel, mixed 

CHOCOI^ATM CRMAM Pin 

Moisten half a package of Larkin Prepared Chocolate Pudding- 
powder in a small quantity of milk. Scald the remainder of one pint 
of milk. Add the moistened powder and cook ten minutes. Pour into 
a baked pie-shell and cover with a meringue made from the whites of 
two eggs beaten to a stiff froth and one-half cup of granulated sugar. 
Spread over the cream and brown. Serve warm or cold. 

CUSTARD Pin 

4 eggs 2% cups of milk 

% cup of sugar X teaspoon of Larkin Table 

% teaspoon of Larkin Nutmeg Salt 

Beat the eggs and sugar. Add a portion of the milk. Pour into 
a pie-plate lined with paste, add the remainder of the milk and bake 
in moderate oven one-half hour, or until the custard is firm. 

APPin TURNOVnRS 

Make a rich biscuit-dough by putting one pint of flour into a 
bowl, adding half a teaspoon of Larkin Table Salt and two teaspoons 
of Larkin Baking Powder. Mix thoroughly, then rub into this, one 
tablespoon of butter, and add sufficient milk to make a soft dough. 
Roll out into a thin sheet, and cut into circles with a biscuit-cutter. 
Cover half the circle with apples, cut into slices, turn the 

other half over them, and press the edges tightly together. 

Brush with milk and bake twenty minutes. Serve with 
custard sauce 

APPI,n FRITTnRS 

3 eggs beaten lightly 1 teaspoon Larkin Table Salt 

1 pt. milk )4 cup sugar 

2 cups chopped apples 2 cups flour 
Flavor with Larkin Nutmeg. Stir well and fry on 

griddle. Sift sugar over them and send to the table hot. 



DJE^SSERTS 



"Pretty little tiny kickshaws." — Shakespeare. 

THK dessert course of a luncheon or dinner is usually a 
sweet of some preferred kind. This includes the 
Custards, the Gelatine combinations, the Charlottes, and the 
Ice-creams, Ices, Frozen Puddings. These are separated 
into groups according to the thickening agent — as Corn 
Starch, Gelatine, Eggs, Tapioca, etc. 

TAPIOCA BAK^D CUSTARD 

Soak two-thirds of a cup of Larkin Pearl Tapioca in one cup of 
milk for several hours. Scald the remainder of one quart of milk, and 
add moistened Tapioca. Cook twenty minutes ; add one tablespoon 
of butter, a pinch of Larkin Table Salt and one egg beaten light with 
one-half cup of sugar. Bake half an hour. Serve with custard sauce 
or with cream, flavored with L,arkin Vanilla Flavoring Extract or 
Larkin Nutmeg. 

TAPIOCA CR^AM 

Soften three tablespoons of Larkin Pearl Tapioca in water over 
night. Add to one quart of scalded milk and cook until Tapioca is 
clear ; stir in the yolks of three eggs beaten light with three-fourths 
of a cup of sugar. Cook two or three minutes, add Larkin Table 
Salt and flavor with one-half teaspoon of Larkin Vanilla Flavoring 
Extract. Pour into a deep dish, and cover with a meringue made from 
the whites of the eggs beaten stiff with one-half cup of powdered 
$ugar. Brown in a slow oven and serve cold. 

APPI,E TAPIOCA 

Thoroughly wash one-half cup of Larkin Pearl Tapioca in several 
waters. Cook in water to cover, in a double boiler, until transparent. 
Put a layer of apples, pared and quartered, in the bottom of a baking- 
dish, pour the tapioca over it, and bake in a covered 
dish until the apples are tender. Remove cover and 
brown. Serve with cream and sugar. Larkin Sago may 
be used instead of Tapioca. 

INDIAN TAPIOCA 

Into a pint of scalded milk stir one-third of a cup of 
Larkin Pearl Tapioca that has been soaked for three 
hours in water, and two tablespoons of Indian meal. 
Stir until tapioca becomes transparent ; then stir in one- 
half cup of molasses, one tablespoon of butter, one-fourth 
teaspoon of Larkin Table Salt. Pour into a buttered 
baking-dish, and over it pour three-fourths of a cup of 
milk — without stirring. Put into oven and bake an 
hour. Serve warm or cold with cream. 



DESSERTS 65 

COCOANUT TAPIOCA-CR^AM 

Follow directions for making Tapioca Cream, stirring into the 
cream one-half cup of Lark in Shredded Cocoanut before adding the 
meringue. Serve very cold with jelly. 

FIG TAPIOCA 

Soak one-half cup of Larkin Pearl Tapioca in one and one-half 
cups of cold water. Cut one-half pound of figs in small pieces and 
cover with cold water. Cook until figs are soft, and put into a double 
boiler, add the tapioca and steam until clear — or about two hours. 
Serve warm or cold with cream and sugar. 

PRUNM TAPIOCA 

Prepare the same amount of prunes and Larkin Pearl Tapioca as 
above. The prunes, being juicier, do not require quite so much water 
as the figs. Remove the pits, after the fruit is stewed, and cook with 
the tapioca in the same way. Serve cold with a hard sauce, made of 
equal parts of pulverized sugar and butter, and flavored with lemon 
juice. 

STRAWBERRY SAGO 

Soak one cup of Larkin Sago in three cups of cold water for two 
hours, and cook in a double boiler until transparent. When cool, 
pour over strawberries in a mold and serve perfectly cold with sugar 
and cream. Raspberries, blackberries and pineapple may be used in 
place of the strawberries. 

SAGO CRMAM 

Soften three tablespoons of Larkin Sago in water over night 
Add to one quart of scalded milk and cook until sago is clear ; stir in 
the yolks oi three eggs beaten light with three-fourths of a cup of 
sugar. Cook two or three minutes, add salt, and flavor with one-half 
teaspoon of Larkin Orange Flavoring Extract. Pour into a deep dish, 
and cover with a meringue made from the whites of the eggs beaten 
stiff with one-half cup of powdered sugar. Brown in a slow oven and 
serve cold. 

PIAIN RICM-PUDDING 

1 qt. milk )4 cup rice 

X teaspoon Larkin Table Salt 1 cup of raisins 

Sugar to taste 

Stir rice and raisins with one-half the milk in pan and 
bake for one hour, frequently stirring to prevent browning 
on top. Add the remainder of milk and sweeten to taste. 
Bake for another hour, frequently stirring as above. 

APPLE BATTER-PUDDING 

1 egg 1 cup of milk 

l}i teaspoons of Larkin Bak- ^ teaspoon Table Salt 

ing Powder 1^ cups of flour 

Slice apples into a buttered baking-dish, sprinkle over 

them one teaspoon of Larkin Cinnamon or Larkin Nutmeg. 

Pour the batter over the apples and bake one-half hour in 

a moderate oven. Serve with hard sauce. 




56 DESSERTS 

BROWN b:e;tty 

Put a layer of bread crumbs into a well-buttered baking-dish ; on 
the crumbs small bits of butter ; next a layer of apples, cored and 
sliced ; with sugar and Larkin Nutmeg or Larkin Cinnamon. Repeat 
this until the dish is full. Add one-half cup of water ; bake in a 
moderate oven. Serve with hard sauce. 

ORANGn CRnAM-Pin 

]^ cup of butter creamed 2 eggs beaten with yi cup of sugar 
with y^ cup of sugar until light 

Add to butter grated rind of %. orange 

^2 cup of orange-juice % cup of milk or water 

3 teaspoons Larkin Baking 2 cups flour 
Powder 

Bake in two layers. 

For the Filling. Scald one cup of milk, reserving enough to 
mix with two tablespoons flour. Add this to hot milk. Stir until 
smooth and cook twenty minutes. Add one egg beaten or yolks of two. 
Add one-half cup of orange-juice and grated rind of one orange. Cook 
one minute more. Take from fire and add one-half cup of sugar. One- 
half teaspoon of flavoring. Spread when cool. 

WASHINGTON CRFAM-PIM 

2 tablespoons butter 1 cup sugar 

1 egg 1^ cup flour 

1 cup milk 2 teaspoons Larkin Baking Powder 

}4 teaspoon Larkin Vanilla 

Flavoring Extract 
Cream butter and sugar ; add egg unbeaten. Mix well and beat. 

Add milk and flour alternately. Bake in two layers. 

For the Filling. 

1 cup milk 1 tablespoon flour (moistened in a 

}4 cup sugar little milk) 

1 egg 

Heat milk in double boiler. Add flour. Beat sugar and egg 
until light and add. Mix well and cook fifteen to twenty minutes. 
, , Cool and spread between layers. 

^^^ SPONGF RING WITH FRUIT 

LMMu BI Make a sponge cake by using two eggs, one-half 

J f iHfi^ ' M il *^^P °^ sugar, one-half cup of flour and one-half teaspoon 

■^rjhu rSli of Larkin Baking Powder. Bake in a ring-mold. Serve 

;;°,LvH-i;t I ^y removing from mold and into the center piling cut 

rr^^hsT'lm oranges, or oranges and bananas. This may be served 

9SsaSs ^ with the sauce given with the Cottage Pudding. 



DESSERTS 67 

FRUIT m:^ringuj^ 

Whites of 5 eggs )4 cup of sugar 

X teaspoon cream of tartar ^ cup preserves or finely - cut 

blanched almonds 

Beat the eggs until foamy, add cream of tartar and beat until dry; 
add sugar and fruit. Turn the mixture into a large buttered mold and 
cook in a steamer for twenty minutes without letting the water boil. 
Serve with custard sauce. 

COTTAGE PUDDING 

2 tablespoons of butter }4 cup of sugar 

1 egg ^ cup of milk 

1/i cups of flour ^ teaspoon of Larkin Table Salt 

2 teaspoons of Larkin Baking }4 teaspoon of Larkin Vanilla 

Powder Flavoring Extract 

Bake in a dripping-pan. Serve hot with Foamy Pudding-Sauce. 

FIG PUDDING 

1 cup of figs (chopped) 1 cup of sweet milk 

1 cup of molasses 1 )4 cups of Graham flour 

1)4 teaspoons of Larkin Soda 

Steam three hours and serve with a sauce. 

NUT PUDDING 

1 cup of molasses 1 cup of chopped suet 

1 cup of sweet milk 2j4 cups of flour 

)4 teaspoon of Larkin Nutmeg 1 teaspoon of Larkin Soda 

)4 teaspoon of Larkin Table 1 pound of English Walnuts 

Salt (chopped) 

X pound of figs (chopped) 
Steam two and one-half hours. 

CARAMEI, PUDDING 

1 tablespoon of butter 1 pt. of milk 

1 egg % cup of sugar 

3 tablespoons of Laikin Corn )4 teaspoon of Larkin Table Salt 

Starch }i teaspoon of Larkin Vanilla 

Flavoring Extract 
Put the sugar into a frying-pan and melt, shaking the pan con- 
stantly so that it will not burn. Heat the milk and blend 
it with the sugar. Add the Corn Starch and egg. Flavor, 
pour into a mold and serve cold with cream. 

Note. All measurements are made level. A cup- 
ful means a level cupful. A spoonful means a level 
spoonful. (See page 9). Flour is sifted once before 
being measured. 




68 



DESSERTS 



ORANGM PUDDING 

yi cup of sugar 1 pint of milk 

1 orange 2 eggs 

3 tablespoons of Larkin Com Starch 

Moisten the Com Starch in a small portion of the milk. Beat the 
yolks of the eggs -with the sugar. Scald the milk and add to it the 
grated rind of the orange, the corn starch, eggs, and sugar, and 
orange- juice in the order named. When cooked, pour into a pudding- 
dish. Cover with meringue made from the whites of the eggs and 
one-half cup of sugar. Brown in the oven, and serve cold. 

STMAM£^D CUP-PUDDING 

Make a batter of one cup of milk, one egg, one teaspoon of 
Larkin Baking Powder, one-fourth teaspoon of Larkin Table Salt, one 
and one-half cups of flour. Put any desired fruit into a well-buttered 
cup, cover with the batter and steam twenty minutes. Serve with a 
sauce. 

GRAHAM PUDDING 



1 cup of molasses 

legg 

1 teaspoon of Larkin Soda 

1 teaspoon of Larkin Cinnamon 

1^ cups of Graham flour 

Steam three hours. 



1 cup of milk 

1 tablespoon of butter 

1 teaspoon of Larkin Allspice 

1 teaspoon of Larkin Cloves 

1 cup of raisins 



VANII,I,A BI^ANC'MANGn 

tablespoons Larkin Corn 1 qt. milk 



Starch 
^ cup granulated sugar 



2 eggs 

}4 teaspoon Larkin Vanilla 
Flavoring Extract 

Moisten Corn Starch in eight tablespoons of milk. Scald the 
remainder. Cook fifteen minutes. Beat sugar and eggs together 
until light and add. Cook two minutes, take from fire and add 
Vanilla. Pour into mold and cool. Serve thoroughly cold with cream. 

CHocoi^ATP^ bi,anc-mang:e) 

In one-half cup of milk, soften one-fourth box of 
Larkin Gelatine. Scald one and one-half cups of 
milk, and stir into it two ounces of Larkin Unsweetened 
Chocolate, a pinch of Larkin Table Salt, and one-half 
cup of sugar ; when smooth, take from fire and add 
Gelatine and one-half teaspoon of Larkin Vanilla 
Flavoring Extract. Mold and serve with whipped 
cream. 




desserts 59 

r:e;cipms for using 
l^arkin prepared puddings 

CHOCOtATE VANII^IA ORANGE I^EMON 

Moisten the contents of the package in three-fourths of a cup 
of cold milk. Scald the remainder of a quart of milk and into it stir 
the moistened powder. Cook from ten to twenty minutes, stirring 
constantly. Pour into molds and serve hot or cold, with whipped 
or plain cream or milk. May be further sweetened with sugar if 
desired. This quantity makes one quart of pudding. 

Note: — In preparing Orange and L,emon Pudding, the flavoring- 
capsule contained in the package should be added just before taking 
from the fire, stirring until dissolved. 

PI,AIN BAVARIAN CKE^AM 

Moisten the contents of one-half box of Larkin Gelatine in one- 
half cup of cold water, one pint of milk and stir into it the yolks of 
four eggs beaten with one cup of sugar. When cooked, take from 
stove, add the Gelatine, one pint of cream whipped until stiff, and 
one-half teaspoon of Larkin Vanilla Flavoring Extract. Pour into 
mold and serve cold. 

AI^MOND BAVARIAN CRFAM 

Follow directions for making Plain Bavarian Cream, adding a 
cup of finely chopped, blanched almonds and one-half teaspoon of 
Larkin Almond Flavoring Extract. Many pleasing variations may be 
made with the Plain Bavarian Cream as a basis. 

SNOW PUDDING 

Moisten the contents of one-half box of Larkia Gelatitie in one- 
half cup of cold water. Add to it a hot syrup made from one-half 
pint water, rind of one and juice of two lemons, three-fourths-cup of 
sugar. Strain and let it remain until nearly cold and beginning to set ; 
then add the beaten whites of two eggs. Beat ten minutes. Pile 
high in a glass dish and serve with a thin custard sauce. 

COCOANUT CRJ^AM'PUDDING 

Scald one pint of milk and add one cup of Larkin Shredded 
Cocoanut ; stir in three tablespoons of Larkin Com Starch moistened 
in one-fourth cup of milk. Beat the yolks of two eggs with three- 
fourths-cup of sugar until light and add to the milk. Add beaten 
whites and one-half teaspoon of Larkin Vanilla Flavoring Extract. 
Pour into pudding-dish. Cover top thickly with Cocoanut and brown 
in oven. Serve cold with or without cream. 

PI,AIN I,nMONJFI,lY 

1 pkg. Larkin Gelatine 1 cup of cold water 

3 pts. of freshly boiled water 
1 cup of sugar 

Juice of 3 lemons or }i cup of lemon-juice 

Moisten Gelatine in cold water for two minutes, 
pour on boiling water, add sugar and lemon-juice 
and strain through cheese-cloth or soft linen into 
molds. 




60 



DESSERTS 



ORANGE j:ei.i,Y 

Moisten one-half package of Larkin Gelatine in one-half cup of 
cold water. Dissolve in one cup of freshly boiled water, adding one 
cup of sugar, one pint of orange- juice, the juice of one lemon and 
one-half package of orange coloring-powder. Mold and serve with 
whipped cream. 

coff:e;:e; jm,i,Y 

% pkg. Larkin Gelatine ^ cup of cold water 

1%. pts. of strong hot coffee ^ cup of sugar 

Moisten Gelatine in cold water. Add sugar and hot coffee, stir 

until thoroughly dissolved, and strain into mold. Serve with whipped 

cream or a thin custard sauce. 

CI,FAR MINTJFI^I^Y 

1 pt. boiling water 1 cup cut up mint-leaves 

2% tablespoons powdered sugar 6 tablespoons lemon-juice 
}i pkg. Larkin Gelatine yi cup cold water 

Green coloring to suit J4^ cup boiling water 

Cut up the mint-leaves and steep one-half hour in the pint of boil- 
ing water. Moisten the Gelatine in the cold water and add the one- 
fourth cup of boiling water. Strain the mint and add Gelatine, sugar, 
lemon-juice and sufficient Larkin Apple-Green Paste Color. Strain 
and pour into mold. Chill and serve with roast lamb. 

FRUIT JFII^Y 

Follow directions for making Plain Lemon Jelly, varying the 
amount of sugar according to the kind of fruit, allowing one layer to 
harden before more jelly is added. Alternate layers of fruit and jelly 
until mold is filled. By careful and painstaking molding, many 
beautiful designs can be worked out with the fruit. 

SPICFD GRAPn-JUICF: JFLLY 



%. teaspoon Larkin Cloves 
2 teaspoons Larkin Cinnamon 
I pt. of grape-juice 
1 pkg. of Larkin Gelatine 
Juice and rind of 1 lemon 



% teaspoon Larkin Allspice 
1 pt. cold water. 
1 cup of sugar 
1 cup cold water 



Boil 20 min. 




BANANA 

3 bananas 

y^ cup cold water 

1 cup sugar 



WHIP 

Juice of 1 lemon 

1 pt. freshly boiled water 

%. pkg. Larkin Gelatine 



X pkg. of pink coloring-powder 

Remove the skins and indigestible portion of the 
bananas. Cut fine, add lemon-juice and beat to 
a creamy mass. Moisten Gelatine in cold water, 
add sugar, bananas and coloring, and beat again 
until foamy. Pour into a mold and serve with 
cream. 



^^ 



C/1 

■o 

o 

-z. 




w 
f 




< 



■^^^ 



o 

re 
o 
o 
o 



c 
o 
g 

z 
o 




62 PUDDING SAUCES 

prun:^ sponge 

Soak one pound of French Prunes over night in enough water to 
cover them. In the morning, stew in the same water until tender. 
Add one cup of sugar, and put through a sieve to retain all stones and 
skins. To the pulp, add one-half box of L,arkin Gelatine softened in 
one-half cup of water, the juice of one lemon and one orange. Beat 
until foamy. Then add the stiffly beaten whites of two eggs and 
beat again until all are thoroughly mixed. Mold. 

VEI^VMT CRnAM 

Yt pkg. Larkin Gelatine Yz cup of cold water 

1 cup of boiling water 2 cups of sugar 

1 quart of cream 1 teaspoon of Larkin Vanilla 

Flavoring Extract 

Moisten the Gelatine in the cold water for three minutes and pour 
over it the boiling water. Whip the cream and add the sugar to it. 
Beat the Gelatine into it, add the flavoring, and chill. 

I^ARKIN PRHPARnD JBI^LY DMSS^RT 

ORANGE liT^MON 

Moisten the contents of the package in one-fourth cup of cold 
water. Add one and three-fourths cups of boiling water. Stir until 
dissolved. Pour into mold and set on ice to harden. Serve as 
dessert with cream, plain or whipped. 

WINn JMI^LY 

1 package of Larkin Gelatine 1 cup of cold water 
3 pints of freshly boiled water 1 cup of sugar 
Juice of 1 lemon Y cup of sherry wine 

Moisten the contents of the package in the cold water for two 
minutes. Add sugar, pour over this the boiling water. Add lemon-juice 
and wine. Strain through cheese-cloth or soft linen into molds. This 
may be used for invalids or as a dessert. Serve with whipped cream. 

FRUIT SPONGJ^ 

yi lb. apricots 1 cup sugar 

1 orange 1 lemon 

5 dessertspoons Larkin Whites of 3 eggs 

Gelatine ^ cup cold water 

Wash apricots and soak in water sufficient to cover. Cook slowly 
below the boiling-point until the apricots are tender. Add sugar and 
bring to a boil for fifteen minutes. Take from fire and mash through a 
wire strainer. Use one and one-half cups of the strained pulp. Add the 
juices of the orange and lemon, and the gelatine softened in cold water. 



PUDDING SAUCBS 



"THE SUPERFLUOUS. A VERY NECESSARY IHmG.^' —Voltaire. 

HARD SAUCE 

Use two parts of pulverized sugar to one part of butter. Cream 
the butter and add the sugar gradually until very light. Flavor with 
Larkin Nutmeg or with lemon- juice. 



CANDIES 



63 



I,^MON SAUCJ^ 

2 tablespoons of butter )4 cup of sugar 

1 tablespoon of Larkin Com 1 cup of boiling water 

Starch Juice of ^ lemon 

% teaspoon of Lemon Flavoring Extract 
Beat thoroughly the butter, sugar, Corn Starch and eggs, 
water over them and cook in a double boiler. 



Pour 



FOAMY SAUCM 

1 cup of milk 1 tablespoon of t,arkin Corn Starch 

2 tablespoons of butter 1 egg 
Yz cup of sugar 

Moisten the Corn Starch in a small portion of the milk. Scald 
the remainder, stir in the Corn Starch and add the butter. Beat the 
sugar and stir into it the milk. Beat the white of the egg until stiff 
and fold into the custard carefully. 

UOT CHOCOI,ATF-SAUCF 

1 cup of cream 2 squares of Larkin Unsweetened 

^ cup of sugar Chocolate 

Blend the sugar and chocolate, and heat. When melted, add the 
cream, which should be scalded before adding. Flavor with one-half 
teaspoon of Larkin Vanilla Flavoring Extract and one-eighth tea- 
spoon of Larkin Table Salt. Serve hot, over plain Vanilla Ice-cream. 

COI,D CHOCOLATE -SAUC:^ 



1 cup of milk 

1 tablespoon of butter 

1 square of Larkin Unsweet- 
ened Chocolate 

y$ teaspoon of Larkin Table 
Salt 



1 egg 

J4 cup of sugar 
}4 teaspoon of Larkin 
Flavoring Extract 



Vanilla 



CANDIES 



"all that's sweet was made but to be lost ■when sweetest."— Af<;or<. 

CHOCOI^ATn FTJDGn 

Two cups of granulated sugar, two-thirds cup of 
milk, one ounce of butter, two ovmces of Larkin 
Unsweetened Chocolate, one-half teaspoon of Larkin 
Vanilla Flavoring Extract. 

Put sugar and milk over fire until boiling point 
is reached. Melt chocolate and add to mixture. 
Cook until syrup will form a soft ball, if tried in 
cold water. Take from fire, add butter and Vanilla 
Extract. Let dish stand in cold water until mixture 
is nearly cool, then beat until creamy. Pour quickly 
into a buttered pan and when cool, cut in squares. 




.^g 



64 CANDIES 

COCOA FUDG^ 

Two cups of granulated sugar, one ounce of butter, two-thirds 
cup of milk, two ounces of Larkin Cocoa, one-half teaspoon of Larkin 
Vanilla Flavoring Extract. Mix Cocoa with sugar, and prepare the 
same as Chocolate Fudge. 

oi,d-fashion:ed cocoanut crfams 

Boil two cups of granulated sugar and two-thirds cup of water. 
When boiling rapidly, add one-eighth teaspoon of cream of tartar. 
Cook until it will form a soft ball if dropped into cold water. Take 
from fire, and add one cup of L,arkin Shredded Cocoanut and one-half 
teaspoon of Larkin Vanilla or Orange Flavoring Extract. Drop upon 
waxed paper. 

COCOANUT FUDGF 

Two cups of brown sugar, one-half cup of milk, two ounces of 
butter, one-half teaspoon of a preferred flavoring, one cup of 
Larkin Shredded Cocoanut. Put sugar and milk over fire until the 
boiling-point is reached, add butter and cook until it nearly strings. 
Take from fire, add flavoring and Cocoanut, and stir until it snaps. 
Pour quickly into buttered tin ; cool and cut into squares. 

CARAMFL FUDGF 

Stir three cups of sugar and one cup of thin cream. Boil, without 
stirring, to soft ball-stage. At the same time, stir one cup of sugar 
over the fire until it caramels. 

Pour caramel into first mixture and let it boil up once. Take from 
fire and beat until thick, adding one-half cup citron, candied cherries, 
pineapple, and plums cut fine, and one cup of pecan-nut meats. 

WINTFRGRFFN CRFAMS 

Wintergreen Creams are made by boiling two cups of sugar and 
two-thirds of a cup of water. When boiling rapidly, put in one- 
eighth teaspoon of cream of tartar. When the syrup strings, take from 
fire, add one teaspoon of Larkin Essence of Winter- 
green, and beat until it begins to grain. Drop 
quickly on waxed or buttered paper. 

PEPPERMINT CREAMS 

Two cups of granulated sugar, two-thirds cup of 
boiling water, one teaspoon of Larkin Peppermint, 
one-eighth teaspoon of cream of tartar. Prepare the 
same as Wintergreen Creams. 




CANDIES 65 

PMANUT BRITTI^n 

Shell, measure and chop a quart of nuts. Measure an equal por- 
tion of granulated sugar. Put sugar in saucepan over the fire, gently 
shaking until sugar is entirely dissolved. Put the nuts on a buttered 
tin and pour dissolved sugar over it. Cool and break into squares. 

SUI^TANA FUDGH^ 

Melt one-fourth cup of butter, and stir into it two cups of sugar, 
one-fourth cup of molasses, one-half cup of milk. Boil four minutes. 
Stir in two squares of Larkin Unsweetened Chocolate, scraped fine ; 
boil four minutes. Add one-half teaspoon of Larkin Vanilla Flavor- 
ing Extract. Take from fire and beat it until it will spread. Stir 
in two-thirds cup of chopped English walnuts, and one-third cup of 
sultana raisins ; pour in buttered tins. Cool and cut into squares. 

CHOCOI^ATn PnPPE;RMINTS 

Follow the formula for Peppermint Creams, adding one and one- 
half ounces of Larkin Unsweetened Chocolate. 

BUTTJSR SCOTCH 

1 cup of sugar X cup of molasses 

1 tablespoon of vinegar 2 tablespoons of boiling water 
^ cup of butter 

Boil ingredients until when tried in cold water the mixture will 
become brittle. Turn into a well-buttered pan, and when slightly 
cool mark into squares with a sharp-pointed knife. 

VANII,I,A CARAMS^IS 

2 cups of sugar }i cup of cream 
^ cup of butter X cup of syrup 
}4 teaspoon Larkin Vanilla Flavoring Extract 

Cook to soft ball. Do not stir. Pour into molds and when cool, 
cut into squares. Wrap in waxed papers. 

TURKISH PAST^ 

Mint Flavor 

Pour one-half cup of cold water over three tablespoons Larkin 
Gelatine. Let stand until the water is all absorbed. 

Pour one-half cup cold water over two cups of granulated 
sugar. Stir until dissolved. Heat to the boiling point. Add 
gelatine and cook twenty minutes after boiling begins. Re- 
move from fire and add two tablespoons of lemon-juice. 
Flavor to taste with Larkin Essence of Peppermint and color 
with Larkin Apple-Green Paste Color. Turn into unbuttered 
pans to stand until cold and firm, preferably over night. 
Then loosen with the point of a knife at the edge ; gently 
pull from the pan to a paper, spread with sifted confec- 
tioner's sugar. Cut into squares ; roll in the sugar. 




DIRECTIONS FOR FREEZING 
ICE-CREAM 



",My choice would be vanilla lev.."— Holmes. 

ALIy creams should be carefully mixed before putting into 
the can of the freezer. Be sure the can has been 
scalded and then cooled. Put the cream in the can, 
fasten down the gear and pack with ice and salt — three parts 
ice, crushed very fine, to one part of salt. Use Rock Salt 
always. The salt draws the heat from the ice and "the briny 
water resulting is many degrees lower in temperature than 
the ice. This reduces the mixture to the freezing-point, and 
if the mixture is stirred evenly throughout the time of freez- 
ing, the result will be a smooth, fine-grained cream. Do 
not pour out the salty water and re-fill with ice. This is a 
mistake people often make. 

Ice-cream made from pure cream is liked by so many 
people that we will give a formula for this kind. 

YAH^II^I^A ICnCHnAM No. i 

1 quart whipping-cream 1 cup of sugar 

1 teaspoon of Larkin Vanilla 

Flavoring Extract 
Whip the cream with a cream-whip. Add sugar and flavoring, 

3.11(1 iTGCZG 

VANII,I,A ICn-CRnAM NO. « 

Soften one-quarter box or two dessert-spoons of Larkin Gelatine 
in one cup of milk. Scald the remainder of one quart of milk and 
pour over the gelatine, adding one and one-half cups of sugar, one 
pint of cream, one teaspoon of Larkin Vanilla Flavoring Extract, and 
a quarter-teaspoon of Larkin Table Salt. Freeze, then re-pack and 
allow to ripen two hours, that the ingredients may be well blended. 

CARAMni, ICn-CRnAM No. I 

Use recipe for either Vanilla Ice-cream No. 1 or No. 2, omitting 
the Vanilla Flavoring Extract. Bring one-third of 
the sugar to a caramel stage and add to the cream 
after it has been whipped, and freeze. 

COFFX):^ ICF-CRnAM 

Use recipe for either Vanilla Ice-cream No. 1 or 
No. 2, omitting the Vanilla Flavoring Extract. Add 
to the cream, one-half cup of strong Larkin Coffee 
and an additional half cup of sugar, and freeze. 




ICE CREAM AND ICES 67 

p:each ic]E)-cr^am 

One quart of whipping-cream, one and one-half cups of sugar, one 
quart or a dozen ordinary sized peaches. Whip the cream and add 
the sugar. Pare and mash the peaches through a colander. Freeze 
the cream and when nearly ready, take out the dasher and add the 
fruit. Pack and set aside for two hours. Add one-half teaspoon of 
Larkin Almond Flavoring Extract if that flavoring is liked. 

BANANA ic:^-cr:^am 

One quart of cream, four bananas, one and one-half tablespoons of 
lemon-juice, one cup of sugar. Remove the skins of the bananas, 
mash through a sieve, add lemon-juice and beat until foamy. Beat 
the cream, add sugar and fruit and freeze as usual. This cream 
mellows and is much better for a longer re-packing than most other 
creams. 

FRUIT icn-cRnAM 

Using either of the Vanilla Ice-cream recipes. Any fruit may be 
added to the mixture when the dasher is taken out, always modifying 
the flavoring to suit the added fruit. 

CHOCOtATn ICn-CRnAM 

2 dessert-spoons of Larkin 1 quart of milk 

' Gelatine 2 eggs 

2 cups of sugar 1 pint of cream 

2 teaspoons of Larkin Vanilla 2 squares of Larkin Unsweetened 

Flavoring Extract Chocolate. 

Soften the Gelatine in one cup of the milk. Scald the remain- 
der, with the chocolate, and into it stir the beaten yolks and sugar. 
When thickened, add the softened gelatine. Cool , and add the beaten 
whites, cream and Vanilla Flavoring Extract. Freeze. 

CARAMniv ICn-CRnAM No. a 

With the foregoing formula, a pleasant flavor may be obtained by 
omitting the chocolate and adding one cup of sugar cooked to the 
caramel stage. 

ITAI^IAN TUTTI FRUTTI 

Soften one-fourth box of Larkin Gelatine in one-half cup of 
cold water. Make a syrup of two cups of sugar and one quart of 
water by boiling twenty minutes. Pour over gelatine, 
strain, and cool. When sufiiciently cool, put into freezer, 
adding the juice of four lemons, four oranges, with the 
grated rind of two of the oranges. Freeze, using three 
parts of ice to one of salt, and when the mixture is partially 
frozen, add one pound of candied fruits and almonds, cut 
fine, and soaked in one cup of grape- juice for several hours 
or over night. When thoroughly mixed take out dasher, 
re-pack and allow to ripen an hour before serving. 




68 ICE CREAM AND ICES 

BROZ^B^N CUSTARD 

1 qt. of milk 4 eggs 

1 cup of sugar 2 teaspoons of I/arkin Vanilla 

2 tablespoons of Larkin Corn Flavoring Extract, or 

Starch other flavoring if preferred 

Prepare as for any custard, scalding the milk, and adding to it the 
Com Starch moistened in a small portion of the milk. Beat the eggs 
separately, adding the sugar to the yolks, and then the beaten whites. 
The Com Starch should be cooked below boiling-point ; then the eggs 
and sugar added. Cook mixture two minutes. Take from the fire ; 
add the flavoring. Let cool and when thoroughly chilled, freeze, 
using three parts of ice, chopped very fine, to one part of salt. When 
frozen, remove the dasher, pack with more ice and salt, and allow 
to ripen two hours before serving. Makes two quarts. 
IC:^n RICn-PUDDING 
Cook one-half cup of rice in a quart of boiling salted water ; when 
soft, drain, and pour over it one quart of milk ; add to this one cup of 
sugar beaten with the yolks of two eggs. Beat the whites separately 
and add the yolks before stirring into the milk. Do not cook the eggs. 
Cool and flavor with one-half teaspoon of Larkin Orange Flavoring 
Extract and one-half teaspoon of Larkin Nutmeg. When chilled, 
freeze the same as any ice-cream. Makes two quarts. 

GINGMR IC:^ 

Make a syrup of a quart of water and the juice of four lemons and 
two cups of sugar. Pour this over a dessertspoon of Larkin Gelatine 
that has been moistened in a small portion of water ; stir until 
dissolved, and cool. Freeze and when dasher is ready to be removed, 
stir in one-fourth pound of candied ginger-root. Remove the can 
from the tub and loosen the Ginger Ice from the sides by applying a 
cloth wrung from hot water. Serve whole or in slices. Makes two 
quarts. 

CURRANT ICM 

Boil two cups of water with two cups of granulated sugar until it 
strings, and cool. Into this put one quart of currants, stemmed and 
strained, but retaining the skins, and the juice of two oranges. Freeze 
very slowly. In fact, it is much better to pack this in the freezer and 
allow to stand a full hour before turning the dasher. To the less acid 
fruits, add lemon and orange in equal parts. Makes two quarts. 

GRAPM sh:^rb:^t 

1 cup of grape-juice Juice of 1 lemon 

Juice of 1 orange 1 cup of sugar 

1 pt. of water 1 dessertspoon of Larkin 

Gelatine 
Moisten the gelatine in a portion of the water ; heat 
the remainder to boiling. Pour over the softened gelatine, 
add sugar and juices and freeze in the usual way. Makes 
one quart. 




ICE CREAM AND ICES 69 

i,e;mon ic:e) 

Juice of 2 lemons 1 cup of sugar 

1 pint of milk Grated yellow rind of }i lemon 
Put all iu freezer and freeze. Makes one quart. 

STRA WBnRR Y IC£^ 

2 cups of sugar 2 cups of water 
1 qt. strawberries 1 orange 

1 lemon 

Make syrup of sugar and water, and cool. Add strawberries 
mashed with the orange- and lemon-juice. Freeze slowly and repack. 
Makes two quarts. 

strawb:grry parfait 

2 cups of sugar 1 cup of water 

^2 cup double cream 1 qt, of strawberries 

1 lemon 1 orange 

Boil sugar and water until it will string. Mash strawberries 
through sieve, and with the juice of the lemon and orange, add to 
cooled syrup. Add cream, whipped, and freeze slowly but not too 
hard. Take out dasher and pack. Let season for two hours. Makes 
two quarts. 

VANII,I,A MOUSSM 

1 pt. of cream )4 cup of sugar 

1 teaspoon of Larkin Vanilla ^ cup sultana raisins 

Flavoring Extract 
Whip cream thoroughly. Add sugar and vanilla, and a very little 
Larkin Cherry -Red Paste Color. Add raisins and pack in a melon-mold. 
Pack mold in ice and salt for six hours. Makes one quart. 

BISCUIT TORTONI 

4 cups whipped and drained 1 cup powdered sugar 

cream 1 cup water 

Yolks of 5 eggs }4 cup powdered macaroons 

2 tablespoons chopped 4 tablespoons sherry 

blanched almonds 2 tablespoons candied cherries 

}i tablespoon L,arkin Almond Flavoring Extract 
Boil sugar and water twenty minutes. Beat the yolks of eggs well 
and into hot syrup. Cook five minutes in a double boiler, beating 
constantly, and cool. Chop macaroons, almonds and cherries until 
very fine. Add wine and flavoring extract to egg, add to cream 
and sprinkle in fruit and macaroons. Pack in mold and pack r — j 

in ice and salt. Makes two one-quart molds. K~^ 

MAPI,:^ PARFAIT / \ 

Yx pt. of cream 2 eggs 

y^ cup of granulated sugar ^ pt. of maple syrup 
Yz cup of nuts Pinch of Larkin Table Salt 

Heat the syrup. Beat sugar and yolks of eggs until light 
and pour syrup over them. Whip the cream. Beat whites of 
eggs and mix. Add syrup to cream. Put in freezer, add nuts 
and freeze. Serve in glasses. Makes one quart. 



CANNING AND PRESERVING 



"Must be svgaked."— Kipling. 

PRESERVATION of food-stuffs for use when the fresh 
supply is exhausted has been one of man's instincts 
from earliest times. There have been three modes — by salt, 
acid, and sugar. The use of salt as a preservative is shown 
in the old preparation of meats ; that of acid, in the various 
pickle compounds; and of sugar, by the conservation of fruits. 
This general process of stopping fermentation by means 
of sugar is divided into five groups, known 
^ ;:''.'•■ S !^^-lllZZ^ as canning, preserving, making of marma- 
i^arkin Paring Knife ladcs, of jclHes, and conscrviug or 

for vegetables and fruit . n. • 

crystallizing. 

Canning is the process by which the fruit is prepared 
with the addition of as little sugar as possible. This is the 
simplest form, and is done in two distinct ways : first by 
cooking the fruit ; second by packing the raw fruit into the 
cans, sealing, steaming until the fruit is transparent, and 
adding a syrup made by boiling sugar and water. 

Preserving is the cooking of fruit in an equal weight 
of sugar-syrup until transparent. These ingredients should 
be most carefully weighed. 

Marmalade differs from preserves in that the fruit is 
cooked with a small portion of water and strained through a 
colander ; then sugar is added and the whole is cooked 
below the boiling-point until suflQciently thick. 

Jelly is made by using the juice of the fruit with an 
equal weight of sugar, and cooking until the proper con- 
sistency is obtained. 

Conserving is done by cooking the fruit in the boil- 
ing syrup, draining, rolling in granulated sugar and drying 
or allowing the moisture to evaporate. 



72 CANNING AND PRESERVING 

Among the utensils essential for use in proper preserving 
of fruits are scales, measuring-cups, agate-ware saucepans, 
earthern or agate-ware bowls, silver or agate spoons, an 
agate colander, small dipper and funnel, jars with new 
rubbers and covers, glasses for jelly, and a jelly-bag. It is 
needful that each of these be, if not absolutely new, in 
immaculate condition. 

There are a few general directions that apply in all these 
processes. Berries, cherries, currants, and other small fruits 
are washed thoroughly in the colander. To remove the skins 
of plums and peaches, scald the fruit and rub off the skins. 
Pears and peaches are halved and freed from cores or stones. 

All fruits for preserves may be kept in shape by putting 
them into boiling syrup ; this prevents loss of form. 

PnACH PR£;SERVMS 

Pare and stone the desired quantity of fruit. Weigh and allow 
an equal portion of sugar. For each pound of sugar, allow one-half 
pint of water and the juice of one lemon. Make a syrup of the sugar, 
water and lemon-juice, and when it nearly strings or is at the proper 
density, put the fruit in carefully, being sure the kettle is sufficiently 
large so that the fruit is not crowded. Cook below boiling until the 
peaches are transparent. Pour into hot glasses and cool. Cover with 
paper, gluing securely to the glass. 

p^ACH marmai^ad:^ 

Use the same proportions as in the preceding. Cook the fruit 
and water until the fruit is soft. Put through a colander and add the 
sugar and lemon-juice. Cook below boiling-point until the marma- 
lade will stiffen upon cooling in a dish. Put into glasses same as the 
preserves. 

PILARS PRES^RV^D WITH GINGP;R-ROOT 
The proportion of fruit, sugar, water and lemon is the same as 
above, adding two ounces of ginger-root to a pound of fruit. Pre- 
pare the syrup with the sugar and water. Add the grated rind of half 
the lemons, the juice of all and the ginger broken into 
small pieces. When the syrup will nearly string, add the 
halved fruit and cook until transparent. 

PRnSP^RVno CHBRRIP^S 

Allow one pound of sugar and one cup of water to each 
pound of fruit. Make a syrup of the sugar and water and 
when boiling briskly add the cherries, stoned, being careful 
to put them in without breaking. Cook until transparent. 




CANNING AND PRESERVING 73 

SPICMD CHI^RRIMS 

To each pound of fruit, allow the same quantity of sugar, one- 
half cup of water, one-fourth cup of vinegar, one teaspoon of cloves. 
Make a syrup of the sugar, water, vinegar and spice. Add the 
cherries and cook. 

c urrant-and-raspb:^rr y jni^i, y 

Allow two pounds of currants to one pound of raspberries, one 
pint of water and one and one-half pounds of sugar. Stem and clean 
the fruit. Add the water to the fruit and cook. Put into a jelly-bag, 
made of two thicknesses of cheese-cloth, and let drain over night. 
In the morning, measure juice and add an equal quantity of sugar. 
There should be one and one-half pints from the quantity given. 
Boil rapidly until the fruit will jell when tried in a spoon or on a 

dish. 

C URRANT jni,!, Y 

Use the same proportions as in the preceding, using all currants 
instead of currants and berries. This makes a darker, heavier jelly 
than the combination of currants and berries. 

currant-and-orang:^ pr:^s^rv:^ 

1 lb. currants ^ lb. sugar 

2 small oranges 1 cup of water 

Grate the rind of the orange, and add it to the currants, sugar 
and water. Cut the oranges into very small pieces and add. Cook 
until thick. Put into glasses and seal as jelly is sealed. 

CRANBJ^RR Y JMLI, Y 

Pick over and wash four cups of cranberries. Put into a kettle 
with one cup of cold water. Bring to boiling-point and cook twenty 
minutes. Rub through a sieve ; add two cups of sugar. Cook five 
minutes and mold. 

BAK^D APPI^nS 

Core and pare sour apples. Place them in a baking-dish and fill 
the cavities with sugar and Ivarkin Cinnamon or Larkin Nutmeg. Allow 
one-half cup of sugar and one-fourth teaspoon of Cinnamon or Nutmeg 
to eight apples. Bake in hot oven till soft. Serve with cream. 

BAKMD APPI,]^S 

Choose apples of equal size, greenings or baldwins preferred. 
Wash and wipe them dry. Pare thin with a sharp knife, and remove 
the core ; do this with an apple-corer if you have one, if not, use an 
ordinary sharp paring-knife, being careful not to cut away 
too much of the apple. Place in a pan, stem-end down, 
and into the cavity put four raisins or two stoned dates, 
and a teaspoon of sugar ; sprinkle more sugar, perhaps 
three tablespoons, over the outside of the apples, together 
with some Larkin Cinnamon or Larkin Nutmeg if you like 
it. For six apples, use about half a cup of water in the 
pan. ' Bake in a moderate oven until soft but not mushy. 
Serve these warm for dessert instead of preserves, using 
cream with them, if possible. 




BEVERAGES 



"drink, pretty creature, drink." — Wordsrworth. 



To brew tea. Use an earthen teapot, freshly boiled water, one 
teaspoon of a preferred Larkin Tea to each cup and one spoon for 
the pot. Rinse the pot with hot water, put in the required amount of 
tea. Pour the water over this and allow it to stand from three to 
five minutes, but not to boil. Use at once. 

COFFMM 

There are two methods of making coffee successfully, one with 
fresh-drawn boiling water, the other with cold water. In each case 
the proportions are the same. One tablespoon of ground cofEee to 
each cup and one for the pot. Coffee that is ground as it is needed 
will make a better drink than can be made from coffee ground in 
advance. Any ground coflfee constantly loses strength and flavor 
because the aroma developed by roasting is very volatile and dissipates 
readily when the bean is broken. Always keep coffee in air-tight 
cans. 

coff^je; madh with bousing watmr 

Pour fresh-drawn boiling water over the coffee and bring to a 
boil, boiling from three to five minutes. Add two tablespoons of 
cold water and allow the coffee to stand for three or four minutes to 
settle before serving, 

coFPJ^JS mad:^ with coi,d watmr 

Put the coffee into the coffee-pot with the white or the clean shell 
of an egg. Cover with cold water and allow it to come to a boil. 
Pour on the required amount of boiling water for the desired number 
of cups and add two tablespoons of cold water. Allow to stand three 
or four minutes to settle. 

FII^TBRFD COFFMF 

Into the inner part of a French coffee-pot or percolator, put the 
required quantity of ground coffee. Pour over this the necessary 
quantity of water and allow to stand for about five minutes where 
it will keep hot but not boil. 

CHOCOlATn 

2 ounces Larkin 1 cup boiling water 

Unsweetened Chocolate 
4 tablespoons sugar 3 cups scalded milk 
Melt Chocolate over hot water, add sugar and 
boiling water ; stir until smooth and glossy ; let 
cook five or six minutes. Add part of milk and 
when well mixed, add rest of milk. Beat thor- 
oughly with egg-beater to prevent skin from 
forming over top. Let stand five minutes and 
serve with whipped cream. 




BBVERAGES 75 

COCOA 

Allow one teaspoon of Larkin Cocoa for each cup desired. Mix 
with the same quantity of sugar in a dry agate pan. Add one cup of 
boiling water for each teaspoon of cocoa. Blend thoroughly and 
bring to a boil. Add a pinch of Larkin Table Salt, one-fourth teaspoon 
of Larkin Vanilla Flavoring Extract for every two teaspoons of cocoa. 
Take from fire and add milk or cream. 

I^ARKIN ROASTJ^D CJE^R^AI, 

A Substitute for Coffee 

Pour one cup of fresh boiling water over one level tablespoon of 
Larkin Roasted Cereal for each cup wanted. Boil slowly for fifteen 
minutes and settle with two tablespoons of cold water. Serve with 
cream or hot milk. 

Three-fourths Larkin Roasted Cereal to one-fourth Larkin Coffee 
may be used when the taste of the coffee without its full strength is 
desired. In making, let boil slowly as directed. 

FRUIT CUP 

Five tablespoons of Larkin Ceylon Tea infused in a quart of 
boiling water. Let stand for five minutes and then pour over two 
pounds of granulated sugar. Cook this into a thick syrup. Cool and 
add to the strained juice of six lemons, six oranges, one pineapple, 
one quart of berries. The fruit may be varied according to the season. 
Add one teaspoon of Larkin Vanilla and one teaspoon of Larkin 
Almond Flavoring Extract. When ready to serve, add a quart of any 
good mineral water or a quart of iced water, and serve cold. This 
formula will make a gallon of liquid, and the quantity may be 
increased or diminished according to one's need. 

Make a strong infusion of Larkin Ceylon Tea ; allow it to stand 
not more than three minutes and pour from the pot, as it will grow 
bitter if the leaves are left in. Add sugar and lemon-juice to taste. 
Often orange-juice is added also. This makes a very refreshing drink 
for the warm season. 

LARKIN ROOT BHHR 

Dissolve four pounds of granulated sugar in five gallons of 
lukewarm water, add one bottle of Larkin Root Beer Extract 
and from one-half to a whole cake of either dry yeast or 
compressed yeast. During cooler months, increase quantity 
of yeast. Mix thoroughly and put into strong bottles or jugs, 
securely corking and tying. Set in a warm place until it 
becomes effervescent. It is ready for use in from ten to twelve 
hours, but improves if allowed to stand several days. Store in 
a cool place, and serve cold. 



THE CHAFING-DISH 



" Such stuff as dreams are made of." — Shakespeare. 

THE chafing-dish comes down to us through a period of 
at least two thousand years. It was not always in the 
convenient form of today, but has gone through very 
interesting stages of development. 

The present dish comprises the standard, the alcohol 
lamp, the hot- water pan, and the blazer. There should also 
be a nickel tray, and the proper utensils to use with them 
are a wooden spoon and fork, as these do not scratch the 
dish. Unless the user of the chafing-dish is an expert, it is 
unwise to use the blazer for delicate cookery without the 
hot-water pan. 

For convenience there is nothing more useful than a 
chafing-dish ; being portable, it may be the source of much 
pleasure. Informality and congeniality are always attendant 
upon the chafing-dish supper. 

Wni^SB^ RAREBIT 



1 lb. creamery cheese 

2 eggs 

2 tablespoons of Larkin Corn 

Starch 
y2 teaspoon of Larkin White 

Pepper 
2 teaspoons of Worcestershire 

sauce 



1^ cups of milk 
1 tablespoon of butter 
}4 teaspoon of Larkin Table Salt 
1 teaspoon of Larkin Mustard 
ys teaspoon of Larkin Cayenne 
Pepper 



Put the cheese, butter and milk into the blazer. Stir while it is 
melting, being careful that the mixture does not boil, as it will curdle. 
Mix the Corn Starch, Salt, Pepper, Mustard, and moisten with a 
small portion of the milk. When the cheese is entirely 
melted stir in the Corn Starch. Add the Worcestershire, 
and finally stir in the beaten eggs. Stir until entirely 
blended. 

CRnAMMD MGGS 

Make a Cream sauce of two tablespoons of butter, 
two of flour, one pint of milk. Add to this six hard- 
boiled eggs cut into slices, and heat thoroughly. 




THK CHAFING-DISH 77 

MGGS POACHED IN TOMATO SAUC:^ 

Make Tomato Sauce in the blazer, according to recipe on page 27, 
and keep it hot by filling the hot-water pan with boiling water. 
Break six eggs on a plate and slide them into the blazer carefully. 
Baste them with the sauce so that the tops and bottoms v/ill be equally 
congealed. One pint of sauce will do nicely for six eggs. 

Serve on squares of toast and sprinkle with grated cheese. 

scrambi,:ed eggs with tomatoes 

Heat one pint of tomatoes, and season with two teaspoons of 
Larkin Table Salt, one-eighth teaspoon of Larkin White Pepper, and 
two tablespoons of butter. "When this is boiling, pour into it six eggs, 
slightly beaten. Cook until of a creamy consistency, stirring con- 
stantly, being sure that the mixture is stirred from the bottom. Serve 
on toast. 

EGGS A I,A SUISSE 

Melt one tablespoon of butter in the blazer, add one-half cup of 
cream, and when the cream reaches the boiling-point, carefully slip in 
I four eggs. Place the blazer over the hot-water pan, and sprinkle with 
Larkin Table Salt and Larkin White Pepper, When the whites are 
nearly firm, sprinkle with grated cheese. Finish cooking and serve 
on rounds of buttered toast. Pour remaining cream over them, 

DEVIIED OYSTERS 

Into the blazer of a chafing-dish put two tablespoons of butter. 
Melt and add one-eighth of a teaspoon of Larkin Cayenne Pepper, two 
teaspoons of Larkin Table Salt and two teaspoons of Worcestershire 
sauce. Blend well, and when thoroughly heated, add the oysters, a 
few at a time, cooking until the gills curl and the oysters are plump. 
Take from the sauce and serve very hot, 

PANNED OYSTERS 

Use one quart oysters. Heat the blazer and throw the oysters 
into it. Stir constantly until the gills curl and the liquid boils. Add 
two tablespoons of butter, a teaspoon of Larkin Table Salt, 
one-eighth teaspoon of Larkin White Pepper. Serve 
immediately. 

CREAMED OYSTERS 

Make a thick White Sauce according to the recipe on 

1 page 26, and add a slight flavoring of onion. Put the 

p blazer into the hot-water pan, and the oysters into the 

' cream sauce. Cook until plump and serve on toast, in 

crustades or pat^ shells. 




78 THE CHAFING-DISH 

PIGS IN BI,ANK£^TS 

Choose good-sized, plump oysters. Wash, drain and wipe dry. 
Select some good bacon, and cut very thin. Wrap a piece of this 
about an oyster, and fasten each with a tooth pick. Drop these into 
a hot frying-pan, turning until crisp on all sides. Season with pepper 
and serve very hot. These "pigs in blankets" may be made to 
advantage in a chafing-dish, and are tasty tidbits for a supper-party. 

I^OBSTMR N:GWBURG 

If canned lobster is used, use a pound can ; separate the pieces 
carefully and put into the blazer in which two tablespoons of butter 
have been heated. Thoroughly heat the lobster, and season with one 
teaspoon of I^arkin Table Salt, one-fourth teaspoon of Larkin Nutmeg 
and a few grains of Larkin Cayenne Pepper. Add two eggs, well 
beaten with one-half cup of cream. Stir until the eggs are cooked, 
and serve at once on toast. 

CR:E;AMni> i,obstje;r 

Use the Cream-Sauce recipe given on page 26, making it in the 
blazer. Put the lobster (one-half pound will do with the amount of 
Cream Sauce given) into the sauce, put the blazer into the hot-water 
pan, half filled with hot water, and allow the lobster to heat thoroughly. 

CRnAMnB SAI^MON 

For this make the Cream Sauce heavier by using two tablespoons 
of butter and an equal amount of flour with a cup of milk. Into this 
put the contents of a can of salmon free from bones, skin and fat. 
Heat thoroughly, season with one teaspoon of Larkin Table Salt and 
one-eighth teaspoon of Larkin Pepper, and add two eggs beaten. Stir 
constantly until eggs are cooked, and serve at once. Sometimes a 
small amount of lemon-juice is added at the last to change the flavor. 

CHICKBN A I,A KING 

Cut the meat from one three-pound chicken into half-inch dice. 
Put four tablespoons of butter into the blazer of a 
chafing-dish, with a pimento cut into fine pieces. Cook 
for five minutes and add four tablespoons of flour. Add 
one pint of hot milk or cream to make a thick 
sauce. Add another pimento cut into small pieces, a 
can of button mushrooms and the chicken. Season 
with Larkin Table Salt. Put the blazer into the hot- 
water pan and cook until all are thoroughly done and 
very hot. Serve on toast. 




MISCELLANBO US 



"a 6NAPPER-0P OF UNCONSIDERED TRIFLES." 

SAI^MON I,OAF 

1 can of salmon % cup of cracker crumbs 

^ cup of milk 2 eggs 

1 tablespoon of butter 1 teaspoon Larkin Table Salt 

X teaspoon of Larkin Pepper 

Beat lemon into eggs. Put the fish and crackers into the dish in 
layers, and steam an hour. Serve with cream sauce. 

D^vii,£:n :^GGS 

Yz doz. hard boiled eggs 1 tablespoon of butter 

Larkin Table Salt, Larkin Pepper and Larkin Mustard to taste 
Cut lengthwise, remove the yolks and mash, adding salt, pepper, 

mustard, butter and enough vinegar to make a paste. Rub smooth 

and return yolks to the whites. 

Excellent for picnic-lunch or for light supper-dish. 

C^niE^SJE; FONDU£) 

1 cup of bread crumbs 2 cups of grated cheese (old) 

3 eggs ^ cup of milk 

X teaspoon of Larkin Soda 1 tablespoon of butter 

)i teaspoon of Larkin Table Salt 

Soak the bread crumbs in the milk. Add eggs, cheese and melted 
butter ; lastly, soda, dissolved in hot water. Pour into a baking-dish 
and bake twenty minutes. 

SAI^TMJy AI^MONDS 

Shell and blanch the required amount of almonds, for every half- 
pound allowing three tablespoons of olive oil. Heat the oil in a 
frying-pan or the blazer of a chafing-dish to blue heat, and put in 
the almonds. Gently stir until all are equally brown. Take from pan 
and place upon absorbent paper. When the paper has absorbed the 
excess of oil, sprinkle them with salt. Cool and serve cold. 

sai,tx:d p:ganuts 

To one-half pound of shelled peanuts, allow two table- 
spoons of olive oil. Less olive oil is needed for peanuts 
than for almonds because the volatile oil of the peanuts 
is freer than the oil of the almonds. Method of browning 
is the same as for the almonds. 




INDEX 



SUBJECT? PAGE 

Beverages 74 

Breads 37 

Cakes 42 

Candies 63 

Canning and Preserving 70 

Chafing-Dish, The 76 

Cookies 50 

Desserts 54 

Dining Room, The 4 

Setting the Table 

Table I,inen 

China 

Glassware 

Silver 

Arranging the Table 

The Meals 

The Menu 

Eggs, Preparation of 27 

Food, The Value of 2 

Ice Cream and Ices 66 

Icings 49 

Meals, The 7 

Meats 21 

Menu, The 8 

Miscellaneous Recipes 79 

Pastry 51 

Preserving 70 

Processes and Explanation of Terms ...... 9 

Measurements 

Combining Ing:redients 

Terms Used in the Cooking of Meats 
Proportions, Weights, Measures, Time, Tables of ... 13 

Proportions 

Weights and Measures 

Time for Roasting and Baking Meats and Fish 
" " Boiling Meats and Fish 
" " " Vegetables 
" " Miscellaneous Dishes 

Salads 33 

Sauces 26 

Sauces, Pudding 62 

Soups 17 

Temperature 16 

Vegetables 28 



LIBRARY OF CONGRESS 




014 489 903 9 



t^rkm Co, 



eSTABUSHtO, U7*. 

F»«t«ifia*, Laborttoric* etui Geacrst Qlficw, 



^AANCHSS: 



is Sammer Street, . . . 

nnd and Arch StifceM, . . 
Cor. Prospcct^ad E- Fourth Stf««l» . 
»t;-3«J» S. A*hl»nd Avenue, 
4M, 41* S. WacblnKton Sircci, 
3U F. 4S29-14. 



BWr ALG, N. y. 



N|tw TORK crnr 

. . . SOSTON- 

fHn-ADEUPHlX 

CUeVKLAND 

CHICAG6 

. . PEORIA 



