r*v 

, / 



BULLETIN 

OF THE 

UNIVERSITY OF/ TEXAS 

NO. 350 



EXTENSION SERIES NO. 56 



AUGUST 1, 1914 



THE IRISH POTATO 



BY 
JESSIE P. RICH 




Published by the University six times a month and entered as 

second-class matter at the postoffice at 

AUSTIN, TEXAS 






EXCHANGE 



The benefits of education and of 
useful knowledge, generally diffused 
through a community, are essential 
to the preservation of a free gov- 
ernment. 

Sam Houston. 

Cultivated mind is the guardian 
genius of democracy. . . . It is the 
only dictator that freemen acknowl- 
edge and the only security that free- 
men desire. 

Mirabeau B. Lamar. 



THE IRISH POTATO 



The work outlined in these bulletins is intended to give sug- 
gestions and some definite direction for teaching- children, both 
girls and boys, in the outlying rural districts something of the 
nature of food plants, their nutritive value and their proper 
preparation for human consumption. It is also desired that these 
lessons in cooking should be connected with the school lunches 
and that the children actually prepare daily a hot dish to supple- 
ment the cold food brought from home. 

There are various ways in which this work can be placed on 
the school program. The subject dealt with can be divided into 
smaller topics, and one of these smaller divisions developed each 
day. Probably a better plan would be to devote Friday after- 
noon to the work. The subject-matter can be carefully discussed 
and followed by an actual cooking lesson. The following week 
the class should be divided into groups and each group serve for 
a day during the forenoon. This group will prepare and cook in 
quantities large enough to serve those contributing to the food 
supplies, some special dish discussed or prepared -at the Friday 
class suitable for the noon luncheon. The time spent in this can 
be arranged during the study hours and the noon recess by the 
teacher, so that it will not conflict with the regular school 
program. 

SUPPLIES 

The food material can be brought from home by the children ; 
some bringing flour, others bringing potatoes, still others butter 
and milk, etc. Frequently pupils, especially boys, will prefer to 
contribute money instead of food. This can be used to purchase 
staple supplies, which are always necessary, i. e., flour, sugar, 
salt, pepper, soap and washing powders for cleansing, etc. The 
boys can contribute their share of the labor by keeping up the 
fires, carrying and emptying water, etc. Every child should be 
encouraged to contribute something to these lunches so they may 
get the benefit of them. 

Before introducing the work it is always best first to call a 



4 Bulletin of the University of Texas 

meeting of the mothers, and the fathers, too, if they will come. 
Put the plan definitely before them ; impress upon them the ad- 
vantage of a hot, nutritious dish at the mid-day meal, and solicit 
their co-operation and support. 

The equipment necessary for carrying out these cooking lessons 
is simple and inexpensive. A cupboard and table constructed 
from two store boxes are sufficient and suitable for holding 
utensils and supplies. The heating stove of the school can be 
utilized as a source of heat. The utensils necessary for carrying 
on this work are as follows : 

COOKING EQUIPMENT FOR THE ONE-ROOM RURAL SCHOOL 

Equipment No. 1 

Used on common heating stove for all cooking except baking. 

1 8-qt. kettle with bail and closely fitting lid $ .80 

1 3-pt. double boiler (graniteware) 85 

1 1-qt. tin coffee pot 20 

1 No. 8 iron skillet 35 

1 wire strainer 15 

1 long-handled basting spoon (iron) 10 

2 long-handled (graniteware) dippers 30 

1 long-handled fork 10 

1 tablespoon 05 

2 teaspoons 05 

1 case knife and fork 10 

1 paring knife 10 

1 combination corkscrew and can opener 10 

1 butcher knife 50 

1 tin measuring cup 05 

2 granite dishpans (one for rinsing) 1.10 

1/2 dozen quart Mason jars 40 

% dozen jelly glasses 15 

1 candy bucket for fireless cooker 

2 goods boxes (shoe boxes are well suited) 

Total .$5.45 



The Irish Potato 5 

COOKING EQUIPMENT FOR THE ONE-ROOM RURAL SCHOOL. 

Equipment No. 2 

(This added to No. 1 makes all cooking possible.) 

1 2-burner wick oil stove . $ 8.50 

1 portable oven 3.50 

1 bread board 50 

1 rolling pin 10 

1 dripping pan 30 

2 bread pans 40 

1 cake pan ' 20 

1 set layer cake 30 

1 earthern- baking dish 20 

1 set muffin irons 50 

1 Dover egg beater 10 

1 flour sifter .20 

Total $14.80 

The simplest equipment costs little more than $5.00 and can 
be easily gotten by any school anxious to do the work. The more 
expensive equipment costs but $15.00 and is to be recommended, 
as it contains an oil stove with two burners, so that cooking could 
be done on days when it would be too warm to have a fire in the 
heating stove. Then, too, it contains a portable oven so that- 
baking; may be included in the cooking lessons. This broadens 
the scope of the lessons and also permits of greater variety in 
luncheon dishes. 

The dishes necessary for serving hot food at luncheon can 
be brought from home, each child bringing a cup, plate, knife, 
fork, and spoon. 

The lessons suggested for the first two weeks are a study of 
the Irish potato. The following references are suitable sources 
of material, both for the children and the teacher to work from : 
Bulletins No. 35, Potato Culture; No. 256, Preparation of Vege- 
tables for the Table ; No. 386, Potato Culture on Irrigated Farms 
of the West ; No. 295, Potatoes and Other Root Crops as Foods ; 
Minnesota Farmers' Library; Extension Bulletin No. 35, Potato 



6 Bulletin of tJie University of Texas 

Diseases; Virginia Agricultural Experiment Station, No. 5, The 
Cultivation of Potatoes. Also the following books contain good 
material for the teacher's use: Food and Dietetics, Hutchinson ; 
Theory and Practice of Cookery (page 228), Fisher & Williams. 

SOME FACTS THE TEACHER SHOULD KNOW ABOUT THE POTATO 

The potato is a starchy food, and besides starch contains much 
water, a little mineral matter and fiber. The children can easily 
feel and see the water, can see the thread-like walls and fibers 
running through the potato, that separates the starch as is de- 
scribed below. This starch is a fine, glistening substance heavier 
than water. It is the substance which makes the potato a valu- 
able food, and to cook this starch well is to cook the potato well. 
Starch should be cooked in boiling water, and as the principal 
food in potato is starch, the potato also should be cooked in boil- 
ing water and salt added for seasoning. 

The actual composition of the potato is as follows : 

Water 78.3 per cent. 

Protein 2.2 per cent. 

Starch 18.1 per cent. 

Mineral 1.0 per cent. 

Fiber 4 per cent. 

This indicates that the food value of the vegetable is due to 
the starch and mineral present. Starch is of value to the human 
body in two ways : it gives heat to keep up the bodily tempera- 
ture and furnishes energy to perform muscular work. The 
mineral is especially important in building bone. 

The digestibility of the potato depends largely on the method 
of its preparation and the manner in which it is eaten. A mealy 
potato is more digestible than a nogoy, waxy one. A potato 
which enters the stomach in a fine state of division is more di- 
gestible than one taken in large lumps. Through mastication 
these lumps are largely broken up and the potato mixed with the 
saliva, which aids in digestion. 

Potatoes must by no means constitute the sole or even the 



The Irish Potato 1 

staple diet of man. They contain too little of muscle-building 
food to be used alone. It would take about 22 pounds of potato 
a day to yield enough of its muscle-building food, and that 
amount would furnish four times as much starch as a system can 
economically use. 

The following is a suggestive plan for developing and relating 
this kind of work : 

Teacher's aim: 

1. To teach the child the best method of cooking starch. 

2. To give the child a knowledge of the nutritive value of the 
potato and the best method of obtaining it. 

3. To correlate the work with other subjects of the school 
curriculum with the end in view of placing home industries in 
the child's mind on the same ^educational basis as the other sub- 
jects in the curriculum. 

Suggestions for correlation: 

1. Geography. 

a. A map showing the potato producing centers of 

the world. 

b. A discussion of soil and climate adapted to the 

growth of the potato. 

c. The importance of the potato as a domestic agri- 

cultural product. 

2. Nature study and gardening. 

a. Study of the methods and germination of the 

potato. 

b. Study of the methods of cultivation and harvest- 

ing of the potato. 

c. Study of the insects affecting the growth and de- 

development of the potato and how they may be 
destroyed. 

3. English. 

a. The keeping of note-books by the pupils in which 

all subject-matter can be recorded and corrected. 

b. Stories connected with the discovery of the potato, 

early use of the potato, etc. 

4. Spelling. 

a. Give new words connected with the development 

of the lesson. 

b. Definition of new words and the use of same. 



8 Bulletin of the University of Texas 

5. Construction work. 

a. Suitable wooden crates or bins for storing the 

potato for winter use. 

b. Woven holders for handling hot pots and kettles 

during the cooking. 

c. Hemming of dish towels for use in dish washing. 
The following suggest the method of the lesson on the potato 

with the children : 

THE IRISH POTATO 

What is it? How grown? How dug? What do you see on 
examining it ? Cut and look inside ; feel it. Look at it through 
a hand lens. Do you see any fibers? Do you see a heavy rim 
near the outside skin? What is it? What influence would this 
have on the way you peel the potato (the mineral salts of the 
potato are located near the outer skin) ? Grate a potato into a 
cheesecloth, gather up the cloth, make a bag and squeeze it. Wash 
with the fingers carefully in a pan of cold water, being very care- 
ful not to break an opening in the bag. Allow the water to stand 
some minutes, pour it off carefully. What is in the bottom? 
Examine carefully. Mix a part of it with a little cold water and 
boil. What happens ? This starch is the substance which makes 
the potato a good food. Remove the fibers from the cloth and 
dry in a little paste board box on the back of the stove or in the 
sunshine. Examine. 

Do we eat potatoes raw ? Why not ? How shall we cook them ? 
What substance have we here t to cook (starch and fiber, but starch 
is the important one) ? Try the effect of cold water on a little 
starch. Try hot water; boiling water. What happens in each 
case? Review these experiments carefully and see if they sug- 
gest to your mind the best method of cooking a potato. (Cook 
the potatoes if possible in the school room and utilize for school 
luncheon.) 

The following recipes are suggested for suitable potato dishes 
for the children to prepare: 

BOILED POTATOES 

First select potatoes of uniform size. Wash, pare off the thin- 
nest possible layer of skin and drop at once into cold water to 



The Irish Potato 9 

prevent them from becoming black. (If the potato is old and 
somewhat shrunken, soak for several hours before cooking.) 
Cook the potato in salted boiling water until soft, which is easily 
determined by piercing with a fork. (For a dozen potatoes allow 
one table spoon of salt and boiling water enough to cover.) When 
the potatoes are done, drain immediately, sprinkle with a little 
added salt and let stand uncovered in a hot place until serving- 
time. If potatoes are boiled with their jackets on (this is an ex- 
cellent method, as no mineral matter or protein is lost from the 
potato), first scrub them and then with a sharp knife cut a nar- 
row band of skin from the center. This aids in removing the 
skin before the potato is eaten. 

BAKED POTATOES 

Select smooth, medium sized potatoes. Scrub with a small 
vegetable brush and bake in a hot oven for about forty minutes 
or until soft. Remove from the oven, break the skin slightly in 
order that the steam can escape and serve as quickly as possible. 
(Properly baked potatoes are more easily digested than potatoes 
cooked any other way. They are, however, better cooked in boil- 
ing water than baked in a slow oven. ) 

If there is no oven in the school room equipment the potato 
may be baked in an outdoor fire. For this purpose a pit is dug 
and a fire built in the pit. When the fire has burned well down, 
bury the potatoes in the ashes and allow them to bake for about 
forty-five minutes. They bake with less danger of burning if. 
wrapped in damp clay or wet paper before being put into the fire. 

RICED POTATOES 

Force the hot boiled potatoes through a potato ricer or coarse 
strainer direct into a hot vegetable dish. 

MASHED POTATOES 

To five potatoes which have been broken with a potato masher 
or put through the ricer, add one tablespoon of butter, one tea- 
spoon of salt, and one-half cup of hot milk. Beat this with a fork 
until creamy and pile lightly in a vegetable dish. Serve at once. 



10 Bulletin of the University of Texas 

SCALLOPED POTATOES 

Wash, pare, and slice potatoes into cold water. In a buttered 
dish, place a layer of these potatoes, sprinkle with salt and a little 
flour, dot over with one-half tablespoon of butter. Repeat this 
until the baking dish is nearly filled, then add hot milk until it 
may be seen through the top layer. Bake one and a quarter hours 
in a moderate oven or place back of the stove and cook slowly. 
The milk should not boil. A little grated cheese may be sprinkled 
over each layer if desired. 

CREAMED POTATOES 

For creamed potatoes, freshly cooked potatoes may be used or 
cold boiled potatoes. In each case the potatoes are cut into small 
cubes and served with a cream sauce. The cream sauce is made 
as follows : 2 tablespoons of butter, 2 tablespoons of flour, 1 cup 
of heated milk, y 2 teaspoon of salt. Melt butter, add flour and 
cook for two minutes. (Be careful that the butter does not brown 
or burn.) Add the heated milk and boil two minutes, stirring 
constantly. Add salt and reheat the potatoes in the cream sauce. 
Serve in a heated vegetable dish. 

WALDORF POTATOES 

Cut cold boiled potatoes into cubes and mix one cup of potatoes 
and one-half cup of cream sauce, having previously added .four 
tablespoons of grated cheese. Pour over potatoes and heat slowly 
without boiling. 

POTATO SOUP 

Three potatoes, 1 quart of milk, 2 slices of onion, 3 tablespoons 
of butter, 2 tablespoons of flour, 1% teaspoon of salt. Cook po- 
tatoes in boiling water, to which the salt has been added. When 
soft, rice, mash, or run through a strainer. Scald the milk with 
onion, remove onion, add milk slowly to potatoes. Melt the but- 
ter, add the flour until well mixed, and stir into the boiling soup. 
Cook 1 minute and serve. 

The following material may be used as reading material in 
this connection: 



The Irish Potato 11 

THE IRISH POTATO 

The first home of the potato was in South America. There it 
was found wild. Sometimes we call it the white potato, that we 
may know it from the sweet potato. Often it is called the Irish 
potato. Do you know why ? It is because the people of Ireland 
use so many potatoes. It was carried to Ireland from our own 
country over three hundred years ago. It is now the principal 
food among the peasants. 

We found that potatoes contain a great deal of starch. Much of 
the starch we use comes from potatoes. This useful, homely, 
every-day vegetable is found in almost every country. It has been 
used in France for a long time. 

Shall I tell you about what happened to the first potatoes eaten 
in France? Well, a long, long time ago the Spaniards came to 
South America. They noticed that the people ate, and almost 
lived upon, what they thought was the large root of a vegetable 
called "battata." Battata means "papa" in their language. 
The Spaniards sent some of the battata to their friends in Spain, 
and these friends sent them to Italy, another country near 
France. Finally some were 'sent to Belgium, to the mayor of 
Nons, which is almost in France. 

The mayor liked the king of France very much and wanted to 
send him a rare gift. So what did he do but send him a whole 
sack of potatoes. 

Henry II, king of France, invited the great lords and noble- 
men of his court to a feast. The potato was to be the important 
dish. When the potato appeared, the guests became very much 
excited. The king was the first to be served. He tasted it once, 
twice ; then passed it on in perfect silence. The lords and noble- 
men did as he had done. What was the cause of the silence? 
The cook had not boiled them before serving them with a delicious 
mayonnaise dressing. After the feast, the king had every potato 
thrown out of the city of Paris. 

About two weeks later some soldiers were camping near the 
fortifications of the city. While sitting around the campfire, it 
seemed to them. as if a most appetizing odor came from the glow- 
ing ashes of the fire. They began to examine the ashes in order 
that they might find the cause of this tempting smell. What a 



12 Bulletin of the University of Texas 

feast they had when at the end of the stick appeared one of the 
potatoes sent to the king of France. The soldiers ate them with- 
out the least fear, and they ate every one of them. 

The news of this lucky find reached the ears of the king, so he 
sent for more potatoes and gave another feast. 

The potato was served again, but was cooked this time, and 
the most particular guest could not find one word to say against it. 

ANOTHER POTATO STORY 

There are many stories told of what the potato has done for 
our own country. 

Over a hundred years ago, our country was fighting against 
England. The American people wanted a government of their 
own, so that they could rule themselves. This was was the Revo- 
lutionary War. 

General Francis Marion was one of the bravest fighters on the 
American side. He and his soldiers lived in the thick forests of 
South Carolina. 

One day the English general sent a young soldier into the woods 
to find General Marion and his army. Just at dark, when he 
thought he was lost he saw the campfires of the Americans 
gleaming through the trees. Riding up close to the fire where the 
soldiers could see him, he waved his white handkerchief. Seeing 
the white handkerchief, the soldiers knew that he was a messenger 
and did not shoot him. They directed him to the tent of General 
Marion. Here the Englishman found him seated on a log in the 
tent made of pine boughs. Leaping down from his horse, he 
said : ' * General Marion, I have a message for you from my gen- 
eral." Marion said: "I will hear your message after we have 
eaten. ' ' 

Presently, several of the officers came into the tent and sat 
down on the logs. The Englishman looked all around for the 
table, but could find no sign of it. Soon a soldier came into the 
tent and said: "General Marion, supper is ready." He passed 
the plates. What do you think the plates were that the soldiers 
brought into camp? They were huge chips cut from a large tree 
near the campfire. The English soldier thought: "These are 
very funny plates. I wonder what the food will be." Another 



The Irish Potato 13 

soldier came in with some smoking-hot potatoes, just taken from 
the ashes of the campfire. The poor Englishman had been riding 
all day and was very hungry. How he did enjoy those baked po- 
tatoes. Again and again the soldier brought into the tent the hot 
potatoes, and the Englishman thought he had never eaten half 
so nice a meal. 

When supper was over, the plates were placed in the fire instead 
of in a dishpan. While they sat watching the plates burn in the 
glowing fire, General Marion said to the Englishman : ' ' You now 
see what we Americans have to eat here in the woods. But just 
as long as we have potatoes, so long will we continue to fight for 
our country. ' ' The Englishman then knew that money could not 
buy General Marion and his brave men. He was ashamed to tell 
General Marion that he had come out into the woods to get him 
to desert his country. He said: "General Marion, you are a 
brave man, and we can never conquer you as long as you and 
your soldiers have the potato for your friend. I shall return in 
the morning and tell my general that the potato is stronger than 
his gold." 

In the morning the English soldier again ate baked potatoes, 
without salt or butter, on a wooden plate. He went back to his 
own country and never fought against America again. 

General Marion, however, by the aid of the potato, continued 
to live in the dark, swampy forests of South Carolina. He fought 
so bravely that at last all the English were driven from the 
country. 



DEPARTMENT OF EXTENSION 

Edwin Du Bois Shurter, Ph. B., Acting Director of the Depart- 
ment. 
Sam C. Polk, Secretary of the Department. 



Division of Correspondence Instruction: 

Leonidas Warren Payne, Jr., Ph. D., Head of the Division. 
W. Ethel Barren, Registrar of the Division. 



Division of Child Welfare : 

Alex-ander Caswell Ellis, Ph. D., Head of the Division. 



Division of Home Welfare: 

Mary E. Gearing, Head of the Division. 
Gertrude Louise Blodgett, B. S., Lecturer. 
Franc B. Hancock, M. A., Lecturer. 
Minerva Lawrence, B. S., Lecturer. 



Division of Public Discussion : 

Edwin Du Bois Shurter, Ph. B., Head of the Division. 
Morgan Vining, A. B., LL. B., Assistant Director of the 

Interscholastic League. 
Edwin Sue Goree, Extension Librarian. 



Division of Public Lectures and Publicity : 

John Avery Lomax, M. A., Head of the Division. 



Division of Public School Improvement : 

Raymond George Bressler, M. A., Head of the Division. 
Edward Everett Davis, B. A., Lecturer. 
Amanda Stoltzfus, L. L, Lecturer. 
Newman Leander Hoopingarner, M. A., Manager of 
Exhibits. 



Division of Public Welfare : 

George Simon Wehrwein, B. S., Head of the Division. 



14 DAY USE 

RETURN TO DESK FROM WHICH BORROWED 

LOAN DEPT. 

This book is due on the last date stamped below, or 

on the date to which renewed. 
Renewed books are subject to immediate recall. 



Q*nr'65SW 




tfF' "P ! P 




M*\/1 7 'fiq-8 PM 




nflf 1 ' t)0 4 












































General Library 
LD 2lA-60m-3,'65 University of California 
(F2336slO)476B Berkeley 







THE UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA LIBRARY 



