
FINGMHDAINTIE 




JANET M. HILL 



Salads, Sandwiches 

and 

Chafing-Dish Dainties 



31anrt 



SALADS, SANDWICHES AND CHAFING-DISH 

DAINTIES 

THE UP-TO-DATE WAITRESS 
COOKING FOR TWO 
THE BOOK OF ENTREES 

CANNING, PRESERVING AND JELLY MAKING 
CAKES, PASTRY AND DESSERT DISHES 




.Sf 



I 



Salads, Sandwiches 



and 



Chafing-Dish Dainties 

By 
Janet McKenzie Hill 



NEW AND REVISED EDITION 
WITH ADDITIONAL RECIPES 



With Fifty-four Illustrations of Original Dishes 




Boston 

Little, Brown, and Company 
1930 




MX) / l^r> 6 I 



Copyright, 1899, 1903, 
BY JANET M. HILL. 



PBINTED IN THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 



TO 

MRS. WIWJAM B. 

iprrstoent of tfjc Boston oafetng*,Scfjool Corporation, 

IN GRATEFUL RECOGNITION OF THE OPPORTUNITY 

PRESENTED BY HER FOR CONGENIAL WORK IN A 

CHOSEN FIELD OF EFFORT, THIS LITTLE BOOK 

IS AFFECTIONATELY DEDICATED 

BY THE AUTHOR. 



753510 



PREFACE TO THE THIRD EDITION. 



THE favor with which the first and second 
editions of this little book have been received by 
those who were interested in the subjects of which 
it treats, is eminently gratifying 1 to both author 
and publishers. It has occasioned the purpose to 
make the third edition of the book even more 
complete and helpful than the first. Many new 
recipes have been added and the number of 
illustrations has been increased from fifty to sixty- 
four ; the alphabetical index has been revised and 
made especially full and complete. 

JANET M. HILL. 
September, 1914. 



PREFACE TO THE FIRST EDITION. 



is positive need of more widespread knowledge 
of the principles of cookery. Few women know how to 
cook an egg or boil a potato properly, and the making of 
the perfect loaf of bread has long been assigned a place 
among the " lost arts." 

By many women cooking is considered, at best, a homely 
art, a necessary kind of drudgery ; and the composition, 
if not the consumption, of salads and chafing-dish pro- 
ductions has been restricted, hitherto, chiefly to that half 
of the race " who cook to please themselves." But,' since 
women have become anxious to compete with men in any 
and every walk of life, they, too, are desirous of becoming 
adepts in tossing up an appetizing salad or in stirring a 
creamy rarebit. And yet neither a pleasing salad, espe- 
cially if it is to be composed of cooked materials, nor a 
tempting rarebit can be evolved, save by happy accident, 
without an accurate knowledge of the fundamental prin- 
ciples that underlie all cookery. 

In a book of this nature and scope, the philosophy of 
heat at different temperatures, as it is applied in cooking, 
and the more scientific aspects of culinary processes, 
could not be dwelt upon; but, while we have not over- 
looked the A B C of the art, our special aim has been to 
present our topics in such a simple and pleasing form 
that she who attempts the composition of the dishes 



Preface to the First Edition. 



described herein will not be satisfied until she has gained 
a deeper insight into the conditions necessary for suc- 
cess in the pursuit of these as well as other fascinating 
branches of the culinary art. 

Care has been exercised to meet the actual needs of 
those who wish to cultivate a taste for light, wholesome 
dishes, or to cater to the vagaries of the most capricious 
appetites. 

There is nothing new under the sun, so no claim is 
made to absolute originality in contents. In this and all 
similar works, the matter of necessity must consist, in 
the main, of old material in a new dress. 

Though the introduction to Part III. was originally 
written for this book, the substance of it was published in 
the December-January (1898-99) issue of the Boston Cook- 
ing-School Magazine. From time to time, also, a few of 
the recipes, with minor changes, have appeared in that 
journal. 

Illustrations by means of half-tones produced from 
photographs of actual dishes were first brought out, we 
think, by The Century Company ; in this line, however, 
both in the number and in the variety of the dishes pre- 
pared, the author may justly claim to have done more 
than any other has yet essayed. The illustrations on 
these pages were prepared expressly for this work, and 
the dishes and the photographs of the same were exe- 
cuted under our own hand and eye. That results pleas- 
ing to the eye and acceptable to the taste await those 
who try the confections described in this book is the 
sincere wish of the author. 

JANET M. HILL. 



Contents 

Part I. 

SALADS 



INTRODUCTION 3 

THE DRESSING 6 

USE OF DRESSINGS 7 

ARRANGEMENT OF SALADS 8 

COMPOSITION OF MAYONNAISE 8 

VALUE OF OIL 8 

BOILED AND CREAM DRESSINGS 9 

IMPORTANT POINTS IN SALAD-MAKING , 9 

WHEN TO SERVE SALADS WITH FRENCH OR MAYONNAISE 

DRESSING 9 

WHEN TO SERVE A FRUIT SALAD 10 

SALADS WITH CHEESE 10 

How TO MAKE AROMATIC VINEGARS, KEEP VEGETABLES, 

AND PREPARE GARNISHES II 

How TO BOIL EGGS HARD FOR GARNISHING n 

To POACH WHITES OF EGGS n 

ROYAL CUSTARD FOR MOULDS OF ASPIC n 

How TO USE GARLIC OR ONION IN SALADS 12 

HOW TO SHELL AND BLANCH CHESTNUTS AND OTHER NUTS 12 

How TO CHOP FRESH HERBS 13 

How TO CUT RADISHES FOR A GARNISH 13 

HOW TO CLEAN LETTUCE, ENDIVE, ETC 13 



Contents 



PAGB 

HOW TO CLEAN CRESS, CABBAGE, ETC ........ 14 

HOW TO RENDER UNCOOKED VEGETABLES CRISP ". . . 14 

HOW TO BLANCH AND COOK VEGETABLES FOR SALADS . 14 

How TO CUT GHERKINS FOR A GARNISH ...... 15 

How TO FRINGE CELERY ............ 15 

HOW TO SHRED ROMAINE AND STRAIGHT LETTUCE . . 1$ 

How TO KEEP CELERY, WATERCRESS, LETTUCE, ETC. . . 16 

How TO COOK SWEETBREADS AND BRAINS ..... 16 

How TO PICKLE NASTURTIUM SEEDS ....... 16 

NASTURTIUM AND OTHER VINEGARS ........ 17 

NOVEL SALAD DRESSINGS ...... ..... 18 

RECIPES FOR FRENCH DRESSING ......... 21 

RECIPES FOR MAYONNAISE DRESSING ....... 22 

BOILED, CREAM, AND OTHER DRESSINGS ....... 26 

VEGETABLE SALADS SERVED WITH FRENCH DRESSING . 29 

SALADS LARGELY VEGETABLE WITH MAYONNAISE, ETC. . 39 

INTRODUCTION TO FISH SALADS ......... 53 

RECIPES FOR FISH SALADS ........... 55 

RECIPES FOR VARIOUS COMPOUND SALADS ..... 77 

RECIPES FOR FRUIT AND NUT SALADS ....... 89 

HOW TO PREPARE AND USE ASPIC JELLY ...... 97 

CONSOMME AND STOCK FOR ASPIC ........ 98 

CHEESE DISHES SERVED WITH SALADS ....... 105 



SANDWICHES 

BREAD FOR SANDWICHES ............ 115 

THE FILLING ................. 116 

RECIPES FOR SAVORY SANDWICHES ........ 119 

RECIPES FOR SWEET SANDWICHES ......... 131 



Contents 



PAGB 

RECIPES FOR BREAD AND CHOU PASTE 137 

How TO BOIL MEATS FOR SANDWICHES 140 

RECIPES FOR BEVERAGES SERVED WITH SANDWICHES . . 143 

Part IS! . 

CHAFING-DISH DAINTIES 

CHAFING-DISHES PAST AND PRESENT 151 

CHAFING-DISH APPOINTMENTS 153 

ARE MIDNIGHT SUPPERS HYGIENIC? 157 

How TO MAKE SAUCES 158 

MEASURING AND FLAVORING 160 

RECIPES FOR OYSTER DISHES 163 

RECIPES FOR LOBSTER AND OTHER SEA FISH .... 169 

RECIPES FOR CHEESE CONFECTIONS 182 

RECIPES FOR EGGS 188 

RECIPES FOR DISHES LARGELY VEGETARIAN ..... 195 

RECIPES FOR RECHAUFFES AND OLLA PODRIDA . , 202 



Illustrations 



Table laid for Sunday Night Tea Frontispiece 

The Tender Lettuce brings on softer Sleep . Facing page 18 

Lettuce-and-Roquefort Salad Dressing . . . . " " 19 

Cucumber Salad for Fish Course " " 28 

Cooked Vegetable Salad " " 28 

White and Blue Cabbage Salad " " 29 

Potato Salad, Garnish Pickled Mangoes and Beets " " 29 
Endive, Lettuce, Chestnuts, Green Peppers, etc., 

for 1914 Salad " " 40 

Cress, Cucumber, and Tomato Salad . . . . " "41 

Tomato Jelly with Celery and Nuts " "41 

Russian Vegetable Salad " " 58 

Macedoine of Vegetable Salad ......." " 58 

Miroton of Fish and Potato Salad " " 59 

Cowslip and Cream Cheese Salad " " 59 

SheU of Fish and Mushrooms ......." " 68 

Shrimp Salad in Cucumber Boat ......"" 68 

Shrimp Salad, Border of Eggs in Aspic . . . . " "69 

Lobster Salad " " 69 

Bluefish Salad " " 74 

Litchi Nut and Orange Salad . . . . . . . " " 74 

Moulded Salmon Salad ..." " 75 

Salad of Shrimps and Bamboo Sprouts . . . . " "75 

Spinach and Egg Salad " "84 

Marguerite Salad " " 84 



Illustrations 



String-Bean Salad, with Sliced Eggs Facing page 85 

A Perfect Egg Slicer " " 85 

Easter Salad ..." " 94 

Country Salad " " 94 

Fruit Salad " 95 

Turquoise Salad No. 2 " 



95 

Pineapple-and-Cream-Cheese Salad, Easter Style " " 104 

Fruit and Grape Salad " "104 

Cheese Ramequins " " 105 

Individual Souffle of Cheese " "105 

Pineapple-Cheese and Crackers " "no 

Salad of Lettuce with Cheese and Macedoine . . " " no 

Sardine Sandwiches with Canap6s " " m 

Chicken Salad Sandwiches " " 126 

Halibut Sandwiches with Aspic " "126 

Sandwiches cut with Doughnut Cutter . . . . " " 127 

Kaiser Rolls, with Dough and Cutter for Shaping " " 127 

Wedding Sandwich Rolls " "134 

Club Sandwich " "134 

Boston Brown Bread " " 135 

Bread cut for Sandwiches " " 135 

Copper Chafing-Dish with Earthen Casserole . " " 150 

Chafing-Dish, Filler, etc " "151 

Butter Balls with Utensils for Chafing-Dish . . " "178 

Moulded Halibut with Creamed Peas . . . . " "178 

Yorkshire Rabbit " "179 

Curried Eggs -. . ... . " "179 

Mushroom Cromeskies, ready for cooking ..." " 198 

Prune Toast " "198 

MaJdng ready for Eggs a la King " "199 



PHRT I. 



SHLHDS. 

Though my stomach was sharp, I could scarce help 

regretting 
To spoil such a delicate picture by eating. ' * 



INTRODUCTION. 



At their savory dinner set 
Herbs and other country messes, 
Which the neat-handed Phyllis dresses. 



OUR taste for salads and in their simplest .^ 
form who is not fond of salads? i& an.iaHeritancec *, :* 
from classic times and Eastern lands. In the hot 
climates of the Orient, cucumbers and melons were 
classed among earth's choicest productions ; and a 
resort ever grateful in the heat of the day was ' ' a 
lodge in a garden of cucumbers.' 1 

At the Passover the Hebrews ate lettuce, camo- 
mile, dandelion and mint, the " bitter herbs " of 
the Paschal feast, combined with oil and vine- 
gar. Of the Greeks, the rich were fond of the 
lettuces of Smyrna, which appeared on their tables 
at the close of the repast. In this respect the 
Romans, at first, imitated the Greeks, but later 
came to serve lettuce with eggs as a first course 
and to excite the appetite. The ancient physi- 
cians valued lettuce for its narcotic virtue, and, on 
account of this property, Galen, the celebrated 
Greek physician, called it "the philosopher's or 
wise man's herb." 



Salads. 



The older historians make frequent mention of 
salad plants and salads. In the biblical narrative 
Moses wrote : ' ' And the children of Israel wept 
again and said, We remember the fish which we 
did eat in Egypt freely ; the cucumbers, and the 
melons, and the leeks, and the onions, and the 
garlick." 

In his second Eclogue, Virgil represents a rustic 
maid, Thestylis, preparing for the reapers a salad 
called moretum. He wrote, also, a poem bearing 
thfe/tit}ei in; which he describes the composition 
apd preparation of the dish. 

- A ;moder.n authority says, " Salads refresh with- 
out exciting and make people younger. ' ' Whether 
this be strictly true or not may be an open ques- 
tion, but certainly in the assertion a grain of truth 
is visible ; for it is a well-known fact that * ' salad 
plants are better tonics and blood purifiers than 
druggists' compounds." There is, also, an old 
proverb : ' ' Eat onions in May, and all the year 
after physicians may play." What is health but 
youth ? 

Vegetables, fish and meats, "left over," all 
may be transformed, by artistic treatment, into 
salads delectable to the eye and taste. Potatoes 
are subject to endless combinations. First of all 
in this connection, before dressing the potatoes 
allow them to stand in bouillon, meat broth, or 
even in the liquor in which corned beef has been 
cooked ; then drain carefully before adding the oil 
and other seasonings. 

4 



Introduction. 



Of uncooked vegetables, cabbage lettuce called 
long ago by the Greek physician, Galen, the phil- 
osopher's or wise man's herb stands at the head 
of salad plants. lyike all uncooked vegetables, 
lettuce must be served fresh and crisp, and the 
more quickly it is grown the more tender it will 
be. When dressed for the table, each leaf should 
glisten with oil, yet no perceptible quantity should 
fall to the salad-bowl. Watercress, being rich in 
sulphuretted oil, is often served without oil. 
Cheese or eggs combine well with cress ; and such 
a salad, with a sandwich of coarse bread and 
butter, together with a cup of sparkling coffee, 
forms an ideal luncheon for a picnic or for the 
home piazza. Indeed, all the compound salads, 
that is, salads of many ingredients, more 
particularly if they are served with a cooked or 
mayonnaise dressing, are substantial enough for 
the chief dish of a hearty meal. Their digesti- 
bility depends, in large measure, on the tender- 
ness of the different ingredients, as well as upon 
the freshness of the uncooked vegetables that 
enter into their composition. 

A salad has this superiority over every other 
production of the culinary art : A salad (but not 
every salad) is suitable to serve upon any occasion, 
or to any class or condition of men. Among bon 
vivants, without a new salad, no matter how recher- 
che the other courses may be, the luncheon, or 
dinner party, of to-day does not pass as an unqual- 
ified success. 

5 



Salads. 



While salads may be compounded of all kinds 
of delicate meats, fish, shellfish, eggs, nuts, fruit, 
cheese and vegetables, cooked or uncooked, two 
things are indispensable to every kind and grade 
of salad, viz., the foundation of vegetables and the 
dressing. 

The Dressing. 

Salads are dressed with oil, acid and condi- 
ments ; and, sometimes, a sweet, as honey or sugar, 
is used. A perfect salad is not necessarily acetic. 
The presence of vinegar in a dressing, like that of 
onions and its relatives, on most occasions should 
be suspected only. Wyvern and other true epi- 
cures consider the advice of Sydney Smith, as 
expressed in the following couplet, ' ' most perni- 
cious " : 

" Four times the spoon with oil of Lucca crown, 
And twice with vinegar procured from town." 

Aromatic vinegars, a few drops of which, used 
occasionally, lend piquancy and variety to an 
every-day salad, can be purchased at high-class 
provision stores ; but the true salad-maker is an 
artist, and prefers to compound her own colors 
(i.e., vinegars) ; therefore we have given several 
recipes for the same, which may be easily modified 
to suit individual tastes. 

Indeed, the dressing of a salad, though in the 
early days of the century considered a special art, 
an art that rendered it possible for at least one 
noted Royalist refugee to amass a considerable 

6 



Use of Dressings. 



fortune, is entirely a matter of individual taste, 
or, more properly speaking, of cultivation. On this 
account, particularly for a French dressing, no set 
rules can be given. By experience and judgment 
one must decide upon the proportions of the dif- 
ferent ingredients, or, more specifically, upon the 
proportions of the oil and acid to be used. Often 
four spoonfuls of oil are used to one of vinegar. 
Four spoonfuls of oil to two, three or four of vine- 
gar may be the proportion preferred by others, and 
the quantity may vary for different salads. 

Though in many of the recipes explicit quanti- 
ties of oil, vinegar and condiments are given, it is 
with the understanding that these quantities are 
indicated simply as an approximate rule; some- 
times less and sometimes more will be required, 
according to the tendency of the article dressed to 
absorb oil and acid, or the taste of the salad dresser. 

Use of Dressings. 

The dressings in most common use are the 
French and the mayonnaise. A French dressing 
is used for green vegetables, for fruit and nuts, 
and to marinate cooked vegetables, or the meat 
or fish for a meat or fish salad. Mayonnaise dress- 
ing is used for meat, fish, some varieties of fruit, 
as banana, apple and pineapple, and for some veg- 
etables, as cauliflower, asparagus and tomatoes. 
Any article to be served with mayonnaise, after 
standing an hour or more in a marinade, i. <?., 
French dressing, should be carefully drained, as, 

7 



Salads. 



by the pickling process, liquid will drain out into 
the bottom of the vessel and, mixing with the 
mayonnaise, will liquefy the same. 

Arrangement of Salads. 

In the arrangement of salads there may be great 
display of taste and individuality. By a judicious 
selection from materials that may be kept con- 
stantly in store, and with one or two window boxes, 
in which herbs are growing, any one, with a modi- 
cum of inventive skill, can so change and modify 
the appearance and flavor of her salads that she 
may seem always to present a new one. 

Composition of Mayonnaise. 

Mayonnaise dressing is composed largely of olive 
oil. A small amount of yolk of egg is used as a 
foundation. The oil, with the addition of condi- 
ments, is slightly acidulated with vinegar and 
lemon juice, one or both, and the whole is made 
very light and thick by beating. Mayonnaise 
forms a very handsome dressing, and it is much 
enjoyed by those who are fond of oil. 

Value of Oil. 

Pure olive oil is almost entirely without flavor, 
and a taste for it can be readily acquired ; and, 
when we consider that it contains all the really 
desirable qualities of the once-famous cod-liver oil, 
except the phosphates, and that these may be 
sup/lied in the other materials of the salad, it 

8 



Boiled and Cream Dressings, etc. 

would seem wise to cultivate a taste for so whole- 
some an article. By the addition of cream, in 
the proportion of a cup of whipped cream to a pint 
of dressing, those to whom oil has not become 
agreeable can so modify its ' ' tone ' ' that they too 
will enjoy the mayonnaise dressing. 

Boiled and Cream Dressings. 

For the French and mayonnaise dressings par- 
ticularly for the latter we sometimes substitute 
a boiled and sometimes a cream dressing. In the 
first, butter, or cream, is substituted for oil, and the 
materials are combined by cooking. In the latter, 
as the name implies, cream is the basis, and this 
may be either sweet or sour. 

Important Points in Salad-Making. 

(1) The green vegetables should be served fresh 
and crisp. * 

(2) Meat and fish should be well marinated and 
cold. 

(3) The ingredients composing the salad should 
not be combined until the last moment before 
serving. 

When to Serve Salads with French or Mayon- 
naise Dressing. 

As a rule, subject, however, to exceptions, light 
vegetable salads, dressed with French dressing, 
are served at dinner; while heavy meat or fish 
salads are reserved for luncheon, or supper, and 
are served with mayonnaise or cream dressing. 

9 



Salads. 



When to Serve a Fruit Salad. 

A fruit salad, with sweet dressing, is served with 
cake at a luncheon, or supper, or in the evening ; 
that is, it may take the place of fruit in the dessert 
course. A fruit salad, with French or mayonnaise 
dressing, may be served as a first course at lunch- 
eon, or with the game or roast, though in the latter 
case the French dressing is preferable. 

Salads with Cheese. 

The rightful place of salads is with the roast or 
game. Here the crisp, green salad herbs, deli- 
cately acidulated, complement and correct the rich- 
ness of these plats . 

Occasionally when the game is omitted and an 
acid sauce accompanies the roast, a simple salad 
combined with cheese in some form, preferably 
cooked and hot, is selected to lengthen the menu. 
This same combination of hot cheese dish and salad 
should be a favorite one for home luncheons, when 
this meal is not made the children's dinner. The 
salad too in this combination, aided by the bread 
accompanying it, corrects by dilution the over con- 
centration and richness of the cheese dish. In 
England neatly trimmed-and-cleansed celery stalks 
and cheese often precede the sweet course ; but by 
virtue of its mission as a digester of everything but 
itself and of the common disinclination to have the 
taste of sweets linger upon the palate, the place of 
cheese as cheese is with the coffee. 

10 



HOW TO MAKE AROMATIC VINE- 
GARS, TO KEEP VEGETABLES 
AND TO PREPARE GARNISHES- 



How to Boil Eggs Hard for Garnishing. 

COVER the eggs with boiling water. Set them 
on the back of the range, where the water will 
keep hot without boiling, about forty minutes. 
After forty minutes let boil one minute. Cool in 
cold water, and with a thin, sharp knife cut as 
desired. 

To Poach Whites of Eggs. 

Turn the whites of the eggs into a well-buttered 
mould or cup, set upon a trivet in a dish of hot 
water, and cook until firm, either upon the back of 
the range or in the oven, and without letting the 
water boil. Turn from the mould, cut into slices, 
and then into fanciful shapes ; or chop fine. 

Royal Custard for Moulds of Aspic. 

Beat together one whole egg and three yolks ; 
add one-fourth a teaspoonful, each, of mace, salt 
and paprica, and, when well mixed, add half a cup 
of cream. Bake in a buttered mould, set in a pan 
of water, until firm. When cold cut in thin slices, 

ii 



Salads. 



then stamp out in fanciful shapes with French 
cutters. Use in decorating a mould for aspic jelly. 

How to Use Garlic or Onion in Salads, 

The salad-bowl may be rubbed with the cut 
surface of a clove of garlic, or a chapon may be 
used. A chapon, according to gastronomic usage, 
is a thin piece of bread rubbed on all sides with 
the cut surface of a clove of garlic and put into the 
salad-bowl before the seasonings. It is tossed 
with the salad and dressings, to which it imparts 
its flavor. It may be divided and served with the 
salad. Oftentimes, instead of one piece, several 
small cubes of bread are thus used. 

After a slice of onion has been removed, the cut 
surface of the onion may be pressed with a rotary 
motion against a grater and the juice extracted ; 
or a lemon-squeezer kept for this special purpose 
may be used. 

How to Shell and Blanch Chestnuts. 

Score the shell of each nut, and put into a fry- 
ing-pan with a teaspoonful of butter for each pint 
of nuts. Shake the pan over the fire until the 
butter is melted ; then set in the oven five minutes. 
With a sharp knife remove the shells and skins 
together. 

How to Blanch Walnuts and Almonds. 

Put the nut meats over the fire in cold water, 
bring quickly to the boiling-point, drain, and rinse 

12 



To Prepare Vegetables and Garnishes. 

with cold water, then the skins may be easily 
rubbed from the almonds ; a small pointed knife 
will be needed for the walnuts. 

How to Chop Fresh Herbs. 

Pluck the leaves close, discarding the stems ; 
gather the leaves together closely with the fingers 
of the left hand, then with a sharp knife cut 
through close to the fingers ; push the leaves out 
a little and cut again, and so continue until all are 
cut. Now gather into a mound and chop to a 
very fine powder, holding the point of the knife 
close to the board. Put the chopped herb into 
a cheese-cloth and hold under a stream of cold 
water, then wring dry. Use this green powder 
for dusting over a salad when required. 

How to Cut Radishes for a Garnish. 

Cut a thin slice from the leaf end of each ; cut 
off the root end so as to leave it the length of the 
pistil of a flower. With a small, sharp knife score 
the pink skin, at the root end, into five or six sec- 
tions extending half-way down the radish ; then 
loosen the skin above these sections. Put the rad- 
ishes in cold water for a little time, when they will 
become crisp, and the points will stand out like 
the petals of a flower. 

How to Clean Lettuce, Endive, Etc. 

A short time before serving cut off the roots and 
freshen the vegetable in cold water. Then break 



Salads. 



the leaves from the stalk ; dip repeatedly into cold 
water, examining carefully, until perfectly clean, 
taking care not to crush the leaves. Put into a 
French wire basket made for the purpose, or into 
a piece of mosquito netting or cheese-cloth, and 
shake gently until the water is removed. Then 
spread on a plate or in a colander and set in a cool 
place until the moment for serving. 

How to Clean Cress. 

Pick over the stalks so as to remove grass, etc. 
Wash and dry in the same manner as the lettuce, 
but without removing the leaves from the stems, 
except when the stems are very coarse and large. 

How to Clean Cabbage and Cauliflower. 



stand head downwards half an hour in cold 
salted water, using a tablespoonful of salt to a 
quart of water. 

How to Render Uncooked Vegetables Crisp. 

Put into cold water with a bit of ice and a slice 
of lemon. When ready to use, dry between folds 
of cheese-cloth and let stand exposed to the air a 
few moments. 

How to Blanch and Cook Vegetables for Salads. 

Cut the vegetables as desired, in cubes, lozenges, 
balls, juliennes, etc. Put over the fire in boiling 
water, and, after cooking three or four minutes, 

14 



To Prepare Vegetables and Garnishes. 

drain, rinse in cold water, and put on to cook in 
boiling salted water to cover. Drain as soon as 
tender. 

How to Cut Gherkins for a Garnish. 

Select small cucumber pickles of uniform size. 
With a sharp knife cut them, lengthwise, into 
slices thin as paper, without detaching the slices 
at one end ; then spread out the slices as a fan is 
spread. 

How to Fringe Celery. 

Cut the stalks into pieces about two inches in 
length. Beginning on the round side at one end, 
with a thin, sharp knife, cut down half an inch as 
many times as possible ; then turn the stalk half- 
way around and cut in the opposite direction, thus 
dividing the end into shreds, or a fringe. If de- 
sired, cut the opposite end in the same manner. 
Set aside in a pan of ice water containing a slice 
of lemon. 

How to Shred Romaine and Straight Lettuce. 

Wash the lettuce leaves carefully, without re- 
moving them from the stalk ; shake in the open 
air, and they will dry very quickly ; fold in the 
middle, crosswise, and cut through in the fold. 
Hold the two pieces, one above the other, close to 
the meat -board with the left hand, and with a 
sharp knife cut in narrow ribbons not more than a 
quarter of an inch wide. 

IS 



Salads. 



How to Keep Celery, Watercress, Lettuce, Etc. 

Many green vegetables celery in particular 
discolor or rust, if allowed to stand longer than a 
few hours after being wet. When brought from 
the market they may be put aside, in a tightly 
closed pail, or in a paper bag, in a cool, dry place. 
By thus excluding the air they will keep fresh 
several days. A short time before serving put 
them into ice-cold water to which a slice or two of 
lemon has been added. 

How to Cook Sweetbreads and Brains. 

Remove the thin outer skin or membrane and 
soak in cold water, changing the water often, an 
hour or more. Cover with salted boiling water, 
acidulated with lemon juice and flavored with 
vegetables, and cook, just below the boiling-point, 
twenty minutes. They are then ready for prepara- 
tion in any of the ways mentioned. Tie the brains 
in a cloth before cooking. 

How to Pickle Nasturtium Seeds. 

As the seeds are gathered wash and dry them : 
then put them into vinegar to which salt (half a 
teaspoonful to a pint) has been added. When a 
sufficient quantity has been collected, scald fresh 
vinegar, add salt as before, and the seeds from 
which the first vinegar has been drained. Pour 
scalding hot into bottles, having the seeds com- 
pletely covered with vinegar. 

16 



To Prepare Vegetables and Garnishes. 

Nasturtium Vinegar. 

Fill a quart jar loosely with nasturtium blossoms 
fully blown ; add a shallot and one-third a clove 
of garlic, both finely chopped, half a red pepper, 
and cold cider vinegar to fill the jar; cover closely 
and set aside two months. Dissolve a teaspoon- 
ful of salt in the vinegar, then strain and filter. 

Tarragon Vinegar. 

Fill a fruit jar with fresh tarragon leaves or 
shoots, putting them in loosely ; add the thin yellow 
paring of half a lemon with two or three cloves, and 
fill the jar with white wine or cider vinegar. Screw 
down the cover tightly, and allow the jar to stand 
in the sun two weeks ; strain the vinegar through a 
cloth, pressing out the liquid from the leaves ; then 
pass through filter paper, and bottle for future use. 
If a quantity be prepared, it were better to seal the 
bottles. 

Fines Herbes Vinegar. 

INGREDIENTS. 

2 cups of tarragon vinegar. 2 cloves of garlic, chopped 

2 tablespoonfuls of garden fine. 

cress, chopped fine. 4 small green capsicums, 

2 tablespoonfuls of sweet chopped fine. 

marjoram, chopped fine. 2 shallots, chopped fine. 

Method. Mix the ingredients in a pint fruit 
jar, cover closely, and set in the sun; after two 
weeks strain, pass through filter paper and store 
in tightly corked bottles. 

17 



NOVEL SALAD DRESSINGS. 



Highly-Seasoned Pink Salad Dressing. 

Mix ten drops of tabasco sauce, one-fourth a 
teaspoonful each, of salt, mustard and paprica, 
two tablespoonfuls of chili sauce, two tablespoon- 
fuls of fine-chopped pimentos, ten drops of onion 
juice and half a tablespoonful of cider vinegar; when 
evenly blended, add a generous tablespoonful of 
mayonnaise dressing and beat all together smoothly. 




Q 

T3 

ca 





<u 

t 



SALAD DRESSINGS. 



SALAD DRESSINGS. 



"Just, as in nature, thy proportions be, 
As full of concord their variety." 

French Dressing. 

INGREDIENTS. 

% a teaspooonful of salt. % a teaspoonful of pepper. 
A few grains of cayenne 2 to 6 tablespoonfuls of vine* 
or paprica. gar or lemon juice. 

6 tablespoonfuls of oil. 

If desired, 

% a teaspoonful of prepared mustard. 

3*2 a teaspoonful of onion juice, or rub the salad-bowl with 

slice of onion, or clove of garlic. 

Method. Mix the condiments, add the oil and 
mix again ; then add the acid, a few drops at a 
time, and beat until an emulsion is formed ; then 
pour over the vegetables, toss with the spoon and 
fork, and serve. In Chicago a method has ob- 
tained that is well worth a trial : Put a bit of ice 
into the bowl with the condiments, and, by means 
of a fork pressed against or into this, use in mixing. 

Second Method. Pour the oil over the vegetables, 
toss, until the oil is evenly distributed, and dust 
with salt and pepper ; then add the acid and toss 
again. When the salad is prepared at the table, 
the vegetables may be dressed in a bowl, then ar- 

21 



Salad Dressings. 



ranged on the serving-dish ; or, if but one vegeta- 
ble is used, it is preferable to serve from the dish 
in which it is dressed. 

To Mix a Quantity of Dressing. 

Put all the ingredients into a fruit jar, fit on one 
or more rubbers and the cover ; then shake the jar 
vigorously, until a smooth dressing is formed. 

Claret Dressing. 

(For lettuce or fruit salad. ) 

Mix half a teaspoonful of salt, a dash of pepper, 
white or paprica, and four tablespoonfuls of oil; 
add gradually one tablespoonful of claret and one 
tablespoonful of lemon juice or vinegar. 

Mayonnaise Dressing. 

INGREDIENTS. 
The yolks of 2 raw eggs. 2 tablespoonfuls of lemon 

1 pint of olive oil. juice. 

2 tablespoonfuls of vinegar. % a teaspoonful of salt. 

A few grains of cayenne or paprica. 

If desired, 

I teaspoonful, each, of mustard and powdered sugar. 

Method. An amateur will probably find it help- 
ful to have all the utensils and ingredients thor- 
oughly chilled, but the professional salad-maker 
thinks it expedient to have the ingredients and 
utensils of the same temperature as the room in 
which the dressing is to be served. Beat the yolks 
with a small wooden spoon or silver fork, add 

22 



Salads. 



the condiments and mix again; then add all of the 
acid, beating it in gradually with an egg-beater. 
When the mixture is smooth, beat in half a tea- 
spoonful of oil. Continue beating in the oil, in- 
creasing the quantity added at one time to a tea- 
spoonful, and finally to a tablespoonful, until the 
whole quantity has been used. Lastly, beat in 
two tablespoonfuls of boiling water, one at a time. 
Cover with a china or glass plate and set aside in 
a cool place. Beat the full quantity of acid into 
the yolks before adding the oil, or the oil cannot 
be added in the quantity indicated. 

Russian Mayonnaise. 

INGREDIENTS. 

1 cup mayonnaise. ^ teaspoonful paprica. 

3-J2 cup olive oil. 1 teaspoonful pimentos, chopped 

1 teaspoonful vinegar. fine. 

^ teaspoonful salt. 1 teaspoonful green pepper, chopped 

^ cup chili sauce. fine. 

Method. Gradually beat the oil into the may- 
onnaise; add the other ingredients, then gradually 
beat in the chili sauce. 

"1914" Salad Dressing. 

INGREDIENTS. 

Juice (scraped) ^ Bermuda 1 tablespoonful Worcester- 
onion, shire sauce. 
% cup olive oil. 1 teaspoonful mushroom cat- 
Y Z cup red- wine vinegar. sup. 
% cup tomato catsup. 1 teaspoonful papriea. 
)^ teaspoonful salt. 

Method. Stir until well blended. 
23 



Salads. 



Roquefort Cheese Salad Dressing. 

INGREDIENTS. 

2 ounces or % cup Roquefort 2 to 3 tablespoonfuls red- 
cheese, wine vinegar. 

4 to 6 tablespoonfuls olive % teaspoonful each, salt and 
oil. paprica. 

Method. Beat the cheese to a cream; then grad- 
ually beat in the oil, vinegar, etc. The uncooked 
yolk of an egg is sometimes beaten into the cheese, 
before the oil, and thick cream may replace part of 
the oil. Curdled Mayonnaise. 

Occasionally a mayonnaise will assume a curdled 
appearance ; under such circumstances, often the 
addition of a very little of white of egg or a few 
drops of lemon juice, with thorough beating, will 
cause the sauce to resume its former smoothness. 
In case it does not become smooth, put the yolk of 
an egg into a cold bowl, beat well, and add to it 
the curdled mixture, a little at a time. 

Red Mayonnaise. 

Mix a level teaspoonful of Italian tomato pulp 
with a teaspoonful of mayonnaise dressing, and 
when well blended beat very thoroughly into a cup 
or more of the dressing, or add dressing until the 
desired tint is attained. 

Red Mayonnaise, No. 2. 

(For fish.) 

Pound dried lobster coral in a mortar, sift, and 
add gradually to the dressing, to secure the shade 
desired. Or, after the salad is arranged in the 

24 



Salad Dressings. 



bowl, or in nests, mask the top with mayonnaise of 
the usual color, and sift the coral over the centre, 
leaving a ring of yellow around the edge. 

Sauce Tartare. 

Make a mayonnaise dressing, using tarragon vin- 
egar. To each cup of dressing add one shallot, 
chopped fine, two tablespoonfuls, each, of finely 
chopped capers, olives and cucumber pickles, one 
tablespoonful of chopped parsley, and one-fourth a 
teaspoonful of powdered tarragon. 

Sardine Mayonnaise. 

Skin and bone three sardines and pound them to 
a pulp ; sift the cooked yolks of three eggs and add 
to the pulp ; work until smooth, then add to one 
cup of mayonnaise dressing. 

Jelly Mayonnaise. 

( Used for masking cold fish or salads, or as a 
garnish with forcing -bag and tube.) 

To a cup of mayonnaise dressing beat in grad- 
ually from two tablespoonfuls to one-third a cup 
of chilled but liquid aspic. More seasoning may 
be needed. Apply to a cold surface, or chill before 
using with forcing-bag. 

Li vournaise 5auce. 

To a cup of mayonnaise dressing add a grating 
of nutmeg, one tablespoonful of chopped parsley 
and the pulp of eight anchovies. 

To prepare the anchovies, wash, dry, remove 
skin and bones and pound to a pulp in a mortar. 

25 



Salads. 



Boiled Dressing for Chicken Salad. 

INGREDIENTS. 

^ a cup of chicken stock, ^ a teaspoonful of paprica. 

well reduced. Yolks of 5 eggs. 

% a cup of vinegar. 3^ a cup of oil. 

% a cup of mixed mustard. ^ a cup of thick, sweet 

I teaspoonful of salt. cream. 

Method. Simmer the liquor in which a fowl has 
been cooked, until it is well reduced. Put the 
stock, vinegar and mustard into a double boiler, 
and add the salt and pepper. Beat the yolks of 
the eggs and add carefully to the hot mixture, 
cooking in the same manner as a boiled custard. 
When cold and ready to serve, beat in with a 
whisk the oil, and then fold in the cream, beaten 
stiff with a Dover egg-beater. Melted butter, added 
before the dressing is cold, may be substituted for 
the oil. 

Boiled Salad Dressing. 

INGREDIENTS. 

i teaspoonful of mustard. 4 tablespoonfuls of melted 
j> a teaspoonful of salt. butter. 

% a teaspoonful of paprica. 2 tablespoonfuls of vinegar. 
Yolks of 3 eggs. ^ a cup of thick cream. 

2 tiblespoonfuls of lemon juice. 

Method. Mix together the mustard, salt and 
paprica, and add the yolks of eggs ; stir well and 
add slowly the butter, vinegar and lemon juice, 
and cook in the double boiler until thick as soft 
custard. When cool and ready to serve, add the 
cream, beaten stiff with the Dover egg-beater. 

26 



Salad Dressings. 



Cream Salad Dressing. 

INGREDIENTS. 

% a cup of thick cream. ^ a teaspoonful of salt. 

2 tablespoonfuls of vinegar A dash of white pepper and 
or lemon juice. paprica. 

Method. Add the seasonings to the cream and 
beat with a Dover egg : beater until smooth and 
light. Add a scant fourth a cup of grated horse- 
radish, for a change. The radish should be freshly 
grated, and added to the cream after it is beaten. 

Dressing for Cole-Slaw. 

Beat the yolks of three eggs with half a tea- 
spoonful of made mustard, a dash of pepper and 
one-fourth a teaspoonful of salt ; add one-third a 
cup of vinegar and two tablespoonfuls of butter, 
and cook over hot water until slightly thickened. 
Set aside to become cold before using. 

Bacon Sauce. 

Heat five tablespoonfuls of bacon fat ; cook in it 
two tablespoonfuls of flour and a dash of paprica ; 
add five tablespoonfuls of vinegar and half a cup 
of water ; stir until boiling ; then beat in the beaten 
yolks of two eggs, and a little salt if necessary. 
Do not allow the sauce to boil after the eggs are 
added. Add to salad after it has become thor- 
oughly cold. Good with dandelion, endive, chic- 
ory, corn salad or lettuce. 

27 



Salads. 



One Quart of Vinaigrette Sauce. 

For endive, lettuce, cooked asparagus, etc. 
Rub the inside of a mixing bowl with a clove of 
garlic, cut in halves. Into the bowl put half a tea- 
spoonful, each, of mustard, paprica, and curry pow- 
der, one teaspoonful of chopped chives, a thin slice of 
mild onion, scraped to a pulp, one teaspoonful of salt, 
one tablespoonf ul of fine-chopped parsley and half a 
chili pepper, chopped fine. Mix and crush all the in- 
gredients. Use a silver fork. Then pour on a table- 
spoonful of olive oil and mash the whole to a smooth 
pulp; add a cup of cider vinegar, gradually, mixing 
all together meanwhile ; then add three cups of olive 
oil in the same manner. Press through a very fine 
(new) sieve into a quart fruit jar. Cover closely, and 
set aside in a cool place for use as desired. 

French Dressing, Chiffonade. 

To the recipe given for French Dressing add 
half a teaspoonful of onion juice, one hard-cooked 
egg, one teaspoonful of chives, and one tablespoon- 
ful, each, of red and green pepper and cooked 
beets, all chopped very fine. Serve with endive or 
any variety of lettuce. 

Thousand Island Salad Dressing. 

To a cup of mayonnaise add one tablespoon- 
ful, each, chopped chives, pimentos, and green 
pepper, the sifted yolk of one hard-cooked egg, 
one teaspoonful, each, paprica, walnut catsup, 
and tarragon vinegar, and three or four tablespoon- 
fuls of chili sauce. 

28 




Cucumber Salad tor Fish Course. 

(See page 36) 




Cooked Vegetable Salad 

(See page 37) 




White and Blue Cabbage Salad. 




Potato Salad, Garnish, Pickled Mangoes and Beets. 



VEGETABLE SALADS SERVED 
WITH FRENCH DRESSING. 



" Bestrewed with lettuce and cool salad herbs." 

Lettuce Salad. 

WASH and drain the lettuce leaves ; toss lightly, 
so as to remove every drop of water. Sprinkle 
them with oil, a few drops at a time, tossing the 
leaves about with spoon and fork after each addi- 
tion. When each leaf glistens with oil (there 
should be no oil in the bottom of the bowl) shake 
over them a few drops of vinegar, then dust with 
salt and freshly ground pepper. The cutting of 
lettuce is considered a culinary sin ; but, when the 
straight-leaved lettuce, or the Romaine, is to be 
used, better effects, at least as far as appearance is 
concerned, will be produced, if the lettuce be cut 
into ribbons. To do this, wash the lettuce care- 
fully, without removing the leaves from the stem ; 
fold together across the centre, and with a sharp, 
thin knife cut into ribbons less than half an inch 
in width. 

29 



Salads. 



Endive Salad. 

Prepare as lettuce salad, first rubbing over the 
bowl with a clove of garlic cut in halves. A few 
sprigs of chives, chopped fine, are exceedingly 
palatable, sprinkled over a lettuce, endive, string- 
bean, or other bean salad. 

A Few Combinations. 

Dress each vegetable separately with the dress- 
ing ; then arrange upon the serving-dish. Or, 
have the salad arranged upon the serving-dish and 
pour the dressing over all ; then toss together and 
serve. About three tablespoonfuls of oil, with other 
ingredients in accordance, will be needed for one 
pint of vegetable. 

1. I/ettuce, tomatoes cut in halves, sprinkled 
with powdered tarragon, and parsley or chives. 

2. I^ettuce, moulded spinach and fine-chopped 
beets. 

3. L,ettuce, Boston baked beans and chives. 

4. I^ettuce and peppergrass. 

5. I^ettuce, shredded sweet peppers or pimen- 
tos, and sliced pecan nuts or almonds. 

6. I^ettuce, tomatoes stuffed with peas or string 
beans cut small, and chives chopped fine. 

7. I/ettuce, asparagus tips and sliced radishes. 
Arrange the lettuce at the edge of dish, inside a 
ring of radishes sliced thin, without removing the 
red skins ; centre of asparagus tips, with radish cut 
to resemble a flower. 

30 



Vegetable Salads with French Dressing. 

8. Lettuce, shredded tomatoes and shredded 
green peppers. 

9. Shredded lettuce, English walnuts, and al- 
monds or cooked chestnuts, sliced. 

10. Lettuce, Neufchatel cheese in slices and 
shredded pimentos. 

11. Lettuce, cauliflower, string beans and 
shredded pimentos. 

12. Lettuce or cress, artichoke slices and pow- 
dered tarragon. 

13. Shredded cabbage and shredded green 
peppers. 

14. Cauliflower broken into flowerets, string 
beans cut into small pieces, and beets cut in fancy 
shapes or chopped. Arrange each vegetable in a 
mass by itself; surround with lettuce. 

15. Cucumbers and new onions, sliced. 

1 6. Watercress, diced boiled beets, and olives 
in centre. 

17. Lettuce, Brussels sprouts and chopped 
pepper. 

Lentil Salad. 

Soak the lentils over night; wash and rinse 
thoroughly, then cook until tender, adding hot 
water as needed. Drain, and when cold mix with 
each pint of lentils about five tablespoonfuls of oil, 
two tablespoonf ul? of tarragon vinegar and one tea- 
spoonful, each, of capers, parsley, chives and cu- 
cumber pickles, all, save the capers, chopped fine. 
Serve in a mound, on a bed of lettuce leaves. 

3 1 . 



Salads. 



Garnish with, heart leaves of lettuce at the top and 
sections of tomato, or diamonds of tomato jelly, at 
the base. 

White-Bean Salad. 

Toss one pint of white beans, cooked, with one 
tablespoonful of vinegar and three tablespoonfuls 
of oil, a little salt and a dash of cayenne or pap- 
rica. Arrange in a mound on a bed of shredded 
lettuce, and sprinkle with chives, parsley and pi- 
mentos, all finely chopped. Finish the top of the 
salad with a large pim-ola. 

Potato Salad. 
(Miss COHEN.) 
INGREDIENTS. 

3 cups of cold boiled pota- % a teaspoonful of onion 

toes, cut in cubes. juice. 

i cup of pecan nuts, broken A dash of cayenne. 

in pieces. 2 or 3 tablespoonfuls of vin' 

5 tablespoonfuls of oil. egar. 

i tablespoonful of salt. Watercress. 

Method. Mix the potatoes and nuts, add the 
oil and mix again ; add the other seasonings, 
and, when well mixed, set aside in a cool place 
an hour or more. Remove the coarse stalks from 
two bunches of watercress that have been well 
washed and dried. Season with French dressing 
and arrange in a wreath about the edge of the 
salad. 

3 2 



Vegetable Salads with French Dressing. 

Potato Salad. 

(CARRIE M. DEARBORN.) 

INGREDIENTS. 

12 cold boiled potatoes. 2 teaspoonfuls of salt. 

4 cooked eggs. 6 tablespoonfuls, each, of 

2 small Bermuda onions. oil and vinegar. 

Chopped parsley. % a teaspoonful of pow- 

I saltspoonful of white pep- dered sugar, 
per. 

Method. Cut the potatoes into dice and chop 
the eggs fine. Chop the onions, or slice them very 
thin. Sprinkle the potatoes, eggs and onions with 
the salt and pepper, and mix thoroughly. Pour 
the oil gradually over the mixture, stirring and 
tossing continually ; lastly, mix with the other in- 
gredients the vinegar, in which the sugar has been 
dissolved. Sprinkle chopped parsley over the top. 

Potato Salad. 

INGREDIENTS. 

i quart of cubes of cold ^ a teaspoonful of paprica. 
boiled potatoes. 3 tablespoonfuls of vinegar. 

i) teaspoonfuls of salt. 4 tablespoonfuls of oil. 

Capers, beets, whites and yolks of eggs, and lettuce. 

Method. To the potato cubes add the salt, pep- 
per and oil, and mix thoroughly ; add the vinegar 
and mix again. Pile the cubes in a mound in the 
salad-bowl. Mark out the surface of the mound 
into quarters with capers ; fill in two opposite sec- 
tions with chopped beet ; use chopped whites of 
eggs in a third, and sifted yolks of eggs in the 
fourth section. Finish with a border of parsley. 

33 



Salads. 



Potato-and-Nasturtium Salad. 

(E. J. MCKENZIE.) 

INGREDIENTS. 

i quart of potatoes, cut in 2 tablespoonfuls of pickled 

cubes. nasturtium seeds. 

% a cup of chopped gher- Onion juice or garlic, 

kins. 6 tablespoonfuls of oil. 

i cup of tender nasturtium 5 tablespoonfuls of vinegar, 

shoots, cut in bits. Salt and pepper. 

Chopped parsley. 

Method. Mix the potatoes, gherkins, nastur- 
tium shoots and seeds in a bowl rubbed over with 
garlic ; add the oil, vinegar and seasonings, and 
mix again. Pile in a mound on a serving-dish, 
dust with chopped parsley, and garnish with a 
wreath of nasturtium blossoms and leaves. 

Stuffed Beets. 

Boil new beets, of even size, until tender. Set 
aside for some hours, or over night, covered with 
vinegar. When ready to serve, rub off the skin, 
scoop out the centre of each to form a cup, and 
arrange the cups on lettuce leaves. For each five 
cups chop fine a cucumber. Make a French dress- 
ing of two tablespoonfuls of oil, half a tablespoon- 
ful (scant) of vinegar, one-fourth a teaspoonful, 
each, of paprica and salt. Stir the dressing into 
the cucumber and fill the beets with the mix- 
ture. Of the beet removed to form the cups, cut 
slices and stamp out from these stars or other 

34 



Vegetable Salads with French Dressing. 

fanciful shapes, and use to decorate the top of 
each cup. 

Chopped radish, cress, olives or celery are all 
admissible for a filling. 

Salad of Brussels Sprouts and Beets. 

Soak the sprouts in salted water; then drain 
and cook in salted boiling water about fifteen min- 
utes, or until tender ; drain and cool. Dress with 
French dressing and pile in a mound. Finish the 
top with a fanciful-shaped figure cut from a slice of 
pickled beet, and place a wreath of cooked beet, 
chopped and seasoned with French dressing, about 
the whole. 

Macedoine Salad. 

Cut pieces of carrot and turnip one inch long 
and half an inch thick. Put over the fire in boil- 
ing water and bring quickly to the boiling-point ; 
drain, cover with fresh water, and cook until ten- 
der; score the top of each piece and insert an 
asparagus point. Dip the pieces in a little melted 
gelatine and set alternately in a circle on the 
serving-dish. Have carrots cut in small cubes 
or straws, turnips and beet root the same, green 
string beans cut in small pieces, asparagus and 
peas, all cooked separately until tender. Mix 
with French dressing and dispose inside the circle. 
Each vegetable may be massed by itself, or all may 
be mixed together. Finish the top with half a 
dozen short stalks of asparagus. 

35 



Salads. 



Tomato-and-Onion Salad. 

Peel and shred four tomatoes ; slice thinly a very 
mild onion and separate into rings ; dress freely 
with oil and tarragon vinegar, and season with 
salt and pepper. Serve on lettuce leaves, sprin- 
kling the whole with fine -chopped parsley and 
green peppers. 

Endive,-Tomato-and-Green-5tring-Bean Salad. 

Dress the well-blanched stalks of a head of en- 
dive, three tomatoes, peeled, cut in halves and 
chilled, and a cup of cold cooked string beans, 
separately, with French dressing, using in the 
dressing tarragon vinegar and a few drops of onion 
juice ; then arrange on a serving-dish. 

Cucumber Salad. 

(German style.) 

Pare large cucumbers and cut them into thin 
slices ; cut each slice round and round so as to 
form a long, narrow curling strip. L,et these strips 
stand two hours in salted ice water, drain, and dry 
in a soft cloth. Serve with French dressing. Toss 
first in the oil, then add the condiments, and lastly 
the vinegar. Americans would prefer to omit the 
salt from the ice water, as it softens the cucumber. 

Cucumber Salad for Fish Course. 

With a handy slicer remove the outside rind 
from the cucumbers, cut in thin slices, and let 

36 



Vegetable Salads with French. Dressing. 

stand in ice-water to chill. Wipe dry, and ar- 
range the slices in the salad bowl in the form of a 
Greek cross. Make a French dressing, in the 
proportion of three tablespoonfuls of cider vinegar 
to six tablespoonfuls of oil, half a teaspoonful of 
salt, and a dash of paprica. Rub the inside of the 
salad bowl with the cut side of an onion before the 
salad is disposed in it. 

Cooked Vegetable Salad. 

Dress cooked kidney beans, peas, and balls cut 
from potatoes, each separately with French dress- 
ing, to which a few drops of onion juice have been 
added. Dispose upon a serving-dish and let stand 
in a cool place an hour or more. Garnish at serv- 
ing with heart leaves of lettuce. 

Potato Salad. 

(German Style.) 

INGREDIENTS. 

I quart of potato slices or cubes. 2 hard boiled eggs. 

About ^ a cup of beef broth. 4 tablespoonfuls of vinegar, 

i teaspoonful of salt. i teaspoonful of mustard. 

y z a teaspoonful of paprica. i teaspoonful of sugar. 

8 tablespoonfuls of oil. Fine chopped parsley. 

I tablespoonful of grated onion. (i cup of mushrooms.) 

Method. Boil the potatoes without paring. Ger- 
man potatoes, which are waxy rather than mealy, 
may be procured in large cities especially for salads. 
Peel the potatoes and cut them while hot into 

37 



Salads. 



slices or cubes ; pour over them as much beef 
broth as they will readily absorb and sprinkle with 
the salt and pepper, the oil and onion ; mix lightly 
and set aside for some hours. Then add the whites 
of the eggs chopped fine, the yolks passed through 
a sieve, and mix with the rest of the oil, stirred 
with the vinegar into the mustard and sugar. Af- 
ter disposing in the dish, sprinkle with the parsley. 
If mushrooms be at hand, simmer ten or fifteen 
minutes in broth, break in pieces, and add to the 
salad with the egg. 

Cucumber-and-Pimento Salad. 

Pare a chilled cucumber and cut it into julienne 
pieces (like a match but shorter) . Remove pi- 
mentos from a can, rinse in cold water, dry on a 
cloth and cut in shreds, the same size and shape 
as the cucumbers. Use equal measures of each. 
Dress each separately with French dressing made 
of three measures of olive oil to one of vinegar and 
a little scraped onion. Serve with fish. 

"1914" Salad (To Serve Ten). 

Cook one pound of Italian chestnuts (shelled 
and blanched) in chicken or veal broth until ten- 
der. Skim out, let cool and cut in julienne shreds. 
Cut tomato jelly in cubes or small shapes. Shred 
a green pepper. Cut half a pound of French en- 
dive in julienne shreds. Set the tender heart-leaves 
of two heads of lettuce on ten individual plates, 
sprinkle on the three shredded articles, and set the 
tomato figures above. Use "1914" Dressing. 

38 



SALADS, LARGELY VEGETABLE, 
SERVED WITH MAYONNAISE, 
CREAM OR BOILED DRESSING. 

Cauliflower Salad. 

SOAK the cauliflower in salted water an hour ; 
cook in boiling salted water until tender; drain 
and chill, then sprinkle with French dressing and 
set aside for half an hour. Sever the flowerets 
partly from the stalk, but so as not to change their 
relative positions, and place on a serving-dish ; put 
heart leaves of lettuce between the flowerets and 
about the base of the vegetable ; pour a cup of may- 
onnaise dressing over the whole, and sprinkle with 
pimentos or fine-chopped parsley. In serving, 
separate the flowerets with a sharp knife. 

Tomatoes Stuffed with Nuts and Celery. 

Peel the tomatoes ; cut out a circular piece at 
the stem end of each and scoop out the flesh so 
as to form cups. Chill thoroughly, then fill with 
English walnut or pecan meats, broken into pieces, 
and celery, cut into small pieces and mixed with 
mayonnaise. Serve on lettuce leaves. 

39 



Salads. 



Stuffed-Tomato Salad. 

INGREDIENTS. 

6 smooth, small-sized toma- 3 olives, chopped fine. 

toes. 3 gherkins, chopped fine. 

6 tablespoonfuls of chicken, 2 tablespoonfuls of capers. 

veal or tongue, cut fine. Salt and pepper. 

6 tablespoonfuls of peas. Mayonnaise dressing. 

Method. Remove a round piece from the stem 
end of the tomatoes and scoop out the seeds and 
centre. Chill thoroughly. When ready to serve, 
mix together the solid part removed from the toma- 
toes, cut fine, and the other ingredients ; season to 
taste with salt and pepper, adding also mayonnaise 
to hold the mixture together. With this fill the 
tomatoes, put them in nests of lettuce or cress, and 
force a star of mayonnaise on the top of each to- 
mato. 

Tomato Salad, Horseradish Dressing. 

Plunge the tomatoes, placed in a wire basket, 
into a kettle of hot water ; remove at once and rub 
off the skin ; chill thoroughly and cut in halves. 
Serve on lettuce leaves with a star of cream dress- 
ing, seasoned with grated horseradish, on the top 
of each slice. 

Tomato-and-Sweetbread Salad. 

Cook two sweetbreads as directed on another 
page, or braise with vegetables. Cool between 
two plates bearing a weight. When cold cut into 
slices and stamp into rounds of suitable size to use 
with slices of tomato. Cover the slices of sweet- 

40 




Cress, Cucumber, and Tomato Salad. 

(See page 41) 




Tomato Jelly with Celery and Nuts. 
(See page 43) 



Other Vegetable Salads. 



bread with chaud-froid sauce and decorate with 
fine-chopped parsley or sifted yolk of egg ; pour 
over a little melted aspic. When the aspic is set, 
trim neatly, and arrange each round of sweetbread 
on a slice of chilled tomato. Serve inside a border 
of lettuce around a salad made of the trimmings of 
the sweetbreads and a cucumber cut in cubes and 
dressed with mayonnaise. 

Egg-and-Tomato Salad. 

Cut hard-cooked eggs in lengthwise quarters, 
after removing a slice from one end that the eggs 
may stand level. On individual plates set slices of 
ripe tomato with two or three heart-leaves of let- 
tuce; on each slice of tomato set one of the 
prepared eggs, held together with a ring cut 
from a slice of tomato. Surround with mayon- 
naise dressing. 

Tomatoes Stuffed with Cucumber. 

Peel five tomatoes, cut off the stem ends and 
scoop out the pulp, thus forming cups ; set, turned 
upside down, in a cool place. Chop fine the solid 
pulp from the tomatoes and one cucumber, chilled 
before chopping ; stir into a cup of cream dressing 
and fill the tomatoes with the mixture. Salt and 
pepper will be needed in addition to that in the 
dressing. If at hand, a pimento maybe chopped 
with the other ingredients, or two tablespoonfuls 

4i 



Sa\ads. 



of grated horseradish may be used. Serve at once 
on lettuce leaves. 

Tomatoes Stuffed with Jelly. 

Chop one sweetbread and one cucumber fine. 
To each cup (solid and liquid) add one-fourth a 
teaspoonful, each, of salt and paprica, a few drops 
of onion juice and a tablespoonful of capers ; add 
also half a tablespoonful of granulated gelatine, 
soaked in two or three tablespoonf uls of cold water 
and melted over hot water. Stir until the mixture 
begins to congeal, then fill into tomatoes prepared 
as above. Set aside on the ice for half an hour, at 
least ; then serve on lettuce leaves with either 
mayonnaise, boiled or cream dressing. Calf's 
brains, chicken, veal, tongue or ham may be sub- 
stituted for the sweetbread. 

Tomates Farces a 1' Aspic. 

INGREDIENTS. 

6 even-sized ripe tomatoes. i tablespoonful of capers, 

i pint of aspic jelly. 2 yolks of hard-boiled eggs. 

^ a cup of lobster meat, Mayonnaise, parsley, let- 
chopped fine. tuce., 

Method. Scoop out the centres of the tomatoes, 
after removing the skin, and chill thoroughly. 
Pass the yolks through a sieve, add to the lobster, 
with the capers, half a cup of mayonnaise and half 
a cup of chicken aspic, thick and cold, but not set; 
stir these in a dish standing in ice water until 
nearly set ; then fill the cavities in the tomatoes 

42 



Other Vegetable Salads. 



with the mixture. Brush over the outside of the 
tomatoes with half-set aspic; when the aspic is 
set, repeat twice, then set aside on ice for some 
time before serving. Serve on a bed of lettuce 
seasoned with French dressing. Garnish each 
tomato with a sprig of parsley and the salad-dish 
with blocks of aspic. Anchovies or any cooked 
fish may be substituted for the lobster. Serve with 
mayonnaise. 

Tomato Jelly. 

Soak three-fourths a box of gelatine in half a cup 
of cold water. Cook a can of tomatoes, half an 
onion, a stalk of celery, a bay leaf, two cloves, a 
teaspoonful of salt and a dash of paprica ten min- 
utes. Add two tablespoonfuls of tarragon vinegar 
and the gelatine, stir till dissolved, strain, and 
mould in a ring mould. When cold turn from 
the mould and fill the centre with 

CELERY-AND-NUT SALAD. 

Cut fine tender stalks of celery and English 
walnuts and mix with French dressing. Garnish 
the centre of the salad and the border of the jelly 
with tender leaves of lettuce and bits of curled 
celery. 

Tomato-Jelly Salad, No. a. 

Make the jelly and mould as before. Fill in 
the centre of the ring with shredded cabbage, 
pimentos and pecan nuts, mixed with boiled 
dressing. 

43 



Salads. 



Tomato Jelly with String Beans. 

Cook tiny string beans until tender in boiling 
salted water ; season while hot with onion juice, 
salt, pepper and tarragon vinegar. When cold add 
oil and toss the beans about until each bean is 
coated with the oil. Fill the centre of the jelly, 
fashioned in a ring mould, with the beans, and 
sprinkle over them a fine-chopped pimento. Gar- 
nish with lettuce leaves. Fine -chopped chives 
may be used in the place of the onion juice ; they 
are particularly appropriate in any bean salad. If 
the beans are large, cut in halves lengthwise and 
the halves crosswise. 

Tomato jelly may be served in a ring mould 
with turkey, oyster, plain chicken, French chicken, 
and other salads. The oysters should be scalded 
and drained, then marinated with French dressing. 
Chicken and turkey should also be marinated be- 
fore mixing with celery and the mayonnaise or 
boiled dressing. 

Tomato-and- Artichoke Salad. 

(MRS. E. M. LUCAS, IN BOSTON COOKING-SCHOOI, 
MAGAZINE.) 

Choose medium-sized tomatoes, firm and smooth 
skinned. Peel them, cut a slice from the stem end 
and remove the seeds with a small spoon. Sprin- 
kle the interior of these cups with salt and set on 
ice. When ready to serve, wipe them dry and fill 
with artichokes cut into dice and mixed with may- 
onnaise. Serve on lettuce leaves. Use tarragon 

44 



Other Vegetable Salads. 



vinegar in preparing the dressing. Cook the arti- 
choke hearts until just tender, no longer, in 
salted boiling water, then drain and cool. 

Artichoke Salad. 

( For game.) 

(MRS. E. M. LUCAS, IN BOSTON COOKING-SCHOOI, 
MAGAZINE. ) 

Peel three oranges, remove the pith and white 
skin and slice lengthwise; use an equal amount 
of tender blanched celery stalks cut into inch 
lengths. Mix together lightly with two table- 
spoonfuls of olive oil, one tablespoonful of lemon 
juice, half a teaspoonful of salt and a quarter a 
teaspoonful of paprica. Heap together lightly on 
a serving- dish and surround with cooked hearts 
of artichokes cut into quarters ; wreathe with 
blanched celery leaves. 

Artichoke Salad. 

(Used as a border for shrimp, lobster, chicken and 
other salads.) 

(MRS. E. M. LUCAS, IN BOSTON COOKING-SCHOOI, 
MAGAZINE. ) 

Cut boiled artichokes into quarter-inch slices 
and stamp out with a French vegetable cutter. To 
half a pint add one tablespoonful of olive oil, half 
a tablespoonful of tarragon vinegar and one-fourth 
a teaspoonful of salt ; toss lightly together and let 
stand one hour; drain, and arrange as a border 
with an outer layer of tiny blanched lettuce leaves. 

45 



Salads. 



2. Scoop out the centres of the artichokes and 
fill with mayonnaise, or with ravigote, tart are or 
tyrolienne sauce. Serve on lettuce leaves as a 
border to a meat or fish salad. 

3. Fill the centres with walnut meats, sliced, 
or tender celery stalks ; cut fine and mixed with 
mayonnaise. 

Asparagus Salad. 

Cut cold cooked asparagus into pieces an inch 
long, mix lightly with cream dressing and serve, in 
individual portions, on curly lettuce leaves. 

AsparagU5-and-5almon Salad. 

Mix cold cooked salmon with mayonnaise, form 
in a mound and encircle with a wreath of cold 
cooked asparagus tips dressed with French dress- 
ing. 

Asparagus-and~Caulif lower Salad. 

Break the cooked cauliflower into its flowerets, 
dispose in the centre of the serving-dish and sur- 
round with a wreath of cooked asparagus tips. 
Pour over the whole a mayonnaise, a boiled or a 
cream dressing, and sprinkle with chopped capers 
or pimentos. 

Salad of Turnips with Asparagus Tips. 

Cook the turnips in boiling salted water until 
tender; drain, and cut out the centres, forming 
cups. Sprinkle the inside with oil and a few grains 
of salt, and, when the oil is absorbed, pour over 

46 



Other Vegetable Salads. 



the cups a little lemon juice or vinegar. Set aside 
to become cool. When ready to serve, arrange 
the cups on shredded lettuce and fill with cooked 
asparagus tips, cold and mixed with mayonnaise 
or French dressing, as desired. Peas, flageolets or 
wax beans, cut fine, may be used instead of the 
asparagus. Garnish with radishes. 

Green-Pea Salad. 

Mix the peas with a cream dressing ; serve in 
nests of lettuce ; garnish the top of each nest with 
a little chopped beet, or a fanciful figure cut from 
a pickled beet or pimento. 

Green-Pea-and-Potato Salad. 

Mix equal parts of cold cooked peas and pota- 
toes cut in very small cubes ; season with salt and 
pepper, and serve as green-pea salad. 

Asparagus Salad. 

Scrape the scales from the stalks, and cook, 
standing upright in boiling salted water, until ten- 
der ; drain and chill thoroughly. Serve on lettuce 
leaves with French dressing. Garnish the lettuce 
with hard-boiled eggs cut in quarters lengthwise. 

Macedoine of Vegetable Salad. 

Dress one cup, each, of cooked carrots and tur- 
nips, cut in dice, string beans, cut small, green 
peas, and half a cup of cooked beets, cut small, 
vrith French dressing; add two tablespoonfuls of 

47 



Salads. 



chopped gherkins ; drain, and mix with sufficient 
jelly mayonnaise to hold the vegetables together. 
Arrange in dome shape and cover with more jelly 
mayonnaise. Set a row of sliced gherkins near the 
top, and fill in the space to the top with string beans 
or asparagus tips. Surround the base with alter- 
nate rounds of beet and potato overlapping one 
another. Decorate the space above with slices of 
potato and beet cut in diamonds, and surround the 
base with light-green aspic cut in diamonds. One 
pint of aspic will be sufficient ; use chicken stock, 
and tint with color paste. 

Russian Vegetable Salad. 

Select two moulds of suitable shape and size (tin 
basins or earthen bowls will do) and chill in ice 
water. Have ready cooked balls, cut from carrots 
and turnips, and cooked string beans and cauli- 
flower, all marinated with French dressing. Drain 
the vegetables, dip them into half - set aspic, and 
arrange against the chilled sides of the moulds ; 
then fill the moulds with aspic jelly. When set, 
with a hot spoon scoop out the aspic from the 
centre of each mould and fill in the space with a 
mixture of the vegetables and jelly mayonnaise, 
leaving an open space at the top to be filled with 
half -set aspic. When thoroughly chilled and set, 
turn from the moulds, the smaller mould above 
the other. Garnish with flowerets of cauliflower, 
dipped in aspic and chilled, and lettuce. Serve 
with mayonnaise. 



Other Vegetable Salads. 



Stuffed- Cucumber Salad. 

Pare a short cucumber and cut it lengthwise in 
two parts ; remove the seeds and let chill in ice 
water for an hour. Chop together the solid part 
of a peeled and seeded tomato, half a slice of new 
onion, a stalk of celery and a sprig of parsley ; 
mix with mayonnaise or a boiled dressing and use 
as a filling for the well-dried halves of cucumber. 
Serve on cress or lettuce. 

Cowslip-and-Cream-Cheese Salad. 

(See cut facing page 58.) 

Cook the cowslip leaves until tender in boiling 
salted water, reserving a few choice leaves with 
blossoms for a garnish. Chop fine, season to taste 
with salt and paprica, press into a mould, and 
set aside to become chilled. Slice chilled cream 
cheese (Neufchatel or cottage) in uniform slices, 
and arrange at the sides of the mound. Serve 
with French or mayonnaise dressing. 

Cauliflower Salad, Egg Garnish. 

Separate a cauliflower into flowerets and boil in 
salted water until tender, not longer. Drain care- 
fully. Season with oil, vinegar, salt, pepper, and 
a sprinkling of chopped tarragon leaves (or use 
tarragon vinegar) . Arrange symmetrically in an 
earthen bowl, having the upper surface level. L,et 
stand to become thoroughly chilled, then turn on 
to a serving-dish ; the shape of the mould will be 

49 



Salads. 



retained. Cover with mayonnaise dressing or Sauce 
Tartare, and surround with lengthwise quarters of 
hard-boiled eggs. 

Potato Salad with Mayonnaise. 

Boil the potatoes and let cool without paring. 
Then remove the skins and cut into slices, balls, 
or cubes. Squeeze over them a little onion juice, 
sprinkle with fine-chopped parsley, and let stand 
in a French dressing several hours. Mix the 
dressing after the usual formula, and use enough 
to moisten well the potato. When ready to serve, 
make nests of heart leaves of lettuce, put a spoon- 
ful of the potato in each, with a teaspoonful of 
mayonnaise above, sprinkle the mayonnaise with 
capers, and press the quarter of a hard-boiled egg 
into the top of the mayonnaise. Or add the 
chopped white of egg to the potato before marinat- 
ing, and sift the yolk over the mayonnaise. 

Salad of Artichoke Bottoms. 

Marinate artichoke bottoms in French dressing 
half an hour. Drain and cut in small pieces in the 
same manner that a pie is cut, keeping the pieces 
in place. With a broad spatula set each artichoke 
(after cutting) carefully on one or two heart-leaves 
of lettuce and set a rounding teaspoonful of may- 
onnaise dressing in the centre of each bottom; 
above the dressing sift hard-cooked yolk of egg. 



FISH SALADS. 

" Some choice sous' d fish brought couchant in a dish, 
Among some fennel" 

11 Of what complexion ? 
Of the sea water green , >." 



FISH SALADS. 



EVER, and justly, fish have taken high rank in 
the list of salad ingredients. No wonder, when 
we consider that nothing excels in delicacy of fla- 
vor many a variety of fish ; and, while fish are not 
necessarily expensive in any locality, in many sec- 
tions of the country their cost is merely nominal. 
Then, too, salad-making appeals largely to one's 
artistic nature, and the products of sea and fresh 
water are constantly furnishing opportunities for 
studies in many and varied shades of color. The 
lobster's vivid red, the brilliant tints of the salmon 
and red snapper, the delicate pink of shrimps, the 
dull white of scallops and halibut, and the bluish 
gray of mackerel and bluefish, each, in its season, 
may be made to contrast most effectively with fresh 
green herbs and yellow dressings. 

Oysters, scallops and little-neck clams are fre- 
quently served in salads without cooking. These 
should be carefully washed, then drained and set 
aside in a marinade for an hour. When cooked, 
they should be heated to the boiling-point in their 
own liquor, then drained and cut in halves. The 
adductor muscle of the oyster the white, button- 
shaped part that connects the animal with its shell 
is often discarded. Other fish than shellfish, 

53 



Salads. 



when used in salads, are boiled, broiled or baked ; 
they present the best appearance, however, when 
boiled. Thudichum recommends sea water, when- 
ever it is available, for boiling fish ; lacking this, 
hot water, salted (an ounce of salt to a quart 
of water), and acidulated pleasantly with lemon 
juice or vinegar, is the proper medium of cooking. 
The addition of a slice or two of onion and carrot, 
a sprig of parsley, a stalk of celery, with aromatic 
herbs or spices, provided they be not used so freely 
as to overpower the delicate savor of the fish, is 
thought to improve the dish. 

The quantity of water should be adjusted to the 
size of the fish ; in no case should it be larger than 
will suffice to produce the desired result. At the 
moment the fish is immersed in the water the tem- 
perature should be at the boiling-point, and there- 
after the vessel should be permitted to simmer dur- 
ing the process of cooking. 

The fish may be cooked whole, or cut into small 
pieces, similar in shape and size. In the latter 
case a wire basket is of service, as, by this means, 
the fish may be easily removed from the water and 
drained. If the fish is to be served whole, remove 
the skin and fins, and, when thoroughly cold, mask 
with jelly mayonnaise or with a fancy butter. 
After chilling again, the mask may be decorated 
with capers, olives, eggs, etc. If the fish is to be 
used in flakes, the flakes will separate more easily 
while the fish is still hot. In marinating fish, let 
the proportions of oil and acid vary with the kind of 
fish ; i. e. y according to the oily nature of the flesh. 

54 



RECIPES. 



Brook-Trout Salad. 

DRESS the trout without removing the heads ; 
boil as previously indicated. Remove the back- 
bone without destroying the shape of the fish. 
Serve, thoroughly chilled, on crisp lettuce leaves 
dressed with claret or French dressing. Prepare 
the latter with tarragon vinegar. 

Brook Trout Moulded in Aspic. 

Pour a little chicken aspic into a pickle or other 
dish of suitable shape and size for a single fish ; 
when nearly set, lay a trout, prepared as above, 
upon the aspic, add a few spoonfuls of aspic, let 
it harden so that the fish may become fixed in 
place, then add aspic to cover. Slices of cucumber 
pickles, capers, or other ornaments, may be used. 
When the aspic is thoroughly set and chilled, 
remove from the mould and serve on two lettuce 
leaves, with any dressing desired. 

Halibut Salad. 

Flake the fish and marinate with French dress- 
ing (three tablespoonfuls of oil, one tablespoonful 
of lemon juice or vinegar, a dash of salt and 

55 



Salads. 



pepper, for each pint of fish) ; drain, and add half 
as much boiled potato, cut in small cubes and 
dressed with French dressing. Serve on a bed of 
lettuce leaves. Garnish with sardine dressing. 
Shredded lettuce or peas may be used in place of 
the potato. 

Halibut-and-Cucumber Salad. 

INGREDIENTS. 

1 pound of cooked halibut. Salt and pepper. 

2 tablespoonfuls of oil. 2 pimentos, 
i tablespoonful of lemon Lettuce. 

juice. Cucumbers. 

A few drops of onion juice. French dressing. 

Method. Flake one pound of cooked halibut 
while hot, and marinate with the oil, lemon jmr 2, 
onion juice, salt and pepper. When cold drain 
and mix with the pimentos, shredded, after cutting 
from the same a few star-shaped or other fanciful 
figures. Arrange heart leaves of lettuce in an up- 
right position in the centre of a serving- dish, the 
fish and pimentos around the lettuce, and, around 
these, one large or two small cucumbers, cut in 
small cubes and mixed with French dressing. 
With salmon use capers instead of pimentos. Use 
enough dressing to moisten the cucumbers thor- 
oughly. 

Halibut Salad. 

Steam a thick slice of chicken halibut, until the 
flesh separates easily from the bone. Remove the 
skin and bones without disturbing the shape of the 

56 



Fish Salads. 



fish. Marinate, while hot, with three tablespoon- 
fuls of oil, one tablespoonful of vinegar or lemon 
juice, and salt and pepper. When cold put the fish 
on a serving-dish, and, using endive or Boston 
Market lettuce, put the ends of the leaves beneath 
the fish, so that the tops of the leaves will fall 
over upon the fish. Garnish the top with stars 
of mayonnaise. Between the leaves dispose sliced 
pim-olas and fans cut from small gherkins. Serve 
mayonnaise with the salad. 

Fillets of Halibut in Aspic, with Cucumber-and- 
Radish Salad. 

INGREDIENTS. 

2 slices of halibut, cut half i tablespoonful of lemon 
an inch or less in thick- juice. 

ness. i teaspoonful of chopped 
i lobster (a pound and a parsley, 

half ) . % a tablespoonful of salt. 

3 tablespoonfuls of butter. i quart of aspic. 
% a cup of flour. Olives. 

^ a cup of cream. A bunch of radishes. 

% a cup of stock. 2 cucumbers. 

A dash of paprica. French dressing. 

Method. Remove the skin and bone from the 
halibut, thus securing eight fillets. Season with 
salt, pepper, onion and lemon juice. Chop the 
lobster meat fine ; melt the butter, cook in it the 
flour and seasonings, add the cream and lobster 
stock, and, when cooked, stir in the chopped lob- 
ster. When cool spread upon one side of the 
fillets, roll up the fillets and fasten with wooder* 

57 



Salads. 



toothpicks that have been dipped in melted butter. 
Bake on a fish-sheet about fifteen minutes, bast- 
ing with butter melted in hot water. 

Set a plain border-mould in ice water ; decorate 
the bottom and sides with pim-olas or gherkins cut 
in slices and dipped in half-set aspic ; cover the 
decoration on the bottom with aspic, and, when 
set and the decorations on the side are * ' fixed ' ' 
in place, arrange on the aspic the cold fillets of 
fish and fill the mould with more aspic. When 
cold turn from the mould and fill the centre with 
diced cucumbers and sliced radishes dressed with 
French dressing. Pass mayonnaise or French 
dressing in a separate dish. Surround the aspic 
with shredded lettuce if desired. 

Fillets of Halibut in Aspic with Cole-Slaw. 

Use a generous half-pint of oysters in the place 
of the lobster, parboiling and draining before chop- 
ping, and fill in the centre of the aspic with cole- 
slaw. 

Miroton of Fish and Potato. 

Marinate one pint of cold cooked fish salmon, 
cod, haddock, halibut, etc. with three or four 
tablespoonfuls of oil, half a teaspoonful of salt, a 
dash of pepper and two tablespoonfuls of lemon 
juice. Marinate, separately, one pint of cold pota- 
toes, cooked in their skins and cut in cubes, with 
the same quantity of dressing, adding also one 
teaspoonful of onion juice. I^et stand in a cool 

58 




Russian Vegetable Salad. 

(See page 48) 




Macedoine of Vegetable Salad. 

(See page 47) 




Miroton of Fish and Potato Salad. 

(See page 58) 




Cowslip and Cream Cheese Salad. 

(See page 49) 



Fish Salads. 



place one hour or more. Have ready six hard- 
boiled eggs ; cut a thin slice from the round end of 
each egg, that it may stand upright, then cut in 
quarters lengthwise. Dip into a little aspic jelly 
or melted gelatine and arrange the quarters in the 
form of a circle, with the yolks outside. Toss 
together the fish, potato and three tablespoonfuls 
of capers, and fill in the centre of the circle. Dust 
with fine-chopped parsley or beets ; add a tuft of 
lettuce at the top and a few heart leaves of lettuce 
above the crown of eggs. 

Fish Salad Moulded in Aspic. 

Cover the bottom of a mould with aspic to the 
depth of one-fourth an inch. Set the mould in ice 
water, and, when the aspic is set, arrange upon it 
a decoration of cooked vegetables cut in shapes 
with French cutter, or fashion a conventional de- 
sign or some flower. Dogwood blossoms provide a 
simple pattern, and one easily carried out. Cut 
the four petals from a thin slice of cooked turnip 
and the centre of the blossom from carrot or lemon 
peel. Fasten each piece in place with liquid jelly, 
and, when set, cover with more jelly. To decorate 
the sides of the mould, take the figures on the 
point of a skewer, dip in jelly, then set in position 
against the chilled sides of the mould, and they will 
remain in place. After the jelly covering the fig- 
ures on the bottom of the mould has ' ' set, ' ' place 
a smaller mould in the centre of the aspic in the 
first, and fill this with ice and water. Pour in 

59 



Salads. 



aspic to fill the space about the smaller mould, 
and, when this aspic is firm, dip out the water and 
ice. Fill with warm water and quickly remove the 
mould. Separate a pound of cooked fish into 
flakes, add half a cup of cold cooked peas, three 
or four gherkins, cut very fine, and three table- 
spoonfuls of capers. Mix together and then mix 
with one cup of mayonnaise made with jelly; with 
this fill the vacant space in the mould. When 
ready to serve, dip the mould very quickly into 
warm water, letting the water rise to the top of the 
mould, and invert over a serving-dish ; remove the 
mould, and garnish with lettuce, tiny gherkins cut 
to resemble fans, blocks of aspic, or aspic moulded 
in shells, and mayonnaise. 

Fish Salad Moulded in Aspic, No. 2. 

Decorate the mould as before ; then put in a 
layer of the fish and dressing ; when set, add a 
layer of aspic ; alternate the layers until the mate- 
rials are used or the mould is filled. Individual 
moulds may be prepared in the same way. 

Salad of Mackerel or Bluefish. 

Separate a cooked fish into flakes and mix with 
the chopped whites and sifted yolks of three hard- 
boiled eggs. Season with French dressing, mix 
lightly and turn on to a bed of lettuce or cress, also 
seasoned with the dressing. Garnish with fans cut 
from small gherkins, or with pickled beet cut in 
fanciful shape or chopped. 

60 



Fish Salads. 



Salad of Salt Mackerel. 

Freshen the fish carefully before cooking. Use 
equal parts of fish, flaked, and cold boiled potatoes. 
If potatoes are specially prepared for the purpose, 
cut them in cubes or balls, blanch, and cook in 
well-seasoned beef stock ; drain, and add, when 
cold, to the fish. Season with French dressing. 
Arrange on a bed of cress and sift the yolk of an 
egg over the whole. 

Salad of Shad Roe and Cucumber. 

Cook two shad roes with an onion, sliced, and a 
bay leaf, in salted, acidulated water twenty min- 
utes ; drain, and marinate with about two table- 
spoonfuls of oil, one tablespoonful of lemon juice 
and a dash of pepper and salt. When cold cut in 
small cubes. Rub the salad-bowl with a clove of 
garlic cut in halves. Cut a thoroughly chilled 
cucumber in dice ; put the cucumber on a bed of 
lettuce leaves in the bottom of the bowl, and the 
roe, well drained, above ; mask with mayonnaise, 
nearly a cup will be required, in the top insert 
a few heart leaves of lettuce, and place around the 
centre of the mound a circle of cucumber slices 
overlapping one another; or alternate these with 
lozenges cut from pickled beet. 

Boudins-de-Saumon Salad. 

Butter four small dariole moulds, or small cups ; 
sprinkle the butter with chopped parsley. Select 
four small pieces of cooked salmon, dry on a soft 

61 



Salads. 



cloth so as to remove all oily liquor, and put a 
piece in each mould. Beat two eggs (or, better, 
one egg and the yolks of two) slightly, season with 
one-fourth a teaspoonful of salt, a dash of paprica 
and a few drops of anchovy essence or onion j uice ; 
add half a cup of milk, and, when well mixed, pour 
into the moulds around the fish. Set the moulds 
in a pan of hot water and bake until the custard is 
set. Do not let the water boil. Chill thoroughly, 
then turn from the moulds on to lettuce leaves. 
Serve with a star of mayonnaise dressing on the 
top of each boudin. 

Russian Salad. 

(BOSTON COOKING-SCHOOI,.) 

INGREDIENTS. 

I cup of carrots. I teaspoonful of salt, 

i cup of potatoes. ^ a teaspoonful of pepper, 

i cup of peas. A head of lettuce, 

i cup of beans (flageolets i cup of mayonnaise. 

preferred). I cup of shrimps. 

6 tablespoonfuls of oil. % a Ib. of smoked salmon. 

3 tablespoonfuls of vinegar, i hard-boiled egg. 

Method. Marinate the carrots and potatoes, cut 
in small pieces, also the peas and beans, with 
French dressing. Arrange on a dish in four sec- 
tions, having lettuce for the foundation of each. 
Cover each vegetable with mayonnaise. Strew the 
tops of two sections with small pieces of smoked 
salmon ; on a third section strew the sifted yolk 
of the egg, and on the fourth, the white of the 
egg, cut rather coarsely. Outline the inner side 

62 



Fish. Salads. 



of each section with shrimps, by lightly pressing 
the ends of the shrimps into the mayonnaise. Fin- 
ish with a tuft of lettuce in the centre of the dish. 

Spanish Salad. 

In the centre of a flat serving-dish arrange a 
mound of endive. Peel tomatoes, divide into sec- 
tions or cut in slices, and arrange these around 
the endive. Shell cold, hard-boiled eggs; cut in 
halves, crosswise, and in points ; remove the yolks 
and pound to a paste with an equal amount of 
the flesh of lobster, shrimp, anchovies or salmon. 
With this paste, seasoned to taste with oil, lemon 
juice, salt and pepper, fill the cups fashioned from 
the whites of the eggs, and arrange them around 
the tomatoes. Strew chopped shallot and sweet 
pepper over the endive. Mix equal portions of oil 
and vinegar, add salt and pepper to taste, and 
pour over the salad. Serve at once. 

Salmon Salad. 

(For evening company, or fish course at a 
dinner party.) 

INGREDIENTS. 

Hard-boiled eggs. i pint of cooked peas, 

i teaspoonful of gelatine, French dressing. 

softened in one table- 2 slices of salmon, 2 inches 

spoonful of cold water. thick. 

I pint of string beans or Jelly mayonnaise, or fancy 

asparagus tips. butter. 
Capers. 



Salads. 



Method. Cut the eggs into halves lengthwise ; 
cut a thin slice from the round ends, that the 
pieces may be set upright ; dip lightly in the gela- 
tine dissolved over hot water, and arrange miroton 
fashion around an oval serving-dish. Set aside, 
that the eggs may become fixed in position. Mar- 
inate the vegetables, separately, with French dress- 
ing ; cook the salmon by the directions previously 
given ; remove the skin and cover the sides with 
jelly mayonnaise or fancy butter. When cold 
decorate with whites of eggs and capers. Use the 
trimmings from the eggs, and fix them in place by 
dipping in jelly mayonnaise. Set aside for the 
decorations to become fixed. Drain the vegeta- 
bles and arrange inside the border, higher in the 
centre. Lay the decorated slices of fish upon 
opposite sides of the mound, and serve either with 
or without mayonnaise. 

Halibut Salad. 

(For evening company, or fish course at a 
dinner party.) 

INGREDIENTS. 

A slice of chicken halibut, 3 slices of pickled beet. 

3 inches thick. i teaspoonful of gelatine. 

3 cups of cooked peas. Jelly mayonnaise, or green 

French dressing. butter. 

Hard-boiled eggs. Heart leaves of lettuce. 

2 olives. 

Method. Prepare the eggs and fasten to the 
plate as in salmon salad. Dip diamond-shaped 

64 



Fish. Salads. 



pieces of pickled beet in the dissolved gelatine 
and place upon the front and top of each half of 
e gg- Spread the edge of the fish, after removing 
the skin, with jelly mayonnaise, or green butter, 
and, when set, decorate with figures cut from the 
cooked white of an egg. With forcing-bag and 
tube shape a pattern around the upper edge of the 
fish. Place the fish in the centre of the crown or 
miroton of eggs, with the peas seasoned with 
French dressing around it ; cover the place from 
which the bone was taken with the centre of a 
head of lettuce, cut in halves, and two fine olives. 
Serve with a bowl of mayonnaise. 

Shells of Fish and Mushrooms. 

Cut cold fish salmon, halibut, lobster, etc. 
into small cubes, mix with one-third in measure 
of cooked mushrooms, also cut small, and add for 
each cup of mushrooms and fish one tablespoon- 
ful of gherkins cut fine. Season with French 
dressing and let stand one hour ; then drain, and 
mix with jellied mayonnaise. Fill chilled shells 
with this preparation, rounding it on the top. 
Make smooth, and mask with jellied mayonnaise. 
Decorate with gherkins and the white of a hard- 
boiled egg cut in fanciful shapes, and with stars of 
mayonnaise. 

Oysters in Aspic Jelly. 

Parboil, drain, cool, and wipe dry one quart of 
oysters. Make a pint of mayonnaise sauce with 
aspic jelly and coat the well-dried oysters with 

65 , 



Salads. 



the sauce. Prepare a quart of chicken aspic. 
Dip in half-set aspic the white of egg, poached 
and cut in fanciful shapes, and small gherkins 
cut in thin slices, and decorate the bottom and 
sides of a charlotte or cylindrical mould standing 
in ice water. Pour in jelly to the depth of half 
an inch ; when set, arrange the oysters on it in a 
circle, one overlapping another ; pour in more 
jelly, and, when set, dispose upon it another circle 
of oysters. Continue this order until the mould 
is filled. When removed from the mould, gar- 
nish with chopped aspic and fans cut from gher- 
kins and lettuce. Serve with the remainder of the 
pint of mayonnaise. 

Oyster-and-Celery Salad. 

Parboil the oysters (heating them to the boiling- 
point in their own liquor), drain, and, if large, 
halve each ; marinate with a French dressing (i.e., 
toss the bits of oyster in oil enough to coat them 
nicely; then toss them in a little lemon juice, dust 
with salt and pepper, and set aside to become 
thoroughly chilled). When ready to serve, drain 
again and add about one-third as much in bulk of 
fine-chopped celery and one or two tablespoonfuls 
of pickled nasturtium seeds or capers ; then mix 
with mayonnaise or a boiled dressing. Serve on a 
bed of lettuce leaves. Cabbage, sliced as for slaw, 
may be used in the place of celery. Garnish with 
small pickles cut in thin slices and spread to re- 
semble a fan. 

. 66 



Fish Salads. 



Oyster-and-Sweetbread Salad. 

Cut a pair of cold cooked sweetbreads into cubes. 
Parboil one pint of oysters, drain, cool, and cut in 
halves ; marinate the sweetbreads and oysters with 
French dressing, and allow them to stand at least 
half an hour ; drain, mix with mayonnaise, and 
serve on a bed of lettuce or cress. Or, surround 
with a circle of chopped cucumbers seasoned with 
French dressing. 

Shrimp Salad in Cucumber Boats. 

Pare the cucumbers, which should be rather 
short, and cut them in halves lengthwise ; remove 
the seeds and steam until tender ; chill, and ar- 
range on lettuce leaves, or on a bed of watercress. 
Clean and marinate the shrimps. If large, divide 
into two or three pieces. Mix with mayonnaise 
and place in the cucumbers. Decorate with stars 
of mayonnaise and whole shrimps. 

Shrimp Salad with Aspic Border. 

Set a border mould in ice water ; dip hard-boiled 
eggs, cut in halves lengthwise and trimmed to fit 
the mould, in aspic jelly, and press against the sides 
of the mould alternately with small vegetable balls, 
or peas dipped in half-set aspic ; fill gradually the 
empty space in the mould with partly cooled jelly, 
adding vegetables here and there if desired. Dip 
in hot water and turn from the mould. Fill in the 
centre with lettuce, torn in pieces, and one pint of 



Salads. 



shrimps, broken in pieces and dressed with French 
dressing. Smooth the mound and mask with jelly 
mayonnaise. Decorate with shrimps and small 
heart leaves of lettuce. 

Shrimp Salad with Aspic Border, No. 2. 

Decorate the sides of a ring mould, chilled, with 
hard-boiled eggs cut in halves, alternated with 
hearts of lettuce cut in halves ; dip the egg and 
lettuce in half-set aspic, and they will adhere to 
the sides of the mould. Then proceed as above. 

Shrimp Salad. 

Take the shrimps from the shells, reserve the 
most perfect for garnishing, and break the others 
into pieces ; marinate with French dressing. When 
ready to serve, drain, and mix with shredded let- 
tuce, or celery cut fine, and mayonnaise. Shape 
in a mound on a bed of lettuce leaves and mask 
with mayonnaise. Use capers or olives, chopped 
very fine, to mark out five or six designs on the 
mound; a scroll effect is always pretty. Fill in 
the designs with shrimps and the rest of the mound 
with capers, sifted yolks or chopped whites of 
cooked eggs ; or fill the designs with the capers 
or eggs and the rest of the mound with shrimps. 
Finish with a tuft of lettuce at the top. 

Scallop Salad. 

Soak the scallops in salted water (a tablespoon- 
ful of salt to a quart of water} one hour; rinse 

68 




Shell of Fish and Mushrooms 

(See page 65) 




Shrimp Salad in Cucumber Boat. 

(See page 67) 




Shrimp Salad, Border of Eggs in Aspic. 
(See page 68) 




r?\ 



Lobster Salad. 

(See page 70) 



Fish Salads. 



in cold water, cover with boiling water, and let 
simmer five or six minutes. Rinse again in cold 
water, drain, and when cold cut into slices. Cut 
white stalks of celery into small pieces. Mix th 
celery and scallops half as much celery as scal- 
lops with mayonnaise or boiled dressing, and 
shape in a mound. Mask the mound with a thin 
coating of mayonnaise. With large-sized capers 
outline a design on each of the four sides of the 
mound, fill these with whites of eggs, cooked and 
chopped fine. Ornament with figures cut from 
slices of boiled beets. Fill in the spaces around 
the designs with capers, and garnish with green 
celery leaves and white stalks of celery, fringed. 

Sardine Salad. 

Lay the sardines upon soft paper, that they may 
be freed from oil. Scrape off the skin and remove 
the bones ; squeeze over them a little lemon juice. 
Arrange upon a bed of crisp lettuce leaves, or 
upon shredded lettuce, and dress with either 
French or mayonnaise dressing. Garnish with 
hard-boiled eggs cut in slices. 

Sardine Salad, No. 2. 

Arrange a pint of cold cooked fish, flaked, on a 
bed of lettuce leaves and cover with sardine dress- 
ing. Carefully split six selected sardines ; remove 
the bones and arrange the halves on the top of the 
salad, with the heads at the centre. Garnish with 
slices of lemon. 

69 



Salads. 



Sardine-and-Egg Salad. 

Skin and bone a dozen sardines and put them in 
a mortar ; remove the shells from an equal number 
of hard-boiled eggs and cut them into halves 
crosswise, so as to form cups with pointed edges ; 
put the yolks into the mortar with the sardines, 
add a tablespoonful, or less, of chopped parsley, 
a dash of pepper and salt, and work to a smooth 
paste ; moisten with salad dressing and season 
to taste with salt and pepper. Cut a thin slice 
from the ends of the egg cups, that they may 
be set upright on the serving-dish, and fill with 
the mixture, making it round on the top like a 
whole yolk. Arrange these on a bed of water- 
cress, or shredded lettuce, and sprinkle plentifully 
with French dressing. 

Lobster Salad. 

Cut lobster meat in dice and marinate with 
French dressing. Keep on ice until ready to 
serve, then drain carefully. Make cups of the 
inside leaves of lettuce, put a spoonful of the lob- 
ster meat in the centre of each cup, and press 
mayonnaise dressing through a pastry bag with 
star tube attached on the top of the lobster in 
each nest. Or, arrange the lobster in a mound on 
a bed of lettuce leaves, and mask the mound with 
mayonnaise. Finish the centre with a little bou- 
quet of the heart leaves of lettuce ; sift dried coral 
in a circle about it, and below that arrange circles 



Fish Salads. 



of sifted yolk or chopped white of egg alternately 
with the coral. Garnish with the fans and feelers 
of the lobster. Or, arrange as before, then finish 
the centre with a bouquet of heart leaves of let- 
tuce and the head of the lobster. Garnish with 
stars of mayonnaise and fans from the tail. 

Lobster Salad Victoria. 

Cut the lobster meat into inch pieces; add one 
cucumber, peeled and cut in cubes, and four 
truffles, cut in thin slices and the slices in halves. 
Beat the creamy parts of the lobster smooth, then 
fold into one cup of mayonnaise dressing. Sprinkle 
the lobster, truffle, and cucumber with a little 
French dressing; mix lightly and turn on to a 
bed of lettuce leaves; dispose the cooked heads of 
a bunch of asparagus above, and the mayonnaise 
mixture above the asparagus; sift dried lobster 
coral over the whole. 

Lobster Salad, No. 3. 

INGREDIENTS. 

2 good-sized lobsters. i cup of milk. 

Lettuce. Lobster coral. 

Mayonnaise, or sauce tar- i tablespoon ful of butter. 

tare. i yolk of egg. 

Lobster cutlets, i teaspoonful of lemon 

2 tablespoonfuls of butter. juice. 

% a cup of flour. 2 cups of lobster meat. 

Salt and paprica. 3 cups of aspic jelly. 

Method. Make a white sauce of the butter, 
flour, seasonings and milk ; add the coral and 



Salads. 



butter, after pounding until smooth in a mortar, 
also the yolk of egg, beaten and diluted with the 
lemon juice, and the lobster meat chopped rather 
coarsely. When cold shape into cutlets, dust over 
with sifted coral, and insert a bit of feeler or claw 
into the small end of each. Pour a little aspic 
into a dish, and, when it sets, arrange the cutlets 
upon it a little distance apart ; pour over each a 
few spoonfuls of aspic, and when set cover with 
more aspic. When cold and very firm cut out the 
cutlets, giving a border of aspic to each. 

Marinate the flesh of the other lobster, cut into 
cubes, with French dressing ; pile in a mound on 
a bed of lettuce leaves. Insert a tuft of leaves in 
the top, and arrange the cutlets against the mound. 
Garnish with feelers and claws. Serve mayon- 
naise or sauce tartare with the salad. 



Lobster Salad in Ring of Aspic. 

Set a ring mould in ice water. In the bottom of 
the mould arrange pitted olives or pim-olas an inch 
apart. Dip figures, cut from slices of royal custard, 
or from cooked carrot or turnip, into liquid aspic, 
and place them on the sides of the mould, to which 
they will adhere ; dip large-sized capers (a larding- 
needle or skewer is of assistance in this work) in 
aspic and with them ornament the mould ; then fill 
with aspic and set aside to become fixed. When 
ready to serve, dip the mould in hot water and 
invert on a serving-dish. Cut the meat from two 

72 



Fish Salads. 



two-pound lobsters into small cubes. Season with 
French dressing. Fill the open space in the aspic 
with the salad ; garnish the top with the feelers 
and delicate lettuce leaves, and arrange a wreath 
of lettuce leaves around the aspic. Stamp out 
rounds of bread ; stamp again with the same cutter 
to form crescents, spread delicately with butter, 
and then with caviare seasoned with a few drops 
of lemon juice, and dispose symmetrically on the 
lettuce. 

Mousseline of Lobster as a Salad. 

Chill timbale moulds in ice water ; dip thin slices 
of gherkins into half-set aspic, and arrange them 
symmetrically against the sides of the moulds, and 
brush over the decoration with aspic. Cut the 
claw meat of a two-pound lobster into small cubes ; 
chop fine, and pound the remaining meat in a 
mortar ; then add to it the liver and fat, and pass 
through a sieve. There should be about one cup. 
Simmer the shell in water to cover half an hour. 
Beat the yolks of three eggs, slightly, with one- 
fourth a teaspoonful of salt and a dash of paprica ; 
add one cup of the lobster liquor very gradually, 
and cook over hot water as a boiled custard. Re- 
move from the fire and add one-fourth a package 
of gelatine, softened in one-fourth a cup of cold 
lobster liquor, or chicken stock ; strain over the 
sifted lobster meat and stir occasionally over ice 
water ; when it begins to set, add the lobster dice, 
and fold in carefully one cup of whipped cream. 

73 



Salads. 



Turn the mixture into the decorated mould, and, 
when set, turn out on to lettuce leaves. Deco- 
rate with the head, feelers and claws of the lob- 
ster. Serve with French or mayonnaise dressing. 
French dressing is preferable with so rich a 
mixture. 

Anchovy Salad. 

INGREDIENTS. 

8 salted anchovies, or Juice of half a small lemon. 

12 bottled anchovies. French or mayonnaise 

4 hard-boiled eggs. dressing, or 

i head of lettuce. Sauce tartare. 

Method. If salt anchovies are to be used, soak 
them in cold water two hours, then drain, dry, and 
remove skin and bones ; divide the flesh into small 
pieces and squeeze the lemon juice over them. 
When ready to serve, arrange the lettuce leaves 
upon a serving-dish, stalk ends at the centre, cut 
the eggs in slices, mix with the bits of anchovies, 
and arrange upon the lettuce. Pour a French or 
mayonnaise dressing made with onion juice, or a 
sauce tartare, over the salad. 

Salad of Lettuce, Bamboo Sprouts, and Shrimps. 

Marinate a cup of shrimps, broken in small pieces, 
with three tablespoonfuls of oil, one tablespoonful 
of lemon juice, a dash of salt and pepper. Select 
the tender bamboo sprouts in a can, and cut them 
into small pieces of the shape desired. When 
ready to serve, dress these with salt, pepper, oil, 

74 




Bluefish Salad. 

(See page 75) 







Litchi Nut and Orange Salad. 

(See page 88) 




Moulded Salmon Salad. 
(See page 75) 




Salad of Shrimps and Bamboo Sprouts. 



Fish Salads. 



and lemon juice. Use three measures of oil to one 
of acid. Begin with the oil. Continue mixing 
and adding oil, until each piece is glossy. Then 
add the acid. Mix the prepared sprouts and the 
drained shrimps, and turn them onto a bed of let- 
tuce, cut in narrow shreds, and dressed with oil 
and acid. Decorate the salad with heart leaves of 
lettuce, whole shrimps, and hollow sections of 
bamboo, cut in thin slices. 

Bluefish Salad (excellent). 

Separate the remnants of a baked bluefish into 
flakes, discarding skin and bones. Set aside, cov- 
ered, until cold. About an hour before serving, 
sprinkle with salt and pepper and (for a generous 
pint of fish) the juice of a lemon. When ready to 
serve, dispose heart leaves of lettuce on the edge 
of a salad plate, and turn the fish into the centre, 
letting it come out over the stems of the lettuce 
leaves. Pour a boiled dressing over the top, and 
spread evenly (with a silver knife) over the fish. 
Put a tablespoonful of chopped pickled beet at 
the stems of each group of leaves, a ring of the 
beet near the top, and figures, cut from the beet, 
between. 

floulded Salmon Salad. 

Use a pound of salmon, fresh-cooked or canned. 
Remove skin and bone, and pick the flesh fine 
with a silver fork. Mix half a teaspoonful of salt, 
a teaspoonful of sugar, a teaspoonful of flour, half 

75 



Salads. 



a teaspoonful of mustard, and a dash of paprica. 
Over these pour very gradually three-fourths a cup 
of hot milk and stir and cook over hot water ten 
minutes, then add one-fourth a cup of hot vinegar 
and two tablespoonf uls of butter creamed and mixed 
with the beaten yolks of two eggs ; stir until the 
egg is set, then add one level tablespoonful of 
granulated gelatine, softened in one-fourth a cup 
of cold water, and strain over the salmon ; mix 
thoroughly, and turn into a mould. When chilled 
serve with Cream Salad Dressing (page 27), to 
which half a cucumber, chopped fine and drained, 
has been added. Reserve a part of the dressing, 
omitting the cucumber, and use with slices of cu- 
cumber as a garnish. To prepare the cucumber, 
pare with a handy slicer and cut from it a section 
three-fourths an inch thick ; pare this round and 
round very thin and roll loosely to form a cup. 
Dispose this on the top of the fish and fill with 
dressing. (Use a pastry bag and tube.) Cut the 
rest of the cucumber in thin slices. 



VARIOUS COMPOUND SALADS. 



Give us the luxuries of life, and we will dispense with 
its necessaries. Motley. 

Three several salads have I sacrificed, bedew'd with 
precious oil and vinegar. Beaumont and Fletcher. 

Sweetbread~and-Cucumber Salad. 

ARRANGE the leaves of a head of cabbage let- 
tuce loosely upon a serving-dish, without destroy- 
ing its shape. Have ready a pair of sweetbreads 
cooked in salted, acidulated water twenty min- 
utes, and cooled and cut in small cubes and mari- 
nated; also the same quantity of cucumber cut 
in dice, chilled in ice water and dried upon a 
cloth. Drain the French dressing from the sweet- 
bread and scatter the bits of sweetbread and cu- 
cumber through the lettuce. Press three-fourths 
a cup of firm jelly mayonnaise through a pastry 
bag with small tube, in little stars, here and there, 
throughout the lettuce, and serve at once. 

Sweetbread-and-Cucumber Salad, No. 2. 

Cook, marinate and drain the sweetbreads as 
before ; mix with an equal quantity of cucumber 
cut in dice, and then with cream dressing. Line 

77 



Salads. 



the inner side of lettuce nests with slices of radish, 
one overlapping another (do not remove the pink 
skin from the radish). Put in a spoonful of the 
salad and garnish each nest with a small radish 
cut to resemble a flower. 

Chicken Salad. 

Use two parts of cold cooked chicken to one 
part of celery. Marinate and drain the chicken, 
add the celery, and mix with mayonnaise or boiled 
dressing. Arrange the salad in nests of lettuce 
leaves and put a pim-ola in the centre of each nest. 

Chicken Salad, No. 2. 

Prepare the salad as before ; dispose in a mound 
on a bed of lettuce leaves and mask with mayon- 
naise. By the use of stoned olives, cut in halves, 
divide the surface into quarters. Fill two opposite 
sections with whites of eggs chopped fine, a third 
with capers or olives chopped fine, and the fourth 
with sifted yolks of eggs. Garnish with lettuce 
and curled celery. 

French Chicken Salad. 

Cook the meats of English walnuts in well- 
seasoned chicken stock until tender ; remove the 
brown skin and break in pieces ; when cold mix 
with chicken and celery, and proceed as in preced- 
ing recipes. The walnuts give the salad a flavor 
similar to that produced in France by the use of 
truffles. 

78 



Various Compound Salads. 

Chicken-and-Fresh-Mushroom Salad. 

Peel mushroom caps, break in pieces, and saute" 
in melted butter five or six minutes with a slice of 
onion ; add chicken liquor or hot water and let sim- 
mer until tender. Remove from the liquor, cover, 
and set aside to cool. Add the liquor and the 
peelings and stalks of the mushrooms to the liquid 
in which the chicken is to be cooked. Use the 
chicken and mushrooms with celery or lettuce in 
any recipe for chicken salad. 

Chicken Salad, No. 3. 

Arrange the salad upon the centre of the dish 
and mask with mayonnaise ; then with pastry bag 
and tube pipe the dressing in some fanciful design. 
Surround with a border of aspic jelly, tinted a 
delicate green. The jelly may be cut in blocks 
or triangles, or into small cubes, and then massed 
about the salad. Cut the aspic in a cold room; 
first dip the knife in hot water and wipe dry. 

Chicken Salad, No. 4. 

Cut one cucumber and one bunch of round 
radishes in thin slices, and add two-thirds a cup of 
shredded celery. Season with four tablespoonfuls 
of oil, two tablespoonfuls of vinegar or lemon juice, 
half a teaspoonful of salt and a dash of paprica. 
Put on a bed of shredded lettuce or on heart leaves 
of lettuce ; cover with three cups of chicken cut in 

79 



Salads. 



cubes and marinated an hour or more with four 
tablespoonfuls of oil, two tablespoonfuls of lemon 
juice or vinegar, half a teaspoonful of salt and a 
dash of white pepper. Mask with mayonnaise. 
Arrange some bits of celery, an inch and a half in 
length and curled on one end, about the salad, 
with a bit of yolk of egg in the centre of each. Or, 
instead of the celery and yolk of egg, use sliced 
radishes (do not remove the red skin), having the 
slices overlap one another. Finish the top with 
tuft of lettuce or curled celery and yolk of egg. 

Mushroom Salad with Medallions of Chicken. 

Bone a chicken, fill with forcemeat, and cook 
until tender in stock ; then press between two 
dishes until cold. Cut in slices and stamp in 
rounds. Stamp out an equal number of rounds 
from cooked tongue. Spread these with " green 
butter" (see Green-Butter Sandwiches) and place 
the rounds of chicken evenly on the tops. Coat 
these with white chaud-froid sauce and decorate 
in some design with truffles, ham or tongue. 
When the sauce has set, brush over the medallions 
with aspic jelly, cold but not set. When thor- 
oughly cold stamp out with a round cutter. 
Drain and dry a can of white button mushrooms ; 
toss them about in cold aspic until they are well 
coated , When the jelly has become fixed about 
them, pile high in the centre of a serving-dish; 
arrange the medallions about them, resting on 
delicate leaves of lettuce. Serve mayonnaise or 

80 



Various Compound Salads. 

tartare sauce with the salad. Sweetbreads may be 
substituted for the chicken, and fresh mushrooms 
for the canned. 

Mousse-de-Poulet Salad. 

Scald one cup of milk, cream or well-reduced 
chicken stock (the last is preferable); beat the 
yolks of three eggs slightly, add one-fourth a tea- 
spoonful, each, of common salt and celery salt, and 
a dash of paprica, and cook as a boiled custard. 
Remove from the fire and add one- fourth a package 
of gelatine (one tablespoonful of granulated gela- 
tine), softened in one-fourth a cup of chicken 
liquor or water. Strain over half a cup of cooked 
chicken (white meat), chopped and pounded in 
a mortar and passed through a sieve. Stir over 
ice water until the mixture is perfectly smooth 
and begins to set, then fold into it one cup of 
whipped cream. Turn into a ring mould, and, 
when chilled and well set, turn on to a bed of 
lettuce and fill in the centre with equal parts of 
celery and English walnuts, blanched, sliced and 
mixed with a French dressing. 

The half-cup of chicken, well pressed down, 
should weigh four ounces. The chicken broth 
should be strong and well flavored. Either one 
cup of whipped cream, or one cup of cream, 
whipped, may be used. The latter gives a firmer 
mousse, more pronounced in flavor; the former, a 
mousse of a lighter and more delicate consistency, 
and one more delicate in flavor. 

81 



Salads. 



Mousse-de-Poulet, No. 2. 

Mould the mousse in small cups ; turn out on to 
a slice of chilled tomato resting upon a lettuce 
leaf; garnish with mayonnaise dressing, decorat- 
ing both the tomato and the mousse. 

Mousse-de-Poulet, No. 3. 

Mould the mousse in a ring mould and fill in the 
centre with equal parts of cucumber or asparagus 
tips and diced sweetbread; marinate the sweet- 
bread with French dressing, and drain thoroughly 
before mixing with the cucumber or asparagus. 
Garnish with mayonnaise dressing. 

Mousse=de=Poulet, No. 4. 

Fill in the centre of the ring with diced cucum- 
bers and sliced radishes, mixed with cream dress- 
ing. Garnish with cream dressing, using pastry 
bag and tube, and radishes cut to resemble roses. 

Chicken Salad, Spring Style. 

Mix one pint cold cooked chicken, in cubes, one 
cup of white grapes, skinned, halved and seeded, 
half a cup of cubes of apple, half a pound of French 
endive, in shreds, half a cup of blanched almonds in 
lengthwise shreds with six tablespoonfuls of oil, a 
teaspoonful of salt, half a teaspoonful of paprica 
and two tablespoonfuls of lemon juice. Shape in a 
mound on lettuce hearts, mask with mayonnaise. 

82 



Various Compound Salads. 

Turkey-and -Chestnut Salad. 

Prepare the chestnuts as previously directed, 
using twice as much turkey meat, light or dark, 
cut into small cubes. Serve with lettuce and 
French, boiled or mayonnaise dressing, as desired. 
Marinate and drain the meat before adding the 

nuts. 

Duck=and=Olive Salad. 

Cut the meat from a duck in small pieces, and 
slice pim-olas very thin ; use two tablespoonfuls of 
pim-olas to a cup of meat. Serve on a bed of cress 
with a French dressing. 

Duck=and=Orange Salad. 

Slice the oranges lengthwise ; use twice as much 
flesh as fruit. Dress with oil, salt and paprica, 
and serve on lettuce leaves. 

Ham Salad. 

Soak half a tablespoonful of granulated gelatine 
in one tablespoonful and a half of cold water, and 
dissolve in three-fourths a cup of hot chicken 
liquor. Strain over one cup of chopped ham and 
stir until the mixture begins to thicken, then fold 
in one cup of thick cream beaten stiff ; add, also, a 
few grains of paprica and salt, if needed. Mould 
in a ring mould, and, when set and cold, turn 
from the mould ; fill in the centre with lettuce 
arranged like a cup, and fill the cup with mayon- 
naise. Or, serve with French dressing. 

83 



Salads. 



Bacon 5alad. 

Cut six or eight slices of tender bacon into small 
squares and fry until they are delicately browned ; 
then drain on soft paper. Heat six tablespoonfuls 
of the fat and two tablespoonfuls of vinegar or 
lemon juice ; beat together the yolks of three eggs 
and one-fourth a teaspoonful, each, of paprica and 
mustard, and cook with the fat and vinegar over 
hot water until the mixture thickens slightly. 
When the dressing is cold cut a head of lettuce 
into narrow ribbons, toss the lettuce and bits of 
bacon together, and mix with the dressing. Serve 
at once. 

Italian Salad. 
(Miss COHEN.) 
INGREDIENTS. 

2 herrings, soaked in milk % a pound (i cup) of boiled 
over night. tongue, cut fine. 

3 boiled potatoes, cut in 2 apples, pared and finely 
very small dice. chopped. 

2 tablespoonfuls of cucum- 2 carrots, cooked and finely 

ber pickles, chopped fine. chopped. 

1 tablespoonful of capers, i celery root, cooked and 
chopped fine. chopped. 

2 small boiled beets, cut % a cup of pecan nuts, 
fine. broken fine. 

% a pound (i cup) of cold A little onion juice, 
roast chicken, cut fine. 

Method. Mix the ingredients together thor- 
oughly; add mayonnaise to moisten well. Serve 
on a flat dish. Mask the top with mayonnaise, 

84 




Spinach and Egg Salad. 

(See page 86) 




Marguerite Salad. 

(See page 86) 




String-Bean Salad, with Sliced Eggs. 




A Perfect Egg-Slicer. 



Various Compound Salads. 

then divide into squares like a checker-board, 
using fine-shredded pimento or pickled beet to 
mark the divisions ; fill in alternate squares with 
sifted yolk of hard-boiled egg and the remaining 
squares with chopped white of egg. Garnish the 
edge with parsley, and set in the centre half an 
hard-boiled egg cut lengthwise in points and filled 
with capers. 

Pate de Foie Gras, Moulded in Aspic. 

Cover the bottoms of small-sized timbale moulds 
with a little aspic jelly; decorate the jelly with 
bits of royal custard and capers ; cover with more 
aspic ; then add, alternately, layers of pdti de foie 
gras and aspic, until the mould is filled. Turn 
on to shredded lettuce and garnish with mayon- 
naise, using pastry bag and tube. Arrange on 
individual dishes, so as not to disarrange the 
dressing in serving. Or, garnish with a chopped 
cucumber dressed with French dressing. 

Spinach-and-Tongue Salad. 

INGREDIENTS. 

) a peck of spinach. A dash of paprica. 

i tablespoonful of lemon i tablespoonful of oil or 

juice. butter. 

% a teaspoonful of salt. Slices of cold tongue. 

Sauce tartare. 

Method. Cook the spinach in salted boiling 
water until tender ; drain, and chop very fine, and 
season with salt, pepper, oil and lemon juice. 
Press into small, well-buttered moulds or cups. 

85 



Salads. 



Have ready thin, round slices of cold boiled or 
braised tongue, the slices a trifle larger than the 
cups of spinach. When the spinach is cold turn 
it from the moulds on to the rounds of tongue, 
and press a star of sauce tartare on the top of 
each mould. Garnish with parsley and slices of 
lemon. 

Spinach -and-Egg Salad. 

(See cut facing page 84.) 

Prepare and mould the spinach as in the preced- 
ing recipe. Have ready, also, some cold boiled 
eggs and mayonnaise. Turn the spinach from the 
moulds on to nests of shredded lettuce. Dispose, 
chain fashion, around the base of the spinach, the 
whites of the eggs cut in rings, and press a star 
of mayonnaise in the centre of each ring. Pass 
the yolks through a sieve and sprinkle over the 
tops of the mounds, and place above this the round 
ends of the whites. 

Marguerite Salad. 

(See cut facing page 84.) 

Arrange garden cress on a serving-dish ; in the 
centre dispose whites of hard-boiled eggs cut in 
eighths lengthwise, to resemble the petals of a 
flower, and sift the yolks into the centre. When 
ready to serve, sprinkle with French dressing and 

toss together. 

Easter Salad. 

With the smooth sides of butter -hands roll 
Neufchatel cheese into small egg shapes. Cut 

86 



Various Compound Salads. 

long radishes into straws and season with French 
dressing. Scatter the straws in lettuce nests, ar- 
range the eggs in the nests, sprinkle with dress- 
ing, and fleck with chopped parsley or paprica. 

Easter Salad, No. 2. 

Arrange flat nests of shredded lettuce on indi- 
vidual plates. Cut a five-cent Neufchatel cheese 
in three pieces ; roll each piece into a ball and flat- 
ten to resemble the white of a poached egg, having 
the cheese about one-fourth an inch in thickness. 
These may be shaped upon a plate and then re- 
moved carefully with a spatula to the nests of 
lettuce. With pastry bag and plain tube put a 
mound of mayonnaise on the centre of each cake 
of cheese, to represent the yolk of an egg. Serve 
thoroughly chilled. A dash of pepper (paprica 
preferred) may decorate the top of the dressing. 

Country Salad. 

(See cut facing page 86.) 

Cut cold boiled corned beef or tongue into thin 
strips and pile in the centre of a serving-dish. 
Cook potato balls in meat broth until tender; 
blanch and cool, roll in mayonnaise or boiled 
dressing, and dispose about the meat. About 
these put a ring of celery cut fine, then cooked 
carrot and turnip cut in straws. Garnish with 
parsley and cucumber pickles cut in fans. Serve 
with additional dressing. 

87 



Salads. 



Orange-and-Litchi Nut Salad. 

Peel the oranges and cut them into lengthwise 
slices. Crush the shells of the nuts, take out the 
meats, and remove the stones ; cut the nut meats 
in halves. Mix the nuts with oil, a tablespoonful to 
a cup, and sprinkle the orange slices with oil ; add 
also a little lemon juice if the oranges are sweet. 
Garnish with slices of orange from which the skin 
has not been taken, also, if desired, with lettuce 
dressed with French dressing. The oil and lettuce 
may be omitted, using sugar in place ; little, how- 
ever, will be needed, as the nuts are sweet, tasting 
much like raisins. 

Qreen-and-White Salad. 

Cut cooked chicken or sweetbreads in half-inch 
cubes ; remove the skin and seeds from white 
grapes, and cut each grape in halves ; cut tender 
blanched celery stalks in small pieces. Take 
equal portions of celery and meat and half as much 
of seeded grapes. Mix with French dressing ; the 
meat should stand in the dressing an hour or more, 
when ready to serve. Serve in nests of lettuce. 
Dispose a little white mayonnaise or cream dress- 
ing on each nest. Garnish with halves of blanched 
pistachio nuts. 



88 



FRUIT AND NUT SALAD5. 



"Fat olives and pistachio's fragrant nut, 
And the pine's tasteful apple." 

Fruit Salad. 

(Sweet, to serve with cake.) 
and slice four bananas, also four oranges, 
lengthwise, carefully removing pith and seeds. 
Dissect half a ripe pineapple, taking the pulp from 
the core in small pieces with a silver fork. Hull 
and wash a part of a basket of strawberries. Ar- 
range the fruit in the salad-bowl, making each 
layer smaller than the preceding. Pour over the 
dressing given below, and serve thoroughly chilled. 

Dressing for Fruit Salad. 

(Sweet.) 

Boil one cup of sugar and half a cup of water 
five minutes, then pour on to the beaten yolks of 
three eggs ; return to the fire and cook over hot 
water, stirring constantly until thickened slightly ; 
cool, and add the juice of two lemons. Half a cup 
of wine may be used in the place of the lemon 
juice, retaining one tablespoonful of the lemon 
juice. 

89 



Salads. 



Fruit Salad. 

(June.) 

Pare lengthwise a ripe pineapple and remove 
the eyes. With a fork dislodge from the hard 
centre the single fruits (the lines left by the bracts 
will indicate the places where the divisions should 
be made) . Slice lengthwise three sweet oranges, 
after removing the peel and white skin. Peel and 
slice two bananas, and cut in halves lengthwise 
one cup of strawberries. If the fruit be sweet, use 
the juice of half a lemon, otherwise omit it. Beat 
to an emulsion one-fourth a cup of olive oil, one 
tablespoonful of honey, and, if needed, the lemon 
juice ; toss the fruit, together or separately, in the 
dressing, and serve on delicate leaves of lettuce. 
The most striking effect is produced by dressing 
each kind of fruit separately, thus massing each 
color by itself. When new figs are seasonable, 
they may be used in fruit salads to take the place 
of the honey. If the pineapple be of large size, 
more dressing will be required. 

Fruit-and-Nut Salad. 

Peel neatly three oranges and slice them length- 
wise ; also cut three bananas in thin slices. Skin 
and seed half a pound of white grapes, and blanch 
and slice the meats of one-fourth a pound of Eng- 
lish walnuts. Serve very cold on lettuce leaves, 
dressed with four tablespoonfuls of oil, two table- 
spoonfuls of lemon juice less, if the oranges are 
sour and half a teaspoonf ul of salt. 

90 



Fruit and Nut Salads. 



Fruit=and-Nut Salad, No. 2. 

Skin and seed half a pound of white grapes ; 
blanch and slice half a pound of English walnuts 
or almonds. Toss with four tablespoonfuls of oil, 
one-fourth a teaspoonful of salt and two table- 
spoonfuls of lemon juice. Serve in nests of lettuce. 
Garnish the nests with maraschino cherries. 

Cherry Salad. 

(MRS, PETERSON.) 

Marinate as many hazelnuts as cherries with 
plenty of oil, half as much lemon juice as oil, and 
a little salt, one or two hours. Put a nut in the 
place of the stone in the cherries. Sprinkle with 
oil and a very little lemon juice, and serve in let- 
tuce nests. 

Prune-and-Pecan Nut Salad. 

% lb. Weisbaden prunes, cut 3^ teaspoonful paprica. 

in lengthwise strips. ^t teaspoonful salt. 

^ lb. pecan nut meats, cut 2 tablespoonfuls lemon juice, 

in three pieces, each, 1 tablespoonful sherry wine, 

lengthwise. at discretion. 

1 cup double cream. Heart-leaves of lettuce. 

Add salt and paprica to the prunes and nuts. 
Beat the cream, wine if used, and lemon juice 
until firm throughout. Mix three-fourths of 
it with the nuts and prunes; set the mixture 
in rounding spoonfuls on heart-leaves of let- 
tuce; pipe a star of dressing above the salad in 
each leaf. Serve with bread and butter at lun- 
cheon or supper. Decorate with pieces of prune 
and nuts. 



Salads. 



Orange-and-Walnut Salad. 

This is a particularly good salad to serve with 
game. Select fine oranges, remove the peel and 
every particle of white skin, and slice very thin 
lengthwise. Slice English walnuts, blanched or 
plain. To each pint of orange slices add half a 
pint (scant) of the sliced nuts ; dress with three 
tablespoonfuls of oil, one-fourth a teaspoonful of 
salt, and, if the oranges are particularly sweet, 
a tablespoonful of lemon juice. Serve on a bed of 
watercress or lettuce. 

Celery-and-Chestnut Salad. 

Shell and blanch the chestnuts ; then boil about 
fifteen minutes, or until tender ; drain and cool. 
When cool cut into quarters, add an equal quan- 
tity of fine-sliced celery, dress with French dress- 
ing, and serve on lettuce leaves. Sliced pimentos 
may be added. 

Apple, Celery-and-English Walnut Salad. 

Peel and cut the apples in small cubes ; blanch 
the nuts and break in pieces, and cut the celery in 
thin slices ; marinate the apple and nuts with oil 
and lemon juice half an hour; drain, add the 
celery and mayonnaise dressing, and serve in cups 
made by removing the pulp from red apples. Cut 
the edges of the apples in small Vandykes ; keep 
fresh in cold water until ready to serve. 



Fruit and Nut Salads. 



Apple, Date-and-Celery Salad. 

To serve four, pare one large, choice apple, 
quarter, core and cut it into small pieces and 
squeeze over these the juice of half a lemon. Cut 
five choice stalks of celery in small pieces. Pour 
boiling water over half a pound of dates, stir the 
water through them, skim to an agate plate and let 
dry in the oven. When cold cut each into four or 
five lengthwise pieces. Mix together the apple, 
celery, and dates, then add a generous half cup 
of mayonnaise dressing and mix again. 

Fig-and-Nut 5alad. 

Slice pulled figs, cooked and cooled, and mix 
with them a few slices of walnuts or blanched 
almonds. Serve with French dressing made of 
claret and lemon juice instead of vinegar, or with 
a cream dressing. In using the cream dressing, 
mix the ingredients with a little of the dressing 
and dispose additional dressing here and there, 
using the forcing-bag and tube. When available, 
fresh figs are preferable to those that have been 
cooked. 

Grapefruit Salad. 

Cut the chilled fruit in halves, crosswise, and 
take out the pulp with a spoon ; dress with French 
dressing. The juice of the grapefruit may be 
used in the place of other acid, and mayonnaise in 
the place of French dressing. Serve on lettuce 
leaves, or return to the skin from which the pulp 

93 



Salads. 



was removed. The edge of the grapefruit cup 
may be cut in Vandykes, or otherwise ornamented. 

Turquoise Salad. 

Mix together equal parts of celery and tart 
apple cut in match-like pieces, and one or two 
pimentos cut in similar pieces. Dress with mayon- 
naise made light with whipped cream. Serve in 
nests of lettuce. 

Turquoise Salad, No. 2. 

Use pineapple in the place of the apple ; serve 
in a mound on a bed of lettuce leaves. Garnish 
with stars cut from the pimentos with French cut- 
ter, curled celery, and heart leaves of celery. 

Salad Chiffonade. 

Seed two green peppers, boil two or three min- 
utes, then cut in shreds. Shred the light and 
dark leaves of a head of lettuce, or endive, sepa- 
rately. Cut three tomatoes in shreds. Remove 
the peel and skin from one large grapefruit. 
Serve with French dressing, seasoning, and then 
arranging each article separately upon the serving- 
dish, having a circle of light and then dark green 
material about the edge. 

Peach-and-Almond Salad. 

Blanch the almonds and cut in thin slices. Chill 
the peaches, peel, and cut in slices ; use one-fifth 
as much in bulk of sliced nuts as sliced peaches. 

94 




Easter Salad. 

(See page 86) 




Country Salad. 

(See page 87) 




Fruit Salad. 

(See page 90) 




Turquoise Salad, No. 2. 

(See page 94) 



Fruit and l\at Salads. 



Serve with French dressing, or with mayonnaise 
made white with whipped cream. Garnish the 
edge with delicate lettuce leaves and serve at once. 

Peach Salad. 

(English style.) 

Cut ripe, fine-flavored peaches into quarters, 
after removing the skins. Cover with champagne, 
thoroughly chilled, and sprinkle with tea-rose 
petals. Serve at once. 

Peach, -Strawberry-and-Cherry Salad . 

(London style.) 

Let a large handful of fresh rose petals stand 
an hour or two in a cool place in a cup of Hunga- 
rian wine. Strain out the leaves and pour the 
wine over a quart of mixed fruit, peaches pared 
and cut in quarters, strawberries hulled and cut 
in halves, and cherries stoned, all thoroughly 
chilled. Let a handful of rose petals stand an 
hour or two in a cup of thick cream ; then strain 
the cream, sweeten slightly with powdered sugar, 
whip to a stiff froth, and use as a garnish for the 
fruit. 

Grapefruit, Pineapple, and Pimento Salad. 

Cut a large grapefruit in halves and remove the 
pulp with a sharp knife to avoid crushing it ; re- 
move half the pulp of a large pineapple from the 

95 



Salads. 



core with a fork, after carefully removing the un- 
edible outside. Dress with white mayonnaise and 
serve upon crisp lettuce hearts. Garnish with 
tiny bits of pimento. 2d. Omit the pimento, 
lettuce and mayonnaise, and dress with sherry 
wine and sugar. For a Christmas salad, use the 
first formula and canned pineapple if the fresh be 
not at hand. Dispose the dressed pineapple and 
grape fruit upon shredded lettuce, having a circle 
of heart leaves around the edge. Dot here and 
there with small stars cut from the red pimento 
with a French cutter. Or chop the pimento fine 
and dispose in the shape of a large five-pointed 
star in the centre of the dish. 

Pineapple-and-Cream Cheese Salad, Easter 
Style. 

Wash and dry the leaves in a head of lettuc 
cut sliced pineapple (canned is preferable for th 
purpose) into straws ; keep the straws as long as the 
slices will allow. Take one slice for each service. 
Roll cream cheese into egg-shapes, the size of birds' 
eggs. Dispose the pineapple-straws, nest shape, 
in heart-leaves of lettuce and set three eggs in each 
nest; fleck each egg with paprica. Serve plain 
French dressing in a bowl. Allow one tablespoon- 
ful and a half of olive oil, half a tablespoonful of 
lemon juice and a few grains, each, of salt and 
pepper for each nest. Tint the cheese with leaf 
green color paste, very delicately, before shaping. 



HOW TO PREPARE AND USE 
ASPIC JELLY. 



To make aspic for moulding or decorating a fish 
salad, use stock prepared from chicken or veal, or 
from fish. For chicken, veal or sweetbread salad, 
use chicken or veal stock, or a light- colored con- 
somme. In an emergency, aspic may be made 
from the prepared extracts of beef, or from bouil- 
lon capsules. Aspic is often tinted delicately to 
harmonize with a particular color scheme. A 
light-green aspic has been found quite effective. 

RECIPE. 

To one quart of highly seasoned stock, freed 
from all fat, add the juice of a lemon, a bay leaf, 
half a cup of wine and one box of gelatine soaked 
in a cup of cold water. Beat into the mixture the 
slightly beaten whites and crushed shells of two 
eggs. Heat to the boiling-point, stirring con- 
stantly, and let boil five minutes. After standing 
ten minutes skim off the froth, etc., and strain 
through a cheese-cloth folded double and held in 
a colander. 

Aspic for Garnishing. 

Pour the liquid jelly into a new tin to the depth 
of half an inch. Wring a napkin out of cold water 

97 



Salads. 



and spread it smoothly over the meat-board. Dip 
the pan in warm water and turn the jelly onto the 
napkin ; stamp in rounds, diamonds or other fanci- 
ful shapes. If blocks of greater thickness be re- 
quired, fill the pan to the required depth with the 
liquid aspic. When turned from the mould, cut 
in squares or diamonds with a knife, wiped dry 
after having been dipped in hot water. 

To Chop Jelly. 

Cut the jelly slowly, first in one direction, then 
in the opposite direction. Each piece, whether 
large or small, should be clean-cut and distinct. 
Aspic melts or softens in a warm place, and should 
not be taken from the mould until the time of 
serving, and then it must be handled with care. 

Consomme for Aspic Jelly. 

Cut two pounds of beef from the under part of 
the round and two pounds of shin of veal into 
small pieces ; crack the bones in the shin. Place 
over the fire with two and a half quarts of cold 
water ; add one ounce of lean ham. Heat slowly, 
and cook just below the boiling-point two or three 
hours ; then add to the kettle a three-pound fowl, 
and allow it to remain till tender. Put some mar- 
row into the frying-pan, and when hot saut6 in it 
a small onion cut fine, two tablespoonfuls, each, 
of chopped celery, carrot and turnip ; add to the 
soup kettle, removing the fowl, together with a 
sprig, each, of parsley, thyme and summer savory, 

98 



How to Prepare and Use Aspic Jelly. 

two bay leaves, a small blade of mace, four cloves, 
two peppercorns and one scant tablespoonful of 
salt. Let simmer about an hour and a half; then 
strain and let cool. 

Chicken Stock for Aspic Jelly. 

Put a four-pound fowl and a few bits of veal 
from the neck over the fire in three pints of cold 
water. Heat slowly to the boiling-point, let boil 
five minutes, then skim and let simmer until the 
fowl is nearly tender. Now add an onion and half 
a sliced carrot, a stalk of celery, a teaspoonful of 
sweet herbs tied in a bag with a sprig of parsley, 
two cloves, a blade of mace, eight peppercorns and 
a teaspoonful of salt. Remove the fowl when ten- 
der, and let the stock simmer until reduced to 
about one quart ; strain, and set aside to become 
cool. 

Second Stock for Use in Sauces, Etc. 

Break the bones from roasts ; add the tough or 
browned bits of meat and fat ; add also the flank 
ends from chops and steaks, cut small (there should 
always be a few bits of fresh meat) , and cover with 
cold water. Heat slowly and let simmer two or 
three hours, then add, for each two quarts of water 
used, one-fourth a cup, each, of chopped onion and 
carrot, two stalks of celery and a tomato cut small, 
two teaspoonfuls of sweet herbs, two sprigs of 
parsley browned in two tablespoonfuls of butter or 
drippings, and cook about an hour. Strain and let 
cool. Stock will keep a day or two in summer 

99- 



Salads. 



and nearly a week in winter, if the cake of fat that 
forms upon the top be left undisturbed. 

Fish Stock. 

(For use in fish aspic, or any fish dish.) 

Cover the bones and trimmings from the fish 
that is to be used for the salad with cold water ; 
add, if convenient, the body bones of a lobster or 
two. Add also one or two pounds of an inexpen- 
sive fish, and a pint of water for each pound of 
fish. All must be fresh. Bring the water slowly 
to the boiling-point and let simmer an hour, then 
add, for each quart of water, one tablespoonful, 
each, of chopped onion and carrot, a sprig of pars- 
ley and one teaspoonful of sweet herbs, saute" d 
delicately in two tablespoonfuls of butter. Season 
to taste with salt and cayenne. 

Aspic Jelly from Bouillon Capsules, Etc. 

Put over the fire one-fourth a cup, each, of onion 
and carrot, saute*d in two tablespoonfuls of butter, 
two stalks of celery, a bay leaf, half a dozen pep- 
percorns and two or three cloves, with one quart 
of water; add three bouillon capsules, or three 
teaspoonfuls of beef extract (not home-made) dis- 
solved in two cups of boiling water; let simmer 
about half an hour, then add one box of gelatine 
softened in one cup of cold water, any additional 
flavoring desired, and the slightly beaten white 
and crushed shell of one egg (more shells will 
be advantageous). Bring slowly to the boiling- 

100 



How to Prepare and Use Aspic Jelly. 

point, stirring constantly meanwhile, and let sim- 
mer five minutes ; let stand in a hot place ten min- 
utes, then skim and strain through a cheese-cloth 
folded double. 

White Chaud-froid Sauce. 

(For coating joints of fowl or game , or medallions of 
fowl, tongue or sweetbreads.) 

To one pint of white sauce, made of white stock, 
add three-fourths a cup of aspic jelly and one 
tablespoonful of lemon juice ; let simmer until 
reduced to the consistency of very thick cream; 
remove the butter from the top and let cool slightly 
before using. 

Salad of Peas and Truffles ir; A 



Fill timdale moulds with aspic jelly in a 
liquid state. When set and firm, dip a thin- 
pointed knife-blade into boiling water and cut 
out the centre from each mould, leaving a 
wall of jelly a generous quarter of an inch 
thick. The dish will be prettier, if the moulds 
be decorated, before filling, with figures cut 
from thin slices of truffle and white of egg. 
Chop a few truffle trimmings fine, and mix 
them with half a cup or more of cooked peas. 
Mix these with French dressing, using enough 
to thoroughly coat each pea. Use the dressed 
peas and truffles to fill the open spaces in the 
moulds. Have ready the jelly, taken out of 

101 



Salads. 



the moulds, melted and half cooled by standing 
in ice water. Use this to fill the moulds above the 
peas. Serve, thoroughly chilled, on a dish with 
lettuce leaves, dressed with oil, vinegar, and 
condiments. 



102 



CHEESE DISHES SERVED WITH 
SALADS. 

Digestive cheese and fruit there sure will be. 

BEN JONSON. 




Pineapple and Cream Cheese Salad, Easter Style. 

(See page 96) 




Fruit and Grape Salad. 




Cheese Ramequins, 

(See page 106) 




Individuai Souffle of Cheese. 

(See page 108) 



CHEESE DISHES SERVED WITH 
SALADS. 



Cheese Custard. 

(MRS. DIMON.) 

BUTTER a baking-dish, put in a layer of bread 
cut in pieces one inch square with crust removed, 
sprinkle thin-sliced cheese over the bread, dust 
with salt and paprica, or a few grains of cayenne. 
Add other layers of bread and cheese, seasoning 
as before, using in all half a small loaf of bread, 
one cup of cheese and half a teaspoonful of salt. 
Beat two eggs slightly, add one pint of milk, and 
pour the mixture over the bread and cheese. Bake 
about half an hour in a moderate oven. 

Cheese Souffle. 

Cook together four tablespoonfuls of butter and 
two tablespoonfuls of flour, into which have been 
sifted one-fourth a teaspoonful, each, of soda and 
mustard and a few grains of cayenne. Add grad- 
ually half a cup of milk. When the sauce boils, 
remove from the fire and stir into it one cup of 
grated cheese (half a pound) and the yolks of 
three eggs, beaten until light. When well mixed, 
fold in the stiffly beaten whites of three eggs. 

'05 



Salads. 



Bake in a buttered pudding-dish, in a moderate 
oven, about twenty-five minutes, or in individual 
dishes, paper cases, or china shirring-cups, about 
twelve minutes. Serve at once from the dish or 
dishes. The souffle" will ' ' stand up ' ' a little better, 
if three-fourths a cup of milk be used in place 
of the half-cup as given, and half a cup of stale 
grated bread be added before the cheese ; but it 
will not be quite so delicate. 

Cheese Ramequins. 

Put four tablespoonfuls of butter and half a cup 
of water into a saucepan. When these boil, add 
half a cup of flour and a few grains, each, of salt 
and paprica ; cook and stir until the mixture 
cleaves from the pan. Turn into a mixing-bowl 
and beat in two ounces of grated Parmesan cheese ; 
then beat in, one at a time, two eggs. On a well- 
buttered baking -sheet shape the paste into flat 
circular pieces about an inch in diameter. Brush 
over the tops with beaten egg, diluted with one 
or two tablespoonfuls of milk or water, and put 
three or four dice of cheese on each. Bake about 
fifteen minutes. Serve very hot. 

Cheese Straws. 

Roll plain or puff paste into a rectangular sheet 
one-fourth an inch thick. Sprinkle one-half with 
grated cheese (any kind of cheese will do, but 
Parmesan is preferred) ; also add a few grains of 
cayenne and salt. Fold the other half over this 
106 



Cheese Dishes Served with Salads. 

and press the edges together closely. Fold again 
to make three layers, turn half-way round, pat and 
roll out to the thickness of one-fourth an inch. 
Sprinkle one half with cheese and proceed as 
before. Continue rolling and adding the cheese, 
until, to one cup and a half of flour, from half to a 
whole cup of cheese has been used. After the last 
rolling, cut into bands half an inch wide, or into 
rings and straws one-fourth an inch wide. The 
straws and bands should be four or five inches in 
length, and the rings large enough to hold three 
or four straws. Serve the bands piled in log-cabin 
style on a doy lie-covered plate. If the paste be 
made expressly for the straws, the cheese and cay- 
enne may be mixed into the flour with the butter, 
thus diminishing time in making. Bake in a 
moderate oven until delicately browned. 

Gnochi a la Romaine. 

Melt four tablespoonfuls of butter; cook in it 
four tablespoonfuls, each, of cornstarch and flour 
and half a teaspoonful of salt, then add gradually 
one pint of milk. When thick and smooth stir in 
the beaten yolks of two eggs, add four tablespoon- 
fuls of grated Parmesan cheese, and spread on a 
buttered pan to cool. Just before serving, cut the 
paste in shapes, lay on a baking-sheet, and brown 
delicately in the oven. 

Cheese Balls. 

Mix together thoroughly one cup and a half of 
grated cheese, one tablespoonful of flour, one- 
107 



Salads. 



fourth a teaspoonful of salt and a few grains of 
cayenne ; then add the whites of three eggs, beaten 
stiff. Shape in small balls and roll in cracker 
crumbs, sifted or crushed to a fine meal ; fry in 
deep fat and drain on soft paper. 

Individual Souffles of Cheese, Iced. 

(See cut facing page 106.) 

Mix half a cup of grated Parmesan and one- 
fourth a cup of grated Gruyere cheese and one- 
fourth a teaspoonful of paprica with two-thirds a 
cup of chicken aspic, cold, but not set. Stir over 
ice water until just beginning to form, then fold 
into it one cup of whipped cream. Fasten strips 
of white paper around paper soume cases, letting 
the strips rise an inch and a half above the cases, 
fixing in place with sealing-wax, mucilage, or a 
stitch. Fill the cases and the papers surrounding 
them with the cheese mixture, and set them in a 
pail or mould that is thoroughly chilled. Press 
the cover down over a paper, and pack in equal 
parts of ice and salt. L,et stand an hour. Before 
serving, remove the paper, sprinkle the tops with 
buttered crumbs, browned, and serve at once. 

Cheese Croquettes. 

(TOURAINE.) 
INGREDIENTS. 

3 tablespoonfuls of butter, i cup of mild cheese, cut in 
% a cup of flour. small cubes. 

% & cup of milk. % a CU P of grated Gruyere 

Yolks of 2 eggs. cheese. 

Salt and cayenne to taste. 
1 08 



Cheese Dishes Served with Salads. 

Method. Make a sauce of the butter, flour and 
milk; add the yolks, slightly beaten, and beat 
thoroughly; add the grated cheese, and, when 
melted, remove from the fire ; add the seasonings 
and cubes of cheese. Spread in a shallow pan to 
cool. Cut in any shape desired, dip in crumbs, 
then in egg, and again in crumbs ; fry in deep fat 
and drain on brown paper. 

Cheese Aigrettes. 

INGREDIENTS. 

% a cup of water. A few grains of cayenne 

3^ a cup of butter. and salt. 

^ a cup of flour. 2 ounces (^ a cup) of grated 

2 eggs, with yolk of a third. Parmesan cheese. 
Hot fat. 

Method. Boil the water and butter, sift in the 
flour with the salt and cayenne ; stir and cook 
until the mixture cleaves from the side of the pan. 
When the mixture has slightly cooled, add the 
eggs, one at a time, beating in each egg thor- 
oughly before another is added. L,astly, add the 
cheese. Drop, by teaspoonfuls, into hot fat and fry 
a golden brown. Drain on soft paper and serve 
piled on a folded napkin. 

Cheese d'Artois. 

INGREDIENTS. 

2 tablespoonfuls of butter. 2 ounces of grated Parme- 
White of i egg. san cheese. 

Yolks of 2 eggs. ^ a pound of plain or puff 

Salt and paprica. paste. 

109 



Salads. 



Method. Cream the butter, beat in the eggs, 
and add the cheese with a few grains, each, of salt 
and paprica. Roll the pastry very thin and cut 
it into two rectangular pieces ; lay one of these on 
a baking-sheet and spread with the cheese mix- 
ture ; cover this with the second piece of pastry. 
Score with a knife in strips one inch wide and 
about three inches long, brush over with beaten 
egg, and bake about fifteen minutes. Cut out the 
strips while hot. Serve at once, or reheat before 
serving. 

Cheese Fritters. 

Slice thin half a dozen large tart apples (select 
apples that cook quickly), and prepare half as 
many thin slices of cheese. Beat up one or two 
eggs, and season with salt, mustard and pepper. 
Soak the cheese in the egg mixture, then put each 
slice between two slices of apple, sandwich style ; 
dip in the beaten egg, saute in hot butter, and 
serve hot. 

Salad of Lettuce with Cheese and Vegetable 
Macedoine. 

Mix together a ten-cent cream cheese, a canned 
pimento (red) cut in tiny cubes, one-fourth a cup 
of small green string beans, cut in cubes, five 
olives, chopped fine, and enough cream to hold the 
mixture together. When thoroughly mixed, use 
a piece of parafiine or confectioner's paper to han- 
dle and give the mixture the original shape. I<et 
no 




Pineapple Cheese and Crackers. 




Salad of Lettuce with Cheese and 
Vegetable Macedoine, 

(See page no) 



Cheese Dishes Served with Salads. 

stand in a cold place, wrapped in the paper, until 
ready to serve, then dispose in the centre of a salad 
dish, lined with lettuce leaves, dressed with French 
dressing. Slice the cheese with a silver knife be- 
fore sending to table. At luncheon, mayonnaise 
may be served in a dish apart. 

Palmerston Eclairs. 

Prepare "chou paste" page 140. Add to the 
hot paste half a teaspoonful of paprica and half a 
cup of grated cheese. Bake, in strips three inches 
long, one inch wide, on buttered tins. Cut down 
one side and fill with cheese custard mixture. 

Cheese Custard Mixture. 

3 tablespoonfuls butter. 1^ cups milk. 

3 tablespoonfuls flour. 2 egg yolks. 

^ teaspoonful salt. K cup grated cheese. 

) teaspoonful paprica. ^ cup cream, beaten firm. 

Make a sauce of the butter, flour, seasonings and 
milk, add the yolks, beaten and mixed with the 
cheese. When cold add the cream. 



Lettuce-and- Roquefort Cheese Salad. 

Dispose a carefully washed-and-dried head of 
lettuce in a salad bowl and sprinkle over about 
one-third a cup of roquefort cheese, cut (or broken 
with a silver fork) into tiny cubes. Rub a bowl 
with the cut side of a clove of garlic ; put in half 

in 



Salads. 



a teaspoonful of salt and half a teaspoonful of pa- 
prica, then four tablespoonfuls of chili sauce; mix 
thoroughly, then gradually beat in seven or eight 
tablespoonfuls of olive oil and pour over the lettuce 
and cheese. Serve at once. 



112 



PHRT II. 



SANDWICHES. 

Socrates brought Philosophy from the clouds , but 
the Englishmen have dragged her into the kitchen. 

HBGBI,. 

Homer never entertained either guests or hosts 
with long speeches till the mouth of hunger be stopped. 

SIR PHIWP SIDNEY. 



SANDWICHES. 



A pale young man, with feeble whiskers and a stiff 
white neckcloth, came walking down the lane en sandwich 
having a lady, that is, on each arm. 

Thackeray (" Vanity Fair"). 

THE term " sandwich," now applied to many a 
fanciful shaped and encased dainty, was formerly 
used in speaking of ' * two slices of bread with meat 
between." In this sense, the word had its origin, 
about the end of the eighteenth century, from the 
fact that the fourth Karl of Sandwich was so in- 
fatuated with the pleasures and excitement of the 
gaming-table that he often could not leave it long 
enough to take his meals with his family; and, on 
such occasions, a butler was despatched to him 
bearing " slices of bread with meat between." 

The fillings of savory sandwiches may be placed 
between pieces of bread, crackers, pastry, chou 
paste or aspic jelly. When preparing sweet sand- 
wiches, these same materials may be used, as also 
lady-fingers (white or yellow) , macaroons or sweet 

wafers. 

Bread for Sandwiches. 

As a rule, bread for sandwiches should be 
twenty-four hours old ; but fresh bread, which is 
more pliable than stale, is better adapted to this 
use, when the sandwiches are to take the form of 

"5 



Sandwiches. 



rolls or folds. When stale bread is used for rolls 
or folds, they must be ribbon-tied ; or tiny Japan- 
ese toothpicks may be made to keep them in shape. 

The bread may be yeast or peptic bread. It 
may be white or brown. It is not even essential 
that the two bits of bread be of the same kind ; 
Quaker, rice, whole-wheat, rye or graham bread 
is interchangeable with white or brown bread. 
After selecting your loaf or loaves, slice in even, 
quarter-inch slices ; then cut in squares, triangles 
or fingers, or stamp with a round or fanciful- 
shaped cutter. Cutters can be obtained in heart, 
club, diamond and spade shape, also in racquet 
shape. 

Do not spread butter or filling upon the bread 
before it is cut from the loaf and into shape. 
When so treated, the butter or filling on the ex- 
treme edge of the bread is liable to soil the fingers 
or gloves that come in contact with it. 

Cream the butter, using a small wooden spoon 
for the purpose, and then it can be spread upon 
the most delicate bread without crumbling. 

The Filling. 

Anything appropriately eaten with the covering 
may be used for the filling of a sandwich. In 
meats, salted meat takes the lead in popular favor ; 
when sliced the meat should be cut across the 
grain and as thin as possible, and several bits 
should be used in each sandwich, unless a very 
small, aesthetic sandwich be in order. Tongue 

116 



The Filling. 



and corned beef, whether they be used in slices 
or finely chopped, should be cooked until they are 
very tender. When corned beef or ham is chopped 
for a filling, the sandwich is much improved by a 
dash of mustard ; Worcestershire or horseradish 
sauce improves a filling of roast beef or boiled 
tongue ; while chopped capers, tomato sauce, cat- 
sup or a cold mint sauce is appropriate in sand- 
wiches made of lamb ; celery salt, when the filling 
is of chicken or veal, and lemon juice, when the 
principal ingredient is fish, are en rapport. 

The flavor of a few drops of onion juice is 
relished by many in any kind of fish or meat 
sandwich, while others would prefer a few grains 
of fine-chopped parsley. 

When salad sandwiches are to be prepared, chop 
the meat or fish very fine and mix it with the salad 
dressing. Celery, cabbage, cress, cucumbers, to- 
matoes or olives may be chopped and added to the 
meat with the dressing. When lettuce is used, 
the leaf is served whole, the edges just appearing 
outside the bread. Any one of these vegetables, 
combined with a salad dressing, makes a delicious 
sandwich without meat or fish. When desired, 
other well-prepared sauces may be used in the 
place of salad dressings. Fillings of uncooked 
fruit may be used ; but, in the case of dried fruits, 
it is preferable to stew until tender, after the 
fruit has been finely chopped. Pineapple, lemon 
or orange juice may be added at pleasure. Sand- 
wiches prepared from entire-wheat bread, with fig 

117 



Sandwiches. 



or date fillings, are particularly wholesome for 
the children's luncheon basket. 

When a particularly aesthetic sandwich is de- 
sired, wrap the butter that is to be used in spread- 
ing the bread in a napkin, and put it over night in 
a jar, on a bed of violets or rose petals ; strew more 
flowers over the top and cover the jar tightly. If 
meat or fish is to be used as the basis of the sand- 
wich, substitute nasturtium leaves and blossoms, 
or sprigs of mignonette, for the former flowers. 

Fancy butter makes an attractive filling for a 
sandwich ; it has also the merit of being less often 
in evidence than many another filling. 

Sandwiches, except when vegetables and dress- 
ings are used, may be prepared early in the 
day, placed in a stone jar, covered with a slightly 
dampened cloth, and set away in a cool place until 
such time as they are wanted. Or, they may be 
wrapped in paraffine paper. Still, when conven- 
ient, it is preferable to have everything in readi- 
ness, and put the sandwiches together just before 
serving. Garnish the serving-dish with parsley, 
cress, celery plumes, slices of lemon, barberries and 
leaves, or fresh nasturtium leaves and blossoms. 

Beverages Served with Sandwiches. 

Coffee heads the list of beverages most accept- 
ably served with sandwiches. Tea comes next. 
Cocoa and chocolate are admissible only with the 
dainty, aesthetic varieties, in which fruit or some 
kind of sweetmeat is used. % 

118 



SAVORY SANDWICHES. 



" Hail, wedded nourishment ! " 

Ham-and-Tongue Sandwiches. 

CHOP two parts of cold tongue and one part of 
cold ham (one-fourth as much fat ham as lean) 
very fine ; pound in a mortar, and season with 
paprica and a little mixed mustard. Spread butter 
on one piece of bread, the meat mixture on the 
other, and press the two pieces together. 

Ham-and-Egg Sandwiches. 

Chop the ham and pound smooth in a mortar ; 
pass the yolks of hard-boiled eggs through a sieve ; 
mix the yolks with an equal amount of mayonnaise 
dressing. Butter one piece of bread lightly and 
spread with the ham, spread the other piece with 
the egg and dressing, and press the two together. 

Corned-Beef Sandwiches. 

Chop the cold meat very fine, using one-fourth 
of fat meat. Work into the meat French mustard, 
or any " made " mustard, to taste, and prepare the 
sandwiches in the usual way. Boston brownbread 
combines well with this preparation. 
119 



Sandwiches. 



Tongue-and-Veal (or Chicken) Sandwiches. 

Use a little less of the chopped tongue than of 
the other kind of meat, and one-half as much 
chopped celery as meat. Mix with salad dressing. 
Spread one piece of bread with butter, the other 
with the mixture, and press together. 

Celery Sandwiches. 

Chop crisp celery very fine and mix with salad 
dressing. Spread one piece of bread with butter, 
the other with a thin layer of the mixture. With 
a sharp knife split open the round stems of celery 
tips and put them between the bread, so that the 
tips will just show on the edges. Tie with narrow 
ribbon, light-green in color. 

Sardine Sandwiches. 

Use, in bulk, equal parts of yolks of well-cooked 
eggs, rubbed to a smooth paste, and the flesh of 
sardines, freed from skin and bones and pounded 
in a mortar ; season to taste with a few drops of 
tobasco sauce and lemon juice, and spread as 
usual. Crackers may be used in the place of 
bread, if the sandwiches be prepared just before 
using, otherwise the crackers lose their crispness. 
Garnish with slices of lemon and parsley. 

Caviare Sandwich Rolls. 

To each two tablespoonfuls of caviare add ten 
drops of onion juice and a few drops of lemon juice, 

120 



Savory Sandwiches. 



and mix together thoroughly. Remove the crust 
from a fresh, moist loaf of bread, cut in thin slices, 
spread each slice very delicately with butter and 
the caviare mixture, roll up in a roll and tie with 
ribbon one-fourth an inch wide, or pin with 
Chinese toothpicks. The bread should not be 
more than twelve hours old. If fear be lest the 
bread will not be sufficiently moist to roll, wrap 
the loaf, when taken from the oven, in a damp 
cloth and then in a dry one ; keep in this fashion 
until ready for use. 

Russian Sandwiches. 

Slightly butter thin slices of bread; moisten 
fine-chopped olives with mayonnaise dressing and 
spread upon the buttered slices ; spread other 
slices with Neufchatel, or any cream cheese, and 
press together in pairs. 

Mushroom-and-Lobster Sandwiches. 

Saute* the caps of half a pound of mushrooms in 
a little butter about five minutes, adding half a 
sliced onion if desired. Cover with highly sea- 
soned stock and let simmer until very tender ; chop 
and press through a sieve, and, if very moist, re- 
duce to the consistency of a thick puree. Add an 
equal quantity of lobster meat pounded smooth in 
a mortar. Season to taste with salt, pepper, lemon 
juice and, if desired, tomato catsup. When cool 
use as any filling. 

121 



Sandwiches. 



Cheese-and-English-Walnut Sandwiches. 

INGREDIENTS. 

% a pound of grated cheese. % a pound of English wal- 
^ a pound of butter. nut meats, sliced. 

Salt and paprica to taste. 

Method. Work the butter to a cream, add the 
seasonings and the grated cheese gradually ; then 
mix in the nuts, which should be sliced very thin. 
Spread the mixture upon bits of bread and press 
together in pairs. Particularly good made of 
brownbread and served with a simple vegetable 
salad ! 

Egg=and-Spinach Sandwiches. 

Use cold boiled spinach, which when hot was 
chopped very fine or pressed through a colander, 
and sifted yolks .of well-cooked eggs. Mix the 
spinach with sauce tartare and spread on one bit 
of bread, spread the other with butter and sifted 
yolk of egg ; press together. Garnish the serving- 
dish with parsley and cooked eggs cut in quarters 
lengthwise. 

Cress-and-Egg Sandwiches. 

Pick the leaves from fresh cress, chop or break 
apart, season with French dressing, and proceed 
as above. 

Imitation Pate-de-Foie-Gras Sandwiches. 

Chop half an onion and saute" in a little butter ; 
when delicately browned, add five or six chicken 
livers and saute" them on both sides. Cover with 

122 



Savory Sandwiches. 



well-seasoned chicken stock and let simmer until 
tender. Mash the livers fine with a wooden spoon 
and press them through a sieve ; season with salt, 
paprica, mustard, or a dash of curry powder. Press 
into a cup, pour melted butter over the top, and 
set away in a cool place. When ready to serve, 
remove the butter and prepare the sandwiches 
after the usual manner. 

Chicken Rolls. 

INGREDIENTS. 
4 ounces from the breast of A few grains of cayenne. 

chicken (% a cup). i teaspoonful of anchovy 

4 ounces of braised tongue. paste. 

^ a teaspoonful of celery 4 tablespoonfuls of mayon- 

salt. naise or boiled dressing. 

Method. Chop the meat and pound to a paste 
in a mortar ; add the seasonings and mix well. 
Remove the crust from a loaf of moist bread ; cut 
in very thin slices, trim each slice into a rectangu- 
lar shape, spread lightly with soft butter and then 
with the mixture. Roll the slices and tie them 
with ribbon. Omit the anchovy paste, if desired. 

Epicurean Sandwiches. 

Cream four tablespoonfuls of butter and one 
teaspoonful of mustard. Press the yolks of four 
hard-boiled eggs through a sieve and add them to 
the butter and mustard. Then add four boned 
anchovies, four small pickles, a teaspoonful of 
chives and a sprig of tarragon, chopped together 
until fine. Cut stale bread in fingers or other 
123 



Sandwiches. 



fanciful shapes, and spread with the mixture. 
Press two pieces together. 

Sardine or Anchovy Sandwiches with Canapes. 

Pound the flesh of the fish with the sifted yolks 
of two hard cooked eggs, in a wooden bowl, to a 
smooth paste. Season with paprica, chopped pi- 
mentos, and truffles; add one-fourth the bulk of 
thick cream beaten firm and salt and paprica as 
needed. Use for sandwiches. Garnish the plate 
of sandwiches with three or four canapes. For 
these toast the halves of Boston crackers; when cold 
spread with the fish-mixture, rounding it slightly 
to a dome shape; make smooth with a silver knife, 
and draw the knife through the center of the 
surface to make a design; fill this with chopped 
truffles and set a few bits of pimento on the 
edge. 

Lobster Fingers. 

Chop lobster meat very fine ; season to taste with 
French dressing. Cut the bread in pieces about 
four inches long and an inch and a half wide. 
Finish as usual. Garnish with parsley and the 
slender feelers of the lobster. 

Tower of Babel. 

Pile a variety of sandwiches in form of a pyramid 
(use bread of different colors) . Arrange a garnish 
of parsley and radish rosebuds around the base, 
124 



Savory Sandwiches. 



and on the top a few sprigs of parsley, or celery 

plumes. 

Nasturtium Folds. 

Flavor the butter with nasturtium leaves and 
blossoms, and with it spread a thin slice of moist 
bread, which is longer one way than the other. 
Press fresh nasturtium leaves and blossoms upon 
the butter and fold one half over the other. 

Harlequin Sandwiches. 

Spread a bit of brownbread with butter and 
French mustard, and a bit of white bread, cut to 
fit the former, with butter and cheese creamed 
together. Finish as usual. 

Harlequin Sandwiches, No. 2. 

Spread the brownbread with butter and cheese 
creamed together, and the white bread with butter, 
then with cucumber, chopped fine and seasoned 
with French dressing, to which a few drops of 
onion juice have been added. 

Beet-and -Cream -Cheese Sandwiches. 

Spread one piece of bread with cream cheese, 
the other with beets that have been chopped very 
fine and seasoned with French dressing. 

Peanut Sandwiches. 

Chop freshly roasted peanuts very fine ; then 
pound them in a mortar until smooth ; season with 
salt and moisten with thick cream. 



Sandwiches. 



Peanut Sandwiches, No. 2. 

Mix the prepared peanuts with mayonnaise 
dressing. Butter two pieces of bread ; spread one 
with the peanut mixture, the other with shredded 
lettuce, and press the two together. 

Shad-Roe-and-Yellow-Butter Sandwiches. 

INGREDIENTS. 

^ a pound of butter. % * teaspoonful of paprica. 

Sifted yolks of 4 eggs. 4 drops of tobasco sauce. 

1 set of shad roe, cooked, 2 teaspoonfuls of very fine- 
pounded in a mortar and chopped capers. 

sifted. 

Method. Cream the butter and add the other 
ingredients gradually. Prepare as usual. 

Green-Butter Sandwiches. 

INGREDIENTS. 

% a pound of butter. 6 anchovies. 

% a peck of spinach. 2 teaspoonfuls of very fine- 

2 tablespoonfuls of very chopped capers, 
fine-chopped parsley. 

Method. Boil the spinach, drain thoroughly, 
and press through a piece of muslin. Beat the 
butter to a cream with a wooden spoon ; beat into 
the butter enough of the spinach pulp to give the 
required tint of green. Wipe the oil from the 
anchovies, remove the backbone, and pass through 
a hair sieve ; then add to the colored butter, a 
little at a time ; add also the parsley and capers ; 
chill slightly and use as a rilling for sandwiches. 
These butters are used also to mask or decorate 
cooked fish for " cold service." 
126 




Chicken Salad Sandwiches. 

(See page 127) 




Halibut Sandwiches with Aspic. 

(See page 128) 




Sandwiches cut with Doughnut Cutter. 




Kaiser Rolls, with Dough and Cutter for Shaping. 

(See page 142) 



Savory Sandwiches. 



Chicken-Salad Sandwiches. 

(Chou-paste boxes.) 
(See cut facing page 126.) 

Bake chou paste in long, slender shapes, like 
dclairs, but narrower and shorter ; when cold 
split apart on the ends and one side and fill with 
chicken salad. Put the top back in place, after 
inserting a celery plume at each end. Garnish 
the serving-dish with celery leaves and pim-olas or 
olives. Serve other salads in the same way. 

Mosaic Sandwiches. 

Cut the bread, white, brown and graham, as 
thin as possible, and use four or five pieces in each 
sandwich, putting them together so that the colors 
will contrast. Either butter or other filling is 
admissible. 

Chicken-and-Nut Sandwiches. 

Chop fine the white meat of a cooked chicken 
and pound to a paste in a mortar. Season to taste 
with salt, paprica, oil and lemon juice and spread 
upon thin bits of bread. Spread other bits of 
bread, corresponding in shape to the first, with 
butter; press into the butter English walnuts, 
pecan nuts or almonds, blanched and sliced very 
thin. Press corresponding pieces together. 

Aspic Jelly for Sandwiches. 

Soak one box (two ounces) of gelatine in one cup 
of cold chicken liquor until thoroughly softened. 
Add to three cups of chicken stock, seasoned with 

127 



Sandwiches. 



vegetables and sweet herbs according to directions 
previously given, also the crushed shell and white 
of one egg, and proceed as for aspic jelly. Turn 
the liquid jelly into rectangular pans, having it 
three-eighths of an inch or less in thickness, and 
set aside in a cool place to harden. When ready 
to serve, dip the pan in hot water an instant, and 
turn the jelly on to a paper. With a thin, sharp 
knife cut the jelly into squares or diamonds, or 
dip a cutter into hot water and stamp out into 
hearts or clubs. 

Lobster Sandwiches with Aspic. 

Chop the lobster fine, mix with mayonnaise 
dressing to taste, spread upon a bit of aspic, cover 
with a crisp lettuce leaf, and above this place 
another piece of aspic spread with the lobster 
mixture. Serve at once. 

Halibut Sandwiches with Aspic. 

After the aspic is poured into the pans, sprinkle 
upon it some fine-cut Spanish pimentos. When 
ready to serve, prepare as lobster sandwiches with 
aspic, using fish in the place of lobster, and, if 
desired, sauce tartare in the place of mayonnaise. 
Shrimps, salmon or other fish, chicken, veal, 
tongue, sweetbreads, etc., may be used either with 
lettuce or with chopped celery, cress, cucumbers, 
etc. Or the vegetables may be used without either 
fish, flesh or fowl. 

128 



Savory Sandwiches. 



Club Sandwiches. 

(Steamer Priscilla style.) 

Have ready four triangular pieces of toasted 
bread spread with mayonnaise dressing ; cover 
two of these with lettuce, lay thin slices of cold 
chicken (white meat) upon the lettuce, over this 
arrange slices of broiled breakfast bacon, then let- 
tuce, and cover with the other triangles of toast 
spread with mayonnaise. Trim neatly, arrange 
on a plate, and garnish with heart leaves of lettuce 
dipped in mayonnaise. 

Wedding Sandwich Rolls. 

Wrap bread as it is taken from the oven closely 
in a towel wrung out of cold water, cover with 
several thicknesses of dry cloth and set aside about 
four hours ; then cut away the crust, and with a 
thin, sharp knife cut the loaf or loaves in slices as 
thin as possible and spread with butter, and, if 
desired, thin shavings of meat, potted meat or 
chopped nuts ; roll the slices very closely and pile 
on a serving-dish. 

The flilwaukee Sandwich. 

INGREDIENTS. 

2 thin rounds of white bread. Horseradish, 

i thin round of graham or rye Lettuce. 

bread. 4 small sweet pickles. 

4 large oysters, broiled or fried. 4 small radishes. 

Breast of cooked chicken, or tur- Slice of lemon. 

key. i tomato, skin removed. 

Two slices of crisp bacon. Tartare sauce. 
129 



Sandwiches. 



Dip the bread in beaten egg, seasoned with salt 
and saute to a rich brown in hot butter. Roll the 
oysters in grated bread crumbs (centre of the loaf) 
and broil them, or " egg and bread " them, and fry 
in deep fat. I, ay the first slice of bread on a plate 
over two or three lettuce leaves, put the oysters on 
the bread, a grating of horseradish on each oyster ; 
cover with the graham or rye bread ; on this lay the 
chicken or turkey cut in thin slices, season with 
salt and pepper, put on the bacon, and cover with the 
other slice of bread. On top of the sandwich lay 
a slice of lemon cut square, and about this dispose 
the pickles and radishes, to form a star. Serve the 
tomato on a lettuce leaf at the side. Cut out the 
hard centre from the tomato and fill the opening 
with sauce tartare. In making this sauce, add to 
mayonnaise or boiled dressing, onion, olives, sweet 
pickles and celery, chopped fine and squeezed dry 
in a cloth. 

Lettuce, Cream Cheese-and-Pimento 
Sandwiches. 

Remove two pimentos from a can, rinse in cold 
water and wipe dry on a cloth. Chop the pimen- 
tos. Work half a pound of cream cheese with a 
wooden spoon, then mix the pimentos through it. 
With a doughnut cutter stamp out rings of bread 
from slices of stale (baked twenty-four hours) 
bread. Spread these with chili-sauce salad dress- 
ing and then with the cheese mixture. Set a leaf of 
lettuce between each two rounds, to show through 
the hole in the center of the bread. Serve at once. 
130 



SWEET SANDWICHES. 



In the name of the Prophet figs ! 

Horace Smith. 

Fig Sandwiches. 

CHOP one-fourth a pound of figs very fine, add 
one-fourth a cup of water, and cook to a smooth 
paste ; add, also, one-third a cup of almonds, 
blanched, chopped very fine and pounded to a 
paste with a little rose-water, also the juice of half 
a lemon. When cold spread the mixture upon 
lady-fingers or cakelets, white or yellow, press 
another above the mixture, and serve upon a 
handsome doylie-covered plate. Raisins, dates or 
marmalade may be used in the place of the figs. 
The marmalade, of course, requires no cooking. 
Bread may be used in the place of the cake. 

French Fruit Sandwiches. 

Chop the fruit very fine ; use a mixture of cher- 
ries, plums, pineapple and angelica root ; moisten 
with wine, orange or lemon juice. Use lady-fin- 
gers or bread for the covering. If bread is used, 
spread lightly with butter ; if cake be your choice, 
spread very lightly with marmalade. Use just 



Sandwiches. 



enough butter or marmalade to keep the cover- 
ings together. 

Date-and-Ginger Sandwiches. 

Chop the dates and preserved ginger ; moisten 
with syrup from the ginger jar and a little lemon 
juice ; cook as above, and use with bread or lady- 
fingers. Preserved ginger may be used alone and 
Without cooking. 

Rose-Leaf Sandwiches. 

Flavor the butter with rose petals according to 
the directions previously given. Spread both bits 
of bread lightly with it and put upon them three 
or four candied rose petals. If lady-fingers are 
used, brush them over with white of egg and 
sugar mixed together. Use but little sugar 
just enough to hold the fingers together. The 
Turkish rose petals that come in little jars are 
particularly dainty, and adapted to this purpose. 
Garnish the dish on which they are served with 
rosebuds and leaves. 

Violet Sandwiches. 

Prepare in the same manner as in the last num- 
ber, substituting candied violets for the rose petals, 
and violets with green leaves for a garnish. 

Honey Sandwiches. 

Spread one bit of white bread with honey pressed 
from the comb with a wooden spoon, the other bit 

132 



Sweet Sandwiches. 



with butter. Garnish, with white clover blossoms 
and leaves. 

Puff-Paste Sandwiches. 

Roll puff paste very thin (about one-eighth of 
an inch) , cut in fanciful shapes and bake to a deli- 
cate brown ; add chopped almonds to rich straw- 
berry preserves, or peach marmalade, and spread 
the mixture between each two bits of pastry. 

Pineapple Sandwiches. 

INGREDIENTS. 

i cup of pineapple juice and % a cup of sugar, 
pulp. Juice of half a lemon. 

Lady-fingers. 

Method. Cook the pineapple, sugar and lemon 
juice until thick ; let cool, and spread upon lady- 
fingers or sponge drops. Press together in pairs 
and serve. 

Whipped-Cream Sandwiches. 

INGREDIENTS. 

i cup of heavy cream. ^ a teaspoonful of vanilla 

^ a cup of powdered sugar. extract. 
Lady-fingers. 

Method. Add the sugar and extract to the 
cream and beat until solid ; let chill, then spread 
quite thick upon lady-fingers or sponge drops. 

Whipped-Cream Sandwiches with French Fruit. 

Soak half a cup of fine-cut candied fruit in wine 
an hour or more. Prepare the cream as above, 



Sandwiches. 



and sprinkle the same with the fruit before putting 
the sandwiches together. 

Fruit Jelly for Sweet Sandwiches. 

INGREDIENTS. 

i box of gelatine (2 ounces). i cup of sugar. 

i cup of cold water. i% cups of orange juice. 

i cup of boiling water. ^ a cup of lemon juice. 

Method. Soak the gelatine in the cold water 
and dissolve in the boiling water ; add the sugar 
and strain ; when cold add the orange and lemon 
juice. Mould in sheets three-eighths of an inch 
thick. 

Claret Jelly for Sweet Sandwiches. 

Substitute claret for the orange juice and pre- 
pare as above. Do not omit the lemon juice. 

Fruit or Claret Jelly Sandwiches with Nuts. 

Slice blanched English walnuts and pecan nuts 
or almonds very thin, and stir into whipped cream. 
Stamp out shapes from the jelly. Spread one 
piece with the cream and nuts and cover with a 
second piece of jelly. 

With French Fruit. 

Substitute candied fruit for the nuts and proceed 
as above, or use nuts and fruit together. 



134 




Wedding Sandwich Rolls. 

(See page 129) 




Club Sandwich. 

(See page 129) 




Boston Brown Bread. 

(See page 138) 




Bread cut for Sandwiches. 



Sweet Sandwiches. 



Cupid's Butter Sandwiches. 

INGREDIENTS. 

The yolks of 4 hard-boiled I teaspoonful of orange juice. 

eggs. A grating of orange rind, 

i cup of butter. Angel cakelets or slices of angel 
% a cup of powdered sugar. cake. 

Cream the butter, gradually add the yolks of 
eggs, passed through a potato ricer or sieve, the 
sugar and orange juice. Spread upon thin slices 
of angel cake, prepared for sandwiches, or upon 
angel cakelets or fingers ; press two slices to- 
gether and serve at once. If allowed to stand 
any length of time, keep covered and in a cool 
place. 

Cheese-and-Bar-le-Duc Currant Sandwiches. 

Spread wheat bread, prepared for sandwiches, 
with cream cheese ; put two or three currants and 
a little syrup on each piece of bread, and press two 
pieces together. These may be varied by using 
sliced maraschino cherries. Hither the currants 
or sliced cherries with a little of the syrup may 
be mixed with the cheese and then spread upon 
the bread. Bar-le-Duc currants are imported from 
France in tiny glasses. The seeds have been re- 
moved from the currants, which are cooked in 
honey. 

135 



Sandwiches. 



Hunter's Sandwich (Switzerland). 

Spread fresh bread, cut in thin slices, with fresh 
butter ; over this spread a layer of Brie or other 
cream cheese, and over the cheese spread a layer of 
honey. Press two similarly shaped pieces together 
and serve at once. 

Hunter's Sandwich (Ellwanger). 

Prepare as above, substituting maple syrup (or 
sugar) for the honey. 



Date Bread, Cream Cheese-and-Lettuce 
Sandwiches. 

Cut the bread in thin slices and shape as desired; 
spread one bit of bread with butter, another bit 
with cream cheese, set a heart leaf of lettuce be- 
tween and press together. Chopped nuts may be 
stirred into the cheese. 

One Loaf Date Bread. 

1 cup scalded and cooled % a teaspoonful salt. 

milk. ^ a cup molasses or sugar. 

^ cake compressed yeast (at 1 cup cleaned dates, chopped. 

night). 2 cups whole wheat flour. 

White flour to knead. 



136 



BREAD AND CHOU PASTE. 



She needeth least, who kneadeth best, 

These rules which we shall tell ; 
Who kneadeth ill shall need them more 

Than she who kneadeth well. 

F.F. 

Two Loaves of Wheat Bread. 

To two cups of scalded milk or boiled water, in a 
mixing-bowl, add two tablespoonfuls of sugar, one 
teaspoonful of salt, and, when the liquid becomes 
lukewarm, one yeastcake dissolved in half a cup 
of water, boiled and cooled. With a broad-bladed 
knife cut and mix in enough well-dried flour, 
sifted, to make a stiff dough (about seven cups) . 
Knead until the dough is elastic ; cover, and set 
to rise in a temperature of about 70 Fahr. When 
the dough has doubled in bulk, "cut down" and 
knead slightly without removing from the mixing- 
bowl. When again double in bulk, shape into 
two double loaves and set to rise in buttered pans ; 
when it has risen a third time, bake one hour. 

Entire-Wheat Bread. 

Use the preceding recipe without change othe r 
than in kind of flour and two additional table- 
spoonfuls of sugar. 

'37 



Bread and CHou Paste. 



Rice Bread. 

Add three-fourths a cup of rice, cooked until 
tender and still hot, and, also, two tablespoonfuls 
of butter, to the milk or water in the first recipe. 
Other cereals, as oatmeal or cerealine, may be used 
instead of rice. 

Salad Rolls. 

Make a sponge with one cup of milk, one yeast- 
cake dissolved in one-fourth a cup of milk, and 
about one cup and a half of flour ; beat thoroughly, 
cover, and set to rise in a temperature of about 
70 Fahr. When light add half a teaspoonful of 
salt, one-fourth a cup of melted butter, and flour 
enough to knead. Knead until elastic. Set to 
rise in a temperature of 70 Fahr. When doubled 
in bulk, cut down and shape into small balls. 
Set to rise again, covered with a cloth and a drip- 
ping-pan. When light press the handle of a small 
wooden spoon deeply across the centre of each ball, 
brush with butter and press the edges together. 
Set the rolls close together in a baking-pan, after 
brushing over with butter the points of contact. 

Boston Brownbread. 

Sift together one cup, each, of yellow corn meal, 
rye meal and entire-wheat flour, one teaspoonful 
of salt and three teaspoonfuls of soda. Add three- 
fourths a cup of molasses and one pint of thick, 
sour milk. Beat thoroughly, and steam in a cov- 
ered mould three hours and a half. The quantity 
138 



Sandwiches. 



here given may be steamed in four baking-powder 
boxes in two hours. 

Baking-Powder Biscuit. 

Pass through the sieve two or three times four 
cups of flour, one teaspoonful of salt, and, for each 
cup of flour, two level teaspoonfuls of baking- 
powder. With the tips of the fingers work into 
the flour one-third a cup of butter. When the 
mixture looks like meal, mix in gradually nearly 
one pint of milk, cutting the dough with a knife 
until well mixed. When it is of a consistency to 
handle, turn out on to a well-floured board, toss 
with the knife in the flour, then pat out into a 
sheet half an inch thick, and cut into rounds. I^et 
the heat of the oven be moderate at first, and in- 
crease after the dough has risen. Bake about 
fifteen minutes. 

Sandwich Biscuit. 

Prepare the dough as above, roll to about three- 
eighths an inch in thickness, and cut into rounds. 
Spread one half of these with softened butter, and 
press the others, unbuttered, upon them ; bake 
fifteen or eighteen minutes. 

Pulled Bread. 

( To serve with simple salads and cheese. ) 

Remove the crust from a fresh loaf of French 
bread. Gash the loaf at the ends and pull apart 
into halves ; then cut the halves and pull apart 
139 



Bread and Chou Paste. 



into quarters. Repeat until the pieces are about 
the thickness of breadsticks. Put on a rack in a 
dripping-pan, and dry out ib c moisture in a slow 
oven; then brown delicately. Keep in a dry place 
(a tin box is suitable) and reheat in the oven 
before serving. 

How to Give Rolls and Bread a Glossy, 
Brown Crust. 

A short time before removing from the oven, 
brush over the top of each loaf or roll with beaten 
yolk of egg, diluted with a little milk, or with a 
little sugar dissolved in milk, or with thin starch. 

Chou Paste. 

Put a saucepan with half a cup of butter and 
one cup of boiling water over the fire. When the 
mixture boils, beat into it one cup of flour. When 
the dough cleaves from the sides of the saucepan, 
turn into a bowl and beat in, one at a time, three 
large or four small eggs. 



To Boil Salted Meats: Ham, Tongue, Etc. 

Cover the meat with cold water and bring the 
water slowly to the boiling-point ; let boil five 
minutes, then slightly bubble until the meat is 
tender. 

To Boil Chicken, Lamb and Other Fresh Meat. 

Cover the meat with boiling water, let boil 
rapidly five minutes, then keep the water just 
140 



Sandwiches. 



below the boiling-point, or just "quivering" at 
one side of the saucepan, until the meat is tender. 
When the meat is about half cooked, add a tea- 
spoonful of salt for each quart of water. 

Potted Meat and Fish for Sandwiches. 

INGREDIENTS. 

1 pound of tender cooked 2 ounces of butter (^ a cup), 
meat or fish (2 cups). Mace and anchovy essence, 

2 ounces of fat cooked meat if desired. 

(% a cup). Pepper and salt. 

Method. Chop the meat or fish very fine, then 
pass through a pure*e sieve ; cream the butter and 
with a wooden spoon work it into the meat or 
fish; add seasonings to taste, press the mixture 
solidly into small jars or cups, and pour melted 
butter to the depth of one-fourth an inch over the 
top of the meat. Set aside in a cool place. 

Kinds of Meat and Fish for Potting. 

Ham, fat and lean ; either chicken, veal or 
tongue, with bacon ; chicken and ham, mixed, fat 
ham; chicken and tongue, mixed, with bacon; 
veal and ham, mixed, with fat ham; roast beef 
and corned beef, mixed, with fat of either, or 
bacon; finnan-haddie and bacon; salmon, cod, 
haddock, bluefish, etc., with bacon, or with double 
the amount of butter. 



141 



Bread. 

Kaiser Rolls. 

(To serve with Salads.) 

Soften a cake of compressed yeast in one-fourth 
a cup of boiled water, cooled to a lukewarm tem- 
perature, and stir in about three- fourths a cup of 
flour or enough to make a dough that may be 
kneaded. Knead the little ball of dough until it 
is smooth and elastic. Then make a deep cut 
across the dough in both directions. Have ready 
two cups of boiled water, cooled to a lukewarm 
temperature, and into this put the ball of dough. 
It will sink to the bottom of the dish, but will 
gradually rise as it becomes light. In about 
fifteen minutes it will float upon the water, a 
light, puffy " sponge." Into this water and 
sponge stir a teaspoonful of salt, four tablespoon- 
fuls of melted shortening and between six and 
seven cups of flour. Knead or pound the dough 
about twenty minutes. L,et rise, in a temperature 
of about 70 degrees F., until the mass is doubled 
in bulk. Divide into pieces weighing about three 
ounces each. (There should be about fourteen 
pieces.) Shape these into balls. Set these in but- 
tered pans, some distance apart. Cover and let be- 
come light. Press a * ' Kaiser Semmeln ' ' cutter down 
into the top of each roll and give it a slightly rotary 
motion ; brush over the tops generously with melted 
butter, and set to bake at once in a hot oven. Bake 
twenty or twenty-five minutes. When nearly baked, 
brush over with the beaten white of an egg, and 
return to the oven to finish baking. 
142 



BEVERAGES SERVED WITH 
SANDWICHES. 



Towards eve there was tea 
(A luxury due to Matilda) and ice, 

Fruit and coffee. 

Meredith's " Lucile." 

Come, touch to your lips this melting sweetness, 

Sip of this nectar, this Java fine, 
Whose tawny drops hold more completeness 

Than lurks in the depths of ruby wine. 

-/. M. L. 

Filtered Coffee. 

INGREDIENTS. 
% a cup of coffee, ground About 3 tablespoonfuls of 

very fine. cream. 

3 cups of boiling water. About 6 tablespoonfuls of 

About 6 blocks of sugar. hot milk. 

Method. Put the coffee into the filter of a well- 
scalded coffee-pot. Pour the boiling water over 
the coffee. Serve as soon as the infusion has 
dripped through the filter. For black coffee use 
double the quantity of coffee. 

Boiled Coffee. 

INGREDIENTS. 

i cup of ground coffee. i cup of cold water. 

White and shell of i egg. 6 cups of boiling water, 
i tablespoon ful of ground coffee. 



Sandwiches. 



Method. Beat the white and crushed shell oi 
the egg and half the cup of cold water together ; 
mix with the coffee, pour over the boiling water, 
stir thoroughly, and boil from three to five min- 
utes with the nozzle tightly closed; pour half a 
cup of cold water down the spout; stir in one 
tablespoonful of coffee and let stand on the range, 
without boiling, ten minutes. 

Five-o'clock Tea. 

INGREDIENTS. 

Tea. Slices of lemon. 

Candied ox-heart cherries. Boiling water- 

Method. Fill the tea-ball half full with tea, put 
the ball into the cup, with a cherry or a slice of 
lemon, and pour boiling water over them ; remove 
the ball when the tea is of the desired strength. 

Rich Chocolate. 

INGREDIENTS. 

4 ounces of chocolate. i teaspoonful of vanilla ex- 

4 tablespoonfuls of gran- tract. 

ulated sugar. Whites of 3 eggs. 

^ a cup of hot water. i pint of thick cream, 

i quart of scalded milk. % a cup of powdered sugar. 

Method. Grate the chocolate, add the granu- 
lated sugar and hot water, and cook until smooth 
and glossy; with a whisk beat in the hot milk 
very gradually, and return to a double boiler to 
keep hot. Beat the cream until solid. Beat the 
whites of the eggs until dry, then beat in the 

144 



Beverages Served with Sandwiches. 

powdered sugar and fold the cream into the egg 
and sugar. Add half of the cream mixture to the 
chocolate with the vanilla, and mix while the 
cream is heating. Serve the rest of the cream in 
spoonfuls upon the chocolate in the cups. 

Plain Chocolate. 

Prepare as in preceding recipe, omitting the 
cream mixture and such portion of the chocolate 
as is desired. 

Plain Cocoa. 

INGREDIENTS. 

4 teaspoonfuls of cocoa. i cup of boiling water. 

4 teaspoonfuls of sugar. i cup of hot milk. 

Whipped cream, if desired. 

Method. Mix the cocoa and sugar, pour over 
the boiling water, and when boiling again add the 
hot milk; beat the whipped cream into the hot 
cocoa, or serve a spoonful upon the top of each 
cup. 

Ceylon Cocoa. 

Scald a two-inch piece of paper-bark cinnamon 
with the milk to be used in making the cocoa. 

Sultana Cocoa. 

Stem and wash half a pound of sultana raisins ; 
let them stand, covered with one quart of boiling 
water, upon the back of the range an hour or more ; 
filter the water through folds of cheese-cloth and 
use in making cocoa or chocolate. 



Sandwiches. 



Egg Lemonade. 

INGREDIENTS. 

i egg. Juice of 2 lemons. 

4 tablespoonfuls of sugar. 2 cups of water. 

Method. Beat the egg until white and yolk are 
well mixed; then beat in the sugar, the lemon 
juice and the water. 

Fruit Punch. 

INGREDIENTS. 
I pineapple. I pint of strawberry or 

4 cups of sugar. grape juice. 

3 cups of boiling water. ^ a pint of maraschino 

1 cup of tea, freshly made. cherries. 

5 lemons. i bottle of Apollinaris wa- 

6 oranges. ter. 

6 quarts of water. 

Method. Grate the pineapple, add the boiling 
water and the sugar, and boil fifteen minutes ; add 
the tea and strain into the punch-bowl. When 
cold add the fruit juice, the cherries and the cold 
water. A short time before serving, add a piece 
of ice, and, on serving, the Apollinaris water. 
Strawberries, mint leaves, or slices of banana may 
be used in the place of the cherries. 

Punch a la Nantes. 

INGREDIENTS. 

2 pounds of rhubarb. i cup of sugar. 

i pint of water. i cup of orange juice. 

I bay leaf. % a cup of lemon juice. 

^ a cup of ginger syrup. 
146 



Beverages Served with Sandwiches. 

Method. Cut the rhubarb into pieces without 
peeling ; add the bay leaf and water, and let sim- 
mer until the rhubarb is tender ; strain through a 
cheese-cloth. Boil the juice with the sugar five 
minutes. When cold add the orange and lemon 
juice, with one-fourth a cup of syrup from a jar of 
preserved ginger, and a piece of ice. Add water 
as needed. 

Home-made Soda Water. 

INGREDIENTS. 

2^ pounds of granulated % an ounce of ginger ex- 
sugar, tract. 

i% ounces of tartaric acid. ^ a teaspoonful of bicar- 

i pint of water. bonate of soda for each 

Whites of 3 eggs. glass. 

Method. Boil the sugar, water and tartaric acid 
five minutes. When nearly cold beat into the 
syrup the whites of the eggs, beaten until foamy, 
and the flavoring extract. Store in a fruit jar, 
closely covered. To use, put three tablespoonfuls 
into a glass half full of cold water, stir in one- 
fourth a teaspoonful of soda, and drink while effer- 
vescing. A pint of any kind of fruit juice may 
displace the water, when a teaspoonful of lemon 
juice should be added to the contents of each glass 
before stirring in the soda. 



Sandwiches. 



Spanish Chocolate. (To serve 60.) 
INGREDIENTS. 

5 quarts of milk. 20 pounded almonds. 

3 blades of mace. i pound of chocolate. 

I five-inch stick of cinnamon. 3 cups of sugar. 

12 cloves. 2 quarts of boiling water. 

Yolks of three eggs. 

Method. Scald the milk with the spices and 
nuts. Break up the chocolate and melt over hot 
water ; add the sugar, mix thoroughly, then grad- 
ually stir in the boiling water ; let cook two or 
three minutes after all the water has been added, 
then turn into the hot milk ; let stand over hot 
water until ready to serve, then add the beaten 
yolks of eggs, diluted with half a cup of water, 
milk or cream, and strain through a cheese-cloth. 
Keep hot over hot water. 

Claret Cup. 

INGREDIENTS. 

2 quarts of claret. i dozen whole cloves, 

i cup of sugar. 2 qts. of charged Apollinaris or soda water. 

i cup of water. % a cup of brandy, sherry or maraschino. 

5 lemons cut in slices. Ice. 

Boil the sugar and water about six minutes ; let 
cool, then add the lemon slices, with seeds removed, 
and the cloves ; let stand some hours in a cold 
place. When ready to serve, add the claret, 
water and liqueur, all chilled on ice. Put a piece 
of ice in the pitcher and pour over it the mixture. 
The beverage should not be sweet. 
148 



PHRT HI. 

Ml 

CHHFING-DISH DHINTIES. 

Gentlemen, prepare not to be gone ; 
We have a trifling foolish banquet. 

ROMEO AND JUUET. 

Small cheer and great welcome makes a merry feast. 
COMEDY OF ERRORS, iii. i. 

A little quail, or some such light thing, when 
I come home at night. 

DICKENS. 



Now and then your men of wit 

Will condescend to take a bit. 

SWIFT. 




h/) 
I 




OO 4) 

9 i 

00 = 
cS & 

11 



INTRODUCTION. 



Chafing-dishes Past and Present. 

Well, he was an ingenious man that first found out 
eating and drinking. Swift. 

How fire was discovered, when it was first ap- 
plied to the needs of human beings, the origin and 
early use of cooking and heating utensils, all 
are concealed from us in the mists that surround 
the life of prehistoric man. But at the dawn of 
history, even before the beginning of our era, 
crude appliances for cooking were in use ; and, 
without doubt, one of the earliest of these was .an 
utensil corresponding in some particulars, at least, 
to the chafing-dish of to-day. 

The chafing-dish is a portable utensil used upon 
the table, either for cooking food or for keeping 
food hot after it has been cooked by other means. 
In ancient times, the fuel of the chafing-dish was 
either live coals or olive oil ; to-day we use either 
electricity, gas, alcohol or colonial spirits. 

The first chafing-dishes of which historic men- 
tion is made consisted of a pan heated over a pot 
of burning oil, the pan resting upon a frame which 
held the pot of oil. It was with such an utensil, 
perhaps, that the Israelitish women cooked the 



Introduction. 



locusts of Egypt and Palestine, for these were 
eaten as a common food by the people of the bibli- 
cal lands and age. 

Mommsen, in his history of Rome, while speak- 
ing of the extravagance of the times, as shown in 
the table furnishings, probably refers to the chaf- 
ing-dish when he says : "A well-wrought bronze 
cooking - machine came to cost more than an 
estate." The idea that this might be the utensil 
referred to is strengthened by the fact that many 
chafing-dishes have been found in the ruins of 
Pompeii. These were made of bronze, and highly 
ornamented. Evidently , olive oil was the fuel 
used in these dishes. 

Coming down to more modern times, Madame 
de Stael had a dish of very unique pattern, and, 
when driven by the command of Napoleon from 
her beloved Paris, she carried her chafing-dish 
with her into exile as one of her most cherished 
household gods. At the present day among the 
favored few, who have full purses, are found sets 
of little silver chafing-dishes about four inches 
square. These tiny dishes rest upon a doylie- 
covered plate, and a bird or rarebit may be served 
in them as a course at dinner, one to each guest. 
The cooking is not done in these dishes, and 
they are not furnished with lamps; in them the 
food, while it is being eaten, is simply kept hot by 
means of a tiny pan filled with hot water. 

In reality, the modern chafing-dish is a species 
of bain marie, or double boiler, with a lamp so 

152 



Chafing-dishes Past and Present. 

arranged that cooking can be done without other 
appliances. It consists of four parts. The first is 
the blazer, or the pan in which the cooking is 
done ; this is provided with a long handle. The 
second is the hot-water pan, which corresponds to 
the lower part of the double boiler; this should 
be provided with handles, and is a very inconven- 
ient dish without them. The third is the frame 
upon which the hot- water pan rests, and in which 
the spirit-lamp is set. The last, but by no means 
least, part is the lamp ; this is provided with a 
cotton or an asbestos wick. When the lamp has a 
cotton wick, the flame is regulated by turning the 
wick up or down, as in an ordinary lamp. At 
present this style of lamp is found only in the more 
expensive grades of dishes, silver-plated, and 
costing from $15 upwards. When asbestos is used 
as the wick, the lamp is filled with this porous 
stone, which is to be saturated with alcohol im- 
mediately before using, and the top is covered 
with a wire netting. The flame is regulated by 
means of metal slides, which open and shut over 
the netting, thus cutting off or letting on the 
flame, as it is desired. 

Chafing-dish Appointments. 

With all appliances and means to boot. 

Henry IV., Hi. I. 

The chafing-dish should always rest upon a 
tray, as a very slight draught of air, or the expan- 
sion of the alcohol when heated, will sometimes 



Introduction. 



cause the flame to flare out and downward, and 
thus an unprotected tablecloth might be set on fire. 

Often a cutlet dish is considered a necessary 
part of a chafing-dish outfit; but as one of the 
chief merits of the chafing-dish consists in the 
possibility of serving a repast the instant it is 
cooked, there would seem to be a want of propriety 
in removing the cooked article to a platter and 
garnishing the dish before serving. 

A polished wooden spoon, with long handle and 
small bowl, is a most convenient utensil to use 
while cooking the dainty ; but the regulation 
chafing-dish spoon is needed when serving the 
same. Such a spoon has a broad bowl of silver or 
aluminum, with rounded end, and a long ebony 
handle. 

The filler is a most convenient article for use, 
when the lamp needs replenishing with alcohol, 
but in its absence the alcohol may be turned into 
a small pitcher and from that into the lamp. A 
lamp of the average size holds about five table- 
spoonfuls of alcohol, and this quantity will supply 
heat for at least half an hour. 

Glass, granite or tin measuring-cups, upon which 
thirds or quarters are indicated, also tea- and table- 
spoons, are essential for accurate measurements. 

Several items are essential to the successful 
serving of a meal from the chafing-dish. To be a 
pronounced success, the work must be done noise- 
lessly and gracefully. The preparation of all 
articles is the same for the chafing-dish as for the 

J 54 



Chafing-dish Appointments. 

common stove ; but where the mixing is done at 
the table, as for a rarebit, the recipe takes on an 
additional flavor, according to the deftness with 
which it is done. 

Let, then, everything be ready and at hand, be- 
fore the guests or family assemble at the table. 
Have the lamp filled and covered, so that it may 
remain filled. Have all seasonings measured out 
in a cup. In case the yolks of eggs are to be used, 
they will not injure, having been beaten before- 
hand, if they be kept covered. When oysters are 
to be served, have them washed, freed from bits of 
shell, drained, and left in a pitcher from which 
they can be readily poured. The quantity of 
butter used in the recipes is indicated by table- 
spoonfuls, and may be measured out beforehand 
and rolled into dainty balls with butter-hands, a 
spoonful in each ball. 

Bear in mind that the hot-water pan is to be 
used in all cases where the double boiler would be 
used, if the cooking were to be done upon the 
range. For instance, where the recipe calls for 
milk or cream, except in the making of a sauce, 
use the bath from the beginning. Also, be careful 
always to place the blazer in the bath before eggs 
are added to any mixture. Indeed, the hot- water 
pan is the one feature of the chafing-dish which it is 
most important to notice ; for on the proper use of 
the hot-water pan the value of the chafing-dish as 
an exponent of scientific cookery entirely depends. 
She who well understands the principles upon 



Introduction. 



which the use of this rests has gained no small 
insight into the secret of all cookery, be it scien- 
tific, economic or hygienic ; for a knowledge of 
the effect of heat at different temperatures, applied 
to food, is the very foundation-stone upon which 
all cookery rests. 

Although the chafing-dish is especially adapted 
to the needs of the bachelor, man or maid, its use 
should not be relegated entirely to the homeless or 
the Bohemian. In the sick-room, at the luncheon- 
table, on Sunday night, it is most serviceable and 
wellnigh indispensable ; it always suggests hearty 
welcome and good cheer. 

While it is out of place, at any ceremonial meal, 
as a means of cooking, even on such occasions 
a lobster Newburg or other dish that needs be served 
piping hot to be eaten at its best may be brought on 
in individual chafing-dishes. These are supplied 
with hot- water pans and lamps. At a chafing-dish 
supper each guest can prepare his own rarebit. 

Any operation in cooking that can be performed 
on the kitchen range may be successfully carried 
out on the chafing-dish, provided one be skilled in 
its use. But as the dining-room is usually chosen 
as the site in which to test its possibilities, here it 
were well to confine one's efforts to such dishes as 
will not give rise to too much disorder. Saut&ng 
and frying it were better to reserve for the range 
and a well- ventilated kitchen. 

Alcohol is most commonly used in the lamp of 
the chafing-dish ; and, on account of its cheapness. 



Are Midnight Suppers Hygienic? 

one is often advised to buy wood alcohol. But in 
large markets, where many fowl are singed daily 
over an alcohol flame, the marketmen will tell you 
that the very best article is none too good for their 
purpose. It does not smoke, wastes less rapidly, 
and in the end will prove quite as economical. 

Are Midnight Suppers Hygienic? 

" Being no further enemy to you 
Than the constraint of hospitable zeal." 

In regard to the chafing-dish and its most prom- 
inent use, some one may fittingly ask : Is it hy- 
gienic to eat at midnight? Can one keep one's 
health and eat late suppers ? As in all things 
pertaining to food, no set rules can be given to 
meet every case ; much depends upon constitu- 
tional traits, individual habits and idiosyncrasies. 
One may practise what another cannot attempt. 
As a rule, however, people who eat a hearty din- 
ner, after the work of the day is done, do not need 
to eat again until the following breakfast hour. 

Those who are engaged, either mentally or 
physically, throughout the evening, cannot with 
impunity eat a very hearty meal previous to that 
effort; but after their work is done they need 
nourishing food, and food that is both easily di- 
gested and assimilated. But even these should 
not eat and then immediately retire ; for during 
sleep all the bodily organs, including the stomach, 
become dormant. Food partaken at this hour is 
not properly taken care of, and in too many cases 

157 



Introduction. 



must be digested when the individual has awak- 
ened, out of sorts, the next morning. 

It is well to remember, also, that, at any time 
after food is eaten, there should be a period of rest 
from all active effort; for then the blood flows 
from the other organs of the body to the stomach, 
and the work of digestion is begun. Oftentimes 
we hear men say they must smoke after meals, 
for unless they do so they cannot digest their food. 
They fail to see that it is not the tobacco that 
promotes digestion, but the enforced repose. 

But, if we must eat at midnight, the question 
may well be asked, What shall we eat? That 
which can be digested and assimilated with the 
least effort on the part of the digestive organs. 
And among such things we may note oysters, eggs 
and game, when these have been properly that 
is, delicately cooked. 

How to Make Sauces. 

Let hunger move thy appetyte, and not savory sauces. 
Babees Book. 

*' Change is the sauce that sharpens appetite." 

As so many dishes are prepared in the chafing- 
dish that require the use of a simple sauce, we 
give in this place the methods usually followed 
in the preparation of common sauces. For one 
cup of sauce, put two tablespoonfuls of butter into 
the blazer; let the butter simply melt, without col- 
oring, if for a white sauce, but cook until brown 
for a brown sauce. Mix together two tablespoon- 



How to Make Sauces. 



fuls of flour, one-fourth a teaspoonful of salt and a 
dash of black or white pepper, or a few grains of 
cayenne or paprica, and beat it into the bubbling 
butter ; let the mixture cook two or three minutes, 
then stir into it, rather gradually at first, and beat- 
ing constantly, one cup of cold milk, water or 
stock. Now, when the sauce boils up once after 
all the liquid is in, it is ready for use. In making 
a white sauce some cooks add, from time to time 
while the sauce is being stirred, a few drops of 
lemon juice, which they claim makes the sauce 
much whiter. 

Sometimes we make the sauce after another 
fashion, using the same proportions of the various 
ingredients. If water or stock be used, put it in 
the blazer directly over the fire. If the liquid be 
milk, put it into the blazer, and the blazer over 
hot water; cream together the butter, flour and 
seasonings, dilute with a little of the hot liquid, 
pour into the remainder of the hot liquid, and stir 
constantly until the sauce thickens, and then occa- 
sionally for ten or fifteen minutes, until the flour 
is thoroughly cooked. 

In making a brown sauce, first brown the butter, 
then brown the flour in the butter, and, whenever 
it is convenient, use brown stock as the liquid. 

INGREDIENTS FOR ONE CUP OF SAUCE. 

2 tablespoon fuls of butter. % a teaspoonful of salt. 
2 tablespoonfuls of flour. A few grains of pepper, 

i cup of liquid. 

'59 



Introduction. 



INGREDIENTS FOR ONE PINT 01* SAUCE. 

a cup of butter. ^ a teaspoonful of salt, 

a cup of flour. % a teaspoonful of pepper. 

I pint of liquid. 



Measuring. 

In all recipes where flour is used, unless other- 
wise stated, the flour is measured after sifting once. 
When flour is measured by cups, the cup is filled 
with a spoon, and a level cupful is meant. A table- 
spoonful or teaspoonful of any designated material 
is a level spoonful of such material. 

Flavoring. 

When rich soup stock, flavored with vegetables 
and sweet herbs, is at hand for use in sauces, ad- 
ditional seasonings are not necessary ; but when 
a sauce is made of milk, water, or water and meat 
extract, some flavor more or less pronounced is 
demanded. A few bits of onion and carrot browned 
in hot butter, or anchovy sauce or curry may be 
added ; but, all things considered, the most con- 
venient way to secure an appetizing flavor is by 
the use of " Kitchen Bouquet." This alone or in 
conjunction with a dash of some one of the many 
really good proprietary sauces on the market is 
wett -nigh indispensable in chafing-dish cookery. 



160 



RECIPES. 



' ' No variety here. 

But you, most noble guests, whose gracious looks 
Must make a dish or two become a feast. ^ 






OYSTER DISHES. 



He was a bold man that first ate an oyster. Swift. 

Oysters. 

PUT into the blazer twenty-five to fifty choice 
oysters. As soon as they are hot and look plump, 
add salt, pepper and butter. Serve on buttered 
toast or crackers. Add two tablespoonfuls of 
cream or half a tablespoonful of lemon juice before 
serving, if desired. 

Oysters, No. 2. 

INGREDIENTS. 

i pint of solid oysters. i scant teaspoonful of salt. 

4 tablespoonfuls of butter. A few grains of cayenne, 

i tablespoonful of lemon Beaten yolks of 2 eggs, 
juice. 

Method. Put the oysters into the blazer. When 
they look plump and the edges curl, put the blazer 
into the hot- water pan and add the seasonings. 
Add a few spoonfuls of the liquor from the pan 
to the yolks of the eggs, and, after mixing well, 
pour into the chafing-dish. Stir constantly until 
the liquor thickens, then serve on thin slices of 
buttered toast or on thin crackers. 

163 



Chafing-dish Dainties. 



Oysters a la D'Uxelles. 

INGREDIENTS. 

I pint of parboiled and 4 tablespoonfuls of flour. 

drained oysters. A few drops of onion juice, 

i pint of oyster liquor or A few grains of cayenne. 

chicken stock. i teaspoonful of salt. 

4 tablespoonfuls of butter. i teaspoonful of lemon 
4 tablespoonfuls of chopped juice. 

mushrooms. Yolks of 2 eggs. 

Method. L,et the oysters be parboiled and 
drained beforehand. (To parboil, heat quickly to 
the boiling-point in their own liquor.) Melt the 
butter in the blazer, add the flour, salt and pep- 
per, and cook till frothy ; add the oyster liquor or 
chicken stock and cook until the boiling-point is 
reached. Now add the oysters, and, as soon as 
they are heated thoroughly, put the blazer into 
the bath and add the beaten yolks, the onion and 
lemon juice and the mushrooms. As soon as the 
eggs thicken the sauce a little, serve on toast or 
crackers. If uncooked mushrooms are used, cook 
them in the butter two or three minutes before 
the flour and seasonings are added. 

Curried Oysters. 

INGREDIENTS. 

1 pint of oysters (parboiled a teaspoonful of curry 
and drained). powder. 

^ a cup of cream. ^ a teaspoonful of chopped 

2 tablespoonfuls of butter. onion. 

i tablespoonful of flour. i teaspoonful of salt. 

} a cup of oyster liquor. i saltspoonful of pepper. 

164 



Oyster Dishes. 



Method. Cook the onion and butter in the 
blazer a few moments. Mix the flour and curry 
powder and stir into the butter. When frothy add 
the oyster liquor. As soon as the sauce boils up 
once, add the salt, pepper and cream, and, in a 
moment, the oysters. When the oysters are thor- 
oughly heated, serve on buttered toast or crackers. 

Curried Oysters, No. 2. 

INGREDIENTS. 

i quart of oysters. ^ a cup of flour. 

% a cup of butter. i cup of oyster liquor. 

One small mild onion. i cup of white stock, 

i tablespoonful of curry % a cup of thick tomato 
powder. pulp. 

Salt and pepper to taste. 

Method. Bring the oysters to the boiling-point 
in their own liquor, skim, drain, and set aside. 
Heat the butter in the blazer, saute in it the onion 
cut in slices, stir in the flour and curry powder 
mixed with the salt and pepper, and, when frothy, 
add the oyster liquor, stock and tomato pulp (a 
pint of pulp reduced by slow cooking to half a 
cup). When the sauce boils, add the oysters; 
and when hot serve on buttered toast or fried 
bread. 

Fricassee of Oysters. 

INGREDIENTS. 

i quart of oysters. % a teaspoonful of chopped 

4 tablespoonfuls of butter. parsley. 

Yolks of 2 eggs. i tablespoonful of flour. 

Pepper, salt, cayenne. 
165 



Chafing-dish Dainties. 



Method. Brown the butter and add to it the 
parsley, seasonings and flour ; let heat, then add 
the well-drained oysters, and, when the edges be- 
gin to curl, add the well-beaten yolks. Serve on 
warmed plates, with fried bread and parsley. 

Creamed Dishes. 

(Oysters, shrimps, lobsters, sweetbreads, chicken, 
veal, fish, mushrooms, asparagus tips, peas, etc.) 

INGREDIENTS. 

2 tablespoonfuls of butter. 2 tablespoonfuls of mush- 

4 tablespoonfuls of flour. rooms, chopped or diced. 

2 saltspoonfuls of salt. I teaspoonful of chopped 

2 cups of cream, or 2 cups parsley. 

of milk and 4 tablespoon- i teaspoonful of onion 

fuls of butter. juice. 

i saltspoonful of pepper. I tablespoonful of lemon 

i pint of fish, meat, etc. juice. 

Method. Prepare the sauce in the usual man- 
ner. If oysters are used, the}' should have been 
parboiled previously and drained, and, if large, 
cut in pieces. Fish should be flaked when hot, 
and meats cut into dice when cold. 

Devilled Dishes. 

Season any of the creamed dishes highly with 
cayenne, onion juice, mustard, and Worcestershire 
or other sauce. 

Scrambled Eggs with Oysters. 

Cream together two tablespoonfuls of butter and 
one tablespoonful of anchovy paste. Melt in the 

166 



Oyster Dishes. 



blazer, then add half a dozen eggs, beaten slightly 
with one-fourth a teaspoonful of salt and a dash 
of paprica. Stir and cook, and, when beginning 
to thicken, add half a pint of oysters, parboiled, 
"bearded," and cut fine. When scrambled, serve 
on sippets of toast, lightly spread with anchovy 

paste. 

Panned Oysters. 

With a fork pressed into a butter ball, rub over 
the bottom of the hot blazer. Then cover the sur- 
face with small rounds of toast, and put one or two 
uncooked oysters on each round ; cover, and cook 
until plump, dust with salt and pepper, and put a 
bit of butter on each oyster. Serve, when the 
butter has melted, with slices of lemon. 

Panned Oysters with Maitre d'Hotel Butter. 

Cook as before. Have ready two tablespoonfuls 
of butter beaten to a cream ; add a few grains of 
salt and paprica, one tablespoonful of chopped 
parsley, and, by degrees, the juice of half a lemon. 
Spread upon the oysters before serving. 

Oyster Cromeskies. 

Scald the oysters in their own liquor over a 
quick fire. When plump wrap each oyster in a 
slice of bacon, and fasten with a small skewer 
(wooden toothpick) . Saute" in the blazer, heated 
very hot. Serve on thin rounds of toast. These 
cromeskies are most easily cooked in a double 
broiler, resting on a dripping-pan, in a hot oven. 

167 



Chafing-dish Dainties. 



Oysters Saute. 

Wash and drain the oysters, season with salt 
and pepper, roll in fine crumbs, dip in beaten egg, 
then roll in crumbs again. Put a little olive oil or 
clarified butter in the blazer ; when it is heated, 
put in the oysters, brown them on one side, turn, 
and brown on the other side. 

Oysters in Chafing Dish. 

(Waldorf Style.) 

Heat three tablespoonfuls butter in the blazer; 
add three dozen oysters (washed, and bits of shell 
removed) , half a cup of cleaned oyster crabs, one 
dozen fresh mushroom caps, peeled and cut in 
squares, and one or two stalks of braised celery 
cut in squares. When the oysters look plump, add 
salt and pepper as needed and two or three table- 
spoonfuls of butter. Serve on toast or crackers. 

Escalloped Oysters. 

Stir one cup of cracker crumbs into half a cup 
of melted butter. Heat half a cup of cream or 
strained oyster liquor in the blazer, put in a layer 
of oysters (about a cup) , washed and drained, and 
sprinkle with a part of the prepared crumbs, salt 
and pepper ; add another layer of oysters, the rest 
of the crumbs, and salt and pepper. Cover, and 
cook nearly ten minutes. Do not stir the oysters. 



168 



LOBSTER AND OTHER SEA FISH. 



And ate a lobster, and sang and mighty merry. 

Pepys' Diary. 

Take every creature in of every kind. 

Pope. 

Buttered Lobster. 

PICK the meat from a boiled lobster and cut it 
into small pieces ; sift over it the coral ; mix with 
it also the liver, two tablespoonfuls of vinegar or 
three of lemon juice, one-third a cup of butter and 
one-fourth a teaspoonful, each, of cayenne and 
made mustard ; heat in the blazer until thoroughly 
hot. Serve on cup-shaped leaves of lettuce with a 
quarter of a hard-boiled egg on the top of each 
portion. 

Lobster a la Newburgh. 

INGREDIENTS. 
Meat of 2 medium - sized 2 tablespoonfuls, each, of 

lobsters. sherry wine and brandy. 

4 tablespoonfuls of butter. Grating of nutmeg. 
,^ a teaspoonful of salt. Yolks of 4 eggs. 

% a teaspoonful of pepper. I cup of cream. 

Method. Remove the meat from the shells and 
cut it into delicate slices. Put the butter in the 
blazer, and, when it melts, put the lobster into it 

169 



Chafing-dish Dainties. 



and cook four or five minutes. Add the salt, pep- 
per, nutmeg, wine and brandy. Stir the cream 
into the beaten yolks, and then stir both into the 
lobster mixture. Serve as soon as the eggs thicken 

the sauce. 

Plain Lobster. 

Pour three tablespoonfuls of lemon juice over 
the meat of one lobster and season with salt and 
pepper. Put three tablespoonfuls of butter in the 
blazer, and, when it is melted, add the prepared 
lobster ; stir until hot and serve at once. 

Clams a la Newburgh. 

Use one quart of clams. Separate the hard from 
the soft parts of the clams. Chop the hard parts 
fine. Substitute the soft and the chopped parts of 
the clams for the lobster and proceed as for lobster 
a la Newburgh. 

Oyster, chicken, turkey or sweetbread a la New- 
burgh may be prepared by substituting one of the 
above ingredients for the lobster. 

Lobster a la Bordelaise. 

INGREDIENTS. 

2 cli s of garlic, chopped. Meat of 2 lobsters. 

1 sliced carrot. I glass of brandy. 

2 tabKspoonfuls of butter. 3 tablespoonfuls of butter. 
2 glasses of white wine (half Chopped parsley, white and 

a cuy). cayenne pepper, salt. 

Method. Melt the butter in the blazer and in 
it cook the onion and carrot about five minutes. 

170 



Lobster and Other Sea Fish. 

Remove the carrot ; add the wine, lobster and 
seasonings. When thoroughly heated, add the 
butter, parsley and brandy and serve at once. 

Hawaiian Lobster Curry. 

(ADA D. WAGG.) 
INGREDIENTS. 

i ^tablespoonfuls of butter. i) tablespoonfuls of curry 

^ an onion, ) chopped powder. 

i clove of garlic, ) very fine. I pint of milk, 

A small piece of grated gin- I grated cocoanut. 

ger root. Meat of a lobster weighing 

i% tablespoonfuls of corn- 2 pounds. 

starch. Salt and pepper to taste. 

Method. Grate the cocoanut and set it aside to 
soak an hour in one pint of milk. Saute* the onion 
and garlic in the butter, add the cornstarch and 
seasonings, and cook until frothy; add the milk 
strained from the cocoanut, gradually, and, when 
the sauce boils up once, add the lobster ; salt and 
pepper to taste. 

Lobster a la Bechamel. 

INGREDIENTS. 

Meat of 2 lobsters. 4 yolks of eggs. 

4 tablespoonfuls of butter. i cup of white stock, sea- 

4 tablespoonfuls of flour. soned with mace, bay 

Salt and pepper. leaf, etc. 

Grating of nutmeg. I teaspoonful of lemon 

i cup of cream. juice. 

Dried and sifted coral. 

171 



Chafing-disH Dainties. 



Method. Cut the lobster in delicate slices or in 
dice, as preferred. Make a bechamel sauce, after 
the usual manner, of the butter, flour, seasonings, 
cream and stock. Add the lobster, and, when 
heated thoroughly, add the beaten yolks mixed 
with a few spoonfuls of the sauce from the blazer. 
Add the lemon juice, and sprinkle the dried and 
sifted coral or some chopped parsley over the top 
of the mixture as it is served. 

Oysters, clams, sweetbread, chicken or turkey 
may be served a la Bordelaise or Bechamel. 

Lobster a la Poulette. 

INGREDIENTS. 

y z a cup of butter. i cup of cream. 

% a cup of flour. I cup of well -seasoned 

3*2 a teaspoonful of salt. chicken stock. 

Dash of paprica. Juice of half a lemon. 

3^ a teaspoonful of white 2 hard-boiled eggs. 

pepper. i pint of diced lobster meat. 

Method. Prepare a white sauce, using the in- 
gredients mentioned, and adding the lemon juice 
by degrees. Add the lobster to the sauce. Cut 
the whites of the hard-boiled eggs in rings and 
pass the yolks through a sieve. Serve the lobster 
on bits of toast, or on thin crackers, with a sprin- 
kling of the yolks over the lobster, and circles of 
the whites around it. 

Oyster Crabs a la Hollandaise. 

Pour a quart of water over a pint of oyster crabs, 
wash, then skim from the water into the blazer, 

172 



Lobster and Other Sea Fish. 

add two tablespoonfuls of butter, a dash of pap- 
rica and a scant half-teaspoonful of salt, and let 
cook three or four minutes without boiling. Set 
the blazer over hot water and add three-fourths a 
cup of hollandaise sauce (either hot or cold). Stir 
until the mixture is heated, then add one table- 
spoonful of lemon juice and one teaspoonful of 
chopped parsley. Serve on toast, in Swedish tim- 
bale cases or in patty cases. 

Hollandaise Sauce. 

Put one-fourth a cup of vinegar, two tablespoon- 
fuls of butter, a grating of nutmeg and a dash of 
paprica over hot water to heat. Beat the yolks 
of four eggs, add the hot vinegar to them, return 
to the fire, and stir constantly while the mixture 
thickens; then add two more tablespoonfuls of 
butter in bits. 

Shrimps, oysters, lobsters and delicate fish are 
all good when served after this recipe. 

Devilled Crabs. 

Melt one tablespoonful of butter, add one table- 
spoonful of flour, and, when blended, one cup of 
milk. Add the yolks of two hard-boiled eggs 
rubbed through a sieve, and season to taste with 
salt, paprica, a teaspoonful of lemon juice and 
wine; cayenne, mustard and tobasco sauce are 
approved by some. Add one cup of crab meat 
and one-fourth a cup of canned mushrooms cut in 
quarters. Serve on toast. 



Chafing-dish Dainties* 



Oyster Crabs. 

INGREDIENTS. 

I pint of oyster crabs. I teaspoonful of lemon 

i tablespoonful of butter. juice. 

^ an onion, sliced. i tablespoonful of chopped 

i tablespoonful of flour. parsley. 

I cup of white stock. i yolk of egg. 

Salt and pepper. 

Method. Melt the butter in the blazer, add the 
onion, and let cook until a light-brown color; add 
the flour and mix until smooth; add the stock 
and stir until it thickens. Add the crab meat, 
lemon juice, parsley, salt and pepper. Beat the 
yolk of the egg and add two or three spoon- 
fuls of the sauce to it ; mix well, add to the 
ingredients in the blazer, stir constantly, and 
serve as soon as heated. 

Crabs a la Creole. 

INGREDIENTS. 

I green pepper, chopped i small onion, chopped fine. 

fine. i tablespoonful of butter, 

i clove of garlic, chopped i cup of tomatoes. 

fine. i cup of crab meat. 

Pepper and salt. 

Method. Put the butter in the blazer; when 
melted, add the garlic, onion, salt, pepper and 
tomatoes, and let cook ten minutes ; add the crab 
meat (fresh or canned) . Serve when hot on sip- 
pets of toast. 



Lobster and Other Sea Fish. 

Shrimps a la Poulette. 

Make a sauce of one-fourth a cup, each, of but- 
ter and flour, half a teaspoonful of salt, a dash of 
pepper and one cup and a half of white stock ; add 
one tablespoonful of anchovy essence and a quart 
of shelled shrimps. When hot add the beaten 
yolks of two eggs, with half a cup of cream. 
I/astly, add a tablespoonful of lemon juice and 
serve, without boiling, on sippets of toast. 

Shrimps with Peas. 

A pint of shrimps and a cup of peas, heated in a 
cup and a half of cream sauce, are particularly 
good. 

Anchovy Toast. 

Put about two tablespoonfuls of clarified butter 
into the blazer. When hot add bread cut as for 
sandwiches. Brown the bread on one side, turn, 
and brown the other side. Spread with anchovy 
paste and serve at once. 

Anchovy Toast with Eggs. 

Prepare the anchovy toast in one chafing-dish, 
and, at the same time, the eggs in another. Beat 
five eggs slightly, add half a teaspoonful of salt, a 
dash of pepper and half a cup of cream or milk. 
Put a large tablespoonful of butter in the blazer ; 
when melted, add the egg mixture. Stir until the 
egg is creamy, and serve on the anchovy toast. 

*75 



Chafing-dish Dainties. 



Anchovy Toast with Spinach. 

Press cooked spinach, chopped fine, through a 
pure sieve ; reheat with a little butter, salt and 
two or three drops of tobasco sauce. Saute" rounds 
of bread to a golden brown in a little hot butter, 
spread with anchovy paste, and over this spread 
the puree of spinach. Press into the spinach on 
each round of bread a quarter of a hard-boiled 
egg cut lengthwise, having the yolk uppermost. 

Anchovies with Olives. 

All the preparations for this dish, with the ex- 
ception of saute* ing the bread, may be made some 
hours before serving. 

Thoroughly wash the anchovies, cut off the 
fillets, and chop very fine with a sprig of parsley 
and a few chives, or a slice or two of Bermuda 
onion; put the whole into a mortar and pound 
well, adding, meanwhile, a little paprica. Cut 
some large selected olives in halves, take out the 
stones, and fill them with the anchovy mixture. 
Cut small rounds of bread an inch and a half in 
diameter and an inch in thickness ; remove a 
crumb, similar in shape to the olive, from the 
centre of each. Put a little butter into the blazer, 
and, when hot, saute the rounds of bread on both 
sides; drain on soft paper, put an olive in the 
centre of each and a little mayonnaise over the 
whole. Five anchovies will suffice to stuff a dozen 
olives. 

176 



Lobster and Other Sea Fish. 

Sardine Canapes. 

Have ready yolks of eggs, cooked until firm, and 
an equal bulk of sardines, each rubbed to a paste. 
Mix thoroughly, and season with salt, pepper and 
lemon juice. Prepare some bread in the blazer as 
for anchovy toast ; then spread with the sardine 
mixture and serve at once. 

Curried Sardines. 

Mix together one teaspoonful, each, of sugar 
and curry powder and a saltspoonful of salt. Put 
these into the blazer with one cup of cream and 
half a teaspoonful of lemon juice. Stir until the 
mixture is hot, then put into it ten or twelve sar- 
dines. In the mean time, heat some butter or oil 
in a second blazer, and in it saut some bits of 
bread a little larger than the sardines, and round 
slices of tart apple. Serve each sardine on a bit 
of bread ; pour a little of the sauce over the top 
and garnish with a round of apple. The slices of 
appla will keep their shape, if the apples be cored 
and then cut into rounds without paring. 

Sardines. 

(French fashion . ) 

Remove the skins and tails from about a dozen 
sardines and heat them in the oven. Heat some 
butter or oil in the blazer of one chafing-dish, and 
in it saut some bits of bread of suitable shape to 
serve under the sardines. Put in the blazer of 



Chafing-dish Dainties. 



another chafing-dish, over hot water, the well- 
beaten yolks of four eggs, one teaspoonful, each, 
of tarragon vinegar, cider vinegar and made mus- 
tard, one-fourth a teaspoonful of salt and one 
tablespoonful of butter. Stir the sauce until it is 
quite thick, then serve the sardines on the bread 
with the sauce poured over them. Olives are 
agreeable with this dish. 

Moulded Halibut with Creamed Peas. 

Two chafing-dishes will be requisite for prepar- 
ing this delicious luncheon dish. 

Have ready one pound of raw halibut chopped 
very fine ; beat the yolk of an egg, add to it one 
teaspoonful and a fourth of salt, one-fourth a tea- 
spoonful of white pepper and a few grains of cay- 
enne or paprica. Blend a teaspoonful of cornstarch 
with a little milk ; then add milk to make two- 
thirds a cup, stir gradually into the egg and sea- 
sonings, and then very slowly into the fish. lastly, 
fold into the mixture one-third a cup of thick 
cream, beaten until stiff. Butter dariole moulds 
thoroughly, arrange a circle of cooked peas around 
the bottom of each mould, and fill with the fish 
preparation two-thirds full. Set into the blazer, 
surrounded with boiling water ; after the water is 
again boiling, turn down the flame so that the 
water will barely quiver, and let cook about twenty 
minutes. Prepare, in the mean time, in the second 
blazer, creamed peas. Turn the fish from the 
moulds and surround with the 

178 




Butter Balls, with Utensils for Chafmg-Dish. 




Moulded Halibut with Creamed Peas. 

(See page 178) 




Yorkshire Rabbit. 

(See page 186) 




Curried Eggs. 
(See page 191) 



Lobster and Other Sea Fish. 

Creamed Peas. 

Have ready one can of peas, drained, rinsed, cov- 
ered with, boiling water and drained again. Melt 
two tablespoonfuls of butter ; add one tablespoon- 
f ul of flour with one teaspoonf ul of sugar and half 
a teaspoonful of salt ; add the peas and one-third 
a cup of milk, stir, and let cook until the liquid 
begins to bubble. 

Puree of Fish. 

Scald one quart of milk, with half an onion and 
a stalk of celery; strain into a pitcher and keep 
hot if convenient. Add to the remnants of cold 
boiled white fish enough canned salmon to make 
two cups ; chop fine and rub through a pure"e 
sieve. Cook together in the blazer two table- 
spoonfuls of butter, three of flour, one teaspoonful 
of salt and a dash of pepper. Add the milk grad- 
ually, and, when all is added and the contents of 
the blazer are boiling, put a few spoonfuls of the 
sauce into the fish and beat until smooth ; add 
more sauce, and, when well diluted and smooth, 
turn the whole into the blazer. Stir, and let cook 
until very hot ; then serve with crackers, split, 
buttered, and browned in the oven. These propor- 
tions give three pints of soup. Vegetable purges 
may be prepared in the same way. 

Salt Codfish with Tomato Sauce. 

Saute" one clove of garlic and half an onion, 
grated or chopped fine, in three tablespoonfuls of 

179 



Chafing-dish Dainties. 



butter ; add two tablespoonfuls of flour, one- 
fourth, a teaspoonful of paprica and one pimento, 
chopped fine ; also, add one cup of tomato pulp, 
and, when the sauce boils, half a pound of 
"hatcheled" codfish, or any salt codfish picked 
into small pieces and freshened in one quart of 
cold water. Serve, while hot, with brownbread 
sandwiches, and pickles or pim-olas. 

Salt Codfish in Cream Sauce. 

Pick enough salt codfish into bits to make one 
cup. Let stand in cold water about half an hour. 
Make one cup of cream sauce, using one table- 
spoonful and a half of flour, two tablespoonfuls of 
butter and one cup of cream ; remove all the water 
from the fish by wringing in a cheese-cloth, add 
the fish to the sauce, and, when heated, stir in a 
lightly beaten egg. Serve upon rounds of toast, 
with olives, or plain lettuce, or tomato salad. 

Rechauffe of Pish 

INGREDIENTS. 

i cup of cooked fish, flaked. i cup of tomato puree, 

i cup of macaroni, cooked, } a teaspoonful of salt. 

and still hot. Dash of pepper. 

% a cup of butter. 8 drops of tobasco sauce. 

Method. Melt the butter in the blazer and toss 
about in it the macaroni and fish ; add the season- 
ings and the tomato pure*e, which should be well 
reduced. Serve when thoroughly heated. 

1 80 



Lobster and Other Sea Fish. 

Rechauffe of Fish, No. a. 

INGREDIENTS. 

i pint of cooked fish, flaked i teaspoonful of anchovy 

and seasoned. paste. 

} a cnp of butter. ^ a teaspoonful of pap- 

^t a cup of flour. rica. 

i cup of fish stock. 2 tablespoonfuls of oil. 

i cup of cream and milk 2 tablespoonfuls of lemon 

combined. juice. 

^ a teaspoonful of salt, if i tablespoonful of chopped 

needed. parsley. 

Method. Marinate the fish while hot with salt, 
pepper, oil and lemon juice, adding, also, a few 
drops of onion juice, if desired. At serving-time 
make a sauce of the butter, flour, salt, paprica, 
stock and cream ; add the paste and the fish, and, 
when the fish is thoroughly heated, turn down the 
flame of the lamp or set the blazer into hot water. 
Sprinkle with the parsley and serve. 

Sardines on Toast. 

Melt two tablespoonfuls of butter in the blazer ; 
add two tablespoonfuls of flour and a dash of pa- 
prica, and stir until smooth and browned a little ; 
then add half a cup of stock and half a cup of 
sherry ; stir until thickened, then let simmer a few 
minutes, and add nearly a cup of sardines, from 
which the bones and skin have been removed and 
the flesh separated into small pieces. I*et stand 
until very hot. 

181 



CHEESE CONFECTIONS. 



You must eat no cheese .... it breeds melancholy. 

B. Jonson. 

Art thou come ? Why my cheese, my digestion ! 
Troilus and Cressida. 



is probably the most popular article 
served from the chafing-dish. What possessor of 
a chafing-dish has not concocted a rarebit and 
the best one ever made ? Were you ever present 
when the process of evolving a rarebit was in prog- 
ress and half the guests were not disappointed in 
the seasoning ? For perfection in this toothsome 
dish, mustard is demanded by some ; by others the 
use of this biting condiment is considered a lapse 
in culinary taste. The consensus of opinion, how- 
ever, is in favor of paprica ; and, theoretically, 
Mattieu Williams considers bicarbonate of soda to 
be demanded, not for the sake of seasoning, but as 
an aid to digestion. 

As regards the digestibility of cheese, and, con- 
sequently, its adaptability to midnight suppers, 
opinions differ widely. Dr. Hoy, an excellent au- 
thority on diet, calls cheese a concentrated meat, 
a tissue builder, but not itself a tissue, and so 
without waste elements, a condensed, compact 

182 



Cheese Confections. 



food product, and indigestible on account of its 
very compactness. Still, when the caseine, or 
curd, is softened and broken up by the addition of 
liquid and gentle heat, it is rendered more digest- 
ible ; and cheese so prepared may be for some, if 
taken with no other nitrogenous food, an accept- 
able and easily digested article of diet. 

Welsh Rarebit. 

INGREDIENTS. 

i tablespoonful of butter. % a teaspoonful of salt, 

j^ a pound of cheese, cut fine A dash of paprica. 
or grated. ) a cup of cream. 

The beaten yolks of 2 eggs. 

Method. Melt the butter, add the cheese and 
seasonings, and stir until melted ; then add the 
eggs, diluted with the cream, and stir until smooth 
and slightly thickened. Do not allow the mixture 
to boil at any time in the cooking ; if necessary, 
cook over hot water. Serve on thin crackers, hot 
shredded-wheat or granose biscuit, or on bread 
toasted on but one side, placing the rarebit on the 
untoasted side 

Welsh Rarebit, No. 2. 

INGREDIENTS. 

i tablespoonful of butter. )^ a pound of mild cheese. 
% a teaspoonful of corn- ^ a teaspoonful of salt. 

starch. % a saltspoonful of mus- 

)^ a cup of thin cream. tard. 

A few grains of cayenne. 

Method. Melt the butter ; add to it the cream 
in which the cornstarch has been stirred. Let cook 
183 



Chafing-dish Dainties. 



two minutes, and add the cheese broken into bits. 
Stir until the cheese is melted and the mixture 
perfectly smooth. Add the salt, mustard and pap- 
rica, and serve at once as above. 

Welsh Rarebit with Ale. 

INGREDIENTS. 

i tablespoonful of butter. % a teaspoonful of salt. 
Generous % a pound of soft I teaspoonful of mustard. 

American cheese, broken A few grains of cayenne. 

into bits. % a cup of ale. 

i egg. 

Method. Put the butter into the chafing-dish 
(using the bath) ; when melted, add the cheese 
and ale. Mix the salt, mustard and cayenne, add 
the egg, and beat thoroughly. When the cheese 
is melted, add the egg mixture and let cook until 
it thickens. Serve as before. 

Halibut Rarebit. 

Marinate a cup of cooked halibut, flaked, with 
one tablespoonful of olive oil, a few drops of onion 
juice, one tablespoonful of lemon juice, one-fourth 
a teaspoonful of salt and a dash of paprica. Make 
a sauce of two tablespoonfuls, each, of butter and 
flour, one-fourth a teaspoonful of salt and half a 
cup, each, of chicken stock and cream. Add two- 
thirds a cup of grated cheese and the halibut. 
Serve, as soon as the fish is hot and the cheese 
melted, on the untoasted side of bread toasted on 
one side. 

184 



Cheese Confections. 



Oyster Rarebit. 

Clean and remove the hard muscles from half a 
pint of oysters ; parboil the oysters in the chafing- 
dish in their own liquor until their edges curl, then 
remove to a hot bowl. Put one tablespoonful of 
butter, half a pound of cheese broken in small 
bits, one-fourth a teaspoonful, each, of salt and 
mustard and a few grains of cayenne into the 
chafing-dish. While the cheese is melting, beat 
two eggs slightly, and add to them the oyster 
liquor ; mix this gradually with the melted cheese, 
add the oysters, and turn at once over hot toast. 

Sardine Rarebit. 

Melt two tablespoonfuls of butter, add half a 
pound of fresh cheese, grated or broken into bits, 
and stir constantly while it melts ; then add grad 
ually the beaten yolk of an egg, diluted with two- 
thirds a cup of cream. Stir until smooth and 
slightly thickened ; season with a scant half a 
teaspoonful of paprica, one-fourth a teaspoonful 
of salt and a few drops of tabasco sauce. Have 
ready a box of sardines, drained, broiled carefully 
and laid on the untoasted side of bread toasted 011 
one side ; pour the rarebit over the sardines and 
serve at once. 

Golden Buck. 

Prepare a rarebit in one chafing-dish ; break 
some eggs into the blazer of another containing 
salted water just " off the boil." When the eggs 



Chafing-dish Dainties. 



are poached and the rarebit ready, place an egg 
above the rarebit on each slice of toast. 

Yorkshire Rarebit. 

Add two slices of broiled or fried bacon to each 
service of golden buck. 

Mock-Crab Toast. 

Melt a tablespoonful of butter in the blazer, turn- 
ing it about so as to butter the surface thoroughly. 
Put in half a pound of mild cheese, grated, and 
stir until the cheese is melted ; then add the yolks 
of three eggs, beaten and diluted with a table- 
spoonful of anchovy sauce, a teaspoonful of made 
mustard, two tablespoonfuls of lemon juice or vine- 
gar and one-fourth a teaspoonful of paprica. Stir 
until smooth. Serve upon the untoasted side of 
sippets of bread toasted on one side 

Cheese Fondue. 

INGREDIENTS. 

} a pound of cheese broken % a cup of milk. 

into bits. A few grains of cayenne or 

2 tablespoonfuls of butter. paprica. 

i tablespoonful of flour. ^ a cup of stale bread 

i saltspoonful, each, of soda crumbs-. 

and mustard. 3 eggs. 

Method. Sift the soda, mustard and cayenne 
into the flour and cook in the butter until frothy, 
then add the milk gradually; when the sauce 
boils, after all the milk has been added, put the 

186 



Cheese Confections. 



blazer into the bath, add the crumbs and cheese, 
and cook and stir until the cheese is melted and 
the mixture becomes smooth ; add the eggs, beaten 
until light, and serve at once. 

English Monkey. 

INGREDIENTS. 

i cup of milk. I cup of fine bread crumbs 

i egg. from the centre of a stale 

i tablespoonful of butter. loaf. 

% to i whole cup of cheese. 

Method. Melt the butter, add the cheese, and 
stir while melting; then add the bread crumbs, 
which have been soaked in the milk and the egg 
lightly beaten. 

Mexican Rabbit. 

1 tablespoonful of butter. ^ a teaspoonful of salt. 

1 green pepper cut in 4 yolks of egg or 

squares. 2 whole eggs. 

1 Ib. cheese. % a cup of tomato in small 

% a cup of kornlet. pieces. 

Method. Melt the butter ; in it cook the pepper 
(discard the seeds) until softened a little ; add the 
cheese, cut in thin bits, and stir constantly until 
melted; add the kornlet and salt and stir until 
well blended, then add the eggs, beaten and 
mixed with the pieces of tomato (canned), and 
stir until the mixture is hot and smooth. 



187 



EQQS. 



New-laid eggs, with Baucis' busy care 
Turned by a gentle fire, and roasted rare. 

Dryden. 

Scrambled Eggs with Cheese. 

BEAT six eggs until whites and yolks are well 
mixed; add half a teaspoonful of salt, a dash of 
paprica and six tablespoonfuls of milk or cream. 
Melt two tablespoonsful of butter in the blazer, 
pour in the egg mixture, and stir and scrape from 
the blazer as it thickens. Just before it comes to 
the proper consistency, sprinkle in half a cup of 
grated Parmesan cheese, still stirring as before, 
and turn down the flame or set the blazer into the 
bath. American dairy cheese may be used instead 
of the Parmesan. 

Scrambled Eggs with Smoked Salmon. 

Cook half a cup of smoked salmon, cut into thin 
strips, in a tablespoonful of butter three or four 
minutes; then add to the eggs just before the 
cooking is finished. 

Scrambled Eggs a la Union Club. 

Heat one can of pimentos (sweet red peppers) 
in boiling salted water; drain, and serve on rounds 

i SI 



Eggs. 

of buttered toast the pimentos filled with eggs 
scrambled with mushrooms or truffles. Pour 
around the pimentos a pint of well-seasoned brown 
sauce, to which one- third a cup of madeira has 
been added. 

Scrambled Eggs with Dried Beef. 

Cut half a pound of dried beef, sliced thin, into 
short match-like strips, cover with boiling water, 
drain at once, and add six eggs, beaten slightly, 
and one-fourth a cup of milk. Put two tablespoon- 
fuls of butter into the blazer; when hot add the 
eggs and other ingredients, and stir and cook until 
the eggs are set. 

Scrambled Eggs with Tomatoes. 

Have ready a pint of tomato pulp, from which 
the seeds have been removed, seasoned with onion, 
celery or parsley, and sweet herbs. Put a gener- 
ous tablespoonful of butter into the blazer; add 
the tomato, and, when hot, six eggs, slightly 
beaten, half a teaspoonful of salt and half a salt- 
spoonful of pepper. Stir until the contents are 
of a creamy consistency. Serve with brownbread 
toast. 

Eggs and Mushrooms a la Dauphine. 

INGREDIENTS. 
i pint of thick tomato sauce, % a teaspoonful of salt. 

highly seasoned. % a saltspoonful of pepper, 

i pint of mushrooms. 6 eggs. 

Method. Cook the mushrooms in the tomato 
sauce until tender; add the seasoning and the 

189 



Chafing-dish Dainties. 



eggs, which have been broken into a bowl. L,ift 
the whites carefully with a silver or wooden fork 
while cooking, until they are set ; then prick the 
yolks and let them mix with the tomato, whites 
of the eggs and mushrooms. Serve quite soft on 

toast. 

Scotch Woodcock. 

Make a cup of white sauce ; add one tablespoon- 
ful of essence of anchovies and five hard-boiled 
eggs cut into quarters lengthwise. 

Eggs a la Italienne. 

INGREDIENTS. 

5 eggs. % a cup of fresh mush- 

i cup of milk. rooms, sliced. 

^ a cup of boiled spaghetti, i teaspoonful of chopped 

chopped. parsley, 

i tablespoonful of butter. I scant teaspoonful of salt. 
White pepper. 

Method. Melt the butter in the blazer and 
saute* in it the sliced mushrooms ; add the milk 
and spaghetti, and, when heated thoroughly, put 
the blazer in the bath and add the beaten eggs. 
Stir and cook until the eggs have thickened ; then 
add the parsley and seasoning, and serve at once. 

Eggs a la Parisienne. 

Butter thickly the inner sides of as many dariole 

moulds as there are individuals to serve. Then 

sprinkle them thickly with fine-chopped parsley, 

ham or tongue. Break an egg into each mould, 

.190 



Eggs. 

taking care not to break the yolk ; sprinkle over 
the tops a little salt and pepper, and set in the 
blazer surrounded by hot water to two-thirds the 
height of the moulds. If, after a time, the water 
boils, even with the lamp turned low, put the 
blazer into the bath and continue cooking, until 
the eggs are set. The eggs should be covered 
while cooking. When cooked, turn from the 
moulds and serve with a pure of tomatoes. Half 
a cup of sliced mushrooms added to the puree im- 
proves this dish. 

Curried Eggs. 

(See cut facing page 186.) 
INGREDIENTS. 

6 eggs, cooked, in water just 2 tablespoonfuls of flour, or 

below the boiling-point, i teaspoonful of corn- 

20 minutes. starch. 

% a cup of stock (fish, veal % a teaspoonful of curry 

or chicken). powder. 

) a cup of milk. i slice of onion. 

2 tablespoonfuls of butter. Teaspoonful of lemon juice. 
Salt and pepper to taste. 

Method. Cook the onion in the butter a few 
minutes, then remove it and add the flour and 
curry powder; when frothy add the milk and 
stock. As soon as the boiling-point is reached, set 
the blazer into the hot- water pan and add the eggs 
cut in quarters. Season with salt and serve on 
sippets of toast. 

Light meats, fish, oysters and lobsters may be 
prepared in the same way, omitting the half -cup 

191 



Chafing-dish Dainties. 



of milk in the case of oysters. Chickens' livers 
may also be prepared by the same recipe, in which 
case the livers should have been cooked previously. 
Or they may be sauted in a little hot butter in one 
dish, while the sauce is made in another. 

Shirred Eggs. 

Butter four or five shirring-dishes. To half a 
cup of grated bread crumbs and half a cup of 
chopped chicken or ham add enough cream to 
mix to a smooth, moist consistency, like butter. 
Season to taste with salt and pepper. Put a table- 
spoonful of the mixture into each dish, break in 
an egg, season with a dash of salt and pepper, 
cover with more of the mixture, and cook in the 
same manner as eggs a la Parisienne. Serve in 

the cups. 

Eggs. 

(Creole style.) 

Have prepared on a hot serving-dish a can of 
tomatoes, stewed until they are reduced to a scant 
pint, and upon the tomatoes rounds of buttered 
toast for each egg to be served. Break some eggs, 
one by one, into a cup, and turn them into the 
blazer two-thirds filled with hot water; turn the 
flame low and put on the chafing-dish cover; if 
the water boils, turn down the flame. When the 
eggs are nicely poached, remove with a skimmer 
to the toast. Pour out the water and melt in the 
blazer, browning if desired, two tablespoonfuls of 
butter; add one tablespoonful of lemon juice ; teat 

192 



Eggs. 

to the boiling-point, dust the eggs with salt and 
pepper, pour over the sauce, and serve. 

Egg Canapes. 

Have ready, cooked beforehand, four hard-boiled 
eggs ; cut them carefully into halves lengthwise, 
remove the yolks, and press them through a small 
sieve. Soak two anchovies, then dry and remove 
the bones and chop them with two or three cold 
cooked mushrooms and half a teaspoonful of ca- 
pers ; mix in the sifted yolks, add a seasoning of 
salt, pepper and paprica, and one teaspoonful of 
tarragon vinegar. This work may be done some 
hours before the time of serving. Have a little 
oil or clarified butter in the blazer, and saute* in it 
some rounds of bread one for each half of an egg. 
When the bread is of good color on one side, turn 
it and place half an egg the space from which 
the yolk was taken being filled with the anchovy 
mixture on the bread ; cover the blazer, and, 
when the second side of the bread is browned 
nicely and the egg hot, serve at once. 

Eggs with Asparagus. 

INGREDIENTS. 

I cup of asparagus peas. 2 tablespoonfuls of flour. 

1 cup of asparagus liquor. % a teaspoonful of salt. 

2 tablespoonfuls of butter. Paprica. 

3 or 4 eggs. 

Method. Cut the asparagus in pieces of the 
size of a pea and cook until tender. In cooking, 



Chafing-dish Dainties. 



reserve the tips until the other pieces are partially 
cooked, or, being more tender, they will become 
broken while the others are still uncooked. Make 
a sauce of the butter, flour, salt, paprica, and water 
in which the asparagus was cooked, or ase half a 
cup of cream in the place of part of the asparagus 
liquor. When the sauce boils, add the asparagus 
and mix lightly with the sauce ; break the eggs, 
one after another, into a cup and slide them care- 
fully on to the top of the asparagus. Season with 
a sprinkling of salt and pepper, and, if desired, a 
grating of nutmeg. Set the blazer into the bath 
and put on the cover. When the eggs are nicely 
poached, remove the eggs, with the asparagus be- 
low, on to rounds of toasted and buttered bread. 

Eggs with Spinach. 

Prepare in the same manner, using for one cup 
of chopped spinach one-third the quantity of sauce 
given above. If convenient, the eggs may be 
poached in a second dish, and in milk, water or 
stock. 

Eggs. (Italian Style.) 

Cut six cold, hard-boiled eggs into eighths 
lengthwise ; add these, with a cup of cooked maca- 
roni and half a cup of grated Parmesan cheese, to 
two cups of white sauce, at the boiling-point, in 
the blazer. Set over hot water, add a teaspoonful of 
onion juice, a teaspoonful of chopped parsley, salt 
and anchovy essence to taste, and serve very hot. 



194 



DISHES LARGELY VEGETARIAN. 



Although the cheer be poor, 
'Twill fill your stomachs. 

Titus Andronicus. 

Macaroni a la Italienne. 

HAVE ready one-fourth a pound of macaroni, 
cooked until tender, but not broken, in boiling 
salted water, and then drained, and rinsed in cold 
water. 

Make a sauce of two tablespoonfuls of butter, 
one tablespoonful of flour, one-fourth a teaspoon- 
ful, each, of salt and paprica, half a cup of well- 
seasoned stock and half a cup of well-reduced 
tomato pulp. Add the drained macaroni and stir 
occasionally, while it becomes thoroughly heated, 
then add one-fourth a cup of grated Parmesan 
cheese. Lift the macaroni with a fork and spoon 
so as to mix thoroughly with the cheese, and 
serve at once. 

Strain the tomatoes through a sieve sufficiently 
fine to keep back the seeds, and cook the pulp, 
very slowly, until reduced to at least half its bulk. 
A more hearty dish may be served by adding, just 
before the cheese, three-fourths a cup of cold 



Chafing-dish Dainties. 



tongue cut in thin slices and then stamped inft 
small fanciful shapes with a French cutter ; or the 
tongue may be cut simply in small cubes. 

Asparagus Peas. 

Scrape the scales from the stalks of asparagus 
and cut the tender portions into pieces one-fourth 
an inch long. Cook in boiling salted water until 
tender; drain, and keep the peas hot. For three 
cups of peas make one cup of drawn-butter sauce, 
using as liquid the water in which the asparagus 
was cooked, or white stock. Add the peas to the 
sauce ; beat the yolks of two eggs, add half a cup 
of cream, and stir into the sauce and peas ; add, 
also, one tablespoonful of butter. Serve on crou- 
tons of fried bread, or in cases made of shredded- 
wheat biscuit. 

Fresh Mushrooms and Sweetbreads. 

Soak one pair of sweetbreads in cold water; 
cover with boiling salted water and let boil three 
minutes, then simmer twenty minutes ; cool, and 
cut in small cubes. Saut6 in two tablespoonfuls 
of hot butter sufficient mushroom caps, peeled and 
broken into pieces, to make with the sweetbreads 
two cups and a half. Make a sauce in the blazer, 
using one-fourth a cup, each, of butter and flour, 
one cup of chicken stock and half a cup of cream ; 
add the sweetbreads and mushrooms, one table- 
spoonful of lemon juice, and, if desired, the yolks 
of two eggs, beaten and diluted with one-fourth a 
196 



Dishes for the Vegetarian. 

cup of cream or sherry. Serve on toast, in patty 
cases, or in cases of shredded-wheat biscuit. 

Mushroom Cromeskies. 

(See cut facing page 198.) 

Peel the caps of fresh mushrooms; wrap each 
mushroom in a slice of bacon, pinning the bacon 
around the mushroom with a wooden toothpick. 
Saute" in a hot blazer and serve on toast. These 
are particularly good, cooked in a hot oven in a 
double broiler resting over a baking-pan. 

Creamed Mushrooms. 

Wipe carefully half a pound of mushrooms ; peel 
the caps and break them in pieces. Reserve the 
stems for another dish. Melt three tablespoonfuls 
of butter in the blazer and in it saute the mush- 
rooms ; dust with salt and pepper, add two table- 
spoonfuls of flour, and, when cooked in the butter, 
one cup of cream, gradually; stir until the sauce 
boils, let simmer a few minutes, then serve with 
toast or crackers. 

Artichokes a la Bordelaise. 

(MRS. E. M. LUCAS.) 

Put one-fourth a cup of butter and half a cup of 
sifted bread crumbs into the blazer and light the 
lamp ; when the crumbs are well moistened with 
the butter, add a teaspoonful of fine-minced par- 
sley, one pint of cooked artichokes cut into small 
cubes, half a teaspoonful of salt, a dash of cay- 

197 



Chafing-dish Dainties. 



enne and half a pint of rich, sweet cream. 
boil up once and put out the flame ; add a tea- 
spoonful of lemon juice and half a teaspoonful of 
the grated rind of a lemon (or omit the grated 
rind) ; stir well and serve at once. 

Puff-balls Sauted. 

Heat three tablespoonfuls of butter or oil in the 
blazer. Cut the puff-balls in slices half an inch in 
thickness, season with salt and pepper, dip in egg 
and bread crumbs, and saute* in the blazer to a 
golden brown. 

Mushrooms and Macaroni. 
(Italian style.) 

Put one tablespoonful of butter and one tea- 
spoonful of lemon juice into the blazer; add a 
dozen peeled mushrooms, broken into pieces and 
blanched, and cook slowly, covered, five or six 
minutes. Then add one cup and one-fourth of 
milk, and, when scalded, stir in two tablespoon- 
fuls, each, of butter and flour, creamed together. 
When the sauce boils, add one-fourth a pound of 
macaroni, cooked and blanched in the usual man- 
ner ; heat over hot water, and, just before serving, 
add one- fourth a cup of grated cheese. 

Canned Peas with Egg. 

Rinse, drain, and rinse again in boiling water 
one can of peas. Add two tablespoonfuls of but- 
ter, one teaspoonful of sugar, half a teaspoonful of 
salt and a dash of pepper. Beat the yolk of an 

198 




Mushroom Cromeskies. 

(Ready for cooking.) 

(See page 197) 




Prune Toast. 
(See page 217) 




1 1 

> I 



Dishes for the Vegetarian. 



egg, dilute with four tablespoonfuls of cream, and 
stir into the peas. Serve as soon as the egg 
thickens slightly. 

Curried Vegetables. 

Make a sauce of one-fourth a cup, each, of but- 
ter and flour, one tablespoonful of curry powder, 
half a teaspoonful of salt, a dash of pepper and a 
oint of milk ; add half a teaspoonful of onion juice, 
me cup of cooked peas, half a cup, each, of potato 
balls, turnips cut into cubes or fanciful shapes, 
and carrots cut into straws. 

Potatoes a la Maitre d'Hotel. 

INGREDIENTS. 

I pint of potato balls, cut 2 yolks of eggs, 

with French cutter, and i tablespoonful of lemon 

cooked tender, may be juice, 

used either hot or cold. I tablespoonful of parsley, 

1 cup of milk. finely chopped. 

2 tablespoonfuls of butter. % a teaspoonful of salt. 

A dash of pepper. 

Method. Heat the milk and potatoes in the 
blazer over hot water. Cream the butter and add 
the yolks of the eggs, beating them in well ; add 
the parsley and seasonings, mix thoroughly, and, 
when the potatoes are hot and have absorbed part 
of the milk, stir the egg and butter into them; 
add the lemon juice and serve at once. 

White Hashed Potatoes. 

Butter the blazer and put into it about three 
cups of cold chopped potato, salted during the 
199 



Chafing-dish Dainties. 



chopping. Pour over the potato a little hot stock, 
or water, and scatter some bits of butter over the 
top. Cover, and cook slowly, without stirring or 
browning, until thoroughly heated. 

String Beans a la Lyonnaise. 

Melt three tablespoonf uls of butter in the blazer ; 
add a fine -sliced onion and saute* to a delicate 
brown ; add a quart of string beans, cooked, a 
dash of pepper, a grating of nutmeg and a little 
salt ; heat thoroughly, tossing the beans occasion- 
ally ; add a teaspoonful of chopped parsley, a 
tablespoonf ul of lemon juice and another table- 
spoonful of butter, in bits, and serve at once. 

Tomato Sandwich. 

INGREDIENTS. 

6 shredded-wheat biscuit. 8 teaspoonfuls of sugar, or 
4 medium-sized tomatoes. 8 teaspoonfuls of mayon- 
% a teaspoonful of salt. naise dressing. 

Method. Peel the tomatoes, cut in small pieces, 
add the salt, and sugar, if used, and set aside in 
a cool place. Split the biscuits, dip the inside 
lightly into cold water without wetting the out- 
side, put the halves together, and arrange in a 
buttered blazer ; cover, and heat over hot water ; 
then separate the halves, and, using a knife dipped 
in hot water, spread with butter. Put a layer of 
tomatoes on the bottom half, if sugar has not been 
used, add the salad dressing, and cover with the 
top of the biscuit, pressing it down lightly. 

200 



Dishes for the Vegetarian. 

Kornlet Oysters. 

To one cup of kornlet add two well-beaten eggs, 
two tablespoonfuls of flour, a scant half teaspoon- 
ful of salt and a dash of paprica. Drop, by spoon- 
fuls, into a hot, well-oiled blazer and cook to a 
golden brown, turn, and brown the other side. 

Kornlet Oysters, No. 2. 

To one can of kornlet add a teaspoonful of soda, 
two well-beaten eggs, salt and pepper, and enough 
fine cracker crumbs to hold the mixture together. 
Drop from a spoon and cook as above. 

Eggs a la King. 

8 hard-cooked eggs, sliced. ) a teaspoonful salt. 

% a green pepper in shreds. \% cups thin cream. 

% a pound fresh mushrooms. 2 egg yolks, beaten. 

2 tablespoonfuls butter. 3 a cup cream. 

2 tablespoonfuls flour. 1 tablespoonful lemon juice. 

Melt the butter; in it cook the mushrooms, 
peeled and broken in pieces, and the shreds of 
pepper; add the flour and salt, mix; add the cream 
and let simmer ten minutes, mix the yolks with 
the cold cream and lemon juice, and stir into the 
hot mixture; add the sliced eggs, cover, and let 
become hot. Chicken may replace the eggs. 



201 



R^CHAUFF^S AND OLLA- 
PODRIDA. 



" Take heed of enemies reconciled and meats twice 
cooked." 

Suggestions Concerning Rechauffes. 

MANY of the dishes prepared in the chafing-dish 
are rechauffes of cold cooked meats, including 
game and fish. The composition of such dishes 
is called ' ' the flower of cookery ' ' : but it is well to 
remember that we are dealing with a class of foods 
that are more digestible when cooked rare ; also, 
that in these cases digestibility decreases in pro- 
portion to the length of time, as well as the number 
of times, the article has been cooked. The meat 
or fish composing such dishes should not come into 
direct contact with the source of heat ; after being 
freed from skin, bone and fat, they should simply 
be heated in a hot sauce over hot water. 

Corned- Beef Hash. 

(Spanish style.) 

Chop together very fine the corned beef and po- 
tatoes and a half or a whole green pepper, after 
having removed the seeds and veins ; put two 
202 



Rechauffes and Olla-Podrida. 

tablespoonfuls of butter into the blazer (over hot 
water), add the chopped ingredients, and season 
to suit the taste, adding a little stock or milk 
to moisten ; mix thoroughly, then cover, and stir 
occasionally until heated through. Put a few bits 
of butter here and there over the top, and serve 
when melted. Use an equal quantity of meat and 
potato, or twice as much potato as meat. Serve 
with olives, pickles or a light vegetable salad. 

Mock Terrapin. 

Have ready cooked half a calf's liver (it may be 
boiled or braised with vegetables). Cut it into 
small cubes. Put one-fourth a cup of butter into 
the blazer ; when colored a little add the cubes of 
liver dredged with two tablespoonfuls of flour, one- 
fourth a teaspoonful of paprica and half a teaspoon- 
ful of salt. Stir and cook until the flour is blended 
with the butter ; then add one cup of water or stock 
and one teaspoonful of chopped parsley. As soon 
as the sauce boils, add one-fourth a cup of cream, 
two hard-boiled eggs chopped fine, and one tea- 
spoonful of lemon juice. Serve on toast, with quar- 
ters of lemon cut lengthwise. 

Note. Cream may be used in the place of stock, 
and the yolks of two uncooked eggs instead of the 
cooked eggs. 

Spaghetti. 

(Queen style.) 

Cut cold cooked chicken or turkey and cooked 
tongue (enough to make one cup of meat) in 

~ 20 3 



Chafing-dish. Dainties. 



dice ; cut into inch-length pieces cooked spaghetti 
enough to make one cup. Put one cup and a half 
of thin cream into the blazer over hot water, and, 
when hot, add the meat and spaghetti. Beat the 
yolks of two eggs, add two tablespoonfuls of cream, 
and stir into the hot mixture ; add, also, half a 
teaspoonful (scant) of salt and a dash of paprica. 
Stir constantly until the mixture thickens slightly, 
then serve at once with toast or crackers. 

Scrambled Ham and Eggs. 

Put a tablespoonful of butter in the blazer. 
Break six eggs into a bowl, add six tablespoonfuls 
of water, and beat until you can take up a spoon- 
ful. Add about a cup of fine-chopped ham and 
mix well. Pour into the blazer, and cook until 
creamy, stirring constantly. 

Chicken Klopps with Bechamel Sauce. 

INGREDIENTS. 

2 cups of cold chicken, i teaspoonful of chopped 

chopped. parsley. 

^ a teaspoonful of celery The unbeaten whites of 4 

pepper. eggs. 

i teaspoonful of salt. 

Method. When ready to cook, mix the ingre- 
dients together thoroughly and form into round 
balls. Place the balls carefully in water just off 
the boil, and, in about five minutes, or as soon as 
the egg seems poached, remove the klopps with a 
skimmer. Serve with 

204 



Rechauffes and Olla-Podrida. 

BECHAMEL SAUCE. 

INGREDIENTS. 

% a cup of butter. % a teaspoonful of salt. 

) a cup of flour. A dash of paprica. 

I cup of cream. The beaten yolks of I or 

I cup of chicken stock. 2 eggs. 

Method. Make the sauce in the usual manner, 
but do not let it boil after the yolks of the eggs are 
added. 

Minced Ham a la Poulette. 

To each cup of fine-chopped ham add one table- 
spoonful of fine bread crumbs, softened with cream 
or milk. Season with salt and pepper. Heat 
thoroughly and spread on rounds of moist but- 
tered toast. Place a poached egg on each slice. 
Use two dishes. 

Epicurean Canapes. 

Heat a little butter in the blazer; saute* in it 
some narrow strips of bread and spread them 
thickly with the mixture used for epicurean sand- 
wiches. Press a pitted olive in the centre of each 
and serve at once. 

Aberdeen Sandwiches. 

Heat one-fourth a cup of chopped cold tongue 
or ham, and half a cup of chopped veal or chicken, 
with half a cup of good sauce and two table- 
spoonfuls of curry paste (curry powder mixed with 

205 



Chafing-dish. Dainties. 



just enough water to form a paste). I/et the 
mixture simmer five minutes, stirring constantly ; 
then set aside to become cool. Have some bits of 
bread prepared as for sandwiches. Heat some 
clarified butter in the blazer, and in it saute* the 
bread a delicate brown, and drain on soft paper. 
Spread with the cold mixture, press two pieces 
together, and heat over hot water five or ten min- 
utes. Serve hot. 

Calf's Head en Tortue. 

Peel a dozen mushrooms ; break the caps iff 
pieces and chop the stems very fine. Saut6 in 
three tablespoonfuls of butter, adding, if desired, 
half an onion cut fine. Sprinkle in one -fourth 
a cup of flour, half a teaspoonful, each, of salt 
and paprica, and, when the ingredients are well 
blended, add gradually one cup and a half of 
stock and one-fourth a cup of tomato juice. I/et 
simmer a few moments, after the sauce boils; then 
add one pint of meat from a calf's head, cooked 
and cut in cubes. 

Woodcock Toast. 

Pound to a paste the freshly boiled livers of two 
fowls (ducks preferred), one teaspoonful of an- 
chovy paste (or one anchovy may be pounded with 
the livers), half a teaspoonful of sugar, one table- 
spoonful of butter, one-fourth a teaspoonful of 
spiced pepper and the yolks of two raw eg^s. 
Pass through a sieve, dilute with a little hot cream 
206 



Rechauffes and Olla-Podrida. 

from a cup of cream heated over hot water, stir, 
and return to the rest of the cream. Stir until 
thickened, then pour over sippets or rounds of 
toast saute*d a golden brown in a little butter. 

Scotch Woodcock. 

Beat thoroughly three eggs and three teaspoon- 
fuls of anchovy paste. Put this into the chafing- 
dish over hot water with three-fourths a cup of 
milk and stir until thick. Spread sippets of toast 
with butter and then with anchovy paste, and turn 
the woodcock upon them. 

Calves' Brains and Mushrooms a la Poulette. 

Saute" a clove of garlic, cut fine, in two table- 
spoonfuls of butter ; add half a pound of mush- 
rooms, peeled and broken in pieces, one-fourth a 
cup of flour, and saut6 until well browned. Then 
add one-fourth a teaspoonful, each, of mace and 
paprica, half a teaspoonful of salt and one cup and 
a half of stock, and cook five or six minutes. 
Then add the yolks of two eggs, one tablespoonful 
of lemon juice, one tablespoonful of chopped pars- 
ley and three calves' brains, cooked, and cut in 
dice. Serve in timbale cases, or upon croustades 
of bread. 

Beef Tea in Chafing-dish. 

Cut juicy round steak into pieces about two 
inches square. Heat the blazer very hot ; heat 
also a wooden lemon-squeezer in hot water or in 
any way that is most convenient. Put the meat 

207 



Chafing-dish Dainties. 



into the hot blazer, turn again and again with a 
fork, keeping the blazer very hot. When the bits 
of meat are heated throughout, squeeze them, one 
by one, with the lemon-squeezer, into a hot bowl. 
Season with salt and serve at once. 

Salmi of Duck or Game. 

INGREDIENTS. 

Pieces of game. 2 cups of rich brown stock, 

^ a cup, each, of butter and highly seasoned. 

flour. % a cup of madeira, 

i tablespoonful, each, of i cup of peas or flageolets, 

carrot and onion slices. cooked. 

Method. Cook the butter, onion and carrot in 
the blazer until well browned. Skim out the 
onion and carrot and add the flour, pepper and 
salt. Add the stock. As soon as the sauce is 
cooked, add the madeira, the pieces of game, and 
the peas or flageolets. Serve as soon as the meat 

is hot. 

Salmi of Duck, No. 2. 

INGREDIENTS. 

1 pint of thin slices of duck. 10 or 15 drops of onion juice. 

2 tablespoonfuls, each, of iteaspoonful of lemon juice, 
butter and flour. 6 mushrooms, cut in pieces. 

i pint of brown stock. i tablespoonful of currant 

i tablespoonful of catsup. jelly. 

Salt and pepper to taste. 

Method. Brown the butter and make a sauce 
with the flour, seasoning and stock. Add the duck 
and mushrooms, simmer twenty minutes, add the 
currant jelly, and garnish with croutons. 
208 



Rechauffes and Olla-Podrida. 

Sweetbreads Sauted. 

Split parboiled sweetbreads into two pieces. 
Wipe dry, sprinkle with salt, pepper and flour ; or 
season with salt and pepper, and egg-and-bread- 
crumb them. Saute in the blazer in hot olive oil, 
or butter, until nicely browned on both sides. 
Serve with French peas or tomato sauce. 

Chicken with Mushrooms. 

Melt one-fourth a cup of butter in the blazer ; 
add six mushroom caps, peeled and sliced, and 
cook slowly, with a teaspoonful of grated onion, 
about six minutes ; add two tablespoonfuls of flour, 
stir until smooth, then add one cup of cream, stock 
or milk, pepper and salt, and a few grains of mace. 
When the sauce boils, stir in one pint of chicken, 
finely chopped, and serve as soon as hot. Sweet- 
breads, lamb or veal may be served in the same 
manner. 

Chopped Beef. 

Chop half a pound of raw beef, from the tender 
part of the round, very fine. Rub the bottom of 
the hot blazer with butter, put in the meat with 
one teaspoonful of grated onion, stir, and cook four 
or five minutes ; add two tablespoonfuls of butter, 
salt and pepper, and serve at once. This is good 
with bread, but better with b^ked potatoes. A 
pound of beef may be cooked at one time in a 
chafing-dish of good size, and the grated onion 
increased to suit the taste. The juice, of which 

209 



Chafing-disn Dainties. 



there will be a large quantity, may be thickened 
with flour and butter creamed together ; but it is 
better unthickened, 

Chicken Timbales. 

Pass the breast of a raw chicken through a meat- 
chopper five or six times ; beat in, one at a time, 
the whites of two small eggs (the whites of the 
eggs are not to be previously beaten), then beat 
in very gradually one cup of thick cream. Season 
with half a teaspoonful of salt and one-fourth a 
teaspoonful of white pepper. Turn the mixture 
into buttered moulds, set them in the blazer, and 
cook, surrounded with hot water to two- thirds 
their height and covered, about twenty minutes. 
The water should not boil ; if, with the flame 
turned low, it still boils, set the blazer into the 
bath, in which the water may boil vigorously 
without harm to the timbales. Serve with 

BECHAMEL SAUCE. 

Melt two tablespoonfuls of butter, add two table- 
spoonfuls of flour, one-fourth a teaspoonful of salt, 
a dash of pepper and half a cup, each, of chicken 
stock and cream ; add the beaten yolk of one egg 
and let stand over hot water five minutes. Or, 

MUSHROOM SAUCE. 

Make as above, substituting one- fourth a cup of 
mushroom liquor for a part of the chicken stock, 
and adding with the egg half a can of mushrooms, 
or a cup of fresh mushrooms sauted in two table- 
spoonfuls of butter. 

210 



Rechauffes and Olla-Podrida. 

Supreme oi Chicken. 

Chop fine the breast of a raw chicken. Beat 
one egg, add the chicken, and continue beating 
until smooth ; then add three eggs, one at a time, 
beating each egg in thoroughly. Add a generous 
teaspoonful of salt, a saltspoonful of white pepper, 
a dash of black pepper and one pint of cream. 
Butter twelve small moulds and ornament them 
with truffles. Fill with the chicken mixture, cover 
with buttered paper, and steam twenty minutes. 
Or, put in a pan of boiling water and cook in a 
moderate oven till the centres are firm. Serve 
with mushroom or bechamel sauce. These can be 
cooked and left in the moulds and then reheated. 
It will take about fifteen minutes to reheat. 

Egg Timbales. 

Beat six eggs without separating, add a scant 
teaspoonful of salt, a dash of pepper, a teaspoonful 
of chopped parsley, twenty drops of onion juice 
and one cup and a half of rich milk. Stir till well 
mixed. Butter small-sized timbale moulds and fill 
two-thirds full with the mixture. Place moulds in 
the blazer, pour boiling water about them three- 
fourths to the tops of the moulds, and let cook 
about twenty minutes, or till the centres are firm ; 
turn out of the moulds on to a warm platter, and 
pour about them a thin bread sauce. 

BREAD SAUCE. 

To one pint of milk add half a cup of fine, stale 
bread crumbs, a small onion with six cloves stuck 

2IT 



Chafing-dish Dainties. 



in it, half a teaspoonful of salt and a few grains 
of cayenne. Cook in the double boiler for about an 
hour j, stir occasionally. Remove the onion, beat 
well, and add one tablespoonful of butter. Put 
one tablespoonful of butter over the fire in a small 
saucepan ; when hot add two-thirds a cup of rather 
coarse bread crumbs ; stir over a hot fire till they 
are brown and crisp. Sprinkle over the timbales 
and sauce. Add a sprig of parsley to the top of 
each timbale. 

Pan-Broiling. 

Chops, birds, venison, hamburg, sirloin and 
other steaks, even spring chickens, may be cooked 
successfully in the chafing-dish ; but they are not 
the dishes upon which an amateur should begin 
his experiments. Heat the blazer very hot, brush 
over the surface with a brush dipped in olive oil 
(or use a butter-ball and a fork) , lay in the article 
to be cooked, sear upon one side, turn and sear 
upon the other; repeat, turning and cooking until 
done to taste ; five minutes will suffice for small 
lamb chops. Serve with 

Maitre d'Hotel Butter. 

Beat four tablespoonfuls of butter to a cream ; 
add half a teaspoonful of salt and a few grains of 
pepper, also one tablespoonful of parsley, chopped 
very fine, and one tablespoonful of lemon juice, 
very slowly. 

212 



Rechauffes and Olla-Podrida. 



Fillets of Beef, nushroom Sauce. 

Have half a dozen slices cut crosswise from a 
neatly trimmed fillet of beef. The slices may be 
cut of any thickness desired, but from half to 
three-fourths an inch is preferable for chafing-dish 
cookery. Melt two tablespoonfuls of butter in a 
hot blazer; lay in the meat, and cook four or 
five minutes, turning every ten seconds. The heat 
should be well maintained throughout the cooking. 
Season with salt when half cooked. In another 
blazer make a cup of brown sauce ; brown two 
tablespoonfuls of butter, add four tablespoonfuls of 
flour, and, when this is well browned, add half a 
cup of very rich brown stock and half a cup of 
liquid from the mushroom can. Season to taste 
with Kitchen Bouquet, salt, and a few drops of 
tabasco sauce, then add half a bottle of mushrooms, 
cut in halves. Serve as soon as the mushrooms 
are hot. 

Fillets of Lamb, Cherry Sauce. 

For the fillets use either the fillet from the loin 
or the top of a " best end of a loin " boned. Cut 
the meat in slices or rounds, and saute in hot but- 
ter in the blazer. Season with salt and pepper 
and pour into the blazer half a cup of maraschino 
cherries with half a cup of the liquid from the 
bottle. Candied cherries that have stood half an 
hour in half a cup of boiling water, on the back 
of the range, and then mixed with half a cup of 
213 



Chafing-dish Dainties. 



sherry wine, may be used in place of the mara- 
schino cherries. This sauce may also be used 
with fillets of beef or young turkey. 

Ham Tim bales. 

.INGREDIENTS. 

i% cups of milk or thin cream. The yolks of 2 "hard-boiled" 
i cup of cold, cooked ham, eggs. 

chopped fine. Two raw eggs. 

J a cup of fine bread crumbs. A few drops of tabasco sauce. 
^ a teaspoonful of salt. 

Take the bread crumbs from the centre of a stale 
loaf. Pass the cooked yolks of eggs through a 
sieve. Add the ham, crumbs, yolks, salt and ta- 
basco to the raw eggs beaten and mixed with the 
milk. When thoroughly mixed turn into timbale 
moulds very carefully buttered. Fit papers into 
the bottoms of the moulds before buttering. Set 
these in the blazer, surround with hot water, letting 
it come half way to the top of the moulds. Heat 
the water to the boiling-point, then set the blazer 
into the hot-water pan partly filled with boiling 
water, cover and cook until the mixture is firm in 
the centre. Serve, turned from the moulds, with 
cream or tomato sauce, flavored with onion, or with 
peas heated in a cream sauce. 

Fillets of Chicken. 

(Chafing-dish Style.) 

Remove the breast from a plump and tender 
chicken and separate from the bone and skin. 
214 



Rechauffes and Olla-Podrida. 

Detach the small fillets, then cut each side into two 
or three lengthwise slices the size of the small fil- 
lets. Keep covered closely until ready to cook. 
Heat the blazer very hot, butter slightly, and in it 
lay the fillets and sprinkle with the juice of half a 
lemon, salt and white pepper ; add, also, one-third a 
cup of chicken stock and a tablespoonful of sherry. 
Cover and let cook about ten minutes. In the 
meantime prepare a sauce in a second chafing-dish, 
using two tablespoonfuls, each, of butter and flour, 
a dash of salt and pepper, and one cup of stock, in 
making which a small piece of ham or bacon was 
used. Add also a tablespoonful of mushroom or 
tomato catsup and a tablespoonful of sherry wine. 

Mutton Rechauffe. 

(Creole Style.) 

Melt three tablespoonfuls of butter in the blazer 
and saute* in this a tablespoonful, each, of green 
pepper and onion, chopped fine ; add three table- 
spoonfuls of flour and half a teaspoonful of salt, 
and stir and cook until frothy ; then add, grad- 
ually, one cup of brown stock and half a cup 
of tomato puree (cooked tomato strained) . Let 
boil two or three minutes, then set over hot water 
and stir in one cup of cold roast mutton cut in 
strips or cubes, and half a cup of cooked macaroni, 
blanched and drained. Two or three mushrooms 
or a tablespoonful of mushroom catsup improves 
this dish. 

215 



Chafing-dish Dainties. 



Baba or Wine Cake. 

This cake may be made some days in advance, 
and when wished reheated in a sauce made in the 
chafing-dish. Baba is baked in a large mould and 
cut in slices, or in individual cylindrical or baba 
moulds. 

BABA. 
INGREDIENTS. 

t Ib. of flour. 3^ a CU P f sugan 

i cake of compressed yeast. 8 eggs. 

3^ a cup of water. ^ a cup of currants, sultanas or 

10 oz. of butter (i% cups). sliced citron. 

^ a teaspoonf ul of salt. 

Make a sponge of the yeast, softened in the 
water, and flour to knead. Knead the little ball c 
dough until elastic, and put into a small saucepan 
of lukewarm water. Meanwhile add the butter, 
sugar, salt and three of the eggs to the rest of the 
flour, and beat with the hand until all are evenly 
blended ; then add the rest of the eggs, one after 
another. When the ball of dough rises to the top 
of the water and is light, remove from the water 
with a skimmer and beat it into the egg paste; 
beat for some minutes, then beat in the fruit. Turn 
the mixture into the mould or moulds, leaving 
room for the cake to double in bulk. Let rise in a 
temperature of 68 F. When nearly doubled in 
bulk, bake from twenty to fifty minutes. 
SAUCE FOR BABA. 

Let two cups of sugar and one cup of water boil 
in the blazer about six minutes, then add one-fourth 
216 



Rechauffes and Olla-Podrida. 

a cup, or more, of maraschino, rum or sherry wine. 
I^ay the baba, sliced or in individual forms, into 
the hot syrup and let stand a few minutes, basting 
the cake with the syrup. When hot, serve with 
or without whipped cream. Half a cup of apricot 
or quince marmalade may be added with the wine. 

Fig Toast. 

(See cut facing page 198.) 

Wash carefully and cook in boiling water half a 
pound of pulled figs until tender ; add one fourth a 
cup of sugar and the grated rind and juice of half 
a lemon. Cook until the syrup is well reduced. 
Cut the crust from a thick slice of bread and saute" 
to a golden brown, first on one side, then on the 
other, in two tablespoonfuls of hot butter. Drain 
the bread on soft paper ; then heap the figs upon 
it, cover with two-thirds a cup of thick cream and 
a scant fourth a cup of sugar, beaten until stiff. 
Serve at once. Prunes, apricots, peaches, pears, 
or strawberry preserves, may be prepared in the 
same manner. If preserves be used, omit the sugar 
from the cream. Sponge cake may be used in the 
place of bread. 

Pineapple Sponge. 

Heat one pint of grated pineapple over hot water, 
sprinkle into it one-third a cup of fine tapioca (a 
quick-cooking kind) , mixed with two-thirds a cup 
of sugar, and half a teaspoonful of salt ; when the 



Chafing-dish Dainties. 



tapioca is transparent, add the juice of a lemon, 
and fold in the whites of two eggs, beaten until 
dry. Serve with cream and sugar. 

Tapioca-and-Banana Sponge. 

Sprinkle half a cup of tapioca and two-thirds a 
cup of sugar into one pint of boiling water ; add 
half a teaspoonful of salt and cook over hot water, 
stirring occasionally. When the tapioca is trans- 
parent, add the juice of two lemons, and fold in 
the whites of two eggs, beaten until dry. Serve 
spread over sliced bananas, with cream and sugar, 
or with a cold boiled custard, previously made. 
This dish may be prepared with canned peaches, 
apricots or quinces, using the juice of the fruit 
instead of water. 



216 



INDEX. 



ABERDEEN Sandwiches, 205 
Aigrettes, Cheese, 109 
Almond-and-Peach Salad, 94 
Almonds and Walnuts, To Blanch, 

12 

Anchovy Salad, 74 
Anchovy Sandwiches, with Canape's, 

124 
Anchovy Toast, 175 

" with Eggs, 175 
" " " Spinach, 176 

Anchovies with Olives, 176 
Apple,-Celery-and- Walnut Salad, 92 
Apple-Date-and-Celery Salad, 93 
Artichoke Salad, 45 

Bottoms, 50 

Artichoke-and-Tomato Salad, 44 

Artichokes a la Bordelaise, 197 

Asparagus with Eggs, 193 

Peas, 196 

Salad, 46 

Salad, Egg Garnish, 47 
-and-Cauliflower Salad,46 

" Salmon Salad, 46 
Tips in Turnips, 46 
Aspic Jelly from Bouillon Capsules, 

etc., i oo 

Aspic Jelly, Chicken Stock for, 99 
' , Consomm6 for, 98 
for Garnishing, 97 
" ' Oysters in, 65 
" ' Recipe for, 97 
" ' for Sandwiches, 127, 
128 



BAB A, 216 

Baba, Sauce for, 216 

Bacon Salad, 84 

Bacon Sauce, 27 

Baking Powder Biscuit, 139 

Balls, Cheese, 107 

Bamboo Sprouts, Shrimp-and-Let- 

tuce Salad, 74 

Banana-and-Orange Salad, 93 
Banana-and-Tapioca Sponge, 218 
Bar-le-Duc-and-Cheese Sandwiches, 

135 

Bean, White, Salad, 32 
Bechamel Sauce, 205, 210 
Beef, Chopped, 209 

" , Fillets of, 213 

" Hash, Corned, 202 

" Sandwiches, Corned, 119 
Beef Tea in Chafing-Dish, 207 
Beet-and-Cream Cheese Sandwiches, 

125 
Beets and Brussels Sprouts, Salad of, 

35 

Beets, Stuffed, 34 
Beverages with Sandwiches, 118 
Biscuit, Baking Powder, 139 

" , Sandwich, 139 
Bluefish Salad, 60, 75 
Boiled Dressing for Chicken Salad, 26 
Boiled Salad Dressing, 26 
Boston Brown Bread, 138 
Boudins-de-Saumon Salad, 61 
Bread, Boston Brown, 138 

" , Date, One Loaf, 136 



219 



Index. 



Bread, Entire Wheat, 137 
" .Pulled, 139 
" ,Rice, 138 

" , Wheat, Two Loaves of, 137 
" , for Sandwiches, 116 
" To Give Glossy Crust, 140 

Brook Trout Salad, 55 

" " in Aspic, $5 

CABBAGE and Cauliflower, To 

Clean, 14 

Calf's Head en Tortue, 206 
Canapes, Egg, 193 

" , Epicurean, 205 
Cauliflower-and-Asparagus Salad, 46 
Cauliflower Salad, Egg Garnish, 49 
Caviare Sandwich Rolls, 120 
Celery, Apple-and-Nut Salad, 92 
-and-Chestnut Salad, 92 
Celery-and-Nut in Border, 43 
Celery-and-Oyster Salad, 66 
Celery Sandwiches, 120 
Celery, To Fringe, 15 

" , To Keep, 16 
Ceylon Cocoa, 145 
Chafing-Dish Appointments, 153 
Chafing-Dish Recipes: 

Aberdeen Sandwiches, 205 
Anchovy Toast, 175 

" " with Eggs, 175 

" " " Spinach, 

176 

Anchovies with Olives, 176 
Artichokes a la Bordelaise, 197 
Asparagus Peas, 196 
Baba on Wine Cake, 216 
Bechamel Sauce, 210 
Beef Tea in Chafing-Dish, 207 
Bread Sauce, 211 
Buttered Lobster, 169 
Calf's Head en Tortue, 206 
Calves' Brains and Mushrooms 

Poulette, 207 

Canned Peas with Egg, 198 
Ckeese Fondue, 186 



Chafing-Dish Recipes continued. 
Chicken Klopps with Bechamel 

Sauce, 204 

Chicken Timbales, 210 
Chicken with Mushrooms, 209 
Chopped Beef, 209 
Chops, etc., Pan Broiled, 212 
Clams a la Newburgh, 170 
Corned Beef Hash, 202 
Crabs a la Creole, 174 
Creamed Dishes, 166 
Creamed Mushrooms, 197 
Creamed Peas, 179 
Curried Eggs, 191 
Curried Oysters, 164 
Curried " No. 2, 165 
Curried Sardines, 177 
Curried Vegetables, 199 
Deviled Dishes, 166 
Deviled Crabs, 173 
Egg Canapes, 193 
Egg Timbales, 211 
Egg a la Italienne, 190 
Eggs a la Parisienne, 190 
Eggs, Creole Style, 192 
Eggs, Italian Style, 194 
Eggs and Mushrooms a la Dau- 

phine, 189 
Eggs with Asparagus, 193 

Spinach, 194 
English Monkey, 187 
Epicurean Canapes, 205 
Escalloped Oysters, 168 
Fig Toast, 217 
Fillets of Beef, Mushroom 

Sauce, 213 
Fillets of Lamb, Cherry Sauce, 

213 

Fresh Mushrooms and Sweet- 
breads, 196 

Fricassee of Oysters, 165 
Golden Buck, 185 
Halibut Rarebit, 184 
Ham Timbales, 214 
Hawaiian Lobster Curry, 171 



220 



Index. 



Chafing-Dish Recipes continued. 
Kornlet Oysters, 201 

No. 2, act 

Lobster I la Bechamel, 171 
Lobster a la Bordelaise, 170 
Lobster a la Newburgh, 169 
Lobster a la Poulette, 172 
Macaroni a la Italienne, 195 
Maitre d'H6tel Butter, 212 
Minced Ham a la Poulette, 

205 

Mock Crab Toast, 186 
Mock Terrapin, 203 
Moulded Halibut with Creamed 

Peas, 178 

Mushrooms Cromeskies, 197 
Mushrooms and Macaroni, 198 
Mushroom Sauce, 210 
MuttonpR.e'chauffe', Creole Style, 

215 

Oyster Canape's, 168 
Oyster Crabs, 174 
Oyster Crabs a la Hollandaise, 

172 

Oyster Cromeskies, 167 
Oyster Rarebit, 185 
Oysters, 163 
Oysters, No. 2, 163 
Oysters a la D'Uxelles, 164 
Oysters Saute", 168 
Panned Oysters, 167 

Maitre d'Hd- 

tel, 167 

Pineapple Sponge, 217 
Plain Lobster, 170 
Potatoes a la Maitre d'Hdtel, 

199 

Puff Balls, Sauted, 198 
Pure"e of Fish, 179 
Re'chauffe' of Fish, 180 

" " " No. 2, 181 
Salmi of Duck or Game, 208 
Salmi of Duck, No. 2, 208 
Salt Codfish in Cream Sauce, 

1 80 



Chafing-Dish Recipes continued. 
Salt Codfish with Tomato Sauce, 

179 

Sardine Canape's, 177 
Sardine Rarebit, 185 
Sardines, French Fashion, 177 
Sardines on Toast, 181 
Scotch Woodcock, 190, 207 
Scrambled Eggs a la Union 

Club, 188 
Scrambled Eggs with Cheese, 

188 
Scrambled Eggs with Dried 

Beef, 189 
Scrambled Eggs with Oysters, 

166 
Scrambled Eggs with Smoked 

Salmon, 188 
Scrambled Eggs with Tomatoes, 

189 

Scrambled Ham and Eggs, 204 
Shirred Eggs, 192 
Shrimps a la Poulette, 175 
Shrimps with Peas, 175 
Spaghetti, Queen Style, 203 
String Beans a la Lyonnaise, 200 
Supreme of Chicken, 211 
Sweetbreads, Sauted, 209 
Tapioca and Banana Sponge, 

218 

Tomato Sandwich, 200 
Welsh Rarebit, 183 

No. 2, 183 

" " with Ale, 184 
White Hashed Potatoes, 199 
Woodcock Toast, 206 
Yorkshire Rarebit, 186 
Chafing-Dishes, Past and Present, 

151 

Chaudfroid Sauce, White, 101 
Cheese Aigrettes, 109 

" d'Artois, 109 

" Balls, 107 

" -and-Cowslip Salad, 49 

" Croquettes, 108 



221 



Index. 



Cheese Custard, 105 

" Custard Mixtures, in 

" Fondue, 186 

" Fritters, no 

u Ramequins, 106 

" Sandwiches with Bar-le-Duc, 
135 

" Sandwiches with Beets, 125 
" Nuts, 122 

" with Scrambled Eggs, 188 

" Souffl6, 105 

" Souffles, Iced, 108 

" Straws, 106 
Cheese with Vegetable Macedoine, 

no 

Cherry Salad, 91 
Cherry Sauce, 213 
Cherry, - Strawberry - and - Peach 

Salad, QS 

Chestnuts-and-Celery Salad, 92 
Chestnuts, To Shell and Blanch, 

12 

Chicken, Fillets of, 214 

Klopps, 204 
and Mushrooms, 209 
Rolls, 123 
Salad, 78 
" , Boiled Dressing for, 

26 

" .French, 78 
" with Mushrooms, 79 
" Sandwiches, 127 
-and-Nut Sandwiches, 127 
Spring Style, 82 
Stock for Aspic Jelly, 99 
Timbales, 210 
Chiffonade Salad, 94 
Chocolate, Plain, 145 
, Rich, 144 
" , Spanish, 148 
Chopped Beef, 209 
Chou Paste, 140 
Clams a la Newburgh, 170 
Claret Cup, 148 
" Dressing, 22 



Claret Jelly, 134 
Club Sandwiches, 120 
Cocoa, Ceylon, 145 
" , Plain, 145 
" , Sultana, 145 
Coffee, Boiled, 143 

" , Filtered, 143 
Cole Slaw, Dressing for, 27 
Consomme" for Aspic Jelly, 08 
Cooked Vegetable Salad, 37 
Corned Beef Hash, 202 

" Sandwiches, 119 
Country Salad, 87 
Cowslip-and-Cheese Salad, 49 
Crab Toast, Mock, 186 
Crabs a la Creole, 174 
" " Hollandaise, 172 
" Deviled, 173 
" Oyster, 174 
Creamed Dishes, 166 
" Peas, 179 
" Mushrooms, 197 
Cream Salad Dressing, 27 
Cress-and-Egg Sandwiches, 122 
Cress, To Clean, 14 
Cromeskies, Mushroom, 197 

" , Oysters, 167 
Croquettes, Cheese, 108 
Cucumber Salad, 36 

" for Fish, 36 
" " and Pimento, 38 

" with Shad Roe, 61 
" , Stuffed, 49 

Cupid's Butter Sandwiches, 135 
Currant -and -Cheese Sandwiches, 

135 

Curry, Hawaiian Lobster, 171 
Curried Eggs, 191 
' Oysters, 164 

" No. 2, 165 
' Sardines, 177 
' Vegetables, 199 
Custard, Cheese, 105 

, Mixtures, in 
' , Royal, for Aspic, xx 



222 



Index. 



DATE-AND-GINGER Sandwiches, 132 
Date Bread - and - Cream - Cheese 

Sandwiches, 136 
d'Artois, Cheese, 109 
Deviled Dishes, 166 
Dressing, Boiled, 26 

" Boiled, for Chicken Salad, 

26 

" , Claret, 22 
" , for Cole Slaw, 27 
" , Cream Salad, 27 
" , Chiffonade, 28 
" , "in quantity, 22 
" .French, 21 
" , for Fruit Salad, 89 

Highly Seasoned, Pink 

Salad, 18 

" .Horseradish, 40 
" .Mayonnaise, 22 
Curdled, 24 
My, 25 
Red, 24 
" .Roquefort Cheese Salad, 

24 

" , Russian Mayonnaise, 23 
" , Thousand Island Salad, 28 
" , Composition, 8 
" , 1014 Salad, 23 
Dressings, Boiled and Cream, 9 
Dried Beef with Eggs, 189 
Duck-and-Olive Salad, 83 

" Orange Salad, 83 
Duck, Salmi of, 208 
Duck or Game, Salmi of, 208 

EASTER Salad, 86 
Eclairs, Palmerston, in, 
Egg Canapes, 193 
Egg and Canned Peas, 198 
Egg Lemonade, 146 
Egg-and-Cress Sandwiches, 123 
Egg-and-Ham Sandwiches, 119 
" " Spinach Sandwiches, 122 

" " Salad, 86 

" Tomato Salad, 41 



Eggs with Anchovy Toast, 175 
Eggs with Asparagus, 193 

" to Boil for Garnishing, ir 
Eggs, Creole Style, 192 

" Curried, 191 

" Italienne, 190, 194 

" a la King, 201 

" and Mushrooms, Dauphine, 
189 

" Parisienne, 190 

" Scrambled with Cheese, 188 

" Scrambled with Dried Beef, 
189 

" Scrambled with Oysters, 166 

" Scrambled with Smoked Sal- 
mon, 1 88 

" Scrambled with Tomatoes, 189 

' Scrambled a la Union Club, 1 88 

' with Spinach, 194 

" Whites of, To Poach, n 
Endive, To Clean, 13 
Endive Salad, 30 
English Monkey, 187 
Entire Wheat Bread, 137 
Epicurean Canape's, 205 

" Sandwiches, 123 
Escalloped Oysters, 168 

FiG-AND-Nux Salad, 93 

Fig Sandwiches, 131 

Fig Toast, 217 

Fillets of Beef, Mushroom Sauce, 

213 

" " Chicken, 214 
" " Halibut with Cole Slaw, 58 
" " " " Salad, 57 
" " Lamb, Cherry Sauce, 213 

Filling for Sandwiches, 116 

Filtered Coffee, 143 

Fish, Puree of, 179 
" R6chauff6 of, 180 

Fish Rabbit, Tunny, 187 

Fish Rechauffe 1 , No. 2, 181 

Fish Salad in Aspic, 59 

Fish-and-Mushroom Salad, 65 



223 



Index. 



Fish, Salt Cod in Cream Sauce, 180 

" " " Tomato " 179 
Five O'clock Tea, 144 
Flavoring, 160 
Fondue, Cheese, 186 
French Dressing, ChiSonade, 28 
Recipes for, 21 
in Quantity, 22 
French Fruit Sandwiches, 131 
Fresh Mushrooms and Sweetbreads, 

196 

Fricassee of Oysters, 165 
Fritters, Cheese, no 
Fruit Jelly for Sandwiches, 134 
Fruit Punch, 146 

" Salad, 89, 90 

" " , Dressing for, 89 

" , When to Serve, 10 
Fruit-and-Nut Salad, 90 

GAME, Salmi of, 208 

Gherkins, To Cut for Garnish, 15 

Ginger and Date Sandwiches, 132 

Gnochi & la Romaine, 107 

Golden Buck, 185 

Grapefruit Salad, 93 

Grapefruit, Pineapple, -and-Pimento 

Salad, 95 

Green Butter Sandwiches, 126 
Green Pea Salad, 47 

" " -and-Potato Salad, 47 

HALIBUT, Fillets of, in Aspic, 57 
" , Moulded, and Creamed 

Peas, 178 
" Rarebit, 184 
Halibut Salad, 55, 56 

" for Fish Course, 64 
Halibut-and-Cucumber Salad, 56 
Halibut Sandwiches with Aspic, 128 
Ham, Minced, Poulette Style, 205 
Ham Salad, 83 

Ham-and-Egg Sandwiches, 119 
" " Eggs Scrambled, 204 
Ham-and-Tongue Sandwiches, 119 



Ham Timbales, 214 
Harlequin Sandwiches, 125 j 
Hash, Corned Beef, 202 
Herbs, How to Chop, 13 
Hollandaise Sauce, 28, 173 
Home-Made Soda-Water, 147 
Honey Sandwiches, 132, 136 
How to Blanch Walnuts and Al- 
monds, 12 

" " " and Cook Vege- 
tables, 14 

" " Boil Eggs Hard, 11 
" " Boil Fish and Meat, 140 
" " Chop Fresh Herbs, 13 
" " Clean Lettuce, Endive, 

Cress, etc., 13 
" " Cook Sweetbreads and 

Brains, 16 

" " Cut Radishes for a Gar- 
nish, 13 

" " Cut Gherkins for a Gar- 
nish, 15 

" " Fringe Celery, 15 
" " Keep Celery, Cress, Let- 
tuce, etc., 1 6 

" " Make Nasturtium and Tar- 
ragon Vinegar, 17 
" " Make Royal Custard, n 
" " " Sauces, 158 
" " Pickle Nasturtium Seeds, 1 6 
" " Poach Whites of Eggs, n 
" " Render Vegetables Crisp, 14 
" " Shell and Blanch Chest- 
nuts, 12 

" " Shred Romaine, etc., 15 
" " Use Garlic or Onion in 

Salads, 12 
Hunter's Sandwich, 136 

INDIVIDUAL Souffle's of Cheese, 108 
Ingredients for One Cup of Sauce, 

159 
1 Pint of Sauce, 

160 



Italian Salad, 84 



224 



Index. 



JELLY, Aspic, from Bouillon Cap- 
sules, 100 

, Chicken Stock for, 99 
to Chop, 98 
, ConsommS for, 98 
for Garnishing, 97 
, Oysters in, 65 
, Recipe for, 97 
,for Sandwiches, 127 
Claret, for Sandwiches, 134 
Fruit, " 134 

Mayonnaise, 25 
Tomato, 43 
" " with Salad, 43, 44 

KAISER Rolls, 142 
Klopps, Chicken, 204 
Kornlet Oysters, 201 

LAMB, Fillets of, 213 
Lemonade, Egg, 146 
Lentil Salad, 31 

Lettuce - Cream - Cheese - and - Pi- 
mento Sandwiches, 130 
Lettuce, How to Clean, 13 
" " Shred, 15 
" Salad, 29 
" and Roqueford Cheese 

Salad, in 

Livournaise Sauce, 25 
Lobster a la Bechamel, 171 
" " Bordelaise, 170 
" Buttered, 169 
" Curry, Hawaiian, 171 
" Fingers, 124 
Lobster Mousseline Salad, 73 
Lobster a la Newburgh, 169 
" Plain, 170 
" a la Poulette, 172 
Lobster Salad, 71 

" No. 3, 7i 
" " in Aspic, 72 

" Victoria, 71 

Lobster in Aspic Sandwiches, 128 
Lobster and Mushroom Sandwiches, 



MACARONI a la Italienne, 195 
Macaroni and Mushrooms, 198 
Macedoine, Cheese and Vegetable, 

no 

Macedoine Salad, 35 
Mackerel Salad, 60 

Salt, Salad, 61 
Maltre d'Hotel Butter, 212 

" " Potatoes, 199 

Marguerite Salad, 86 
Mayonnaise, Curdled, 24 
Jelly, 25 

, Making in Quantity, 23 
" , Recipe for, 22 
, Red, 24 
.Russian, 23, 24 
" .Sardine, 25 

Measuring, 160 
Meat and Fish, Potted, 141 
Meats, Fresh, How to Boil, 140 
" Salted, " " " , 140 
Mexican Rarebit, 187 
Minced Ham, Poulette, 205 
Miroton of Fish and Potato, 58 
Mock Crab Toast, 186 
Mock Terrapin, 203 , 

Mosaic Sandwiches, 127 
Moulded Salmon Salad, 75 
Mousse de Poulet Salad, 8r, 82 
Mushroom Cromeskies, 197 

Salad with Chicken Me- 
dallions, 80 
and Fish Salad, 65 

" Lobster Sandwiches, 
" Sauce, 210 
Mushrooms and Chicken, 209 
" Creamed, 197 
" and Eggs Dauphine, 189 
" " Sweetbreads, 196 

Mutton Rechauffe, 215 

NASTURTIUM Folds, 125 
Nasturtium Seeds, To Pickle, 16 
"Nineteen-fourteen" Salad, to Serve 
ten, 38 



225 



Index. 



" Nineteen-fourteen" Salad Dressing, 

24 

Nut,-Apple-and-Celery Salad, 92 
Nut-and-Celery Salad, 92 
Nut-and-Cheese Sandwiches, 122 
Nut-and-Chicken " ,122 
Nut-and-Fig Salad, 93 
" " " Fruit Salad, 90 
" Litchi-and-Orange Salad, 88 
" -and-Orange Salad, 92 

OIL, Value of, 8 

Onion and Garlic, How to Use, 12 

Orange and Litchi Nut Salad, 88 

" " Walnut Salad, 92 
Oyster Cromeskies, 167 

" Rarebit, 185 

" -and-Celery Salad, 66 

" -and-Sweetbread Salad, 67 
Oysters in Aspic, 65 

" in Chafing-Dish, 163, 168 

" Creamed, 166 

" Curried, 164, 165 

" Deviled, 166 

" a la DuxeUes, 164 

" Escalloped, 168 

" , Fricassee of, 165 

" Oysters, Kornlet, 201 

" , Panned, 167 

" , " Maitre d'H6tel, 167 

" Saut6, 168 

" Waldorf, 1 68 

" with Scrambled Eggs, 166 

PAN-BROILING, 212 

Panned Oysters, 167 

Paste, Chou, 140 

Pastry Bag and Tubes, To Deco- 
rated Salads, 18 

Pate"-de-Foie-Gras in Aspic, 85 
" " " " Sandwiches, 122 

Peach-and-Almond Salad, 94 

Peach Salad, 95 

Peach, - Strawberry - and - Cherry 
Salad, 95 



Peanut Sandwiches, 125, 126 

Peas, Creamed, 179 

Peas with Eggs, 198 

Peas and Truffles in Aspic, Salad, 101 

Pineapple-and-Cream Cheese, Eas- 
ter Style, 96 

Pineapple-and-Pimento Salad, 95 

Pineapple-and-Cream-Cheese Salad, 
101 

Pineapple Sandwiches, 133 

Pineapple Sponge, 217 

Plain Chocolate, 145 

Plain Cocoa, 145 

Potato Salad, 32, 33 

" , German Style, 37 
" with Mayonnaise, 50 
" -and-Nasturtium Salad, 34 

Potatoes, Maitre d'Hotel, 199 
" White Hashed, 199 

Potted Meats and Fish, 141 

Puff Balls, Saut6d, 198 

Puff Paste Sandwiches, 133 

Pulled Bread, 139 

Punch, Fruit, 146 

a la Nantes, 146 

RADISHES, To Cut for Garnish, 13 
Ramequins, Cheese, 106 
Rarebit Halibut, 184 
Mexican, 187 
Oyster, 185 
Sardine, 185 
Tunny Fish, 187 
Welsh, 183 

" , No. 2, 183 
" with Ale, 184 
" , Yorkshire, 186 
R6chauff6 of Fish, 180, 181 
" " Mutton, 215 
Re'chauffe's, Concerning, 202 
Rice Bread, 138 
Rich Chocolate, 144 
Rolls, Kaiser, 142 
" , Salad, 138 
" , Wedding Sandwich, 129 



226 



Index. 


Romaine, To Shred, 15 


Salad continued. 


Rose Leaf Sandwiches, 132 


' Cowslip-and-Cream-Cheese,43 


Royal Custard for Garnishing, u 


' Cucumber, 36 


Russian Salad, 23, 62 


' Cucumber and Pimento, 38 


" Vegetable Salad, 48 


' Cucumber for Fish Course, 36 


" Sandwiches, 121 


' Duck-and-Olive, 83 




' Duck-and-Orange, 83 


SALAD Dressing, Boiled, 26 


' Easter, 86-87 


Salad Dressing, Cream, 27 


' Egg-and-Tomato, 41 


" Dressings, Use of, 7 


' Endive, 30 


" , Fruit, When to Serve, 10 


' Endives-Tomato - and - Green- 


" Making, Important Points 


String-Bean, 36 


in, 9 


' Fig-and-Nut, 93 


" Rolls, 138 


' Fillets of Halibut in Aspic, 57 


Salad: 


" Fillets of Halibut with Cole 


" Anchovy, 74 


Slaw, 58 


" Apple,- Celery - and - English- 


" Fish Moulded in Aspic, 59, 60 


Walnut, 92 


" French Chicken, 78 


" Apple-Date-and-Celery, 93 


" Fruit, 89 


" Artichoke, 45 


" Fruit-and-Nut, 90, 91 


" " Bottoms, 50 


" Grapefruit, 93 


" Asparagus, 47 


" Grapefruit, -Pineapple-and-Pi- 


" Asparagus and Salmon, 46 


mento, 95 


" Asparagus and Cauliflower, 46 


" Green-Pea, 47 


" Bacon, 84 


" Green-Pea-and-Potato, 47 


" Bluefish, 75 


" Green and White, 88 


" Boudins-de-Saumon, 61 


" Halibut, 55, 56 


" Brook Trout, 55 


" Halibut-and-Cucumber, 56 


" Brook Trout in Aspic, 55 


" Halibut (for Fish Course), 64 


" Brussels Sprouts and Beet, 35 


" Ham, 83 


" Cauh'flower, 39 


" Italian, 84 


" Cauliflower, Egg Garnish, 49 


" Lentil, 31 


" Celery-and-Chestnut, 92 


" Lettuce, 29 


" Celery-and-Nut, 43 


" Lettuce and RoquefordCheese, 


" Cherry, 91 


in 


" Chicken, 78 


" Lettuce, - Bamboo - Sprouts- 


" Chicken -and -Fresh -Mush- 


and-Shrimps, 74 


rooms, 79 


Lobster, 71 


" Chicken, No. 3, 79 


Lobster, No. 3, 71 


" Chicken, No. 4, 79 


Lobster in Ring of Aspic, 72 


Spring Style, 82 


Lobster, Victoria, 71 


" Chiffonade, 94 


Macedoine, 35 


" Combination, A Few, 30 


Macedoine of Vegetable, 47 


" Cooked Vegetable, 37 


Mackerel or Bluefish, 60 


" Country, 87 


Marguerite, 86 


227 



Index. 



Salad continued. 

" Miroton of Fish-and-Potato, 

58 

" Mousse-de-Poulet, 81, 82 
" Moulded Salmon, 75 
" MousseUne of Lobster, 73 
" Mushroom with Medallions of 

Chicken, 80 
" "Nineteen-fourteen," to serve 

ten, 38 

" Orange-and-Litchi Nut, 88 
" Orange-and- Walnut, 92 
" Oysters in Aspic, 65 
" Oyster-and-Celery, 66 
" Oyster-and-Sweetbread, 67 
" Pat6-de-Foie-Gras in Aspic, 85 
" Peach, 15 
" Peach-and-Ahnond, 94 
" Peach, - Strawberry - and- 

Cherry, 95 
" Peas-and-Truffles in Aspic, 

101 

" Pineapple-and-Pimento, 95 
" Pineapple-and-Cream-Cheese, 

101 

" Potato, 32, 33 
" Potato-and-Nasturtium, 34 
" Potato, German Style, 37 
" Potato with Mayonnaise, 50 
" Prune-and-Pecan Nut, 91 
" Russian, 62 
" Russian Vegetable, 48 
" Salmon, 63 
" Salt Mackerel, 61 

Sardine, 69 

Sardine, No. 2, 69 

Sardine-and-Egg, 70 

Scallop, 68 

Shad-Roe-and-Cucumber, 61 

Shells of Fish-and-Mush- 
rooms, 65 

Shrimp, 68 

Shrimp in Cucumber Boats, 
67 

Shrimp with Aspic Border, 67 



Salad continued. 
" Spanish, 63 
" Spinach-and-Egg, 86 
: Spinach-and-Tongue, 85 
" Stuffed Cucumber, 49 
" Stuffed Beet, 34 
" Stuffed Tomato, 40 
" Sweetbread-and- Cucumber, 7 7 
" Tomato-and-Artichoke, 44 
" Tomato-and-Onion, 36 
" Tomato-and-Sweetbread, 40 
" Tomato, Horseradish Dress- 
ing, 40 

Tomato Jelly, No. 2, 43 
" Tomato Jelly with String 

Beans, 44 

" Tomatoes Farces a I'Aspic, 42 
" Tomatoes Stuffed with Nuts 

and Celery, 39 

" Tomatoes Stuffed with Cu- 
cumber, 41 

" Tomatoes Stuffed with Jelly, 42 
" Turkey-and-Chestnut, 83 
" Turnip with Asparagus Tips, 

46 

" Turquoise, 94 
" White Bean, 32 
" Wiesbaden Prune-and-Pecan 

Nut, 91 

" Dressing, "Nineteen-four- 
teen," 24 
Pink, 18 
Roqueford 

Cheese, 24 

Thousand Island, 28 
Salads, Arrangement of, 8 
Dressing of, 6 

Introduction to Subject, 3 
" when Serve with French 

Dressing, etc., 9 
" Serving with Cheese, 10 
Salmi of Duck or Game, 208 
Salmon Salad, 63 

" Moulded, 75 
Salmon-and-Asparagus Salad, 46 



22S 



Index. 



Sandwiches: Aberdeen, 205 

" Beet-and-Cream-Cheese, 125 

" Beverages Served with, 118 

" Bread for, 116 

" Caviare Roll, 120 

" Celery, 20 

" Cheese-and-Bar-le-Duc, 135 

" Cheese-and-English-Walnut, 

122 

" Chicken-and-Nut, 127 

" Chicken Roll, 123 

" Chicken Salad, 127 

" Club, 129 

" Corned Beef, 119 

" Cress-and-Egg, 122 

" Cupid's Butter, 135 

" Date-and-Ginger, 132 

" Date Bread, Cream Cheese, 136 

" Egg-and-Spinach, 122 

" Epicurean, 123 

" Fig, 131 

Filling for, 116 

French Fruit, 131 

Fruit or Claret Jelly, 134 
' Fruit with Whipped Cream, 133 

Green Butter, 126 
' Halibut with Aspic Jelly, 128 

Ham-and-Egg, 119 
" " " " Tongue, 119 
" Harlequin, 125 
" Honey, 132 
" Hunters', 136 
" Lettuce-Cream-Cheese and 

Pimento, 130 

" Lobster with Aspic, 128 
" Lobster Fingers, 124 
" Milwaukee, The, 129 
" Mosaic, 127 

" Mushroom-and-Lobster, 121 
" Nasturtium Fold, 125 
" Pate"-de-Foie-Gras (Imitation), 

122 

" Peanut, 125, 126 
" Pineapple, 133 
" Puff Paste, 133 



Sandwiches continued. 
" Rose Leaf, 132 
" Russian, 121 
" Sardine, 120 
" Sardine or Anchovy, with 

Canape's, 124 

" Shad-Roe-and-Butter, 126 
" Tomato, 200 
" Tongue-and-Veal, 120 
' Tower of Babel, 124 
" Violet, 132 

" Wedding Sandwich Roll, 129 
" Whipped Cream, 133 
Sardine Canape's, 177 
Sardine-and-Egg Salad, 70 
Sardine Mayonnaise, 25 
" Rarebit, 185 
" Salad, 69 
' Sandwiches, 120 

" with Canapes, 124 
" Curried, 177 
" French Fashion, 177 
" on Toast, 181 
Sauce for Baba, 216 
Sauce, Bacon, 27 

" , Bechamel, 205, 210 
" , Bread, 211 
" , Chaudfroid, 101 
" , Cherry, 213 
" , Hollandaise, 28, 173 
" , Ingredients for One Cup, 159 
" Pint, 1 60 
" , Livournaise, 25 
" , Mayonnaise, 22 
" , Mushroom, 210 
" , Tartare, 25 
" , Tomato, 179 
" , Vinaigrette, 28 
Sauces, How to Make, 158 
" , Stock for Use in, 99 
Scallop Salad, 68 
Scotch Woodcock, 190, 207 
Scrambled Eggs with Cheese, 188 
" " " Dried Beef, 189 

" " Ham, 204 



229 



Index. 



Scrambled Eggs with Oysters, 166 
" " Smoked Sal- 
mon 1 88 
a la Union Club, 

1 88 
Sbad-Roe-and-Butter Sandwiches, 

126 

Shad-Roe-and-Cucumber Salad, 61 
Shells of Fish and Mushrooms, 65 
Shirred Eggs, 192 
Shrimp Salad, 68 

" Aspic Border, 67 
" , Cucumber Boat, 67 
" , Bamboo-and-Lettuce Salad, 74 
Shrimps with Peas, 175 

" a la Poulette, 175 
Smoked Salmon with Eggs, 188 
Soda- Water, Home-Made, 147 
Souffl6, Cheese, 105 
Souffles, Cheese, Iced, 108 
Spaghetti, Queen Style, 203 
Spanish Chocolate, 148 
Spanish Salad, 63 
Spinach-and-Egg Salad, 86 
" with Eggs, 194 
" -and-Tongue Salad, 85 
Sponge, Pineapple, 217 

" , Sponge Tapioca and Ba- 
nana, 218 

Stock, Chicken, for Aspic, 99 
Stock, Fish, 100 

" for Sauces, 99 
Straws, Cheese, 106 
Strawberry, - Peach - and - Cherry 

Salad, 95 

String Beans, Lyonnaise, 200 
Sultana Cocoa, 145 
Sweetbread, -and-Cucumber Salad, 

77 
Sweetbreads-and-Brains, To Cook, 

16 

" " Mushrooms, 196 

Saut6d, 209 



TAPIOCA-AND-BANANA Sponge, 218 



Tartare Sauce, 25 

Tea, Beef, in Chafing-Dish, 907 

Tea, Five O'clock, 144 

Terrapin, Mock, 203 

Thousand Island Salad Dressing, 28 

Timbales, Chicken, 210 

Timbales, Egg, 211 

Timbales, Ham, 214 

Toast, Fig, 217 

" , Mock Crab, 186 
" , Woodcock, 206 

Tomato-and-Artichoke Salad, 44 

Tomato, -Bean-and-Endive Salad, 36 

Tomato,-Cress-and-Cucumber Salad, 
4i 

Tomato Jelly, 43 

" Salad, 43, 44 

Tomato-and-Onion Salad, 36 

Tomato Salad, Horseradish Dress- 
ing, 40 

Tomato Salad, Stuffed, 40 

Tomato Sandwich, 200 

" -and-Sweetbread Salad, 40 

Tomatoes Farces & 1'Aspic, 42 

Tomatoes with Scrambled Eggs, 189 

Tomatoes Stuffed with Celery and 
Nuts, 39 

Tomatoes Stuffed with Cucumber,4i 
" Jelly, 42 

Tongue-and-Ham Sandwiches, 119 
" -and-Spinach Salad, 85 
" " Veal Sandwiches, 120 

Tower of Babel, 124 

Tunny Fish Rabbit, 187 

Turkey-and-Chestnut Salad, 83 

Turnips and Asparagus in Salad, 46 

Turquoise Salad, 94 

Two Loaves of Wheat Bread, 137 

VEAL-AND-TONGUE Sandwiches, i2 
Vegetable, Cooked, Salad, 37 
Vegetable Salad, Macedoine of, 47 
Vegetable Salad, Russian, 48 
Vegetables, To Blanch and Cook, 14 
" .Curried, 199 



230 



Index. 



Vegetables, To Render Crisp, 14 
Vinaigrette Sauce, 28 
Vinegar, Fines Herbes, 17 

" , Nasturtium, 17 

" , Tarragon, 17 
Violet Sandwiches, 132 

WALDORF Oysters, 168 
Watercress, How to Keep, 16 
Wedding Sandwich Rolls, 129 
Welsh Rarebit, 183 



Welsh Rarebit, No. 2, 183 

" with Ale, 184 
Whipped Cream Sandwiches, 133 
White Hashed Potatoes, 199 
Wiesbaden-Bruner-and-Pecan Nut 

Salad, 91 

Wine Cake (Baba), 216 
Woodcock Scotch, 190, 207 
Woodcock Toast, 206 

YORKSHIRE Rarebit, 186 



231 






I 14 DAY USE 

RETURN TO DESK FROM WHICH BORROWED 

AGRICULTURE LIBRARY 

40 Giannini Hall - Tel. No. 642-4493 

This book is due on the last date stamped below, or 

on the date to which renewed. 
Renewed books are subject to immediate recall. 



II 



FEBJ 



LD 21-40m-2,'69 
(J6057slO)476 A-32 



General Library 

University of California 

Berkeley 






U.C. BERKELEY LIBRARIES 



01 



OT 



HAOJ 




3JRA J 



JJA 



132" 



1 















