TX 715 
.L15 
Copy 1 



illlll!!ll!IIJ[||l!il!il!lll!il^ 

iiimiiiiHuiimiiimiimiiiiiJiiiiiiiiiiiMimiiiiimmtimiimiHiiii iiiiMmiimiHiiUiMiiiillliiMi limimu 



1 1 A PRACTICAL ! j 

IIcook book!! 



i 




I COMPILED BY THE LADIES 
| | OF THE EASTERN HAMPDEN [ 1 
I MEDICAL ASSOCIATION 



nmimiiiiimiiinmiiiiiitmiimmimmmiimmimiiiiiii tin 

ilillllillllilllilllliilllllM 



Wm$m*m?M^:;n 




-".:.:,;,. '■■'. ; ■:•.:■: v:-;?- 



A PRACTICAL 
COOK BOOK 



COPYRIGHT 1914 BY 



LADIES of the EASTERN 

HAMPDEN MEDICAL 

ASSOCIATION 




DAILY NEWS JOB PRINT 
SPRINGFIELD, MASS. 



TX-ns 



'Prove all things and hold fast 
that which is good." 



DEC 12 1914 

©CI.AS93168 



SOUPS 



Soups 



Corn Soup. 

One can or 6 ears of corn, 2 cups cold water, 2 table- 
spoons chopped onion, 2 cups scalded milk, l l / 2 teaspoon- 
ful salt; celery salt and cayenne to taste; 3 tablespoons 
butter, 3 tablespoons flour, 1 cup whipped cream. Cook 
the fresh corn in the cold water 30 minutes (canned corn 
needs less time), press through a sieve; add the scalded 
milk. Cook onion in butter, add flour and seasoning, add 
corn and milk, cook 5 minutes ; strain, add whipped cream 
and serve. Garnish with popped corn if desired. 

Mrs. A. O. Squires. 

Cream of Corn Soup. 

One can grated corn, 1 pint boiling water. Cook gently 
20 minutes, then rub through a sieve. Melt 2 tablespoons 
butter; when bubbling add 2 tablespoons flour, 1 teaspoon- 
ful salt, dash of white pepper and stir to a smooth paste: 
then add to it gradually 1 pint of milk and cook until 
smooth and creamy, stirring all the time. Cook 5 minutes 
on the back of stove where it will not burn, then add corn. 
Heat thoroughly and serve. Mrs. H. C. Martin. 

Potato Soup. 

Five potatoes, 1 large onion. Boil together about an 
hour, then strain through a sieve. Add 1 quart of milk 
and one cup of cream, butter, sale and pepper to taste. 

Mrs. J. E. Marsh. 

Baked Bean Soup. 

Two cups cold baked beans, 2 cups tomatoes, 5 cups 
water, 1 small onion. Boil 45 minutes; strain, thicken 
and season with butter, pepper and salt. 

Mrs. P. A. Hoyt. 



SOUPS 



Bean Soup. 

One pint cooked dark beans, 1 quart beef stock. Cook 
together a few minutes. Mash through a sieve. Return 
to stove and season with butter, salt and a little pepper. 

Mrs. Stowell. 

Turkey Soup. 

Take remains of a cold roast turkey, trim off the meat, 
break up the bones, cover with water, add salt, pepper, 
1 onion sliced, and a few stalks of celery. Boil gently 
for 1 hour, strain and skim. Add small pieces of the 
meat, a small handful of rice and simmer until rice is 
done, when it is ready to serve. Mrs. F. F. Dexter. 



One pint can kidney beans, 1 quart of water with 4 
steero cubes. Thicken a little with flour. 

Mrs. J. Stowell. 

Tomato Soup. 

One small onion sliced, 1 tablespoon butter, 1 quart 
of tomatoes (cooked and strained), 1 pint boiling water, 
1 teaspoonful sugar, 1 teaspoonful flour (heaping). Salt 
and pepper to taste. Brown the onion in the butter, add 
tomato and hot water. Mix flour and sugar and moisten 
with cold water. Stir into the boiling liquid, season to 
taste and serve with squares of hot buttered toast. 

Mrs. A. P. Noyes. 

Clam Soup. 

One quart of milk, 4 small potatoes cut into small dice 
and boiled in water until soft, then drain, add milk and 
when it comes to a boil add 25 clams chopped fine. Stir 
occasionally, as it burns quickly. In the meantime cream 
1 tablespoon butter and 1 of flour and stir in soup until 
all is dissolved. Add chopped parsley, pepper and salt to 
taste. Easily and quickly made. Mrs. Martin. 



SOUPS 



Mock Bisque Soup. 

One-half can tomatoes, 1 qt. milk, 1-3 cup butter, 1 
tablespoonful cornstarch, 1 teaspoonful salt, J / 2 teaspoonful 
white pepper. Stir the tomatoes until soft enough to 
strain easily. Cook 1 tablespoonful of the butter and 
cornstarch together, adding enough hot milk to make it 
pour easily. Boil milk in double boiler, stir carefully into 
the boiling milk and cook 10 minutes. Add the remainder 
of the butter in small pieces. Add salt, pepper and toma- 
toes (with a little soda). Serve very hot. 

Mrs. Marsh. 



Parsnip Chowder. 

This is especially good in the spring made from par- 
snips which have been in the ground all winter. Fry 
slices of salt pork and onion as for any chowder. Cut 
up 3 or 4 small parsnips and 3 or 4 potatoes. Cover with 
cold water and boil; add pork and onions. When done 
add milk, butter, salt and pepper. Mrs. Hoyt. 

Corn Soup. 

One can corn, 1 pt. boiling water, 1 pt. milk, 1 slice 
onion, 2 tablespoons each of butter and flour, 1 teaspoonful 
salt, few grains of peoper. Chop corn, add water and 
simmer 20 minutes; rub through sieve. Scald milk with 
onion, remove onion and add milk to corn. Bind with 
butter and flour cooked together. Add salt and pepper. 

Mrs. Weiser. 



FISH 



Fish 

Baked Halibut. 

Cover bottom of baking dish with slices of salt pork 
chopped fine and two onions sliced thin. Lay the fish, cut 
rather thick, on this, season with salt, and pepper if liked. 
Cover the fish with generous sprinkling of bread crumbs. 
Lay slices of salt pork on top of crumbs. Fill baking dish 
about 1-3 full of milk. Bake in moderate oven from V/^ 
to iy 2 hours or longer, according to size of fish. 

Mrs. A. O. Squier. 

Finnan Haddie. 

One and one-half lbs. finnan haddie, 3 cups mashed 
potatoes, 1 egg, strips of bacon, milk. Freshen fish, dry 
and brush with drippings and boil. Cut in pieces suitable 
for serving. Have ready 3 cups well seasoned, mashed 
potatoes, beaten until creamy. Whip in the egg yolk and 
the white, beaten stiff. Pile on the fish, brush lightly with 
milk and garnish with pimento strips and bacon. Set in 
hot oven until bacon is cooked and potato browned. 

Mrs. Hoyt. 

Escalloped Salmon with Macaroni. 

Drain oil from 1 can salmon, remove skin and bones 
and flake finely. Boil 1 cup of macaroni (in y 2 -'m. 
lengths) in boiling salted water until tender, then drain. 
Cook together 2 tablespoons each of butter and flour with 
1 pt. milk, season to taste with pepper and salt. Arrange 
macaroni and salmon in alternate layers in buttered baking 
dish, pour over the sauce, cover with buttered crumbs and 
brown in the oven. Mrs. Marsh. 

Codfish Souffle. 

One cupful rice in 1 qt. milk (in double boiler) ; while 
hot stir in 1 cupful shredded codfish, 1 tablespoonful butter, 
yolks of 2 eggs. Salt and pepper to taste. When cold 
fold in the stiffly beaten whites of two eggs. Bake 20 
minutes. Serve at once. Mrs. W. R. Weiser. 



FISH 7 

Salmon Loaf. 

One can salmon (remove skin and bones), 1 cup bread 
crumbs, 1 cup milk, butter size of walnut, 3 eggs. Season 
well and put in buttered pan, bake 1 hour. Serve hot with 
cream gravy. Mrs. Cooley. 

Escalloped Salmon. 

One can salmon. Butter bottom and sides of dish and 
place a layer of minced salmon first with alternate layers 
of white sauce. Rolled cracker crumbs and bits of butter 
on top. Bake a delicate brown. 

White sauce : One cup milk, 1 tablespoon each of flour 
and butter, salt and pepper to taste. Mrs. Hannum. 

Codfish Omelette. 

Wash a piece of codfish as large as your hand; soak 
over night in warm water; in morning remove bones and 
chop fine. Then put into 3 gills of milk and let it boil 
up, stir in butter y 2 size of an egg, tablespoon flour in 
little cold milk. Then add 3 well beaten eggs; turn into 
a buttered dish, set into hot oven until it raises and 
browns. Mrs. Woods. 

Stuffed Halibut Steak. 

Two slices halibut steak an inch thick, 6 slices salt 
pork, 1 cup bread crumbs, 1 tablespoon melter butter, 
chopped parsley and onions, salt and pepper. Place 1 
slice in buttered baking tin, cover with mixed crumbs and 
seasoning. Place other slice on top and cover with salt 
pork. Bake 40 minutes and serve with white sauce. 

Mrs. Hoyt. 

Baked Mackerel. 

Have mackerel dressed for broiling, open and put in 
well buttered baking pan skin side down. Dredge with 
flour, salt and pepper and dot with bits of butter; then 
pour over all 1 cup of cold milk and bake in quick oven, 
about 30 minutes for medium-size fish. 

Mrs. H. C. Martin. 



MEATS 



Meats 



Creamed Chicken. 

Cook chicken until tender, when cool cut into small 
pieces. Nearly fill pudding dish or pan and season with 
salt and pepper. Pour over the chicken a thickened dress- 
ing of cream, or a part milk, enough to moisten chicken 
thoroughly ; then cover with a thick layer of bread crumbs 
which have been browned in the oven. Bake slowly an 
hour. Mrs. A. L. Cooley. 

Baked Ham. 

Slice of ham about 1 in. thick, brown in frying pan on 
both sides, then place in deep baking dish. Pour a little 
less than 1 qt. of milk in hot pan and thicken. Slice 
enough raw potatoes over the ham to cover it well and 
over this pour the thickened milk. Bake in a moderate 
oven 1 hour, but do not cover ; try with fork, the ham will 
be tender when done. Mrs. M. I. Shea. 

Veal Loaf . 

Chop fine 4 lbs. lean, raw veal, 1 tablespoon salt, 1 tea- 
spoon pepper, butter size of an egg, 5 tablespoons milk, 
1 egg; roll fine 6 Boston crackers, mix all thoroughly, 
pack closely in square baking tin and cover with cracker 
crumbs, bits of butter and a little salt and pepper. Bake 
2^2 hours. Beef is nice prepared in the same way. 

Mrs. G. L. Woods. 

Meat Sausage Cakes. 

Two cups finely chopped cooked meat, % cup chopped 
salt pork, l / 2 level teaspoon sage, l / 2 level teaspoon salt, 
also pepper. Yolks of 2 eggs. Mix meat and pork, then 
add seasoning and eggs, well beaten, mix thoroughly ; form 
into small flax cakes and cook in frying pan. 

Mrs. F. F. Dexter. 



MEATS 



Meat Loaf. 

One lb. each of beef, fresh pork and veal, put through 
meat chopper, adding salt, pepper, 1 tablespoon poultry- 
seasoning, 1 ground cracker, 1 egg and y 2 cup sweet milk, 
pack in bread tin and bake 2 hours, covered. 

Mrs. Marsh. 

Fried Veal Cutlets. 

Cut the veal in small pieces, dip in a well beaten egg, 
then in bread brumbs grated fine or rolled cracker. Season 
with pepper and salt; fry in hot lard or beef drippings till 
brown on both sides. Mutton chops are nice cooked in 
the same way. Mrs. Woods. 

Chicken Tumbals. 

One-half cup bread crumbs, }4 cup milk, % teaspoon 
salt, add l / 2 cup chopped chicken and the whites of 3 eggs 
beaten dry. Put in cups in pan of hot water and stand 
in oven until firm. Serve with whipped cream. 

Mrs. V. J. Irwin. 

Baked Beef. 

Two lbs. round steak finely chopped, 2-3 cup rolled 
cracker crumbs, 2 well beaten eggs, 2-3 cup warm milk, 
y 2 cup softened butter, 1 small onion chopped fine, }4 tea- 
spoon white pepper, 1 teaspoon salt and 1 of poultry sea- 
soning. Mix all together with the hands, pack in a deep 
tin and bake 1 hour in hot oven, basting frequently with 
melted butter and water. Serve hot with tomato sauce. 
This combination is good used for sandwich filling. 

Mrs. Finch. 

Fillets of Tongue. 

Cut cold tongue into thick slices, then cut into long 
strips ; roll in melted butter, then flour, brown in hot butter. 
Make gravy of butter and flour in spider, seasoned with 
kitchen bouquet or catsup. Mrs. Finch. 



10 BREADS, MUFFINS, ETC. 

Breads, Muffins, Etc. 

Nut Bread. 

Two cups white flour, 2 cups graham flour, 1 small 
teaspoon salt, 4 teaspoons baking powder, 1 cup chopped 
nuts, 1 egg beaten, 1^4 cups milk, 1 cup molasses (or maple 
syrup). Beat well. Place in buttered pans, let rise 30 
minutes. Bake 50 minutes. Mrs. Hoyt. 

Date Bread. 

One cup warm wheat mush, add %. cup brown sugar, 
y 2 teaspoonful salt, 1 tablespoon butter, %. cake yeast 
dissolved in y cup luke warm water. Then add 1 cup 
chopped walnut meats, ^4 CU P dates cut in pieces and 
enough flour to make a stiff dough, then knead. Cover 
and let rise over night. In morning knead again, shape 
into loaves and when risen nearly double in bulk, bake 
in moderate oven. Mrs. Martin. 

Brown Bread. 

One cup rye or entire wheat, 1 cup Indian meal, V/z 
cups graham, 2-3 cup molasses, 1 teaspoon each of salt 
and soda, 1 pt. rich sour milk. Steam 3 hours. 

Mrs. Hannum. 

Nut Bread. 

One egg, y cup sugar, 1 cup milk, 2 cups bread flour, 
3 scant teaspoonfuls baking powder, y cup chopped wal- 
nut meats, a pinch of salt. Let stand y hour. Bake 
slowly about 30 minutes. Mrs. Weiser. 

Brown Bread. 

One pt. sour milk, 1 teaspoon soda, 2-3 cup molasses, 
2 cups graham, 1 cup corn meal, salt. Steam 3 hours. 

Mrs. Dexter. 



BREADS, MUFFINS, ETC. 11 

Graham Bread. 

Two cups graham, 1 cup pastry flour, 2-3 cup brown 
sugar, 1 teaspoon salt, 3 level teaspoons baking powder, 2 
cups sour milk, 1% teaspoon soda. Let rise 20 minutes 
and bake 45 minutes in a moderate oven. Can use sweet 
milk without the soda. Mrs. Dexter. 

Oatmeal Bread (Enough for 8 Loaves). 

Four cups fine oatmeal (or rolled oats), 8 cups boiling 
water, 1 cup molasses, 1 tablespoon salt, small spoonful 
lard (melted), 1 yeast cake. Flour enough to make stiff. 
Pour water over meal and cool. Then add yeast, salt, 
molasses and flour. Let rise over night. Stir down, mold 
into loaves, allow to rise again and bake 1 hour. 

Mrs. Hoyt. 

Entire Wheat Bread. 

One qt. warm water, 1 tablespoon lard, 1 of sugar, 1 
teaspoon salt, 1 yeast cake dissolved in enough warm 
water to make liquid, 2 qts. entire wheat flour (Franklin 
Mills brand is best). Mix well, let rise and mould into 
2 loaves. Bake 1 hour. Mrs. V. J. Irwin. 

Nut Bread. 

Three cups sifted flour, ]4 cup sugar, 1 cup chopped 
walnut meats, 4 level teaspoons baking powder, 1 teaspoon 
salt, 1 cup milk, 1 egg. Cream sugar and egg, add milk, 
then dry ingredients, which have been well mixed. Put 
in greased bread pan, stand in a warm place 20 minutes. 
Bake 30 or 35 minutes. Mrs. J. Stowell. 

Brown Bread. 

Three cups corn meal, 2 cups graham flour, 1 teaspoon 
baking powder, 1 cup molasses, 3>4 cups warm water, 1 
teaspoon soda, salt, 1 cup raisins. Steam 3 hours. 

Mrs. A. W. Finch. 



12 BREADS, MUFFINS, ETC. 



Graham Bread. 

Five cups graham flour, 3 cups sour milk, 1 cup mo- 
lasses, salt, 2 teaspoons soda. Makes 2 loaves. Bake in 
a slow oven. Mrs. Martin. 

Oatmeal Bread. 

Two cups rolled oats, teaspoonful salt. Pour over 2 
cups boiling water, let stand until luke warm; y 2 cup 
molasses, y 2 yeast cake in y 2 cup warm water, 4 cups 
flour, let stand over night. Stir thoroughly in morning. 

Mrs. Dexter. 

Nut Bread. 

Scald 1 pt. milk, add 1 teaspoon salt, J4 cup molasses, 
and when luke warm add 1 yeast cake dissolved in *4 CU P 
warm water. Then add 2 cups white flour, 3 cups entire 
wheat flour, 1 cup walnut meats chopped fine, and enough 
more entire wheat flour to make stiff enough to knead. 
Let rise until double in bulk, which will require about 3 
hours. Then shape into loaves and let rise about 1 hour. 
Bake % hour in moderate oven. Mrs. Martin. 

Bran Muffins. 

One egg well beaten, 1 tablespoon sugar, pinch of salt, 
2 cups milk, iy 2 cups flour sifted with 1 teaspoon baking 
powder, 2 cups bran, 1 teaspoonful soda dissolved in a 
little milk. Mix dry ingredients together, then milk and 
egg. Lastly add 1 tablespoon melted butter. 

Mrs. Dexter. 

Oatmeal Bread. 

One pt. rolled oats, 1 qt. boiling water poured over. 
Let stand until luke warm, then add 1 tablespoon salt, % 
cup molasses, 1 yeast cake dissolved in l / 2 cup warm water, 
1 tablespoon shortning, 2 qts. white flour (or enough to 
mix stiff). Let rise over night and finish same as white 
bread. Mrs. Martin. 



BREADS, MUFFINS, ETC. 13 



Graham Bread. 

Two cups graham flour, 2 cups white flour, 2 cups sour 
milk, y 2 cup molasses, 1 teaspoon soda, 1 teaspoon salt. 
Bake an hour. This is good as gems. Mrs. Dexter. 

Coffee Bread. 

One and one-half cups sugar, butter size of an egg, 1 
cup milk, 3 cups flour, 2 teaspoons baking powder. Spread 
butter, sugar and cinnamon on top with raisins. 

Mrs. H. H. Wilcox. 

Quick Corn Meal Gems. 

One egg, % teaspoon salt, 2 tablespoons sugar, 2-3 cup 
milk, 1 cup corn meal, 1 cup flour, l l / 2 teaspoons baking 
powder, 2 tablespoons melted shortning. 

Mrs. A. P. Noyes. 

Breakfast Muffins. 

One cup sugar, 1 egg, 1 tablespoon melted butter, 1 pt. 
sweet milk, 3 cups flour, 2 teaspoons baking powder, 1 
teaspoon salt. Mrs. A. W. Finch. 

Johnny Cake. 

One cup Indian meal, 1 cup white flour, 1 cup sour 
milk, x /a or y 2 cup sugar, 1 egg, butter size of walnut, 1 
teaspoon soda dissolved in the milk. Flour, sugar, meal 
mixed, add milk and beat well. Stir in egg without beat- 
ing, then the butter. Stir well together and bake in quick 
oven. Sweet milk and baking powder may be substituted. 

Mrs. Squier. 

Wheat Muffins. 

Three tablespoons melted butter, 2 tablespoons sugar, 
one egg, 1 cup milk, 2 cups flour, 2 teaspoons baking 
powder, salt. Mrs. Dexter. 



14 BREADS, MUFFINS, ETC. 

Berry Tea Cakes. 

Nice little tea cakes to be baked in muffin rings. One 
cup sugar, 2 eggs, V/z cups milk, 1 heaping teaspoon bak- 
ing powder, piece of butter size of an egg, flour sufficient 
to make a stiff batter. One pt. of berries stirred in. 

Mrs. Finch. 

Finger Rolls. 

Put 2 level tablespoons butter into 1 cup hot milk, cool, 
add rounding teaspoon sugar, y 2 teaspoon salt, }4 yeast 
cake dissolved in y cup luke warm water, and mix with 
about 3 cups bread flour or enough to make a soft dough 
that can be kneaded. Knead 15 minutes, cover and set 
in a warm place to rise for 3 or 4 hours. Knead again 
and make into small balls, then roll under palm of hand 
until they are elongated. Put them into a shallow pan 
and let rise an hour or until double in size, brush with 
beaten egg, bake in hot oven. Mrs. Weiser. 

Hot Cross Buns. 

One cup warm milk, y cup butter, 1 beaten egg, y 2 cup 
sugar, y± teaspoon salt, y± teaspoon cinnamon, % teaspoon 
mace, 1 cup raisins, 1-3 cake yeast dissolved in 1-3 cup 
warm water. Make sponge with the milk, sugar, butter, 
egg, salt, yeast and flour. Let stand until very light, then 
add spice, raisins and enough flour to make dough stiff 
enough to knead. Knead well and let rise until about 
double in bulk. Shape in balls about size of half-dollar. 
Put in pan and let rise until double in bulk. With sharp 
knife cut a cross on top. Bake in moderate oven 20 or 
25 minutes. Mrs. Wilcox. 

Graham Muffins. 

One pt. thick sour milk, 1 tablespoon melted butter, 1 
teaspoon soda stirred in milk until it foams. Then add 
1 pt. graham flour and a beaten egg. Bake 20 minutes in 
hot buttered muffin rings. Mrs. Martin. 



BREADS, MUFFINS, ETC. 15 

Sally Lunns. 

One pt. flour, 3 level teaspoons baking powder, y 2 tea- 
spoon salt (scant), 2 eggs beaten separately, y 2 cup milk, 
y 2 cup butter (melted). Mix flour, baking powder and 
salt. Beat yolks, add milk and melted butter ; put the two 
mixtures together quickly and add the beaten whites ; bake 
in hot oven. If for tea add 2 tablespoons sugar to flour. 
One scant cup milk and }4 CU P butter may be used instead 
of other measures given. Mrs. Squier. 

Corn Muffins. 

Two eggs, 4 tablespoons sugar, 1 tablespoon butter, 1 
cup milk, 2^ cups flour, y 2 cup corn meal, 2 teaspoons 
cream tartar, 1 teaspoon soda, salt. Bake in roll pans or 
muffin rings. Mrs. Martin. 

Continental Hotel Waffles. 

To 1 qt. sifted flour add 3 teaspoons baking powder, 1 
teaspoon salt, 1 of sugar and sift together. Add 1 pt. 
sweet milk, 1 tablespoon melted butter, 6 well beaten eggs. 
Bake in hot waffle irons. Mrs. Finch. 

Bran Gems. 

One-half cup wheat flour, y 2 cup graham, 1 cup bran, 
1 cup milk, 2 teaspoons baking powder, 1 egg y salt. Beat 
the egg thoroughly, add salt and milk. Sift baking powder 
with flour and add other dry ingredients to the egg and 
milk. Fill hot gem pans and bake light brown. 

Mrs. Wilcox. 

Luncheon Muffins. 

Mix together 1 pt. bread flour, y 2 teaspoon salt, 2 table- 
spoons sugar, 2 teaspoons baking powder. Then add y 2 
pt. milk in which 2 eggs have been well beaten. Mix all 
together, then add 2 tablespoons melted butter, bake in 
quick oven, in gem irons, 20 minutes. Mrs. Damon. 



16 BREADS, MUFFINS, ETC. 



Delicious Corn Cake. 

Two cups flour, 2 heaping tablespoons corn meal, 1 of 
sugar, 2 teaspoons baking powder, 1 of butter, y 2 salt, and 
2 eggs. Milk to thin. Mrs. Finch. 

Raised Biscuit. 

Scald 1 pt. milk, add, while hot, y 2 cup sugar, small 
y 2 cup butter. When luke warm add y 2 yeast cake. Add 
flour, mold and raise. Shape in biscuit, raise and bake. 

Mrs. Stowell. 

Rye Gems. 

One egg, y 2 cup sugar, salt, 1 cup sweet milk, 1 tea- 
spoon cream tartar, y 2 teaspoon soda, 1 cup wheat flour, 
1 cup rye meal. Mrs. Marsh. 

Breakfast Cakes. 

Two eggs, y 2 cup sugar, 1 cup milk, y cup butter, 2 
teaspoons Royal baking powder, 2 large cups flour. 

Mrs. Stowell. 

Muffins. 

One egg, 1 cup sugar, butter (size of an egg), 1 cup 
sweet milk, 1 teaspoon cream tartar, y 2 teaspoon soda, 
flour. Mrs. Marsh. 

Blueberry Muffins. 

Two cups flour, 4 teaspoons baking powder, }£ cup 
sugar, 1 teaspoon salt, 1 egg, y 2 cup milk, 2 tablespoons 
melted butter, 1 cup blueberries. Mix dry ingredients, 
add berries, milk, beaten egg and melted butter. Bake 
25 minutes. Mrs. R. A. Kinlock. 

Wheat Gems. 

Two cups flour, 1 egg, 1 cup milk, butter size of an 
egg, 1 tablespoon sugar, 2 tablespoons baking powder. 

Mrs. V. J. Irwin. 



17 CAKES AND COOKIES 



Cakes and Cookies 

Angel Cake. 

One cup flour measured after 1 sifting, then mixed 
with 1 teaspoonful cream tartar and sifted four times. 
Beat the whites of 11 eggs very stiff and light (with a 
spoon beater), add 1^2 cups sugar, sifted once, and beat 
again, 1 teaspoon vanilla: mix flour quickly and lightly. 
Bake in ungreased tin 40 minutes. Mrs. A. L. Damon. 



Lemon Layer Cake. 

One and one-half cups sugar, 2 eggs, 1 large tablespoon 
butter, 1 cup milk, 2 cups flour, 2 teaspoons baking powder. 
Beat sugar and eggs together until light, add butter and 
beat again, add milk and stir in gently the flour in which 
baking powder has been sifted. Bake in 3 layers in 
moderate oven. 

Filling: One cup water, juice of 2 lemons and grated 
rind of 1. One cup sugar, 1 teaspoonful butter, yolk of 
1 egg, 1 tablespoon cornstarch. When cold put between 
layers. Make plain white frosting with white of egg for 
top. Orange juice, in place of lemon, may be used or 
any other filling. Mrs. G. L. Woods. 



Butterless, Eggless, Milkless Cake. 

Cook in sauce pan the following: One cup brown 
sugar, 1 cup water, 1-3 cup lard, 1 lb. seeded raisins, % 
grated nutmeg, 1-3 teaspoon salt, l / 2 teaspoon clove, 1 tea- 
spoon cinnamon, 1 teaspoon cocoa. Boil 3 minutes. When 
cold add 2 cups flour, y 2 teaspoon baking powder, 1 tea- 
spoon soda dissolved in a little hot water. Bake 2 hours 
in a moderate oven. One cup walnut meats is a great 
improvement. Mrs. Hoyt. 



18 CAKES AND COOKIES 



Caramel Filling for Cake. 

Two cups sugar, y 2 cup milk, boil 10 minutes. Then 
add butter size of an egg and 1 teaspoon vanilla, beat to 
a cream. Nice with either chocolate or white cake. 

Mrs. Finch. 

Chocolate Cake. 

Melt 2 squares chocolate, cream *4 CU P butter with 1 
cup sugar, 2 eggs, y 2 cup milk, 1 cup flour, y 2 teaspoon 
saleratus, 1 of cream tartar. Mix in order given. Deli- 
cious served with whipped cream. Mrs. M. I. Shea. 

Quick Loaf Cake. 

One-half cup butter creamed with 1 cup sugar, 1 egg 
beaten light, 1 cup milk, 2 cups flour, 2 teaspoons baking 
powder, y 2 cup raisins, nutmeg, 1 teaspoon vanilla, pinch 
of salt. Mix in order given, adding milk and flour alter- 
nately. Mrs. Hannum. 

Quick Chocolate Cake. 

One-half cup butter, 1 cup sugar, whites 2 eggs, y 2 
cup milk, \y 2 cups flour, 1 teaspoonful baking powder, 2 
tablespoons cocoa, 1 teaspoon vanilla. 

Mrs. A. P. Noyes. 

Angel Cake. 

Four eggs (whites only) well beaten, Y\ cup sugar, y 2 
teaspoon cream tartar, y 2 cup flour, y 2 teaspoon vanilla, 
salt. Bake about 20 minutes, in a moderate oven. 

Mrs. F. F. Dexter. 

Apple Sauce Cake. 

One cup apple sauce, 1% cups sugar, y 2 cup shortning, 
1 egg, y 2 teaspoon (each) clove, cinnamon, salt and nut- 
meg, 1 teaspoon soda, 1 tablespoon molasses, 2 cups flour. 
Fruit if desired. Bake 24 of an hour. 

Mrs. R. A. Kinlock. 



CAKES AND COOKIES 19 

Raised Cake (Made with Bread Dough). 

One and one-half cups sugar, £4 cup butter, creamed 
together, 1 well beaten egg, 3 cups bread dough which has 
raised over night, 3 tablespoons milk, 1 cup raisins, a little 
grated nutmeg. Work this all together with the hands, 
then add 3 even teaspoons baking powder sifted with 3 
tablespoons flour and bake immediately. Mrs. Hoyt. 

Ribbon Cake. 

Three eggs, 1J4 cups sugar, 1 cup butter, y 2 cup milk, 
1 teaspoon cream tartar, ]/ 2 teaspoon soda, 2 cups flour. 
To 1 cup of this mixture add 2 tablespoons molasses, 1 
teaspoon each of cinnamon, clove and nutmeg, 1 cup 
fruit and y 2 cup flour, for the dark part. Bake in three 
layers, putting together with jelly or white of egg. 

Mrs. Marsh. 

Chocolate Cake. 

One-quarter cup butter creamed with 1 cup sugar, y 2 
cup grated chocolate dissolved in % cup boiling water, % 
cup milk, 1 heaping cup flour, 1 teaspoon baking powder, 
1 teaspoon vanilla, 2 eggs beaten together. 

Chocolate Nut Filling for Layer Cake : Beat 1 egg, 
1 cup sugar, 1 tablespoon cornstarch until light. Add 1 
square dissolved chocolate and stir whole into 1 cup scald- 
ing milk. When smooth and thick remove from fire and 
add 1 cup chopped walnuts. Mrs. Hoyt. 

Marble Cake. 

(White portion.) One and one-half cups white sugar, 
y 2 cup butter, white 4 eggs, x / 2 teaspoon cream tartar, 1-3 
of soda, y 2 cup milk, %y 2 cups flour. 

(Dark portion.) One cup brown sugar, 1-3 cup mo- 
lasses, y 2 cup butter, 1-3 cup milk, yolks 4 eggs, y 2 tea- 
spoon soda, y 2 teaspoon each of clove and mace, 2 cups 
flour, 1 tablespoon of each portion put into the pan alter- 
nately. Mrs. Cooley. 



30 CAKES AND COOKIES 

Coffee Cake. 

One cup flour, 3 level teaspoons baking powder, y 2 cup 
sugar, y 2 teaspoon salt, 4 tablespoons melted butter, 1 
well beaten egg. Mix butter, egg and milk together, add 
the flour, suo-ar, baking powder and salt which have been 
sifted together three times. Spread with broken nuts, 
sprinkle with cinnamon and sugar, and bake in moderate 
oven for 45 minutes. Mrs. Shea. 



Walnut Coffee Cake. 

One-half cup butter, 1 cup sugar, x / 2 cup strong coffee, 
1}4 cups flour, 2y 2 teaspoons baking powder, whites 3 
eggs, 24 cup walnut meats broken in pieces. Cream butter, 
add gradually the sugar and beat until white and frothy. 
Pour in the coffee, sift flour with baking powder, add 
walnut meats and whites of eggs beaten stiff. Bake. 

Frosting: Add to 1 cup confectioner's sugar as much 
strong coffee as will give the right consistency. Flavor 
with y 2 teaspoon vanilla. Garnish with halves English 
walnuts. Mrs. Marsh. 



Sponge Cake. 

Two eggs, yolks and whites beaten separately, 1 cup 
sugar, putting 2-3 with whites and 1-3 with yolks, beating 
both thoroughly, then turn all together and beat again; 
% teaspoon salt, 1 cup pastry flour in which 1 heaping 
teaspoon baking powder has been mixed. Lastly y 2 cup 
boiling water. Flavor with lemon and bake in quick oven 
20 or 25 minutes. The Van Deusen tin, which can be 
turned upside down, allowing stretching of cake instead of 
settling, is advised. Mrs. A. O. Squier. 



Fillings for Cake. 

One cup conf. sugar, y A cup butter creamed, 1 tea- 
spoon cocoa, 2 tablespoons hot coffee, 1 teaspoon vanilla. 



CAKES AND COOKIES 21 

Fruit Cake. 

Cream 1 lb. brown sugar with 1 lb. butter, add 10 eggs 
beaten very light, 1 cup of brandy or fruit juice, 1 cup 
molasses, 6 cups flour, 2 lbs. currants, 1 lb. of raisins, also 

1 lb. citron, 2 teaspoons each of clove, nutmeg and mace. 
When all are mixed add 1 teaspoon soda dissolved in a 
little warm water. Mix well. Bake in 4 ordinary bread 
pans, slowly, for 2 hours. Mrs. Shea. 

Sponge Cake. 

Four eggs beaten separately, 1 cup sugar, 3 tablespoons 
cold water, 1 teaspoon vanilla, 1 cup flour, iy 2 tablespoons 
cornstarch and 1 teaspoon baking powder (added to- 
gether). Fold beaten whites in last. Bake in slow oven 
40 minutes. Mrs. Kinlock. 

Nut Cake. 

Melt piece of butter size of butternut, add 1 cup sugar, 

2 eggs, 1 cup milk, salt, 1 teaspoon vanilla and 2 cups flour 
with which has been sifted 1 teaspoon soda and 2 of cream 
tartar. Add 1 cup chopped walnut meats. Bake in large 
pan. Mrs. A. L. Cooley. 

Mrs. Hoyt's Favorite Cake. 

One cup sugar and Yz cup butter creamed together. 
Add 1 egg well beaten with y 2 cup sugar, 1 cup milk, 3 
cups flour, 2 tablespoons baking powder. Add flour and 
milk alternately, 1 cup raisins, seeded, chopped and floured, 
small quantity of vanilla and nutmeg. Bake slowly 1 hour. 

Fudge Cake. 

One-quarter cup butter, iy 4 cups sugar, 2 sqs. melted 
chocolate, 2 eggs, 1 cup sour cream, 1 teaspoon soda, 1-3 
cup water, 3 cups sifted flour, 1 teaspoon baking powder, 
1 teaspoon vanilla. 

Frosting: Two and one-half cups confectioner's sugar, 
24 cup cocoa, 1 cup nut meats, add enough cream to spread 
well, vanilla. Mrs. Dexter. 



22 CAKES AND COOKIES 

Strawberry Frosting. 

One cup strawberries mashed and sweetened, beaten 
white of 1 egg. Spread on sponge cake. 

Sour Cream Filling. 

Beat 1 egg, add ^ CU P conf. sugar, 1 cup chopped 
walnut meats, y 2 cup sour cream and a few drops of 
vanilla. Stir just enough to mix well. 

Soft Chocolate Frosting. 

Two sqs. chocolate, 1 cup boiling water, 1 cup sugar, 
1 tablespoon cornstarch, y 2 cup milk; stir until thick. 
Cool before putting on cake. 

Walnut Cake Filling. 

One cup powdered sugar, y cup hot water, let simmer 
a few minutes. Beat white of egg and mix with above. 
When cold add y 2 cup raisins, ]/ 2 cup walnut meats, 2 
tablespoons cocoanut, all chopped. Flavor with vanilla. 

Mrs. Dexter. 

Chocolate Cake. 

Two sqs. chocolate melted, add y 2 cup milk and beaten 
yolk of 1 egg, 1 cup sugar and 1 tablespoon butter creamed 
with a little salt, 1 teaspoon soda, y 2 cup milk. Add choco- 
late mixture with large Vy 2 cups flour. Bake in layers, 
cover with boiled frosting, flavored with almond. 

Mrs. Cooley. 

Crumb Cake. 

Two cups flour, \y 2 cups sugar, y$ cup butter. Mix 
all together into fine crumbs, with your hands, then take 
out 2-3 cup crumbs and set aside. Break 2 eggs into 
balance of crumbs and add y± cup milk (little at a time). 
Beat hard until it looks like cream. Flavor, put in a long 
pan and sprinkle crumbs in cup over the top of cake and 
bake. Mrs. Dexter. 



CAKES AND COOKIES 23 

Pound Cake. 

One and one-half cups flour, y teaspoon baking pow- 
der, iy 2 cups powdered sugar, sift together three times ; 1 
cup butter, 1 cup eggs (5) ; work with hands yolks into 
sugar and flour. Beat whites stiff and add last. Flavor. 

Mrs. Dexter. 
Gold Cake. 
One cup sugar, y cup butter, yolks 4 eggs, y 2 cup milk, 
% teaspoon soda and y 2 of cream tartar or 1 small tea- 
spoon baking powder, 1^4 cups flour. Mrs. Dexter. 

Jumbles. 

One-half cup butter, 1 cup sugar, 2 eggs, 3 tablespoons 
milk, iy cups Haxall flour, 1 cup raisins, seeded and 
chopped. Drop by teaspoonfuls in pan a little way apart. 

Mrs. Hannum. 

Vanilla Wafers. 

One cup sugar, 2-3 cup butter creamed with sugar, y 
cup warm milk, 1 tablespoon vanilla extract, 1 egg beaten 
with two teaspoonfuls Royal baking powder. Flour 
enough to roll — and roll very thin. Bake in hot oven. 

Mrs. Stowell. 

Rocks. 

One and one-half cups sugar, y cup butter, 3 eggs, 3 
tablespoons hot water, 1 small teaspoon soda, 1 cup raisins, 
1 cup currants, 1 cup English walnuts, 1 teaspoon cinna- 
mon, 2y> cups flour (generous). Cream butter and sugar, 
add beaten eggs and water, flour, soda and cinnamon, then 
chop fruit and nuts, make very stiff and drop on buttered 
pans. Mrs. Wilcox. 

Oatmeal Cookies. 

One cup sugar, 1 tablespoon butter, 2 eggs, y> teaspoon 
salt, 1 teaspoon vanilla, 2 of baking powder, 2 cups oat- 
meal. Drop y 2 teaspoon on buttered tins about 2 in. apart. 
Bake in moderate oven 7 minutes. 

Mrs. R. A. Kinlock. 



24 CAKES AND COOKIES 

Ginger Drops. 

One scant cup shortning (butter and lard mixed), 1 
cup sugar, y 2 cup molasses, 1 tablespoon soda dissolved in 
the molasses, 1 cup boiling water, 1 teaspoon ginger, 1 egg, 
5 cups flour. Drop from spoon into baking pan. 

Mrs. Squier. 

Molasses Pepper Cakes. 

One-half cup molasses, y 2 cup sugar, y 2 cup sour milk 
in which y 2 teaspoon soda has been dissolved, Y\ teaspoon 
black pepper, y 2 teaspoon salt, 1 egg, shortning size of an 
egg, 2 cups flour, 2 teaspoons baking powder. 

Mrs. Finch. 

Fruit Cookies. 

One cup sugar, V 2 cup butter, 1-3 cup milk, 1 cup rais- 
ins, 1 egg, 1 teaspoon baking powder, one of mace and 
salt. Just enough flour to roll out. Mrs. Dexter. 

Filled Cookies. 

One cup sugar, y 2 cup shortning, 1 egg, y 2 cup milk, 
Zy 2 cups flour, 2 teaspoons cream tartar, 1 of soda and 1 
of vanilla. Roll thin, place cookies in pan with a teaspoon 
filling on each, placing another on top, pressing the edges 
together. 

Filling: One cup chopped raisins, y 2 cup sugar, y 2 cup 
water, 1 tablespoon flour, a little salt. Mix all together 
and cook until thick. Mrs. A. L. Cooley. 

Ginger Drops. 

One-half cup sugar, 1 cup molasses, y 2 cup butter, 1 
teaspoon ginger, 1 of cinnamon, 2 teaspoons soda in 1 cup 
boiling water, 2y 2 cups pastry flour. Stir all together, 
then add 2 well beaten eggs. Bake in gem tins in quick 
oven, as the mixture is very thin Two and one-half table- 
spoons is sufficient for each cup, as it will rise to more 
than double the height. Mrs. Squier. 



CAKES AND COOKIES 25 

Fruit Gingerbread. 

One cup molasses, 1 tablespoon lard, y 2 teaspoon salt, 
y 2 teaspoon cinnamon, y 2 of clove, 1 teaspoon lemon ex- 
tract, 1 cup sour milk; raisins, currants and preserved 
ginger cut in small pieces, heaping teaspoon soda, 2 cups 
flour. Mrs. Irwin. 

Molasses Puff. 

One-half cup sugar, 1 cup molasses, y 2 cup butter or 
lard, 1 teaspoon vanilla, 1 of clove and 2 teaspoons cinna- 
mon, 2^2 cups flour, 1 cup boiling water in which dissolve 
level teaspoon soda. Put in warm gem pan and bake in 
moderate oven. Mrs. Wilcox. 

Crullers. 

Drop 1 egg into cup, then fill with sugar. Beat with 
knife into mixing bowl. One cup milk, 4 cups flour, 2 
even teaspoons baking powder, butter size of walnut, %. 
teaspoon salt. Flavor with nutmeg or cinnamon. Have 
fat hot so it smokes. This will make 28. Mrs. Woods. 

California Drops. 

One-half cup sugar, 1 egg, Y / 2 cup shortning, 1 teaspoon 
soda in a cup hot water, 1 teaspoon cinnamon also of clove, 
234 cups flour. Bake in hot oven. Mrs. M. I. Shea. 

Mother's Sour Milk Crullers. 

One egg, y 2 cup thick sour milk, %. cup sour cream or 
1 tablespoon shortning, 1 level teaspoon soda dissolved in 
milk, l /% teaspoon ginger, nutmeg to flavor. Pastry flour 
to mix a soft dough. Fry in deep, hot fat, turn constantly, 
drain on brown paper. Warranted not to keep. 

Mrs. Squier. 

Graham Crackers. 

Two cups graham flour, 2 cups white flour, 1 cup sugar, 
1 cup melted butter or lard, y 2 teaspoon soda dissolved in 
y 2 cup cold water. Salt. Mix, roll thin and bake a light 
brown. Mrs. Wilcox. 



26 CAKES AND COOKIES 

Ginger Cookies. 

One cup molasses, 1 cup sugar, 1 cup melted shortning, 
3 teaspoons soda, 2 of cinnamon, 1 of ginger, 1 of salt, 
1 egg. Mix very soft: if mixed the night before and let 
stand they are better. Mrs. Kinlock. 

Oatmeal Cookies. 

One cup sugar, ^ cup shortning (lard and butter), 2 
eggs well beaten, 2 cups flour, 1 teaspoon soda sifted with 
flour, 1 cup chopped raisins, 2 cups oatmeal. Salt. Drop 
1 teaspoonful for a cookie. Mrs. Dexter. 

Sallie's Cookies. 

Two cups sugar, 1 cup butter, 2 eggs, 1 teaspoon soda, 
y 2 teaspoon salt, little grated nutmeg, 1 cup sour cream or 
milk. Mix soft and bake in a quick oven. 

Mrs. Wilcox. 

Ginger Cookies. 

One-half cup sugar, 1 cup molasses, large y 2 cup butter 
or lard, 1 teaspoon soda dissolved in scant y 2 cup hot 
water, 1 teaspoon ginger. Flour to roll. Less ginger and 
a little clove and cinnamon may be added. 

Mrs. Stowell. 

Ginger Snaps. 

One cup sugar, ]/ 2 cup molasses, y 2 cup butter, y 2 cup 
hot water, 1 teaspoon soda, 1 small teaspoon ginger. Roll 
very thin. Mrs. J. Stowell. 

Soft Ginger Cookies. 

One cup molasses, y 2 cup butter, 1 of cold water, 1 
heaping teaspoon soda, 1 qt. flour, ginger and salt to taste. 
Drop on tins and bake in quick oven. Mrs. Finch. 

Angel Ginger Bread. 

One-quarter cup molasses, y 2 cup sugar, y± cup butter, 
y 2 cup boiling water, 1 level teaspoon soda, 1 heaping cup 
flour, 1 egg, y teaspoon cinnamon, y> teaspoon ginger. 
Salt. Add boiling water last. Mrs. R. A. Kinlock. 



SALADS AND SALAD DRESSING 27 



Salads and Salad Dressing 

Marshmallow and Pineapple Salad. 

Cut marshmallows and pineapples into small pieces. 
Arrange in layers on lettuce leaves, cover with boiled 
dressing. Allow to stand a short time before serving. A 
favorite salad in the South. Mrs. Hoyt. 

Tomato Salad with Pecans. 

Select 6 firm tomatoes, peel and remove seeds and pulp. 
Mix this with mayonnaise into which you have thoroughly 
stirred y 2 cup chopped celery and y 2 cup chopped pecan 
meats: refill the tomato shells with this mixture; serve 
on crisp lettuce leaves, adding a tablespoon of mayonnaise 
on top. Mrs. Martin. 

Fruit Salad Dressing. 

Two eegs, whites and yolks beaten separately, 2 table- 
spoons sugar, 4 tablespoons vinegar and a little salt. Cook 
in double boiler until like custard. Just before serving 
add 1 pt. whipped cream beaten stiff. It is very nice 
served on sliced pineapple or fruit cut up and served on 
lettuce leaves. Mrs. Weiser. 

Grape Fruit Salad. 

Mix equal quantities of grape fruit and English walnut 
meats with ]/ 2 cup mayonnaise dressing. Serve in grape 
fruit cups in lettuce nest. Mrs. Squier. 

Salad Dressing. 

One teaspoonful mustard, 1 tablespoon flour, 1 table- 
spoon sugar, y 2 teaspoon salt. Mix together with large 
tablespoon butter; put in double boiler, let all melt to- 
gether, add yolks of 2 eggs, mix well, add 1 cup milk and 
slowly 1-3 cup vinegar. When cold add y 2 cup sour 
cream. Mrs. V. J. Irwin. 



28 SALADS AND SALAD DRESSING 

Tomato Jelly Salad. 

Into 1 qt. of tomatoes put some dried celery leaves, 1 
small onion, a pinch of red pepper, salt to taste and a pinch 
of clove. Cook until tomato is well seasoned, then strain. 
Have ready enough gelatine dissolved in cold water. Pour 
hot tomato juice onto it. When thoroughly mixed pour 
into individual molds or one large mold. When set place 
on lettuce and pour boiled dressing over it. Nuts may be 
used with this if desired. Mrs. Hoyt. 

Vegetable Salad. 

Six medium potatoes, 2 medium beets (diced), 1 scant 
cup small lima beans, 1 tablespoonful minced onion. Salt 
and mix with dressing given below and serve on lettuce 

Boiled Dressing. 

One teaspoon mustard, 1 teaspoon salt 1 (scant) tea- 
spoon cornstarch, 2 tablespoons sugar, y 2 saltspoon black 
pepper, dash of cayenne, 1 egg beaten. Mix dry ingredi- 
ents, stir in the egg and add 1 cup, or a little less, of 
cream. Cook in double boiler like custard, adding butter 
size of English walnut. When off the stove stir in % 
cup vinegar. Mrs. A. P. Noyes. 

Spinach Salad. 

Mix 2 cups cold, cooked and seasoned spinach with 4 
hard boiled eggs, chopped fine. Pack into molds; when 
ready to serve turn into nests of lettuce leaves. Cover 
with French dressing. Garnish top and edge of salad with 
egg cut in daisy shapes. Pass cream or mayonnaise dress- 
ing with this salad. Mrs. Squires. 

Celery Salad in Apple Cups. 

Cut celery into y 2 -inch pieces, slice cucumbers very 
thin, cut 1 doz. pimento olives in rings; add x /z as many 
English walnut meats (broken or chopped) as you have 
celery; mix into a good mayonnaise and fill apples which 
have been previously scooped out. Chill and serve on 
crisp lettuce leaves. Mrs. Martin. 



SALADS AND SALAD DRESSING 29 



Cream Cheese Salad. 

One Philadelphia cream cheese made moist with a little 
cream. Add English walnut meats chopped fine. Form 
into balls and serve on crisp lettuce leaves with mayon- 
naise dressing. Mrs. Martin. 



Dressing for Cabbage Salad. 

Three eggs, 2 tablespoons mustard, 2 tablespoons sugar, 
1 tablespoon salt, a few grains cayenne pepper, 1 cup sweet 
cream. Beat eggs, add other ingredients, mix well; add 
1 cup hot vinegar, cook until like custard. Cabbage finely 
shredded and mixed with the cold dressing. Good with 
cold meats also. Mrs. Squier. 



Banana Salad. 

Peel as many bananas as you have people to serve, 
unless fruit is very large, in which case use y 2 for each 
person. Roll in English walnut meats which have been 
chopped fine. Place on crisp lettuce leaves and serve with 
mayonnaise dressing. Mrs. Martin. 



Southern Lettuce Salad. 

Cut the solid cabbage-like heads of Southern lettuce 
in two and serve half to each person, with the following 
dressing: One and one-half cups mayonnaise, 1 cup chili 
sauce, 4 drops vinegar or lemon juice, 1 tablespoon Wor- 
cestershire, paprika to taste. Mrs. Martin. 



French Mustard. 

Beat well together 1 egg, 3 tablespoons mustard, 1 
tablespoon sugar, 2-3 cup vinegar. Cook until like cus- 
tard. Mrs. Squier. 



30 SALADS AND SALAD DRESSING 

Mayonnaise Dressing. 

Beat yolk of 1 egg, 1-3 teaspoon salt, 1-3 tablespoon 
mustard, 1-3 tablespoon sugar together until light and 
thick. Set in dish of ice-water while beating. One- 
third pt. oil dropped in slowly, beating all the time; 1 
tablespoon vinegar and a little lemon juice added a little 
at a time while beating in the oil. A little whipped cream 
and a speck of red pepper added if desired. 

Mrs. J. Stowell. 



Vegetable Salad. 

Sliced tomatoes, cucumbers or celery on lettuce. Mix 
a little devilled ham into the salad dressing and pour 
over it. Mrs. Finch. 



PUDDINGS 31 



Puddings 



Crumble Pudding. 

Six eggs, 1 cup crumbled bread crumbs, 1 cup sugar, 
1 cup English walnuts, 1 lb. dates (quartered). Break 
eggs into dish, add pinch of salt, beat; add sugar, to 
crumbs add 2 teaspoons baking powder, mix in nuts. Add 
dates to beaten eggs, then bread crumbs and 2 teaspoons 
vanilla. Bake l / 2 hour in moderate oven; do not cut; dish 
out with a fork and serve either hot or cold with whipped 
cream. Mrs. Wilcox. 

Macaroon Pudding. 

One-half pt. cream, whipped, ]/ 2 cup sugar, 2 level 
tablespoons gelatine dissolved and strained into whipped 
cream, 1 doz. macaroons rolled fine and spread over top 
before serving. Enough for 3 or 4 dishes. 

Mrs. Squier. 

Steamed Graham Pudding. 

One and one-half cups graham flour, 1 cup milk, 1 cup 
raisins, y 2 cup molasses, 1 teaspoon soda. Nutmeg and 
salt. Steam three hours. 

Sauce. 

One-half cup butter, 1 cup sugar, 2 eggs; beat whites 
to froth, add just before serving. Vanilla. 

Mrs. F. Carpenter. 

Dutch Apple Pudding. 

One-quarter cup butter, 1 egg, y 2 teaspoon salt, 1 scant 
cup milk, 2 cups flour, 2 teaspoons baking powder. Mix 
like batter, pour in long pan, 4 apples cut in eighths laid 
on top, 3 tablespoons sugar sprinkled on apples. 

Sauce: One tablespoon butter, 1 of flour, 1 cup hot 
water and 1 cup sugar; cook together; 1 teaspoon vanilla. 

Mrs. Dexter. 



32 PUDDINGS 



Brown Pudding. 

One cup suet, chopped fine, l / 2 cup molasses, l / 2 cup 
sugar, 1 cup raisins chopped fine, 1 teaspoon cream tartar, 
l / 2 teaspoon soda, l]/ 2 cups milk, 5 cups flour, 1 teaspoon 
salt. Steam three hours. Mrs. Marsh. 

Walnut Pudding. 

One pt. milk scalded, ^ CU P sugar, yolk 1 egg, 1 heap- 
ing tablespoon corn starch. Flavor to taste. Cook as a 
custard, adding flavoring and y 2 cup chopped walnut meats 
when done. Frost with white of egg and brown in oven 
or serve with whipped cream. Mrs. Hoyt. 

Indian Tapioca Pudding. 

To 1 qt. boiled milk add 6 tablespoons Indian meal, 
2-3 cup molasses, pinch of salt, 1 teaspoon cinnamon and 
4 tablespoons minute tapioca; mix well and put into oven. 
Stir frequently. Add more cold milk if needed, bake 
slowly about two hours. Serve with whipped cream. 

Mrs. Hoyt. 

Chocolate Pudding. 

One pt. milk, l l / 2 sqs. chocolate added when milk is 
hot, y 2 cup sugar, 2 large tablespoons cornstarch. Cook 
until quite thick; when cool add beaten whites of 2 eggs, 
beat in lightly. Make a custard of 1 coffee cup milk, l / 2 
cup sugar, yolks 2 eggs. Vanilla. Mrs. Cooley. 

Caramel Pudding. 

One qt. milk, scalded, 1% cups sugar (browned), mix 
with milk, 3 tablespoons cornstarch wet with milk, 1 tea- 
spoon vanilla, 1 cup chopped nuts added last. Serve cold 
with plain or whipped cream. Mrs. Dexter. 

Tapioca Cream. 

Soak 3 tablespoons tapioca over night. Pour off the 
water, add 1 qt. milk; when it boils stir in the yolks of 3 
zgp> X A cup sugar and little salt. Stir until it begins to 
thicken. When cold flavor with vanilla or lemon. Frost 
with the whites and brown in the oven. Mrs. Marsh. 



PUDDINGS 33 



Dutch Apple Cake for Dessert. 

One pt. flour, l /± cup butter, 1 scant cup milk, y* tea- 
spoon salt, 2 teaspoons baking powder, 1 egg, 4 sour 
apples, 2 tablespoons sugar. Mix dry ingredients, rub in 
the butter, beat egg and mix with milk, stir into dry mix- 
ture. Spread in a deep pie plate. Cut apples into eighths, 
lay in rows on top, pressing thin edge into the batter, 
sprinkle sugar on apples. Bake in hot oven 30 minutes. 
Eat with sauce. Mrs. Woods. 

Grandmother's Cherry Pudding. 

Eight ozs. sugar dissolved in 1 pt. hot milk; when cold 
add 1 pt. cream and freeze quite stiff. Remove the dasher, 
repack and stand aside l J / 2 or 2 hours. When ready to 
serve, stir in 1 pt. fresh cherries, that have been stoned 
and chopped very fine, sweetened with y> cup powdered 
sugar. Serve at once. If canned cherries are used less 
sugar is needed. Other flavorings may be added with 
cherries to. suit taste. Mrs. Squier. 

Lemon Pudding. 

Wet 4 tablespoons cornstarch with cold water, to a 
cream, add j4 teaspoon salt and pour on 3 cups boiling 
water. Add 2 dessertspoons butter, juice of 2 large 
lemons and grated rind of one, 2 cups sugar and yolks 
3 eggs. Bake 10 minutes, then add frosting made of 
whites of eggs (beaten stiff) with 3 teaspoons sugar, 
return to oven and brown. Mrs. Marsh. 

Orange Meringue. 

Yolks of 2 eggs beaten with 2 tablespoons sugar; add 
1 dessertspoon cornstarch wet in milk, stir all into 1 cup 
of hot milk. Cook until thick: cool and pour over 3 or 4 
oranges, peeled and cut into fine pieces with 1 cup, or 
sufficient, sugar well stirred into them. Cover with 
meringue made with the whites of the eggs, beaten to a 
stiff froth with 2 tablespoons sugar. Brown delicately, 
serve cold. • Mrs. Squier. 



34 PUDDINGS 



Nut Pudding. 

One cup N. O. molasses, 1 cup chopped suet, 1 cup 
sweet milk, 2}4 cups flour, 1 cup seeded and chopped 
raisins, 1 lb. English walnut meats, y^ lb. chopped figs, 

1 teaspoon soda, y 2 nutmeg, grated; mix well. Steam 
three to four hours. 

Sauce. 

One cup sugar, 1 egg, l / 2 cup butter, 1 tablespoon flour. 
Nutmeg and brandy to taste. Hard sauce may be used if 
preferred. Mrs. Squier. 

Snow Pudding. 

One-half oz. gelatine, 1 pt. cold water; place on back 
of the stove until dissolved ; add 1 cup sugar and whites of 

2 eggs beaten stiff; beat all together. Put in glass dish 
a layer of nuts and fruit, then a layer of gelatine. Chill 
on the ice and serve with whipped cream. Mrs. Cooley. 

Poor Man's Pudding. 

One-half cup sweet or sour milk, ]/ 2 cup molasses, 34 
cup butter, x / 2 cup raisins, 1 egg, teaspoon soda, nutmeg 
and cinnamon. Flour sufficient to make thick as cake, 
half graham and half wheat. Steam 2 hours. To be 
eaten with hard sauce. Mrs. R. A. Kinlock. 

Cocoanut Indian Pudding. 

Two tablespoons corn meal, 1 tablespoon tapioca, 1 
heaping tablespoon cocoanut, pinch of salt, butter size of 
a walnut, 1 tablespoon molasses, % cup sugar, 2 cups sweet 
milk. Set in dish of water and bake about 2 hours. Stir 
twice before it thickens up so the corn meal won't settle 
to the bottom of dish. Mrs. V. J. Irwin. 

Indian Meal Pudding. 

One qt. milk, scald slowly. Add 3 tablespoons Indian 
meal, 1 beaten egg, 1 cup sugar, cinnamon to flavor. Bake 
slowly as a custard. Mrs. Kinlock. 



PUDDINGS 35 



Marshmallow Pudding. 

One-half lb. marshmallows cut in small pieces, l / 2 cup 
English walnut meats cut in pieces, 34 CU P candied cherries, 
1 cup whipped cream, 2 tablespoons powdered sugar, y 2 
teaspoon vanilla. Place in mold and set on ice. 

Mrs. W. R. Weiser. 

Baked Indian Pudding. 

One pt. milk; while boiling stir in 3 tablespoons corn 
meal. When cool add 1 well beaten egg, J / 2 cup molasses, 
x / 2 cup sugar, butter half the size of an egg, 1 teaspoon 
salt, 1 tablespoon ginger and 1 qt. milk. Bake slowly 2 
hours. Mrs. Marsh. 

Cottage Pudding. 

Beat 1 level tablespoon butter with 4 of sugar, 1 egg, 
34 cup milk, y 2 cup flour with level teaspoon baking pow- 
der. Serve with whipped cream or fruit sauce. 

Mrs. Cooley. 

Marshmallow Cream. 

One pt. cream, 1 lb. marshmallows cut into small pieces : 
pour over them the cream. Let stand 2 hours. To be 
poured over any kind of fruit or jelly. Mrs. Squier. 

Orange Puffs. 

Bake cottage pudding in small tins, serve with orange 
sauce. 

Beat the whites of 3 eggs until stiff, add gradually, 
while beating, 1 cup powdered sugar, little salt, then the 
grated rind and juice of 2 oranges and juice of 1 lemon. 

Mrs. Dexter. 

Prune Pudding. 

One lb. prunes cooked until soft, put through colander. 
Beat thoroughly, add whites 4 eggs beaten with 3 table- 
spoons sugar and salt. Bake in moderate oven y 2 hour. 
Serve hot or cold with cream. Mrs. A. L. Cooley. 



36 PUDDINGS 



Compote of Prunes. 

Soak 1 lb. prunes over night. In the morning add 
fresh water and simmer until very soft; drain in colander 
and remove the stones. Have 1-3 box (powdered) gela- 
tine dissolving in a little hot water. Mash the prunes 
very thoroughly, set on stove and immediately add 1 cup 
sugar (no water). When thoroughly blended add the pre- 
pared gelatine and y 2 cup sherry wine or vanilla to taste. 
Pour in mould and serve cold with cream. 

Mrs. Martin. 

Coffee Mousse. 

One-half pt. cream, 3 eggs, 1 scant cup sugar, 1 cup 
coffee. Whip cream, add beaten yolks of eggs and sugar, 
coffee and beaten whites, and then the cream beaten stiff. 
Pack in freezer and let stand 3 or 4 hours. 

Mrs. Cooley. 

White Velvet Sherbet. 

Juice 2 lemons mixed with 2^ cups sugar. Chill V/ 2 
pts. rich milk, add lemon and sugar and freeze. Orange 
sherbet can be prepared in similar way. Raspberry, by 
making raspberry syrup and adding a little vanilla. Maple, 
by using a little lemon with maple syrup. Two-thirds red 
raspberries and 1-3 currants with vanilla is also nice. 

Mrs. A. W. Finch. 

Frozen Sherbet. 

One cup sugar, 2 cups water; cook to a syrup. When 
cool add juice of 1 orange, 1 lemon, 1 can pineapple (4 
slices taken out), put through grinder; 1 small bottle 
cherries, cut in half. Use juice of cherries. Freeze mix- 
ture; when frozen add white 1 egg beaten stiff with a 
little powdered sugar. Mrs. W. R. Weiser. 



PIES 37 



Pies 



Green Grape Pie. 

Stew and strain the grapes ; to 1 cupful add 1 cup sugar, 
1 beaten egg, with the yolk of another, saving the white 
for the meringue, pinch of salt. When baked cover with 
meringue and brown in oven. Mrs. Woods. 

Sour Cream Pie. 

One cup sour cream, 2-3 cup sugar, 2 eggs, 1 teaspoon 
vanilla, 1 scant tablespoon flour. Beat eggs, add sugar. 
Beat again, add cream, etc. Mix well and bake as a 
custard pie. Mrs. Hoyt. 

Lemon Pie, with Two Crusts. 

One egg well beaten, 1 cup sugar, 1 heaping teaspoon 
flour or corn starch stirred dry into the sugar. Juice and 
grated rind of 1 lemon, 2 tablespoons cold water. 

Mrs. Marsh. 

Green Tomato Mince Meat. 

Seven qts. tomatoes, 5 qts. apple chopped fine. Drain 
the tomatoes and pour over them as much scalding water 
as there was juice and drain again; 1 lb. seeded raisins, 
1 lb. currants, % l / 2 lbs. brown sugar, 2 cups molasses, 1 
cup butter, 1 cup vinegar, 1 tablespoon salt, cinnamon, 
cloves and nutmeg. Add as much water as needed and 
boil all together one hour. Mrs. Dexter. 

Mrs. Dickson's Prune Cream Pie. 

Stew, stone and mash enough prunes to make 1 cup of 
pulp. Add 1 cup cream or rich milk, and yolks of 3 eggs 
well beaten : flavor lightly with vanilla, add pinch of salt, 
sweeten to taste. Bake with one crust in quick oven. 
Cover with whites of eggs for meringue. 



38 PIES 

Blueberry Pot Pie. 

Put 1 qt. preserved blueberries in kettle; when boiling 
hot put on top light dumplings and cook 20 minutes. Serve 
hot. 

Meat Pie. 

One lb. hamburg steak, or left-over meat, cut fine ; add 
1 cup seeded raisins, 1 doz. stoned olives, salt, pepper and 
red pepper to taste. Stew until tender and thicken with 
1 tablespoon corn meal. Then stir iy 2 cups corn meal 
into boiling salted water, add 1 tablespoon butter and cook 
until the consistency of mush. Line a buttered baking 
dish with about 2-3 of the mixture, pour in the meat and 
cover with the remaining mixture. Bake }4 hour. 

Mrs. V. J. Irwin. 

Mock Cherry Pie. 

One cup cranberries, y 2 cup seeded raisins, 1 cup boil- 
ing water, 1 tablespoon flour, 2-3 teaspoon vanilla, 1-3 tea- 
spoon almond, pinch of salt. Chop cranberries and raisins 
together, add other ingredients. Bake with two crusts, 
serve cold. Mrs. Squier. 

Apple Pot Pie. 

Pare and quarter 6 or 8 tart apples, and cook with y 2 
cup of water, sweeten to taste. When boiling hot add 
dumplings and cook 20 minutes. Mrs. A. W. Finch. 

Sour Cream Pie. 

One Qgg, 1 cup sugar, 1 cup sour cream, y 2 cup chopped 
raisins, j/ 2 teaspoon cloves, also cinnamon. Bake with 
two crusts. Mrs. Wilcox. 

Prune and Apricot Pie. 

Two-thirds stewed prunes with 1-3 stewed apricots, 
mixed and sweetened to taste. Bake with two crusts. 

Mrs. Finch. 



PIES 39 

Lemon Pie. 

One cup sugar, juice and grated rind of 1 lemon, 1 
heaping tablespoon cornstarch, yolk of 1 egg, sufficient 
water for 1 pie or l l / 2 cups. Boil sugar and other in- 
gredients, except the egg, with water until thick, then the 
well beaten yolk, stirring thoroughly until all is blended 
and well cooked. Add butter size of a walnut. Bake in 

1 crust, using white of eggs for meringue. Two eggs and 

2 cups water for larger pie. Mrs. Squier. 

Mince Meat for Pies. 

Boil a nice piece of beef. To 1 qt. of ground meat add 
2 qts. chopped apple, 1-6 qt. chopped suet, 1 nutmeg grated, 

1 teaspoon cinnamon, y 2 of clove, y 2 cup lemon juice, 1-3 
cup thick boiled cider, 1 cup currant juice, 1 of grape 
juice, V/ 2 pts. cider, 4 cups sugar, 1 cup raisins chopped, 

2 teaspoons salt. Mix thoroughly, cook in double boiler 
2 or 3 hours. Mrs. J. Stowell. 

Lemon Pie. 

One cup sugar 1 tablespoon flour, pinch of salt. Mix 
together, then add juice and grated rind of 1 lemon, yolks 
of 2 eggs. Beat together, add 1 large cup sweet milk. 
Beat whites until very stiff and stir into the mixture last 
thing. Pour into deep pie tin lined with rich crust and 
bake 30 minutes. Mrs. R. A. Kinlock. 

Fruit Mince Meat. 

Twelve lbs. green tomatoes, 2 oranges, 2 lemons, 1 cup 
suet, chopped fine, 2 lbs. raisins, 4 lbs. brown sugar, 1 cup 
vinegar, 1 tablespoon cloves, 1 of cinnamon, 1 teaspoon 
nutmeg, 1 tablespoon salt. Chop tomatoes fine, scald and 
drain 3 times. Squeeze juice from lemons and oranges 
and chop rinds fine. Mix all together and boil slowly for 
2 hours. When making pies chopped apples can be added 
if desired. Mrs. Irwin. 



40 JELLIES AND MARMALADES 



Jellies and Marmalades 

Grape Conserve. 

Five lbs. Concord grapes, 5 lbs. sugar, 1 lb. seeded 
raisins, 2 oranges and 1 lemon put through food chopper. 
Cook grapes to separate seeds, then add sugar, raisins and 
fruit. Cook slowly 1 hour, being careful not to let burn. 
Add l / 2 lb. English walnuts chopped, and boil y 2 hour 
longer. Makes a delicious sandwich or may be served 
with meat. . Mrs. P. A. Hoyt. 

Crabapple Jelly. 

Wash and quarter large Siberian crabs but do not core ; 
cover with two inches of cold water and cook to a mush; 
pour into a coarse cotton bag and when sufficiently cooled 
press hard to extract all the juice. Take a piece of fine 
muslin, wring out of water, spread over a colander placed 
over a deep dish and dip the juice slowly in, allowing 
plenty of time to run through; repeat this process twice, 
rinsing the muslin frequently. To the juice of 1 peck of 
apples add the strained juice of 4 or 5 lemons. Boil from 
10 to 20 minutes and while boiling sift in the sugar slowly, 
allowing 1 lb. sugar to each pint of juice and 1 pint of 
water to every 5 lbs. apples. As soon as the juice jellies 
pour into hot glasses. Mrs. A. O. Squier. 

Quince Jelly. 

A mixture of from 1-3 to 1-2 apples improves quince 
sweets. Pare and cut into thin slices. For every 2 qts. 
of fruit add 1 of water. Simmer until tender, drain with- 
out squeezing and make into jelly in the usual way. Take 
the parings and cores and simmer in l / 2 as much water 
until tender. Strain and add to pulp left in the bag. Add 
24 lb. of sugar to every lb. of pulp and cook slowly for 
marmalade. Long cooking will give a beautiful pink 
color. 



JELLIES AND MARMALADES 41 

Crabapple Jelly. 

Boil the apples, cut in halves, in water enough to cover 
them, until soft. Strain off the juice only and add half 
the weight in sugar; boil until it jells. Boil the juice 
down nearly half before adding the sugar. 

Mrs. J. E. Marsh. 

Crabapple Jelly. 

Cover apples with water and cook; when soft strain 
through jelly bag. Place on stove and boil 20 minutes. 
Then add equal quantity of sugar, measuring with cup. 
Boil until it jells. Mrs. W. R. Weiser. 

Strawberry and Pineapple Conserve. 

Cube raw pineapple, put in l / 2 as much water and boil 
an hour. Add to this twice as many strawberries as pine- 
apple and as much sugar as fruit. Boil rapidly for 15 
minutes and seal. Mrs. H. H. Wilcox. 

Quince Honey. 

Five quinces pared and cored. Boil skins and cores 
with 1 pt. cold water. Strain and add water to make 1 pt. 
Put quinces through meat chopper. Mrs. Hannum. 

Green Grape Jell. 

Pick over and wash as many grapes as wanted, those 
just beginning to turn give a good color. Put in preserv- 
ing kettle with just a little water. Cook until ready to 
strain. Strain, put in 1 lb. sugar to 1 lb. juice. Boil 5 
minutes. Mrs. J. Stowell. 

Orange Marmalade. 

Slice very thin, removing seeds, 10 oranges, 6 lemons, 
2 grape fruit. To every lb. of fruit allow 3 pts. cold water, 
pour over fruit and let stand 24 hours. Then boil an hour 
or until peels are tender. Put aside 24 hours, weigh, add 
1 lb. sugar to every lb. fruit. Boil about 1 hour or until 
it will jell. Put up in jelly glasses. 

Mrs. H. H. Wilcox. 



42 JELLIES AND MARMALADES 

Rhubarb Marmalade. 

Seven lbs. rhubarb, 7 lbs. sugar; let stand over night. 
In the morning add juice of 3 oranges and 2 lemons. Boil 
the peel until tender and add to the above with 2 lbs. 
raisins. Cook all together 20 minutes. 

Mrs. A. O. Squier. 

Orange Marmalade. 

One orange, 1 grape fruit, 1 lemon. Slice these very 
thin. Add 3 times as much water as bulk of fruit and 
juice, cook all l / 2 hour. Let stand 24 hours, then add 
equal quantity of sugar and cook 2 hours longer. Should 
fill 12 glasses. 

Marmalade. 

One large grape fruit, 1 orange, 1 lemon. Put through 
food chopper. Pour over this 3 times as much cold water 
as you have fruit and allow to stand until next day. Boil 
5 minutes. Take from fire and add 5 lbs. sugar and let 
stand another day. Then cook slowly 2 hours. 

Mrs. Hoyt. 

Strawberry and Pineapple Jam. 

Five qts. strawberries, 3 pineapples cut fine, sugar, 
pound for pound; y 2 sugar cooked with the fruit for 1 
hour, then add the remainder of sugar and when thor- 
oughly dissolved put into glass jars. Mrs. Squier. 

Pear Marmalade. 

Five lbs. pears (after pared and quartered) ; cook in 
small quantity of water. Add 5 lbs. granulated sugar, 1 
jar preserved ginger (ground fine), add syrup also, 1 lemon 
cut in small slices, rind and all, 4 oranges, with 1 sliced 
same as lemon, peal other 3, cut in small slices. Cook all 
until thick. Mrs. Cooley. 

Crabapple Marmalade. 

Cook and sift the apples, adding an equal amount of 
sugar, boiling 15 or 20 minutes. Mrs. J. E. Marsh. 



JELLIES AND MARMALADES 43 



Pear Chip. 

Eight lbs. hard pears sliced thin, 8 lbs. granulated 
sugar, grated yellow rind of 2 lemons and juice of 6, 2 
ozs. green ginger root chopped fine, l / 2 pt. water. Boil 
all together until clear. Mrs. Finch. 

Orange Marmalade. 

One doz. oranges sliced thin, ]/ 2 doz. lemons sliced thin. 
To each 1 lb. add 1 pt. cold water and let stand over night. 
Next morning boil in same water until tender ; weigh again 
and to each lb. add 1 lb. sugar. Boil until it jellies. 

The Mission Inn Recipe, Riverside, Cal. 

Rhubarb Conserve. 

Three lbs. sugar, 3 lbs. rhubarb, y 2 lb. figs. Cut the 
rhubarb the night before and sprinkle with sugar. In the 
morning chop figs and cook very, very slowly until thick. 

Mrs. Dexter. 

Amber Marmalade. 

One orange, 1 grape fruit, 1 lemon. Cut in }4 sections 
from stem to blossom end. Remove pulp, cut in pieces y 2 
in. square. Cut skins into as narrow strips as possible, 
discard seeds. Weigh the fruit. To 1 lb. fruit use 3 pts. 
cold water. Soak 24 hours. Cook 5 or 6 hours or until 
rind is tender. Weigh again, add 1 lb. sugar to 1 lb. pre- 
pared fruit. Cook until thick so that it holds the rind. 

Mrs. Finch. 



44 SANDWICHES AND FILLINGS 



Sandwiches and Fillings 

Orange Marmalade Sandwiches. 

Spread orange marmalade on buttered bread. Put 4 
slices on top of each other and place under weight, and 
when well pressed cut down in thin slices so they will look 
like jelly cake. Mrs. Martin. 

Pimento Cheese Sandwiches. 

Soften 2 Neufchatel cheeses with sweet cream. Put 
the contents of one small can of Spanish pimento through 
the food grinder. Mix thoroughly with the cheese, add 
salt to taste and a dust of cayenne. Spread between thin 
slices of buttered bread and cut in fancy shapes. 

Mrs. A. P. Noyes. 

Cherry Sandwiches. 

Chop candied cherries fine and moisten slightly with 
orange juice or maraschino. Spread on rounds of thin, 
lightly buttered bread. Mrs. Marsh. 

Boston Sandwiches. 

Slice Boston brown bread thin, butter lightly and spread 
with Neufchatel or cream cheese. Dip crisp lettuce leaves 
in French dressing, then lay on the bread and press another 
slice of the bread on top. Mrs. Martin. 

Sandwich Fillings. 

Hard boiled eggs, cucumber and salad dressing well 
mixed and spread between slices of white bread. 

Hard boiled eggs and stuffed olives with salad dressing 
used in same way. 

Cream cheese and pepper relish is a good combination. 
Pickled onions may be used instead of relish if preferred. 

Shrimps, cucumber and salad dressing. 

Mrs. Hoyt. 



SANDWICHES AND FILLINGS 45 

Sandwich Fillings. 

Dainty sandwiches are made by passing ham through 
a chopper and adding a little lemon peel. 

By dressing cold halibut with mayonnaise and capers. 

By mixing finely chopped walnut meats with cream 
cheese and orange marmalade. Good with graham bread. 

Cold crab meat seasoned with a little Worcestershire 
sauce is nice. 



Mix 3 teaspoons finely chopped almonds, 2 teaspoons 
finely chopped preserved ginger, ]/ 2 teaspoon orange juice 
and spread between plain wafers or ginger bread. 

Mrs. Finch. 

Ham Sandwiches. 

Put ham through meat chopper, add a boiled dressing, 
mix very smooth and spread on buttered bread, cut in any 
shape desired. Mrs. J. E. Marsh. 

A Dainty and Delicious Ribbon Sandwich. 

The ingredients are : A loaf of cream bread, some soft 
butter, mayonnaise dressing, white meat of chicken put 
through meat grinder, chopped water cress and minced 
ham. Cut off crusts of bread, cut slices very thin ; spread 
a slice with butter, then the ground chicken, seasoned. 
Then another buttered slice; spread the upper side of this 
with mayonnaise, then cress. Butter another slice of 
bread, add a layer of minced ham, then the last slice of 
buttered bread. Put the 4 slices together and press well, 
the butter and mayonnaise making them adhere to each 
other. Slice down with a sharp bread knife into 4 proper 
sized sandwiches. The red, green and yellow of the fill- 
ings give a pretty effect. Mrs. H. C. Martin. 



46 SANDWICHES AND FILLINGS 



Olive and Eggs Sandwiches. 

Stone and chop 12 large olives, add 4 finely chopped 
hard boiled eggs and enough melted butter to make a paste. 
Season with pepper and salt, spread on thin slices of bread 
from which the crust has been removed, and press firmly 
together in pairs. Eggs and cold fried bacon can be used 
in same way. Mrs. Finch. 

Banana and Red Raspberry Jam Sandwiches. 

One-half banana pulp mixed with enough raspberry 
jam to give it the right flavor and coloring. Spread white 
bread with butter, then with the above mixture and put 
2 halves together. Mrs. Martin. 

Cheese and Onion Sandwiches. 

Cut soft rye or graham bread in thick slices and spread 
thickly with cream cheese which has been softened to a 
paste with cream and onion juice, about a good teaspoon- 
ful of the latter, as you would scrape it from the onion 
with a spoon, to one cream cheese, a little salt. Press 
slices together. Mrs. H. C. Martin. 

Sardine and Egg Sandwiches. 

Rub to a paste 1 doz. skinned and boned sardines, the 
yolks of 3 hard boiled eggs and the finely chopped whites ; 
add y 2 cup butter, beaten to a cream with 1 teaspoon mus- 
tard, season with pepper and salt, add the juice of y 2 lemon 
and spread between slices of bread. Mrs. Martin. 

Ham Sandwiches. 

Make a dressing of y 2 cup butter, 1 tablespoon mixed 
mustard, 1 of salad oil, a little red or white pepper, a pinch 
of salt and the yolk of an egg. Rub the butter to a cream, 
add the other ingredients and mix thoroughly, then stir 
in as much chopped ham as will make it consistent and 
spread between thin slices of bread. Omit oil and sub- 
stitute melted butter if preferred. Mrs. Martin. 



BEVERAGES 47 



Beverages 



Mint Fizzle. 

Cut the rind of 1 lemon thin, then into small strips. 
Squeeze juice of y 2 lemon into each glass, add 1 teaspoon 
sugar, stir until dissolved. Fill half up with shaved ice, 
pour in half ginger pop and half grape juice. Place 3 
sprigs of mint and 2 pieces of peel in each glass and serve 
with straws. Mrs. Martin. 

Iced Cocoa. 

Mix thoroughly y 2 lb. Bensdorp's Royal Dutch cocoa 
with 2 lbs. granulated sugar; add 1 pt. hot water and boil 
3 minutes. Strain and when cool add, if desired, 1 table- 
spoon vanilla. Put 3 tablespoons of this syrup in a glass 
half filled with cracked ice, fill glass with rich milk, sugar 
to taste, shake thoroughly and serve. Whipped cream is 
a great addition. Mrs. Finch. 

Red Currant Punch. 

Boil for 5 minutes 1 cup sugar and 3 qts. water. Re- 
move from fire and while syrup is still hot dissolve in it 
1 pt. currant jelly. Add 3 lemons and 3 oranges sliced 
thin. Set on ice until chilled and serve in glasses partly 
filled with crushed ice. Mrs. Martin. 

Fruit Lemonade. 

Juice of 8 lemons, and 2 oranges (large size), 3 lemons 
sliced. Boil 4 cups sugar in 1 qt. water, add 3 qts. cold 
water. When syrup is cold add juice of lemons and 
oranges, the lemon slices, maraschinos, pineapple, currant 
jelly or other flavoring if desired. Boiling a little of lemon 
peel with sugar and water improves the flavor. 

Mrs. Squier. 



48 BEVERAGES 



Ching-Ching. 

Fill glass 2-3 full of shaved ice, add 3 or 4 lumps of 
sugar, the juice of a large orange and a few drops essence 
of clove or peppermint. Mrs. Martin. 



Austrian Coffee. 

Make strong coffee, add sugar and cream to taste and 
set away until very cold. Before serving put a spoonful 
vanilla ice cream in each cup. Mrs. Finch. 



Punch. 

To 1 qt. water add 2 l / 2 cups sugar with a little shredded 
lemon peel; boil 20 minutes. While yet warm add 1 pt. 
shredded pineapple, 2 cups lemon juice, 1 cup orange juice. 
Cool and strain. When ready to serve add 1 qt. Apolli- 
naris Maraschinos and other fruits may be added, grape 
juice, etc., to taste. Mrs. Squier. 



PICKLES 49 



Pickles 

Cucumber Pickles. 

Take small cucumbers, soak them over night in cold 
water, drain. Place in jars with 5 or 6 pieces of horse- 
radish to a quart, with a little alum if desired. Fill the 
jars as full as may be and cover with brine of salt and 
vinegar made in the proportion of 1 gal. vinegar to 1 pt. 
salt. Mrs. J. M. Fay. 

Green Tomato Sweet Pickle. 

One pk. green tomatoes. Slice thin and stand over 
night with salt. In morning pour off liquor. One pt. 
vinegar, 3 lbs. brown sugar, 1 oz. each cloves and cinna- 
mon (put in a bag). Boil all together 24 hour; then 
take out tomato. Boil liquor until it thickens and pour 
over tomatoes. Mrs. Marsh. 

India Chutney. 

Put together 2 qts. chopped apple, 2 qts. green toma- 
toes, 1 lb. raisins. Three cups brown sugar, 1 cup lemon 
juice, 1 small onion chopped, 3 cups vinegar, ^ CU P sa lt, 

1 small teaspoon cayenne, 1 tablespoon ginger. Mix and 
let stand in earthen dish over night. In morning boil until 
tender. Put in jars or jelly glasses. Mrs. Irwin. 

Green Tomato Pickle. 

One basket of green tomatoes sliced, 12 large onions 
sliced thin, 6 green peppers chopped fine, 1 cup of salt; 
let stand over night in stone jar. In morning cover with 
water and let stand 1 hour, drain water off, put in kettle 
and cover with vinegar; add 1 cup molasses, 3 cups sugar, 

2 tablespoons cinnamon, 1 of nutmeg, 1 of clove, 1 of 
alspice, 1 of mustard. Cook slowly 3 hours. 

Mrs. Weiser. 



50 PICKLES 

Chili Sauce. 

One pk. tomatoes stewed until fine, 10 green peppers 
and 5 medium sized onions chopped fine ; mix with toma- 
toes. One qt. vinegar, 2 cups brown sugar, 3 teaspoons 
pepper, 3 of cinnamon, 3 of clove, 3 of mustard. Boil 
slowly 1 hour. Bottle when hot. Mrs. Dexter. 

Piccalilli. 

One pk. green tomatoes, chopped fine, with some seed 
cucumbers which pare and cut in small pieces. Put toma- 
toes and cucumbers separately in weak brine over night 
and rinse in clear water in the morning. Cut 2 bunches 
celery in small pieces, 1 large cabbage chopped, 4 large 
onions, 2 peppers (without seeds) chopped, mixed, and 
cook in a little weak vinegar, and drain. To 2 qts. vinegar 
add 3 lbs. brown sugar, 1 small tablespoon each of cinna- 
man, alspice and cloves, 2 tablespoons white mustard seed. 
Let this boil and pour over the fruit. Let stand for a 
week, then put in glass jars. Mrs. Carpenter. 

Snapi. 

One-half bu. green tomatoes, 6 green peppers, 12 me- 
dium sized onions. Chop together; let stand over night 
with 2-3 cup salt sprinkled over. In morning drain, add 
3 pts. vinegar, let cook 1 hour. Drain off vinegar and 
put "chop" into jar. Have cooked together, just long 
enough to dissolve well, 1 qt. vinegar, 3 lbs. sugar, 2 table- 
spoons ground cinnamon, 1 of clove and y 2 cup mustard 
seed. Pour boiling hot over "chop." Mrs. Martin. 

Pottsfield Pickles. 

Six cups green tomatoes, chopped, also 6 cups red 
tomatoes, 6 cups onions, 4 red peppers, 2 bunches celery. 
Mix together and add y 2 cup salt; let stand over night. 
In morning drain, add 2 (scant) qts. vinegar, 4 cups brown 
sugar, y 2 teaspoon (each) of clove and cinnamon. Cook 
20 minutes after it is thoroughly heated. Mrs. Marsh. 



PICKLES 51 



Canned Beets. 

Cook small beets in the usual way, skin and place in 
glass jars. Pour over the beets the following, which has 
been boiled : One-half cup vinegar, y 2 cup water, 4 table- 
spoons sugar, 1 of salt. Seal, and when used heat or eat 
cold as preferred. Mrs. J. M. Fay. 

Shirley Sauce. 

Two doz. ripe tomatoes, 3 large onions chopped, 2 or 3 
green peppers chopped. Salt, pepper and sugar to taste, 
about as you would prepare plain stewed tomato for the 
table. Cook all together, add 4 cups vinegar, cook, bottle 
hot and seal. Mrs. Martin. 

Dressing to Serve with Southern Lettuce. 

One and one-half parts mayonnaise, 1 part chili sauce 
(or Shirley sauce), 4 drops vinegar (or lemon juice), 1 
tablespoon Worcestershire. If liked very hot add paprika. 

Mrs. Martin. 

Pepper Relish. 

One doz. medium sized onions, 1 doz. red peppers (re- 
move seeds), 1 doz. green peppers (without seeds). Put 
through food chopper and scald with boiling water. Add 
1^2 pts. vinegar, 4 tablespoons salt, 2 cups sugar. Boil 5 
minutes and bottle. Or, 

After scalding: Use 2 cups vinegar, V/ 2 cups sugar, 
1 tablespoon salt, 1 teaspoon ground cinnamon, 1 teaspoon- 
ful ground clove. Boil 5 minutes. Mrs. Hoyt. 

Horse Radish Pickle. 

One gal. vinegar, 1 cup of sugar, 2-3 cup salt, 1 cup 
chopped horse radish, 1 tablespoon pulverized alum. Pre- 
pare cucumbers by peeling and slicing lengthwise, remov- 
ing inside. Put into the cold uncooked vinegar. 

Mrs. Squier. 



52 PICKLES 



Oil Pickles. 

One hundred small cucumbers, 1 qt. onions, ^ lb- 
ground mustard, 1 teaspoon black pepper, 34 lb. mustard 
seed, 1 pt. olive oil, 1 oz. celery seed, 2 qts. vinegar. Pare, 
and slice in thin slices cucumbers and onions. Put a 
layer of cucumbers, then layer of onions, then sprinkling 
of salt. On top place a heavy weight and let stand at 
least 6 hours. Drain off liquor. Put 1 teaspoonful of 
alum in enough cold vinegar to cover pickles. When alum 
has dissolved pour over cucumbers and onions and let 
stand 4 or 5 hours; drain. This also may be used for 
other purposes. 

Put cucumbers and onions into jars. Mix mustard, 
pepper and celery seed with the oil, then add gradually the 
2 qts. of vinegar and pour over cucumbers and onions. 
Seal jars and in two weeks pickles will be ready for use. 

Mrs. Wilcox. 



Picallili. 

One pk. green tomatoes, 1 cup salt, 6 small onions, 1 
large bunch celery, 2 cups brown sugar, 1 teaspoon white 
pepper, 1 tablespoon each of cinnamon, alspice and mus- 
tard, 2 qts. vinegar. Chop tomatoes, mix with salt and let 
stand over night. In morning pour off water and chop 
onions and celery. Cook all, with spices, slowly all day. 

Mrs. Hannum. 



Mustard Pickle. 

Two qts. small cucumbers, 1 qt. small onions, 2 qts. 
green tomatoes sliced, 2 cauliflowers, 3 green and 3 red 
peppers. Cut small as you like and let stand over night 
in salt water. In morning bring to scalding heat and 
drain. Take 3 qts. vinegar and l x / 2 lbs. sugar, bring to a 
boil, thicken with }i cup of wheat flour, y 2 lb. mustard, 
1 large tablespoon tumeric, mix smooth with cold vinegar. 
Put in pickle and heat through. Will keep without being 
sealed. Mrs. Stowell. 



PICKLES 53 

Mustard Pickles. 

One qt. small cucumbers, 1 qt. sliced cucumbers, 1 qt. 
green tomatoes, 1 qt. button onions, 1 large cauliflower, 4 
green peppers. Chop peppers as fine as you wish and 
separate cauliflower into bits, cut up tomatoes and cucum- 
bers, cover with brine of 4 qts. water, 1 pt. salt and let 
stand 24 hours. Then heat and drain off the brine. Mix 
1 cup flour, 6 teaspoons mustard, 1 of tumeric, 1 cup sugar 
and add cold vinegar to make a smooth paste; then add 
enough vinegar to make 2 qts. Boil until it thickens, pour 
over the vegetables and heat all well. Seal in glass jars. 

Mrs. Fay. 

Cucumber and Onion Pickle. 

For 25 full-grown cucumbers, sliced a little thicker 
than for the table (not peeled), add 8 onions sliced, and 
1 cup of salt. Mix and let stand over night. In the morn- 
ing drain well, add 1 cup each of black and white mustard 
seed, 1 cup celery seed, 2 qts. vinegar, 1 cup of olive oil, a 
little powdered cinnamon if you like, and 1 pt. port wine. 
Mix all thoroughly in the jar. Stir well each morning 
for 2 weeks, when it will be ready for use. 

Mrs. Squier. 
Italian Spaghetti. 

Use Freihofer's Egg Elbow Spaghetti. Boil the spa- 
ghetti in meat stock or boiling salted water about l / 2 hour. 
If you use stock cook until the liquid is nearly gone. Fry 
in frying pan 5 or 6 slices of salt pork, slice in an onion 
and brown well. Add 1 can tomatoes, a dash of red pep- 
per. Let simmer about an hour or until thick. It may 
be strained or not. This quantity is enough for two meals, 
using about 2-3 box of spaghetti. Mix sauce well with 
spaghetti and sprinkle with grated cheese. Serve at once.. 

Mrs. Hoyt. 



54 MISCELLANEOUS 



Miscellaneous 

Casserole. 

Soak y 2 cup rice J4 hour. Place 3 sliced onions in 
bottom of the dish, add 6 sliced potatoes and then the rice, 
salt, pepper and butter, with 1 lb. hamburg steak and 1 
can of tomatoes over the whole. Mrs. Finch. 

Corn Oysters. 

One can corn or same proportion of fresh corn shaved 
from cob, add 1 cup sifted flour, 1 tablespoon milk, butter 
size of a walnut, 1 well beaten egg, salt and pepper to taste. 
Mix and drop in spoonfuls, the size of an oyster, into hot 
fat and fry until crisp brown on both sides. Serve hot. 

Mrs. Irwin. 

Fried Egg and Bread. 

Butter frying pan and break an egg into it. Place a 
slice of bread on top. When egg is cooked turn and brown 
the bread. Serve hot. Mrs. Finch. 

Lamb Casserole. 

Two lbs. lamb cut in small pieces, boil in a little water 
and let cool to remove grease. Then put in casserole, 
season with pepper and salt and add a little flour and but- 
ter. Cook 3 or 4 hours. About 10 minutes before serving 
add ]/ 2 can of peas. Sliced carrot can also be cooked in it. 

Mrs. Finch. 

Corn Chowder. 

One can corn, 4 cups potatoes, 1 small onion, a small 
slice fat salt pork (each cut in dice), 4 cups hot milk, 2 
teaspoons butter, salt and pepper to taste, 8 small crackers. 
Cover the potatoes with boiling water and add the onion 
and pork. When potatoes are tender add corn and milk, 
keeping at boiling point. Add seasoning and crackers and 
serve. Mrs. Finch. 



CONFECTIONERY 55 



Confectionery 



Fudge. 

Three cups sugar, 3 sqs. chocolate, 24 CU P milk, 1 heap- 
ing tablespoon butter. Let cook until you can form balls 
in cold water. Take from stove, add 1 teaspoon vanilla 
and beat until it creams. Mrs. W. R. Weiser. 

Butter Caramel. 

Two cups sugar, l / 2 cup butter, ]/ 2 cup vinegar, 1 tea- 
spoon molasses. Boil slowly. Done when brittle in cold- 
water test. Mrs. Finch. 

Fudge. 

Three cups sugar, ]/ 2 cup Karo syrup, 2-3 cup water. 
Boil until brittle when dropped in water. Add l / 2 teaspoon 
salt, 1 cup chopped nuts, the beaten whites of 2 eggs. 
Beat as long as yon can. Mrs. Cooley. 

Grilled Almonds. 

Blanch 1 cup almonds, dry them thoroughly. Boil 1 
cup sugar and % cup water till it "hairs," then add the 
almonds. Let them fry in this syrup, stirring occasionally, 
until they turn a faint yellow brown. Remove from fire 
at once and stir until syrup has turned to sugar and clings 
to nuts. Mrs. Finch. 

Peanut Brittle. 

Two cups granulated sugar. Put in sauce pan (sheet 
iron preferred) with 2 tablespoons water (either hot or 
cold) and cook until brown. The sugar will thicken and 
candy before it begins to brown and you may think it a 
failure, but this is a step in the making. Stir enough to 
prevent burning, but let it brown ; it will soon melt and be 
like syrup. When m'elted put in 1 cup of ground peanuts, 
stir well, pour into warm buttered tins in as thin sheet as 
possible. Set to cool. Mrs. Martin. 

Peanut Butter Fudge. 

Two heaping teaspoons peanut butter, 2 cups sugar, y 2 
cup milk. Cook until it makes a soft ball and beat until 
creamy. Mrs. Finch. 



INDEX 

PAGE 

Soups 3 

Fish 6 

Meats 8 

Breads, Muffins, Etc 10 

Cakes and Cookies 17 

Salads and Salad Dressing 27 

Puddings 31 

Pies 37 

Jellies and Marmalades 40 

Sandwiches and Fillings 44 

Beverages 47 

Pickles 49 

Miscellaneous 54 

Confectionery 55 



