Google 



This is a digital copy of a book that was preserved for generations on Hbrary shelves before it was carefully scanned by Google as part of a project 

to make the world's books discoverable online. 

It has survived long enough for the copyright to expire and the book to enter the public domain. A public domain book is one that was never subject 

to copyright or whose legal copyright term has expired. Whether a book is in the public domain may vary country to country. Public domain books 

are our gateways to the past, representing a wealth of history, culture and knowledge that's often difficult to discover. 

Marks, notations and other maiginalia present in the original volume will appear in this file - a reminder of this book's long journey from the 

publisher to a library and finally to you. 

Usage guidelines 

Google is proud to partner with libraries to digitize public domain materials and make them widely accessible. Public domain books belong to the 
public and we are merely their custodians. Nevertheless, this work is expensive, so in order to keep providing this resource, we liave taken steps to 
prevent abuse by commercial parties, including placing technical restrictions on automated querying. 
We also ask that you: 

+ Make non-commercial use of the files We designed Google Book Search for use by individuals, and we request that you use these files for 
personal, non-commercial purposes. 

+ Refrain fivm automated querying Do not send automated queries of any sort to Google's system: If you are conducting research on machine 
translation, optical character recognition or other areas where access to a large amount of text is helpful, please contact us. We encourage the 
use of public domain materials for these purposes and may be able to help. 

+ Maintain attributionTht GoogXt "watermark" you see on each file is essential for informing people about this project and helping them find 
additional materials through Google Book Search. Please do not remove it. 

+ Keep it legal Whatever your use, remember that you are responsible for ensuring that what you are doing is legal. Do not assume that just 
because we believe a book is in the public domain for users in the United States, that the work is also in the public domain for users in other 
countries. Whether a book is still in copyright varies from country to country, and we can't offer guidance on whether any specific use of 
any specific book is allowed. Please do not assume that a book's appearance in Google Book Search means it can be used in any manner 
anywhere in the world. Copyright infringement liabili^ can be quite severe. 

About Google Book Search 

Google's mission is to organize the world's information and to make it universally accessible and useful. Google Book Search helps readers 
discover the world's books while helping authors and publishers reach new audiences. You can search through the full text of this book on the web 

at |http : //books . google . com/| 



I 



The Arthur and Elizabeth 
SCHLESINGER LIBRARY 

on the History of Women 
in America 



Gift of 
Mrs. Wilbur D. Raymond 

ctr/t-ss o f 'lie I 

^^ rriimer- y c -f- 



/^ 



HAEPEE'8 HOME ECONOMICS 


EdiMbr 


ISABEL ELY LORD 


DiraetoT of the Sohool o[ HouKhold SdenM 


HOW TO COOK AND WHY. by Eunmnw 
■ndJcuia A. LoHB, lutructor in Ciwlnr]F, Pntt 


iJlso^SalA So«™'u2!K3rPr»U iSStaKe. 




BARPBR « BROTHERS. NEW YORK 



HOW TO 
COOK AND WHY 



BY 

ELIZABETH CONDIT 



JESSIE A. LONG 




HARPER &■ BROTHERS PUBLISHERS 

NEW YORK AND LONDON 
MCMXIV 



CONTENTS 

Editor's Intkoduction 

I. Why Wb Eat Food 

II. What Food Is 

in. Tbe Valve of Cebeals 

IV. Bbbad and Yeast 

V. Quick Bread and Griddle-cakes . . . 

VI. Cakes 

VII. Pastry and Lttile Cakes 

VIII. The Indispeksable Vegetable .... 

IX. The Equally Indispensable Pkuit . . 

X. Mile, Cheese, Eggs 

XI. Butter and Other Fats 

XII. Why Meat is Important 

XIII. Fish and Its Uses 

XIV. Why Flavok Counts 

XV. What to Eat Together and How to 

Serve It 

XVI. How TO Keep Food 

XVII. How to Use a Cook-book 

XVIII. Some Useful Utensils 

XIX. A Few Warnings 

Index ^ 



EDITOR'S INTRODUCTION 



THIS book has been written to meet two sets 
of needs, those of the girl of high -school 
age and those of the average housekeeper. The 
high-school girl studying cookery under a teacher 
with sdentific training needs a simple book to 
remind her of the principles she is hearing about 
and which she hei^elf is practising in the school 
kitchen. Tlie average housekeeper, deeply in- 
terested in the responsibility she has in preserv- 
ing the health of her family, needs a book that 
is easy to refer to and that will give her broad, 
general principles without going so far into de- 
tails that she &nds it impractical to follow. The 
book Miss Condit and Miss Long have written 
together meets these two needs admirably. 

The question the housekeeper asks for to-day, 
and the high-school girl asks in order that she 
may be prepared for to-morrow, in the end comes 
to s(Hnething like this: "How can I plan the 
food of the family so as to give them the right 
foods rightly prepared at Hk least cost?" This 
book in dealing with the subject of preparation 



u EDITOR'S INTRODUCTION 

stands between the two questions of food values 
and food cost, and necessarily deals with both. 
The authors have had practical experience in 
their own homes as well as wide experience in 
teaching cookery to girls and women. ITiey are 
enthusiastic over the possibilities of the value 
of scientific knowledge to the tens of thousands 
of home-makers who have not had scientific 
training. They have written the book in the 
hope of doing a service to all such home-makers, 
to the teachers of classes of older girls — whether 
in high school, Y. W. C. A., settlement, or else- 
where — and to the girls themselves. They are 
not offering a contribution to scientific research, 
but a "first aid" to the girl or woman who wants 
to take advantage of the research that has been 
done. It is the service of the middleman between 
the laboratory of science and the kitchen of the 
school or home. 

Isabel Ely Lord. 

Pratt Institute, Brooklyn, June, 1914. 



HOW TO COOK AND WHY 



HOW TO COOK AND WHY 



WHY WB EAT FOOD 

THIS book is not written for people like the 
housewife who said in a tone of virtuous 
rebuke: "I give very little time to cooking. We 
eat to live only." It is written in the hope that 
it may help those who realize that health, happi- 
ness, and success depend upon the wise selection 
qf food and its careful, intelligent preparation. 

The old saying goes, "Tell me what you eat. 
and I will teH you what you are." If we serve 
only potatoes and salt, the salt may be fine, the 
potatoes white and mealy. It is not an elaborate 
meal of many intricate dishes that is an expression 
of the truest refinement and intelligence. One or 
two foods perfectly cooked and served satisfy the 
true epicure as well as meet the needs of the body. 

Often people express great dislike for a dish they 



9 HOW TO COOK AND WHY 

have never tasted. This is particularly true in 
families who have lived in one locality for a 
generation. They will eat only such dishes as 
their family has always served. Travel and ac- 
quaintance with other peoples and with what they 
eat breaJc up these prejudices and give experience 
on the basis of which a wise selection of food may 
be made. 

To us Americans come every year hordes of 
foreigners who have foods and different ways of 
cookti^ and preparii^ them that are new to us. 
If we are ready to leam from all of them we can 
enrich our diet incalculably. The thrifty French, 
German, Italian, Slavic, or Scandinavian house- 
wife, who has for generations considered cooking 
an art and who loiows how to get the greatest 
return for the money spent, has a contribution 
to make to our own national life. 

Happiness is the best aid to good digestion. 
We all eat the food which appeals most strongly 
to our individual tastes. Remembering this, the 
wise housemother is ii^enious in devices to cul- 
tivate the tastes of her family. For example, she 
will make palatable to them a wide variety of 
vegetables. She will cook these to retain the 
greatest amount of nourishment, and serve them 
in so attractive a way that one who had before 
disliked them is inspired to eat them. A thought- 
ful care for the taste of foods to be served to- 
gether, the combining of flavors which increase and 
add interest to one another — all these are of the 



WHY WE EAT POOD 3 

utmost importance. It is dull indeed to sit at a 
table wh^ potatoes, rice, and macaroni are 
served, or chops and fried egg-plant are followed 
by pie for desert! 

The science of feeding teaches us more impor- 
tant reasons for taking care in the selection and 
preparation of food than De Woloott considered 
when he wrote the lines: 

The turnpike road to people's hearts I find 

Lies through their mouths, w I mistake mankind. 

We know why certain foods must be given the 
growing child. We know that our soldiers can 
mardi loiter with less fatigue if we feed them 
correctly. We know that our grandparents bet- 
ter retain their youthful spirits and activity if 
they eat the foods adapted to their age and 
occupation. We know that the diild at school 
does good work with enjoyment only when he 
or she comes to school after the right breakfast 
and brings the right lunch. 

The most important point for most home- 
makers is to find out how to know what food to 
eat without taking a long, scientific course in some 
college. No training can be too thorough for 
the woman who has the responsibility of the 
health and happiness of a family, but the 
house-mother who cannot take long courses in a 
school should not be discouraged. She can mas- 
ter a few general facts, she can learn a few general 



4 HOW TO COOK AND WHY 

principles, and she can use the knowledge life has 
taught. 

Man has always eatea and always will eat food, 
because our bodies need food. When we are chil- 
dren, food is needed in order that we may grow, and 
when we are full grown it is needed to repair tis- 
sue, so that we can move about and do our work 
ia the world. Sometimes we forget that it takes 
strength to digest our food, to pump the blood to 
all parts of the body, and generally to keep the 
body in workii^-order. Food gives the energy 
for all these activities. We must have the food 
best suited to do the particular work required 
that we may be "healthy, wealthy, and wise." 
The medical folk talk about "body tone," which 
means keeping the muscular tissues in the very 
best condition, ready to respond to every demand. 
Or, again, the medical books talk of keeping the 
muscles "elastic." 

Few people, moreover, realize the effOTt the 
body makes to keep an even temperature. On a 
hot day in smnmer the sweat-pores open to cool 
the body ofE. On a cold winter's day the blood 
flows more quickly, carrying the necessary food 
to keep all parts warm. Everybody knows how 
important it is to keep the temperature of the 
body even, whatever tiie season. The doctor is 
sent for as quickly on a hot day in August if the 
body temperature goes up as he would be on a 
cold winter's day. The body exercises a wise 
supervision over itself, regulating the tempera- 



WHY WE EAT FOOD 5 

ture, replacing wom-out tissues, or strengthening 
weakened ones. 

One reason why the feeding of children is 
so important is tbat their bodies are rapidly 
buildii^ as well as repairing wom-out tissue, and 
thdr future health depends upon the kind of 
bodies built at this time. An adult must accept 
his body as it is and make the best of it. The 
adult's need, then, is to repair wom-out tissue — 
except in the case of the athlete, who by muscu- 
lar exercise and food enlarges his muscles. Or 
if the body has fallen away — below its normal 
size — dther from lack of food or by the ravage 
of disease, it must be rebuilt. And most wonder- 
ful of all is the nourishing of the baby's body 
iiom the mother's. 



WHAT FOOD IS 

FOOD is any material which when taken into 
the body can be used to build up tissue or 
create energy. With the great variety of foods 
to choose from, how is the housekeeper to select 
that which will build the healthiest bodies and 
give the largest return in energy for the money 
she has to spend? 

Wise economy demands that the feeding-stuffs 
which are at command shall be so combined that 
there shall be no waste of either material or 
energy. To be able to choose foods wisely the 
housekeeper must know how foods differ in their 
nutritive properties. Most people do not need 
the scientist to tell them that some foods con- 
tain more fat or more sugar or more water than 
others. It does, however, take the scientist to 
tell us how much of each of these substances any 
given food contains. 

As an aid to this knowledge, the substances 
which are found in foods have been separated 
into five classes called food principles. These 
are water, fat, mineral matter, starch and sugar 
(called carbohydrates), and protein. Scarcely 



WHAT POOD IS 7 

any food is made up of one erf these principles 
alone, almost all containii^ several in com- 
bination. The food principles each play a 
special and definite part in the life of the body. 

Water. About two-thirds of the body is water. 
It enters into the composition of the nerves, 
muscles, blood, and even the bones. It is as im- 
portant a cleanser inside the body as it is outside, 
in addition to its value in keeping the Suids, like 
the blood and digestive juices, liquid enough to 
do their work. It also helps r^ulate the body 
temperature. 

To give the body water enough to do all these 
tilings the individual needs at least five pints a 
day. Many foods contribute water, but from 
the ordinary diet we get only about one-third 
the necessary quantity. The rest must be taken 
as a beverage. This means at least six glasses a 
day, and it is wiser to drink more. The safe way 
to insure drinking the full amount is to establi^ 
the habit of drinkii^ one or two glasses at cer- 
tain definite times. 

This food requirement is, fortunatdy, not an 
expensive one. Perhaps the very abundance of 
water makes us forget its great importance. A 
person can go without othar food for many days, 
but only a very few dajrs without water. The in- 
telligent housekeeper sees to it that her family is 
supplied with pure water. Where there is any 
doubt of its purity she carefully boils and cools 
it for the family to drink. 



S HOW TO COOK AND WHY 

Faf. Fat is obtained practically uncombined 
with other food principles in butter, olive -oil, 
and other oils. However, most foods contain 
some fat. In digestion fat is changed very little. 
Its tise to the life of the body is to give energy, 
either aS heat or as activity. 

If more fat is eaten than is needed at any par- 
ticular time to keep the body warm or for energy, 
it is stored in the body ready to use some day 
when enough is not taken. This fat stored in 
the body acts as a protection and cushion to the 
delicate organs. Of course, there can easily be 
too much stored in the body, as is often the case 
when food rich in fat is eaten by people who exer- 
dse little. Many families are spending money 
for more fat in their food than is good for them. 
The amoimt needed for perfect health and activ- 
ity could be obtained for much less cost. The 
rdative money and food value of the many fats 
should be studied by the housekeeper who must 
practise economy. 

Many people have a constitutional tendency 
to overweight, and diet to counteract this. It 
is always wise to do this imder a physician's di- 
rectioiK, as there is danger of under-nourishment 
in such cases. The use of drugs to reduce weight 
is a serious risk, as the drugs that produce this 
result affect the heart action. The person who 
eats and exercises normally and is still too fat 
should consult a phjrsidan. 

Mineral Matter. Mineral matter is found in 



WHAT FOOD IS 9 

most of the vegetables, in all of the fruits, in meat, 
in milk. Indeed, in almost every food are found 
one or more of the mineral salts. It is for this 
reason that the housekeeper need not concern 
herself especially about the amount of mineral 
matter the daily meals furnish. A well-varied 
diet supplies a sufficient amount of mineral salts, 
at least for the grown-up members of the family. 
The food of the children must be chosen more 
carefully in this regard. The growing tissues 
need more mineral matter to make the strong 
and healthy body. Much experimental and prac- 
tical evidence shows that what often is pronounced 
a case c^ "malnutrition" is due, not to insufficient 
food, but to a lack of mineral matter. 

Sugar and Starch. These are familiar to all. 
Starch is changed to sugar in digestion. The 
scientific name for these foods is carbohydrates. 
These very valuable food principles are found in 
many foods, usually — except in the case of refined 
sugar — in combination with one or more of the 
other food principles. Starch and sugar give heat 
to the body and energy for muscular activity. 

The choice of foods contributing starch and 
sugar to the family food in the right amounts is 
an important matter. In Holland and Italy we 
find tiie average housekeeper using a greater 
variety of vegetables and procurii^ the starch 
and sugar for her family for less money than does 
the average American housekeeper. To do this 
the housekeeper should make up her own tables 



10 HOW TO COOK AND WHY 

showing which vegetables give the largest amount 
of starch for the least money. 

Where there is great muscular activity, such 
as digging, working on a farm, or severe athletic 
exercise, more starch and sugar are required. A 
student, bookkeeper, or derk needs starch and 
si^ar, too, but not as great a quantity as does the 
ball-player or plowman. 

The- active children need it, and the future 
health of their bodies will suffer if it is not pro- 
vided in the correct amounts and kinds. 

Protein. This most important food principle 
is found in many foods, but more abundantly in 
meat, milk, eggs, and the legumes (peas, beans, 
lentils). It contains all the elements of the other 
food principles, and adds to these the building or 
repairii^ (k the body. It can maintain the life 
of the body, if necessary, but its most im[>ortant 
work is to build the muscular tissues. It is the 
protein in the milk which makes the baby's body 
grow. Protein is the only food principle which 
does build muscular tissue. Every housekeeper 
is concerned about the protein food for her fam- 
ily, nether she expresses it in scientific terms 
as the protein factor or talks about the value of 
meat and meat substitutes. 

The foods rich in protein are the most expen- 
dve foods. Experience has taught their necessity. 
Science is now teaching us the difference in the 
protein found in different foods, the amount of 
protein the growing child needs to build a stroog, 



WHAT POOD IS tt 

healthy body, the amount the adult needs to re- 
pair the body. 

Science is a much quicker, kinder teacher than 
is experience. We can learn, if we will, without 
suffering, that when protein is eaten to keep the 
body warm and give muscular enei^, the tax 
on the body is much greater than when starch, 
sugar, or fat is used for heat and energy. Nor 
need rheumatism and other ills be suffered be- 
cause we have no way of knowing when we are 
eating too large an amount of protein. Tables 
and figures accessible to all state the approximate 
amount of the different food principles required 
for the healthiest Ufe of the body, according to 
age, size, occupation, and climate. One is given 
at the end of this chapter. 

The measure used to estimate foods, in the 
tables referred to, is heat. To find the value of 
any food it is burned in a machine called a bomb- 
calorimeter. The heat produced by each specific 
food is tabulated. In a still more complicated 
machine a person is put, and fed the foods before 
tested. Accurate measurement is made of any 
difference in weight, temperature, or activity, 
and it has been found that the measurement of 
food by burning agrees very nearly with the 
measurement of its use in the body. 

Because we must have a name to give this 
measure of heat produced by a food, the heat-' 
unit calorie has been diosen. A calorie is simply 
the amount of heat required to raise the t^- 



12 HOW TO COOK AND WHY 

perature of one kilogram of water tHrough one 
degree on the Centigrade thermometer. That is 
about the amount of heat required to raise four 
pounds of water through one degree of the Fahr- 
enheit thermometer. 

The statement that one pound of beef yields 
i,SS9 calories, or that one pound of cheese yields 
1,994 calories, or that one pound of potatoes 
yields 2,596 calories, simply means that each of 
these foods would produce the stated amount of 
heat if burned. When they are eaten they are 
burned in the body and produce energy. 

Digestion. The intelligent housekeeper must 
understand the general facts of digestion to feed 
her family in the best and most economical way. 

AU foods should be ground up in the mouth. 
The main reason for this is that the food when 
it reaches the stomach should be in small particles, 
in order that it may be reached by the digestive 
juices. The digestion of starch is begun in the 
mouth, which makes another reason for thorough 
mastication of all foods containing starch. Frcan 
the mouth all food goes to the stomach, where 
it is made more liquid by the addition of gastric 
juices. The protein foods — milk, meat, eggs — are 
here digested. 

The most important part of the digestive tract 
is the long intestinal tube where the food goes 
after leaving the stomach. The intestinal juices 
finish the digestion of all foods and prepare the 
fat to be used by the body. Prom the small in- 



WHAT FOOD IS 13 

s the blood takes the digested food to differ- 
ent parts of the body, the protein foods to build 
and rebuild tissues and also to give heat and energy, 
the sugars to the muscles to give heat and energy, 
the mineral matter to the bone and other tissues. 

To get the best work &om our bodies food must 
be provided in the right quantity to meet all its 
needs. Where there is great activity, or in very 
cold weather, more sugar and fat are needed. 
Much of the sugar may be supplied by fruits and 
v^etables or by the so-called starch foods — 
cereals, grains, potatoes, and the like. 

The chemical analyses of the different foods 
are given in detail in the United States Govern- 
ment Farmers' Bulletins, also tables showing the 
digestibility of the different foods. These bul- 
letins about foods can be obtained at a nominal 
price from the United States Department of 
Agriculture at Washington, D. C, or they may 
be obtained free through a Congressman. 

There are two dangers confronting the house- 
keeper in feeding her family where an abundant 
table is provided. The &st danger is that of 
overtaxing the digestive system by loading it 
with foods not needed for the life of the body. 
The second danger is that of providing too large 
a quantity of one kind o£ food and not enough of 
another kind. 

The intdligent housekeeper practisii^ true 
economy must know: (1) current market price 
of a food; (3) chemical analysis of a food; (3) 



14 HOW TO COOK AND WHY 

how digestible the food is; (4) the needs of the 
body to be fed. Knowing these facts, she com- 
pares money cost and food values before buying. 
Pot instance, she compares the price of a pound 
each of rice, potatoes, carrots, and macaroni. 
Which oS^^ the laigest quantity of starch for 
the money? Is one of these foods more easily 
digested than another? Does any one of those 
mentioned give a larger quantity of other food 
than starch? Of the foods mentioned, rice will 
give the largest return in starch for the money, 
and macaroni in protein. 

TTiere is no royal road of ease or m^c path 
to reduce the cost of livii^. Knowle<^e and ex- 
perience must be acquired and put to practice 
in the selection and preparation of food. 

Dr. Henry C. Sherman,' in his Chemistry of 
Food ami Nutrition, gives the following table 
of the daily requirement in food: 

Boys of 14-17 years 3500-3000 calories 

Girls of 14-17 years 2200-3600 calt^es 

Children of 10-13 years 1800-2000 calories 

Children of 6-9 years 1400-3000 calories 

Children of 3-5 years 1200-1500 calories 

Children of 1-3 years 900-1200 calories 

"In general it appears that the food require- 
ments of men and women of equal activity are 

' The authors wish to acknowledge the coiirte;^ of Dr. 
Sherman and of the Macnullan Company, pubhshers of 
his book. 



WHAT FOOD IS 15 

in proportion to their body weight — women on 
the average weigh about eight-tenths as much as 
men — and it is commonly assumed that if equally 
active their food requirements will stand in the 
same proportion." 

Tigerstedt, in his book of Physiology, gives 
estimates of the daily food requirements for dif- 
ferent degrees of activity, indicating the intensity 
of the work by means of typical occupations; 



zooi-3400 calories suf&ce for a shoemaker. 


2401-2700 


" " a weaver. 


2701-3200 


' " " a carpenter or mason 


3201-4100 


' " " a farm laborer. 


4101-S000 


' " " an excavator. 


Over 5000 


' " " a lumberman. 



THE VALUE OF CEREALS 

THE reply to Johnson's slighting description 
of oats in his dictionary as "a grain used in 
Scotland for human food, but in England for 
horses," is, "Where will you find such men, and 
where such horses?" The story rightly under- 
stood illustrates the value of oats as a food, and 
is as true now as it was in Johnson's day. 

The grains of the other grasses used as cereal 
foods — ^wheat, com, rye, and barley — also rank 
high as economical, healthful foods. 

The preparation of grains for food, before the 
housekeeper uses them, varies slightly. In all 
cases the outer husk is removed. In some in- 
stances the grain is then cleaned, dried, and used 
whole as food — as is rice — but usually the cleaned 
grain is ground as a part of its preparation for 
food. Sometimes, as in wheat, the germ is re- 
moved, becaiise the cereal or flour keeps better. 
In many breakfast foods and flours the bran is 
sifted out. This is done in the modem milling 
of wheat flour and in the more common com- 
mercial com meals. 



THE VALUE OF CEREALS 17 

Composition. Bran is a thin, woody fiber or 
cellulose found in many of the grains as a coat 
or husk. Bran (or cellulose in any form) is not 
used to any extent by the body for food. Its 
chief value in the diet is to add bulk. It does 
stimulate the movement of the food in the di- 
gestive tract, and for this reason cereals with 
their bran are often reonnmended as food for 
people troubled with constipation. The stimula- 
tion is due not only to the larger bulk of the bran, 
but also to the efiect of some of the mineral mat- 
ter held in it. The mineral matter probably 
stimulates the muscles of the intestines to greater 
activity in carrying the food along the tube. 

However, it is not safe to say that coarse 
cereals. are always better food than those more 
elaborately milled. The choice depends entirely 
upon the individual. Any intestinal irritation 
is increased, and sometimes fermentation is 
caused, by the presence of coarse bran. Morning 
headaches, irritability, and nervousness are a few 
of the Mgns we all know of this far too common 
trouble. Many children are scolded for bad 
temper when the real trouble is that their por- 
ridge was not (XKiked long enough to soften the 
tough outer coat of the grain. Nothing will so 
quickly or effectually destroy the good spirit 
of an adult or a child as intestinal irritation. 

Inclosed in the cellulose walls of the cereals 
we find starch, their chief contribution to the 
nourishment of the body. This means, as we 



i8 HOW TO COOK AND WHY 

have seen before, a h:^ percentage of energy. 
Many of the grains used as cereals also contain a 
good deal of protein, making them an important 
addition to the daily food, especially to any m^al 
that has no meat. But probably more important 
still is the amount and kind of mineral matter 
found in grains. It is partly because of the 
mineral matter that a. cereal properly cooked is 
valuable food for children. 

Cereals are especially important in the diet 
when the menu lacks meat. Prom the table on 
p^e 30 it will be seen how much protein there 
is in the cereals — rice and barley hang the 
only ones that contribute little. Some cereals 
have more fat than others; oatmeal, for example, 
has a conspicuously large amount of both fat and 
protein. The amount of fat varies not only in 
different grains, but also In the commercial prod> 
ucts from the same grain. Hominy and samp, 
made from com, contain Httle fat compared with 
com meal, whidi is the whole grain ground. 
Usually fat in some form is added to cereals in 
the cooking or is served with them as cream, 
milk, or butter. When this is done the amount of 
fat contributed to the diet by some specific cereal 
is not so important. The table on following p^e 
will show at a glance which cereals have the 
highest food value, which are richest in fat, 
or protein, or starch and sugar, or mineral 



Parkes gives the following order of merit "of 



PKOTEIH FAT STARCH 



THE VALUE OP CEREALS 19 

the commoa grains in respect to their organic 
principles"; 

laSERAL 

UATTES 

Wheat Oats Rice Barley 

Barley Com Com Oats 

Rye Barley Wheat Wheat 

Oats Rye ' Rye Rye 

Cotq Wheat Oats Com 

Rice Rice Barley Rice 

The wise buyer knows that the manufacturer 
does not always tell the whole story in printing 
the composition or food value of a food on the 
package. And he knows also that the manu- 
factured article cannot have any more nutritive 
value than the grain from which it was made. 
In some cases molasses or glucose is added to 
change the flavor, or the grain is toasted — a proc- 
ess which makes it more easily digested. Neither 
d these processes adds to the amount of nourish- 
ment provided by the cereal. 

Cost. The tatje on page 30 shows also what 
the cost of each is, so that the amount of nourish- 
ment bought with a certain amount of money 
can be calculated easily. For example, if protein 
is the main interest, oatmeal offers more than do 
the other cereals; yet it should be noted that 
wheat ranks rather higher in nutritive value, 
because it is more easily digested. If a person 
could eat just one cereal food, com-meal would 
be the di^pest, oatmeal next, then wheat. 



ao HOW TO COOK AND WHY 

A soup-plate o£ porridge made with Qualrar 
Oats gives the same amount of protein as two and a 
quarter sHces of white bread one inch thick from 
a five-cent loaf, but two slices would give as 
much energy as the porridge. If the bread were 
spread with butter, it would be equal in fuel value 
to a plateful of porridge and one-third pint of milk. 
The mineral matter of the porridge and the bread 
would be about the same. One cent will buy a 
little more rice than it will macaroni. While 
the rice contributes a large quantity of starch, 
the macaroni is really the more valuable food 
because of the protein it provides. 

Let us choose two combinations — one, four 
tablespoonfuls of cooked rolled oats, served with 
one cup of milk; the other, one e^ and a slice 
of bread or toast without butter. The first gives 
more protein than the second, more starch and 
sugar, more fat, enough more in all to give al- 
most twice the energy value of the second, yet 
the first costs a cent less than the second. "A 
penny saved is a pemiy earned." The aggre- 
gate of the pennies saved in a large family by 
such a choice of food will represent the interest 
on a considerable sum of money, ^th the 
average family of five the saving would amount 
to 5 cents a day, which is 35 cents a week, which 
is I18.30 a year, or the earnings of $600 at three 
per CKit. interest. 

It is only by conadering the relative food 
value and cost of different foods, and by appre- 



THE VALUE OP CEREALS ai 

: what it means to save even a. penny 
every day, that the great cost-of-living problem 
is going to be solved. 

The ready-to-eat cereals commend themselves 
to those whose time is money. For the house- 
mother whose chief business is housekeeping the 
uncooked cereals will make the greatest return 
for the money spent. A cent's worth of oatmeal 
when cooked is as much as the very heartiest 
laboring man can eat. A cent's worth of corn- 
meal makes a breakfast for him, and there will 
be some left to fry for supper. A cent's worth of 
a ready-to-eat cereal is less — one shredded-wheat 
biscuit or a dainty dish of com flakes. The 
savii^ all depends upon the value of the cook's 
time. For tmcooked cereals she expends time 
in preparation, for the ready-to-eat cereals she 
expends money. True economy for one family 
may be extrav^ance for another family. The 
intelligent housewife considers all these facts in 
order to make a wise decision. 

Cereals as they are prepared for market are 
comparatively free fr«n water. This, of course, 
must be supphed in cooking, but it is one point on 
the side of cost. When tiie housekeeper buys ce- 
reals she is not paying for a large amount of water. 

In many of the grains the mineral matter is 
closely associated with the outer husk, and when 
this is taken off in the milling the valuable mine- 
ral matter is lost. This is especially true in 
the American preparation of rice, for the white. 



23 HOW TO COOK AND WHY 

^ghly glazed rice wliidi has been so much in 
demand is very deficient in mineral matter. The 
housekeeper who has the health of her family and 
the economy of her household most in mind will 
demand frcan her grocer the unpolished rice. It 
is still difficult to get this, but it is coming more 
into use, and every grocer will be forced to carry 
unpolished rice if his patrons demand it. Utt- 
coated rice is sometimes sold as "unpolished," 
but has not the same food value, as the outer 
husk has been removed. At one time not long 
ago a disease called beri-beri broke out in the 
Qiinese army. Scientific investigation foimd that 
this occiured where the main article of diet was 
polished rice. To cure the disease no medicine 
was given, but small amounts of the substance 
polished ofE from the rice were fed, and rapid re- 
covery was the result. 

Macaroni. Macaroni, vermicelli, and Italian 
pastes are made from wheat flours rich in protein. 
The flour is made into a paste with water, molded 
or drawn into tubes, dried or slightly baked. 
Macaroni is a highly nutritous food. Although 
when cooked it is about eight times poorer in 
protein than a similar weight of beef, the starch 
contributed to the diet makes it a valuable 
substitute for potatoes and rice. Macaroni is 
very thoroughly absorbed, and contributes almost 
aght times the amount of protein contributed by 
an equal weight of potatoes, and a great deal 
more than rice. 



THE VALUE OP CEREALS 2$ 

Few American housekeepers realise that maca- 
foni paste is made up into any other fonn than 
that of the larger or smaller tubes, but in the 
Italian food -shops many variations may be 
. bought, small and large. They make a pleasii^ 
variety, and are particularly helpful in tempting 
children to eat a dish that is a valuable addition 
to their diet. 

Noodles are also made of wheat flour. They 
are very digestible, economical, and can be 
served in a number of different ways. They can 
be made at home or bought of grocers. Most 
people are familar with noodle-«oup. The noodles 
browned in butter are a palatable change. They 
may be cooked and served in alLways like macaroni. 

Cooking. As is seen by referring to the table 
on page 30, a great part of any grain is starch. 
Eadi minute particle of starch is enveloped in a 
tough wall. To make the cereal easily digestible 
this wall must be broken down so that the starch 
itself may be cooked. This is done by putting 
the cereal into boiling water. It is put into the 
Vfater for two reasons — to supply water, and to 
expose the grain at once to a very high tempera- 
ture. To get the best results the cereal should 
be poured into the boiling water very slowly, so 
that the temperature of the water is not greatly 
lowered, and so that the starch grain may be at 
once completely surroimded by the great heat. 

To add to the flavor salt is dissolved in the 
water before the cereal is added — one teaspoonful 



24 HOW TO COOK AND WHY 

of salt to one pint of water. Some housekeepers 
believe that it is better to cook the cereal for a 
short time before adding the salt, as salt makes 
the water hard and the cooking goes on better 
in soft water. While there is some reason in this, 
the general opinion gives the greater value on the 
side of flavor to dissolving the salt in the water 
before the cereal is added. As has been said be- 
fore, there is practically no water in cereals. They 
abswb lai^e amounts, as will be seen from the 
table on page 30, which shows how one or two 
tablespoonfuls of raw cereal make five or six table- 
spoonfuls of cooked cereal. For example, five table- 
spoonfuls of raw oatmeal become nine tablespoon- 
fuls when cooked. The increase is chiefly water. 

When the cereal has been well blended in the 
boiling water, the cooking must continue directly 
over the fire for five or ten minutes, the time de- 
pending upon the Idnd of cereal, the amount of 
water, and the length of time required for the 
final cooking. (For this see the table on page 
29). At the end of the five or ten minutes the 
cereal should be removed to a double boiler (for 
which see p^e 221) or a fireless cooker (for which 
see page 222), so that the starch may be subjected 
to a long, slow, even temperature to steam and 
soften it. 

Rice and macaroni (which is cooked like a 
cereal) when cooked should be taken from tiie 
steamer or pan and rinsed in cold water, to re- 
move the particles of starch that might make 



THE VALUE OF CEREALS as 

the grains stick together. Each grain of cooked 
rice and each piece of cooked macaroni should 
be distinct. Rice should be reheated in the oven. 
Macaroni can be reheated in the same way, or, 
better still, in the sauce in which tt is to be 
served. Cheese is frequently added to maca- 
roni, increa^ng its value to the body as well as 
its attractiveness to the taste. 

It is true that many of the cereals upon the 
market have been ground and steam-cooked as 
a preparation for sale; but it is a safe rule always 
to cook them at least twice as long as is direct- 
ed on the package. The cooking of the cereals 
plays another part besides the important one of 
breaking down the wall around the starch. Heat 
produces a change in starch so it is more easily 
acted upon by the digestive juices. Any food 
to be used by the body must be soluble — ^that is, 
capable of being dissolved. Every one knows 
that sugar is soluble in water and that fat is not. 
Raw starch is not soluble. The preparation of 
laimdry starch illustrates to the eye the change 
produced in starch by heat. The lump of starch 
is mixed with cold water, and on standing it 
sinks to the bottom of the pan; when the mix- 
ture of water and starch is heated it becomes 
jelly-like, the starch having absorbed the water. 
Dry starch when acted upon by heat is also 
changed to a more soluble form. This is one 
reason why toasted bread is more quicldy assimi- 
lated by the body than the imtoasted. 



a6 HOW TO COOK AND WHY 

As the digestion of starch is fttdrted by the 
saliva in the mouth, starchy food should remain 
in the mouth long enough to be thoroughly 
mixed with saliva. Hence it is well to serve 
cereal in not too licjuid a form. If in a semi- 
liquid condition, moat people will swallow it 
before the saliva touches it. 

Gruels. Cereals form a most valuable addition 
to the diet of invalids and children. When Used 
for this purpose the cooking is a more important 
matter tbajl when used by people in normal 
health. The cooking should be longer, and the 
tough outer coat should not only be srftened by 
lot^ oocAdag, but should be removed by straining. 
To this strained substance is added milk to 
make the desired consistency — a very thin gruel 
for young children, and a thicker consistency fdr 
tiie invalid and fen: the baby who has learned to 
eat from a spoon. It is Important that the cook- 
ing of gruels be long enough to change the starch 
to a nearly soluble condition. Since gruels are 
almost liquid foods, they are not held in the 
mouth loi^ enough for the saliva to affect the 
starch, and they must be cooked longer than the 
cereals served thick. A good rule is to cook 
them until every particle is soft and the mass is 
jelly-like. It will form a jelly upon standing. 

It is usually thought that the cereals with the 
most fat should be omitted from the menu during 
warm weather, and theoretically this seems rea- 
sonable; but experience shows that in children's 



THE VALUE OF CEREALS 97 

diet oatmeal is valuable all the year round. 
Every housewife knows, however, that a change 
of o^^al is most acceptable to her family. The 
same cereal served day after day is usually 
monotonous, and there will be a happier house- 
hold where there is variety. 

Fruit. Fruits are often served with or im- 
mediately preceding cereals at breakfast. This 
is regarded by some authorities as an unwise 
combination. When the fruit is strongly add, 
experience teaches many people to eat it after 
rather than before the <%real. 

St^r. It is wise to encourage a tasta for 
cereal without si^ar. As the starch is converted 
to sugar in the process of digestion, to add sugar 
is like carrying coal to Newcastle. Sugar also 
kills the flavor of the cereal, adds to the expense 
of the dish where it is not necessary to increase 
either expense or nutritive value, and sometimes 
causes fermentation in the digestive tract. If a 
sweet flavor is desired, the addition of figs or 
dates served with cereal gives this flavca- and 
increases the enei^ value of the dish. 

Left-over Cereals. When some of the cereal 
cooked for breakfast is left it should never be 
thrown away. Many attractive dishes may be 
made from it. Fried corn-meal, rice pudding, 
rice croquettes, or rice baked with cheese are 
well-established dishes; but cream -of -wheat 
griddle'K^es and cream of wheat as a dessert 
are not so often utilized, nor is it so well known 



38 HOW TO COOK AND WHY 

that the cold cooked cereal can be used to make 
delicious muffins and griddle - cakes, the cold 
cereal being substituted for part of the flour. 
The drier the cold cereal the more exact can be 
the amount substituted for the flour left out. 

Home-made Cereals. Some people advocate the 
use of home-made cereals, and it is a suggestion 
well worth following. Stale bread can be thor- 
oughly dried and lightly browned in the oven. 
When this is crushed by using a meat-grinder or 
a rolling-pin, and served with milk or cream, it is 
as delicious a breakfast food as any on the market. 

TTte Care of Cereals. If a number of cereals 
are kept on hand in order to vary the breakfast 
menu, it is necessary to use judgment in their 
care. When the cereal is sealed in a box at the 
factory it is protected from dust and from the 
troublesome little insects that sometimes molest 
grain; but when the box is opened the t^real 
may be contaminated in either of these ways. 
Corn-meal and wheat are more especially subject 
to mold, which increases and grows rapidly in a 
damp, close place. When a box of cereal or grain 
is opened it should be emptied at once into a 
tightly closed jar of some sort. 

To sum up the question briefly, we cook cereals 
to soften and break the cell-wall surrounding the 
starch, Uberate the starch grain, and make it 
soluble, and so more easily digested. To this end 
we serve cereals stifE enough to chew, so that the 



THE VALUE OP CEREALS 



39 



saliva nmy be mixed with them and the digestion 
of the starch started. If cereals are served in 
semi-liqmd foim, we cook them longer in order 
to make up in part for the shorter stay in the 
mouth. When the cereal is not thoroughly 
cooked it is difficult for the digestive juices to 
penetrate the raw starch, and so the body gets 
less heat and energy from it. It is, moreover, 
mmecessarily taxed to get rid of the undigested 
substance, which, before it can be eliminated, may 
cause intestinal irritation, resulting in peevishness 
and bad temper. Therefore, let us cook our cereals 
well and be amiable. 

TABLE TOR COOKINO CEREALS 



Oats, coarse . . 
SteaJned cooked 
RoUedOata . . 
H-0 .... 
Quaier Oats . . 


,c. 


Steamed cooked 
Wheat . . . 
Pettijohns . . 
Old Grist Mill . 
Cream of Wheat 


,c. 


Com .... 

Indian meal . . 


I c. 


Wheatena . . 
Hominy . . . 
Rice, steamed . 


I c. 


Rice, boiled . . 


IC. 



Xt<p. 


4hrs. 


Knp- 


2hra- 


Klsp. 


20 min. 


«l=p. 


45imn- 


Kttp. 


3t0 4hrs. 


JiMp. 


3,™. 
45 to 60 



HOW TO COOK AND WHY 

CBRBAL8 





ytiu>[Ha 


psBcnnAonor 


COOWtDCWMWL 




Onu 


tes 


1 


if 


s 


II 


1 


IS- 


Cort 




ill 


ibiicult 


16, 1 


If 


;■: 




1 

St 


3 Ub. 

a Ub. 
iblKidt 


:«3+ 



BREAD AND TBA8T 

NOTHING on the table so insures the health 
and contentment of the family as good 
bread. TTiere is no article of food about which 
there has been more written, more instruc- 
tion given, or in which more failures have been 
made. Nothing adds more distinction to a table 
than good bread or breads, and it Is almost safe 
to say that nothing is so rare. 

Many a housekeeper noted for her good cook- 
ing has complained that she could not under- 
stand why she never could have really good 
home-made bread. She has tried many recipes, 
fallowed them closely, but achieved only a com- 
monplace loaf with a thick, hard crust; and as 
for rolls I She has wasted eggs, butter, and pa- 
tience so often as to be in despair. The best ad- 
vice to the housekeeper desirir^ good home-made 
bread and rolls is to try first to make perfect 
bread, light, white, crisp, and thin-crusted. When 
the fine loaf is achieved the rolls will follow. 

To secure that rarest thing, a perfect loaf of 
iiome-tmd9 bread, what condition? are to b^ 



33 HOW TO COOK AND WHY 

insured? How many are vital to success? First, 
the flour must be excellent; second, the yeast 
perfect; third, the quantity of salt and liquid 
must be exact; fourth, the mixing and kneading 
must be performed with judgment; fifth, ihe- 
time and temperature allowed for rising must 
be just right; sixth, the baking must be thorough. 
Scmie other foods may be made by any one who 
has wit enotJ^h to put certain quantities of needed 
material tc^ether. To achieve a perfect loaf of 
bread certainly calls for intelligence, judgment, 
and practice. 

Fhur. The selection of a good bread-flour is 
the first essential, A good standard bread-flour 
is more easily procured now than formerly. In 
many parts of the country there are two crops 
of wheat, spring wheat and winter wheat. The 
flours made from these wheats show marked dif- 
ferences. That made from wheat harvested in 
the early summer is known as winter wheat, is 
white in color, has a soft and powdery feel, and 
contains a larger quantity of starch than the 
sprii^ wheat. Winter wheat, if used alone, 
makes the best flour for cake, quick breads, and 
pastry. Spring wheat makes a cream-white 
flour, with a granular feel, and will absorb more 
water than winter -wheat floiu-. Spring wheat 
if used alone makes the best flour for bread. 
Sprii^-wheat flour is often called a strong, hard 
flour, and winter wheat is known as a soft flour. 

However, the average housekeeper does not 



BREAD AND YEAST 33 

need to keep tMs distinction in mind if she bu3^ 
the regular brands of household flour from one 
of the big mills. The modem miller aims to 
produce a good floiu- of even quality, and in or- 
der to do this mixes 
spring wheatandwin- 
ter wheat and the 
wheats of wet and 
dry seasons in care- 
fully calculated pro- 
portions. This flour 
is good for yeast 
bread, quick breads, 
and pastry. 

All of the wheat 
kernel is not used in 
ordinary white flour. 
The outer husk and 
genn are removed 
after the first grind- 
ing of the grain, and 
what is left passes 
between many steel 
rollers and through 
many sieves until the | 
flour is reduced to 
the desired fineness. A paste of water and wheat 
flour has an elastic quality not foiuid in a 
dough made from flour of other grains. It is 
very tenacious, and grows more elastic as it is 
worked in the hands. The elastic or tenacious 



34 HOW TO COOK AND WHY 

characteristic is dug to the protein constituent 
called gluten. The millers call a flour stroi^ or 
weak as it contains more or less gluten. The 
wheat grain also contains s large proportion of 
starch, some fat, and mineral matter. 

An examination of the enlarged wheat germ 
may interest the housekeeper who desires to 
understand the character of the different flours 
made from the wheat grain. (See illustrations.) 

The best bread is made from a strong flour — 
one rich in gluten. A good bread flour is cream- 
white in color, and it should not feel too soft and 
velvety; when squeezed in the hand it falls apart 
as the hand is .opened, not caking together as does 
the weaker flour that has less gluten. A good 
bread Qour, when wet with water, makes an elas- 
tic, tenacious dough. The degree of elasticity of 
the dough is one of the tests used by the miller 
tor flour. When a given floiu does not come up 
to standard in this respect he mixes it with a 
strong flour until a correct blend is reached — 
one makipg dough showing a correct degree of 
elasticity. There are many tests used to deter- 
mine a good bread flour. The best one is that it 
will make good bread. This baking test is al- 
ways used by lai^e bakeries and by the most 
reUable millers. 

The discuB^on of whole-wheat flour and flour 
made from other grains will be considered aft^ 
the directions for making a simple loaf of white 
bread are given. 



BREAD AND YEAST 35 

Yeast. Having procured a good bread flour, 
the quality of the yeast tnust be considered. 
Here again the manufacturer has taken much 
of the responsibiUty from the bread-maker. The 
ccanpressed and dried yeast cakes on the market 
ere well made and rdiable, and keep up to a 
standard of excellence only equaled by the stan- 
dard achieved for bread flour by the best millers. 



noB Itirai; f, imgular ceU* (the Souir pDition i^ the cndMpsin). 

In using compressed yeast it is essential that 
it be fresh. This can be determined by the smell. 
It should have the characteristic yeast smell, not 
a cheesy smell. A compressed yeast cake that is 
fresh breaks with an uneven edge; where the 
edge is even and smooth as though cut the cake 



36 HOW TO COOK AND WHY 

is stale. The dried yeast has the great advan- 
t^e of keeping fresh under ordinary conditions 
of temperature. It requires a longer time to 
work, tile dough must stand longer when dry 
yeast is used, but this slower action of the yeast 
produces a bread of more delicious flavor. Very 
few housekeepers now use home-made yeast, and 
it wiU not be discussed here. The home-made 
yeast, of necessity, varies in character. 

Yeast is a tiny one-cell plant which grows in 
the flour and water, producing carbon dioxide, 
a gas which pushes up the dough in its efforts to 
escape. Yeast plants are in the air; it is one 
kind T^ch gets in the cracks of the fruit-jars 
and spoils the preserves. Home-made yeast is apt 
to have some of these wild yeast plants, which 
may develop unpleasant flavor in the bread, and 
are undoubtedly the bad fairies who played havoc 
with the bread of the early settlers. 

Preparation. With a good bread flour and a 
fresh yeast cake, the bread-maker's attention is 
given to the physical condition of her mixing-bowl, 
kitchen, and person. Cleanliness is desired by 
every one; absolute cleanliness is a requirement 
to produce the perfect loaf of bread. The cleanli- 
ness of the hospital should be striven for, which 
means not only freedom from dust and dirt we 
can see, but the security from all foreign matter 
in the utensils. This can be insured only by 
immersing the bowl, spoon, and measuring-cup 
in boiling water. 



BREAD AND YEAST 37 

The cook should wear a fresh-laiindered cotton 
dress or a fresh apron which covers the dress, so 
that no dust may fall in the dough. The hair of 
the cook is better covered; in any case, it must 
be so arrai^ed that it will not shake dust into 
the doi^h. The hands and nails of the cook 
should be cleansed as carefully as the trained 
nurse's are before an operation. The reader is, 
perhaps, objectir^ that few cooks carry out these 
minute directions. The reader is answered that 
few cooks make perfect bread. 

The only necessary ingredients to make bread 
are flour, salt, yeast, and liquid. Whether the 
liqmd is water or milk is purely a matter of taste. 
The difference in food value of milk and water 
bread will be discussed later in the chapter. Since 
the exact proportions of flour, water , salt, and yeast 
to make bread can be procured from any cook- 
book, only general proportions and the essential 
conditions to be observed will be given here. 
The usual blend of family bread flour as found 
on the market to-day will take about one-fourth 
its volume in liquid; that is, to four cups of flour 
add one cup of Uquid, and one teaspoonful salt. 
(Modem recipes in giving measurements of flour 
always mean level measures of flour that has been 
sifted once.) 

The quantity of yeast varies with the time given 
it to do its work. The work of the yeast is to act 
on the starch in the flour, and by changing it into 
sugar, then into carbon-dioxide gas and alcohol, to 



38 HOW TO COOK AND WHY 

make the dough Kght. The bubbles all over and ' 
through well - ri?en dot^h are the evidences of 
carbon-dioxide gas trying to escape. One-eightll 
of the usual compressed yeast caJce to four cups 
of fiour is a good proportion. This proportion 
of yeast will take six or seven hours to rise — that 
is, to double the bulk of the dough. The smaller 
the quantity of yeast and the longer the time 
allowed for rising, the sweeter, better-flavored 
will be the bread. The advocates of the larger 
quantity of yeast and quicker risii^ of the dough 
contend that there is less danger of contamina- 
ticm because the bread is made in a shorter time. 

It is perfectly possible to observe such cleanli- 
ness in the room where the bread is made that 
there can be no contamination, so that this is not 
a valid argument for quick rising. Another very 
important condition to observe is the tempera- 
ture of the dough while it is rising. It should be 
kept at an even temperature, about 90° to 95" 
P.— or, in ordinary terms, warm. If too hot 
the yeast is killed and no action results; if 
too cool the yeast will not grow, and ^;ain there 
is no action, which means that the bread does 
not rise. 

There are two accepted methods of making 
bread. One is to make a thin batter, add the 
yeast, allow to rise, then add the rest of the 
flour, knead thoroughly, allow to rise again, and 
bake. The other method is to use all the hquid 
and flour in tiie ordinal mixture, knead it, set to 



BREAD AND YEAST 39 

rise, knead slightly, form in loaves, set to rise the 
second time, and bake. Either way will make 
equally good bread when absolute cleanliness, 
even, warm temperature, thorough kneading, 
risii^ to the correct point, and thorough bakii^ 
are observed. 

A number of bread-making machines are on 
the market. They are excellent, doing the work 
well and efficiently. The machines are no more 
difficult to clean than is any bowl in whidi bread 
would be made. Any utaisil must be careful- 
ly and intelligently cleaned. The machines save 
time, as the time of turning the machine is much 
less than the time for kneading by hand. 

Baking. The necessity for thorough baking 
of bread cannot be overestimated. Underdone 
bread is the cause of more than half the dyspep- 
sia in the land. The oven shoiild be hot enough 
to brown in three minutes one-half teaspoonful of 
flour scattered on the oven floor, or — a tidier test 
— when a piece of white writing-paper turns dark- 
brown in six minutes. A commercial baker gives 
the following rule for baking bread: "When the 
bread is nearly ready to bake, heat the oven to 
440° F., open the oven door and cool to 300° F. be- 
fore putting the bread in the oven. After the 
bread is put in the oven leave the door open for 
ten minutes. During this time the bread rises. 
At the end of the ten minutes close the oven door 
and bake in a heat increasing to 390° F," Mrs. 
Rorer says to put the ordinary loaf of bread in at 



40 HOW TO COOK AND WHY 

280° F. If the shallow French bread-pans are 
used, 360° P. Many people forget the quick 
coolir^ of the oven when the door is left open. 
In the newer ovens with glass doors the baker 
can watch the loaf brown without cooling the 
oven by opening the door. 

To follow these directions an oven-thermometer 
is necessary. Indeed, this is a great help in every 
baking operation. It takes long experience to 
judge correctly oven temperatures by feeling, 
and even the seasoned housekeeper is mided by 
a new stove. The thermometer always tells the 
right temperature irrespective of the kind of 
oven it is used in. The reasons for difference in 
ejcact directions for baking bread are probably 
due to the fact that oven-thermometers are 
not carefully standardized. The exactness of the 
reading of the thermometer is also important. 
An ordinary loaf of bread must remain in the 
oven forty minutes with the oven door closed. 
If there is danger of burning, the oven door may 
be opened and the bread left in the oven another 
fifteen minutes. An old English expression sur- 
vivii^ in the South is to " soak the loaf," meaning 
to soak it with heat. The heat must penetrate to 
the center of the loaf and kill all yeast plants. 
Any live yeast plants which find their way to the 
human stomadi will continue to live, produc- 
ing carbon-dioxide gas. The result of the yeast 
action in the stomach is the inflated feeling so 
well known to suSer^s of dyspepsia. A test 



BREAD AND YEAST 41 

for well-baked bread is to roll the crumb between 
the thumb and forefii^er; if it crumbs, the bread 
is well baked; if a pasty ball is the result, the 
bread is underdone. 

When the loaf of bread comes from the oven 
it should be set on a rack or other arrangement 
so that the air can circulate all around the loaf. 
This should be in a dust-free room. This ex- 
posure of the bread to the air aids in the escape 
of all gas and steam. When the bread is cool it 
should be put away where no dust can penetrate. 
A tin box kept expressly for this piarpose is very 
good. The practice of wrapping the bread in a 
cloth is not a good one. It is almost impossible 
to keep such a cloth absolutely clean. Not only 
may it cause the bread to "taste of cloth," but 
the conditions for the growth and cultivation of 
mold are greatly increased. The bread-box, if 
one is used, should be scalded out every other 
day, and exposed to the direct rays of the sun. 
Old pieces of bread should not be kept in the same 
box with the fresh bread. 

Variations. Most people like bread made with 
shortening. Pat may be added in the propor- 
tion preferred. Sugar, eggs, nuts, and spices can 
also be added to bread as taste dictates. French 
bread is made with water and no shortening. 
Milk improves the keeping quality of the bread, 
makes a more tender crumb, affects the color of 
the crust. Water gives the better flavor. Butter 
or other shortening also prevents the drying of 



4a HOW TO COOK AND WHY 

the bread and makes it more tender. Two tea- 
spoonf-uls of shortening to three cups of flour 
(the ordinary loaf) is a good average proportion, 
although some famihes like bread made with as 
much as two tablespoonfuls to the loaf. 

Salt checks the action of the yeast. In sum- 
mer, particularly by the sea, where the yeast 
grows more quickly, a larger quantity of salt may 
be used to retard the rising. More than one tea- 
spoonful of salt to a loaf will make the crumb less 
tender and affect the color of the crust. Sugar 
has the opposite effect of salt upon yeast. It 
makes the yeast work more quickly. When quick- 
process bread is made, sugar is always used — 
about two teaspoonfuls of sugar to one loaf of 
bread gives the best result. Some people brush 
over the freshly baked loaf with butter. This 
detracts from the crispness of the crust, softening 
it. IE great care is not exercised, more butter is 
used than can be absorbed, and this leaves the 
loaves greasy and unattractive. 

Bread made with milk and shortenii^ will have 
a somewhat higher nutritive value than that made 
with water. It should be remembered, however, 
that the nutritive value of bread, as of other foods, 
must be measured by digestibiUty as well as by 
chemical composition. The digestibility of bread 
depends largely upon the Ughtness of the loaf 
and the thoroughness of the bakii^. Well-made, 
well-baked bread is one of the most wholesome 
economical foods. Eaten as it is with butter, it 



BREAD AND YEAST 43 

gives to the body all the necessary food prin- 
ciples. Well-made white bread is probably the 
cheapest food possible. 

The much exploited bread made from whole- 
wheat flour has its place and use for some people. 
It illustrates very graphically the importance of 
judging a food by its digestibility rather than by 
chemical analysis alone. The flour made from 
the whole grain of the wheat contains considera- 
bly more protein and mineral matter. From the 
chemist's point of view it offers a greater return 
than does the white fiour. However, repeated 
experiments with people go to show that the 
body gets more nutritive value from an equal 
amount of white flour than from the same amomit 
of whole-wheat flour. Moreover, to quote from 
the United States Experiment Station Bulletin 
No. 85, which gives the results of studies of 
white and whole-wheat flour; "While composi- 
tion, digestibility, and palatabihty of a food are 
important factors in determining its value, the 
cost or comparative pecuniary value also require 



Graham and entire-wheat flour usually sell at 
a higher price than white or ordinary bread flour. 
Since the white, straight-grade flour contains some- 
what more digestible nutrients than Graham 
or entire wheat, it will be seen that for a given 
sum of money white flour furnishes the largest 
amount of nutrient and available energy. The 
wise housekeeper will use as many varieties of 



44 HOW TO CXJOK AND WHY 

bread as possible to give interest and change to 
her daily food — Graham, whole-wheat, and rye 
breads can be served in place of the white bread 
once or twice a week, or at csrtain meals. 

Baker's Bread. The comparison of home-made 
and baker's bread is difBcult, because the home- 
made product is so uncertain a factor. Experi- 
ence will give approval to the statement that 
the well-made home-made loaf of bread goes 
further and satisEes the family better than a loaf 
of baker's bread of the same siae. In some re- 
cent experiments with bread-making, where gas 
was the fuel for baking, the following figures were 
obtained: A loaf of bread made of i cup of milk, 
4 cups of flour, I tablespoonful of butter, i table- 
spoonful of sugar, i/8 yeast cake, cost 8)4 cents 
(including cost of gas) and weighed 23 ounces. 
When water was used in place of milk and Crisco 
instead of butter, the cost was sJ^ cents, and the 
weight of the loaf 36 ounces. A baker's five-cent 
loaf of bread weighs but la ounces. This is a 
distinct saving in money, and the result is more 
palatable and often more nutritious. When the 
bread made at home is baked in a coal-stove it 
further reduces the cost of the loaf, because the 
fire is used to cook other things. 

Bread-making takes considerable time, and it 
is true for many housekeepers that their time may 
be more profitably spent in other ways, but only 
true when really good baker's bread can be pro- 
cured. If it is an economy to buy baker's bread, 



BREAD AND YEAST 45 

tor the safety of the family it must be boi^ht 
where the factory is open to the inspection of the 
public. While many bread-factories are examples 
of cleanliness and perfect sanitation, this is by 
no means the genial rule. 

The movement requiring that baker's bread be 
wrapped in paper at the factory is a necessary 
sanitary precaution. It increases the cost of the 
bread slightly, but cleanliness is always worth 
paying for. A story is told of a Bakes' Con- 
vention where a motion was made that all bread 
be wrapped in paper. It was opposed by an old 
baker, who arose and said; "It will not work. 
Years ago we tried wrapping loaves of briad, 
but the paper got so dirty no one woidd buy the 
bread." He did not state what happened to the 
imwrapped bread. 

Rolls. The cook who has mastered tlie art of 
bread-makir^ finds that she has at the same time 
acquired the essentials for making rolls and raised 
biscuit. Very delicious rolls can be made by 
taking stone of the bread-dough, adding e^s and 
butter to it {consult a cook-book for proportions, 
which vary), allowing 'to rise, then rolling out 
to about one-half-inch thiclaiess, cutting with 
a biscuit - cutter, and putting into a pan to 
rise again. When light {if Parker House rolls 
are wanted), the risen pieces of dough are rolled, 
brushed over with melted butter, folded, and 
baked. Parker House rolls must be folded par- 
allel or they will unfold during the baking. Any 



46 HOW TO COOK AND WHY 

shaped roll can be made — bread-sticks for din- 
ner or clover leaves for luncheon. If hot rolls 
are liked, it is a simple matter to set the pan of 
risen rolls in the refrigerator until time to bake 
them. The cold simply retards the growth of 
the yeast, and will not injure the flavor or texture 
of tiie rolls. 

The skill to make a p^ect loaf of bread does 
not come for the wish. Mudi practice is needed 
to acquire the art. The woman of to-day ^ould 
never forget that the word "lady" means "loaf- 
giver," and that the providing of perfect bread 
for, her family is one of the oldest, highest, and 
pleasantest duties of the home-maker. 



QUICK BREAD AND GRIDDLE-CAKES 

TO many housekeepers the conditions con- 
tributing to the making of delicious quick 
bread are of more immediate interest than is the 
making of yeast bread. Good yeast bread can 
be procured from the public baker, while the tea- 
biscuits, muffins, waffles, and griddle-cakes must 
be made at home. The mixtures included under 
quick bread vary all the way from the thin 
batter of which griddle-cakes are made to the 
doi^h of which a very delicious loaf of bread is 
made. These batters and doughs are depen- 
dent for thdr lightness upon various leavens, the 
most common being baking-powder, and soda in 
combination with some add substance, such as 
sour milk, molasses, or cream of tartar. 

Baking-powder. All baking-powders are made 
of two materials — sodiiim bicarbonate, more com- 
monly called "soda," and some acid substance. 
When the soda and the add substance used are 
combined, if there is any moisture present — even 
the slight amount of moisture frmn the air — a 
gas (carbon dioxide) is given off. A "filler," 



48 HOW TO COOK AND WHY 

which is either com-starch c^ £our, is used to 
separate the particles of soda and the acid sub- 
stance. The more filler used the less carboa 
dioxide is given off. Inexpensive baking-powders 
often have a great deal of "filler." All ingredients 
should be dry before combining, and in order 
to prevent absorption of moisture baking-powder 
should be kept in closely covered tin or glass 
jars. 

Types of Baking-powder. The baking-powders 
are classified according to the kind of add sub- 
stance with which the soda is combined. No 
matter what acid substance is tised, carbon-dioxide 
gas is given ofE and water is formed. Besides 
these, another substance called a residue is left 
in the mixture. The nature of the residue de- 
pends upon the kind of acid substance used. The 
claim is often made that the residue from cer- 
tain kinds of baking-powders is not wholescane. 
These assertions are made upon the chemist's 
analysis rather than upon the doctor's observa- 
tion. This is one of the many questions that 
need to be settled by a numbCT of experiments 
upon a number of people for a long period of 
time. 

In a tartrate baldng-powder, cream of tartar 
(potassium add tartrate) is the add substance 
combined with the soda. Cream of tartar is ob- 
tained from a deposit foimd on the bottom and 
sides of wine-casks. This deposit is ground, dis- 
solved in boiling water, bleached, purified, and 



QUICK BREAD' AND GRIDDLE-CAKES 49 

recrystallized, in which form it is called cream of 
tartar. The supply is naturally limited. 

Soda, which is mined from the earth or made 
from certain sea products, is shipped in great 
quantities from Greenland. Bicarbonate of soda 
is obtained by treating a solution of carbonate 
of soda with carbonic-add gas. The usual redpe 
for making a tartrate baking-powder is as follows : 

I lb. 2 oz. cream of tartar 

}4 lb. soda 
yi-}4 lb. starch 

Many lar^e hotels and restaurants manufac- 
ture their own baking-powder, so that they may 
get a pure compound at a minimum cost. Wheth- 
er or not this is advisable for the housekeeper is 
a debated question and depends largely upon 
what value she puts upon her time. To insure 
the keeping of bakii^-powdCT the ingredients 
must be thoroughly dried. It is easy enough to 
dry starch or floiu: and the cream of tartar; but 
a very little heat causes the soda to give off car- 
bon dioxide, under which circumstances it loses 
its value as an ingredient of baking-powder. 

It is a simple matter to ojmpute the cost of 
a tartrate baking-powder so that each hotise- 
keeper can judge whether she wishes to be her 
own manufacturer. Prices vary for both cream 
of tartar and soda, depending upon the grade 
desired, the quantity bought, and the store selling 
them. Cut-rate drug stores frequently offer a 



50 HOW TO COOK AND WHY 

perfectly reliable article at a low price as a 
leader; but bargain sales are safe only to the one 
who can test for a pure article. 

Assuming that cream of tartar is 40 cents a 
pound and soda 20 cents a pound, these being 
average prices, a pound of tartrate baJdng-pow- 
der frould cost about 28 cents, which is a saving 
of from 14 cents to 22 cents a pound over the 
commercial product. 

The residue left from tartrate bakii^-powder 
is Rochelle salts. It has been estimated that a 
large loaf of bread contains forty-five grains more 
of Rochelle salts than are found in one Seidlitz 
powder, but, as no one ever eats a loaf of bread 
at once or seldran in one day, the efifect of the 
Rochelle salts upon the body is scarcely worth 
considering. 

Examples of tartrate baking-powder are: Royal, 
Price's, Cleveland, and Sea Foam. 

TTie phosphate baking - powders have acid 
phosphate of lime combined with soda. The ac- 
tion of the phosphate baking-powder is brought 
about like that of the tartrate baking-powder — 
by heat and moisture. Carbon dioxide is the 
leaven, and the residue in this case is phosphate 
of calcium and sodium. 

The manufacturers of phosphate baking-pow- 
ders argue that the phosphate residue supplies 
to the body the phosphate lost in the milling of 
the flour. As the phosphate is not in the same 
form as it is in the wheat grain, this is not a 



QUICK BREAD AND GRIDDLE-CAKES si 

logical argument, since the body cannot make 
use of it in the same way. Perhaps the greatest 
fault with the phosphate baking-powders is the 
fact that they do not keep well. The best-known 
phosphate bakit^-powder is Rumford's. 

In alum baking-powders the add substances 
most commonly used are potash, soda, and am- 
monia alums. There has been much question by 
chemists as to the possible hannfulness of the 
residues of alum baking-powder. The theory has 
been that they cause more or less irritation to the 
digestive tract. Recently, however, a report of 
the Referee Board of Consulting Scientific Ex- 
perts, published by the United States Depart- ■ 
ment of Agriculture, April, 1914, states that no 
more harm has come from the use of alum baking- 
powder than from any other kind. The cheap- 
ness of alum baking-powders is a great point in 
their favor. 

Since all manufacturers are required by law to 
state plainly on the label what is contained in 
the baking-powder, each housekeeper can be her 
own judge as to which she wishes to xtse. The 
housekeeper selects the baking-powder according 
to the amount of gas it gives off, as this deter- 
mines the lightness of the mixture. Examples of 
alum baking-powders are: Calumet, Davis, and 
Atlantic and Pacific. 

Many baking-powders on the market are made 
only in certain communities and cannot be found 
far from these localities, or somettmes a manu- 



S3 HOW TO COOK AND WHY 

facturer sends out the same product under dif- 
ferent names. If the housekeeper does not wish 
to trust the manufacturer's label in this case, she 
can send a sample of the baking-powder to the 
State chemist, who will anal^e it and give her 
accurate information regarding it. 

Other Leavens. In every flour mixture the 
lightness is partly controlled by the steam and 
air. As the air is heated it expands and carries 
the mixture with it. This is true when the air 
is beaten into the mixture itself or beaten into 
^gs used in the mixture. The forming of steam 
from the water or milk used also helps to lighten 
the flour mixture, unless a hard crust is foimed 
too soon in baking. If this happens, the steam 
cannot escape, and as the mass cools it condenses, 
making a sticky, dough-like substance. 

The use of soda with sour milk produces car- 
bon dioxide. The add of the milk reacts with 
the soda, as does the acid substance iised in the 
various baking-powders. Since the soda reacts 
as soon as it is moist, it is better in making a flour 
mixture to sift the soda with the flour and add 
the milk just before the mixture is to be heated. 
Heat hastens the generating of the gas. 

It is difficult to give accurate proportions for 
sour milk and soda, as the amount of add in the 
milk varies. Usually a half-teaspoonful of soda 
is suffident to neutralize a cup of sour milk. It 
is even more difficult to give a definite propor- 
tion for soda combined with molasses. Molasses 



QUICK BREAD AND GRIDDLE-CAKES 53 

made m the old-fashioned way as a by-product 
in the manufacture of cane sugar was stroi^ly add, 
and usually required a teaspoonful of soda to 
each cupful. The molasses now on the market 
is made mostly of glucose, brown sugar, and 
coloring matter, and flavored sometimes with 
molasses, but moPe often there is none in the 
combination. This imitation molasses has very 
little acid in it. As is stated on the label, a 
small quantity of sulphur dioxide is usually added 
to prevent fermentation. This probably becomes 
an acid in the mixture and reacts with the soda. 
Such molasses is so uncertain a product that it is 
difficult to state a definite proportion of soda to 
use with it. 

Ingredients. There are but few ingredients 
used in hot breads — in fact, only four that are 
essential — ^flour, liquid, salt, and leaven. The 
flavor and the character of the mixture are 
varied according to the consistency of the mix- 
ture and the addition of a few accessories. 

The most common accessories are shortening, 
eggs, sugar, and others that might be classed as 
flavors, such as spices, fruit, and flavoring ex- 
tracts. The consistency of the mixtiu^s, too, may 
be classified — a thin batter has equal parts of 
flour and liquid, a thick batter has one psrt of 
liquid to two parts of flour, and a dough usually 
has three parts of flour to one part of liquid. 
Pastry, the stiffest dough, has four parts of flour 
to one part or less of water. 



54 HOW TO COOK AND WHY 

Types of Hot Bread. I£ the inexperienced 
housekeeper were to realize that the character 
of any hot bread depends upon the manner in 
which it is subjected to the heat and the con- 
sistency of the dough ratiier than upon the in- 
gredi^its combined, perliaps the art of cooking 
might be simpler. There are certain proportions 
that for ordinary purposes are definite enough to 
remember. Two level teaspoonfuls of baking- 
powder are usually used to one cup of floiu*, and 
one-fourth level teaspoonful of salt to one cup 
of flour. Knowing these proportions and the 
variations of flour and liquid to make the range 
of mixtures from thin batters to dough, the cook 
has a working basis for any recipe. 

As has been said before, in modem recipes it is 
always understood that the flour is sifted before 
measuring. Under no circumstances should the 
flour be shaken down into the measuring-cup. 
The method for putting together all batters and 
doughs starts the same — mix and sift the dry 
ingredients. This distributes the salt and bakii^- 
powder or soda uniformly throughout the flour, 
and insures an even rising. Com meal, Graham 
flour, whole wheat, bread-crumbs, and cooked ce- 
reals may be substituted for any portion of the 
white flour. Sugar and spices may be added as 
part of the dry ii^redients. When a coarse, dry 
ingredient will not go throt^h the sifter, it is 
added after the finer ones are mixed by sifting. 

By adding the dry to the liquid ingredients, 



QUICK BREAD AND GRIDDLE-CAKES 55 

time and dishes aie saved. The liquids may be 
all or part milk, water, eggs, molasses, or melted 
butter. When the dry and liquid ingredients 
are combined in this way, the mixture needs to 
be beaten vigorously to inclose as much air as 
possible. No matter what the leaven, a lighter 
Bubstanoe will be obtained if a good deal of air is 
beaten into the batter. Much air can be beaten 
into a thin batter with a Dover egg-beater, if 
the use of that is less tiring than the use of a 
qxx}n. 

There are several variations in the method of 
combining the liquid ii^redients. Sometimes 
to obtain a lighter mixture the egg ycSks and 
whites are beaten separately, and the whites 
folded into the mixture just before it is put into 
the oven. This is done when making pop-overs, 
and usually when making waffles. 

Waffles contain «ther baking-powder and 
sweet milk or soda and sour milk, both of which, 
it will be remembered, give ofE carbon dioxide 
when subjected to heat and moisture. One-half 
cup of batter is needed to fill an ordinary wafile- 
iron, but when the egg-whites are folded in last 
it takes less batter to fill the iron. "Hie latter 
kind of waffles must necessarily be lighter and 
more crisp. 

In the popover batter the "popping over" is 
due entirely to steam and die expanding of the 
air inclosed in the well-beaten eggs; therefore this 
mixture should be put into hot pans and into a 



S6 HOW TO COOK AND WHY 

hot oven, and the door kept closed until the 
mixture has a firm enough crust to keep its shape 
when the oven door is opened. Unless the walls 
are firm a blast o£ cold air causes the mixture to 
fall. An ideal pop-over should be hollow inside, 
and crisp and well baked throughout. These 
served with sugar or syrup, or filled with a cus- 
tard or blanc mange, make an excellent dessert. 

Griddle-cakes may be made with sweet milk 
and baking-powder or sour milk and soda. They 
are baked on a griddle hot enough to form bub- 
bles almost at once. This means that the heat 
is great enough to cause the leaven to act. The 
cake should be baked completely on one side be- 
fore it is turned. If it is turned back and forth 
on the griddle, the carbon dioxide cannot force 
the hard-baked crust to rise, and the cake will 
be heavy and indigestible, 

French griddle-cakes make a delicious luncheon 
or supper dish. These are griddle-cakes the size 
of a dinner plate piled one on top of the other 
with butter and sugar or jelly spread between. 
Another variation is a German roll. This is a 
large or small griddle-cake spread with butter 
and jelly or sugar and then rolled. 

Many housekeepers use left-over griddle-cakes 
by cutting them in fine pieces and adding them 
to the next griddle-cake batter. 

Buckwheat cakes, generally considered a New 
England specialty, are popular throughout the 
United States. TTiese may be made with baking- 



QUICK BREAD AND GRIDDLE-CAKES 57 

powder, but are much better if made with yeast 
Once the batter is started, about a cup of batter 
is saved from day to day to be used instead of 
yeast to set the next mixing. 

Another artide made from thin batters is 
fritters. Fritters are made by combining the 
four essentials — ^flour, liquid, salt, and leaven — 
and adding whatever either taste or pocket-book 
suggests. Eggs may be added, and sugar and 
fruit if desired. Fritters are fried in deep fat — 
a method of cooking which is usually thoi^ht to 
produce an indigestible substance. 

It takes experience to cook with deep fat and 
have the article cooked throughout. Here are 
the rules for deep-fat frying: When the fat be- 
gins to smoke drop in an inch cube of bread. If 
it is a golden brown in forty seconds the fat is 
the right temperature for frying a cooked mixture. 
If an uncooked mixture is to be used, allow one 
minute for the bread to brown. This rule was 
in use before the manufacture of cooking-fats. 
If a manufactured product is used for deep-fat 
frying, by all means use a thermometer, and fol- 
low the temperatures the makers advise, as some 
of these fats decompose when they are hot enough 
to smoke. 

Muffins, made from a thicker batter, contain 
the four ingredients in the proportion of two cups 
of flour to one cup of liquid, with the other two 
essentials varied accordingly. The accessories — 
mdted butter, sugar, and e^s — may be added 



S8 HOW TO COOK AND WHY 

to suit the taste. Many kinds of mufBns can be 
made from the same recipe, substituting for one- 
half of the white flour com meal, whole wheat, 
rye, Graham, rice, or any of the cereals. Fruit 
may also be added to a muffin batter, a cup of 
fruit to a mixture made of two cups of flour. If 
the fruit is juicy, the amount of liquid in t^e 
recipe must be reduced. Muffins are deUcious 
when split, toasted, and served hot. 

The quick breads made with a dough are mixed 
in a different manner from the batters. In a stiff 
mixture like bakji^-powder biscuits the shorten- 
ing 13 cut into the flour and other dry ingredients, 
so the method b^ins the same — "mix and sift 
the dry ingredients," then "mix in the shorten- 
ing." This may be done with the fingers, but a 
much better method is to cut it in with two knives. 
The liquid is added last, and after this the dough 
is handled lightly. 

A very good baking-powder biscuit is made 
with a soft dough dropped into muffin-pans. This 
is called an "emergency biscuit," because it can 
be made very quickly. It is well to have in mind 
the proportions for baking-powder biscuits (a tea- 
spoonfuls baking-powder, J^ teaspoonful salt, 1/3 
cup of water, i to 2 tablespoonfuls shortening to 
I cup of flour), as this dough is the foundation 
for many good quick breads. Fruit -rolls, for 
example, are made by roUing this dough about 
one-quarter inch thick. Sprinkle this with sugar 
and cinnamon and raisins or currants. Roll 



QUICK BREAD AND GRIDDLE-CAKES 59 

like a jelly-roll and cut in one-and-a-half-inch 
slices. Lay dices fiat in the pan and bake as 
baking-powder biscuits are baked, in a hot oven. 
These are sometimes called pin-wbeel biscuits. 
To make fruit-rolls richer, eggs are added. Bak- 
ing-ponder biscuits, like mufi^, are particularly 
palatable split, toasted, and served hot. 

Short-cake is a baking-powder biscuit mixture 
with a little more slunteni:^ added. Apple-cake 
is the baking-powder biscuit mixture to which an 
^g is sometimes added. The mixture is fitted 
into a cake-pan and sliced apples are spread over 
the doi^h, or set up overlapping one another. 
The top is sprinkled with sugar and crumbs of 
butter, and this is baked in a hot oven at first, 
then the heat decreased to be sure the mixtm^ 
is baked and the apples cooked. 

Another attractive dish made from this same 
combination is apple-dumphng. Cut the baking- 
powder biscuit mixture in about four>inch squares. 
Place on each square a medium-sized apple, pared 
and cored. Season the apple with sugar and 
butter, nutmeg or cinnamon, and fold the comers 
of the dough over the apple. Press them to- 
gether and bake them in a pan in a medium-hot 
oven. These are sometimes baked in muffin-tins, 
in order to keep a better shape. 

A very appetizing loaf of bread can be made 
with a bakii^-powder biscuit combination for a 
foundation. To this an egg and either nuts or 
fruit are usually added. This niust be baked 



6o HOW TO COOK AND WHY 

about an hour in a medium oven, or it will not 
be well baked throughoiit the loaf. This is 
equally delicious with sweet milk and baking- 
powder or sour milk and soda. 

Place in Diet. The quick breads are the house- 
wife's joy in an emergency. They are used very 
commonly in this cotmtry, especially in the 
South; but experience has taught many people 
to shun them. The difficulty seems to be that 
unless the hot bread is remarkably &iky it forms 
a somewhat pasty mass, which it is difficult for 
the digestive juices to penetrate. 

While it is generally admitted that most 
adults suffer no inconvenience from eating uxU- 
cooked hot breads, they should not form a part 
of the children's diet, as there is too great 
temptation to swallow them quickly. Dry 
bread, toast, and zwieback, which must be well 
masticated before they can be swallowed, stay 
in the mouth long enough to be thoroi^hly 
mixed with saliva, the ferment which begins the 
digestion of starch. The rapid growth and active 
exercise of children demand that only nourishing 
and easily digested food be given, but they can 
be taught from early childhood not to ^tpect to 
eat all the food the grown-ups enjoy. Indeed, im- 
less they are so taught other the older members 
of the family must restrict their diet unnecessarily 
or the children will be uodervitalized from im- 
proper food. 



IN ordering a luncheon for some guests recently, 
a hostess gave this parting injunction: "Have 
everything delicious, but be sure the cakes are 
especially nice, as they are served last and will 
remain lor^est in the minds of the guests." If 
this is true, it behooves every housewife to study 
diligently the "whys" and "hows" of cake- 
making. 

Cake-making is not a hit-or-miss aSair, but a 
process depending upon (i) the use of good ma- 
terials, (2) the selection of suitable utensils, (3) 
skilful manipulation, and (4) a well-r^ulated 
oven. When any one of these factors is disre- 
garded a good cake may be "hit" upon occasion- 
ally, but more often it is "missed." 

Before beginning to bake a cake all materials 
should be collected, the pans prepared, and the 
oven tested. The preparation includes selecting 
the pans, a bowl suitaWe for mixing, a measuring- 
cup, a mixii^-spoon, a teaspoon, a knife, and a 
flat pan or di^ to hold the soiled utensils. Then 
the utg^KDts to be combined in the cake are 



62 HOW TO COOK AND WHY 

arranged on the table in convenient order. The 
eggs must be washed before the cook b^ins to 
handle the ingredients for the cake. The pans 
are prepared by being heated shghtly and greased 
with butter, or, better still, some other fat. Some 
housekeepers prefer a fat other than butter, as 
butter bums at a low temperature and gives 
the cake a burned appearance. Moreover, with 
butter at forty cents a pound or thereabouts, it 
is more economical to use another fat. A brush 
may be used to grease a pan, but this is difScult 
to keep clean, and therefore is to be condemned. 
A piece of oiled paper or unglazed paper is just as 
good and much more sanitary. A roll of the 
modem sanitary paper towelii^ hung in the 
kitchen provides paper for this and many other 



It is usually better to dust the bottom and 
sides of the pan with flour, as the dry, loose par- 
ticles of Sour keep the cake from stiddng. There- 
fore when the pan is inverted the cake drops out 
readily. The pans beir^ ready, it is time to 
give attention to the oven. 

The Oven. Oven testa without a thermometer 
are very indefinite and unsatisfactory, and almost 
as unsatisfactory with the ordinary thermometer, 
because, as has already been said, the thermom- 
eter for the household has not been standard- 
ized and is not entirely reUable. Loaf cakes, 
chocolate cakes, or those containing molasses, re- 
quire a slow oveq. A layer cake needs a quicker 



CAEBS «s 

oven. But hov an inexperienced housekeeper is 
to know the difference between "slow" and 
"quick" is a puzzle. Our inability to give her 
d^nite and reliable directions shows how in- 
definite and unreliable much of the business of 
housekeeping is even yet, and how mudi need 
there is for household "science." When science 
is applied in the household as effectively as it is in 
some of the great modem industries, the house- 
hold will save time, labor, and money, just as 
the industries have. Until then we can only 
t^ke advantage of every bit of applied science 
that is available. 

The temperature at which to bake a cake, then, 
is very indefinite, and this is probably the reason 
for so many failures. Some housekeepers call a 
moderate oven one in which they can bold their 
hand without discomfort while they count ten. 
That is not satisfactory, since one person can 
endure much more heat than another. Another 
test is to put a piece of manila paper in the oven. 
When the paper is light-brown the temperature 
of the oven is medium or "moderate." 

These and amilar tests are adequate for the 
person whom experience has taught to be an 
accurate judge, but how to hand this information 
along to the inexperienced is difficult to know. 
Until some manufacturer fills a long-felt need 
by an accurate, well-constructed oven thermom- 
eter this will remain an unsettled problem. 
Until that day each beginner must go on count- 



64 HOW TO COOK AND WHY 

ing ten and txainii^ her band to know a "slow," 
"medium," or "hot" oven, or must leam to use 
the paper test. 

To save being disappointed and wasting ma- 
terial it is always better to bake just a little of 
the cake batter in a small pan. This will show 
not (mly the condition of the oven, but the con- 
sistency of the batter. The disadvantage of this 
in a gas-oven is the cost of the gas; but this is 
not great, and may save a cake whose materials 
cost many times the extra gas. 

Kitids of Cakes. In cakes the basic ingredients 
are the same as in all the simpler flour mixtures 
— ^fiour, Uquid, a few grains of salt to bring out 
flavor, and leaven. The accesscmes are sugar, 
eggs, shortening, and a variety of flavors — vanilla, 
chocolate, almond, molasses, spices, nuts, and 
fruit. The kind of cake depends upon the varia- 
tion in the amount of accessories used — the num- 
ber of eggs, the amount of sugar and butter, and 
the kind of flavoring. 

There are two general classes of cakes, cakes 
witii butter and cakes without butter. The two 
types are quite distinct in method of mixing, and 
somewhat different in ingredients. 

The cakes with butter reqiure baking-powder — 
or soda and an add substance — ^while the cakes 
without butter are entirely d^iendent upon eggs 
for leaven. The butter cakes are mixed with 
milk or water; the other type have no liquid, un- 
less the eggfi are counted as sudi. The butta 



CAKES 6$ 

cakes can be made with one €^ or six, those 
without shortening have usually from six to 
twelve eggs. 

Preparation. For all cakes it is better to use 
pastry flour and finely grantUated sugar. Coarse 
sugar on dissolving usually makes a coarse cake. 
For all cakes, too, as for the other flour mixtures, 
the flour must be sifted once before measuring. 
Accurate measurements are most important, as 
even a small increase in flour or Uquid may af- 
fect the consistency of the batter seriously. The 
cakes with butter are more easily handled, and 
are less likely to be failures than the cakes with- 
out butter. They are usually less expensive and 
more easily varied, and therefore more often 
made. These cakes, like the quick-process breads, 
depend for lightness upon the various leavens — 
air, steam, baking-powder, or soda and sour milk 
or molasses. 

Because the soda in combination with an add 
substance gives oS carbon dioxide when moist- 
ened, the cake should be baked as soon as it is 
put together. If it must wait while the oven 
heats, the mixture should be put into a cold place, 
since, it will be remembered, heat hastens the 
Uberation of the gas. 

There are three ways of adding the ^gs: the 
first is to add them unbeaten to the creamed 
sugar and butter; the second is to beat the whole 
^gs well before adding; the third is to beat 
yolks and whites separately, adding the well- 



M HOW TO COOK AND WHY 

beaten yolks to the sugar and butter, and folding 
in the well-beaten whites after all other ingredients 
have been added. The last method is thought 
by many to make a lighter cake. If this method is 
followed care must be taken not to beat the cake 
after the ^g-whites have been added, as the air- 
cells will be broken. 

After the dry ingredients have been well 
mixed and sifted they should be added to the 
mixtive alternating with the milk, so that the 
batter is kept thin, since beating a thick batter 
develops the gluten in the floiv and makes a 
stiS cake instead of a Ught, fiufiy one. 
' In this age of efiSdency another method of 
cake-making has come into popularity — that of 
putting all ingredients into a bowl together and 
beating them well. No creaming of butter and no 
beating of egg yolks and whites separately. This 
is a saving not only of time but of di^es, and 
has given rise to the manufacture of a cake-mixer, 
for a description of which see Chapter XVIII, 

If a housekeeper has one good, reliable, plain 
cake recipe she can make any kind of cake she 
wishes. For example, if she has a good, inex- 
pensive cake with two eggs, by adding spices — 
usually sifting them with the dry ingredients — 
a good spice-cake can be made, of coiu'se without 
molasses. Another variation would be obtained 
by adding nuts. A cup of chopped nuts to an 
ordinary-fflzed cake converts the plain into a nut 
cake. Two squares of melted chocolate change 



CAKES 67 

the plain cake to a chocolate cake. Substituting 
two egg-ycdks for each ^g used makes a yellow 
cake. By omitting the yolks and substituting 
two egg-whites lor each whole egg, a white cake 
is produced. 

More unusual still, omitting the eggs aatirely 
will give a very palatable eggless cake that will 
gratify the longing for sweets at a less expense. 
If this cake is baked in layers, put together with 
jelly or custard and eaten the day it is made, 
it is a little economy worth practising occasion- 
ally. Such a- batter can be used very success- 
fiilly for a cottage pudding, as the sauce served 
with this covers up any lack of flavor. 

Cakes with Fats other than Butter. When it is 
necessary to economize it is well to use another 
fat than butter. Some of the fats now on the 
market made from vegetable and nut oils are 
very successful substitutes for butter. Fresh 
chicken fat tried out makes a delicious cake, and 
in cakes flavored with molasses and spices it is 
possible to use fresh bacon fat if care is taken 
to omit the salt recommended in the recipe. Of 
course, the butter flavor is lacking in all these 
cakes, and the allowance of salt, flavoring, and 
' spices must be increased on that account. If this 
is not done the cakes will taste flat. 

In a recent experiment three plain cakes were 
made, one with butter, one with Wesson's Oil, and 
one with Crisco. The flavorings were increased 
in the last two, and eight people, some of them 



68 HOW TO COOK AND WHY 

teachers of cookery, were asked to tell which was 
the best of the three. They were not told which 
cake was which, and none of them could dis- 
tii^uish them. As a matter of fact, the larger 
number picked out the one with one of the " sub- 
stitutes." If the family has a prejudice in favor 
of butter, it may be well to try a similar experi- 
ment on the family and see if the butter flavor 
is as real to them as they think. 

Cakes without Butler. The cakes without butter 
— ^the angel, sponge, and sunshine cakes — require 
more skill than the butter cakes. For Uiese 
cakes pastry flour must be used. This, too, must 
be sifted once before measuring, and after meas- 
uring must be sifted at least sue times, to M the 
flotu* with as much air as possible, making it l^ht 
and airy to begin with. 

Lemon-juice or cream of tartar is always added 
to such a cake because of the acidity, as the add 
brings about more complete coagulation of the 
^g albumen. The sugar for these cakes should 
be extra fine granulated sugar, and this, too, 
should be ^ted. Last of all the flour should be 
folded in lightly. 

These cakes should be put into a cold or slightly 
heated oven, and the temperature gradually in- 
creased to medium. A large cake requires sixty 
or even seventy minutes to become thoroughly 
baked. A fireless cooker is excellent for baking 
these cakes. If the soapstones are heated for 
fifteen minutes, the cake will be a delicate 



CAKES 69 

brown and baked throt^hout in fifty or sixty 
minutes. 

It is better to make angel and sponge cakes in 
a pan with a tube in the center — usually called 
a Turk's-head. By this device a larger siuface 
of the cake is exposed to the heat. This is always 
a safer pan for any lai^ loaf-cake. When these 
cakes are removed from the oven or fireless cooker 
the pan should be turned upside down on the 
cake-cooler. The pan should not be taken away, 
but as the center cone projects it will allow the 
cake to come partly out of the pan. This pre- 
vents the cake frmn settlir^ back upon itself, 
draws it away from the bottom more gently, and 
altogether insures a lighter cake. 

Tests to Determine whether a Cake is Done. 
Experienced cake-makers have various tests to 
determine when a cake is done. One touches the 
top lightly with her finger, and if the dent made 
springs back quickly she knows the cake is done. 
If the dent remains, she knows the cake-batter is 
still too soft. Another housewife depends entirely 
upon a broom-splint or one of the modem tooth- 
picks. She thrusts one of these into the center 
of the cake, and if it is the least bit sticky when 
it is taken out die knows that the cake needs 
more baking. A box of tooth-picks is a rather 
necessary part of a kitchen equipment — not to 
be used as the name indicates, but for testing 
cake and similar uses. It is much more sanitary 
to use a tooth - pick than a broom splint, un- 



70 HOW TO COOK AND WHY 

less a wisp - broom is kept expressly for this 
purpose. 

Icing. A boiled idng is usually tlie bane of 
the inexperienced cook's existence. She is never 
sure ^en it is going to !'run" cr stand in lumps. 
This is because the making of idng, like the oven 
temperature, is a matter of guess or experience. 

This, however, can be definitely settled by 
means of a thermometer and all anxiety done 
away with. A cup of sugar and a half-cup of 
water is syrup enough for one egg-white. Cook 
the sugar and water until the sugar-thermome- 
ter indicates 238° Fahrenheit to 24a** Fahrenheit. 
The exact degree on a particular thermometer 
must be determined by a few trials. 

If it is impossible to have a sugar-thermometer 
in the kitchen equipment, the safest direction to 
follow is to cook the sugar and water together 
until the very first drop threads from a clean, 
cold spoon. 

In making boiled icing there really is no need 
of anxiety, no matter what happens. If the idng 
is a little too hard a few drops of boiling water 
poured into it and beaten vigorously will remedy 
the defect. This can be repeated a number of 
times without spoiling the idng. If the idng is 
not cooked enough, the bowl may be set in a pan 
of boiling water, the water kept boiling, and the 
idng beaten constantly until it is firm enough to 
spread on the cake. 

There are several points to notice in making a 



CAKES 71 

smooth boiled idng. The first is to keep the 
sugar from cr3ratallizmg. Sugar forms co-ystals 
very easily, and if one crystal forms, others col- 
lect around it quickly. To prevent this a speck 
of cream of tartar is added, since this add sub- 
stance is known to hinder the crystallization of 
sugar. 

Another way to prevent crystallization is to 
keep washing down from the sides of the pan 
any crystals which form there. This is done with 
a fork, the tines of which are wound with a piece 
of cheese-cloth. When the padded fork is not in 
use it must be kept in cold water. Another point 
to notice is that it is easier to recognize when the 
icing threads if a clean fork or spoon is used 
rather than one which has already been dipped 
into the idng. 

The eggs to be used should be beaten just be- 
fore the hot syrup is poured upon them, or they 
may separate. These must be beaten stiff, but 
not dry. If the egg-whites are too dry when the 
hot syrup is poured upon them, the idng will 
have a curdled appearance. If it is necessary 
to let them stand a few minutes, they should be 
beaten vigorously for a moment before adding 
the hot syrup. The syrup is added slowly, and 
beaten constantly, so that the egg is subjected 
to the heat gradually. 

A boiled idng may be varied to suit the taste. 
For a chocolate idng three squares of mdted 
chocolate may be added to a syrup made with 



72 HOW TO COOK AND WHY 

one and one-half cups of sugar. Marshmallows, 
liquid coSee, shredded cocoanut, chopped nuts, 
or fruit may be added, or the plain idng may be 
flavored with a few drops of vanilla, lemon, or 
almond extract, or orange-juice. 

There is no reason why a caJie should go with- 
out any idng if a boiled idng seems too formidable. 
There are many redpes for maJdng idng with 
confectioners' or powdered sugar, and egg-whites 
or cream — either sweet or sour — or both egg- 
whites and cream. 

Ornamental icing is usually made with egg- 
whites and confectioners' sugar, to which a little 
cream of tartar has been added. These ingredi- 
ents are put into a bowl and beaten vigorously 
until the mixture will stand on the cake. Any 
kind of idng may be colored with a good vege- 
table color to hdp carry out the color scheme of 
a meal. 

The place of cake in the diet is considered at 
the end of the next chapter. Its place on the 
family table is suffidently important for the 
home-maker to give it a good deal of attention. 



. PASTRY AND LITTLE CAKES 

EVERY beginning cook has had a feeling of 
envy for the person she knew of in her 
youth who "could make a cherry-pie quick as a 
cat couldwhikitseye." Leaving out the cherries, 
if any one could make the pastry for the pie with 
that speed it would be dehdous and flaky, for 
handling pastry quickly and Lightly is one of the 
first requirements for a successful result. Add 
to this good material and ice-cold water and the 
pastry cook's reputation is made. 

It is better to use pastry flour; and if either 
butter or lard is to be used, they should be firm 
and hard. If any of the commercial fats are sub- 
stituted it is better to follow the suggestions 
given by the producers, as some of the fats are 
used somewhat soft. One-fourth of a cup of 
shortening to a cup of ilour is as much as an in- 
experienced hand can blend well; but with more 
expert manipulation it is possible to use one- 
third of a cup of shortening to one cup of flour. 
Only enough water will be needed to hold the 



74 HOW TO COOK AND WHY 

mixture together, Tlie more water used the 
tougher the pastry. 

The best way to add shortening to the flour is 
to cut it in with two knives. To rub it in with 
the fingers is an old-fashioned method, but un- 
less the hands keep cool — an ahnost impossi- 
ble condition when rubbing them t(^ether — it is 
better to use the knives. Some cooks use baking- 
powder in pastry to make it more flaky. This 
seems to be an individual preference, as many 
cooks make just as crisp and flaky pastry with- 
out it. 

After the pastry is made the variety of pies 
is as great as the variety of fruit in market or 
the cook's ingenuity in combining them. There 
is the pie with only a bottom crust filled with 
custard, pumpkin, lemon, orange, or cocoanut 
filling, and covered with meringue; or apples or 
peaches covered with whipped cream. There 
is that delicious combination made by filling a 
deep pie-plate with well-seasoned fruit and putting 
a top crust on that. Or there is the more fanuliar 
pie with a bottom and top crust. 

When a top crust is put on a fruit-pie there 
is usually some device for the escape of lie steam. 
This is sometimes provided for by pricking the 
top crust with a fork, or, if the cook is artistic, 
she sometimes arranges short slashes in a design. 
Another plan is to make no perforations in the 
cover, but to leave it free from the under crust 
and allow the steam to escape at the edges. Hiis 



PASTRY AND LITTLE CAKES 75 

method has the added advantage that it does 
away with the thick piece of pastry where the 
two edges are pinched together. A little prac- 
tice enables one to make these "lid" pies as sym- 
metrical and attractive as a pie needs to be. 

When a pie is made of green apples it is par- 
ticularly important that the apples should be 
well cooked. To insure this it is well to have 
no perforations in the upper crust and to fasten 
it securely over the lower one, so that the steam- 
ing of the apples will cook them more completely. 

Puff -paste is so expensive and elaborate in prep- 
aration that if the housewife considers her time 
at all, it is cheaper to buy it-. Directions for 
making are given in any cook-book. 

LittU Pies. It is often daintier and more at- 
tractive to serve pie and cake made in individual 
pans. These are especially pleasing to children, 
and more desirable at luncheons and for after- 
noon refreshments. 

The little pies called tarts, tartlets, or fancho- 
nettes have a variety of interesting possibilities. 
The shell is made by fitting a piece of pastry on 
an inverted muffin-tin or small cake-pan. The 
pastry should be perforated to allow the escape 
of the air between the tin and pastry. When 
this is baked the cup-shaped shell can be filled 
with fruit, custard, jelly, or conserve. 

A lemon or orange tart is more attractive with 
a rh^ringue. M&ingue is sometimes a trifle dis- 
appointing, but if a little care is used it can be 



76 HOW TO COOK AND WHY 

made delicious. First, the eggs should be thor- 
oughly chilled before they are beaten; second, 
tiie m&ingue shoiUd be put into a moderate oven. 
If a m6ringue is taken from the oven too soon 
the uncooked portion will liquefy and the par- 
tially cooked portion will settle. If a meringue 
is cooked too long, or at too high a temperature, 
it will be tough and will shrivel. 

A dainty tart is made by placing in a pastry 
shell half of a lat^e peach, filling the cavity of the 
peach with whipped cream, and garnishing it 
with a blanched almond. The joy of every child's 
heart is the old-fashioned tart with jelly. This 
is usually made with a ring of pastry placed upon 
a circular piece, leaving a good-sized space for a 
spoonful of delicious, quivering jelly. 

Little Cakes. There are pans of so many 
shapes and sizes now upon the market for Uttle 
cakes that, so far as form is concerned, there is 
nothing left to the ingenuity of the cook. There 
are hearts, diamonds, clubs, and spades; there 
are stars and crescents, oblong and round, pointed 
bottoms and rounding bottoms, fluted edges and 
straight edges, and so on until the purchaser is 
bewildered by the array. Perhaps she decides to 
go home to bake her cake in a large sheet, and cut 
it up in small squares, diamonds, or rectangles, 
icing each one so that none of her guests will sus- 
pect but that she has at least three sets of tins. 

Any cake recipe can be used to make little 
cakes, and any variation used. A srniple cup or 



PASTRY AND LITTLE CAKES 77 

sponge cake baked in raufEn-tins may be made 
more elaborate by cutting out the central portion 
of the top and filling this cavity with whipped 
cream or a rich custard. When this cake is iced 
the surprise is completely hidden. 

Choojlate cakes with chocolate in the mixture, 
baked in small, oblong tins, are nicely varied by 
cutting out a portion of the center and filling it 
with orange-marmalade. The cake is then cov- 
ered with chocolate icing. 

Cookies. Cookies are more varied even than 
cakes. There are thin cookies and thick cookies, 
hard cookies and soft cookies, cookies with fruit 
and cookies with nuts and cookies with oatmeal. 
All of them should be baked in a medium oven, 
or there will be burned cookies. The old-fash- 
ioned cookies that took hours to roll out and bake 
are giving place to the drop cookies. These may 
be made with any recipe, to which nuts or fruit 
are added at pleasure. Possibly a little more 
flour may be needed for the rolled-out batter. 

Care. Cake should be thoroughly cold before 
it is put away. A tight tin box is the best thing 
to keep it in; but it should be a box kept for this 
purpose only. If bread and cake are kept in the 
same box the cake absorbs the moisture and the 
bread is spoiled. For the same reason, a piece 
of bread kept in the cake-box will keep the cake 
fresh longer. A new piece should be put in each 
day. 

Place in IHet. Cakes, little cakes, and pastry 



78 HOW TO COOK AND WHY 

have a place in the diet; but they should not be 
used to excess nor to the exdiisioii of the Ampler 
desserts. On account of the great amount of 
sugar and starch they contain they usually 
have a high energy-givii^ value. Certainly the 
sight of an attractive dessert stimulates an in- 
terest, and, coming as it does at the end of the 
meal, it stimulates the action of the d^^estive 
juices and probably hastens the digestion of the 
other foods. 

But as these desserts lack protein and mineral 
matter, they must always be an accessory to a 
menu rather than a principal article of food. 
Children must be guarded from the danger of 
forming a habit of making cake the chief part of 
any meaJ. If they are carefully trained to eat 
sufficiently of a substantial and mixed diet, 
there will be no danger to them in the amount of 
wholesome cake they eat. As for pastry, it is 
well not to give it to young children at all, and 
to boys and girls of high-school age tmly oc- 



THE INDISPENSABLE VEGETABLE 

GREATER familiarity with the many vege- 
tables growing close at hand and knowl- 
edge of their comparative food values would do 
much to improve the health of the average Ameri- 
can family, helping to give that variety of food 
which should be taJten at each meal. An ac- 
quaintance with the changing market prices of 
vegetables will do much to reduce the food bills. 
The housekeeper who keeps herself informed as 
to whether the crop of onions was lai^e or small, 
bnissels sprouts plentiful or scarce, will choose 
the vegetables for her table from those which 
are cheap and plentiful. The thrifty house- 
keeper keeps an eye on the market quotations of 
the daily paper, as the broker does on the fluctua- 
tions in stocks. (This subject is again referred 
to in Chapter XIX.) 

With a variety of vegetables growing and easily 
cultivated in a kitchen garden by country and 
town dweller, with markets oifering all domestic 
as well as foreign vegetables, the average Ameri- 
can housekeeper gives her family potatoes every 



So HOW TO COOK AND WHY 

day, and in many families every meal, occasion- 
ally adding tomatoes, com, or peas, A visit to 
a large central market where there is one, and a 
series of small markets where there is not, with 
a determination to know all the vegetables offered 
for sale in the neighborhood, will be surprisingly 
enlightening. 

"You may lead a horse to the water, but you 
cannot make him drink." Many a housekeeper's 
efforts to reduce the cost of livii^ by selecting 
vegetables with reference to their food value has 
been a failure because the family habits are so 
set they will eat only the vegetables they know 
well. Fortiuiately, however, there are^ew things 
a detemuned, tactful woman cannot accomplish. 
Many a family has been led to eat a variety of 
vegetables by serving the few they demanded 
in different ways until variety became custom. 
Gradually new vegetables appeared on the table, 
and the family without being conscious of it were 
eating and enjoying the very vegetables for which 
they had formerly expressed great aversion. 

It will help the housekeeper to classify the 
vegetables, mialdng a few general rules for selec- 
tion, preparation, and cooking. Under the general 
name vegetable come the plant foods — cereals, 
legumes (the pod-bearing plants) , tubers (roots and 
bulbs), green vegetables, vegetable fruits, and flow- 
ers. In this chapter the term vegetable will be 
used in a more restricted sense, and only those 
considered which are served at table as vegetables. 



THE INDISPENSABLE VEGETABLE 8i 

Composition. The green vegetables are four- 
fifths water by weight, their chief value being the 
mineral salts they contribute to the diet. It is 
of great importance to the health of our families 
that the daily food should give sufficient mineral 
matter; but where economy is necessary, one 
must consider, before buying lettuce, spinach, and 
celery at winter prices, and see whether this con- 
tribution to the daUy food cannot be procured at 
a less cost. Dandelion plants have been culti- 
vated outside of Paris for twenty-five years, and 
are iised on the Continent to take the place of 
our more expensive greens. They are now grown 
here, and served as a delicacy in some restau- 
rants; but there is no reason why they should 
not be more generally grown and sold at a rea- 
sonable price. 

TTie vegetables which make the greatest return 
in food value are the legumes (peas, beans, and 
lentils). They give starch, protein, and mineral 
matter. Of course, fresh they are more delicious, 
and canned they are more convenient; but dried 
peas and beans are the food which give the largest 
return for the money expended, and by skilful 
cooking they may be made very palatable. One 
and one-third pounds of pea flour will supply the 
protein required daily by an active man. Sup- 
pose this were given in the form of pea soup — 
a good thick soup would contain a heaped spoon- 
ful of the flour for each plateful- The protein 
value of this is equal to an otmce of meat. Pota- 



89 HOW TO COOK AND WHY 

toes, carrots, parsnips, and beets are one-half to 
three-quarters water. The dry matter is largely 
starch, with some sugar aJid a small quantity of 
protein, mineral matter, and fat. 

Selection. Fresh, tender, firm vegetables should 
be chosen, never those that have softened and 
started to decay. Often dry and withered vege- 
tables can be freshened by allowing them to stand 
in cold water. If this is done, care must be 
taken to remove any decayed parts, as nothing 
produces decay as quickly as contact with decay. 

The heavier vegetable is usually the better one. 
It is worth while to watch the thrifty German 
mother buy for her large family. She balances 
the head of cabbage in her two hands, choosing 
the heavier; she has her potatoes weighed after 
she has selected those with a netted and oorky 
skin, because the clear, smooth skins are apt to 
be watery and immature. The housekeeper who 
knovra buys if possible where weight, not bulk, 
is the standard of measure. 

The time expended in going to the market and 
selecting the vegetables for tJie day will be well 
paid for in the money saved and better food pro- 
vided. Even the honest tradesman must choose 
between a good and best article, and, after all, 
it is his business to sell, the housekeeper's to buy. 
The housekeeper who goes to the market selects 
the best vegetables, while what is left goes to fill 
the telephoned order. 

Circumstances so alter cases that it is difficult 



THE INDISPENSABLE VEGETABLE 83 

to give any rules about buying vegetables in 
quantity. With a dry, cool store-room it may 
be an economy to buy potatoes, carrots, onions, 
and parsnips in the fall. Such a store-room re- 
quires constant attention, as decay spreads very 
rapidly and can quickly destroyj more than the 
money saved by early buyii^. In the average 
family in the city it is better economy for the 
housekeeper to cultivate a judgment to know the 
best article and keep at her finger-ends a scale 
of values to guide her buying in smaller quantities. 

Canned vegetables are as a rule harmless; that 
is, where they are put up in clean factories and 
under sanitary conditions. They are expensive 
compared with the fresh food, because a large 
proportion of water is being paid for — that used 
in the preparation. ITie loss in cooking is greater, 
because the food is twice heated in water, once at 
the canning-factory and again in the home kitchen. 
For some families this loss is compensated for by 
the shorter time required in preparation-. 

Preparation. Vegetables that form in heads, 
such as cabbage, cauliflower, and brussels sprouts, 
should be put head down in cold, salted water, 
to which a few spoonfuls of vinegar may be 
added. This treatment will drive out any worms 
or insects from between the leaves. All vegeta- 
bles should be cleaned before cooking. A small 
scrubbing-brush kept for this purpose is a great 
convenience, and marking a capital V on the back 
of it will insure its use for this purpose only. 



84 HOW TO COOK AND WHY 

When skin is to be removed, care must be exer- 
cised not to cut away the edible portion. It is 
best economy to prepare the vegetables just be- 
fore cooking. The pods keep the peas and beans 
moist and fresh, as does the husk the fresh 
com. The pared potato, carrot, and tender 
onion soaked in cold water for an hour or more 
before cooking will lose both £avor and food 
material. 

Cooking. Most vegetables may be baked, 
roasted, fried, boiled, or steamed. All vegetables 
can be prepared in a number of different ways, 
and by skilful combination give endless variety 
to the daily food. The simple methods of cook- 
ing and serving vegetables are the best, particu- 
larly when care and intelligence preserve the 
characteristic flavor. Spenser tells of the Irish 
in 1580, that "wherever they found a plot of 
shamrocks or watercresses they had a feast, and 
there were gourmets even among them, for some 
gobbled the green food as it came, and some 
picked the faultless stalks and looked for the 
bloom on the leaf." 

The changes that take place in vegetables in 
cooking soften them, make the starch more di- 
gestible, and develop flavor. TTie woody struc- 
ture of vegetables is softened by heat and mois- 
ture in cooking. The tougher the structure, as 
in old vegetables, the longer this process will 
take. Starch increases in bulk and beaanes 
gummy and opaque when heated with water. 



THE INDISPENSABLE VEGETABLE 85 

The raw starch is not acted upon by the diges- 
tive juices as is the cooked starch. 

Just what contributes to make the flavor c^ 
all the vegetables is not thoroughly known. Ex- 
perience has taught us that over-cooking them 
destroys the flavor most liked, and in many 
cases produces a strong, unpleasant taste. It is 
also trae that over-cooking of vegetables is often 
the reason for digestive disturbances. Cabbie, 
£ot instance, is apt to cause flatulence and be 
difficult of digestion when cooked for hours in a 
covered pot; yet when cooked quickly uncovered 
it is delicate in flavor, and by most people easily 
digested, Properiy prepared it is as ddicious as 
cauliflower and costs considerably less. A cab- 
bage costing five cents serves a family twice, 
where a fifteen-cent cauliflower is all eaten at 
one meal. 

Boiling and Steaming. To secure the best re- 
sults all vegetables except dried peas and beans 
must be put into boiling salted water, the water 
must be made to boil again as soon as possible 
after the vegetable is put in, and must be kept 
boilii^ until the cooking is done. There is al- 
ways danger of over-cooking vegetables. The 
time of preparation can easily be arranged so 
that they can be served as soon as done. What 
the Irishman said of the potato is true of other 
vegetables in less degree; "Potatoes must be 
aten, not waitin'." 

Water - soaked v^etables (those cooked in 



86 HOW TO COOK AND WHY 

warm, not boiling water) are also the cause of 
much digestive disturbance. The age of the 
v^etable must be considered in arrat^ing the 
time-table for cooking, the older vegetables re- 
quiring a longer time. A UtUe soda added to the 
water is said to help make the tough old vege- 
table tender. Care must be used not to add too 
much soda, as it will injure the flavor. The 
French add a little sugar to the water, and this 
gives a fresh, sweet taste well worth the con- 
sideration of the American housekeeper. There 
axe several advantages in cooking some vege- 
tables uncovered. Green vegetables retain more 
of their color, and strong-flavored vegetables like 
onions and turnips lose much of their offensive 
flavor. 

Fresh, tender vegetables — such as peas, 3raung 
beans, spinach, summer cabbie — lose much of 
their nutritive value when cooked in a large quan- 
tity of water. The better method of cooking is 
steaming, because in this way less material is 
removed than when they are boiled. A steamer 
can be improvised by using a colander or strainer 
set in a saucepan over boiling water and tightly 
covered, that the steam may circulate about the 
vegetables. 

Steaming cooks the vegetables in their own 
juices without the constant danger of burning, 
which often occurs in the boiling of spinach in 
its own juices, or in heating peas slowly in a pan 
lined with lettuce leaves. The slow heat draws 



THE INDISPENSABLE VEGETABLE 87 

out the juice from the leaves, providing the liquid 
in which the peas or spinach are cooked. This 
method requires constant care to keep the heat 
just right so that the cookit^ may continue with- 
out the v^etables being scorched or burned. Po- 
tatoes and carrots lose nutritious material when 
tiiey are pared before cooking, particularly when 
they are pared and cut in pieces. The sugar dis- 
solved out of carrots diced before cooking, in one 
experiment, was found to be at the rate of a 
pound to the bushel. 

It is also a saving of time to cook vegetables 
in their jackets, as the skins are much more 
quickly and easily removed. Sometimes in 
strong-juiced vegetables, such as winter cabbage 
and strong onions, there is too much flavor, and 
several waters are used in the cooking to reduce 
the flavor. It is true that mineral matter is lost 
in the water drained off. Where economy is the 
rule, this water can be used as a foundation for 
soup. 

Baking. In baking vegetables there is little 
loss of material except the water which is driven 
off by the heat. Baked potatoes, both white and 
sweet, are among the most easily digested and 
wholesome vegetables. These will be light and 
mealy if the skins are broken five minutes before 
they are taken from the oven. This allows the 
steam to escape and the inside of the potato to 
dry, making it much more delicious. Very small 
potatoes, thoroughly scrubbed and well baked, are 



88 HOW TO COOK AND WHY 

palatable, especially to people who like to eat 
the skins. Eating the whole potato has an ad- 
vant^e, as the mineral matter which Ues dose 
to the skin is lost when the stdn is discarded. 
The coarse cellulose of which the skin is com- 
posed is a good intestinal sweeper. Squash is 
excellent baked, as are tomatoes, egg-plant, and 
onions. 

Frying. Many people, especially hearty out- 
ctf-door workers, like fried vegetables. Those 
containing a large quantity of starch are usually 
parboiled before firing, to soften the cellulose 
and start the change in the starch. But such 
v^^tables as tomatoes, squash, and ^^-plant can 
be sufficiently cooked in the hot fat. It is as 
true of vegetables as it is of other foods cooked 
in fat that they are indigestilde if fat-soaked. 
To prevent this tiie fat must be hot when the 
food is put in and drained off before serving. 

Cold vegetables can often be reheated by 
saut^ing or pan-^yii^, changing the flavor and 
appearance so entirely that the family .will not 
realize they are eating leftovers. Many house- 
keepers are like the queen sung of in the nursery 
rhymes; "What they did not eat that day the 
queen next morning fiied." 

Stew. A ragout or stew of vegetables will help 
to make an acc^table dinner when a small 
quantity of meat must suffice. Sliced cucumbers 
and onions, browned well, then stewed in water 
for half an hour, and served with a well-seasoned 



THE INDISPENSABLE VEGETABLE 8^ 

gravy made with the water left in the saucepan, 
make only one of many ccanbinations. 

Sauces. To put on our table delicious v^ie- 
tables great attention must be paid to the flavor- 
ing and to the sauces served with them. The 
well-known drawn -butter or white sauce so 
comnjonly served on creamed potatoes, carrots, 
onions, celery, and other v^etables can be a 
delicious addition or a forbidding concoction 
reminding one of paper-hanger's paste. When 
the sauce is cooked the stardi in the flour swells 
and becomes sticky, and must be prevented from 
masang together. This is done by blending the 
flour and the butter, or flour and cold liquor, be- 
fore adding the milk or vegetable stock, and 
by stirring constantly during the cooking. Tlie 
cooking must continue loi^ enough to leave no 
raw-starch flavor. 

The proportions for a thin white sauce are one 
tablespoonful of flour to one cup of hquid. For a 
medium white sauce, two tablespoonfuls of flour 
to one cup of liquid. For a thick white sauce, 
three to four tablespoonfuls of flour to one cup 
of liquid. The butter may be the same quantity 
as the flour or one-quarter as much. 

The wise housekeeper masters the art of mak- 
ing simple sauces and varies the kind and flavor 
to suit the vegetables and harmonize with the 
rest of the meal. When vegetables are cooked 
in boiling water this water should be used to 
make a sauce, as this saves the flavor from the 



90 HOW TO COOK AND WHY 

vegetables dissolved in the water. Or the v^e- 
table stock may be used as a foundation for aoup. 
Much Bavor and nutritive material is thus saved. 

The combining of other foods with the vege- 
tables to give them greater nutritive value will 
help reduce the meat bill. Cheese added to 
scalloped cabbage or potatoes makes a really 
nutritious dish. 

As a matter of fact, it has been found that 
while the pulses peas, and beans, are most 
valuable sources of protein, they are not adapted 
to the exclusive diet of health. Few people can 
eat them every day. It is, however, a pity that 
they are not used at least once or twice a week 
by those to whom economy is important. 

French or kidney beans, either fresh or dry, 
contain a larger quantity of cellulose, and are 
therefore not as economical as are lentils. Egyp- 
tian lentils are richer in protein than either peas 
or beans, and because they contain less sulphur 
are less apt to cause flatulence. If the tough skin 
of the dried peas or beans causes digestive dis- 
turbance they may be soaked, cooked slowly 
until soft, and pressed through a colander, mak- 
ing a purfe. This may be added to milk to make 
a nutritious cream soup or be served as a purfe. 

The French housekeeper makes a dehcious pea 
or bean purfe to serve in the place of the more 
expensive meat. Five cents' worth of dried 
beans give a food value equal to eight cents' 
worth of sirloin beef. The beans give starch in 



THE INDISPENSABLE VEGETABLE 91 

place of the fat contributed by the beef, A 
pur^ can be made representing a somewhat 
larger food value than does the sirloin beef, and 
for half the cost. A leg of mutton costs about 
one-fourth more than a pur& of beans for the 
same food value. No family will consent to eat 
bean purfe every day, any more than they will 
eat mutton every day; but the saving for the 
month when a purfe is served once a week in 
place of the more expensive meat will approach 
fifty per cent., and a business man would con- 
ader his fortune made coidd he with any fre- 
quency secure the same result for fifty per cent, 
less money. 

Experience has so thoroughly tai^ht the need 
of a sufBcient amount of starch food that it 
seems luinecessary to emphasize its importance 
to the daily fare. Habit has made potatoes al- 
most a necessity to many famihes; sweet potatoes 
give a little less protein than do white potatoes, 
more starch and sugar, and a greater fuel value. 
The money cost is about equal when weight is the 
standard of measure. Beets are a little more ex- 
pensive than potatoes, and contribute half as 
much food value. Onions give about the same 
food value as potatoes for the same money, but 
the bulk is greater; it takes three onions to equal 
the food value c£ one medium potato. 

How many housekeepers realize that they are 
buying the starch for their families in an expensive 
foim when they buy potatoes at eighty or even 



93 HOW TO COOK AND WHY 

sixty cents a. bushel? Macaroni, rice, corn-meal, 
carrots, offer practically the same material at 
less cost. It usually requires greater skill to pre- 
pare the less costly food. Extra intelligence, care, 
and skill, on the one hand, or money, on the other, 
must be expended for the same return. 

A well-made cream-of-carrot soup is delicious. 
The carrots should be cooked a long time in milk 
in a double boiler, then strained and seasoned with 
intelligence. The reward is as great as the cost 
is small. 

Onion bouillon is made of four large onions 
put in one-half pint of cold water, boiled for ten 
minutes, and drained. One tablespoonful of but- 
ter is then heated in a saucepan, the onions added 
and cooked slowly in the butter three to five 
minutes. One tablespoonful of flour is next sprin- 
kled over, they are stirred well and cooked brown. 
One and a half quarts of hot water, one-half tea- 
spoonful of salt, pepper, and one ounce of beef- 
extract or soup-stock are next added, the whole 
cooked slowly, covered, for twenty minutes, and 
strained into cups in which are rounds of toast 
covered with grated Swiss cheese. This will 
please many people who never eat onions in any 
other way. Fredi pea-pods contain much flavor, 
and can be boiled for an hour, rubbed through a 
sieve, and used to flavor soup. 

Salads. Vegetables with their wealth of color 
admit of various and interesting eSects. If, as 
many preach, color has an influence upon the dis> 



THE INDISPENSABLE VBGBTABLB 93 

postion aod health, why not produce pleaang 
color aHnbinations with the vegetables served 
tc^ether and give the family the benefit of this 
influence? The coolness and ciispness of a salad 
not only furnish a valuable source of mineral 
matter, but c^ten tempts the appetite and stimu- 
lates the digestive juices to sudi an extent that 
the rest of the meal is more easily digested. 

A salad is sometimes considered a luxury, but 
skill in combining left-overs disproves this. When 
tomatoes are in season many depend lai^y 
upon them for attractive salads, combinii^ them 
with nearly everything in and out of the garden. 
For example, a slice of tomato sprinkled, with 
finely chopped chives or onions and arranged on 
a crisp lettuce leaf makes an appetizing dish. 
A whole tomato with the center scooped out and 
stuffed with chopped nuts and figs is the extreme 
of the combinations. When tomatoes are less 
plentiful they are still soi^ht after to garnish a 
salad. They are also served in the form of 
tomato jelly, easily made from the canned vege- 
table. 

. A very substantial and nutritious salad is made 
of peas, either fresh or caimed, and chopped nuts. 
Lima beans are as delicious in a salad as served 
in any other way. An economical and nutritious 
salad is made of several vegetables — peas, beans, 
beets, cucumbers, tomatoes, onions, chives, or 
any vegetable which the garden or larder fur- 
nishes. 



94 HOW TO COOK AND WHY 

When the salad is arranged on various salad 
greens and dressed with finely chopped egg-yolk, 
egg-white, and chives it is called a chiSonade 
salad, lliis is best served with a Piench dress- 
ing. A potato salad is a hearty and appetizing 
dish. This is usually served mth a cooked dress- 
ing and sometimes with a mayonnaise. In this 
the dry ingredients and the add, either lemon- 
juice or vinegar, are put in the bottom of a bowl. 
When a French dressing is used it is well to add 
some fat to the salad in the form of bits of well- 
cooked bacon. A potato salad is often made more 
interesting by the addition of bits of cucumber or 
tomato. No vegetable salad is complete without 
a suggestion of onion or chives, and many people 
consider a salad most uninteresting unless the 
salad-bowl or the bowl in which the dressing is 
mixed is rubbed with a garlic clove. 

To arrange an attractive salad is not only a 
culinary but an artistic triumph. The greens 
should be crisp, clean, and fresh, the vegetables 
cut with precision, and combined with color as 
well as flavor in mind, and the dressing should 
be generous in amount, but not so plentiful that 
the dish looks luiappetizing. 

To sum up, the housekeeper who is serious in 
the determination to reduce her food bills, yet 
preserve the health and efficiency of her family, 
wiU study the United States Government food 
bulletins. She will know when she is paying for 



THE INDISPENSABLE VEGETABLE 95 

large quantities of water and tiny quantities of 
mineral matter. She will become intdligent as to 
the quantity of starch a vegetable contains and 
its comparative cost. Exact knowledge of her 
family's need and the great importance of the 
mineral matter to the body's health will influence 
her in providing an abundance of vegetables for 
her table. She will remember that the mineral 
matter in vegetables and fruits acts as a tonic to 
the body, stimulating the intestines to activity, is 
necessary to the complicated machinery of diges- 
tion, and essential to the healthiest life of the body. 
Older people often suffer from a lack of mineral 
matter in their food, but children suffer even more. 
The wise mother will take care to give the growing 
children sufScient mineral matter as well as the 
other foods they need, to make healthy bodies, 
and happy, well children. 



9< 


HOW TO COOK AND 

i If 


WHY 

fillip 


1 


M liilll 


« 1 

li i^J 


1 


til f5| li 


II II 


8„ 
s 


h m 

if. hiS- 

as J^.^i 


ifii 


li 








illJiil sii 


li 


1 


1 f^ 


5' 



THE INDISPENSABLE VEGETABLE 



li 


11 


ii 

pi 

5|.gs 


1 


ill 


1 

ill 


ll 


if 


II 


?Ji 


til 


1 


m 


111 


1 


i 
1 


"Si"? 




III 




m 

ill 


5-11 


llli 


P 
III 


1 


1 


III 


1 



98 

a 


HOW TO COOK AND WHY 

fill 




8 ll 3 j J 1 1 

Jiil II J If I'll 




Hi li II II III 




nf ^iiii lii 111 If 


k 


i ifpi a 
II iifii m 


i 




1 

> 


J 1 1 



THB INDISPENSABLE VEGETABLE 





ft 

i! 


1 

if 




Jill li 


li 






ih 1 If 


1 


flill 




iliiiiiiiii. 


lllll 


II « 


• 




II 
III 


1 




IIS 

llll 


J 


1 




1 


1 


1 





10ft 


H6W TO COOK AND WHY 


1 


III 
mil 


I Ml 
li laiiii 


1 


III m 


8„ 

S 


& 

nil 


1 1 ^1 
i i ill 1 


h 




Ml 


pi 


m 

fills 


ifmn 


! 


■I 


fill 



THE INDISPENSABLE VEGETABLE i6i 

III §fi 


i 

1 

h 




if 

liil i 


i |i =ti 


1 1 


S2 . 


III 
III 


ill 


III 5l|l| 


it 

Liiii 


M 


1 


|J 


J 


1 



THE EQUALLY INDISPENSABLE FRUIT 

WHEN every house was set in a garden a 
cherry-tree, an apple-tree, and a grape-vine 
were the possession of even the hiimblest family, 
and the ripe fruit was the common property of the 
members of the family. Even the small children 
ate fruit whenever they wanted it, the only re- 
striction being that it must be ripe. Those who 
have sat in a crotch of a cherry-tree and eaten all 
they could of the juicy, ripe fruit, or those who 
have sat imder a peach-tree in August eating the 
luscious peaches just picked from the tree, remem- 
ber suffering no ill effects, except when they ate 
over-ripe or green fruit. 

It is true that even invalids and jroung children 
can eat many kinds of perfectly ripe fresh fruits 
with good results. Grapes picked with the dew 
on them and eaten under the grape-vine have 
formed the principal part of many famous health 
cures. Wonderful tales have come to us from 
our great-grandfathers' times of almost miracu- 
lous cures resulting from eating fresh fruit. Our 
present knowledge of physiological chemistry 



EQUALLY INDISPENSABLE FRUIT 103 

shows us there is more than a grain of truth in 

these tales. 

. Composition. We know why families who eat 
quantities of fruit keep well, have good complex- 
ions, and are not fighting the increasing malady 
of constipation. Fruit contains very little protein 
or fat, but large quantities of water, varying 
amounts of sugar, and, most_important of all, min- 
eral matter and adds. These substances are held 
in a framework of cellulose. 

Not only is the water in fruit made palatable 
by the characteristic flavor of the specific fruit, 
but there Is no danger from contamination of 
disease germs when it is taken from the fruit 
itself. The outside sldn of the fruit may harbor 
disease germs, but they are not possible in the 
sound fresh fruit. 

Fruit-si:^ar is easily digested, and ahnost never 
causes sour stomach or other digestive troubles, 
such as are caused by too much cane-sugar. As 
has been said, the mineral matter and adds are 
the valuable contribution of the fruits. They act 
as regulators, body-cleansers, and blood-purifiers, 
helping the body utilize other kinds of food. 
Often people who are made bilious by milk and 
eggs can eat them when fruit is also part of the 
diet. 

In the old days when it took three months to 
cross the ocean in a sailing-vessel, scurvy was a 
more common disease than now. The careful 
sea-captain always carried a goodly supply oi 



104 HOW TO COOK AND WHY 

lemons. Fruit and fresh vegetables corrected the 
trouble, and lemons were easily carried and par- 
ticularly efficacious. 

In tMs day of easy transportation, foods from 
all parts of the world may be had at any time and 
place, and a mixed diet is so easily procured that 
the diseases hke scurvy (resulting frmn eating only 
one kind of food) are not frequent, though we 
still meet a tendency to scurvy where people, 
either from choice or necessity, do not eat enough 
fresh v^etables and fruit. However, the adialt 
who eats only one kind of food for a considerable 
time will feel the consequences, and, if wise, will 
correct his imbalanced diet by eating a variety 
of foods. 

As in all questions of feeding, it is the food given 
the children which is of the greatest importance. 
Serious results follow in the unhealthy develop- 
ment of their bodies when their food lacks min- 
eral matter and the adds found in fruits. One 
authority upon food, Van Noorden, who advo- 
cates the use of meat for adults only, says: 
"As far as the children are concerned, we believe 
we could do better by following the dietary of 
the most rigid vegetarians than by feeding the 
children as though they were camivora, accord- 
ing to the bad custom which is still quite preva- 
lent. If we limit the most important sources of 
iron — the v^etables and the fruits — we cause a 
sluggishness of blood formation and an entire lack 
of reserve iron, such as is normally found in the 



EQUALLY INDISPENSABLE FRUIT 105 

liver, spleen, and bone marrow of healthy, well- 
nourished individuals." 

According to the instruction of modem science, 
babies, particularly bottle-fed babies, are given 
orange-juice. From the time a baby reaches its 
third month it is usually given orange-juice each 
morning. Not more than a teaspoonful should 
be given to a three-months-old baby, and then 
it must be carefully strained through a coarse 
cheese-cloth and given a, half-hour before the first 
feeding. If given just before a feeding it may 
cause sour stomach. The effect of the juice is 
better when taken on an empty stomach. The 
amount of orange-juice should be gradually in- 
creased with the age of the baby. The juice of half 
an orange may be given at a year old. The baby's 
digestive orgara are not formed and are very sen- 
sitive, with httle or no resistance or endurance. 
TTiey cannot regulate any disturbing food, as can 
the fully formed digestive organs of the older 
person. Therefore the orange for the baby should 
be sweet, neither under nor over ripe. 

Fruit is, then, a necessary part of the daily 
food if we are to have healthy bodies. As the 
well-known saying puts it, "An apple a day keeps 
the doctor away," Then we ask which fruit the 
wise housekeeper buys for her family; and, since 
the apple and cherry trees are things of the past 
in cities, and fruit bought in the market cannot 
possibly be perfectly fresh, we ask how the fruits 
that we can have compare in food value and cost. 



io6 HOW TO COOK AND WHY 

Some fruits that are easily d^estible when 
eaten perfectly ripe and fresh will cause d^estive 
disturbance because of havii^ been picked green 
and artificially ripened, or from changes which 
occur from ejcposure to the air after picking. 
These market«i fruits may be made perfectly 
wholesome by cooking if they have not started 
to decay. Many fruits are successfully preserved 
by drying. Some of them are edible in the dried 
condition, such as figs, dates, and raisins. Others, 
like dried apples, apricots, pnmes, are better when 
the water has been restored by long soaking and 
slow cooking. 

Fruits may be classified botanically or medici- 
nally, but a popular classification is more con- 
venient, as: (i) apple, pear, quince; (2) stone 
fruits — plum, peach, apricot, cherry, olive, and 
date; (3) strongly add fnuts — orange, lemon, 
lime, grapefruit, grape, gooseberry, currant, cran- 
berry, barberry; (4) fleshy fruits — strawberry, 
raspberry, blackberry, mulberry; (5) pineapple, 
fig, banana; (6) nuts. 

(i) Apple, pear, quince. These market better 
than many fruits. Pears do not keep as well as 
the other two. They all contain the substance 
called pectine, which makes fruit juices "jell." 
The cellulose framework of these fruits is rather 
tough, and apt to cause intestinal irritation, 
Cookbg softens the cellulose, rendering the fruit 
more easily digested. Baked apples may be given 
invaHds or young children. Uncooked pears and 



EQUALLY INDISPENSABLE FRUIT 107 

quinces should be eaten only by the vigorous 
adult. 

(2) Stone fruits: plum, peach, apricot, cheny, 
olive, date. These are fruits which must be eaten 
fresh and ripe or preserved in some way. All of 
these are successfully dried and used as food. 
The dried plum or prune is one of the less expen- 
sive fruits. When properiy cooked, according to 
the general direction given later, they are an 
agreeable addition to the table. 

(3) Strongly add fruits: orange, lemon, goose- 
berry, grapefruit, grape, blackberry. These have 
less nutritive value than many other fruits, but 
valuable medicinal quahties. Eaten an hour or 
two before a meal, they so stimulate the intestinal 
activity as to be valuable body-cleansers — stub- 
bom cases of constipation of long standing can be 
cured by faithful eating of these fruits at least an ^ 
hour before a meal, preferably at night or in the 
morning. 

A glass of orange-]uice taken the first thing in 
the momii^ is an effective cathartic. This is due 
to the fact that no other food is present in the 
stomach at this time to prevent the fruit-juice 
from coming in contact with the mucous mem- 
brane of the stomach and intestinal canal and 
stimulating it to action. Fruit eaten with other 
foods will have no spedal laxative efifect. Many 
people find that the add fruits eaten with or just 
before starchy foods, such as cereals, will inter- 
fere with the digestion of the starch, but they are 



io8 HOW TO COOK AND WHY 

always safe eaten alone. Others find that fruit as 
the fost course to a breakfast stimulates a laggii^ 
appetite and incites them to eat a meal which at 
first seemed impossible. The best time, then, for 
eating fruits must be decided by the individual. 

(4) Fleshy fruits : strawberry, raspberry, black- 
berry, mulberry. When Macaulay returned from 
India he decl^^ he would give all the fruits of 
the East for "a pottle of Covent Garden straw- 
berries," and most people agree with him in con- 
ddering these berries one of the most delectable. 
They are richer in potash and lime salts than most 
fruits. For delicate digestions and for yout^ chil- 
dren the small, sharp seeds are apt to cause intes- 
tinal irritation. These can be strained out of the 
crushed fruit and the fresh juice taken raw or 
cooked. Physiological chemists have not yet de- 
cided why strawberries, even the juice, have a 
bad effect on some people, but those who feel 
this result should of course avoid this fruit. 
There is no reason to suppose that its add is 
harmful to those who feel no bad effect. The 
other fleshy fruits can be eaten by any one in 
normal he^th. 

(s) Pineapple, fig, banana. Pineapple is par- 
tiaUarly soothing to a. sore or irritated thmat. 
It is difBcult to digest only when imripe. Figs as 
we know them are the (Wed fruit. Weight for 
weight, dried figs are more nourishing than bread, 
and a pint of milk and ax ounces of dried figs 
make a good meal. 



EQUALLY INDISPENSABLE FRUIT 109 

Bananas are another fruit offering considerable 
food value. As we get them they are more easily 
digested when cooked than when raw. It is 
not advisable for young children to eat the un- 
cooked banana. 

To sum up the food value of the fruits, they 
contain little protein, very little fat, and consid- 
erate sugar, a good deal of water, and valuable 
adds and mineral matter. 

Selection and Care. Perfectly sound ripe fruit 
should be chosen. When the skin is broken, 
decomposition has probably started, which makes 
unhealthy foods. The heavier fruit is the better 
one. Fruit that comes from the market should be 
thoroughly and carefully washed, and it is wiser 
to pare off the skin from marketed apples, peaches, 
and plums rather than to bite through, as is safe 
to do with fruit just off the tree. 

Berries are better washed in a colander that 
stands luider the cold-water faucet. The stream 
should play over them gently long enough to 
wash them thoroughly, or they may be put into a 
larger quantity of water and stirred about with the 
hands. Hulls should be left on until after the 
washing, as they prevent the juices from escaping. 

Cooking. Since fresh fruit contains much wa- 
ter, httle more need be added in cooking. It 
should be cooked in a covered earthenware or 
agate vessel. Heating slowly draws out the jtiices. 
The time of cooking depends upon the ripeness 
of the fruit. Unripe fruit must be cooked long 



no HOW TO COOK AND WHY 

enough to soften all hard parts. Over-ripe fruit 
need only be heated to the boiling-point. When 
sugar is needed it should be added after the fruit 
is taken off the stove. If the sugar is added 
before cooking, more must be used for the same 
degree of sweetness. Long cooldi^ or cooking un- 
covered destroys the characteristic flavor of the 
fruit without producing any desirable result. 

Almost all fruits can be cooked in the oven. 
There is not the same danger of burning as when 
the cooking is done directly over the heat. A 
baked apple looks better if the skin is cut in an 
even line around the apple before it is put in the 
oven. Apple-sauce made in the oven and cooked 
just long enough to soften the apple is much more 
delicious than that cooked for an hour or more. 

Fruits, especially apples, are cooked with ad- 
vantage in tixe chafing-dish, and if kept well cov- 
ered the apples remain white ; all fruits retain their 
rich color and flavor when cooked in this way. 
Pears and quinces baked or stewed are much 
more easily digested than are the fresh ripe ones. 

Nature gives us so choice a food in the fresh 
ripe plum, peach, apricot, and cherry that we 
cook them only when they are over or under ripe, 
or as a means of preservation. They are so juicy 
that no water need be added. They should be 
heated slowly and simmered until soft. Sugar 
must be added cautiously, not to destroy the 
fruit flavor. Of the strongly acid fruits, those 
most commonly coerced are gooseberry, currant. 



EQUALLY INDISPENSABLE FRUIT iii 

cranberry, barberry. TTiese make delicious sauces. 
They must be cooked until soft, and sugar added 
as soon as they are taken ofE the fire. They are 
better cooled before serving. 

Bananas can be cooked in a variety of ways. 
Rolled in olive-oil and powdered sugar, then fried, 
is an excellent method. They are more easily di- 
gested when laid in a baking-dish, sprinkled with 
lemon-juice, and baked. 

Preserving ami Canning. The frugal house- 
keeper selects for canning firm, fresh, well-flavored 
fruit, just before it is perfectly ripe. 

There are two methods by which the skins of 
such fruits as peaches, plums, pears, and apples 
can be easily removed. One is to plunge the fruit 
into hot water. This loosens the skin so that 
it peels ofE very easily. The other way is to rub 
the fruit with the blunt edge of a silver knife, 
which releases the skin. The second method has 
the advantage of not softening the fruit as the 
hot water sometimes does, but it requires skill 
and practice for equal success. 

Fruit may be canned whole or in pieces, with 
or without the skin, seeds, stones, or even stems. 
The essential point is to HU the bacteria by heat 
and to prevent any bacteria getting to the fruit. 
The causes of decay in food are the tiny plants 
which float about in the air. When they lodge in 
any plant or food they increase in numbers, de- 
stroying the food, llie tiny plants which spoil 
our fruit are wild yeast plants and bacteria. Fruit 



iia HOW TO COOK AND WHY 

will not decay or spoil if it is kept free bxxa de- 
stroying bacteria and yeast plants. 

Eveiytliing that comes in contact with the 
fruit must be cleaned by boiling. Any yeast or 
bacteria which may be on the polished glass or 
agate surface of the jars, spoons, or pans are more 
easily and quickly killed than are those that may 
be in the fniit. 

The most commcm method of canning fruit is 
to heat it to the boiling-point and pack it in jars 
which have stood in boiling water for at least 
forty minutes. These jars must be sealed thor- 
oi^hly so that air cannot penetrate. If this is 
done the fruit will keep for years. 

Most recipes call for some sugar. An excess 
of sugar destroys the flavor of the fruits, adds to 
the cost of the product, and makes a food too 
rich to be easily digested. The old-fashioned 
" preserved fruit is made of equal parts — one pound 
of fruit and one pound of sugar. The modem 
proportion differs for each fruit. 

For either the canned or preserved fruit a syrup 
is made of the sugar and fruit juice or water. 
The whole pared fruit is cooked in this syrup until 
tender. This may be done in the preserving- 
kettle, and the cooked fruit packed in the sterilized 
jars, or the syrup may be poured over the fruit 
after it has been packed into the jars. 

For an average-sized family the pint jars will 
prove the best. They have the advantage of 
holding enot^h for one occasion, and not too 



EQUALLY INDISPENSABLE FRUIT 113 

much. In this way the family escapes the 
monotony of cherries for three consecutive days, 
followed by pineapple in rapid succession. If 
the jar is opened the contents will not keep in 
good condition when exposed to the air. ITiere 
are even smaller sizes than pints, which are de- 
sirable for smaller families. 

A dry, dark, cool store-closet is the best place 
to keep the canned and preserved fruits and 
jellies. When the store-doset is not dark, the 
jars can be wrapped in paper as a protection from 
the light. 

Commercial canned fruits should be perfectly 
wholesome and as good as those prepared at 
home. When laws are made and enforced that 
regulate the preparation of food in an absolutely 
clean manner, the city dweller can buy her pre- 
served fruits with safety. It will always pay the 
country housekeeper to can the fruit grown on 
the place. 

When much preserving, canning, and jelly- 
making is to be done, a considerable saving is 
accomplished when sugar is bought by the barrel 
at its lowest price. An inspection of the fluctua- 
tion in food prices published in the daily paper 
will tell the woman who knows when she can buy 
most profitably. Sugar is a staple which it pays 
to buy in larger quantities than some other foods. 

Jellies. In the excellent bulletin on "Princi- 
ples of Jelly Making," by N. E. Goldthwaite, 
Univeraty of Illinois, the author says: 



114 HOW TO COOK AND WHY 

"Tlie process of jelly-making appears simple 
enough, merely a matter of cooking fruit-juices 
and sugar together until the whole mass 'jells' 
on cooling. It is a substance called pectine in the 
fruit-juice which makes it jell. If there is pectine 
in a fruit-juice, jelly can be made from it; if there 
is no pectine, jelly cannot be made. The follow- 
ing simple experiments will disclose the presence 
or absence of pectine in a fruit-juice: 

" To two teaspoonfuls of the cooled fruit-juice 
add two tablespoonfuls of alcohol and mix thor- 
oughly. If pectine is present a gelatinous mass 
will appear in the liquid. 

" The housekeeper using this test will discover 
that different juices contain varying amounts of 
pectine. The ripeness of the fruit will also affect 
the pectine. Again, none will be found in the raw 
juice, and some will be found in the cooked juice. 
Sometimes a little add, lemon-juice, or tartaric 
add added to a fruit-juice showing no pectine will 
develop it." 

Jelly. Fruits for tn airing jelly can be divided 
into two kinds. First, juicy fruits. These after 
being washed are put in a saucepan and heated 
slowly, stirring with a wooden spoon to prevent 
burning, until the mass is cooked through. The 
process may be hastened when doing a large quan- 
tity by crushing the fruit with a wooden potato- 
masher. The cooked fruit is poured into a jelly- 
bag to drip. Second, less juicy fruits, such as 
apple, quince, and the hke, after being washed 



EQUALLY INDISPENSABLE FRUIT 115 

are cut in pieces, skins and seeds included, put in 
a kettle and covered with water. The rest of 
the process is the same as with juicy fruits. 

The jelly-bag may be made of flannel or of two 
thicknesses of cheese-cloth. It must not only look 
clean, but be freshly boiled up in clear water to 
insure its absolute purity. The devices on the 
market for holding the jelly-bag are excellent 
and convenient. 

The proportion of sugar and fruit-juioe for jelly 
varies with the pectine in the juice. Currants 
and partially ripened grapes yield a juice so well 
adapted to jelly-makiiig that they will usually 
demand equal measure of sugar and juice, while 
three-fourths cup of sugar to one cup of black- 
berry, red-raspberry, and crab-apple juice is the 
usual proportion. Too large a quantity of 
si:^ar tends to make a jelly tough, gummy, or 
stringy. 

When the discouraged cook finds her jelly still 
liquid she should try boiling it with more fruit- 
juice. The fault may have been too large a pro- 
portion of sugar. C^re must be taken that the 
fruit-juice and sugar do not cook too long to- 
gether. The glasses should be ready before the 
jelly is put on to cook. The moment the mixture 
shows signs of "jelling" it must be poured out. 
Heating the sugar before adding the fruit-juice 
simply hastens the process. 

Conserves. The delidous conserves so costly to 
buy are not difGcult to make. The fruit-pulp 



ii6 HOW TO COOK AND WHY 

and sugar are cooked to the consisteiicy of maima- 
lade. When nuts are used they are added just 
before serving, as they lose their crispness by long 
cooking and keeping. 

Cost. The cost o£ making jelly and preserving 
fruit differs very much for different families, as 
well as in different parts of the country. Where 
the fruit is grown on the place and would not be 
used in any other way, only the sugar and the fuel 
mean an actual expenditure of money. Where 
city prices must be paid for the fruit, the mak- 
ing of jelly is a doubtful economy. Probably the 
family table could have fresh fruits all the year 
round for a less cost. 

Many of the jellies sold by the grocer for ten 
and fifteen cents a glass contain very little of 
the good fruit. It is often made of parings and 
scrapings left from the higher-priced fruit. Or 
the bulk is of apple when its name indicates some 
more costly fruit. The flavoring is strengthened 
by artificial flavoring made by the chemist, and 
the coloring is also artificial. 

Nuts. Nuts differ from fruits in that they 
have a hi^ nutritive value. No other vegetable 
substance is so rich in fat. Unfortunately, they 
are slow of digestion, partly because of the dense, 
compact, cellulose framework. Very thorough 
mastication will make them much more easily 
cared for by the stomach. 

Cooking softens cellulose, but, unfortunately, 
cooking develops a disagreeable, rancid taste in 



EQUALLY INDISPENSABLE FRUIT 117 

many varieties of nuts. Chestnuts are a vari- 
ety that is improved by cooking. Boiled until 
soft, then mashed and seasoned, they add both 
to the pleasure and nutritive value of a meal. 
The large Italian chestnuts are the ones usually 
used to prepare in this way, although our small 
native diestnut is equally good. The objec- 
tion to the smaller nut is the rather tedious 
task of removing the outer shell and inner 
skin. 

Remembering the high nutritive value of nuts, 
many housekeepers add chopped nuts to a great 
variety of dishes. Nut bread and nut cake 
are well known and liked. Nuts added to gela- 
tine dishes make a satisfying dessert. Chopped 
almonds on rice or mashed potatoes give a vaiety 
to these every-day dishes. 

Walnuts are also valuable food. Thirty large 
walnuts would contain as mudi fat as two and 
three-fourth pounds of moderately fat beef, but 
two and three-fifth ounces of the beef would be 
equal to them in protein. Of ahnonds it has 
been said, "No man need starve on a jour- 
ney who can £11 his waistcoat pockets with al- 
monds." 

Various nut |n«parati(His are on the market, 
called nut butter or nut paste, in which the nuts 
are so finely ground that any healthy digestion 
should be able to take care of them. Of course, 
the wise mother will not feed nuts in any form to 
the baby or young children, but for the school- 



ii8 HOW TO COOK AND WHY 

children sandvidies made of nut-paste are nutri- 
tious and economical. 

Dried Fruit. Dried fruit has a place in the 
diet which should not be disregarded. This fruit 
has the advantage o£ being prepared for market 
where it has ripened, thus insuring it from deteri- 
oration in shipping. The water which is evapo- 
rated from the fruit must in many cases be sup- 
phed before cooking. When this is done properly 
the fruit is very appetizing. Dried prunes, apri- 
cots, and apples are at their best when put to 
soak for eight or ten hours. Of course, they should 
be washed before soaking, so that they may be 
cooked in the same water in which they have 
soaked, thus retaining all flavor and mineral 
matter. Long, slow cooking is the only process 
to soften these fruits and make them palata- 
ble. A little lemon -juice much improves the 
flavor. 

Raisins, dates, and figs are oftener eaten un- 
cooked than cooked ; but they, too, are delicious 
when stewed or steamed. Steamed figs served 
with whipped cream make a pleasing variation in 
the list of desserts. A date paste is an excellent 
filling for sandwiches. TTiis latter often satisfies 
a longing for sweets and supplies a certain amount 
of protein and mineral matter which candy does 
not. It is difficult to make a cost comparison 
between fresh and dried fruit, as the marlret price 
of fresh fruit and the grades of dried vary, but 
an experiment in the early spring of 1913 ^owed 



EQUALLY INDISPENSABLE FRUIT 119 

that a dried-apple pie, giving a food value of 
1 530 calories, cost eight cents, while a fresh-apple 
pie, giving a food value of only 1680 calories, 
cost fourteen cents. This comparison, of course, 
will vary in different localities and with a good 
or poor apple year. 



UILK, CHEESE, EGGS 

EGGS, milk, and cheese are dairy products, 
so called because ia the early En^ish days 
the servant who cared for the milk and the 
chickens was called "dey," and the dey-ry was 
the department under her care. 

Milk is the food produced by nature for young 
animals. Cow's milk is the most commonly used 
in this country for general food, but the milk of 
the goat, mare, and other animals is used to a 
limited extent in some countries. The general 
term "milk" will here mean cow's milk, unless 
otherwise spedfied. 

Milk is a staple food in most countries, and 
occupied a prominent place in early historic 
times. It is the food which has received most 
attention from sanitary authorities in municipali- 
ties, and from those tiTing to better social condi- 
tions, because on its quality and purity depends 
the health — often the life or death — of young chil- 
dren. It is frequently said that it is a perfect 
food, because it contains all Uie nutritive con- 
stituents reqiiired by the body — protein, fat, 



MILK, CHEESE, EGGS lai 

sugar-starch (as milk-sugar), mineral matter, and 
water. 

For the baby the one perfect food is the moth- 
er's milk, when the mother can supply the normal 
amount and quality. Where this is not possible 
cow's milk is the nearest approach to the right 
food. For the child beyond the nursing period 
(eight months), cow's milk is the staple food. 
The modification of cow's milk for the child is 
referred to later. 

The food elements of milk are in proportioa to 
make a perfect food for the child and the invalid. 
In the active adtJt it is uncomfortable to take 
so large a quantity of liquid as would be necessary 
to supply the needed energy. The digestive tract 
of the older person requires bulk to keep it in the 
healthiest condition. A strictly milk diet caiases 
constipation and biliousness, because there is very 
little unabsorbed material left from milk. This 
is why even the young child has orange-juice, as 
expiated in Chapter IX. However, milk is a 
valuable addition to any diet. In the combination 
of milk and cereals or milk and bread the body 
uses more of both foods than when they are eaten 
alone. 

Composition. Milk contains eighty-seven per 
cent, water, thirteen per cent, dry matter. The 
dry matter is fat (whidi varies with the breed 
and food of the cow), protein, casein (or the curd 
of milk), albumen (the skin tiiat comes on heated 
milk), milk-sugar, and mineral matter. 



133 HOW TO COOK AND WHY 

Milk is particularly rich in mineral matter, ao 
mudi needed by the young body. To quote Dr. 
Henry C. Sherman, "A quart o£ milk contains 
rather more calcium than a quart of clear, satu- 
rated lime-water, and by far the most practical 
means of insurit^ an abundance of calcium in the 
dietary is to use milk &eely as a food." 

The milk from the different breeds of cows 
varies, that of the Jersey and Aldemey giving 
milk yidding a large quantity of rich cream. 
The Holstein cow gives a milk which is more 
easily digested and is the best to use where milk 
is an important part of the diet. Many physi- 
cians are now reconunending for the invahd and 
baby a blended milk from several cows of different 
breeds. 

Selection and Care. Milk should be bought only 
from such dairies as are protected by the most 
stringent sanitary regulations. That from tuber- 
culous cows will carry the white plague to those 
drinking it uncooked. Scarlet fever, typhoid fever, 
and diphtheria are often spread by milk. The 
disease germs get into the milk from persons 
handling the milk or from contaminated water 
used in washing the milk-cans. It is of great 
importance that no person who has been exposed 
to a contagious disease be allowed to milk the 
cows or have anything to do with the handling 
of the milk. Many fevers, digestive disturbances, 
and other diseases are caused by dust, dirt, and 
particles of manure which fall into an unprotected 



MILK, CHEESE, EGGS 133 

pail durii^ milkitig. Some of this is strained out, 
but the manure will dissolve in the milk, making 
it a dangerous drink. Bacteria also fall into the 
milk duiii^ milking. These grow and multiply 
very fast unless the milk is quickly cooled and 
kept at a low temperature. 

•A well-known writer says, " Herod was a novice 
in the slaughter of helpless infants compared with 
those who provide the poison which is sold as 
milk, although it would cost far less to have a 
pure milk than to bury our babies." Every one 
can help toward a pure milk-supply by using 
influence to secure laws regulating the health and 
care of the cow and the protection of the milk 
from filth and dirt as well as from disease germs. 
If all the housekeepers would make themselves 
intelligent about from where and how the milk 
comes to them, the milk-dealers would be encour- 
aged to deliver clean, pure milk. The dairyman 
defends himself by saying that the average 
housekeeper's only concern is to have it de- 
livered in a good-looking wagcoi. 

It is never safe in a city to buy so-called "loose" 
milk — that dipped from a large can as the cus- 
tomer requires it. Bottled milk from an accredited 
firm is the only milk worth buying. The "loose" 
milk is frequently adulterated, and it is impossible 
for any Board of Health to inspect every can. 
RecenUy samples of sudi milk bought in four 
small shops in Greater New York averaged only 
one per cent. fat. The legal minimum of fat in 



134 HOW TO COOK AND WHY 

the dty is three per cent. This milk at five cents 
a quart wottld cost fifteen cents for the amount of 
fat in the bottle of milk at ten cents. The added 
bulk was probaldy all water, inhabited by many 
millions of bacteria. 

Milk is often contaminated after it enters the 
house by being left uncovered in a room that is 
being swept or dusted or where ashes are being 
emptied. Frequently flies — those industrious car- 
riers of disease ! — dip into it. Sometimes there are 
ridges and cracks in the milk-pitcher, where old 
food lodges or particles of sour milk catch, to soak 
ofE into the fresh milk. All milk-containers should 
be rinsed out in cold water the moment th^ are 
emptied of milk, then washed in warm, soapy 
water, rinsed with boiling water, and wiped with 
a fresh, perfectly clean dish-towel. This care is 
most important for the baby's bottle, which 
should be allowed to remain in the boiling water 
for fifteen or twenty minutes. 

Milk should be kept in a cool place in covered 
earthenware, china, or glass receptacles. The top 
of the milk-bottle should always be carefully 
washed before the bottle is opened, as the hands 
that have toudied it have left contamination. 
No milk should be left on the outside of a bottle 
returned to the refrigerator. 

Effect of Heat on Milk. Part of the protein in 
milk is, l^Ee the white of the eg^, coagulated by 
heat. The rest is not so afFected, but is curdled by 
add. The portion affected by heat is called albu- 



MILK, . CHEESE, EGGS laj 

men; that curdled by acid snd rennet is casein. 
Heating milk destroys the ferments and the 
greater part of the germs present, and is the sim- 
plest method of preservation. If there is any 
doubt about the purity of milk given children 
or invalids, it is safer to sterilize or pasteurize it. 

Milk or cream is considered pasteurized when 
it has been subjected to temperatures rangii^ from 
160° Fahrenheit to 185° Falu-enheit for thirty min- 
utes. These temperattires are below the boiling- 
point of water (aia"), but at 167° most disease- 
germs are killed. Moreover, the albumen is not 
coagulated, as it is at the boiling-point. A con- 
venient way to pasteurize the baby's milk is to 
stand the bottles of milk, with stoppers of absorb- 
bent-cotton, in boiling water. The bottom of the 
bottle must not touch the bottom of the kettle, 
as it may break. A piece of wood or a rack in 
which to set the bottles will serve to prevent this. 
The milk in the bottle does not reach the boiling- 
point, which is the temperature of the water in 
which the bottles stand. After the bottles have 
been in the boilii^ water thirty minutes the kettle 
is removed from the fire and the bottles cooled 
quickly in the water. 

SterilizaHon. To boil milk is to sterilize it, 
which means make it free of all germs. In boiled 
milk dianges are produced that in the opinion c^ 
many scientists make the millf more difficult to 
digest. 

Modification 0/ Milk. As has beea said before, 



u6 HOW TO COOK AND WHY 

cow's rniWc is the best substitute for motlier's 
milk, but for babies and for yoiing children it 
must always be "modified." This means mak- 
ing changes by adding water, lactose (milk-sugar), 
cream, and sometimes lime-water. The propor- 
tions are varied according to the age of the child. 
It is best to have a doctor's prescription in each 
case. It is particularly important that the baby 
have enough mineral matter, and the milTf must 
be diluted intelligently so as not to reduce this. 
The growing bones will not strengthen without 
enough mineral matter of the right kind. The 
many books on infant diet treat of this important 
subject at length. 

Invalids. Because milk is easily digested it is 
given the sick, particularly to those who need to 
have their bodies built up and strengthened. 
Milk warmed to body temperature — that is, when 
a drop feels warm (not hot) to the wrist above 
the pulse — has a quieting, soothing effect upon 
the tired and worn-out nerves. It is a much 
safer and better sedative than any drug. When 
the head of a sleepless and tired person is cold, the 
effect of a drink of warm rni'lTf is magical. 

When people cannot take sweet milk they can 
often take the fermented milks, buttermilk, sour 
milk, koumys. matzoon, kefir, leben, or one from 
the host of commercial sour milks. These are 
milks which have been soured by a ferment, such 
as are formed by yeasts and bacteria. The cheap- 
est of these are buttermilk and sour milk. 



MILK, CHEESE, EGGS 127 

Almost all lai^ dairies How supply buttermilk. 
Natural buttermilk is the liquid left when the 
butter has come from the cream, and is to most 
people a delicious drink, especially if very cold. 
Most of the butteimilk on the market, however, 
is "artificial" — that is, milk soured by a ferment 
added for the purpose. This is as valuable for 
food purposes, but to most people not so palatable. 

Eoumys is a fermented milk, which was orig- 
inally made from mare's milk, but is now made 
with cow's milk. To a quart of lukewarm milk 
is added one-sixth of a yeast cake dissolved in 
some of the warmed milk with one and one-hajf 
tablespoonfuls of sugar. This is poured in clean, 
well-boiled-out bottles, and kept at a temperature 
of 70° Fahrenheit for twelve hours, then put in the 
lower part of the refrigerator. This koumys is 
ready to drink in twenty-four hours. 

If the highly charged koumys made in this way 
is not liked, a similar drink with no effervescence ' 
can be made as follows: In a covered receptacle 
bring a quart of milk to the boiling-point. Do 
not allow to boil; keep it at this temperature for 
ten minutes. (The surface of the milk should 
steam freely and should simply be circulating, not 
in a state of active ebullition.) This kills the 
majority of the bacteria in the milk. Keep cov- 
ered closely, only removing the cover gradually 
and very quickly to ascertain the condition of the 
milk. Next allow to cool to body temperature 
or lower, then add two ounces of zoolac or otho: 



taS HOW TO COOK AND WHY 

commercial milk. To add the zoolac, pass the 
opened mouth of the bottle quickly through the 
flame of an ordinary gas-burner. Insert the neck 
of the bottle under the edge of the lid of the 
receptacle containing the milk and pour out two 
ounces. Replace cover quickly, and do not ^ain 
raise it tmtil the souring period is completed. 
Keep the milk in a wann place near a radiator 
or stove, where for from eighteen to twenty hours 
it will receive a temperature of about that of the 
body. Lastly, the container should be placed, 
when the process is completed, in tiie ice-box, 
preferably directly on the ice. This measure 
causes the curd to contract, and the whey is thus 
squeezed out. The whey may be discarded if it 
is desired to have less lactic add present. The 
remaining curd may then be beaten up with an 
egg-beater into a tMck cream, or it may be eaten 
like jimket. 

These fermented milks are held by many scien- 
tists to have a beneficial antiseptic ^ect upon the 
intestines, and are recommended to people suffer- 
ing from intestinal disturbances. They work as 
purifiers, destroying the bacteria wMch cause 
putrefaction. These milks are sour because of 
lactic acid produced by certain bacteria whidi 
feed in the milk-sugar. Their therapeutic value 
is based on the fact that many disease bacteria 
and most of the putrefactive fonns are either 
killed off or prevented from growing by leascm of 
the presence of the lactic add. 



MILK, CHEESE, EGGS 199 

Cream. This is the fat of milk, which rises to 
the top when the milk stands. In cream there 
is a small proportion o£ mineral matter and pro- 
tein with the fat. Cream is one o£ the most 
easily a.<!similated fats, and one of the most expen- 
sive. Less intelligence is exercised by the house- 
keeper in the use of cream as food than in the use 
of many other foods. The youth who outgrows his 
strength should be enticed to eat all the cream 
he will. The tired and worn nerves of the ex- 
hausted professional or business woman need this 
easily digested fat. The happy, stout, hearty 
people can be fed on a less expensive food and 
thrive. 

Cream adds flavor as well as food value to the 
meal, and is an acceptable addition to many 
dishes. Different thidcnesses of cream can be 
obtained from the lai^ dairies. A thicker one 
is needed for whipping than is otherwise necessary. 

Sour Cream. This should never be thrown 
away, as it may be used to advantage. It may 
be eaten as clabber by those who like it. Cookies, 
cake, and molasses-cake are more delicious when 
made with sour cream. (See also Chapter VII.) 

Skitthmilk. This is the mil If from which the 
cream has been taken off. It is still a valuable 
food, although it has lost the fat of whole milk. 
The quality of sktm-milk varies with the way 
the cream has been separated from it. In the 
madiine separators little or no fat is left. When 
the milk stands, and only the cream whidi rises 



ISO HOW TO COOK AND WHY 

to the top of the milk is taken o£E, some fat lemains 
in the skim-milk. Where great economy is neces- 
sary, skim-milk can be used for cooking and even 
drinking. When this is done extra fat must be 
provided in the diet to make up for that lost from 
the milk. 

Bread, biscuits, griddle-cakes, and cake can be 
made with skim-milk, as can the cream soups. 
If skim-milk is bought, special care must be taken 
to get dean, pure milk. Because it is a cheaper 
article it does not always receive the care neces- 
sary to protect it from dirt and disease germs. 
Skim-milk sells for little more than half the price 
of whole milk, and has lost only its fat. It is a 
valuable article of food at a small price. 

Milk Dishes. Milk soups give an endless vari- 
ety of nutritious dishes. They have as a common 
basis milk slightly thickened and seasoned. When 
skim-milk is used, an addition of butter greatly 
improves the flavor. The butter may be omitted 
with whole milk. 

The cream or milk soups flavored with vege- 
tables are referred to in Chapter VIII. Fish and 
oysters, crabs and lobsters make equally deUdous 
milk soups. Milk warmed to blood temperature 
and thickened by the addition of rennet is called 
junket. It is easily digested, and when served 
icy ccJd very delicious. Rennet is a fennent found 
in the stomach which acts upon warm milk. 
Junket taMets are a commercial form of rennet, 
eKtracted from calves' stomachs, and are very 



MILK, CHEESE, EGGS 131 

coitvenieDt to use. If milk ts heated too hot 
(above body temperature) the rennet will not so- 
hdify it. Com-starch puddings are made of milk 
thickened and seasoned. (See "Sauces," Chap- 
ter VIII.) To make a smooth com-starch pudding 
the com-starch is blended with cold milk, and this 
added to the heated milk and cooked. Or the 
com-starch and sugar are mixed together before 
adding to the heated milk. In either case they 
must be thoroughly cooked. Raw starch is neither 
delicious in flavor nor digestible. 

Custards. These are milk-and-egg mixtures, 
and very nutritious. To be deUdous they 
must be cooked at a low temperature, and 
this is best done over hot water in a double 
boiler. 

Cheese. Cheese is made of the curd and fat 
of milk. The varieties of cheese differ in the 
amount of fat they contain, in consistency — hard 
or soft — and in flavor. 

Composition. When it is realized that the pro- 
tein of milk is in the curd from which cheese is 
made it is readily seen that cheese is a highly 
concentrated food. The comparison of the price 
of meat and cheese shows cheese to be the cheaper 
form of protein. However, the variety of cheese 
chosen makes a difference in this comparison of 
food values. 

A skim-milk cheese contains less food value 
than one made from whole milk. Canadian, 
Dutch, and American cheese, when properly made 



133 HOW TO COOK AND WHY 

<^ the curd of ridi whole milk, are inexpensive 
protdn foods. 

Digestibility. Cheese is slow to digest, not in- 
dic;estible. The reason why the digestive juices 
act slowly and with difficulty upon cheese is 
probably because the fat in tiie curd acts as a 
waterproof covering, preventing the access of the 
digestive juices. When the cheese is broken in 
small pieces before eating, it is more easily di- 
gested. A mpflianiral aid to its digestion is to 
grate the cheese and mix with other food. 

A little baking-soda added to cooked dieese 
dishes will also help the action of digestion. It is 
only in the stomach that the difficulty of digestti^ 
cheese occurs. Once in the intestines, it is as 
easily and as completely absorbed as meat. Be- 
cause dieese requires a vigorous, healthy digestion 
it is not a good food for young children or delicate 
people. It is an economical and nutritious food 
for the hearty outdoor worker. Cheese costs, for 
the same protein value, about one-sixth the price 
of meat. 

Every housewife should have Fanners' Bulletin 
4S7 of the United States Department of Agricul- 
ture on Cheese and Its Economical Uses in the Diet. 
This can be had free on application, and contains 
information as to the food value, digestibility, 
variety, and methods of cookiqg this valuable 

food. 

Eggs. All the dairy products are staples in the 
household food-supply, and ^gs are a necessity 



MILK, CHEESE, EGGS 133 

with the American family. Those who live in the 
country know the deliciousaess of new-laid e^gs, 
but the "fresh" egg of the city store is quite a 
difEerent matter. However, its value as food and 
its use are the same. The thrifty housekeeper who 
has space and can buy really fresh eg^s in the 
season when e^s are lowest can save much by 
storing them imtil the time of high prices, as 
described later. The average city dweller who 
wishes to be economical will learn to judge where 
the egg must be used and when it may be omitted. 

Composition. Fnan the egg comes the little 
chick, and closed within the egg-shell are all the 
materials needed to build the body and sustain the 
life of the baby chick until it is hatched. It is 
a valuable food for the human body as well. In 
the e^ there is much protein, mineral matter 
{particularly Ume, phosphorus, and iron), and 
fat. TTie white of the egg is three-quarters water, 
in which is discovered an easily digested protein 
called egg-albumen. The yolk of the egg contains 
much more material than the white, quite a large 
proportion of which is fat. Some of the fat is 
like that found in other foods, while a small part 
is a fat found only here and m nerve tissues. 
There are also several kinds of protein in the 
yolk and a number of different minerals. 

It is interesting to note that the iron as it is 
found in eggs is more easily taken into the blood 
than iron given in other ways. This fact is made 
use of by physicians, who have enlisted the farmer 



134 HOW TO COOK AND WHY 

to co-operate with them and by feeding the hen 
food rich in iron to get ^gs containing more of 
this valuable mineral. 

The nutritive value of eggs is due largely to 
protein and fat. To compare eggs and milk, one 
egg and a half-glass of good milk are about equal. 
To equal the food value of one pound of medium 
fat meat, about ten eggs are needed. It has prob- 
ably been noted that eggs contain no starch or 
st^ar. It is for this reason that some starchy 
food, such as bread, should be eaten with them 
to make a complete food. 

Selection. Eggs vary so much in size that it is 
better economy to buy by weight than by num- 
ber. Eggs from well-fed hens are more nutritious 
than those from poorly fed hens. The color of 
the shell is no indication of the food value of the 
egg, although Boston famihes will pay more for 
eggs with brown shells and New York families 
more for eg^ with white shells. Tliere are a 
number of tests to determine the freshness of eggs. 
The simplest test is to try them in water. Those 
that sink are fresh, the ones that float are stale. 
"Candling" eggs is another method of testing. 
Each egg is held between the eye and the flame, 
and any showing a dark spot is rejected. 

Care. Because the egg-shell is porous, ^gs 
will become flavored if other foods are stored 
near them. The fresh-laid egg has a tender mem- 
brane coatii^ protecting the pores of the shell. 
Washing the shell removes this protection. It is 



MILK, CHEESE, EGGS 13s 

therefore important that eggs come from well- 
cared-for farms where the nests are clean. They 
should be washed just before using, but not be- 
fore. It is an economy to buy eggs when they 
are plentiful and cheap and store them. This 
can be done in several ways. The methods rec- 
ommended by the United States Agricultural 
Experiment Stations are either to coat the shell 
with vaseline and store in a cold place or to pack 
them in water-glass. 

Water-glass is a chemical solution which can 
be bought at any drug-store and many country 
grocery-stores. It costs about twenty cents a 
quart. One and one-half quarts of the water-glass 
solution are mixed with eighteen quarts of boiled 
water. This is stirred until thoroughly dissolved. 
This quantity is enough for two eight-gallon 
stone jars. The eggs are laid in this solution, 
packed as dosely as possible, and may be added 
in small quantities as well as in large quantities. 
These two jars will hold thirty dozen eggs. 

It is essential that everything be perfectly clean 
and that perfectly fresh eggs be used. There 
should be at least two inches of the liquid over 
the top layer of eggs. The jars should be covered 
to prevent evaporation and kept in a cool place. 
Eggs stored in this way will keep a very long 
time. They should be taken from the liquid just 
before using, and then if the egg was fresh when 
put in it will be fresh when used. 

Cooking. Heat changes the contents o£ the egg 



136 HOW TO COOK AND WHY 

to a solid. Too hot a temperature produces a 
tough mass which takes longer to digest than the 
more tender sohd produced when ^gs are heated 
below the boiling-point of water — 2 1 a" Fahrenheit. 

Eggs cooked in any way are digested by most 
people, although there are a few people who can- 
not eat eg^ in any form. For the large majority 
who can eat eggs they are more quickly and 
easily digested when cooked at a low temperature. 
To cook eggs "soft" they should be dropped in 
eooi^h boiling water to cover them and allowed 
to stand for 5ve minutes where the water will 
not boil. To cook "hard" the eggs are covered 
with cold water and allowed to come to the 
boiling-point, then removed from the fire and 
allowed to remain in the hot water twenty min- 
utes. Many people cook eggs in water kept con- 
stantly boiling, but this toughens the albumen, so 
that the method described here is preferable. 

The poaching of eggs is most successfully done 
by breaking the egg in a saucer or dish and slippii^ 
it from this into rapidly boiling water. The water 
is then removed from the fire, and the egg left 
in imtil the white "sets," A substitute for the 
poached egg is one cooked in a well-buttered 
ramekin or custard-cup. The cup or ramekin is 
set in hot water in the oven. This dish is called 
coddled eggs, shirred eggs, or baked eggs. 

Scrambled eggs are a delicious creamy dish or 
a strii^y mass, depending upon the intensity of 
the heat used in cooking them. A safe method is 



MILK, CHEESE, EGGS 137 

to cook them over hot water. Care must be 
taken not to cook them too long. An imitation of 
scrambled eggs which will not harden can be 
made by breaking the eggs into a thin white sauce, 
stirring and cooking to the right consistoicy. If 
this is done in the top of a double boiler the 
eggs can be kept wann and creamy for several 
hours. 

Fried eggs, when properly cooked, are perfectly 
digestible. To do this a frying-pan is first heated 
very hot. Butter is placed in this and melted 
(not burned), then the egg is shpped in and 
cooked. Itmaybetumedornot, as taste dictates. 
If not turned, the fat should be dipped up over 
the egg until a delicate film is form^. Bacon fat 
is a very good substitute for butter in the frying 



A puffy omelet is a culinary triumph. The 
trick in making this is to cook it at a low tempera- 
ture. If a gas-stove is used the fire must be turned 
low, and an asbestos mat kept between the fire 
and the omelet-pan. To keep an omelet over the 
heat too long is fatal. This coagulates the e^ 
proteins so that the omelet shrinks and shrivels. 
To take the omelet oflf the fire too soon is equally 
disastrous. Under such circumstances the pro- 
tein is not coagulated sufficiently to be firm, and 
the omelet on its way to the table may collapse 
on the dish. After separating the yolk and white 
of the egg to make an omelet, the white should 
be beaten until stiff, not dry, and the beaten and 



138 HOW TO COOK AND WHY 

seasoned yolks added. Care must be used ia 
"iixing the two not to destroy the lightness of the 
white. The mixture is pourol on a well-buttered, 
hot omelet-pan to cook. 

A cook with a deft hand at omelet-making has 
nothing to fear, and can vary the dish to suit 
any occasion. A plain omelet or one made with 
bread-crumbs is more appetizing at breakfast to 
most people. A sweet omelet is delicious at lunch- 
eon. B^ore the omelet ia folded the surface is 
spread with jelly, jam, or marmalade. Another 
and more attractive omelet is made by putting 
thin slices of oranges seasoned with powdered 
si^ar on the omelet before it is folded, and season- 
ing it with a sauce made of sliced oranges and 



A heartier omelet is sometimes desired. This 
can be made by adding finely chopped meat or 
fish to the omelet, and serving with a thin white 
sauce, to which some of the meat or fish is added. 
This is an excellent way in which to use small 
amounts of left-over chicken or ham. A plain 
omelet served with a white sauce to which peas 
are added has an increased nutritive value. 

The food value of the dairy products is so great, 
and they are so universally liked by man, woman, 
and child, that they are one of the most valuable 
assets of the planner of good and nouiishing meals. 



BUTTER AND OTHER PATS 

IN the days when all the industries were 
carried on in the home, butter - making was 
one of the most important duties of the house- 
keeper. The rolls of delicious yellow butter on 
the shelf of the spring-house made a gratifying 
sight not only to the butter-maker but to the 
entire family. 

The making of butter was then a part of the 
training of every girl. There was much good 
butter, but as much or more poor butter, since 
the "whys" of the failure were not known. The 
housewife churned once or twice a week, according 
to ihe amount of cream she had collected. If 
the cream was churned before it had stood long 
enough to be contaminated by the surroundings, 
the butter was good; but if there was no suitable 
place in which to store the cream for ripening, 
the butter could not be good. It is impossible 
to imagine a more delicious product than that of 
the cool, clean spring-houses or the sanitary 
dairies. But when the milk and cream are kept 
in a cellar in which vegetables and meats are 



I40 HOW TO COOK AND WHY 

stored the milk must have other and foreign 



Present-day butter'^makiiig is a sdence. The 
United States Govermnent keeps an active super- 
vision over the butter supplied to her citizens, 
and insists that it shall contain no more than 
1 6 per cent, water and at least 82.5 per cent, (usu- 
ally 84 per cent.) butter-fat. Every manufacturer 
is held up to this standard, and fined if he violates 
the law. 

Creamery Butter. There is very little dairy 
butter in the wholesale market these days. The 
creamery has taken this industry almost entirely 
out of the home. Often the creamery is a co- 
operative business, with all the neighboring farm- 
ers as stock-holders, a fact that would naturally 
make them active in promoting the interests of 
the plant. 

Tlie whole milk is usually sent to the cream- 
ery, where the cream is separated by machinery. 
Sometimes the cream alone is sent, but the farmer 
should then have a separator. The chance of 
contamination is lessened by rapid handling, al- 
though it should never be forgotten that the great 
danger of contamination is at milking-time. 

Butter - making. It is astonishing how little 
poor butter, from the point of view of nutrition, 
there is on the market now. Science and the 
United States Government do not allow it. The 
butter-makers understand the reasons for former 
failures and know how to correct them. They 



BUTTER AND OTHER FATS 141 

Understand that the first and last word in good 
butter-making is deanliness. A clean stable, 
dean cows, dean milkers, dean utensils, a dean 
place in which to make the butter, and, last of all, 
absolute deanliness in handling it until the last 
morsd of butter has been consumed — these are 
the essentials. 

The cream for good butter-making must be 
fresh and sweet. If every precaution is observed, 
fresh cream may be kept sweet for four or five 
days if necessary, at a temperature below 50° 
Falirenhdt. Butter can be made from sweet 
cream, but the greatest demand is for sour-cream 
butter. 

It may well be asked why, if the butter is to be 
made of sour cream, there is such an effort to 
keep the cream sweet. The reason is that the 
flavor in milk and cream is produced by the 
presence of bacteria — some producing a desirable 
flavor and others an imdearable flavor. It is to 
prevent the growth of the undesirable bacteria 
that the cream is kept sweet. Then a starts- is 
put into the cream. This is milk soured under 
dean conditions and not allowed to stand after 
a certain degree of addity has been reached. 
Such sour milk contains the bacteria that produce 
the desired flavors, and their rapid growth pre- 
vents any undesirable bacteria from developing. 
If the proper flavor cannot be produced in this 
way, the kctic-add bacteria themselves are in- 
troduced into cream. The pure cultures for this 



143 HOW TO COOK AND WHY 

purpose are usually obtained irom Denmark. The 
cream is allowed to "ripen" until a certain degree 
of addity is reached. This is determined by 
expert testers, or, better still, by chemical tests. 

Churning. The churning of the cream is for the 
purpose of gathering the butter fat into a mass, 
A little agitation brings the globides of fat to- 
gether, and they cling to one another. The ball 
grows lai^er and larger until one mass of butter 
is collected. If a housekeeper wishes to demon- 
strate to herself how this happens she can do so 
with a very simple device. A quart fruit-jar con- 
taining a pint of forty per cent, cream is held in 
both hands and tossed back and forth gently until 
the butter collects. If this is done under proper 
conditions there should be a half-pound of butter. 

Working. When the butter is collected the 
process is only partly over. The buttennilk and 
water must be worked out of the butter. This is 
more completely done by machinery than by 
hand. If much buttermilk is left, the butter does 
not keep as well as when it is worked out. The 
proteins in the butter furnish food for the growth 
of the bacteria that change the flavor. Naturally, 
a butter with a high percentage of moisture con- 
tains less butter fat to the poimd than one with 
sixteen per cent. 

There is on the market now a device to increase 
the bulk of butter, by which a certain amount 
of milk can be beaten into a given weight of 
butter. This increases the volume. It is, of 



BUTTER AND OTHER FATS 143 

course, for use in the home only. No dealer 
would be allowed to sell butter with the per cent, 
of fat so reduced and the per cent, of moisture so 
increased. 

SalHng Butter. If salt is to be added to butter 
it is done when the buttermilk has nearly all been 
worked out, or else much of the salt would be 
dissolved in the liquid and lost. Salt is used as a 
preservative as well as a flavor. 

Some expert authorities on butter-making main- 
tain that the preservative qualities of salt have 
been exaggerated. According to their experi- 
ments, unsalted butter, if handled properly, keeps 
longer than is commonly supposed, "niere is 
some demand for imsalted butter in this country — 
mostly in lai^e cities — but not so great a demand 
as there is in Europe. In most European coun- 
tries salted butter is rarely used. There it is 
possible to buy small amounts so as to have it 
fresh every day. 

Packing. Whether or not salt does help to 
preserve butter, it still is used if butter is to be 
kept any length of time. Not only is the but- 
ter well salted, but it is covered with generous 
amounts of salt. Where lai^e quantities of butter 
are packed, great care is. used to crowd out all 
air spaces, as the bacteria indosed in the air are 
one source of trouble. 

The wholesale dealers keep their butter in a 
refrigerator-plant with the temperature between 
5° and 10° Fahrenheit below zero. At this tern- 



144 HOW TO COOK AND WHY 

perature the butter is frozen solid, and it is 
contrary to all the laws of natural science that 
bacteria shoiild grow at that temperature. No 
harm, then, can come to the butter in cold storage; 
but if it is not well cared for when it is taken out, 
disaster follows. If it is kept in too hot a room 
it deteriorates. Beware of butter taken from a 
tub kept outside the refrigerator in a hot store. 

Tub and Print Butter. Butter is usually sent 
to market in a tub. There is a great demand for 
print-butter. The wholesale dealer either has a 
machine for this, or he sends his tub-butter to some 
one who has. Print-butter usually costs a few 
cents a pound more than tub-butter, but it is 
worth the difference. The prints are done up in 
oiled-paper, protected from the air. In this com- 
pact form they cut to greater advantage, so there 
is no waste. Once a tub is opened, it is difficult 
to keep it from contamination, and the amount 
which clings to the side of the tub with the 
amount made unattractive by handling make up 
a heavy loss. 

Process Butter. According to statistics, more 
than a billion pounds of butter are made on the 
farms in this country. Unfortunately, much of 
this cannot be sold as butter. The amount that 
lacks the sweet, delicious butter flavor is sent to a 
renovating-plant. Renovated or process butter is 
an American invention, first used in 1883. In 
190S there were seventy-eight factories manufac- 
tiuing 60,000,000 pounds every year. 



BUTTER AND OTHER FATS 143 

Undesirable dairy butter is melted and all im- 
purities drawn ofE, The pure butter oil is then 
treated with blasts of dean hot air. As the hot 
air is pumped throt^h the butter fat it carries 
with it any volatile substances and leaves the 
butter fat free from disagreeable odors and flavors. 

This is churned with good fresh milk that has 
been soured by lactic-acid bacteria. This process 
adds the characteristic butter flavor. There is 
nothii^ in the manufacture of process butter to 
condemn it; and, as the law requires that it be 
plainly labeled " Process Butter," the housekeeper 
is not deceived, whether the butter is in the form 
of a brick or a roll or is taken from the tub. 

If she suspects that the dealer is selling process 
butter for fresh butter a very simple test will 
set her right. Heat about a quarter of an ounce 
of the butter to be tested in a large spoon over a 
small flame. Genuine butter will boil quietly, but 
with considerable froth and foam. Process butter, 
or oleomargarine, will sputter noisily, but will 
not foam much. The curd in fresh butter will be 
small and finely divided, while in the process 
butter it will be in large lumps. This is called 
the "spoon test." 

As the disagreeable odors and flavors in old, 
rancid butter cannot be driven off, this cannot be 
converted into process butter. It is fit only to 
be used in soap-makii^. 

Other Fats. There are a number of manu- 
factured products on the market, some of which 



146 HOW TO COOK AND WHY 

take the place of table butter, and some may 
be substituted for butter in cooking. 

Oleomargarine is the best of these manufactured 
products, as to the better grades of this some but- 
ter or cream is added. The history of oleomar- 
garine is interesting. It is said that during the 
Franco-German War of 1870 Napoleon III. re- 
quested one of the Frendi chemists, M. Mege- 
Mourier, to find a good wholesome cheap substi- 
tute for butter, so that the expenses of the war 
might be reduced. In a short time he submitted a 
product which so closely resembled butter that 
it required an expert to distinguish it. 

The prejudice in regard to oleomai^arine prob- 
ably arises from the fact that there are inferior 
quaUties upon the market. It would be a good 
thing for a housekeeper who is forced to econo- 
mize to experiment with a good quality of oleo- 
margarine and decide for herself whether the 
prejudice in regard to it is well founded or 
whether it is based only upon popular opinion. 
In the average family no member would notice 
the difference if oleomargarine were substituted 
for butter without any announcement of the fact. 

The best oleomargarine is made of refined beef 
fat or lard, into which milk or cream is diumed. 
The process must be carried on imder sanitary 
conditions, because here, too, the Government 
exercises supervision. A heavier tax is imposed 
on colored olTOmargarine than on uncolored. It 
is imfortunate that this is the case, as the white, 



BUTTER AND OTHER FATS 147 

£atty mass of the uncolored oleomargarine is im- 
appetizing to those who like it when colored, and 
there would be a greater use of it, and a conse- 
quent greater saving to the family, if the tax could 
be entirely removed. 

All institutions, hotels, restaurants, and board- 
ing-houses are prohibited from buying uncolored 
oleomargarine and coloring it, and they are also 
obliged to have in sight of their patrons a placard 
upon which is plainly printed the fact that they 
use tiiis substitute for butter. This is not because 
the substitute is harmful, but so that the patrons 
may know what they are eating, and need not 
pay the price of butter. The price of "oleo" 
varies only a few cents throi;^hout the year, and 
at all times it is much cheaper than butter. The 
test for oleomargarine is the "spoon test" given 
for process butter. 

The other mantifactured products have no but- 
ter fat, and many no animEd fat. They are made 
of v^etable oils and nut oils. The oils most 
frequently used are those of cotton-seed, peanuts, 
Brazil nuts, cocoanuts, and maize. These may 
safely be ured in cooking, especially in the prepa- 
ration of foods with distinct flavor, where the lack 
of butter flavor is not conspicuous. In flour 
mixtures, spices or molasses easily conceal the 
lack of butter flavor. The use of these fats is one 
way in which economy may be practised without 
sacrificing the pleasure of the household. 

The other fats are distinctly cheaper than oleo- 



U8 HOW TO COOK AND WHY 

margarine, ranging from fifteen to twenty cents a 
pound. It is always worth while for tiie thrifty 
housekeeper to experiment with eadi of these, 
keeping careful count of the amount saved. Often 
if the cook does not tell the family that she is using 
one of these manufactured fats they are none the 
wiser, since only the rare individual has a taste 
acute enough to detect the absence of butter 
flavor. Good clean drippings of any kind, if well 
tried out, may be used in cooking. As has been 
suggested in Chapter VI., chicken fat, beef fat, 
and bacon fat all have a place in economical 
cookery. 

Lard is another fat with possibilities. This is 
used very generously in country communities, 
where it is obtained fresh and dieap. For the 
city dweller lard is more expensive and not al- 
ways satisfactory. 

Salad oils. Although olive oil is not used much 
in this country for cooldng purposes, it is very 
generously used for salad dressings, and so de- 
serves a place in this chapter. 

The finest olive oil is made from hand-picked, 
peeled, ripe olives from which the pits have been 
removed. An inferior quality is made from the 
whole olive, including the pit; and still another 
grade is made from the pits or kernels ground 
into a coarse meal and subjected to pressure. 
Olive oil is also adulterated, the most common 
adulterant being cotton-seed oil. 

To test olive oil for an adulterant, take equal 



BUTTER AND OTHER FATS 149 

vcdumes of oil and (xmcentrated nitric or sulphuric 
add. Shake or stir the two together. When pure 
dive oil is used the mixture turns from a pale 
to a dark green color in a few minutes. If a 
reddish, orange, or brown color is produced the 
presence of a foreign oil is indicated. 

There are various other salad oils on the mar- 
kst, some of them good and some poor. If the 
better of these are used a more agreeable flavor 
is obtained in the salad dressii^ by using half 
vinegar and half lemon-juice. Usually it is neces- 
sary to add more salt to another vegetable or nut 
oil than to olive oil. 

Food Value. Butter and oils add practically 
nothing to the diet except fat. So little is defi- 
nitely known of the comparative digestibility of 
vegetable and animal fats and oils that no general 
statement can be safely made regarding the food 
value of the former. 

No better statement regarding the nutritive 
value of butter can be made than that given by 
Larson and White in Dairj'T'ecAfw/fgy.' "Butteris 
one of the most important sources of fat in our 
diet, one of the most palatable and easily digested. 
According to recent statistics, butter constitutes 
about two per cent, of the total food, and fur- 
nishes 19.7 per cent, of the total fat in the average 
American i^et." 

In the use of butter and other fats the house- 
keeper who wishes to economize ought not to 
condemn a product until she has informed herself 



ISO HOW TO COOK AND WHY 

as to its manuf acttire. If she is satisfied ^th that 
she can then experiment to find out exactly what 
she can do with it in cooking. The state diemist 
or the Experiment Station at Washington will 
give information as to the purity of any food 
product. Butter or so-called butter substitutes 
are indispensable in the diet, and the housekeeper 
must be wise in their selection and use. 



WHT MEAT IS IMPORTANT 

EVERY American family, except the small 
band of vegetarians, eats meat at least once 
a day when the family purse can afford it. So 
universal is this practice that men are said to 
fast or to abstain when they go without meat, 
yet eat other foods. Meat in this day and gen- 
eration is largely the flesh of animals especially 
bred and raised for food. 

The romance of the history of the English- 
speaking nations is connected with the names of 
the animals used for food. The Anglo-Saxon calf 
and cattle of the field is the Norman veal and 
beef of the table, the Anglo-Saxon sheep of the 
pasture is the Norman mutton served to be eaten, 
Anglo-Saxon pig of the forest and sty is the Nor- 
man pork when it has been prepared for cooking. 
To what extent the eating of the flesh of these 
animals has had influence in making the race 
leaders in enterprise and endurance is a question 
difficult to decide. 

The questions which demand our attention are, 
how much meat each individual needs and how 
11 



152 HOW TO COOK AND WHY 

to provide this on the family inaane. The first 
thing the planner of meals needs to know is the 

food value of meat. 

Composition and Nutritive Value. Meat as we 
buy it is made up of lean or muscular tissue, con- 
nective tissue or gristle, fatty tissue, blood-vessels, 
nerves, and bones. In the muscular tissues are 
found different proteins. Physiological chemists 
and dietitians are studying these different pro- 
teins, and it is hoped that the promised results 
of their present experiments will lead to answers 
to many of the perplexing questions on feeding 
and diet. 

From the protein foods are formed the muscles, 
the connective tissues, the skin, hair, and the 
major part of the secretive and excretive oi^ans. 
Protein can also serve as fuel for the body, or, in 
other words, as a source of energy. 

The relative efficiency of the animal and vege- 
table proteins is still waiting to be decided beyond 
question. The housekeeper cannot wait for these 
promised results, biTt must meet the problem to- 
day. She may count on the following statement 
of fact, as far as it goes. Most authorities agree 
that flesh foods are relatively more economical 
for tissue formation than are vegetable foods. 
The rapidly growing body of the youth must have 
siafficient protein to build a strong, healthy body. 
The adult needs it only to repair worn-out tissues, 
when other foods are given to produce energy. 

The present knowledge of the nutritive value 



WHY MEAT IS IMPORTANT iS3 

of protein incites a demand for definite tables, 
by which the true economist may fix the quantity 
of protein needed for the you^, the aged, the 
active worker, or the student. Rather indefinite 
advice is now given. Young children and the 
old are healthier when allowed very little meat. 
Authorities generally agree that meat three times 
a day is an extravagance for any one, yet many 
families still follow this rule. 

The following facts are also well established. 
The extractives of meat — that is, the juices, the 
part contributing flavor — have no independent 
food value, but act upon the digestive system in 
such a way as to make other foods more thoroughly 
digested and utilized by the body. The gelatine, 
made from gristle and bone, is what is technically 
called a protein sparer, or, as a public school-girl 
interpreted it: " Gelatine won't make you fat, 
but it will keep you from getting skinny." The 
meat of young animals contains less extractives 
and more gelatine-forming material than does 
that of the older animals. The composition of 
meat is affected by the age, sex, breed, and food 
of the animal. 

Meat in ike Dietary. A discriminating judg- 
ment is needed to decide just what true economy 
is in the purchase and preservation of meat. 
How much meat do the different members of the 
family need to obtain the best results in health 
and vigor? A great many families are gettii^ 
more meat than they need. Other less expensive 



ISA HOW TO COOK AND WHY 

foods could be substituted for part of the meat, 
or a simple cutting down o£ the quantity of meat 
eaten would result in better health. 

Where the housekeeper lacks scientific training 
to decide this difficult Question it will pay her 
to consult a trained dietitian. Both the under- 
feeding and the overfeeding of this important food 
— meat — bring sad results. 

Selection. For the cook, the meat from all 
these animals may be divided into two classes — 
tough meat and tender meat. Almost at a glanc« 
any one looking at a picture of the beef animal, 
the pig, and the sheep will see how closely these 
skeletons resemble one another. The cook who 
studies the skeleton and adhering flesh of one 
animal will find that she knows them all. 

The muscular tissues of the meat are arranged 
in tube-like bundles, held together by thin, trans- 
parent, elastic skin. About the legs, neck, and 
much-exercised parts of the animal this connecting 
tissue is tougher than where the flesh acts as a 
cusHon or protection. 

To sum up, the tougher cuts of meat come 
from the part of the animal which is most active. 
The tender cuts of meat come from the less-used 
parts of the animal. The toughness and tender- 
ness are due to the connective tissue, which holds 
the muscle fiber together. Fat is closely asso- 
ciated with the muscle fiber. The various protein 
constituents which go to make up the musde 
fiber do not differ in tough and tender meat. The 



WHY MEAT IS IMPORTANT 155 

tough meat may have more flavor than some of 
the more tender parts. 

Cuts of Meat. The dead animal is cut down 
the back, the body being thus divided into two 
identical parts, called sides. These are then 
divided into fore and hind quarters. The further 
division of meat differs somewhat for different 
localities. The diagrams give the usual divisions. 
By the aid of these illustrations a housekeeper 
can make herself intelligent and can then learn 
from a local butcher just how the meat is cut, 
and the comparative cost of the different cuts. 

Beef. Good beef is purplish red when first 
cut, the surface becoming bright red and moist 
on exposure to the air. It should be firm and 
elastic to the touch. The more tender cuts are 
fine-grained and well mottled with fat. The fat 
should be light straw-colored. Beef with yellow 
fat is poor. 

Veal. The meat of this immature animal does 
not keep as well as the meat of mature animals. 
The fledi should be light pink, as nearly white as 
possible, containing an abimdance of "baby fat" 
and free from spots. Tlie bones should be small, 
the back-bone and breast-bone soft and red. The 
best veal is from calves from four to e^ht weeks 
old. 

Mutton and Lamb. The good meat is firm and 
fine-grained. Stringy, coarse meat means that 
the sheep was aged or infirm. The color of the 
flesh varies from Ught pink m lambs to dull red 



UUTTON AND LAMB CUTS 

I, a. Saddle j. Leg 4. Breaat 

3, 4. S- RbcIe I. Loin J. Chuck 

t, 1, 3- Long saddle 3. Short nek 4. 5- Stew 

1. 3. 4. S' Body a, 3. Back 

19 Ajricultural Eiperiment Station Bui- 



VEAL CUTS 

a. Saddle (oi i hind quarten) I. Lw 

4. RAck (or a fore quuten) 3. Rib* 

4- Stew 
venlty of ItUnoil AsricuItuiAl Eipcriinsat StaUon Bui- 



PORE CUTS 



Short- 



K 



a, 3. 8. 



Side, 



3. Belli' 8. Fat back s', 9- Shoulder butt 

4. Picnic bott g. Clear plate S. 9. Long fat back 
J. Boston butt 1,8. Bick 4. S. 7. 9- Rough shoulder 

From the Dnlvenity of lUinois Agricultural Eiperimtnt SCaCioa BuUe- 
till No. 147. 















I. Hind shonk 








4. S. 6. Loin 


J. Round. R.& a off 


s'-tt: 


Hind quart 


7. Rib 


3- Rump 








8, Chuck 


4, s. Loin end 






Pore quartei 


g. Flank 






Back 


10. II. Plate 


s!6. Fl"tbDm°ok 






Pi=ce 


11. Sliank 


lo. NavEl 






Kosher chu 


13. Suet 


11. Brisket 


B 




. TtiaaglB 


a. Aitch-bone 


b. Rump -bone; 


, Crotch; 


d. Cod; 


r. Chine-bon 




Skirtj h. Brcut-b< 









i6o HOW TO COOK AND WHY 

in nmture mutton, the fat always bdng clear and 
white. 

Pork. A large proportion of the pork animal 
is used to make cured and manufactured products, 
such as hams, bacon, sausage, and caimed meats. 
Hogs are more subject than other food animals to 
diseases that affect the value of the meat. Good 
fresh pork has firm, bright, smooth-grained flesh, 
sd&A, white fat, and smooth, thin, mellow skin, 
free from wrinkles, blotches, or bruises. The cur- 
ing of hams and bacon affects the taste greatly, 
and for fine-flavored results a good price must be 
paid. 

Organs used as Food. The organs of the follow- 
ing animals are used as food as follows: the heart 
of beef; the liver of beef, calf, and lamb; the thy- 
mus gland or pancreas of lamb (sweetbread), the 
brains of the calf, the kidneys of sheep and lamb, 
the stomach of beef (tripe). Pigs' heads, knuckles, 
and toes are also considered deUcate eating by 
many people. 

These organs decompose more quickly than 
does the flesh of animals, and they should be 
selected and kept more careftilly. 

The ox heart is cheap, and very good when care- 
fully prepared. Because of the long cooking re- 
quired, a fireless - cooker should be used when 
gas or electricity is the fuel. In cities and some 
parts of the country where the demand is large, 
sweetbreads are costly. Calf's brains can be 
cooked in the same way as sweetbreads, and are 



WHY MEAT IS IMPORTANT i6i 

much less expensive. Cajfs liver is also expensive, 
and lamb's liver makes an excellent substitute. 

Poultry: Composition. In the chicken, fowl, 
capon, and turkey the fat is not so closely asso- 
ciated with the flesh as in the meats from other 
animals. This is one reason that it is more easily 
digested. Tame ducks and geese are more difficult 
of digestion because of the larger quantity of fat. 

Selection, A tender chicken is known by soft 
feet, smooth skin, and soft cartilage at the breast- 
bone. A fowl has hard, dry feet, stifiE breast- 
bone, and hairs instead of pin - feathers. A 
turkey should be plump, with smooth, dark legs 
and a soft, pliable breast-bone. Most people pre- 
fer the cock turkey to the hen turkey. Ducks 
and geese should be plump, and have soft feet 
and pliable bills. The best aboiind in pin- 



When cold-storage birds must be used, the 
buyer should insist on having them direct from 
the cold-storage plant, refusing those that have 
been thawed out and refrozen. In cities or towns 
where there are orthodox Jewish (kosher) mar- 
kets the buyer can always be sure to get fresh- 
killed poultry, as no cold-storage poultry may be 
sold in such a market. 

Preparation. Any butcher will dress poultry, 
but Uie process is not often thorough. The 
cook should clean the inside of the bird by allow- 
ii^ cold water to run through it. TTie bird 
must not soak in water. If there is a disagreeable 



i6a HOW TO COOK AND WHY 

odor, soda should be put in the washing water and 
charcoal sprinkled in. 

Poultry should be cooked either immediately 
upon killing, or, preferably, after being kept for 
two or three days. A few hours after death the 
muscles become rigid, and they do not soften 
^ain for at least twenty-four hours. If cooked 
durii^ this time, the bird will be tough. To be 
tender it must be cooked either before this rigidity 
sets in (perhaps within an hour^ or after it has 
vanished. 

Cooking of Meat. The effect of heat on the 
bundles of muscle-fibers is to harden them and 
develop flavor, while the effect of heat upon the 
connective tissue is to soften it. These two parts 
of meat, so closely associated, are affected by heat 
in different ways. It is for this reason that the 
perfect cooking of meat is an achievement requir- 
ing intelligence and skill. One reason why all 
kinds of meat are cooked is to kill bacteria and 
parasites, heat being the best-known purifier. 

Broiling. Tender cuts of meat should be 
cooked at a high temperature for a short time — 
for instance, broiling, cooking directly over red- 
hot coals. The very best broiling-fire is made of 
charcoal. The meat is turned so that alternate 
sides come next to the hot fire. Iliis is eadest 
accomplished by placing the meat on a wire rack 
with handles which allows of its being easily 
turned. Any tender cut of meat may be broiled, 
although those most co mm only cooked in this 



WHY MEAT IS IMPORTANT 163 

way are the less thick cuts, such as steaks, chops, 
cutlets, spring chicken. Better results are ob- 
tained with a very thick steak or chicken if, after 
browning well on both sides, it is set in a very 
hot oven for ten or fifteen minutes to finish the 
cooking. 

Pan-bToiUng. This differs from broiling di- 
rectly over the coals in that the meat is cooked 
on a very hot iron skillet. As all good house- 
keepers know, only enough fat is used to keep the 
meat from sticking to the pan, and the pan is 
kept very hot during the whole operation. The 
meat is turned frequently to prevent burning and 
the loss of juices. When the juices begin to run 
out of the meat, if it is turned in this way the 
juices are retained. 

Roasting. In these days this means cooking 
in a hot oven. Formerly, roasting also was cook- 
ing before an open fire of hot coals. The prime 
rib, spare rib, fowl, or other tender cut of meat 
to be roasted is put into a very hot oven. If a 
regulation covered roasting-pan is used the pan 
is covered as soon as the meat is well browned. 
Then the heat of the oven is reduced to about 
240* Fahrenheit for the final cooking. 

Some cooks rub flour and salt over the outside 
of the meat before placing it in the oven. This 
hastens the forming of the brown crust which 
holds the juices in the meat. To obtain the best 
results, water should not be put in the pan in 
which the tender cuts of meat are to be roasted. 



i64 HOW TO COOK AND WHY 

The family taste must decide time of cooking. 
{See table at end of chapter.) The epicure de- 
mands that the juice run red as the knife cuts 
into the meat. A good test is to thrust a metal 
skewer through the thickest part of the roast. If 
it comes out wann, it shows that the heat has 
penetrated to the center o£ the roast. Poultry 
roasted without stuffing is more delicious than 
when stuffed, because the birds can be cooked 
more quickly and are therefore more juicy. If 
stuffing is liked, it should be cooked in the roast- 
ii^-pan at one side, not in the bird. 

When an uncovered roasting-pan is used, the 
roast should be basted often, either with the meat- 
juice frcmi the pan or with a mixture of hot 
water and melted butter. A ham is delicious if 
boiled first, stuSed, and then baked. The stuffing 
is made as for fowl, finely crumbed, dried bread 
seasoned and slightly wet with melted butter. 
Holes are made in the ham with a carving-steel, 
about two or three inches apart, and these are 
filled with the stuffing. 

Stewing. The tougher cuts of meat should be 
cooked at a low temperature for a long time. 
Cooking over a very hot fire long enough to 
soften the connective tissue renders the muscle- 
fiber tough and tasteless, while long, slow cooking 
softens it without this disadvantage, and is best 
accomplished in or over water at a low tempera- 
ture. 

There are two methods of cooking the tougher 



WHY MEAT IS IMPORTANT 165 

cuts of meat in water, depending upon whether 
the object is to keep the juice in the meat, as in 
a stew, or to draw the juices out into the water, 
as in soup. 

When the juices are to be kept in the meat it is 
seared by browning before putting it in boiling 
water, A stew made in this way of pieces of well- 
browned meat, simmered in boiling water, will 
be tender and dehdous. The same method makes 
a leg of mutton or a pot-roast of beef to compare 
with the more superior cuts of meat. All of these 
dishes, such as stews, pot-roasts, ragouts, and the 
like, require careful seasoning. Vegetables cooked 
with meat impart their flavor to it. Peppercorns, 
bay-leaf, and celery-seed add interest and flavor 
to the dish as a whole. 

Braising. This is one of the most economical 
methods of cooking the tougher cuts of meat. 
The meat is iisually flrst sauted to prevent the 
escape of the juices, then placed in a pan with a 
small quantity of stock or water, vegetables, and 
seasoning. A cover prevents the escape of steam. 
The cookii^ is done at a low temperature for a 
long time. A part of an old saying is, "Turkey 
braised, the Lord be praised," Casserole cooking 
is one form of braising. The casserole is described 
in Chapter XVIII. 

Any of the roasting or stewing methods of cook- 
ing can be successfully carried on in a fireless- 
cooker. One fact must be kept in mind when 
meat is cooked in this way — ^that is, the time that 



i« HOW TO COOK AND WHY 

it is left in the cooker. Meat kept wann — that is, 
below the boiling-point of water — ^for a long time 
will decay. When the putrefaction has gone far, 
odor and taste warn even the uninitiated. How- 
ever, the action of decay may have started enoi^h 
to make the meat unsafe food even when too 
little gas has been formed to be noticeable as odor 
or a bad taste developed. Therefore the fireless- 
cooker must be used for cooking meat with the 
clock as a necessary adjunct. 

Soup. In the second method of cooking meat 
in water the object is to draw the juices out of the 
meat, as in soups. The meat is cut in small pieces 
and covered with cold water, which is heated 
slowly. By this means a great deal of the meat 
flavor and substance is drawn out. To extract 
all that is possible from the meat the liquid must 
not heat above the simmering-point. 

The best soup-pot is an iron one, heated just 
enough to keep the soup simmering. This slow 
cooking softens the connective tissue, <iianging it 
to gelatine. Gelatine is also cooked out of the 
bones, which are always used with the meat in 
making soup. The result of such cooking is called 
stock. The best soup is made from stock cooked 
the day before it is to be used, so that it may 
be cooled, and the fat, which rises on cooling, 
skimmed off. In summer the cold meat-jelly may 
be served. For a hot soup the jelly is heated and 
cleared with egg-white to make clear soups. 

Clear soups should be classed under luxuries. 



WHY MEAT IS IMPORTANT 167 

because almost all of the valuable nutritive mate- 
rial in the meat is eliminated. They are palatable 
and stimulating, but wasteful in preparation, and 
therefore extravagant. 

Meat soups made like' a thin stew, where all 
the meat is served in the soupa, are the most 
economical of the meat dishes, because the cheaper 
cuts of meat can be used to make them. Many a 
thrifty mother has fed a lar^ family well on an 
amazingly small income by serving the cheapest 
cuts of meat in this way. Cooked until tender 
with vegetables, barley, and other cereals added, 
the dish is more nutritious and more palatable 
than when the meat is cooked alone. 

Some of the tougher cuts of meat are made 
tender by mechanical means; that is, the connec- 
tive tissue is broken up by chopping or grinding, 
as in the preparation of Hamburg steak or when 
a round steak is pounded before cooking. All the 
cuts from the calf are tender, but because of its 
immaturity veal is more easily digested when 
thoroi^hly cooked. Pork is a meat which requires 
long and thorough cooking. 

Gravy. Advice about cooking meat would be 
incomplete without a few words about making 
gravy. Perhaps nothii^ is .produced in the 
kitchen that differs so in quality, but this should 
not be true. Accurate measuring will insure good 
gravy if the simple cooking is done with evea 
moderate care. 

After removing a roast fmm the pan, all but 
13 



i68 HOW TO COOK AND WHY 

four tablespoonfuls of fat should be poured off, 
four tablespoonfula of flour added, the whole 
mixed, and a pint of water or stock added with 
half a teaspoonful of salt and a fourth of a tea- 
spoonful of pepper; the pan is then put over the 
fire, and the mixtiu^ boiled for five minutes with 
constant stirring. Further seaspnii^, such as 
bay-leaf and peppercorn, may be added to taste. 
Gravy made in this way is as dehcious as poor 
gravy is discouraging to the appetite. 

Cost. A much greater variation in cost of the 
different cuts of meat obtains than their relative 
value would seem to warrant. This value is fixed 
by supply and demand. The demand for the mote 
easily prepared cuts of meat is far greater. There- 
fore the housekeeper with a limited income and 
time at her disposal will select the cuts which 
require a longer time in preparation. Often a 
careless or ignorant buyer of meat does not get 
full value because she does not demand the trim- 
mings from the roast or chops, or the trimmings, 
if sent home, are not used. The most common 
examples of waste of this kind is that of beef-suet. 
The housekeeper who uses every scrap of fat and 
suet, carefully trying it out to use as shortening, 
saves a considerable sum. 

The buyer should always remember that she 
pays for the waste. If all that is cut from the" 
meat by the butcher is sent home with the pre- 
pared cut, she can weigh the whole on her own 
scales and be sure die has had full weight. The 



WHY MEAT IS IMPORTANT 169 

amount of waste that must be paid for is often 
lost sight of. In some instances liiis is great. For 
example, chicken loses much more than a steak, 
chop, or fish. A chidcen weighing, when pur- 
chased, 3 pounds 8 ounces, gives 1 pound 14 
ounces of eatable food and i pound 7 ounces of 
waste. A porterhouse steak weighing i pound 8 
ounces gives la ounces of eatable food, leaving 
13 otmces refuse. A a-pound-S-ounce Spanish 
. mackerel gives i pound 6 otmces of fiesh and 8 
ounces of waste. There is also a loss in weight 
because of water which goes off in steam dur- 
ing cooking. This makes chicken at 33 cents a 
pound cost 41 cents a pound for what the family 
actually gets, while porterhouse steak at 28 cents 
a pound will cost 54 cents an eatable pound, and 
Spanish mackerel at 37 cents costs 49 cents a 
pound as eaten. 

The disregard of these factors when buying 
has contributed to the despairing cry over the 
increased cost of Uvlng, Pood materials have cer- 
tainly increased in cost with the increasing popu- 
lation. This means that the women of the land 
must select what they buy more carefully than 
their mothers and grandmothers did, with a more 
intelKgent knowle<%e of the needs of the family. 
It means also that they must prepare the food 
so that as far as possible what is paid for is used 
to advantage. 

The following tables show the time and meth- 
ods of cooking meats and poultry. 



HOW TO COOK AND WHY 



TENDER 


CUTS OF MEAT TO BE COOKED AT 


A HIGH 




TEHPERATURE FOB , 


SHORT TIME 




not* 


„„ 


„„ 


.„. 


^r,r 


■msoD 

at 

IHO 


■ma 


Loin Tip 

Prime Rib. 


Hind- 


Ehoul- 


Loin 


Po*l 

Turtar 
Duck 


•sr 


pound 


Ida 
SirlolD 


MlBd- 


Chop, 




Chiclnn 


Bmll- 


altbick- 


bub Round 














T„£p. 















S OF MEAT TO I 

















raET 


MUTTON 


POBK 


VEAL 


P01TLI.V 


COOK- 


roa 


Corned 

Fresh 
Tongue 


der " 
Lee 


Ham 




Fowl 
Turhey 


BoiUng 


pound 


R^nd 
Pscsot 


Leg 




SJ^U 


Fowl 
Duck 


Brail. 


40 to 60 
1^ 


Aitch-bone 
Pore quarter 






Lotu 




Stew- 
ing 


3" 



WHY MEAT IS IMPORTANT 

SOUP-STOCK 



xm 

FISH AND ITS USES 

THE United States Government is spending 
hundreds of thousands of dcdlars every year 
to propagate and protect the ccxmnon varieties 
of fish throughout the country. It is doing 
this in order that this highly nutritious food may 
be obtained at a reasonable cost and used more 
often. Accordii^ to the data recently published 
by the United States Fish Commissioner, 2,045,- 
000,000 pounds of fish are taken annually fiom 
the waters belonging to the United States. 

If all the fish not eaten by the fisherman's 
family reached the market the cost of fish would 
be much less tiian it is. Unfcntunately, however, 
many are caught when they are too small and 
are tossed aside to die, ot are caught simply to 
swdl the tale of the fishennan. All of this need- 
less waste affects the market price, and necessi- 
tates large appropriations from the government 
to enforce laws in regard to fishing out of season 
or marketing under-sized fish. 

When there is a government boat in the ndgh^ 
borhood the fishermen are very careful about the 



FISH AND ITS USES 173 

size of the lobsters that they take from the lobster- 
pots, or in fresh waters they are equally careful 
of the length of the whitefish, bass, or trout. 
The government boat cannot be present at every 
catch of fish, and when it is not there the same 
care is not always exercised. 

Fish may be conveniently dassed as salt and 
fresh water fish. The most common fresh-water 
fish are whitefish, black and rock bass, lalce-trout, 
brook-trout, and perch. The salt-water fish are 
more varied and may be divided into fish with 
scales and fish without scales. Of the scaly fish 
the white-meated, like cod, haddock, flounder, and 
smelts, are typical examples. So are the oily fish, 
of which sdmon, mackerel, bluefish, and shad 
are the best examples. The fish without scales 
are usually called shell-fish. To this group belong 
the bivalves — oysters, dams, and scallops — and 
the crustaceans — lobsters, crabs, and shrimps. 

Composition. In wonposition fish is much like 
meat, with about the same amount of protein, 
and as a rule a smaller amount of fat. The fat 
is distributed differently in different fish. In some 
it is deposited in the liver, as in the white-meated 
fish — cod, haddock, and flounder — the meat of 
which is somewhat dry. In oily fish the fat is 
distributed throughout the flesh. 

Much is said about the mineral matter in fish, 
the emphasis being laid on the phosphorus; but 
a comparison of the chemical composition of sev- 
eral foods shows that this idea is based upon 



174 HOW TO COOK AND WHY 

tradidon rather than upon fact. The propcntion 
of phosphorus in cod is .4 per cent., salmon .43 
per cent., herring .55 per cent. In chocolate it U 
.90 per cent., in cheese 1.45 per cent., dried beans 
1.14 per cent., and in ahnonds .87 percent. Meat 
runs almost parallel with fish, varying from .45 
per cent, to .60 per cent., the latter occurring tit 
the ox toi^ue. 

The extractives, which in meat make the de- 
licious soup, occur in fish in small amounts only. 
In fish the tissue which binds the muscles together 
is more tender than the corresponding tissue in 
meat, and therefore it breaks down with less 
cooking. 

It has been generally supposed that because 
the meat of fish has a short fiber and easily broken 
down connective tissue it is easily digested. This 
is a logical theory, but, like all theories, needs much 
experimentation to prove it. From digestion ex- 
periments it seems safe to deduce that as a 
class fish is easy to digest and that the leaner 
kind of fish is more easily d^iested than the fatter. 

The one striking exception is lobster. The 
lobster is a coarse feeder, and therefore the flesh 
is coarse and dense and difficult of digestion. The 
flesh of the lobster also disintegrates very quickly 
after being kUled, which is the reason for killing 
it just before cooking or for kUling it by plui^ing 
it head first into the pot of boitii^ water in which 
it is to be cooked. This Is, by the way, not cruel 
if done properly, as the creature does not have 



PISH AND ITS USES 175 

time to suffer if the head is quickly and com- 
pletely submerged. 

Clams and oysters are more easily digested if 
eaten raw, but if they have been contaminated 
by impure water they are apt to carry poisons 
to the digestive tract. 

Oysters when "floated" in fresh or brackish 
water increase in size, as they absorb large amounts 
of water. Such oysters must be labeled ' ' floated, " 
as this is counted adulteration according to the 
federal law and the laws of some states. Shell- 
fish is polluted by growing or floating in impure 
water, or handling under unsanitary conditions, 
or packing in unclean receptacles. 

Since fi^ and meat are so nearly alike in com- 
position, they rank the same in nutritive value. 
They both are valuable in the diet as a source of 
protein, and luider noimal conditions of health a 
person'seeras to thriteequally well upon fish or meat. 

Selection and Care. The general directions for 
detecting a fresh fish are that the flesh should be 
firm, the eyes bright, and the gills of a loight-red 
color. But this is scarcely enough for a person 
inexperienced in marketing. It is necessary for 
such a one to go to market and with the aid of 
the dealer leam how to determine when the flesh 
is firm and the eyes are bright, or else the piw- 
chaser must always trade with an honest man 
who will tell her when the fish is fresh. A man 
who is interested in his business is usually will- 
ing to hdp educate his patrons. The housekeeper 



176 HOW TO COOK AND WHY 

alone is to blame if she remains in ignorance and 
does not interest herself in the food she buys 
and the place from which it comes. 

Pish, unlike meat, must be eaten soon after it 
is killed, as it deteriorates very quickly. If 6sh 
is to be kept any length of time, it must be frozen, 
a process which impairs the flavor. The danger 
in fish that has been frozen is not in the process 
itself, since freezing simply stops the growth of 
bacteria, but in the possible f^ure to have the 
fish fresh when it goes into the &eezer. It is hard 
for the purchaser to judge of this, and a reliable 
dealer is of particular importance for the buyer 
of this class of fish. 

It is difficult to keep fish in the house either 
before or after cooking, as the od(n- is so pene- 
trating that other foods absorb it. If fish is put 
in the refrigerator imcovered it contaminates all 
other foods. It is well to have a tightly cov^«d 
granite pail for this purpose, as fish secured in this 
way from other food may be safely placed in the 
refrigerator. Uncooked fish rubbed with salt and 
secured in this way can also be kept for some days. 

Cost. There is nothing in the market except 
dairy products that fluctuates so in price as does 
fish. A mackerel which is thirty cents a pound 
to-day may be thirty-five cents to-morrow, and 
perhaps next week it will be twenty-five cents a 
pound. 

The price depends upon the supply, which is 
governed by the catch, except where part of the 



FISH AND ITS USES 177 

catch is held back and frozen. Lobster in De- 
cember and January may be seventy-five cents 
a pound and drop to fifty cents a pound in June, 
and even lower in July and August, depending 
upon the season and the supply. It is always 
expensive to buy fish out of season, just as it is 
to buy fruit or v^etables under similar conditions. 

The most expensive fish is not always the most 
nutritious nor always the most palatable, even 
though it happens for the moment to be the most 
popular. A housekeeper who is studying the 
problem of expense will buy fish in season and 
never buy until she knows what is the best 
variety procurable for the money. But if the 
purchaser says, "When I want lobster I want 
lobster, and not cod," or "When I want shad I 
want shad, and not haddock," of course there is 
nothing fca: her to do but pay the price demanded. 

Another thing which should be considered when 
buying fish is the amount of waste. A fish with 
much meat and little bone,- even if it is more ex- 
pensive per pound, may be cheaper in the end 
because of the small amount of waste material. 
So-called fillet of sole must necessarily be expen- 
sive, since all that is sold the consumer is the thin 
layer of the fiesh of the flounder. The market 
man must be paid for the rest of the fish which 
he throws away. Incidentally, in the spring and 
summer the fillet of sole is not so expensive as in 
the winter, since during these seasons a plimiper 
fish, the fluke, meets the demand, 



I7S 



HOW TO COOK AND WHY 



Medium-BiEed shore-scallopa are usually sweeter 
and more tender than the large, deep-sea scallops, 
and are in greater demand. The small shOTe- 
scallops are not especially desirable. 

It is of no value to m^ce cost cxnnparlsons be- 
tween fish and meat or fish and vegetables, since 
the variationa in the price of fish are too great. Dr. 
Lanfworthy, of the United States Department of 
Agriculture, has compiled the following table, 
which is of interest, as showing the comparative 
cost of difEerent foods and their protein and en- 
ei^ value for ten cents. 

COST OF PROTEIN AKD BKESGT AS FUR- 
NISHED BV A NUUBSS OP FOOD lUTEUALS 
AT CERTAIN PRICES 







Conor 


COST OF 


A-ou«i«,«T>»a«m 




^nm 


fou'd 


ciut 


lOIAI. 








POUND 


s: 


BNBBCV 


HI\U 


ss 


BHHR. 




Canti 


DolUn 


Cent! 


Pounds 


Ponnd> 


^ 


Codfish steaks 


"Ta 


0.71 


36 


0-833 


.142 


274 


Codfish, Mlt . 


7 


0.44 


33 


1.429 


.239 


437 


Bluefiah . . , 


13 




S8 


0.833 


.083 


173 


Mackerel . . 




o!6i 


10 




.163 


998 


Salmon, 














canned . . 




0.6a 


16 


0^33 


.163 


IS. 


Sirloin steak . 


25 


1.5a 


36 


0.400 


.066 


Mutton lee. . 


22 


1.46 


25 


0.454 


.069 


394 


MUk^.qt. . 


3K 


1.06 




a.857 


■094 


89. 


90C. bush, . 


IK 


0.83 


5 


6.667 


120 


2020 


Corn meal . . 


2 






5.000 


Uoo 


8055 


Apples . . . 


iH 


5^00 


7 


6.667 




I4» 



FISH AND ITS USES 179 

Cooking. All the methods c^ cooku^ may be 
applied to fish. The two things to be sure of are 
to cook the fish thoroughly and not to oook it 
too long. The time-table at the end of this chap- 
ter will be suggestive. Frying and broilii^ were 
probably the first methods used, and still retain 
their popularity. It stands to reason that a 
thick fi^h cannot be cooked in this way unless 
cut in slices about an inch and a half or two 
inches thick. The flavor of fiah is much im- 
proved if fried in bacon fat or salt-pork drippings. 
Some fish is good boiled, but in most cases it is 
better steamed. In either method it is better to 
wrap the fish in a piece of cheese-cloth, as it will 
be remembered that the connective tissue breaks 
down with only slight application of heat and the 
fiesh falls apart. 

Every orthodox housekeeper has a special set 
o£ utei^s for cooking fish. This is necessary, as 
it is difficult to wash away 80 distinct a flavor, 
even with a strong solution of aoda-water. A 
fish-boiler is usually kept for that purpose only. 
A broiler is so repeatedly and completely sterilized 
by the intense heat that it is not necessary to 
have a separate broiler, but it is better to have 
the fish-pan under the broiler to catch the drip- 
pings. A frying-pan is the worst ofi«ider. It 
IS almost hopeless to try to get rid of the odor of 
hot fat in which fish has been fried. 

A fish boned, stuffed, and baked is every house- 
keeper's pride, especially if she has boned the fish 



i8o HOW TO COOK AND WHY 

herself. However, this is not necessary except 
in small communities, as every city market man 
will, if required, bone a fish. All except the fish 
with many small bones, such as shad, is much 
more palatable if it is boned, no matter how it is 
cooked. Any rehable cook-book gives directions 
for this; but if the directions are not dear a 
dealer will gladly demonstrate the process. Even 
in shad some of the bones can be removed and 
make the eatii^ more pleasurable. 

Last, the best of all ways is that delicious 
New England dish, a fish chowder. Clams and 
cod are the favorite fish for this, though others 
may be used. A little salt-pork, an onion, a gen> 
erous amoiint of diced potatoes, and some milk 
added in proportion to suit the family taste are 
essential for this dish. If the chowder is well 
seasoned and cooked it is a dish to satisfy the 
most fastidious, espeaally when two or three of 
the large biscuits known as hard-tack or pilot- 
bread are floating on the top. A frequent mistake 
in preparation of chowder is not to cook the po- 
tatoes enough and to have the whole watery. 

Lejt-over Fish. The appetizing dishes to be 
made from left-over fish are so numerous that 
only a few can be mentioned. Escalloped fish is 
made like all scalloped dishes, by altematii^ a 
layer of fish with a layer of crumbs in a baking- 
dish, covering the whole .generously with a me- 
dium white sauce and baking. In the case of 
a white-meated fish a pleasing variation of this is 



PISH AND ITS USES i8i 

to add a layer or two of tomato. Other variations 
will surest themselves to the ingenious house- 
keeper. Creamed fish is usually good either in 
one large dish or in individual ramekins. The 
fish croquette has too often saved the day to be 
slighted here. Fish pie made with creamed fish 
in the bottom of a baking-dish, covered with 
mashed potatoes, has also served its turn at 
helping to save expense. 

It is never economy to save fidi that has been 
cooled in milk. These two foods are easily con- 
taminated and cannot be kept more than one 
day. This is true of oysters as well as other fish. 

Another appetizing, way to use left-over fish 
is in a salad. The white-meated fish makes an 
espedally attractive salad, although the darker 
fi^ are much used in this popular dish. Tuna- 
fish is coming more into popularity for salad, and 
so dehcioiis do many people find it when com- 
bined with celery that they have named it ' ' mock- 
chicken." 

Garnishes. No matter how fish is cooked, it 
is more appetizing if served with a tart sauce, 
such as sauce tartare or Hollandaise sauce. It 
is also more attractive if garnished with some- 
thing fresh and with cdor, such as cucumber, 
lemon, and parsley. Potato balls cut with a 
French cutter and dipped in parsley-butter add 
to the attractiveness of the dish, but they are 
expensive as to time. 

A fish which is baked on a plank affords an 



iSa HOW TO COOK AND WHY 

excellent opportunity for gamiahing. The out- 
side of the plaqk is usuaUy covered with mashed 
potatoes piped through a star pastry tube. Lemon 
baskets filled with parsley or cucumber boxes 
filled witii sauce tartars add to tiie attractiveness 
of a planked fish. 

Roe. Roe or spawn of fish is a highly prized 
delicacy, and one usually expensive as com- 
pared with the fish itself. The roe of shad is the 
greatest in demand, probably because the roe 
of other fish is little known. There is some sale 
for the roe of mackerel, which a few fish experts 
prefer to that of shad. There is some little call 
for cod, herring, and haddock roe. People are 
not yet familiar with the possibihties of roe as 
an article of food. Tons of sahnon and cod roe 
are thrown away every year. Efforts have been 
made to create a market for these, usually salted 
and canned and sold for a few cents a pound. 
The favorite way of cooking roe is to braise, bake, 
or cream it. 

At the present time more roe is used in the 
manufacture of caviar than in any other way. 
Caviar is roe preserved and highly salted. The 
choicest caviar comes from Russia, where the roe 
of the etiu-geon and beluga-fish is preferred. 

Caviar is used in small quantities as an appe- 
tizer, and it has a high nutritive value. It is a 
rare individual, however, who could eat enoi^h 
of it to get any amount of nourishment &om it. 
The best way of serving caviar is without any 



FISH AND ITS USES 183 

other accompaniment than some crisp, misweet- 
ened biscuit and a piece of lemon. It is much 
used as an ingredient of the appetizer known as 
a canap^, which is served so frequently at the 
beginning of the elaborate dinner of to-day. 
When served as a "sandwich" it is usually spread 
on a thin sKce of rye bread. Continental fashion — 
that is, with no second slice of bread above it — 
and finely chopped fresh white onion at the side. 
Sometimes boiled e^ chopped fine is added. 
The high price of caviar makes it prohibitive for 
the majority of people, even for those who have 
cultivated a taste for it. 

Preserved Fish. There are several ways of 
preserving fish — salting mther wet or dry, pre- 
serving in oil, smoking, and canning. There are 
many advantages in these processes. In the first 
place, preserving is done at a season when the 
fish is plentiful and therefore cheap. For salting 
fish the boats go out equipped to salt the fish on 
bo^d. When the weather is favorable for fishing 
the crew is all busy at that work, and when they 
are obliged to stop fishing all hands dean and 
salt the fish. In the second place, preserved fish 
can be safely shipped without loss. In the third 
place, they can be kept for long periods both in 
the markets and in tiie home without loss and 
without contaminating the other food. 

Salmon and sardines are canned in oil. Other 
less oily fish, of which the most common are 
lobster, shrimp, herring, and mackerel, are can- 
13 



i84 HOW TO cook; and why 

ned without oil. Finnan-haddie, which is spoken 
of later, is also canned. There is some caution 
to be observed in the use of canned fi^. As soon 
as the can is opened the fish must be taken out, 
as otherwise the fish on beii^ exposed to the air 
develops a strong odor and dis^jeeable flavor, 
and there is also grave danger of contamination. 

Some fish, like cod and salmon, are dried and 
salted; others, like herring, are dried, smoked, 
and salted; and still others, like mackerel and sal- 
mon, are preserved in a strong brine. When had- 
dock is dried, smoked, and salted it is called 
Finnan-haddie. This sometimes comes in a 
wooden box. When the box is opened the fish 
does not keep indefinitely, even when in a cool 
place. 

Salted fish, which are inexpenave and appetiz- 
ing, should be used more than they are. There 
are several ways of making them savory and 
palatable. Creamed shredded codfish and fish- 
balls seem to be the extent of the resourcefulness 
of many cooks. Finnan-haddie is equally attrac- 
tive whether baked, broiled, or creamed. Salt 
mackerel is at its best when it is broiled, although 
it is very often boiled, and sometimes parboiled 
and then broiled. One of the most delectable 
of all New England dishes is salt fish — usually 
mackerel or salmon, but sometimes other varie- 
ties, even on occasion salt shad. This is shred- 
ded, mixed with liberal amounts of mashed po- 
tatoes, moistened with milk, and heated either in 



FISH AND ITS USES iSs 

the frying-pan or the oven. Salt salmon is at its 
best in this dish, and has a deliciousness of Savor 
entirely lacking in the same fish when canned. 

It is a rare person who does not like some form 
of fish, and the extension o£ this liking to cover 
the many forms available depends on the at- 
tractiveness of the preparation and serving. Tlie 
housekeeper frequently complains of the "eternal 
round" of beef, mutton, and pork, and fails to 
take advantage of the wide possibilities for the 
extension of her present food-supply that are of- 
fered by fish. Only in vegetables will she find 
a greater opportunity for the enrichment of her 
table. 

Seasons. For salt-water fish there are no dis- 
tinct seasons now. The fishing-vessels sail the 
length of the coast and fish at all points accord- 
ing to the season of that climate. 

The following tables show when fresh-water 
fish are caught, and the time for cooking fish. 

Ejnd of Pisa SpRmc Season Fall Season 

May to June Oct. to I>ec. 

Apnl to June Sep. to Nov. 

May to July " Dec 

Mayisthtojuneisth " " Oct. 

Apnl to July " " " 

■ -"-- luly " " Dec. 



I Kckerel 
Herring . 
Blue Pike 



Perch . 

Catfish . 

Bullheads . . . __ „ 

■ Shad and Mullet . March to June " "Nov. 

German Carp . . March to December 

Sheepsbeads. . . May to June Sept. to Oct. 



HOW TO COOK AND WHY 

t FOK COOKING FISH 




WHY FLAVOR COUNTS 

THE use of seasonings, condiments, and flavor- 
ings in food has always been considered one 
expresdon of the good taste and cultivation of 
the family. The later discoveries of the scien- 
tists studying food problems show that flavors 
have also a distinct value in nutrition. This is 
not, of course, because they have themselves any 
food value, but because the appetizing odor and 
taste stimulate the flow of the digestive juices, 
and attractive food is thus more quickly digested 
than unattractive. An excessive use of spices is 
harmful, as is an excess in any direction. It also 
leads to the destruction of real taste in food. 

It is particularly important to supervise care- 
fully the children's food so as to cultivate a deli- 
cate taste for natural flavors. A jaded taste de- 
mands strong and unnatural flavors which over- 
tax tiie d^estive system. The family should be 
taught to r^ard and enjoy the flavor of each 
food, not to pUe on ketchup or other sauces, salt, 
sugar, and pepper, until everything tastes exactly 
alike. 



iS8 HOW TO COOK AND WHY 

Tlie preserving of each particular flavor, the 
enhancing of one flavor by another combined 
with it, or by the contrast of a condiment, is the 
work of an artist. The simplest meal made up 
of food perfectly seasoned is a feast, while an 
elaborate banquet of food prepared without 
thought for flavor and taste is almost as bad as 
a fast. 

The particular flavor of each food must be 
preserved. If the flavor is a delicate one, it must 
be guarded. If it is a strong flavor, it must be 
modified. If it is uninteresting, interest must be 
supplied by condiments, seasonings, or combina- 
tions with other flavors. 

The delicious fruit flavors are often killed by 
the addition of sugar. So are the distinctive 
flavors of such foods as shad, scallops, ch' fresh 
peas by a too strongly seasoned sauce. The 
stroi^ flavors of such foods as onions, ttimips, 
mutton, and herring require modification for 
the sensitive taste. 

Since "variety is the spice of life" in food as 
wdl as in other things, it is worth tryii^ for. 
Many inexperienced housekeepers do not know the 
value of a well-stocked store-room of condiments 
and seasonings as a means to this end. The fol- 
lowing list is recommended for the necessities. 
Each housekeeper will be alert to make additions 
to her store. 

Spices. A well-filled set of spice-boxes has 
tb? whole ag well as the grovin4 spiceg- 5?tter 



WHY FLAVOR COUNTS 189 

flavor is procured from the freshly ground spice 
than from that which has been powdered for a 
long time. The set will contain a box each of 
the following: 

Allspice. 

Anise. 

Caraway. 

Celery salt. 

Ciimamoo. 

Cloves: when purcbasiiig the whole clove se- 
lect dark and cnly ones. 

Cardamon. 

Coriander. 

Cumin seed. 

Dill. 

FenneL 

Ginger. 

Indian cuny-powder: this is made of corian- 
der, cumin, cardamon, tumeric, cinnamon, 
mustard, Jamaica ginger, allspice, and bay 
leaves. 

Mace. 

Mustard. 

Nutm^: the short and round nutmeg are 
better than the long and dry ones. 

Pepper, black: a very much better flavored 
pepper is obtained by grinding the p^>per- 
coms at home in a tiny mill. 

Pepper, white: the white pepper is more pun- 
gent than the black pepper. 

Herbs. It is well to have on hand the plants 
named below to be used as seasonings and flavor- 



190 HOW TO COOK AND WHY 

ings, eitber dried or fresh. Herbs can be dried 
ia the followii^ way: Gather before flowering 
and on a dry day. Remove each leaf from the 
stem and place on a sheet of paper in the hot sun 
to dry. -They can also be dried in a moderately 
hot oven. The essential point is to have the 
drying done quickly in order to retain the color 
and flavor. When dry they are easily powdered 
and stored in bottles tmtil wanted. 

Angelica. 

Bay leaves: five or ten cents worth of the dried 
bay leaves will last a long time. The aro- 
matic flavor is a great improvement to 
many dishes. 

Chervil: this is best picked in the middle of the 
day and just before it flowers. 

Chives: the green tops are chopped and 
sprinkled over salads as flavoring. They 
are not used dried. 

GarEc: a very pungent member of the onion 
family. Vinegar seasoned with a garlic 
clove is liked by some as a seasoning for 
salads. 

Gumbo filet powder: this can be made by 
picking the first tiny leaves of the sassafras- 
tree, drying them thoroughly, and powder- 
ing by rubbing in the hands. 

Marjoram. 

Mint. 

Mushroom-powder: this made at home is bet- 
ter than any that can be bought, if the 
lai:ge variety of mushroom is used, A peck 



WHY FLAVOR COUNTS 191 

oi Bound fresh ones washed and dried viU 
give one-half pint of the powder. 

Nasturtium: the fruit of the fav(»ite garden 
flower, preserved in vinegar, is an excel- 
lent sulistitute for capers. The flowers and 
leaves, fresh, give piquancy to sandwiches 
and salads. 

Parsley: a small window-txMt will provide 
fresh paisley in return for little care. This 
can also be dried and powdered to use. 

Sage. 

Shallot oc Esdialot: a minor member of the 
onion family which imparts a very delicious 
flavor. 

Summer savory. 

Sweet basil. 

Tarragon leaves: a leaf or two in the vin^^ar- 
bottle gives the much-desired Tarr^on 
vinegar. 

Thyme. 

Flavorings. The fresh-fruit flavors are always 
more delicious than the bottled, but the con' 
venience of the latter demand their place on the 
shelf. 

Bitter almonds. 

Orange. 

Lemon: it pays to make the home-made 
lemon and orange paste for flavoring be- 
cause of the better flavor procured. Grate 
the lemon or orange peel, mix with pow- 
dered sugar, add a squeeze of its own juice 
to make a paste. Keep in a covered pot. 



193 HOW TO COOK AND WHY 

Vanilla: the flavor of the dried vanillarbean 
grated or dissolved in alcohol is very differ- 
ent from the flavor of the vanilla extract 
usually bought- 

Caramel: this may be made and kept for 
use. Mis four tablespoonfuls of sugar and 
two tablespoonfuls of water is an agate 
saucepan; boil ten minutes. Continue the 
cooking until it is golden-brown like thick 
molasses. To this add one-half cup of hot 
water, stir until dissolved, boil to a syrup, 
and pour into a bottle. This will keep for 
years and b a most ddtdous flavoring for 
cakes, custards, and sauces. 

Miscellaneous. A bottle each of 
Olives. 
Gherkins. 
Soy. ■ 
Anchovies. 
Walnut ketchup. 
White wine 1 

Cocddng sherry j 
Brandy J 

The time spent in prepariog these tliit^s is 
well paid for in a number of ways. With such a 
store at hand, left-over food can be charmed into 
appetizing dishes, the cheaper and less attractive 
staple foods can be given distinction and flavor, 
and the cook will acquire a reputation for skill 
and judgment. 



WHAT TO EAT TOGBTHBR AND HOW TO SERVE IT 

THERE is DO (dace in the housekeeping sys- 
tem where help is needed more than in the 
planning of the meals. There is no part of the 
work that needs more skill, more imagination, or 
more originality than the combining of foods. 

Moreover, there is nothing that the home- 
maker does that receives such censure. Every 
one feels privileged to find fault with the meals, 
and to comment if an unpopular dish is served. 
On the other band, if the meal is pleasing to the 
eye, satisfyii^ in content, and attractive in ser- 
vice, the entire family is happy and good natured, 
but only too often they fail to give the credit 
where it belongs. Since the way the food is 
served is so important, a Httle consideration of 
that must precede the discussion of the food it- 
self. 

The time spent at the table should be a time 
of relaxation and repose. Anything in the arrange- 
ment of the dining-room or the table which is 
not orderly disturbs the pleasure. 

For this reason if ^e housekeeper is cook ami 



194 HOW TO COOK AND WHY 

maid she must have everything so arranged that 
she will not be getting up from the table oftener 
than necessary. It is very disconcerting to have 
some one leaving the table every few minutes to 
fetch a dish or piece of silver that has been for- 
gotten or to remove and place the courses, i When 
there are guests it is much better to arrai^e a 
meal that can be served easily than to plan one 
that requires all the attention of the hostess to 
prepare and serve. In the latter case the prep- 
aration leaves her in too weary a conditi(m to 
enjoy the guests. 

The table should be arranged carefully and 
not overcrowded. Doilies and runners, which 
are more economical to launder than table- 
doths, make the table very attractive. Inex- 
pensive china is obtainable in dainty patterns. 
Chops served on roses or Watteau shepherdesses 
rather take away than stimulate the appetite. 

The serviette, or "Lazy Susan," is helpful in 
simplifying the serving. In olden days these 
were made of mahogany or some other wood, but 
the modem serviette is a circle of plate-glass that 
turns ea^y on its pivot. It is so well balanced 
that even a heavy dish may be placed on it with 
safety. If tiie bread, butter, cheese, and conserves 
are placed upon the serviette, many trips around 
the table are saved, as each member of the family 
can reach out and turn it at will. It may even 
be used, where there is no maid, to carry the 
plates to the guest and brit^ back the used ones 



WHAT TO EAT TOGETHER 195 

to the hostess. A wheeled serving-tray standing 
at her ri^t gives a place to set all the used dishes 
and to keep other dishes for which there is not 
room on the table. 

As to the kind of food required, it has already 
been said in Chapter II. that this depends upon 
the ^e and occupation of the person. It also 
d^jends on the climate and season. Food suitable 
for January might be almost revolting in July. 
For example, on a cold, crisp day the diet may 
well consist of generous amounts of fat and 
starches — ^both energy-producing foods — the very 
sight of which would take away the appetite on 
a hot day. A menu like the fdlowing illustrates 
this point: 

Black Bean Soup 

Roast of Pork Apple Sauce 

Riced Potatoes Creamed Turnips 

Cheese Salad 

Pie 

Fancy such a combination on a sultry night when 
nothing appeals to the appetite but 

Iced Bouillon 

Broiled Chops Riced Potatoes 

Frest Peas with Melted Butter 

Lettuce Salad 

Fruit Sherbet 

The first menu, moreover, is too hearty at any 
season. If a hghter soup, salad, and pastry were 



196 HOW TO COOK AND WHY" 

substituted the dinner would be better balanced 
and much more appetizing. 

Salads should be conspicuous on the summer 
menus. Dinner salads are better served with 
Frendi dres^i^, reserving the cooked dressings 
and Mayonnaise dressings for the salads that oo- 
cnir as a main course. Jellied soups served ice- 
cold, and cold, light desserts add greatly to the 
dinner served on a hot night. Refreshing, cool - 
ing drinks are a valuable aid in hot weather. 

Iced coffee with whipped cream is not served 
as often as iced tea, but it is very popular with 
cofEee lovers. Lem(M)ade, iced grape-juice, old- 
fashioned raspberry and currant shrub are great- 
ly appreciated in hot weather, but are more ac- 
ceptable between meals. For tiiis purpose, too, 
ginger ale and ApoUinaris water added to any 
fruit juice make an attractive variety. 

It is a fact that when food is attractive to the 
eye the digestive juices flow more freely. For 
this reason the color should be taken into account. 
A meal of one color does not appeal. For ex- 
ample: 

Cream of Onion Soup 

Baked Hallibut Mashed Potatoes 

O^amed Cauliflower Fresh Celery 

Cabbage Salad 

Rice Pudding 

All these dishes are good and wholesome, and in 
proper combinations attractive, but as they are 



WHAT TO EAT TOGETHER 197 

combined here there is nothing to relieve liie 
monotony of cdor. The menu is almost entirely 
white. 

Onions with a fish dinner introduce an excel- 
lent variety of flavor, but cream-of-onion soup 
with creamed cauliflower not only repeats color, 
but repeats cream sauces — one of them thin 
sauce and the other thick sauce. Moreover, 
both are combined with vegetables of strong 
flavor. Mashed potatoes increase the whiteness 
of the menu. Potato balls or whole potatoes 
with parsley butter would relieve the monotony 



A salad with color can easily be substituted for 
the cabbage salad, which, by the way, supplies 
another strong-flavored vegetable. It takes very 
little imagination to substitute a dessert that will 
add flavor and cdor and interest to the entire 
meal. To repeat a flavor takes away interest. 
The combination of cream-of-pea soup and peas 
with the main course or in the salad shows lack 
of thought, as does the use of rice for a vegetable 
and rice in the dessert. 

Two foods cooked alike are imattractive if 
served in the same meal. Crullers or dou^muts 
for a limcheon dessert will not be popular if cro- 
quettes have been served in the same luncheon, 
since both are cooked in deep fat. Neither will 
waffles — great favorites though they are — ^be re- 
caved with much enthusiasm if they come at the 
end of a meal in which fritters have been served, 



198 HOW TO COOK AND WHY 

since they are both fried flour mixtures. Since 
economy must not be sacrificed to attractiveness, 
the thoughtful manager will serve a favorite des- 
sert or salad, and sometimes both, with a left-over 
meat. Or if most of the dinner or luncheon must 
be of simple combinations, especial attention 
should be given to tiie arrangement of the table 
and the manner of serving, but most of all to the 
seasoning. A little tomato or red or green pepper 
often changes unappetizing into appetizing dishes. 

Foods containing the food principles in the same 
proportion should not be served together. A well- 
balanced meal is that which has neither too much 
protein, nor too much starch and sugar, nor too 
much fat. The right combination of food from this 
point of view is the most difficult of the food prob- 
lems the housekeeper has to face. To meet it she 
must acquire as much knowledge as possible of 
food values. 

The following menu shows an abundance of 
starch and a lack of flavor: 

V^etable Soup 

Lamb Mashed Potatoes 

Rice Croquettes Lima Beans 

Salpicon of Fruit Creamed Tapioca 



Potatoes, rice, Lima beans, and tapioca all have 
a great amount of starch, and three of them should 
never occur in the same meal. 

The foods with a great amount of protein are 



WHAT TO EAT TOGETHER 199 

meat, fish, ^gs, milk, and cheese. A few vege- 
tables are rich in protein as well as starch. These 
are the l^;umes — peas, beans, and lentils. When 
a menu is arranged with a small serving of meat 
or no meat at all, the amount of protein can be 
increased by the addition of one of these vege- 
tables high in protein. Or if the starch content of 
the meal is low these vegetables are a valuable 
source of starch. 

On the other hand, if the meal is rich in starch 
it would be better to serve some v^etables that 
have a high per cent, of water. If the main dish 
is macaroni and cheese with a cream sauce, a dish 
rich in protein, tomatoes, beets, or spinach would 
add character to the combination, where peas or 
string-beans would make it too heavy. 

Vegetables high in water, and therefore refresh- 
ing, are lettuce, tomato, cucumbers, radish, celery, 
onions, carrots, and the like. Vegetables with a 
strong flavor, and therefore better not served 
together, are onions, cabbage, cauliflower, and 
turnips. 

Fruits all have a great amoimt of water, and 
most of them a distinct flavor — some strongly add. 
Fruits either fresh or cooked should be used gen- 
erously in all menus to stimulate appetite as well 
as to furnish mineral matter. 

Although relishes, such as picldes, olives, and 
highly seasoned sauces, have not much actual nu- 
tritive value, they have a distinct place in the diet. 
By adding variety of flavor they stimulate diges- 



TOO HOW TO COOK AND WHY 

tion and oftentimes etdte a desire for more food 
and thus help a lagging appetite. 

Preserves and jellies have a place on the menu 
also, if they are not used to excess. As energy- 
producers they rank very high; but, since no large 
amount should be eaten at a time, thdr chief 
value consists in the variety of flavor which they 
introduce. 

Clear soup or bouillon at the beginning of a 
dinner is not taken to add nutritive value so much 
as to stimulate the digestive juices to action be- 
fore the heartier foods are eaten. A soup which 
is made with milk or cream is more acceptable at 
the banning of a light meal than when hearty 
food is to follow. 

The meat course shoiild be followed by a savory 
salad, which does not add appreciably to the nu- 
tritive value, but which has a dietetic value not 
to be disregarded. The crispness and freshness of 
a salad are decidedly stimulating to the appetite 
To serve a rich salad with an elaborate dinner or 
luncheon is not only a waste of money but a waste 
o£ human energy. A hearty salad belongs in a 
hght meal, as does a hearty dessert. To serve rich 
pastry and puddings after a substantial dinner is 
"gilding gold." When the keenness of the appe- 
tite is satisfied by the meat course, what follows 
should be characterized by daintiness and attrac- 
tiveness, so as to gratify the esthetic rather than 
the physical appetite. 

In conclusion, what we eat together may be 



WHAT TO EAT TOGETHER aoi 

brieQy stated as fdlows: A meal should not be 
too dry nor too wet. TTiere should be one food 
rich in protein. There should be enough fat 
skilfully blended. TTiere should be a selection 
from the cellulose group for bulk. There should 
be enough starch, but never too much. When- 
ever possible there should be a green v^etable. 
There should be a savory to add flavor. There 
should be one distinctly sweet food, preferably 
at the end of the meal. 

"Hie hoiisekeeper who plans with all diese re- 
quirements in mind soon becomes wise in food 
values almost without knowing it. But attrac- 
tive, nourishing meals never come without plan- 



HOW TO KEEP FOpD 

As has already been said, food may come into 
r\ the house in good condition, and still may 
be spoiled or lessened in value by carelessness or 
ignorance in caring for it. One of the greatest 
extrav^ances in American homes is the waste 
of food supplies. 

The apartment dweller whose store-room space 
is limited to a built-in set of shelves and a small 
refrigerator can buy her supplies only in small 
quantities, but in a real house the care of the 
store-room, cellar, and cupboards is a trouble- 
some problem. 

A store-room for food supplies should not be 
tucked away in a dark comer. If the food is to 
be kept free from mold and decay the store-room 
should be cool, dry, light, and airy. Does any- 
thing give a more refreshing appearance of clean- 
liness than white walls and shelves in a room 
where food is kept? If white-enamel paint is be- 
yond the means of the household, surely white- 
wash is cheap enough, and has the advantage that 
it can be renewed even more often than paint. 



HOW TO KEEP FOOD 303 

If any houseke^ier has ever had a. cellar or 
store-room with a brick floor she will raise her 
voice in protest against such. Too often has she 
drafged her weary body up from a vain effort to 
clean between the cracks. She, more than any 
one else, knows how to appreciate a store-room 
with smooth, easily cleaned walls and floors. If 
the floor is of bride it should be cemented. All 
cement floors should be painted with cement 
paint. One can never "sweep dean" an im- 
painted cement floor, as the surface constantly 
comes away in a flne dust. 

If any place in the house should be free from 
dirt-coUecting surfaces it is the place where food 
is kept. A set of shdves suspended from the 
ceilii^ and htii^ free from the wall in the cdlar 
or in any store-room is an excellent device, be- 
cause it permits a drculation of air around the 
food. This factor should always be taken into 
consideration, since molds and bacteria flourish 
best in stagnant air. Whenever possible there 
should be direct ventilation from the outer air. 

A cupboard for dishes is most attractive when 
it presents a white, shinii^ surface. The best 
flnish is white-enamel paint, and this can be put 
on by any housekeeper, Unpainted shdves need 
two coats c£ ordinary paint (with plenty of time 
for eadi to dry), and then one coat of enamd. 
This last should dry at least forty-eight hours. 
A fresh coat c£ enamel once a year keeps this 
surface in condition. It is quite unnecessary to 



so* HOW TO COOK AND WHY 

have even a small crack in wall or shelf. A little 
putty or plaster of Paris covered with paJot will 
fill up dirt-collecting cracks. 

White-enamel cloth is so easily kept dean that 
some housewives prefer it for a shelf-covering 
to paint. It is, however, porous, and harbors 
bacteria. Also either enamel doth or paper is a 
trap for the unwary, since small partides of food 
and small insects collect under it. The enamd 
paint is cheapest in the end as well as most 
deanly. Some housekeepers object to white 
paint because it shows the dirt. This is cer- 
tainly an amusing objection when the first essen- 
tial is to be able to see all the dirt there is. 

A cupboard or a pantry with a window in it 
is a joy. It is hard to ventilate simply by means 
of the door. It is much easier to find things in 
a compact cupboard than in a large, rambling 
one, although it is sometimes harder to arrange 
it conveniently at first, and often it necessitates 
choosing utensils that exactly fit the space. 

If the shdves of the cupboard are plainly la- 
bded there will be less difBculty in keeping them 
in order. If there is a maid in the house this 
should be done for her convenience, and if a 
woman is her own cook it is stitl an orderly plan. 
It is especially hdpful to the occasional guest who 
wishes to be iiseful to her hostess. 

An emergency shelf is a great convenience in a 
pantry. If the housekeeper knows that certain 

supplies are always on this shelf, she will be able 



HOW TO KEEP FOOD 105 

to give unexpected guests a hearty welcome. 
What this shdf should contain will depend upon 
the distance from the source of supplies, the re- 
sourcefulness of the kitchen garden, and the foods 
which the cook can most skilfully prepare at a 
moment's notice. To make this shelf reaUy useful 
the suppHes must be replaced as soon as possible 
after they have been used. 

The convenience and attractiveness of the cup- 
board or shelf are much increased by uniform 
supply-jars. The best receptacle is a wide- 
mouth»i jar with a metal top. These glass jars 
have several advantages. They always look 
well on the shelf, they are easily deaned, a glance 
shows when the supply is getting low, and the 
wide mouth makes it easy to take the contents 
from the jar without spilling on the shelf or 
table. 

The earthenware jars that are now being made 
with decorations in attractive blues and other 
colors appeal to some housekeepers who like to 
fit up the kitchen and pantry in a definite color. 
They are somewhat heavier to handle than the 
glass jars, and have the disadvantage of not telling 
so plainly when the supply is low. They are also 
more costly and break more easily. 

Another container which recommends itself 
because of economy is the tin can. It is light in 
weight and more durable than the others, and 
can be tightly dosed, but it has the disadvantage 
that in order to Itnow the condition of the larder 



9o6 HOW TO COOK AND WHY 

the cans must be taken from the shel£ aod the 
cover removed. 

A systematic housekeeper can easily get a uni- 
form shelf of supply-hcjders by saving the re- 
ceptades in which is packed some food of which 
her family happens to be very fond. The glass 
jars that prunes and other dried fruits are sold 
in are excellent for cereals. 

For spices the small jare in which stick candy 
is sold (five and ten cents a jar) are very good. 
More than one kitchen has a complete set of such 
jars with the painted labels. Aluminum or some 
other metal covers are preferable to glass, as the 
latter are easily broken. Any cover, however, 
must be such as to be easily deaned. Larger jars 
are more expensive, but in the ead they are an 
economy, as their use prevents waste. The care- 
ful housekeeper who cannot buy a whole set at 
once can get one each month until she has all she 
needs. 

Bread and cake boxes of enameled tin look bet- 
ter, wear better, and are much more sanitary 
than those of wood. The white^najneled ones 
are the most attractive. A roll-top bread-box is 
in any case much more convenient than a hinged 
top, which must have a space above it the width 
of the cover. Where space is limited it is par- 
ticularly important to note such differences. For 
supphes like flour and sugar the tin cans with 
hi^ed covers are excellent. When wood or tin 
receptacles are chosen, care must be exercised 



ao8 HOW TO COOK AND WHY 

in selection. Grades and joints are difficult to 
Ifeep clean and make good hiding-places for in- 
sects. , 

Whatever the material, it is essential to have 
eadi one plainly labeled. The best method is to 
paint the name on with a fine brush. Black 
shows best on glass jars. It is not hard to do 
this, and a little patience soon enables one to do 
it neatly. When the paint is thoroughly dry a 
coat of shellac should be put on over it to prevent 
wear. Unifcom paper labels, shdladied, are next 
best. 

Cereals, spices, condiments, sugar, and the like 
should never be left in the paper bags or boxes 
in which they come from the grocer. The paper 
bag is always a snare, as it cannot be kept tightly 
closed. Evai tin boxes should be discarded when 
they are covered with paper. Mustard, for ex- 
ample, should be emptied at once from the tin 
box with its paper label into the glass jar. If it 
Is left in the tin box the paper label gets dirty 
and offers a harbor for dust and possible insects, 
the lettering gets obscured, and the houBewife can 
tell when her supply is low only by taking the 
box down, removing the cover, and looking into 
the box. Tlie glass jar is a constant reminder of 
the amount on hand, and it keeps out foreign 



The dairy products are the most troublesome 
to care for. The care of milk has been described 
in Chapter X. How to keep dieese is a problem. 



HOW TO KEEP. FOOD 209 

If it is shut up in a box or jar it molds. If left 
out in the air it is covered with dust. The best . 
plan is to keep the dieese in a wide-mouthed glass 
jar with a cover of paraffin paper fastened with a 
rubber band. 

Whenever possible a shelf should have only one 
^row of receptacles. The back row is a nuisance 
in every way. Usually shelfs are built much too 
far ap^ and too wide. In that case a second 
shelf against the wall, half the width of the first, 
can be added between. Each housekeeper must 
plan her own space carefully. 

Refrigerators. There is nothing in the entire 
household equipment more worth while than a 
well-constructed refrigerator. There are many 
good ones in the market and many poor ones. 
A refr^erator complex in construction is hard to 
clean. 

Cold air is heavy and falls, therefore the ice 
compartment should, be at the top. The food 
compartments are lined with various materials. 
Those with white enamel or porcelain or glass 
are the best, although there is no reason why 
zinc or galvanized tin should not be kept 
clean. 

Soda is the best cleanser to use about the re- 
frigerator, as it is odorless. A disinfectant with 
an odor, while an excellent thing in many places, 
should never be used to clean food receptacles. 
Dairy products are extremely sensitive to odors. 



»io HOW TO COOK AND WHY 

RuUs for Care of Refrigerators 

1. There should be a set of white-enamel dishes 
and plates to use in the refrigerator. Cut glass 
and fine china should never be put there, as the 
danger of chipping or breaking is great. 

The use of cracked or chipped dishes for food 
is greatly to be deplored. The rough surface 
left by the crack or chip is an excellent place for 
bacterial growth. 

2. Uncooked meat should be kept in a covered 
enamel dish. It should never be wrapped in paper, 

3. No paper should be used about food in the 
refrigerator. 

4. Milk-bottles should always be washed before 
beii^ put in the refrigerator. 

5. Eggs with barn-yard soil should not be put 
into the refrigerator. The reason for not washing 
dean, fresh eggs has been given in Chapter X. 
Eggs should be kept in a rack or a dish with one 
layer, so that they may be used in the order in 
which they were bought. 

6. The contents of the refrigerator should be 
examined every day, and no stale food left there. 

7. If anything is spilled it should be cleaned up 
at once. 

8. The shelves and floor of the refrigerator 
should be washed every day with a soda solution 
and the refrigerator cleaned thoroughly at least 
once a week. 

One part of the refrigerator that needs especial 



HOW TO KEEP FOOD an 

care is the pipe that carries the drippings from the 
ice-compartment away from the refrigerator. This 
is a removable pipe and needs to be cleaned weekly 
with a long-handled bottle-brush and a strong soda 
solution (one tablespoonful of soda to one quart of 
water) and rinsed thoroughly with clean, hot water. 

Garbage. The garbage-can is a problem in 
every household. It would be a. relief if some one 
would invent a device by which garbage could be 
consumed cheaply on the spot without smoke or 
odor. There is an excellent garbage-incinerator 
run by gas, but it is too expensive for the ordinary 
family. 

In most cities the disposal of the garbage is a 
municipal concern, but it leaves much to be de- 
sired. The can is emptied and left at the back of 
the yard — usually uncovered — with more or less 
garbage still clinging to the sides and bottom. 
This means that the housekeeper has a very dis- 
^reeable task before her. The remaining garbage 
must be taken care of and the can thoroughly 
washed. Nothing freshens a garbage-can so satis- 
factorily as a boiling soda solution. 

The garbage-can should always be securely 
covered; otherwise it attracts flies and thus be- 
comes a menace to the household and the neigh- 
borhood. If the garbage-man and the housekeeper 
are not on the scene at the same time, the fiies 
gather in the neighborhood and the housekeeper's 
sanitary difficulties are multiplied. 

The care of the garbage is somewhat less dis- 



ail HOW TO COOK AND WHY 

agreeable if the Department of Health does not 
object to the can being lined with clean paper 
(newspaper is excellent) or one of the heavy 
paper-bags made for the purpose. The house- 
keeper is most fortunate who Uves in a community 
that maintains a company that removes can and 
garbage and leaves a clean can in its place. She 
has to pay for removal, but is spared the dis- 
^reeable task of cleaning the can. 

The disposal of garbage in the country is a 
household rather than a municipal problem. Each 
household must solve its own sanitary difficulties. 
Such garbage as cannot be fed to the stock must 
be burned or buried. Most housekeepers think 
that it ruins a kitchen range to bum garbage in 
it. This opinion is based upon the theory that 
the great amount of moisture in such refuse 
warps the stove. 

To save frequent trips out of doors it is a 
good plan to have a covered white-enamel jar 
for garbage on the sink -drain. For a sniall 
family this needs to be emptied only once a 
day. If it is washed every day in hot water it 
will keep sweet and dean. 

From the moment food material is chosen in 
the market to the time it is finally disposed of as 
garbage, every precaution must be taken. Until 
it is no longer usable it must be guarded frcnm 
contamination, and after it is useless as food it 
must be guarded as a possible source of contami- 
nation to other foods and to people. 



HOW TO USE A COOK-BOOK 

THE value of a book depends as much upon 
the way it is used as upon the information 
it contains. To get all the help even the best 
cook-book can give, one must know how to carry 
out the directions given. 

For instance, what is meant by a cupful or 
spoonful? Modem cook-books dl use levd meas- 
ur^nents. This means, for dry materials, a 
spoonful or cupful over which the edge of a knife 
is passed; for wet materials, as much as the cup 
or spoon will hold. Materials measured in this 
way are fairly definite quantities — not as definite, 
to be sure, as weighing would be, nor as definite 
as such measuring will be when measuring-cups 
and spoons are made of standard sizes. 

The measuring-cup is supposed to hold one- 
half pint, and sixteen tablespoonfuls should fill the 
cup. The manufactiu'ers <k kitchen supplies are 
at last realizii^ that women are serious in the 
demand for imif orm-sized cups and spoons to 
use for measuring. 

If exactly the same materials are put together 
under exactly the same conditions the result will 
be the same — as it is in all other industries. "Why 



914 HOW TO COOK AND WHY 

should we assume that the preparation of food is 
an exception to the law of cause and effect? 
When all measuring-cups hold one-half piht, and 
tablespoons and teaspoons are of standard size, 
the poor cake will always mean careless measuring. 
The chances for failure are greatly lessened if the 
foUowingniles formeasuringarefaithfullyobserved : 

Sift flour directly into the measuring-cup until 
the cup is overflowed, pass a knife over the top, 
smoothing the flour without packing. Measure 
a tablespoonful and a teaspoonfid in the same 
manner. A half-spoonful is the spoonful halved 
lengthwise (see diagram). Because of the shape 
of the spoon this makes a more nearly perfect 
division. Where the older cook-books (all for 
one spoonful it is usually safe to use two level 
spoonfuls, and a cup and a half level measuring 
for a heaped cup. 

Flour is used as an illustration for dry ingre- 
dients, because care mast be taken not to pack 
it. Sugar, com-meal, and other dry ingredients 
are not easy to pack in the cup. The old method 
of measuring was to take as much as the cup or 
spoon would hold. This difEered for different 
people, some being more skilful in flllii^ the cup 
or spoon. It is true that experienced cooks ac- 
quired a judgment in measuring and usually 
took about the same quantity each time, but 
this was an individual matter. 

The change toward accurate measuring of in- 
gredients and the observation of the same con- 



HOW TO USE A COOK-BOOK 



315 



ditions in mixing and baking guarantee the same 
results. One woman is making a large income 
from the sale of cake which never varies in excel- 
lence. She weighs all materials and uses an oven 
therm(»neter, thus leaving no room for chance. 




SPOON SHOWING METHOD OF DIVISION 



When the prospective cook has learned to 
measure she must next understand tiie abbrevia- 
tions commonly used in the up-to-date cook-book. 
These vary slightly, but usually follow this table: 
tb. or T. stands for tablespoonful 



OTt. 


" teaspoonful 


C. 


' " cup 


qt. 


' " quart 


pt. 


" piat 


lb. 


' " pound 






f.g- 


" few grains 




" rounded 


hp. 


" heaping 


SC. 


" scant 




" minute 


hr. ' 


" hour. 



ai6 HOW TO COOK AND WHY 

The intelligent cook will know certain propor- 
tions of ingredients that may be successfully 
combined. She will know reasons why certain 
combinations will or will not bring about a de- 
sired effect. She will understand the effect of 
heat upon the materials to be used. With this 
intelligence at her finger-ends she is ready to 
read her cook-book and decide which recipes will 
probably be good ones to try. 

After deciding this she will read the whole 
rule over very carefully and consider the in- 
gredients. Of course, charges can be made in 
certain things, and here she will show her judg- 
ment. Spices and flavorings can be substituted 
one for another, or left out altogether, or added 
to the recipe that lacks them. Sour milk may 
be i^ed in place of sweet milk if soda is substi- 
tuted for baJdng-powder. Water and butter may 
replace milk. A variation in the quantity of 
shortening may be made within certain limits. 
One may use fewer eggs and more milk or more 
^gs and less milk. These and numerous other 
chat^es can be made and will add to the interest 
of cookii^. Only the one who has achieved 
knows the fun of doing the old thing in a different 
way, so that it seems a new thing to those who 
eat. The savings resulting from u^ing two eggs- 
in place of four, when the price is high, or a butter 
substitute for butter, or water for milk, accumu- 
late with encouraging results. 

The housekeeper, having decided just what in- 



HOW TO USE A COOK-BOOK ai? 

gredients she must and which she chooses to use, 
will collect all of them and all needed utensils 
before beginning the operation. The fire, if one 
is to be used, next receives attention. How many 
people know that it is better to leave the oven 
door of a gas or oil stove open when the light is 
first lighted? This is in mxier to dry out the 
oven, which takes about five minutes. ■ 

With ingredients and utensils at hand, and 
oven ready; the successful modem cook accurate- 
ly and intelligently follows the directions laid 
down in the recipe, varying only in the non- 
essentials. If the cooking does not need con- 
stant watching, the starting and finishing time 
are written on a slate. Or an alarm-clock is set 
to attract attention at the moment when the pie 
should be done. When the cooking is completed 
the housekeeper keeps it hot or sets it to cool, 
as may be needed, and does anything necessary 
to make it as appetizing as possible When served. 

All this may sound complicated or confusing, 
but it resolves itself into the general directions: 
"Follow a reliable cook-book with intelligent 
accuracy, and have aa active interest in procurit^ 
a perfect product." 

Recipes that travel by word of mouth may be 
very irritating. Sometimes the most important 
ingredient is forgotten — as sugar in a cake. One 
with experience will know that there must be 
sugar. in a cake, and put it in. After trying a few 
Buch. traditional recipes one quite understands 



9i8 HOW TO COOK AND WHY 

how our grandmothers acxjuired the reputaticni 
for certain dishes that "no one else could make." 

Our modem cook-book calls for judgment to 
follow its rules successfully, as did the (dder 
cook-books, but the modem cook-book calls for 
a different kind of judgment. One need not have 
measured butter for cake or flour for gravy to 
make either of these things, but cme must koow 
how correct measurements are made. The trained 
laboratory worl^r with the fine eye and exact 
mind proves a capable cook, unless he or she is 
without a sense for flavoring. 

As the hoiisekeepers grow more exact and 
accurate the cook-books will improve to meet 
their demands, until cooking is a mudi more 
exact operation than is now possible. 

A convenient method of keeping recipes &t>m 
magazines or those given by &iends is to copy or 
paste them on library cards to file in a card- 
catalogue. The housekeeper who co^anizes her 
work well will add to her card-catakigue menus 
which have proved successful. She will have a 
list of easily prepared dishes, the quantity they 
will serve, and an approximate cost. When un- 
expected dinner or limcheon guests appear, or 
when the well-planned meal fails because the 
grocer or butcher fails, or for some other reason, 
such a list will be found the very best friend in 
need. She will also check in her cook-bod^^^ 
recipes found satisfactory, will write opposit&jg^j^ 
how mudi it costs and (if this fact is not giv^i in 



HOW TO USE A COOK-BOOK aip 

the recipe) how many it will serve. She will use 
recipes, but will not become a slave to them. 



METHODS OP COOKING 

Boiling. Cooking in water heated to aia" 
Faluenheit. That is, water from which the steam 
is escaping so East that it is in a violent state of 
ebullition. 

Simmering. Cooldi^ in water at 185" Fahren- 
heit. That is, when bubbles of steam break at 
the bottom of the liquid. 

Baking. Cooking in an oven. 

Roasting. Properly, cookii^ before a fire. Now 
used to mean the same as bakit^. 

Broiling. Cooking over a very hot fire. 

Braising. Cooking in a closely covered pot or 
pan, with a little water or stock. It is really cook- 
ing in steam. 

FricassSeing. Meat cooked in this way is first 
browned, then simmered. 

Sauting. Cooking in a little fat, often wrongly 
called frying. 

Frying. Cooking in deep fat. 



SOUE USEFUL UTBKSILS 

IN selecting a dish or a utensil, the first con- 
sideration is its fitness for its use, and the sec- 
ond the ease with which it can be kept dean. 
Deep ri<^es on the inside of a pitcher or vege- 
table-dish, for example, make it almost impossible 
to remove the dirt that collects there. When 
sdecting china, either for the table or for storing 
food, the housekeeper must not be carried away 
by an attractive design until she is sure that the 
inside can be kept immaculate. 

Of buying kitchen utensils there is no end. 
Each housekeeper has her favorite ware. One 
prefers white or blue enamel because it helps to 
carry out a color scheme. Another likes gray 
agate because it does not chip, and another is 
more successful with aluminum ware. If a care- 
ful housekeeper is using the utensil herself she 
finds that the good grade of all wares gives good 
service; but if an ignorant person has charge 
of the kitchen all ware is equally unsatisfactory. 

The comparative cost of tin, agate, enamel, 
and aluminum each housekeeper can work out 



SOME USEFUL UTENSILS aat 

for herself by keeping careful records of cost and 
wear. Prices and uses vary too much to give a 
definite statement here. One thing, however, 
is certain — it never under any drciunstances pays 
to buy a cheap grade of any ware. 

There are some labor-saving utensils that are 
worth the attention of every housekeeper. They 
may or may not fit into her needs, but if she is 
on the alert for improvements she will certainly 
find some devices that she can use. 

Scales. Every household should have an ac- 
curate scales for weighing supphes. It is not 
necessary to check up all supphes when they are 
delivered, but whenever the amoimt seems ques- 
tionable. It is also worth while to weigh the 
edible contents of packages (biscuits, oatmeal, 
macaroni), and compare the amount with the 
amount of bulk material bought with the same 
money. It is worth while again to know how 
much meat or poultry is edible, how much is 
waste, and how much is lost by evaporation in 
cooking, so that the housekeeper can know the 
cost per poimd eaten. 

Double Boiler. A double boiler is an indis- 
pensable utensil in the kitchen equipment. The 
water in the lower part of the dish boils and com- 
municates the heat to the upper pan, keeping the | 
food there at a high temperature, but never let- { 
ting it reach the boiling-point iinT''<g the bottom I 
boils dry. The double boiler has many advan- 
t^es, not the least bdng its independence of 



933 HOW TO COOK AND WHY 

attention. So long as there is water in the under 
part the food in the upper part will not bum 
or scorch. The cook may sweep, dust, cook 
dinner, tend the baby, or settle herself to a 
book while the food is cooking in the double 
boiler. 

The economical housewife will choose this 
utensil with care, buying one that can, when 
necessary, be converted into two saucepans, or 
the new device upon the market — a tea-kettle 
with an upper pan that fits into the top. If there 
is not a double boiler among the kitchen utenals 
one can easily be improvised by setting a small 
saucepan into a larger one.- 

Fireless - cooker. A fireless - cooker is wortJi 
having if only to cook the porridge. Not only 
does it require little gas or electricity to generate 
the needed heat, but the long, slow cooldi^ really 
cooks the cereal more thoroughly. But this is 
not its only use. For the long, slow cooking need- 
ed for the tougher cuts of meat the fireless cooker 
is ideal, and it is also excellent for many vege- 
tables and much baking. 

There are many types of cookers on the mar- 
ket. In buying it is wee to select caie without 
seams in the lining; if there are seams the joints 
collect the steam and the Uning corrodes. The 
cooker is then most undesirable, being unsanitary. 
Even if the initial expense is greater, it is economy 
to buy a cooker with the Uning cast in one piece. 
Some of the newer cookers are equipped with a 



MELON HOLD 



PASTRY-TUBE ENDS 



914 HOW TO COOK AND WHY 

steam valve which t)revents the moisture from col- 
lecting in the cooker. 

It is not necessary to buy a manufactured 
cooko*. One can be made at home with a box, 
s(Kne hay or mineral wool, and a good, stout 
fabric — tickii^ or something of that sort — ^£or a 
Uoing. Such a cooking-box can be used only for 
certain foods, and does not serve all the purposes 
of a patented cooker. For example, it would be 
most imdesirable to cook some vegetables — ^tur- 
nips, onions, and the like — ^but perfectly safe to 
oook cereals, providing the box was well aired after 
using. 

It has been demonstrated by careful experi- 
ments that the average family can save enough 
gas in three months by using a fireless-cooker to 
pay for almost any good one on the market. Re- 
cently there has come on the market a "gas fire- 
less stove." This is a gas-range with insulated 
ovens, and it combines the uses of the ordinary 
gas-range and the fireless-cooker. The cost is 
about the combined <»st of a good range and a 
good cooker. It is a great advantage in saving 
room and in doing away with the stones that 
have to be heated for any baking in the fireless- 
cooker. 

Casserole. With the price of meat soaring 
above the heads of the majority of people, a casse- 
role is an almost necessary dish. The casserole 
is an earthenware dish for baldt^, and is not an 
expensive utensil. Casseroles are made itt every 



SOME USEFUL UTENSILS 225 

shape and size from the indiwdual ramekiti to 
one sufficient for a large family. Each size can 
be had with or without a holder, and the expense 
varies accordingly. Many people like best the 
porous casseroles with handle of the same that 
are used by the Italians and the French. 

The casserole may be used on top of the stove 
or in the oven, the latter being the best method. 
The earthenware dish holds the heat and keeps 
the contents at the gentle steaming temperature 
so desirable for meat, poultry, and some vegetables 
and fruits. Cuts of tougher meat when steamed 
in a casserole in their own juices, to which vege- 
tables hq-ve been added, are even more delicious 
than more expensive cuts. 

A casserole dish lasts quite as long as any other 
cooking utensil if it is given proper care. Before 
being used, the dish should be soaked in cold 
water for several hours and then heated slowly. 
The dish must not be exposed to sudden changes 
of temperature. If it is taken from a hot oven to 
a cold sink, or plunged into cold water, the sudden 
contraction will probably crack the dish. When 
the dish is used on the gas^tove, an asbestos mat 
should be put between it and the burner. 

Bread -mixers. In this day o£ efficiency the 
housekeeper whose work is never done is as 
anxious as any one to know the short-cuts. The 
bread-mixer is one of these time-savers. The in- 
gredients for the bread are all put into the mixer 
at once with sufficient flour for the dough, the 



aa6 HOW TO COOK AND WHY 

mixer adjusted, and turning the handle does the 
rest. There is no setting of sponge, no kneading 
by hand, and the best of it is that the ordinary- 
man Ukes to turn the machine I 

There are mixers far two loaves of bread and 
for eight loaves or more, so that the small family 
as well as the laige one can benefit by this l^bor- 
saving device. In selecting a bread-mixer the 
buyer should consider the ease or difficulty of 
cleaning it and also should choose one that has 
the motion easdest for her. 

Cake-mixers. A cake-mixer is made on the 
same principle as the bread-mixer. All the in- 
gredients are put into the mixer and beaten up 
together. Five or ten minutes is sufficient time 
to allow for putting a cake together. This saves 
a great deal of the housekeeper's time and pro- 
duces good cake. 

Cake-coolers. A cal»-cooler is not indispensa- 
ble, but it is convenient. This is a sheet c&. woven 
wire which stands about an inch from the table. 
It allows a circulation of air around the cake or 
bread, the loaf cools more imiformly, and there 
is no condensation of steam on the bottom 6S. the 
loaf. 

Cream-whip. There are several uteoals for 
whipping cream. No one <£ these should be 
bought without careful examination, as some of 
them are "very, very good," and some of tiiem 
are "horrid." 

Waffie-irons. Some waffle-irons are made with 



SOME USEFUL UTENSILS 227 

a high standard, so that it is unnecessary to tip 
the iron to turn it above the gas-jet. Another 
pattern is a low standard to fit over the hole on 
a coal or wood stove. To use a low iron on a gas- 
stove means to clean up a good deal of grease 
that has run out of the iron. 

Potato-baker. A cook who has burned her fin- 
gers taking potatoes out of the oven will be glad 
to use a potato-baker. This is a. device of tin or 
wire with sharp prongs upon which to put the 
potatoes. The baker is made to hold six or eight 
potatoes, and these bake more evenly than when 
laid on the oven floor. 

Fancy Molds. To put an artistic touch to the 
menu it is well to have a few fancy molds for 
puddings and gelatine desserts and ice-cream. 
The melon mold is the most common, perhaps, but 
there are many other patterns. 

Pastry-4ube. A star pastry-tube is used to 
garnish a fish-plank or steak-plank or platter. 
Potatoes piped around the meat or fish give an 
idea of very skilful tecdmique when really all it 
requires is praddce. For state occasions the 
pastry-tubes may be used to decorate a cake or 
put m^rii^ue on a pie. 

In choosing any lab(»*-saving device the house- 
.Iceeper must calculate carefully what she will save 
in time and energy, and also what the advantages 
tu- dis^vantages of each device are from the 
Banitaiy point of view. 



A FEW WARNINGS 

SO many traditions regarding food and cook- 
ery have been handed down from one gener- 
ation to another that each housekeeper ought to 
investigate and lind out which are founded on 
scientific fact and which are fallacies. The age 
for followii^ blindly is past in all sciences, and 
surely the household should not be the last center 
to emerge from it. Each individual housekeeper 
should observe and experiment for herself and 
use the knowledge that science has made avail- 
able. 

There is a great deal of Station now, some of 
it to much purpose, but some of it to no piupose 
except to swell the pocket-book of the agitator. 
Often statements printed without much authority 
are repeated so frequently that the average per- 
son does not think of questioning them. Food 
fallacies are like superstitions; a very inteUigoit 
person once declared: "I am not a bit superr 
stitious, but I do hate to break a mirror." So 
people may be intelligent on most subjects in 
cookery, but cling to (me false idea. 



A FEW WARNINGS 999 

Appetite as a Guide. A good example of such 
a statement is that a person needs what he craves. 
If a young girl craves pickles she is sometimes 
allowed to have all she wants on the ground that 
her system must need acid. Nothing could be 
more absurd, for if she needed add in such 
amounts, there would be some physical disturb- 
ance to indicate it. Young children who crave 
sweets are sometimes allowed to eat generously of 
candy. It is true that the diild needs sugar, but 
this should be given as a part of a mixed diet, 
and not in the concentrated fonn of confections. 

It is not strange that whenever a diet is in- 
sufficient the individual craves sweets, since sugar 
provides an easily available form of enei^. But 
to furnish any considerable amount of this energy 
in the form of candy is dangerous, because it pro- 
vides the energy without providing the essential 
mineral matter. Unfortunately, people go to ex- 
tremes and speak as if candy and any form of 
sweets were in themselves harmful. The harm 
Ues in their excessive use. 

Some physicians think that when a child de- 
velops a craving for chalk and slate it is an in- 
dication that he needs more mineral matter in 
his diet. Whether that is true or not, it is a cas; 
for expert advice, and not a question for a child^ 
abnormal appetite to decide. Neither does it 
indicate that alcohol is needed by the body when 
a man or woman craves alcoholic drinks. 

There is a reverse side to this. Not only is it 



830 HOW TO COOK AND WHY 

true that the craving does not prove the need, 
but it is also true that the lack of dedre does not 
prove that the need is not there. la other words, 
if some member of the family says he does not 
want some particular type of food, he often needs 
it. Youi^ people espuially have strot^ likes 
and dislikes and decide in favor of or against a 
dish before tasting it. If they can be persuaded 
to taste the dish it may become a great favorite. 
Habits in eating can be changed as much as other 
habits. Any one who helps a diild to cultivate 
a taste for a variety of foods is helping him to 
build a good body and also preparing him to 
gain lasting pleasure and to avoid embanass- 
ment. 

Food Value. Another mistake is to suppose 
that a food is nourishing exactly in propcrtion to 
the food value of the raw material. The cooking 
and the serving are also very important in ren- 
dering food nourishing. It is well for the house- 
ke^>er to know that oftentimes the responsibility 
rests with her. The nutritive value of a food 
may be much impaired by poor preparation and 
oooldT^. Food may come to the house in good 
condition, but through neglect or ^norance may 
become absolutely usdess. Or it may be cool^ 
in such a way as to make it difficult of digestion. 

Fes' example, eggs cooked at boiling tempera- 
ture become tough and more difficult for the di- 
gestive juices to penetrate. Meat is sometimes 
cooked so long that it is hard to digest; or, cm the 



A FEW WARNINGS 231 

b1 other hand, a tough piece of meat which slow 

ill cooking at a low temperature would make pala- 

li table and digestible is cooked at a high tempera- 

^ ture for a short time without the same good effects. 

^ We have already dealt with the importance of 

j^ flavor. Attractive serving also has a great deal 

ji to do with the value of the food. Although her 

^ language is inaccurate, there was a good deal of 

jj fundamental truth in the remark of the woman 

y who said that a certain food was not nourishing 

^ "because people don't like it, and so they won't 

eat it, and so it isn't nourishing." 

[, Odors. Old - fashioned cooks have long de- 

j clared that the odor of food cooking is as satisfy- 
ing as the food itself. Or else they say that the 

J odor of cooking takes away the appetite. The 

p latter may be true in a few cases. It hardly 

J seems necessary to say to intelligent people that 

J, odors are not nourishing. Imagine what would 

J. become of the cook if she relied upon odors alone 
for her subsistence! 

1 Water-drinking. That drinking water at meals 
j is harmful is another tradition to which some 
I people still cling. There may be certain patho- 
,' logical conditions that would make this practice 

harmful. But people in normal health suffer no 
ill effects from a reasonable amount of water 
taken with meals. A safe rule at meals is to 
drink when you are thirsty, with the one limita- 
tion not to drink when masticating. The diges- 
tion of starch foods should begin in the mouth, 
16 



332 HOW TO COOK AND WHY 

and this can take place only when the food is thor- 
oughly mixed with the saliva. If food is mixed 
with water the salivary glands are not sufficiently 
stimulated to action, and the food passes from 
the mouth without enough of the digestive juice. 

One disadvantage of drinking water at meals 
is that people who do so often think they have a 
sufficient amount and do not drink between 
meals. Copious water-drinking is essential for 
proper elimination. It is a safe rule to take at 
least six glasses a day, including that taken at 
meals, and ten glasses are not too much. 

Milk. The statement is frequently heard that 
skimmed milk and buttermilk are more nutritious 
than whole milk. The absurdity of this is ap- 
parent, for the butter-fat of the whole milk has 
been taken from both of these, and nothing has 
been added to make up for this loss. Under cer- 
tain conditions of digestive disorders they may 
be more easily digested, but they cannot equal 
whole m jllf in nutritive value. 

Fish. From the time that people first began, 
to discuss food values the word has been passed 
along that fish is the best food to nourish the 
brain because of the high per txat. of phosphorus . 
As has been pointed out in Chapter XIII., there 
are many foods with more phosfrtiorus than fish. 
Fish is more easily digested than cheese or dried 
beans, both of which have a high per cent, of 
phosphorus. For this reason it is better for the 
digestive tract, but is no better for the develop- 



A FEW WARNINGS 333 

ment of the brain than for any other part of the 
body. Miuray says: "The shimmering or so- 
called phosphorescent appearance that fish ex- 
hibits in the dark is no evidence of the presence 
of phosphorus." But this probably accounts for 
the tradition that fish has a great amount of that 
luminous matter. 

Yeast. It is not true that dulling makes yeast 
useless. Yeast is a plant that cannot live after 
a bath of boiling watw any more than any other 
plant, but to chill yeast simply retards its growth. 
If the temperature of a bread sponge which has 
been chilled can be raised before other yeasts 
from the air are deposited in it, the growth of the 
yeast is not impaired. 

Jelly. A warning that is given in many cook- 
books is not to boil gelatine, as the boiling pre- 
vents "jellying," Ten experiments recently per- 
formed have shown the untruth of this statement. 
In every instance the gelatine became firm, in 
most cases too firm, for the longer the boiling was 
continued the tougher the jelly became — and 
this is the reason for not boiling. In these same 
experiments every add used in cookery was com- 
bined with gelatine, and the only one that pre- 
vented "jellying" was fresh pineapple-juice. The 
cooked pineapple did not have this effect. 

When jelly made from fruit-juice and sugar 
does not "set," it is a mistake to cook it over with 
more sugar. In nine cases out of ten there is so 
much sugar that a thick syrup instead of a jelly 



934 HOW TO COOK AND WHY 

is fonned. What it needs is more fruit-juice. 
For those who do preserving regularly it is well 
to keep on hand one or two cans of fruit-juice 
well cocJced down, so that it may be ready to add. 
There was a time when the housekeeper gave up 
in despair when jelly did not "jell." A little 
later in the science of cookery she cooked the 
syrup over with more sugar, but with no result. 
Now she has grown wiser and adds fruit-juice to 
the syrup before re-oooking it, and obtains very 
gratifying results. 

Mayonnaise Dressing. Another mistake is to 
hold that mayonnaise dressii^ that has curdled 
must be thrown away. If an egg-yolk is broken 
into a fresh bowl, beaten thoroughly, and the 
curdled mixture added to it drop by drop, the 
mayonnaise can be recovered. The three-minute 
mayonnaise is less likely to curdle than that made 
the usual way. In this the dry ingredients are put 
in the bottom of a bowl, a whole egg is added, and 
this mixture is beaten well together. A third of 
a cup of oil is added all at once; the whole is 
beaten until it begins to thicken; a second third 
of a cup of oil is then added, and the whole mix- 
ture beaten until it is fairly stiff. Some people 
like to use the dressing as it is at this stage, but 
those who prefer a thick mayonnaise must add 
another third of a cup of oil and beat until it is 
still. In using this method it is not necessary to 
have the bowl chilled, and the whole process takes 
literally but three minutes of the time of an or- 



A FEW WARNINGS 235 

dinarily brisk person. The extra cost of the egg- 
white is not worth considering in the cost of the 
whole in consideration of the amount of time 
saved. 

Measurements. It is too bad to bring into dis- 
repute so old and well-estabUshed a tradition as 
that "a pint's a poimd the world around." This 
is true of sugar and butter, but of scarcely any 
other food materials. A standard measuring- 
cup holds half a pint. Two cups of sugar make 
a pound, but it takes four cups of £our to make 
a pound, and about four cups of ground coffee 
to make a pound. Accurate measurement is^the 
only safety for the housekeeper. 

Manufacturers' Labels. The housekeeper has 
been warned so often to read the labels on all 
manufactured articles that it seems unnecessary 
to repeat the warning. But to this should be 
added the warning that the whole truth is not 
always told on the label. The law requires cer- 
tain statements in regard to preservatives and 
the like. The manufacturer may add any infor- 
mation he diooses, and the whole truth might 
tell too much. Take, tor example, the statement 
sometimes found on the label of meat extracts, 
' ' that it is good for muscle and bone, ' ' The sense 
in which this is true is that the chief value of a 
beef extract is in stimulating the flow of digestive 
juice, which means better digestion and assimila- 
tion of foods that are good for muscle mi bone. 



3^6 HOW TO COOK AND WHY 

The beef extract has practically no protein, and 
therefore does not in itself build musde and bone. 

Advertisements. Advertisements are often more 
misleading than labels, and there is no law govern- 
ing their accuracy. For example, soup is often 
spoken of as very nutritious. A little thought will 
show that soup is diiefly water — often as high 
as ninety-mne per cent. — and that the amount of 
nutriment eaten as soup by any one person is 
negligible. Soup has the value already attrib- 
uted to meat extracts, that of stimulating the 
flow of digestive juices, and therefore is of value 
in the dietary. But it is ridiculota to speak of 
clear soup as a nutritious food. 

It is also well to remember in readir^ advert^e- 
ments that give analyses of food value that the 
several food constituents are not always avail- 
able to the human body, and a food that has a 
very high per cent, of protein may not be as 
valuable for body repair as it sounds. 

Colors. Certain communities have certain 
prejudices in r^ard to the colors of foods. It has 
already been stated that one community demands 
eggs with a light-colored shell, another eggs with 
a dark-colored shell. The color of the shell has 
no relation to the nutritive value of the egg, and 
the wise housekeeper can gain an advantage by 
buying at a lower price the egg with the color of 
shell that is not popular in her community. 

There is also a fashion in cheese. If light 
cheese is more in demand than yellow cheese, 



A FEW WARNINGS 237 

naturally the light cheese will bring a few cents 
more to the pound than the dark, but one is not 
any better food than the other, nor is there neces- 
sarily any difference in flavor. Again the wise 
housekeeper will take advantage of this fact. 

Reference has already been made to the prej- 
udice in favor of white rice, which has resulted 
in the loss of the valuable mineral matter in the 
husk of the naturally brownish rice. The day 
will soon come when this brown, unpolished rice 
will be as cheap and as easy to obtain as the white 
rice of less nutritive value. 

The prejudice in regard to color is in a measure 
partly responsible for the unpopularity of oleo- 
margarine. Even though the factory is perfectly 
sanitary and the articles used are clean and whole- 
some, the housekeeper is opposed to the use of 
uncolored oleomargarine instead of butter. 

Prices. The housekeeper is frequently ui^ed 
to watch the marked prices given in the daily 
paper, as if she could judge immediately what 
she oi^ht to pay her local dealer. If the prices 
which the dealer gives do not compare favorably 
with these prices, the careful buyer questions her- 
self 6rst and finds fault with the dealer after- 
ward. Is she exacting from the dealer so mudi 
in service that he must put an exorbitant price on 
what he sells in order to cover this other expense? 
For instance, is she telephoning two or three times 
a day for him to send her supplies, or does she 
make out a list and require no, or only one, tele- 



93S HOW TO COOK AND WHY 

phone call and only cme delivery P Does she de- 
mand that he carry perishable foods out o£ season ? 
If she herself is reasonable in these matters, are the 
majority of the dealer's customers as reasonable 
as she? Unfortunately, the careful buyer has to 
pay for the wastefulness of the cardess buyer, as 
far as cash prices are concerned. 

As has been said, the careful housekeeper does 
not accept the sensational statements made by 
newspapers and advertisements in regard either 
to prices or to the merits of food materials. 
Housekeeping is much more interesting if the 
spirit of adventure and experimenting which so 
often characterize a bri<^e game is carried into 
the processes of marketing and cooking. The 
housekeeper who tries diSerent ways of playii^ 
her hand has mcoe interest in the game. 

Tests. The housekeeper in her kitchen must 
work as nearly as she can on the laboratory prin- 
ciple. She must make tests under right condi- 
tions. She must understand the value of the 
"control test." 

The principle of the control test is that the 
experiment under consideration shall be tried 
twice under the same conditions, but with the 
important point varied. It is best, when pos- 
sible, to try the two experiments at the same 
time, as this is the easiest way to insure like con- 
ditions. For example, to find out whether there 
is any difference in the color of spinadi when 
cooked in a covered or an uncovered vessel, one- 



A FEW WARNINGS agp 

half the amount needed for the family at one meal 
should be cooked in each way. Then every con- 
dition is the same except that of the covering, 
and the result means something. 

Control tests may be carried on in almost ev- 
ery cookery process. For example, certain things 
that have been baked in a quick oven may be 
tried in a slow oven, or the slow oven may be 
changed to a quick oven, and the texture and 
lightness of the articles compared. Another ob- 
servation of interest for a cook to make for her- 
self is to put half the vegetables into cold water 
and bring it to the boiling-point, and the other 
half into boiling water. By noticing the flavor 
and texture of the vegetables cooked under both 
conditions the cook will be able to convince her- 
self of the best methods for cooking, or, better 
still, to formulate new rules. Each experiment 
must be tried a number of times for any sure con- 
clusion, and the more complicated the process, 
tiie greater the number of experiments that should 
be made. 

Tests of prices are very enlightening. It is 
sometimes surprising to see the variation in costs 
in the "bob" and "nabob" parts of town. The 
"nabob" dealer must be paid for his more elab- 
orate equipment, larger store, and higher rent. 
The most striking differences in price are shown 
between the prices of the large market and those 
of the neighborhood dealer, but the differences 
on the 5Wie day between local dealers whose 



HO HOW TO COOK AND WHY 

conditions seem the same are often surprisiiigly 
great. 

The housekeeper with an alert mind, who tries 
experiments and so is able to give reasons for the 
faith that is in her, is rewarded by the profit she 
brings to the family and the pleasure she wins 
tor herself. 



INDEX 



A 


Baking-Boda: 




as leaven, 49, 52. 

in cooking cheese, 132, 




in cooking vegetables. 


Albumen: 


86. 


in i^k, 114. 


classed, 106. 


Appetite, aag. 


cooking. III. 
digestiMity, 109. 


Apple-cake, 59. 


Aprfe-dumpling, 59- 


Barberries, 106. 


dassed, 106. 


Barley, 19. 
Bass, 173. 




Batters, 47. S3. S.l. 56. 


fMnoving skins from, ill. 


Bay leaves, 190. 


Apricots, 106, 107. 




Beans; 


B 


compoatioa of, 81, 90. 


Bacteria: 


in salads, 93. 


in fruit. III. 


Beef: 


in milk, 122. 
Bakii^: 


cooking (table), 170. 

cuts, diagram of, 159. 


bread, 39. 


selection of, 155. 


calte, 63, 69. 


Beef heart, 160. 


fish. 185. 


Beets, 91. 


fruit, no. 


Berries, 108, 109. 




Biscuits: 




baking-powder, 58, 59. 


alum, 51- 


yeast, 45. 


in quick breads, 58, 59. 


Blackberries, 106, 108. 


Bluefish, 173. 


phOTphate. 50. 


Boiling: 


tartrate. 48. 


cereals, 23. 



HOW TO COOK AND WHY 



Boiling (ont/tflMrf) : 

definition, 319. 

double boiler, aai. 
BoinbH»kininet«r, 11. 
Brains, as food, 160. 
Braiaag, 165, 219. 
Bran, 17. 
Bread: 

baldng, 39. 

care, 41. 

digestibility, 42. 

fancf breads, 41. 

malan^, 36, 38. 

place in diet, 31, 60. 

quick breads, 47, 53, 54, 

Bread-box, 41. 

" ' ' . 39. 33$. 



definition, 319. 

meat, 163. 
Brussels sprouts, 83. 
Buckwheat cakes, 51S. 
Butter: 

churning and working, 

food value, 149. 

in cake, 67. 

kinds, 144. 

makin g, 139, lio, 141. 

salting and packing, 143. 
Buttermilk, 126. 
Butter substitutes, 144, 145, 

146. 147. 
Butter test, 145. 



care, 77. 

cookies, 77. 

icing, 70. 

little cakes, 76. 

place in diet, 77. 

preparatioo and baking, 
61, 65, 68. 

short-cake, 59. 

varieties, 64, 68. 
Cake-cooler, 336. 
Cake-mixer, 66, 366. 
Calorie: 

definition, 11. 

protein and energy, com- 
paiative table, 178. 
Canned foods: 

fish, 184. 

fruit, 113. 

vegetable, 83. 
Caramel, 193. 
Carbohydrates, 9. 
Carrots: 

cream-of -carrot soup, 93. 

preparation, 84. 

Casserole, 333, 334. 
Cauliflower, 83. 
Caviar, 163. 
Cereals: 

care, 38. 

composition, 19. 

cooking, 23, 29, 30. 

hotne-made, 28. 

left-over, 27. 

preparation of grain, 16. 

ready-toeat, 31. 

See also Wheat, etc. 
Cheese: 

caie,3oS. 

composition, 131. 

digestibility, 132. 



Cheaw ieotiUnued): 


D 


heat value, 12. 




in cookiag, 15, 90. 


Dates. 106. 


Chemical analyses: 


Diet: 


information about Farm- 


children's, 8. 


ers' Bulletins, 13. 


invalid, 126. 


Cherries, 106, 107. 


Digestion: 


Chervil, 190, 


of baking-powder, 5I. 


Chicken; 


of bread, 42. 


cooking (table). 170, 171. 


of cheese, 132. 


food value, 169. 


of eggs, 136. 


selection, 161. 


of fat, 8. 


Chives, 190. 


of fish, 174. 


Chowder, 180. 


of frmt, 102. 


Clams, 175. 


of meat, 153. 


Cloves, 189. 


of mineral matter, 8, 9. 


Cod, 173, 180. 


of poultry, 161. 


Cold-storage foods; 


of quick breads. 60. 


butter, 143. 


of starch, 25. 


fish. 176. 


Double boUer. 221. 


poultry, 161, 


Doughs: 


Color in foods, 336. 


bread, 38, 


Conserves, 115. 


quick breads. 53, 54. 58. 


Cook-books, use of, 313, 314, 


yeast. 37. 


ai5, 216, 217. 


Dried fruits, 1 18. 


Cookies, 77. 


Duck: 


Cooldnz, methods of. 219. 
See also Pood. 


cooking (table), 170. 


selection, 161. 


Com meal, 18, 19. 
Cora-starch pudding, 131. 


Dumplings, 59. 


Crabs, 173. 




Cranberries, 106. 


E 


Cream, 129, 139. 


Economy: 


Cream of tartar, 48, 68. 


in choosing fish, 176. 




in choomng meat, 168. 


92, 130. 




Cream sauce, 89. 


90. 




in making bread, 44. 
in prepanng c«realSi 19 


Cupboards, 303, 304. 


Currants, 106. 


at, 37. 


Curry-powder, 189. 
Custards, 131. 


in preserving, 113, 
principles of, 13, 169, 237 



HOW TO COOK AND WHY 



comporidon and food 

value, 132, 133, 134. 
cooldng, 136, 137. 
digestitelity, 136. 
gelection snd care, 134. 
Eschalot. Sm SbaUot. 



Panqr breads, 41. 
Fancy molds, 333, 337. 
Farmers' BuUetim, informa- 

tioa about, 13. 
Pat: 

fryiuB in, 57. 

in butter, 140, 149. 

ID cakc-inakiiig, 67* 

in cereals, IS. 

in eggs, 133. 

in fish, 173. 

in TTiillc , 131, 139. 
Pats, function of, in body, 8. 
Permented milk, I36. 
Figs, 106, 108. 
Fireless-cooker: 

description, 322, 223. 

for baking cake, 68. 

for cooking meat, 165. 
Fish: 

GompBied vith meat (ta- 
ble), i;8. 

compo^tion, 173. 

cookii^: (Uble), 179, 186. 

cost, 176. 

food vidae, 169, 175. 

garnishes, 181. 

Kinds, 173, 185. 

place in diet, 233. 

preservation, 183. 

selection and care, 175. 

See <Uto Shell-fish. 



Flavorings, hints on use d 
187, iqi, 193. 

See also Spices and Herbi 
Flavors: 

function, 187. 

in butter, 141. 

in vegetables, 85. 
Flounder, 173. 
Flour: 

for bread, 31. 

for cake, 67. 

in v^etable sances, 89. 

kinds, <]3. 

measunng, 314. 

preparatimi, 16. 

SeeaUoWteat. 
ood: 



ble, 14. 

es to body. 4, 5. 

W also pip fining of 

Meals and Menus. 
Food principles, 6, 198. 
Pood requirements, 14. 
Pood values. See Pood, Meat, 

Vt^etables, etc. 
Po^: 

cooking, 170, 171. 

selection, i6t. 
French drMane, 94- 
Presh- water Ssa, 173. 
Pricassfeing, 319. 
Fritters, 57. 
Fruit: 

add fruits, 107, iia 

composition and food val- 
ue, 103, 106, 107. 108, 

If?- 
cooking, 109. 



Fruit (continued): 

dried fruits, ii8. 

preserving and canning, 
III. 

selection and care, 109. 

use in diet, 102, 105. 

with cereal, 37. 
Fruit rolls, 58. 
Frying: 

demiition, 219. 

niles for, 57- 

vegetables, 88. 



Garbage disposal, 211, 213, 
Garlic, 190. 
Garnishes, 181. 
Gelatine: 

in jellies, 233, 

in meat, 153, 166. 
German roll, 56. 
Gluten, 34. 
Goose, 161. 
Gooseberries, 106. 
Graham flour, 43. 
Grapefruit, 106. 
Grapes, 102, 106. 
Gravy, 167. 
Griddle-cakes, 56. 
Gruels, 26. 
Gumbo filet powder, 19a 



Haddock, 173. 184. 
Herbs, 189. 
Hot breads, 54. 



for preserves, 112. 
for supplies, 205. 
Jellies: 
boiling, 233. 
conserves, II5. 
materials, 113. 
place in diet, 200. 



Labels: 

on jars, 208. 

manufacturers', 335. 
I.actic add, 128. 
Lamb, 155. See also Mut- 

Leavena, 35. 47. 53- 
Left-overs: 

cereals, 27. 

flavorings, 190. 

fish, 180. 

griddle-cakes, 56. 

vegetables, 88. 
Legumes, 61. 
L^tons: 

classed, 106. 

flavoring, 191- 

medicinal value, 103. 
Lentils, 81, 90. 
Limes, 106. 
Liver as food, 160. 
Lobster, 174. 



HOW TO COOK AND WHY 



M 

Macaroni: 
com[x>sition, aa. 
coolang, 24. 
Mackerel, 169, 173. 
Mayonnaiae dresdng, 334. 

5m also Salads. 
Measurement of ingredi- 
ents, 37, 313, 314, 215. 

Meat: 

compared with fish (ta- 
ble), 173. 

composition and food val- 
ue, 10, 152. 

cooking, 162, 170, 171. 

cost, 168. 

cuts, diagrams of, 156, 
157. 158. 159. 

kinds, 155. 

place in diet, 153. 

selection, 154. 
Menus, 195, 196, 198, 218. 
Meringue, 75. 
Milk: 

diet for babies, 12I, 125. 

effect of heat on, 124, 

koimiys, 127. 

legal minimum of fat in, 
123. 

pasteurisation, 125. 
perfect food, 120. 
place in diet, 333. 
rennet, 130. 
selection and care, I23. 
sterilization, 135. 
Mineral matter: 
in cereals, 17, IS, : 



Mineral matter ^cotUiniied): 

in milk, 122. 

in vegetables, 81. 
Molasses, 52. 
Muffins: 

cereal, 38, 58. 

plain, 57. 
Mulberries, 106, loS. 
Mushroom powder, 190. 
Mutton ; 

oooldng (table), 170. 

cost, 91. 

cuts, diagram of, 156. 

selection, 155. 

N 



191. 

Noodles, 23. 
Nutmeg, 189. 
Nuts: 

classed, 106. 

composition and food val- 
ue, 116, 117. 



compo^tion and food val- 
ue, iS, 19. 

gruel, 26. 
Oleomargarine, T46, 
Olive-oil, 148. 
Olives, 106, 107. 
Omelet, puSy, 137. 
Onions: 

bouillon, 92. 

care, 83. 

food vidue, 91. 

place in menu, 197. 
. Orange-juice: 



Oven tests: 

for bread, 39, 40. 

for cake, 62, 63. 
Oysters: 



Painting cupboards, 303, 
Pan-broiliog, 163. 
Paisley, 190. 

Pasteumation of milk, 125. 
Pftst^: 

de&utioQ, 53. 

{daoe in diet, 78. 

pieparation, 73. 
Paistry-tube, 227. 
Peaches: 

dassed, 106, 107. 

removing skins from, lit. 
Peais, 106, lit. 
Peas: 



in salad, 93. 
Pectine, 106. 
Pepper, i8g. 
Perch, 173. 



Plaoni^ of meals, 193, 194, 
195. 196, 197. 198, 199. 
200, 20I. 

Plums: 

classed, 106, 107. 

removing skins from, jii. 
Pork: 

cooking (table), 170. 

cuts, diagram, 158. 

selection, 160. 
Potato-baker, 227. 

n 



Potatoes: 

cooking, 87. 

food value, 91. 

salad, 94. 

selection, 82. 
Poultry: 



I6l. 

Preserves, iii, 112, 113. 
Price of foods, 237. 
Process-butter, 144. 
Protein: 

comparative table of pro- 
tein and energy, 178. 

definition, 10. 

in oereala, 18, 19. 

in eggs, 133. 

in macaroni, 22. 

in meat, 152. 

in vegetables, 81, 90, 199. 
Prunes, 106, 107. 
Pur^, 90. 



ingredients and mixing, 

,53, ?4..58- 
place m diet, 60. 
varieties, 55, 56, 57, 58, 
59- 
QuiniAs, 106, no. 



Refrigerator, 309, ato. 



HOW TO COOK AND WHY 



Relishes, pbtce of, 


in diet. 


Shortening, 41, 58, 59 


199. 




Shrimps, 173. 


Rennet, 130. 




Simmering, 219. 


Rice: 




Skim milk, 129. 


composition, 21, 




Smelts, 173- 

Soda, as cleanser, 209. 


■^S&,%t 






aUo Bakiog-soda. 


Roasting, 163, 319 




Sole, fillet of, 177. 


Rochelle salts in 


baking- 


Soup: 


powder, 50. 




meat, 166. 


Roe, 183. 




milk, 130. 


Rolls, 45. 




plat* in menu. 3oo. 
stock (table), 171. 


S 






Salad-oils: 




Scwr milk: 


food value, 149. 




ininvaUd'(^'t, 126. 


olive-oil, 148. 




Salads: 




Spices: 


dressing. 94. 




care. 206. 


place in menu, 
200. 


0. 197. 


kinds, 189. 
Spinach, 86. 


v^;etable, gi. 




Sponge-cake, 68. 


Salmon. 173, 183, 


184. 


Salt: 




cooking, 33, 84. 


in bread, 42 




in vegetables, 81, 


m preserving butter, 143. 


199. 


in preserving fish 


183. 


solubiUty, 3. 
uses to body. 9. 


Salt-water fish, 173 




Sauces, 89. 




Steak: ' " ■ 


Saut^ing, 88, 219. 




cooking (table), 170. 


Scales, 221. 




food value, 169. 


Scallops: 




Steaming: 


classed, 173. 




fish. 179. 


selection, 178. 




vegetables, 86. 
SteriEzation: 


Seasonings, 187. 


Set also 


Spices and Herbs. 


in cooking fruit, iii. 


Serviette, use of. 194. 


of milk. 135. 


Serving. See Table 


service. 


Stewing: 


Shad, 173. 




meat. 164. 


Shallot. 191. 






Shell-fish, 173- 




Store-room: 


Sho^^cake, 59. 




care, 202, 203. 



store-room (eonHnued): 
emergency shelf, 204. 

food rec^tacles in, 3 
306, 308. 
Strawberries, 106, !08. 
Sweetbreads, 160. 



Table service, 194. 
Tarragon vinegar, 191, 
Tarts, 76, 
Temperature: 

of body, i 



of o 



1.39- 



st^ar thermometer, 70. 
Testb of foods: 

butter, 145. 

control tests, 338. 

olive-oil, 14S. 

prices, 239. 
Thermometers: 

oven, 40, 63. 

sugar, 70. 
Tripe, 160. 
Trout, 173. 
Turkejr: 

cooking (table), 170. 

selection, 161. 

U 



ue, 81, 90. 

in children's diet, 104. 
preparation and cooking, 

83, 84, 85. 
selection, 79, 83. 
tables, 96, 97, 98, 99, 100, 

Vinegar, 149, 191. 

W 

Waffle-irons, 336. 
Waffles, 55. 
Warnings, 328. 
Water: 
in eggs, 133. 

in vegetables, 81, 199. 

necessity for drinking, 7, 
231. 
Water-glass, for preserving 

eggs, 135. 

Wheat: 

cooking (table), 39, 30. 

preparation, 16. 
spring and winter, 32. 
structure o(, 33, 35. 
value as food, 19. 
Whole-wheat flour, 43. 



Veal: 
cookii^ (table), 170. 
cuts, (fiaeram of, 157 
selection, 155. 



THE END 



I 



^T:s. 




