










IPE 




Edith G. Harris on 



HbU (College of Agriculture 
At OfocneU MniuccaitH 

^library 



Cornell University Library 
TX 715.H257 



Low cost recipes, 




3 1924 003 573 932 




Cornell University 
Library 



The original of tliis book is in 
tine Cornell University Library. 

There are no known copyright restrictions in 
the United States on the use of the text. 



http://www.archive.org/details/cu31924003573932 



LOW COST 
RECIPES 



Compiled bjr 
EDITH GWENDOLYN HARBISON 

Formerly Associate Editor of " The 
Table Talk Magazine" 




PHILADELPHIA 

GEORGE W. JACOBS & COMPANY 

PUBLISHERS 



Copyright, 1914, by 

George W. Jacobs & Company 

Published June, 1^14 

Reprinted, Ipi8 



AN rights reserved 
Printed in U. S. A. 



CONTENTS 

Soups 5 

Fish ^^ 

Meats ^8 

Vegetables 7° 

Salads I02 

Cheese Dishes io8 

Breads, Biscuits, Waffles, Griddle Cakes, 

Etc. _ "4 

Rice, Hominy, Cereals, Etc 13° 

Eggs *42 

Desserts *47 

Cakes *98 

Index 204 



6 LOW COST RECIPES 

with the general flavor, such as carrots, celery, a 
little parsnip or turnip ; such green vegetables as 
peas or string beans are always in order. Let 
all simmer for another hour, then strain through 
a wet piece of cheese-cloth and set away over 
night ; in the morning the fat is taken off care- 
fully and the stock is quite ready for use. 

Beef Soup Stock 
Wipe 2 pounds of shin of beef with a damp 
cloth. Cut the meat quite fine. Put bones, 
marrow and meat in a ketde, add 2 quarts of 
cold water and let soak for one hour. Cover, 
place over a slow fire and when it reaches the 
simmering point keep at the same temperature 
for four hours. Add 6 cloves, 6 peppercorns, a 
small blade of mace, a bunch of sweet herbs, i 
small onion, ^ of a cupful each of chopped 
carrot and turnip, a sprig of parsley and i tea- 
spoonfuls of salt. Simmer one hour longer, 
strain and set away. Next day remove fat from 
the top and it is ready for use. 

Forcemeat Balls for Soup 
Season i cupful of any finely chopped cooked 
meat with salt, pepper, i teaspoonful of lemon 
juice, I tablespoonful of chopped parsley and 2 
or 3 drops of onion juice. Moisten the meat 
with the yolk of i &^<g, roll in small balls, flour 



SOUPS 7 

and saut6 in thin butter, or poach in salted boil- 
ing water. 

General Rule for Cream Vegetable Soups 
Cook any vegetable such as green peas, 
carrots, turnips, parsnips, string beans, cauli- 
flower, etc., in boiling salted water until tender, 
then rub through a fine sieve. Measure and for 
each cupful of stock take 3 cupfuls of milk. 
Scald, thicken with i tablespoonful of butter and 
I of flour. Add the pulped vegetable, with salt 
and pepper to taste and simmer for ten minutes 
before serving. It is usually best, though not 
^.bsolutely necessary, to rub again through a 
sieve before serving. 

A Satisfying Soup 
Take 5 pounds from the ;neck or a smaller 
piece from the brisket, wash, put in the kettle, 
cover with 5 quarts of cold water and heat slowly. 
Skim twice, add Yz cupful of washed barley then 
cover and simmer gently. In two hours add 
I cupful of chopped onion, i cupful of chopped 
carrot and (when in season) i cupful of chopped 
celery with salt and pepper to taste, then simmer 
for three hours longer. An hour before dinner 
drop in the necessary amount of peeled potatoes 
and take out the meat. Place the latter on a 
pan and put in a hot oven to crisp and brown. 



8 LOW COST RECIPES 

Skim out the potatoes when done and brown 
them in a pan, using some of the fat skimmed 
from the soup. 

Luncheon Soup 
Grate about 2 tablespoonfuls of cheese, for the 
strength and flavor of the cheese must be taken * 
into consideration. Place over the fire in a small? 
agate pan to melt, adding a little milk to keep 
it from burning. Place i quart .of milk in a 
double boiler, add a little vermicelli and let- it 
boil till the vermicelli softens ; the vermicelli is 
used in preference to macaroni because it softens 
more easily, but left over macaroni and cheese 
can be used in making this soup, adding a little 
more cheese. if necessary. The soup is more 
delicate if the macaroni has been made with- 
out tomato sauce, but even with the tomato 
a delicious soup is possible. Stir the grated 
cheese into the milk and vermicelli, then add 
carefully 2 well-beaten eggs, stirring them in 
slowly, so that the soup will not curdle. Stir till 
the eggs are cooked and the soup thickens 
slightly, then serve at once with saltines. A 
little paprika or cayenne can be used by way of 
seasoning, but most cheese requires no salt. 

Split or Dried Pea Soup 
Pick over and thoroughly wash i pint of dried 
yellow or green peas. Cover with cold water 



SOUPS 9 

and soak over night. Drain, rinse and drain 
again. Add 2 quarts of cold water, put on the 
back of the fire, heat slowly and boil gently until 
they break and are mushy. This will take at 
least three hours, probably longer. When they 
begin to break cook together in a frying-pan 
I large onion chopped fine, ^ cupful of chopped 
carrot, 2 tablespoonfuls of chopped turnip, 2 stalks 
of cut celery and 2 tablespoonfuls of dripping. 
Cook slowly and when light brown add 2 table- 
spoonfuls of flour and stir until it is absorbed. 
Add this gradually to the soup, stirring until it 
thickens, season to taste with salt and pepper 
and simmer for another hour. Rub through a 
sieve and return to the fire. If too thick add 
boiling water until of the right consistency. Boil 
up once and it is ready. To this there may be 
added some strained canned tomatoes ; or at 
another time a ham bone or any cooked meat 
bone that may be in the pantry. Lentil and 
black bean soup may be made in the same way. 

Chicken and Corn Soup 
Take 2 quarts of the liquor in which a chicken 
has been boiled, add i pint of corn scraped from 
the cob, chopped, i tablespoonful of finely 
chopped onion and i scant teaspoonful of salt 
and simmer, closely covered, for an hour. Rub 
through a fine sieve and return to the fire. In a 



lo LOW COST RECIPES 

small saucepan melt i tablespoonful of butter, 
add 2 tablespoonfuls of flour and when mixed, 
I cupful of rich milk or cream. Add gradually 
a portion of the soup and when smooth turn into 
the larger kettle. Season to taste, sprinkle in 
I tablespoonful of very finely chopped parsley 
and serve. 

Sago and Chicken Soup 
From the carcass of a chicken a thin stock is 
made; flavor with a slice or two of onion and 
the green ends of a bunch of celery, finish by 
cooking in it i heaping teaspoonful of sago to 
each quart until the sago is perfectly transparent. 

Oyster Soup 
Oyster soup for six will need 30 oysters. Drain 
them, rinse, and drain again. Scald the liquor, 
boil and skim for five minutes, then measure. 
Take twice the quantity of milk, heat in the 
double boiler; for each ^ pint blend i level 
tablespoonful of flour with enough water to 
make a paste, turn into the milk and stir until 
thickened. Season highly with salt and pepper ; 
have the oyster liquor heating separately. Drop 
the oysters into the thickened milk and when 
they begin to ruffle add the hot liquor. Taste 
to see that the soup is well seasoned and take at 
once from the fire, serving with small crackers. 



SOUPS II 

Potato Soup 
Boil 4 good sized potatoes in salted water until 
tender but unbroken. In the meantime scald 
together i quart of milk, 2 slices of onion, 6 pep- 
percorns and either a stalk of celery or a sprig 
of parsley. Cook for ten minutes, draw back and 
drop in i scant tablespoonful of butter rubbed to 
a paste with i large tablespoonful of flour. Stir 
gently until this is dissolved and the liquid thick- 
ened. Press the potatoes through a ricer di- 
rectly into the milk, add salt to taste, stir and 
cook for ten minutes. Rub through a sieve. 
If too thick thin with a little hot milk. Reheat 
and it is ready to serve. 

Potato Chowder 
For lunch a potato chowder makes a hearty 
dish. Pare and cut into dice 6 large potatoes ; 
chop fine i c«iion ; put J^ of a pound of fat ham 
or salt pork through the food chopper. Cook 
the meat and onion slowly together in a sauce- 
pan until the latter begins to color. Add the 
potatoes, j^ teaspoonful of salt and ^ of a tea- 
spoonful of white pepper and mix, then add i pint 
of boiling water and simmer gently until the po- 
tatoes are almost done. In the meantime make 
a sauce with i tablespoonful of butter, i heaping 
tablespoonful of flour and i pint of milk. Pour 
this into the first saucepan, add more salt and 



12 LOW COST RECIPES 

pepper if necessary and simmer for five minutes 
longer. A moment before taking from the fire 
stir in i heaping tablespoonful of finely chopped 
parsley. 

Fish Chowder 
Remove the bones and skin from 3 pounds of 
firm fleshed white fish and cut in three-inch 
pieces. Pare and dice sufficient raw potatoes to 
measure i pint. In a saucepan put ^ pound of 
finely diced fat salt pork and 2 chopped onions 
and fry slowly until the pork is well tried out and 
the onions begin to color. Add the potatoes, 
fish and i pint of boiling water and simmer for 
twenty minutes. Scald i Yz pints of milk ; thicken 
it with I tablespoonful each of butter and flour 
rubbed together to a paste. When smooth add 
this to the fish ; season well and simmer for five 
minutes longer. Add i cupful of broken soda 
crackers and send at once to the table. 

Corn Chowder 
Dice or chop fine 5^ of a pound of fat pork, 
put in a kettle and when well tried out add 
2 white onions sliced thin. Cook slowly until 
they begin to brown, then add i pint of diced 
raw potatoes, i pint of corn scraped from the 
ear and sufficient boiling water to cover. When 
the potatoes are tender stir in 2 tablespoonfuis of 



SOUPS 13 

flour rabbed to a paste with i tablespoonful of 
butter ; salt and pepper to taste and i quart of 
hot milk. Simmer for five minutes longer, add 
I cupful of hard crackers broken into bits and 
serve. 

Corn and Tomato Chowder 
Open I can of corn and turn into a saucepan ; 
add I pint of water, salt and pepper to taste, and 
simmer for half an hour. Slice sufficient raw 
potatoes to measure i pint ; scald with boiling 
water and drain. Put J^ of a pound of fat salt 
pork through the chopper ; place into a frying- 
pan with 2 tablespoonfuls of finely chopped onion 
until the fat is tried out and slightly colored. 
Strain into a kettle ; add the corn and drained 
potatoes and simmer gently for ten minutes. 
Add I can of tomatoes and more seasoning, and 
continue the cooking until the potatoes are done. 
In the meantime have ready i pint of milk, 
thickened with 2 tablespoonfuls of flour. Take 
from the fire ; add about i cupful of the chowder, 
then turn all into the kettle and serve at once, 
passing crisped crackers with it. 

Pomeranian Soup 
Soak 3 cupfuls of red kidney beans over night 
in cold water; drain, cover with fresh boiling 
water and simmer until very soft. Drain, rub 



14 LOW COST RECIPES 

one-half of them through a fine sieve, adding to 
them gradually equal quantities of stock and the 
water in which they were boiled until reduced to 
a thin broth. Add to this i bunch of sweet herbs, 
salt and pepper, simmer for half an hour, re- 
move the herbs and add the reserved whole 
beans. Simmer for fifteen minutes longer and 
serve with long croutons of fried bread. 

Baked Bean Soup 
Fry slowly together i small chopped onion, i 
stalk of celery cut fine and i heaping spoonful 
of chopped carrot in a little dripping. Add J^ 
inch bit of bay leaf, a sprig of parsley, ^ cupful 
of tomato catsup, i pint of Boston baked beans, 
salt and pepper to taste and 3 pints of cold water. 
Simmer until the beans are mushy, then press 
through a sieve. Reheat, add seasoning if 
needed aiid thicken with a little flour blended 
smoothly with cold water. Boil up once. To 
serve with this soup cut stale bread in small dice 
and either fry it pale brown in a litde dripping 
or spread on a pan and toast in the oven. 

Onion Soup 

This is both nourishing and soothing. Slice 

6 large white onions, put in a frying-pan with 

2 tablespoonfuls of butter and stir often until 

slightly colored. Add yi cupful of flour and stir 



SOUPS 15 

until moderately browned. Add 3 potatoes 
freshly boiled and riced, then, gradually, 3 pints 
of hot milk. Season well with salt, white pepper 
and }4 teaspoonful of sugar and simmer for ten 
minutes. Serve with fried bread croutons. 

Brown Onion Soup 
Peel and thinly slice 4 large onions. In a 
large kettle melt 2 tablespoonfuls of butter, add 
the onions, cover, draw back and simmer slowly 
for twenty minutes, then draw forward and cook 
until pale brown. Sprinkle in 3 large table- 
spoonfuls of flour. Stir until absorbed and a 
nice brown color. Slowly add 3 pints of hot 
milk (or milk and water), stirring until thick 
and smooth. Add salt and pepper to taste, 
cover and simmer gendy for fifteen minutes 
longer. This soup is not strained. 

Onion and Cucumber Soup 
Cut and chop fine 2 large white onions and 3 
cucumbers. Fry them for five minutes without 
browning in i tablespoonful of butter; add i 
pint of boiling water and simmer for forty-five 
minutes. Press through a sieve, getting as 
much pulp as possible. In another saucepan 
mix together i tablespoonful of butter and i 
tablespoonful of flour, add gradually i pint of 
hot milk and stir until smoothly thickened. 



i6 LOW COST RECIPES 

Gradually mix this with the cucumber pur6e, 
season highly with salt and pepper and simmer 
for five minutes. Serve with croutons. 

Pur6e of Turnips 
Pare and thinly slice a number of white turnips 
and boil until tender in salted water. Drain and 
rub - through a sieve. In a saucepan melt i 
tablespoonful of butter, add i teaspoonful of salt, 
j4. oi a. teaspoonful of white pepper and 2 table- 
spoonfuls of flour. When blended add gradually 
I cupful of good white stock and 2 cupfuls of 
milk, stirring unti| creamy and smooth. Add a 
littr^^di this to the pulped turnips, of which there 
should be i good cupful ; add to the contents of 
the saucepan, simmer for three minutes, adding 
more seasoning if necessary, and serve with 
croutons. If no- stock is on hand all milk may 
be used. * 

Tomato Bisque 
Cook together X tablespoonful of butter apd 
I scant tablespoonful of floiaf. Stir in slowly 
1% cupfuls of hot milk ; when smooth and thick, 
season well' with salt and pepper. When ready 
to take from the fire add ^ of a cupful of hot 
strained tomato, to which a tiny jpinch of baking 
soda has been added. Do not heat again, or it 
will curdle. 



SOUPS 17 

Cream of Tomato Soup 

Cook together }4 ol a. can of tomatoes, i 
dove, I slice of onion, ^ of a teaspoonful of salt, 
}i teaspoonful of peppercorns and i sprig "of 
parsley for twenty minutes, then rub through a 
sieve and return to the fire. Taste to see that it 
is highly seasoned. Make i pint of white sauce 
and season with salt and pepper. Take both 
saucepans from the fire, add to the tomatoes i 
salt-spoonful of baking-soda and stir until it 
effervesces. After two minutes add the tomato 
to the sauce and serve immediately. 

A great variety of cream vegetable soups may 
be made by following the above rules afld sub- 
stituting some other vegetable which has been 
cooked tender and reduced to a thin pulp. 
Celery, salsify, carrots, parsnips, potatoes, 
canned peas, etc., all make most satisfactory 
cream soups. 

Cream of Celery Soup 

Wash and chop fine 3 heads of celery ; turn 
into a stew kettle, cover well with^cold water 
and simmer for one hour. Then pulp through a 
sieve, return to kettle, add i quart of scalded 
milk, simmer thirty minutes, season with salt, 
pepper and nutmeg and butter, and serve with 
croutons. 



i8 LOW COST RECIPES 

Cream of Cucumber Soup 
Grate some ripe cucumbers, make a thin sauce 
with 2 tablespoonfuls of butter, 3 tablespoonfuls 
of flour, I scant teaspoonful of salt, >^ of a tea- 
spoonful of white pepper and i quart of milk. 
Press and discard the juice from the cucumber 
pulp ; put I pint in a saucepan with i table- 
spoonful of butter, cover and simmer for fifteen 
minutes. Turn this into the white sauce, stir 
and simmer for ten minutes then press through 
a sieve. Add seasoning if needed, reheat and 
serve with fried croutons. 

Cream of Spinach Soup 
Pick over and wash very thoroughly 2 quarts 
of spinach ; change the water four or five times to 
make sure that all sand is removed. Have 
ready a large kettle partly filled with boiling 
salted water ; boil for fifteen minutes, drain and 
drop into cold water (this heightens the color) ; 
drain again, pressing as dry as possible ; then 
chop and pound to a pulp. Have ready i quart 
of thin white sauce made with 2 scant table- 
spoonfuls of butter, 3 tablespoonfuls of flour and 
I quart of milk. Add a little of this, a spoonful 
at a time, to the pulp, stirring and rubbing that it 
may be smoothly blended. Put on the fire and 
stir almost constantly until the soup reaches the 
boiling point ; add salt and pepper to taste, and 



SOUPS 19 

strain. Return to the fire until scalding hot, theiji 
serve with tiny croutons or add ^ cupful of 
whipped creana. 

Cream of Peanut Soup 
This soup affords a delicious change from the 
ordinary and is sure to be appreciated by those 
who do not dislike peanuts. To make it one can 
buy the peanut butter prepared or purchase the 
peanuts and pass them twice through the chop- 
ping machine. In this way one is quite sure of 
obtaining the fresh butter, and without fresh pea- 
nut butter the soup cannot be made with any de- 
gree of success. Add J-^ pint of peanut butter to 
I quart of boiling milk, season with i bay leaf, a 
little salt, celery salt or extract, and i tablespoon- 
ful of grated onion. Cook for six minutes in a 
double boiler, and then thicken with i table- 
spoonful of flour, or corn-starch, moistened J in' a 
little cold milk. Cook till smooth, strain 
through a very fine sieve, and serve at once with 
croutons made of Graham or entire wheat ;bread. 
This recipe can be used for chestnuts, first boil- 
ing and chopping or mashing the nuts, and for 
any other kind of nuts, or for a combination of 
two or more kinds used together. 

Virginia Peanut Soup 
Roast and shell sufficient peanuts to measure 3 
pints. Pound them to a paste, adding salt to 



20 LOW COST RECIPES 

taste. Put this paste in a saucepan and add, 
very gradually, 2 quarts of boiling water. Season 
with black and red pepper and simmer until it 
thickens. Just before serving add i quart of 
oysters and i salt-spoonful of celery seed and cook 
until the oysters ruffle. 

German Prune Soup 
Wash and soak i pound of prunes in 3 pints of 
cold water. Next day place at the side of the 
fire, heat very slowly and when steaming add i 
lemon washed and cut without paring in the 
thinnest of slices and i inch of stick cinnamon, 
and cook below the simmering point until the 
prunes are very tender but unbroken. If needed, 
add a little water, as there should be fully 3 pints 
when done. Add 3 tablespoonfuls of sago, a 
pinch of salt and sufficient sugar to sweeten to 
taste, and cook half an hour longer, or until the 
sago is transparent. Remove the cinnamon, add 
% oi a. cupful of claret and bring almost to the 
boiling point, then serve at once. 

Cold Fruit Soups 
Cold fruit soups may be made from all kinds of 
summer fruits by stewing the fruit until tender, 
pressing through a sieve, adding an equal 
quantity of water and enough sugar to have 
slightly acid. Returning to the fire add a slight 



SOUPS 21 

thickening of arrowroot — i teaspoonful to the 
pint — cook until clear, set away and serve very 
cold. 

Cranberry Soup 
One pint of cranberries, i quart of water, i 
level tablespoonful of corn-starch, sugar to taste. 
Pick over and wash the berries, put them in a 
saucepan with the water and simmer until soft and 
broken, then rub through a fine sieve. Return to 
the fire, add sufficient sugar to sweeten and the 
corn-starch dissolved in a little cold water. Boil 
gently for five minutes, then set aside and serve 
very cold. Pass with it little squares of toasted 
bread. 



FISH 



Baked Fish 
Have the fish opened and drawn through the 
gills. Make a stuffing with i cupful of bread 
crumbs, i tablespoonful of melted butter, ^ tea- 
spoonful of salt, a dash of pepper and i table- 
spoonful of chopped pickle. Fill the fish. Cut 
gashes two inches apart on the sides, lay in each 
a strip of fat salt pork. Dust over all salt and 
pepper. Lay in a pan on some slices of salt 
pork. Place in a quick oven and baste once or 
twice with butter and water. When the flesh 
begins to separate from the bones it is done — 
about an hour will be necessary for a five pound 
fish. Dish, garnishing with parsley and lemon. 

Boiled Fish 
Wash well in cold water ; wipe and rub with 
salt. Wrap in a cloth, drop in a long kettle 
partly filled with boiling water. Add i bay leaf, 
I slice of onion, i teaspoonful of salt and 2 table- 
spoonfuls of vinegar. Cover and simmer gently, 
allowing about ten minutes for each pound 



FISH 23 

When the bones begin to draw away from the 
flesh lift out carefully and drain. Open the cloth 
and turn out carefully on a hot platter. Garnish 
with greens or sliced lemon. 

Fried Fish 
For small fish or fish steaks wash and wipe 
thoroughly. Dip each piece into slightly beaten 
raw egg then roll in corn-meal or fine stale bread 
crumbs (the latter are best). Have ready a deep 
kettle pardy filled with smoking hot fat. Im- 
merse two or three pieces at a time ; it will take 
them four or five minutes to cook. When golden 
brown lift out and drain on unglazed paper be- 
fore serving. Be sure the fat is smoking hot be- 
fore putting in each lot of fish. 

Steamed Fish 
Wash and wipe a thick piece of fish-r-if cod, 
several pounds from the middle or tail end. 
Any firm-fleshed, thick variety can be used. 
Drain, sprinkle with salt, lay on a pan or any 
suitable flat dish and place in the steamer. 
From five to ten minutes cooking per pound will 
be needed according to the thickness of the fish. 
When done transfer carefully to a platter. 
Garnish with lemon quarters' or slices and serve 
with a butter, egg, parsley or other sauce accord- 
ing to the variety of fish cooked. 



24 LOW COST RECIPES 

Fish Casserole 
Remove the skin and bones from ^ pound of 
cooked fish and break the fish into small pieces. 
Rub % pound of mashed potatoes through a 
sieve, mix it with the fish, add pepper and salt to 
taste. Melt i tablespoonful of butter in sauce- 
pan, add to it the fish mixture, mix well, and stir 
in I well-beaten egg, i tablespoonful of milk and 
I teaspoonful of chopped parsley, pour the mix- 
ture into a buttered casserole dish, cover with 
crumbs. Bake in a moderate oven for thirty 
minutes, turn out, garnish with parsley and 
lemon and serve. 

Creamed Fish in Pepper Shells 
Any cooked fish may be used as the founda- 
tion. The peppers give their pleasant seasoning 
to the filling as well as make a very dainty case. 
Cut the peppers lengthwise and remove the 
seeds. Boil the shells a little before fiUing with 
the creamed fish. In making the creamed fish 
remember that if you stir the cream sauce over 
the yolk of an ^^'g it will add richness and flavor 
to the dish. 

Fried Smelts, Lemon Sauce 
Two moderate sized smelts for each person. 
Wash, clean and dry the fish. Dip each one 
into a little flour, to which has been added sea- 
soning of salt and pepper. Brush over with 



FISH 25 

beaten egg, then roll in fine white bread crumbs. 
Fry for about five minutes in plenty of smoking 
hot fat. Drain and serve very hot with lemon 
sauce. Heat 3 heaping tablespoonfuls of butter 
and beat it to a cream. Whip into it the strained 
juice of 2 small lemons and a generous table- 
spoonful of finely chopped parsley. It should be 
a light green cream when done. Fill with this 
mixture the halves of lemons from which all the 
pulp and inner skin have been scraped, and 
garnish the dish of smelts with them, serving one 
of the " cups " with each portion of fish. 

Salmon Loaf 
Salmon loaf, when made with care, is really a 
high class dish and does not deserve the sneers 
sometimes accorded it. For this open i pound 
can and empty out the fish, freeing it from skin 
and bones, and separating in fine flakes with a 
silver fork. Mix with 2 well-beaten eggs, i cup- 
ful of fine stale bread crumbs, salt and white 
pepper to season, i tablespoonful of lemon juice, 
I tablespoonful of melted butter, and i table- 
spoonful of finely chopped parsley. Pack into a 
well buttered mold and steam from one hour to 
one hour and a half, according to thickness. 

Boiled Salt Cod 
Select a piece from the middle of the fish 
weighing a pound or two. Wash, cover with 



26 LOW COST RECIPES 

cold water and soak over night. Put in a kettle 
of warm water and heat slowly ; when barely 
simmering 'keep at that point for fifteen minutes, 
being careful that it does not really boil. Drain 
and serve with a drawn butter, lemon or tomato 
sauce. 

Codfish Cakes 
Delightful fish cakes are made by soaking and 
shredding the fish. Cover it with cold water, 
heat to the scalding point and drain. Repeat 
three times. Measure and mix with double its 
bulk of hot mashed potato ; for each pint add i 
large tablespoonful of butter, i well-beaten egg 
and plenty of salt and pepper. Mold in small 
flat cakes and saute in a little hot fat ; or form in 
small balls, dip each in beaten egg, roll in fine 
bread crumbs and fry golden brown in smoking 
hot deep fat. 

Codfish a la Creole 
As a sauce for codfish k la Creole, stew to- 
gether for half an hour i can of tomatoes, i pint 
of boiling water, i teaspoonful of salt, i sliced 
onion, and i green pepper seeded and cut fine. 
Rub through a sieve. Have a tail piece of cod 
weighing 4 or 5 pounds and, if possible, have it 
skinned. Lay on a fiat pan, pour over it J^ of 
the sauce and place in a moderate oven. Keep 
the rest of the sauce hot and baste from time to 



FISH 27 

time with a few spoonfuls of it. When the fish 
begins to separate from the bones it is done. 
Serve with what remains of the sauce. Such fish 
as is left is flaked, reheated and served next day 
on toast 



MEATS 

Brown Beef Stew 

Take 2 pounds of any cheap cut of beef con- 
taining a moderate amount of fat and little or no 
bone. Wipe the meat and cut it into strips one 
by three inches. Should there be bone, trim it, 
cover with cold water and simmer for several 
hours to yield a weak stock. Try out the 
trimmed fat (or a little suet) and when very hot 
lay in it the pieces of meat, turning them until 
quickly browned. Transfer as fast as colored to 
a stew-pan. When all are done dredge in suf3&- 
cient flour to absorb the fat and stir until dark 
brown. Gradually add i>^ pints of water (or 
stock from the bone) making a thin gravy. 
Strain this over the meat, add i finely cut onion, 
a bunch of herbs or any desired seasoning, cover 
and simmer very gently for three hours. The 
character of this dish may be changed by the 
substitution of strained tomatoes for water and a 
variety of seasonings. Potatoes cut in quarters 
may also be added an hour before serving or 
macaroni previously cooked. 

Dumplings for Stew. — Mix together i pint of 



MEATS 29 

flour, y^ teaspoonful of salt and i teaspoonful of 
baking-powder. Add enough sweet milk to 
make a dough, turn on a board, roll out and cut 
in small circles or squares. Drop into the stew, 
cover and keep at a slow steady boil, without 
uncovering for twenty minutes. 

Pot Roast 
Take a meaty piece of beef — cross rib or 
shoulder — weighing 3 pounds or more. Melt a 
little fat in a pan and in this quickly brown all 
sides of the meat. Transfer to a kettle, rinsing 
into it the brown from the frying-pan with a lit- 
tle hot water. Add i pint of boiling water, i 
small onion stuck with 2 cloves, a bit of bay leaf 
and I scant teaspoonful of salt. Cover and sim- 
mer very slowly, allowing thirty minutes for each 
pound. Add enough browned flour to slightly 
thicken the gravy and strain it into a bowl. 

Braised Beef 
Take a piece weighing about 5 pounds from 
any lean cut, such as cross rib, lower part of 
round, neck, etc. Bone it if possible. Heat a 
dry frying-pan very hot, lay in it the meat and 
quickly sear on each side, giving it a nice color. 
Place in the braising kettle. Add i^ pints of 
good brown stock, an onion stuck with 3 cloves 
and a high seasoning of salt and pepper. Cover 



30 LOW COST RECIPES 

closely, place in a moderate oven and allow forty 
minutes for each pound. If kept closely covered 
until entirely cold it makes a good relish when 
sliced and served with horseradish for lunch or 
supper. 

Vienna Steaks 
Take J^ pound each of raw lean beef and veal ; 
trim off all fat and gristle and chop very fine. 
Add }4 oi a. teaspoonful of salt, ^ of a teaspoon- 
ful of paprika, % ol a. teaspoonful of mixed 
sweet herbs, i teaspoonful of chopped parsley 
and I teaspoonful of chopped onion. Stir in i 
well-beaten eg§ and set aside until the next day. 
Form into steaks and saute quickly in butter. 
Serve on a hot platter with mashed potatoes in 
the center and brown gravy in a sauceboat. 

Spanish Steak 
A delicious dish can be made of a flank or 
rump steak. Cut off all the fat and fry it brown 
in plenty of butter, lift out and put in a baking 
pan. Sprinkle with salt and pepper and fry in 
sliced onion, brown in the butter remaining in the 
frying-pan. Spread onions over the steak and 
cover it with i can of tomatoes, juice and all. 
Cover and bake an hour in a slow oven, basting 
frequently. Make gravy of drippings remaining 
in the pan and serve piping hot. 



MEATS 31 

Spanish Stew 
This stew will need 2 pounds of the end ribs of 
beef or a piece from the brisket or navel, cutting 
it in a half dozen strips. Put in a kettie with 2 
quarts of warm water, heat rapidly, then simmer 
for two hours. Add i can of tomatoes, 3 large 
onions cut fine, 6 cloves, Y^ teaspoonful of celery 
seed, j4 oia bay leaf, ^ of the yellow rind of an 
orange, i or 2 red peppers (seeded) and salt to 
taste. Simmer for another hour, then take out 
the meat and keep hot. Strain the gravy 
through a coarse sieve into a clean pan, thicken 
with flour mixed to a paste with cold water and 
boil up once before pouring over the meat. 

Beef, Savory Sauce 
Cut cold boiled or braised beef in thin neat 
slices. Heat together i tablespoonful of butter, 
2 tablespoonfuls of tomato catsup and i cupful 
of slightly thickened gravy, stock or soup, using 
any kind which goes well in flavor with the meat. 
When smoking hot add seasoning if needed, then 
lay in the slices until heated through. Serve at 
once with rolls or buttered bread. 

Scotch Rolled Beef 
Select a large flank steak weighing as near 3 
pounds as possible. Trim off the thin end and 
lightly score the meat on both sides. Mix to- 



32 LOW COST RECIPES 

gether J^ teaspoonful of pepper, i scant table- 
spoonful of salt, % oi a teaspoonful of ground 
cloves, I tablespoonful of sugar, i teaspoonful of 
summer savory and 3 tablespoonfuls of vinegar. 
Rub this well into the meat, roll it up and tie 
with wide tapes. Stand in a cool place over 
night. Next day lay the roll in a stew-pan, ppur 
over sufficient boiling water to partly cover, and 
simmer slowly for three hours. In another sauce- 
pan brown i heaping tablespoonful of dripping, 
add 2 tablespoonfuls of flour and brown again. 
Stir this into the water in which the meat is cook- 
ing, and when thickened and smooth, season to 
taste. Simmer for another hour, and serve hot or 
cold. 

Beef Loaf 

Put 2 pounds of lean beef through a chopper, 
add 2 tablespoonfuls of finely chopped parsley, 
% oia. cupful of fine stale bread crumbs, i }i tea- 
spoonfuls of salt, J^ of a teaspoonful of pepper, 2 
teaspoonfuls of lemon juice or vinegar, i tea- 
spoonful of onion juice, 2 tablespoonfuls of 
melted butter and i well-beaten egg. Work 
thoroughly together, mold into a loaf and lay on 
a greased pan. Bake in a hot oven for one hour, 
basting a number of times with butter and water ; 
or the top of the loaf may be covered with thin 
slices of fat salt pork. 



MEATS 33 

Beef au Gratin 
Cut into very thin slices sufficient cold cooked 
beef to serve six persons. Peel 2 large Spanish 
onions and cut in the thinnest of slices. In a 
heavy granite pan melt 2 tablespoonfuls of butter. 
Add the onions and cook over a slow fire, shak- 
ing gently from time to time, until they are 
golden brown. Sprinkle into the butter 2 tea- 
spoonfuls of , fiour and cook until lightly colored, 
add gradually i pint of clear beef stock, stirring 
at first very briskly, that the flour may not lump. 
Add I tablespoonful of tomato catsup and let all 
come to a gentle simmer. Have ready a deep 
baking dish which can be sent to the table. In 
it place alternate layers of the onions, sauce and 
beef. Cover with % cupful of fine stale bread 
crumbs mixed with i tablespoonful of melted 
butter and brown in a quick oven. Serve at 
once. 

Beef Goulasch 
Cut 2 pounds of lean beef from the cross rib, 
round or other inferor part into finger lengths ; 
chop fine i large onion and brown it in i table- 
spoonful of hot melted dripping ; add i heaping 
tablespoonful of flour and stir often until well 
browned. To this add i scant teaspoonful of 
salt, the same quantity of paprika and i pint 
of hot water or stock, stirring until smoothly 



34 LOW COST RECIPES 

thickened. Drop in the meat, cover and simmer 
for two hours or until the meat is very tender. 
Paprika is of a much brighter color than cayenne, 
no hotter than white pepper but has a more de- 
cided flavor. 

Beef Patties 

Cut fine sufficient of the best part of cold roast 
beef to make i pint and heat in i scant cupful of 
the gravy seasoned with mushroom catsup or 
Worcestershire. In another saucepan put i tea- 
spoonful of grated onion and 4 tablespoonfuls 
of tarragon vinegar and boil until reduced to 
I tablespoonful. To this add i tablespoonful of 
butter, a dash of salt and pepper and the yolks 
of 2 eggs and stir over hot water until smooth 
and very thick. Fill heated pattie cases (or paper 
ones) with the hot meat, cover with i teaspoon- 
ful of the sauce and send at once to the table. 



Beef and Corn Pudding 

Open I can of corn, turn out and let drain as 
dry as possible (the liquid may be used in soup). 
From I pound of lean beef trim off fat and gristle 
and put through the food chopper. In a sauce- 
pan brown i tablespoonful of butter, with i tea- 
spoonful of chopped onion, add i tablespoonful 
of flour and brown again. Stir in gradually 



MEATS 35 

I cupful of strong beef stock and when smooth 
season with }4 oi a. teaspoonful of salt and a dash 
of paprika. Put the meat and corn in alternate 
layers in a baking dish, pour over them the 
sauce, seasoning each layer. Sprinkle over the 
top }4 inch layer of Gruyere cheese, cover and 
place in a moderate oven. Uncover in half an 
hour and bake for twenty minutes longer. 

Beef Gumbo 
Cut fine i large onion. Trim the fat from 
1^ pounds of lean beef and put the meat through 
the chopper, then run through the tender part of 
the fat. Put the latter in a kettle and place over 
a slow fire until well tried out ; skim out the 
scraps and drop in the onion. Cook slowly un- 
til beginning to color, then add i raw potato 
pared and cut in thin slices, i pint of fresh toma- 
toes measured after skinning and cutting fine, 
I pint of tender okra cut in thin slices, and the 
meat. Cover and cook slowly for ten minutes, 
stirring occasionally, then add i pint of water, 
I teaspoonful of salt and % oi a. teaspoonful of 
pepper or % oi a. green pepper chopped, and 
draw aside where it will cook slowly for one 
hour. Toast a number of slices of stale bread, 
lay them in the bottom of a vegetable dish and 
pour the gumbo over them. Serve plain boiled 
rice which has been cooked separately. 



36 LOW COST RECIPES 

Toad-in-the-Hole 
Toad-in-the-hole is a curious name for a dish 
not unlike an English meat pudding. Lean beef 
is used, and it should be gently simmered in a 
little stock or water until tender, then cut into 
inch squares, well seasoned and placed in a bak- 
ing dish. Over this is poured a thick batter 
made with i cupful of flour, i beaten egg, ^ cup- 
ful of milk, I tablespoonful of melted butter, }4 
teaspoonful of salt and i teaspoonful of baking- 
powder. It will bake in a moderate oven in 
from forty-five minutes to one hour, according 
to the depth in the dish. With it serve the 
thickened and seasoned gravy. 

Corned Beef 
Corned beef is a homely dish but delightful 
when properly cooked. As the salt used in cur- 
ing has hardened the fibre as well as robbed the 
meat of some of its digestibility, slow cooking is 
indicated. Should the meat seem unusually 
salty, it might be well to soak it over night or 
for a few hours. Cover with cold water, bring 
slowly to the boil, then drain ; cover with fresh 
boiling water and draw the pot back where the 
contents will hardly simmer. Allow fully three- 
quarters of an hour for each pound of meat. For 
those who like the flavor of the meat in the vege- 
tables, it will be best to cook the meat in advance 



MEATS 37 

of the meal hour. From the pot take out a por- 
tion of the liquor. Skim all fat from it, heat 
part in a large saucepan ; to this add the cabbage 
sliced or cut into quarters and boil steadily until 
done — this will take about forty-five minutes. 
Cook the potatoes separately in the remainder 
of the skimmed liquor. In this way the vege- 
tables are rendered more digestible than when 
they are cooked in the greasy pot liquor. 

Delmonico's Corned Beef Hash 
Take equal quantities of chopped corned beef 
and cold baked potatoes ; mix well and season 
highly with salt and pepper. Grease the sides 
and bottom of a spider or thick-bottomed pan, 
put in the hash, put on the side of the fire until 
thoroughly heated. To i quart of the mixture, 
take % oia. cupful of milk, pour it over the hash 
and put in a hot oven for twenty minutes. Turn 
out and serve. 

Braised Beef Heart 
This is an economical dish, but needs slow, 
careful cooking. Wash the heart very thor- 
oughly, cutting down into the arterial openings 
to make sure that no blood clots remain. Trim 
off the tough top, then stuff with a good bread 
stufifing, to which chopped onion and a little 
sausage meat may be added to give flavor. 



38 LOW COST RECIPES 

Fasten at the top with a couple of stitches. In 
a hot frying-pan melt 2 or 3 tablespoonfuls of 
beef dripping, and in this brown the heart, turn- 
ing often, that all sides may be thoroughly and 
evenly colored. Transfer to a saucepan or cas- 
serole, arranging it point downward. Pour 
round it i pint of good soup stock, brown gravy 
or mixed brown and tomato sauce. Cover and 
simmer very gently for three hours adding more 
sauce as needed. Finally uncover and place in 
a hot oven for twenty minutes. Be sure to have 
the platter very hot and to send immediately to 
the table, as this meat is at its best when very 
hot. 

Saut6 of Heart 

Remove the pipes and flaps from a heart, cut 
it in moderately thick slices, and wash them to 
remove the blood. Dip each piece in flour to 
which pepper, paprika and salt have been added. 
Fry the slices in hot dripping, and when they are 
cooked, keep them hot on a dish. Drain off the 
fat from the frying-pan, sprinkle over it i table- 
spoonful of flour, mix it into a smooth paste, 
with 1/2 cupful of water or stock, add 4 table- 
spoonfuls of vinegar from piccalilli, and 3 or 4 
pieces of pickle cut very small. Bring the sauce 
to the boil,, and pour it over the slices of fried 
heart. 



MEATS 39 

Calf's Heart Stuffed 

Wash the heart, stuff with forcemeat. Sew. 
Arrange y^ cupful of onions and carrots in the 
bottom of a casserole, place the heart on this 
layer of vegetables. Sprinkle with salt, pepper 
and paprika, dredge with flour and bake in a hot 
oven for two and a half hours. Baste often with 
hot dripping. Remove from casserole and make 
a brown gravy, using 4 tablespoonfuls of the fat 
from the casserole, adding 3 tablespoonfuls of 
flour and 2 cupfuls of boiling water. Serve the 
gfravy around the heart. 

Braised Veal 

Have the butcher remove the bones from a 
shoulder of veal. Make a stuffing with i quart 
of stale bread, i chopped onion, a high season- 
ing of salt, pepper and thyme and 6 tablespoon- 
fuls of melted beef suet. Stuff and tie the meat 
in shape. In the bottom of the pan put i layer 
each of sliced carrot and onion, add a bit of bay 
leaf, 2 cloves and 6 peppercorns ; on this place 
the meat. Pour round it i pint of stock (made 
from the bones) or water and i cupful of cooked 
tomato. Add salt and pepper. Cover closely. 
Place in a slow oven. Allow three-quarters of 
an hour for each pound (with bones removed). 
Strain the sauce, diluting if necessary. A 



40 LOW COST RECIPES 

knuckle of veal may be cooked in the same way, 
allowing an hour per pound. 

French Fricassee of Veal 
This is made from the breast and the neck cut 
into small pieces and cooked in a casserole with 
some browned butter, salt, pepper, parsley, a 
blade of garlic and a bay leaf. It is served with 
a cream sauce to which have been added the 
yolks of 2 eggs. 

Veal Fricandeau 
A fricandeau — which is a roasting piece cut 
from the thick part of the leg — is not expensive. 
It is laid on a bed of sliced onions and carrots 
and, because it is deficient in fat, should either 
be larded or covered with thin slices of salt pork, 
the fat of which is used for basting. Next day 
thin slices are cut from the best portion for lunch 
and the remainder converted into croquettes. 

Veal Pot Pie 
Cut about 3 pounds of neck, breast or other 
rough part in inch squares. Cover with boiling 
water and simmer until very tender, seasoning 
when two-thirds done. Make a good biscuit 
crust with i pint of flour, 2 tablespoon fuls of 
shortening, >^ teaspoonful of salt, i teaspoonful 
of baking-powder, and enough sweet milk to 



MEATS 41 

make a soft dough. Roll out a half inch thick. 
Thicken the gravy with a little wetted flour and 
boil up for five minutes. Fit the paste over the 
top of the stew, cover the pot tightly and draw 
to where the stew will just simmer for forty-five 
minutes. 

Minced Veal With Poached Eggs 
Chop cold veal very fine. Season well, add to 
each pint i cupful of thick brown sauce and ^ 
of a cupful of cream, heat and simmer until con- 
siderable of the sauce is absorbed. Serve on a 
hot platter surrounded with toast points and 
place a number of neatly trimmed poached eggs 
on top. 

Veal Loaf 
Mince cold veal very fine ; measure and add to 
it one-quarter as much chopped fat ham, i cupful 
of fine stale bread crumbs, 2 well-beaten eggs and 
a high seasoning of salt and pepper. Mold into 
a loaf, lay on a greased fiat pan, brush with 
beaten egg and sprinkle with fine crumbs. Bake 
in a hot oven for half an hour and serve with a 
brown gravy. 

Veal Croquettes 
Scald I cupful of milk and rub together i 
tablespoonful of butter and 2 heaping table- 
spoonfuls of flour until smooth ; add to the 
scalded milk and stir until it thickens. Take 



42 LOW COST RECIPES 

from the fire, add i pint of cooked veal chopped 
fine, 2 tablespoonfuls of chopped parsley, 2 or 3 
drops of onion extract and a coffee spoonful of 
celery extract, i teaspoonful of salt, % oi a. tea- 
spoonful of pepper. Mix well, stand aside until 
cold, then turn into cone-shaped croquettes, roll 
in bread crumbs and fry in smoking hot deep fat. 

Chopped Veal, German Style 
Put through a machine or chop very fine 2 
pounds of lean veal ; for this the shoulder is in- 
expensive and well flavored. Season with i tea- 
spoonful of salt, ^ of a teaspoonful of pepper, ^ 
of a teaspoonful of onion juice and i tablespoon- 
ful of chopped parsley. Form into small chops, 
inserting a piece of bone or stick of macaroni in 
the small end ; dip each chop into slightly beaten 
egg, roll in fine bread crumbs and immerse in 
smoking hot fat for eight to ten minutes accord- 
ing to the thickness of the chop. Serve with 
tomato sauce. 

Scotch Veal Collops 
Take about i^ pounds of veal cutlet, having 
it cut in quite thin slices. Lay one slice at a time 
on a flat board and beat with a wooden mallet 
(or a pin) until almost as thin as paper. Cut 
these into circles about an inch and a half in 
diameter and dust with a mixture of salt, pepper 
and thyme or sweet herbs. Dip into slightly 



MEATS 43 

beaten egg, then in fine sifted dry bread crumbs 
and saute quickly in the fat tried out from slices 
of salt pork — butter may be used if preferred. 
As colored, transfer the collops to a saucepan. 
When all are done add Yz pint of hot veal stock 
and y^ cupful of cream ; cover and simmer gently 
until the meat is tender. Add ^ pint of oysters 
which have been plumped in one tablespoonful 
of butter, cook a moment longer, then take from 
the fire, add the yolks of 2 raw eggs mixed with 
I tablespoonful of cream. Stir, pour into a serv- 
ing dish and sprinkle with finely chopped parsley. 

Brovi^ned Veal Knuckle 
Purchase a meaty veal knuckle. Cover it with 
boiling water, add ^ teaspoonful of salt, a small 
white onion stuck with 2 cloves and 12 pepper- 
corns and simmer slowly until very tender. 
Transfer to a dripping pan, cover the top with 
very thin slices of larding pork and brown in a 
quick oven. This will take nearly an hour. 
Make a gravy with the pot liquor, using browned 
flour to give it color. 

Veal Kidney Stew 
Trim 2 or 3 small veal kidneys and cut fine. 
Put into a saucepan with i heaping tablespoon- 
ful of butter and stand over a hot fire, stirring 
occasionally, until lightly colored. Add i heap- 
ing tablespoonful of flour and slightly brown, 



44 LOW COST RECIPES 

then stir in ^ of a cupful of thick strained tomato, 
I tablespoonful of tomato catsup, lo drops of 
Worcestershire and J4 oi a cupful of beef stock. 
Stir and simmer for five minutes. 

Boiled Mutton 
Have the butcher bone a shoulder of mutton 
or 3 pounds or mpre of the breast. Wipe the 
meat with a damp cloth, roll it tightly and tie 
down with twine or a strip of muslin. Put the 
bones in the pot with }4 teaspoonful of salt and 
sufficient water to cover the meat and heat to the 
boiling point. Weigh the meat. Allow fifteen 
minutes for it to heat through and fifteen minutes 
for each pound. Put the meat in the pot, draw 
over the hottest part of the fire that it may boil 
as quickly as possible ; draw back gradually until 
the water bubbles on but one side of the kettle. 
Keep closely covered. When done take out i 
pint of the liquid, thicken it slightly with flour 
smoothly mixed with a little cold water, season 
to taste and boil five minutes. A tablespoonful 
of fine barley, rice or other cereal, a small onion, 
a carrot or a bit of celery may also be added to 
the water to give flavor. 

Roast Mutton, Breton Style 
The Breton way of serving roast mutton is to 
push a clove of garlic into the knuckle end of 



MEATS 45 

the leg and to serve with it a garnish of red 
beans. The beans are soaked and slowly boiled 
until tender then drained and turned into the 
pan with the meat an hour before the latter is 
done. Or after draining, the beans are lightly 
fried in a little dripping and chopped onion and 
heaped round the meat as it is ready for serving. 

Mutton k la Marquise 

Chop fine cold cooked mutton and mix it with 
an equal quantity of cold boiled rice. Season 
with salt, pepper, a little onion juice, chopped 
parsley and curry powder and moisten with i or 
more beaten eggs according to quantity. Mold 
in balls or croquettes, dip each in beaten egg, 
roll in fine crumbs and fry brown in deep, smok- 
ing hot fat. 

Chinese Mutton 

Dice fine i pint of cold mutton. Add i head 
of lettuce torn in shreds, i can of peas drained, 
I teaspoonful of onion juice, salt and pepper, 
I tablespoonful of butter and i }i cupfuls of broth 
or water. Simmer gently for half an hour, sea- 
soning to taste. Serve with a border of hot 
boiled rice. 

Spiced Mutton 

Mix together }4 teaspoonful each of ground 
cloves and allspice, % oi a. teaspoonful of mace, 
I teaspoonful of black pepper and 2 teaspoonfuls 



46 LOW COST RECIPES 

of salt. Into the under side and cut end of a leg 
of mutton rub half of this mixture and set away ; 
early next morning rub in the remainder. As 
soon as the hot oven has seared the surface of 
the meat pour into the pan y^ pint of boiling 
water, ^ cupful of vinegar and i tablespoonful of 
sugar. Baste the meat with this mixture, adding 
more water to the pan if needed. 

Cold Mutton Timbale 
Take Y^ pound of cooked mutton, 2 table- 
spoonfuls of fresh white crumbs, i raw &%^, and 

1 extra yolk, 2 teaspoonfuls of chopped parsley, 

2 teaspoonfuls of chopped shallot, Yz ounce of 
butter, about ^ gill of strong stock, salt, pepper 
and 3 ounces of boiled macaroni. Thickly butter 
a plain round tin. Cut.the macaroni into 3 rings. 
Press these firmly into the butter on the tin so 
that it is evenly lined with rings of macaroni. 
Mix the minced mutton with the crumbs and 
parsley. Melt the half ounce of butter and fry 
the chopped shallot in it till a pale brown ; then 
strain it out and add it to the meat. Beat up the 
whole &%% and yolk, mix them with the stock 
and strain them into the other ingredients. Mix 
thoroughly. Season carefully and gently pour 
the stiff mixture into the tin, taking care it does 
not disturb the macaroni. Press the mixture 
well down. Cover the tin with greased paper 



MEATS 47 

and steam it gently for an hour. Turn out the 
mold on a hot dish and pour any good sauce 
around it. 

Mutton Turnovers 

Mix together 3 cupfuls of flour, J^, teaspoonful 
of salt and 2 scant teaspoonfuls of baking-powder, 
sift, then rub in 3 tablespoonfuls of butter, work- 
ing thoroughly until the mixture is almost as 
fine as coarse meal. Mix to a soft dough with 
sweet milk, turn on a floured board and knead for 
a moment, then roll out a quarter of an inch thick. 
Cut in four-inch squares or circles. Put through 
the chopper some cold lean mutton. Measure, 
and for each packed cupful add i tablespoonful 
of grated onion, ^ of a teaspoonful of cinnamon 
and a slight seasoning of salt and pepper. 
Moisten slightly with equal parts of good gravy 
and tomato catsup ; 2 tablespoonfuls to the cup- 
ful will probably be sufificient. On each piece 
of paste lay i spoonful of the mixture, double the 
paste, wet the edges slightly with water or white 
of egg, double and pinch them securely together. 
Brush the top of each with a little beaten egg 
yolk, lay well apart on a flat pan and bake in a 
quick oven. This simple recipe may be some- 
what elaborated by substituting puff paste and 
frying in deep fat instead of baking; but the 
recipe as given is more suitable for children. 



48 LOW COST RECIPES 

Shepherd Pie 
Chop some cold cooked mutton quite fine. 
Measure and for each pint add salt and pepper 
to taste, Yi teaspoonful of onion juice, a dash of 
curry powder and yi pint of brown sauce. Mix 
and spread in a greased dish. Cover with a 
thick layer of hot mashed potato, dabbling the 
top with a little beaten egg yolk. Brown in a 
quick oven. 

Braised Breast of Lamb 
With a sharp pointed knife remove the bones. 
Flatten the meat, sprinkle with salt and pepper, 
roll up and tie. In a deep kettle put a scant ^ 
cupful each of chopped onion, carrot and turnip. 
Add I large spoonful of dripping or salt pork fat 
and cook slowly until lightly colored. Lay in 
the meat, pour round it i pint of boiling water, 
cover closely and place in a moderate oven. 
Allow forty-five minutes to the pound ; add more 
water if it evaporates too much. When done 
strain the gravy and serve with the meat. Vary 
this by using stewed and strained tomato instead 
of water. 

Breaded Breast of Lamb 
Place the meat in a kettle with water to cover 
salt, pepper and i slice of onion, cover and sim- 
mer very gently until the bones can be slipped 
out. When this has been done put the meat 



MEATS 49 

under light pressure and set away over night. Cut 
in strips or leave whole. Brush with melted butter, 
sprinkle with fine dry bread crumbs and broil over 
a clear fire ; flour may be used instead of crumbs. 

Shoulder of Lamb, Stuffed 
Have the shoulder boned. Make a stuffing 
with stale bread, salt, pepper, any sweet herbs, a 
little grated onion, a grating of lemon peel and 
melted dripping to moisten. Fill and skewer. 
Pour I cupful of water in the pan, add i table- 
spoonful of tomato catsup. Roast in a moderate 
oven, basting with the pan gravy. 

Crov\^n of Lamb with Peas 
In cooking lamb care must be taken that it is 
made thoroughly done. With the length of the 
ribs on both sides a crown roast may be prepared 
which is very effective in appearance. Stand the 
two pieces with the bone side outwards and draw 
them round together to a circle tying or skewer- 
ing them. Cover the ends of the bones with 
greased paper or a flour and water paste so that 
they will not char, then roast in a quick oven. 
In serving fill with peas. 

Braised Lamb's Liver 
There are many who may not know that a 
lamb's liver is quite as delicate as one from a calf 
while it has the additional merit of being less ex- 



50 LOW COST RECIPES 

pensive. For braising arrange it in a small deep 
pan or in a casserole, on a bed of vegetables — 
sliced onions, carrots and turnips — add a bouquet 
of herbs (parsley, savory and thyme) and about i 
pint of stock sauce or water. Stewed tomatoes 
may be added and i teaspoonful of chopped green 
pepper. Bake in a moderate oven for from two to 
three' hours keeping the dish closely covered. 

Liver Boulettes 
Wash I pound of either calf's or lamb's liver, 
place in a saucepan with yi teaspoonful of salt and 
boiling water to cover, and simmer for three-quar- 
ters of an hour ; if in slices, twenty minutes will be 
sufificient. Cool, and put through the food chop- 
per. Scald J^ pint of milk in a doubler boiler ; rub 
together to a paste i tablespoonful of butter and 2 
tablespoonfuls of flour, add to the milk and stir 
gently until dissolved and the milk mixed to a 
thick sauce. Cover, and cook for ten minutes ; 
then add salt and pepper to season highly, i tea- 
spoonful of onion juice, i tablespoonful of chopped 
parsley and the chopped meat ; stir well and set 
away until cold. Shape into small balls, dip each 
in ^%'g, roll in fine dry crumbs and fry golden 
brown in deep, smoking hot fat. 

Boiled Ham, Deviled 
Rub well together i teaspoonful of mustard and 
I teaspoonful of olive oil, then add, gradually 



MEATS 51 

with much stirring, i teaspoonful of lemon juice. 
Cut slices from a boiled ham nearly half an inch 
thick, broil quickly over a clear fire, lay on a hot 
platter and spread with the mixture. 

Ham Pie 
Into a baking dish put a layer of potatoes sliced 
very thin and seasoned. Add a few bits of butter 
and then a layer of minced ham. Repeat with 
potatoes and ham until dish is filled. Add 
enough water to moisten the entire mass, and 
spread a crust over all. Bake about half an hour 
in a moderately hot oven. A biscuit crust or pie 
pastry may be used as for any meat pie. Do not 
salt too freely, since the ham is apt to be salt 
enough. For this dish also herbs may be used 
and a sprinkling of paprika over the ham. An 
excellent dish for luncheon. 

Ham and Egg Tartlets 
Chop up finely 6 tablespoonfuls of cooked ham, 
put it in a basin, add 2 heaping tablespoonfuls of 
bread crumbs, % teaspoonful of white pepper, a 
grating of nutmeg, and % cupful of milk. Mix 
to a paste of moderate consistency. Butter some 
plain gem pans, sprinkle them with browned 
bread crumbs, and line each thickly with the pre- 
pared paste. Break carefully i eg^ into each of 
the molds, put i or 2 small pieces of butter on the 



52 LOW COST RECIPES 

top of each egg, sprinkle over a little paprika 
and bake in the oven for ten minutes. Unmold 
carefully, and serve hot. 

Scalloped Ham and Macaroni 
Break }4 pound of macaroni in two-inch lengths. 
Drop into a kettle of boiling salted water and 
keep at a galloping boil for about forty minutes or 
until tender, stirring occasionally with a fork. 
Drain, rinse thoroughly with cold water, and 
drain again. Make a sauce with i tablespoonful 
of butter, i of flour and }4 pint of milk. When 
smoothly thickened, stir in i cupful of finely 
chopped cold boiled ham, j4 oi a. teaspoonful of 
salt, ^ of a teaspoonful of made mustard, a dash 
of cayenne and i beaten egg. Fill a shallow bak- 
ing dish with alternate layers of the macaroni, 
sauce and more chopped ham (a second cupful), 
sprinkle with buttered crumbs and bake in a 
quick oven until golden brown. 

Ham Croquettes, No. i 
Chop up finely 4 ounces of cooked ham, mix it 
with 2 chopped hard-boiled eggs, i tablespoonful 
of chopped parsley, a pinch of powdered herbs, 
seasoning of salt and pepper, an equal quantity 
of potatoes, cooked and mashed, and i beaten 
egg. Roll the mixture into balls rather larger 
than a walnut, brush over with beaten egg, roll in 



MEATS 53 

fine bread crumbs, drop into smoking hot fat a few 
at a time and fry a light brown color. Drain on 
white paper and serve hot. 

Ham Croquettes, No. 2 
Brown i tablespoonful of butter in a saucepan ; 
when well colored add 2 tablespoonfuls of flour 
and brown again. Then add i cupful of beef 
stock and stir until thick and smooth. Season to 
taste with salt and pepper, add 10 drops of onion 
juice and i teaspoonful of mushroom catsup, i 
cupful of boiled rice and i cupful of finely 
chopped ham. Mix and set away until cold. 
Then shape into croquettes, dip into slightly 
beaten egg, roll in dried bread crumbs and fry in 
smoking hot fat. Serve with tomato or any 
good brown sauce. 

Ham Canapes 
Cut stale bakers' bread in thin slices and from 
these stamp out crescents and circles. Melt a 
little butter in a frying-pan, and when hot quickly 
fry the bread on both sides to a pale brown. 
Chop fine some cold-boiled lean ham, season 
with paprika and a very little French mustard. 
Moisten with a little sweet cream, and spread on 
the canapes. Sprinkle thickly with grated Swiss 
cheese, and place in a moderate oven until the 
cheese melts and begins to brown. Sprinkle 



54 LOW COST RECIPES 

with a little finely chopped parsley and hard- 
boiled egg white. 

Pork Tenderloins 
Pork tenderloins are delightful, whether broiled 
or baked. For broiling they are usually split 
and brushed with butter. When cooked in the 
oven a delightful way is to split them almost 
through. Make a stuffing as for fowl, using fine 
crumbs, a seasoning of salt, pepper, a little fine 
thyme and grated onion and 2 tablespoonfuls of 
melted pork fat or butter for each cupful of the 
stuffing. Spread a thick layer of this over one 
of the opened loins, cover with a second loin and 
tie together in three or four places. Roast in a 
quick' oven, basting often. This is equally good 
when cold, serving in thin slices. 

Bacon Fritters 
Bacon fritters make a savory side dish for 
luncheon. Cut quite fine 6 slices of cold fried 
bacon and mix with i tablespoonful of grated 
onion. Cut the crust from }4 loaf of stale bread, 
soak for a few minutes in cold water, squeeze 
dry and crumble quite fine, mixing it with the 
fine crumbled inner portion. Season highly with 
salt, pepper and a pinch of powdered thyme, add 
4 tablespoonfuls of melted suet or dripping and 
mold into small flat cakes, flouring them well. 
Fry in a pan in a little hot dripping. 



MEATS 55 

Sausages Served in Potato Ring 
This is sC good way to use left over potato. 
Whip the potato up with a Httle milk and season, 
then press into a ring mold if one possesses such 
an article ; if not, then press into a ring with a 
spoon, using a buttered dish. Brush with butter 
and brown in a hot oven if a ring mold is not 
used ; then bake until browned and hot. Slip 
upon a hot dish and arrange browned sausages 
in the center. If a ring mold is used it must be 
buttered also. 

Calves' Brains 
When the brains are received drop at once in 
a bowl of cold water, changing it until all blood 
is drawn out and the brains look white. Care- 
fully pull away as much of the covering mem- 
brane as possible. Place in a saucepan, add i 
teaspoonful of salt, i thin slice of onion, i sprig 
of parsley and boiling water to cover. Simmer 
very gently for twenty minutes, then drain and 
plunge in cold water if they are to receive a 
second cooking — as when breaded and fried. 
When to be served with black butter put in a 
small saucepan 2 tablespoonfuls'of butter, add a 
slight dash of cayenne and heat slowly; let it 
color until almost black, then add 2 tablespoon- 
fuls of plain or tarragon vinegar. Draw to one 
side until the brains are cooked and keep hot. 



/ / 



56 LOW COST RECIPES 

When the brains are done drain them quickly, 
arrange on a hot platter, pour over them the 
black butter, sprinkle with a little chopped 
parsley and serve as quickly as possible as they 
are at their best when piping hot. 

Philadelphia Scrapple 
Take a cleaned pig's head, put in a kettle, 
cover with boiling water and simmer slowly un- 
til the meat falls from the bones. Remove skin 
and bones and chop the meat fine. Put the pot 
liquor in a cold place until next day ; then re- 
move the cake of fat which has formed over the 
top. Strain the liquor and return to the fire. 
When it boils, stir in the chopped meat and add 
a very high seasoning of salt and pepper. Sift 
in, slowly, fine corn-meal, adding it gradually 
until sufificiently thick to mold firmly when cold. 
Continue to stir for twenty minutes ; then draw 
to one side, where it will bubble occasionally, and 
cook for an hour longer. Pour into wetted pans 
and set away until cold ; then turn out on a plat- 
ter and keep in a cold place. In winter this will 
keep for a fortnight or longer, according to the 
severity of the weather. 

Meat Roll 
Take i pound each of lean beef, veal and pork. 
Remove all gristle, put through the food chopper 



MEATS 57 

and mix well, adding ij4 cupfuls of fine crumbs 
made from stale bread sliced, toasted in the oven 
until lightly colored, then pounded or passed 
through the food chopper and sifted ; 3 well- 
beaten eggs, I cupful of water, i tablespoonful 
of salt, ^ teaspoonful of white pepper or paprika, 
I onion grated, }( oi a, teaspoonful each of grated 
nutmeg and curry powder. Work thoroughly 
with the hands and shape in a loaf. Arrange in 
a shallow pan, cover the top with thin slices of 
larding pork and bake for one hour and a quarter 
in a hot oven, basting every fifteen minutes. 
Serve either hot or cold — it is especially good 
sliced cold for luncheon or supper. 

Irish Stev7 
Pare 4 large apples, 2 potatoes, and 2 good- 
sized onions ; cut them into small pieces. Add 
I tablespoonful of finely chopped parsley, i pint 
of cold cooked meat cut in small pieces, i tea- 
spoonful of salt, and a heavy seasoning of pepper. 
Put this into a saucepan, add i pint of stock ; 
cover with a plain biscuit crust ; put the lid on 
the saucepan and simmer gendy for thirty min- 
utes. 

Potato and Meat Puffs 
From some cold roast meat remove all gristle 
and fat and put through the food chopper. Sea- 



58 LOW COST RECIPES 

son it highly, adding, if liked, some finely- 
minced cucumber or gherkin pickle or i tea- 
spoonful of mustard pickle sauce. Mash some 
freshly-boiled mealy potatoes, let stand for five 
minutes, then work to la paste with i or more 
beaten eggs, according to quantity, adding salt 
and just sufficient flour to bind. Roll out rather 
thick, cut into large circles. Put i spoonful of 
the meat on each, double over and press the 
edges together with a fork. Bake in greased 
pans or fry in a little hot dripping. 

Roman Meat Pudding 
Mince i pint of cold veal, chicken, mutton or 
beef ; take i cupful of good stock, nicely flavored, 
I egg, some lemon or tomato sauce, a little ver- 
micelli or bread crumbs, pepper and salt; mix 
all together and season with a suspicion of onion 
and parsley. Line a meat mold or basin with 
some macaroni, previously boiled quite tender, 
fill 'the basin with the minced meat, steam for 
half an hour. Turn out of the basin and serve 
with a white sauce. 

Dresden Patties 

Take i long loaf of stale baker's bread fully 
two days old. Trim o£E all crust, then cut in 
slices fully two inches thick. 

With a medium-sized cutter stamp out as many 



MEATS 59 

round pieces as will be needed. Beat 2 eggs, 
add a pinch of salt and i pint of milk. Stand 
the rounds in a deep dish and pour this raw 
custard over and around them. Let stand until 
they have soaked as fully as possible without 
danger of breaking, then lift out carefully and 
drain for fifteen minutes. Beat i egg just enough 
to break the stringiness. Dip each pattie in this, 
then roll in fine dry bread crumbs. Have ready 
a kettle partly filled with smoking hot fat. 
Carefully put in i or 2 at a time and fry quickly 
golden brown. Lift out, drain for a moment on 
soft paper ; then with a sharp pointed knife cut a 
circle in the top of each and lift it out, leaving a 
border an inch all around. With a spoon dig 
out the greater part of the soft center. These 
pattie cases may be filled with meat or fish cut 
fine and heated in a very thick sauce. 

Ravioli 
The name ravioli is sufificiently unusual to im- 
ply some specially prepared dish. It is not, how- 
ever, a complicated affair, and as it is capable of 
great variations and utilizes many left overs, it is 
worth a trial. Beat slightly the yolks of 3 eggs 
with 2 tablespoonfuls of cold water and a pinch 
of salt, add sufficient bread flour to make a stiff 
dough, and knead for five minutes. Cut in two 
pieces, and roll each out in a very thin sheet. At 



6o LOW COST RECIPES 

regular intervals — about two inches apart— place 
on one sheet i small teaspoonful of filling. 
Round the base of each little heap wet the paste 
with a brush or the fingers dipped in cold water. 
Cover with the other sheet, and press down where 
the paste has been wet, then cut out with a round 
cutter. Be sure that the edges are well pressed 
together. Over the fire have a shallow saucepan 
half filled with boiling salted water. Into this drop 
the ravioli, bring the water quickly to the boil, then 
draw to one side and simmer for twenty minutes. 
Drain thoroughly, place in a baking dish, pour 
over a sauce and bake in a quick oven for about 
fifteen minutes. Fillings for the ravioli may be 
any scraps of meat or vegetables chopped fine, 
seasoned and moistened with a thick sauce ; the 
same diluted may be used for the baking. With 
a beef or mutton filling use tomato sauce and a 
little grated cheese. With mushrooms, oysters 
or fish use a white sauce. 

Bobotee 
Put 2 tablespoonfuls of butter in a frying-pan ; 
add I slice of onion ; fry until brown ; add 2 
ounces of bread, free from crust, and i pint of 
milk ; mix lightly ; take from the fire and stand 
aside for ten minutes. Blanch and chop 8 alm- 
onds very fine; add them to the other mixture ; 
then add i teaspoonful of curry powder, i pint of 



MEATS 6i 

cold, cooked meat chopped fine, and 3 eggs well 
beaten ; mix all the ingredients together. Rub a 
baking dish with butter, and sprinkle over it i 
teaspoonful of lemon juice, turn in the mixture 
and bake in a moderate oven for twenty minutes. 
Serve with it plain boiled rice. 

Fricadels 

Mince any cold meat ; measure an equal quan- 
tity of bread, soften it with cold water, add it to 
the meat, and season it highly with salt and cay- 
enne ; to each pint add i raw egg ; put the fry- 
ing-kettle, half full of fat, over the fire to heat ; 
lay a skimmer on a dish with a sheet of coarse 
brown paper, slightly wet the hands with cold 
water and make up the meat and bread in little 
cork-shaped rolls, dropping them as they are 
formed into a dish of rolled cracker or bread 
crumbs. When the fat begins to smoke put in 
as many of the fricadels as will float, and fry 
them ; when they are brown take them up with 
the skimmer, lay them on the brown paper for a 
moment to free them from fat, and then serve 
them hot. Parsley, cress or celery leaves, or 
sliced lemon may be used for a garnish, or fried 
parsley. 

Boudins 

Chop cold cooked meat very fine, and to every 
pint allow i tablespoonful of butter, ^ of a cup- 



62 LOW COST RECIPES 

ful of cream or milk, the whites of 3 eggs, i 
tablespoonful of chopped parsley, salt and pepper 
to taste. Melt the butter and pour it over the 
meat; add cream or milk and the seasonings, 
then pound it well with a potato masher and add 
the well-beaten whites. Fill custard cups two- 
thirds full of the mixture, stand in a baking-pan 
half filled with boiling water, and bake in a mod- 
erate oven for twenty minutes. When done turn 
them out carefully upon a heated dish and pour 
round them a sauce. 

Cecils from Cold Meat 
To every pint of cold chopped meat allow the 
yolks of 2 eggs, 2 tablespoonfuls of butter, i 
tablespoonful of bread crumbs, i tablespoonful of 
chopped parsley, salt and pepper to taste. Mix 
all the ingredients together and stir over the 
fire in a saucepan until heated through. When 
cold form into small round balls, dip in egg and 
bread crumbs and fry in smoking hot fat 

Minced Meat in Onion Cups 
From any cold cooked meat trim away tough 
fat and gristle then chop fine. Season highly 
with salt and pepper. Take one-half as many 
Spanish onions as there, are people to be served 
or I large ordinary onion for each person. Halve 
the first, cut tops from the second. With knife 



MEATS 63 

or spoon scoop out the centers of each then steam 
until tender. In the meantime mince a portion of 
the loose onion, add to the minced meat, moisten 
with a good gravy or sauce and simmer gently 
for a few minutes. Arrange the onion cups on a 
hot platter, fill with the prepared meat, pour 
more gravy round them and serve. Cooked peas 
or other vegetables may be substituted for the 
meat. 

Deviled Meat 
Rub together i tablespoonful of soft butter, 
J^ teaspoonful of dry mustard, a dash of cayenne 
and yft teaspoonful of salt, then gradually add 
I teaspoonful each of Worcestershire and vine- 
gar. Cut underdone meat in slices and on both 
sides rub a little of the mixture. Heat i spoon- 
ful of butter in a frying-pan and in it quickly grill 
the slices, serving them as fast as sizzling. 

Italian Fritters 
Take i cupful of sifted flour, the yolk of i e.%%, 
I teaspoonful of vinegar, i teaspoonful of olive 
oil or melted butter and enough cold water to 
mix to a batter that will pour from a spoon. Add 
the stifiSy whipped white and set away for two 
hours. Into this dip pieces of cooked meat or 
vegetables and fry brown in deep, smoking hot 
fat. 



64 LOW COST RECIPES 

China Chilo 
Simmer together for half an hour 2 tablespoon- 
fuls of butter, % can of drained peas, a small 
blade of mace, i pint of gravy, and salt and 
pepper to season. Remove the mace, add i pint 
of diced cold mutton and i head of lettuce torn 
in shreds, and simmer for fifteen minutes longer. 
Serve with a border of freshly boiled rice. 

Croquettes of Odds and Ends 
Remove skin and gristle from any cooked 
meat, using several kinds if on hand. Cold 
mashed potato, rice or other starchy vegetables 
may be used if handy but not more than one- 
third of the whole quantity. To each pint of 
food add J^ of a cupful of thick brown sauce 
(using 2 tablespoonfuls of flour to the cup of 
liquid). Add seasonings to suit and set away 
until cold. Form in small croquettes. Dip each 
in beaten eg^, roll in fine dry crumbs. Fry in 
sufficient smoking hot fat to immerse the cro- 
quettes. When brown drain an instant on soft 
paper. 

Broiled Tripe 
When bujring tripe for broiling select pieces 
as thick as possible and preferably of the honey- 
comb variety. Brush on both sides with melted 
butter and broil quickly over a hot fire. Add 



MEATS 65 

more butter when on the hot platter. It goes 
without saying that the tripe has been purchased 
ready cooked, otherwise it must be boiled for at 
least six hours to make it thoroughly tender. 
As tripe is easily digested it is a favorite meat 
with many persons who must eschew other and 
less digestible meats. 

Virginia Stewed Chicken 
From I or 2 roast chickens left from a previous 
meal, cut and dice the best portions so as to have 
fully I pint of meat. Take bones, etc., put in a 
kettle, cover with cold water, heat and simmer 
slowly for two hours, then strain. To this stock 
add the diced meat, 3 large, firm tomatoes peeled 
and cut fine, i green sweet pepper seeded and 
chopped, and the corn cut from i dozen ears. 
Reheat, thicken with 2 scant tablespoonfuls of 
flour dissolved in cold water, season to taste and 
simmer for fifteen minutes. Serve garnished 
with squares of fried hominy. 

Chicken Rissoles 
Cook together in a saucepan i tablespoonful 
of butter and 2 tablespoonfuls of flour, add yi of 
a cupful of milk and stir to make a thick, smooth 
paste. Season with salt, pepper, a few drops of 
onion juice, add i tablespoonful of cream and i 
cupful of finely chopped, cooked chicken ; cook 



66 LOW COST RECIPES 

for a moment longer and set aside until cold. 
Roll out scraps of puff paste in a very thin sheet 
and cut in pieces three by four inches. Mold the 
chicken mixture in rolls as thick as the little 
finger and three inches long. Enclose each in a 
piece of the paste, wetting the edges and ends 
and pressing them together so that they will not 
become fat-soaked in the cooking. Dip each 
into slightly beaten egg and roll in fine crumbs. 
Have a deep saucepan partly filled with smoking 
hot fat. Immerse two or three at a time in the 
fat, and draw the saucepan back a little so that 
the rissoles will cook golden brown in four min- 
utes. Reheat the fat each time that more are 
cooked. 

Chicken ^ la Burgen 

Cut the remains of a cold chicken into neat 
pieces. Make a marinade in a pudding dish 
with salad oil, lemon juice, a little finely chopped 
onion and parsley, and a good seasoning of salt 
and pepper. Lay the pieces of chicken in this 
mixture and turn them occasionally. Make a 
batter with 2 tablespoonfuls of flour, i table- 
spoonful of water, yolk of i egg, and j^ a wine- 
glassful of brandy. Let this batter rest in a 
warm place for one hour, then stir in quickly the 
stiffly beaten white of egg, dip the pieces of 
chicken in the batter, fry at once in smoking hot 



MEATS 67 

fat till a golden color, drain, pile high on a hot 
dish, and garnish with fried parsley. 

Pilaff of Chicken 
Pick over and wash i cupful of rice, put it in a 
saucepan with i pint of rich beef or chicken stock, 
% oi a. teaspoonful of salt and i teaspoonful of 
onion juice. Cover and cook slowly until the 
liquid is absorbed, then add i pint of stewed and 
strained tomato. In five minutes season to taste, 
then cook slowly until the tomato is absorbed. 
Cut I pint of cooked chicken into dice, saute it 
until a golden brown in butter. Turn it care- 
fully into the rice, add 2 tablespoonfuls of butter, 
cover and set at the side of the fire for twenty 
minutes and serve on a platter. 

Chicken and Nut Croquettes 
Free from skin and bone and chop fine suffi- 
cient cold cooked chicken to measure i scant pint. 
Blanch, dry and chop 2 dozen almonds or the 
same number of walnut meats. Scald i cupful 
of milk in a double boiler. Rub together to a 
paste I tablespoonful of butter and 2 tablespoon- 
fuls of flour. Blend a little of the hot milk with 
this, turn into the double boiler and stir until very 
thick. Cover and cook for ten minutes. Mix 
nuts and chicken and add a very high seasoning 
of salt and pepper, i teaspoonful of lemon juice, 



68 LOW COST RECIPES 

a few drops of onion juice and i tablespoonful 
of chopped parsley. To the cream add salt and 
pepper and the chicken, mix well, cook for a mo- 
ment, and turn out on a buttered plate. When 
chilled, dust the hands slightly with flour and 
form into cyUnders, or pyramids. Slightly beat 
I egg, add i tablespoonful of warm water. Into 
this dip each croquette, taking care that every 
point is wetted. Lift out and roll in fine, dry 
crumbs. Place in a basket, a few at a time, and 
plunge into deep, smoking hot fat. When brown, 
drain on paper before serving. 

Turkey Chartreuse 
To use the remains of a turkey, line the bot- 
tom and sides of a buttered mold with boiled 
rice. Chop fine the turkey meat, add an equal 
amount of fine, soft bread crumbs, a high season- 
ing of salt, pepper, onion juice and chopped 
parsley, then stir in enough stock to just moisten. 
Pack this in the center of the mold, cover with 
the remainder of the rice and steam for an hour, 
serving it with a cream sauce. 

Salmi of Turkey 

From the carcass of a turkey strip the meat, 

dicing the larger pieces ; put the bits through 

the chopper, break the carcass and put in the 

stock pot. For a salmi cook together 2 table- 



MEATS 69 

spoonfuls of butter, i tablespoonful each of 
chopped celery, onion and carrots and 2 table- 
spoonfuls of chopped raw ham. When browned 
add 2 tablespoonfuls of flour and brown again, 
then add i pint of thinned turkey gravy, ^ of a 
bay leaf, J^ of a blade of mace, 2 cloves and salt 
and pepper to taste. Stir and cook for five min- 
utes, strain it over the diced turkey meat and re- 
turn to the fire for ten minutes' slow cooking. 
Add 2 dozen stoned olives and 2 tablespoonfuls 
of sherry and take from the fire. Garnish with 
toast points and a little chopped parsley. 



VEGETABLES 

Asparagus Toast 
Cut cold, boiled asparagus into half-inch bits 
with a silver knife ; if the supply is plentiful only 
the tips need be used. For i pint, toast 6 or 8 
thin slices of stale bread and keep warm. In a 
saucepan mix i tablespoonful of butter, i table- 
spoonful of flour, ^ of a teaspoonful of salt and 
^ of a teaspoonful of white pepper. Stir in 
gradually i cupful of hot milk. When thick and 
smooth simmer for five minutes, then add the pre- 
pared asparagus and draw to the side of the fire, 
or stand over hot water until the asparagus is 
heated. Dip each slice of toast, for an instant, in 
slightly salted boiling water, spread on a hot plat- 
ter and pour the contents of the saucepan over it. 

Buttered String Beans 
String and cut fine i quart of green beans. 
In a saucepan put i large tablespoonful of 
butter, ^ teaspoonful of salt, J^ of a teaspoonful 
of white pepper and % teaspoonful of grated 
onion. Cook slowly for three minutes, turn in 
the beans, cover closely and shake over the front 



VEGETABLES 71 

of the fire for five minutes. Add J^ of a cupful 
of boiling water, stir well, recover and draw aside 
where they will cook slowly. As often as there 
is danger of burning add a few spoonfuls more 
of boiling water. When very tender uncover for 
five minutes that any liquid remaining may 
evaporate. When cooked in this way they have 
a peculiar mellowness never found in beans 
cooked in a large quantity of water. 

Succotash 
Old time succotash is made with shelled lima 
beans and corn cut from the cob. Put the beans 
on in as little water as possible, adding salt and 
pepper to season; when half done — in about 
twenty minutes — add a double amount of raw 
corn cut from the cob, and continue simmering 
until done. This may be slightly thickened 
with flour, and butter and milk added. 

Stewed Beans, Onion Sauce 
Soak I pint of small white b^ans over night. 
Drain, rinse, add fresh cold water, cook very 
slowly until tender but unbroken. In a clean 
saucepan put i large tablespoonful of butter and 
y^ cupful of chopped onion. Cook very slowly 
until the onion is tender and very slightly yellow. 
Add I tablespoonful of flour, stir until mixed, then 
slowly add i pint of hot milk, stirring until thick- 



72 LOW COST RECIPES 

ened. Season with salt and pepper, simmer ten 
minutes, rub through a sieve. Drain the beans, 
add the sauce and simmer ten minutes. Celery 
sauce, made in the same way, a good brown 
gravy or a tomato sauce, may also be used. 

Red Beans, Bretonne Style 
Pick over and wash some red or kidney beans. 
Cover with cold water and soak over night then 
drain. , Add more fresh cold water, heat and 
cook very slowly until the beans are perfectly 
tender but unbroken. As they reach this stage 
allow the liquid on them to evaporate so that, 
when done, they are nearly dry. For i large 
pint of the beans heat in a frying-pan i table- 
spoonful of good sweet dripping, add 2 table- 
spoonfuls of chopped onion and cook until the 
onion is slightly colored. Add the beans and stir 
occasionally until they look slightly fried. Turn 
them into a dish and sprinkle with chopped 
parsley. In Brittany when so prepared they are 
served round a roast of mutton. 

Bean Croquettes 
Soak and boil either red or white beans until 
very tender. Drain, put i pint through a fine 
sieve. Add the beaten yolks of 2 eggs, salt and 
pepper to taste, i teaspoonful of melted butter, i 
teaspoonful of onion juice and i tablespoonful of 



VEGETABLES 73 

chopped parsley. Mold into little cakes or 
croquettes, dip each in slightly beaten egg, roll 
in fine dry bread crumbs and fry golden brown 
in smoking hot fat. 

Stuffed Cabbage 
Take i good solid head of cabbage and re- 
move part of the center very carefully. Pack the 
cavity with sausage meat,' sprinkle salt over it, 
and cover with a large cabbage leaf securely tied 
in place. Place in a kettle of boiling water, and 
when it is boiling sufficiently fast remove the 
cover and boil for one hour. 

Cream Slaw 
Into a saucepan put }4 ol a. tablespoonful of 
butter, 2 tablespoonfuls of sugar and i cupful of 
vinegar and heat to the boiling point. Rub i 
level teaspoonful of flour to a paste with 2 table- 
spoonfuls of sour cream, add i beaten egg and 6 
tablespoonfuls more of the sour cream. Pour 
over this carefully the hot vinegar mixture and 
return to the fire, stirring until thickened. Strain 
it over 2 quarts of finely shaved cabbage which 
has previously been seasoned with ^ teaspoon- 
ful of salt and }( teaspoonful of pepper. 

Stewed Carrots 
Pare and cut into dice 2 good-sized carrots, 
cover with boiling water, add i teaspoonful of 



74 LOW COST RECIPES 

salt and let them simmer for two hours or until 
tender. When done, drain, and pour over them 
a cream sauce. 

Fried Carrots 
Pare and boil several good-sized carrots ; drain 
thoroughly. Cut lengthwise into rather thin 
slices, dip in egg and bread crumbs, and fry in 
smoking hot fat. Cold carrots may be re- 
cooked in this way. ' 

Glazed Carrots 
Wash, scrape and cut into even slices ; simmer 
until neasfy tender in salted water ; drain, put 
into a saucepan with i tablespoonful of butter, i 
teaspoonful of salt, i teaspoonful sugar, and have 
enough gtock to cover. Boil uncovered until the 
stock is reduced to a glaze. 

Carrot Fritters 
Boil several good-sized '■carrots until very 
tender ; press through a sieve and season to taste 
with butter, salt and pepper. „ ; Shape the carrots 
in small, flat cakes, and saute'in butter. 

Carrots and New Potatoes 
Clean and scrape a number of very small car- 
rots ; wash and scrape twice as iiia'hy new pota- 
toes. Boil the latter as usual ; dook the carrots 
in as little water as possible, adtiing a little salt, 



VEGETABLES 75 

sugar and i teaspoonful of butter. Quarter the 
potatoes as soon as done and add to the carrots 
ten minutes before they are to be served. Allow 
the water to almost evaporate. Add another 
teaspoonful of butter and when in the serving 
dish sprinkle with a little finely chopped parsley. 

Cauliflower Fritters 
Use any left-over pieces of boiled cauliflower. 
The outside green leaves if cut in pieces and 
cooked until tender may also be used. Mix to- 
gether 2 well-beaten eggs, J^ cupful of milk, J^ 
teaspoonful of salt, a dash of pepper, i table- 
spoonful of melted butter or dripping, and sufifi- 
cient flour to make a drop batter. Have ready 
a deep kettle partly filled with smoking hot fat. 
Dip each piece of cauliflower into the batter, drop 
into the hot fat and cook until golden brown. 

Cauliflower au Gratin 
From I large, firm head of cauliflower remove 
the coarse green leaves and soak, head down- 
ward, in cold salted water for an hour or more ; 
this will dislodge insects or small worms. Drain, 
place in a saucepan stalk downward, cover with 
boiling water, add ^ teaspoonful of salt, and 
boil gently but constantly until the central stalk 
can be easily pierced with a fork. Drain, and 
with a silver knife cut the head apart into flow- 



76 LOW COST RECIPES 

erets. Make a cream sauce with i tablespoon- 
ful of butter, i tablespoonful of flour, Y^ teaspoon- 
ful of salt, Yi teaspoonful of white pepper and i 
cupful of milk. Butter a baking dish and fill it 
with alternate layers of the sauce and cauliflower. 
With Yi cupful of fine stale bread crumbs mix a 
pinch of salt and 2 tablespoonfuls of melted but- 
ter. Spread this over the cauliflower and place 
in a quick oven until browned. 

Corn Dumplings 

Make a good biscuit dough, roll thin, cut in 
rounds. On each put i spoonful of seasoned 
corn pulp, draw and pinch the edges together 
and steam twenty minutes. Serve with chicken 
fricassee. 

Corn, Tomatoes and Onions 

Thinly slice white onions and let stand in salt 
water for half an hour, then drain. Take an 
equal quantity of sliced tomatoes and twice as 
much corn cut from the cob. Put in layers in a 
buttered deep dish, seasoning well with salt and 
pepper. Bake in a moderate oven, covered, for 
an hour, then uncover and brown. 

Corn Entree 
Score and scrape i dozen raw ears, steam the 
pulp twenty minutes. Put i pound of raw 
chopped beef in a saucepan with 2 heaping 



VEGETABLES 77 

tablespoonfuls of butter ; heat slowly and stir un- 
til the juices are drawn out. Press out every 
drop of juice, using a small meat press if pos- 
sible. Return the juice to the fire, season with 
salt, pepper, a suspicion of mace and thyme. 
Stir in a little flour and water paste to make 
slightly thicker than cream — the exact quantity 
depending upon the amount of meat juice. But- 
ter a baking dish, put in it the corn and over it 
pour the gravy. Over all put a layer of grated 
Swiss cheese and bake in a hot oven until well 
browned. 

Corn in Tomato Cups 
To each pint of raw corn pulp add a high 
seasoning of salt and pepper and 2 tablespoon- 
fuls of melted butter. From large firm tomatoes 
cut off the stem end and scoop out the centers. 
Fill with the prepared pulp, stand close together 
in a baking dish and bake for half an hour in a 
quick oven. 

Corn Boats 
Boil nicely shaped sweet potatoes until almost 
done. Cool, skin, halve them lengthwise and 
scoop out the inside of each. Rub inside and 
out with soft butter, dust with salt and pepper. 
Fill with corn pulp, well seasoned, cover with a 
little cream sauce, then with buttered crumbs and 
bake in a moderate oven. 



78 LOW COST RECIPES 

Baked Peppers and Corn 
Score and scrape from the cobs enough raw 
corn to make i pint. Open 2 sweet green pep- 
pers, remove seeds and white veins and shave 
very fine. Put corn and peppers in a buttered 
baking dish, seasoning with salt. Pour over the 
top I cupful of thin cream with which has been 
mixed i beaten egg and 2 tablespoonfuls of 
melted butter. Bake for forty minutes in a 
quick oven. 

Corn and Celery Fritters 
The combination of celery and corn in fritters 
is a good one. A cupful of the raw, pulped corn 
is to be mixed with the same amount of finely 
chopped celery, and to this add }4 teaspoonful 
of salt, % oia. teaspoonful of pepper, 2 eggs, the 
whites and yolks beaten separately, 3 tablespoon- 
fuls of flour and i teaspoonful of baking-powder. 
Drop by spoonfuls into a little hot butter or but- 
ter and lard mixed, and fry quickly. Should the 
batter prove a trifle thin (as it may if the corn is 
very milky), add part or all of another spoonful 
of flour. 

Cucumbers Espagnole 

Take young, firm cucumbers ; peel and cut 

lengthwise in thick slices. Dip each slice in 

flour which has been highly seasoned with salt 

and pepper and quickly fry to a rich brown in a 



VEGETABLES 79 

little hot dripping. Lift, drain well from the fat 
and arrange in a shallow saucepan. In the mean- 
time cook slowly I tablespoonful of minced onion 
in I tablespoonful of butter. When changing 
color add i tablespoonful of finely chopped ham 
or bacon — preferably the former — and 2 scant 
tablespoonfuls of flour. Stir until well colored 
then add }^ oi a. cupful of thin strained tomato 
and I cupful of beef stock or gravy ; stir until 
smoothly thickened ; season with salt and pepper. 
Strain this over the browned cucumbers in the 
saucepan and simmer slowly until they are very 
tender but not broken. Have ready pieces of 
hot buttered toast the size and shape of the cucum- 
ber slices. Arrange these on a hot platter, place 
the cucumbers on them and pour the sauce round. 

Cucumbers, Brown Sauce 
Pare and slice lengthwise some firm cucum- 
bers. Salt and pepper each piece, flour well and 
fry quickly in a little butter. To the fat remain- 
ing in the pan add i tablespoonful of flour, stir 
until brown, slowly add i cupful of water or 
stock and stir until smoothly thickened. Season 
to taste and pour round the cucumbers. Young 
squash may be cooked in the same way. 

Cucumber Ragout 
Pare and cut some nice cucumbers in half-inch 
crosswise slices. Slice equal amounts of firm to- 



8o LOW COST RECIPES 

matoes and medium-sized white onions. Flour 
and fry together the cucumbers and onions, using 
a little salt pork fat or butter. When brown lay 
in the tomatoes, add i tablespoonful of fiour 
rubbed to a paste with a little extra fat. Stir in 
Yi pint of water (or weak stock if on hand) ; 
when smoothly thickened add i teaspoonful of 
salt, pepper to taste and simmer, covered, for one 
hour. Just before serving add i tablespoonful of 
walnut catsup. 

Stuffed Cucumbers 
Chop fine any kind of cold cooked meat, 
measure and add to it one-half of its bulk of cold 
boiled rice and a high seasoning of salt, pepper, 
onion juice and a pinch of curry powder. Pare 
large cucumbers, cut in two-inch lengths and 
carefully scoop out the centers. Fill with the 
stuffing and lay in a shallow pan. Pour in a 
half inch of seasoned beef stock, cover and 
simmer slowly at the side of the fire until the cu- 
cumbers are tender. Serve on thin squares of 
toast, pouring the gravy round at the last. 

Smothered Cucumbers 

For this dish use cucumbers which are quite 

old but not yellow. Pare and cut lengthwise in 

quarters. Scrape off and discard the seeds. Cut 

the pulp into half-inch pieces, measure and place 



VEGETABLES 8i 

in a saucepan. For each pint add a scant Yz tea- 
spoonful of salt, a pinch of sugar, }^ oi a. tea- 
spoonful of paprika (sweet red pepper) and i 
tablespoonful of butter. Cover closely, stand 
over the front of the fire for five minutes, shak- 
ing vigorously, then draw back where the cu- 
cumbers will cook slowly for fifteen minutes. No 
liquid is needed as sufificient will be drawn from 
the vegetable to form a sauce. Garnish with 
toast points. 

Cucumber Fritters 
Pare, discard seeds and grate rather old cu- 
cumbers. Press and discard the juice. To i 
pint of pulp add 3 well-beaten eggs, ^ teaspoon- 
ful each of salt and black pepper and enough 
flour to make a drop batter. Fry by spoonfuls 
dropped in deep fat or saute in a little fat in a 
spider. Squash or tomato fritters may be made 
in the same way. 

Fried Eggplant 
With a sharp knife cut a firm eggplant in 
quarter-inch slices. Trim off the skin, dip each 
slice in slightly beaten egg, then cover with fine 
dry bread crumbs. Have some fat heated in a 
kettle ; it should be at least an inch deep and 
smoking hot. Drop in as many slices as can be 
cooked at once and fry golden brown. When 



82 LOW COST RECIPES 

well colored skim out and drain each piece on 
soft paper before arranging on a hot platter. Do 
not pile one on another and do not salt or the 
pieces will quickly lose their crispness ; serve at 
once. This method gives a more digestible result 
than sauteing in a shallow pan, and the prelimi- 
nary salting and pressing out of the acrid juice 
can be dispensed with. 

Baked Eggplant 
To bake, boil the whole eggplant in salted 
water for twenty minutes, halve it with a sharp 
knife, scoop out the centers ; chop and mix this 
portion with bread crumbs, a little finely cut raw 
tomato, chopped parsley, onion juice and season- 
ings. Refill the shells with the mixture, cover 
with buttered crumbs and bake for half an hour 
in a hot oven. 

Baked Onions 
Peel and cut white onions in thick slices. 
Place in a saucepan, add i teaspoonful of salt, 
cover with boiling water and boil for ten minutes. 
Arrange in layers in a baking dish with salt, 
pepper and bits of butter. Pour in stock to half 
fill the dish and bake slowly until tender. In a 
frying-pan stir i tablespoonful of butter and ^ 
of a cupful of coarse bread crumbs until slightly 
browned, then cool. Mix with an equal quantity 



VEGETABLES 83 

of grated cheese, dust with pepper, spread over 
the onions and return to the oven until the cheese 
is melted. 

Creamed Onions 
Select onions of medium and even size; the 
white variety is milder than the red. Peel, cover 
with boiling water, let stand for five minutes, 
then drain ; this makes them less rank in flavor. 
Place in a saucepan, add yi teaspoonful of salt, 
barely cover with boiling water, and boil slowly 
until tender through and through ; this will take 
fully an hour and a half unless they are small. 
In another saucepan melt and mix together over 
the fire i large tablespoonful each of butter and 
flour ; gradually stir in ^ of a cupful of milk and 
a like quantity of the water in which the onions 
are cooking. When smoothly thickened, add 
salt and pepper to taste, transfer the cooked 
onions to the sauce and keep at the side of the 
fire for ten minutes. 

Scalloped Onions 
Peel I dozen white onions of moderate size 
and boil in salted water until tender, changing 
the water two or three times, according to the 
delicacy of flavor desired. Prepare i cupful of 
white sauce using i tablespoonful of butter, i 
heaping tablespoonful of flour, }i oi a. teaspoon- 
ful of salt, % oi a. teaspoonful of white pepper 



84 LOW COST RECIPES 

and I cupful of milk. Drain the onions, turn 
them into a buttered baking dish, pour over them 
the white sauce and cover them with J^ of a cup- 
ful of fine dried bread crumbs mixed with i tea- 
spoonful of melted butter and a dash of salt. 
Bake in a hot oven until the crumbs are browned. 

Deviled Green Onions 
Peel, trim and cut into inch lengths 2 bunches 
of green onions. Cook them in i pint of veal 
stock until tender. Make i cupful of white 
sauce, using equal quantities of stock and milk ; 
when smooth and thick add to this 2 finely 
chopped gherkins, ^ of a teaspoonful of dry 
mustard and 2 well-beaten egg yolks and take 
from the fire. Have ready 3 or 4 slices of dry 
toast arranged in a shallow buttered dish, pour 
over it half of the sauce ; add the drained onions, 
then the remainder of the sauce. Cover with a. 
layer of buttered crumbs and brown in a quick 
oven. 

Onion Fritters 
For this select as large green onions as pos- 
sible, trim and cut them six inches long. Place 
in a saucepan, cover with equal quantities of hot 
milk and stock, add salt, pepper, i bay leaf, i 
blade of mace and i sprig of thyme and simmer 
for fifteen minutes or until barely tender. Drain 
and when cold dip each into a warm, thick white 



VEGETABLES 85 

sauce made with 2 tablespoonfuls of flour to i 
cupful of milk, lay on a buttered platter and set 
aside until cold. Roll in finely-sifted bread 
crumbs, dip into slightly-beaten egg and roll 
again in the crumbs. Fry golden brown in deep, 
smoking hot fat. If desired, fritter batter may 
be used in place of the sauce and the crumbling 
omitted. 

Baked Apples and Onions 
Peel and thinly slice equal parts of onions and 
tart apples. Butter a baking dish then fill it with 
alternate layers of the onions, apples, salt, pepper, 
a pinch of sugar and a few bits of butter. When 
the dish is full pour over a little boiling water — 
just enough to keep from burning — cover closely 
and bake in a moderate oven until very tender. 

Parsnip Fricassee 
This is savory and good. Cut }4 pound of fat 
pickled pork in narrow fingers, brown slightly, 
cover with boiling water and simmer one hour. 
Add 8 parsnips pared and quartered and more 
water to cover; when boiling add i quart of 
quartered potatoes and simmer until the vege- 
tables are tender. Drain off the water and re- 
place with milk, season highly and simmer ten 
minutes after thickening slightly. Stir in i egg 
mixed with milk and turn into a hot dish. 



86 LOW COST RECIPES 

Peas and Potatoes 

Take the knuckle end of a ham which has 
2 pounds or more of meat still on it ; wash thor- 
oughly, cut off all the rind, put in a saucepan 
with 3 quarts of cold water, heat slowly and sim- 
mer until the meat is tender. Transfer the ham to 
a dish and boil the liquid rapidly until reduced to 
I quart. Add i Y^ pints of shelled green peas and 
15 new potatoes of medium size which have been 
washed and scraped. Boil slowly until the two 
vegetables are tender. Cut the ham in thin 
slices and arrange it round the edge of a platter. 
Turn the peas on the dish ; in the center push 
them aside and lay in the potatoes. Sprinkle 
with a little white pepper and send at once to 
the table. 

Saratoga Potatoes 

Pare the potatoes, then cut in very thin slices 
into ice-cold water. Soak for fifteen minutes. 
Take out only the number of pieces at a time 
that you are going to fry. Dry on a soft towel. 
Fry in smoking hot fat ; remove with a skimmer, 
and drain on brown paper. 

^ Browned Hashed Potatoes 

Chop 2 cold boiled potatoes rather fine, season 
with y^ teaspoonful of salt and a dash of pepper. 
Put I tablespoonful of butter in a frying-pan; 



VEGETABLES 87 

when hot, put in the potatoes, smooth them care- 
fully over the bottom of the pan, cook slowly 
without stirring until the potatoes are golden 
brown and are sort of stuck together. A sprin- 
kling of chopped parsley may be added and the 
potatoes rolled over like an omelet. Roll very 
carefully or they will fall to pieces. 

Creamed Hashed Potatoes 
Delicious creamed hashed potatoes are pre- 
pared as follows : Boil small potatoes with their 
skins on. After boiling let them get very cold, 
then peel them and chop very fine in a chopping 
bowl. For I pint of chopped potatoes melt 

1 heaping tablespoonful of butter in a saucepan, 
then drop the potatoes in ; pour in enough cream 
to cover the potatoes, season with a little salt and 
let them simmer over a slow fire until the cream 
is absorbed ; then serve in a hot dish. 

Scalloped Ham and Potatoes 
Put through the chopper enough cold boiled 
ham to give 1}^ cupfuls. Cut 6 large boiled po- 
tatoes in thin slices. In a saucepan mix together 

2 tablespoonfuls each of butter and flour, i scant 
teaspoonful of salt and ^ of a teaspoonful of white 
pepper. When bubbling, stir in gradually i pint 
of hot milk and cook until smoothly thickened. 
In a buttered dish put alternate layers of potato, 



88 LOW COST RECIPES 

ham and sauce until all are used. With yi cup- 
ful of stale bread crumbs, mix i tablespoonful of 
melted butter, spread this over the top and bake 
in a quick oven until browned. 

New Potatoes as Prepared in the South 
Scrape and boil, as usual, medium sized and 
small new potatoes. Place a quantity of butter 
in the frying-pan, and when brown put the pota- 
toes in whole, turning them again and again un- 
til they are nicely browned on all sides. 

Potatoes au Gratin 
For breakfast potatoes au gratin are appetizing. 
Boil 12 medium sized potatoes in the usual way 
till tender, with a little salt, drain and dry ; then 
divide each potato in halves, lengthways. Brush 
over with plenty of melted butter, sprinkling 
liberally with grated Parmesan cheese. Lay 
them in a buttered tin and bake in a hot oven 
until a nice light brown color. Serve hot on a 
folded napkin. 

Kentucky Potatoes 
Pare and thinly slice 6 large potatoes ; wash 
and soak them in cold water for half an hour. 
Place in a baking dish, season with i teaspoon- 
ful of salt and J5^ of a teaspoonful of white 
pepper. Pour over 1 1^ cupfuls of milk and bake 



VEGETABLES 89 

in a hot oven until tender — about forty minutes. 
When half done add ^ tablespoonful of butter. 

Milanaise Potatoes 

Pare and boil as many potatoes as desired. 
When done press through a ricer into a heated 
bowl and whip with a fork, adding, litde by little, 
enough boiling hot chicken stock to make them 
creamy. Season with salt and white pepper, 
then add as much whipped cream as will bring 
them to such consistence that they can be 
slowly beaten with an egg beater. Beat for full 
five minutes, heap them in a buttered baking 
dish, sprinkle with grated Parmesan cheese and 
brown lightly in a very hot oven. Send directly 
to the table. 

Potatoes Barigoule 

Peel and wash as many small potatoes as will be 
needed for the meal. Place in a saucepan and 
pour over them sufficient clear soup stock to cover. 
Add ^ of a teaspoonful of salt and boil until 
tender, then drain. In a small saucepan have 
heating sufficient fat to immerse the potatoes — 
the originator of this recipe calls for olive oil. 
When the fat is smoking hot gently drop in it the 
potatoes and cook just long enough to color them 
a uniform brown. Drain on paper, place in a 
serving dish, sprinkle with salt, pepper and i 
tablespoonful of vinegar and serve quickly. 



90 LOW COST RECIPES 

Surprise Potatoes 
Select large smooth potatoes and bake them in 
a very hot oven. When tender cut off the end of 
each and with a spoon scoop out into a heated 
bowl, taking care not to break the skins. Put 
through a ricer or mash until smooth, and for 
every 3 potatoes add i large teaspoonful of but- 
ter, I tablespoonful of cream and salt and pepper 
to taste. When well beaten stir in lightly the 
stiffly whipped white of i egg and refill the skins. 
Put on the covers and place in a brisk oven long 
enough to make very hot. 

Potato Roses 
Boil mealy white potatoes, and as soon as done 
put through a ricer and prepare with milk, butter 
and seasoning as for ordinary mashed potatoes. 
Have ready a pastry bag with a large sized rose 
end. Put the potatoes in this and press out on a 
flat, greased pan in the shape of roses. Dabble 
the top of each with beaten egg yolk and brown 
in a quick oven. If no pastry bag is on hand 
shape into cones with a broad-bladed knife and 
finish in the same way. 

Potatoes Genevoise 
Peel, wash and drain 4 rather large potatoes 
and cut into long, thin shreds with a fluted vege- 
table cutter, or slice, then cut into strips. Season 



VEGETABLES 91 

them, after washing and drying, with J^ of a tea- 
spoonful of salt and % oi a. teaspoonful of 
white pepper. Have ready }^ oi a cupful 
of grated Parmesan or dry American cheese. 
Butter a number of patty pans, and fill them 
with alternate layers of the potatoes and cheese ; 
over the top of each drop i tablespoonful 
of melted butter. Stand the pans on the top of a 
hot stove for two minutes, then place in a hot 
oven, and bake for twenty-five minutes. Send to 
the table in the little dishes. 

Philadelphia Potatoes 
Cut into half-inch dice sufficient cold boiled 
potatoes to measure i pint. Make a white sauce 
by putting in a saucepan i tablespoonful of but- 
ter, I tablespoonful of flour, }4 oi a. teaspoonful 
of salt and J^ of a teaspoonful of white pepper. 
Stir until mixed, then add gradually ^ of a pint 
of hot milk, and continue stirring until thick and 
smooth. Put potatoes and sauce in alternate 
layers in a baking dish, pour over the top i well- 
beaten egg, and brown in a hot oven. 

Potato Turnovers 

Boil and mash sufficient potatoes to measure i 

pint. As soon as mashed add i well-beaten egg, 

salt and pepper to taste and i tablespoonful of 

flour. Turn on a well floured board, roll out 



92 LOW COST RECIPES 

carefully and cut in circles the size of a tea 
saucer. On each place a large spoonful of cold 
meat chopped very fine and highly seasoned. 
Double over and pinch each together like a turn- 
over. Arrange on a flat greased pan, brown in a 
hot oven and serve with a brown or tomato sauce. 

Potato Roll 
Put I cupful of cold mashed potatoes in a sauce- 
pan, add ^ of a cupful of milk and a palatable 
seasoning of salt and pepper, i tablespoonful of 
chopped parsley and 2 well-beaten eggs. Mix 
thoroughly, take from the fire, beat until light. 
Put I tablespoonful of butter in a frying-pan ; 
when hot, put in the potatoes spread evenly over 
the pan, cook slowly until a golden brown. Roll 
like omelet and serve smoking hot. 

Potato Farci 
Cut uncooked potatoes into halves ; scoop out 
the centers with a vegetable scoop into the form 
of a cup. Mince some cold cooked meat, season 
it with salt and pepper, and pour over it a small 
quantity of melted butter, say i tablespoonful to 
each y^ pint of meat. Put this into the potato 
cups and bake in a moderate oven until the pota- 
toes are done. When done, take from the fire, 
add I tablespoonful of boiling stock to each and 
serve. The portion of the potato scooped out 



VEGETABLES 93 

may be used for mashed potatoes or made into 
potato croquettes. 

Delmonico Hashed Potatoes 
Pare uncooked potatoes ; cut them into very 
small dice ; throw them into cold water and soak 
for thirty minutes. Drain, put them in a baking 
dish, cover with milk, dust with salt and pepper, 
add a little butter cut in bits, and bake in a 
moderate oven for forty-five minutes. 

Potato Balls 
Wash the necessary amount of potatoes, throw 
without paring into boiling water and boil until 
tender, but not soft, a little underdone. Drain, 
remove the skins* and with a potato scoop cut 
them into round balls. When ready to serve, put 
them into a frying-basket, sink into smoking hot 
fat and fry until a golden brown. Drain, dust 
with salt and serve, either alone or as a garnish 
to baked or broiled fish, or broiled steak. 

Potato Cakes 
Take 2 cupfuls of cold mashed potatoes ; mix 
well with the yolk of i egg. When well mixed, 
form into small rather flat round cakes. Put 2 
tablespoonfuls of ham or beef drippings in a fry- 
ing-pan, and when hot put in the cakes. Brown 
on one side, then on the other and serve. 



94 LOW COST RECIPES 

Creamed Raw Potatoes 

Cut 6 raw potatoes into dice. Boil ten min- 
utes in boiling salted water. Drain off the water. 
Add milk to cover, and let simmer until potatoes 
are tender. Then add i teaspoonful of butter, 
chopped parsley, salt and pepper. Shake well 
and serve. 

German Potato Dumplings 

Scrub any number of large potatoes and bake 
them in their skins. As soon as done break 
open, scoop out the insides and press through a 
ricer, setting aside until cold. To i heaping cup- 
ful of the potato allow ^ of a teaspoonful of salt, 
a tiny pinch of nutmeg or mace, i tablespoonful 
of fried bread crumbs and i teaspoonful of beef 
suet chopped as fine as dust (this can be done by 
sprinkling over it the measured flour). Mix to a 
very thick batter or soft dough with beaten egg. 
Flour the hands and mold into tiny dumplings. 
Drop into boiling salted water and simmer for 
fifteen minutes. 

Baked Sweet Potatoes, Creole Style 
Peel j4 dozen medium sized sweet potatoes. 
Put them into a deep pan, and half cover them 
with a nicely seasoned gravy from a roasting 
joint of beef, mutton or pork. Set them in the 
oven and bake until tender, taking care to baste 
them from time to time. 



VEGETABLES 95 

Sweet Potato Croquettes 
Boil some sweet potatoes, then drain, peel and 
mash. To i pint beat in i tablespoonful of but- 
ter, salt and pepper to taste. As soon as they 
can be handled form into croquettes, dip in egg 
and crumbs and fry brown in deep, smoking hot 

fat. 

Salsify Fritters 

Scrape the salsify, throw it for a few minutes 

into cold water, then cut it in small pieces and 

cook it until done in slightly salted water. While 

hot, mash with i tablespoonful of butter. Make 

a batter of i egg, i tablespoonful of flour, i of 

milk, season with pepper and salt. Make the 

salsify into small flat cakes, dip in the batter and 

fry in boiling lard. ^ 

Creamed Spinac|i 
Wash, cook, drain and chop fine j4 peck of 
spinach. In a saucepan melt i tablespoonful of 
butter ; add i tablespoonful of flour, ^ teaspoon- 
ful of salt, ^ of a teaspoonful of pepper and 
cook for two minutes. Gradually stir in ^ of 
a cupful of rich milk until smoothly thickened. 
Add the spinach ; draw to one side and simmer 
gently for ten minutes. Serve on toast. 

Scalloped Spinach and Macaroni 
Scalloped spinach and macaroni is an Italian 
combination of decided merit. Pick over and 



96 LOW COST RECIPES 

wash the spinach carefully, then boil in salted 
water until tender ; drain, pressing with consid- 
erable force that it may be as dry as possible, 
then put through the food chopper. Boil J^ of a 
package of macaroni in salted water until tender, 
turn into a colander and rinse with cold water ; 
let stand to drain, then cut in two-inch lengths. 
Hard boil 2 eggs and heat ^ cupful of brown 
sauce or gravy. Mix this with the spinach and 
season well. In a deep, buttered dish put alter- 
nate layers of the macaroni, spinach, chopped 
eggs and grated cheese until the dish is filled. 
Have cheese on top, dot with bits of butter and 
bake in a hot oven until browned. 

Squash PufTs 
Press dry cooked squash through a sieve ; to 
each cupful add 2 tablespoonfuls of melted but- 
ter, 4 tablespoonfuls of milk, salt and pepper to 
taste, 2 beaten egg yolks. When well beaten 
fold in carefully the 2 whites stiffly beaten. Turn 
into buttered cups or molds, stand in a pan of 
hot water, place in a moderate oven until firm in 
the center. Turn out carefully and serve with a 
good white sauce. 

Stuffed Squash k la Creole 
Use I or more crookneck or patty pan 
squashes. Cut out a piece at the stem end and 



VEGETABLES 97 

carefully remove seeds and central soft pulp. 
Dry some sliced bread very thoroughly in the 
oven, then put it through the food chopper. 
Make an estimate of the quantity of filling 
needed to stuff the squash ; then for each cupful 
of bread crumbs allow y^ cupful of chopped firm 
tomato (watery juice discarded), i tablespoonful 
of chopped onion, 2 tablespoonfuls of chopped 
sweet red pepper, a scant % teaspoonful of salt, 
2 dashes of cayenne, i heaping tablespoonful of 
chopped boiled ham and 2 tablespoonfuls of 
melted butter. Lightly fill the squash with this, 
pin on the covers and steam until very tender. 
Cut in slices and serve with a savory tomato 
sauce. 

Tomatoes Portugaise 
Peel and thinly slice 2 mild onions. Peel and 
cut into quarters i quart of small firm tomatoes. 
Put together in a saucepan, cover and cook 
slowly for twenty minutes, shaking occasionally 
to prevent sticking. Add i pint of thickened 
beef gravy and a high seasoning of salt and pep- 
per. Cook fifteen minutes longer, add i pint of 
hot boiled rice, stir carefully for a moment and 
send to the table with an extra bowl of the gravy. 

Tomato Curry 
Tomato curry may be a new idea to some — it 
certainly is a tasty dish. Scald, skin and cut 



98 LOW COST RECIPES 

fine 4 large tomatoes ; finely chop i small onion 
and I tart apple. Fry the onion in i teaspoonful 
of butter, add the apple and cook for five min- 
utes. Pour over enough stock to cover, stir in 
the tomatoes, i teaspoonful of lemon juice or 
vinegar, i small teaspoonful of curry powder and 
salt to taste. Heat to the simmering point, add 
Yz cupful of well washed rice and cook until the 
moisture is barely absorbed, then stir in i table- 
spoonful of butter. 

Tomatoes Lyonnaise 
Peel J^ dozen firm tomatoes of medium size 
and cut into eighths. Peel and chop rather 
coarsely 2 Bermuda onions or use i small Span- 
ish onion. Put the latter in a frying-pan with i 
large tablespoonful of butter and cook very 
slowly, stirring occasionally, until the onion be- 
gins to change color. Add the tomatoes and a 
high seasoning of salt and pepper ; draw the pan 
forward and cook more rapidly for about twenty 
minutes or until the tomatoes are quite tender. 
Add y^ cupful of strong beef stock and simmer 
for five minutes longer. Sprinkle in i table- 
spoonful of finely chopped parsley and turn into 
a serving dish. 

Tomatoes Stuffed with Macaroni 
Cut off the stem ends of solid tomatoes and 
with a spoon carefully remove the seeds. Cut 



VEGETABLES 99 

the macaroni in very small pieces, season it with 
salt, pepper and onion juice, and fill the cavities. 
Lay a bit of butter on each and bake thirty min- 
utes in a quick oven. 

Tomato Toast 
Stew j4 oi a. can of tomatoes, i clove, a sprig 
of parsley, a slice of onion, J^ of a cupful of 
water and salt and pepper to taste for twenty 
minutes, then press through a sieve. Return to 
the fire, thicken with i scant tablespoonful of 
corn-starch or i tablespoonful of flour dissolved 
in a littie cold water, and simmer for five min- 
utes. Have ready a number of slices of toasted 
bread. Spread on a platter, pour the tomato 
over them, cover for a moment or set in a cool 
oven that the toast may soak and swell, and 
serve, Nice for lunch or a hot supper 

Tomatoes on Toast, Indian Style 
Cut a number of half-inch slices of stale bread 
and stamp into rounds with a biscuit cutter. 
Saute them a pale brown on both sides in a little 
hot butter and drain on unglazed paper. Select 
large firm tomatoes and cut into thick slices, al- 
lowing 2 for each slice of bread. Open a good 
sized green pepper, remove seeds and veins and 
shave into strips with a sharp knife. Drop these 
into boiling water for a moment, skim out, drop 



loo LOW COST RECIPES 

into ice water for five minutes and dry in a towel. 
Wipe the sliced tomatoes dry, flour thoroughly 
and fry quickly a golden brown in butter. Lay 
a slice on each piece of bread, dust with a little 
salt, sprinkle with some of the prepared strips of 
pepper, cover with a second slice of tomato. 
Have I or 2 yolks of hard-boiled eggs in a potato 
masher, press a little over the top of each and 
put a circle of finely chopped parsley round the 
edge. Serve at once on a heated dish. 

Vegetable Stew 
Parboil 2 pared potatoes, i turnip, i carrot 
and I onion. Drain and cut in half inch dice. 
Chop fine 2 square inches of fat salt pork, put in 
a kettle and cook slowly until well tried out. 
Skim out the pork fragments, stir in i table- 
spoonful of flour and brown slightly then gradu- 
ally add I pint of good beef stock or, failing that, 
boiling water. Season well with salt and pep- 
per, add the diced vegetables with i cupful each 
of shelled peas, lima beans and corn cut from 
the cob. Simmer together until all are tender, 
add a little chopped parsley and serve. 

Vegetable Croquettes 
Prepare for this dish a day in advance by 
cooking extra quantities of vegetables. Boil 
and mash some potatoes. For i pint add i cup- 



VEGETABLES loi 

ful each of chopped boiled carrots and beets, 
green peas, a high seasoning of salt and pepper, 
2 tablespoonfuls of grated onion, 2 tablespoon- 
fuls of melted butter and i tablespoonful of 
chopped parsley. Mold into small croquettes. 
Dip each into slightly beaten egg, roll in fine 
dry bread crumbs and fry golden brown in deep, 
smoking hot fat 

Chupe 
Melt I tablespoonful of butter and fry in it i 
medium sized onion minced with 2 tomatoes, 
some minced parsley and marjoram ; add to this 
6 potatoes pared and sliced and stew for five 
minutes ; cover with hot water and add 2 table- 
spoonfuls of rice ; when both are tender beat i 
egg, add to it i cupful of milk and stir both into 
the stew just before serving; lastly, crumble in 
I small cream cheese. 



SALADS 

White Mayonnaise Without Oil 
Put the yolks of 2 raw eggs, i tablespoonful 
of butter, a dash of cayenne, and J^ teaspoonful 
of salt in a saucepan and stand in another pan 
partly filled with hot water over the fire. Stir 
continuously, and when it begins to thicken draw 
to one side and add by degrees 2 more table- 
spoonfuls of butter. When all have been in- 
corporated and the mixture is thick and smooth, 
take off and strain into a bowl. When ready to 
use stir in 4 tablespoonfuls of very thick whipped 
cream. 

Mayonnaise Without Oil 
In a saucepan put i salt-spoonful of ground 
mustard, ^ of a teaspoonful of salt, % oia tea- 
spoonful of white pepper or a dash of cayenne, 
^ of a cupful of vinegar and i tablespoonful of 
butter ; set over the fire where it will heat with- 
out boiling. Into a double boiler drop 2 large or 
3 small eggs ; beat them just enough to mix and 
add I large tablespoonful of butter cut into bits. 
Stir until the egg is slightly warmed and the 
butter begins to melt, then add gradually the 
vinegar mixture, stirring all the time. Continue 



SALADS 103 

th^ stirring until the mixture thickens. During 
the thickening process the upper boiler should be 
lifted from the fire a number of times, as if it 
thickens too rapidly it is almost sure to curdle. 
When properly made it is very thick and creamy, 
and if strained into a glass jar, covered and set in 
a cool place it may be kept for two weeks or more. 

French Dressing 
In a bowl or saucer put 4 tablespoonfuls of 
olive oil, j4 ol a. teaspoonful of salt and a little 
white pepper or a dash of cayenne. Stir for a 
moment to partially dissolve the salt, then add 
slowly, stirring all the time, i tablespoonful of 
lemon juice or vinegar ; the latter may be plain 
or flavored with tarragon or other herb. When 
the mixture is well blended, it will be slightly 
thickened and have a grayish appearance. Use 
at once, as it quickly separates. 

Fish Salad 
Separate into small pieces or flakes }^ pound 
of cold fish, slice an equal quantity of cold cooked 
potato, chop 2 gherkins fine ; mix well and season 
with chopped parsley, salt and pepper. Place in 
a dish and cover with mayonnaise dressing. 

Rice Salad 
To 2 cupfuls of cold boiled rice take i cupful 
of finely diced deep red beets and i cupful of 



I04 LOW COST RECIPES 

chopped or cut celery. Do not mix together 
until just before serving, then combine with a 
French dressing and serve in cups made of 
lettuce leaves. 

Tasty Salad 

Wash, then soak in cold water, the inside 
leaves of tender lettuce, drain it, dry it on a nap- 
kin and arrange it tastefully on a flat dish ; make 
a salad by slicing 2 bananas, 12 white grapes, 
I stalk of celery and 24 peanuts, or any pre- 
ferred kind of nut ; mix well and spread it on the 
leaves, then cover it with mayonnaise or French 
dressing ; serve with salted wafers and neufchatel 
cheese, ice cold. 

Hot Egg Salad 

Into a small saucepan put i tablespoonful of 
olive oil and set over the fire. When very hot 
break into it 3 fresh eggs ; as they begin to set 
stir them slightly so as to partially mix the yolks 
and whites and yet have them show separately. 
When firm turn out on a dish, garnish with 
chopped pickles and a little freshly grated lemon 
peel and serve at once with a French dressing. 

Hot Potato Salad 
Cut into dices sufificient bacon to measure ^ 
of a cupful and fry slowly until lightly colored. 



SALAua 105 

Skim out the bacon and in the fat fry 2 table- 
spqonfuls of chopped onion ; as it begins to color 
add 3 tablespoonfuls of vinegar, a dash of salt 
and cayenne and 2 tablespoonfuls of beef broth 
or liot water. Have ready 3 pints of hot diced 
boiled potatoes, pour over them the hot dress- 
ing, add the bits of bacon, toss for a moment 
and turn into the salad bowl. 

Ham Salad in Potato Nests 
Mince i cupful of boiled or fried ham, 4 hard- 
boiled eggs (boil at least twenty minutes), i tea- 
spoonful of celery seed, i of mustard, i spoonful 
of Worcestershire sauce, 2 green peppers. Make 
nests of cold mashed potatoes, fill with ham heap- 
ing high, dress with mayonnaise and minced 
parsley or lettuce. 

Ham Salad 
This forms a luncheon dish a little out of the 
ordinary. To i cupful of minced ham add 2 
hard-boiled eggs previously chopped fine, saving 
the yolk of one for sprinkling over the top of 
dish. A tiny pinch of mustard or whatever 
flavoring is preferred is added and the whole 
moistened with vinegar and a very little onion 
juice. Edge the salad bowl with lettuce leaves, 
turn the mixture into it and sprinkle the yolk of 
one of the hard-boiled eggs over the top in spots. 



io6 LOW COST RECIPES 

This may be served on individual dishes as an 
entree by placing a large spoonful on a lettuce 
leaf and adding a spoonful of made dressing in 
the center. 

Whole Tomato Salad 

For each guest, wash and dry i nice solid 
tomato, cut a slice from the stem end, remove the 
pulp with the fingers ; chop fine some pineapple, 
orange, banana, or any variety of fruit, fresh or 
canned, and i small sweet green pepper ; mix the 
fruit, and fill it into the tomato ; on top of this 
(if the flavor is liked) put 2 slices of cucumber, 
placing them on the ice until thoroughly chilled ; 
at serving time place each tomato on a lettuce 
leaf, cover the top with rich cream, French, or 
mayonnaise dressing; serve with unsweetened 
crackers as an accompaniment. 

Nantese Salad 

Peel 3 medium sized Spanish onions, scoop out 
I teaspoonful of the center of each and put in the 
hollow a bit of butter sufficient to half fill it. 
Add a slight seasoning of pepper and salt, place 
in a baking pan and bake in a 'moderate oven 
until they are brown. When cold cut into 
quarters and place on a bed of watercress. 
Skin and bone 6 sardines, cut into halves and 
lay on the pieces of onion. Pour over some 



SALADS 107 

mayonnaise, to i cupful of which one teaspoonful 
of curry powder has been added. 

Marguerite or Daisy Salad 
Take just as many hard-boiled eggs as there 
are persons to be served. Remove the yolks 
and mash them fine with a perforated spoon, 
add salt, pepper, mustard and a litde melted but- 
ter, mix thoroughly. Lay a lettuce leaf on a 
salad plate and arrange the yolk on it for the 
center of the " Marguerite." Cut the whites into 
strips and lay around the edge for the petals of 
the daisy. Pour over it a mayonnaise dressing. 



CHEESE DISHES 



Italian Polenta 

The Italians appreciate the value of cheese as 
an every-day article of food and have a number 
of delightful ways of preparing it. This is an ex- 
cellent every-day dish. Make a thick mush of 
corn-meal, seasoning it highly with salt and 
plenty of black pepper. Cook over hot water 
for an hour. Then for each pint of the mush stir 
in I cupful of grated cheese, the ordinary kind 
found in any grocery store. Stir often until the 
cheese melts then turn into a greased pan. 
When done cut in slices. This may be served in 
two ways. Cut in two inch squares and saut6 
quickly in a little butter or spread on a buttered 
pan ; sprinkle thickly with cheese, add a second 
layer and sprinkle again, this time with cheese 
mixed with buttered crumbs. Place in a hot 
oven until slightly browned. 

Genoa Ramekins 

Use either individual baking dishes or one 
large shallow dish ; earthenware is in this case 



CHEESE DISHES 109 

preferable to agate or tin. Cut stale bread in 
two inch slices, freeing it from crust. Have 
ready a raw custard made with 2 eggs, a pinch 
of salt and dash of pepper to each pint of milk ; 
also have some grated cheese. Lay the bread on 
a platter and pour over it the custard, basting 
until as much liquid as possible has been absorbed. 
Transfer carefully to the buttered dishes, fitting 
them in nicely. Cover the top of each piece 
with an inch layer of grated cheese, dusting it 
with a very little salt and pepper. Place in a 
slow oven until the custard sets and cheese 
melts ; it may be necessary to cover for a part of 
the time if the oven is hot. This dish may be 
made still more nutritious by scooping a slight 
hollow in the center of each piece of soaked 
bread (when in the dish), dropping in i raw egg 
then covering with the cheese. This is delight- 
ful. 

Cheese Toast 

Allow as many thin slices of stale bread as 
will be used at the meal. For 6 slices allow j4 
cupful of grated stale cheese. In a saucepan 
melt and mix together i large tablespoonful of 
butter, 2 tablespoonfuls of flour, % teaspoonf ul of 
salt and a dash of pepper. Stir in gradually i 
pint of hot milk, making a smooth sauce. Keep 
hot at the side of the fire. Toast the bread 



no LOW COST RECIPES 

nicely. Stir the cheese into the sauce and as 
soon as it is melted pour over the buttered toast. 
Cover a moment that it may soak and soften then 
serve. 

Cheese Timbales 

Butter some timbale molds ; roll out some 
pastry and line the molds. Put into a saucepan 
I tablespoonful of butter with i tablespoonful of 
flour, mix till smooth over the fire ; add y^ cup- 
ful of milk ; stir till they boil ; cook five minutes ; 
then add i heaping tablespoonful of grated 
cheese, 2 well-beaten eggs, seasoning of salt, 
pepper and cayenne ; fill the molds witii this 
and bake for twenty minutes. Turn out care- 
fully and serve hot. 

Cheese Fondue 

Sift sufficient stale bread crumbs to make i 
cupful. Grate ^ of a pound of dry cheese. 
Soak the crumbs in i pint of fresh milk. Add 
3 eggs whipped very light, i scant tablespoonful 
of butter melted, a pinch of baking-soda dissolved 
in a few drops of warm water, salt and pepper 
to taste and the grated cheese. Pour this into a 
buttered baking dish, sprinkle thickly with dry 
crumbs and bake in a quick oven until golden 
brown. Serve at once as it soon falls. 



CHEESE DISHES iii 

Cheese Puff 
Make a smooth batter by stirring i cupful of 
milk into an equal measure of sifted flour ; season 
with salt and pepper and the least dash of sugar ; 
stir into this }i oi a cupful of strong, well flavored 
grated cheese, beat thoroughly and pour into a 
buttered baking dish. It will puff to three times 
its height in baking and must be eaten at once. 

Cheese Pudding 
Mix together in a basin }4 pound of grated 
cheese, i teaspoonful of flour, salt and pepper to 
taste, I tablespoonful of bread crumbs ; then add 
I cupful of boiling milk, i heaping teaspoonful 
of butter, the yolks of 2 eggs, and the whites well 
beaten. Mix gently ; pour into a buttered baking 
dish, and bake for twenty minutes in a moderate 
oven. Serve hot. 

Cheese Batter Pudding 
Beat 2 eggs well together, add i cupful of 
milk, j4 teaspoonful of salt, i teaspoonful of 
baking-powder and i cupful of flour. Beat hard 
for three minutes then stir in i cupful of grated 
cheese. Pour into a shallow buttered pan, sprin- 
kle a little more cheese over the top, add i large 
teaspoonful of butter cut into bits and bake for 
an hour in a hot oven. Serve for luncheon or 
supper. 



112 LOW COST RECIPES 

Cheese and Cracker Pudding 
Fill a shallow pudding dish with alternate 
layers of broken crackers, grated cheese and a 
sprinkling of salt and pepper. Over the top 
layer put i spoonful of butter in bits. Pour in 
enough milk .to just show under the top layer. 
Cover and bake in a moderate oven for three- 
quarters of an hour, uncovering when two-thirds 
done. 

Baked Cheese Omelet 

Soak I scant cupful of fine stale bread crumbs 
in I pint of milk to which has been added i salt- 
spoonful of baking-soda dissolved in i teaspoon- 
ful of hot water. When thoroughly soaked add 
2 eggs beaten until very light, J{ of a teaspoon- 
ful of salt, one dash of cayenne, i scant cupful of 
grated cheese and i tablespoonful of melted but- 
ter. Turn quickly into a greased baking dish 
and place in a very hot oven. Serve as soon as 
it is well puffed up and pale brown, as it quickly 
falls. 

Cheese Balls 

Beat the whites of 2 eggs to a stiff frbth, add 
a pinch of salt and a few grains of cayenne pep- 
per, then add 2 tablespoonfuls of grated cheese, 
mixing all thoroughly. It should be quite a dry 
paste. Roll this mixture into small balls ; brush 



CHEESE DISHES. 113 

over with beaten egg, roll in fine bread crumbs 
and fry to a golden color in smoking hot fat, 
drain on white paper and serve at once on a 
folded napkin. 

Cheese Straws 
Cheese straws are particularly nice, and look 
very dainty. To make them have 3 ounces of 
grated cheese, 2 ounces of flour, 2 tablespoonfuls 
of butter, the yolk of i egg and a seasoning of 
salt and pepper. Rub all the dry ingredients 
together, then add the yolk and mix to a paste ; 
turn out on a floured baking board, roll out very 
thinly ; cut part of the paste into neat strips about 
3 inches long and the rest into rings. Bake on 
a greased tin until yellow and crisp in a moderate 
oven, and serve piled high, the straws being laid 
into the rings. They may be eaten hot or cold. 

Deviled Crackers 
Mix together 3 tablespoonfuls of grated cheese, 
Ji( of a teaspoonful of dry mustard, i teaspoonful 
of anchovy paste, a dash of cayenne and i salt- 
spoonful of salt. Blend this with i heaping table- 
spoonful' of butter, spread over the crackers and 
put in a hot oven until they begin to color. 



BREADS, BISCUITS, WAFFLES, GRID- 
DLE CAKES, ETC. 



Corn Bread 
Those who like corn-meal will find this a 
simple recipe. Put i pint of fine corn-meal, i tea- 
spoonful of salt and i heaping tablespoonful of 
shortening in a bowl. Pour over just enough 
boiling water to moisten, cover and let stand 
until blood warm. Add 2 beaten eggs, i cupful 
of milk and enough sifted flour to make a thin 
batter. Stir in i heaping teaspoonful of bak- 
ing-powder, beat hard and pour a 'scant inch 
thick in a well-greased pan. Bake about twenty- 
five minutes in a hot oven. 

Com Bread with Sour Milk 
One cupful of sour milk, i cupful of sweet 
milk, 2 cupfuls of corn-meal, i cupful of flour, J^ 
cupful of sugar, i^ tablespoonfuls of melted but- 
ter or lard, i teaspoonful of salt, i teaspoonful of 
soda, 2 eggs. Add butter to milk, then the 
sugar, salt, soda, eggs, flour and meal. Beat 
quickly and well. Bake half an hour in a very 
hot oven. 



BREADS, BISCUITS, ETC. 115 

Virginia Corn Bread 
Dissolve I tablespoonful of butter in 3J5^ pints 
of boiling milk ; stir in i quart of corn-meal ; 
when cool add ^ pint of wheat flour, i teaspoon- 
ful of sugar, i teaspoonful of salt and 2 eggs 
well beaten ; mix well together and bake in two 
cakes. The tins must be well buttered. 

Corn-Meal Dodgers 
Mix together i quart of corn-meal and i tea- 
spoonful of salt then rub in i J^ tablespoonfuls of 
shortening, working it in thoroughly with the 
hands. Slowly add just sufficient boiling water 
to make a stiff paste which can be molded. Make 
into thick pats, place an inch apart on greased 
pans and bake in a quick oven until crisply 
browned. 

Carolina Corn-Meal Rolls 
Mix I pint of finely ground white corn-meal 
and I scant tablespoonful of salt. Drop in J^ of 
a tablespoonful of butter and pour over sufficient 
boiling water to make a very stiff dough. As 
soon as it can be handled, work it well with the 
hands, make up into oblong rolls and lay in a 
pan thickly sprinkled with dry corn-meal. Bake 
from half to three-quarters of an hour in a hot 
oven. When well made they will split open on 
top during the baking. 



ii6 LOW COST RECIPES 

Rhode Island Johnny Cake 
Use white, soft ground meal, not the usual 
granulated variety. For each cupful add J^ of a 
teaspoonful of salt. Dampen with boiling water, 
using only enough to barely moisten. Cover and 
let stand for ten or fifteen minutes, then grad- 
ually add cold milk, enough to make a thick 
batter which will hold its shape when dropped. 
Drop by spoonfuls on a hot griddle which has 
been greased with salt pork fat. When brown 
put a bit of butter on the top of each and turn 
over. When the second side is nicely browned 
transfer to a pan and stand in the oven for about 
five minutes. 

Spider Corn Cake 
When one possesses an old-fashioned, heavy 
iron frying-pan or spider it will be found just the 
thing for a spider corn cake. To make this 
breakfast bread mix together ^ of a cupful of 
fine white corn-meal, 2 tablespoonfuls of flour, Yz 
teaspoonful of salt, ^ of a teaspoonful of sifted 
baking-soda and i tablespoonful of sugar. Beat 
I egg, add to it i cupful of sour milk and % of a 
cupful of sweet milk. Stir this into the dry mix- 
ture and beat well. Have a tablespoonful of 
butter melted and warm in the spider ; turn the 
pan round that bottom and sides may be thor- 
oughly greased, then pour the remainder into the 



BREADS, BISCUITS, ETC. 117 

batter and beat again. Pour the batter into the 
hot pan and shake to level it, then very gently 
pour over the top another J^ cupful of sweet 
milk. Do not attempt to stir it in but place 
quickly in a hot oven and bake for about twenty 
minutes. 

Baps 
Sift 4 pounds of flour into a basin, melt 4 
ounces of butter in ij4 pints of sweet milk, make 
a space in the center of the flour and pour in the 
milk, add i teacupful of fresh yeast, mix and stir 
well, then add i dessert-spoonful of salt, and 2 
well-beaten eggs and stir them well into flour and 
let stand in a warm place for six hours. Then 
beat it up one way with your hand for fifteen 
minutes and form the rolls with as little flour as 
possible. You may put this dough in small pans 
or form into round rolls, bake them in a hot oven 
for twenty minutes, and brush them over with a 
little water when you take them out of the oven. 

Southern Rice Bread 
Put 2 cupfuls of boiled rice in a bowl, add 2 
cupfuls of milk and the well-beaten yolks of 4 
eggs. Sift in gradually i cupful of flour, add }4 
of a teaspoonful of salt, 2 tablespoonfuls of butter 
melted, and the whites of the eggs whipped to a 
stiff froth. Turn into a shallow well-greased pan 
and bake for thirty minutes in a moderate oven. 



ii8 LOW COST RECIPES 

Johnny Cake 

Scald I pint of milk in a double boiler. Sift 
in ^ of a cupful of corn-meal which has been 
mixed with i Y^ teaspoonfuls of salt. Stir until 
just thick enough to be creamy, not at all thick 
or stiff, then take off quickly. Drop in the 
beaten yolks of 4 eggs, beating hard. Add the 
stiffly beaten whites, turn instantly into a shallow 
well-greased pan and bake about half an hour in 
a hot oven. 

Buttermilk Bread 

Use buttermilk which is not too sour. Heat 
I quart of it to the boiling point, stirring fre- 
quently to prevent curdling. Add i tablespoon- 
ful of sugar, set aside for five minutes and mix 
gradually with i quart of sifted flour, beating 
and stirring until a smooth batter is made. 
Cover closely and let stand over night. Then 
add to the batter i teaspoonful of baking-soda 
dissolved in J^ of a cupful of hot water, i scant 
tablespoonful of salt and 2 tablespoonfuls of 
melted butter or shortening. Beat well, then 
gradually sift and mix in sufficient flour to make 
a soft dough. Turn out on a well-floured board 
and knead until very soft and velvety to the 
touch. Divide into thirds, mold into loaves, 
place in greased pans and bake at once in a 
moderate oven. 



BREADS, BISCUITS, ETC. 119 

Southern Hominy Bread 
Measure and cook i cupful of fine hominy. 
When tender take from the fire and let stand for 
ten minutes, then add 2 well-beaten eggs, i 
tablespoonful of butter, i cupful of milk, ^ of a 
teaspoonful of salt, and 2 tablespoonfuls of fine 
corn-meal. Pour into a well-buttered earthen 
dish and bake in a hot oven in a good bottom 
heat. Send to the table in the dish in which it 
is baked, serving with a spoon. 

Southern Egg Bread 
Three pints of soft ground white meal, i pint 
of buttermilk, 2 eggs, i scant teacupful of lard, 
I teaspoonful of soda, J^ of a teaspoonful of salt 
and some sweet milk. Put the buttermilk in a 
bowl, add the soda, and when it foams up stir in 
the meal, the beaten eggs, salt and sufficient 
milk or cream to make a rather thin batter ; last 
of all stir in the melted shortening. Beat hard 
for a moment, pour into hissing hot, well-greased 
pans and bake quickly in a hot oven. This is 
an old time Georgia recipe. 

Sour Milk Griddle Cakes 
Beat 2 eggs very light without separating, and 
add to them 2 cupfuls of thick sour milk, to 
which has been added i teaspoonful of soda dis- 
solved in I spoonful of boiling water. Stir in 



I20 LOW COST RECIPES 

quickly }4 oia teaspopnful of salt, i iablespoon- 
ful of molasses and i tablespoon^ul of melted 
butter. Beat hard for a momei^t and bake at 
once. Unless the milk is very sour and the 
chemical action of the soda on it marked by a 
thorough foaming, it is well to add }4 oia. tea- 
spoonful of baking-powder in order to overcome 
any tendency to heaviness. 

Bread Griddle Cakes 
Put stale bread througli the food chopper un- 
til I pint of crumbs has been obtained. Add 
enough cold water to just moisten them, and let 
stand for a little while. Then add i egg, 2 cup- 
fuls of sour milk, 2 teaspoonfuls of soda and flour 
enough to thicken. Serve with maple syrup. 

Green Corn Griddle Cakes 
One pint of grated corn, }4 cupful of milk, j4 
cupful of flour, I scant tablespoonful of melted 
butter, 2 eggs, }{ teaspoonful of salt, a dash of 
pepper. Beat the yolks and whites of the eggs 
separately, add the yolks to the corn, then the 
milk, flour and seasoning ; beat well and stir in 
the whipped whites. Bake on a hot griddle. 

Slappers 
" Slappers " or " slap-jacks " are the old-fash- 
ioned Indian cakes baked on a griddle. To 
make them, put in a bowl the night before i pint 



BREADS, BISCUITS, ETC. 121 

of soft corn-meal, i teaspoonful of salt and i 
tablespoonful of butter. Pour over just enough 
boiling water from the kettle to moisten, stirring 
until every grain of the meal is wet, but not 
sloppy. Cover closely and let stand near the 
fire over night. In the morning add 3 well- 
beaten eggs, I cupful of sifted flour, 2 scant tea- 
spoonfuls of baking-powder and enough cold 
milk to mix all to a very thick batter. Put by 
spoonfuls on a moderately hot greased griddle 
and when browned turn and brown on the other 
side. They will take about ten minutes to cook 
through. 

Parsnip Pancakes 

Scrape and boil enough parsnips to'measure 
3 cupfuls when mashed. Stir into this pulp i 
quart of scalded milk; add i tablespoonful of 
butter and i heaping teaspoonful of salt and let 
stand until blood warm. Add i yeast cake dis- 
solved in a little warm water and sufficient sifted 
flour to make a batter. Beat well, cover and set 
aside in a warm place to rise. When doubled 
in bulk, add flour to make a soft dough ; knead 
for five minutes and again put aside to lighten. 
Roll out in thin, flat cakes; let stand on the 
board until they begin to swell, then place on a 
greased pan and fry quickly, or bake on a griddle 
in the same manner as English muffins. 



122 LOW COST RECIPES 

Pop Overs 
One egg, white and yolk beaten separately, i 
cupful of milk, i cupful of flour, a pinch of salt. 
Mix salt and flour ; add milk gradu9.11y, in order 
to obtain a smooth batter. Add egg beaten un- 
til light ; beat two minutes, turn into hissing hot, 
iron, greased gem pans. Bake ^irty minutes in 
a hot oven. 

Oatmeal Scones 
To I cupful of well cooked oatmeal add i cup- 
ful of milk, stirring until thoroughly mixed. 
Then add a pinch of salt, 2 teaspoonfuls of sugar, 
I tablespoonful of melted butter and i cupful of 
flour mixed with 2 teaspoonfuls of baking-powder. 
Now add as much more flour as is necessary to 
make a soft dough. Roll out an inch thick and 
cut in rounds or squares. Bake on a well- 
greased griddle. Serve with butter and orange 
marmalade. 

Hermits 
One-third cupful of butter, ^ cupful of sugar, 
I egg, 2 tablespoonfuls of water, i teaspoonful of 
condensed milk, 1 5^ cupfuls of flour, 2 teaspoon- 
fuls of baking-powder, }^ cupful of raisins, stoned 
and cut in pieces ; i teaspoonful of cinnamon, 5^ 
teaspoonful each of clove, mace and nutmeg. 
Cream the butter, add sugar gradually, then egg 
well beaten and milk. Mix and sift dry ingre- 



BREADS, BISCUITS, ETC. 123 

dients ; add to first mixture ; add raisins well 
floured. Roll thin, cut out and bake in moderate 
oven until brown. 

Drop Biscuit 
Into I quart of sifted flour mix ^ of a tea- 
spoonful of salt, I teaspoonful of sugar and 2 
teaspoonfuls of baking-powder and sift again, 
then rub in i heaping tablespoonful of butter or 
lard. Mix with sweet milk to a very thick drop 
batter, almost like a soft dough. Drop by spoon- 
fuls on a buttered pan and bake in a quick oven. 

Parker House Rolls 
Two cupfuls of scalded milk, 3 tablespoonfuls 
of butter or lard, 2 tablespoonfuls of sugar, i tea- 
spoonful of salt, I yeast cake dissolved in J^ cup- 
ful of lukewarm water, flour enough to make 
batter, about 3 cupfuls. Add butter, sugar, salt 
to milk ; when lukewarm add dissolved yeast 
cake and flour. Beat thoroughly, cover and let 
raise until light. Cut down, add enough flour to 
knead. Let raise again. Roll out thin, cut with 
large biscuit cutter, brush the tops with melted 
butter, fold over, let raise again and bake in hot 
oven twelve to fifteen minutes. 

Hominy Crumpets 
Scald and cool i pint of milk, add ^ of a cake 
of compressed yeast dissolved in 2 tablespoonfuls 



124 LOW COST RECIPES 

of warm water, i tablespoonful of sugar, i scant 
cupful of boiled hominy, 4 cupfuls of flour, 2 
tablespoonfuls of melted butter and i teaspoon- 
ful of salt. Beat well and let raise over night. 
In the morning add % oia. teaspoonful of soda 
dissolved in i spoonful of boiling water. Let 
stand for half an hour and bake in mufhn rings 
on a hot, greased griddle. 

Sour Cream Crullers 
Beat 2 eggs without separating, add i cupful 
of sugar, I teaspoonful of vanilla and % ola. tea- 
spoonful of mace or nutmeg. Sift ^ of a tea- 
spoonful of soda into i cupful of thick sour cream 
and stir until the cream feels light. Add this 
quickly to the other mixture, then sift in sufficient 
flour to make a very soft dough. Turn at once 
upon a floured board, roll out, cut in rings and 
fry quickly in deep, smoking hot fat. 

Potato Biscuit 
Boil some potatoes which have been pared the 
night before. When done put through the ricer 
into a bowl. Beat, adding to each pint 3 table- 
spoonfuls of rich sweet cream, i scant teaspoonful 
of salt and i scant tablespoonful of melted butter. 
Lightly add just enough sifted flour to make 
them hold together. Roll out quickly half an 
inch thick. Cut in small squares and bake on a 
well-greased griddle. 



BREADS, BISCUITS, ETC. 125 

Quick Potato Biscuits 
Mix and sift together i cupful of flour, i cup- 
ful of corn-starch, i teaspoonful of salt, and 2 
teaspoonfuls of baking-powder. Have ready 4 
large hot boiled potatoes. Peel and put them 
through a potato press, adding 2 cupfuls of milk 
and 2 well-beaten eggs. Stir into this the dry 
mixture, adding as much more sifted flour as 
may be necessary to make a soft dough. Turn 
out on the board, roll, cut in small thin rounds, 
brush the tops with milk, and bake in a quick 
oven. 

Potato Tea Cakes 

Boil, skin and press through a sieve 4 large 
mealy potatoes. Add 2 well-beaten eggs and i 
teaspoonful of salt then stir in i pint of milk. 
Sift together i cupful of flour, i cupful of corn- 
starch and 2 teaspoonfuls of baking-powder. 
Add to the potato mixture then stir in as much 
additional flour as may be necessary to mix to a 
soft dough. Roll out on a board, cut into round 
cakes and bake in a quick oven. 

Fruit Muffins 
Fruit muffins make a good variation as a hot 
bread. Beat thoroughly 2 eggs ; add i ^ cupfuls 
of milk, Yi teaspoonful of salt, i teaspoonful of 
sugar, 2 tablespoonfuls of melted butter and suffi- 
cient flour to make a thick drop batter. Beat 



126 LOW COST RECIPES 

hard for fully three minutes, then stir in i tea- 
spoonful of sifted baking-powder and J^ of a cup- 
ful of sultanas, seeded raisins, dates, pitted and 
cut fine or shredded figs. Fill buttered muffin 
pans and bake half an hour in a quick oven. 
By using various kinds of fruit as suggested and 
substituting all or part graham or whole wheat 
for the white flour the result will be a variety 
which will be sure to delight the family. 

Corn-Meal MufHns 
Mix together i pint of flour, i cupful of fine 
corn-meal and ^ of a teaspoonful of salt. Cream 
together 2 tablespoonfuls of butter and ^ of a 
cupful of sugar, add 2 well-beaten eggs, then, 
alternately, i cupful of milk and the dry ingre- 
dients. Lastly beat in 2 teaspoonfuls of baking- 
powder and fill greased muffin pans two-thirds 
full. Bake in a quick oven. 

Rye Muffins 
Sift together 3 cupfuls of rye flour, i cupful of 
corn-meal, i teaspoonful each of salt and sugar 
and 2 teaspoonfuls of baking-powder. In i cup- 
ful of boiling water melt i scant tablespoonful of 
butter, add to it 3 cupfuls of cold milk and stir 
into the dry mixture. Last add 4 well-beaten 
eggs, beat hard and fill greased muffin tins two- 
thirds full. Bake half an hour in a hot oven. 



BREADS, BISCUITS, ETC. ray 

Hominy Muffins 
Break up fine with a fork i cupful of cold 
boiled hominy, add ^ of a teaspoonful of salt, 2 
teaspoonfuls of sugar, 2 well-beaten eggs, 2 tea- 
spoonfuls of melted butter, ^ of a cupful of 
milk, I cupful of corn-meal and i teaspoonful of 
baking-powder. Bake in muffin cups in a very 
hot oven. 

Plain Waffles 

Sift together 2 heaping cupfuls of flour, %o{ a. 
teaspoonful of salt and ^ of a teaspoonful of 
baking-powder. Add the beaten yolks of 2 eggs 
mixed with i scant cupful of milk and 3 table- 
spoonfuls of melted butter ; lastly the whites 
whipped to a stiff froth. Have the waffle iron 
very hot. Brush both sides with melted butter 
or lard, half fill with the batter, close and bake. 

Hominy 'Waffles 

To I cupful of boiled hominy freed from lumps 
add I pint of milk which has been scalded and 
cooled, I tablespoonful of butter, ^ of a tea- 
spoonful of salt, I tablespoonful of sugar, i pint 
of flour and J^ of a cake of compressed yeast dis- 
solved in a little warm water. Beat well, cover 
and let raise over night. In the morning add 2 
eggs, the whites and yolks beaten separately, and 
bake in hot, well-greased waffle irons. 



128 LOW COST RECIPES 

Sour Cream Waffles 
Sift together 1% cupfuls of flour, ^ of a 
teaspoonful of salt and }4 oi a. teaspoonful of 
baking-soda. Add the beaten yolks of 2 
eggs mixed with i cupful of thick sour cream, 
I tablespoonful of melted butter and the egg 
whites whipped to a stiff froth. Have .the 
waffle-iron heated and greased, put i table- 
spoonful of the mixture in each division, close 
and turn once more until evenly baked on both 
sides. 

Old Virginia Waffles 
Mix I quart of milk with 5^ of a cupful of flour 
and ^ of a cupful of corn-meal. Add i tea- 
spoonful of salt, I tablespoonful of melted butter, 
and 3 eggs, beaten until very light. Bake im- 
mediately in well-greased waffle irons. 

Southern Waffles 
From the mush of white corn-meal left from 
breakfast take i cupful and mix with it jE^ of a 
cupful of cream and i cupful of milk. Add the 
well-beaten yolks of 4 eggs, i scant teaspoonful 
of salt and sift in i pint of flour. Beat well, add 
3 tablespoonfuls of melted butter, the egg whites 
whipped to a stiff froth, i teaspoonful of baking- 
powder and more milk, if necessary, to reduce to 
a pour batter. Have the waffle irons hissing hot. 
Grease with melted lard, pour in sufflcient batter 



BREADS, BISCUITS, ETC. 129 

to half fill the irons and bake over a hot fire, 
turning the irons to cook both sides properly. 

Martha Washington Waffles 
Beat 6 eggs very light, stir into i quart of 
flour, add 3 cupfuls of milk, i teaspoonful of salt 
and 3 tablespoonfuls — or ^ of a cake — of yeast. 
Beat well, let raise over night, stirring down be- 
fore baking. 

Hominy Griddle Cakes 
Break fine i cupful of cold hominy, add i well- 
beaten egg, I pint of milk, ^ of a teaspoonful of 
salt, 2 teaspoonfuls of baking-powder and suffi- 
cient flour to make a drop batter. Bake at once 
on a hot greased griddle. 

Ginger Bread 
One cupful of sugar, i cupful of molasses, i 
cupful of sour milk, 2}^ cupfuls of flour, i tea- 
spoonful of soda, I egg, 3 tablespoonfuls of melted 
butter and i tablespoonful of gfinger. 

Sour Cream Gingerbread 
One cupful of sour cream, i cupful of molasses, 
j4 cupful brown sugar, i egg, i teaspoonful each 
of cinnamon and ginger, a scant }4 teaspoonful 
of cloves, j5^ teaspoonful of salt, ^ teaspoonful 
of soda sifted and dissolved in the cream, i scant 
teaspoonful of baking-powder, sifted with 4 cup- 
fuls of flour. Bake in two shallow pans. 



mCE, HOMINY, CEREALS, ETC. 



Boiled Rice 
Pick over and wash i cupful of raw rice, rub- 
bing it hard and changing the water until it runs 
off dear, then drain. Have fully 4 quarts of 
water boiling rapidly in the kettle. Add ^ tea- 
spoonful of salt and the rice and cover until it 
boils again, then partly uncover or it will boil 
over. Keep the water at a galloping boil. In 
ten minutes begin to test, lifting out a few grains 
with a fork and rubbing them between thumb 
and finger ; when tender to the center (which 
will take about twenty minutes) the rice is done. 
Turn into a colander, cover with a cloth and let 
steam in the oven for five or ten minutes. This 
may be served plain as a vegetable or with a 
sauce or cream and sugar as a dessert. 

Rice and Mutton 
Boil the rice and line sides and bottom of a 
good-sized oval mold. Fill the center with 
minced cold mutton seasoned with salt, pepper, 
onion juice, a little curry and moistened with 
gravy. Cover the top with some reserved rice 
and steam for an hour. Turn out on a platter, 



RICE, HOMINY, CEREALS, ETC. 131 

pour round it a tomato sauce and garnish with 
tiny cucumber pickles. 

Baked Rice and Cheese 
Grate or finely chop some American or 
Gruyere cheese. Butter a baking dish and fill 
it with alternate layers of boiled rice and cheese, 
seasoning well with salt and pepper. Over all 
pour a thin white sauce using only enough to 
moisten without making it very soft. Sprinkle 
the top with buttered crumbs and brown in a 
quick oven. This may be made into a main 
dinner dish by substituting a raw custard for 
the white sauce, thus adding to its nutritive 
qualities. 

Risotto 

A good risotto can be made for feast or fast 
day, according to the contents of the larder and 
the wish of the cook. Rice, of course, is the 
foundation and, after picking over i cupful, turn 
it into a kettle containing 2 tablespoonfuls of 
butter, melted and hot. Stir occasionally until 
it begins to take on a golden tinge, then add 3 
cupfuls of canned tomato which has been pressed 
through a sieve. Cover and cook slowly until 
the rice is tender and has absorbed all of the 
liquid, which will take about forty minutes. 
When half done, add salt and pepper to taste. 
If necessary to stir, use a fork in order not to 



132 LOW COST RECIPES 

break the grains. Just before taking up add i 
large tablespoonful of butter cut into bits and ^ 
of a cupful of grated cheese. If some rich broth 
is on hand, substitute it for the tomato, adding 
at the last ^ of a cupful of chopped meat in 
place of the cheese. Bits of cooked ham or a 
few tiny sausages may also be added if desired. 

Fried Rice 

Pick over and wash }4 cupful of rice, put in a 
double boiler with i pint of milk and J^ of a tea- 
spoonful of salt. Stir once or twice as the rice 
begins to swell and cook slowly until all the 
liquid is absorbed. Turn into a buttered dish or 
bowl and set away until cold. Cut in half-inch 
slices, dust with flour and fry in butter or sweet 
drippings. Left-overjJQp may also be used in 
this way. "' , - 

Creole Rice 

From 2 large ripe red peppers remove the 
veins and seeds and chop fine ; peel i large 
white onion and chop fine with J^ of a pound of 
raw, lean ham. In a kettle melt 2 tablespoonfuls 
of lard or butter, and when hot add the peppers, 
onion and ham and cook, stirring occasionally 
for ten minutes. Add i cupful of well-washed 
and drained rice and cook for five minutes 
longer, then add 3 cupfuls of strong beef soup 



RICE, HOMINY, CEREALS, ETC. 133 

or broth, cover and cook slowly for half an hour. 
Skin and cut fine 4 large tomatoes (or take about 
J^ of a can), add them to the rice with i tea- 
spoonful of salt. Cover, draw aside where the 
cooking will be slow and the rice will not stick 
to the bottom of the kettle. When it is tender 
and has absorbed all the broth, stir in with a 
fork I tablespoonful of butter and let stand for 
five minutes longer. 

Rice and Cheese Fritters 
Put I cupful of cold boiled rice in a colander 
and stand over boiling water until soft enough to 
break readily with a fork. Add to it 5^ of a 
cupful of grated mild cheese, 3 tablespoonfuls of 
milk, 2 tablespoonfuls of flour and i scant tea- 
spoonful of baking-powder. Have ready a small 
saucepan partly filled with smoking hot fat. 
Drop in ^ teaspoonful as a tester ; if it holds^its 
shape the batter is all right ; if it spreads and 
absorbs the fat, add a little more flour. Cook 
by small spoonfuls — ^two or three at a time ; after 
cooking each lot give the fat a few minutes in 
which to regain its first heat. Drain the fritters 
on soft paper, and keep hot until all are cooked. 

Rice Croquettes 
Wash I cupful of picked rice and drain. Put 
in a double boiler with i pint of clear veal stock 



134 LOW COST RECIPES 

and cook until the liqiiid has been absorbed. In 
the meantime cook together for fifteen minutes 
2>^ cupfuls of canned tomatoes, i onion chopped 
fine, 6 cloves, i bay leaf, i dozen peppercorns 
and I teaspoonful of salt. Rub through a sieve, 
add to the rice and continue cooking, stirring 
lightly now and then with a fork, until it is swollen 
and no free liquid remains. Add 2 tablespoon- 
fuls of butter cut in bits and cook for ten minutes 
longer, then stir in more seasoning if necessary, 
I heaping tablespoonful of chopped parsley and 
I well-beaten egg, turn out and cool. Form into 
croquettes, egg, crumb and fry in deep, smoking 
hot fat. 

Boiled Hominy 

Put I large cupful of hominy into 3 cupfuls of 
boiling water, add }4 teaspoonful of salt, stir until 
the hominy boils, then set on the back of the 
stove, closely covered, to simmer for four or five 
hours. Use a vessel set upon a stand so that 
the hominy will not burn. This quantity can be 
increased and the hominy kept for several days, 
warming each day as much as required. 

Hominy Loaves 

Cold boiled hominy will make a good dinner 
dish. To each pint add 2 tablespoonfuls of 
melted butter mashing until free from lumps. 



RICE, HOMINY, CEREALS, ETC. 135 

Season well with salt and pepper and, if still stiff, 
use just enough milk to mold into small oval 
loaves or pats. Place these an inch apart on 
buttered pans, brush with i beaten egg, dust 
with grated cheese and brown in a quick oven. 
Serve as a vegetable. 

Hominy Fritters 

Sift together i cupful of flour, i teaspoonful of 
salt and 2 teaspoonfuls of baking-powder. Mix 
with this I pint of cold boiled hominy, using a 
fork to break the latter fine. Add i well-beaten 
egg and sufficient milk to make a very thick 
batter. Drop by spoonfuls into a kettle partly 
filled with smoking hot fat. Turn as they rise, 
and when golden brown all over skim out and 
drain on unglazed paper. 

Jonathan 

Into I pint of hot, boiled hominy stir i table- 
spoonful of butter, salt and pepper to taste, and 
I beaten egg. Pack in a mold and set aside. 
When cold, cut into thin slices. Arrange in a 
buttered dish, sprinkling between each layer 
some grated cheese and a few drops of tomato 
catsup. Over the top spread ^ of a cupful of 
fine stale bread crumbs, mixed with 2 tablespoon- 
fuls of melted butter, and place in a hot oven 



136 LOW COST RECIPES 

for twenty minutes. Serve for luncheon or as a 
vegetable. 

Steamed Oatmeal 

Mix % pint of coarse oatmeal with i tea- 
spoonful of salt and i quart of boiling water. 
Place the dish directly over the fire and boil 
rapidly for five to eight minutes, stirring occa- 
sionally with a fork. Place the dish in a steamer 
and steam for one hour; if the meal is very 
coarse a little longer time may be required. 

Molded Farina 

For each ^ pint of milk allow i large table- 
spoonful of farina, a pinch of salt, i tablespoon- 
ful of sugar and i teaspoonful of flavoring. 
Scald the milk in a double boiler ; add the farina 
and stir until it has thickened nicely, then add 
salt and sugar, cover and cook half an hour. 
Take off and add flavoring. Pour into cups or 
molds which have been rinsed in cold water. 
When very cold turn out and serve with cream 
and sugar. 

Blackberry Mush, No. i 

To each quart of washed berries add J^ cupful 
of water, stew until soft and rub through a sieve. 
Measure and to each quart add i scant cupful of 
farina and J^ of a teaspoonful of salt and cook 



RICE, HOMINY, CEREALS, ETC. 137 

in a double boiler for forty-five minutes, stirring 
frequently until smoothly thickened. Pour into 
a whetted mold and serve very cold with sugar 
and cream. 

Blackberry Mush, No. 2 

Stir 2 quarts of blackberries into i ^ pints of 
water, heating slowly to boiling point. Then mix 
in gradually enough graham or entire wheat 
meal to thicken, being careful not to put too 
much in, as it will then be full of lumps. Stir in 
also I cupful of white flour, which has been 
moistened and made smooth in a little cold 
water. Cover and set where it will continue to 
cook without scorching, and let it remain ten 
minutes, stirring once or twice. Then set it back 
on the stove, where it will not cook for a few 
minutes. Pour into a mold and set away to 
cool. Serve with cream and sugar. 

Fried Mush 

If ^here is any corn-meal mush left from break- 
fast reheat and allow it to become smooth, then 
pour into a square cake tin, calculate the amount 
of mush to the size of the tin, so it will make a 
cake two inches in depth. Cover when it cools 
and set in a refrigerator. When it is needed for 
breakfast or supper, cut into squares about four 
inches in size and roll them in flour till quite dry. 



138 LOW COST RECIPES 

Drop into smoking hot fat and fry brown. Drain 
and serve hot with maple syrup. ' 

Boiled Macaroni 

Cover the desired quantity of macaroni with 
boiling water and let stand half an hour, or until 
it softens ; then drain, and put on to cook in 
equal portions of milk and water having enough 
to cover well. When it is tender and yields 
readily to pressure between the fingers, drain 
again. Dress with i cupful of hot cream, i 
tablespoonful of butter, salt and pepper to sea- 
son ; turn into a serving dish and cover thickly 
with grated cheese. 

Macaroni Rarebit 

Boil 2 ounces of macaroni until tender then drain 
well. Melt I tablespoonful of butter in a sauce- 
pan, blend with it i tablespoonful of flour, moisten 
with 4 tablespoonfuls of cream, add 4 tablespoon- 
fuls of grated cheese, % teaspoonful of mustard, 
a dash of cayenne, salt to season, and, a little at 
a time, i cupful of hot milk. When smooth, stir 
in the macaroni, mix well and serve at once. 

Macaroni a la Sorrent 

For ^ of a package of macaroni, boiled and 
rinsed, chop fine % ol a. pound of raw fat ham ; 
put it into a saucepan with 2 tablespoonfuls of 



RICE, HOMINY, CEREALS, ETC. 139 

finely chopped onion. Shake and stir frequently 
over a slow fire until cooked and slightly 
browned. Add the macaroni and i pint of 
tomato sauce, and simmer together for ten 
minutes. Turn into a heated dish and sprinkle 
with grated cheese. 

Macaroni Loaf Filled with Meat 
The macaroni is cooked until almost tender in 
salted water and then blanched in cold water 
and packed in a buttered mold, the center filled 
with minced turkey or meat warmed up in gravy. 
It is then baked for twenty-five minutes in a hot 
oven, and when unmolded is served with a brown 
sauce and sprinkled over with grated cheese. 

Macaroni v^ith White Sauce 
Boil and rinse the macaroni. Have ready J^ 
as much white sauce. Fill a greased dish with 
alternate layers of macaroni and sauce. Cover 
the top with dry bread crumbs mixed with a 
little melted butter and brown in a hot oven. 

Macaroni and Cheese , 
In a saucepan have fully 3 quarts of boiling 
salted water. Into this drop ^ package of 
macaroni broken in two-inch pieces, cover until 
at a fast boil then partly uncover and keep boiling 
hard until tender. Drain in a colander. On a 



I40 LOW COST RECIPES 

hot platter put alternate layers of the macaroni 
and grated cheese, sprinkling each layer with 
melted butter. Turn through with two forks 
and serve at once. This may be changed by 
substituting a nice meat sauce or a strained to- 
mato sauce for the butter. 

Noodles 
Beat 2 eggs without separating, add 4 table- 
spoonfuls of cold water and a pinch of salt. Stir 
in sufficient sifted bread flour to make a very stiff 
dough. Knead well, then roll out until in a sheet 
almost as thin as paper. Let lie on the board 
for about twenty minutes, until the outside is 
slightly dried so that it will not stick together 
when folded. If allowed to stand too long until 
quite dry it becomes brittle and breaks badly. 
Roll loosely like a jelly roll. Use a very sharp 
knife and shave across the roll in thin shavings, 
remembering that when cooked they will swell 
to at least three times their first size. Shake and 
spread out on the board and let stand again for 
fifteen minutes. Should there be more than 
sufficient for immediate use spread them on 
paper or a shallow pan and let stand on the 
warming shelf until bone dry, when they may be 
put aside in jars to be used at any time in the 
same way as macaroni. Have ready a kettle of 
rapidly boiling salted water. In this sprinkle the 



RICE, HOMINY, CEREALS, ETC. 141 

noodles and keep at a rapid boil until quite 
tender — about twenty minutes. In the mean- 
time dice 2 or 3 slices of stale bread and fry pale 
brown in a little butter. Drain the noodles and 
spread on a hot platter in alternate layers with 
the croutons, pouring over all a little melted 
butter. This simple dish may be varied by 
using a white or a tomato sauce, grated cheese 
or fried onions in place of the browned bread. 



EGGS 

Eggs Brouilli 
Beat well 4 eggs. Add to them i teaspoonful 
of beef extract dissolved in 3 tablespoonfuls of 
hot water, 4 tablespoonfuls of cream, a pinch of 
salt, a dash of pepper. Stand in a pan of hot 
water and stir over the fire until thick and 
creamy. Serve at once on toast squares. 

Eggs ^ la Bonne Femme 
Peel and chop fine i large white onion. Fry 
slowly in a frying-pan with 1 heaping table- - 
spoonful of butter. When a delicate brown, 
spread over the bottom of a pie plate or shallow 
dish, sprinkle with salt and pepper. Over this 
break carefully as many eggs as the dish will 
accommodate and place in a moderate oven until 
set. Sprinkle over the top 2 tablespoonfuls of 
bread crumbs fried in a little butter and send at 
once to the table. 

Egg Timbales 
Beat 6 eggs until light, add i level teaspoonful 
salt, I tablespoonful onion juice, J^ teaspoonful 



EGGS 143 

paprika and 5^ of a pint of milk. Butter some 
small timbale molds, dust with minced parsley 
or fine bread that has been browned in butter, fill 
with the egg mixture and stand in a pan of hot 
water. Cook in a moderate oven about thirty 
minutes or until the centers are firm. Turn out 
of the molds and pour about them any preferred 
sauce. Celery, bread, mushroom, cream or 
onion sauce are each excellent to serve with 
timbales. 

Eggs in Tomato Cups 
For each person allow i egg and i tomato. 
Cut a piece from the stem end of the tomato and 
with a spoon scoop out the center. Sprinkle the 
cavity with chopped tarragon or a few drops of 
tarragon vinegar. Break and carefully drop i 
raw egg in each. Place apart on a buttered pan 
and bake in a moderate oven until the eggs are 
set. Serve with or without a cream sauce. 

Beauregard Eggs 
Cover 3 eggs with boiling water, and keep 
the latter at simmering point for three-quarters 
of an hour, then cool and shell the eggs. Chop 
the whites quite fine. Make a sauce with i cup- 
ful of milk, I tablespoonful of flour mixed to a 
paste with a little cold milk and j^ of a tea- 
spoonful of salt. Add the chopped whites and i 



144 LOW COST RECIPES 

scant teaspoonful of butter, and simmer for ten 
minutes. Toast and cut into triangles several 
slices of bread. Arrange on a hot dish, pour 
over the sauce and rub the yolks through a 
strainer, letting them cover the sauce. If de- 
sirable, garnish with a pinch of chopped parsley. 

Potato Omelet 
Put through the ricer sufficient hot potatoes 
to make i pint. Beat 3 eggs until very light, 
season with salt and pepper and mix with the 
potatoes. Melt i teaspoonful of butter in a fry- 
ing-pan, pour in the mixture and stand over a 
moderate heat, turning from side to side that it 
may brown evenly. When the bottom is well 
colored fold carefully, turn x)ut and serve at once. 

Rice Omelet 
Warm i cupful of boiled rice with i table- 
spoonful of butter in i cupful of milk. Add 3 
well-beaten eggs and a pinch of salt, pour into 
hot buttered frying-pan and let brown ; when 
set, fold and serve. 

Eggs, Creole Style 
To prepare eggs in Creole style put i table- 
spoonful of olive oil in a frying-pan with i tea- 
spoonful of finely chopped onion and place over 
the fire. When the onion begins to color add i 



EGGS 145 

tablespoonful of finely chopped green pepper and 
3 tablespoonfuls of the firm pulp of tomato. 
Simmer all together until quite thick, add 2 
tablespoonfuls of boiled rice, a dash of paprika 
and 5^ of a teaspoonful of salt. Cover the bot- 
tom of a shallow baking dish with this mixture 
and carefully break 6 eggs over it. Pour over 
them a tablespoonful of melted butter, dust with 
salt and pepper and bake in a moderate oven 
until the whites are set. 

Poached Eggs k la Creole 
Stew together i can of tomatoes (or i quart 
freshly cut), i green pepper seeded and cut fine 
and }^ oi a. teaspoonful of salt. When the tomato 
is reduced one-half rub all through a sieve. Have 
ready for each person i round or slice of toast 
and I neatly poached egg. Melt and brown 2 
tablespoonfuls of butter in a frying-pan, add i 
tablespoonful of vinegar and boil for half a min- 
ute. Pour the tomato on a platter, lay on it the 
toast, arrange on each piece i of the poached 
eggs and oyer all pour the butter mixture, send- 
ing immediately to the table. 

Eggs Aurore 
Eggs' aurore need a cream tomato sauce. 
Stew the tomatoes with onion, bay leaf, salt and 
pepper ; rub through a sieve and thicken, using 



146 LOW COST RECIPES 

I tablespoonful of butter and i^ of flour to each 
cupful. Make separately i cupful of cream sauce 
and mix the two together when taken from the 
fire. Poach the eggs in water, pour the combi- 
nation sauce on a flat dish and in it place care- 
fully the drained eggs. 



DESSERTS 

Old-Fashioned Rhubarb Flitters 
• Beat together 2 eggs, add i cupful of milk. 
Mix together 3 cupfuls of flour, i tablespoonful 
of sugar, }4 teaspoonful of salt, and 2 teaspoon- 
fuls of baking-powder. Stir into this the egg 
mixture, i pint of chopped rhubarb, i tablespoon- 
ful of melted butter and more milk, if necessary, 
to make a thick drop batter. Fry in small thick 
cakes in a frying-pan, turning when one side is 
nicely browned. Serve with butter and grated 
maple sugar. 

Almond Blanc Mange 
Dissolve i}4 heaping tablespoonfuls of pow- 
dered gelatine in }4 pint of milk. Add 3 
tablespoonfuls of sugar, i }4 pints of milk and }4 
teaspoonful of almond extract. Strain into a 
basin, stir occasionally until cool, then pour into 
a wet mold and set away in a cool place. Turn 
out when firm and serve with cream. 

Apricot Blanc Mange 
Half of a large can of apricots will be sufficient. 
To I cupful of the syrup add i cupful of boiling 



148 LOW COST RECIPES 

water and i tablespoonful of lemon juice and 
put over the fire. When boiling add 2 table- 
spoonfuls of corn-starch and a pinch of salt mixed 
to a smooth paste with cold water and stir until 
thickened. Cover and cook for thirty minutes, 
then add the fruit mashed to a smooth pulp, beat 
thoroughly, turn into molds and serve very cold 
with cream and sugar. 

Fluffy Corn-Starch Blanc Mange 
Scald I pint of milk in a double boiler. Mix 
together 3 almost level tablespoonfuls of corn- 
starch, 3 tablespoonfuls of granulated sugar and 
^ of a teaspoonful of salt. Mix to a cream with 
cold milk, turn quickly into the hot milk and stir 
until smoothly thickened. Cover and cook for 
forty-five minutes. Whip the whites of 3 eggs 
to a stiff, dry froth. Turn into the corn-starch, 
stir and mix lightly for three minutes, add any 
desired flavoring and take from the fire. Turn 
into wetted molds and set aside until cold, then 
turn out and serve with custard sauce or cream 
and sugar. This dessert may be varied by add- 
ing the yolks of eggs three minutes before stir- 
ring in the beaten whites. 

Apple Cream 
Peel and core tart apples ; slice and weigh 
them, and to 3 pounds take i cupful of sugar ; 



DESSERTS 149 

put in a granite kettle with the grated rind and 
the juice of i lemon, 2 cloves and i inch of stick 
cinnamon, simmer slowly until the apples are 
very tender, then rub through a colander. Scald 
I pint of fresh cream, mix with it the apple pulp 
and serve cold. 

Apple Slump 
Put quartered or sliced apples into a deep 
granite kettle, add sugar to taste and i spoonful 
of butter and cook until the apples are nearly 
tender. Fit over them a rich biscuit crust rolled 
out almost an inch thick, cover closely and keep 
the apples simmering gently for three-quarters 
of an hour ; uncover and place in a hot oven un- 
til browned. This is a substantial luncheon dish. 

Apple Pot Pie with Maple Sugar Sauce 
Half fill a deep dish with sour apples which 
have been quartered, pared and cored. Pour 
over them a little boiling water and place in a 
hot oven until tender. Make a crust as for bak- 
ing-powder biscuit, roll out an inch thick ; lay it 
over the apples and return to the oven for about 
forty minutes, or until the crust is done. For 
the sauce, cook together 2 tablespoonfuls of but- 
ter and I teaspoonful of flour, add ^ cupful of 
maple syrup and a tiny pinch of mace and cook 
until clear and smooth. 



I50 LOW COST RECIPES 

Boiled Apple Dumplings 
Beat well without separating 2 eggs, add a 
pinch of salt, i pint of milk and i cupful of flour. 
To a second cupful of flour add 2 teaspoonfuls of 
baking-powder ; add this to the batter, then as 
much more flour as may be needed to mix to a 
soft dough. Roll out quickly one-half of an inch 
in thickness. Cut into squares, lay 2 or 3 quar- 
ters of pared apples on each, draw the dough 
round them and pinch the edges together. Have 
ready a number of pudding cloths wrung out of 
cold water and dusted with flour. Put a dump- 
ling in each, leave a little room for swelling, and 
tie tightly. Drop into a kettle of rapidly boiling 
water (have a saucer in the bottom to prevent 
burning) and keep the water at a steady boil for 
an hour. Serve hot with hard sauce. 

Apple Loaf 
Take from the raised bread dough sufficient to 
make a small loaf. Work thoroughly into it i 
tablespoonful of butter, ^ cupful of sugar, % tea- 
spoonful of cinnamon and 2 well-beaten eggs. 
Add flour sufficient to bring again to a soft 
dough, knead lightly and let raise. Divide into 
thirds and roll each out on the board until the 
size of the pan. Lay one piece in the pan and 
spread over it an inch layer of tender sour apples 
chopped fine. Pour over i scant tablespoonful 



DESSERTS 151 

of melted butter, cover with the second piece of 

dough ; add another layer of apples, more melted 

butter and the third sheet of dough. Brush with 

milk and let stand until very light. Steam for 

an hour then stand in a hot oven until lightly 

browned. Serve very hot in slices with sugar 

and cream. 

Baked Apple Patties 

Take from the bread dough, when ready to 

mold into loaves, as much as would make one 

small "brick" loaf. Into it work i egg, beaten 

with 2 tablespoonfuls of sugar, using a spoonful 

or so of flour if too sticky to handle, but only as 

much as is absolutely necessary. Roll out on 

the floured board until half an inch thick, then 

cut in circles with a large cup or cutter. Have 

ready some thick apple sauce which has been 

stewed with raisins — }4 cupful to a pint — until 

the latter are very tender. Wet the edges of a 

circle, in the center put i or more spoonfuls of 

the sauce, cover with a second circle and pinch 

the edges firmly together. Place an inch or 

more apart on greased pans, let stand until the 

dough begins to rise, then brush the top of each 

with a little beaten egg yolk and bake in a quick 

oven. 

Apple Fluflf ^ 

A simple dessert is apple fluff. For this grate 

I large or 2 small tart pared apples, dropping 



152 LOW COST RECIPES 

the pulp, as fast as grated, into a bowl contain- 
ing yd cupful of fine granulated sugar, with 
which it is to be stirred — this prevents discolor- 
ation. Add I teaspoonful of lemon juice, then 
drop in the unbeaten whites of 2 eggs and beg^n 
to whip with a flat wire beater. Use long strokes 
and beat steadily ; the bowl needs to be a large 
one for the mixture will swell to several times its 
first proportions. When very light, fluffy and 
quite stiff, heap in serving glasses and stand in 
a cold place. This should not be made more 
than an hour before the meal ; just before serving 
drop % teaspoonful of any bright colored jelly 
on top. 

Apple Puffs 

Mix together i pint of flour, j^ teaspoonful of 
salt, I tablespoonful of sugar and 2 scant tea- 
spoonfuls of baking-powder. Beat i &%%, add 
to it ^ of a cupful of milk. Stir this into the 
dry mixture with 2 tablespoonfuls of melted but- 
ter and more milk, if necessary, to make a very 
thick batter. Have ready a number of tart 
apples cored, pared and cut in eighths. Half 
fill muffin cups with the batter, lay over it some 
pieces of apple, sprinkle with spiced sugar (i tea- 
spoonful of powdered cinnamon and a pinch of 
cloves to y^ cupful of sugar), cover with more 
batter and press a number of pieces of apple 



DESSERTS 153 

over the top. Sprinkle thickly with the sugar 
and bake for half an hour in a hot oven. Serve 
witk a soft sauce. 

Pan Dovi^dy 
Use a large, rather shallow earthen baking 
dish. Pare, core and slice sufificient tart apples 
to fill it. Measure before filling the dish and for 
2 quarts of sliced apples add i scant cupful of 
sugar, % nutmeg grated, % of a cupful of cold 
water, and i tablespoonful of butter cut into bits. 
Over this place an upper crust of plain pastry, 
rolling it rather thick. Bake in a slow oven for 
two hours and a half. Transfer to the warming 
oven, or any part of the stove where it will keep 
very hot without baking, cover closely and let 
stand for one hour more. Serve warm with 
cream and sugar. When properly baked the 
apples will be rich and red all through. 

Brown Betty 
Mix together i pint of finely crumbled stale 
bread, a pinch of salt, 3 to 4 tablespoonfuls of 
sugar, according to acidity of apples, yi tea- 
spoonful of cinnamon, a pinch of cloves. Melt 
and stir through this 2 large tablespoonfuls of 
butter. Pare, core and chop or cut fine 2 heap- 
ing cupfuls of tart apples in alternate layers in a 
buttered pudding dish, having crumbs on top. 



154 LOW COST RECIPES 

If the apples are not juicy, add 2 or 3 tablespoon- 
fuls of cold water. Cover and bake in a mod- 
erate oven until the apples are soft, then uncover 
and brown the top. Serve hot or cold with 
cream and sugar. 

Fruit Flip Flaps 
Mix together i pint of fiour, i teaspoonful of 
sugar, J^ teaspoonful of salt and 2 scant tea- 
spoonfuls of baking-powder and rub in 2 heaping 
tablespoonfuls of butter. Mix to a soft dough 
which can just be cut with a spoon. Butter deep 
muffin pans and half fill them with the dough. 
Pare, core and cut fine a number of tart apples. 
Put an inch layer of them in each pan, sprinkle 
thickly with grated maple sugar and drop in 
each % teaspoonful of butter. Bake in a quick 
oven and serve hot with cream. 

Poor Man's Pie (Apple Dish) 
Pare 6 large greenings (apples) ; sprinkle gen- 
erously with sugar and cinnamon. Take about 
I pint of buttermilk with large lumps of butter 
floating in it. Beat 2 eggs till light, add % cup- 
ful of sugar, 2 teaspoonfuls of soda, a pinch of 
salt and i pint of flour. Make a smooth batter, 
spread evenly over the prepared apples and 
place in the oven to bake. Serve with milk or 
cream sweetened with sugar. Cream which is 



DESSERTS 155 

thus treated goes much farther and is very deli- 
cious. Flavored with vanilla, it makes a pleas- 
ing change from plain cream. 

Apricot Tapioca 
Soak I cupful of fine tapioca for two hours in 
sufificient cold water to cover. Drain, put into a 
double boiler with ^ of a cupful of sugar and 
the syrup drained from i can of apricots, adding 
boiling water sufificient to give 3 cupfuls of liquid. 
Add ^ of a teaspoonful of salt and cook until 
transparent. Cut each piece of apricot into 
three and put in layers in a pudding dish with 
the cooked tapioca. Bake for half an hour in a 
moderate oven and serve with cream. 

Fruit Tapioca 
Cook together equal measure of fruit and 
water until soft enough to rub through a sieve. 
Measure, return to the fire and for each cupful 
add I scant tablespoonful of fine tapioca. Stir 
frequently until the tapioca swells, then cover 
and cook until transparent. Add sufficient sugar 
to sweeten, pour into a serving dish and set 
aside. Serve icy cold with cream. 

Maple Tapioca Pudding 
Maple tapioca will need i cupful of tapioca 
cooked slowly in i pint of hot water until trans- 



156 LOW COST RECIPES 

parent. Add butter the size of an egg, % tea- 
spoonful of salt, % oi & cupful of thick maple 
syrup and 3 well-beaten eggs. Pour into a bak- 
ing dish and bake until set, then put aside until 
cold. Serve with whipped cream sweetened and 
flavored with a little vanilla. 

Light Tapioca Custard 
Scald I pint of milk in a double boiler. Add 
2 tablespoonfuls of fine tapioca ; stir very often 
until thickened then cover and cook until clear 
and thick. Separate yolks and whites of 3 eggs. 
Beat the yolks with }i cupful of sugar and a pinch 
of salt. Whip the whites to a stiff froth, add 
the yolks to the tapioca, stir until thickened, then 
add the whites, turn and mix lightly for three 
minutes, then take off, flavor to suit and pour 
into a serving dish to serve cold. According to 
the season cut fruit may be added to or served 
with this dish. ^ 

Ice-Cream Pudding 
One heaping tablespoonful of corn-starch dis- 
solved in cold water, with a pinch of salt ; pour 
on I pint of boiling water, stirring constanjly, 
stir in the stiffly beaten whites of 3 eggs, and 
boil a minute ; pour in a deep dish and set away 
to cool. For the sauce take the yolks of 3 eggs, 
I teacupful of sweet milk, and ^ of a cupful of 



DESSERTS 157 

sugar, boil in rice boiler to prevent burning, 
and flavor with lemon. This is delicious and 
economical. '. / ,, 

Snow Pudding 

One-third of a box of gelatine put to soak in 
water to cover it ; when soaked, pour i pint of 
boiling water into it, i cupful of sugar, and juice 
of 2 lemons ; strain and, when it is cold and begins 
to set, stir into it the beaten whites of 3 eggs and 
set away to mold. 

Custard sauce to serve with the snow pudding 
is made as follows : Heat i pint of milk, and 
when boiling stir in the beaten yolks of 3 eggs, 
^2 cupful of sugar, and flavoring to taste ; use 
care in cooking this. 

Spice Pudding 

Take i cupful of crusts of bread, packed meas- 
ure, and soak in i pint of milk until soft. Add 
^ cupful of molasses, i cupful of seeded raisins, 
1^ teaspoonful each of salt and ground cloves, 
cinnamon, allspice and nutmeg. Mix thoroughly 
and bake in a moderate oven for about three- 
quarters of an hour. 

Crumb Spice Pudding 

Take i cupful of dry bread crumbs, add i pint 
of hot milk, cover and let stand until the milk is 



158 LOW COST RECIPES 

absorbed. Add % teaspoonful of salt, i scant ^ 
cupful of molasses, % teaspoonful of cinnamon, a 
good pinch each of cloves, nutmeg, allspice, mace 
and ginger, and ^ of a cupful of seeded raisins 
which have been steamed for five minutes. Add 
I well-beaten e^g, turn into a greased pudding 
pan and bake in a moderate oven for nearly one 
hour. 

Light Steamed Pudding 
One cupful of chopped suet, i cupful of mo- 
lasses, 1% cupfuls of fine bread crumbs, 2 scant 
cupfuls of flour, 1 teaspoonful of salt, i cupful of 
any kind of chopped dried fruit, i teaspoonful of 
baking-powder, y^ (scant) teaspoonful of soda 
mixed with i cupful of sour milk. Mix, turn into 
a greased mold and steam for four hours. 

Fruit Pudding 

Cook together i cupful each of strained fruit 
juice and water. When boiling sweeten to taste, 
then stir in 3 scant tablespoonfuls of corn-starch 
mixed with ^ of a teaspoonful of salt and enough 
cold water to make a thin paste. Stir until 
thickened smoothly, then draw a little to one side 
and boil slowly for ten minutes. Whip the whites 
o^ 3 eggs to a stiff froth. Turn them into the 
boiling mixture and cook and fold in lightly for 
three minutes longer. Take at once from the fire 



DESSERTS 159 

and pour into a wetted mold, adding i or 2 layers 
of whole fruit. Serve very cold with a custard 
made with the egg yolks, i pint of milk, a pinch 
of salt, 3 tablespoonfuls of sugar and a few drops 
of suitable flavoring. 

Crumb Fruit Pudding 

Two cupfuls of crumbled stale bread, 2 of 
crumbled stale cake, mixed together. Pour over 
I cupful of milk and let stand an hour to soak. 
Add I tablespoonful of melted butter, j4 cupful of 
molasses, ^ of a cupful each of seeded raisins 
and chopped citron, ^ teaspoonful of cinnamon, 
J^ teaspoonful each of cloves, allspice, mace and 
salt, I teaspoonful of soda dissolved in i table- 
spoonful of cold water. Mix well, turn into a 
buttered mold, and steam for three hours. Serve 
with a hard sauce beaten until very creamy, and 
flavored with vanilla. 

Belle Pudding 

Take some stale bread, remove all crust and 
reduce the white portion to fine light crumbs. 
Butter the right number of cups or individual 
molds, put in the bottom of each a candied cherry 
or a slice of some home fruit such as canned or 
preserved peaches drained and made quite dry, 
then lightly fill with the crumbs. Having first 



i60 LOW COST RECIPES 

measured to see how much liquid would be 
needed allow for each cupful of milk 2 well-beaten 
eggs, I Yi tablespbonfuls of sugar, a pinch of salt 
and y^ teaspoonful of vanilla. Beat eggs and 
sugar and add the scalding hot milk. Baste this 
slowly over the crumbs in the molds until all is 
used. Stand the molds in a pan of hot water 
and bake in a moderate oven until set in the 
center. Turn out on saucers and pour round each, 
just before sending to the table, any nice soft 
sauce, or heat the juice of canned fruit and 
thicken very slightly with corn-starch. 

The next time dissolve i heaping teaspoonful 
of cocoa in each cupful of milk and you will have 
chocolate pudding. The third time mix with the 
bread some ground spice, in the proportion of i 
teaspoonful of cinnamon, Y^, teaspoonful of nut- 
meg and Y\ teaspoonful each of cloves and all- 
spice ; this entitles it to be called spice pudding. 

Somerset Pudding 
Take a stale sponge cake and stand on a serv- 
ing dish. Prepare i cupful or more of fresh fruit 
juice or the syrup from canned fruit. Baste this, 
a little at a time, over the cake until it is thor- 
oughly soaked but unbroken. Make a soft 
custard with i pint of milk, 3 eggs, a pinch of 
salt, 3 tablespoonfuls of sugar and a suitable 
flavoring. When cold pour it round, not over 



DESSERTS i6i 

the cake. Decorate the top with candied cherries 
or fresh fruit. 

Cabinet Pudding 
Thickly butter a melon mold ; sprinkle bottom 
and sides with mixed nut meats, raisins, currants 
and chopped citron. Fill the mold loosely with 
small pieces of stale cake, sprinkling more fruit 
through it. Make a raw custard with 3 eggs, i 
tablespoonful of sugar, a pinch of salt and i pint 
of milk. Pour this over the cake, lifting now 
and then with a fork that the custard may be 
equally absorbed. Stand in a kettle of boiling 
water, cover closely and steam for an hour. 
Serve with a wine or foamy sauce. 

Dark Steamed Pudding 
One cupful of finely chopped beef suet, i cupful 
of molasses, i cupful of cold water, 2 cupfuls of 
flour, I teaspoonful of baking-soda, ^ teaspoon- 
ful of salt, 2 teaspoonfuls of ground cinnamon, 
I teaspoonful of ground cloves. Sift all the dry 
ingredients together and mix thoroughly. Steam 
three hours and serve with a hard sauce flavored 
with vanilla. If there is any left, slice the next 
day and serve with a hot liquid sauce flavored 
with lemon. This is a very cheap dessert and a 
universal favorite. By adding citron, raisins and 
currants it may be made a very good substitute 
for the regular holiday plum pudding. 



i62 LOW COST RECIPES 

Graham Pudding 

One cupful of molasses, i cupful of sweet milk, 
I egg, I cupful of seeded raisins, >^ of a tea- 
spoonful of soda dissolved in the molasses, ^ of 
a teaspoonful of salt, sufificient sifted graham 
flour to make a rather stiff drop batter. Pour 
into a well-greased mold and steam for three 
hours. Serve with a hard sauce. 

Bread Pudding 

Take about 4 slices of dry bread, spread with 
butter and put raisins between them. Take i 
egg, beat ^ cupful sugar, a little salt, and milk 
to cover the bread, a little nutmeg ; set on the 
back of the stove and let it swell one hour, then 
bake one hour. Serve with cream and sugar, 
and a dish of quince jelly. 

Fairy Pudding 

Put a tumbler of firm quince jelly into a sauce- 
pan, add I cupful of boiling water, stir until the 
jelly is melted and the liquid at the boiling point. 
Add quickly to it 2 tablespoonfuls of corn-starch 
mixed with a pinch of salt and sufficient cold 
water to make a thin paste, stir until clear and 
smooth, then draw to one side and cook slowly 
for ten minutes. Turn into a large bowl and 
when cold and beginning to stiffen beat long 



DESSERTS 163 

and hard with an egg beater until it is quite light, 
add the whipped whites of 2 eggs and continue 
to beat until it is a feathery mass. Turn into 
wetted molds and set aside, serving very cold 
with cream or a custard sauce. Any firm jelly 
will do but quince gives a peculiarly delicate 
flavor. 

Cottage Pudding 
Rub 2 heaping tablespoonfuls of butter into i 
pound of flour, add 2 tablespoonfuls of sugar, i 
level teaspoonful of cream of tartar, i level tea- 
spoonful of baking-soda, and make into a dough 
with I cupful of buttermilk. Grease a pudding 
mold, put in the mixture, twist a piece of buttered 
paper over the top, and steam for one hour. 

White Lady Pudding 

Wash well 6 ounces of rice and put on to boil 
in a double boiler with i quart of milk, i vanilla 
bean and a pinch of salt ; boil at least two hours. 
Have soaked in a very little water 2 ounces of 
gelatine ; add to the rice 5 ounces of sugar, and 
when the rice is very soft add the gelatine ; re- 
move from the fire and cool ; when the pudding 
begins to stiffen add }4 pint of whipped cream, 
turn in a mold and set on ice to harden from four 
to five hours. This is pronounced delicious 
served with strawberry sauce made with jam. 



i64 LOW COST RECIPES 

Old- Time Indian Pudding 

Mix well together Y^ pint of fine corn-meal, a 
scant K teaspoonful of salt, i tablespoonfdl of 
flour and i cupful of molasses. When smooth 
gradually add 3 pints of hot milk, stand over the 
fire and stir steadily until thickened without 
lumps. Set aside until cold then stir in i tea- 
spoonful of ginger, 2 teaspoonfuls of cinnamon, 
and I quart of cold milk. Turn into a baking 
dish and bake very slowly for four hours ; when 
half done pour i cupful of cold milk over the top. 
Do not stir in. 

Fried Corn-Starch Pudding 

Make the corn-starch pudding as usual and 
pour into a wet mold to get cold and firm. Then 
unmold to cut in small, rather thin slices. Dip 
these slices into beaten &^%, then roll in cake 
crumbs, and drop into smoking hot fat to become 
a golden brown color. Make a syrup of i cup- 
ful of sugar and J^ of a cupful of water, to it add 
I gill of maraschino, and serve with the fried 
pudding. 

Delicate Pudding 

Delicate pudding may have as a basis the 
strained juice of any variety of fruit on hand. 
Take i cupful of such juice, add i cupful of water, 



DESSERTS 165 

a grain of salt and bring quickly to the boiling 
point. Sweeten to taste, then stir in 2 table- 
spoonfuls of corn-starch wet with cold water and 
stir until smoothly thickened and clear. Draw 
to one side and boil gently for ten minutes, then 
cut in lightly the stiffly whipped whites of 3 eggs. 
Cut and mix over the fire for two minutes longer, 
then pour into a wetted mold with alternate layers 
of the same fruit, cut or whole, according to size. 
Serve very cold with a custard made with i pint 
of milk, the egg yolks, 2 tablespoonfuls of sugar 
and a little flavoring which will accord with the 
fruit used. 

A Good All-round Pudding 

Sift together i pint of whole wheat flour, j4 
teaspoonful each of salt and baking-soda and 
I teaspoonful of mixed ground spices. Add }4i 
cupful each of finely chopped suet, molasses and 
sour milk, and from ^ to i cupful of mixed fruit 
of any kind, fresh berries or chopped apples, etc., 
in the season, currants, citron or other dried or 
candied fruits in winteif ; the spice used should 
always accord with the fruit. Turn into buttered 
molds — pound baking-powder cans or cups — and 
steam from one to two hours according to the 
sized molds used. Serve with a hard or a soft 
sauce. This simple recipe is capable of many 
variations. 



i66 LOW COST RECIPES 

Economical Plum Pudding 
One pound of bread crumbs, i pound of flour, 
I pound of seeded raisins, ^ of a pound of 
chopped suet, ^ of a pound of currants, ^ of a 
pound of lemon peel, i ounce of blanched 
and chopped almonds, 2 teaspoonfuls of mixed 
spices, J^ of a teaspoonful of salt, 3 eggs and 
I cupful of milk, ^ pound of sugar. Mix all the 
dry ingredients together. Beat up -the eggs, 
add the milk to them and pour among the other 
ingredients. Mix and press the mixture into a 
well-greased mold, cover with a scalded and 
floured cloth, and boil steadily for five hours. 
Keep in a cool, dry place. Plum puddings 
properly made and boiled will keep at least a 
year. 

' Christmas Plum Pudding 

Clean, wash and dry i pound of currants, take 
I pound of seeded raisins. Mix with J^ pound 
each of chopped candied orange and lemon peel, 
I pound of suet chopped fine, ^ of a pound of 
fine stale bread crumbs, J^ of a pound of sifted 
flour, J4^ of a pound of brown sugar. Beat 5 
eggs, add ^ pint of brandy or sweet cider and 
pour over the dry ingredients. Add % oia. nut- 
meg grated, the grated rind of i lemon and mix 
very thoroughly. Pack in small greased molds 
or covered kettles. Boil steadily for six hours 



DESSERTS 167 

and set away in a cold place. When used boil 
for two hours longer and serve with a hard sauce 
flavored with vanilla and brandy or sherry. 

Canned Peach Pudding 
One-half can of peaches will be sufficient. To 
^ of a cupful of the peach syrup add i ^/l cupfuls 
of boiling water, 2 ounces of fine hominy and a 
pinch of salt and cook at the side of the fire, 
stirring frequently until the hominy is tender. 
As it swells and thickens it may be wise to use a 
double boiler to keep from burning. Add 6 
peach halves cut fine and cook fifteen minutes 
longer ; if not sufficiently sweet add more sugar. 
Turn into a large mold. Serve very cold with 
cream. 

Canned Peach Dumplings 
Canned peach or apricot dumplings made 
with rice covering are delicious. Partially boil 
the rice until soft enough to adhere to the fruit 
drained from the juice: Tie into cheese-cloth 
squares and steam until the rice is perfectly 
tender. Thicken the juice with arrowroot or 
corn-starch ; add a little lemon juice and serve 
hot. 

Baked Peach Dumplings 
Mix together i quart of sifted flour, i scant 
teaspoonful of salt and 2 teaspoonfuls of baking- 



i68 LOW COST RECIPES 

powder. Rub in ^ of a cupful of butter (or 
butter and lard mixed). Make a soft dough, us- 
ing sweet milk. Turn on a floured board and 
roll out half an inch thick. Have ready some 
canned peaches thoroughly drainc)!, or use dried 
peaches which have been soaked until soft. Cut 
the dough in four inch squares and on each lay 
2 pieces of fruit. Draw the porners together 
and pinch the edges tightly that the juice may 
not ooze. Place close together in a greased 
baking pan. When the dish ^s filled, pour over 
the dumplings ^ of a cupful of cold water, cover 
tightly and put at once in a hot oven. Uncover 
at the end of forty minutes and let them brown 
quickly. With them serve a sauce made with i 
pint of the peach syrup (or syrup and water), an 
inch stick of cinnamon, sugar to taste, i scant 
tablespoonful of corn-starch mixed with a little 
cold water and a pinch of salt. Simmer until 
dear, add i tablespoonful of butter and stir until 
it is absorbed, then take from the fire. 

Peach Dessert 
Pare hard imperfect peaches and cut in quar- 
ters. Place in a large kettle with a little water 
and sufficient sugar to sweeten and stew slowly 
until soft. Have ready a thick batter made with 
I pint of flour, i heaping teaspoonful of baking- 
powder, I teaspoonful of sugar, a pinch of salt 



DESSERTS 169 

and I scant cupful of milk. Drop this by spoon- 
fuls over the top of the boiling fruit and cover 
closely. Keep where the boiling will be slow 
but steady for from ten to fifteen minutes without 
uncovering. Then dish, the fruit in the center 
and dumplings round the edge of the dish. 

J 
Peach Whip 

Beat the whites of 3 eggs to a soft froth. Add 
3 jtablespoonfuls of sifted powdered sugar and 
beat to a stiff, glossy meringue. Peel }i dozen 
peaches and press them through a sieve. Grad- 
ually add this pulp to the meringue, beating all 
the time and sprinkling in also i teaspoonful of 
lemon juice. Heap in tall glasses and serve at 
once. 

Peach Snovr 

Soak %oia. box of gelatine in i cupful of cold 
water until soft. Boil together for five minutes i 
cupful of sugar and i cupful of water, take from 
the fire and add the gelatine. Stir until dis- 
solved, strain and add i % cupfuls of peach pulp, 
prepared by rubbing the pared peaches through 
a fine sieve. Set aside, stirring occasionally un- 
til the mixture is quite thick. Whip the whites 
of 4 eggs to a stiff froth, add byldegrees the jelly 
mixture, and continue to whip until the whole 
mass is very stiff. Pour into a mold wet in cold 



I70 LOW COST RECIPES 

water, and set on ice until firm enough to turn 
out. 

Peach Cobbler / 

Originally a Marylauid delicacy, peach cobbler 
has become a favorite wherever fresh peaches 
are obtainable. Pare enough /large sweet ones 
to almost fill a deep pudding pish ; do not halve 
or pit them but sprinkle with plenty of sugar, 
then cover with a rich pie ^trust rolled rather 
thicker than usual. Bake in a moderate oven 
for from forty minutes to an hour. 

Peach Puffs 

In place of pie crust, a short biscuit dough 
may be used for fruit dumplings ; this will 
be found superior to cake when a nice fruit 
short cake is desired. For peach puffs, beat 2 
eggs until thick and light ; add ^ of a cupful 
of milk, a pinch of salt and i cupful of flour 
mixed with i heaping teaspoonful of baking- 
powder. Stir in i tablespoonful of melted butter 
and beat well ; then add as much more flour as 
may be necessary to mix it to a thick batter. 
Butter small, deep cups ; drop in each i spoon- 
ful of the batter ; add to each yi ol a. peeled 
peach ; cover with another spoonful of batter 
and steam for half an hour. Either hard or soft 
sauce may be served with this dessert. 



DESSERTS 171 

Peach Trifle 
Boil together for five minutes i scant cupful 
of sugar and i cupful of water, dropping into it, 
as fast as stoned, the pits from i quart of ripe 
peaches. Keep the stones in the syrup for ten 
minutes, drawing the saucepan to the side of the 
fire. Skim them out and lay in the pared 
peaches, stewing slowly until they are tender. 
Set aside until the first heat has passed off, then 
press through a sieve. Line a glass dish with stale 
sponge cakes dipped in sherry, spread over them 
the cold peach pulp and cover with i}4 cupfulsof 
thick cream sweetened and flavored with 2 table- 
spoonfuls of powdered sugar and ^ of a teaspoon- 
ful of vanilla and whipped to a thick solid froth. 

Peach Sago 
Wash ^ of a cupful of sago and let soak for 
several hours or over night. Drain, cover with 
I pint of boiling water and simmer gently until 
the sago is clear. Sweeten with }4 of a cupful 
of sugar, add a pinch of salt and pour over cut 
peaches arranged in a serving dish. Set aside 
and serve very cold with cream. Any fruit in 
season may be used, adding sugar according to 
the tartness of the fruit. 

Peach Betty 
Mix together i pint of soft, stale crumbs, a 
pinch of salt, }4 cupful of sugar and J^ of a 



172 LOW COST RECIPES 

teaspoonful of mixed ground spice ; add a scant 
^ cupful of melted butter, turning through well 
that the butter may be evenly distributed. Fill 
a pudding dish with alternate layers of this mix- 
ture and finely cut peaches and bake in a moder- 
ate oven for from thirty to forty minutes. Serve 
with either cream or a hard sauce. 

Berry Dumplings 

Mix well together i pint of flour, ^ of a tea- 
spoonful of salt, I heaping teaspoonful of baking- 
powder and I teaspoonful of sugar. Rub in 2 
tablespoonfuls of butter, then mix to a soft 
dough with sweet milk. Turn on a floured 
board, roll out half an inch thick, and cut in 
rounds the size of a tea saucer. On the center 
of each place several berries, about equal to i 
tablespoonful. Draw the paste up around them 
and pinch the edges tightly together. Set close 
together on a greased pan and steam for twenty- 
five minutes, then place in a hot oven long 
enough to dry off. 

For the sauce, sift i cupful of powdered sugar. 
Cream thoroughly i heaping tablespoonful of 
butter and gradually beat into it enough of the 
sugar to make a thick sauce. Have ready some 
of the berries mashed to a pulp. Add i tea- 
spoonful at a time to the sauce, beating thor- 
oughly before adding more. Watch closely, and 



DESSERTS 173 

if the sauce begins to loolc granular, or as if it 
would separate, add i tablespoonful more of 
sugar. Beat until very light, pile on a dish, and 
stand in the ice box until the dumplings are 
ready to serve. 

Steamed Berry Pudding 
For a simple berry pudding beat 2 eggs, add 
I cupful of milk, % oi a, teaspoonful of salt, 2 
tablespoonfuls of sugar and i cupful of flour. 
Beat in 2 tablespoonfuls of melted butter, e tea- 
spoonfuls of baking-powder and enough more 
flour to make a very thick batter. Last of all 
stir in ij4 cupfuls of berries which have been 
floured. Turn into a buttered mold with a 
tightly fitting cover and steam for two hours. 
For the sauce cream 2 tablespoonfuls of butter 
with I cupful of powdered sugar, add ^ of a 
teaspoonful of vanilla and i tablespoonful of 
sherry and heap on a small dish. 

Steamed Berry Roll 
Prepare a rich biscuit dough, using 2 table- 
spoonfuls of butter and i heaping teaspoonful of 
baking-powder to i pint of flour. Roll out in a 
long sheet about half an inch thick. Spread 
with a thick layer of berries sweetened to taste. 
Roll up tightly as possible — like a jelly roll — ^and 
pinch the ends together. Lay on a buttered 
plate or shallow pan, and steam for forty min- 



174 LOW COST RECIPES 

utes, then place in the oven to dry off and color 
slightly. Serve with a soft or hard sauce. All 
kinds of berries, stoned cherries, cut peaches and 
other fruits sweetened to taste may be used in 
the same way. 

J Berry Rely Poly 

To make a roly poly mix together i pint of 
sifted flour, Y^ teaspoonful of salt, i teaspoon- 
ful of sugar and i teaspoonful of baking-powder 
and rub in 2 teaspoonfuls of butter. Stir this to 
a soft dough with sweet milk, roll out, spread 
thickly with berries and a few spoonfuls of sugar, 
roll up tightly and pinch the ends together. Ar- 
range on a greased pan and steam for half an 
hour, then place in a hot oven just long enough 
to dry off the crust. Serve with it a hard sauce^ 
coloring part of it with a few crushed berries ; to 
add to its appearance put the latter in a cornu- 
copia made of writing paper, cut off the tip with 
a sharp scissors and squeeze it out as a spiral 
over and around the white portion which is 
heaped on a flat glass dish. 

Berry Bread 

Take i stale loaf of bread, cut in thin slices 
and spread with butter. Stew a quantity of any 
kind of berries (adding some currants or lemon 
iuice to make slightly tart). When soft, sweeten 



DESSERTS 17s 

to taste. In a deep dish put a layer of the bread, 
pour over it a quantity of the boiling mixture, 
then more bread and fruit until all has been used. 
Serve very cold with cream. This simple dish is 
delightful. 

Fancy Fruit Jelly 

Make a lemon or orange jelly. In the bottom 
of a wetted mold spread a layer of fruit — berries, 
sliced bananas, green grapes, etc. Pour over 
just enough jelly to cover and stand on ice until 
firm. Add another layer of fruit and jelly, chill 
again ; repeat until the materials are used. 
Keep the reserved jelly in a warm place until the 
mold is filled. ^ 

Lemon Jelly ^ 

Soak I package of gelatine in i pint of cold 
water until it is very soft. Boil together i quart 
of water, i^ pints of sugar and the pared yellow 
rind df i lemon, for three minutes. Pour over 
the soaked gelatine and stir until it is dissolved. 
Add the juice of 3 or 4 lemons and strain into 
molds which have been dipped in cold water. 
Stand on ice or in a cold place until firm. 
Orange juice or cider may be substituted for the 
lemon juice, thus giving orange or cider jelly. 

Bird's Nest Jelly 
A white corn-starch blanc mange is made in 
the proportion of 4 tablespoonfuls each of corn- 



176 LOW COST RECIPES 

starch and sugar to i pint of milk. This, after 
thorough cooking, is divided and each portion 
colored with chocolate, fruit, red color paste, raw 
yolk of egg, etc. When using eggs for the week 
or two preceding they should be emptied care- 
fully out of a small hole in one end of the shell, 
the shells rinsed and put aside. These are now 
to be well rinsed again in water and filled with 
the blanc mange, then set away, propping them 
in an upright position in a pan of flour. When 
the blanc mange is firm the shells are cracked 
and peeled off and the eggs arranged on a bed 
of any kind of clear jelly (lemon, orange or 
wine) which has been broken with a fork. Thin 
strips of candied orange peel may be arranged 
round them to simulate a nest. 

Coffee Jelly 
Soak I box of gelatine in i cupful of cold 
water until soft. Add i cupful of sugar, i pint 
of boiling water and i pint of rather strong 
coffee. Stir until the sugar is dissolved, add i 
teaspoonful of vanilla extract, strain through 
doubled cheese-cloth into wet molds. Serve 
with soft custard or whipped cream. 

Cherry Batter Pudding 

An easily made cherry pudding calls for 2 
eggs well beaten ; to these add i cupful of milk, 



DESSERTS 177 

}i teaspoonful of salt, i tablespoonful of sugar 
and sufficient sifted flour to make a thick drop 
batter. Beat well for a moment, add i level 
teaspoonful of baking-powder and i cupful of 
stoned cherries. Turn into a well-buttered mold 
and steam for two hours, serving it with either a 
hard or soft sauce. 

Cherry Bread 

Cut stale bread in thin slices and thickly butter 
each. Open i quart can of cherries, dilute the 
syrup with an equal amount of boiling water ; 
heat to the boiling point, add the cherries and i 
teaspoonful of corn-starch wet in cold water. 
Stir and boil for three minutes. Put 2 slices of 
the bread side by side on a dish and pour over 
them a part of the hot syrup and fruit. Add 2 
more slices and more of the fruit, then 2 more 
with the remainder. Set all aside until very 
cold. Just before serving cover top and sides 
with a meringue and serve with plain cream. 

Cherry Roly Poly 

To prepare a cherry roly poly, mix together 
I pint of flour, i tablespoonful of sugar, J^ tea- 
spoonful of salt and 2 scant teaspoonfuls of 
baking-powder. Rub in 2 large tablespoonfuls 
of butter and mix to a soft dough with sweet 



178 LOW COST RECIPES 

milk. Roll out a half inch thick and spread 
with a generous layer of pitted cherries. Dust 
with flour, add sugar according to the tartness 
of the fruit, roll up and pinch the ends together. 
Lay on a buttered plate, steam for forty-five 
minutes, then place in a hot oven just long 
enough to dry off and very lightly color the top. 
Serve with either a hard or soft sauce. 

Cherry Sponge 

Soak ^ of a box of gelatine in ^ of a cupful 
of cold water. Pit i quart of stemmed cherries, 
steep the pits in i cupful of hot water for half an 
hour, then strain. Add to the water i cupful of 
sugar, bring to the boiling point and boil for 
three minutes. Pour over the cherries, cover 
and let stand for ten minutes then press all 
through a colander. Dissolve the gelatine over 
hot water, add to the cherry mixture and set 
away until it begins to thicken. Add the well- 
beaten whites of 3 eggs and beat on ice until all 
is thick and light. Turn into a wetted mold 
and set in a cold place until firm. 

Cherry Charlotte 

Line a mold with pieces of dry sponge cake, 
previously dipping it in melted butter. Stew i 
pound of cherries till tender with % pound of 



DESSERTS 179 

sugar. Fill the inside of mold with alternate 
layers of cake and cherries, from which the juice 
has been drained. Pour the remaining juice and 
I tablespoonful of melted butter over the whole, 
and bake in a moderate oven for half an hour. 
Turn out on a pretty dish, and serve hot, with 
either cherry sauce or whipped cream. This 
same recipe can be made in individual molds, 
and when turned out, garnished with transparent 
cherries. 

Cherry Short-Cake 
Chop up, with a silver knife, after pitting 
them, some fine sweet cherries, and sift over the 
fruit a generous layer of sugar ; set aside for an 
hour before making the short-cake, to form juice. 
For the pastry make rich biscuit crust. Into i 
pint of sifted flour — 2 cupfuls — mix a little salt 
and 2 level teaspoonfuls of baking-powder. Sift 
again, and rub in a tablespoonful each of lard 
and butter. Add i well-beaten egg and enough 
milk to make a dough to roll out. Bake in a 
biscuit-pan in two layers half an inch thick ; to 
keep them separate, place flecks of butter be- 
tween. This requires a quick oven, as for 
biscuit. When done, cut the crust into individ- 
ual pieces and spread the prepared cherries be- 
tween and on top. Serve with whipped cream, 
flavored with the remainder of juice. 



i8o LOW COST RECIPES 

Cranberry Sponge 
Soak yi a box of granulated gelatine in J^ of 
a cupful of cold water. Pick over and wash i 
pint of cranberries, put into a saucepan with ^ 
of a cupful of cold water, cover closely and cook 
until the berries burst, then rub through a sieve. 
Measure and add more boiling water, if needed, 
to make i pint of thin pulp. Return to the fire 
and when almost boiling add sufficient granu- 
lated sugar to make very sweet — ^this will take 2 
cupfuls or more, according to the acidity of the 
fruit. Stir for a moment, add the softened gela- 
tine, stir until thoroughly dissolved then take 
from the fire and set aside. When cold and be- 
ginning to thicken add the whites of 4 eggs 
whipped to a stiff froth and continue whipping 
until the mixture is very thick and spongy. 
Turn into a wetted mold and stand in a cold 
place until firm. 

Cranberry Slump 
Make a biscuit dough with i pint of flour, i 
tablespoonful of butter, }4 oia teaspoonful of salt, 
I teaspoonful of baking-powder and milk to mix. 
In a pudding dish put i quart of washed cranber- 
ries, add I cupful of sugar and }4 oi a cupful of 
water and cover with the crust. Cover and cook 
slowly in a moderate oven for one hour. Dust 
with sugar and serve with cream or a sweet sauce. 



DESSERTS i8i 

Grape Sago Pudding 
Soak I cupful of sago over night in plenty of 
cold water ; in the morning pour off the water ; 
put the sago in a double boiler with i cupful of 
boiling water, ^ of a cupful of sugar, J^ teaspoon- 
ful of salt, and i cupful of juice pressed from 
grapes which have been stemmed and cooked for 
ten minutes. Cook until the sago is clear, adding 
more grape juice if it becomes too stiff, then add 
I cupful of seeded grapes, cook ten minutes 
more and turn into a baking dish. Brown in a 
quick oven and serve with a creamy sauce. 

Grape Sponge 
Wet 4 rounding tablespoonfuls of corn-starch 
with a little cold grape juice and then turn it 
into I pint of the juice that is boiling, adding a 
speck of salt and i rounding teaspoonful of 
butter. Stir until it is transparent ; then remove 
from the fire and fold in 3 whites of eggs beaten 
very stiff and dry. Pour into a dish or a fancy 
mold and stand in a cold place to chill. The 
yolks of the eggs can be used for the boiled 
custard which accompanies it. Garnish the dish 
with grapes if they can be secured. 

Lemon Sp6nge 
Soak y^ package of gelatine in i cupfu' of cold 
water till soft. Boil i pint of water and i pint 



i82 LOW COST RECIPES 

of sugar for two minutes, add gelatine, stir till 
dissolved, add juice of three lemons and strain. 
When cold and beginning to thicken add the 
whites of 4 eggs, stand in a pan of ice water and 
whip without stopping until it is a white spongy 
mass all through. Turn into a wetted mold and 
set away until firm. 

Prune Whip 
To the white of i egg beaten stiff, add i table- 
spoonful of pulverized sugar and 2 tablespoonfuls 
of stewed prunes, freed from the seed and 
chopped fine. Serve cold with cream. 

Prunes k la Vanilla 
Make a syrup of equal quantities of lemon 
juice and water, adding ^ pound of sugar for 
every i }4 gills of water. Bring to a boil, then 
add a sufficient quantity of California prunes, 
which have been carefully washed and soaked, 
and stew very gently until the prunes are tender. 
Then remove from the fire, add vanilla extract 
to flavor, turn into a dish and set aside to cool. 

Prune Cocktail 
Cook choice prunes just enough to remove the 
stones easily. Sweeten slightly while cooking. 
Chill thoroughly and chop into small pieces. To 
the juice add strained orange and lemon juice to 
taste and serve cold. 



DESSERTS 183 

Prune Jelly 
Wash I cupful of large prunes and soak in 
water over night or until swollen. Put into a 
double boiler and cook until tender, skim them 
out and let stand until cool enough to handle, 
then pit and cut them in quarters. In the mean- 
time strain the juice and measure, adding water, 
if needed, to make ^ pint. Soak %, cupful of 
granulated gelatine in 4 tablespoonfuls of cold 
water. Boil together the prune juice and i cup- 
ful of sugar for five minutes. Add the soaked 
gelatine and stir until dissolved. Set aside and 
when cool add i teaspoonful of vanilla. Arrange 
the cut prunes in a wetted mold, over them pour 
the syrup mixture and set away until stiffened. 
Turn out and serve with plain or whipped cream. 

Russian Prune Pudding 
Pick over and wash through several waters 
I pound of large prunes and let soak over night. 
Next day turn them into a double boiler and 
simmer slowly until tender. Sweeten to taste, 
and when cool enough to handle carefully re- 
move the pits. To the syrup add j4 oi a. box of 
gelatine, which has been soaked in j^ of a cup- 
ful of cold water and heated gently until dissolved. 
Set aside to cool. Have ready some almonds 
which have been blanched and split. When the 
jelly begins to thicken dip into it the almonds 



i84 LOW COST RECIPES 

and decorate the sides of a mold with them, then 
carefully fill with layers of the fruit and jelly, 
setting aside several times, if necessary, to allow 
the layers to stiffen. Serve very cold with cream, 
which is sweetened to taste and flavored with a 
few drops of extract of almond. 

Fig Chartreuse 

Wash Yz pound of figs in warm water and 
drain. Barely cover with cold water and soak 
over night. Place in a double boiler and cook 
very slowly until tender, then pour ofi the juice. 
Wash I cupful of rice and drop into a kettle of 
slightly salted water and boil for ten minutes. 
Drain and place in a double boiler, and from 
time to time add a little milk until very soft and 
the milk is all absorbed, then stir in i tablespoon- 
ful of sugar. Have ready a buttered mold. 
Line bottom and sides with the rice, place the 
figs in the center and cover with rest of rice. 
Measure the fig juice, add water if necessary, to 
make i pint, and X cupful of sugar and boil for 
ten minutes. Bake the chartreuse for fifteen 
minutes in a slow oven, then turn out. Serve 
with the fig syrup to which is added a little 
vanilla. 

Fig Suet Pudding 

Mix together 2>^ cupfuls of sifted flour, i level 
teaspoonful each of soda, salt, mace, allspice and 



DESSERTS 185 

cinnamon and i teaspoonful of baking-powder. 
Put through a fine sieve, then add J^ cupful of 
finely chopped suet, i pound of figs cut fine, 

1 cupful of molasses, i cupful of milk. Turn 
into well-buttered pound baking-powder cans or 
molds of the same size and steam for two hours 
and a half. Serve with any good liquid sauce 
flavored with vanilla. 

Fig Roly Poly 
Pick over and wash i pound of figs, cut into 
bits and place in a double boiler with i cupful of 
water. Cover and cook slowly until they can be 
beaten to a pulp with a spoon. Cool and flavor 
with a few drops of vanilla. Sift together i pint 
of flour, % teaspoonful of salt and i heaping 
teaspoonful of baking-powder, then rub into it 

2 heaping tablespoonfuls of butter. Mix to a 
soft dough with cold milk, turn out on a floured 
board and roll out in a sheet half an inch thick. 
Spread with the fig paste and roll up tightly, 
pinching the ends well together. Place on a 
buttered pan, steam for three-quarters of an hour 
and stand in a hot oven for five minutes to dry 
off. Serve with milk or vanilla sauce. 

Rhubarb Dumplings 
Make a rich biscuit crust with i quart of flour, 
I teaspoonful of salt, 2 heaping teaspoonfuls of 



i86 LOW COST RECIPES 

baking-powder, 4 tablespoonfuls of shortening 
and sufficient sweet milk to mix to a soft dough. 
Roll out and cut in four-inch squares. Put i large 
spoonful of finely cut rhubarb and 1 piece of loaf 
sugar on each, draw the paste together, and 
pinch to keep the fruit from oozing. Place close 
together in a greased dripping pan. Pour in a 
scant y^ cupful of cold water, cover closely with 
a second pan and bake for forty minutes in a hot 
oven, uncovering ten minutes before serving. 
The water keeps the crust from baking too hard. 
Serve with hard sauce. 

Rhubarb Well 
This" is made of a rich bread dough pressed in a 
shallow pan, the sides much higher than the 
middle, which is filled thickly with sliced rhubarb 
and scraped maple sugar ; bake until the dough 
is done and serve with a strawberry cream whip 
about the base. 

Strawberry Mold 
Whip I cupful of thick cream until very stiff 
and light ; cut i pint of berries into small bits 
with a silver fruit knife and stir them lightly into 
the cream. Soak i tablespoonful of granulated 
gelatine in J^ of a cupful of cold water and 
when soft place over hot water until dissolved. 
Add this by degrees to the cream and berries, 



DESSERTS 187 

stirring, and adding 3 tablespoonfuls of pow- 
dered sugar. When the mixture begins to 
thicken turn it into a wetted mold and put away 
in a cold place until set, then turn out on a fancy 
dish. 

Sweet Omelet 
Break 4 eggs in a bowl, add 2 teaspoonfuls of 
powdered sugar and a tiny pinch of salt and 
beat just enough to mix well together. Into a 
very hot frying-pan drop i teaspoonful of butter, 
shake until it is evenly distributed over the 
bottom of the pan and pour in the eggs. Shake 
and stir with a flexible knife until the mixture 
begins to set, then loosen the edges and shake 
so that it will not stick to the pan. While still 
soft in the center spread quickly over it i spoon- 
ful of jelly, jam, crushed and sweetened fruit or 
any filling you wish, roll it over and turn out on 
a hot platter. Dust with a little powdered sugar 
and score with a hot poker. Put the remainder 
of the filling round the omelet and send at once 
to the table. 

Molded Rice and Apricots 
Pick over and wash thoroughly i cupful of 
rice. Cook in a double boiler with i pint of milk 
and a pinch of salt. If it becomes too dry a 
little more milk may be added. When tender 
mix in lightly the beaten yolks of 2 eggs, cook 



i88 LOW COST RECIPES 

for three minutes and take from the fire. Add 2 
tablespoonfuls of powdered sugar and i tea- 
spoonful of vanilla and turn into a buttered mold. 
Steam for ten minutes, then turn out on a heated 
dish. Round it heap halved apricots and pour 
over it a portion of the apricot syrup, heated and 
slightly thickened with arrowroot. 

Rice and Raisins 
Wash well i cupful of rice. Drop into a ket- 
tle of boiling salted water and boil at a gallop 
until the grains feel tender when rubbed between 
thumb and fingers. Drain, add i cupful of 
seeded raisins which have been steamed until 
plump, then pack into a well-buttered mold. 
Stand in the open oven for five minutes, turn out 
and serve with either hard sauce or butter and 
scraped maple sugar. 

Rice Royale 
Pick over and wash i cupful of rice. Drop 
into a large kettle of boiling water, add ^ tea- 
spoonful of salt and i tablespoonful of sugar and 
keep at a galloping boil until the grains feel 
tender when rubbed between the fingers. Drain 
thoroughly, pack lightly in a slightly buttered 
mold and let stand ten minutes in the open oven. 
Turn out carefully on a deep platter. Baste 
over this the syrup from canned fruit (heated), 



DESSERTS 189 

arrange the fruit itself around the base and serve 
either hot or cold. 

Rice Imperial 
A mold of rice boiled in milk, to which 
whipped cream and a trifle of gelatine have been 
added, is greatly improved by having the bottom 
of mold plentifully garnished with fresh cherries 
sugared over. Cherry syrup is served with it. 

Plain Rice Puddmg 
Put into a quart pan y^ cupful of rice, add a 
lump of butter the size of a hulled walnut, sugar 
to sweeten, a grating of nutmeg, and % tea- 
cupful of raisins, then fill up the pan with milk, 
stir occasionally while baking and add more 
milk if it is likely to become too dry. 

A New ^Vay of Making Rice Pudding 
Take Yz cupful of rice ; soak in a little milk 
one-half an hour ; add 2 quarts of milk, a little 
salt and i cupful of raisins ; then add i cupful of 
sugar ; season with vanilla ; bake in medium 
heated oven until well done. 

Marshmallow Rice Pudding 
Take i ^ pints of cold boiled rice and add to 
it milk, sugar and i &%^ just as you would for 
an ordinary baked rice pudding. Then place on 



I90 LOW COST RECIPES 

the top I dozen marshmallows which have been 
soaked for two or three hours in milk, and bake 
until a light brown tint. Serve with cream. 
This makes a very dainty and nourishing pud- 
ding, the marshmallows giving it a delicate 
flavor. 

Junket 

In I tablespoonful of cold water break up and 
dissolve i junket or rennet tablet. Take i 
measured quart of milk, put 2 tablespoonfuls of 
it and 2 tablespoonfuls of sugar in a saucepan. 
Stir over the fire until the sugar is dissolved then 
add all of the milk and heat until blood warm, 
then take off quickly. Add i teaspoonful of 
vanilla or other flavoring and the dissolved tablet 
and pour quickly into cUps or a dessert dish. 
Let stand undisturbed on the kitchen table until 
it jellies, which will take about ten minutes ; then 
set carefully away to chill. Serve very cold with 
cream and sugar. 

Junket With Canned Fruit 
For each quart of measured milk allow 3 table- 
spoonfuls of sugar, flavoring to taste and i junket 
tablet. Drain and cut fine some canned fruit — 
or such fresh fruits as oranges or bananas — and 
partly fill one large dish or the necessary number 
of small ones. Break the tablet and dissolve in 
I tablespoonful of cold water. In a saucepan 



DESSERTS 191 

put the sugar and ^ cupful of milk and stand on 
the stove and stir until the sugar is entirely dis- 
solved. Add the rest of the milk, stir and heat 
until lukewarm then take off. Add the flavoring 
and dissolved tablet, stir once quickly then pour 
into the dishes. Let stand on kitchen table 
until the milk is set then set away. Serve very 
cold with cream. 

Caramel Junket 

Required : One quart of milk, 6 tablespoonf uls 
of granulated sugar, i junket tablet and i table- 
spoonful of cold water. Put the sugar into a 
small pan, with just sufificient water to melt it, 
stir till the sugar is no longer visible, and cook 
(without stirring) until the syrup becomes a dark 
brown ; then pour in a few tablespoonfuls of the 
milk, and allow it to cook until strongly flavored 
and sweetened by the caramel. Add this flavored 
milk to the remainder of the cold milk and the 
tablet dissolved in the water. Flavor with a few 
drops of vanilla extract, and serve in custard 
glasses. 

Nun's Toast 

This dish goes under several other names. 
Take stale slices of bread and trim to the same 
size. Make a raw custard in the proportion of 
I beaten egg and a pinch of salt to each ^ pint 
of milk. Spread the bread on a platter and pour 



192 LOW COST RECIPES 

over a part of the custard, basting with more 
until the bread is thoroughly soaked. Drain 
slightly then quickly saute in a little butter in a 
hot pan. Serve plain or with cinnamon and 
sugar. 

Toast in Variety 
Toast may be used as a dessert at lunch, and 
there are a dozen ways in which its plainness 
may be improved upon. For the children trim 
all crust from the thin slices and place in the oven 
until a golden brown all through. Smother it in 
apple sauce or pour over the heated juice from 
canned fruits and serve cold with milk or cream. 
Dip the cut slices in a raw custard — i egg to }4 
pint of milk — and fry quickly with butter ; serve 
hot with butter and spiced sugar — this is variously 
known as German, French and nun's toast. Cut 
the slices in circles, saut^ quickly in butter ; drop 
on each piece i large spoonful of mashed prunes, 
and serve with cream, whipped or plain. Stewed 
figs or any marmalade which is not too rich may 
also be used. 

Newport Whips 
For Newport whips stand i glass of red rasp- 
berry jelly in a warm place where it will gradually 
soften to a thick syrup. Beat the whites of 2 
eggs until foamy, add to the softened jelly, then 
gradually pour in i cupful of very heavy cream. 



DESSERTS 193 

Stir in j^ cupful of sifted powdered sugar (less 
if the jelly is very sweet) and beat with a churn 
or dover beater. Lift off the froth as it rises, and 
place on a sieve to drain. When no more froth 
appears divide the liquid among the proper 
number of glasses and top each with a portion of 
the froth. Serve icy cold. 

Currant Jelly Whip 
To the whites of 3 eggs add a tiny pinch of 
salt and beat until foamy. Add 3 tablespoonfuls 
of sifted powdered sugar and beat again until 
very stiff and glossy. Now add, a teaspoonful 
at a time, % of a glass of currant jelly, continu- 
ing to beat until the mass is perfectly light and 
well mixed. Pile in a dish or in small glasses 
and send to the table. 

Orange Roly Poly 
Peel, slice and seed 4 sweet oranges. Mix 
well together i pint of flour, % oia. teaspoonful 
of salt, I tablespoonful of sugar and i teaspoon- 
ful of baking-powder. Rub into this 2 table- 
spoonfuls of butter and mix in sufficient sweet 
milk to mix to a soft dough. Turn out on a well- 
floured board, roll out in a long strip, spread 
with the sliced oranges and sprinkle thickly with 
sugar. Roll up, pinch the ends so that the juice 
will not run out, lay on a buttered plate and 



194 LOW COST RECIPES 

steam for forty minutes, then place in the oven 
until the top is dried off. Serve with hard or 
soft sauce. 

Gooseberry Fool 

The name of this dish, like many other names 
of dishes, comes to us direct from the French, 
Spell the word Foule as it was originally and we 
find the foule signifies pressed. The goose- 
berries are pressed before being mixed with 
cream. 

Green gooseberries ; to every pint of pulp add 
^ pint of cream and }i pint of milk, sugar to 
taste. Cut the tops and tails off the goose- 
berries ; put them into a jar, with 2 tablespoon- 
fuls of water and a little brown sugar ; set this 
jar in a saucepan of boiling water, and let it 
boil until the fruit is soft enough to mash. When 
done enough, beat it to a pulp, press through a 
sieve, and stir to every pint the above proportion 
of cream and milk. Ascertain if the mixture is 
sweet enough and put in plenty of sugar, or it 
will not be eatable ; and in mixing add the 
cream very gradually to the gooseberries. Serve 
in a glass dish, or in small glasses. This, al- 
though a very old-fashioned and homely dish, is, 
when well made, very delicious, and, if properly 
sweetened, a very suitable preparation for chil- 
dren. 



DESSERTS 195 

Gateau de Riz 
One heaping tablespoonful powdered gelatine, 
3 tablespoonfuls of water, 2 tablespoonfuls of 
sugar, 2 cupfuls of milk, 2 ounces of ground 
rice, ]4 cupful of raspberry puree, few drops of 
red coloring. Grind the rice and mix it into a 
smooth paste with a little of the milk, then put 
the remainder into ,a saucepan to heat. ■ When 
warm, add ground rice and stir over the fire un- 
til boiling. Add sugar and cook for a few min- 
utes, stirring all the time. Remove the saucepan 
from the fire and add the raspberry ptir^e, which 
has been made by rubbing either preserved rasp- 
berries or the fresh fruit through a sieve. Dis- 
solve gelatine with the water and strain it into 
the other mixture. Color with a few drops of 
red coloring and pour into a mold which has 
been rinsed out with cold' water. Serve with 
cream or custard sauce. 

Queenie 
Make a cold raw custard with 3 eggs, 2 table- 
spoonfuls of sugar and a pinch of salt for each 
pint of milk. Cut thick slices of stale bread and 
trim to an even size. Spread on a flat pan and 
baste over them as much of the raw custard as 
they will soak up. When perfectly soft all 
through beat i spoonful of butter in the frying- 
pan and in it fry as many slices at a time as 



196 LOW COST RECIPES 

can be accommodated with crowding. Brown 
quickly, turn and brown the other side. When 
done pile very evenly on a buttered dish, spread- 
ing each slice with a thick layer of marmalade. 
When all are done cover top and sides with a 
thick layer of meringuel Sprinkle liberally with 
powdered sugar and place in a moderate oven 
until lightly colored. 

Dampfnudeln 
Dampfnudeln is a delightful German dish. If 
bread sponge is on hand take as much of it as 
would make a small loaf, work into it 3 table- 
spoonfuls of melted shortening; if not, start 
with I cupful of milk, ^ teaspoonful of salt, i 
scant tablespoonful of butter melted and }{ oi a. 
yeast cake. Divide the light dough, when 
ready, into small round biscuits and let them 
raise a little on the board. In a large frying-pan 
melt I tablespoonful of butter and let it run 
round the bottom and sides, then pour in cold 
milk until a quarter of an inch deep. Fit in the 
biscuits so that they almost touch. Cover closely 
and keep over a moderate fire, turning the pan 
occasionally from side to side. Do not lift the 
lid, but when the butter begins to sizzle — which 
will be in about twenty minutes — they should be 
done, crisp on the bottom and well puffed up, 
the milk having entirely evaporated during their 



DESSERTS 197 

cooking. Serve with plenty of apple or apricot 
sauce. 

Cake Croquettes 
Crumble and sift enough stale cake to make i 
pint of fine crumbs. Cover with i cupful of 
milk and soak for an hour. Put over the fire 
and stir until boiling hot then add 2 beaten egg 
yolks. When well mixed take off, add 2 tea- 
spoonfuls of vanilla and turn on a shallow dish 
to cool. Mold in balls or cylinders, dip in 
slightly beaten egg, roll in fine crumbs and fry 
golden brown in deep, smoking hot fat. Serve 
with a hard sauce. 



CAKES 

Feather Cake 
One cupful of sugar, i cupful of sweet milk, i 
egg, 2 tablespoonfuls of butter, i teaspoonful of 
cream of tartar, }4 teaspoonful of soda, 2 heap- 
ing cupfuls of flour. 

A Delicious Cheap Cake 
One cupfuL of sugar, i egg, butter the size of a 
small egg, i cupful of very coldt water, 2 even 
cupfuls of flour, measured before sifting, 2 slightly 
rounded teaspoonfuls of baking-powder, salt and 
flavoring. Mix the sugar and butter thoroughly, 
add the egg and beat well. Add the water and let 
this stand while you sift the flour, baking-powder 
and salt three times, or, until thoroughly mixed. 
Then beat all very thoroughly and bake in a mod- 
erate oven. This may be filled with any preferred 
filling, may be used as a common loaf cake, or as 
a chocolate loaf cake by adding 2 teaspoonfuls of 
cocoa or 3 tablespoonfuls of grated chocolate. 

Jelly Cake 
One cupful of sugar, i cupful of milk, 2 tea- 
spoonfuls of cream of tartar, i teaspoonful of 
soda or 2 teaspoonfuls of baking-powder, i pint 



CAKES 199 

of' flour, I egg, I tablespoonful of butter, a little 
salt, flavor and bake in layers. Put currants or 
any tart jelly between the layers. 

Cream Jelly Cake 

Whites of 2 eggs, i cupful of white sugar, i 
cupful of sweet milk, a piece of butter the size of 
an egg, 2 cupfuls of flour, j4 teaspoonful of soda 
and I teaspoonful, of cream of tartar. 

The cream for the jelly cake is made with the 
yolks of 2 eggs, j4 cupful of brown sugar, i 
cupfuli of sweet milk, 2 teaspoonfuls of corn- 
starchi flavor with lemon, cook in a saucepan 
and spread between the layers. 

Favorite Chocolate Cake 
One-half cupful of sugar, j4 cupful of molasses, 
}4 cupful of hot water, i }4 cupfuls of flour, i tea- 
spoonful of soda, I tablespoonful of butter, i 
square of chocolate, 3 eggs (one white left out). 
Beat sugar, molasses, butter and eggs together, 
add the hot water with soda dissolved in it, the 
grated chocolate (melted), and flour. Bake in 
two layers. 

An Inexpensive Angel Food 
Most people like angel food with fruit or ice- 
cream, but many housewives hesitate about 
making' it on account of the quantity of eggs it 
requires. However, this little cake is delicious, 



200 LOW COST RECIPES 

inexpensive and large enough to serve a family 
of six or eight. 

Whites of 4 eggs, pinch of salt, 5^ cupful of 
sugar, }i teaspoonful of cream of tartar, and Yz 
cupful of flour measured after sifting. Add salt 
to eggs and beat about half ; then add cream of 
tartar and beat stiff. Fold in sugar. Sift flour 
four times and fold in lightly. Bake in ungreased 
tin for forty minutes in slow oven. 

Cheap Fruit Cake 

Cream well together i cupful of brown sugar 
and a scant J^ cupful of butter, and beat in % of 
a teaspoonful of salt, i teaspoonful of cinnamon, 
a slight grating of nutmeg, J4 teaspoonful of 
cloves and i cupful of seedless raisins. Into i 
cupful of thick apple sauce made with tart apples 
and unsweetened, sift i tablespoonful of baking- 
soda. To the creamed ingredients add i cupful 
of flour, the foaming sauce and as much more 
flour — ^about i cupful — as may be needed to 
make a thick batter. Turn into a loaf pan lined 
with greased paper and bake in a moderate oven 
from fifty minutes to an hour, according to thick- 
ness. 

Ginger Cakes 

Put I pint of molasses and i tablespoonful 
each of lard and butter in a bowl ; stand over 
hot water until just warm enough to melt the 



CAKES 20I 

shortening. Add i cupful of milk, i table- 
spoonful of ground ginger, ^ teaspoonful of 
salt, I pint of flour mixed with i scant teaspoon- 
ful of sifted soda and % teaspoonful of baking- 
powder. Work well together then add sufificient 
flour to make a rather stiff dough. Roll out, 
cut with a scalloped cutter and bake on buttered 
pans in a hot oven. 

Ginger Snaps 
One cupful of lard, i cupful of sugar, i cupful 
of molasses, i cupful of water, a little salt, i 
tablespoonful of ginger, i teaspoonful of soda, 
and I teaspoonful of cream of tartar, roll thin 
and bake quickly. 

Jumbles 
Cream J^ of a cupful of butter, add i cupful of 
sugar and cream again. Add i well-beaten 
egg, I teaspoonful of vanilla or other flavoring, 
J^ of a cupful of sour cream, into which has been 
sifted ^ of a teaspoonful of soda and well 
stirred ; lastly, about 2j^ cupfuls of sifted flour. 
The mixture should be a very soft dough. Drop 
by small teaspoonfuls four inches apart on 
greased pans and bake In a slow oven. 

Russian Fried Cakes 
Scald I pint of milk, add i scant teaspoonful 
of salt and i tablespoonful of sugar ; when luke- 



202 LOW COST RECIPES 

warm add i yeast cake dissolved in a little 
warm water and sufficient flour to make a drop 
batter and set aside to raise. When light and 
spongy add ^ of a cupful of butter creamed to- 
gether with I cupful of sugar and 3 eggs, beat 
until thoroughly mixed, add sufficient flour to 
make a soft dough and knead for five minutes. 
Return to the bowl, cover and keep in a warm 
place until light. Turn on a floured board, roll 
out quite thin and cut into three-inch circles. On 
^ of these cakes pliace i small spoonful of apri- 
cot or any firm jam or marmalade. Cover with 
the remaining I cakes and pinch each together se- 
curely. Cover with a floured cloth and let stand 
for twenty minutes, then drop, a few at a time, 
into smoking hot fat. When well browned and 
pu£Fed, up drain, on unglazed paper and roll in 
powdered sugar. 

Breakfast CofTee Cake 
Beat well together 2 eggs; add i cupful of 
milk, y^ teaspoonful of salt, i tablespoonful of 
sugar and sufficient sifted flour to make a thick 
drop, batter. In the shallow baking pan melt i 
heaping tablespoonful of shortening — butter> 
lard or the two mixed. Grease sides and bottom 
then pour the remainder into the batter and 
beat hard. Last of all add 2 teaspoonfuls of 
baking-powder and beat again then pour into 



CAKES 203 

the pan. Bake about twenty-five minutes in a 
hot oven. 

German Coffee Cake 
A recipe for coffee cake, which comes direct 
from the Fatherland, calls for a pound of risen 
dough (enough for a small loaf), into which is 
worked 2 tablespoonfuls of, soft butter, yi cupful 
of sugar, I beaten egg and % oi a. nutmeg, 
grated. Knead this,, roll out in a sheet and fit 
into a shallow pan ; cover and keep warm until 
well risen, Beat 2 eggs and add enough pow- 
dered sugar to make like very thick cream. 
With a sharp knife make slanting cuts all over 
the light dough, and put in these some of the 
egg mixture. Dust thickly with cinnamon and 
bake in a quick oven. 



INDEX 



Soups 

Baked Bean Soup, 14 
Beef Soup Stock, 6 
Brown Onion Soup, 15 
Chicken and Corn Soup, 9 
Cold Fruit Soup, 20 
Corn Chowder, I a 
Corn aiid Tomato Chowder, 13 
Cranberry Soup, 21 
Cream of Celery Soup, 17 
Cream of Cucumber Soup, 18 
Cream of Peanut Soup, 19 
Cream of Spinach Soup, 18 
Cream of Tomato Soup, 17 
Cream Vegetable Soups, 7 

Fish Chowder, 13 

Forcemeat Balls for Soup, 6 

German Prune Soup, 20 

Luncheon Soup, 8 

Onion and Cucumbtr Soup, 15 

Onion Soup, 14 

Oyster Soup, 10 

Pomeranian Soup, 13 

Potato Chowder, 1 1 

Potato Soup, II 

Purfie of Turnips, 16 

Sago and Chicken Soup, 10 

Satisfying Soup, 7 

Soup Stock, 5 

Split or Dried Pea Soup, 8 

Tomato Bisque, 16 

Virginia Peanut Soup, 19 

Fish 

Baked Fish, 23 

Boiled Fish, 22 

Boiled Salt Cod, 25 

Codfish ^ la Creole, 26 

Codfish Cakes, 26 

Creamed Fish in Pepper Shells, 

24 
Fish Casserole, 24 
Fried Fish, 23 



Fried Smelts, Lemon Sauce, 24 
Salmon I^af, 25 
Steamed Fish, 23 

Meats 

Beef and Corn Pudding, 34 

Beef au Gratin, 33 

Beef Goulasch, 33 

Beef Gumbo, 35 

Beef Loaf, 32 

Beef Patties, 34 

Beef, Savory Sauce, 31 

Braised Beef, 29 

Braised Beef Heart, 37 

Brown Beef Stew, 28 

Corned Beef, 36 

DeUnonico's Corned Beef Hash, 

37 
Pot Roast, 39 
Saut6 of Heart, 38 
Scotch Rolled Beef, 31 
Spanish Steak, 30 
Spanish Stew, 31 
Toad-in-the-Hole, 36 
Vienna Steaks, 30 

(Veal) 
Braised Veal, 39 
Browned Veal Knuckle, 43 
Calf s Heart, Stuffed, 39 
Calves' Brains, s 5 
Chopped Veal, German style, 42 
French Friscassee of Veal, 40 
Minced Veal with Poached 

Eggs, 41 
Scotch Veal CoUops, 42 
Veal Croquettes, 41 
Veal Fricandeau, 40 
Veal Kidney Stew, 43 
Veal Loaf, 41 
Veal Pot Pie, 40 

(Mutton) 
Boiled Mutton, 44 



INDEX 



205 



Chinese Mutton, 45 
Cold Mutton Timbale, 46 
Mutton k la Marquise, 45 
Mutton Turnovers, 47 
Roast Mutton, Breton Style, 44 

; Shepherd Pie, 48 

; Spiced Mutton, 45 

' {Lami) 

Braised Breast of Lamb, 48 

' Braised Lamb's Liver, 49 
Breaded Breast of Lamb, 48 
Crown of Lamb with Peas, 49 
Liver Boulettes, 50 
Shoulder of Lamb, Stuffed, 49 

{Pork, etc.) 

Bacon Fritters, 54 
; Boiled Ham, Deviled, 51 

Ham and Egg Tartlets, 51 

Ham Canapis, 53 
; Ham Croquettes, No. I, 52 
i Ham Croquettes, No. 2, 53 
; Ham Pie, 51 
\ Philadelphia Scrapple, 56 
. Pork Tenderloins, 54 
: Sausages Served in Potato 

. Ring- SS 
Scalloped Ham and Macaroni, 

, (^Misctllatteous) 

Boliotee, 60 
Boudins, 61 
Broiled Tripe, 64 
Cecils from Cold Meat, 62 
Chicken k la Burgen, 66 
Chicken and Nut Croquettes, 67 
Chicken Rissoles, 65 
China Chilo, 64 
Croquettes of Odds and Ends, 

64 
Deviled Meat, 63 
Dresden Patties, 58 
Fricadeh, 61 
Irish Stew, 57 
Italian Fritters, 63 
Meat and Potato Puffs, 57 
Meat Roll, 56 
Minced Meat in Onion Cups, 62 



Pilaff of Chicken, 67 
Ravioli, 59 

Roman Meat Pudding, 58 
Salmi of Turkey, 68 
Turkey Chartreuse, 68 
Virginia Stewed Chicken, 65 

Vegetables 

Asparagus Toast, 70 

Bean Croquettes, 72 

Beans (Red), Bretonne Style, 72 

Beans, Stewed, Onion Sauce, 7 1 

Beans (String), Buttered, 70 

Cabbage, Cream Slaw, 73 

Cabbage, Stuffed, 73 

Carrot Fritters, 74 

Carrots and New Potatoes, 74 

Carrots, Fried, 74 

Carrots, Glazed, 74 

Carrots, Stewed, 73 

Cauliflower au Gratin, 75 

Cauliflower Fritters, 75 

Chupe, loi 

Corn and Celery Fritters, 78 

Corn and Peppers, Baked, 78 

Corn Boats, 77 

Corn Dumplings, 76 

Corn Entree, 76 

Corn in Tomato Cups, 77 

Corn, Tomatoes and Onions, 76 

Cucumber Fritters, 81 

Cucumber Ragout, 79 

Cucumbers, Brown Sauce, 79 

Cucumbers Espagnole, 78 

Cucumbers, Smothered, 80 

Cucumbers, Stuffed, 80 

Eggplant, Baked, 82 

Eggplant, Fried, 81 

Onion Fritters, 84 

Onions and Apples, Baked, 85 

Onions, Baked, 82 

Onions, Creamed, 83 

Onions, Deviled Green, 84 

Onions, Scalloped, 83 

Parsnip Fricassee, 85 

Peas and Potatoes, 86 

Potato Balls, 93 

Potato Cakes, 93 



206 



INDEX 



Potato Dumplings, 94 

Potato Farci, 92 

Potato Roll, 92 

Potato Roses, 90 

Potato Turnovers, 91 

Potatoes and Ham, Scalloped, 

Potatoes au Gratin, 88 

Potatoes Barigoule, 89 

Potatoes, Browned Hashed, 86 

Potatoes, Creamed Hashed, 87 

Potatoes, Creamed Raw, 94 

Potatoes, Delmouico Hashed, 93 

Potatoes Genevoise, 90 

Potatoes, Kentucky, 88 

Potatoes, Milanaise, 89 

Potatoes (New) as Prepared in 
the South, 88 

Potatoes, Philadelphia, 9 1 

Potatoes, Saratoga, 86 

Potatoes, Surprise, 90 

Salsify Fritters, 95 

Spinach and Macaroni, Scal- 
loped, 95 

Spinach, Creamed, 95 

Squash k la Creole (Stuffed), 96 

Squash Puffs, 96 

Succotash, 71 

Sweet Potato Croquettes, 95 

Sweet Potatoes (Baked), Creole 
Style, 94 

Tomato Curry, 97 

Tomato Toast, 99 

Tomatoes Lyonnaise, 98 

Tomatoes on Toast, Indian 
Style, 99 

Tomatoes Portugaise, 97 

Tomatoes Stuffed with Maca- 
roni, 98 

Vegetable Croquettes, 100 

Vegetable Stew, 100 

Salads 

Fish Salad, 103 

French Dressing, 103 

Ham Salad, 105 

Ham Salad in Potato Nests, 105 

Hot Egg Salad, 104 



Hot Potato Salad, 104 

Marguerite or Daisy Salad, 107 

Mayonnaise without Oil, I02 

Nantese Salad, 106 

Rice Salad, 103 

Tasty Salad, 104 

White Mayonnaise without Oil, 

102 
Whole Tomato Salad, 106 

Cheese Dishes 

Baked Cheese Omelet, 1 13 
Cheese and Cracker Pudding, 

112 
Cheese Balls, 112 
Cheese Batter Pudding, III 
Cheese Fondue, no 
Cheese Pudding, III 
Cheese Puff, in 
Cheese Straws, 1 13 
Cheese Timbales, 1 10 
Cheese Toast, 109 
Deviled Crackers, 113 
Genoa Ramekins, 108 
Italian Polenta, 108 

Breads, etc. 
Baps, 117 

Bread Griddle Cakes, 1 20 
Buttermilk Bread, irS 
Carolina Corn-Meal Rolls, 1 15 
Corn Bread, 114 
Corn Bread with Sour Milk, 1 14 
Corn-Meal Dodgers, 115 
Corn-Meal Muffins, 1 26 
Drop Biscuit, 123 
Fruit Muffins, 1 25 
Ginger Bread, 139 
Green ' Corn Griddle Calces, 1 20 
Hermits, 122 
Hominy Crumpets, 123 
Hominy Griddle Cakes, 129 
Hominy Muffins, 127 
Hominy Waffles, 127 
Johnny Cake, 118 
Martha Washington Waffles, 

129 . 
Oatmeal Scones, 1 32 



INDEX 



207 



Old Virginia Waffles, 128 
Parker House Rolls, 123 
Parsnip Pancakes, 121 
Plain Waffles, na; 
Pop Overs, 132 
Potato Biscuit, 124 
Potato Tea Cakes, 1 25 
Quick Potato Biscuits, 125 
Rhode Island Johnny Cake, 1 16 
Rye Muffins,. 126 
Slappers, 120 
Sour Cream Crullers, 124 
Sour Cream Gingerbread, 1 29 
Sour Cream Waffles, 128 
Sour Milk Griddle Cakes, 110 
Southern Egg Bread, 119 
Southern :Hominy Bread, 119 
Southern Rice Bread, 1 17 
Southern Waffles, 128 
Spider Corn Cake, 116 
Virginia Corn Bread, 115 

Rice, Hominy, etc. 

Baked Rice and Cheese, 131 

Blackberry Mush, No. I, 136 

Blackberry Mush, No. 2, 137 

Boiled Hominy, 134 

Boiled Macaroni, 138 

Boiled Rice, 130 

Creole Rice, 132 

Fried Mush, 137 

Fried Rice, 132 

Hominy Fritters, 135 

Hominy Loaves, 134 

Jonathan, 135 

Macaroni k la Sorrento, 138 

Macaroni and Cheese, 139 

Macaroni Loaf Filled with 

Meat, 139 
Macaroni Rarebit, 1 38 
Macaroni with White Sauce, 

139 
Molded Farina, 136 
Noodles, 140 

Rice and Cheese Fritters, 133 
Rice and Mutton, 130 
Rice Croquettes, 133 



Risotto, 131 
Steamed Oatmeal, 136 

Eggs 

Beauregard Eggs, 143 

Egg Timbales, 142 

Eggs k la Bonne Femme, 142 

Eggs Aurore, 145 

Eggs Brouilli, 142 

Eggs, Creole Style, 144 

Eggs, in Tomato Cups, 143 

Poached Eggs i la Creole, 145 

Potato Omelet, 144 

Rice Omelet, 144 

Desserts 

Almond Blanc Mange, 147 

Apple Cream, 148 

Apple Fluff, 151 

Apple Loaf, 150 

Apple Pot Pie with Maple Sugar 

Sauce, 149 
Apple Puffs, 152 
Apple Slump, 149 
Apricot Blanc Mange, 147 
Apricot Tapioca, 155 
Baked Apple Patties, 151 
Baked Peach Dumplings, 167 
Belle Pudding, 159 
Berry Bread, 174 
Berry Dumplings, 172 
Berry Roly Poly, 174 
Bird's Nest Jelly, 175 
Boiled Apple Dumplings, 150 
Bread Pudding, 162 
Brown Betty, 153 
Cabinet Pudding, 161 
Cake Croquettes, 197 
Canned Peach Dumplings, 1 67 
Canned Peach Pudding, 167 
Caramel Junket, 191 
Cherry Batter Pudding, 176 
Cherry Bread, 177 
Cherry Charlotte, 178 
CherryiRoly Poly, 177 
Cherry Short-Cdke, 179 
Cherry Sponge, 178 
Christmas Plum Pudding, 166 



208 



INDEX 



Coffee Jelly, 176 

Cottage Pudding, 163 

Cranberry Slump, 1 80 

Cranberry Sponge, 180 

Crumb Fruit Pudding, 159 

Crumb Spice Pudding, 157 

Currant Jelly Whip, 193 

Dampfnudeln, 196 

Dark Steamed Pudding, 161 

Delicate Pudding, 164 

Economical Plum Pudding, 1 66 

Fairy Pudding, i6a 

Fancy Fruit Jelly, 175 

Fig Chartreuse, 184 

Fig Roly Poly, 185 

Fig Suet Pudding, 184 

Fluffy Corn-Starch Blanc Mange, 
148 

Fried Corn-Starch Pudding, 164 

Fruit Flip Flaps, 154 

Fruit Pudding, 158 

Fruit Tapioca, 155 

Gateau de Riz, 195 

Good AU-Round Pudding, 165 

Gooseberry Fool, 194 

Graham Pudding, 162 

Grape Sago Pudding, 181 

Grape Sponge, 181 

Ice Cream Pudding, 156 

Junket, igo 

Junket with Canned Fruit, tgo 

Lemon Jelly, 175 

Lemon Sponge, 181 

Light Steamed Pudding, 158 

Light Tapioca Custard, 156 

Maple Tapioca Pudding, 155 

Marshmallow Rice Paddme. 
189 

Molded Rice and Apricots, 187 

New Rice Pudding, 189 

Newport Whips, 193 

Nun's Toast, 191 

Old-Fashioned Rhubarb Frit- 
ters, 147 

Old Time Indian Pudding, 164 

Orange Roly Poly, 193 



Pan Dowdy, 153 
Peach Betty, 171 
Peach Cobbler, 170 
Peach Dessert, 168 
Peach Puffs, 170 
Peach Sago, 171 
Peach Snow, 169 
Peach Trifle, 171 
Peach Whip, 169 
Plain Rice Pudding, 189 
Poor Man's Fie, 154 
Prune Cocktail, 182 
Prune Jelly, 183 
Prune Whip, 182 
Prunes ^ la Vauille, 182 
Queenie, 195 
Rice and Raisins, 188 
Rice Imperial, 189 
Rice Royale, 188 
Rhubarb Dumplings, 185 
Rhubarb Well, 186 
Russian Prune Pudding, 183 
Snow Pudding, 157 
Somerset Pudding, 160 
Spice Pudding, 157 
Steamed Berry Pudding, 173 
Steamed Berry Roll, 173 
Strawberry Mold, 186 
Sweet Omelet, 187 
Toast in Variety, 192 
White Lady Pudding, 163 

Cakes 

Breakfast Coffee Cake, 202 
Cheap Fruit Cake, 200 
Cream Jelly Cake, 199 
Delicious Cheap Cake, 198 
Favorite Chocolate Cake, 199 
Feather Cake, 198 
German Coffee Cake, 203 
Ginger Cakes, 200 
Ginger Snaps, 201 
Inexpensive Angel Food, 199 
Jelly Cake, 198 
Jumbles, 201 
Russian Fried Cakes, 201 



m 




:iii 



