A PILGRIMAGE OF 
BRITISH FARMING 

I9IO-I9I2 



A PILGRIMAGE OF 
BRITISH FARMING 

1910-1912 
BY A. D. HALL, M.A., F.R.S. 

REPRINTED BY PERMISSION FROM THE "TIMES" 



n 



LONDON 

JOHN MURRAY, ALBEMARLE STREET, W. 
1914 



First Edition . . November 1913 
Reprinttd . . . January 1914 



All rights reserved 



TO 

E. S. BEAVEN 

MY DEAR BEAVEN, 

To whom but to you should I dedicate this 
account of our joint wanderings ? For, as I read them 
afresh, I am always being reminded, sometimes of your 
methods of dealing with barley problems, the rigour of 
which may well put us professional men of science to 
shame, sometimes of the acuity of your criticisms of 
the work of the same class of pundits. But most 
of all I think of you as one of the last defenders of 
the old laissez-faire position, a latter-day Athanasius, 
standing for self-help and honest individual work, and 
denouncing Government Departments, County Councils, 
Development Commissions, and all such spoon-feeding 
agencies, until that ancient thruster the old Leon 
Bolide, would boil over with the combined fury of 
your driving and your arguments ! May it be granted 
to us to review our opinions, years hence, over the 
same ground ! 

Yours sincerely, 

A, D, HALL, 



PREFACE 

THE journeys herein recorded were undertaken with 
the view of learning something of the diversity of 
British farming, and of the manner in which its 
practices have been adapted to meet the variations 
of soil and climate which occur in these Islands. 
As a scientific man dealing with agriculture I found 
myself not infrequently called upon for advice which 
demanded a knowledge of local conditions and methods 
of farming about which I could find very little informa- 
tion in the text-books. So with Professor T. B. Wood 
of Cambridge, and Mr. E. S. Beaven of Warminster, 
a farming tour was planned and begun in 1910, 
though it eventually took three summers to carry 
it through to completion. We were helped with 
numerous introductions, and were received everywhere 
with such a measure of hospitality and willingness to 
provide information that we were able to form a 
pretty definite opinion on the character of the farming 
of the district we were passing through in spite of the 
flying character of our visits. Mistakes and omissions 
there must be in my account, but I am inclined to 
think they are less due to the hasty nature of the 
journey than to the fact that no man can get up a 
case without falling into errors both in his material 
and in the interpretation he gives to it. 

The book consists of a reprint of the articles de- 

vii 



viii PREFACE 

scriptive of our wanderings which, during the following 
autumns and winters of 191012, appeared in the 
Times. To the proprietors of the Times I am indebted 
for permission to republish. Little has been altered 
from the original text; a certain amount of pruning 
and correction, some rearrangement of moods and 
tenses, and an occasional interpolation have been 
made; otherwise I found, after various trials, that I 
should have been compelled to rewrite the whole as a 
more or less formal account of British farming, to the 
certain loss of whatever freshness of impression I had 
gained by setting down straightway what I had seen 
and the opinions thereby aroused. Had I been per- 
suaded that by greater trouble I could have con- 
verted the articles into a more readable book, that 
effort would have been freely made; for to publish 
an account of an agricultural tour is to invite an 
invidious comparison with those two masters of their 
double craft of farming and writing Arthur Young 
and William Cobbett. 

My recommendation must be the intrinsic interest 
of the subject and the fact that these journeys were 
taken at an instructive time in the development of our 
agriculture, when the land and its management had 
somewhat suddenly become a matter of interest to our 
general population. One outcome of that renewed 
attention to agriculture on the part of the State had 
been the Small Holdings Act ; other legislative actions 
were being promised or discussed, the break-up of the 
great estates seemed to have begun, though it now 
would appear that the sales of 1910-11 were due 



PREFACE ix 

to a combination of more temporary circumstances 
than to any settled policy on the part of the owners. 
Not only were the relations of the State to agriculture 
in debate at that time, but the farming community 
was just becoming conscious of a return of prosperity 
that promised to last for some time, and, encouraged 
thereby, was beginning to take more interest in the 
applications of science and education to its industry. 
For these various reasons I am encouraged to hope 
that this record of the impressions derived from British 
farming and farmers during the critical years 191012 
may be of sufficient interest to justify a separate 
existence in book form. 

A. D. HALL. 

EWHURST, MERTON, S.W. 
August 1913. 



CONTENTS 

PAGE 

PREFACE . . . . vii 

FIRST JOURNEY, 1910 

I. CHALK FARMING IN WILTSHIRE i 

II. PEDIGREE CORN AND STOCK . .8 

III. THE BLACKMOOR VALE . . . .15 

IV. SOMERSET BARLEY GROWING . . .21 
V. THE DORSET DOWNS. . . .27 

VI. THE SUSSEX CORN BELT . . . -33 

VII. THE SOUTH DOWNS . . . . .40 

VIII. SPECIALIST FARMING: HOPS AND FRUIT . . 47 

IX. ESSEX SEED CORN . . . . .62 

X. THE FENLAND . . . . .70 

XI. NORFOLK BULLOCK FATTENING . . .78 

XII. SPECIALIST FARMING : POTATOES . . .86 

XIII. LINCOLN HEATH AND WOLD . . .94 

XIV. THE ISLE OF AXHOLME . . . . 101 
XV. THE MAKING OF NEW LAND . . .108 

XVI. YORKSHIRE ARABLE FARMING . . .115 

XVII. HIGH FARMING IN NORTHUMBRIA . . .123 

XVIII. THE SUPREMACY OF THE LOTHIANS . . 131 

XIX. NORTHERN FRUIT-GROWING . . .138 

XX. GENERAL IMPRESSIONS IN 1910 . . . 145 

xi 



xii CONTENTS 

SECOND JOURNEY, 1911 

PAGE 

I. THE VALE OF PEWSEY . . . .155 

II. THE UPPER THAMES VALLEY . . .163 

III. THE VALE OF EVESHAM . . . .172 

IV. THE WEST MIDLANDS . . . .181 

V. THE VALLEY OF THE TEME: HOPS AND FRUIT . 189 
VI. SHROPSHIRE: SHEEP AND BARLEY GROWING . 205 

VII. CHESHIRE: DAIRYING AND INTENSIVE CULTIVA- 
TION . . . . . . .219 

VIII. FACTORIES AND FARMING IN LANCASHIRE . 227 

IX. NORTH LANCASHIRE : STOCK-RAISING . . . 236 

X. FURNESS AND THE LAKE DISTRICT . . 244 

XI. IRELAND THE ARDS: FLAX AND POTATOES . 258 
XII. ULSTER ROUND LOUGH NEAGH . . .267 

XIII. IRISH TOBACCO . . . . .278 

XIV. CENTRAL IRELAND : THE GRAZINGS AND LAND 

HUNGER . . . . . .285 

XV. THE WESTERN SEABOARD : RESETTLEMENT AND 

CO-OPERATION ..... 299 

THIRD JOURNEY, 1912 

I. STOCK-RAISING IN MONMOUTHSHIRE . . 305 

II. CARMARTHEN AND CO-OPERATION . v .313 

III. LITTLE ENGLAND BEYOND WALES . . . 320 

IV. CENTRAL WALES : MIXED FARMING . . 326 

V. NORTH WALES : SLATE QUARRIES AND WATER- 
ING-PLACES . . . . . -333 

VI. CORNISH MARKET GARDENING . . . 340 
VII. DEVON GREENERY . . . . -355 



CONTENTS xiii 



PAGE 



VIII. NORTHERN CORN-GROWING: THE MORAY FIRTH 369 

IX. ABERDEENSHIRE STOCK BREEDING AND FEEDING 377 

X. CARSE FARMING IN FORFAR . . . 386 

XI. AYRSHIRE : EARLY POTATOES ^ . . 393 

XII. MILK PRODUCTION IN SOUTH-WEST SCOTLAND . 400 

XIII. THE MIDLANDS . . . . . 407 

XIV. THE MIDLAND MILK BELT .... 414 
XV. MIDLAND MARKET GARDENING . . . 423 

XVI. GENERAL CONCLUSIONS .... 430 

INDEX . . . . . . .447 



A PILGRIMAGE OF BRITISH 
FARMING 

i 

CHALK FARMING IN WILTSHIRE 

IT would perhaps be most appropriate to begin a 
pilgrimage of British farming with Norfolk, for the 
systematic pursuit of the industry along what we 
might call modern lines is generally associated with 
Townshend's turnips and the invention of the four- 
course system. The writings of Arthur Young, 
himself an East Anglian, did much to promulgate the 
idea that Norfolk was the originating county, and 
the long line of notable farmers it has produced has 
only fixed the tradition. But in an industry so 
ancient, so universal, and yet so localized as agri- 
culture, in which the practitioners have rarely been 
writers, the origin of any custom as a rule antedates 
any individual to whom it is credited. The recorded 
names usually belong to men conspicuous by their 
station or their powers of writing, men who in one 
way or other gave a general circulation to what had 
hitherto been a local or occasional practice. Turnips 
and rotation grasses were grown long before Townshend 



2 CHALK FARMING IN WILTSHIRE 

wherever the land had been enclosed, and the Norfolk 
four-course system was in vogue in Herts in the early 
years of the eighteenth century, having " growed " no 
one knows how or where. 

But without denying Norfolk its pride of place, it 
was more convenient to begin our journey farther 
south and west ; we were out to see arable farming, 
and it was therefore well to take the earlier country 
first, because corn crops cannot be judged until they 
approach harvest, especially in an abnormal season 
like that of 1910, in which early promise had not 
always been fulfilled. So we made our start on the 
chalk in Wilts, and chalk farming is in many respects 
the most distinctive feature of English agriculture. 
No other geological formation is so widely and 
uniformly developed ; from Salisbury Plain to the 
South Downs and north to the Yorkshire Wolds the 
chalk country possesses a character of its own both 
in its contours and its agriculture. It constitutes the 
earliest settled land in the country; the intrenched 
camps, the barrows, the dykes, the trackways speak of 
its pre-Roman inhabitants, while the lynches, terraced 
on the sides of the steepest slopes that have now 
generally reverted to grass, are evidence of a former 
intensity of cultivation in marked contrast with its 
sparse occupation to-day. It was the open, unwooded 
surface that drew primitive man to the chalk ; elsewhere 
primitive English land must have been largely scrub 
and forest where it was not barren heath, and the 
open country would be settled before clearings were 
made. The chalk country, too, forms the essential 
home of the sheep, and British farming systems have 
mostly been based upon sheep-raising, which is still 
the characteristic note of our agriculture as compared 
with that of other countries. 



A DOWN FARM 3 

Salisbury Plain forms the heart of the English 
chalk, and it was on the western edge of the Plain 
that we saw our first farming. We climbed up to 
the Battlebury Camp behind Warminster, and at our 
feet was spread out the structure we were so often to 
see repeated the steep scarped face of the down 
descending to a terrace of Chalk Marl and a narrow 
valley of Gault Clay ; beyond that a ridge, in this case 
of Upper Greensand, clothed with the Longleat woods, 
and beyond that again the great vale of Somerset. 
As is so generally the case, a little stream, rising 
beyond the chalk area, had cut a gap through the 
escarpment and flowed in a deep valley through the 
chalk, though the present contour of the land seemed 
to offer an easier lateral outlet to the sea. From the 
Battlebury Camp, now a sheet of waving barley, we 
could make out the farms running in long strips from 
the high down to the water meadows bordering the 
little stream, thus giving each farm its small area of 
rich pasture, some fields of comparatively heavy land, 
then a larger portion of " four-field " land lying on the 
lower slopes, and then a strip of "bake" below the 
open grass land on the top. This grass land is 
generally old sheep-walkjstrewn with the typical chalk 
flowers, the ladies' bedstraw, the nodding thistle, and 
the beautiful drop-wort most conspicuous, with rock 
rose, thyme, and milk-wort below, but sometimes it is 
newer turf which has only been resown with grass 
since the great depression brought about a reduction 
in the arable land even in this specially arable country. 
Below the down comes the " bake," which is a Wilt- 
shire term for the highest thin arable land and, 
according to the local derivation, associated with the 
practice of " baking and burning " the turf when the 
down was originally taken into cultivation. Whatever 



4 CHALK FARMING IN WILTSHIRE 

the origin of the name, the bake connotes a thin black 
soil crowded with small angular flints, with pure chalk 
below at a depth of four or five inches only. Near as 
the chalk is, the thin soil has sometimes been washed 
free of carbonate of lime, and responds to chalking 
and the use of lime and manures like basic slag con- 
taining lime ; in other places increasing the depth of 
cultivation has remedied this shortage of lime. Many 
of the agreements stipulate that the bake shall be 
farmed on a five-field shift, in which two corn crops 
oats and barley or always oats are taken in five 
years, with green crops between ; but more often a 
simple alternation of cereal and green crop, eaten off 
by sheep, is followed, with an occasional rest for a few 
years in sainfoin. Naturally enough these uplands 
never see a manure cart ; superphosphate is used for 
the roots, and the rest of the fertility is brought in the 
cake and corn fed to the folded sheep. Below the 
bake comes the " four-field " land, free-working loams 
still very flinty and inclined to be heavy and sticky 
when they are low enough to lie on the chalk marl. 
This is the typical corn land farmed on the Wiltshire 
rotation, in which two years of straw crops follow two 
years of root crops eaten off by sheep. Barley follows 
the wheat ; then half the field goes into clover and rye 
grass, the other half into vetches, rye, or winter barley, 
to be followed by rape and turnips. The system is 
directed towards providing the sheep with some green 
crop during every month of the year, and before the 
turnips are over the rye or winter barley must be 
ready to take the ewes and lambs. Generally the 
fold passes over the land three times during the 
rotation, and little farmyard manure finds its way even 
to the four-field land. Of late years dairying has 
extended into this district wherever the farmer 



SOILS AND WEEDS 5 

possesses a little better pasture, and it is often the 
custom to retain all the manure made by the cows 
for the grass land and farm the arable with artificial 
manures and the cake and corn fed to the sheep. 

The lowest arable land is distinctly heavy and is 
farmed on the old English " three-field " course of 
beans, wheat, and barley ; it yields heavy crops in 
ordinarily favourable seasons. In 1910 the thin soils 
were carrying crops below average ; the barley was 
only fair, the oats distinctly poor, and though good 
roots were to be seen, weeds were often more promi- 
nent. Chalk soils are always full of weeds, and in such 
a dripping year following on the previous year's 
inheritance they had almost beaten the farmer ; in 
places the charlock had outgrown the corn and obliter- 
ated the lines of the late-sown turnips. By general 
confession the land is not nowadays so cleanly farmed 
as of old. On some of the weak spots among the 
corn yellow-rattle covered the ground, one of the most 
puzzling of weeds as regards either its distribution or 
eradication. 

Apart from the dairying, Wiltshire farming has in 
the main depended upon the sheep ; for the bullock 
fattening, which is also practised, is only a means of 
trampling down the straw into manure. The sheep 
are the big and rapidly maturing Hampshire Downs, 
though the Wiltshire man is inclined to maintain that 
the Hampshires both originated and may be seen at 
their best in his own county. Other breeds are rarely 
seen, though we did hear of one north-country immi- 
grant who has introduced and still swears by the 
Cheviots. The sheep are mostly sold as stores, though 
some men fatten out their wether lambs ; as with all 
the Down breeds, they live upon the arable land, travel- 
ling daily from the down to the fold and back again. 



6 CHALK FARMING IN WILTSHIRE 

At the time of our visit the sheep farmer was not 
in a very happy position, for the extraordinary drop 
in prices that had taken place within the previous 
two years still persisted ; wool, however, remained 
profitable, and the corn crops had latterly more than 
paid their way. Throughout the district there was 
evidence of a general quiet prosperity among the 
farmers ; every one still remembered the bad times 
and the ruin which followed, but those who had 
managed to live through the early 'nineties, or who 
had taken their farms about that time on the reduced 
rents, were doing well enough. Of course rents had 
fallen to something like one-half of the old figures, and 
averaged about los. per acre for the kind of farm we 
have been describing, with its considerable proportion 
of bake and down, which, however, valuable as part 
of the system, are in themselves capable of earning 
very little. Buildings were poor, fences and gates 
were not numerous ; so the landlord was relieved of a 
good deal of expenditure, which in other parts of the 
country makes heavy inroads upon his rent. Wiltshire 
holdings run large, 800-1400 acres; but, despite the 
large capital they thus involve, farms were in demand, 
and a stranger had then little chance of getting in. 
On the chalk small holdings may almost be said not 
to exist ; for many years the drift had been the other 
way, towards putting little farms together into some- 
thing which could be worked broadly and cheaply. 
As a consequence the population purely dependent 
on the land was sparse enough, but the Wiltshire 
labourer, often quoted as one of the worse paid in the 
country, could make up to 2os. a week, with his cottage 
if he were a shepherd or a horseman. Day labourers 
got 145. to 1 6s. a week, with certain extras and 
customary payments, and the supply was generally 



PRICES OF FOOD AND PRODUCE 7 

regarded as adequate, though casual labour had become 
comparatively scarce. 

The Wiltshire farmer seemed to have adapted his 
system very closely to the range of prices that had 
been ruling for produce ; the land is much of it poor, 
and, though higher farming was very possible, the 
bigger crops might be dearly bought ; however, if the 
ratio then current between the price of mutton and that 
of cake had persisted, he would have been forced to 
change his methods somewhat and maintain fewer 
sheep upon entirely home-grown produce. 



II 

PEDIGREE CORN AND STOCK 

ORIGINALITY has been claimed for the man who 
plants his cabbages ; but originality of another order 
cannot be denied to the man who devises a new kind 
of cabbage to plant. If agriculture is to be progres- 
sive, behind the farmer must always be the man of 
ideas, very often, as history tells us, not a farmer 
himself; and we spent a morning in Warminster, 
visiting one such contributor of ideas to the farming 
community. 

Mr. E. S. Heaven's work upon barley is widely 
known. On a field of ideal uniformity of soil and 
exposure for experimental work he has erected a long 
wired -in cage, within which his barleys are grown in 
careful rows, each seed being dibbled in separately at 
exact distances from its neighbours. We were first 
shown a collection of all the known barleys from every 
part of the world two-rowed, four-rowed, six-rowed 
many of them so unlike the type that a farmer 
would deny their right to be called barley at all. 
Very few of these specimens possess any agricultural 
value in England ; even the raiser of new varieties 
generally finds it best to base his work on the sorts 
which the farmer's experience has shown to be suited 
to the country. The improver can then proceed upon 
two lines by hybridization, which will yield some- 



PURE LINES 9 

thing entirely new, or by the selection of a pure strain 
from an old and valued stock. If an ordinary field 
of barley is examined, a good many differences 
between individual plants can be found ; some will be 
taller, others longer in the ear, others blind of a few 
corns on one side of the ear; variations, sometimes 
of magnitude, exist in every part of the plant. Most 
of these variations are due to accidents of nutrition 
and disappear in the next generation. Thus a speci- 
ally big grain generally yield but ordinary corn ; and 
on the other hand small " tail " corn of a good stock, if 
it gets through the early stages of growth, gives rise 
to perfectly normal progeny. But some variations 
are heritable and appear again without change in the 
progeny when the grain from the special ears is sown 
separately. It follows that the ordinary crop of a 
given variety must be an aggregate of many different 
strains, like every aggregate made up of some above the 
average, and some below it. By breeding from single 
ears the different strains can be isolated, and those 
which yield best can be picked out and bred on to 
constitute a stock possessing all the general characters 
of the variety, but with a distinct superiority in pro- 
ductiveness. 

Above all, the new strain a pure line bred from 
a single ear will be exceptionally uniform, and, with 
barley of all plants, uniformity is itself a quality of the 
highest value. Major Hallett's pedigree barleys were 
really " pure line " strains, but the rigour of the 
method was first applied to the production of improved 
cereals in Sweden and in Denmark. The Danish 
experimenters, for example, selected a valuable " pure 
line " of the English barley known as " Archer," and 
thereby raised the yield of barley in Denmark ; this 
" Lyngby " or Danish Archer has proved itself, in the 



io PEDIGREE CORN AND STOCK 

extensive experiments carried out by the Irish De- 
partment of Agriculture, to be the most profitable 
barley to grow in Ireland, and has been extensively 
disseminated there to the already manifest improve- 
ment of the Irish barley crop. Mr. Beaven has picked 
out another pure line from " Archer " which he believes 
to possess certain points of superiority over the Danish 
selection, and his seed is now being distributed over 
the south and east of England, where Archer is the 
most profitable barley, except on a few soils specially 
suited to the true Chevallier varieties. Mr. Beaven 
has also selected a "pure line" wide-eared barley 
from a stock of Swedish origin, which is suitable for 
the northern growers who prefer that type of barley. 
The great difficulty about all such work is not to raise 
the " pure line " strains either by selection or cross- 
breeding, but to test their yield without the delay and 
expense of propagating each on the scale even of 
ordinary field plots ; and one of the most interesting 
features of Mr. Beaven's experiments is the method he 
has devised of matching his new varieties against 
some standard sort when only a few hundred grains 
are available. The two sorts are sown in alternate 
rows of twelve carefully spaced individual plants to 
the extent of a hundred rows or more; the eight 
central plants in each row are harvested separately, 
the corn rubbed out and weighed ; then by considering 
each pair of rows as a separate experiment, a con- 
clusion can be reached not only as to the relative 
yield of the two varieties, but also as to the degree 
of confidence to be attached to the result. In addition 
to his " pure line " strains we saw some of Mr, Beaven's 
cross-bred barleys, none of which were then in com- 
merce, though several had been tested in the cage, 
and had been promoted to trials on the field scale. 



SALISBURY PLAIN n 

Cross-bred cereals have a bad name among some farmers, 
because they are supposed to split and vary, but every 
distinct variety was a cross-bred once, and Mendelian 
principles have taught us how fixity can be secured. 

From Warminster we ran along the rich shelf of 
arable land under the edge of the down through 
Heytesbury, and then turned up the hill along the old 
Exeter road until we paused by the ancient earthwork of 
Yarnborough Castle to gaze over the great expanse of 
Salisbury Plain. This is the chalk country in excelsis, 
wave after wave of smooth rolling down and soft 
curving hollows divided into great fields, one hundred 
acres or more in places, that are only marked off from 
one another by the changing colours of the crops. 
The yellow-hammers that sprang up all along the 
wayside were common to all open country, like the 
flock of plovers that dipped and wheeled close at hand, 
but the wheatears that flitted from mound to mound 
of the earthwork really belonged to the great plain, 
as, too, the sudden swift flight of a pair of stone- 
curlews, birds we were not likely to see again until the 
heaths of Norfolk were reached. We had barely made 
out the shining lines of tents over at Bulford Camp 
before a black squall could be seen, travelling across 
the wide landscape until we also were involved and 
made the rest of our journey amid rain. 

Our host was one of the best-known ram breeders 
in the country, and his 4000 -acre farm, which in- 
stead of a long strip formed a rectangle with the 
down in the middle, was in the main run to keep 
the great pedigree flock always moving on to fresh 
feeding ground. But, despite the precedence of the 
flock, in any year there would be over a thousand 
acres of corn on the farm, and both barley and wheat 
were expected to yield at somewhere near the five- 
2 



12 PEDIGREE CORN AND STOCK 

quarter level. The soil was rather different from that 
seen earlier on the chalk ; even at its thinnest it was 
red in colour, and the flints were neither so small nor 
so sharp as on the bake ; in the hollows it became a 
deep loam of some consistency, though always easy to 
work. An outbreak of springs towards the lower end 
of the farm, which united into a " winter bourne," not 
only provided a source of water which was forced to 
various parts of the farm, but gave rise to some rich 
pasture and meadow supporting a comparatively new 
venture in the shape of a dairy herd of fifty cows. 
The arable land was farmed on the typical Wiltshire 
four-field plan wheat, barley, followed by two years 
of green crops. As on most of the chalk land, rape 
was preferred to swedes, winter barley was highly 
esteemed and considered to yield better fodder than 
rye ; mangolds, of which a fine field was seen, were 
only grown for the ewes at lambing-time and for the 
dairy cattle. On this thin land it was instructive to 
see such excellent barley crops following wheat, a 
custom usually regarded as only appropriate to com- 
paratively strong and retentive soils, but the Wiltshire 
farmer has always been able to grow a fair crop of 
barley of malting quality after the wheat without 
requiring any manure. Our host, with his large farm 
and the varying exigencies of his flock, naturally 
enough did not always adhere to his usual rotation ; 
from time to time he would find himself taking 
barley after roots ; but though the quality of the grain 
was good enough he was still minded to follow the 
local custom, because the two years of successive green 
crops give a better opportunity of introducing the 
third catch crop than is provided by the interval 
between the wheat and the turnips in the Norfolk four- 
course system. 



HAMPSHIRE DOWN SHEEP 13 

Of our host's flock this is hardly the place to write ; 
its fame has gone forth into all lands, but its excellences 
require an expert's appreciation. Folded on the vetches 
were the ewes, which bear three crops, and are then 
sold to yield yet one more lamb before they are fattened 
off. There also were the ram lambs which had been 
sold at as high an average price as 25, when the 
ordinary sheep raiser was obtaining little more than 
the same number of shillings, and a few of the stud 
rams, including one old warrior then long past his 
prime, but with the pedigree of a crowned head, en- 
nobled also in Chinese fashion by the deeds of his 
descendants. With these rams of all ages as text our 
host could expound to us the slight changes, one can 
only call them of fashion, which are set up from time 
to time in the breeder's ideal, in this particular case 
in response to the Argentine demand. The closing of 
the Argentine ports to English live stock, due to the 
Yorkshire outbreak of foot-and-mouth disease in 1910, 
had hit our host and similar breeders hard ; prize- 
winners at the summer shows which had been sold for 
export were thrown back on their raisers' hands, and 
as the local demand could not expand they were not 
likely to realize more than a fifth of their former price. 
Facts like these are the arguments for the continuation 
of our policy of a closed door against foreign live 
stock ; everything must be done to minimize the risks 
of disease in our flocks and herds, for Great Britain is 
still the fountain of pure blood for all the stock-raising 
countries of the world. We were to hear one or 
other side of the case not infrequently in our travels, 
but without doubt the breeder's views are those which 
commend themselves to the vast majority of British 
farmers, even against their own personal interests. 
To be a successful raiser of pedigree stock demands 



14 PEDIGREE CORN AND STOCK 

not only a special sense a kind of artistic perception 
and intuition but also those qualities of persistence, 
judgment, and determination which make a leader 
among men, and as long as the British races of live 
stock maintain their pre-eminence their breeders will 
be accepted as representative of agricultural opinion. 



Ill 

THE BLACKMOOR VALE 

SALISBURY PLAIN is no place for the small holder; 
with the extension of the military camps a few will 
find footing in the adjacent valleys, but in the main 
the chalk country is the home of the capitalist farmer. 
When the depth of the soil can be measured in inches 
the farming must be based upon sheep, and no small 
farm can pay its way with sheep ; holdings of 50 or 
even 100 acres on the Downs must mean a very low 
standard of living for the occupiers and poor yields 
from the land. At present the land is not perhaps 
producing its maximum, and without doubt in places 
game is too abundant and is taking too great a toll 
of the crops ; but the better prices that are prevailing 
will allow of increased expenditure at a profit, and 
we may expect to see all the land more intensively 
farmed. But if the country population is to be raised 
it must be by the return of the rural industries, for 
the progress both of farming and of the agricultural 
labourer is bound up with a reduction in the number 
accompanied by an increase in the efficiency and pay 
of the staff required for a given acreage, unless the 
circumstances permit of an entire revolution in the 
style of farming, as when milk production can be ex- 
changed for fruit-growing. 

But from Warminster westwards we ran into a 
small-holder's country ; as far as Wincanton our road 

15 



16 THE BLACKMOOR VALE 

lay over the Upper Greensand, which there formed a 
comparatively elevated country of stiffish soil, nearly 
all laid down in grass and divided into small fields by 
tall, rough hedges. Though it was the end of July, 
haymaking was still in full swing; farms ran small, 
and labour-saving machinery was rare. It was essenti- 
ally a dairying country, and the occasional fields of 
roots and corn we saw were not of much account. 
From Wincanton we struck into the Blackmoor Vale, 
and an improvement in the agriculture was quickly 
manifest. The country was always undulating, 
through the alternations of clays and limestones 
which characterize the Jurassic formations ; on the 
tops and down the eastern dip slopes of the low scarps 
would lie workable arable land, with retentive clays at 
the bottoms and for some distance up the western face 
of the ridges. In the hamlets brick and timber had 
given way to stone cottages, and though fine thorn 
hedges were still to be seen, the fields, still of no great 
size after the large areas prevailing on the chalk, 
began to be divided by stone walls. Mixed farming 
prevailed, and the general impression one received was 
of a fairly fertile country that was farmed in rather an 
easy-going way and might be made to yield more. 
We visited one farm lying on the Oolite, where the 
soil was of a red brashy nature, full of fragments of 
rock, and varying in consistency from a light, free- 
working loam to a sticky clay, often difficult to 
manage with the comparatively high rainfall prevail- 
ing. The lighter members of the Oolitic series give 
rise to typical corn-growing land all over England 
witness the name of " Cornbrash " which old William 
Smith gave to one of the most representative of the 
formations. On this farm, and indeed generally in 
the district, the Wiltshire rather than the Norfolk 



SAINFOIN AND LUCERNE 17 

four-course rotation was followed, though the regular 
cropping was interrupted at intervals in order to take 
sainfoin, which was left down for a few years. The 
soil was distinctly calcareous, and sainfoin was highly 
valued both for the hay and the grazing ; lucerne also 
grew well, though only small patches were usually 
sown near the homestead. It is rather remarkable 
that, despite the prevailing chalk soil, Wilts only 
grows from 700 to 800 acres of lucerne, and Dorset 
less than 300; in these warm climates one would 
have expected a greater breadth of so cheaply grown 
and productive a crop for thin soils. But sheep- 
farmers always prefer sainfoin to lucerne for grazing, 
and the high rainfall puts difficulties in the way of 
making it into hay ; Essex and Kent, two of the driest 
counties of England, form the chief home of lucerne 
growing. The wheat looked well, and throughout 
this district was the best crop of the year ; barley was 
also promising both for yield and evenness, though 
recent thunder-rains had laid it rather badly in places. 
Both crops were in want of sunny, drying weather ; 
one of those easterly spells which had been so remark- 
ably absent from England during 1909 and 1910 
would have saved many doubtful crops. In contrast 
to the other cereals oats were weak and patchy, in 
many places scant of plant and short of straw, and 
generally of a poor, unkindly colour. Attacks both 
of stem eel-worm and frit-fly had been in evidence 
previously, and the early-sown crops had suffered as 
much or more than the later ones, though in 1909, 
when a very severe attack of frit-fly prevailed over the 
Midlands, it was the late-sown crops altfne which were 
affected. But here, as in several other places along 
our route, we began to be told that oats had been 
grown rather too frequently of late ; barley had been 



1 8 THE BLACKMOOR VALE 

giving place to oats, and the land was tending to 
become "oat-sick." Though this was the impression 
conveyed to us, it was difficult to justify it from the 
agricultural statistics ; the acreage under barley had 
certainly been slowly declining, but with no correspond- 
ing increase in that of oats. The incidence of parasitic 
diseases is often determined by climatic conditions 
which escape our observation, possibly in this case un- 
favourable seed-times had been the determining factor. 
Moreover, there is little evidence of land becoming " oat- 
sick " in the north, where the crop is more frequently 
grown, often only after one or two years' interval, 

On the heavy land on the lower part of the farm 
we made the acquaintance of a weed known only to 
us from a casual paragraph in the text-books ; a field 
of beans, themselves tall and strong in the straw, was 
overtopped by the waving panicles of some big grass 
in flower, almost as conspicuous as reeds, and in 
patches completely hiding the beans. This was 
" onion-couch," a form of the tall oat-grass, Avena 
elatior y one of the commonest constituents of Hertford- 
shire meadows, but here a weed of the arable land, 
developing just along the surface of the ground a 
string of small bulbs, varying in size from that of 
a hazel-nut to that of a pea, and resembling nothing 
so much as the Chinese artichoke, Stachys tuberifera, 
which a few people grow in their gardens. A terrible 
weed to deal with, because cultivator or harrow only 
breaks up the rows of tubers, and each will give rise 
to a new plant; they cannot be dragged out of the 
ground and collected like the strings of true couch, 
and their tuberous form makes them resistant of 
drought, so that they take a good deal of killing when 
the land is being fallowed. In this case an infested 
and the weed is only really troublesome on the 



DORSET DOWN SHEEP 19 

heavy land had been but recently taken in hand, and 
during the previous two dripping seasons had defied 
all attempts to bring the pest under. 

This was a country of good pastures; the firm 
calcareous soil and the sufficient rainfall result, where 
the management is sound, in a close sward carrying 
naturally an abundance of both white and red clover. 
The sheep of the district and the lighter brashy 
soils must be folded over to maintain their texture 
and fertility are the Dorset Downs, a variant of the 
Hampshires that is little known outside its own special 
district. The origin of these sheep appears to be 
identical with that of the Hampshires a cross of the 
old big, white-faced local sheep with the Southdowns 
but they diverged at an early period and are nowa- 
days distinct enough. They are somewhat finer and 
lighter in type than the Hampshires, browner in the 
face, and slower in coming to maturity. Their breeders 
claim that they yield a better quality of mutton than 
the Hampshires, and that they will always command 
higher prices when sold at equal weights in the west- 
country markets, where the two breeds come into 
competition. Of course their slower growth has to be 
set off against this; the Hampshires are above all 
things rapid mutton-making machines, and which 
system is the more profitable, the forcing policy 
adopted with the Hampshires or the longer and 
cheaper feeding of the Dorset Downs, is just one of 
those questions which a local experimental farm might 
take up. The economics of our various methods of 
farming is the side of British agriculture about which 
we are most ignorant, and though it is easy to object 
that any experiment on the subject is at the mercy 
of the season or the turn of the market, that only 
means the experiment must be carried out more 



20 THE BLACKMOOR VALE 

thoroughly and spread over a longer interval of time. 
Experiments of such a nature also would drive home 
to farmers at large the possibilities and value of proper 
farm book-keeping, not the book-keeping of a merchant 
or a banker who only wants to know his financial 
position with regard to A, B, or C, but the book-keeping 
of a manufacturer who must ascertain the cost of every 
article he produces and the results obtained by each 
department of his business. 

It is very questionable whether we need the present 
multiplicity of sheep breeds in Great Britain, and yet 
the tendency is to increase their number, for almost 
every year some district decides to fix and intensify 
the local variation by constituting a flock book and 
defining a new breed. Nothing is done to demonstrate 
that the local race is better than its competitors and 
therefore deserves perpetuation ; it is an article of 
local patriotism that the sheep of the district must be 
the best, and though the fact of its survival is an 
argument in its favour, the odds are that one of the 
dominant races would answer better when once the 
acclimatization period was over. How otherwise can 
we account for the success of the Oxford Downs in the 
Border country, a priori one of the least likely homes 
for them ? There can hardly be such wide differences 
in the climate and soil of England as necessitate the 
score or more of sheep breeds there to be found. The 
formation of a local breed society does encourage men 
to pay more attention to the class of animal they rear, 
and so tunes up the management in the district, but 
it also means the acceptance of a more parochial and 
therefore lower standard ; it cuts men off from the 
international market, and it encourages that somewhat 
retail view of farming as a fine art which is still too 
prevalent in British farming. 



IV 
SOMERSET BARLEY GROWING 

OUR road still lay westward through Sherborne and 
Ilminster across the scarps of the Oolites and Lias 
formations until, as we approached Taunton, we reached 
the New Red Sandstone, with the deep lanes and 
warm - coloured fields we associate with the typical 
Somerset. All the way it was a rich corn-growing 
country, and the crops, if not heavy, were evidently 
over average and standing well on the light kindly 
soils ; the wheat in particular looked very good and 
was more of a feature in the agriculture than we had 
expected. East of Taunton it seemed the leading 
crop ; to the west barley predominated. From Il- 
minster westwards small orchards begin to form a 
feature in the landscape, but they are poor and ill- 
cultivated, in unpleasing contrast with the good soil 
and the fine arable farming by which they are sur- 
rounded. In this rich Taunton Vale we visited one 
of the most representative farmers, not only of the 
district, but of southern England generally, known for 
himself as for his famous Devons and Dorset Horn 
sheep. The farm is situated on the gently undulating 
edge of the vale just before it rises into the Brendon 
Hills and Exmoor ; southward the view is bounded 
by the long ridge of Blackdown, while across the 
valley to the north-east stretch the Quantocks, within 



22 SOMERSET BARLEY GROWING 

whose recesses lie Nether Stowey and Kilve, holy 
ground indeed for pilgrims, but for another occasion 
than ours. We were still on the New Red Sandstone, 
a light, free-working loam, containing no stone 
indeed, the sort of land that was poorly enough 
esteemed in the old days when a man grew his crops 
out of the capital in the ground, but nowadays the 
most valuable of land to the intensive farmer who 
treats it liberally, because it is both grateful for manure 
and cheap to work. Like many of the sands of the 
New Red formation it is a little deficient in lime and 
potash; finger-and-toe is not unknown among the 
turnips ; red clover is not as successful as some of the 
other crops and is benefited by applications of potash 
manures. One is accustomed to speak of such land 
as " sheep and barley soil," but in few other places 
does barley form such a feature in the rotation, 
being grown no fewer than three times in a five-year 
rotation of roots, barley, barley, seeds, followed by 
barley again. Of course, the soil and climate are 
particularly suited to growing the finest Chevallier 
barley ; early sowing is nearly always possible in that 
open genial district in fact, we were shown several 
fields which had been sown in January even in such a 
difficult season as that of 1910. The barley was a 
heavy crop, at least six quarters to the acre, with 
specially reedy straw almost free from flag, these 
features being characteristic of the soil and the early 
sowing; it was ripening rapidly and promised to be 
ready for cutting in the first week of August, and 
though somewhat laid would be easily manageable 
with the binder. More beautiful examples of finely- 
finished barley would be hard to find indeed, soil and 
climate there are very much the same as those which 
prevail on those special few hundred acres of land 



"DREDGE" CORN 23 

near Porlock which have so often produced the 
champion barley at the Brewers' Exhibition. 

Like most modern farmers, our host by no means 
tied himself down to follow the rotation above set out ; 
just as the root-breadth included mangolds and some 
very excellent potatoes as well as the swedes, so a 
certain amount of wheat was grown when the land 
could be conveniently cleared in time. It was also 
usual to sow a few acres of trifolium as a catch-crop 
after barley and before the roots ; this clover grows 
well on the sandy soil and greatly enriches the land 
when folded off by sheep. Another crop to which 
most of us were unaccustomed was " dredge " corn, a 
mixture of barley and oats in roughly equal proportions, 
which was formerly a regular feature in English agri- 
culture, but nowadays is only seen in the south-western 
counties. Of course the product is only used for home 
consumption, but the mixture of the two grains roughly 
ground or crushed constitutes admirable dry food for 
either fattening cattle, horses, or pigs. The real gain 
in growing dredge comes in the enormous yields that 
seem to be possible ; not only here, but in other places 
we convinced ourselves that a much greater gross 
weight of the mixture could be grown than of either 
separately, so that any farmer in the habit of growing 
oats and barley for home consumption would prob- 
ably do better to sow the two together. There 
are, of course, reasons why the mixed corn should 
succeed better; the two cereals permeate slightly 
different layers of the soil with their roots, and by 
their different habit of growth they seem to assist one 
another to stand up. At any rate, we saw heavy crops, 
estimated at ten quarters per acre, still standing stiff 
and erect, when most of the other cereals in the country 
were more or less lodged, On this sandy land wild oats 



24 SOMERSET BARLEY GROWING 

constitute the most troublesome weed among the corn, 
true couch is rarely seen, though a specimen here and 
there was picked out of the hedgerows. What is 
known locally as couch is the stoloniferous form of 
the Bent Grass, which often grows tall and strong 
when it invades the arable land ; an odd example or 
two of the " onion - couch " referred to earlier were 
found, but it is never aggressive. 

In this rich vale of Somerset we were out of the 
region of extensive farms which prevail on the chalk ; 
the ordinary holdings are from 250 to 400 acres, and 
mingled with them are a fair number of comparatively 
small farms ranging down to 25 and 30 acres. It 
is not always easy to draw conclusions from the 
agricultural statistics, because a country is an arbi- 
trary area, rarely coinciding with natural districts ; 
but it is significant that in Wiltshire the farms of over 
300 acres constitute 9 per cent, of the total number 
of holdings, whereas in Somerset, with only a slightly 
greater area under cultivation, there are more than 
twice as many holdings, and the farms of over 300 
acres constitute only 2 '9 per cent, of the total. 

Without doubt all forms of farming had been profit- 
able in Somerset for some years prior to our visit ; 
dairying was in a flourishing condition, and Somerset 
possessed more cows in milk than any other county 
except Lancashire and Cheshire, while the corn- 
growers had enjoyed better harvest weather than had 
prevailed in other parts of the country. Rents ruled 
high in the Taunton Vale, from 303. to 2 an acre, 
and there were no farms to be had, which is the most 
convincing test of the agricultural prosperity of a 
district. Of course, some holdings were still coming 
into the market to be let, but they were of a kind to 
be shunned, either bad land or in a run-out and foul 



SMALL HOLDINGS 25 

condition ; farms of any quality were bespoken before 
the impending change of tenancy became public. 
With this general prosperity of agriculture in the 
district, a district, too, where small farms have always 
been common, there had naturally been a considerable 
demand for small holdings under the Act. In this 
connection we were struck, as we have also been in 
other parts of the country, by the loyal way in which 
the Small Holdings Act had been carried out by 
County Councils, composed to a large extent of men 
who disagree with its principles. Our host, for 
example, disbelieved in small holdings and regarded 
their artificial creation as an economic blunder on a 
par with an attempt, say, to resuscitate hand-loom 
weaving in Lancashire, but as a member of the Small 
Holdings Committee he had personally seen to the 
division of a farm taken for the purpose, and schemed 
out such a cheap rearrangement and addition to the 
buildings already on the place as would save the 
tenants a good many shillings per acre of rent. 
When farms have to be surveyed, plans drawn, and 
buildings erected by officials, the cost of the holding 
is very rapidly augmented, and some of the rents 
which we heard of in various parts of the country, 
though the necessary rent on the outlay incurred by 
the County Council, give even an old hand at the game 
of working a small holding very little chance of paying 
his way. In some districts also small holders have 
been set too thickly in one place, so that they must 
swamp the strictly local demand for vegetables, eggs, 
and similar produce, out of which the little farmer can 
generally make a good retail trade. Of course the 
supporters of the movement look to see each small- 
holding community become co-operative, pooling the 
produce of its members, and selling it in bulk; but 



26 SOMERSET BARLEY GROWING 

such a system has not yet been seen at work in 
England, and seems to require a stronger bond of 
union than self-interest alone can provide. However, 
in the main the Small Holdings Act has been fairly 
launched, though against the judgment of the majority 
of those most deeply engaged in country pursuits ; 
the movement has one great thing in its favour the 
rising tide of prices for all kinds of agricultural 
produce; it has now passed out of the region of 
discussion, and must be left to show its real character 
by results. 



THE DORSET DOWNS 

As Devon and Cornwall are mainly given up to stock- 
raising and dairying, we turned at Taunton and partly 
retraced our steps in order to reach South Dorset. 
Nor did the dairy country detain us the manufacture 
of " blue vinny " must be left for another journey 
but approaching Dorchester we reached again the 
chalk and the region of extensive arable farms. In 
this district the elevations are not so great nor the 
gradients so severe as in Wiltshire; the valleys, too, 
are well watered, not only by the Frome and the 
Piddle, but by tributary streams rising wherever the 
surface level has been cut down to the water table in 
the chalk rock. We turned our back on Maiden 
Bower and the other tempting camps which crown the 
heights above Dorchester, put aside the glamour of 
Wessex and Thomas Hardy's country, and drove east- 
ward to one of the largest sheep farmers thereabouts. 
We were nearing the boundary of the chalk, for we 
began to find the ridge by the roadside crowned by little 
caps of Tertiary formations Woolwich Beds orBagshot 
Sand and the change in the flora was sudden and 
complete. The chalk hedgerows, with their character- 
istic shrubs the dogwood, the beam tree, the way- 
faring tree, and, above all, the wreaths of clematis or 
traveller's joy were suddenly exchanged for planta- 
3 



28 THE DORSET DOWNS 

tions of Scots fir with bracken and foxgloves below, 
sure signs of the absence of lime from the soil. The 
farm we were in search of lay in one of the shallow 
valleys where the chalk begins to rise above the 
alluvial flats and the heaths bordering the coast ; at 
its lower end a brave spring of clear chalk water came 
to the surface and was bordered by water meadows 
and wet pastures. Near the spring was placed the 
homestead, as on most chalk farms at the lowest point 
of the valley, because of the shelter and the nearness 
of water even when no stream breaks out. From this 
point the farm extended upwards in the usual long 
strip, terminating in big upland grass fields rather than 
in open down. The soil was the usual yellowish flinty 
chalk loam, sometimes of considerably stiffer texture 
on the higher ground, where no doubt Tertiary forma- 
tions, now denuded away, had still left behind an 
admixture of clay, just as on a more wholesale scale 
they have left the deposit of Clay-with-Flints above the 
chalk of the North Downs and Hertfordshire. The 
thinnest soils lay on the side of the hill, where the 
chalk turned up so loose and friable that it falls to 
a powder on drying and will blow in the wind like the 
lightest sand. Most chalk soils require a good deal 
of consolidation in cultivation one old Kent custom 
is to load a cart with bricks or stone and lead it up 
and down between the rows of turnips but we never 
saw a field on which the constant use of a heavy 
roller was more necessary. 

Our host, however, was somewhat of an expert in 
husbandry, one who belonged to the old school in the 
thought and care he gave to the working of the land, 
though he had broken away from the local custom of 
comparatively fleet ploughing in favour of extra deep 
cultivation. The scale of his holding, 1400 acres, of 



SEED-BEDS FOR TURNIPS 29 

which about 800 were under the plough, the easy 
slopes, and the magnitude of most of the fields 
rendered it very suitable to steam cultivation, and it 
was our host's custom to get most of his first plough- 
ings done by steam, following this up by a very 
thorough preparation for his roots. There are few 
subjects on which the opinion and practice of the best 
farmers, even in the same district and on the same 
soil, differ more than on this question of the amount of 
working the land requires before sowing turnips. Of 
course, on a heavy soil a fine but firm seed-bed must 
be obtained, and cannot as a rule be attained in a 
single set of operations ; but even on the lighter lands 
men will be found who plough twice with an interval 
between, cultivate, harrow, and roll repeatedly, then 
leave the land to rest for a time before gathering it up 
into the ridges upon which the seed will be sown ; 
while others will prepare their land and get it sown in 
a single round of operations. Even the question of 
whether it is best to sow swedes on a stale or freshly- 
moved tilth is still a matter of dispute. We are greatly 
in need of more experimental work on the operations 
of cultivation, this being one of the subjects with which 
local experimental farms well might occupy themselves, 
instead of with the permutations and combinations of 
nitrogen, phosphoric acid, and potash which seem to 
bound the imagination of too many of our agricultural 
teachers. Our host was a strong advocate of the 
policy of " thorough " in his treatment of the soil, and 
his methods the deep cultivation, the working down 
of a considerable layer to a fine crumb, which is then 
packed tightly on to the subsoil and kept loose for the 
top two or three inches only, were just those which have 
recently been renamed dry-farming in America and 
boomed as the discovery that is to make the desert 



30 THE DORSET DOWNS 

blossom like the rose. The rotation followed on this 
farm was novel to us ; it had for its object less the 
growing of corn than the provision of as much sheep 
keep as possible. As in the Wiltshire system it began 
with two years of roots or rather of green crops, for 
kale, vetches, rye, or winter barley predominated over 
swedes and turnips, while mangolds occupied a still 
smaller proportion of the area. These green crops 
were, of course, folded off by sheep, cake and corn 
being often fed out at the same time. After the forage 
crops barley was taken and in it the seeds were sown, 
red clover every other course only, for it does not stand 
very well on the land and is best alternated with 
mixtures of alsike, white and hop clovers. The seeds 
were sometimes left down for two years and were 
followed by wheat. Thus two corn crops only were 
grown in five or six years, and. though this system 
paid while more profit attached to sheep than to wheat 
or barley, it is questionable if it will continue to be 
remunerative with the present trend of prices. 

With our host's resolute style of cultivation the land 
was clean, despite the season and the large acreage of 
the farm ; charlock, which is always supposed to follow 
deeper cultivation on these soils and is therefore made 
the excuse for shallow-ploughing, was less in evidence 
than on any chalk land we had seen. The wheat was 
a heavy crop, especially on some of the stronger land 
on the hill ; there were some of the blighted heads 
which were so characteristic of the season, but on the 
whole the wheat was cleaner and brighter than usual. 
The barley was Chevallier and a distinctly good crop also, 
not so much laid as might have been expected from the 
fact that it followed two years of green crops folded off. 
Dredge corn was also showing its usual heavy growth. 

The roots, both early and late sown, were excellent 



DORSET DOWN SHEEP 31 

and very clean ; in the seeds the rye grass was most 
prominent, the clover being but patchy. The soil 
seemed to lack potash and was said to respond to 
manures containing that fertilizer. Sainfoin we were 
told was rarely successful, in spite of the warm chalky 
nature of the land, but trifolium was grown very 
successfully as a catch-crop after the wheat, and this 
again showed that the soil is hardly of the normal 
chalk type. The main part of the farm derived its 
fertility chiefly from the artificial food given to the 
sheep when folding, bone manures were used for the 
roots, but only the fields near the homestead got any 
farmyard manure. 

At the lower end of the farm where there were good 
meadows and water, a herd of dairy cattle was kept, 
but the mainstay of the business was the fine flock of 
pedigree Dorset Downs. Looking at the ewes we 
were again impressed by the handsomeness and 
general look of quality about the sheep of this com- 
paratively recently recognized breed ; the only question 
is whether their quality had not been purchased too 
dearly by their comparatively slow growth. Lambing 
takes place early in the year in a fold-yard built up 
on the arable land, and the ewe lambs do not come 
into the flock until their second season ; the wether 
lambs are sold in the September of their second 
season as forward stores, coming off the fold where 
they have also been receiving a little cake and dry 
food. They fetch good prices, but the annual output 
of the flock must be lower than that of other Down 
breeds, a good deal lower than that of a Dorset Horn 
flock, and as the sheep are throughout their life con- 
suming crops on the arable land and receiving some 
dried food in addition, they are not running so cheaply 
as other slowly maturing sheep that live largely on the 



32 THE DORSET DOWNS 

grass. Like all the Down sheep they travel to and from 
the fold every day ; we saw them on a great stretch 
of upland, not true down because it had been sown 
to grass by the present occupier, but typical enough 
of the chalk country in its gentle curves and in the 
huge tumulus that crowned it. In the heart of this 
were exposed a number of large blocks of Sarsen stone, 
many marked with fire ; unfortunately the mound was 
built up of nicely friable chalk which formed a con- 
venient medium for mixing with the artificial manures 
before sowing, and so was steadily being dug away. 

All the farms thereabouts ran large ; our host's was 
as much as 1400 acres, but three to eight hundred 
acres were usual. Rents averaged about 153. per acre 
for the good arable land down to half that price for 
the down land, and despite the capital required to 
take up such farms none were to be obtained. Small 
holdings were little known, some of old standing in 
the district had been put together again in the not 
very distant past. A little farther on our way we saw 
a farm which had been recently acquired and divided 
by the County Council, but the experiment was too 
new to judge of its promise. In this district labour 
was reported as cheap and plentiful, the only difficulty 
was to get the young man to take up the skilled occu- 
pations, notwithstanding the higher wages available. 
The sheep-shearers work in bands by contract, going 
from farm to farm, but the local company was reduced 
to five men, and shearing by machine with the ordinary 
labourers would have to come. On the whole, the 
impression we formed both here and elsewhere in 
South Dorset was that its farming was of a very sound 
and conservative type, quietly prosperous, and pre- 
serving a good deal of the pride of the old school in 
the thoroughness of the work done on the land. 



VI 
THE SUSSEX CORN BELT 

OUR road continued eastward over the lower slopes of 
the chalk across the fine cornland near Blandford, 
which is reputed to be about the earliest district to 
harvest in the south of England, until near Wimborne 
we exchanged the chalk for the Bagshot Sands and 
left the good farming behind. 

The old story that the Conqueror made a waste of 
the New Forest has long been discredited ; the Lower 
Tertiaries on which the Forest and its environs are 
situated give rise to the poorest of soils, the cultiva- 
tion of which was even less possible in the old days, 
before extraneous sources of manure were available. 
But from Ringwood to Stony Cross is one of the 
most glorious of rides when the bell-heather lights up 
the black heath and the packs of forest ponies come 
trotting across the road ; all the more beautiful on 
that occasion when the afternoon sunlight struck in 
shafts through the dark clouds which the west wind 
was massing up from the Channel, with little promise 
of the settled fine weather that every one was wanting 
to ripen off the corn and bring in the harvest. Poor 
as the soil is, the outskirts of the Forest show the 
innate land hunger of our people ; just because the 
land has been obtainable in small pieces all kinds of 
little holdings, with weird bungalows and suburban 

33 



34 THE SUSSEX CORN BELT 

cottages of the dreariest red brick, have been springing 
up of late years, each with a strip of land on which 
the occupier hopes to make a living out of fruit or 
poultry or even bees. Most of these rapidly shabbying 
villas could tell a series of short stories of failure, as 
much from the inexperience and ineffectiveness of the 
occupiers as from the innate hopelessness of the 
venture upon which they had embarked; but here and 
there a business faculty develops and another family 
gets rooted on the land. The forbears of a good 
many of the older farmers about the Forest were 
nothing but squatters, authorized or overlooked ; 
probably they knew little enough of agriculture at 
first, but they have made both land and men out of 
waste. 

From Redbrook we had miles of suburb to traverse, 
but once across the Itchen ferry the highly cultivated 
land begins and extends into the zone of the electric 
tramcars and the street lamps. The light sands on 
this side are less barren than the Forest heaths, and 
have proved of great value for strawberry-growing, 
with which, indeed, the countryside as far as Ports- 
mouth is chiefly occupied. Poor enough some of the 
land is, and after it has grown strawberries for a few 
years it is often allowed to run back to villainous 
waste ; but its warmth and dryness combine with the 
southerly exposure to produce the earliest outdoor 
strawberries in the country. The strip of country from 
Southampton to Chichester comprises, indeed, some 
of the warmest and earliest land in the country, and 
a little farther east by Portsdown Hill, where corn- 
growing rather than fruit becomes the staple industry, 
the earliest wheat harvest may be expected, as Cobbett 
used to tell his readers nearly a century ago. Here 
were some excellent crops, and the first corn we had 



ALLUVIAL SOILS 35 

seen cut already stood in sheaves. Attractive as this 
country was, we did not stay, but pushed on into 
Chichester, as our object was to see the farming in the 
maritime district of Sussex, a country little known 
but containing some of the richest arable land in 
England. 

South of a line from Chichester to Lancing the 
land is but a few feet above sea-level, and is covered 
with a deep deposit of brick earth forming a uniform, 
stoneless even-tempered soil, easy to work yet 
sufficiently strong and retentive of moisture to keep 
crops growing throughout the driest of summers. Just 
along the line itself, and inland a little until the slopes 
of the South Downs begin, the soil is lighter and full 
of stones valley gravel, or "shrave," as it is locally 
called ; both it and the brick earth are alluvial deposits 
belonging to the geological or climatic epoch immedi- 
ately preceding our own. Fertile as is the country, 
it is flat and unattractive, thinly peopled, though the 
small parishes and the numerous churches one meets 
when driving along its winding deep-cut lanes bear 
evidence that it has always been a rich and productive 
country ; but the greater economy of labour with 
which the land is nowadays worked and the decay of 
the village crafts have led to the reduced population. 
Unlike many of these areas of old or recent alluvial 
origin, maritime Sussex is mostly under the plough. 
Along the watercourses there are a certain number of 
old pastures, but only a few of them possess any 
reputation for fattening stock ; here and there also 
men have laid down land to grass in order to have 
some firm land on which to put their sheep during the 
winter, when the arable often gets too wet for 
folding. 

Our host had long farmed in the district, and had 



36 THE SUSSEX CORN BELT 

evolved a scheme of cropping which exceeded any- 
thing we had yet seen in the amount of saleable 
produce obtained from the land. Of course, it was 
essentially a corn-growing soil ; no other area in the 
south of England produces so large a proportion of 
wheat, and on this farm four corn crops were grown in 
a six years' rotation as follows : wheat, oats, roots, 
oats, wheat, seeds. Catch-crops were taken whenever 
possible ; as a rule the oat stubble was quickly broken 
up and sown with trifolium, vetches, rye, and winter 
barley, to be eaten off with sheep, and followed by 
rape or late-sown turnips. Our host was, indeed, one 
of those farmers who believe in keeping the land 
occupied, and in one of his big fields where the sheep 
were just finishing off a crop of vetches we saw a 
round dozen of horses at work breaking up the land 
and getting in turnips in a single day's work. A 
double-furrow plough was working close up to the fold ; 
this was followed by a heavy harrow, a man sowing 
superphosphate, a roller, and a light harrow. Behind 
came a man sowing turnip-seed broadcast from a seed 
barrow, whereupon another light harrow and a second 
roller completed the day's work. It was a good 
example of the driving cultivation possible on this soil, 
in extraordinary contrast to the long and arduous 
preparation which other farmers find to be necessary for 
their turnip crop. For the season the land was very 
clean ; weeds, indeed, were smothered out of existence 
by the succession of heavy crops. 

The rotation, as we have seen, gives four corn crops 
to sell in six years, and as a good deal of straw is sold 
also, and even hay when the price is tempting, the 
fertility of the land has to be maintained by artificial 
manures in addition to the manure contributed by the 
feeding-stuffs given to the sheep when folding. The 



SUSSEX GROUND OATS 37 

big crops, however, made it evident that manure was not 
spared ; some winter oats and wheat were seen which 
promised exceptional yields for the season, but the 
spring oats were scarcely up to the standard expected 
in this district, where wheat is counted on to yield 
year after year more than five quarters to the acre and 
oats much about the same. One distinguishing feature 
of the crops grown on this land is their stiffness of 
straw ; when the land has been brought into high 
condition the crops stand better here than on the chalk 
or greensand. Barley is but little grown, but is better 
suited by the lighter shravey soil nearer the hills. 
Moreover, there is an exceptionally good local sale of 
oats to the poultry crammers who have established 
themselves so largely in East Sussex. For " Sussex 
ground oats," nowadays the standard food for fattening 
poultry, heavy white oats are in demand, and they are 
ground, husk and all, to a fine powder by specially 
dressed millstones, having previously been mixed with 
barley to facilitate the grinding, in roughly the propor- 
tion of five of oats to one of barley. The red clover 
was, perhaps, the least satisfactory of the crops, though 
our host had for a generation saved seed of a variety 
of his own which he regarded as best adapted to the 
land. As is generally the case where red clover is 
rather a doubtful crop, the soil was somewhat deficient 
in lime ; dressings of lime, or, best of all, of fine chalk, 
had always proved beneficial. 

We had now finally left behind the Hampshire sheep 
and reached the Southdowns, the original parent of all 
the Down breeds, a race evolved rather more than a 
century ago by selection alone from the short-woolled 
hill sheep which were native to the south of England. 
This was not so much their proper country as were the 
downs we could see rising to the northward ; the land 



38 THE SUSSEX CORN BELT 

was indeed somewhat too heavy for sheep, and often 
suffered badly from their treading in the winter, traces 
of which could be seen here and there in some of 
the oat crops. The sheep, too, are not exactly at 
home on the lowlands, and are subject to foot-rot, 
especially after a winter as wet as the previous one 
had been. The lambs had just been weaned, and the 
air was full of bleatings as we went to look at the folds, 
where the neat, active brown-faced little sheep were 
clearing off the last of the vetches. No sheep count 
more devoted adherents than the Southdowns, and 
though men accustomed to the larger breeds always 
wonder how a farmer can be found to waste time 
raising anything so small, both Southdown mutton 
and wool command special prices of their own, and 
the turn of the market has for many years been in the 
direction of small mutton. On this farm it was the 
custom to sell off the wether lambs and the draft ewes 
in September, when they go inland, as for example to 
the greensand country beyond the Downs and into 
Surrey, to be fattened on the turnips. A few dairy 
cows are kept, especially near Chichester, but the chief 
cattle business is the fattening of bullocks, mostly 
Devons raised in the West Country, so much so that 
Chichester has become a well-recognized market for 
young Devon stock. Generally they are wanted to 
trample down the straw and are yard-fed, but some 
men possess grassland good enough to bring them up 
to sale point during the summer with the aid of a 
certain amount of cake. 

The farms ran fairly large, 400 acres or so ; despite 
the richness of the land and the proximity of the string 
of suburbs from Chichester to Southampton, the small 
holder was hardly known, and of late years several 
small farms had fallen in and been amalgamated into 



RENT AND LABOUR 39 

larger holdings. Rents were high, 303. to 2 an acre, 
and rising above that figure in some recent agree- 
ments ; some of the land, too, was subject to a drainage 
rate. Buildings were in general pretty poor ; labour 
plentiful but well paid, even the day labourers should 
make a pound a week on the average of the year. It 
was by no means every one's style of farming, but 
most of the land had been in the same hands for a long 
time, farms were hard to get, and were likely to become 
even more so if corn prices maintained their upward 
tendency. The great characteristic of this Sussex 
maritime country is, however, neither its sheep nor its 
cattle, but its power of producing continuous heavy 
corn crops ; no land and no farming we had seen so 
far had given us the same impression of a busy manu- 
factory of produce. 



VII 
THE SOUTH DOWNS 

FROM the maritime plain we set our faces towards the 
South Downs, most beautiful of all the chalk country. 
West of the Arun they are mostly covered with wood, 
for both elevation and rainfall are considerable ; and 
on much of the land the beech forest, if only it is 
managed for timber rather than neglected for game, is 
likely to prove more profitable than agriculture. But 
eastward the country becomes more bare ; in the great 
waterless hollows lie the homesteads with wide, hedge- 
less arable fields round them, sloping upwards in 
gentle, undulating folds to the -open grassland, which, 
though never wholly unenclosed and broken in places 
by cultivation even to the tops of the ridges, stretches 
on and on until it finally rolls over in a great wave to 
the Gault valley and the Wealden plain beyond. 
Beautiful as are the folds of the hills in the heart of 
the chalk country, as, for example, behind Brighton, 
the South Downs are most impressive when viewed 
from the low country northward ; there the sudden 
sweep of the escarpment truly merits old Gilbert 
White's description of " this majestic chain of moun- 
tains," nowhere more so than towards Lewes, where 
Ditchling and Firle Beacons are crowned with smooth 
and spotless turf. 

The true South Down farmer lives by his sheep, 



SOUTHDOWN SHEEP 41 

which on these extensive farms travel daily for long 
distances from the down to the fold. They lamb in 
March in fold-yards that are built up of wattles in the 
corner of some turnip field with a straw stack adjacent, 
and the losses both of ewes and lambs are apt to be 
rather heavy, as they had been, for example, in the pre- 
ceding wet winter. This may be attributed to the 
ewes losing condition through the wet, until the daily 
journey from down to fold and back brings them into 
too low condition for lambing. After lambing, the 
flock feeds steadily across the arable land, beginning 
on the rye, then on the winter barley which grows a 
little more slowly, then on the rape and the aftermath of 
the seeds, followed by summer turnips and rape again. 
Swedes are little seen in this district, rape being uni- 
versally preferred for the sheep. One reason is that 
the root land is generally cropped first with rye or 
some other catch-crop, and by the time it is cleared 
the season is often too far advanced to sow swedes 
with success. Only on a few farms are the wethers 
fattened ; as a rule the wether lambs and the draft 
ewes are cleared out in September, the South Downs 
being thus a sheep-raising rather than a mutton- 
producing country. 

The land, though so similar to the Wiltshire chalk, 
is generally farmed on the Norfolk four-course shift, 
with oats in place of barley. Only in the north- 
western counties of England Cheshire, Lancashire, 
and Cumberland does the acreage under oats over- 
top that given to barley in anything like the propor- 
tion prevailing in Sussex, where there are seven acres 
of oats for one of barley. We have already mentioned 
the good local market for oats ; oat straw is also 
considered the more valuable and is wanted for the 
bullocks that are wintered. With the comparatively 



42 THE SOUTH DOWNS 

high rainfall that occurs on the higher chalk country 
the land is probably left too rich for barley after roots 
folded off, yet it is not considered good enough to 
carry two straw crops in succession. The tops of the 
downs are covered with the same thin black soil that 
we had before noticed near the edge of the Wiltshire 
Downs ; so regular is the layer of flints resting on the 
chalk rock immediately below the grass that the 
surface of many of the downs is being systematically 
dug for flints for road metal, to the destruction for 
many years to come of the exquisite turf which is the 
delight of every traveller on these heights. Alternate 
rape and oats are usually grown on such of these 
uplands as remain under the plough, and the area of 
cultivated land has again shown some tendency to 
expand with the rising corn prices of the last few 
years. The upland is from time to time sown down 
for a few years, though curiously enough neither 
sainfoin nor lucerne is much used for this purpose. 
The black soil is usually completely decalcified so that 
basic slag has proved a valuable fertilizer, contrary 
to the usual forecast. The enormous improvement, 
amounting almost to a revolution, that basic slag will 
effect in the high down pastures has been one of the 
most astonishing results of recent experiments. 

The Down farms run large, and general report says 
that the land is in fewer hands nowadays than it was 
twenty years ago; indeed, we heard of one man who 
farms a strip of land extending from Rottingdean to 
Lewes, five miles across country. Such increases in 
the area farmed by one man are not to be detected 
in the statistics issued by the Board of Agriculture, 
which almost uniformly show a decrease in the number 
of holdings over 300 acres, both since 1885 and 
since 1905. The reason for this discrepancy between 



SIZE OF HOLDINGS 43 

general opinion and the official returns is the fact 
that each farm is still returned under a separate 
heading, so that though one man may be working 
four contiguous farms they do not appear in the 
statistics as a single larger holding. When rents had 
reached their lowest level and times still looked black 
for farming in the 'nineties, the men who had learned 
to make money under the new dispensation added 
farm to farm ; but of this process no record appears 
in the agricultural statistics, where almost the only 
change to be recorded is the division into separate 
tenancies of some area which had hitherto been 
regarded as a single farm in the estate books. The 
accretion, however, had been arrested at the time of 
our visit, for farms were no longer to be had easily, 
little land was coming into the open market, and that 
was in steady demand at the current rents of about 
153. an acre for the better land, and 7s. 6d. for that 
on the hill. Even 2Os. an acre all round had been 
lately paid for a good Down farm. Labour was 
obtainable in satisfactory quantity ; and though " silly 
Sussex " is rather a byword, the men of the hill are 
very sound hands among sheep, and if stubborn and 
wedded to the old ways, yet very dependable and 
possessed of a measure of originality and native 
character rare in southern England. But the stock- 
men are always the pick of the agricultural labourers ; 
they have to be continually using their judgment, 
and the Southdown shepherd lives out among his 
sheep to an unusual extent. 

Though sheep-breeding is the mainstay of the 
South Down farmer, it has always been the custom 
to buy in young bullocks in the autumn and wintei 
them in lodges high on the hillsides, feeding them on 
the oat straw and on the seeds, hay, and roots, an 
4 



44 THE SOUTH DOWNS 

selling them as forward stores in the spring. Only 
those men whose farms run down to include a " brook," 
which is the Sussex name for the flat, alluvial pastures 
bordering the rivers, fatten bullocks at all ; and even 
this practice has of late years been largely exchanged 
for dairying, which indeed is extending on to most 
farms in possession of grassland of more than down 
quality. 

To one of these dairy farmers we paid a visit ; he 
held about 300 acres of comparatively heavy land 
under the hill near Lewes, including some brooks 
that belonged to the Lewes Level. As this farm had 
been shorn of the down which once formed part of the 
holding, our host kept no sheep, but instead milked a 
herd of some sixty cows and also fattened out bullocks 
on the brooks. He farmed in the main on a three- 
field system of roots, wheat, oats, the root shift 
including mangolds, cabbages, and maize, exchanged 
for clover seeds at fairly long intervals, for clover was 
not a success when grown more often than once in 
every six or eight years. Even then he would hardly 
grow red clover twice in succession, preferring to 
alternate with a mixture containing alsike, white, and 
hop clovers. Sainfoin also did not answer on this stiff 
land, but we saw a useful patch of lucerne near the home- 
stead. On this farm the land was clean and the crops 
heavy, much superior to most of those we had seen 
on the chalk or on the chalk-marl terrace under the 
hill ; our host was a strong believer in the value of 
artificial manures, and could show us a good many 
experiments he was making with a view to ascertain- 
ing the most profitable fertilizers for each crop. His 
fields were all marked out into " cants " of known area 
for the purpose of assessing piece-work ; for he let out 
as much as possible of the field work to his men, and 



ORIGIN OF SOUTHDOWN SHEEP 45 

the same boundaries were convenient for the experi- 
mental areas. This farm was a very good example of 
the way a man may sometimes depart with success 
from the general farming customs of his district ; 
without its down it had become less suitable for sheep, 
and the occupier had boldly thrown them overboard 
and evolved a plan more suited to the soil and situa- 
tion. Two of the three crops on the arable land were 
sold, including a good deal of the straw, for which 
Brighton and Lewes provided excellent markets. The 
other third of the arable helped to feed the dairy cows, 
which were producing an average of 150 gallons of 
milk a day. During the summer also the surplus 
grass was being consumed in fattening bullocks, so 
that plenty of saleable material was always being 
raised on the farm. The dairy cows were heavy 
Shorthorns and a Sussex bull was used ; the resulting 
crossbreds are among the kindliest of animals to grow 
quickly and fatten on grass. Of course, such a farm 
was expensive in labour; it is much more costly to 
carry green crops to cows than to run the fold over 
them, and in that district men earned good wages, 
milkers in particular being difficult to get at any price. 
For such strong land, well situated as regards access 
to the town and rail, higher rents had to be paid than 
for the hill farms proper, but the farm showed every 
sign of earning a good profit on the pound or so per 
acre which was about the rent prevailing. 

Before leaving this country we paused at the little 
village of Glynde, a few miles outside Lewes, because 
it was the home of John Ellman, the founder of the 
Southdown sheep. Of course, the Southdowns were 
not made in the sense the Hampshires or the Suffolks 
have been made; Ellman took the sheep of the 
country and selected them to a type he had in his 



46 THE SOUTH DOWNS 

mind, fixed the type by in-breeding, and then im- 
pressed his flock and his standard upon the whole 
countryside. He may have taken his ideas from Bake- 
well, but he did for the Southdowns what Bakewell 
did for the Leicesters ; and which race has done most 
for the improvement of British sheep may well be a 
matter for argument, seeing that the Southdowns have 
contributed the essential element of quality to all the 
Down breeds Hampshires, Oxfords, Dorsets, Suffolks, 
and Shropshires. Of John Ellman himself the only 
biography is a verbose and colourless performance ; 
but we get some glimpses of the man from Arthur 
Young's accounts of visits to Glynde in the Annals of 
Agriculture, enough to show that he was one of those 
leaders of a countryside whose work stands for many 
generations. Amongst other things, after several men 
had failed, he undertook the reclamation of the estuary 
of the Ouse, then a wash of marsh and tidal mud-flat 
between Lewes and Newhaven ; he straightened and 
embanked the river, making navigation both safe and 
speedy, and at the same time won for agriculture more 
than a thousand acres of good pasture. Si monu- 
mentum requiris circumspice might indeed be said of 
Ellman by any one standing as we did on Mount 
Caburn, above his old home, with the Southdown 
flocks dotting the hills round about and the broad 
green expanse of the Lewes Level at our feet. 



VIII 
SPECIALIST FARMING: HOPS AND FRUIT 

ONCE away from the " hill," as the South Downs are 
called, Sussex is but a poor country agriculturally. 
There is a strip of greensand immediately to the 
north, which grows very good crops and has for some 
time past been increasingly devoted to dairying ; but 
the greater part of the Weald contains only poor land 
indifferently farmed. The neighbourhood of Heath- 
field, however, possesses one flourishing agricultural 
industry, that of poultry fattening or cramming, as 
many as 1200 tons of fat chickens ready for the 
table being sent away from Heathfield Station alone 
during the year. The crammers feed the birds in the 
ordinary way for a time, then for the last fortnight 
or so they cram them twice a day with a porridge 
composed in the main of Sussex ground oats, forcing 
the food in by means of a machine until the crop is 
just distended. The birds are not raised by the 
crammers, but are purchased in the country round 
by " higglers." Poultry keeping and fattening have 
long been favourite pursuits in the district, but it has 
only been within the last score of years that the 
industry has become systematized and has grown to 
such proportions. It is a small man's business ; 
indeed, speaking generally, the Weald, both on the 
low clay plain and on the Forest Ridge, is divided 

47 



48 SPECIALIST FARMING: HOPS AND FRUIT 

into little farms, among which numbers of really 
small holders have more recently found a footing. 
To an increasing extent it is a residential district ; 
and many of the bungalows and raw red-brick 
cottages and villas, which look as if they might have 
been transported bodily from a London suburb, have 
been erected and are more or less maintained out of 
savings earned somewhere else. But some of the 
holdings have become self-supporting, though they 
have grown up there, as on the outskirts of the New 
Forest, on wretched land from an agricultural point 
of view. 

A good deal of the country is still covered by wood- 
land, though the small size of the fields and the 
abundant hedgerow timber often, indeed, narrow 
shaws that show the enclosure was originally cut out 
of the forest make the country look more heavily 
wooded than it is. Otherwise grassland predominates, 
often of the poorest quality, because it is mown for 
hay every year and then let to carry sheep from 
the marshes through the winter, thus being both 
hayed and grazed with little or no return of fertility. 
The arable fields show a whitish, hungry-looking soil, 
varying in consistency from a clay to something near 
a sand, but never kindly to work and always deficient 
in that essential to fertility lime. 

The good pastures are the brooks bordering the 
streams in the steep-sided valleys, especially where 
these brooks widen out into the marshes near the 
sea. We crossed Pevensey Level, a broad expanse of 
grass land which forms the seaward prolongation of the 
southern arm of the Weald clay plain, just as Romney 
Marsh extends from the corresponding northern arm. 
It is covered with roughish, coarse-looking herbage, 
which however possesses great feeding value. It is 



ROMNEY MARSH SHEEP 49 

grazed chiefly by fattening bullocks, some of them 
belonging to the native Sussex breed and coming in 
small bunches from the hill country roundabout ; but 
as this local supply is insufficient, Irish-bred Short- 
horns and Devons from the west are even more 
common. The very similar Romney Marsh is stocked 
almost entirely with sheep, which are bred there 
and then travel to the uplands for the winter, when 
the ewes alone remain in the marsh. As soon as 
the grass begins to grow, the lambs return and either 
join the flock or are fattened out on the abundant 
pastures of early summer. In winter the losses are 
heavy among the lambs, because they are stocked 
thickly on the poor hill pastures and rarely given 
hay even during the severest weather. But, wasteful 
as the system seems, the graziers justify it on the 
ground that the weakly ones, who would have proved 
bad doers, are weeded out and those which return 
thrive all the better for not having been coddled. In 
the main the practice survives because it is cheap : 
like much other bad farming, it pays by cutting 
down the expenditure to a minimum and making profit 
of all that can be skimmed off the land. Incidentally, 
the system, acting for many generations, has raised 
up one of the hardiest of sheep breeds the Kent or 
Romney Marsh a big, white-faced, Roman-nosed 
sheep, with a heavy fleece and a faculty of standing 
all kinds of weather and foraging for itself, which 
has made it of late years a favourite for crossing 
purposes both in Argentina and in New Zealand. 

Beyond the Marsh the land rises into the High 
Weald where, as we approached the Kentish border, 
a new feature appeared in the landscape the round, 
conical-topped oast houses or kilns for drying hops. 
The earlier ones we saw were only evidences of a 



50 SPECIALIST FARMING: HOPS AND FRUIT 

now vanished industry; for until we had crossed the 
South-Eastern line to Hastings we met with no hop 
plantations, and then with many fewer than the kilns. 
The acreage under hops has been shrinking con- 
siderably for the last generation, and has, moreover, 
been concentrating itself into certain favoured districts, 
like the valley of the Medway and its tributaries or 
the belt of rich loams in East Kent, in which places 
the production of hops has been pursued intensively 
until a much greater yield per acre has been forced. 
In many of the little Sussex gardens that survive the 
hops are grown with very slight departures from the 
method prevailing in Tudor times, as described by 
Reynolde Scot in that rarest of all agricultural books, 
The Perfite Platforme of a Hoppe Garden. 

Very different was the management on one of the 
modern farms we visited, where we saw probably the 
most intensive cultivation that is practised in any part 
of the world. Rather more than a hundred acres were 
under hops, lying partly on flat alluvial fields along 
the sides of a small stream and partly on the deep 
loams on the lower slopes of the valley, and the annual 
expenditure averaged not less than 50 per acre 
before the hops were sent to market The hops are 
trained up lengths of coir yarn, which are attached 
every year to a network of strong wire stretched over 
the whole plantation at a height of thirteen or fourteen 
feet. The permanent superstructure of poles and wire 
represents a capital outlay of about 30 an acre, and 
the annual renewal of the string costs about $ an 
acre for labour and material; but this system has 
almost entirely replaced the old poles, as it is found 
to grow both more and healthier hops. The routine 
of cultivation is heavy and continuous ; the hop plants 
have to be pruned in the early spring, shoots of the 



SPRAYING 5 1 

right quality have to be selected and led to the string 
while small, then constantly trained in order to keep 
them climbing upward until they reach the top wire ; 
the extra shoots have also to be pulled out, and later 
the lower leaves and shoots are stripped off because 
they harbour vermin. Meanwhile the ground is 
heavily manured and maintained in a fine tilth by 
repeated workings with a cultivator that will just 
travel between the rows, the slips between the plants 
being hoed by hand. In good gardens the land is 
kept beautifully clean ; we saw acre after acre without 
a weed, every hop trained like its neighbour in exact 
rows, and a mellow, crumbling tilth everywhere. 

The severest work and this, like the training on 
string, is a comparatively modern practice is the 
spraying or washing, as it is called. The hop plant, 
particularly when pushed along for a big crop, is 
subject to attacks of green fly, which may multiply 
with excessive rapidity and so cripple the growth that 
the leaves turn black with honeydew and no hops at 
all are produced. These " black blights " are, however, 
things of the past except in the out-of-the-way, 
neglected gardens ; the modern grower never lets the 
aphis get hold, but as soon as it appears deluges the 
plant with a spray consisting generally of a weak 
solution of soft soap and quassia. This washing is 
done by machines dragged through the hop garden 
by three or four horses, and throwing a great cloud of 
spray 20 ft. high, some three or four hundred gallons 
of wash per acre being distributed by the machines. 
Some growers have even laid on a system of under- 
ground pipes all over their holding, and force the wash 
from a common centre to a series of standpipes to 
which lengths of hose can be attached when it is 
desired to wash, the jets being directed by hand on to 



52 SPECIALIST FARMING: HOPS AND FRUIT 

the plants within the radius of the hose. Nor does 
one spraying suffice. Prior to our visit there had been 
a slight but persistent attack of aphis, and our host 
had kept his machines at work almost continuously 
from the middle of June, some pieces having been 
washed over half a dozen times. A fungoid disease 
is also much dreaded, and was being combated by 
dusting the whole plant over with flowers of sulphur 
distributed by a machine which blew the sulphur out 
in a great cloud as it was drawn along the alleys. 
The hops are picked early in September, when nearly 
three hundred families, say, a thousand people includ- 
ing the children, would be housed on the farm, in the 
rows of wooden huts we saw here and there in the 
grass fields. These pickers are not always an easy 
team to drive ; but in the main they are composed of 
respectable families who are engaged year after year 
on the same farm, and there obtain good wages and 
a health-giving month in the open air. Fine weather 
is the desideratum ; in heavy rain the pickers cannot 
be expected to continue at work, the huts are only 
designed for sleeping in, the men get off to the public- 
houses, and strikes, riots, and trouble of all kinds 
follow. The hop-grower's anxieties at that time are 
not confined to his pickers ; his hops have to be dried 
in the oast houses, of which we have spoken, where 
they are laid out for ten hours or so on a horsehair 
cloth some 1 2 ft. to 1 6 ft. above a fire of charcoal or 
anthracite, so that a continuous current of hot air 
passes through them. In this drying process they can 
easily have their market value reduced by one-half, 
and even a slight error in the management of the fires 
will knock several shillings a hundredweight off the 
price. Our host possessed various patent kilns, very 
unpicturesque beside the old roundels of brick and red 



THE HOP TRADE 53 

tile, but in them engine-driven fans were employed to 
force the hot air through the hops. In this way he 
hoped to reduce the drying process to a system and 
turn off a uniform product ; but the added expense 
was considerable, and he doubted if he ever got the 
finished appearance which was obtained by the old- 
fashioned method at its best. 

It will thus be seen that hop-growing is a very 
specialized business, more like manufacturing than 
farming, though the agricultural aspect is perhaps 
represented in an intensified form in the extraordinary 
fluctuations in yield and in price. A big crop not 
only reduces the price far below pay ing -point, but 
depresses the market for years ; because, despite the 
foreign importations, it is the fluctuation in the home 
production which mainly determines the price here. 
At that time the industry had been passing through 
a particularly bad phase, due to a year of exceptional 
production coinciding with a time of great depression 
in the brewing trade. For three years in succession 
the price fell away below the cost of production, 
crippling every one and bringing many old hop-growing 
families to the ground. In 1909 the crop was short, 
not only in England but all the world over, and the 
prices recovered, though nothing like to the degree 
which might have followed ten years earlier when the 
brewing trade was in a better way. As a consequence 
the acreage under hops had been reduced to its lowest 
point, and even the prospect of improved prices was 
not tempting men to replant. When an old grower is 
ruined and a farmer from another district takes his 
place, the newcomer grubs up the hops, which he 
neither understands nor trusts. 

When the yields fluctuate by cent, per cent, and 
prices may be forty shillings a hundredweight one 



54 SPECIALIST FARMING: HOPS AND FRUIT 

year and seven pounds the next, hop -growing becomes 
a speculative industry, and is discouraged by many 
landlords on the plea that the tenant starves the rest 
of his farm for the sake of his hops. But forms of 
agriculture that demand capital and skill of a high 
order, that draw a great cash return off a small 
acreage, should above all others be preserved in 
England ; moreover, from the landlord's point of view 
no other crop can afford to pay such a high rental. 
Good hop land in Kent is still worth three pounds an 
acre when it would otherwise stand at twenty shillings 
or thereabouts. As a business, hop-growing is safe 
enough over a term of years for the man who 
recognizes its fluctuations and maintains a reserve. 
The disasters happen when the man who has been 
successful with twenty acres during a good year 
extends to forty acres and is left with no surplus to 
meet such a succession of losses as happened in 
1906-8. But most of the wealth of Kent and East 
Sussex has been made over hop-growing ; and it main- 
tains the most numerous and best -paid body of 
labourers in the countryside, for most of the operations 
are let out by the piece and the women have their 
share in the work. We were told of families taking 
home three pounds a week during the summer ; and, 
as a hundred acres of hops will easily carry twenty 
men all the year round, there is no form of agriculture 
more effective in maintaining the rural population. 
At that time we were led to think that the industry 
was short of that measure of scientific assistance it 
might expect, and that it was lacking both in leaders 
and in courage. 

From time immemorial the Kentish hop-grower has 
also been busy with fruit ; both crops were probably 
" fetched out of Flanders " in early Tudor times along 



THE FRUIT AREA 55 

with the original of the Kent sheep and many of the 
improved farming practices which at an early date made 
Kent the Garden of England. The fruit is, however, 
on the whole grown on lighter land than that given up 
to hops. As we dropped off the Wealden heights we 
saw plenty of hops in the valleys and little fruit, but 
as we approached the long escarpment of the Lower 
Greensand to the south of Maidstone fruit was more 
abundant than hops. In that highly farmed " rag- 
stone " country the hops have generally been replaced 
by fruit on the heights ; but along the Medway valley 
and in the hollows, where the soil is a little deeper 
and heavier, the hops predominate, because they do 
not suffer like fruit from the spring frosts which 
always affect the lower land most severely. Fruit 
again is thickly planted in North Kent upon the thin 
Tertiary sands and light loams which extend along 
the Chatham line almost up to the outskirts of London, 
but very few hops now remain in that country. In 
the Maidstone district almost all the fruit is grown on 
tilled land, apples and plums are planted alternately, 
with gooseberries underneath. Strawberries, rasp- 
berries, and currants are generally grown separately ; 
the black-currant plantations have almost wholly been 
destroyed of late years through the attacks of the 
tiny mite which causes " big bud." No certain cure is 
yet known, though some growers profess to have 
methods of their own whereby it can be kept in check ; 
others have preferred to grub the infected area, and 
after an interval have replanted with clean stock care- 
fully imported from France. Within the last few 
years gooseberry mildew has obtained a footing in 
this country, despite the warnings of scientific men, 
and now the Board of Agriculture and the County 
Councils have to employ inspectors, plantations have 



56 SPECIALIST FARMING: HOPS AND FRUIT 

to be grubbed and burnt, and a valuable industry is 
rendered precarious because of the initial lack of fore- 
sight and energy based upon knowledge. 

On the " ragstone " the underfruit consists not unfre- 
quently of filberts and cob-nuts, always a speciality 
of Kent ; and they are grown on bushes trained into 
the shape of a great basin six feet or more in diameter, 
the young shoots, which are to fruit in the following 
year, being pruned a joint or two above their starting- 
point by breaking them across in the summer and 
completely removing them in the winter. As much 
as two tons of nuts to the acre are grown with proper 
management in favourable seasons, and far greater 
crops are sometimes obtained ; naturally the market is 
a restricted one and prices very variable. Apples are 
chiefly grown on the free stock all over Kent, only in 
East Kent a few orchards of dwarf apples on the 
Paradise stock are to be found growing without any 
admixture on tillage land. But the great character- 
istic of the Kentish soil and climate from the fruit- 
growers' point of view is the comparatively restricted 
growth it promotes; trees at an early age naturally 
form fruit-bearing spurs instead of the gross growth 
of wood which prevails in the West. 

In the Maidstone district no large proportion of 
the land is occupied by general mixed farming ; besides 
the fruit and hops the most characteristic features in 
the rich and varied landscape are the plantations of 
sweet chestnut which used to be cut over at twelve to 
fifteen year intervals to yield hop poles. Nowadays, 
however, hop poles are in little demand ; a smaller 
number of large poles are required to support the wire 
superstructure of the hop plantations, and the chestnut 
underwoods have lost the greater part of their value. 
In East Kent, where the fruit and hops are grown on 



THE NORTH DOWNS 57 

the deep loams and brick earths overlying the lower 
slopes of the chalk, more open country with ordinary 
mixed farming is seen ; indeed, a little to the south of 
Canterbury the hops cease and a typical chalk sheep 
and corn country sets in as far as Dover. 

After we left the rich " ragstone " soils we crossed 
once again the narrow Gault clay valley we had seen 
both in Wiltshire and in Sussex, rose a little on to 
the chalk-marl terrace here, as there, forming strong 
corn land and then climbed the steep escarpment of 
the chalk. But when the top of the North Downs is 
reached there is little or no open sheep walk ; instead, 
we came to a country of dense woods and small grass 
enclosures underlain by a stiff clay soil ten feet thick 
or more. This superficial Clay-with-Flints is too 
heavy for profitable cultivation on the top of the ridge, 
but lower down the slope towards Faversham and 
Sittingbourne it gives rise to good strong corn land, 
and even carries fruit and hops. The best farming in 
East Kent is concentrated on a strip of land bordering 
the old Dover road and the railway between Rochester 
and Canterbury ; but, superb as are the crops, the 
district has a dusty, harsh, businesslike look which 
renders it very unattractive. It may be the chimneys 
of the cement works along the Medway, which are 
generally visible smoking on the horizon, or the de- 
plorable yellow brick villas, or only the prevailing dry 
east-windy atmosphere, but this East Kent country 
rarely suggests agricultural richness. Even its famous 
cherry orchards only look neat and trim, with neither 
the lush grass below nor the exquisite patina of moss 
and lichen which characterize a Devonshire orchard. 
The cherries are, as a rule, grown in grass, as are a 
good many of the apple orchards in this district. The 
young standards are planted in the arable or with 



58 SPECIALIST FARMING: HOPS AND FRUIT 

strawberries or other small fruit below ; after ten or 
twelve years' growth the land is sown down to grass 
and kept heavily stocked with sheep receiving cake 
and corn. The land must always be closely grazed ; 
indeed, the best cherry orchards possess a sward like 
a lawn ; it has been found that the grass covering 
checks rank growth and keeps the trees in bearing ; it 
also helps to absorb any rain that falls when the fruit 
is ripening, rain which otherwise would cause the 
fruit to crack. The returns from a good cherry 
orchard are sometimes remarkable, up to the freehold 
value of the land ; but, as with all fruit crops, they are 
variable in the extreme indeed, fruit would be as 
speculative as hops had not the grower usually a range 
of crops. Gooseberries, cherries, plums, apples it is 
rare that all fail or glut in the same year. Moreover, 
up to the time of picking, the expenses incurred in the 
cultivation of fruit are not so great as with hops ; but 
the length of time that elapses before the plantations 
come into crop involves a considerable outlay and an 
element of risk. 

By local custom in Kent the tenant plants, as indeed 
he ought to do, because fruit-growing is his business 
and he should know better than any landlord the best 
varieties to plant ; but the landlord pays for the trees, 
in which case the tenant gets no compensation on 
leaving. If the tenant pays for the trees and for any 
reason leaves the farm within seven years of his 
planting, he is repaid the bare cost of the trees ; after 
that time he is considered to have recouped himself, 
and the landlord reaps the benefit of the matured orchard. 
Of course in practice the majority of tenants take the 
risk and plant securely enough on a yearly agree- 
ment. Compensation is sometimes given when death 
or accident has voided a tenancy before the occupier 



COMPENSATION FOR PLANTING FRUIT 59 

has obtained a return for the work he has done ; but 
cases are not unknown when the rigour of the law has 
been enforced and the outgoing tenant has got nothing 
from the improvements he has made. It has always 
been a grievance in Kent that the Agricultural Holdings 
Act gives the tenant no compensation for fruit planted 
and brought to bearing, the landlord's argument being 
that he ought not to be saddled with the necessity of 
finding what would often be a considerable sum per 
acre, when he has no security that a new tenant will 
pay him an adequate rent on the improvement. By 
the Evesham custom, which is incorporated in the 
Market Garden Holdings Act, the tenant owns the 
standing fruit trees and may sell his interest in them 
to a new tenant, whom he can propose to his landlord 
at the old rent. If the landlord declines the new 
tenant, he must himself buy up his tenant's trees at a 
valuation. To such an agreement most landlords 
object because it creates a dual form of ownership, 
and leaves them no longer " masters of their own 
land." In practice, as we have seen, the tenant takes 
the risk of planting, and often adds 30 or 40 an acre 
to the capital value of parts of his holding without any 
security ; but none the less the existence of the risk 
does operate, and that the landlord has to be content 
with a lower rent than would prevail if compensation 
for improvements was obtainable. 

Owing to the custom of land tenure, the distance 
of the northern markets, and the South-Eastern Rail- 
way, which by its inefficiency discounts all the ad- 
vantages that should come from a geographical 
proximity to Covent Garden still the best all-round 
market in the country the Kentish fruit-grower is 
handicapped in comparison with men in the Evesham 
or Wisbech districts ; and it is noticeable that the 
5 



6o SPECIALIST FARMING: HOPS AND FRUIT 

younger men who are setting up fruit-growing are 
rather shy of Kent and seek other counties. As a 
cultivator, the Kentish fruit-grower need fear no rivals ; 
as a packer he is behind the times, for, speaking 
generally, he does not grade his fruit but sends it 
off to market in unattractive baskets sieves and 
half-sieves which have to be returned. Of the ad- 
ventures of returned empties on the South-Eastern 
Railway many lurid tales are told, of search parties 
taking the line section by section, of submerged 
trucks full of baskets that wash up in distant stations 
and there lie stranded in the sidings ; but such is 
the force of long custom that the Kentish grower has 
not yet been converted to the value of non-returnable 
packages, which neither bring back disease nor mean 
idle capital. 

Hops and fruit have always absorbed the best 
energies of Kentish agriculture, and the ordinary 
stock and corn men in the other parts of the county 
fall rather below the general average in their manage- 
ment. Some very good wheat and barley are grown 
in East Kent; in particular the Isle of Thanet, where 
the chalk is near the surface and the country takes 
an open, rolling down-like aspect once more, possesses 
considerable local reputation for its barley, which is 
not uncommonly grown for several years in succession 
on an old lucerne or sainfoin ley. In 1910 East Kent 
crops, even in the favoured districts, were only in- 
different, for the distribution of pressure had been 
such as to give this usually very dry strip of country 
more rainfall than the Midlands and the inland 
districts farther west. An exceptionally wet winter 
had been followed by a summer of continual thunder- 
storms ; the wheat was blighted and seemed likely 
to thresh out badly, and though oats and barley 



BAD SEASONS 61 

looked very bulky they were not healthy crops. Only 
grass and turnips were really good, and they to little 
purpose, for the prices of Kent sheep, either as 
stores or as mutton, had never before been at such 
a low level. Indeed, Kentish farming generally was 
a little below the weather at that time ; the bad hop 
years had left the whole countryside poor, tradesmen 
as well as farmers, and for several seasons fruit- 
growing had not been a very paying business. What 
with late spring frosts and rain when the cherries 
were swelling, the weather had taken charge at the 
most awkward moments, with the result that crops 
had been poor and irregular and prices low. At the 
time of our visit very few of the growers hoped to 
do more than pay their way ; only in a few cases were 
cherries good, plums were scarce, and most varieties of 
apples only bore the sparsest of crops. With hops 
and fruit and sheep doing badly together, nearly all 
classes of farmers were hard hit : and Kent more than 
any other county was in need of a turn of the wheel 
and an improved regulation of the weather. 



IX 
ESSEX SEED CORN 

As we approached Gravesend along the Watling Street, 
we left behind the fruit and hop country, and ran 
once more into the cornland, large open fields lying on 
the lower slopes of the chalk and the Tertiary formations 
which cover it in North Kent. To our right lay the 
Hundred of Hoo, with some light land at its extremity 
which is intensively cultivated for early potatoes and 
vegetables ; but the greater part of the peninsula is 
farmed in a more ordinary fashion and derives its 
chief agricultural value from the rich pastures which 
border the Thames estuary. These " marshes " form 
a continuous belt of low-lying alluvium, protected 
from the inroads of the sea by high banks, which 
stretches from Deal and Sandwich along the Stour and 
the old line of the Wantsum to the Roman fortress 
at Reculvers, and then, after a little interruption east 
of Whitstable, borders the Swale Channel between 
Sheppey and the mainland and extends along the 
Thames as far as Plumstead. The great liners 
overlook the sea wall as they drop down the river 
at half speed, otherwise these marshes are among the 
most remote and solitary of pastures, where rare duck 
breed in the ditches and the Kent sheep lie in 
summer almost as thickly as on Romney Marsh. 
The soil is of the heaviest, built up, no doubt, from 



MARKET GARDENING 63 

London Clay which is always wasting into the river, 
and on the best fields the herbage is almost wholly 
composed of rye-grass and white clover, with the 
particular silky sheen in the early summer which 
only rye-grass shows when growing vigorously after 
close cropping on the richest of land. 

Having crossed the river at Tilbury, we quickly 
ran into a country of lighter soil which is nearly all 
under the plough and in a high state of cultivation. 
Here the corn crops were both heavy and early, the 
wheat looking brighter and healthier than any we 
had seen ; it was all near to harvest, indeed this 
country was almost as early as the land near Ports- 
down and Chichester. But corn-growing was being 
alternated with potatoes, of which great crops are 
produced by the aid of London stable manure brought 
down the river by barge, and green vegetables of all 
kinds. One large field we saw entirely occupied with 
vegetable marrows the bush variety and very hand- 
some they looked in the afternoon sunlight with their 
broad strong leaves, among which the lighter green of 
the gourds showed up conspicuously. 

All this side of Essex is famous for seed-growing ; 
the soils are on the strong side, which results in 
grain of a good weight per bushel and in firm biennial 
roots (turnips, cabbage, mangold, etc.), which stand 
well through the winter, but the most favourable 
factor of all is the light rainfall and dry atmosphere 
which generally prevails at the close of the summer. 
Not only are seed crops difficult to harvest except 
in continuous fine weather, but the colour, and with 
it the saleability, of the seed is very readily deteriorated 
by rain, even though the crop is eventually got up 
in sound condition. We called at one farm on which 
nearly all the crops were grown for seed, some of 



64 ESSEX SEED CORN 

them, like turnips and mangolds, under contract for 
one of the great seed firms, but the cereals for local 
sale by the farmer himself. He had one or two 
stocks of wheat of his own selecting, really pure 
line strains grown on from a single plant which had 
caught his attention by its extra vigour among an 
ordinary crop ; and he was also growing some of the 
pure line barleys to which we have alluded earlier. 
Here, too, we saw a field or two of the French wheats 
which at that time were being so much talked about 
and extensively grown in the eastern counties. The 
difficulties experienced in the previous winter in 
getting the land ready for wheat had led to the sowing 
in February of a considerable breadth of " Red 
Marvel " (which is probably identical with Vilmorin's 
hybrid Japeth), because it makes a much better spring 
wheat than any of the older sorts once used for 
this purpose. We saw a good many crops of this 
variety here and farther up the country; the spring- 
sown fields promised very fair yields, if not up to 
the average of ordinary autumn sowings ; but 
the specially big berry possessed by this sort may 
easily lead to a wrong estimate of the crop in the 
field. Rivet or Cone wheat is also extensively grown 
in this district, being, indeed, specially suited to the 
warm climate and stiff soils prevailing. With its 
bearded ears, its stiff reed-like straw, and dark colour, 
Rivet wheat is one of the most distinctive of varieties, 
indeed it might almost be differentiated as a separate 
species ; it has long been grown in this country (it is 
often known on the Continent as " English " wheat), 
but it yields flour of poor quality, and some years ago 
had almost dropped out of cultivation. But when the 
importations of foreign " strong " wheats from the North- 
West and Russia began, the millers ceased to discrim- 



WHEAT VARIETIES 65 

inate much between English wheats, all of which are 
comparatively weak, until they would pay almost as 
high a price for Rivet as for wheats like Rough Chaff, 
which had hitherto been the strongest available. In 
consequence the cultivation of Rivet, with its heavy 
yields and powerful straw, began to revive ; the stocks 
are, however, very impure, and on this farm we were 
shown the early stage of a pure line strain originally 
selected for its specially vigorous growth. Professor 
Percival, of Reading, has also raised a pure line strain 
of Rivet up to the marketable stage ; so Rivet wheat, 
despite its antiquity, despite the awns which make the 
chaff unusable and even the straw disliked by stockmen, 
and despite its coarseness, seems in for a new lease of 
life. After all, yield is the big factor in the value of a 
crop, whatever its nature ; the purchaser is always harp- 
ing upon the virtues of quality, and quality also appeals 
greatly to the pride of the farmer, but fine quality should 
earn a much larger difference in price than usually 
prevails in order to make up for the larger yield of 
many of the so-called coarse varieties. Thus the uni- 
versally-grown wheats Square Head's Master, Stand 
Up, Standard Red, Browick are big yielders and 
stiff-strawed ; Archer barley is displacing the Chevallier 
varieties because it will generally yield more ; and the 
apple growers are regrafting their Cox's orange pippins 
with common kitchen sorts, even though the market 
will pay 3d. apiece for well-grown apples of the choicer 
variety. On this same farm several acres were given 
up to growing sweet peas for seed under contract the 
field, with its brilliant bands of variegated colour, 
afforded a pleasant contrast to the somewhat monot- 
onous Essex landscape. In our climate the sweet pea 
harvest is not too trustworthy in the crop we saw, for 
example, most of the early flowers and some even of 



66 ESSEX SEED CORN 

the first pods had dropped off, so that a good many of 
the commercial stocks are now raised in California. But 
so important is it to rogue out all plants departing 
from the type, and also to catch up the occasional 
" mutations " of distinct merit, that the best seedsmen 
prefer to raise their stocks in England where they can 
keep them under observation. 

Our road then lay through the Roothings, that string 
of villages called Roding which lie round about the 
little river of the same name, a country of heavy 
clay land of the kind that is usually associated with 
" derelict " Essex. But this country never fell out 
of cultivation, nor had it been let down to grass 
and given up to milk production, by which means 
so much of the once derelict land has since been 
brought back into profitable use. It is still very 
largely plough land, farmed in a conservative fashion 
in medium-sized holdings. The rotation is one of the 
most primitive beans, wheat, barley with a bare 
fallow not infrequently ; very few roots are grown, and 
those always mangolds ; fields of red clover or other 
seeds are also rarely seen. Such a course of cropping 
does not permit of keeping much stock, but it gives a 
crop to sell off the land every year, except when the 
need of cleaning and re-establishing a tilth calls for a 
bare summer's fallow, a practice which can only be 
justified on a strong soil in a dry climate. Wild oats 
seemed the most characteristic weed, and, with the 
superabundant thistles, bulked all too largely in some 
of the corn crops. Two wet growing seasons had left 
the East of England desperately full of thistles, to the 
extent sometimes of interfering with the harvesting of 
the barley crop, so slowly do they dry when they form 
any considerable proportion of the sheaves. 

A little farther north we visited another farm, rather 



NOVEL METHODS 67 

typical of modern management, in which no fixed 
rotation is followed but the land is cropped to a large 
extent according to the expectations of business. 
Again the bulk of the crops were sold for seed, but as 
the land was lighter and more calcareous (a chalky 
boulder clay) greater variety was possible. Many of 
the fields indeed were light enough to grow peas 
successfully, some for picking green, while others were 
threshed out ; a breeding flock also was kept and 
folded on the green crops, though not always to the 
benefit of the sheep or of the land. The sheep were 
the Suffolks, handsomest of all the Down breeds, with 
their black faces, close fleeces, and clean symmetrical 
build ; to a particular degree they seem to combine size 
with refinement, they also move better than some of 
their rival breeds. The sheep were being folded on a 
mixture of kale and vetches sown together, a mixture 
new to us but one that was providing a large amount 
of sheep-keep and a good combination of foods. Nor 
was the mixed crop the only novelty, for in one field 
it was being eaten off by young pigs folded on the 
land like sheep ; unusual as it is to see pigs thus 
grazing, they might very well be treated to more of an 
outdoor life than they generally obtain. Pigs are in 
good demand in this district because of a successful 
bacon factory, and it is noteworthy that, though the 
local farmers largely found the capital for the under- 
taking, it is being worked on a joint-stock and not on 
a co-operative basis. On this farm also bullocks were 
fattened during the winter, but the occupier confessed 
that he had never been able to make his winter 
feeding pay except by attaching an excessive value 
to the dung produced. But seed-growing and not 
stock was the characteristic feature of the farm ; we 
saw, for example, the last of a crop of crimson clover 



68 ESSEX SEED CORN 

that had been allowed to ripen off for seed. In the 
district between Dunmow and Bury most of the 
English trifolium seed is produced, and the cultivation 
has been stimulated by a large American demand, for 
crimson clover is now being extensively grown in the 
United States as a cover crop in orchards and the like. 
Red clover was also extensively grown for seed, it 
being the custom to graze off the first growth, thus 
obtaining an earlier and heavier yield of seed than if 
it had first been cut for hay. The Browick wheat and 
the selected stocks of barley were mostly sold as seed 
corn ; turnips were not grown on the farm, the root 
break being mangold and cabbages, together with the 
vetches and kale already described. Another crop 
which was rather a novelty on a large scale were two 
fields of sugar-beet, which a Dutch company were 
prepared to buy for export to Holland, until they 
could get the factory running which they were about 
to establish at Maldon. But on these comparatively 
stiff soils the sugar-beet grower might expect no light 
task before him when the time came for lifting the 
crop. If the manufacture succeeds, sugar-beet will 
form one more crop that can be sold off the farm ; 
and our host's farming, as that of so many other 
successful practitioners, was to sell away everything he 
could even the trees round some of his lower fields 
were cricket-bat willows, the true sort, than which 
nothing grows into money more rapidly. It is, indeed, 
through their high proportion of saleable crops that 
the Essex farmers are in a thriving condition again ; 
their farming has lost some of its old-time polish, the 
land is cheaply worked and is not so clean as formerly, 
but the rents in the district have not dropped much 
below the 2Os. an acre level and are tending to rise 
with the competition that now exists for vacant farms. 



SMALL FARMS AND SMALL HOLDINGS 69 

The small farmer is not uncommon in the district, but 
is neither farming the land so well nor making as 
much profit out of it as his larger neighbours, while the 
strong heavy working soils are by no means suited to 
the typical small holder of five to ten acres. 

Essex has many varied forms of agriculture to 
show, as for example the intensive dairying that 
prevails in the south-east ; but wherever we went we 
saw no longer the derelict Essex which was once the 
type example of ruined English agriculture ; instead, 
the countryside seemed to smile withja quiet unexcited 
prosperity it was providing bread and butter, at all 
events, for its occupiers. 



THE FENLAND 

FROM Essex we turned a little eastward towards 
Cambridge and soon ran off the very heavy land on 
to the lighter drift formations on the east of Essex 
and the borders of Herts. At one time these gravelly 
soils were held in poor esteem ; Arthur Young, who 
had a farm at North Mimms, declared that he found 
he had " been living in the jaws of a wolf," but in 
modern times drainage has disembarrassed them of the 
land springs to which they are liable, while the 
enormous amounts of London manure available have 
built up both fertility and the power of resisting 
droughts. 

Potato farming is now intensively pursued on these 
gravels, largely by Scotch farmers who moved down 
into this district after the rents had fallen during the 
great depression. Farther north the chalk land sets 
in again, and more purely corn farming is followed, 
but the country is so low and flat that almost the only 
signs of the chalk below are the size of the fields and 
the clematis in the hedgerows. Towards Cambridge 
the barley was looking well ; the crops, if not of more 
than average size, were uniform, and at that period 
were standing up well. Most of the barley is grown 
after wheat, for in East Anglia, its original home, the 

Norfolk four-course rotation has been almost every- 

7 o 



EAST ANGLIAN SOUTHDOWNS 71 

where modified by taking two corn crops in succession, 
barley after the wheat and oats in place of barley after 
the roots. It is an early country, and the corn 
appeared to be much nearer to harvest than that we 
had left it in Essex ; indeed, as far or even further 
forward than it had been in Kent. Sheep form an 
integral part of the farming on these light and easy 
working soils ; and in several places we found the 
Suffolks had given place to Southdowns. Cambridge 
has, indeed, become the second great home of the 
Southdowns, which were first brought into the district 
by Jonas Webb, of Babraham, sometime about 1820, 
and from his sheep several great flocks have sprung, 
not the least successful being the one established by 
the late King at Sandringham. We did not, however, 
delay in this district, where the farming is very much 
of the same type as that which prevails throughout 
Norfolk, but pushed on into the Fens, that stretch 
of low-lying alluvial soil, about 1500 square miles in 
area, which has been formed round the Wash by the 
estuaries of the Ouse, the Nene, the Welland, and the 
Witham. 

Into the formation and reclamation of the Fens, 
interesting and even romantic as is the history of the 
latter process, this is not the place to enter; it is 
sufficient to say that the whole country is nearly at 
sea-level, the land on either side the Bedford Levels, 
for example, being but one or two feet above ordnance 
datum. The fen is generally underlaid by clay, the 
Oxford and Kimeridge clays, which here and there 
form small island patches rising 20 ft. or 30 ft. above 
the general surface, such as the islands upon which 
Ely and Chatteris stand. Naturally the district re- 
quires to be artificially drained and protected from the 
sea, which has made occasional incursions even within 



72 THE FENLAND 

recent times, and the drainage tax which the Com- 
missioners levy for this purpose amounts to about los. 
per acre, varying with the situation and level of each 
area. The work of reclamation probably began with 
the construction of sea walls in Roman or pre-Roman 
times, but, as we know, it was carried out piecemeal by 
different bodies of adventurers from the time of Charles I. 
onwards, and even before that under some of the 
great monasteries. In consequence the system is 
somewhat haphazard and confused ; could it be re- 
designed with the whole end in sight it might be made 
far more effective and economical. From the agricul- 
tural point of view there are two distinct types of land 
in the Fens the black soil, or fen proper, and the 
silt, or marsh as it is locally called. The black soil 
is developed on the inland side where the rivers enter 
the Fen, by Cambridge and Ely, along the course of 
the Bedford Levels, and round Ramsay, Peterborough, 
and March. Doubtless in this area the country used 
to be always awash with land water from the rivers, 
and out of the marsh vegetation growing in the com- 
paratively clear water the black deposit of peat, nearly 
4 ft. thick, was formed, with a comparatively small 
admixture of earth. Nearer the Wash, from King's 
Lynn to Wisbech and on to Boston, the country 
was doubtless regularly flooded by the muddy estuarine 
waters, and thick deposits of silt have been built up by 
a process of natural warping; this soil is not black, 
but has the character of ordinary alluvial marsh land. 
Monotonous as the fenland may seem, with its endless 
succession of cornfields and long reed-bordered dykes, 
it cannot be denied a certain grandeur, if only for its 
vast canopy of sky and unbroken horizon. Looking 
over it as we did from its edge on the Ely road on 
that bright morning in late July, when a stately pro- 



ALBERT PELL 73 

cession of huge thunderclouds and their attendant 
shadows marched across sky and plain, when the 
glittering levels stretched at our feet into blue and yet 
bluer distances, we could feel how the heimweh must 
grow in the Penman, for few countries possess such a 
measure of character as his own. 

We ran through Wilburton and mentally took off 
our hats to the memory of Albert Pell, perhaps the 
finest type of country gentleman the Victorian age 
produced; educated, refined, and broad-minded to a 
degree, he served the State and his countryside through- 
out the whole of a long life. His mark endures in the 
schools and church of Wilburton, just as his biography 
will stand for long years, both as the story of a man 
and a record of the immense process of mental and 
spiritual growth which the English countryside achieved 
in the latter half of the nineteenth century. Thence 
we crossed the Bedford Rivers, the two cuts which 
take the waters of the Ouse, and along Ireton's Way 
into Chatteris, where we exchanged for a time the black 
land for the poor grass pastures of one of the clay 
islands. Throughout all this district almost the only 
stock to be seen were the little groups of mares with 
foals at foot occupying the grass land, for Chatteris 
lies in the midst of the chief district in England for 
breeding heavy horses. The Fens have been the 
natural home of the Shire horse ever since the intro- 
duction of the great Flemish war-horse, out of which 
our present breed has arisen by crossing on the native 
stocks. Nearly every farmer breeds a few foals, and 
as he can work his brood mares with safety and even 
advantage for the greater part of the year and there is 
a good and steady market for the produce at the great 
horse fairs at Peterborough and Chatteris, the breeding 
forms a remunerative branch of his business. So far 



74 THE FENLAND 

the introduction of mechanical haulage does not seem 
to have affected the market for draught horses of high 
class, from which we can only conclude that the ex- 
pansion of industry has been sufficient to absorb the 
motor-wagon as a mere addition to the older means 
of traction. 

Beyond Chatteris we called at a Fen farm, about 
400 acres in extent, all on black soil, though some of 
it was modified by a considerable admixture of silt. 
The black soil proper is highly carbonaceous, so much 
so that it will burn, and has on occasion been set on 
fire and smouldered for weeks. The clay is, however, 
not far below, and the black soil has been getting 
notably thinner within the memory of the present 
occupier ; on some of his " grounds," as the fields 
are here called, he ploughs deeply and brings up a 
little clay, trusting in this way to establish a deep, 
mellow soil before the initial stock of organic matter 
is wholly exhausted. It should be noted that the 
black peat of the Fens is never acid like that of a 
moor or peat bog ; it is neutral humate of lime and 
may even contain carbonate of lime indeed, through- 
out this country the staple manure is the acid super- 
phosphate. Nitrogenous manures are not needed, even 
dung is of little value, and though potash seems to 
be desirable, no evidence could be found of benefits 
following its application. The cropping on the black 
soil was a simple rotation of wheat, oats, potatoes ; on 
the more silty soil barley followed the wheat, and 
mangolds were often substituted for the potatoes. Nearly 
everything was sold away, even the straw and the 
mangolds, there being a railway station convenient ; 
but the greater part of the oats were consumed by 
the horses. Some sheep were kept to run over 
the stubbles and to eat off occasional catch-crops of 



FENLAND CORN 75 

mustard, etc., and a few bullocks were winter fed, but 
the only breeding stock were the horses. Throughout 
the district mustard is a good deal grown for seed, 
and not infrequently we saw another crop which 
hardly occurs elsewhere in England i.e. buckwheat 
though it is generally considered to be a sign of poor 
farming, and is only taken by the small men. Other 
unusual crops of which we saw numerous small areas 
were celery, carrots, and asparagus, but the only 
cruciferous root growing was kohl-rabi, which is used 
to fill up gaps in the mangold grounds. 

Throughout the Fens the corn crops betray the 
excess of nitrogen in the soil, and are such as would 
cause dismay to the ordinary farmer : they are rank 
and full of growth, with an enormous yield of straw, 
and in that year, as in most seasons, were laid and 
twisted in every direction. Moreover, all the corn, 
and especially the wheat, had a grey, dirty look which 
would make the upland farmer think it was blighted ; 
never did we see the clear yellow or golden colour 
we are accustomed to associate with land ripe unto 
harvest. The heavy twisted crops call for a great 
expenditure of hand labour in harvest, and this is 
one of the districts to which the Irish labourer, who 
used to be such a feature of hay time and harvest 
over most of England, still finds it worth while to 
come ; indeed, the crops could hardly be got in without 
some such extraneous assistance, for the modern reaper 
and binder often fails to deal with them. The barley 
is mostly of the wide-eared type ; even the old " sprat " 
barley is grown and answers well. Naturally the 
quality of the grain is poor and below what is usually 
desired for malting. In fact in all the produce of 
the Fens quantity has to make up for lack of quality. 
The potatoes from the black soils command the 
6 



76 THE FENLAND 

lowest prices in the market, the wheat is not attractive, 
though the miller does not find that it yields flour 
noticeably below the English average ; while the man- 
golds prove on analysis to be exceptionally watery 
and deficient in sugar. 

Fen farming is a case of exploiting the natural 
resources of the soil without any return being made ; 
crop after crop is taken and sold away ; even the 
superphosphate which has so long been used and 
in such great quantities, only quickens the conversion 
of the initial stock of soil nitrogen into saleable 
produce which leaves the land for ever. Slow as the 
process may be, one cannot live on capital indefin- 
itely; and this land will run out, just as the black 
soils of the middle west of America have begun to 
show a noticeable decline in fertility. However, long 
before any complete exhaustion sets in the farmers 
will find it necessary to resort to recuperating crops 
like red clover, which fortunately grows well enough : 
even lucerne will flourish, as we saw on the farm 
we visited. The level of the land falls with the 
exhaustion of the black layer, and it may eventually 
be possible to lead on the turbid waters from the 
estuary and so build up a new soil by the warping 
process that we were to see later near the mouth of 
the Trent. 

But while it lasts the Fen soil is valuable ; nothing 
else in this country will yield so much for so little 
expenditure, either in manure or labour. Land is in 
demand and has a freehold value of 40 to $o 
an acre, the average rental being 303. to 405. an acre, 
though the buildings other than the barns are of 
little account. The size of the farms varies very 
much ; we heard of none of the vast holdings which 
prevail on the chalk, and a large number of quite 



SMALL HOLDERS 77 

small farmers earn a satisfactory living. There was, 
indeed, a considerable and growing demand for small 
holdings, for the land is easy to work and will yield 
returns very cheaply ; moreover, carrots, celery, and 
asparagus are crops producing a considerable sum 
per acre. Hemp used to be grown and yielded 
excellent results to the small men. Unfortunately 
the methods of dealing with the fibre were imperfect, 
the mills have failed, and this industry has died out, 
though it might be revived by some better means 
of management which would handle the raw hemp 
in the straw at a common centre. More crops suited 
to small holders are wanted, for the danger attaching 
to their present increase is that they will overcrowd 
the local markets with the limited range of products 
upon which the present men pay their way. How- 
ever, the noticeable fact about the rich land, both on 
this and on the silty side of the fen, is its power to 
carry a comparatively dense population which lives 
by agriculture alone sturdy, independent folk of 
prime value to the State even if they sometimes do 
vex the souls of clergy and gentry ; whereas in many 
other districts the richer the land is the larger the 
holdings become, and the fewer are the families 
maintained thereon. 



XI 
NORFOLK BULLOCK FATTENING 

FROM the black Fen we made our way across to 
the silt and the fruit-growing which has so recently 
grown up round Wisbech, then rose off the rich flat 
fen lands on to the sandy heaths which stretch along 
the western border of Norfolk. Norfolk is very far 
from being an agricultural unit, and, despite the 
reputation which its farming deservedly enjoys, due 
partly to the leaders it has always given to the 
industry, from the time of Townshend to Coke and 
Clare Sewell Read, the county contains some of the 
poorest land in England. Along the western side 
from Newmarket Heath by Brandon and Thetford up 
to Sandringham on the north coast stretches a line of 
barren heaths, where light blowing sands and sharp 
gravels break through the scanty herbage and only 
bracken and pine woods seem at home. The chalk is 
beneath, as indeed it underlies the greater part of 
the county, but as a rule it is too far below the 
surface to play any part in forming the soil, which 
shows every sign of deficiency of lime. Foxgloves 
and bracken in the copses, corn mangold and spurrey 
on the arable land, are rarely far away, and always 
indicate lack of lime. In this area the farming is of 
no great account and is confined to the valleys and 

occasional patches where a deeper soil has accumulated. 

78 



ARABLE LAND 79 

West of this line the soils, though still very diversified, 
are stronger and the good farming sets in ; the under- 
lying rock, chalk in the centre and crag in the east, 
is almost everywhere obscured by a complicated series 
of drifts, generally of glacial origin, which range from 
strong clays along the Suffolk border to patches of 
pure gravel and sand near the North Sea. Speaking 
roughly and generally, the finest land, famous for the 
all-round excellence of its root crops, occurs in the 
east of the county in the district within reach of the 
Broads, while in north Norfolk the soils are lighter 
and run off in places into very poor thin stuff indeed. 
Just in the same way Norfolk farming may be divided 
into " wheat and bullocks " or " sheep and barley," 
though no sharp line can be drawn between the two ; 
what is common to all divisions of the county is the 
great predominance of arable land over permanent 
grass and the dependence of the agriculture upon 
fattening rather than on breeding stock. The agri- 
cultural statistics show that in Norfolk 73 per cent, 
of the total acreage under crops is arable land, a 
proportion exceeded only, and that but to a slight 
degree, in the neighbouring counties of Cambridge 
and Suffolk, and the typical Norfolk farm will possess 
only one or two grass fields next the homestead, the 
remaining four - fifths or more of the land being 
under the plough. 

We spent some time in north Norfolk, a gently 
undulating country diversified by numerous shallow 
valleys, where little streams have cut away the surface 
gravels down to the comparatively impervious chalky 
boulder clay. On the upper levels the soil varies 
from a moderate loam, rarely more than two-horse 
land, to a thin black gravel of little value ; on the 
sides of the valleys the best land occurs, while the 



8o NORFOLK BULLOCK FATTENING 

bottom is usually occupied by a strip of wet, rushy 
pasture, often mere bog and showing a thin layer of 
peat. The land water soaks readily through the 
gravels and is held up by the impervious clay, so 
that the floor of the valley becomes waterlogged and 
develops peat. The chalky clay below is supposed 
to have been ground up by the action of glacial ice : 
it is yellowish in colour and by no means pure chalk ; 
in the district it is known as " clunch," and is dug 
out and moulded into blocks, out of which a good 
many of the farm buildings are constructed. It 
hardens considerably on exposure, and when protected 
from drip and covered with a layer of whitewash the 
" clunch " forms a serviceable and lasting building 
material. Of course building stone is entirely lacking, 
if we except the flints which can be so freely gathered 
from the gravels, and as clay for brickmaking is 
also not very common, the majority of the houses 
and homesteads are built of rough flints set in mortar, 
with brick or, more rarely, stone quoinings. Perhaps 
it is in consequence of this lack of good materials that 
the Norfolk farm buildings, in spite of the size of 
the farms and the great importance attached to bullock 
feeding, are comparatively poor ; both small and in 
bad repair and generally designed in a very haphazard 
and inconvenient fashion. On all the farms we visited 
very much the same system of cropping was followed, 
the differences depending mainly on the quality of the 
land. As soon after harvest as possible the leys are 
broken up for wheat, an early seeding for every crop 
except roots being essential in this country of light 
soils and minimal rainfall. One feature that immedi- 
ately strikes a stranger to Norfolk is the custom of 
ploughing round and round a field. The ploughman 
either starts in the centre and strikes out a rectangle 



NORFOLK BARLEY 81 

of similar shape to the field, which furrow by furrow 
he enlarges until he has only got the corners and odd 
bits to fill in ; or begins at the outside and works in 
gradually smaller and smaller rounds to a standstill. 
On these light lands the saving of turnings is an 
economy and it is desirable to leave the field flat and 
not in ridge and furrow. On the stronger lands barley 
is taken after wheat, and so general is it throughout 
the county to get thus two barley crops in the rotation, 
that Norfolk is one of the few counties growing a 
greater acreage of barley than of wheat. In Norfolk 
in 1909 23 per cent, of the arable land was under 
barley, the only other counties approaching this pro- 
portion being Suffolk, with 21, and Lincoln, with 19 
per cent. With the dry harvest weather that usually 
prevails (though of late years there have been some 
signal disappointments), Norfolk expects to obtain fine 
malting quality, and on some of the land near the sea, 
where the soil is a little warmer in the early spring, 
the really fancy barleys which command a special 
price among the pale-ale brewers are regularly grown. 
Opinions differ as to how the stubbles should be 
treated in preparation for roots ; some men like to 
plough as soon as convenient before the winter, their 
argument being that thus they collect the winter's 
rainfall, but one notable farmer with whom we dis- 
cussed the point only forks out the patches of twitch 
and ploughs round the headlands where the land may 
be foul from the hedges, arguing that the most 
successful take of swedes is obtained by sowing on the 
fresh-turned plough slice that has not been dried out 
by successive cultivations. The swedes must not be 
sown too early, as they are then liable to mildew, and 
of course a certain proportion of the root-land is also 
given up to mangolds. The headlands are sown with 



82 NORFOLK BULLOCK FATTENING 

white turnips, which are pulled directly after harvest 
for the sheep and the bullocks that are yet on the 
grass or are being run over the stubbles and the new 
leys. As a rule half the swedes are pulled for the 
cattle, the rest being fed off by sheep. Barley gener- 
ally follows the roots, though to a certain extent it 
may, like the wheat, be replaced by oats, and in the 
barley the seeds are sown, generally a very diversified 
mixture, though rarely containing Italian rye-grass. 
On the thin black soils the seeds are often left down 
for a second year, naturally enough on. such land the 
expenses of cultivation have to be reduced as much 
as possible. Other crops are rare ; thousand head and 
cabbages take the place of some of the swedes on the 
lighter lands where sheep predominate, and a break 
may be made in the rotation to take a crop of vetches, 
followed by mustard, but in the main the farming 
sticks closely to the variations on the four-course 
system that we have indicated. A certain number of 
ewe flocks are kept, but the typical Norfolk farmer 
buys his sheep in the summer to fatten out on the 
turnips ; a good many pure Suffolks are seen, but 
crossbreds are perhaps more common, Cotswold-Oxford 
Down being a favourite cross. Cattle-breeding is even 
less common, though this and the neighbouring county 
of Suffolk do possess a distinctive breed in the Red 
Polls deep-coloured, shapely animals, which are 
regarded by their admirers as second to none for 
combined meat and milk production, but which have 
never become a numerous or a widely-diffused race. 
Even in their native county they are by no means 
common, for the special feature of Norfolk farming 
is the fattening of stores which gather in the autumn 
to Norwich market from Ireland, Wales, and the 
Border country. As soon as the Norfolk farmer 



BULLOCK FATTENING 83 

has got his harvest over and set about his wheat seed- 
ing, he moves his sheep on to the turnips and begins 
to fill his yards with cattle. Sometimes these may 
have been grazing on the east coast marshes during 
the summer, but in the main they are brought straight 
out of the market, often at big prices, for the Norfolk 
grazier aims at a very finished product, and wants 
a good foundation. The feeding is liberal, unlimited 
turnips a hundredweight or so per head, cake and 
corn even up to ten pounds a day, and this for a long 
period, because the best men look to make 30 a 
head for their fat cattle. 

How such feeding pays or has paid for the last half- 
dozen years is a flat mystery ; except when lucky 
buying or selling has secured the turn of the market 
in its favour. No strict accounts accessible to us have 
shown a steady and consistent profit for this fattening 
of bought stores. The ordinary answer is that the 
profit lies in the dung ; but if the men who evade the 
issue in this fashion would only keep books to show 
how much dung they make and at what cost, provided 
that the hay and the straw and the turnips consumed 
are given any value at all, the results would un- 
commonly surprise them. Probably the best arguments 
for the Norfolk system were those advanced by a 
farmer we visited, himself one of the most determined 
fatteners of bullocks in the county, who is daunted by 
no expense to attain the best stores or to bring them 
up to the highest condition for sale. You always find, 
he said, the most successful farmers are the heaviest 
feeders ; the starving niggling man with but little stock 
may always be known by the state of his land. His 
next argument was that it is impossible to show that 
any single operation on a farm pays by itself, it is the 
whole system taken together which succeeds or fails. 



84 NORFOLK BULLOCK FATTENING 

Now this is less of a paradox than it seems ; an 
element of speculation or of estimate does enter into 
any system of farm book-keeping which aims at really 
disentangling the various interests involved in growing 
a crop or feeding out a bunch of beasts, and the truth 
that lies behind his remark is the dependence of 
Norfolk farming on good dung and plenty of it. The 
soils are all light and sharp, the climate warm and 
dryer than in any other part of the country ; in no 
other land does the humus vanish so quickly, nor is its 
abundance so important in order to ensure an early 
start and a continuous growth for the crop. The 
Norfolk farmer must fatten cattle in order to trample 
his straw down into the indispensable dung. What 
has still to be learnt is whether it is better to do this 
expensively with the aid of unlimited cake, or whether 
the cheaper method which feeds little besides the 
home-grown roots and hay will not produce a more 
profitable return. The humus the land needs will be 
supplied by the straw and the roots ; the extra rich- 
ness in nitrogen of the dung produced by heavy cake 
feeding could be purchased more cheaply in the shape 
of fertilizers. 

We could not help suspecting that the Norfolk 
farmer had been losing money over his bullocks, 
though the losses had been disguised by the handsome 
returns he had been making on his corn. For by 
common report Norfolk farming had been prosperous ; 
farms ran large (these sands seem to offer few tempta- 
tions to the small-holder) ; yet rents were not low, 
155. an acre for farms with a large proportion of 
thin gravelly land that seems ruinous stuff to a 
stranger, 2Os. for the better qualities of land; moreover, 
land was scarce and almost impossible to get. The 
farmers struck one as full of confidence and yet eager 



FARMING EXPERIMENTS 85 

to make use of all the knowledge they can obtain ; 
Norfolk is the only county in England where they 
have established and continue to run an experimental 
farm of their own, independent of county council or 
any educational institution. After all, the spirit of 
experiment ought to be strong in this district ; it is 
no great distance to Holkham, where stands the 
monument erected by the yeomanry of England to 
Coke of Norfolk, with its bas-reliefs representing the 
famous sheep shearings which did so much to dis- 
seminate a knowledge of the improved practices of 
farming. You have only to cross the high road below 
the park to see Coke's even more enduring monument, 
the area of salt marsh he reclaimed with the sea wall 
and the pine wood beyond. There was a man who 
both knew and worked ; where and when are we going 
to find such a leader among the landlords of to-day? 



XII 
SPECIALIST FARMINGPOTATOES 

FROM Norfolk we again struck across the Fens, 
crossing them on this, occasion on their seaward side, 
where the soil is silt or marsh, without any of the 
black peat we had seen earlier. Towards Wisbech 
there has been of recent years a great development 
of fruit-growing ; and we passed through a district 
of almost continuous plantations, sometimes of small 
fruit only, but more often of small fruit overplanted 
with apples and plums. The industry is so new in 
this district that there are no large trees nor old 
orchards laid down to grass. Cambridgeshire has 
for a long time grown fruit on the " shelf land," the 
strip of fine greensand soil which borders the fen, but 
only within the last fifteen years or so has the capacity 
of the Wisbech land to grow fruit was discovered. 
The soil is a deep, stoneless, even-tempered loam, 
very similar in character and composition to the brick 
earths of East Kent ; indeed, the good fruit soils all 
over the kingdom possess much the same structure, 
whatever their origin. The land is a little higher 
than the black fen farther west, but is still only ten 
to twelve feet above sea-level, and standing water is 
found but a few feet below the surface. So marked 
has been the extension of the industry that Cam- 
bridgeshire is now one of the leading fruit-growing 

86 



FRUIT AND FLOWERS 87 

counties, only Kent exceeding it in the acreage under 
small fruit, though of orchards the five western fruit 
counties as well as Kent possess a greater acreage. 
The plantations showed that the industry is young 
and active, the land was clean and admirably 
worked, and on the young trees there was a somewhat 
better show of apples than we had seen elsewhere ; 
if anything there was rather a superabundance of 
growth, and the grounds were a little overplanted and 
in need of thinning. The business is mostly in the 
hands of small men, though there are a few extensive 
holdings. 

Nor is fruit-growing the only new and flourishing 
industry in this district ; wherever the silt is somewhat 
coarser so as to become definitely sandy, particularly 
in the neighbourhood of Spalding, bulb-growing for 
the wholesale market is carried on, and great breadths 
of daffodils, tulips, crocuses, snowdrops, etc., are raised 
for their bulbs and not for their bloom. Hyacinths 
are still rather a Dutch speciality ; in the other cases 
the fen growers claim to turn out firmer and heavier 
bulbs than those which come from Holland. Seed 
growing is also extensively pursued, and fields of 
mustard for seed were very commonly seen among the 
wheat and potatoes which form the backbone of the 
ordinary farming. 

After crossing the Nene and the Witham we 
stopped to visit a great acreage of land under one 
management, a series of farms which make up one 
of the largest agricultural businesses in the country, 
perhaps the largest, if the intensive character of the 
farming is taken into account. This business has been 
built up on potatoes, which are grown every year on 
about one-third of the whole 3000 acres, and even 
year after year on a few convenient pieces of land, 



88 SPECIALIST FARMING POTATOES 

though in these cases earlies are generally planted and 
dug soon enough to enable a crop of rape to follow 
for sheep -keep. The rotation is as a rule potatoes, 
oats, wheat, but one of the wheat crops is partially 
replaced by beans, and after two of these three-year 
courses, a crop of red clover is generally grown. 
Sheep -keep is sown after either potatoes or wheat 
whenever the season allows ; sometimes a crop of 
seed-mustard breaks the rotation. The potatoes re- 
ceived any farmyard manure that might be available, 
but as this only provided for a small fraction of the 
great area given up to the crop, the main part of the 
manuring was done with artificial fertilizers. Often 
the red clover was allowed to grow after the first cut, 
and the second growth was ploughed under, thus 
enriching the land as much as a coating of dung 
would have done. Naturally the oats and wheat 
which followed the potatoes required no manure. 
Many of the fields showed a broad band of a different 
crop from that occupying the middle of the field ; this 
represented the sites of the potato " pits " or clamps 
which had not been cleared in time to treat all the 
field alike. Evidently the land was being very highly 
farmed, as may be judged from the fact that even the 
early potatoes were expected to yield from five to 
eleven tons per acre, according to the date at which 
they were lifted. Of course, really early potatoes, in 
the sense that the crops from Jersey, St Malo, and 
even Ayrshire are early, cannot be grown in Lincoln ; 
their earlies are heavy cropping varieties which come 
on the market when the south and west can no longer 
supply it. One of these crops was then being lifted. 
A plough was drawn along the rows and threw the 
potatoes out, whereupon they were picked up by a 
gang of women and children and brought to a foreman, 



CHANGE OF SEED 89 

who then and there weighed them into bags for 
market. A harrow followed the pickers and gathered 
up all that had been overlooked or buried, and rape 
or mustard was sown at once to keep the land occupied 
and produce some sheep-keep before winter. All the 
tubers, even of the main crop varieties, were sprouted 
in boxes before they were planted, and as sprouting 
in the dark gives rise to long, weakly shoots that are 
very readily broken off in planting, great glasshouses 
have been erected at various places on the farm in 
which to store and sprout the potatoes. About one- 
half of the seed potatoes required was obtained from 
Scotland, their produce being grown for only one more 
year on the farm, except in the case of some new or 
rare variety of which an increased stock is wanted. 
Most farmers ascribe great virtues to a change of 
seed, whether of real seed like wheat and barley, or 
of perennial tubers like potatoes ; yet other practical 
men hold the quite contradictory opinion that the best 
results are only obtained from seed that has been 
acclimatized by growing for a year or two on the 
farm. As regards seed corn there are probably several 
factors concerned, so that it is impossible to make 
general statements until more experimental work has 
been done ; but it has been put beyond a shadow 
of doubt that seed potatoes from Scotland (and Irish 
seed seems equally effective) give a considerably larger 
yield in the south and east of England than seed 
of the same variety which has been growing for a 
year or two in the district. This difference between 
Scotch and home-grown seed is most manifest on 
light, dry soils ; it has been ascribed to the compara- 
tive immaturity of the northern stock, but this is 
little more than a surmise. 

Our host carried on a considerable trade in seed 



90 SPECIALIST FARMING POTATOES 

potatoes, both dormant as usual and others sprouted 
in boxes, to which end we saw the boxes being filled 
with tubers of the right size as they were gathered 
in the field. This intensive potato-growing employs 
a great amount of labour; for, in addition to the 
ordinary operations of cultivation and the planting 
and picking, the plants are sprayed in some cases 
three or four times during the season with Bordeaux 
mixture and other copper preparations in order to 
ward off disease. Women and children are largely 
employed in the planting and gathering, and in this 
district the labour was chiefly obtained locally, thus 
avoiding the great influx of casuals which marks the 
harvest in other potato-growing districts. In other 
respects our host's farming followed a more normal 
course, though on all sides one saw signs of the great 
pitch of fertility to which the land had been raised. 
The oats which followed the potatoes were exception- 
ally heavy crops so as to be laid in nearly every case, 
while the wheat following the oats, though standing up 
better, had much of the rough and dingy appearance 
that we had associated with an excess of nitrogen 
in the soil on the black land. Barley was little 
grown, but the beans, which alternate with wheat 
once in every six years or so, were again producing 
very heavy crops. Indeed, on this land any crop can 
be grown pretty well up to its maximum yield in Great 
Britain. The free working soil was of the same char- 
acter as that near Wisbech, and similar in almost 
every essential respect to the deep brick earths we had 
seen below Chichester and the other band of brick 
earth on which the best of the Kentish fruit is grown. 
Its distinguishing feature is not any chemical richness 
nor the presence of any particular substance that is 
lacking in ordinary soils; it is its smooth, even 



LINCOLN REDS 91 

texture, light enough to work with a pair of horses, 
yet sufficiently retentive of water and capable of 
bringing it up from the subsoil to keep a crop growing 
during a drought. The value of a soil is more 
determined by the way it deals with the water it 
receives and by the kind of tilth it will take under 
cultivation, than by its stock of plant food. 

On such valuable land little permanent pasture was 
to be seen, but in addition to the Lincoln sheep which 
we have already mentioned, our host bred a consider- 
able number of Lincoln Red Shorthorns, selling the 
steers for fattening and the heifers in milk after their 
first calf. The Lincoln Red is a race that has only 
of recent years been heard of outside its own district : 
like the Sussex, the Devon, and the Hereford, it may 
be descended from the all-red cows which are supposed 
to have been the Saxon contribution to our island 
stock, but it differs from these other races in that milk 
as well as meat has been considered in its selection. 
Whatever their origin the Lincoln Reds are handsome, 
kindly cattle, and their characteristics meat and milk 
together, if the combination is possible are what the 
breeder has to set before him in the cattle of the 
future. 

The history of the great estate which our host was 
exploiting with so much energy is not without interest. 
Thirty years ago the district was mostly in the hands 
of small men, and was even then famous for its potato- 
growing, though the industry had not been specialized 
up to its present proportions. Indeed, it was some- 
what of a speculative business ; the returns were so 
large in favourable seasons that men starved and 
neglected the rest of their farming in order to push for 
a big potato crop. Artificial manures were far more 
expensive, and little knowledge of their proper use was 
7 



92 SPECIALIST FARMING POTATOES 

available, so that the grower chiefly relied on making 

farmyard manure in sufficient quantities for all his 

potatoes. When the great drop in prices came at the 

close of the 'seventies, and with it a succession of bad 

seasons when the potatoes blighted and could not be 

harvested, the small men were affected more than the 

large farmers, because they rarely possessed any 

reserve of capital. The Assistant-Commissioner who 

wrote the report on this district for the Royal 

Commission on Agricultural Depression which was 

presided over by Lord Cathcart, draws a very black 

picture of the state of affairs in 1882. The men then 

occupying the land were largely ruined, much of the 

land was sold, and from that time onwards our host, 

who in one way or another had managed to adapt 

himself to the changed conditions, began to take up 

land and had ever since been adding farm to farm. 

He had thrown the little fields together, red rained the 

land, brought in fertility liberally and wisely, and 

above all organized the selling of his potatoes on a 

wholesale basis, with the remarkable results we were 

then seeing. Of course, not he alone had partaken 

in the general prosperity that has come to the whole 

potato-growing area; rents were high, about 505. 

an acre in general, up to as much as 3 for specially 

good pieces of land. Even at that price farms were 

in demand, so that a stranger had but little chance of 

getting in. But favourable as potato-growing may 

seem to the small holder, and though wages are good 

enough to give a labourer a chance of saving enough 

money to start on his own account, there were but few 

little farmers left in the district, and our host was very 

strong in his opinion that whatever might be done to 

re-establish a system of small holders, they would 

again be crushed out when the next wave of falling 



LARGE AND SMALL FARMERS 93 

prices threw men back on their reserves and called for 
skill and adaptability in place of traditional methods. 
It may be that the rewards are unevenly distributed, 
but it was evident that potato-growing as organized 
in South Lincolnshire is a very efficient method of 
getting the maximum out of the soil and finding 
employment for a large population. 



XIII 
LINCOLN HEATH AND WOLD 

WE finally left the Fens at Sleaford, and, after cross- 
ing some undulating country formed by the alterna- 
tions of oolitic limestones and clays, climbed up on to 
the long ridge which traverses Lincoln from north to 
south Lincoln Heath, the outcrop of the sandy 
formations there constituting the middle and lower 
oolites. A century ago this was open rabbit warren, 
but it has been enclosed and is now worth 2 5 to 40 
an acre. The soil is thin and light, red-brown in 
colour and gritty in texture, full of fragments of oolite 
rock, and demanding a good deal of rolling and con- 
solidation in working. The fields run large, and stone 
walls take the place of hedges, so that the country has 
something of the wide and spacious look of the chalk. 
Arable farming prevails almost exclusively, the only 
permanent grass being a small paddock or two near 
the homesteads. We called at a large farm about 
half-way between Sleaford and Lincoln, and there saw 
some of the very special farming that earns a profit 
out of this scanty soil. Peas formed the basis of the 
rotation. Our host was growing a few garden 
varieties for seed, but his standard article was the blue 
wrinkled marrowfat that is sold to the northern towns 
for boiling. The peas were grown with a little 
artificial manure only, but they formed the best 

94 



MALTING BARLEY 95 

preparation for wheat, and their introduction had 
improved the cropping powers of the land all round. 
If the peas were got off early, summer turnips could 
be sown and followed by oats, but as a rule wheat 
succeeded to the peas. After wheat came the roots- 
swedes or kale, eaten off by sheep, and then barley 
was sown, the Heath being one of the largest districts 
for fine barley in the country. After the rough dark 
grain crops of the Fens we were all the more readily 
impressed by the uniformity of these large stretches 
of barley, and by the clean bright straw, which in very 
few places had been laid. As we walked among the 
crops the shortness of the straw and the comparative 
absence of flag were noticeable, both features which 
help towards a fine malting quality in the sample by 
the aid they give to uniform ripening and rapid 
harvesting. In the barley the small seeds are sown, 
and the land is usually left down to temporary grass 
for two or three years. Red clover answers very 
indifferently and is rarely cultivated ; instead it is 
a general custom to sow a mixture of alsike and white 
clover, of which we saw several very pleasing pastures 
all along the Heath. Sainfoin is also sown, either 
alone or mixed with the clovers, good grazing for the 
sheep being the desideratum. Very few other crops 
were seen ; a little of the root area was given up to 
mangolds, but potatoes are not grown until some of 
the rather stronger land is reached, sufficiently near 
to Lincoln to permit of the potatoes being carted into 
the town for local sale. We saw a few crops of 
mustard ripening for seed, and in one or two cases the 
leys were being allowed to bloom with the idea of 
threshing out afterwards white clover seed from the 
hay. 

The rotation just described would provide saleable 



96 LINCOLN HEATH AND WOLD 

crops from practically half of the area under cultivation, 
and, as our host was prepared to sell straw and even 
his sainfoin hay when the price was good, the output 
was considerable from such poor, thin-looking land. 
Moreover, it received very little dung, the necessary 
fertility being brought in by the artificial manure for 
the peas and the roots, and the cake which is fed to 
the sheep on the temporary pastures. The land 
looked no better than, hardly perhaps as good as, the 
Norfolk land for which farmyard manure in quantity 
is regarded as the only possible means of securing 
proper yields throughout the rotation. In this case 
the pea crop appeared to be a factor in improving the 
soil, and, coupled with the two years' ley, also con- 
sisting largely of clovers, was enough to maintain the 
land at a very fair pitch of production. This rotation, 
with its utilization of the natural recuperative powers 
of leguminous plants gathering nitrogen from the air, 
costs very little, and is in instructive contrast with the 
Norfolk system, which buys in its nitrogen through the 
expensive medium of cake. The land was easy to 
work, but, like all such light soils, much given to 
weeds, especially as so many peas were grown, for 
probably no other crop leaves the ground so foul. 
The creeping-rooted bent grass is the local form of 
couch, but it was not specially troublesome, wire grass, 
and, above all others, poppies, being the chief weeds 
in evidence. 

As already indicated, sheep form an essential feature 
in the farming on Lincoln Heath, but the sheep we 
saw were hardly what one would expect on the light 
uplands, being the well-known heavy-fleeced and large 
framed Lincoln long-wools, which are more at home 
on the marshes and fat grass lands in the vales. The 
Lincolns, which are generally accorded pride of place 



LINCOLN SHEEP 97 

among the British long-woolled breeds, are in many 
respects not unlike the Kent sheep, and may have a 
common origin in the white-faced Flanders sheep, 
but they are distinctly larger, and their wool is 
longer and more lustrous. Whether this lustre is 
an advantage or not depends upon the fashions in 
ladies' garments. At that time the turn of the wheel 
was against the Lincolns, but only a few years ago 
the Bradford manufacturers required to have a shining 
fibre and the Lincoln wool was at the top of the 
market. But what has made the fame of the Lincolns 
has been their value for crossing with the Merinos 
in Australia, New Zealand, and the Argentine, where 
the demand for a sheep that would yield a better 
carcase than the Merino something that could be 
exported as mutton, and would yet retain part of 
the immense wool-producing capacity of the latter 
breed, has been chiefly met by the introduction of 
Lincoln-Merino cross-breds. Hence has come a great 
foreign trade in the best Lincoln rams, and prices on 
occasion have soared up to fabulous heights, more 
than a thousand guineas having been paid for a 
single ram. Our host possessed a noted flock, and 
we saw several of his rams which had just returned 
from the summer shows rams in some cases that 
would have left the country but for the embargo 
caused by the Yorkshire outbreak of foot-and-mouth 
disease. Some of these had been left unshorn from 
birth just to show what they could do in the way 
of producing wool, and then resembled nothing so 
much as an occasional table with too big a cloth 
upon it, so squarely had their backs been trimmed 
and so level were the locks that swept the ground 
on either side. Of course these were fancy articles, 
but they carried nearly 30 Ib. of wool apiece, and we 



98 LINCOLN HEATH AND WOLD 

were told that thus they would travel through the 
tropics in better condition than similar sheep which 
had been shorn. 

On Lincoln Heath, as it was light land compara- 
tively recently enclosed, we were back in the region 
of large farms, and, with the plentiful building stone, 
it was noteworthy how the farm buildings at once 
became large and well built, the first good ones, 
indeed, that we had seen. The cottages by the 
roadside were also roomy and well built. Labour, 
we were told, was good and plentiful. Rents varied 
with the quality of the land. The very light soils 
near Sleaford did not command more than IDS. an 
acre; farther north the average land was worth about 
a pound an acre ; and towards Lincoln, where the 
soil becomes deeper and more loamy, from 255. to 303. 
was paid. At these prices the farms are all let, and 
there was considerable demand for any that might 
come into the market. 

Remarkable as is the contrast between the Fenland 
and the Heath, these are by no means the only forms 
of farming that the great agricultural county of 
Lincoln has to show. The long ridge of the Heath 
runs the whole length of the county, with the Ermine 
Street upon it striking an almost exact north and 
south line, but it is breached at one point where the 
Witham makes its way through to the sea, forming 
a gap on the edge of which is set the city of Lincoln. 

From Lincoln we struck eastward into a com- 
paratively low-lying and poorly-farmed country, with 
gravel on the heights and a good deal of clay ex- 
posed in the hollows, where the glacial drifts have 
been cut down to the underlying oolitic clays, and 
then we began to rise a little until we were once 
more confronted by the escarpment of the chalk. 



THE WOLDS 99 

In Lincoln the chalk is never very high, rising above 
500 ft. in only a few places, and there the scarp is some- 
what pronounced, though it has the Greensand at the 
foot and not the Gault clay, which here has thinned out. 
With the lower elevation the characteristic features 
of the chalk country are also less in evidence, the 
great folds and valleys are flatter, and, though the 
fields are big and the country has the same bright 
open look, the land is more completely farmed, and 
there are none of the wide downs which we always 
associate with the chalk in the South of England. 
We called upon one large farmer in the heart of 
the Wolds, and saw the typical farming of the district 
about as well carried out as it could be. The system 
was the pure four-course shift without any variation 
beyond the frequent substitution of oats for wheat ; 
the turnips were folded off by sheep : then barley was 
taken, and in it the seeds were sown ; lastly, wheat or 
oats completed the rotation. The seeds were gener- 
ally alsike and white clover, and, as on the Heath, 
we saw some excellent temporary pastures which had 
thus been formed. Red clover can only be grown 
with any success about once in sixteen years. Sainfoin 
was not infrequently grown in some odd field where 
it can be left for several years, and occasionally small 
patches of lucerne were sown near the homestead. 
The elevation and the exposure to the North Sea 
make it a late district, so catch crops were not taken. 
The roots were swedes, with a few early turnips and 
thousandhead for the lambs ; mangolds are very rarely 
seen. Our host, for example, had only a little bottom 
field of two acres on which he grew mangolds every 
year. Usually the soil is very thin, the pure chalk 
setting in at from 6 in. to 1 2 in. below the surface, and 
the soil itself is all full of small fragments of chalk. 



ioo LINCOLN HEATH AND WOLD 

The whole farm afforded a very good example of 
the old strict style of farming. Only corn and meat 
were sold off the holding; everything else was con- 
sumed and came back to the soil, and the land was 
kept wonderfully clean, being probably the cleanest 
large area we had seen during that very weedy year. 
Even more than on Lincoln Heath we were struck 
by the brightness and gloss on the corn crops 
wheat and barley especially. The oats were not so 
good, and our host also had the idea that oats had 
been grown too frequently on the land during recent 
years. His sheep were the typical Lincolns, at that 
time on the clover leys, and he also bred the other 
live stock of the county Lincoln Red Shorthorns 
for which he had some grass fields in the deep little 
valley that had there been cut into the Wold He 
also bred a few horses, keeping for that purpose some 
exceptionally fine teams of working mares. From 
what we heard and saw our host's style of farming 
was very typical of the whole of the high Wolds ; it is 
the strict four course pursued with rigour and thorough- 
ness, very conservative in its methods, and neither 
spending much upon nor taking very much out of the 
land. Of course the farms must run large in order to 
yield a living on such a plan, for the rents are high for 
the class of land 2os. to 305. an acre but the farming 
is good, and is adapted to the comparative distance from 
all large centres of population. For on these Lincoln 
Wolds you feel that you are really remote from the 
towns ; the land is neither wild nor picturesque ; it is 
in fact highly cultivated everywhere ; but for that very 
reason there is the less suggestion of the residential 
and holiday-making element that colours the country- 
side in so many parts of England. It represents 
agriculture, and nothing but agriculture. 



XIV 
THE ISLE OF AXHOLME 

FROM the Lincoln Wolds we set our faces westwards 
and crossed in rapid succession the whole series of 
the secondary rocks from the Chalk downwards, until 
at Gainsborough we reached the New Red Sandstone, 
and with it the valley of the Trent. Here the tidal 
river has formed a wide alluvial flat, out of which rises 
a ridge of low sandstone hills, constituting the Isle 
of Axholme, now an island no longer in the geo- 
graphical sense, though the reclamation of the " moors " 
by which it is surrounded is a matter of comparatively 
recent history. 

The Isle of Axholme has its niche in history, for its 
most considerable village is Epworth, where John 
Wesley's father held the rectory, and where his gifted 
family received their strange upbringing. But vivid 
as are these associations, it was another reason which 
drew us to the Isle of Axholme. From a distance we 
could see that the hillside, crowned with the church 
and windmill of Haxey, had the look of a patchwork 
quilt, so covered was it with a strange reticulation of 
crops in narrow strips, as though laid out in experi- 
mental plots. The road led into this much-divided 
land, and then we found we had struck upon a little 
bit of country that has been left as a kind of outlier 
in time, to report to the twentieth century on the 



102 THE ISLE OF AXHOLME 

manner of land-holding of our remotest forefathers. 
In these parishes there are no hedges, the land lies in 
one open field, and is divided into series after series 
of parallel strips, each a rod wide and half an acre in 
area, though here and there two may have been put 
together, and gores and odd-sized pieces exist of much 
smaller dimensions. Nearly all the strips are curved, 
sometimes with a single sweep,* sometimes with a 
double bend like an elongated S ; at one end they are 
bounded by the hard road, at the other they butt 
generally at right angles on to another group of strips. 
There are no boundaries except the last plough furrow ; 
each strip is called a selion, a word which is connected 
with the French sillon, a ridge, both being derived 
from an old Scandinavian word sela to divide (land). 
Each group of selions is called a furlong, and the 
furlongs are named, so that we saw advertisements of 

the sale of two selions of land in the furlong of . 

The headlands on which the ploughs have to turn are 
now the high roads ; probably all the English roads 
with their apparently purposeless wanderings as they 
near a village, were once nothing more than the linked 
headlands in the common field. The strips were 
carrying various crops without any attempt at order ; 
turnips might be next to oats, or wheat, or barley; 
mangolds would alternate with clover or potatoes ; 
hence the extraordinarily diversified aspect of the 
countryside corduroy farming, as it is locally called. 
The diversity is caused by the fact that adjacent strips 
belong to separate owners ; each of the inhabitants, 
indeed, possesses a number of selions, but scattered 
about the different furlongs, so that one comparatively 
large holder we met told us he owned about 40 acres 
in something like 100 plots in various parts of the 
parish. This system is, indeed, a survival, the only 



PRIMITIVE LAND TENURES 103 

one on a large scale with which we are acquainted, of 
the earliest system of land-holding prevailing in this, 
as in most Teutonic countries. To go back no further 
than medieval times, the manor lands were divided 
into three great fields, one for wheat, one for spring 
corn, one fallow, and each field was then subdivided 
into ploughlands the selions some of which were 
held by the tenants and others made up the lord's 
demesne. In these days the farming was in common 
and remained so after much more complicated rota- 
tions than the three-field course had been introduced ; 
the selions may once have been yearly redistributed 
by lot, so that all men should have an equal chance 
of the good land, but each man retained the same 
extent of holding, however much scattered about 
among the furlongs. We did not learn, if indeed it 
is now possible to recover the knowledge, when the 
tenants acquired a title to their particular strips or 
when the common farming gave place to separate 
cultivation, but the land is now held individually by 
comparatively small holders either as freeholds, which 
were parts of the lord's demesne or lands afterwards 
enfranchised, or as copyholds, which represent portions 
of the original servile tenures. 

Of other manorial customs we found trace in the 
low-lying country of turbaries, which have been more 
or less taken up by squatters in small holdings, not, 
however, divided into strips, and there are also certain 
commons enclosed under an Act and similarly divided 
up within living memory. The strip farming, however, 
prevails over all the land which we may suppose to 
have been dry in medieval times, in the southern part 
of the Island at any rate, for in the parish of North 
Belton we again saw the land enclosed. The soil is a 
deep, black, sandy loam, easy to work and grateful for 



104 THE ISLE OF AXHOLME 

manure, but by no means naturally rich. It was 
everywhere carrying on the strips very fair crops, 
though there was nothing exceptionally heavy, and 
the potatoes and corn would yield less per acre than 
the same crops on the great fields on the warpland 
only a few miles away. Still the land looked clean 
and soundly cultivated ; the greater number of the 
strips carried the usual crops of the farm, a few bore 
carrots and celery, but the only other exceptional crop 
we saw was the opium poppy. This was a surprising 
and a beautiful sight, for the glaucous grey plants 
stood up four feet or more, and at that time were lit 
with a profusion of broad white flowers. The poppy 
was formerly pretty generally grown throughout the 
Fen country, having probably been introduced by the 
Dutch drainage adventurers, while its cultivation was 
maintained by the habit of taking opium and laudanum 
which existed as long as the agues hung about the 
marshes. Nowadays the demand is small for the 
dried poppy heads, which are still to be seen in the 
old-fashioned country shops. The harvest takes place 
towards the end of August, at the same time, in fact, 
as the corn harvest, when the seed heads are turning 
white but have not yet opened to liberate the torrent 
of seeds that pour out when ripe. The heads are 
broken off with a trifle of stalk and laid on a floor to 
the depth of six inches or so; then they are turned 
repeatedly until they are dry, in which state, if of 
good quality, they are marketable at about los. per 
thousand. 

The size and shape of the strips prevents any stock 
being kept on them, but each of the little farmers has 
a small homestead in the village to which he carries 
his corn, the clover hay he makes, and such roots as 
he grows in order to fatten a few beasts in the " crew- 



AN UNECONOMICAL SYSTEM 105 

yard " in winter. Sheep, of course, cannot be kept, 
and the only dairying is for the purely local supply of 
milk. It is difficult to understand how a system of 
farming so wasteful of labour can possibly survive ; 
after ploughing one of his selions the holder must take 
his plough and team by road perhaps a quarter of a 
mile to begin upon another ; even in the strip itself 
there is waste, because the dividing furrow forms no 
inconsiderable fraction of a land only one rod wide. 
But though the holders are very sensible of the 
advantage of adding one selion to the next, and will 
always bid heavily for such plots adjacent to their own 
as may come into the market, we were generally 
assured that there was little or no prospect of per- 
suading men to a general survey arid redivision of the 
land which would give every man his full acreage in 
a single plot. Each man fears that he might get 
placed on a piece of the poorer land, and the present 
system has endured so long that the holders regard 
the inconveniences as normal. 

There are no longer any remains of the co-opera- 
tive working which made the medieval open field 
something of an economic unit; each man owns his 
own implements and works entirely for his own hand. 
There are a certain number of " higglers " who will 
plough and cultivate at customary prices per acre ; 
these men are chiefly employed by the village trades- 
men who own a few selions but do not maintain a 
crew-yard. For all its disadvantages the land is in 
good demand ; 60 to So an acre has been paid 
recently for selions that have come on the market. 
This is for freehold land ; copyhold land, which is 
subject to a small fine, fetches about 5 an acre less. 
The long custom has evolved a cheap system of con- 
veyancing, in which there is no attempt to set out a 



io6 THE ISLE OF AXHOLME 

long title, so well is the history of each bit of land 
known in the parish. Disputes about boundaries are 
rare, though there is no survey and no marks beyond 
the furrow which the last man to plough strikes up. 
Some of the land is rented, 303. to 403. an acre being 
paid, and the holding of many of the farmers is made 
up of strips that he owns, some in freehold, some in 
copyhold, together with others which he rents from 
tradespeople who have invested their savings in land, 
though the total area in one man's hands rarely 
exceeds 40 or 50 acres. But despite the smallness of 
the holdings and the drawbacks due to the divisions 
and the scattering, we were informed that the farmers 
were all reasonably prosperous, and the look of the 
little homesteads and houses and of the men with 
whom we conversed all conveyed the same impression. 
It was not always so. If we turn to Mr. Druce's 
report as Sub-Commissioner to the Royal Commission 
on Agricultural Depression, we find that about 1882 
the farmers in the Isle of Axholme were practically 
bankrupt. The land was nearly all mortgaged, the 
farmers were at the end of their resources and could 
not pay the interest due, the farming only went on 
because the mortgagees were advised they could not sell 
the land if they foreclosed. The mortgagees were 
wisely advised ; they acted the part of landlords and 
forbore to press for their interest until better times 
came round, so that the small holders of the Isle of 
Axholme were able to live on through the depression 
when their fellows in South Lincoln went under almost 
completely. Much of this result must have been due 
to the solidarity of local interests, for the mortgages 
appear to have been held locally by neighbours who 
knew the farmers intimately and could give them credit 
on account of their character. The interest of the Isle 



THE OPEN FIELD 107 

of Axholme to the student of farming is extraordinary, 
for here you find in full and living operation a system 
which speaks visibly of many of the customs of the 
prehistoric Aryan communities a system too which 
it was the object of every agricultural reformer, from 
Tusser to Arthur Young, to break down. The 
farmers form a compact and somewhat isolated com- 
munity ; they own (subject always to the mortgagees) 
their own land, they know one another and their 
neighbour's land intimately, and yet, in spite of all the 
obvious gain to be derived from a redistribution and 
gathering together of the scattered holdings, they have 
never attempted to do so either in bad times or good, 
nor have they evolved any system of partnership in 
work or sale. We are told that the economic success 
of small holdings depends on welding them together 
into co-operative communities, but if the Isle of 
Axholme furnishes any indication of the future the 
men who are going to teach the English farmers to 
co-operate have got an up-hill task before them. 



XV 
THE MAKING OF NEW LAND 

THE corduroy farming did not exhaust all that the 
Isle of Axholme had to show of interest, for in the 
low country by which it is surrounded there is some 
extremely fine capitalist farming on what is called the 
warp land. 

After leaving the common fields on the sandstone 
ridge, we found ourselves in a region of straightened 
river courses and drainage channels like the Fens, 
mostly below high-water mark and covered with a 
deep silty soil similar to . that occurring between 
Wisbech and Boston. This is classic ground in the 
history of embankments and drainage, for here 
Cornelius Vermuyden was at work in the time of 
Charles I., and here, when authority was relaxed 
during and after the Civil War, the angry marshmen 
rose and destroyed pumps and sluices, letting in the 
tidal waters until the haunts of the wild-fowl were 
re-established. It required repeated efforts and the 
ruin of many adventurers before the land was finally 
won from the sea ; only within the last half-century by 
the aid of steam and of the centrifugal pump has it 
been possible to unwater the land regularly and with 
certainty. The memory of Vermuyden is preserved 
in the name of the Dutchman's Drain carried by a 

large channel to the north of Ep worth, but drainage 

1 08 



WARPING 109 

is not the whole of the work here necessary in order 
to make the new land. The further process is called 
warping, and consists in building up a deposit of tidal 
silt several feet thick on the wet and valueless marsh. 
A little farther north, in the parish of Crowle, we saw 
the process at work on an area of very low land about 
six miles back from the estuary of the Ouse, which in 
this neighbourhood joins the Trent and forms the 
Humber. The unimproved land forms a wide area of 
" moor," wet peaty bog covered with a vegetation of 
tufted grass, bracken, heather, and stunted birches and 
pines, practically without value for agriculture. A 
company is engaged in digging the peat for conversion 
into moss litter ; only the top three or four feet which 
is still fibrous can be so used, but that surface layer 
is cut out, stacked and dried, and then conveyed to 
the factory. There it passes through a disintegrator 
and the coarser part of the result is pressed up into 
the well-known bales of peat moss litter for transit. 
The dust and smaller fragments are reduced to a still 
finer powder and used as an absorbent for molasses in 
order to make a cattle food ; the peat moss made in 
this district is exported as far as Natal, where the sugar 
works can find no nearer nor better vehicle for the 
molasses they produce. 

These Yorkshire litter works had been founded on 
Dutch models, and were for a time largely worked by 
Dutch labour, but the labourers first brought over, like 
the drainage adventurers two centuries ago, have been 
merged in the country population and the workers are 
now English enough. After the peat has been cut out 
a bank is built round the area to enclose about two 
hundred acres, and a connection is made with the 
warping drain, a straight channel which leads to the 
estuary, with powerful sluice gates at the entrance. 



no THE MAKING OF NEW LAND 

At high tide the sluices are opened, and the thick 
muddy estuarine water pours up the channel and 
floods over the embanked area, where it is left to stand 
for three or four hours until the tide has fallen, when 
the sluices can be opened once more to allow the water 
to run back into the open river. Meantime while at 
rest the water has deposited a portion at least of its 
burden of silt, and there is left upon the excavated 
peat a paper-thin layer of fine sand and mud. Tide 
after tide this process is repeated, the strong springs 
carry more silt than the slower moving neaps ; but, as 
a rule, in three years about four feet of soil can thus 
be built up. Formerly only the summer tides were 
used, but warping is now carried on all the year round. 
The surface must be actually dried between tides, and 
to form a good deposit the water has to be admitted 
in such a fashion as to cover the whole area as rapidly 
as possible, to which end the inlets are moved from 
time to time, because near them the coarser sand alone 
is deposited, the finer particles being carried farther 
into the quieter bays of the artificial lagoon. During 
the process of warping, the sloppy surface which is 
drowned twice a day becomes a favourite haunt of 
wild-fowl, and carries a strange vegetation, in which 
plants of the slob land, like the sea aster and the 
sapphire, grow luxuriantly side by side with heather 
and fern still flourishing on little floating islands of 
peat that have broken away from their foundations and 
keep rising and falling with the waters. Finally, when 
sufficient deposit has accumulated, it is given a little 
time to dry and a shower of rain to wash out the salt, 
whereupon it is sown with clover and rye grass, which 
are left down for two years while the ground con- 
solidates. It is then firm enough to be drained and 
receive a little levelling in places where deposition has 



COST OF WARPING in 

been irregular, after which it passes into general 
cultivation and can be let at 2 an acre or thereabouts. 
Sometimes the land settles so much after it has been 
in cultivation, through the decay or consolidation of 
the underlying peat, that the warping is repeated and 
another foot or two of soil is added. The chief item 
in the expenditure is the construction of the warping 
canal, hence the cost of warping depends on the 
extent of land that can be dealt with by one canal ; 
roughly the capital outlay is considered to be about 
20 an acre, at which cost the waste moors possess- 
ing only a nominal value become worth 40 to 50 
per acre. 

Warping does nothing more than systematize and 
bring under control the natural process of building up 
alluvial flats which is going on in every estuary ; it 
appears to have been introduced into this part of the 
country about a hundred years ago, and not to be 
practised in any other part of England ; but, under the 
name of colmatage, it is well known in the valley of 
the Po and near the mouth of the Rhone. Doubtless 
there are many other tidal flats in Great Britain where 
it might be advantageously pursued, because the 
resulting land is both rich to start with and admirably 
suited for cultivation. 

While considerable areas of these Thorne Moors and 
of Hatfield Chase, which lie in the great flat expanse 
between the Isle of Axholme proper, Goole to the 
westward, and the hills beyond the Trent on the other 
side, have thus been artificially warped, the best land 
of all is the naturally warped land which lies highest 
close to the river bank. This lets for as much as $ 
an acre, and it owes its value to the fact that it is 
always the driest part of the country. At a lower 
level than the natural warp, and a little farther back 



U2 THE MAKING OF NEW LAND 

from the river, comes some poor "carr" land, dis- 
tinguished by a soil which is not peat proper nor quite 
like the black Fen soil, though it does contain an 
enormous proportion of decayed vegetable matter, 
among which the remains of comparatively recent 
forest are very conspicuous. It forms, however, but 
a poor soil, and requires to be warped ; at a still lower 
level it passes insensibly into the moors, which have 
more or less been reclaimed by the warping. All the 
land must be artificially drained, and as the river bank 
is approached a very complicated system of drainage 
canals is seen at various levels and of all sizes. Some 
of them, which only deal with small and comparatively 
high areas, drain by gravitation, the sluices opening 
automatically to let off the water at low tide ; in other 
cases huge scoop wheels driven by steam are employed, 
and are very cheap and efficient when the water has 
only to be lifted a few feet ; for a higher lift centri- 
fugal pumps must be employed. The maintenance of 
these canals and the pumping stations is met by a rate 
which varies between half-a-crown and ten shillings an 
acre, according to the position of the area dealt with. 
Fresh drainage areas are always being made or the old 
ones are put under a more efficient system, but the 
consent of four-fifths of the proprietors of the land 
must be obtained before a new rate can be levied. 
The result is a stretch of land of great fertility, a 
curious country with the smoke of the Goole chimneys 
on one horizon and that of the Frodingham ironworks 
over against them on the other, a country traversed by 
great waterways on which barges, almost worthy to be 
called ships, sail high above the land, traversed too 
by many railways bringing Yorkshire traffic to and 
from the port of Grimsby. But in itself the country 
is purely agricultural not perhaps for many years 



FLAX 113 

longer, for the Doncaster coalfield is creeping eastward 
and shafts are already threatened in the midst of the 
Thorne Moors. Rents are high, from 2 to 3 an 
acre, and the farms run comparatively large, from 
200 to 400 acres, and are almost entirely under the 
plough. Potatoes and wheat are the standard crops, 
the usual rotation being potatoes, wheat, then half the 
land in roots and half in clover and rye-grass. To a 
certain extent mangolds replace potatoes or turnips, 
and oats are taken instead of wheat. The potatoes 
are heavily manured with whatever dung may be 
available, or, better still, by ploughing in the second 
growth of the preceding clover crop ; they also receive 
an artificial mixture, generally of superphosphate and 
nitrate of soda, in very large quantities. As a rule main 
crop varieties are grown, they are rarely sprouted before 
planting ; spraying against blight is general, but is not 
perhaps made so much of as in the Boston district. 

The warpland is also famous for its wheat ; a yield 
of six or seven quarters is general, though few fields 
were expected to reach that high figure during the 
year of our visit. Some of the wheat gets sold for 
seed ; at one time seed wheat off the warpland 
was regarded as a good change for almost every 
other description of soil. No stock were to be seen 
on the land ; permanent pastures are rare, except a 
field or two near the homestead, there were no sheep 
and very few dairy cows, the custom being to fatten 
bought stores through the winter. 

Very little was to be seen of special crops ; here 
and there a few acres of celery were growing, generally 
the property of one of the few small holders who have 
somehow got a footing in this region of comparatively 
large occupiers. Flax, we heard, used to be grown 
in the district in quantity ; the last mill, itself a 



H4 THE MAKING OF NEW LAND 

revival, had been shut down only a few years ago, 
but we were given to understand that the farmers 
understood the cultivation of flax and would willingly 
grow it again if they could find a market for the 
fibre. Some attempt ought to be made to see if 
the industry cannot be revived in England ; probably 
it died away because the all-important retting process, 
by which the fibre is set free in the straw, was left 
in the hands of the individual farmers, with the 
inevitable result of a variable and parti-coloured 
product for which the best price could not be obtained. 
The farmers' work ought to be confined to growing 
the flax, leaving the retting and all the processes 
of manufacture to a central factory ; on these lines 
it is possible that the growth of this valuable crop 
might be revived, especially as linseed oil, which is 
crushed out of the flax seeds, has doubled in price 
during the last few years. Crops yielding a large 
monetary return are needed in that district, for rents 
are high and labour well paid. Day labourers received 
2s. 9d. a day, with double in harvest time ; we again 
saw women at work in the fields, but the potato 
lifting is largely done by immigrant Irish labourers, 
who are so thoroughly a part of the system that on 
all the farms there is a large barn known as the 
" Paddy House," in which they live. We do not 
hear of any great desire on the part of the young 
men to move to the ironworks or the shipping ; some 
had tried it and had come back to the easier work 
on the land. For the men, as for the masters, farming 
in these West Riding and Lincoln flats seems fairly 
prosperous ; it is not perhaps the most attractive sort 
of agriculture, but it is a good driving business which 
is getting out of the land something approaching the 
highest yield that is profitable. 



XVI 
YORKSHIRE ARABLE FARMING 

THE warp land of the Isle of Axholme lies partly 
in Lincoln and partly in Yorkshire, and in the latter 
county, across the Ouse, there is a considerable area 
Howdenshire, over which the agriculture is of the 
same type, arable farming, with potatoes and wheat 
as the principal crops. William Cobbett, no mean 
judge, after riding into Hull in 1830, enumerates 
all the fertile land he knows in the south, and writes : 
" Having seen and having ability to judge of the 
goodness of the land in all these places, I declare 
that I have never seen any to be compared with the 
land on the banks of the Humber." In this opinion 
Cobbett is mainly thinking of the warp, though he 
does specifically include Holderness, the country east 
and north of Hull, which is quite distinct, for though 
it is still low-lying the surface is covered with gently 
undulating glacial drifts, and true alluvial soils only 
occur along the river side. Close to Hull the flat 
country is mostly under grass, and in the alluvial 
area near the mouth of the river and Spurn Point, 
round about the district known as Sunk Island, 
mustard and other seed crops are extensively grown ; 
but Holderness proper is occupied with mixed farming. 
The soils are strong enough to be the better for 
an occasional bare fallow, and they are mostly in 

"5 



n6 YORKSHIRE ARABLE FARMING 

need of liming, though the chalk rock underlies all 
the country, but at too great a depth to be exposed. 
The farms all run comparatively large, from 300 acres 
to 800 acres ; the buildings are extensive, but not 
in particularly good order ; being brick, they have 
perhaps a meaner appearance than they deserve. 
Wheat is the crop of the country, and everywhere 
promised some of the heaviest yields we had seen 
during our tour ; it had, moreover, entirely lost the 
dirty aspect which characterized all the corn on the 
rich lands farther south, and was generally standing 
erect with bright clean straw and ears just touched 
with the first gold of harvest. The farmers follow 
no very strict rotation ; but, roughly speaking, two 
corn crops are grown and then one year of fallow 
succeeds. This is really the old English three-field 
system, the earliest of all rotations, adapted to modern 
practice. The wheat is followed by barley, and on 
crossing the Humber one leaves behind the narrow- 
eared barleys, like Chevallier and Archer, their place 
being taken by wide-eared varieties of the Goldthorpe 
type. It is true that a good deal of Chevallier barley 
is still grown in Scotland, there being a demand in 
the south for seed barley of Scotch origin, but 
speaking very generally the wide-eared sorts are better 
adapted to strong or elevated soils and cool climates. 
After the barley, peas or beans are very commonly 
taken, or a portion of the area may be given a 
summer's bare fallow ; wheat and barley then come 
round again, after which the land is divided between 
turnips and seeds. Red clover can only be successfully 
grown about once in twelve years ; usually a mixture 
of alsike and white clover is sown, and as in Lincoln 
gives rise to excellent temporary pastures. Mangolds 
are but little grown, and among the corn crops a 



HOLDERNESS 117 

surprisingly small proportion of oats is seen. Sheep 
are not very numerous, as the land is rather too heavy 
and wet for folding ; what we saw were mostly the 
heavy Lincolns which come from just over the water. 
Each of the farms, however, holds a fair proportion 
of grass land, and this with the temporary pastures 
was well stocked with cattle, Holderness being very 
largely a stock-raising country. The cattle are 
mostly sold as stores, there being little winter fattening, 
as indeed the rotation indicates, with its scanty allow- 
ance of roots. 

It will thus be seen that the style of farming 
adopted is calculated to earn a good deal from 
the land : two crops out of the three are corn and 
are sold straightaway, while the breeding cattle do 
not require very high or expensive feeding, and are 
to a large extent clear produce of the soil. The cake 
bills are considerable, but are not on the same plane 
as those incurred by the man who fattens bullocks ; 
and though a certain amount of artificial manures 
are bought, they are not very costly. Superphosphate 
is the staple manure, though, as might be expected 
on such strong soils comparatively destitute of lime, 
basic slag answers very well and its use is extending. 
Rents were not high, though perhaps above what 
would be demanded for a similar class of land farther 
south; they averaged about 303. per acre, and at 
this rate we were informed that farms were in great 
demand. Only a few small holders were to be found ; 
here and there we saw a few acres which had compara- 
tively recently been planted with fruit, and within 
reach of Hull a few men have begun to grow produce 
under glass, for it is a fairly sunny district and coal 
is cheap. Holderness generally struck us as in the 
hands of a very capable body of farmers, who, if not 



n8 YORKSHIRE ARABLE FARMING 

very modern in their methods or their outlook, yet 
lived pretty well out of the soil by energy and hard 
work applied along traditional lines ; above all things, 
they were farmers who made no attempt at being fine 
gentlemen. 

Inland of Holderness proper runs a low-lying 
alluvial valley from Hull northward known as the 
Carrs, mostly wide grass meadows divided by open 
ditches and requiring in great measure to be artificially 
drained. At the head of this lower valley of the 
Hull stands Driffield, the centre of a fine farming 
district chiefly famous for its stock-raising and light horse 
breeding. Our object, however, on that occasion 
being crops rather than stock, we did not delay but 
made at once for the Wolds, which from Driffield 
begin to ascend gradually out of the green river plain. 
Rapidly we found ourselves once again, but for the 
last time, in the chalk country, more elevated and 
boldly sculptured than the Lincoln Wolds, though 
like them showing less open sheep-walk and more 
cultivated land right up to the tops of the hills than 
does the chalk in the south of England. The general 
elevation of the Yorkshire Wolds is considerable, 
touching in one place 800 feet, and as they are some- 
what deeply cut, even on the eastern dip slope, by 
one or two small river systems, the hills are steep 
and sudden, though the most formidable gradient is 
that presented by the westward facing scarp, where 
it overlooks the Vale of York. The great fields, a 
hundred acres in a single block, the sparse hedges, 
and the smooth-flowing curves of the waterless hillsides, 
all spoke of the chalk again ; the land was once more 
full of sheep, while here and there a late sown field 
of turnips showed how thin was the soil and how 
near the white rock. Because of the steep slopes and 



STORM DAMAGE 119 

the enormous fields, the soils in this country are 
much subject to washing down the hillsides in heavy 
rains ; on occasion a thunderstorm accompanied by 
intense rain will strip off the soil down to the bare 
chalk over whole fields near the head of these upland 
valleys. It was indeed in this very district that so 
much damage was done by a cloudburst in the spring 
of 1910, when over a considerable district north of 
Driffield men lost crops and soil together, and damage 
was done to the land which centuries alone can repair. 
It would certainly seem desirable in some of these 
combes and valleys making smooth gulleys to divide 
the land up by hedges so as to break the flow of the 
storm water and prevent it getting up that velocity 
which gives it so potent an excavating power. We 
visited one farmer who occupies an extensive farm 
in the very heart of the Wolds, much of it at a very 
considerable elevation, and were, to begin with, 
impressed by the amplitude, solidity, and fine state 
of repair of his house and buildings, largely constructed 
of stone which must have been brought from some 
considerable distance. But, speaking generally, north 
of the Trent neither labour nor expense has been 
spared in providing substantial farm buildings. 
Almost as striking was the architecture of the ricks, 
some of which were still standing unthreshed in the 
yard ; built on a circular base, about 20 feet in diameter, 
they grew wider as they ascended, and then at about 
1 6 feet were capped with a neat cupola of straw running 
up to a central point a masterpiece of the thatcher's 
art. 

The land was mostly under arable cultivation ; 
there was very little true down to be found, though 
on most farms are some fields which had been laid 
down to grass for a considerable time. The farming, 



120 YORKSHIRE ARABLE FARMING 

as on the Lincoln Wolds, followed the strict four- 
course rotation without any variations ; the roots were 
rape and swedes to be eaten off by the sheep, rarely 
were mangolds attempted. Barley followed the roots, 
almost universally some wide-eared variety was taken, 
and afterwards came the seeds, red clover only at long 
intervals, but most generally the mixture of alsike and 
white clovers with trefoil, which we had been seeing 
everywhere on the uplands since we entered Lincoln. 
Wheat succeeded the seeds, and in this district even 
more than in Holderness possessed a gloss and bright- 
ness, without any trace of the rust that was then so 
common in the south country. The variety most 
commonly grown was Browick, and the oats which 
may take its place or that of the barley were generally 
Black Tartars. No catch cropping was practised, the 
seasons being comparatively cold and late. 

The soils are naturally very shallow and are full of 
fragments of flint, but though the chalk rock is so near 
that it is brought up by a deep ploughing the land is 
said to be improved by liming. No great quantity of 
fertilizer is used, superphosphate for the root crops 
forms the only supplement to the dung made on the 
holding. Naturally in this style of farming sheep play 
an important part, and here for the first time we met 
with the Leicesters, the aristocrats among British 
sheep that still show a quality in their looks and 
action that has been rivalled by no other breed. It 
was by his work upon the Leicesters that Bakewell 
first taught his fellow-farmers the principles of stock 
breeding and selection, and there are few of our other 
recognized breeds that do not owe something of their 
excellence, not merely to the example, but to an actual 
blending with some of the fine Leicester blood. When 
in condition no other sheep quite so closely approxi- 



WOLD FARMING 121 

mates to the Noah's Ark style of a square-sided box 
perched up on four legs, and the neat little ringlets or 
purls of closely curled wool which characterize the 
breed only add to their toy appearance. The main 
object of the sheep breeding on the Wolds is to sell 
lambs fat off the turnips at about a year old ; our host, 
who had a flock of considerable repute, also sold a 
number of ram lambs for stud purposes. In addition 
to the sheep, bullocks were brought into this county 
to be fattened during the winter, half of the swedes 
being drawn off the land for this purpose. 

The farming is thus somewhat restricted in type, 
following in the strictest and most conservative fashion 
the traditional practices, but it was being extraordin- 
arily well done. The land was kept most scrupul- 
ously clean, like the land on the Lincoln Wolds, and 
the even, regular stand shown everywhere by the crops 
spoke of sound and careful management. Farms ran 
large, from eight to twelve hundred acres ; there are 
practically no small holdings in the Wolds, and rents, 
we were told, varied from 153. to 2Os. an acre. At 
this price there was a good demand and no farms were 
then on the market. Labour was to be obtained in 
quite sufficient quantity ; this is a district of yearly 
hirings, and the young, unmarried men all live with 
the bailiff or foreman, who receives an allowance on 
which to " meat " them. 

The only labour difficulty appears to be the drinking 
bouts of these young men, who periodically go off for 
a few days and get rid of all their accumulated savings. 
It is a pity that a better outlet cannot be found for 
these sturdy Yorkshiremen of the effervescences ; it is 
the monotony and want of relief in their occupation 
which cause the outbursts. Every farm labourer has 
to work long hours and content himself with a small 



122 YORKSHIRE ARABLE FARMING 

allowance of human intercourse, but this Yorkshire 
Wold country is to a special degree sparsely populated, 
very open and deserted to look at. As it is never 
likely to be otherwise, it is to education that we must 
look, education not only as regards knowledge, but 
education in outlook and aspiration, if we are to pro- 
vide the labourer with interests that will keep him 
from drinking to excess. 



XVII 
HIGH FARMING IN NORTHUMBRIA 

BEYOND the wolds Yorkshire has many other systems 
of farming to show, in Cleveland, in the Vale of York, 
and in the hills that run up into the Pennine Chain ; 
but consideration of them had to be reserved for another 
occasion, because they are in the main dependent upon 
stock-raising and grass, while our attention was being 
chiefly directed to arable land farming. In North 
Yorkshire, though there is still plenty of land under 
the plough in the broad plain through which runs the 
Great North Road, it is grass land that fills the eye, 
grass in comparatively small fields surrounded by tall 
hedges. It is also a cattle country ; and the most 
striking feature of the district is the high general level 
of excellence attained by the ordinary farmer's stock, 
as it is seen without selection in travelling or at any 
of the local fairs and markets. In the Midlands and 
in the south many farmers keep high- class stock, even 
if they do not breed pedigree animals ; but a large 
proportion of their neighbours seem to possess nothing 
but misfits, and are content to try to fatten or to milk 
any kind of cross-bred. To look at the assemblage in 
the weekly market in one of the smaller towns, it is 
hard to believe that one is in the country which claims 
to be the great fountain-head of pure-bred stock, so 
mean and unimproved is the general average of the 
9 



124 HIGH FARMING IN NORTHUMBRIA 

cattle displayed. Much of this must be set down to 
the dairy farmers, especially the smaller men who are 
so numerous near the towns ; they buy their milch 
cows where they can find them, irrespective of breed ; 
and any kind of bull is used, so that a constant stream 
of calves bred anyhow are being put in circulation and, 
with the present dearth of store cattle, get reared to 
maturity. But in North Yorkshire the pure-bred 
Shorthorn reigns supreme, the old type, which is a 
good all-round farmer's beast and hard to beat either 
as a producer of milk or of beef. We were indeed 
nearing the ancestral home of the Shorthorns ; for it 
was at Ketton and at Barmston, just across the river 
in Durham, that the brothers Colling, working along 
Bakewell's lines with the local cattle, evolved the 
modern Shorthorns, or Durhams, as they are still 
called over a great part of the world. After the 
Ceilings' time, Bates and Booth gave their names to 
the two leading strains of Shorthorns ; and Bates 
belonged to Kirklevington in Cleveland, while the 
Booths lived near Northallerton. Over all this 
country, from Thirsk north to Darlington, and on to 
Durham and beyond, the descendants of these great 
stocks stood nearly knee-deep in the ample grass of 
the dripping summer of 1910, and we hardly saw a 
bad one among them. 

Durham and the southern part of Northumberland 
are counties of violent contrasts, so rapidly does one 
exchange purely pastoral or agricultural country for 
densely populated colliery areas or that still more dreary 
land where the coal has been won and farming is being 
resumed in a half-hearted way. The surface of the 
country is covered pretty deeply by glacial drifts ; but 
as they resemble in nature the underlying rocks of 
the coal measures, they give rise to comparatively poor 



SHEEP AND BARLEY 125 

soils, which are mostly kept in grass. Round the edge 
of all the industrial districts of the north small dairy 
farming on grass land prevails ; there is an immediate 
and steady market for milk, and the conditions pro- 
duce just the kind of little farmer, doing most of his 
work with his own hands, who can make a living out 
of a few cows on comparatively poor land. 

Farther back from the towns Northumbria possesses 
an energetic race of larger farmers ; but there is no 
great area of arable land until the northern part of the 
county is reached beyond Alnwick. There a belt of 
land lies near the coast, a belt marked roughly by the 
North-Eastern Railway and the high-road, which is 
mostly under the plough, and shows some of the finest 
management in the country. The broad valley which 
extends from Alnwick to Wooler, and thence along 
the course of the Till to Tweedside, partakes of the 
same character. The best of the land is rather on 
the light side, distinctively sheep and barley land ; but 
the soils are very variable, for the glacial drifts do not 
preserve any definite type for many miles, ,or even 
acres, together. The country slopes gently to the sea, 
but is diversified by the deeply cut stream courses on 
the one hand and by occasional ridges of old moraine 
matter, forming narrow and steep-sided uncultivated 
banks called " kames," out of which gravel and boulders 
can be dug. Other sudden banks run for miles across 
country roughly from west to east ; these are the dikes 
of basalt which stretch like a spider's web from the old 
volcano in Mull across Scotland and the north of 
England, sometimes enlarging into masses of basalt 
rock like the great crags on which the castles of 
Bamburgh and Dunstanburgh are built. In this district 
the farms run large, from 400 to 800 acres ; and the 
farming is in the hands of well-to-do men, some 



126 HIGH FARMING IN NORTHUMBRIA 

of whom own the land they cultivate, but all have 
capital at command and farm high both for crops and 
stock. 

As a rule, a strict four-course rotation is followed, 
especially upon the lighter classes of land ; but oats 
often take the place of wheat, and in alternate shifts 
trefoil is grown instead of rye grass and red clover. 
The bulk of the root crop consists of swedes, but both 
mangolds and turnips are extensively grown ; potatoes, 
however, do not become common until the Border has 
been crossed. The swedes as a rule are partly drawn 
off to feed the cattle in the yards and stalls, and 
partly left on the land to be eaten off by sheep for the 
benefit of the succeeding crop. With the large head 
of stock kept, both cattle and sheep, and the length of 
time during which the grass land can yield them no 
nutriment in the cold northern winters, the swede crop 
becomes of very special importance ; and every effort 
is made to secure a large one. We were, in fact, 
getting far enough north for big crops of swedes and 
turnips ; in the south and east of England the average 
yield of swedes and turnips is no more than 1 1 tons 
per acre, but it rises in Northumberland to over 
I 5 tons, and higher still in some of the north-eastern 
counties of Scotland. The larger crop is chiefly due 
to the earlier sowing that is possible in northern 
latitudes and the more equable and continuous growth 
in the cooler summers. The roots are given all the 
farmyard manure, together with a considerable dressing 
of artificials, chiefly as a rule superphosphate, though 
the prevalence of " finger and toe " in the district has 
of late years led to a considerable replacement of the 
latter fertilizer by basic slag. Much of the land is in 
need of liming ; but though the practice used to be 
universal, as may be seen from the numerous disused 



CHEVIOT SHEEP 127 

limekilns along the outcrops of the bands of lime- 
stone which are common in the carboniferous rocks of 
Northumberland, it has been far too much neglected 
for the last half-century, to the detriment of the 
fertility and health of the land. The manures that are 
applied for the root crops do duty for the rest of the 
rotation ; indeed, when any large proportion of the 
swedes is eaten off with cake and corn, the land 
becomes too rich for the succeeding barley ; even the 
wheat and oats are often laid when the sheep have 
previously been grazing on the seeds for some time. 
The barleys grown are nearly all of the wide-eared 
type, though these sorts have the disadvantage in this 
exposed district of a long weak neck, which sometimes 
leads to a large proportion of the heads being broken 
off by a gale near harvest-time. With a fine September, 
however, bold barley of exceptional weight per bushel 
is produced along this coast ; though the summers are 
never very warm, the proximity of the sea causes an 
equable growth, and the longer duration of the northern 
daylight in summer also makes for increased assimila- 
tion and plumper grain. 

But though the land is mainly under the plough, 
and though the corn crops and especially the barley 
are considerable factors in the income of the farm, 
live stock form the mainstay of the agriculture of the 
district. Several kinds of sheep are to be seen : the 
Cheviots are the breed of the country, and though 
they are properly grass-land sheep, as their name 
indicates of mountain origin, they come down on to 
the turnips in winter to be fattened. Elegant little 
sheep, with white faces and characteristically cocked- 
up ears, they are active animals, moving with consider- 
able grace ; they may easily be familiar to Londoners, 
because in many seasons Cheviots are brought down 



128 HIGH FARMING IN NORTHUMBRIA 

to eat off the grass in the parks, and in forty-eight 
hours may exchange the Fells for Kensington Gardens. 

Soon after Bakewell's improved Leicesters had 
become famous, rams of that breed were brought up 
into the north of England ; and by repeated crossing 
on the native sheep, probably unimproved Cheviots, a 
new race of Leicesters was evolved, differing only to 
a trivial extent from the parent breed in appearance 
if not in constitution, but nowadays distinguished as 
" Border Leicesters." These are very widely dis- 
tributed over Northumberland and the south of 
Scotland, though they require the arable land and are 
not suited to the rough hill-sides on which the Cheviots 
flourish. A still more recent introduction are the 
Oxford Downs, of which during the last thirty years 
or so several flocks have been established in the 
district, so that the Oxford Down rams make a con- 
siderable figure at the great ram sale held at Kelso 
every September. The Oxfords are probably the 
largest of all the Down breeds, though they are bred 
in the Border country somewhat finer and smaller than 
in their native shires, the flocks having in many cases 
been built up on a foundation of Cheviot and Leicester 
blood ; again, the Oxfords are essentially sheep of the 
arable land, and must be well fed and quickly grown 
to be profitable. 

But perhaps the most numerous sheep in the district 
are cross-breds by Leicester rams on Cheviot ewes. 
These cross-breds are very uniform in type and might 
almost be regarded as a distinct breed, because they 
are very commonly bred together for another genera- 
tion, or the ewes are again crossed with a Leicester 
ram. In a general way it is recognized that cross- 
breds possess a vigour that neither of the parents 
shows ; but nothing further than a first cross is usually 



FARM BUILDINGS 129 

bred, because in the second generation what we 
nowadays call Mendelian segregation begins to set in 
and the progeny become diversified, throwing back to 
all sorts of combinations of the characters of the 
parents. That these second crosses of the Cheviot 
Border Leicester breeds do not so segregate seems to 
show that there must be a very strong Cheviot founda- 
tion in the Border Leicester. 

We were still in the country of Shorthorns, and 
went to see one of the famous herds ; but it would 
require a specialist to make intelligible the excellences 
of the great bulls which were paraded one by one 
magnificent beasts, docile with much showing, and 
amenable to the hints of the stockman, who knew well 
how to get them to stand to the best advantage. 
Our host had a famous run of white bulls and white 
Shorthorn bulls have a special value, because when 
used on the black Galloway cattle they get the " blue 
greys," which are perhaps the most highly esteemed 
of all cross-bred s for butchers' purposes. The cattle 
were all housed in a style that would seem luxurious 
to the south country or even the Norfolk farmer ; for 
perhaps the most striking feature of Northumbrian 
farming to a stranger is the magnitude and excellence 
of the farm buildings great blocks of well-built stone 
structures, dominated by a very factory-like chimney. 
Every northern farm has a small boiler, which supplies 
steam to the engine for chaffcutting, pulping, etc., and 
also for cooking or steaming foods ; the boiler is fixed 
and possesses a substantial chimney, forming a distinct 
feature in the landscape, while a great dovecot almost 
equally tall is a not infrequent accompaniment. For all 
the substantial character of the buildings and the skill 
of the farming, rents did not run as high in this part 
of Northumberland as might have been expected, but 



130 HIGH FARMING IN NORTHUMBRIA 

averaged from i8s. to 253. an acre. But the land is not 
rich some of it indeed is very poor there are no large 
markets very close, and labour is highly paid, for the 
Northumbrian hind stands at the head of the agri- 
cultural wage-earners. The farms had mostly been in 
the same hands for many years, in some cases for 
generations, and none were to be let. Taking into 
consideration the rents paid for the class of land, the 
climate, and the high wages, only a determined and 
skilful race of farmers could attain the prosperity of 
which we saw so many signs. 



XVIII 
THE SUPREMACY OF THE LOTHIANS 

EVEN the most agriculturally minded of travellers must 
find his soul touched to other issues as he nears the 
Border. As one travels by the North Road, away on 
the left the Cheviot lifts it shapely height ; nearer still 
lies Flodden Field ; on the right the foam-encircled 
Faroes, with their memories of Grace Darling, break 
the loneliness of the summer sea ; and then the road 
dips down to run for several miles close to the expanse 
of sand or shallow bay, according to the tide, beyond 
which lies the Holy Isle. Soon afterwards one passes 
over the long bridge of Berwick, and still remains out- 
side Scotland for a mile or two, although the Tweed has 
been crossed. But, once embarked in Berwickshire, 
some subtle change begins to creep over the look of 
the cottages, until by the time the Lothians are reached 
the Englishman can conclude from sight alone that he 
has left behind his own country. 

The farming that we saw by the wayside was good, 
and it steadily improved with the character of the land 
as we got farther north, until a few miles short of 
Dunbar we reached what is without doubt the most 
highly-farmed district in Britain indeed, in the whole 
world. This favoured district occupies a comparatively 
small area on either side of Dunbar ; and the finest 
land of all is a thin strip to the east, not a mile wide, 



132 THE SUPREMACY OF THE LOTHIANS 

between the coast and the railway. The soils are red 
and sandy, mixed with a good deal of stone ; they are 
really drift soils, resting chiefly on an outcrop of the 
limestone near the shore ; but they have been derived 
in the main from the Old Red Sandstone which forms 
the country rock a little farther inland. Chemically 
speaking, there is nothing special about the soils ; 
physically they are light easily working loams, with 
a large proportion of sand particles but containing 
enough clay to give them substance and water-holding 
capacity. While they would be valuable soils any- 
where, their special excellence is largely due to the 
way they are adapted to the climate prevailing in East 
Lothian, where the springs are late and it is important 
to have a soil warming up quickly ; where also the 
summers are cool, so that little danger attaches to soils 
like these, which would suffer from drought under 
hotter conditions. A really dry summer is not desired 
on the best of these Dunbar soils, whereas many of the 
finest soils farther south never display their superiority 
to such a marked degree as in a parching season. 

We paid a visit to the farm of Mr. James Hope, of 
East Barns, near Dunbar a farm so well known to 
agriculturists, not only in Great Britain but from beyond 
the sea, that we may be pardoned for mentioning it by 
name. Before the wave of depression in the 'seventies 
and 'eighties of the last century, East Lothian farming 
was a model to the whole world, and the farmhouses 
were filled with gentlemen's sons who came to learn 
practical agriculture at its best. Few districts, how- 
ever, were more heavily hit by the fall in prices ; the 
production was planned on a scale too high to be pro- 
fitable under the changed conditions ; and of the men 
who then were the pride of Scotch farming very few 
are now left in the district. Mr. Hope, however, 



DUNBAR POTATOES 133 

remains, and shows how the old-time perfection in 
handling the soil and keeping the land clean, which 
has almost passed away, may be" so combined with 
modern improvements as to make high farming still 
profitable. His extensive farm lies for some distance 
on either side of the high-road and runs down to the 
shore; throughout it carries the red sandy soil with 
stones and fragments of limestone which we have 
already described. The fields are large and divided 
by stone walls ; hedges mean both waste of land and 
perpetual sources of weeds. In these fields we found 
the crop growing as well right up to the wall as in the 
middle of the field, and one had to look about in order 
to find a weed at all. The whole of the land was 
under the plough, being much too costly to be left in 
grass ; and the leading crop was potatoes, which are 
taken every third year over the whole area. Of all 
main-crop potatoes, Dunbar " red soils " command the 
highest price in the market, often standing at IDS. per 
ton above the price of Lincoln and other warp-grown 
produce; and this reputation has prevailed for more 
than a generation, back to the days of the famous 
Dunbar " Regents." At the time of our visit no variety 
was special to the district ; " Dates," " Factors," and 
" British Queens," then waning in popularity, " Lang- 
worthys," " Evergoods," and " King Edwards " were 
grown about Dunbar as elsewhere. But the Dunbar 
potato possesses a pink attractive skin, and has the 
special excellence of not turning black even when 
cooked up for a second time after it has once been 
allowed to go cold. This is a property greatly prized 
by hotel and restaurant keepers; in any wholesale 
potato market you will see on the top of each bag a 
few samples of boiled but cold potatoes, in order to 
show how well they maintain their whiteness, and also 



134 THE SUPREMACY OF THE LOTHIANS 

the character of the flesh, whether floury or waxy. 
The superiority of the Dunbar potato seems to be due 
to the adjustment of soil to climate, which results in 
an equable growing period, free from pauses caused by 
heat or drought, and prolonged considerably into the 
autumn without excessive moisture or sudden cold, for 
the proximity of the sea maintains an even temperature. 

The rotation that was being followed began with a 
crop of potatoes, then the land was divided between 
wheat and turnips ; in the wheat clover and rye grass 
were sown, while the turnips were followed by barley 
a wide-eared variety. In the following year the 
whole field went into potatoes, again to be divided 
between wheat and turnips in the following year, but 
on the alternate halves of the field, the wheat being 
again succeeded by seeds and the turnips by barley. 
Thus in six years were taken two crops of potatoes, 
one of wheat, and one of barley, all sold away ; also 
one crop of seeds hay and one of turnips, part of which 
was also not infrequently sold. Oats were not grown 
to any large extent just enough to feed the horses on 
the place. To the potatoes were given all the farm- 
yard manure made on the farm : but this would not 
supply nearly enough, so very large quantities were 
bought from Edinburgh. 

Other potato growers in the district are rather dis- 
inclined to use so much farmyard manure, fearing it 
deteriorates the quality of the produce ; and they follow 
a different rotation, in which potatoes come only once 
in six years. Swedes are followed by barley, in which 
clover is sown to be cut for hay in the third year, but 
in the fourth to be grazed by sheep receiving cake and 
corn. Having thus considerably enriched the land by 
the growth of clover, and also by the food given to the 
sheep, a crop of potatoes is taken without any farm- 



A CLASSIC FARM 135 

yard manure but with 7 cwt. or 8 cwt per acre of 
artificial fertilizer ; finally a crop of oats completes the 
six years' rotation. This course, as will be seen, pro- 
duces much less saleable material than Mr. Hope's ; it 
is suited to poorer and less expensive land. But on 
either system very heavy crops are grown ; the initial 
cultivation is deep, and the later working of the soil, 
especially the earthing up, is very thorough ; until by 
the beginning of August a man stands waist-deep in 
the vigorous potato haulm. It is no uncommon thing 
to hear of 30 an acre being given for the standing 
crop, the buyer taking all risks in addition to the cost 
of lifting the tubers. Of course, this is by no means 
clear profit, for, in addition to rent, cultivation, and 
manure, one or two sprayings have to be done, and a 
change of seed from some later district has to be 
brought in every other year or so. There is, however, 
a margin of profit. The potato is the mainstay of the 
farming, and without it the high rents could not be 
paid. Very little stock was kept on the farm, a flying 
flock was brought in to eat off the turnips, and bullocks 
were fattened throughout the winter in order to get the 
straw trampled down ; but both processes were regarded 
by Mr. Hope as of doubtful profit, to be avoided if 
only the roots and straw could be otherwise dis- 
posed of. 

The farm depended on its crops, and finer crops, 
not only of potatoes but of corn and turnips also, no 
man could hope to see ; six quarters of wheat and eight 
quarters of barley to the acre were expected. It is 
difficult to set down the impression of uniform richness 
and absence of waste of all kinds, of perfect utilization 
of the land, which was conveyed by this farm. 
Indeed, it needs to be farmed to something near 
perfection in order to earn the rent with which it is 



136 THE SUPREMACY OF THE LOTHIANS 

charged, up to gos. per acre, the most highly rented 
arable land in the United Kingdom probably in the 
world. Of course there are acres under market- 
gardening or fruit which command even a higher 
rental, but nowhere else could 800 acres be found in 
one block at such a price. The general average of the 
good land in the Dunbar country was let at about 
705. an acre ; but the favoured land only forms a 
narrow strip, and immediately above it on the lower 
slopes of the hills the rents rapidly fall to 403. or so. 
Even then the rents are high for the class of land ; 
and the Lothian farmer has been heard to argue that 
the poor farming which is but too common in the south 
of England has been encouraged by the low scale of 
rents prevailing, and that higher rents are desirable in 
order to force men to make the land produce more. 
But this is not likely to be a popular doctrine among 
farmers. Nor was labour cheap in the Lothians ; 
the Scotchman who remains on the land demands to 
be well housed and paid on much the same scale as 
the man who goes into the towns : but then he will 
give you value for your money, which cheap labour 
often fails to do. Our host was a believer in married 
men who would desire to remain on the farm, but then 
he considered that profit always came from the good 
things ; good farming, good seed, good manures had 
always paid him best. It is noteworthy that these 
large Lothian farms are all of them rented, though 
they have remained in the same family for generations. 
It needs a large capital to work them properly, and this 
can all be put into the business when the farmer is 
renting, provided he is reasonably secure of his tenure, 
as he always has been in the Lothians. 

The good land was divided into large farms ; small 
holdings did not exist upon it, nor in all probability 



LOTHIAN FARMING 137 

could they pay the rent that would be demanded, 
because no small holder could hope to rival the pitch 
of productiveness to which the land has been raised on 
the present system. Much as we had heard of the 
excellence of the Lothian farming, what we saw of it 
justified every encomium ; we had not imagined that 
the management of arable land could reach such 
perfection, even with every advantage of soil and 
climate. Possibly it is not the most instructive lesson 
ground, for it is only in a few places that the most 
perfect can be also the most profitable method of 
agriculture. 



XIX 
NORTHERN FRUIT-GROWING 

THE fine arable farming of the Lothians by no means 
ended at Dunbar ; all the way into Edinburgh and 
along the shores of the Firth beyond much the same 
class of agriculture was to be seen, but the soils are 
more diversified and their cultivation never attained the 
pitch of excellence that characterizes the red lands of 
Dunbar. Across the Firth into Fife again some very 
well-managed land was to be seen, but the surface is 
somewhat rugged, the moorland is never far away, and 
cultivation cannot extend to. any great height above 
sea level. With the poorer land grass began to be 
more prominent and stock contributed a larger share 
to the farmer's returns, even when they did not become 
the leading feature of the farm. The best of the 
arable farming is to be found in the alluvial valleys, 
particularly in the comparatively broad strath which 
extends from Cupar to the sea. In Perthshire the 
agriculture is also of a very advanced type ; there are 
two well-defined areas of arable farming, the Carse of 
Gowrie an alluvial flat of somewhat heavy soil along 
the head of the estuary of the Tay and Strathmore 
the wide valley that runs from Perth to Montrose 
with the Sidlaw Hills on one hand and the foothills of 
the Grampians on the other. We were taken to see 
one or two important farms, and, though each man 



SEED POTATOES 139 

had naturally his own views and his own methods of 
turning the land to profit, certain features were common 
to the whole district. The standard rotation was a six 
course as follows : potatoes, wheat, turnips, barley, 
seeds, oats, but on most of the farms the seeds are left 
down for two or three years, the land being kept in 
grass longer as it becomes heavier and more elevated. 
Wheat and barley not infrequently gave place to oats, 
so that the acreage under oats was three or four times 
that given up to wheat and barley together, while 
there was at least twice as much barley as wheat. 
Barley, especially towards the Forfarshire end of 
Strathmore, is of excellent quality, and though the 
comparatively late harvest rarely permits it to attain the 
brightness of the best malting samples, the distillers 
have provided a very good market for it until within the 
last year or two. 

The chief money - making crop was, however, 
potatoes ; they sell well locally, and possess also a 
special value for seed ; most of the large English and 
Lothian potato growers obtain their seed from this 
district, where also are situated one or two well-known 
raisers of new varieties. All farm produce, however, 
commands very good prices in Scotland, and this 
advantage in the local markets is itself almost enough 
to account for the superiority of the rents to those 
prevailing for the same class of land in England. On 
the heaviest soil in the Carse of Stirling and Gowrie 
potatoes are not grown ; some of the land has to be 
bare fallowed, but not to the extent that was usual a 
generation ago. All over the district, but particularly 
in the Carse, meadows of pure Timothy grass are laid 
down, a practice that one does not see farther south ; 
the Timothy is allowed to stand for three or four 
years and has the great advantage of coming to cut a 
10 



140 NORTHERN FRUIT-GROWING 

little later than the ordinary growth of seeds or 
meadow hay. Although it was early August hay- 
making was going on, and everywhere we saw in the 
fields, as indeed we had seen from Durham north- 
wards, the hay still outside but gathered into pikes, 
i.e. huge cocks holding about a ton of hay. In this 
northern climate hay-making is a much more difficult 
matter than it is farther south, and a farmer is 
generally content to get his grass into pike long before 
it would be fit to carry and build into rick. Once in 
pike the material heats a little and completes its curing 
and drying ; it is also safe from the weather, and the 
farmer is able to leave it in the field and get on with 
his corn harvest, often only leading home his hay after 
the first snows have fallen harmlessly on the pikes. 
In some cases, especially where a field is much sheltered 
by a wood, it is the custom to use drying racks for the 
corn; a season like 1908 taught many farmers the 
value of this practice. Beans are not grown to any 
large extent, but a leguminous crop that we saw for 
the first time was " mashlum," a mixed crop of oats 
and beans, or, as we saw it on one farm, of any and 
every quick-growing leguminous plant beans, peas, 
vetches, and clover. As with the dredge corn referred 
to earlier, the mixture certainly seemed to yield a much 
greater bulk of fodder than any of its constituents 
separately, and it is particularly prized by the dairymen 
in the towns, the provision of green fodder for whom 
is a leading feature on many of the farms of the 
Lothians, Fife, Perth, and Forfar. Farms were to be 
found which sold off everything they produced, turnips 
and straw as well as hay and green meat, but this is 
only possible in the immediate neighbourhood of a 
town. Some of the farmers kept dairy herds them- 
selves, but in the east of Scotland the custom of town 



LIVE STOCK 141 

dairies seemed to be more prevalent. The stock- 
keeping varied very much with individual tastes. We 
were approaching the region of the famous Scotch 
Shorthorn and Aberdeen-Angus breeders, but even 
when men were not raising the highest class of pedigree 
stock many had found that it was more profitable to 
breed for themselves, even if they did not sell as stores 
but finished off their beasts. " Let the other fools 
make dear beef," said one prominent farmer ; " give me 
the first end of the business where the profit lies, and 
where I meet with no foreign competition." This, 
however, was by no means the general opinion ; the 
majority of farmers fattened bought stores, eithei 
locally raised or Irish bred, and in Aberdeen, a little 
farther north, the production of the very finest beef is 
the cardinal feature of farming. But there the turnip 
crops are famous for their magnitude and feeding 
quality ; there, too, as a natural consequence, the feeling 
against the interdiction of the import of store cattk 
from Canada is at its strongest. A good many sheep 
are kept, and of late years many farmers have made a 
special business of raising fat lambs as early as possible. 
Border Leicesters form the favourite breeding stock, 
and on one farm we saw some beautiful examples of 
these symmetrical sheep which had just returned with 
honour from one of the local shows, in company with 
some magnificent Aberdeen- Angus cattle. They, above 
all other breeds of cattle, seem to realise the breeder's 
ideal of concentrating the greatest amount of flesh on 
to the most valuable parts of the carcase. 

One could not fail to be struck by the energy and 
intelligence displayed in the mixed farming of this 
district of Scotland. It does not show the rigorous 
system of the wold farming, nor the specialization 
which distinguishes some of the best agriculture 



142 NORTHERN FRUIT-GROWING 

elsewhere ; its features are rather an enlightened 
opportunism and adaptation to the distinctly difficult 
conditions of soil and climate that prevail. 

Perthshire does, however, possess one very special 
agricultural industry, that is, the growth of small fruit 
strawberries, to a certain extent, but more particularly 
raspberries which is to be found in small patches all 
over Strath more, but centres chiefly round Blairgowrie 
and Coupar Angus, in which district there are nearly 
2000 acres under this form of cultivation. In Forfar- 
shire, Kirriemuir, which is better known to the world 
as Thrums, is also becoming an important centre. 
Perthshire, indeed, grows four-fifths of all the rasp- 
berries in Scotland and about one-seventh of the 
strawberries, Lanark being the chief centre for the 
latter fruit. The industry is of very recent origin. 
Although strawberries have long been grown in Blair- 
gowrie, the present wholesale production of raspberries 
has developed within the last twenty-five years or less, 
and has been largely due to the organizing abilities of 
Mr. J. M. Hodge, of Blairgowrie. 

The most interesting feature of the raspberry 
growing is the co-operative form it is taking. A land 
company buys a large farm or estate on suitable land, 
and does all the preliminary work of clearing and 
planting, including the erection of the wire-work on to 
which the canes are trained, expending thus about 50 
an acre before the fruit comes into bearing. The land 
is then let to the growers at rents of 4 or $ an 
acre, the company contracting to supply labour for 
picking and to market the crop. In July and August 
a small army of pickers are needed, and they are housed 
in large ranges of dormitories, built at some convenient 
centre, with kitchens, mess, and meeting rooms at- 
tached. The pickers pay a shilling a week for their 



RASPBERRY PICKING 143 

accommodation, and they obtain their food from the 
central kitchens at extremely low prices, just calculated 
to cover the cost of production and attendance. In the 
main, the pickers are women and children drawn from 
the poorer classes of the large towns, but the arrange- 
ments for their housing and feeding are now so good 
that a much more respectable class is drawn upon, and 
many people who are in nowise dependent upon casual 
earnings take their summer holiday in the open air 
raspberry picking. The conditions are not unlike those 
of hop picking, but the business is far more highly 
organized by the establishment of the dormitory system 
and the provision of meals. Of course, hop picking is 
of very long standing, and has grown up slowly along 
traditional and somewhat haphazard lines. The novelty 
of the raspberry gathering, its longer duration, and the 
severer climate call for a more elaborate organization. 
The Blairgowrie raspberries go chiefly for preserving ; 
a small proportion are sold for table fruit, but the bulk 
is packed straightaway into half- hundred weight barrels 
for the jam factories. At intervals along the side of 
the road platforms are erected with a weighing machine. 
A foreman weighs the pickers' buckets as they come in, 
and pays in cash at the rate of a halfpenny per pound ; 
he empties the buckets into the barrels, which later in 
the day are collected by a service of motor lorries. 
Each grower is afterwards credited with his produce at 
the current rates. 

For a time the raspberry has been extremely pro- 
fitable ; very large crops can be grown, four tons an acre 
were spoken of as common, and prices were up to 30 
a ton, but in 1908 and 1909 they fell to something 
like 10 a. ton, and though they, in 1910, recovered a 
good deal, it is questionable if the supply is not be- 
ginning to be in excess. Moreover, it is by no means 



144 NORTHERN FRUIT-GROWING 

certain that the very heavy yields can be maintained. 
In Kent a ton per acre is a very fair crop ; and though 
the raspberry is naturally a northern plant, some of its 
luxuriance may be due to the fact that it is being 
grown on new land for the first time. So far little or 
no manure has been needed, though the soil is a thin 
gritty red or black moorland, by no means rich nor 
highly esteemed for general farming. It seems almost 
inevitable that as time goes on the raspberry growers 
will begin to experience some of the troubles that fruit 
growers meet with elsewhere, diseases will set in, and 
the big crops will only be obtainable at a greater ex- 
penditure of labour and manure. To an outsider the 
dangerous feature about the industry is its dependence 
upon a single crop ; in the meantime, however, the 
Perthshire raspberry growing is a remarkable example 
both of intensive cultivation and of the collective farm- 
ing of a number of small men which many people desire 
to see widely spread throughout Great Britain. 



XX 
GENERAL IMPRESSIONS IN 1910 

AT Perthshire our pilgrimage had perforce to be deter- 
mined ; we had set out to get a rapid survey of the 
arable farming of the country, but though many im- 
portant districts yet remained unvisited, our own 
harvest now claimed attention. The early potato- 
growing in Ayrshire, the intensive cultivation of Lan- 
cashire and Cheshire, the mixed farming in Shropshire, 
the corn-growing of the Midlands, and the market- 
gardening of Bedfordshire should all have a place in a 
survey of even the arable farming of Great Britain, but 
could not be attempted on that occasion. 

Ours had been a rapid survey, so rapid that any 
writing about it can only be justified by the fact that 
singly or collectively we possessed a considerable 
measure of previous acquaintance with most of the 
districts visited, which gave us some power of arriving 
at a general impression on seeing county after county 
in quick succession. 

What, perhaps, we had hardly been prepared for was 
the great variety presented by British farming and the 
diversity of the methods that are practised. Great 
Britain is not a very large country, and the variations 
of climate and soil which occur within its limits might 

be considered trifling by men accustomed to continental 

145 



146 GENERAL IMPRESSIONS IN 1910 

areas, yet every few miles of our journey we found 
ourselves in a totally different country from a farming 
point of view. This indicates that the British farmer 
has learnt, partly by old tradition, partly by his personal 
skill, to adapt his methods very nicely to his particular 
environment, whether of soil, or of markets, or of climate. 
One sometimes felt inclined to disagree with the local 
practices, which a wider experience of other districts 
might have taught the farmer to modify with advan- 
tage ; but one cannot be too diffident in advancing 
such opinions, so great is the value of tradition and 
experience in the workaday matters of agriculture. 
This diversity of British farming has been very im- 
perfectly reported ; many of the systems in vogue have 
not yet reached the text-books, and are little known 
outside their own districts, though they deserve serious 
economic study, and will doubtless receive it as the 
agricultural colleges grow in strength and the members 
of their staff obtain more leisure for personal investiga- 
tion. Indeed, such examination of local systems might 
easily lead to a most instructive method of teaching of 
what we might call " Comparative Agriculture." 

But if the methods of British agriculture are very 
diverse, they seemed uniformly to be meeting with a very 
fair measure of success, for one could not but conclude 
that the industry as a whole was in a prosperous condition 
and had healthily and stably recovered from the great 
depression that lay upon it as recently as fifteen years 
earlier. Our views were doubtless coloured by the fact 
that we almost inevitably saw one of the leading farmers 
in each district we visited, and, again, did not meet with 
the number of other men who from lack of business 
aptitude or some initial handicap were still struggling 
desperately to make both ends meet. Still, we con- 
cluded that farming was in a good way and was 



RISING RENTS 147 

yielding a fair return upon the capital embarked in 
it, though it was never likely to lead to a fortune. Of 
this prosperity the best external evidence was that we 
could very rarely hear of any farms to be let, while in 
every part of the country the good farms were bespoken 
long before they came into the market. Rents, too, 
were rising ; we heard over and over again of re-letting 
at an increased figure, especially where the farms had 
been put up for competition. We even heard of one 
or two cases of rent having been raised on a sitting 
tenant, and no landlord or agent would incur the un- 
popularity of such an action unless he had very solid 
grounds for supposing that it was justified. Next, it 
was noticeable that nearly all the advanced and skil- 
fully adapted farming we saw was being done by tenants. 
Large tenant farming has for the last century or more 
been the special characteristic of British agriculture; 
under this method has been built up our supremacy 
in production per acre and in live stock, and to-day it 
still seems the most effective form of dealing with the 
land on a wholesale scale. As a system it offers many 
points for criticism ; it is often illogical, but its prime 
justification is that it works well, when the landlords 
and tenants are such as we find them in this country. 
In the majority of cases the tenant stands entirely on 
the side of the landlord and backs him politically and 
privately, however contrary their interests may appear 
to be. We heard but rarely of cases of injustice or 
oppression, and when they did arise it was generally 
over game. For example, we heard of one landlord who 
had threatened to turn a tenant out if he did not take 
his fowls off the stubbles and thus leave the shed corn 
for the partridges. In the south and east of England 
the game sometimes are allowed to interfere seriously 
with the farming. 



148 GENERAL IMPRESSIONS IN 1910 

We found little desire on the part of the large 
farmer to become his own landlord ; he wanted all 
his capital to put into his business. Occasionally 
we met with a farmer who had been driven to purchase 
his farm because the estate had been sold and his 
business would have suffered too seriously from a 
change, but in most cases he was paying as much 
or more than his previous rent as interest on the 
mortgage, besides having put down a portion of the 
price in hard cash. Even when land can be bought 
outright at 20 years' purchase it can rarely be mort- 
gaged at less than 4| per cent., which leaves only 
J per cent, for materials, for repairs, and any 
other allowances which dip deeply into the landlord's 
pocket. Above all, in bad times the mortgagee 
presses for payment, when the landlord will wait 
because he can trust the character of his tenant and 
measure the inevitable ups and downs in farming 
that are brought about by the seasons. Even for small 
farmers the same difficulties seem to be inherent in 
ownership : they are even increased by the fact that 
the small man will mortgage his land in order to 
acquire a little more a proceeding which brings 
disaster as soon as times become bad. The economic 
value of the landlord can be more than justified in 
the history of English farming, and we believe that 
he might more than ever establish his position to-day 
if he would take the opportunities of leadership that 
lie before him. As a class farmers are probably 
more disposed to take advice than they have ever 
been, but in social and economic matters they are very 
little influenced by argument alone. Many questions 
of co-operative production and collective trading which 
are now hanging fire because they are all against the 
individualist habit of mind of the British farmer would 



SMALL HOLDINGS 149 

move rapidly if some of the great landlords, each in 
their own district, put themselves at the head of a 
workable scheme. Of course if the landlord is to 
become the entrepreneur and organizer of industry for 
his tenantry, he will have to work at his task very 
seriously ; good intentions alone have always proved 
harmful. 

Naturally at that juncture one heard much about 
small holdings and the prospects of the new tenants 
who have been set on the land by recent legislation. 
As might perhaps have been expected, the large 
farmers with whom we talked had very little belief 
in the future of the small holdings. Most of them 
held, and rightly enough so far as their own districts 
were concerned, that the large man with capital will 
get more out of the land than any small man possibly 
can. Even with fruit and vegetables the capitalist's 
power of organizing labour, and his command of 
manures, his power of doing certain operations like 
spraying, which are only cheap on a large scale, must 
mean a greater production per acre. But while the 
intensive large farmer can thus beat the intensive 
small holder, there are many large farmers who never 
attempt to get the maximum profitable yield out of their 
land, but trust to skimming a small return off a wide 
area, and these are the men that from a national 
point of view are not doing their duty by the land, 
but might profitably be replaced by small occupiers 
who will be driven to get more out of the soil in 
order to obtain a living at all. But though the large 
farmers did not agree with the small holding move- 
ment, they were not unsympathetic. Many of them 
admitted there was an opening for a few men to 
meet local demands in their own districts, while of 
course in certain places, like the Isle of Axholme, the 



ISO GENERAL IMPRESSIONS IN 1910 

small holder had been thoroughly tested, and was 
holding his own even under disadvantageous conditions. 
Putting aside the inevitable proportion of failures due 
to deficiencies of character and business capacity, all 
small holders are likely to suffer again when the next 
turn of bad times comes round, unless by that time 
some method of giving them co-operative credit has 
become firmly established. 

As a feature in the prosperity of the modern farmer 
we have put his adaptability to his conditions. In 
the main, the men who could not alter their system 
to meet the low prices prevailing only a few years 
ago have been shaken out of the industry, and the 
most capable have survived to take advantage of the 
recent rise in prices. But though the best of these 
men still maintain the supremacy of British farming 
over that of any other country, nothing is more 
striking than the contrast between them and some 
of their neighbours. In every district we visited we 
found good and bad farmers close together, men who 
are earning good incomes on one side of the hedge, 
and on the other men who are always in difficulties, 
who in many cases are only kept going through the 
tolerance of their landlords. Sometimes a man always 
manages to scrape his rent together, but he lives 
miserably, his farm is an eyesore and a source of 
weeds and infection to his neighbours. As a rule 
these backward men are not unacquainted with the art 
of farming ; they know how it should be done, and 
can be very critical of other people's management, 
especially of a college or county council farm near 
them. What they lack is determination, the ability 
to organize their labour and to manage their business ; 
they are not ignorant but slipshod. We suppose it 
is the same in all businesses, the good and the bad 



EDUCATION 151 

are mixed up together because both are inherent in 
human nature, only the farmer's mistakes lie patent 
to the eye of every passer-by. It is in Scotland that 
one seems to find a high general level of farming ; 
there not only are the good very good, but those at 
the bottom of the scale are still respectable farmers. 
This difference, of course, is partially racial, but we 
cannot fail to correlate it to some extent with the 
differences in education in the two countries, and by 
education we mean the general outlook of the man 
more than his technical instruction. We may fairly 
say that the ordinary farmer is a pretty good master 
of his craft ; he knows how to manage his land, he 
has an instinct for stock, and he gives very little 
away in the practical day-to-day management of his 
business. He is, however, very closely bound inside 
the routine of his district, he has little acquaintance 
with the methods by which other people attain the 
same ends, and is impatient of even attempting to 
think whether he cannot introduce modifications into 
his own system. He is apt to regard his style of 
farming as inevitable, something that nature imposes 
upon him and that he ought not to attempt to alter. 
It is just this lack of flexibility of mind, this power 
to look abroad and consider his business in a detached 
fashion as a whole, putting aside for the time details 
which are otherwise essential, that marks the imper- 
fection in the education of the farmer to-day. The 
same defects may be seen in his organizations for 
social and political purposes. As a rule the Chambers 
of Agriculture and Farmers' Unions only draw in a 
small proportion of the farmers in each district ; their 
action is often confused and unenlightened, and they 
by no means carry the political weight that the 
agricultural party ought to possess. Again, we may 



152 GENERAL IMPRESSIONS IN 1910 

see, in the unresponsiveness of the British agriculturist 
to any co-operative schemes, the same lack of ap- 
preciation of general ideas. For all these reasons we 
feel justified in concluding that the average British 
farmer is not educated up to his position or his 
opportunities ; but it is not so much technical educa- 
cation that is lacking as an awakening to ideas, and 
that, probably, is more likely to come in the next 
generation from the general tuning-up of the country 
grammar schools than from the growth of agricultural 
colleges. Of course, we would not for a moment 
minimize the value of the work these latter bodies 
have accomplished ; no one can fail to see the entire 
change in the attitude of the better farmers towards 
science and education during the last twenty years, 
and this change is most marked in the districts in 
touch with an energetic agricultural college ; but 
still both the inclination and the ability to make use 
of the technical advantages provided by the agricultural 
college depend on the preliminary training of the 
grammar school and the mental attitude that it 
creates. If we can only create that respect for the 
things of the mind which so markedly characterizes the 
Scandinavian agricultural community, to take perhaps 
the most striking example available, the British farmer 
need never fear the competition of the new countries. 
In one technical detail, also, the British farmer's 
education is defective : he has never learnt a system 
of book-keeping adapted to the farm, a system which 
will show him the profit and loss on each branch 
of his business cattle raising, milk producing, crop 
growing instead of merely his indebtedness or other- 
wise to A, B, and C with whom he trades. It is true 
that the teachers of book-keeping have never put 
such a system before him, but it is a problem that our 



FARM LABOURERS 153 

schools and colleges ought seriously to take in hand, 
and it is a problem capable of solution. 

If by 1910 the farmer had succeeded in readjusting 
his position since the depression, the condition of the 
labourer was still not satisfactory. It was true that 
wages had risen to a level more on a par with those 
prevailing in the towns, but they were still low; and 
the difference, coupled with the excitement and com- 
panionship the town offers, will continue to draw the 
majority of the young men away from the land. On 
far too many of our farms labour is still being em- 
ployed wastefully. The farmer allows his men to 
work clumsily and slowly by hand rather than take 
the trouble to teach them labour-saving contrivances. 
Five men may be found receiving 155. a week when 
the ideal to be aimed at should be two men earning 
3 os. each and doing the same work with the help of 
machines. It is less, not more, labour we want on 
most of our farms, but then the labour should be of 
the best and paid at rates competing with the wages of 
the artisan. Not only higher wages are needed, but 
above all the agricultural labourer wants a better 
outlook ; he is tempted to send his son away from 
the land, not so much for the immediate cash as for 
the chance, however small, of mounting up the scale. 
It may be true that not one boy in a hundred takes 
his opportunity, but what thinking father in any class 
of the community but will give his son the off-chance 
if he can ? If the small holding movement succeeds, 
its greatest boon to the agricultural community will 
be that it sets a chance of social advancement before 
the agricultural labourer. 

We may criticize both labourer and farmer, we 
may sometimes even get angry with what may seem 
to be their waste of opportunities, but if we look 



154 GENERAL IMPRESSIONS IN 1910 

back, on the one hand, to the advances the farmer 
has made within the last generation and the way the 
industry has taken a new lease of life since its 
apparently approaching extinction in the early 'nineties, 
and, on the other hand, to the enormous improvements 
in the life of the villages in the last fifty years as 
measured by the early Victorian accounts of country 
life, then the situation becomes full of hope. British 
agriculture is not only alive but is advancing, and still 
provides the most stable and tenacious element in the 
fibre of the nation. 



SECOND JOURNEY, 1911 



THE VALE OF PEWSEY 

IN 1910 our farming pilgrimage lay through the 
southern and eastern counties, and diversified as were 
the forms of agriculture we saw they had this in 
common, that they mainly depended upon the arable 
land. In the east the chief source of income is the 
sale of crops, and even where stock form a leading 
feature in the farming the sheep are fattened on the 
arable or the bullocks on the roots that are drawn off 
the land for the winter. In 1911 we determined to 
take the western route, where we knew we should find 
systems of farming in which live stock on grass land 
play the most important part. 

The difference between east and west is very largely 
one of rainfall ; elevation and contour count for some- 
thing, because on the more accidented western side of 
our island lie the older rocks that had already been 
elevated and disturbed by volcanic action before the 
sandstones, oolites, and cretaceous formations which 
stretch across the Midlands were laid down on their 
flanks ; but the chief factors are the extra five or six 
inches of rain and the softer airs which prevail from 
Gloucestershire to Cumberland. More rain, less 
ii 



156 THE VALE OF PEWSEY 

evaporation, steeper surfaces add to the cost of the 
ploughland, but, on the other hand, give rise to more 
certain and luxuriant grass, tempting the grazier to 
forgo the risks of cultivation. When the great 
depression came a generation ago it was the arable 
farming in the east that was most hardly hit ; corn 
prices fell while wages tended to rise, whereas beef and 
milk continued to be profitable. As the Royal Com- 
mission afterwards reported, the gross returns on the 
arable farms fell to something like one-half of their 
former values, and most of the older farmers retired 
or ruined themselves before they learned to adapt their 
methods to the new conditions. In the west, however, 
it was an easy process to lay down a few more fields 
to grass and to continue without any change of system 
or great reduction of rent. In consequence there has 
been less of a revolution among western methods and 
western men ; grazing is an easy and conservative 
business compared to the management of ploughland, 
and the grass farmers have lived along without the 
violent stimulus for good and evil which overtook the 
arable men, until as a consequence there is nowadays 
a larger proportion of slipshod backward farms to be 
seen west of the Severn than on the other side of the 
country. 

But the west is, after all, not wholly grass ; just as 
in the east the chalk with its many ramifications is the 
source of a great area of thin soils under the plough, 
so in the western Midlands the New Red Sandstone 
equally gives rise to light land, and all the way from 
Worcestershire, through Shropshire, Cheshire, and 
Lancashire, up to Cumberland, accounts for a very 
considerable expanse of arable farming. It is true 
that the New Red Sandstone is largely obscured by 
drift formations of considerable thickness ; but this 



THE DROUGHT IN 1911 157 

drift has very generally been derived from rocks of 
similar character, and the light red sandy soils 
resemble the rock below, though the included pebbles 
speak of a glacial origin. 

But in the character of the season our second 
pilgrimage provided a far greater contrast than the 
change from east to west. The previous season had 
been marked by dull weather, rain, and wind all over 
the kingdom until the end of August, whereas to 
match the drought of 1911 taxed the memory of the 
oldest farmers; 1895, 1887, 1874, 1863 being 
variously referred to, according to the age of the 
speaker. Over much of the country no rain to count 
fell between Easter and the Coronation, and that 
slight break in the weather was soon succeeded by the 
even fiercer heats of July. In some of the eastern 
counties, it is true, heavy thunderstorms fell in June, 
sufficient to establish the root crops and give the spring 
corn a chance to develop ; sufficient also to drown the 
young partridges, so that some of the choicest partridge 
country was again without a show of birds for about 
the fifth season in succession. But the thunderstorms 
were only local, and their beneficial effect was soon 
swept away by the intense sun and the fierce, drying 
airs, until the face of the countryside lay brown and 
parched as few men had ever seen it before. As we 
left London on the 2ist of July harvest was in full 
swing in the Thames Valley ; winter oats were already 
carried ; in one place wheat was being threshed in the 
field, and we even saw men opening out a field of 
barley for the binder. And what a difference there 
was in the look of the corn ! In the previous year, 
south of Yorkshire one hardly saw a field that was not 
laid and twisted in all directions and all of a grey, 
dingy hue ; in 1911 the corn stood like a regiment, 



158 THE VALE OF PEWSEY 

the wheat a shining red gold and the barley almost 
dead white. In the Thames Valley it was evident 
that many men would before August be through with 
the cheapest harvest on record, for probably the straw 
had never been so light and upstanding since the 
introduction of the binder. Unfortunately the roots 
did not match the corn, and the pastures looked so 
burnt that one doubted whether they could recover 
very rapidly even with rain ; hence the prospects of 
winter keep seemed low indeed. 

Our journey had again its starting-point in Wiltshire, 
but this year we took the road from Warminster north- 
eastward over a shoulder of the great chalk massif of 
Salisbury Plain, and very white and blinding did the 
down lie in the sun-glare and the drought. In some 
ways the chalk country bears up well against a 
drought ; crops keep growing in an unexpected fashion, 
as though the porous chalk rock acted as a sponge 
always slowly raising water from the great stores 
below ; but in 1911 the early spring had been too dry 
and the crops had never got a hold ; moreover, even 
on the heights, where one usually counts on cooler airs 
and night mists to maintain the vegetation, the sun 
had scorched the grass to the roots. Men were being 
hard put to it to find any keep for their sheep, as the 
current prices showed only too clearly, for a drop of at 
least i os. a head was reported from the early fairs. 
Over the whole South of England, indeed, the fall was 
accentuated rather than relieved throughout August, 
until towards the end of the month, on the borders of 
Romney Marsh, prime lambs, as nearly fat as might be 
in such a season, were being sold at 143. each and 
ordinary lambs for wintering from ?s. 6d. down to as 
low as is. apiece. At that time the apprehensions of 
the Wiltshire sheep farmer were acute, for there 



AN EARLY HARVEST 159 

seemed little promise of roots or catch crops. At the 
end of July, indeed, with harvest beginning, one hardly 
saw what was recognizable as a field of roots on 
Salisbury Plain ; as a rule the great bare stretches 
showed only here and there a green tinge to indicate 
something coming up, and only occasionally had it 
been possible to hoe and set out the roots to the eye 
in defined lines. Harvest was in full swing on 22nd 
July, even a field of barley was being cut, and the heat 
was such that in a tropical country it would have been 
thought dangerous to work in the sun in the middle of 
the day. We wondered what the occasional flocks of 
Cheviots and Blackfaces which we saw, recent introduc- 
tions into the down country and apparently growing in 
favour even in this classic home of the Hampshires, 
were making of the novel torrid conditions. 

Our first object was the Vale of Pewsey, the broad 
valley which traverses the central mass of chalk from 
east to west and separates the Marlborough Downs 
from Salisbury Plain proper. As the natural gateway 
to the west it is traversed by the great high road 
through Devizes ; and though at first the two railroads 
turned the chalk by way of Swindon and Salisbury 
respectively, the Great Western now drives straight 
through the Vale of Pewsey to Westbury. In the 
west the floor of the valley has been cut down through 
the chalk to the Upper Greensand and the Gault, so 
that on the lower levels the soil is of a distinctively 
heavy type, at that time cracked wide with the 
drought; very generally again the soil shows that 
black or leaden colour so characteristic of the Upper 
Greensand all over its outcrop. The Vale farms, like 
most of those in Wiltshire, run large, 800 acres 
being no uncommon figure, while small holdings have 
no place in the farming of the district. Again, as is 



160 THE VALE OF PEWSEY 

usual in the chalk counties, the farms stretch in strips 
from the valley to the summit of the downs. At the 
base lies the heaviest land, in permanent pasture, to 
be succeeded by three-field land i.e. land farmed on 
a rotation of beans, wheat, fallow while still higher 
on the loams at the base of the chalk the Wiltshire 
four-field system is followed. This rotation, so general 
over all the chalk in the South of England, differs 
essentially from the Norfolk four-course system in that 
two corn crops are taken in succession, generally wheat 
followed by barley. Then the land lies for two years 
under successive green crops, which are eaten off by 
sheep ; rye, winter barley, vetches, and rape being 
sown in succession as the stubbles are ploughed, and 
followed up with more vetches and rape or summer 
turnips, until the land carries at least three crops 
during the two years of fallow. At the summit of the 
farm comes the " bake," land which either grows 
alternate oats and rape, or is unbroken sheep walk, the 
down proper. Small as is the productive capacity of 
this grassland, it is yet of great value to the farmer as 
affording a dry and healthy run for the sheep, which 
otherwise obtain their food by folding upon the 
arable. 

Even considering that a considerable proportion of 
the farms, up to one-third of their area, consist of this 
poor bake and sheep walk, the prevailing rents of 1 2s. 
to 155. an acre could not be considered high : but more 
was then being asked wherever a vacancy occurs, and no 
farms were in the market. The lower land is probably 
as good as any that exists in England, a deep and 
well-tempered loam blessed with an excellent climate ; 
and forty years ago Topley speculated why fruit- and 
hop-growing had never established themselves in this 
district, where the conditions were apparently just as 



MILK PRODUCTION 161 

favourable as in Kent on the one hand or Hereford on 
the other. 

While the old Wiltshire farming was mainly de- 
pendent upon sheep and barley, in the Vale of Pewsey 
conditions have been changing, and the production of 
milk for the London market has now become almost 
the mainstay of the industry. The cows are largely 
fed upon produce drawn from the arable, though there 
has been some laying down of land to grass, and as the 
grass is heavily stocked it requires a good deal of 
attention to keep it in good heart. The arable mostly 
derives its fertility from the cake and corn consumed 
by the folded sheep, together with superphosphate sown 
for the root crops ; thus the dung made by the dairy 
cattle can be largely retained for the grassland, to which 
it imparts some staying power in the dry conditions 
which are normal. Farmyard manure seems to be less 
essential for the arable land, in which the constant folding 
can maintain a sufficient stock of humus. One great 
merit of the Wiltshire system is that no attempt is made 
to sow barley on the irregularly folded and often late- 
ploughed fallow ; whereas the wheat crop is not affected 
by the poor tilth and rank manuring which often results 
from folding, and on its stubble there is plenty of time left 
to prepare for barley. One of the best barley-growers 
in the Vale holds that no good barley is likely to be 
obtained except after an autumn ploughing, followed by 
the minimum labour in the spring that will just drag 
the furrows down preparatory to sowing. That year 
his barley was short in the straw, yet still a fair crop 
that had just missed being first-rate through the last 
drought of July ; the sun had bleached it to a remark- 
able whiteness, but the recent want of rain had pre- 
vented the grain from filling properly, and produced a 
somewhat thin and steely sample. One field that had 



1 62 THE VALE OF PEWSEY 

been sown on 3rd February, we saw ready to cut on the 
22nd of July, the earliest harvest in that district since 
1874. 

Of the other crops, wheat was good, as elsewhere 
the crop of the year ; oats were fair, but beans almost 
a complete failure, having been ravaged by aphis. 
Early-sown mangolds were good, as were some of the 
turnips that had received the benefits of the Coronation 
rains ; but, as often in Wiltshire, late sowing is most 
general with turnips, to which indeed rape is preferred. 
The heavier land of the Vale is very good for man- 
golds, of which a large stock was wanted for the five 
hundred milch cattle on the farm we were visiting. 
On this good land, too, a strict rotation was not 
always followed ; our host told us that one valuable 
lesson he had derived from the Rothamsted experi- 
ments was the possibility and safety of growing three 
or even more corn crops in succession. The difficulty 
of finding milkers does not seem to be felt in the Vale 
of Pewsey ; instead, we were informed that the supply of 
labour was quite satisfactory, the provision of good 
cottages being the chief factor in retaining men in 
the district. We gathered that the labourers were 
perhaps a more stable population than the farmers ; 
most of the older occupiers had been ruined or had 
retired in the depression, and new men had come in 
to take their place, but the labourers, even if they did 
a little wandering when young and restless, generally 
came back to their native country. And, indeed, we 
could well believe that the Vale, with its deeply- 
bowered cottages, its look of sleek enduring fertility, 
with the shapely downs backing the outlook north and 
south, would develop an enduring discontent with any 
other land. 



II 

THE UPPER THAMES VALLEY 

FROM the Vale of Pewsey our road struck northward 
over the Marlborough Downs, where the soils are 
deeper and heavier than on Salisbury Plain. On this 
northern section there are more indications of the 
formations which once covered the chalk but have 
been destroyed without being quite denuded away, 
until there remains on the surface something approxi- 
mating to the red Clay-with-Flints of the North 
Downs and Herefordshire. Another sign is the 
presence of the Sarsen Stones or Grey Wethers, huge 
blocks of fine-grained sandstone which lie like giant 
flocks about the grassland of the Marlborough Downs, 
though too often they have been broken up for building 
and road-making, gate-posts, and the like. They are 
supposed to be indurated cores from the Tertiary 
Sandstones which once lay above the chalk and have 
disappeared in the making of the Clay-with-Flints. 

From Marlborough the Ogbourn valley allows of 
an easy passage northwards until, a few miles short 
of Swindon, the chalk terminates in an escarpment 
looking over the broad vale formed by the Oxford 
Clay and constituting the western end of the Vale of 
the White Horse, through which winds a well-nigh 
derelict canal joining the Stroud Canal with the 

Thames at Abingdon, and running almost parallel with 

163 



1 64 THE UPPER THAMES VALLEY 

that other solitary waterway which leads from the 
Kennet through the Vale of Pewsey to the Bath Avon. 
There we left behind the chalk with its characteristic 
farming for the rest of our journey. The land below 
the escarpment in this part of the vale is heavy and 
tends to be wet, the farms are neither large nor highly 
cultivated, but consist mainly of small grass enclosures 
producing milk for local markets. It was not until we 
reached the middle Oolites in the Thames Valley, with 
their thin brashy soils, that arable farming once more 
prevailed. There, however, a considerable variety of 
soils is found, because the strata, which are compara- 
tively thin and possess narrow outcrops, weather down, 
some to sands and others into materials approaching 
clays, though sharp loams containing a good deal of 
rock predominate, while the clays are tempered by an 
abundance of calcareous matter. 

We were bound for one of the best-known farms in 
the Upper Thames Valley, famous the world over for 
its pedigree stock Shorthorns and Oxford Down 
sheep though our interests lay more in the general 
farming than in the very special export trade our host 
had built up. The breeding of fancy stock, for which 
our Colonies, America, and the Argentine form the 
real market, is a business quite outside the operations 
of the ordinary tenant farmer. Besides that rare 
endowment, the fancier's eye, it demands considerable 
capital and a long waiting period before the breeder 
can build up his reputation and secure prices on a 
scale which will repay him for the heavy expenses 
necessary for success in the show ring in first-class 
company. Mere fashion plays all too large a part in 
dictating the character of the demand ; moreover, the 
buyer and even the agent who effects the purchase are 
themselves advertising, so that the vagaries of prices 



ROTATIONS 165 

are comparable to those of the " old master " market, and 
profits can only be averaged over a long period. The 
amazing thing is the comparatively small influence our 
classic breeders seem to be exerting upon the general 
stock of our farmers ; although Great Britain is the 
fountain-head from which every other great stock- 
producing country draws its blood, the general level of 
the animals which may be seen on sale at any local 
market is below that which prevails, say, in Canada or 
the northern United States. It is only in a few districts, 
particularly in the North, that the ordinary tenant 
farmers keep stock showing any uniform high quality, 
and appreciate the fact that it costs as little or even 
less to rear the better animal. 

Our host farmed over a thousand acres of land of 
variable character, and the exigencies of his stock 
business called for a certain amount of flexibility in 
his management. The old Norfolk four-course system 
chiefly prevailed in the district, and to this in the main 
he adhered, though he would often take barley twice 
in the rotation, after the clover ley as well as after the 
roots, and introduced occasional catch crops to secure 
more keep. Vetches in particular were sown over one- 
third of the root break and followed up with turnips. 
Red clover was not successful at such short intervals 
as four years and so was alternated with a mixture of 
grass seeds, trefoil, and alsike. One field was always 
kept for lucerne, which grows well on the warm brashy 
soils, and in a dry season proves of immense value, 
being, indeed, at that time the only green-growing crop 
upon the farm. Cabbages were also a feature, and our 
host was a great believer in the value of transplanting 
as compared with drilling this crop, and could show us 
a couple of fields to demonstrate his opinion. Not 
only was time gained for the preparation of the land, 



1 66 THE UPPER THAMES VALLEY 

but the transplanted cabbages gave much the greater 
yield ; the shade of old William Cobbett, who was 
never weary of recommending cabbages and their 
transplantation, might well have smiled on the result. 
As in Wiltshire, late sowing answered best for the 
turnips ; we saw swedes that had been drilled as late 
as 2Oth June, and they were better than those put in 
at the beginning of the month, while common turnips 
were rarely sown until July was well advanced. To 
secure a root crop our host depended on the horse 
hoe, and he favoured a particular tool with a broad 
flat share, which pulverized an inch or two on the 
surface, and tightened up the layer immediately below, 
the root-principle of all dry farming. But if he kept 
his root sowing until late he was ahead of the ordinary 
farmer in his hay-making, thanks to which he had 
secured that year an abundant aftermath from the two 
inches of rain that fell in early June but on most farms 
had merely knocked about the standing crop without 
inducing any appreciable extra growth. It is as yet 
far too little recognized that the hay crop in its later 
stages, even when increasing in weight, is still de- 
generating in feeding value ; the maximum production 
of digestible material is reached before the crop is ripe, 
before even the general filling of the seed. In a 
droughty season it is more than ever desirable to cut 
early and win the first growth in a good condition 
rather than hang on in the hope of rain to make a 
thicker bottom. When the rain does come it will be 
turned to better account in the aftermath, as on this 
farm, where the meadows were carrying the best grass 
we had seen since our journey began. 

Though not a specially early district, harvest was in 
full swing, most of the wheat was cut and showed a 
nice crop, though not particularly heavy ; comparatively 



OXFORD DOWN SHEEP 167 

speaking, the barley was better, and promised a good yield 
for the season. Here we saw some of the general purpose 
Shorthorns for which our host was famous, as well as his 
equally notable Oxford Downs, descendants of one of the 
earliest flocks that were formed of this breed. It was 
thereabouts, indeed, that the Oxford Down was created, 
the foundation being the Cotswold sheep of the up- 
lands close by and the Hampshires, of which the type 
had been fixed not long previously. Only that spring 
had died John Treadwell, one of the founders of the breed, 
though he belonged to the Aylesbury country, and 
was proud to tell you how he was the farmer selected 
to nominate Disraeli for the county of Bucks ; a char- 
acteristic figure at the great shows and on his regular 
visit to London for the round of agricultural meetings 
which takes place in Smithfield week. His undeviat- 
ing garb seemed to be of a piece with his firm fixed 
opinions and tenacity of purpose ; he stood in this 
generation a living witness to the masterful early 
Victorians who made English farming what it is. 
The Oxford Downs have become the largest and most 
rapidly growing of the Down breeds : indeed, they find 
place amongst the heaviest British sheep, and they 
have established themselves in several districts remote 
from their origin as, for example, along the Scotch 
border, where there are several flocks of repute. Like 
all Down breeds they are properly sheep of the arable 
land : but they are greatly valued for crossing with 
Cheviots and other upland breeds, the draft ewes of 
which are brought down to the lowlands to raise one 
crop of lambs. The Oxford Down breeders claim 
that no other ram will impart to their crossbred off- 
spring quite the same measure of rapid growth and 
size. 

In one corner of the highly-cultivated farm we were 



1 68 THE UPPER THAMES VALLEY 

visiting we suddenly fell across a few neglected fields 
overrun with weeds and with the fences in the last 
stages of decay and disrepair. This was the local 
small holder, a cheerful soul whose acquaintance we 
afterwards made. By dint of working from dawn till 
dark he managed to keep his end up ; but we gathered 
that the general body of labourers and labour in the 
district was described as both sufficient and good 
showed no particular desire to follow his example. 
Our host naturally held strong views on the policy of 
expropriating farmers like himself to replace them 
by men who would either put acres together in their 
turn or sink into slipshod skinners of a bare sustenance 
from an impoverished soil ; but he considered that the 
small-holding movement had lost its force. What he 
did fear was the continuance of the sales of estates and 
the disturbance of the current farmers by new men 
with exaggerated ideas of the profits attached to farm- 
ing ; but even the present rush to sell land was no 
new phenomenon, for much the same thing happened 
forty years ago, during the last period of rising rents 
and land hunger in England. Men do not become 
bakers or millers just because times are good, but there 
are always men ready to rush into farming as soon as 
the returns promise any sort of a living. 

In the late afternoon we took leave, but our route 
still lay through the pleasant country where the 
Cotswold streams are finding their way down to the 
Thames, a country of warm stone-built houses, roofed, 
too, with stone, the " Stonesfield Slates," which take 
such an exquisite patina with time. It is essentially 
a soft country with a charm of its own that has been 
caught by one of its deepest lovers William Morris. 
We passed close by his old house, Kelmscott, now 
known for its milking Shorthorns, but other places 



THE ENGLISH GENTRY 169 

hard by have also their niche in agricultural history. 
Buscot must ever be associated with Shire horses if 
with nothing else, and Pusey possesses more than 
ecclesiastical associations, for it was the seat of Philip 
Pusey, one of the founders of the Royal Agricultural 
Society, an indefatigable writer and experimenter, and 
one of the foremost of that select band of landlords 
who in the early years of Victoria's reign were real 
captains of rural industry. The associations of 
Burford are of another class ; but if we know nothing 
of Speaker Lenthall's farming, he yet was a member of 
the same class of smaller English gentry who have 
served the State so well. They yet command the 
loyalty of the whole agricultural community and may 
lead it for many years to come, on the one condition 
that they will learn to farm and bring some intelligence 
to the business of being landlords. Burford itself may 
well claim to be considered as the most beautiful 
of English villages ; the dignified houses, the long 
street descending to the bridge, the bridge itself, and 
the charming stream with its fringe of tree and meadow, 
not only compose so deftly but fill the mind with 
satisfaction as a complete representation of the most 
honourable English tradition. 

From Burford the road runs up to the high 
Cotswolds, that broad ridge of Oolitic limestone which 
traverses England parallel to the chalk, though it 
changes considerably in character and gives rise to 
comparatively light sandy soils in the East Midlands. 
But in the Cotswolds themselves the soil is a strong 
loam kept friable and suitable for the plough, even at 
comparatively high elevations, by a certain amount of 
sand and carbonate of lime derived from the parent 
rock. Once on the elevated plateau that stretches 
from Burford to the escarpment overlooking the Severn 



1 70 THE UPPER THAMES VALLEY 

Valley, the effect of the summer's drought was less 
apparent than in any country we had seen. Most of 
the country is under the plough, but the second growth 
of the clover was green and luxuriant, and the root 
crops were all that could be wished, growing vigorously 
with scarcely a miss perceptible. Late-sown oats 
were still quite green and looked like making yields of 
over average, so heavy and well filled were the heads, 
even if the straw was short. Barley is extensively 
grown in this district, and was not ripening off so pre- 
maturely as on the chalk, while wheat was, as usual, 
the crop of the year, most brilliant in colour, with a 
gloss and shine about it that we had not hitherto seen 
even in that year of handsome corn crops. 

The Cotswold farmers follow a very normal four- 
course rotation ; two corn crops are sometimes taken 
after ley, which itself is often left down for two years 
on the heavier soils ; occasional fields of vetches and 
lucerne vary the cropping, but we saw neither peas nor 
beans. Paring and burning the stubble is also a 
practice not often met with in other districts. The 
permanent grass was less attractive than the plough- 
land, much of it being weedy and looking in want 
both of management and of manure ; the proportion 
increases as the land rises towards the escarpment, 
where, too, some very fine beech woods are encountered. 
Horned stock are not abundant, and we were much 
surprised to traverse the whole ridge without seeing 
a single Cotswold sheep, though there were H amp- 
shires and Oxford Downs in plenty. Yet the Cotswold 
sheep once possessed a position in the export market, 
being valuable for crossing when both wool and mutton 
are wanted together. Big white-faced, long-woolled, 
a little coarse perhaps, the Cotswold is perhaps the 
most typical modern representative of the old English 



LONG-WOOLLED SHEEP 171 

long-woolled race which has been differentiated into so 
many local breeds ; and its value both for home and for 
export lies not only in its long wool, but in the hardiness 
which has come from many generations on the bleak 
uplands. But, like many of the other big breeds, it is 
now suffering a little from the increasing demand for 
small and fine joints in the modern diminishing house- 
holds, moreover it has a reputation for coarseness in the 
wool to which the practice of " raddling " has perhaps 
contributed. 



Ill 

THE VALE OF EVESHAM 

THE western edge of the Cotswolds yields one of the 
noblest views England has to show : the road after a 
long gentle rise suddenly rolls over into space, and 
all the glories of the world are spread before one 
the rich wooded valley of the Avon and of the farther 
Severn, beyond which rises the shapely line of the 
Malvern Hills, with the Glees more remote, and in the 
vaporous distance fold after fold of the foothills of 
the Welsh marches. The face of the escarpment falls 
400 feet in a single wave to the fertile Evesham Vale, 
but the road zigzags down into a little coombe where 
lies Broadway, most admired of the Cotswold villages, 
with their comely houses of brown stone. Not far 
away in a similar gap lies Winchcomb, with its great 
orchards, memorable too in the past for the bloodshed 
which attended the suppression of tobacco-growing in 
these parts. In Charles ll.'s time Winchcomb seems 
to have been the centre of a flourishing tobacco 
industry, but rather than collect an Excise duty the 
authorities preferred to abolish the English growth, 
prompted also by certain courtiers who were interested 
in the Virginia plantations and wanted a monopoly. 
At any rate, as may be read in Pepys, it was necessary 
to send down troops to destroy the tobacco fields, and, 
as in Ireland at a later date, an industry was deliber- 



FRUIT AND VEGETABLES 173 

ately wiped out of existence which would by this time 
have developed such appropriate varieties, methods of 
cultivation and manufacture, as would give it a stable 
position in the general market. Nowadays, if tobacco 
growing is to be re-established in the United Kingdom, 
not only have the processes to be worked out by experi- 
ment, but the product, however good intrinsically, has 
to conquer an introduction into a highly organized and 
conservative trade. 

The current interests of the Evesham country are, 
however, fruit and vegetables, in virtue of which the 
district has become one of the most highly specialized 
areas of English farming. The favoured region forms 
a belt on either side of the Avon, extending on the one 
side almost as far as Stratford and beyond Pershore 
on the other, with offshoots into the Cotswolds along 
several tributary valleys, Evesham and Pershore being 
the two chief markets. Near the river the soils are 
alluvial and on the light side, but their situation 
renders them subject to damaging spring frosts, and 
the most desirable land lies a little back from and 
elevated above the river level. On the north side of 
the river some of the soils are derived from the New 
Red Sandstone, but in the main the fruit lies on a stiff 
calcareous loam derived from the Lias clay, though in 
places there are lighter ridges with rock not far from 
the surface. Until it has been broken up and put 
under intensive cultivation this Lias land appears to 
be of comparatively small value, and mostly carries 
poor grass at a comparatively low rent. It is very 
striking to see how the highly cultivated orchards are 
abruptly exchanged for poor-looking dairy farms that 
certainly show no evidence of quality, though in the 
prevailing drought one would be inclined to under- 
estimate their stock-carrying capacity. 



174 THE VALE OF EVESHAM 

The fruit farms in this district are not as a rule 
very large; some are as small as 3 to 5 acres, and 
a man with 80 acres is in a big way of business, 
20 to 40 acres being perhaps the most common 
holding. Many are freehold, but in general they are 
rented under the Evesham custom, which makes the 
fruit trees the property of the tenant, and so great has 
been the demand for land that rents run high, up to 
3 and 4 per acre, especially for the smaller holdings, 
on which a man with little capital may make a start. 
The County Council of Worcester have acquired 
several farms and cut them up, and where they have 
had to make roads and erect buildings the rent per 
acre naturally works out rather high. Still, the 
demand increases, and it mostly comes from men who 
are likely to succeed, because they began by working 
for the other growers and had both the courage to save 
money from their weekly wage and the ambition to 
adventure for themselves. A large proportion of the 
growers in this district has been thus recruited from 
below, and this class contains some very intelligent, 
hard-working folk ; but there is also another class of 
young men drawn from the upper and middle classes, 
possessed of a small amount of capital, which they 
have sunk in a Worcestershire fruit farm instead of 
carrying to the Colonies. And very successful has 
been their enterprise; there are enough of them to 
form a society to themselves ; they have not been 
afraid to take their coats off and use their hands ; they 
have set to work as roughly as they would have done 
in the Colonies, and at the same time they have made 
their brains and education tell. On a small capital they 
are earning a reasonable living, and their numbers are 
sufficient to provide the relaxation and social inter- 
course which keep a gentleman from dropping out of 



THE PERSHORE PLUM 175 

his class, as he may so easily do if he tries to live by 
manual labour in isolation. 

The mainstay of the fruit plantations of the Vale is 
the yellow egg or Pershore plum, which far outnumbers 
all other kinds of fruit. It forms a loose, small 
growing tree propagated from the freely produced 
suckers, and it is generally planted comparatively 
closely, so that the older gardens look very thick and 
tangled. The fruit possesses no particular quality for 
table, but it travels well, makes excellent jams and 
tarts, and the trees crop so freely and so regularly 
that they are still preferred to the Victorias, Monarchs, 
Magnum Bonums, Pond's Seedlings, etc., which are 
grown elsewhere, and are also common enough here. 
Curiously enough, the Pershore plum has never been 
much planted outside its own district, though hardy 
and adaptable enough to flourish anywhere. Apples 
are also grown extensively ; the newer men particularly 
have been planting apples, as a rule on the Paradise 
stock. Pears are also planted, but cherry orchards are 
not general ; on the strong soils the trees are apt to 
die unaccountably just as they should be coming into 
bearing. Grass orchards are not common ; the typical 
fruit plantation is under cultivation, and indeed has 
to carry much more than the plums or apples which 
most visibly cover the ground. Gooseberries are 
grown below the half-standard plums and apples, 
though perhaps not to the same extent as in Kent. 
In the more intensively worked grounds every inch of 
open space is occupied by a succession of vegetables ; 
a cheaper method of farming is to plant wallflowers or 
narcissi below the plums. In other cases we saw 
bush fruit without any larger trees above them, as, for 
example, loganberries trained on a low wire trellis, and 
unfortunately affected by a fungoid disease which 



1 76 THE VALE OF EVESHAM 

attacks the stems. During the last season or two this 
hitherto unreported disease has threatened to destroy 
the value of one of the most useful fruits recently 
introduced. 

If the Pershore plum made the district originally, 
the most recent factor in its success has been asparagus, 
of which great breadths might be seen on almost every 
holding. Years ago asparagus was regarded as only 
suited to light land, but it has been found to revel in 
the heavy Lias clay, establishing itself freely with no 
further aid than the old turf turned in, without any 
of the lavish dressings of farmyard manure which are 
usually considered necessary but are quite unattainable 
in this district. Moreover, on the heavy soil the 
asparagus grows bold, thick stalks of excellent flavour, 
and " Evesham grass " holds the highest reputation 
in the market amongst those who prefer the English 
asparagus, with its comparatively long green top, to 
the more artificial article, mainly tough yellow stem, 
which is imported from Argenteuil. The fields of 
asparagus formed the greenest feature in the landscape, 
and the tall stems, with their waving, feathery foliage, 
were evidently revelling in the heat ; but the runner 
beans, which were not infrequently planted on the 
sides of the rows of asparagus (for in this country, with 
land so dear, every yard is doubly cropped), were at a 
standstill. Runner beans, not staked but kept dwarf 
by pinching, form a common crop, and were short and 
small this year, as also were the vegetable marrows, 
which often occupied a neighbouring strip. Indeed, 
the Evesham country appeared to be suffering from 
the drought more severely than any other district we 
had seen, and the nearer the land to the bottom of 
the valley and the river the worse it had been hit. 
The early season had been good ; the asparagus had 



SMALL HOLDINGS 177 

experienced both ideal weather for its development 
and an excellent market, but July had not permitted 
the later vegetables or the succession crops to make 
any headway, and the fruit had now come to a 
standstill. Apples were plentiful but remained small, 
and were then beginning to drop; plums were less 
abundant and would not swell ; some were being 
picked to sell in the unripe state to the jam-makers, 
and so by lightening the burden on the tree to give 
the rest a chance. A general brown look on the trees 
told of the ravages of " red spider," and among the 
plums in particular plenty of trees were seen to be 
dying outright, while all newly planted trees were 
evidently being kept alive with difficulty. Growers 
were very gloomy about their prospects, but their 
operations are so varied that it is almost impossible 
for all the crops to go wrong together; generally 
something makes a hit good enough to carry the rest, 
and last year's plum crop and the asparagus this 
spring have left a good deal of money in the 
district. 

Though a check in the progress might be expected 
from the dry season, one could see in every direction 
that the industry had been extending rapidly ; wherever 
a farm could be broken up there was an eager demand 
for areas of from 5 to 40 acres, and fruit-planting 
has been proceeding apace during the previous winter. 
The Evesham country is in some ways classic ground 
for the advocates of "small holdings," and they can 
point to the enormous increase both in the output 
of the land and the men it can support, that has 
taken place since what was but second-rate grass 
land has become available for division and intensive 
cultivation. Thereabouts one did find a definite 
feeling against the large farmer as a monopolizer and 



1 78 THE VALE OF EVESHAM 

waster of land ; the labourers in the fruit plantations 
who are seeking a few acres whereupon to make a 
start look over the hedge at the thinly-stocked fields, 
and their land hunger is barbed by the contempt 
which the gardener always feels for the farmer, whose 
economic basis he does not understand. But Evesham 
is not strictly a " small holding " district ; the planta- 
tions are of all sizes, and the man with five acres does 
not think of himself as a member of a community of 
equals, but as having made a first step towards the 
position of one of his bigger neighbours. Co-operative 
methods, collective buying or selling even joint 
enterprises like jam factories have made but little 
headway ; there is a co-operative society at Pershore 
that is well supported, but the majority of the growers 
are fierce individualists, keenly on the look-out for 
some special private market, or content to do business 
through some friend who has taken to dealing. Of 
any organization to treat with markets or railway 
companies, such as would immediately embrace every 
grower in an American district, there are only the 
rudiments. 

It is difficult to account for the special success of 
the fruit growing of the Evesham district: the soil 
is good without being in any way exceptional ; the 
same might also be said of the climate ; the railway 
facilities are certainly above the average, and two 
great markets in the shape of South Wales and 
Birmingham, with the Black Country, are close at 
hand. Probably this factor gave the district a start 
before it was customary to send fruit the distances 
that now are usual. Granted a start, the system of 
land tenure prevailing " the Evesham custom " 
seems to have done the rest, because it gave to tenants 
the security they need before embarking upon the 



THE EVESHAM CUSTOM 179 

expensive business of planting up land with fruit. 
In an ordinary way a tenant who plants fruit trees 
does so at his own risk ; they are his landlord's 
property; should he die or leave he will get no 
compensation for the extra value they have imparted 
to the holding he may even be rack-rented on the 
improvement he has made. In Kent custom gives 
the tenant the bare cost of the trees if he goes out 
within seven years of planting, but he will get no 
compensation for making an established cherry orchard, 
which may have doubled the fee-simple of the land. 
Men have planted, relying (generally with confidence) 
on the equity and forbearance of the landlords, but 
such a system does not encourage enterprise. On 
the other hand, the landlord may rightly ask to be 
saved from rash speculations on unsuitable land ; in 
any case he does not care for the possibility of being 
called upon to buy a lot of standing fruit trees at 
a valuation which he may not be able to recover from 
a new tenant. The Evesham custom made the 
planting the business of the tenant, and threw on 
him the responsibility of realising its value ; if he 
wished to leave he had to find a new tenant with 
whom he made his own bargain for the standing fruit, 
often worth more than the land, and the landlord 
had to accept the new tenant or buy the trees himself. 
As a custom which had grown up by degrees and 
become familiar to all parties, this system worked 
admirably and was just between landlord and tenant ; 
but it is looked coldly upon outside its own district, 
and the attempt to extend it by the Market Gardens 
Act over the whole country has only resulted in landlords 
refusing to let farms except with a specific agreement 
that they are not to be regarded as market gardens 
under the Act, The English landlord dreads the 



i8o THE VALE OF EVESHAM 

suggestion of dual ownership and the possible 
imposition upon the estate of a tenant whom he does 
not " like " ; he has been content to forego the chance 
of development and of a considerable increase of rent 
in order to remain master on his own land. 



IV 
THE WEST MIDLANDS 

EVESHAM and Pershore lie at the beginning of the 
broad vale of Lias clay that stretches north-eastwards 
into Yorkshire, a grass-land country all the way, on 
which probably more milk is raised than on any other 
formation. Where we do find the land under the 
plough the soil generally turns out to be lightened 
by drift, even if it is not wholly of drift origin, as 
in an interesting little area of light, highly cultivated 
land in the Avon Valley, lying immediately to the 
east of Stratford. From Evesham to Stratford one 
road runs under the Oolite escarpment, at first through 
a tributary valley in which fruit predominates, much 
of it consisting of orchards of long standing ; then 
just after the turning towards Chipping Camden and 
the hills has been passed the orchards give place to 
the typical Lias grass country, here of indifferent 
aspect, and not over well farmed, though in such a 
season one might easily do heavy grass-land less than 
justice. But near Stratford and beyond it one 
suddenly comes upon soils of a very different type, 
where a sharp sandy loam full of rounded pebbles 
occupies the wide valley, and only gives place to the 
clay as one advances up the flanks of the hills. 
Much of it is in a high state of cultivation, and as 
is so often the case it was standing the drought far 

181 



1 82 THE WEST MIDLANDS 

better than the clays, though the harvest had come 
very early and barley was already cut in places. 

Barley is one of the staple crops of this district, 
and, though the area is restricted, it forms one of 
the few areas in the Midlands growing barley of high 
quality ; it was not until we got up towards Shrewsbury 
that we again saw this crop playing any important 
part in the farming. We visited one or two farms 
and saw some very excellent management large level 
fields carrying heavy crops and very few weeds. On 
one of them was to be found both the light soil and 
the clay, and so marked is the distinction that the 
two portions of the farm have to be farmed on 
different rotations. On the heavy land it is necessary 
to introduce a bare fallow in the rotation ; in no other 
way can the tilth be preserved and the land maintained 
in a clean condition ; even a crop of mangolds leads 
to such poaching of the land in their harvesting as 
is rarely made up for by the yield of roots. The 
rotation is one of six years' duration, the bare fallow 
being followed by wheat, in which seeds are sown ; 
the ley only stands a single year, and is then ploughed 
up for wheat, to be followed by beans and wheat again. 
Wheat thus occupies the land in alternate seasons, 
the highest proportion we have met with in any part 
of the country. On the light land the course begins 
with a root crop, which is eaten off by sheep and 
followed up with oats. Barley forms the second corn 
crop, after which a crop of potatoes and then wheat 
is taken ; thus in the five years no fewer than four 
crops are raised for sale. Indeed, part of the root 
break is devoted to peas to be picked green, and 
followed up with turnips, which can be sown success- 
fully as late as the end of August. Vetches were also 
grown on the root break, and similarly followed by 



INSECT PESTS 183 

summer turnips. Lucerne succeeds on this class of 
land, and for once in a way we saw a really successful 
stand that had been obtained by sowing without any 
cover crop, a proceeding that usually results in a dense 
growth of annual weeds, threatening to smother the 
lucerne, with its slow start and thin upright habit 
until the second season. 

The corn crops were good without being out of the 
way ; the wheat best on the heavy land and not, as 
in many districts, much superior to the other cereals ; 
the barley, as usual, bleached in the intense sunshine 
and inclined to be a little thin and steely, greatly in 
need even at this late stage of some rain to mellow it. 
Beans were, as usual, the failure of the year ; they had 
been ruined by the black aphis, and another black 
aphis was curling the leaves of the mangolds, which 
had also suffered a little from the attacks of the fly, 
whose larvae burrow in the leaf substance between the 
two skins. Still, they were a good plant and had made 
considerable headway. Potatoes were very fine, and 
had only just begun to check and feel the need of 
rain ; potatoes, indeed, formed almost the best crop of 
the year ; the only danger being the likelihood of a 
second growth when the rain did eventually come to 
start the warm soil into activity. Probably one of 
the chief factors in the high quality of the Dunbar 
potatoes is the equable summer climate that maintains 
an even, long-continued growth without the pause due 
to summer drought which so often results in super- 
tuberation in the south. In this district potatoes 
constitute one of the most paying crops, Birmingham 
and South Wales providing accessible and remunerative 
markets. 

Where so much was sold off the land there was 
clearly no great opening for stock ; bullocks were 



1 84 THE WEST MIDLANDS 

fattened more to trample down the straw into manure 
and consume the roots than for any profit they brought, 
while the sheep were flying flocks whose function was 
to eat off the fallow crops and consolidate the light 
sandy land. In addition a good deal of artificial 
manure had to be used to keep up the fertility, for 
the thin soils do not retain much from one year to 
another. It was evidently cheap land to manage, 
lying in large fields of easy or no slope, and mostly 
workable with a pair of horses and light implements, 
of which we particularly noticed a locally-made plough, 
of the short mould-board type, but with a coulter 
adjustable both as to angle and depth. Naturally for 
such choice and conveniently situated land rents were 
pretty high 353. to 403. an acre; but really good 
land is always worth its rent, and while a farm of this 
class could not then be hired anywhere in England, 
there was still land on offer at ics. an acre. 

Labour was reported to be satisfactory, both as to 
quality and quantity, though it was thought probable 
that the demand would increase and wages might have 
to be raised with the prosperity of the manufacturing 
towns on the edge of the district and their call for 
men. This highly farmed area round Stratford is not 
very extensive, but nearly all of it looked in good 
hands ; on another farm we saw one of the finest oat 
crops of the year, and everywhere swedes and mangolds 
were surprisingly good, considering the drought. 

We heard, too, considerable talk about experiments, 
both manurial and variety trials, organized by the 
County Council ; and though this kind of work is often 
too slipshod and ill-conceived, too little cognisant of 
the limitations of its method to attain results to which 
any credence can be attached, it does lead men to 
think and discuss, to the manifest improvement of their 



EXPERIMENTS 185 

general practice. No man of any standing in his 
business likes to be formally instructed, but he will 
make use of information which he can pick up inci- 
dentally. It may become possible to organize local 
experiments so as to yield permanent results pos- 
sessing authority, but their main function will long 
remain to provide texts upon which the informed 
instructor can develop principles and demonstrate good 
practice. We did not leave the Stratford district 
without one more look at the Avon, most typical of 
Midland rivers, which usually winds bank-high through 
its meadows and washes its grassy brink, but which at 
that time had shrunk down till it was almost as hidden 
as the deep-sunk Severn or Teme. Burnt up as the 
pastures were, we saw some very fine cattle still fatten- 
ing on the rough, dried-up herbage, thriving as stock 
will do in a hot summer if only they have access to 
water. 

From Stratford we struck across the edge of the 
Lias clay and limestones and the New Red Sandstone 
to Droitwich, through a poor country as badly farmed 
as though it were a thousand miles from a market. 
On the low limestone hills field after field was entirely 
derelict, given over to briars and rabbits, with the 
stones protruding through the thin scruf of vegetation 
as on a Bagshot common or the driest and thinnest 
scarps of the chalk. It may be true that it is waste 
of money to try to farm on bad land and make a soil 
where nature has not supplied the foundation, but for 
such entire neglect there can be no excuse in England. 
The rabbit is the curse ; on poor land he affords some 
sort of return, enough to provide an excuse for letting 
things drift and for putting in neither thought nor 
money to turn the land to better account. Some 
people have no great opinion of the future of forestry 



1 86 THE WEST MIDLANDS 

in England because it can never support the proportion 
of men to acres which ought to prevail in our densely 
populated island, But better a forest than a desert, 
better an organized attempt to earn three per cent, sixty 
years hence than the deterioration which the unchecked 
rabbit brings, even if he will earn a shilling or two per 
acre for " sport." The rabbit is reported to have 
destroyed much good land in Australia, but we doubt 
if he does not levy a greater if less obvious toll on 
England. Even where there is no question of a 
warren it is wonderful what damage a farmer will 
tolerate for the sake of the little shooting to which he 
is entitled. 

On the New Red Sandstone the land was still very 
largely in grass, poor thin pastures, burnt that year to 
an extent we had seen in no other part, not even on 
the thinnest soils of the chalk or the stiffest Weald 
clays. The drought, indeed, lay heavy on the land ; 
even the fields were absolutely brown and bare, in the 
hedgerows the leaves all hung limp and were beginning 
to discolour and drop, while some trees were evidently 
dying outright. As we neared Droitwich both land 
and farming improved, and from there to the Severn 
we crossed a belt of red sandstone land which runs up 
from near Worcester to Kidderminster and carries a 
thriving agricultural population. This side of Wor- 
cestershire is just as vigorously farmed as the Evesham 
country, and again very largely by small holders ; but 
the chief crops are potatoes and vegetables rather than 
fruit, though considerable plantations have been put 
down of recent years. The soil is very suitable for 
growing potatoes of good quality, and the red land has 
the great advantage of yielding tubers which look 
bright and clean the moment they are dug up. Great 
virtues are sometimes ascribed to the iron which so 



IRON IN SOILS 187 

obviously colours the soil ; but the real factor in the 
quality is the physical texture, a certain similarity of 
which runs through all these red soils. Actually they 
contain rather less than the usual percentage of oxide 
of iron. But no fallacy dies harder than the associa- 
tion of all sorts of virtues, particularly colour in flowers 
and fruit, with iron in the soil. The probable origin 
of the opinion is that blood is red and blood contains 
iron, and for the same reason whiteness and weakness 
are popularly associated both in bread and in animals. 
Crossing the Severn at Holt, we immediately found 
ourselves among some extensive and carefully managed 
hop yards, the first we had seen since Kent, though 
one or two still remain among the fruit in the Evesham 
Valley. But the true home of the Worcestershire hops 
is west of the Severn, and less in the Severn Valley 
itself than in that of its tributary, the Teme. Along- 
side the hops were some orchards of the modern type, 
young, vigorous, and carefully tended, not the closely 
planted dwarfs and bushes of the Evesham district, but 
standards that were, or would be, laid down to grass. 
This belt of fruit and hop land near the Severn is only 
narrow, and is succeeded by the more ordinary farming 
country leading on to Witley, a somewhat highly 
polished region such as marks a rich and well-kept 
estate, but with a considerable local reputation for its 
agriculture. Its farming is perhaps most akin to that 
of Shropshire, though it also possesses some of the 
features of the Teme Valley ; but it was not sufficiently 
special to detain us, and we pushed on up the steep 
ridge which divides the Severn from the Teme. 
Abberly Hill forms a northern continuation of the 
Malvern Ridge, a sharp intrusion of ancient igneous 
rock which for many geological epochs must have been 
an island in the seas in which British land was event- 
's 



1 88 THE WEST MIDLANDS 

ually laid down. The climb is steep, but one is no 
sooner at the top than another great vista is opened, 
comparable with that we had previously gained from 
the edge of the Cotswold scarp the deep, richly- 
wooded Teme Valley from Ludlow downwards with 
the vivid outlines of the hills of the Welsh marches 
the Clees, the Longmynd and the Stiper Stones, 
silhouetted against the dying sunset. 



THE VALLEY OF THE TEME: HOPS 
AND FRUIT 

THE Teme Valley, through which our course now 
lay, has some claim to be considered the richest stretch 
of land in England at any rate, in its course from 
Ludlow down to Knightwick it possesses all the 
elements of beauty which commend it to the farmer's 
eye. The valley is carved out of a plateau of Old 
Red Sandstone, rising to a height of about 400 feet 
on either side of the alluvial plain, in which the 
river wanders in a bed cut by the winter's rains some 
twenty feet below the general level of the meadows. 
On one or other side the river generally shows a 
low scar of red sandstone, which also runs across the 
stream in low reefs, breaking it into a succession of 
rapid runs and still pools, appropriate the one to the 
trout and the other to the grayling, for which the 
river is famous. On its other bank the river bed 
shows the deep red alluvial soil, strong in its texture, 
but rendered friable by an admixture of sand and 
stones, giving rise to the most fertile land of the 
valley. 

The alluvial flat proper has either been left in 
permanent pasture, peopled by the big white-faced 
Herefords which are so much at home in these their 
proper meadows, or else is cultivated for hop gardens, no 

189 



190 THE VALLEY OF THE TEME 

other crop being deemed worthy to displace the rich 
pasturage. The hops also occupy the lower slopes 
of the hills where the rain wash has made a soil 
that is almost as deep as on the flat land below, and 
on these lower slopes the orchards also begin, and run, 
in some cases, right up to the summit of the plateau. 
The hops are not affected by the late spring frosts 
which would do so much damage to the fruit, and 
are also more in need of the deep rich land where 
fruit trees would tend to grow too rankly. On the 
top of the plateau the soil is by no means deep nor 
over rich, and here may be found ordinary mixed 
farming, with a good deal of woodland and poor 
grass upon the higher levels, but, again, with fruit and 
hops occupying the hollows where there is a little more 
warmth and shelter. 

The best of the Worcestershire hop-growing is 
concentrated into this stretch of the Teme Valley, 
though there is some in the Malvern country and 
even across the Severn in the Avon Valley. Alto- 
gether, Worcestershire has about 3000 acres of hops ; 
and the neighbouring county of Hereford grows about 
5000 acres under very similar conditions in the 
valleys of the Frome and other tributaries of the 
Wye. A few acres run into the next counties of 
Shropshire and Gloucestershire, making altogether 
less than 10,000 acres of hops in this western district, 
as compared with 20,000 in Kent alone, and about 
33,000 in the whole country. Here, as elsewhere, the 
acreage has been declining considerably ; though it 
is -interesting to note that Worcestershire has only 
lost 1 8 per cent, of its hops since 1 900, and Hereford 
31 per cent., whereas Kent has lost 38 per cent, and 
Sussex as much as 47 per cent, within the same 
period. 



HOP-GROWING 191 

These differences are not entirely a matter of yield ; 
for within the same period Sussex has produced an 
average of 9 cwt. per acre and Kent rather more, 
whereas the yield in Worcestershire has been only 
7j cwt. per acre and nearly i cwt. less in Hereford. 
On the whole, however, the hops are grown more 
cheaply in the western country, and the land is 
better, for though there is perhaps not much difference 
between the best bottom lands of Sussex and those 
of Worcestershire, the chief grubbings in the former 
county and in Kent have been in the poorer gardens 
situated upon comparatively unsuitable soils. 

Not only is the land rather better in the west, 
but the standard of cultivation and manuring is 
perhaps a little lower, so that the crop is left to grow 
itself to a greater extent than in Kent. Several of 
the operations carried out by hand in Kent for 
example, covering up the hills with earth are re- 
placed by horse labour in Worcestershire. Wages 
are also at a lower level, both for the regular men 
and for the pickers, who are chiefly drawn from the 
Black Country ; indeed, the way that the Worcester- 
shire hop-growers have managed to weather the 
depression is an illustration of the fact that low 
prices can only be met by reduced expenditure. It 
is rather unfair to speculate about the human factor 
in these matters because one's judgment is apt to be 
based on too limited a range of examples, but we 
certainly have formed the impression that at the 
present time the average west country grower is a 
little more progressive and active minded than his 
competitors in Sussex ; and this opinion is strengthened 
by the fact that we see installed in Worcestershire 
and Hereford many more of the recent attempts to 
dry hops by some form of forced draught of heated 



192 THE VALLEY OF THE TEME 

air instead of by the old-fashioned kiln in which the 
products of combustion passed through the hops. It 
is more than possible that these innovators are upon 
the wrong track, and ought instead to be reforming 
their natural draught kilns as the most economical tool, 
thoroughly efficient if properly constructed ; but at any 
rate the search after a more intensive and controllable 
plant may be taken as an indication of enterprise. 

The Worcestershire hops are almost wholly grown 
upon wire and string, being planted closely to- 
gether, not more than 3 ft. to 3 ft. 6 in. apart in 
rows from 7 ft. to 8 ft. wide, and trained at a very 
slight angle to two wires running nearly above the 
hills. The close planting is favourable to heavy crops, 
while the upright string saves some expense in train- 
ing. But if the hops do grow rather more readily 
in the fine soil and kindly climate in the west, they 
are subject to more prolonged and intense attacks 
of blight than prevail in Kent and Sussex. The 
eastern grower may sometimes think that green fly 
cannot be more persistent in its development than 
with him, but without doubt the attacks are generally 
heavier and more lasting in the deep and close valleys 
of Worcestershire and Hereford. In 191 1 we were told 
that the men in the Teme Valley had been compelled 
to spray their hops as many as nine times to get 
them clean, whereas the attacks, if for a time heavy, 
yet passed away quickly in Kent, where few men 
washed more than twice or three times. 

The varieties of the hops grown are practically the 
same all over the kingdom ; it is true that the western 
country has developed two fine hops the Mathon 
and Cooper's White which are in some respects 
distinct ; but they are true Goldings, and have not 
diverged far from the parent stock which gave rise 



THE WORCESTER HOP TRADE 193 

to the old Goldings and the Canterbury and Farnham 
Whitebines. But the Kentish Brandings, Fuggles, 
and Cobbs are most generally grown and have almost 
displaced the local varieties, of which in return only 
the Mathon has obtained a slight footing in the east. 
The west country hops generally have a reputation 
of being rather thinner in character and more delicate 
in colour and flavour than those coming from the 
corresponding varieties in Kent, still more so than 
the hops of the Weald and Sussex. They are 
largely sold in open market in Worcester instead of 
through factors as in London, Worcester being the 
only open market left now that the Weyhill Fair has 
become but a shadow of its former self. The harvest 
is a trifle earlier in the west, and owing also to the 
open market a strong trade is generally established 
rather earlier in Worcester than in London, a fact 
which of late years has been to the advantage of the 
western growers, for the price has often tended to 
fall rather than to harden as the season advanced. 

The gardens that we saw along the Teme Valley 
were carrying a very fair show of bine considering 
the drought, from which, indeed, they did not seem 
to have suffered at all. They were not, however, 
set with quite as many hops as might have been 
expected from the bine ; and this could be attributed 
partly to the heat and partly to the very persistent 
washing that had been necessary to free them from 
aphis, for washing when the flowering shoots are 
forming always injures the yield by causing the pin 
to drop. In some cases the cultivation was below 
the proper standard and weeds too prominent; but 
this, again, might be set down to the washing, which 
had occupied all the farmer's available strength of 
horses. 



194 THE VALLEY OF THE TEME 

Hop-growing is, however, a specialist's business, and 
here, as in Kent, opinions are divided as to whether 
it is good for a farmer to have hops upon his farm. 
If he is a small man he is certainly tempted to rob the 
rest of his land to feed his hops, and is apt to be 
drawn into an acreage beyond his strength by the 
great profits that can be won in a favourable season. 
With each succeeding spell of bad seasons the tendency 
is for the little man to draw out and leave the business 
more and more to men of substance who have some 
reserve of capital and are hop-growers rather than 
farmers. But these specialists have also their diffi- 
culties ; it costs more per acre to farm a hundred acres 
of hops than to farm ten, so many are the operations 
for which the large man has to provide specially, but 
which can be fitted in with other odd jobs upon the 
little farm where the hops are only an incident. Again, 
with the brewers short of capital and living from hand 
to mouth for their supplies, it has been of late years 
much less easy to dispose of a block of a thousand 
pockets of hops than of a little lot. It has been 
the " tied house " policy of the English brewers, with 
its inevitable consequence the making of beer from 
any sort of materials that would promise cheapness 
which has been the real cause of depression in the hop 
trade. However, by 1911 the acreage under hops had 
been reduced to a level far below the normal require- 
ments of the trade, Stocks were depleted and there 
was no foreign surplus, so that prices promised to rise 
that season to a point rarely seen of late years, unless 
too many of the brewers should decide to go without 
hops entirely. 

From the time when both were " fetched out of 
Flanders " fruit and hops have gone together in 
English farming ; and Worcestershire is no exception 



CIDER AND PERRY 195 

to the rule, being one of the six counties containing 
more than 20,000 acres of land under fruit. The 
great part of this area is occupied by grass orchards 
growing cider fruit, though more than any other 
county west of Kent do we find new plantations of 
highly farmed table fruit occurring in the Teme 
Valley, as well as about Evesham and Droitwich. In 
Kent 40 per cent, of the fruit is grown on tilled land 
and 60 per cent, in grass orchards. Worcestershire 
has 2 3 per cent, of its fruit on tilled land, but Hereford 
only 13 per cent, Gloucestershire and Devon about 
the same, while practically the whole area of the 
Somerset fruit land is under grass. On the whole, 
fruit trees in the Teme Valley, with the rich soil and 
the softer atmosphere, tend to make more vigorous 
growth than they do in Kent. In consequence they 
do not come into bearing quite so early, and require 
a different system of management and pruning in 
order to make them fruitful, their tendency being to 
run to wood rather than to fruit. In the Teme Valley 
the more recently planted land generally carries apples, 
with a smaller proportion of plums than in other 
districts where railway facilities are better ; cherries 
are not so much grown, and pears in England rarely 
form a very profitable market crop. Perry pears are, 
however, a great feature of the district, being confined 
to the Worcester, Hereford, and Gloucester area, and 
occurring rarely in the other cider-making counties of 
Devon and Somerset. We heard, however, of very 
little planting of vintage fruit ; in the old orchards 
worn-out trees may be replaced from time to time by 
new ones, but in general the tendency is for the cider 
fruit to give place to table fruit. The pear trees in 
particular are generally very old ; indeed, on our way 
to Tenbury we passed what is reputed to be the 



THE VALLEY OF THE TEME 

largest pear tree in Great Britain, still in full vigour 
and yielding an enormous weight of fruit in a favour- 
able season. 

Cider-making is confined to the western counties 
because there alone has been maintained a stock of the 
true vintage fruit, a stock recuperated by the introduc- 
tion of some of the best Normandy varieties about the 
middle of the last century. From kitchen apples 
even from the best eating varieties but a poor, 
flavourless cider can be made. The true cider apples 
possess an exceptional richness in sugar, combined in 
some sorts with an extra amount of acid, and in 
others the bitter-sweets, which are almost essential 
to a proper blend with a special proportion of tannin. 

It cannot be said that the cider industry is in a 
satisfactory way. In general it is made in the 
roughest possible fashion for home consumption 
a considerable allowance of cider being part of the 
daily wages in this district. A few farmers make a 
special article for sale, and take trouble over the 
grading and blending of their fruit, as well as in the 
processes of fermentation and storage. For their 
assistance a considerable amount of information has 
recently been acquired by the investigations started by 
the Bath and West of England Agricultural Society, 
which led up to the foundation of the Cider Institute 
near Bristol. Their chief difficulty is the unorganized 
state of the market ; makers of a high class vintage 
cider have the same difficulty in finding a remunerative 
customer as a casual buyer at a distance has in 
ascertaining trustworthy sources from which to fill his 
cellar. Lastly, there are a small number of manu- 
facturers who purchase apples in large quantities and 
try to produce a standard article in quantities that 
will permit of extensive advertisement ; and their trade 



THE MARKET FOR CIDER 197 

is injured by the both indifferent standard of the 
public taste which is inclined to demand cider sweet 
and sticky and the competition of certain other 
manufacturers in whose products apples play only a 
part, and that not always a leading one. These 
manufacturers generally name their wares something 
else than plain cider; but anyhow they are allowed 
a free hand. 

Without doubt there is a considerable desire on the 
part of the public to obtain good cider, and a big trade 
might be worked up if the good makers would only 
organize into the sort of union for the purpose of 
selling a guaranteed article that prevails in every 
German wine-producing community. Each village on 
the Moselle has its own Verein, and the right to use 
the proper label is accorded only to those members 
of the Verein who conform to certain regulations as to 
manufacture, and whose products are passed by the 
appointed tester. And there is no reason to give less 
care to cider than to wine ; cider from vintage fruit 
of a good year properly selected and blended becomes 
on keeping a beverage of extraordinary delicacy and 
quality, but it is rare to find it even in the best cellars 
of its native district. We thought the season of 1911 
ought to produce something exceptionally good ; there 
was a fine crop of apples, which must have possessed 
an unrivalled sugar content and flavour, a real vintage 
year when a good make of cider ought to keep and 
steadily improve for ten years. 

Though the hop gardens and the cider orchards 
were green enough in that year of drought, the most 
refreshing feature in the Teme Valley was the meadow- 
land by the stream, where, for the first time for many 
weeks, we saw real grass deep enough to give grazing 
cattle a full bite. In previous dry seasons these 



198 THE VALLEY OF THE TEME 

Temeside pastures have been a welcome sight to any 
one going from the drier soils of the east, but this year 
the west has been in general just as parched, and it 
was only in this valley that we saw big cattle looking 
as though they were getting their fill of grass. Few 
other cattle besides Herefords are to be found through- 
out the district. Distinguished by a hardiness and 
adaptability to rough conditions, they are bred upon 
the upland farms and will fatten out with very little 
assistance upon the rich grass by the river. Many are 
also tied up for winter feeding, especially by the hop- 
growers, who want to make considerable quantities 
of dung; but the excellence of the Herefords rather 
lies in their performances upon grass under unfavour- 
able conditions than in the fatting stalls. It was with 
considerable reluctance we turned away from the Teme 
Valley. It is beautiful to the most casual observer, 
with the shapely hills on its flanks, its flashing river 
and vivid contrasts of red and green ; but most of all 
is it attractive to the farmer's eye. More than perhaps 
any other district does it give an impression of easy 
natural fertility, where a kindly soil and a well- 
tempered climate make both crops and stock flourish 
with a good deal less of the effort than is usually 
required from the farmer. 

Ludlow is classic ground for the geologist, for 
immediately to the north the whole series of the 
Palaeozoic rocks from the pre-Cambrian of the Long 
Mynd up to the Coal Measures are set out within a 
short compass. The strata dip sharply to the south- 
east so as to form a series of parallel ridges and sudden 
valleys, all possessing the same trend from north-east 
to south-west, the most important of which is the 
Corve Dale, which lies between Wenlock Edge and the 
Clees and forms a broad vale of arable land whereon 



HEREFORD CATTLE 199 

a good deal of barley is grown. From Ludlow we 
turned, however, into a minor valley which traverses 
the high land between the Teme and the Severn and 
is situated almost entirely upon the Old Red Sand- 
stone, running between the two Clee hills, outliers of 
carboniferous rocks which have been preserved by 
caps of basalt now extensively quarried for road stone. 
In this upland district the Old Red gives rise to easy 
working strong loams ; and because of the elevation, 
600 ft.-7oo ft, the farms are mostly in grass, only 
about one-fifth or less being under the plough. The 
grass is good and abundant enough in the soft climate 
which prevails, but it is rarely of sufficient quality to 
fatten stock, and the whole of these Shropshire and 
Worcestershire uplands are essentially breeding dis- 
tricts. It is, in fact, typical Hereford country, and 
many even of the smaller farmers possess very good 
workaday strains of the favourite white-faced breed. 
Away from the rich pastures of the valleys the farmers 
can hardly hope to grow on their stock fast enough for 
show purposes and build up a trade in pedigree cattle ; 
and some little jealousy also seems to exist between 
the Shropshire breeders and the Hereford men, who 
claim to be guardians of the true type. Thus a certain 
number of other breeds of cattle are finding their way 
into the country. 

On one farm we visited it was the custom to buy 
Shorthorn heifers, which are allowed to rear one calf 
and are then sold as milch cows just before calving 
for the second time, the second calf being bought back 
and reared by one of the other heifers. Thus, in a 
general way, each animal bought had to rear two 
calves, and was sold in its most profitable condition 
for the milk trade. On another farm we found 
Galloways had been introduced in order to obtain 



200 THE VALLEY OF THE TEME 

rapidly-growing cattle for the butcher. Crossed with 
a Herefordshire bull, the animals were black but re- 
tained their white faces ; and crosses of this type 
from either Galloway or Aberdeen Angus cattle are 
not unfrequently seen in the district. With an 
ordinary red or roan Shorthorn the Galloways pro- 
duce completely black cattle, although from the same 
cross when a white Shorthorn bull is used come the 
blue-greys which are so well known in the South of 
Scotland and about the Border. 

A certain amount of light horsebreeding was done 
by the farmers among the hills ; and the local Hunt 
had been very active in promoting this industry and 
in helping men towards a better type of horse, even to 
the extent of lending farmers brood mares of quality 
from which they could raise a foal and obtain a certain 
amount of light work. We did not, however, gather 
from the farmers that any use was made of the Board 
of Agriculture's Horsebreeding Scheme, or even that 
anything about it was known in the district, though 
the men with whom we were talking both bred horses 
and were connected with the Hunt. 

Of the live stock of the district, however, sheep 
afforded perhaps the most interesting problems. We 
were on the borders of the district where the Shrop- 
shires originated, and many of the upland farmers keep 
pure flocks, though, like the other Down breeds, they 
are more properly sheep of the arable land. We were 
also within easy reach of the extensive upland sheep 
walks of Mid Wales, and the lower hills of Radnor and 
Montgomery have from time immemorial held a race 
of sheep which has, to some extent, been locally 
differentiated and yet again hopelessly intermixed by 
crossing and by a greater or less infusion of Shrop- 
shire blood. The foundation of all the breeds seems 



FOREST SHEEP 201 

to have been the light- framed, grey or tan faced, 
short-woolled forest sheep, which in the earliest times 
occupied the more elevated lands throughout the 
Midlands and South of England, extending also into 
Wales and perhaps now represented in its least 
modified form by some of the Welsh mountain sheep. 
Next we find that a century ago the Ryelands of 
Hereford (poor forest land south of the Wye) were 
occupied by a white- faced hornless breed celebrated 
for the fineness of its wool and the quality of its 
mutton, and that the Clun Forest, a great stretch of 
open elevated country round the head waters of the 
Teme, also carried the same white-faced breed, 
whereas the Long Mynd sheep across the valley were 
both black-faced and horned. The Ryeland sheep 
have preserved their characteristics unimpaired ; they 
remain strictly in their own country, and though they 
were once nearly extinct they form to-day one of the 
most distinct of English sheep breeds, and the one 
possessing the finest wool, due, as some breeders think, 
to a strong infusion of Merino blood, though others 
consider them as a particularly unmixed race. But in 
the west of the forest country crossing has been rife, 
and it is difficult to be certain how the breeds have 
been built up; at any rate, in the Clun Forest and 
in the neighbouring Kerry Hill, and again in the 
Radnor Forest we have a race of small hill sheep 
weighing up to 15 Ib. or 20 Ib. per quarter, of 
excellent quality as mutton and with very fine wool. 
The tails are left long, and the wether mutton, dressed 
with a tuft of wool at the end of the tail, is sold as 
Welsh, though it is considerably larger than the true 
mountain mutton. 

The Kerry Hill sheep are now recognized as a 
breed to the extent that they have a flock book, a 



202 THE VALLEY OF THE TEME 

Breed Society, and classes at the Royal Show. Their 
mixed origin is, however, still to be seen in the face 
colour, which should be spotted with black, the spots 
extending to the legs ; yet however pure the breeding 
a certain proportion of the lambs are always thrown, 
some with pure white and others with entirely black 
faces. In fact, there is some evidence, from counts 
that have been made of the proportion of spotted, 
white, and black faces, that in the Kerry Hill sheep we 
are dealing with a perpetual hybrid form which, like 
the Blue Andalusian fowl, cannot be fixed to breed 
true. The Blue Andalusian is, of course, one of the 
stock cases of Mendelian breeders. When two blue 
Andalusians are mated, however long and exact their 
pedigree may have been, the chickens always contain 
a certain percentage of all blacks and splashed whites 
which are thrown out by the fanciers, though when 
black is mated with white the Blue Andalusian is again 
produced. Probably the spotted -faced Kerry Hill is 
like the Blue Andalusian, a true hybrid form which 
contains the elements of both the parent forms and 
must continue to split. But whatever the success of 
the breeders' efforts to fix races of the forest sheep, 
collectively they form very valuable stock which are 
bred under comparatively rough conditions on the up- 
lands, and are sold in great fairs at Knighton, Craven 
Arms, and other markets on the outskirts of the forest. 
The ewes are taken into the low countries and crossed 
with a Shropshire or Down ram to produce lambs 
which grow rapidly and can be sold fat in the early 
summer because of the large quantity of milk the 
ewes always possess. To the low country farmers 
perhaps the greatest defect of these Kerry Hill and 
Clun Forest sheep is their activity, something ex- 
ceptional in the way of fences being required to keep 



CO-OPERATIVE SOCIETIES 203 

them within bounds. They make very good park 
sheep with their elegance and activity, and like many 
other of the hill breeds they are singularly free from 
foot-rot, and answer well when continually run over 
a wide area of poor grass without that regular change 
of pasturage which the lowland sheep farmers consider 
necessary to keep their stock in health and condition. 

All over this hill country farming seemed to be in 
a quietly prosperous way, and we gathered that farms 
were in considerable demand and could only be 
obtained at an increased rent. Indeed, in that summer 
of heat and drought it looked specially flourishing ; for 
although men complained that they were short of 
pasturage, the grass was everywhere green, and almost 
in every field there was a little stream still running 
abundantly. Rents were not high, as indeed might be 
judged by the roughness of some of the fields and the 
rank hedges, for men will always be found to keep 
dear land pretty closely trimmed up. Of course some 
of the pastures run up to considerable heights, and 
they are a good deal invaded by fern, which, injurious 
as it is to the grazing, is still of service as providing 
the farmer with litter. It is valuable where men fatten 
bullocks in winter, and yet grow, as in this district, 
comparatively little corn. The root land looked very 
promising ; mangolds are not so much grown as turnips, 
which had made considerable headway, though many 
of the fields showed that a second sowing had been 
necessary to establish the plant. 

Poultry were common, especially on the smaller 
farms ; and we were told that a co-operative egg 
society had been very successful in collecting the eggs 
from the farmers, packing them properly, and market- 
ing them wholesale. Another association existed for 
the purchase of manures and implements, so that 



204 THE VALLEY OF THE TEME 

thanks to the action of one or two energetic men, co- 
operation was making some headway in what was 
otherwise rather an isolated and old-fashioned farming 
district. 

From the Clee hills we dropped down into the 
valley of the Severn ; and after Bridgnorth, one of the 
most attractive of old-world Midland towns, returned 
on our track a little and struck once more north-west, 
through Much Wenlock and over that surprising ridge 
of Silurian limestone and shale known as Wenlock 
Edge. This is a scarp of limestone about seven miles 
long, which when viewed from either end looks like a 
single perfect peak, so straight is the ridge and so 
sharp is the slope on either side, but especially so 
towards the north-west. Once over the ridge we 
regained the wide Severn valley, where we ran through 
a flat country of light alluvial or drift soils, mostly under 
the plough and highly esteemed for barley-growing, all 
the way into Shrewsbury. 



VI 



SHROPSHIRE: SHEEP AND BARLEY 
GROWING 

WE had now come into one of the most highly farmed 
districts of England, where a considerable area of light 
sandy soil gives rise to the most specifically arable dis- 
trict of the west. The extensive county of Shropshire 
embraces some very diversified land, much of it, like 
the part we have just been through, hilly and given 
over to grazing ; but from the valley of the Severn 
eastwards and northwards stretches an extensive plain 
of gently undulating country, covered with light drift 
soils derived from the underlying New Red Sandstone. 
The quality of this land may be seen from the fact 
that Shropshire possesses a higher acreage of barley 
than any other county until we come to the group of 
eastern barley-growing counties Essex, Suffolk, Nor- 
folk, Cambridge, Lincoln, and York. Again, if we 
take root-growing as one of the best tests of good 
cultivation, the average yield in Shropshire is only 
exceeded in one other county as regard mangolds, and 
in two or three of the northern counties as regards 
turnips. 

From Shropshire we followed the Severn up for a 
few miles to one of the best-known farms in the district, 
famous as the home of pedigree Hereford cattle and 



206 SHROPSHIRE 

Shropshire sheep. The soil was on the light side, 
sharp reddish loam, whose drift origin was evident from 
the rounded stones with which it was intermixed ; but 
the sandstone rock below showed up in occasional 
exposures and had chiefly contributed to the making 
of the soil. From its texture and the easy slopes that 
prevailed, the land was easy to work, while its warmth 
and excellent drainage rendered it grateful for, if not 
very retentive of, manure. The chief defect of this 
class of land is the lack of lime, which was indicated 
by the very general prevalence throughout the district 
of " finger and toe," and the occasional failures that 
occur in the clover crops. At times, again, little basin- 
shaped areas occur where the drainage is defective, and 
a black soil, even a layer of peat, has accumulated. 

The farm we visited was an extensive one, which 
had been subjected to very considerable improvement 
during the long tenure of its present occupier, who had 
drained one of these hollows, and had been to consider- 
able expense in removing the old small enclosures and 
throwing them into large fields with straight, well-kept 
hedges. It is astonishing what an obstacle to good 
farming are the old hedgerows in many parts of the 
country ; not only is there the waste due to the land 
occupied by the sprawling bank and fence and the 
harbour for birds, weeds, and other vermin that it 
affords, but the greatest loss of all comes from the time 
consumed in cultivation by the constant turning and 
awkward shapes of the old enclosures. Small fields 
and hedgerow timber are incompatible with economical 
farming, and on far too many estates in England the 
land never gets the tenants its quality deserves, because 
a good farmer will not look at a holding that renders 
his work so ineffective. A green sheltered country of 
little fields may make a charming property, but to the 



VARIETIES OF BARLEY 207 

farming eye it denotes the same retail way of business 
as the endless tiny shops in the suburbs of a manufac- 
turing town. 

Our host farmed on the strict four-course rotation, 
which is nowadays far more characteristic of other 
counties than of Norfolk, that gives it its name. The 
dung was put on to the turnips, which were eaten off 
by sheep and followed by barley, but red clover could 
only be sown in alternate rotations, its place being 
taken other times by a mixture of alsike, trefoil, and 
grass seeds. Our host recognized the value of lime for 
his land, and applied it each time the seeds came round, 
with marked benefit to the stand of the clovers. 

It was early land and harvest was already in full 
swing ; the barley had been cut, and we could see a 
much better plant of seeds had been obtained than was 
usual that year. Throughout this district the barleys 
are nearly all of the wide-eared type, Goldthorpe, 
Burton Malting, etc., and the local buyers will not look 
at anything of a Chevallier type. The slightly higher 
rainfall in the west may be the cause of this preference 
for the wide-eared barleys ; in the east they only 
begin to be grown when one gets to the Lincoln Wolds 
and from thence northward into Scotland. The pref- 
erence of the maltsters and brewers for one or other 
type seems to be based on little more than custom, 
but from the farmer's point of view the wide-rowed 
barleys are generally credited with being a little 
stronger in the straw and therefore better for heavy 
and highly farmed land. On the other hand, they are 
very long in the neck that is to say, the joint between 
the ear and the first node is both longer than usual 
and is not supported by the sheath, so that heavy wind 
when the corn is ripe is apt to break off a large pro- 
portion of heads. 



208 SHROPSHIRE 

Fine as were the crops of this farm, the stock formed 
its most notable feature. It was one of the original 
homes of the Shropshire sheep, and for nearly half a 
century now has been sending prize-winners to the great 
shows, and furnishing flocks in all parts of the world with 
the pure blood that tells in new countries as well as old. 

Shropshire sheep constitute the most widely-distri- 
buted of all the short-woolled breeds, as much at home 
in other parts of England and in Scotland as in their 
native county, and highly prized for crossing in all 
the newer sheep countries, especially in Australia. The 
formal history of the breed begins towards the middle 
of the last century, its first appearance at the Royal 
Show being in 1853, and there is little doubt but 
that it was formed from the local forest sheep crossed 
repeatedly with the Southdown. It has become a 
typical Down breed, heavier and more thick-set than 
the Southdowns ; a Shropshire ram, indeed, shows a 
big head set on a short thick neck that is equalled by 
no other breed, and this masculine look is increased 
by the way the face and neck are muffled up to the 
nostrils. The two points its breeders insist on are 
the shapely legs of mutton and the dense coat of 
fine wool, which must show no black hairs and be 
set on a clear pink skin, face, ears and knees being 
alone brown. The Shropshires are prolific, and will 
thrive on grass, but are more properly sheep of the 
arable land, the wethers growing to more than 20 Ib. 
a quarter when well done. Although it inherits some 
of the hardness of its forest ancestors, the modern 
Shropshire, like all Down breeds, requires to be looked 
after and suffers from foot-rot on unsuitable land, but 
as it is larger it is also more robust than its closest 
relation the Southdown. The rams are in consider- 
able demand all over the Midlands for crossing with 



SHROPSHIRE SHEEP 209 

white-faced ewes to produce early and rapidly-maturing 
lambs, and they have a marked prepotency and stamp 
their characteristics upon their offspring. Our host 
catered for the very highest class of trade in pedigree 
stock, his flock having a continuous history of success 
in the show ring since the breed was established, and 
certainly both the ram lambs for sale and the ewes of 
the flock itself were very impressive animals. Of 
course, they were grown on in a way the ordinary 
farmer does not attempt, and at first sight might be 
objected to as very artificial products ; but the breeder 
who has to keep himself before his special public must 
not only win a position in the show-ring but must 
maintain his flock almost in show condition. The 
flock-owner engaged in grading up the quality of a 
country flock wants animals with a long and carefully 
selected pedigree, because they alone transmit their 
excellences and impress themselves upon a commoner 
run of sheep, but when buying he is apt to be more 
taken by the present performance of a shearling ram 
his size and symmetry than by any cold record of his 
pedigree. Seeing these Shropshires in quick succession 
after Oxfords and Hampshires, one could not help 
feeling that up at the top all the great breeds of the 
various Down races have arrived at much the same 
result. Size varies somewhat, so does face colour and 
general aspect, but all the breeds agree in the essentials 
the closest possible fleece, a symmetrical frame with 
the weight put on the best joints, and a power to grow 
and mature rapidly on arable land. The differentia, 
however passionately insisted upon, are becoming 
fancier's points, and the danger is that the restricted 
breeding which results from the multiplicity of pure 
breeds may lead to loss of constitution and of 
adaptability to varied conditions. 



2io SHROPSHIRE 

Notable as were our host's sheep, his Hereford 
cattle were even more striking. Herefords always 
look very uniform, but we had never seen anything 
to match his herd, where all the cows might be own 
sisters, so close were they to type. After the Short- 
horn the Herefords have travelled the most widely 
of all cattle, and this they owe to their power of rang- 
ing and putting up with rough conditions, which causes 
them in many places to be preferred to the Shorthorn, 
though the latter undoubtedly yield meat of finer 
quality and grow more rapidly on the better class of 
land. The Herefords are probably descended from 
the old race of red cattle which are supposed to have 
come in with the Saxons the Devons, the Sussex, 
and the Lincoln Reds being other offshoots of the 
same primitive stock. Some features in the shape 
point to this common origin, while the characteristic 
white face and the very massive head are known to 
have been evolved at no very distant date. Like the 
Sussex and the Devons they are exclusively beef 
cattle ; some of their supporters claim that they can 
be made to milk freely, but under ordinary management 
the dams always suckle their calves, and it is well 
known that only the greater strain of milking will 
develop the udder to the extent required of a true 
dairy cow. Our host's animals were all bred with 
entire white faces, the red ring round the eye, which a 
few years ago was demanded by the foreign buyers 
because it was supposed to render stock less liable 
to ophthalmia in hot countries, being no longer in 
fashion. 

Despite the drought the crops were good on this 
light land, though the barley had come rather too 
early to harvest and was on the thin side, but the grass 
even down by the stream was suffering and was 



RENTS IN SHROPSHIRE 211 

cropped very close. The roots were at that time 
promising enough and were no doubt helped by the 
dung they had received. In this favoured district, 
with its easy- working, responsive soils that have always 
been under high cultivation, farms ran large, mostly 
from 200 to 500 acres, and the rents had remained at 
a high level, from 303. to 353. an acre. Changes of 
tenancy had for many years been few, and vacancies 
were eagerly taken up ; indeed, we saw some thinner 
land, evidently not over fertile, which seemed over- 
rented at the price it was commanding. Labour was 
reported to be both good and plentiful, better both in 
quality and quantity than it had .been for many years. 
Altogether a study of the Shrewsbury district may be 
recommended to those who declare English farming 
to be a lost and unprofitable art. 

Though the open valley of the Severn is mostly 
occupied by large arable holdings, Shropshire farming 
is not wholly of this character ; for close at hand is to 
be found a region of small dairy farms on grass. A 
low range of hills divides the Severn from the Dee, 
and on the way to Oswestry we turned off the barley 
land to the rather steep and diversified country prevail- 
ing on this ridge. In the early morning light we got 
an extensive panorama of the plain, surrounded by the 
many sudden hills which give character to Shropshire 
scenery ; Wenlock Edge presented only its face, but 
the shapely Wrekin stood up boldly from the sun 
haze, and away to the west were the Breiddan Hills 
above Whitchurch, with a craggy, mountainous aspect 
out of all proportion to their height. A little to the 
north lay Oswestry, backed by the long, rolling 
uplands of the Berwyns ; for Oswestry marks the 
western termination of the English plain, and beyond it 
begins quite abruptly what was of old " Wild Wales." 



212 SHROPSHIRE 

The farm we had come to see was not extensive, 
only no acres and all in grass, but it was a remark- 
able example of what hard work and thoughtful 
management can make of the land. The farming was 
based on the production of Cheshire cheese, there being 
round Oswestry a small colony of cheese makers who 
had originally migrated from Cheshire. On the farm 
there were then 58 cows in milk, which, with their 
calves, represented very heavy stocking for so small an 
area, and, indeed, necessitated, with the pigs which were 
also an essential feature of the system, a yearly 
expenditure of nearly $ an acre on feeding stuffs. 
The cows, mostly of a Shorthorn type, were all 
bought in when ready to drop their second or third 
calf, and were sold again when dry in a forward 
condition to be finished off for the butcher. The 
calves were reared and sold, but no breeding was 
attempted, the grass being all wanted for the produc- 
tion of milk ; for the same reason little attention was 
paid to breed in buying in, provided the cows seemed 
likely to yield a good supply of milk. Cheese-making 
was in full swing, and we saw the great mass of curd 
being gathered to one end of the vat, preparatory to 
draining off the whey, after which the curd is placed on 
a hot stone over a small fire over-night to bring out 
the rest of the whey, and is then divided and packed 
into the wooden tubs which form the mould. Cheshire 
is a soft curd cheese that is to say, in comparison 
with a cheese like Cheddar ; in its manufacture the 
milk is not allowed to develop much acidity before 
curdling, nor is the curd afterwards encouraged to 
shrink and toughen by growing acidity and a high 
temperature, nor, again, is the made cheese subjected 
to the same amount of pressure. The result is a more 
rapidly ripening and softer product indeed, a good 



CHESHIRE CHEESE 213 

Cheshire cheese should have a fat and crumby structure 
long before it has reached the green and full-flavoured 
stage that is esteemed by the specialists. Cheshire 
cheese is mostly consumed in the big Lancashire 
towns and in the Potteries ; the best makes as, for 
example, the cheeses that form part of the rent on some 
of the big Cheshire estates are in great demand to 
stand on the table for lunch in the leading hotels of 
Manchester and Liverpool. Little Cheshire cheese 
comes to London, and that is mostly coloured, though 
the old-fashioned make is more properly white. The 
yearly output of the farm we were visiting was 1 5 
tons or somewhat more in a favourable season, and 
as our hostess was accustomed to win prizes at the big 
shows her average price would be about 6os. per cwt. 
About a gallon of milk is required for a pound of 
cheese, so that the scale of production necessitated 
about 600 gallons a year from each cow on the farm, 
and the price made was about equal to what would 
have been obtained for fresh milk, while the whey 
remained on the farm for pigs. Pigs fed on the whey 
and purchased meal formed the second chief source of 
income, and the extensive sties were all ranged under 
a big covered shed. Though the shed provided plenty 
of ventilation it was on the whole a mistake ; for pigs 
must have sunshine, and probably because of the lack 
of it the herd, as we learnt, was not so healthy as it 
might have been in much inferior buildings. 

The soil of the farm was a fairly strong loam, and 
carried a fine sward, which if short was still keeping 
delightfully green in the hot season. As in Cheshire, 
bone manures were highly esteemed for the grass in 
preference to superphosphate or basic slag; all the 
pastures had been dressed more than once, and the 
occupier had no doubts about the benefit that had 



214 SHROPSHIRE 

accrued. The neighbouring farms were similarly 
stocked with milch cattle, and in one of the adjoining 
fields a great herd of rather well-bred Shorthorns formed 
a beautiful sight in the still morning sunlight, all gathered 
together as they were on the summit of a sudden mound 
to avoid the flies and to get what air was stirring. 

The farm we were visiting was the property of the 
occupier, who had been left a widow with five sons to 
bring up, and had not only managed to maintain it at 
its present pitch of success, but had educated the sons 
until each had reached either the University or an 
Agricultural College. One son was at home, and with 
his mother, a maid, and a hired man and his wife, did 
the whole work of the place, no light task with nearly 
60 cows to milk, when we remember that 1 2 cows 
to a milker is a very usual allowance. And yet there 
was no suggestion of the sordid toil that is often 
associated with a small grass farm ; it was a refreshing 
example of courage and good management, where the 
head was made to tell as well as the arm. The farm 
was successful in virtue of the brains that were put 
into it ; after all there is no special virtue in manual 
labour, though you often find masters objecting to 
labour-saving devices for their men on some quasi- 
moral plea of not encouraging laziness. Just in the 
same way we have recently read a distinguished 
personage arguing in the daily Press that English 
agriculture will never be prosperous again until the 
farmer does his own ploughing, while his wife scrubs 
the floors. That a farmer can take his day's hunting 
and give his womenfolk a piano and a dogcart is 
surely one of the best proofs that he can make his 
intelligence and his capital pay. Even on this small 
farm the sons had made themselves a lawn-tennis 
court and worked none the worse for it. 



THE SHROPSHIRE PLAIN 215 

At Oswestry we turned, leaving Wales untouched 
for the time, and made our way back through Shrews- 
bury and eastwards into the plain that extends across 
Shropshire and Staffordshire as far as the central 
backbone of England. It is a level country of light 
drift soil nearly all under arable cultivation, though 
we were somewhat surprised in one place to meet with 
a village given up to fruit growing partly in the open 
and partly under glass an enterprise, we found, of 
the Co-operative Wholesale Society, which has also 
erected a small factory to jam and bottle the surplus 
produce. Before we reached Newport we called at one 
of the larger farms in the district, typical of the best 
management of this light land on the New Red Sand- 
stone. It was farmed very strictly on a four-course 
rotation ; occasionally a barley crop might be taken after 
wheat, and one field of oats was being grown for seed, 
but in a general way the cropping was roots, barley, 
seeds, wheat. Swedes were only grown over half the 
root break, so as to make the interval eight years before 
they came round again on the same land ; finger-and- 
toe was very troublesome in the district, and our host 
had often demonstrated to himself how the disease is 
carried on through the rotation by the charlock. The 
swedes were grown wholly with artificial manures, the 
dung being reserved for the potatoes and for the wheat. 
In all cases, even for the potatoes, it was spread and 
ploughed in during the autumn, our host being a great 
believer in the virtues of autumn dung and autumn 
cultivation for that class of land. 

Potatoes formed one of the most profitable crops on 
the farm, and were looking extremely well at the time 
of our visit, showing no effects of the drought, which, 
indeed, did not seem to have hurt the swedes, though 
the mangolds appeared a little short of growth. 



2i6 SHROPSHIRE 

Potatoes sell well in the neighbouring markets of the 
Potteries and of the Black Country, whose distant 
chimneys we could just see ; and with this market at 
hand a good deal of vegetable-growing was done on 
the root break, even some of the swedes being sold for 
table when there was a scarcity of other vegetables. 
Carrots were a speciality ; they required a deeply- 
worked fine soil that had been manured in the autumn, 
and they needed a great deal of labour because they 
had to be weeded and pulled by hand as well as 
repeatedly moulded up. As we saw them they were a 
very even crop, wonderfully clean, though they had not 
yet covered the ground as they would have done with 
a little more rain. Off the fine red land the carrots 
pull with a good shape and a clean red colour, so 
that they can be bunched up straightaway without 
any washing. The cost of the crop is great, as much 
as 30 an acre, and there are years in which they 
sell very badly ; not only must trade be good but 
potatoes ought also to be cheap, for the working-man's 
household buys potatoes first and carrots only if there 
is some money left over. Another breadth was in 
parsnips, again a speculative crop, even more so than 
the carrots. 

Among the corn the deficiency of the soil in lime 
and its tendency to become acid were indicated by 
the presence of both spurrey and sheep's sorrel as 
weeds, and this despite the fact that the occupier has 
begun to lime the land regularly. Salt had also 
proved to be a valuable adjunct to the other manures, 
which would point to that lack of potash which is 
generally associated with sandy soils. The wheat 
was a fair crop generally, well above the average on 
some heavier land which occurred on one part of the 
farm, Standard Red and Stand Up being the varieties 



WINTER FATTENING 217 

chiefly grown all over the district. Some of the 
barley, of which a large acreage is grown, was also 
very good, blinding white in the sunshine ; and we 
shall not readily forget making our way through a 
twenty-acre field of it about noon on one of the hottest 
and stillest days of that torrid summer. The drought 
had told worst on the young seeds in the barley, for 
they seemed to have perished entirely and to be beyond 
even their great powers of recovery. 

Only about one-quarter of the farm was in per- 
manent grass, some of this on black peaty land sloping 
down to a little stream, and the grass was used to 
carry without much expense cattle that had been 
bought in for winter fattening. The farm possessed 
a very fine range of buildings, for it was the custom 
to tie up about a hundred head every winter. Our host 
had exchanged the Hereford for the Shorthorn, finding 
stores of the former breed too dear to buy. It was 
his custom to buy in a good many young milch cows 
when dry after their first or second calf; run on the 
grass in the summer they would lose their bags and then 
could be fattened and sold as heifers. The black 
Welsh runts which are brought to Shrewsbury market 
were also profitable, if comparatively slow fatteners. 
With so many bullocks to be fed sheep did not form 
a considerable feature in the farming. Our host bought 
in Shropshire and hill ewes and crossed them with an 
Oxford ram, gaining thereby a little size, so that the 
crossbreds filled the eye and were taken by the butcher 
in preference to pure-bred Shropshires of equal weight. 

Though it was not the most favourable season in 
which to view a light land farm, we were greatly 
impressed by this holding as one of the best examples 
of clean purposeful farming we had seen in any part 
of England. As on the other side of Shrewsbury 



SHROPSHIRE 

rents ran from 303. to 353., and the holdings were 
mostly large, 400 or 500 acres, all supplied with 
excellent buildings ; covered yards and Dutch barns 
for the corn and hay being general. Labour was said 
to be good, wherever, as on this farm, there was a 
proper supply of decent cottages ; of late, however, 
with the good trade in the manufacturing districts 
close by there had been a scarcity of casual labour for 
getting up the vegetables and potatoes. 

Within the same district we visited another farm, 
a little larger and with perhaps a heavier soil, but 
farmed on similar lines. Here the great feature was 
the organization of the extensive buildings to save 
labour in fattening the 160 bullocks tied up every 
winter. Water power did all the grinding, root slicing, 
and chaff cutting, the food travelled along a little tram 
line; and so carefully was it all designed that two 
men were sufficient to look after the whole batch of 
cattle. But with all his ingenuity the occupier was 
still content to let the liquid manure drain away and 
be lost, though with it went one of the most valuable 
constituents of the cake he bought so freely. 



VII 

CHESHIRE : DAIRYING AND INTENSIVE 
CULTIVATION 

BEFORE leaving Shropshire we called at the Harper 
Adams Agricultural College, an institution serving 
this and the neighbouring county of Stafford. It is 
situated on the same gently undulating plain as the 
farms we had previously been visiting, and occupies a 
stretch of similar light, easy-working soil, with a range 
of good buildings, more modern than but resembling 
those prevailing on neighbouring farms. The fields 
were largely divided into plots, which showed varieties, 
methods of manuring, etc., without interfering with 
the general run of the farming, and some of the root 
crops, especially the mangolds, looked particularly well 
for the season and the soil. 

But the most important fact concerning the college, 
which we learnt both from the farmers we saw going 
round and from others at a distance, is that it has now 
become recognized as an integral part of the agri- 
cultural life of the district, not only to be visited as a 
novelty but to be consulted in difficulties. When we 
remember the feeling of farmers towards such institu- 
tions fifteen or twenty years ago, the attitude of 
patronage, suspicion, or hostility which was adopted 
with regard to their every action, we realize what an 
intellectual revival has taken place in agriculture a 
change of temper, of which the consideration given to 



220 CHESHIRE 

the colleges is only one sign, but in the making of 
which they have borne an honourable part. The time 
is not far distant when, as in America, the colleges 
will give the lead in all matters agricultural, each in 
their own district, supplying the judges at the shows 
and doing much to shape the counsels of all the 
farmers' societies, whether commercial or political. 

At Newport we were not far from the borders of 
Cheshire, and the intervening country showed no 
change of management ; indeed, the farming of Shrop- 
shire and Cheshire has much in common, it is only the 
neighbourhood of the great manufacturing centres and 
the density of the farming population in Cheshire that 
gives its agriculture a special turn. 

The County Palatine of Cheshire may be described 
as a continuation of the New Red Sandstone plain 
that lies between the Pennine Chain of carboniferous 
rocks and the sea. On the borders of Derbyshire it 
runs up into somewhat elevated moorland, but else- 
where the heights are trifling and the slopes gentle ; 
the sandstone ridge, which runs from north to south 
and divides the valley of the Dee from that of the 
Weaver, being rarely more than 400 ft. above sea-level. 
Though the sandstone rock is never far away and 
determines the character of the land, the soils are 
mainly of drift origin ; and, putting aside the areas of 
true alluvial bordering the Mersey and the Dee, three 
types may be seen all over the county. Most gener- 
ally the soil is a strong one, sandy loam varying in 
colour from dull red to an ashy shade a soil that is 
not a clay, but wants some care in working, because 
its fine particles easily run in heavy rain and then 
set with a hard crust. This shades off in the vales, 
especially on the Dee side, into heavier soil approach- 
ing true clays. On the ridge, particularly towards the 



MARLING 221 

borders of Delawere Forest, but sporadically elsewhere, 
come some very thin sands, generally light red in 
colour, sometimes bleached almost white. Much of 
this land was barren heath up to very recent times, 
has been reclaimed and made into fertile arable by the 
marling which was so general a practice down to 
about the middle of the last century. The Keuper 
beds of the underlying New Red Sandstone furnished 
the material, and in many parts of Cheshire every field 
carries a little pond, the old marl pit, though in a few 
cases the process was carried out over a large area in a 
single operation conducted by the landlord. Some of 
the land would be the better for a renewal of the 
marling, for the soil is both light and hungry and very 
lacking in lime ; many of the old grass lands still show 
a thin layer of the old marl now sunk a foot or so 
below the surface. In addition to the loams and 
sands, here and there over the Cheshire plain one 
meets with areas of black soil passing into peat the 
" mosses " that represent undrained basins on the 
surface of the sheet of glacial drift covering the county, 
where waterlogging and the absence of lime in the soil 
have combined to produce an accumulation of acid, 
peaty humus. Many of these mosses have been 
reclaimed, but a few still are wastes, or carry scrubby 
plantations of firs and silver birch and other trees 
tolerant of peaty conditions. We say scrubby ad- 
visedly, for it must be confessed that trees do not 
flourish over well in Cheshire. 

It is not merely the soil, it is the atmosphere ; 
almost from the moment of entering the county one 
is conscious that the trees look very black in the stem 
and possess rather small and rusty foliage ; even the 
hedges, though well enough grown in some respects 
have also this indefinable air of malaise. Smoke is 



222 CHESHIRE 

the cause ; for though Cheshire lies to the south and 
west of the great manufacturing districts of Lancashire 
and the Potteries, the winds do blow pretty frequently 
from east and north, and the county is itself thickly 
populated. The annual crops and the grass are not 
perceptibly damaged, but the effect accumulates on 
the perennial trees and shrubs, and chiefly shows in 
the reduction of the leaves both in number and in size, 
though they are not killed outright as they are in South- 
east Lancashire. We realized the smoke in the 
atmosphere in another way by the extra state of dirt 
acquired by one's face and hands after a day's knocking 
about in Cheshire ; the result was more like that 
which follows a day in London. But, despite the 
smoke, Cheshire is a most productive and intensively 
farmed county, for nowhere else is there such an area 
of good land close to one of the densest and richest 
town populations in the world. On the south-western 
side of the county and up the Dee valley the soils are 
heavy, and grass-land farms for cheese-making prevail ; 
but on the lighter lands, especially on the northern 
side of the county, the land is too valuable for any- 
thing but arable farming, and is mostly held in 
smallish holdings of from 30 to 200 acres. 

Whether on grass or arable, the mainstay of 
Cheshire farming is milk production ; with the ex- 
ception of Lancashire, no other county contains, as 
Cheshire does, more than 100,000 milch cows, and in 
no other county do the cattle of all kinds outnumber 
the sheep. We were unfortunately unable to see 
anything of the cheese-making grass farms, as our 
visit happened to coincide with one of the leading 
cheese shows which every one was attending, conse- 
quently we left the Dee valley and the sandstone ridge, 
and made our way by Crewe towards Manchester. 



BONES 223 

But grass-land farming is much the same anywhere, 
and we had recently seen one cheese farm managed on 
Cheshire lines. For a century or more bones have 
been the great standby of the Cheshire grass farmer 
in old days in a rough state, quarter and half inch 
bones, but nowadays more generally as bone meal or 
in various mixtures containing a little added nitrogen. 
Slow in their action as all experimenters declare bones 
to be, they yet do keep the land supplied with the 
phosphates and nitrogen that are taken away in the 
milk, and that without forcing the grass to any 
abnormal growth. Despite the introduction of super- 
phosphate and basic slag, the Cheshire farmer still 
believes he gets the best returns from bones, both in 
the proportion of clover and the milk-yielding power 
of the herbage. 

As we entered the county from the south, the most 
noticeable feature of the arable land was the absence 
of barley, which constitutes little more than I per 
cent, of all the cereals grown in Cheshire. Oats are 
the staple crop, more than 60,000 acres out of a total 
of 80,000 of corn being occupied by oats, a proportion 
which is to be explained by the great demand for oats 
from horsekeepers in the Lancashire towns, in addition 
to their value for milch cows. Oat straw is also sale- 
able, as barley straw is not, and a great deal of straw 
is sold, for complete freedom of cropping and sale 
prevails in the county. Another unexpected feature 
was the prevalence of rye on the southern and eastern 
side of the county. This is grown for the straw, for 
only rye straw is long and tough enough to be suitable 
for packing certain kinds of vessels made in the 
Potteries. The rye grown for this purpose is autumn 
sown on good land, cut when nearly ripe, and gathered 
into bundles, the corn being knocked out of the heads 



224 CHESHIRE 

by hand so as not to bruise the straw. When thus 
treated it will command as much as 2s, per stone i.e. 
8 a ton and the farmer has also the grain for 
feeding or sale as seed. The other great Cheshire 
crop is potatoes. Lancashire, Cambridge, Lincoln, 
and the West Riding possess a large acreage, but 
nowhere else except in Lancashire do the potatoes 
exceed all the other root crops put together. They 
are found all over the county, though the most 
considerable areas are on the alluvial flats by the 
Mersey, where they join on to the Lancashire potato- 
growing district. On the light, sandy soils, however, 
early potatoes are very generally grown, and had been 
almost entirely cleared when we passed through in the 
first days of August. They are generally interplanted 
with cabbages or broccoli, and when the potatoes are 
lifted one or two drills of turnips, to be pulled small 
for table purposes, are generally sown in their place 
between the cabbages. 

With markets for all kinds of produce so close at 
hand, Cheshire farmers' are not usually very particular 
about their rotations, but it is customary to follow a 
four-course shift, containing two years of oats, one of 
potatoes and other roots, and one or sometimes two of 
seeds. Seeds hay is specially important in Cheshire, 
occupying almost as much of the land as old land hay 
from permanent grass, a proportion which can be 
explained on the one hand by the intensive character 
of the Cheshire farming (for temporary leys will yield 
much bigger crops than permanent meadows, especially 
with a smoky atmosphere), and again by the very 
good markets which Liverpool and Manchester afford 
for coarse hay that can be chaffed. Considering the 
season the seeds were looking very green and flourish- 
ing, and had grown more since the first cut than any 



A COLLEGE FARM 225 

we had seen farther south. But the clover was flower- 
ing prematurely, and with the weather that followed 
our visit we expect a good many men saved a light 
crop of clover seed where they had meant to get a 
good second cut of hay. As in Shropshire the lack of 
lime in the soil sometimes causes the clovers to fail ; 
speaking generally, Cheshire soils respond to liming as 
also to dressings of salt, a fact which was recognized 
more than a century ago. 

We turned a little aside to visit the Cheshire 
Agricultural College at Holmes Chapel, the earliest 
institution of its kind founded by a County Council 
arid still supported entirely by Cheshire, though it has 
become affiliated to the Manchester University. The 
farm was very typical of the district, only to be dis- 
tinguished by a little better polish and a higher level 
of production even in this intensively cultivated 
district. Though we had seen better individual crops, 
probably nowhere had the whole farm looked so well ; 
the permanent grass was closely grazed, but still green 
and affording a reasonable bite to the business-like 
herd of deep-milking Shorthorns which is the pride of 
the College authorities. This College seemed to give 
special attention to making its students take their part 
in the routine of the farm ; owing to the small size of 
their holdings most Cheshire farmers have to be both 
master and man, and the practical nature of the 
training the College gives was being generally 
appreciated throughout the county. Not that it lacked 
criticism ; the Cheshire farmer is like any other North- 
countryman, eager to denounce anything with which 
he does not agree and to brand as nonsense whatever 
he does not understand. It is a bracing discipline for 
an institution, provided always its authorities have an 
equal amount of courage to go their own way when 



226 CHESHIRE 

they know they are right. And the Cheshire farmer's 
criticism is apt to be coloured by the extreme land 
hunger that prevails. We read in the local Press ot 
one man objecting to the College because, while it 
pretended to help the farmers of the county, it was 
really turning out young men who became competitors 
against them for farms ; and it was in the same 
county that the farmers at a land sale hooted the 
County Council representatives, who were trying to 
buy part of the estate for the establishment of small 
holdings thereon. But if the College had its critics, 
we also learnt from some of the farmers we visited 
that it had very good friends ; and, as it strengthens 
its position as one of the regional agricultural colleges 
by its association with the University and by being 
called upon to play its part in the general agricultural 
service of the country, it will shake off these parochial 
objections and get more support in taking its own line 
for the assistance of the local industry. 



VIII 
FACTORIES AND FARMING IN LANCASHIRE 

As we approached Manchester the Cheshire plain grew 
flatter and duller ; the light also, on what should have 
been a brilliant August afternoon, was sensibly 
flattened and dulled, and the trees and hedges were 
even more dingy and unhappy. But the farming was 
as intensive as ever, the land was evidently being used 
to the best of the capacity of these rather indifferent 
loams, which are not exactly easy to manage, and possess 
little inherent fertility, lacking as they are in both lime 
and potash. We were bound for a suburban farm on 
the very outskirts of Manchester, typical of a system 
of management dictated by the proximity of a market 
and entirely independent of the routine of ordinary 
farming. 

In the first place, no stock were kept except pigs 
and an odd cow for the use of the house, solitary 
on the one little grass paddock on the farm. The 
rest of the land was under the plough, and every- 
thing produced was sold, hay and straw as well 
as corn and roots. Rarely have we seen farming 
reduced to such simplicity ; the rotation consisted of 
a five-year shift oats, seeds, wheat, seeds, potatoes, 
the seeds being red clover on one occasion and a 
mixture including alsike on the next. But there was 

always some difficulty in getting the clovers to stand 

227 



228 FACTORIES AND FARMING 

the winter at these close intervals. Oats had not been 
profitable of late years, and the occupier was looking 
for a good spring wheat wherewith to replace them, 
as it was not easy to get the potato crop out of the 
way in time for autumn-sown wheat. Wheat straw 
always sold a little better than oat straw, though 
Manchester formed an excellent market for either. 
The produce was carted into Manchester as required, 
and the returning waggons brought home some of the 
dung needed to keep up the draft upon the soil's 
resources that was involved in selling everything away. 
But the fertility was more than maintained, something 
like 1000 tons per annum of farmyard manure being 
brought on to the 200 acres of the farm. This was 
lavishly supplemented by artificial manures, and the 
farmer not only took what advice he could obtain from 
the College, but was a student himself and a careful 
reader of recent literature on fertilizers, from the 
scientific and experimental side as well as from the 
purely practical. The result of all this manuring was 
to bring the land up to a very high condition ; only 
big crops could pay for the high rent and the 
expensive labour. 

Potatoes looked like a very heavy crop, the haulm 
had made growth such as we had not previously seen, 
with more of the lush character we had been accus- 
tomed to find on the rich potato lands of Lincoln in 
the previous year's damp and growing season. Certain 
pieces were being sprayed as an experiment, but 
potato-spraying is not general in Cheshire, possibly 
because the little touch of sulphur in the smoky 
atmosphere keeps the disease in check. The haulm is 
also said to grow so rankly early in the season as to 
make spraying difficult. The oats and wheat were 
both heavy crops, especially the latter, and they both 



STRENGTH OF STRAW 229 

had that dull grey look we had not seen on the corn 
crops this year, but which was so general over southern 
England in 1910. The corn grown on the black Fen 
soils and on the wheat plot at Rothamsted that 
receives farmyard manure every year get just the same 
appearance. For these reasons we have come to 
associate it with a comparative excess of nitrogen, 
such as will exist on land as highly farmed as this. 

The great desiderata in farming of such an intensive 
character are cereals stout enough in the straw to 
carry the heavy heads produced. Whatever the cause 
of lodging, whether weakness of straw due to a too 
rapid and dense early growth, or shading resulting in 
fungoid attacks at the base of the stem, or mere 
weight of grain, it is always associated with rich land, 
particularly when the richness has been produced by 
recent heavy manuring. Some soils grow stifFer straw 
than others for an equal weight of grain, but on all 
soils farmers are apt to get their corn crops spoilt as 
soon as they raise the land to something like its 
maximum productivity for roots and seeds. It is not 
only the farmers who can buy town manure who reach 
this pitch, but men who fatten bullocks as they do in 
Norfolk or Shropshire or Northumberland, or again, 
the men who fold their land repeatedly with sheep 
getting a good deal of cake and corn. Various 
would-be reformers of farming write of the possibility 
of doubting the production of wheat by deep cultiva- 
tion or some other formula, but they forget that at 
present the real limiting factor which prevents the 
average crop of wheat rising above a certain limit is 
the strength of the straw, because not only is the 
formation of grain very much restricted when the crop 
is laid, but the expense of harvesting is enormously 
increased. Of course, 1911 has been an ideal year to 



230 FACTORIES AND FARMING 

keep the corn standing ; we have seen one wheat crop 
of over sixty bushels to the acre only very slightly laid 
in places, whereas on the same soil in an ordinary 
season anything over forty bushels might be expected 
to go down. The prevalence of names like " stiff 
straw," " stand up," among cereal varieties grown in 
Britain show what an all-important factor the straw 
is here ; names of the same type are not found 
among the varieties grown in countries like America, 
where the acreages are large but the average yields 
low. 

On this land near Manchester the rents were about 
4<Ds. per acre, and that for farms with no great equip- 
ment of buildings, of which, indeed, few are wanted 
where stock are not kept. Wages naturally were 
high 22s. to 245. per week, but no particular diffi- 
culty was found in obtaining or keeping good men. 
There was a growing scarcity, however, of casual 
labour for potato digging, hay-making, etc., but that 
might only be temporary and due to the recent good 
times in the manufacturing districts close at hand. 
Our host was giving much attention to the question 
of how to dispense with such casual labour and make 
the farm entirely self-contained. The solution must, of 
course, lie in the greater application of machinery to all 
farm operations, and he was greatly interested in 
machines, having himself invented one or two skilful 
improvements or additions to farm implements. Of 
course on general social grounds it is desirable to 
render farming independent of casual labour, just as 
its ideal should be always to make skill replace numbers 
in doing any particular operation. Back to the land 
is a retrograde cry if it is to mean many men doing 
by hand what a few men can accomplish by machines. 
The former density of the agricultural population meant 



SMOKE AND CROPS 231 

that an excessive number of men were being wretchedly 
paid to do slavish sort of work, because with labour at 
that price it was not worth the farmer's while to scheme 
out labour-saving devices. However, time did not 
permit of any long discussion of policy and tendencies in 
agriculture ; at any rate our host had furnished us with 
an example of one kind of a modern farm a highly 
effective crop manufactory designed to make the most 
of the conditions prevailing. It was very good 
business, if not very attractive farming, and it must be 
recognized that many men farm in particular ways for 
the pleasure it gives them ; they like fattening bullocks 
or rearing pedigree stock, or growing barley, to the 
point of being careful not to inquire too closely 
whether their particular hobby pays. 

For the rest of our journey in northern Cheshire we 
left the low land by the Mersey and travelled through 
a succession of parks and suburbs, until we turned to 
cross the Mersey at Warrington. There we saw where 
the smoke came from, for Warrington itself seemed to 
be dispensing enough black smoke to darken the air 
of a whole county, while a little farther seaward lay 
Widnes and Runcorn, where it has been suggested that 
cast-metal trees should be set up, so poisonous is the 
atmosphere to living ones. But for all the smoke 
the cultivated land, highly farmed too at that, comes 
right up to Warrington, and we saw the shadows from 
the chimney-tops wreathing over good crops of wheat 
and oats, which appeared to have taken no greater 
harm than a little dinginess of aspect. We were soon 
into the region of the " moss " farming which prevails 
all over South Lancashire, where a moss signifies a 
low-lying area of black peaty soil generally on a sub- 
stratum of sand. The underlying rock is almost 
invariably New Red Sandstone, but it is overlaid by 



232 FACTORIES AND FARMING 

drifts which have left flat areas with imperfect drainage 
in which peat has accumulated. Chat Moss, nearer to 
Manchester, is one of the most famous of them, known 
for the difficulties George Stephenson experienced in 
building the first railway from Liverpool to Manchester 
across it. Not long ago the mosses were waste heath 
and swamp, but they have been drained and now yield 
great crops by the aid of the town manure with which 
they are so liberally fed by river, canal, and railway. 
The great crops are potatoes and oats (both of which 
are well known to like a black acid soil), and wheat ; 
seed hay seems to occupy rather less than the fifth of 
the land due to it on the prevailing rotation, and very 
little of other roots are to be seen, just a few breadths 
of swedes and cabbages. There was little permanent 
grass to be seen, usually only small paddocks, and 
those poor and weedy with quantities of ragwort 
flowering; no stock were about the fields, though a 
considerable amount of dairying is done indoors, and 
will probably increase as town manure becomes more 
difficult to obtain. The crops were heavy, the potatoes 
magnificent, mostly maincrops, though here and there 
a cleared field replanted with cauliflower or cabbages 
showed that earlies had been already harvested ; the 
wheat and oats had the grey look on which we have 
already commented. On that particular day the air 
was full of corn thrips, and we drove for many miles 
before getting out of the sphere of the irritating pest. 

South-west Lancashire is not particularly attractive ; 
the soil is black, the roads are black, and though the 
crops grow and flourish, trees are few and stunted, and 
the horizon is always bordered by chimneys, for the 
coal district is not far away St. Helens, Rainford, 
and Wigan itself on one side, Prescot, with its factories, 
on the other. Towards Ormskirk the land rises, and 



MILK FARMS 233 

the Red Sandstone rock crops out in places, the corn 
takes on a better colour, and though the land is still 
mostly arable, dairying becomes more general, and 
we saw some fine herds of milking Shorthorns in the 
fields. We had left behind the extensive farms that 
occur on the mosses, though even there comparatively 
small holdings are common ; in the rest of the county, 
as in Cheshire, a farm of 200 acres is considered large. 
The countryside is thickly populated, and in a small 
way a good deal of fruit and vegetable growing goes 
on ; the holiday-maker is a factor, for we were not far 
back from Southport and the Lancashire coast. A 
few miles from Preston a change takes place in the 
farming, surprising in its suddenness : the arable farm- 
ing ceases, and is replaced by small dairy farms on 
poor grass land. The change must be due to a soil 
factor; and though the soil is still of drift origin, it 
looked as if it had been derived with little change 
from the Coal Measures, which generally give rise to 
clayey soils of indifferent fertility. 

Before leaving Lancashire, where the farming is so 
entirely conditioned by the proximity of a large manu- 
facturing population, we went a little farther east into 
the steeply undulating country that was once forest, 
but is now occupied almost entirely by great towns. 
All along the valleys from Manchester northwards, 
through Rossendale to the Ribble and the Yorkshire 
border, towns and townships are strung out in an 
almost continuous line, with little oases of grassland 
between, running up to moorland wherever the eleva- 
tion is considerable. All these farms depend on the 
sale of milk ; they are mostly small, and the living is 
earned as much by the retailing as by the production 
of the milk. 

We visited one such farm on the outskirts of 



234 FACTORIES AND FARMING 

Blackburn, about 60 acres in extent, all grass, 
about half of which was mowed every year. The 
soil was but poor, derived from drifts overlying the 
Coal Measures, and the grass, though green, would 
hardly have satisfied an eye accustomed to the fat 
pastures of the Midlands. It was well treated, how- 
ever; the hay land received the manure from the 
cows, and both lime and bones were regularly applied 
to the pastures, which were also carefully attended 
to, the dung spread, ant-hills pared, rough places 
cut over, etc. Of course the grass alone could not 
carry a cow per two acres all the year, many feeding 
stuffs had to be bought, and the cows received 5 Ib. 
of meal a day in the summer and 8 Ib. in winter. 
Thirty cows were kept in milk ; usually they were 
bought in as heifers in calf, the calf was reared and 
sold, and the cow was sold when dry and again in 
calf. A very good class of milking Shorthorn was 
kept, for which high prices were paid in Hellifield, 
Preston and other local markets making a speciality 
of milch cows. The cows were kept in very big stone 
" shippons," even the partitions being flagstones set 
on edge, and the local authority insisted on the 
considerable air space of 600 cubic feet per cow. 
No bedding was used in a country which grows on 
straw, and the manure was cleared out at once. 
Milking began at five in the mornings and about two 
in the afternoons ; as soon as the milk had been put 
through the refrigerator the cart started on its round 
in Blackburn, where the milk was retailed at is. 
per gallon. For the working of the farm there was 
the shrewd old farmer, well over 70 and active, though, 
as he himself confessed, more of a head than a hand, 
his two sons and a hired man, none of whom could 
be idle in order to keep such a business running. 



MILK RETAILING 235 

All the neighbouring farms were managed on exactly 
the same lines : farther out rents were lower, and 
because of the difficulties of getting the milk into 
town early enough it was turned into cheese. As 
this was sold new and therefore moist at about ?d. 
a pound, the farmer received the equivalent of 8d. 
a gallon for his milk, and also had the whey on 
which, with purchased meal, to raise pigs, themselves 
a profitable trade. This retail milk selling is not 
very impressive farming, but it is cheap and thrifty 
in virtue of the immense amount of work and 
personal care the small occupiers put into it, so that 
it can continue to compete with the big herds at a 
distance, however highly organized they may be. 
In its turn also it does keep going a more purely 
rural industry the raising of the milch cows. 



16 



IX 
NORTH LANCASHIRE: STOCK-RAISING 

ONE is accustomed to think of Lancashire as a 
dreary conglomeration of factories and smoke- 
blackened houses; but all the little valleys of the 
Mersey tributaries in East Lancashire show the 
remains of their old beauty, and the upper dales 
on the fringe of the moorland were still fair to see 
within living memory. Even to-day there is a large 
piece of the county north of the Ribble that is purely 
agricultural, some of it as remote and solitary as any 
spot in England. Between Ribble and Lune the flat 
country of the seaboard is known as the Fylde, rich, 
easy-working land that is highly farmed and depends 
chiefly on the production of milk. Our route, however, 
lay inland into the hill country known as the Forest 
of Bowland, where rise the headwaters of the Wyre 
and of some of the Ribble tributaries, a region of 
moorlands on the Millstone Grit forming an outlier 
of the Pennine Chain, but separated from the great 
limestone masses of Ingleborough and Pen-y-Ghent 
by the upper Ribble valley up which runs the 
Midland line to Scotland. From Blackburn we 
travelled by Whalley, with its ruined Abbey 
memorable for its association with the Pilgrimage of 

Grace, but now stranded in the midst of factories 

236 



FIELDS AND FELLS 237 

to Clitheroe and over a limestone ridge into the 
valley of the Hodder. 

Here all traces of the drought were left behind ; 
the flat strip of meadow land in the bottom of the 
vale was deep in lush grass, and the pastures above 
were gloriously green right up to the open fell ; only 
the clear, peat-stained stream spoke of the deficiency 
of rainfall. But the elevation is considerable 
400 ft. in the valley, 1200 ft. or more on the fells 
by which it is shut in and the annual rainfall, even 
on the low grounds, is more than 60 in. Naturally 
enough there is no arable farming, everywhere grass ; 
and the hay was just being carted in the first week 
of August, an exceptionally early date for that district. 
We followed up the valley through the little town of 
Slaidburn to one of the larger farmers, who occupied 
about 400 acres of land with grazing rights on the 
fell. It is a rough and steep country ; each farm 
possesses a few flat fields by the stream, which are cut 
for hay, then some good grazing land considerably 
accidented, divided by stone walls and traversed by 
runnels of water, then bigger fields and poorer land 
with a good deal of bracken, above all the open fell 
of grass and heather. The homesteads, built and 
roofed alike with grey stone, lie in the hollows a little 
way up the hillsides, each sheltered by a few sycamores, 
the only tree that will stand the elevation and the 
climate. 

The farmer on whom we called was himself worth 
a long journey to see, he had spent his whole life, 
as his forbears had before him, in Bowland ; active, 
shrewd, and talkative, with the vein of dry, chuckling 
humour of the Lancashire man, instead of the dour 
contempt which the hill farmer farther north, and 
particularly across the Border, accords to all strangers. 



238 NORTH LANCASHIRE 

A born fancier of all kinds of stock and no respecter 
of persons, he would yet give some consideration to 
the opinions of the son of his landlord on the type 
of sheep to be encouraged, and was even open to 
advice on that touchstone of knowledge the manage- 
ment of grassland though his joy when he managed 
to trap two " authorities " in a contradiction was great 
and unconcealed. A would-be buyer happened along, 
and we sat on the hillside and watched the play 
the preliminary feintings when the buyer made much 
of the cows he did not want to purchase, and then 
asked casually what was the price of the others that 
were a bit off, the systematic examination point by 
point with appropriate depreciations on one side and 
praises on the other, the final offers and walkings 
away all for the pure love of the game, for each 
man was aware of the quality of his antagonist and 
confided to us afterwards that " he knows nigh as 
much as me." A matter of 5s. a head separated 
the parties at the end ; the buyer, who had never 
ceased to lament the lack of keep on his place, was 
to write if he really found he had any grass when he 
got home. 

The whole of the farm was given over to stock- 
raising, and we never saw a finer stamp of general 
purpose Shorthorn than on this and the neighbouring 
farms in the valley. A warm roan was the favoured 
type, neither all reds nor whites being in much esteem 
locally. They were not registered, but the blood was 
there ; the local farmers all breed for quality and take 
the greatest care in the bulls they buy. The original 
country stock was always of good repute, and the 
famous Townley and Knowlmere herds which half a 
century ago were close at hand have doubtless left 
their mark on the cattle of the district. Our host had 



MILCH COWS 239 

twelve cows in milk and made some butter, but chiefly 
he sold bull calves and milch cows as heifers before or 
after their first calf, the staple trade of the district 
being to supply the demand of the cowkeepers in and 
about the Lancashire towns for heavy milkers. In the 
local markets of Preston, Hellifield, Settle, and Skipton 
these milking Shorthorns of the finest type are sold in 
great numbers ; and English stock-raising is suffering 
a great and continuous loss in that these magnificent 
animals do not reproduce themselves. They may raise 
two or three more calves, but the dairyman is generally 
quite indifferent what sort of bull he uses, and disposes 
of the calves for veal, also fattening off the cows them- 
selves when still in their early prime. Improvement 
of the milking strains becomes very much slower 
through this practice ; for the town dairyman pays long 
prices and picks out the deepest milkers and the finest 
frames, only to withdraw them from future use as 
breeders. Walking about these upland pastures and 
looking at the noble groups of heifers and milch cows 
on almost every farm, we could not help feeling what 
a set of scrubs and misfits was the ordinary milking 
herd in the Midlands or the South. 

Of course the cattle cannot graze far up the hillside ; 
sheep are therefore equally important items in the farm- 
ing of the district. We were fairly in the region of the 
mountain breeds, and confronted with some of the 
knottiest problems of classification and origin that 
exist. Even the local experts were content to merge 
some of the hill sheep as " roughs " ; and to the end of 
our stay we should have remained incapable of dis- 
tinguishing between Lonks and Swaledales or even 
Scotch Blackfaces, if we had been set to sort out the 
common bred country flocks. But we were in the 
proper home of the Lonk, a big, upstanding sheep with 



240 NORTH LANCASHIRE 

a speckled face, massive curling horns, and a dense 
shaggy fleece of the thickest carpet wool, almost hair, 
which occupies the hill country and the moorlands from 
Craven to the southern border of Lancashire. There 
the Lonk merges into or is replaced by the Penistone 
sheep and the Gritstone sheep of the Peak country, 
both of which seem to belong to the same general 
stock, though they now differ in the face colour, the 
horns, and other points. The Lonks are supposed to 
have the finest wool, and to any one accustomed to the 
soft fleeces of the aristocratic lowland breeds it is 
amazing to hear that stuff of such incredible coarseness 
sells as well as, if not better, than the finer article. 
The Lonk is perhaps the biggest of the hill breeds, 
hardy and prolific, needing no better keep than the 
roughest grass and heather, and capable of finding food 
in anything but the deepest snow. A Lonk ram in 
full fleece is a very impressive animal, higher on the 
leg and bigger generally than the Blackfaces he most 
closely resembles. Rams are sold to some extent for 
crossing with other hill breeds, to which they give size 
and substance. In this district the wethers and off- 
going ewes are sold in October to be fattened on the 
lowlands, and a little earlier the ewe lambs are also 
sent down to be wintered on grass land that has been 
cut for hay, only the breeding ewes being kept at home. 
About 75. 6d. a head is paid for the wintering, pay- 
ment only being made for those which come back 
again in April. A certain amount of crossing is also 
done in the district, the country ewes- Lonk or Swale- 
dale being crossed with a Wensleydale ram. Wensley- 
dales, which come from no great distance, are curly-coated 
sheep of a Leicester type, but big, active, and hardy, 
which get lambs on the hill ewes that soon outgrow their 
mothers, and can be sold off the grass to the butcher. 



FELL GRAZINGS 241 

Sheep and cattle did not exhaust our host's interest 
in breeding ; there were one or two foals running about, 
and he was something of a fancier of both poultry and 
ducks, of which some well-bred examples wandered 
about the homestead. 

The grass land varied in price with the elevation ; 
the meadows by the stream which would fatten cattle 
commanded as much as 505. an acre an astonishing 
price when one considers their remoteness and from 
that high figure the rent varied down to 55. an acre for 
the land immediately below the fell. Bones were the 
chief manure used, and their action was plainly visible ; 
more recently basic slag had begun to be appreciated. 
One of the greatest troubles was the extension of the 
bracken, which threatened to spoil much of the higher 
land, and no effective method of keeping it in check 
had been devised. The fells, which, roughly speaking, 
include all land above the looo-ft. line, are partly 
heather-clad and partly " white land," which carries no 
heather and has been to some extent reclaimed, in 
most cases by liming. An enclosed fell was worth from 
is. 6d. to 2s. 6d. per acre for grazing, and should carry 
one sheep to the acre ; the shooting rights were worth 
another half-crown per acre. But many of the fells are 
held in common, each farm being allowed to run so 
many " stints " of fifteen sheep each on the fell, and 
over these rights considerable quarrels arise. The 
sheep require to be acclimatized and go with the farm ; 
but they are taken over at market rates, and there are 
none of the fictitious premiums that have become such 
an awkward question in the Highlands. 

The whole work of this 4OO-acre farm was done 
by three men and the occupier, but the men were 
well paid. Those who lived in got 30 a year and 
all found ; the married men got 2 1 s. a week and a 



242 NORTH LANCASHIRE 

house, with various allowances of milk, coal, etc. ; but 
our host, who had worked his way up, opined that the 
young men living in were better off than they ever 
became afterwards, even as masters. For the hay 
harvest Irishmen are engaged ; the same men came to 
this farm every year and got 6 for the month's work, 
whether it lasted the full four weeks or was over in a 
little more than a fortnight, as it had been that year. 

The rest of the district, the tangle of little valleys 
down which flow the headwaters of the Hodder, was 
of much the same character. South of the Hodder 
the underlying rock is limestone, which breaks out in 
scars here and there, and was answerable for the big 
pale blue bell flowers in the hedgerow and the more 
deeply-hued geraniums on the wayside wastes ; but 
northward the higher fells were all gritstone, with a 
more gloomy and restricted vegetation. Everywhere 
grassland and everywhere fine cattle, and as we turned 
away with some reluctance from the valley, hospitable 
always but fairer than its wont in the sunshine of that 
brilliant summer, we promised ourselves to come again 
whenever we wanted some good milch cows, though 
we felt we should need a shrewd dealer on our side to 
stand up to the local bargainers. 

The easy routes to the north were either to turn 
down the valley into the Lancashire plain until the 
great high road running from Preston to Lancaster was 
struck, or to follow up the valley to Hellifield and 
there get on the northern through route by way of 
Kirby Lonsdale and Shap into the valley of the Eden. 
However, there is a rough but feasible road straight 
over the moor into Lancaster, and this we took and 
were well repaid. To begin with, it traverses the 
Trough of Bowland, a steep-sided valley that seems 
completely barred as though it led into a deep circular 



THE TROUGH OF BOWLAND 243 

basin hemmed in by a black and forbidding wall of 
moorland. But the stream one seems to be following 
up to its source turns a flank ; the road climbs steeply 
to a col at less than the 1 2OO-ft. line, ancf after a 
stretch of fell, some black and some white, but all 
inhabited by the active, dark-faced sheep roughs let 
us call them drops through woodlands into the upper 
Wyre valley and over another fell along a plain-sailing, 
if somewhat switchback, road into Lancaster. It was 
grass country nearly all the way ; only within a mile or 
two of Lancaster, where the limestone begins again, did 
we find any land under the plough. 



FURNESS AND THE LAKE DISTRICT 

BEYOND the Lune there is still another detached 
portion of Lancashire, the hilly fringe of land south 
of the Lakes, extending westward as far as Barrow, a 
town which has grown into a busy steel-making and 
ship-building centre, owing to the existence in the 
neighbouring Mountain Limestone of masses of the 
purest iron ore found in Great Britain. This Furness 
district runs right up into the Lakes ; indeed, it is some- 
what of a surprise to find that Coniston Water and half of 
Windermere itself lie in Lancashire, another illustration 
of the difficulty of making the county area the unit 
for many forms of agricultural administration. 

From Lancaster northwards through Carnforth the 
underlying rock is limestone, and the soils are partly 
drift and partly the thin, sticky red soil which generally 
arises from the limestone. On the lower ground 
arable farming prevails, and the proximity of the sea 
results in a fairly early district with a mild climate, 
as was shown by the recurrence of barley, all of a 
wide-eared type. But oats form the general cereal, 
and some very fair crops were seen, good, indeed, 
considering the unfavourable season for oats. The 
roots also were good, perhaps not so full of growth as 
usual, but at that date the northern farmers had 



BREEDS OF SHEEP 245 

nothing to complain of as regards their swede crops. 
The drought, however, then lay heavy on the country- 
side ; the thinner pastures near the rock were burnt up, 
and the air came hot and dusty off the white limestone 
roads. 

The belt of cultivated land is not very broad, and 
quickly runs up into rounded hills scarred with terraces 
of limestone, sheep walks pure and simple. One of 
these isolated hills which rises from the plain a few 
miles north of Lancaster Farleton Knot, is notable as 
possessing a breed of sheep of its own, although the 
whole hill accommodates only three farms. These 
" Horned Crag" sheep have been known for the last 
half-century ; they are white-faced, and though now 
distinct are probably derived from the same general 
stock as the Lonk and the Scotch Blackfaces. It is 
perhaps the most remarkable example we have met 
with of the extreme segregation of breeds of sheep 
which prevails in the British Islands, because there is 
nothing to suggest that this breed is either better or 
worse than its neighbours, or that it possesses any 
characteristic which renders it particularly appropriate 
to its limited habitat. Doubtless any owner of a 
speciality gives a little extra care to his stock, and in 
this case continued selection and watchfulness seem to 
have overcome whatever disadvantages have arisen 
from the close in-breeding that must have prevailed. 

At Milnthorpe we turned westward across the head 
of the great sandy bay that is formed by the estuaries 
of the Lune and Kent, and visited several farms in the 
Cartmel country, which is a similar district of free 
working soils upon the limestone, with a mild and 
equable climate and a considerable rainfall. The sea- 
board is fringed by breadths of flat salt marshes and 
mosses, some of which have been deliberately reclaimed 



246 FURNESS AND THE LAKE DISTRICT 

and are protected by a sea wall and drained. The 
upland farms, mostly in grass, are of varied size 
though rarely large, and are rented at about i per 
acre ; to them are often attached allotments wide 
areas of rough grazing where the fells run up to some 
considerable elevation. Most of the farms possess a 
small proportion of arable land on which a rotation of 
oats, seeds, turnips and potatoes is followed, though the 
seeds are left down for several years. Indeed, the 
farmer may be said to move a three-year shift of 
cultivation slowly over all the better fields that are fit 
to put under the plough, because in this moist, mild 
climate no difficulty is experienced in establishing a 
good pasture immediately after it has been sown down. 
A few fields of wheat were to be seen, but barley has 
practically disappeared from the district. 

On one farm we visited the production of milk was 
the chief industry, and a large proportion of it was 
made into butter, for the fringe of small watering- 
places round Morecambe Bay provides a good local 
market for dairy produce. We argued out the old 
question of the profitableness of butter-making when 
a gallon of milk can be sold wholesale for 7d., yet, 
under the best of local conditions, a pound of butter 
for which nearly three gallons of milk are required will 
not produce more than is. 3d., on the average for the 
year. Butter-making can only be a poor business, 
unless a very exceptional profit can be made out of 
rearing calves on the separated milk. The farmer's 
wife whom we visited had learnt to make first-rate 
butter by modern methods, and had no doubt about 
its profitableness, but that was only because she was 
obtaining is. 2d. a pound when lod. was the ordinary 
price for country butter. Even her price was a poor 
return for the milk, considering that the butter-making 



HORSE BREEDING 247 

process itself costs a trifle both for labour and material. 
When a station is within driving distance and large 
towns are not more than 100 miles away, it is difficult 
to see that anything can be more profitable than the 
sale of the milk itself. 

On this and the neighbouring farms a very good 
class of Shorthorn cattle was to be found ; doubtless 
the foundation stock of the country was good, for we 
were at no great distance from the original Tees-side 
home of the Shorthorns. Moreover, the landlord 
kept a celebrated pedigree herd, from which he sold 
bulls of the best blood, perhaps not quite up to show 
form, cheaply to his tenants. The same cause, the 
presence of a celebrated stud of Shire horses on the 
estate, accounted for the fine class of horses seen on 
the farms, on most of which a few foals were bred 
every year at profitable rates. The ordinary farmer 
finds heavy-horse breeding much more feasible than 
the raising of light horses, even though in the latter 
case he may have cheap access to the best stallions, 
simply because he can use a heavy horse during that 
critical period from 2\ to 4 years old during which 
it is being made, whereas one or two light horses of the 
same age are a considerable nuisance upon a small farm. 

These Cartmel farms possess a certain amount of 
good grass and also a little arable land, for which 
reasons some of the horned stock are grown on and 
fattened ; but, as in the district we had just left, the 
sale of heifers and young milch cows was perhaps the 
most profitable part of the cattle-rearing business. 
Sheep were, of course, important items in the farming, 
though no particular breed seemed to be dominant 
in the district. Ewes were bought off the hills 
Herdwicks and Blackfaces and were crossed with 
Wensleydale or Border Leicester rams. The mild 



248 FURNESS AND THE LAKE DISTRICT 

climate made it possible to let the lambs come rather 
early in March, and the lambs and ewes together were 
fattened off on the grass. The value of these mountain 
breeds for crossing purposes seems to lie in the fact 
that when brought on to the low land the ewes make 
very good mothers with an abundant supply of milk, 
so that the lambs thrive exceedingly well up to the 
time they are weaned. Then they ought to be sold, 
because as soon as they are taken from their mothers 
they prove much less profitable animals and fatten 
more slowly than the lowland breeds proper. 

We then went down to see another farm on re- 
claimed land at sea-level ; it was protected from the 
tides by a sea wall and had been under cultivation 
half a century or more. The soil was the usual fine 
alluvial stoneless material found in such situations, 
easy to work but reasonably retentive, and not to be 
played with in any weather. The fields were large, 
laid out in comfortable rectangles and cropped on the 
rotation we have described above, where five or six 
years of temporary ley are followed by three years 
under the plough oats, turnips and mangolds, oats 
and wheat. The cereal crops, especially the oats, were 
a long way above the average, though very weedy, 
and the temporary pastures were really magnificent, 
covered with a splendid springy sward full of white 
clover, such as might have been grassland from time 
immemorial. The tenant, indeed, was accustomed to 
take prizes for the best-laid-down pastures of various 
ages. One five years old especially took our eye, 
because permanent seeds, even when they start away 
well for a year or two, so often become very poor from 
the fourth to the seventh year, when the effects of the 
cultivation have worn off and yet the land has had no 
time to accumulate a stock of humus. 



LIVING-IN 249 

The tenant sold milk and butter ; he also raised 
calves to sell as milkers, and again bought in Irish 
cattle to fatten off, but on the whole he considered 
he made most of his rent out of his sheep. He was 
tenant of an adjacent salt marsh, a piece of land that 
had once been reclaimed, but which through the 
breach of the enclosing wall was flooded at high 
tides a few times a year. This salt marsh not only 
provided keep, but was free from the parasitic diseases 
which so generally affect sheep, so that his stock 
remained very healthy and did not need to be sent 
away to winter. He made it his business to sell 
fat lambs, the ewe flock being composed of hill sheep 
Herdwicks, etc. and the rams of the old Leicester 
breed. Such lambs as did not come to sale in the 
first summer were wintered and then fattened. The 
tenant also bred several heavy horses each year, but 
was, if anything, rather inclined to the Clydesdale 
instead of the Shire. 

From the tenant we got some information about 
labour, which, as is usual in the North, had to be 
well paid. He worked mainly with single men 
boarded in his own house and receiving 30 a year, 
and supplemented them with casual labour hired from 
the coast villages, where many men are half fishermen 
and half farm labourers, paying them by the piece. 
But he wanted to get rid of the men living-in ; the 
quality of the food appeared to be a continual source 
of dispute, and the managing, cooking, washing, etc., 
made their presence a great burden on the wife. 

The rent of this fine reclaimed land averaged about 
253. per acre, though part of the holding was without 
any buildings ; but even taking this into account we 
could not help feeling that he was occupying some 
of the cheapest land in England. It was evidently 



250 FURNESS AND THE LAKE DISTRICT 

magnificent soil, capable of growing anything and 
with a great natural reserve of fertility; it was level 
and easy to work, the climate was good, and the rail 
and markets were close at hand. Yet in Bowland 
we had seen poorer land and more remote commanding 
just double the rent. Similar differences can be found 
all over the country ; there are fashionable districts 
where both rents and farming are high, other districts 
where the land and opportunities are equal or better, 
and yet the whole level of production is lower both 
for the tenant and the landlord. This only shows 
how difficult it is to fit the economists' definitions 
of rent to the thing as it exists. That rent is the 
fluctuating margin between the profit made by the 
land and the rate at which the tenant is content to 
live represents a tendency and not a fact; and none 
of the other definitions that we have found in the 
political economy text-books seem to meet the facts 
any more closely. 

In Furness we still had time to see the famous herd 
of Shorthorns and the Shropshire sheep belonging to 
the landlord of the farms we had been visiting. The 
Shorthorns contained a considerable infusion of the 
fashionable Scotch blood, and were beef cattle rather 
than the milking type so general in the country we had 
just left ; the Shropshires were again strangers in that 
countryside, though well known in the great show rings. 
One talks lightly enough about the improvement of our 
live stock and the possibilities that the modern studies 
of heredity have opened to the breeder, but in face 
of flocks and herds of such perfection as we then saw 
it seems difficult to conceive of any further advances. 
For the mere manufacture of beef and mutton they 
leave nothing to be desired, so truly have the instincts 
of the practical man, working with great numbers and 



LAKE WINDERMERE 251 

over a comparatively long period, attained the end 
in view good flesh rapidly laid on and in the right 
places. But these picked specimens are still too much 
in the nature of happy accidents, purchased sometimes 
at the cost of other qualities which the workaday farmer 
has to consider; the general average still shows plenty 
of scope for improvement. 

We had one look more at the beautiful garden set on 
a gentle southward slope towards the quiet waters of the 
bay, where flourish in careless luxuriance many southern 
shrubs which other people in less favoured climates toil 
to keep alive as struggling specimens, and then took our 
way towards the hills. On the shores of the estuary of 
the Leven we saw one of the many mosses now being 
slowly reclaimed by cutting out the peat before begin- 
ning some sort of warping process ; round Morecambe 
Bay there are great areas where the flat expanses of 
sand which have given the bay its sinister reputation are 
exchanged near the river channels for mud and ooze, 
haunts of wild-fowl and seabirds or at the best only 
occasional sheep, which might be converted into produc- 
tive land. The approach to Windermere from the south 
forms one of those serene visions which move like a sym- 
phony of Mozart's ; there is nothing terrific nor exciting, 
the river is set in wood and rocks, fern and heather, in 
a succession of quiet vistas until it opens out into 
the wide waters of the lake itself, when at last we 
attain to a vision of the mountains Bow Fell and 
the Scawfell Pikes, to recall the more austere entrances 
into this hallowed land. The underwood upon the 
lower slopes of the hills is perhaps more important 
than the limited area of farming land ; it is cut over 
every fifteen years or so, and yields hurdles, barrel 
hoops, charcoal for the powder mills, clog soles and 
bobbins, for the turning of which a few mills still 



252 FURNESS AND THE LAKE DISTRICT 

survive. But the value of underwood has declined 
here as in the south, and many of the woodland crafts 
which were so specially valuable as providing winter 
labour are of no account nowadays. 

Sheep -breeding is the main agricultural pursuit, and 
the fells of the Lake District carry a breed of their 
own, the Herdwicks, which claim to be the hardiest 
race to be found in the British Islands satisfied with 
the roughest of fare (a true Herdwick is said to refuse 
hay even in the worst winters a statement more 
typical than true perhaps), and with their close coat 
proof even against the tremendous rainfall that pre- 
vails. The Herdwick is a small white-faced sheep, 
horned in the rams, but polled or doddied in the ewes, 
exceptionally slow to mature, but producing mutton 
of the finest mountain flavour and a close fleece of coarse 
wool. The lambs are almost black-faced when born, 
but the colour gradually lightens, and the adult sheep 
look truly white in the face. Like so many other 
somewhat isolated breeds, the Herdwick is supposed 
to be descended from some Spanish sheep which 
escaped from a wrecked Armada vessel, but there 
appears to be no evidence, either documentary or 
from affinities with existing Spanish breeds, to justify 
this popular opinion. The Herdwicks are mostly sold 
away to fatten on the turnips and grass of the low- 
lands ; the lambs which are not yet acclimatized to 
the heavy winters are put out to keep in October 
on the grassland along the Cumberland coast. Like 
other hill breeds the Herdwick ewes are crossed when 
they leave their native fells, Border Leicester rams 
being generally used. A Border Leicester ram is also 
used on the Scotch Blackfaces which are in many 
places established in the Lake District ; their progeny 
almost attain to the dignity of a distinct breed, and 



THE EDEN VALLEY 253 

are known as " grey faces," the ewes of which are 
often kept to be bred from again, as is very rarely 
done with any other first cross. 

We followed the well-known road along Windermere 
and by Rydal Water and Grasmere up Dunmail Raise 
to Thirlmere, where we were interested in the planting 
operations that the Manchester Corporation are carry- 
ing out on their catchment area. These big upland 
water-collecting areas belonging to the great cities 
afford perhaps the best opportunity for trying forestry 
on a working scale in England, but the work wants 
the expert knowledge of forest management of which 
we as yet possess so little. To try to make timber 
out of trees that had been growing many years in the 
usual slovenly widely planted English fashion by 
pruning off the straggling lower branches and carefully 
tarring the wounds, is mere gardening, not economic 
forestry. 

From Keswick, in the broad valley under the crest 
of Saddleback, we began to get back into more of a 
farming country, and approaching Penrith the soil 
lightens sufficiently to admit of arable cultivation, with 
oats, potatoes, and turnips as the staple crops. At 
Penrith one might be regarded as in the famous Eden 
Valley, though Penrith itself lies in a parallel tributary 
valley and a low ridge has to be crossed before reach- 
ing the Eden itself hard by Eden Hall. The valley is 
occupied by reddish drift soils which lie on Permian 
rocks to the west and on the New Red Sandstone 
(its most northerly outcrop) to the east of the river 
itself, the soils being derived mainly from these two 
formations, but also from the carboniferous limestones 
and shales farther to the west. All the land is full of 
stones and is light and easy to work, some of it rather 
too light for a season like that of 1911. The Permian 



254 FURNESS AND THE LAKE DISTRICT 

also yields a red building-stone, the material out of 
which the comfortable farmhouses and cottages are 
erected, the roofing slates on most of the older 
buildings being also finely coloured slabs of the same 
stone. 

Most of the farms of the district have from one- 
third to one-half of their land under the plough, but 
the usual rotation keeps a considerable proportion 
under temporary grass. The seeds are left down for 
two or three years, mown the first year and grazed 
afterwards ; on part of the ploughed-up lea potatoes 
will be planted, and oats sown on the rest. Then 
comes a year of turnips, then another oat crop in which 
the seeds are sown afresh. Wheat is not much grown, 
and barley, which was general enough but a few years 
back, has practically disappeared. Potatoes bring in 
the most money, but by the usual covenants only a 
certain proportion of the lea can be planted with 
potatoes. The farming is very dependent upon getting 
a good crop of turnips, part being drawn off for 
bullock-feeding and the rest fed off with sheep. 
Mangolds are grown, but. to no great extent. The 
sheep mostly consist of flying flocks, Blackface crosses 
and the like, brought off Cross Fell and the long range 
of similar moorlands which we could see rising like a 
wall from north to south a few miles across the Eden. 
Cheviots and Wensleydales were not in favour in the 
district, and even the Herdwicks seemed to travel west 
and south rather than to the east. On many of the 
farms milk production is the most important feature, 
though the distance from a station and in one or two 
cases difficulties about a water supply for refrigeration, 
put obstacles in the way of selling the milk itself, and 
in consequence a certain amount of butter-making 
goes on. One farmer whom we visited estimated his 



THE NEED FOR LIME 255 

returns from the sale of milk as about 400 a year, 
from sheep at about 300, and from potatoes at 200, 
these being the main sources of revenue, for the oats 
grown were all consumed at home. The butter- 
making leads to a certain amount of calf raising ; the 
farmer we were visiting kept a pedigree bull and grew 
on his calves indoors until they were about a year old, 
when they were sold. His light land did not yield 
particularly good grazing, so that he did not consider 
he could grow on his own stores cheaply enough, but 
preferred to buy Irish cattle in Carlisle market for 
fattening. The crops in the valley, except on some 
of the thinnest sandy soils beyond the Eden, had not 
felt the drought, the effects of which were more to be 
seen on the grass. 

Despite the occasional boulders of limestone in the 
soil, the land was evidently very short of lime ; finger 
and toe occurs in the turnips whenever they are grown 
on a short rotation, and spurrey was observed to be 
a common weed among the corn. The use of ground 
limestone was beginning to be recognized as a most 
valuable, indeed, necessary, amelioration for this class 
of land, better than quicklime because not so burning 
and more lasting in its action. Plenty of limestone 
existed close at hand, and one or two firms had 
erected grinding plant so as to secure from limestone 
itself those advantages of fineness and easy distribution 
which has hitherto only been obtainable by the use of 
quicklime. As the material was novel to the local 
farmers, one firm had begun to offer it at a price which 
included application to the land, sending out a machine 
for sowing and men accustomed to the work, and only 
asking the farmer to supply haulage from the station 
and the horses required for the machine. Such forms 
of letting out particular jobs that are only rarely called 



256 FURNESS AND THE LAKE DISTRICT 

for on a farm and perhaps require special implements 
and some skill in handling, seem to be growing in 
agriculture. Steam cultivation and potato spraying 
are cases in point, where one man equips himself with 
the outfit and does his neighbour's work at a contract 
price. In the old days the farmer did everything, not 
only in the raising, but in the after handling of the 
crop ; nowadays he tends to become a grower only, 
leaving others to finish the business, especially 
when the produce is valuable and has to be put 
through something in the nature of a manufacturing 
process. 

So iar we had chiefly been seeing small farms, but 
we went some distance towards Carlisle to a large 
farm on the limestone occupied by one of the best- 
known men in the North of England, with a herd of 
pedigree Shorthorns that possessed a long history in 
the show ring. There we did see some grand stock, in 
which respect we had hitherto been somewhat dis- 
appointed, for we had come into the Eden Valley with 
some expectation of finding superior milking Short- 
horns in every farmer's hands, whether small or large, 
whereas before reaching this particular farm we had 
seen nothing to compare with the general run of stock 
of North Lancashire and the adjoining districts of 
Yorkshire and Westmorland. All the farming on this 
holding was at a higher pitch ; the crops were ex- 
cellent, and the temporary pastures such as to fill a 
Southern farmer with envy. But our host was a man 
of mark, who had been active in public business of all 
kinds as well as in farming. He had broken away 
from the local custom of boarding the labourers, and 
had provided cottages for his own farms, so that he 
could have married men living permanently on the 
farm in their own homes. 



THE YEOMAN FARMER 257 

With this exception we were a little disappointed 
with the farming of the Vale of Eden, perhaps because 
we had been led to expect too much. The land is 
sound without being of exceptional quality; it does 
not always seem to be farmed to the top of its 
capacity, and the stock kept are good without being 
in any way out of the common. In some places 
rabbits were a curse and really seemed to be getting 
most of the keep that was being produced in that dry 
summer. Rents were not high, about 2os. per acre, 
and the buildings were excellent indeed, in many 
cases the houses seemed substantial and extensive, out 
of proportion to the size of the farm. This may 
represent the decay of the yeoman farmer. In one 
village we were told that half a century ago there were 
fifty " statesmen " i.e. owners in the parish, which had 
then become the property of a single man. Whatever 
might be our opinions about the relative advantages 
of large or small holdings, we could not but regret a 
change which had merely exchanged owner for tenant 
without any justification in the way of creating a more 
economic holding. But the Cumberland statesman 
has gone and with him has gone much of the independ- 
ence and originality which was the birthright of the 
Northerner. 



XI 
IRELAND THE ARDS : FLAX AND POTATOES 

OUR knowledge of Irish farming was so slender that 
we may perhaps not unfairly gauge the ordinary 
Englishman's opinion on the subject by our own. 
The picture we had was made up of certain visions of 
great rolling pastures in Meath, a county of mighty 
hunters on the one hand and of cattle-driving on the 
other, contrasted with the distressful West, where men 
and women cultivate tiny patches of potatoes and 
oats in little pockets of soil among the rocks, soil 
that has often been carried there on the backs of the 
occupiers. These imaginings were also based on the fact 
that the only Irish produce we knew was butter and the 
store cattle which are brought over in such numbers into 
England to be fattened. That Ireland does not consist 
wholly of grass and bog and stones had been forced on 
our attention occasionally when we read that the average 
yield per acre of most of the staple crops oats and 
turnips, for example is higher in Ireland than in any 
other part of the United Kingdom, Flax, also, con- 
tinues to grow in Ireland, a crop requiring much 
labour and skill, whereas it has almost disappeared 
from Great Britain. It was with some idea of seeing 
for ourselves where these things are done that at 

Penrith, instead of going on to Scotland, we 

258 



SEAWEED 259 

turned south again, and from Heysham sailed to 
Belfast. 

Our first day we spent in the Ards, the low pen- 
insula which runs south and east from Belfast between 
Strangford Lough and the sea true Ulster, where the 
inhabitants are almost wholly of Scotch descent. On 
leaving the city we ascended pretty rapidly into an 
undulating country with a light reddish drift soil rest- 
ing on slaty rock not very far below. One character- 
istic of farming in this district was immediately manifest 
in the way the road was blocked from time to time 
by strings of country carts drawing up seaweed, evil- 
smelling loads of which were deposited in bays by the 
wayside. It was not true seaweed, however, but the 
green Ulva, which flourishes wherever there is a dis- 
charge of sewage into the sea, and has become a serious 
nuisance in Belfast Lough. Indeed, we understood 
that it was collected by the sanitary authorities and 
could be had by the farmers for the carting, thanks to 
which assistance it was being plentifully used, though its 
fertilizing properties are lower than those of seaweed 
proper, and particularly of the deep-water wrack which 
comes ashore on many coasts. The country was 
divided up into small enclosures with good hedges, and 
possessed in many ways an unexpectedly English air 
Scotch would perhaps be more correct, for the small 
whitewashed farmhouses and cottages by the roadside 
were more characteristic of certain parts of Scotland. 

We stopped at one small farm not far out from 
Belfast, a holding of about 40 acres, farmed on a seven 
years' rotation. Oats were followed by flax and 
barley, to which succeeded a root crop (potatoes and 
turnips) manured with seaweed and whatever farmyard 
manure was available. Oats were again taken after the 
roots, and with the corn grass seeds were sown, to 



260 THE ARDS: FLAX AND POTATOES 

remain down for three years. The old seeds were 
often manured with seaweed or farmyard manure, and 
artificials were also bought to keep up the standard of 
fertility. Here we made our first acquaintance with 
the flax crop, an acquaintance that was frequently 
renewed in the course of the next few days, indeed at 
that time flax was in the air persistently night and day 
as long as one was in Ulster. The crop is sown in 
the late spring on land that should be in good con- 
dition, though not through recent manuring ; according 
to the experiments of the Irish Department, the only 
fertilizer that is pretty certain of a return is potash in 
one of its forms, and that more on account of some 
secondary effect in causing the plant to resist disease 
than for its direct nutritive effect. In early August 
the flax, still quite green and showing immature seed 
heads but with few or no flowers left, is pulled, not 
cut ; and because of the large amount of labour re- 
quired the farmers lend one another men for the 
purpose, or " do a join," as it is termed. 

After pulling the flax fields look wretchedly foul 
and weedy ; the land is not cultivated after the crop 
is up and, as the plant shades the ground but lightly, 
weeds grow apace. The pulling process also seems to 
leave whatever weeds there are much more visible than 
they are on a stubble. The pulled flax is made up 
into little bundles, tied with rushes wherever the 
farmer possesses a gathering ground close at hand, 
otherwise by a wisp of the flax itself, and carted off* to 
the retting pond. In this case the pond was a mere 
hollow dug out in the rock and filled with rain water, 
which, in the present dry season, had needed to be 
supplemented with water carted from a spring. Into 
the pond the bundles of green flax are thrown, and 
there weighted down under water by large stones. 



RETTING 261 

The water of the pond soon assumes a deep brown 
hue and a powerful putrefactive odour. The evil 
effects of flax water upon fish when it finally gets 
washed back into the rivers is a sore subject in the 
North of Ireland. In other cases on lower land deep 
ditches may be cut, or a small stream may be dammed 
or a pond dug out by the side of a river, so that it can 
be readily filled. In the pond the bundles lie for a 
week to a fortnight, according to the temperature and 
the character of the previous growth (on all public 
places we saw notices posted by the Department of 
Agriculture warning growers to steep their flax 
specially thoroughly in that year of drought), then the 
bundles are taken out, opened and spread abroad on 
a field from which seeds hay has been cut. Here the 
retting process completes itself in about a week, but the 
grower has to use his judgment when the flax is really 
ready to be gathered up into stacks. The flax plant 
has a green cylindrical stalk and the linen fibre for 
which it is grown forms a sheath round the central core 
just below the green outer skin. During the retting 
process the outer soft green matter decays away and 
also the material uniting the linen fibre to the core or 
pith, until a stage is reached when a brittle stick of 
pith can be pulled out whole from the sheath of freed 
fibre. 

After stacking some time between October and 
February the flax is carted off to the scutching mill, 
where it passes under a simple tool which beats the 
straw until the core or pith is reduced to a powder and 
falls away from the clean fibre. Throughout all the 
processes from pulling to scutching the flax stalks are 
kept parallel and not bundled up together so as to 
entangle the fibre. The scutching mill makes a fixed 
charge of is. a stone, and from the mill the flax is also 



262 THE ARDS: FLAX AND POTATOES 

sold, the buyers making a tour of the mills in order to 
see the quality and quantity of the grower's crop 
before dealing with him. For some years previously 
the price of flax had been very low and the acreage 
decreasing, but in 1910 there was a sudden rise of 
price which bids fair to be maintained, so that a con- 
siderably greater area was sown to flax in 1911. The 
continental area seems to have been reduced, for every 
farmer knows how scarce linseed is becoming, and how 
in consequence the price of linseed cake has risen to 
an abnormal level. 

In Ireland we noticed that the seed was not allowed 
to ripen, the flax being pulled just when the seed 
heads were swollen but green ; this valuable part of 
the plant is therefore sacrificed to the claims of the 
fibre, and the retting ponds are covered with the 
immature flax seeds. In the eastern counties of 
England flax used to be grown to a certain extent for 
seed ; the ripe plant was cut by a reaper instead of 
being pulled, threshed, and the fibre roughly retted 
and sold as an admittedly inferior product. There 
seem to be two weak spots in the flax business : the 
seed all comes from Russia (sometimes after a year's 
acclimatization in Holland), and is a mixture of strains 
and varieties not so divergent perhaps as the different 
varieties of wheat which will be found on growing a 
handful of exported Russian wheat, but still, as one 
can see in the field, possessed of no uniformity. Side 
by side will be found short stems and long, some 
possessed by a tillering habit or a tendency to branch, 
others forming only a single clean stem. Then the 
retting process is very crude ; there are no means of 
regulation ; its duration and character are entirely 
at the mercy of the weather and the judgment of the 
farmer, yet the colour and strength of the fibre upon 



FARM BUILDINGS 263 

which the price depends are entirely determined by 
the retting. Some waters are supposed to induce 
better retting than others, but nobody has determined 
why indeed, it is only one or two foreign investigators 
who have studied the bacteria bringing about the 
change. But a crop that may be worth 20 an acre 
in the field will pay for a little attention and ought to 
be preserved in the country. 

Naturally enough, so near Belfast a good many 
milch cows were kept, while a little farther down the 
peninsula near Newtownards, where a lighter soil 
prevailed, vegetable-growing was a prominent feature 
of the farming. 

On the seaward side of the peninsula there are a 
succession of little watering-places between which the 
farms come down to the shore without any margin of 
unenclosed land, inland are several great demesnes 
enclosed each within its high stone wall, then other 
farms bordering the shallow land-locked bay which is 
Strangford Lough. Nearly all the farms possess shore 
rights and draw up seaweed as their main fertilizer, 
and what the countryside owes to this source of rich- 
ness may be seen in the clean, prosperous villages and 
the excellent, neatly-kept farmhouses by the roadside. 
We visited another farm of about 50 acres farther 
down the peninsula, and were astonished at the size 
and excellence of the house and buildings maintained 
on so small an area. They had all been erected by 
the occupier and must have cost well over 1200 
on an English scale of prices. But the farm was 
exceedingly well done, all under the plough, and 
showing magnificent root crops. The flax field 
was being retted, a small piece of wheat and a larger 
area of wide-eared barley were just ready to cut, but 
oats, the chief cereal on the farm, were still very green. 



264 THE ARDS: FLAX AND POTATOES 

The sale of potatoes formed an important feature 
in the farming, and among them we saw a very 
characteristic variety, " Black Skerries," unknown to 
us though of long standing in the district, and grown 
because its flavour earns it a special market in Belfast. 
The hay from a seeds mixture, consisting of Italian rye 
grass with a little red clover, was being threshed for 
seed. All through Ulster the harvesting of grass seed 
is common, and a yield of rye grass seed of about half 
a ton to the acre at 5s. or so per cwt. may be counted 
upon. The threshed hay would ordinarily be con- 
sidered of very little value, but curiously enough finds 
an export market, being practically all sent to Liver- 
pool for the carters of that and other large Lancashire 
towns, where coarse, bulky fodder of the kind is 
valued. As far as oats went we were practically in 
the South of Scotland, Scotch varieties rich in fat and 
protein being grown for grinding into oatmeal, the 
only local variety being one of a similar type called 
Island Magee, the name of the little peninsula similar 
to the Ards but on the north side of Belfast Lough. 
When the Scotch crop is short the oatmeal merchants 
come across to Ulster to buy, but chiefly to North 
Antrim towards Coleraine, one of the chief oat-raising 
districts in the United Kingdom. 

The fine crops and excellent management of these 
Ards farms spoke for themselves. How on their 
small acreages the comfortable houses we saw all 
about us could be maintained the whole bright, 
thriving aspect of the countryside wanted a good 
deal of explanation. 

Everywhere in Co. Down we were surprised by the 
obvious prosperity and comparative wealth of the 
small farmers, men holding from 40 to 60 acres. To 
take an example, we were with one man near the 



TENANT RIGHT 265 

shores of Strangford Lough whose farm was a trifle 
over 50 acres, on which he had himself built a good 
modern house, as the agents would say, with two 
reception and five bed rooms, and a trim flower garden 
in front. It was clear that he and his family lived 
comfortably if plainly; he spoke of hunting, though 
that was in the way of business, because he bred a 
light horse or two every year. He spoke, too, as an 
expert of wild-fowling on the Lough ; his style, in fact, 
was that of the English farmer, not of 50, but of 300 
acres. 

Now it is difficult to compare rents in Ireland with 
those in England, because in Ireland the landlord has 
only provided the actual land ; the buildings, fences, 
roads, drains, etc , all the immovables which we know 
on English estates have often cost the landlord within the 
last seventy years more than the fee-simple of the land, 
have been provided by the tenant, and long ago in 
Ulster became his property under the old tenant right 
custom which later became legalized all over Ireland. 
We believe there is only one estate in Ulster, belong- 
ing to a City Company, where the English custom 
prevails of the landlord doing the improvements. The 
rent on the farm we were considering used to stand at 
about 2 os. an acre. Then came the judicial rent 
system, perhaps the most demoralizing piece of 
legislation which even Ireland has experienced, and 
successive revisions lowered the rent by perhaps 20 per 
cent. Finally, under the Land Act the farmer bought 
at twenty years' purchase of his judicial rent spread in 
annual instalments over sixty-eight years, with the re- 
sult that he is now paying I2s. to 145. an acre instead 
of 20s., and gradually acquiring the land. Without 
doubt he has been thereby encouraged to better his 
farming, for though the old tenant right gave him 



266 THE ARDS: FLAX AND POTATOES 

his improvements, yet he had always one eye on the 
Commissioners, who might raise at any rate, not 
reduce his rent every five years if the farm looked 
prosperous. But nowadays as prospective owner he 
has reformed the drainage, hedges are taken in hand, 
and the farming is tuned up as rapidly as the profits 
permit. 

To obtain the real rent one ought to add to the 
annual instalment the interest on the tenant right 
which had been accumulated by previous work ; indeed, 
on this account we must usually consider the Irish 
farmer as a substantial capitalist having as much 
money sunk in his business as the English farmer 
occupying an area three or four times greater. For 
example, nearer Belfast we found another farm the 
rental of which was 253. an acre, but on which the 
tenant right had changed hands at nearly 50 an 
acre. 

As a further factor in the prosperity of Ulster, 
farming labour is very cheap, about I os. a week ; and 
the farm does not find the cottages, for most of the 
men live in cottages built by the rural district council 
and let at a non-economic rent. Still, taking all these 
conditions into account, and the good prices that can 
be obtained for potatoes, milk, and on occasion flax, 
the Ulster farmer needs to be a good manager, work- 
ing under a favourable climate, to live as well as he 
does on such small holdings. In the Ards seaweed is 
also an asset, and of the favourable climate we have 
evidence in the successes of the one or two firms of 
rose growers which have made this part of Ireland 
famous among horticulturists. 



XII 
ULSTER ROUND LOUGH NEAGH 

AFTER the Ards we set out again from Belfast to 
make a circuit of Lough Neagh, an area of water 
big enough to have something of the sea's effect in 
equalizing temperatures on the land surrounding it. 
From Belfast to Lisburn we ran through poorish 
country, mostly consisting of small grass enclosures 
with perhaps one-tenth only of the whole under the 
plough. There was no flax ; potatoes, turnips, oats, 
and occasionally wheat formed the staple crops. 
Much of the hay was about in the fields in small 
pikes or being carried, but though it was the first 
week in August and as favourable a season as we 
are likely to meet with in this generation there was 
a good deal of clover hay still standing in its pikes. 
Many of the fields were gathered up into little stocks 
to be threshed for grass seed, and here and there we 
saw a party at work beating out the seed over a 
rail on to a sheet spread in the open. From Moira 
westwards the land and farming improved, the fields 
were larger, and the proportion under the plough 
greater. Occasional orchards, both old and newly 
planted, were to be seen, for along the south side 
of Lough Neagh a fair amount of fruit-growing goes 
on, thanks to the equable climate and the deep soils. 
18 



268 ULSTER ROUND LOUGH NEAGH 

Not far from the eastern shores of Lough Neagh 
we visited an exceptionally good farm ; it was about 
double the size of the usual holdings in the district, 
which mostly lie between 30 and 100 acres, and the 
well-kept hedges which lined the drive from the road 
to the house set the note of all the rest of the manage- 
ment. The land was nearly level and the soil a free 
working reddish loam shading off to clay in the 
bottoms, which were occupied by permanent pasture. 

On this farm the harvesting of grass seed formed 
a prominent feature ; not only was the usual rye grass 
grown but also Crested Dogstail, a special venture 
of this particular farmer. The land has to be made 
particularly clean and also brought into high condition, 
but in any case the crop leaves the land very foul, 
because Crested Dogstail makes but little growth in 
its first year and never forms a close sward covering 
the ground. The grass is cut with a scythe, gathered 
into bundles like small sheaves of corn, which are 
afterwards built into shocks in the field, carefully 
crowned to shoot off the rain, until they are mellow 
enough to be threshed. The yield of seed is never 
high, about 5 cwt. per acre, and the returns are very 
variable, but 3 to $ per cwt. may be obtained for 
the seed as it leaves the farmer's hand. The grass 
is only sown as a one year's ley, and a little clover 
may be mixed in, as it improves the quality of 
the threshed hay, which, as in the Ards, is all 
exported to Liverpool. Besides its rather speculative 
character and the difficulties of harvesting, the pure 
grass ley forms a very poor preparation for the 
succeeding oat crop, for which a liberal manuring 
must be applied. Our host was also experimenting 
with one field of Cock's-foot for seed, but the dry 
season had resulted in but an indifferent crop. 



LIGHT HORSES 269 

His main business was perhaps potatoes, and he 
had developed a considerable business in " seed." An 
immense barn was devoted to storage, because it was 
found much more convenient for winter deliveries in 
bad weather than the usual pits, though great care 
had to be taken to ensure ventilation and prevent so 
large a mass heating. Our host sprouted most of his 
seed, for which again the barn was convenient, and 
was hard at work spraying at the time we were going 
round. Little disease was in evidence that year, 
though on the very same day we noticed a few 
leaves affected in a garden. The only cereal generally 
grown in the district was oats, and that wholly for 
consumption, there being little or no sale and at a 
low range of prices. In consequence the finer Scotch 
varieties we had seen in the Ards had given place 
to the coarser sorts yielding grain only suitable for 
stock. 

On this farm we saw a choice herd of pedigree 
Shorthorns, and though our host complained that they 
were not in their proper condition for the time of 
year because of the shortness of grass through the 
drought, to any one who had just come from the 
scorched English pastures they looked to be thriving 
and on an abundance of keep. No dairying was done 
on the farm, the sale of yearlings being the form of 
realization adopted. No sheep were bred, but every 
year a certain number of lambs were brought off the 
mountains and fattened on the grass with turnips, 
as the land would not stand folding. On another 
farm our host went in for horse breeding, and there 
he had a mare of what is sometimes distinguished 
as the old Irish draught breed an active horse that 
will do light ploughing and other farm work and is 
particularly adapted for artillery and other transport 



270 ULSTER ROUND LOUGH NEAGH 

purposes, which again, when crossed with a thorough- 
bred sire, will yield the typical Irish weight-carrying 
hunter. The complaint among horse breeders is that 
mares of the right stamp have become scarce ; the 
thoroughbred has been used so much that only weeds 
are left, and the Irish Department of Agriculture is now 
trying to get into touch with the remnants of the old 
breed and work up a pure stock again. On this 
farm our host had erected cottages of his own for 
his men, to whom he was also paying about 1 2s. a 
week, with a patch of potatoes and a pig. Labour 
was not quite so abundant as it had been, owing to the 
constant demand for men from Belfast. The women 
still work in the fields at such jobs as haymaking and 
hoeing turnips, but he noted that they were less 
willing to come out than formerly. Not only was 
the pinch of poverty less severe, but from Belfast a 
large amount of embroidery work is brought out to 
the cottages, and, poorly paid as every such home 
industry is apt to be, the women prefer it to work 
in the fields. In this district, which, if not so rich 
as the Ards, still bore every sign of steady prosperity, 
the farms had all been bought our host indeed had 
acquired his nearly twenty years ago under the old Act 
so that the flourishing condition of the farming industry 
might be associated with the fact that ownership had 
been operating for some time. 

We continued to follow the eastern side of the 
Lough ; the country northwards became a little poorer, 
with, as usual, more grass and smaller enclosures. 
Many of the old land pastures looked poor and 
neglected, overgrown with knapweed or hardhead in 
particular ; some fields must have lost a fifth of their 
grazing through the prevalence of the weed. Even 
a scythe would have effected an enormous improve- 



LAND DRAINAGE 271 

ment, but, like other gifts, the grassland is apt to be 
the most neglected part of the farm. Still there were 
indications of a renewed interest in farming, a patch 
or two of young fruit, and a large new osier bed by 
the roadside, clean and well planted on land that 
really seemed unnecessarily good for osiers, which can 
be made to answer well enough where ordinary crops 
get drowned. 

By the time we had reached Antrim the arable 
farming had nearly all been left behind, and the fields 
were occupied by cows of the usually Irish Shorthorn 
type, but showing evidence of care both in breeding 
and management. Sheep were rare or non-existent ; 
the other live stock chiefly in evidence were the 
inevitable goats and the poultry which occupy every 
Irish road in force. Only on one farm did we see them 
in the fields, and there they were tethered by the leg 
and ran round at our approach in wildly fluttering 
circles. We have heard much of late of the increased 
trade in Irish eggs and poultry, but there is still plenty 
of room for more, since at present they occupy only the 
roads and not the fields. 

On the northern side of Lough Neagh the road 
leads by several great demesnes with the enormous 
stone walls characteristic of Irish estates, walls that 
generally speak of work found for the people in 
famine times but always of the cheapness of labour. 
After the demesnes came stretches of bog, bright 
enough just then with heath and cotton grass, dotted 
here and there with stacks of peat drying in the sun, 
but at present valueless for agriculture. The drainage 
of the Bann valley is a sore question that has never 
got beyond the stage of projects, the magnitude of 
which has daunted every public body to whom they 
have been submitted. But after Toome Bridge and 



272 ULSTER ROUND LOUGH NEAGH 

on the western side of the Lough the farming grows 
more varied; the arable land sets in once more and 
flax again becomes common, with occasional fields 
of wheat in addition to the oats, potatoes, and turnips 
which form the staple of Irish farming. Between the 
Lough and the mountain range of Slieve Gallion, 
which bounded our westward view, there is a broad 
stretch of gently undulating land, covered by glacial 
drifts on a limestone foundation. Most of the land 
is under cultivation, but as it lies on a recently 
glaciated rock surface it includes depressions and 
undrained hollows, often basins on an otherwise 
elevated area, in which peat bogs form with an 
Irish rainfall. 

In this district, which was generally well farmed, 
though the villages and towns looked poor and 
slatternly compared with those farther east, we 
visited another excellent farm of about 100 
acres. It was one of the earliest farms to be 
purchased, and the instalments were only equal to 
a rental of 1 2s. an acre, but years ago the tenant 
right amounted to 1200 and had probably risen 
to something in the neighbourhood of ^"3000 at 
that time. Certainly the house and buildings were 
exceptional, the house such as one would find on 
a 5oo-acre farm in England, and the buildings 
extensive and substantially built. Several of the 
Ulster farmers were disposed to deprecate their ex- 
penditure on buildings, though in most cases it had 
been carried out, if not with their own hands, at 
any rate by their own men, and without the inter- 
vention of either architect or professional builder. 
Our host had certainly lavished labour without stint 
upon his property ; the whole place had been drained, 
twenty fields had been thrown into eight and divided 



SEED POTATOES 273 

by trim, well-brushed hedges, the condition of which 
as much as anything else indicates the keenness 
of the occupier of a farm. On this farm, as on most 
in the neighbourhood, rye grass was harvested for 
seed, and we saw one or two fields still in stook, the 
crop being just about ready to be carted in and 
threshed. But the exceptional feature of the farm 
was its root crops, which really looked enormous for 
this or any other season. Our host spoke of having 
weighed 56 tons of swedes per statute acre and 
1 8 tons of potatoes, and in face of the growth we 
saw the figures seemed probable enough. 

He did a considerable business in seed potatoes, 
sending them all across to Lincolnshire ; in fact, 
he had been the first man to demonstrate that 
potatoes grown in Ireland afford as good a change 
of seed for English soils as the Scotch grown seed 
that is so generally planted. The intensive potato 
growers of Lincoln and Cambridge and even of the 
Lothians find it desirable to import seed at least 
every other year from a cooler and more backward 
climate, Forfarshire being one of the great sources 
of supply. But Ireland has proved to be capable 
of producing an equally good strain of seed, the 
cool equable climate leaving the seed potatoes with 
that touch of immaturity which seems to ensure their 
starting readily into growth in the following spring, 
whereas potatoes harvested from a hot, dry soil often 
start slowly and weakly or even fail to sprout at all. 

The soil was a reddish free working loam resting 
on limestone rock not far below, but the turnips 
were all drawn off for the large head of horned stock 
on the farm. A quarry of the limestone had been 
opened, and the rock was burnt to lime not only 
for the farm, but for sale, all the land in the district 



274 ULSTER ROUND LOUGH NEAGH 

being benefited by a dressing of lime, despite the 
proximity of the limestone below. On this farm 
there was no flax, the only cereal grown being oats, 
all of which were consumed except a few sold away 
as seed corn. The finer oatmeal varieties had been 
exchanged for the stifTer-strawed fodder oats, stiffness 
of straw being a most desirable factor on land that 
had been brought into so high a condition. Potatoes, 
hay seed, and a few seed oats constituted the crops 
sold away ; all the rest of the produce was devoted 
to a herd of pedigree Shorthorns, of which over 
fifty head were maintained on an area of less than 
a hundred acres, though not of course without a 
considerable expenditure on cake. The herd is well 
known, and the bull calves and heifers command good 
prices ; the district immediately round Tullahogue 
is indeed of some repute for Shorthorn breeding, there 
being several registered herds within a comparatively 
small radius more, we were told, than in any other 
area of equal size in the United Kingdom. Of course 
all the stock raised on the farm were sold for breeding, 
but a certain number of stores were also brought in 
every autumn to eat up the root crop and be fattened 
off before the spring. 

Being more remote from large towns, wages were, 
if anything, even lower than on the other side of 
the Lough los. to 125. a week, and 8s. for plough- 
men and stockmen who lived on the premises. Never- 
theless, the " Union " (Rural District Council) cottages 
by the roadside in which the labourers lived looked 
neat and prosperous enough, without the air of 
shabbiness and despair which is apt to mark the 
outskirts of an Irish town. All the way round the 
Lough to Armagh we were in a similar class of 
country, interspersed with occasional stretches of bog, 



BARLEY GROWING 275 

and perhaps not quite so well farmed, with a smaller 
proportion of tillage, though still including some flax. 
Armagh is a striking looking town crowned by the 
old Cathedral, but altogether dominated by its new 
Roman Catholic rival immense and imposing, but 
with a touch of the skyscraper about it, set on an 
adjoining but higher hill. 

Thence to Newry we crossed the low range which really 
forms the southern boundary of Ulster and into the valley 
of the Glenrye to Newry, the entrance to one of 
the most exquisite of the many beautiful roads in 
Ireland that which runs along the southern side of 
Carlingford Lough, with the shapely heights of the 
Mourne Mountains across the water, soft rich wood- 
land below, bare moor and crag above. An outpost 
of the same granitic mass has to be crossed before 
Greenore is reached, from which point southward, 
between the hills and the sea, stretches a fertile plain 
containing some of the best cultivated land in the 
country. It is especially suitable for the growth of 
barley, the low rainfall and the equable climate 
making for quality, until over the few favoured square 
miles there is actually more land under barley than 
under any other single crop. Most of the farms 
extend to about 50 acres, though the one we visited 
was exceptionally large ; we were informed that they 
had not yet been bought, though the price had been 
fixed and would take effect as soon as the Com- 
missioners had money available. Rents were a little 
under 1 an acre, and the tenant right would be 
usually equivalent to another equal annual charge 
upon the farming. The soils were evidently of drift 
origin and largely due to glacial action, for the grey 
free working loams were full of stones of all sizes and 
origin, on some of which, when dug out of the 



276 ULSTER ROUND LOUGH NEAGH 

unweathered subsoil, glacial scratchings could be 
seen. Despite the proximity of limestone and the 
presence of occasional boulders of the same rock, the 
soils showed evidences of a lack of lime, corn marigold 
being a not uncommon weed among the barley. We 
found a five-course rotation in operation, not unlike 
one that is practised in the Lothians, another potato 
and barley growing district near the sea. Beginning 
with turnips manured with most of the dung available, 
barley was then taken, and one-year seeds were sown 
in the barley. The ley was manured with seaweed 
before being ploughed up, and a crop of potatoes was 
next taken to be followed once more by barley. Very 
few oats were grown in this particular area, and we 
saw only one field of wheat. Practically all the land 
was under tillage farming, though on the heavier soils 
the ley might be left down for three or four years and 
then made very fine pasturage. 

Barley is thus the leading crop, and its cultivation 
shows a marked and indeed admitted improvement as 
a result of the experiments conducted by the Depart- 
ment of Agriculture with the co-operation of Messrs. 
Guinness, the brewers. The main result has been the 
introduction of a pure strain of Archer barley into 
Ireland in place of the very mixed seed that was formerly 
handed on from one farmer to another. The pure 
seed was distributed widely as soon as the experiments 
had demonstrated beyond all the limits of error 
attaching to such work that this particular strain gave 
a consistently higher yield, sufficient to more than make 
up for the possible inferiority of quality which is 
ascribed by some judges to Archer. In the Dundalk 
district, in which wide-eared barleys of the Goldthorpe 
type had been universally grown, Archer was now 
making headway ; indeed, we saw it on field after field 



DEALING IN LIVE STOCK 277 

long after we had left the farm on which the experi- 
ments were in progress. The barley harvest was just 
beginning at the end of the first week in August, 
about a fortnight before the usual time. The farm 
also showed very good crops of roots ; potatoes were 
a valuable item in the farming, as the proximity to 
Greenore enabled them to be marketed cheaply in 
Lancashire. 

On such a farm stock are generally subordinate to 
the crops, and here were to be seen only " flying " 
flocks and herds, the more fugitive because our host 
could deal on either side of the Channel as the markets 
served. He kept a few cows for milk on which to rear 
calves ; he bought stores in the autumn, and either 
sold them again in the spring as forward stores to the 
Midland graziers or fattened them off. Again, he 
bought cull ewes of the mountains in August, ran 
them with a Shropshire ram, and fattened off both ewes 
and lambs together. It was a very business-like style 
of farming in a smiling country under the brilliant 
summer sunshine, though we could imagine it hard 
and desolate enough when the Mourne Mountains are 
veiled in cloud and the cutting winds sweep in off 
the sea. 

From Greenore to Dundalk there is a very good 
stretch of land, nearly all of it under the plough and 
well farmed in comparatively small holdings and 
rather restricted enclosures. Barley is still extensively 
grown, the balance being held about equal between 
barley and oats. Potatoes and turnips form the other 
chief crops, but from our cursory examination it hardly 
appeared that the seeds hay occupied the fifth of the 
land one would at least expect. Dundalk has 
breweries and distilleries, which form a market for 
the barley and explain its persistence in the district. 



XIII 
IRISH TOBACCO 

BEYOND Dundalk southwards we continued through a 
pleasant country, with rather larger enclosures and a 
considerable proportion of permanent grass. The 
arable was moderately well managed, oats being the 
chief cereal, though barley was still common, mostly 
wide-eared varieties, though we did find one field of 
true Chevallier. In nearly all cases also the seed was 
deplorably mixed, and in one field there was a destruc- 
tive attack of smut. There were fewer potatoes and 
the turnips were later and not so well grown as those 
we had seen on the other side of Dundalk. The 
indifferent character of the farming was perhaps most 
to be seen in the permanent grass, which generally 
looked very poor and was full of ragwort. It was 
generally grazed by Shorthorns of very fair quality, 
but no sheep were to be seen. The farmhouses lay 
by the roadside, but they looked distinctly less pro- 
sperous and well-cared for than those in Ulster. Finally, 
after Ardee we left the tillage lands behind and 
entered a gently rolling grass country, with fields of 
from five to ten acres in extent, divided by tall well- 
grown hedges. The turf was sound and good, though 
cropped rather close after the dry spell ; it was also 
free from weeds and showed other signs of being 
looked after. Only occasional patches remained under 



TOBACCO COUNTRIES 279 

the plough; otherwise the whole countryside seemed 
given up to grazing both of cattle and sheep, and we 
tested it thoroughly, for we lost our way hopelessly in 
a tangle of lanes between Ardee and Navan. 

At Navan we were among the famous grazings of 
Meath, in the heart of that great sweep of grassland 
so well known to hunting men, but we had come less 
to see the cattle than the experiments in tobacco- 
growing conducted by Sir Nugent Everard, whose 
determination and ingenuity has done so much to 
win back for this crop a place in British agriculture. 
At the first blush one is inclined to think of tobacco 
as a tropical or sub-tropical crop ; Havana, Manila, 
India, Turkey leap to mind, even Kentucky and 
Virginia enjoy summers with heat and sunshine that 
we can only parallel in such favoured years as 1911. 
But we are apt to over-estimate the importance of 
sunshine to crop growth, for in some of the places 
mentioned it is necessary to shade the tobacco to 
obtain the highest quality of leaf; we also forget that 
Germany, Holland, and Belgium, even Norway, grow 
tobacco, not perhaps of high quality, but at least a 
good merchantable article. Again, tobacco was once 
a British crop; we have spoken before of its destruc- 
tion in Gloucestershire in Charles ll.'s time in the 
interests of the Customs and of the proprietors of the 
Virginia plantations, and less than a hundred years ago 
it was grown commercially in Wexford and similarly 
destroyed by legislative action in the interests of the 
importers. 

However, speculations as to whether tobacco can be 
grown in the United Kingdom are futile ; Sir Nugent 
Everard and his colleagues do grow it grow it in 
bulk for sale either pure or blended with foreign 
tobacco. Irish cigars, cigarettes, and pipe tobacco are 



280 IRISH TOBACCO 

procurable in Dublin, and the public has so far 
willingly absorbed as much as was offered to them. 
As yet it is by no means of the finest quality ; there 
are barely 1 20 acres grown, and even that area has to 
be maintained by a substantial subsidy, but considering 
the entire lack of knowledge with which the experi- 
ments started as to varieties, methods of management, 
and curing appropriate to the country, the progress 
has been surprising and a commercial success is within 
sight. 

Three difficulties attack the would-be tobacco 
grower at the outset, even if he has the necessary 
permission to attempt the crop (and a few years ago 
the Inland Revenue authorities would sanction no 
trials) ; he has to select out of many hundreds the 
varieties suitable to his soil and climate, he has to dry 
and cure the crop after growing, and he has to find a 
market. Tobaccos for cigars, cigarettes, or pipes 
demand different varieties, different soils, and manage- 
ment, and the leaf when grown is valueless until it has 
been manipulated into the form in which the manufacturer 
is accustomed to receive it. Moreover, the manufacturer 
has his traditional sources of supply and the usual trade 
belief that these are the only possible sources ; he also 
possesses that mixture of mental inertia and legitimate 
business caution which disinclines him to disturb his 
accustomed routine. Lastly, the manufacturing of 
tobacco is in very few hands, and is very largely 
controlled by one combination. 

Experiments in tobacco-growing began in Ireland 
under the Department of Agriculture in 1900. Since 
1 904 about i oo acres have been grown under subsidy 
in Louth, Meath, King's County, Wexford, Tipperary, 
and Limerick, and since 1908 three growers have 
added about 20 acres as commercial ventures. The 



VIGOROUS GROWTH 281 

Department supplies an American expert to visit and 
advise the growers, but Sir Nugent Everard, who has 
throughout been the leader of the movement, himself 
possesses American experience. It is needless here to 
recount the difficulties that were encountered and the 
many failures that were experienced, but already the 
result has been to ascertain what varieties will grow 
with prospects of success, how they must be cultivated, 
and particularly how they can be cured and prepared 
for market in the Irish climate. 

Any doubts one might have as to tobacco-growing 
in Ireland would be removed at the first sight of the 
fields on Sir Nugent Everard's demesne in early 
August, fields of five or ten acres broken up into 
blocks by narrow belts of tall growing hemp as wind- 
breaks, and covered with uniform rows of tobacco 
plants about 3 feet apart and as much high, with their 
broad shapely leaves touching across the rows. The 
uniformity and the vigour was what struck one most ; 
the plants are raised in frames and set out towards the 
end of May, each plant is confined to a single stem 
and topped to prevent seed formation, whereupon it 
grows with the gusto of a field of drumhead cabbages. 
The most luxuriant of all was a field of Nicotiana 
rustica, a coarse variety which may serve for the 
manufacture of nicotine for horticultural purposes, the 
whole raised from some plants found in a garden in 
Wexford, where they had hung on from year to 
year since the end of the Irish industry eighty years 
ago. 

Already by early August the prolonged harvest was 
beginning; the lower leaves as they first begin to 
change colour and droop are stripped off, and the 
process may be continued day by day until well into 
October, but more generally when the upper leaves 



282 IRISH TOBACCO 

are getting ripe the whole plant is cut down and left 
to wilt for a time. The grower has now to begin the 
curing, and Sir Nugent Everard showed us the 
elaborate barns he first constructed on American 
models, with adjustable ventilators and steam-pipes by 
which the temperature could be regulated or the air 
moistened when necessary. Little by little he found 
he could simplify ; the injections of steam so necessary 
in the dry American atmosphere were superfluous in 
Ireland, until at last he found that the first stage in 
the preparation of pipe tobacco could be managed 
in a portable shed made of a deal framework roofed 
with tarpaulin and covered at the sides with canvas, 
the whole costing less than 10 to deal with an acre 
of tobacco. These barns are filled with leaves strung 
upon laths so that they hang down without touching ; 
the leaves gradually change colour from green to 
yellow and then brown, and the process is regulated 
and assisted at times by open fires of wood or coke on 
the floor. 

Of course, when the tobacco has been through this 
process it is by no means ready for the manufacturer; 
it has to be re-handled, i.e. graded and put through 
a process of fermentation which develops the flavour ; 
but the barn curing is as far as the farmer ought to 
deal with his crop, for it will then both keep and 
travel, and can be passed on to a centre where the 
produce of many growers can be duly worked up. 
Even in the curing there are nice points to be observed, 
according to the style of tobacco desired, but the re- 
handling is so much more critical a process that it is 
outside the range of an ordinary farmer. 

However, it is now claimed that enough has been 
learnt about the right kind of seed to grow and the 
methods of curing in these cheap barns to enable any 



OUTLAY AND RETURNS 283 

good farmer to take up the crop with some chance of 
success if he can be given access to a re-handler and 
allowed a subsidy or rebate, which is really no more 
than the equivalent of the extra trouble and expense 
he is put to by the Excise authorities, for the crop has 
to be grown in bond, as it were. Cigar and cigarette 
tobacco demand more care and more expensive 
methods of handling; it is experiments on these 
special articles that have been so costly, like the 
famous glass barn erected by Lord Dunraven, who has 
been one of the most indefatigable supporters of the 
movement. As we looked at the crops as they stood 
and meantime tested last year's product, as we con- 
sidered also the balance-sheets, we could hardly doubt 
but that Sir Nugent Everard and his colleagues were on 
the verge of commercial success. Year by year the 
cost of production has been diminished and the value 
of the crop increased, and considering how experience 
alone can suggest economies and perfect methods of 
cultivation, the successful termination of the venture 
and the establishment of a permanent industry seem 
now only a matter of the careful organization of the 
re-handling process. Probably the crop in the British 
Isles will never make big profits, its value will lie in 
the fact that the proportion the gross return bears 
to the rent is large, and when there is so much money 
at stake the openings for skill are considerable. We 
of all people ought to specialize on such expensive 
crops as can be persuaded to flourish in our climate. 
Moreover, out of the 22 or so per acre that tobacco 
costs to grow in Ireland as much as 6, 145. is paid away 
in wages, even at Irish rates of los. a week. It is 
essentially the kind of crop for a small holder who can 
handle plants individually, provided they are valuable ; 
he and his children, for example, can harvest all those 
19 



284 IRISH TOBACCO 

lower leaves at the right point, whereas the big 
grower has to let them over-ripen to the stage of 
trash." 

Of course there are many men experienced in Irish 
affairs who look upon this tobacco-growing movement 
as a will-o'-the-wisp, vainly diverting the Irish farmer 
from the straightforward prosecution of his business. 
Why trouble about an exotic like tobacco when over 
many parts of the country men do not know how to 
grow turnips ? Even in Meath the little graziers have 
forgotten how to plough ! The answer is that every 
farmer is not being counselled to grow tobacco ; and 
again, that one vitally interesting and remunerative 
crop, even if only small in extent, has a way of stimu- 
lating and tuning up the management of all the rest 
of the farm. 



XIV 

CENTRAL IRELAND : THE GRAZINGS AND 
LAND HUNGER 

THE tobacco-growing by no means exhausted the 
agricultural interests of Randlestown ; there were also 
to be seen good crops of all kinds, the process of 
breaking the hemp grown as wind-breaks between 
the tobacco, the rope made from the fibre, and, not 
least, the best known herd of Hereford cattle in 
Ireland. Here again Sir Nugent Everard does not 
see exactly eye to eye with the conservative Irishmen, 
who, because Ireland is famous for its Shorthorn stores 
and milch cattle, would banish all other breeds. But 
the virtues of the first cross for putting on flesh rapidly 
were to be seen in some tremendous animals grazing 
in the park, animals being prepared to continue our 
host's repeated demonstrations of the virtues of the 
Hereford at the winter shows at Ball's Bridge. 

In the main it is a grazing country round Navan, 
so rich and so valuable for this purpose that it is 
difficult to see how it can be made to pay equally 
well under tillage. Our host farmed his own demesne 
lands, having sold the rest of the estate under the Act ; 
and the vagaries of Irish land legislation were never 
more curiously illustrated than by one case he re- 
counted of land in the district formerly let to a 
tenant at 403. an acre, and bought on this basis, or 
rather on that of a reduced judicial rent, only to be 



286 CENTRAL IRELAND 

re-let to the original landlord at 653. an acre. 
The former tenant now lives in the town on the 
difference between the instalments he pays to the 
Estates Commissioners and the rent he receives from 
his former landlord ! Of course these grazings are let 
for only eleven months lest the occupier should begin 
to acquire a tenant-right, and the original justification 
for tenant-right is less here than in any part of Ireland. 
The grass is so much a sheer gift of the soil that the 
buildings and improvements are comparatively of much 
less account than usual. The art of obtaining judicial 
reductions of rent was well understood, even to the 
coining of a word " preparating " the land, for the 
process of blocking up the outlets of the drains and 
generally getting up a miserable look on the farm 
some six months before the visitation of the Com- 
missioners was due. One of the most learned farmers 
in Ireland, holding, moreover, an official position for 
the promotion of agriculture, told us that he found 
it worth his while to run his farm down prior to 
the visit of the Commissioners. Such is the inevit- 
able result of a Land Court ; a premium is placed on 
bad farming, and the tenant is tempted to aim at a 
reduction of rent rather than the more distant profit 
accruing to enterprise and good management. 

But in Ireland to-day all this is ancient history ; 
the farmers are acquiring their land and are free to 
work out their own salvation without obstacles or 
temptations. The graziers, we were told, had been 
hard hit during that year of drought, a drought from 
which the Irish pastures suffered during the critical 
month of June, when a bullock should do the best of 
his fattening. In the spring good store cattle com- 
manded an unprecedented price ; they had grown but 
little during the summer, not enough to meet the fall 



THE GRASS PLAIN 287 

in the market resulting from the general shortage of 
keep, so that many men after paying 3 an acre for 
the land, found their cattle at the end worth less than 
their cost price. 

From Navan to Dublin the road runs through this 
same smoothly undulating grass country, occupied 
mainly by cattle and a few sheep, but otherwise 
sparsely populated to a degree. The farmhouses seem 
few ; one only sees here and there a labourer's cottage 
by the roadside, the villages sparse and thinly 
populated ; only the demesnes broke the monotony of 
the grass. The preoccupation with grazing was to be 
seen by the goats belonging to every cottage ; only in 
this way can the Irish labourer get milk, of which none 
is to be bought. One could not but sympathize with 
the men who want to break up these grazings, even 
though their methods are such as no State can tolerate, 
and the economic result perhaps doubtful. On the one 
hand are the landless men of Ireland, not merely the 
surplus population of the " congested districts," but the 
labourers, who are none the better off now the farmers 
have obtained the land ; on the other hand lies this 
fertile country, hardly carrying as it seemed an 
inhabitant per hundred acres. But when land can 
command 3 an acre to graze, it is difficult to see how 
a farmer could earn such a rental by putting it under 
the plough ; yet tillage is the only method by which 
a monetary return can be obtained from a small 
holding sufficient for the support of a family. But it is 
debateable whether the Irish grazings really earn the 
very high rents that are paid for them ; of course the 
grazier makes his profit, but more by turning into 
marketable stock the half-starved yearlings bought 
from the little men in the poor country west of the 
Shannon than by grazing as it is known in England. 



288 CENTRAL IRELAND 

The profit is made at the original breeder's expense 
not by turning so many acres of grass into so many 
pounds of beef, and the system will cease as soon as 
the mountainy man who breeds can learn to get his 
stores ready for the British market without the inter- 
vention of the middleman the grazier. 

Out of Dublin again south-westwards we ran 
through the same grass country until in Kildare we 
were well into the great limestone plain which forms 
the centre of Ireland. The rock is generally buried 
deep beneath superficial drifts of glacial origin; sudden 
ridges like ramparts of gravel and stones the eskers 
mark the lines of flow of the old ice, which also 
scooped out flat undrained hollows, in which peat has 
accumulated. It is a wide country of green pasture 
and bog under a great arch of sky, with always on the 
horizon, seen far through the soft transparent air, one 
of the low ranges of smooth hills which here and there 
break up through the flat limestone floor. 

In Southern Kildare the grass begins to give place 
to tillage, and on the Duke of Leinster's estate, one of 
the first to be sold under the Act, we saw a really big 
farm in a district where the holdings are generally 
comparable in size to those of England. The soil 
was on the light side, a stony drift, and though well 
farmed had felt the drought somewhat, so that the 
spring corn crops were below their usual average. 
A somewhat unusual rotation was followed, barley 
being sown on the ploughed-up lea and followed by a 
second crop of barley, which in its turn was succeeded 
by roots as a preparation for wheat. Our host ex- 
plained the large proportion of barley by the fact that 
barley gave in Ireland a heavier yield than oats, and 
in his district at least could always be sold, whereas 
oats could only be grown for consumption and never 



IRISH SHEEP 289 

commanded a good price in the market. He himself 
only grew oats for his own horses and for seed ; in 
fact, he rather specialized in growing seed corn of all 
kinds, and had many varieties and experiments upon 
his farm. He was disposed to increase his acreage 
under wheat, and was in search of a good spring wheat 
that could come conveniently after turnips in his 
rotation. We noticed the tall feathery-headed Agrostis 
as a troublesome weed in the corn here ; it is one of 
the many creeping-rooted grasses to which the name of 
" couch " or one of its variants is given, and occurs 
sporadically on sandy soils in England, but always 
intensively when it does take hold. 

The turnips were all drawn off the land for a herd 
of pedigree Shorthorns, and also to some extent for the 
sheep, of which a flying flock was kept and fattened 
on the grass, for even that comparatively light land 
poached badly if sheep were folded on it during an 
Irish winter. White-faced ewes were bought and 
crossed with a Shropshire or other Down ram, ewes 
and lambs being sold off together when fat. Sheep in 
Ireland do not seem to have attracted the attention of 
the breeder in the way that cattle and horses have ; 
there is only one defined native breed the Ros- 
commons and over the greater part of the country 
they seem to be of a very variable and unfixed type. 
As defined by the Flock-book, the Roscommon should 
be a hornless, white-faced, big, slowly-maturing sheep 
with long and somewhat lustrous wool and a strong 
constitution to enable it to pick up its living entirely 
off grass and to stand the heavy rains of the West of 
Ireland. It is generally credited with a considerable 
infusion of Leicester blood of many years standing, and 
indeed to-day looks not unlike a heavy, coarse 
Leicester. White-faced sheep of this class are found 



290 CENTRAL IRELAND 

all over the lowlands of Ireland, though their owners 
would rarely define them as Roscommons. Then 
there are mountain sheep generally of a more or less 
Cheviot type and Scotch Blackfaces on the hills of 
Ulster. But the wet climate, the small proportion of 
arable land, and the lack of large adjacent meat markets 
all combine to render sheep comparatively unimportant 
in Ireland. Our host told us that labour had become 
a little scarcer; he was paying his men iis. a week; 
but his chief complaint was of the numerous holidays, 
as, for example, on that very day his men were off to 
an athletic sports, which explained the beatings of a 
distant drum that had from time to time fallen on our 
ears. When we left we met both men and girls 
hurrying along the roads, and passed near enough to 
the field to get a taste of the quality of the whole band, 
mixed with the cries of the people cheering on their 
favourites, while we picked our way delicately through 
a stretch of road littered up with screws and vehicles 
of every imaginable stage of age and repair. From 
Kilkea we changed our course a little and headed 
north-west through Athy, Stradbally, and Maryborough, 
towards the distant Slieve Bloom mountains. 

The country did not change much in its aspect ; 
big peat bogs alternated with the cultivated lands, 
which in the neighbourhood of Stradbally and Mary- 
borough showed a fair proportion of tillage land neither 
specially well nor ill farmed. 

The towns for all their wide streets and white- 
washed houses looked gaunt and dull in the absence 
of gardens, though the district council cottages were 
often bright enough, and the chief occupants of the 
roads were the poultry and the goats, with the ass 
carts drawing peat. 

West of Maryborough the proportion of grassland 



CREAMERIES 291 

increased until at Roscrea, which marks the pass 
through which both road and railway penetrate the 
Slieve Bloom range, our road turned northward again 
to Birr or Parsonstown. 

We were now in West Tipperary, close to Limerick, 
in a county in which dairying assumes considerable 
importance, and where co-operative organizations, not 
only in the direction of creameries, but also for the 
purchase of manures and seeds, and again, for the sale 
of eggs, have made considerable headway. But we 
were not anxious to see creameries, which have been 
reduced to a system, and, except for size, are now much 
the same all over Western Europe, and we turned 
aside into the low and frequently boggy country which 
slopes down towards Lough Derg and the Shannon, 
there to visit a large and energetic farmer. Occupying 
400 acres in one farm, with more land outside, our 
host was a very large farmer for any part of Ireland, 
but then he was a man of education and capital an 
example of the gentleman farmer out for business and 
not merely holding land as a pastime or for the sport 
it brings in its train. He represented a type that is 
much rarer in Ireland than in England, though some 
of the younger landlords are now taking to the active 
management of their demesnes, the only land left to 
them after purchase. The soil was a light loam 
resting upon limestone, and extremely stony ; on the 
lower parts of the farm it passed into a black peaty 
soil the remains of a former bog. The rent stood at 
about I2s., but the tenant-right on the place would 
amount to nearly 10 an acre, so that to compare it 
with an English farm the rent would have to be 
reckoned at about 255. an acre no light burden even 
for good land, considering the remoteness from the rail 
and the distance thence to big markets. 



292 CENTRAL IRELAND 

About one-half of the farm was under the plough, a 
higher proportion than was usual in the district, where 
our host considered there was a tendency for tillage to 
decrease. In part he set this down to increasing 
difficulties over labour, due both to an actual scarcity 
through emigration and also to the trouble caused by 
the numerous holidays ; in part, again, the good prices 
realized by store cattle of late years have persuaded men 
to stick to milk and calf rearing. The general tendency 
in Ireland has been supposed to be towards an increase 
of tillage ; for instance, we have heard much of the 
gain of 67,000 acres in 1910, but as this followed a 
loss of nearly 46,000 acres in 1909, and was succeeded 
by a loss of 22,000 acres in 1911, despite an increase 
of over 20,000 acres in the flax area, the fluctuations 
cannot be regarded as showing as yet any definite 
trend in one direction or the other. The exceptional 
summer of 1911, the resulting failure of grazing and 
the store stock market, together with the rise in prices 
of cereals, did induce farmers to plough more of their 
land, but as yet no definite movement towards arable 
farming is manifest in Ireland. We did hear that 
the small farmers, alarmed by the high price of flour, 
were beginning to grow wheat again and get the grain 
ground locally for their own consumption. An increase 
of tillage is, of course, the great necessity for Irish 
agriculture, especially in the areas that have been 
resettled by the operations of the Congested Districts 
Board. The output from a 4O-acre holding, either in 
food or money, can be but small if it remains under 
grass ; it can rarely pay for any extraneous labour or 
support more than the occupier. Moreover, grazing is 
lazy farming, and though it may leave abundant oppor- 
tunity for improvements both in the land and the 
stock, there are never the same openings for increased 



CORN CROPS 293 

production nor the call upon the energies of the farmer 
that arable land provides. 

The arable land of the farm we were visiting was 
worked on the four- course system, though oats largely 
took the place of wheat, and potatoes occupied the 
greater part of the root break. Barley-growing was 
an important feature, Tipperary being one of the chief 
barley-growing counties of Ireland, second only to 
Wexford. Our host did a considerable trade in seed 
corn, both of barley and oats, and on his farm we saw, 
in addition to the Archer barley which has been intro- 
duced through the experiments of the Department, 
one field of black land sown with the Sprat barley we 
had only seen elsewhere in the Fens. It had grown 
with great vigour, and formed a coarse and rank crop, 
partially lodged even after the fine summer ; but its 
most extraordinary feature was its deep red purple 
colour, suggesting an affinity with some of the Oriental 
barleys with their black or purple-skinned grain. The 
farm carried some specially heavy crops of oats, good 
for any season, but remarkable for 1911 ; indeed, the 
whole of the land was being maintained at a high 
pitch of fertility by a considerable expenditure on 
artificial manures. Harvest was in full swing though 
August was barely a week old, and the settled weather 
promised that it would be carried through cheaply and 
quickly at an early date, such as few men could 
remember in Ireland. Indeed, we heard later that the 
Irish farmer got his threshing done if anything too 
early, for he sold the greater quantity of his barley 
before the great and quite unexpected rise in price 
that occurred in the autumn of 1911 had taken effect. 
After the slump in barley prices in the previous winter 
and the accounts one had of the stocks carried by the 
maltsters, with a fair if not heavy crop in prospect, 



294 CENTRAL IRELAND 

who would have anticipated that Norfolk barley would 
be selling in October at 405. a quarter ! The potatoes 
we had seen in Ulster had rather spoiled us for 
ordinary crops, but the considerable acreage on this 
farm was by no means ordinary, but fit to set beside 
the results of the most intensive growers in any part 
of the United Kingdom. The climate of Ireland 
certainly suits the potato ; the equable temperature, 
the abundant moisture, and the long period of growth 
that ensues all make for heavy yields, and again, the 
plant is none the worse for the touch of peat in so 
many of the soils. The permanent grass was also in 
excellent heart and showed a fine sole full of white 
clover, always prominent in the late summer when 
rains have followed a period of heat and drought. 
But we were told the pastures always carried a good 
deal of clover, as a result of careful management and 
applications of basic slag, to which the land responded 
freely. The grass was occupied by pedigree Aberdeen- 
Angus cattle, of which our host possessed a notable 
herd. Though they are very far from being the cattle 
of Ireland, our host yet found a good market for bulls, 
because on the ordinary Irish Shorthorns they get stores 
with exceptional capacity for quick growth and fattening. 
The stores would be mainly sold to England to be 
finished on the turnips of the eastern counties, for the 
Aberdeen- Angus crosses, like the pure breed, are essen- 
tially animals to be tied up rather than to fatten on the 
grass. Our host also bought in a certain number of 
native yearlings to carry on, or if occasion served, to fatten 
for local markets. Altogether it was a thoroughly 
modern, energetically-managed farm, and the occupier 
was not only making the land do its duty, but by his 
example and his advice was a factor of great value in 
tuning up the whole of the agriculture of his district. 



THE COUNTRY TOWNS 295 

Our next stopping-place was Nenagh, a big, form- 
less town, dependent entirely upon the agriculture of 
the country around, and some of our party acquainted 
of old with Nenagh were not slow to remark evidences 
of increasing prosperity in the town. The most 
notable feature, perhaps, was the number of agricultural 
implements, especially reapers and binders, on view in 
the street ; evidently there was an improving market 
for farming tackle, and the shops themselves showed 
here and there a fresh coat of paint or a regilded sign, 
as though trade was producing a few shillings to spare 
and a little encouragement to enterprise. Our route 
now lay due south to Cork, but we had to wind 
considerably to turn the ranges of Old Red Sandstone 
hills which break up through the limestone floor in the 
south of Ireland. From Nenagh to Thurles the road 
lies between the Keeper and the Devil's Bit Hills, a 
country of small farms with perhaps one-third of the 
land in tillage ; thence the road traverses the limestone 
plain again to Cashel. Approaching Cashel the 
the farming improved, the corn crops were very fair, 
and we saw more barley than oats, more roots than 
potatoes. Cashel is one of the holy places of Ireland, 
with its exquisite ecclesiastical ruins set high on a 
great crag of limestone in the midst of the town, but 
the town itself is depressing in the extreme houses in 
every stage of unoccupation and ruin, and a general 
air of decayed greatness and present squalor over all. 
Thence to Cahir, the proportion of tillage declined, and 
the farms were mostly in grass and stocked with milch 
cows ; the soils are thin and the limestone near, but 
the bogs are no longer in evidence ; indeed, from 
Nenagh southwards we saw little or no bog. At 
Cahir, a bright little town, we entered the broad green 
valley between the Galtee and the Knockmeledown 



296 CENTRAL IRELAND 

Mountains. The small grass farms seemed to be 
more prosperous and were dependent upon the sale of 
milk and store cattle. At Clogheen we turned due 
south and boldly attacked the pass leading at a con- 
siderable elevation through the bare but shapely 
Knockmeledown Mountains ; but the road turned out 
to be carefully graded and presented no real difficulties. 
The summits are wild, desolate moorland, but the 
descent on the southern slope soon drops into an 
exquisite river valley, where the luxuriant woodland 
and the red rocks, bedraped with ferns, speak of the 
soft, kindly climate of the south of Ireland and the 
moisture-laden airs that blow in from the Atlantic. 
The valley brought us to Lismore, with its noble castle 
overhanging the Blackwater, one of the show towns 
of Ireland, where the trim aspect and air of an English 
residential town indicate the neighbourhood of a great 
proprietor. From Lismore to Cork one passes through 
an undulating country of which the greater part is 
in grass, though nearly all of the farms possess a 
certain proportion of tillage land that may be described 
as fairly well farmed and yielding crops somewhat 
above the general average of Ireland. 

Approaching Middleton, we visited one or two farms 
which showed much the same general character; the 
holdings run about 50 acres in area, of which about 
one-fifth would be under crop, and the rest permanent 
grass or seeds that are left down for three or four 
years, so that the cropping always succeeds to the 
fertility accumulated by a well-established sod. Barley 
and oats form the cereals chiefly grown, and potatoes 
occupy rather less of the root- land than the other 
crops, instead of greatly exceeding them as they do in 
most of the Irish counties. Milk is the staple pro- 
duction, and we passed by the depots of a condensed 



FODDER CROPS 297 

milk factory, to which one farmer told us he delivered 
his milk at 4jd. per gallon. The creameries can pay 
nearly the same price and also give back to the farmer 
the separated milk, which he can make of considerable 
value by raising pigs or calves. Sheep also become a 
prominent feature in the farming of Cork ; we saw 
chiefly the white-faced ewes, nominally perhaps Ros- 
commons, but showing little evidence of breed, and 
the farmer with whom we talked was in the habit of 
buying cull ewes out of Galway and the West, and 
crossing them for one or two years with a Down 
ram. The farming struck us as neither good nor bad, 
but on the whole hardly worthy of the deep soils and 
the favourable climate, but then the soft languorous 
airs of the south, however favourable to vegetation, are 
not so good for men, and environment as well as breed 
has something to do with the fiercer energies of Ulster. 

There was no great change in the character of the 
country on our return journey a little farther westward 
from Cork to Limerick. In the broad valleys the land 
is fertile and the climate farmable ; the small farms 
each possess a few acres under the plough, and grow 
oats, sometimes barley or wheat, potatoes, and a few 
turnips ; the rest of the land is grazed by milch cows, 
with sheep on the uplands. Tillage is restricted both 
by the lack of men and of labour-saving implements. 
When one man with inadequate tools has to work the 
whole holding even five acres of plough land mean 
very heavy labour, especially as most of the potato 
and root land is cultivated by the spade. 

One of the advisers working in this district advocates 
an extension of tillage, not so much to raise corn and 
turnips, both of which are difficult in this climate, the 
one by reason of the difficulty of getting on the land 
in spring, the other because of the danger of a 



298 CENTRAL IRELAND 

protracted harvest, as to introduce green fodder crops 
rye, vetches, broadcast turnips, rape and kale, which 
can be fed to the cows and so increase the milk out- 
put of the holding. An acre of tilled land in green crops 
will carry twice as much stock as an acre of grass. 
But, of course, men have to be taught this new kind of 
farming, and, above all, provided with implements that 
will make their labour economical. Yet a farm of 
30 or 40 acres, even if the holder can raise the 
necessary capital, cannot afford to possess the range of 
implements necessary a mowing machine for the few 
acres of hay, a binder for the small acreage of corn, a 
potato-digger, and the appropriate ploughs, harrows, 
and cultivators. Small farmers must either share such 
implements or hire from one another, and we were 
glad to learn that considerable success had already 
attended the formation of co-operative societies for the 
purchase and common use of implements, some of 
which societies had acquired a considerable stock, even 
including such expensive plant as a motor-driven 
threshing-machine, and had paid off all their indebted- 
ness. We passed several co-operative creameries, and 
were always meeting the ass carts bringing a few 
churns of milk along the road to some depot of the 
kind. In that part of Ireland the spirit of co-operation 
was certainly abroad, for one successful enterprise of 
the kind soon leads to other ventures of a similar 
character. 



XV 

THE WESTERN SEABOARD: RESETTLEMENT 
AND CO-OPERATION 

FROM Limerick we struck west into Clare, but there, 
as in Connemara, Mayo, and Donegal, farming may be 
said hardly to exist. The characteristic feature of 
Clare is the limestone rock, which covers, as a rule, 
more of the land than the grass. Here and there are 
areas amenable to cultivation, as for example the 
kindly land about Oranmore just south of the city of 
Galway, where on a limited area some of the best 
barley in Ireland is grown, but, speaking generally, the 
mountainous west is covered by rock and bog. In 
places it still carries an incredibly large population, 
living, as one resident told us, largely on American 
postal orders, but struggling with heart-breaking little 
patches of cultivated land won from the wilderness. 
The potatoes have to be grown on lazy beds to raise 
them above the level of the saturated peat, and despite 
the spraying that has become universal are subject to 
a number of other diseases of appalling intensity in 
that soft moisture-laden atmosphere. Cultivation on 
more than a garden scale must be a mistake under 
such conditions; the only economic use of the land 
would be to keep it in extensive grazings for ponies, 
sheep, or rough cattle, and some of the lower land 
could be profitably improved by the use of lime and 
basic slag. Such grazing can only support a small 
20 



300 THE WESTERN SEABOARD 

population ; for the rest there is but the fishing and 
the tourist traffic, if they are to live at any higher level 
than the bare subsistence that can be wrung from 
their little patches of cultivated ground. It is one of 
the tasks of the Congested Districts Board to resettle 
these men on the grazing lands farther east, but the 
difficulties are great. In the first place, the Connaught 
men are very unwilling to move, and the inhabitants of 
the district to which they are transferred resent their 
intrusion ; in consequence it is easier to migrate a man 
from Connemara to America than to the centre of 
Ireland. Then, again, they know little of farming and 
are almost helpless on twenty or thirty acres of proper 
land, unless they happen to belong to the class who 
have been in the habit of going over to Yorkshire or 
Lincolnshire for the summer, and have there learnt 
something of the management of arable land. It is a 
sad region full of anguishing stories and bitter 
memories ; one cannot say that the situation has arisen 
through the misdoings of any one in particular, and 
no one can see any immediate solution other than the 
slow diminution of the population to an economic 
level ; the only redeeming feature is that for all their 
disadvantages the people seem neither unhappy nor 
underfed. Indeed to the casual passer-by the men and 
women seem more prosperous in Connemara than they 
do farther east, and of course climate and type have 
worked together to produce the most beautiful faces in 
the world. Farther east in the flat plain of bog and 
pasture that lies between Corrib and the Shannon we 
visited a colony of small farmers on a " resettled " 
estate. It was the famine that gave the great im- 
petus to the Irish grazing system; then the bulk of 
the tenants lost their holdings and sank to petty 
cultivators of two or three acres on the poorest part of 



ECONOMIC HOLDINGS 301 

the estate, the rest of which was cut up into two or 
three big grazings to be let on the eleven months system. 
When an estate is bought out and resettled by the 
Commissioners the landlord's demesne and grazings 
become available for division ; the whole is parcelled 
out afresh, a work requiring considerable patience and 
diplomacy, until, as in the case before us, men who 
formerly held from two to four acres each had been 
placed on " economic " holdings of twenty to forty 
acres, on which also decent houses had been built by 
grants from the Commissioners. Instead of rent the 
farmers have the usual sixty-eight years annuity to 
pay, and one of the chief problems now before Ireland 
is how to teach these colonies of small holders to live 
at something above their old level of bare subsistence 
and to make the land reasonably productive for the 
community. There are no leaders left, the gentry are 
gone, and there is no middle class except the priests, 
the dispensary doctors, and tradesmen in the distant 
towns. There is also no tradition of good farming, 
and few examples of dealing with the land except by 
grazing, yet grazing on thirty acres means little more 
than idleness and destitution. Fortunately most of 
the men on the estate we saw had been in the habit of 
hiring themselves out in England, and were with great 
toil tilling as much of these holdings, four or five 
acres each, as was possible with their limited stock of 
horses and implements. It is to these districts that Sir 
Horace Plunkett's co-operative movement is most 
particularly addressed : not only can it make the farm- 
ing earn its due profits and save the men from being 
sweated by the gombeen man even more oppressively 
than they ever were by the landlord, but also the pro- 
phets of co-operation see in the society an outlet for 
men's social energies and a democratic form of leader- 



302 THE WESTERN SEABOARD 

ship that will more adequately replace the lost influence 
of the old owners who have failed and been driven 
out. That they did fail was again impressed upon us 
as we drove across the great midland plain from 
Ballinasloe to Dublin mile after mile of undulating 
grassland showing no great evidence of good manage- 
ment, though the tall untidy hedges demonstrated the 
capacity of the soil and climate. All the sparse 
villages begin and end with ruined cottages ; the 
country between contains no habitations ; rarely was 
a man to be seen in the fields ; it is hard to avoid 
exaggeration, but the land might almost be described 
as a green fertile desert. That such a state of things 
should have come about the landlords are not alone 
responsible; but for good or evil in this generation 
they have been made to pay. 

Still our visit had impressed upon us a more hopeful 
view of Irish farming, for everywhere we found men on 
the look out for improvement, persuaded that they 
could make more of their land, and anxious for new 
ideas as to how it could be done. On the material 
side land purchase has undoubtedly been the most 
potent factor in creating this feeling ; it has not only 
given the occupier security and the sense that he is 
entirely thrown upon his own resources, but it has 
removed the temptation and even the external pressure 
to farm badly in order to reduce rents. But the 
material is not the whole or even the most potent 
factor in the situation ; we have to recognize the 
quickening of national consciousness, the new spirit in 
young Ireland, which, as regards agriculture, has been 
expressed and organized by Sir Horace Plunkett. Not 
only do many of the landlords see in the settlement 
of the land question a chance of winning back their 
position of leaders of the people, of being of service to 



CO-OPERATION 303 

their own countrymen, by living on their demesne 
lands and working like their neighbours at the great 
industry of the country, but the small farmers them- 
selves are grasping the truth that in co-operation lies 
their opportunity of offering a successful resistance to 
the pressure of modern competition on the small pro- 
ducer. Co-operation advances not because it can 
promise a halfpenny a pound or a shilling a quarter 
more profit, but by its appeal to the spirit ; and 
Ireland, devastated but renascent and always sensitive 
to the spiritual side of things, is answering to the 
appeal. Of course the Department of Agriculture is 
doing wonderfully good work in educating the farmer 
by precept and example, work of which the fruit is 
manifest even in statistics. But government in Ireland 
has always had a strong centralizing tendency ; officials 
will take charge whenever a people do 'not resent de- 
spotic methods ; and a Department, necessarily paternal 
in its procedure where it has to deal with farmers of a 
very rudimentary type, may possibly become in the end 
tyrannical and both clog and demoralize the spirit of 
initiative and enterprise which alone makes for lasting 
success in agriculture as in any other walk of 
life. 

Here comes in the special value of the co-operative 
movement to Ireland ; above all other things it affords 
a training in the duty and method of self-help ; it is 
democratic because every member of the society has a 
vote, but a vote checked by its immediate result upon 
his pocket and that of his fellows, but upon nobody else. 
No training can be better for the newly emancipated 
farmer, no stimulus more salutary, than the experience 
of collective enterprise which a small co-operative 
society affords, even if it only begins by collecting the 
members' eggs or buying their manures wholesale. 



304 THE WESTERN SEABOARD 

The co-operative movement is the true complement of 
the Department, both as preparing its way and after- 
wards realizing its educational activities ; above all, as 
giving to the people the suggestion of initiative and 
dependence upon personal effort the moral force 
without which education is wasted. One hears of 
friction between the two organizations, but every true 
friend of agriculture, every well-wisher to Ireland, 
realizes that each is necessary and neither can do the 
work of the other, and so trusts to see the work of 
both continually expanding on parallel lines long after 
the present unhappy legacy of old feuds has been 
forgotten in Ireland. 



THIRD JOURNEY, 1912 



STOCK-RAISING IN MONMOUTHSHIRE 

DURING the previous stages'of our farming pilgrimage 
it had been possible to take a line of country and go 
straight ahead, so that there was a geographical 
sequence between the districts visited, even if the style 
of farming changed abruptly from day to day. Such 
a method, however, inevitably leaves certain parts of 
the country untouched, margins that lie outside the 
route, and interior tracts between the eastern and western 
roads. Our pilgrimage in 1912, undertaken to fill up 
the gaps, therefore resolved itself into a series of other- 
wise disconnected tours, and the first district we set 
out to see was Wales from south to north. 

We broke new ground first when we left the city of 
Gloucester for Monmouth, and as geographical boun- 
daries are of little importance in farming, we might 
very well consider that we entered upon Wales on 
crossing the Severn. We took the most direct, but, 
because of the gradients involved, not the quickest, 
route across the Forest of Dean, certainly one of the 
most characteristic wooded areas in the British Isles. 
The great stretch of oak-clothed uplands form the only 
places south of the Highland line where you get the 

impression of a real forest ; and though the actual 

305 



306 STOCK-RAISING IN MONMOUTHSHIRE 

plantations look casual and uncommercial in com- 
parison with such forests as the Spessart or the 
Thuringer Wald, you do see something of timber- 
growing as a business and not as an ornament or game 
shelter. The strangeness of the scene is intensified by 
the sudden patches of coal workings and spoil heaps, 
themselves looking very much out of place among the 
trees to any one accustomed to the bare coal districts 
of the North or Midlands. The descent from the forest 
to the smiling valley of the Wye provides another 
notable view, though not so extensive nor so varied as 
the outlook from the edge of the Cotswolds into the 
wider Severn Valley. 

Agriculturally, Monmouth consists of the valleys of 
the Wye and the Usk with the ridge of land between ; 
and practically all of it lies on the Old Red Sandstone 
formation, for the elevated mining area to the west is 
of little importance agriculturally. The soils are 
nearly all red in colour and heavy in type, and as 
the rainfall is high, averaging something like 40 in., 
the land is mainly under grass, though most of the 
farms carry a little arable land, about one-tenth or so 
of the total area. Only in the south of the country on 
the light alluvial soils near the river do we find true 
arable farms. Generally, the holdings run small, from 
40 up to 200 acres, the most typical size being about 
100 acres. Rents may be said to average about 1 
an acre, the upland farms more remote from the railway 
letting at 153. or less, while for small farms on the 
richer lands to the south of the county as much as 
355. an acre is paid. On the smaller holdings but 
little labour is employed, and all over the district 
labour is dear because of the proximity of the coal- 
fields. On the smaller farms, as a rule, there would only 
be a single hired man living in, but in other places the 



SHORTNESS OF LABOUR 307 

stockman would get i a week or its equivalent; and 
whereas on the larger farms the living-in system has been 
abandoned we heard several complaints about the lack 
of cottages as a potent factor in keeping the industry 
short of labour. 

The first farm we visited was typical of the small 
holdings of the county. It was about 100 acres in 
extent, undulating land of the usual rather heavy red 
soil, by no means rich and somewhat remote from a 
station, yet commanding a rental of about 1 an acre. 
It was farmed by a widow and her son, with the 
help of a single hired man, and even with this small 
amount of labour about twenty acres were kept under the 
plough. No very strict rotation was followed, but the 
custom here, as throughout the greater part of Wales, 
was to keep down the land in grass for some years and 
then take three or four arable crops before laying it 
down once more. Wheat and oats, turnips and man- 
golds were the crops grown, the only thing unusual 
seen being a breadth of peas. The grassland was not 
of very high character, the hay in particular did not 
look promising because of the drought earlier in the 
year ; but there we saw a very good example of the 
extraordinary result which basic slag gives on some of 
these poor heavy soils where the rainfall is abundant, 
for in one of the fields the agricultural instructor of the 
county had laid out some plots to which basic slag had 
been applied. To the eye the vegetation on these 
manured plots appeared to be trebled ; indeed, they 
were the only parts of the field that were sufficiently 
covered to hide the bare soil between the scattered 
plants, and there was a great profusion of white clover. 
We should imagine that a systematic use of basic slag 
on the farm might easily double the production of the 
grassland. Despite the heavy nature of the soil and 



308 STOCK-RAISING IN MONMOUTHSHIRE 

the fact that limestone occurs in the county at no great 
distance, we could not hear that liming was at all a 
common practice amongst the farmers of this generation. 

Another item usual upon Monmouthshire farms is 
an orchard of cider trees, cider-making being one of 
the regular sources of income. With the help of the 
county council on one of the fields of this farm a new 
demonstration orchard had recently been planted, 
containing trees of four selected varieties which are 
known not only to do well in the district but also to 
yield fruit that will blend together to produce a good 
flavoured cider ; for there are many kinds of cider 
apples that are excellent when blended with other 
appropriate varieties, but give rise to a very poor 
liquor when fermented by themselves. The Fruit and 
Cider Institute provides the trees gratis as one return 
for the county's contribution, the tenant plants the 
trees under supervision, and undertakes to cultivate 
them properly. 

The stock upon the farm consisted almost entirely 
of Herefords, with a few crossbreeds for milking 
purposes. On the second-class lands the Hereford 
is said to answer better than the Shorthorn " a Here- 
ford will thrive where a Shorthorn will starve." It 
is thus essentially a poor man's cow ; and though it 
has no repute for milking purposes, its supporters 
always maintain that, if properly handled, both the 
Hereford and its crosses yield at least an average 
amount of milk. Farmers, however, all too rarely 
keep any record of the amount of milk yielded by 
individual cows during their lactation period ; in 
consequence we have very little real knowledge as 
to the milk-producing powers of several of these 
breeds which are usually valued solely for beef 
purposes, but are used in their own district, especially 



QUICK RETURNS 309 

by the smaller man, for the dual purpose of both meat 
and milk. Systematic record-keeping would open the 
eyes of the smaller farmers to the unprofitable nature 
of many of the animals they continue to keep in the 
herd. On this farm about half a dozen cows were 
in milk, and the bull calves and such heifers as were 
not wanted for the herd were grown on cheaply and 
sold at two years old as stores ; for it was by no 
means the kind of land upon which it would pay to 
try to fatten animals for the butcher. Being some- 
what remote from a station, the milk was not sold as 
such, but was converted into butter and cheese, which, 
with the chickens and the eggs that also formed an 
important item of production, were sold weekly in 
the not very distant market of Pontypool. Small 
farmers must have some regular source of income 
of this kind, and cannot well depend entirely upon 
the sales of crops and of stock that only recur at 
somewhat long intervals. It was this point of view 
that reconciled the young farmer to the chickens ; 
he did not like them about the place, but agreed that 
they fitted in with the rest of the farming, and that 
you had to regard a farm of this kind as a whole 
with as many different articles as possible working in 
together to produce the income. 

Farther south we visited a larger farm, extending 
to two hundred acres, of which about thirty were 
under the plough. The pastures, which stay down 
for from five to seven years, carried excellent grass 
with an abundance of white clover ; they had all been 
dressed with basic slag once and some twice within 
the seven years. The occupier was mainly a stock 
farmer, breeding Herefords of good quality, and at 
the same time rearing extra calves bought in from 
the dairying districts. Some of the bull calves were 



3io STOCK-RAISING IN MONMOUTHSHIRE 

sold for stock purposes, but the chief output of the 
farm was forward stores and down-calving heifers. 
He also bred some good horses, and looked to have 
three or four colts running about each year. Sheep 
formed a more prominent feature of the farming than 
was usual in the district; the stock consisted of 
Hampshires and crossbreds of Ryelands with a Down 
ram. The Ryelands are one of the oldest breeds of 
English sheep, doubtless an early segregation from 
the short-woolled sheep of the hills countries, but they 
are unlike the Shropshires and Southdowns in being 
white in the face. They are famous for the fineness 
of their fleece, and perhaps because of their distinct- 
ness produce very rapidly -growing first-cross lambs, 
but are, however, little known outside their own 
country the red uplands of Hereford. 

This farm carried an excellent cider orchard, clean 
and well managed, and, as we tested for ourselves, 
produced an unusually good vintage of cider. No 
cottages were attached to the farm, and accommoda- 
tion for labourers was scarce in the district. 

Farther down the valley, where it widens out and 
includes a wider tract of level alluvial soil, we visited 
another farm of exceptional size for the country, about 
300 acres over all, from one-quarter to one-third being 
under crop. The soil was light and easily worked, 
drying out somewhat readily in seasons like that of 
1911, but permitting of the successful growth of 
barley, and benefited by folding with sheep. It 
carried good potato and corn crops as well as the 
promise of an excellent breadth of roots, and, as the 
main business of the farm was with stock, most of 
the produce was consumed on the holding. Two 
flocks were kept, one of the Clun Forest breed, light, 
short-woolled sheep from the Welsh marshes, which 



CHEESE MAKING 311 

were crossed with a Down ram in order to produce 
early lambs, while the second flock of Hampshires 
was kept to eat off the turnips in the winter. About 
twenty cows were in profit, a little butter but mainly 
cheese being made from the milk. Caerphilly was 
the standard cheese, though when milk was plentiful 
and the markets over-stocked with Caerphilly the 
manufacture of Wensleydale cheese took its place. 
The Wensleydales have to be ripened for some months, 
but then command a much higher price than the 
Caerphilly, though of course the market is a restricted 
one. The introduction of this Wensleydale cheese 
has been wholly due to the County Travelling Dairy 
School. Stock-rearing, however, was of more im- 
portance than milk on this farm, the steers being 
fattened and the heifers sold after one or two calves 
as young cows in full milk. The proximity of the 
colliery districts resulted in excellent markets for cows 
in profit, as well as for fat cattle and produce 
of all kinds. In consequence dairying has been 
extending in the district, the sale of milk being very 
profitable wherever the farm is near enough to a 
station. 

It was chiefly the returns to be obtained for milk 
that caused a considerable demand for small holdings 
in the county, but the resulting transfer of land had 
not always been to the good of farming or the 
increase of the food supply. Our host had been 
forced to give up some 25 acres of his best grassland 
to a small holder who, instead of attempting to live 
upon it, simply cut and sold the hay and then let the 
grazing of the aftermath, a procedure which is un- 
doubtedly remunerative for a time but ruinous to the 
land, and as such had been forbidden by his covenants 
to the original occupier. Still, Monmouthshire does 



312 STOCK-RAISING IN MONMOUTHSHIRE 

contain a large proportion of genuine small holders, 
who by hard work and extreme thrift make up for poor 
farming and an indifferent exploitation of the land. 
We had been seeing men above the average, but on 
the whole Monmouthshire farming seemed of the 
rather easy, unprogressive type that is possible on 
grassland with the genial rainfall and kindly climate 
of the west. 



II 

CARMARTHEN AND CO-OPERATION 

FROM Abergavenny northwards the beautiful valley of 
the Usk presented much the same farming character- 
istics as those which prevailed near Monmouth. There 
were the same deep red soils, the same predominance 
of grasslands with about one-tenth of the fields under 
the plough, and the same light hay crops, which told of 
the effects of the earlier drought. Here and there on 
the deeper soils on the lower slopes there would be 
rather a greater proportion of arable farming ; and we 
noticed one farm on which all the labourers wore very 
distinctive red coats, patches of brilliant colour in the 
general green landscape. From Brecon we still 
followed the Usk on to gradually poorer lands as the 
elevation increased until we crossed the low water- 
shed, and, leaving the Old Red for the Silurian rocks 
which cover so much of Wales, began the descent down 
the deep wooded valley that led to the Towy. 

In the Towy Valley itself there is even a higher 
proportion of grassland than along the Usk. Accord- 
ing to the Agricultural Returns the average size of the 
holdings in Carmarthen is only 3 8 acres ; the typical 
farm, however, is one of 80 to 100 acres, of which 
only four or five acres will be plough-land, growing a 
little corn and a few roots for the winter feeding of the 

stock. In this country a good proportion of the 

313 



3 H CARMARTHEN AND CO-OPERATION 

farms are owned by their occupiers, but the recent rise 
in the prices of land has been tempting many owners to 
sell ; and men who had bought their farms twenty or 
thirty years earlier during the depression were then re- 
alizing the enhanced values and going out of farming 
altogether. As a rule these small farms were worked 
entirely by the owner and his family, and were rather 
undermanned in consequence. 

Labour was very scarce in the district, because it 
lies on the edge of the great Glamorganshire coalfield, 
which for many years had been extremely prosperous 
and able to pay high wages for comparatively unskilled 
labour. As it was, single men who live in get 30 to 
35 a year with board and lodging free, out of which, 
if they are keen on farming, they can save enough 
to be able to take one of the small farms and make 
a start for themselves. The prospects in the colliery 
districts were, however, so much more attractive that 
very few of the younger native-born men could be 
hired for agricultural work ; and it was here that we 
first came into contact with what has almost become 
a characteristic feature of Welsh farming the depend- 
ence for hired labour upon boys drawn from the 
industrial schools and reformatories in England. 
Indeed, so much is this the case that the three B's 
which the Welsh farmers owe to England have almost 
become proverbial reformatory boys, basic slag, and 
barbed wire. This apprenticeship of boys to the Welsh 
farmers would seem to be a very good outlet for some 
of the surplus population of the towns and a means of 
obtaining a new set of recruits for country life. We 
did not gather, however, that it was effecting any 
considerable permanent enlistment of men for agri- 
culture, for the great majority of the boys fail to settle 
on the land and drift back into other occupations. 



LIME AND LIMESTONE 315 

Indeed, one could hardly hope for any other result ; it is 
too much to expect that a boy can become assimilated 
to a population of small farmers, speaking a different 
language and possessing habits and traditions entirely 
alien both from the town from which he had been drafted 
and the discipline to which he had been subjected 
more lately. 

We visited one farm on the banks of the Towy 
where the lighter alluvial soil had enabled its energetic 
proprietor to carry on a more advanced style of farming 
than generally prevailed in the district. Seventeen 
acres out of the seventy were under the plough, the 
custom being to take two corn crops and a root crop 
after breaking up the ley, and sow down again for a 
period of from four to seven years until the time 
came for arable cultivation again. In the humid 
climate, seeds take well and rapidly form a turf; it is 
found also that better yields are obtained from 
temporary than from permanent grasslands, which tend 
to become thin and impoverished as the soil sets 
together after the influence of the cultivation is 
removed. 

The best soil in the valley is that situated upon a 
belt of limestone which forms one of the Silurian 
formations, but nearly all of the other land in the 
valley is greatly lacking in lime. Very little liming 
has been done for many years indeed, the practice 
is almost unknown in the district because of the 
distance from limestone and the cost of the carriage. 
The general lack of lime is also demonstrated by the 
extraordinary effectiveness of basic slag as a manure, 
supplying as it does not only the missing base, but 
also the phosphoric acid in which Welsh soils are so 
largely deficient. One cannot but correlate the 
acknowledged deficiency of the Welsh soils in phos- 
21 



3i6 CARMARTHEN AND CO-OPERATION 

phoric acid with the system of farming that has so 
long prevailed. The staple products that leave the 
land are young stock that go to England to be 
fattened, and, on the other hand, milk. Both these 
products draw to an unusual extent on the phosphoric 
acid of the soil ; and in both cases the material leaves 
the land and never comes back again ; so that one 
may say that for centuries there has been a continuous 
export of phosphoric acid from the soil of Wales 
without any replacement, until within very recent years 
the practice of using basic slag has become more 
general. Just as fertility has been travelling from 
Wales, so Norfolk and the other arable counties in 
England where stock are fattened have been gaining 
in fertility from the linseed and the maize that are 
consumed upon them, fertility really drawn from the 
soil of the new countries in which they are chiefly 
grown. The Welsh farmer, being, as a rule, a com- 
paratively small man, with but little superfluous 
capital, has never been a great buyer of artificial 
fertilizers, so that his soil in the majority of cases 
remains in much the same condition as it was half a 
century ago, and has not experienced the increased 
fertility due to a more intensive cultivation by the aid 
of imported manures and feeding stuffs which has 
characterized the soils farther east. On this farm, 
however, bone meal has been largely used, as well as 
basic slag, and has proved as good or even a better 
manure. Most of the best returns for bone meal seem 
to be obtained upon comparatively light soils in the 
West of England ; in the East, probably because of the 
lower rainfall, it often proves so slowly acting as to be 
an expensive fertilizer. 

The chief corn crops grown upon the farm which 
we were visiting were wheat and oats wheat to 



WINTER FOGGING 317 

a surprising extent; indeed, it was very unexpected 
to see the old Golden Drop wheat flourishing in such 
a comparatively humid climate. However, our host 
found wheat a valuable food for milch cows ; in his 
opinion it maintained the milk yield better than any 
other cereal. All the corn grown upon the farm was 
consumed ; indeed, there was no sale of corn through- 
out this district. Potatoes formed the only crop to 
be sold and were highly farmed, because the good 
prices to be obtained in the colliery districts close 
at hand made it a very profitable crop if well done. 
Potatoes were everywhere one of the best crops of 
the year, but the field we saw on this farm would 
be considered very fine even in the most favourable 
districts for potato growing. Scotch or Irish seed 
was used, and our host had proved for himself the 
advantages that are to be derived from boxing the 
seed, even of maincrop potatoes. The hay crop 
seemed likely to be a light one, though the torrents 
of rain which were falling at the time of our visit 
were not too late to thicken up the bottom, were 
it not perhaps in a grazing district more profitable 
to take an early, even if a small, hay crop and utilize 
the rains to get an abundant aftermath. It was in this 
district that we first made the acquaintance of a method 
of obtaining winter food for stock, which is known as 
" winter fogging." It is the custom to take the cattle 
off the grazing fields as soon as the meadows have 
been hayed and some aftermath is available. The 
pastures are then allowed to grow tall and rank until 
in November, when grass begins to run short again 
on the meadows, the cows are turned into the tall 
and partially withered herbage, which seems to provide 
food that the cattle appreciate and thrive on all 
through the winter. Of course, the climate in Car- 



318 CARMARTHEN AND CO-OPERATION 

marthen is very open and mild, and the cattle are 
out, through the day at least, all the winter through. 
The chief industry of the valley, as also of our host, 
is the production of milk, most of which is sold as 
whole milk to the colliery districts at an excellent 
price. Some men convert a portion of their milk 
into butter or cheese, using the separated milk or 
the whey for feeding calves raised on the farm with 
others bought from the men who sell the whole of 
their milk. At the present time all the dairy farmers 
depend upon Shorthorns, which, as the only really 
dual purpose cow, seem to be extending their range 
yearly, even into the strongholds of the other breeds. 
Thirty years ago our host told us the valley was full 
of the black South Welsh cattle, but they have almost 
entirely disappeared at the present time, and the 
Shorthorn holds the field. The butter and cheese 
are all sold locally, the usual cheese being Caerphilly, 
though a certain amount of what is called locally 
" Welsh cheese " is made from separated milk. An 
effort is being made to establish a central cheese 
factory at Llandilo, in order to find an outlet for 
the surplus milk at times when the farms are producing 
more than the supply for which they have contracts 
running with milk sellers in the colliery districts. 
Even though the returns for the cheese may not in 
themselves be very profitable, it is thought that the 
factory would still be valuable by keeping the surplus 
milk off the market and maintaining a reasonable 
price. 

In this district co-operation generally has made 
very considerable strides ; and though the efforts of 
the society are still in the main confined to purchasing 
in bulk for its members and saving them the excessive 
profits that the middleman generally takes from the 



CO-OPERATION 319 

small buyer, the movement is gaining ground rapidly ; 
the farmers are learning to work together, and are 
likely to make a start with the co-operative sale of 
produce now they have learnt the advantages of 
co-operation in purchase. Manures, seeds, agricultural 
implements are the chief articles supplied ; but the 
educational value of a co-operative society may be 
seen from the way it has taught the farmers in this 
district the virtues of Scotch and Irish grown seed 
potatoes simply by importing them and pressing them 
upon their customers. But, once the co-operative 
principle gets hold, it is impossible to limit its 
application in any direction ; and the Carmarthen 
Society, though started to deal in agricultural require- 
ments only, has inevitably extended its operations to 
tea, sugar, and other household requisites. The 
society is only ten years old, but in that period it 
has multiplied its members by ten and its turnover 
by twenty ; and the fact that the turnover per 
member has increased as well as the number of 
members is the best evidence of the increasing 
prosperity of the district, a prosperity in which 
co-operative trading has been a distinct factor. 



Ill 

LITTLE ENGLAND BEYOND WALES 

FROM Carmarthen we took the westward road into 
Pembrokeshire, running at first through a grass country 
differing in no respect from the valley of the Towy, a 
country of small farms each with but one or two fields 
under arable cultivation. The hay crops were light 
enough, and the grass had shot so far that the recent 
rains could have little effect upon the yield. 

Haverfordwest is the centre of that special country 
known as " Little England beyond Wales," which has 
retained its English speech and traditions from the 
twelfth century, when it was conquered and colon- 
ized by Strongbow. Nor do the English represent the 
only foreign element in Pembrokeshire, for about Milford 
Haven there are several fishing colonies of Flemish 
origin, descendants of the Flemings also brought over by 
the Earl of Clare, who still possess many characteristic 
customs and a whole vocabulary of technical terms. 
The little village of Llangwm is perhaps the most 
purely Flemish ; the inhabitants have a dress of their 
own, and show their Flemish origin in the architecture 
and the spotless cleanliness of their cottages, though 
perhaps the most distinctively foreign feature is the 
custom by which the women manage the boats and 
market the fish while the men stay at home and look 
after the gardens. 

Pembrokeshire, with its difficult communications, has 



MIGRATION OF FARMERS 321 

been so little touched by the cosmopolitan tendencies 
of the age, which submerge all differences of class and 
origin, that English, Welsh, and Flemish have remained 
almost distinct nations, not speaking one another's 
language, rarely intermarrying, and possessing a pro- 
found mutual distrust. 

The farming of Little England is quite unlike that 
of the rest of Wales ; there are many extensive estates, 
and the farms are comparatively large, from 150 to 
250 acres, the usual small holdings only prevailing in 
the north and east of the county. Among the large 
estates, however, there are a good many freeholds, and 
everywhere landlords are beginning to sell and the 
tenants to acquire their farms. There has also been a 
considerable migration of the Welsh farmers from the 
north of the county into this district ; and we were 
told that though the immigrants flourish extremely 
well on the large holdings at first, the third generation 
generally goes under through drink and loses the 
farm. Such generalizations are rarely to be trusted, 
especially when one nation is speaking of another; 
but our informant was ready enough with instances. 
We visited one of the larger farms not far from the 
river to the south of Haver ford west. It was of an 
exceptional size, running to 400 acres, and the soils 
were generally light but very varied, because in this 
part of the peninsula many formations succeed one 
another within very small compass, narrow out-crops 
of Carboniferous rocks and limestone being rapidly 
exchanged for Old Red Sandstone, Silurian, and 
patches of igneous origin. In the main, however, the 
soils were of a sandy type derived from the Coal 
Measures, which here give rise to a good arable soil, 
though one that demands a constant and heavy 
manuring. A large proportion of the farm was under 



322 LITTLE ENGLAND BEYOND WALES 

the plough, and no strict rotation was followed, two 
or more corn crops being often grown in succession. 
The general custom appears to be to keep about half 
the land in temporary grass and to take three crops 
of corn and one of roots before laying it down again. 

Oats form the chief cereal, but one feature of 
Pembrokeshire is its comparatively large acreage of 
barley, of which there are as much as 17,000 acres in 
the county; in fact, the proportion of barley to the 
arable land in Pembrokeshire, about two-elevenths, is 
exceeded only in four counties in England Norfolk, 
Suffolk, Shropshire, and Yorkshire. Nearly all the 
corn grown is consumed either on the farm or locally, 
but there is a certain amount of export of barley from 
this part of Wales. One unexpected feature on this 
farm was the presence of two fields of flax, rather 
stunted owing to the drought earlier in the season, but 
still a good even plant then coming into full flower. 
The occupier had been growing flax for a year or two, 
not for the fibre but for the seed, which he used as a 
supplement to separated milk for calf rearing and had 
found cheaper to grow than to buy. He assured us 
that he had harvested a crop last year that gave him 
linseed to the value of 20 per acre, without reckoning 
anything for the straw, which was simply carted into 
the yard and trampled down as litter. With the present 
advanced prices of linseed and the enormous demand 
that exists both for the oil and for the pressed cake, it 
is highly probable that linseed will be a paying crop 
on all good arable land, even though no attempt is 
made to utilize the fibre. It is usually considered in 
Ireland that good flax fibre is incompatible with the 
saving of ripe seed ; but it should be remembered that 
for the Courtrai flax, perhaps the finest fibre in the 
world, the crop is not harvested till the seed has 



CASTLE MARTIN CATTLE 323 

formed, and the plant is rippled to save the seed before 
the beginning of the retting process to liberate the 
fibre. 

The most important root crop of the farm was 
potatoes, of which heavy crops were to be seen, growing 
from Scotch seed. Our host was diminishing his 
acreage of swedes because he found them expensive, 
especially as the land is a little too wet to allow him 
to fold the sheep upon the turnips. There was a 
small breadth of sugar beet grown as an experiment, 
though even the Pembrokeshire end of Wales would 
seem to be one of the least promising districts for the 
establishment of the beet sugar industry, which 
demands above all to be situated in a dominantly 
arable district, with cheap and easy means of com- 
munication to bring the roots to the factory. 

The farm was heavily stocked, its main business 
being rearing cattle for sale as forward stores ; the 
grassland was not good enough for fattening, and only 
a few of the more advanced animals were tied up for 
the winter. In addition to the calves of his own 
raising, our host bought calves from the milk-producing 
districts and grew them on, selling the best of the 
heifers back to the dairy districts when in calf. The 
cattle were all Shorthorns, though we were not far 
away from Castle Martin on the other side of Milford 
Haven, whence the black cattle of South Wales take 
their name. Even in their own country, however, the 
black cattle are disappearing, as they have the reputa- 
tion of being too slow in coming to maturity, even 
more so than the closely related black cattle of North 
Wales. The farm also carried a heavy stock of sheep 
Shropshires together with a certain number of 
crosses with the hill breeds. In this open, mild 
climate, with little frost or snow in the winter, lambing 



324 LITTLE ENGLAND BEYOND WALES 

is very early, and the lambs are put to the ram the 
same year. This Pembrokeshire farm was a good 
example of straightforward businesslike farming not 
perhaps so polished as one would find in the typical 
arable districts of England, but still very much better 
than most of the management we had hitherto seen in 
Wales. Land and climate are good : but for its 
remoteness from the market this part of Pembrokeshire 
might well become a really famous farming country. 
Rents averaged about 253. an acre for the better land; 
and labour, though by no means plentiful, had for 
a time been a little easier to obtain, because both 
the Pembrokeshire and Glamorgan colleries had been 
taking fewer men. Still the industrial schoolboy, as in 
Carmarthen, was a considerable factor in carrying on 
the work of the smaller farms. 

East of Haverfordwest in the peninsula is the chief 
arable district of Pembrokeshire the Rhos ; but we 
had such bad accounts of the roads that we contented 
ourselves with the farm we had just seen, and drove 
north-west to St. David's. All the way we passed 
through a reasonably farmed undulating arable country, 
with perhaps one field in seven in barley. Even when, 
at Newgale Sands, we crossed the little stream which 
forms the boundary of Little England and passed once 
more into Wales, we continued in a country mainly 
arable to St. David's, and then along the road which 
runs parallel to the coast north-east to Fishguard. 

From Fishguard to Newport and Cardigan the aspect 
changes ; the hills come closer to the sea, and the 
farming is like that which prevails in the interior of the 
county on the lower slopes and the valleys of the Pres- 
celly range, which rose steeply to long barren moorlands 
on our right. In this district the farms run small and 
are wholly in grass. Towards the upper limit of culti- 



GORSE 325 

vation both holdings and occupiers are very poor ; but 
all alike are engaged in the same type of business 
the production of butter and store cattle. In general 
the butter is made by the most primitive methods and 
can only be described as bad ; indeed, it would be 
hardly saleable were it not for the proximity of the 
colliery districts, a market which rather favours a highly 
salted and strongly tasted butter. 

In the north of Pembrokeshire, even more than in 
the south, it was very evident that a material factor in 
the comparative infertility of the land was the deficiency 
of lime in the soil. Except the Mountain Limestone 
near Haverfordwest there is no material in the county 
out of which to make lime, and the difficulties of com- 
munication as well as the lack of knowledge have caused 
an entire neglect of this very necessary operation of 
liming. The lack of lime in the soil was also indicated 
by the abundance of gorse, which covers the broad 
banks dividing the fields of Pembrokeshire and even 
intrudes into the fields themselves. As in Brittany, 
the gorse is made some use of as a fodder, being 
bruised to destroy the thorns, and fed in the winter. 
We were informed, however, that the practice is getting 
less common, and that on the best farms the gorse 
itself is diminishing, owing to the use of basic slag. 
Gorse and bracken are good indicator plants, denoting 
a lack of lime in the soil ; and lack of lime means a 
low level of fertility and the shutting down of some of 
the most valuable agencies preparing plant food in the 
soil. 



IV 
CENTRAL WALES : MIXED FARMING 

A DRIPPING evening had brought us into Cardigan ; 
but though a fair morning tempted us to take the road 
early, we delayed to see the Saturday produce market 
in full swing. It did not give us a very exalted opinion 
of the farming of the district : vegetables were few and 
poorly grown, the chickens looked as though they had 
been accustomed to more exercise than food, old 
potatoes were being brought in carts, but the few new 
ones on show did not indicate very efficient utilization 
of the warm seaside soils. 

Butter was, however, the chief product brought in 
for sale, and a pair of wholesale buyers were doing a 
brisk trade. The butter came in lumps ; indeed, 
thereabouts, it is still churned to a lump and packed 
into bowls and pails of all sorts : we saw one lump 
weighing little short of a hundred pounds turned out of 
a clothes-basket into which it had been closely moulded. 
Churning to a grain and making up into pound and 
half-pound pats is still rare, and confined to the few 
who have gone through a dairy-school course. The 
price that was being paid in the market that morning 
represented little more than 3d. a gallon to the farmer 
for his milk. For all that the people seemed cheerful 
and prosperous, the market was animated, and there 

was no sign of economic pressure to force on a higher 

326 



BARLEY V. OATS 327 

standard of farming. Indeed it is doubtful if low 
prices and bad times ever make for improvement : in 
such circumstances the farmer sits tight and reduces 
what may already be an insufficient expenditure on 
the land ; only when there is already a margin of 
prosperity is he encouraged to risk a little outlay on 
innovations. 

From Cardigan we took the long road which runs 
parallel to the coast, but a mile or two inland ; the 
elevation is considerable and the country open, so that 
from time to time we had wide views over the great 
sweep of Cardigan Bay, blue and smiling, under a 
happier sky than hitherto. From Cardigan to Aber- 
aeron the farms appeared of a fair size, one-sixth to 
one-eighth in crop, with an unexpected proportion of 
the corn land allotted to barley. Tlje equable climate 
and the proximity to the sea enables the barley to 
grow well even at considerable elevations ; but consider- 
ing that all the corn is grown for consumption it was 
not evident why barley was preferred to oats, which 
may generally be expected to yield a greater weight 
of food per acre as well as more valuable straw. 
Several men whom we asked claimed, however, to get 
a better yield of barley than of oats, but the chief 
reason alleged was that a more certain take of seeds 
could be obtained in barley. At Aberaeron the road 
drops down to the sea level and runs for some miles 
close to the coast ; hereabouts the soils are kindly and 
the farming rather better ; indeed most of the land 
looked capable of growing anything, even though a 
rainfall of over 40 in. adds to the difficulties of arable 
farming. Many of the pastures were excellent, and in 
the warm sun the air was full of the scent of white 
clover. A little farther north, however, the country 
becomes poorer with a smaller proportion under the 



328 CENTRAL WALES: MIXED FARMING 

plough, and as far as Aberystwith we saw little of 
agricultural interest. 

Beyond Aberystwith we visited an interesting farm, 
situated on undulating land in one of the wide valleys 
that here lie between the great sheep walks of the 
Phinlimmon range and the sea. The soil was derived 
from a stony drift of glacial origin, and was light and 
easy to work, with the result that about one quarter of 
the farm was in corn a much higher proportion than 
usually prevails in the district. The farm extended to 
nearly 300 acres, an exceptional size, for as a rule the 
farms thereabouts are only a hundred acres or less. In 
addition, our host occupied some 500 acres of mountain 
sheep walk at a distance, where his sheep lived during 
the summer. 

In his cropping he followed the usual plan of leaving 
down the seeds for from three to eight years, after 
which time the grass gets thin and must be ploughed 
up. Even for his short-period leys he sowed chiefly 
alsike and white clover, as standing grazing better 
than red. After the ley followed a rotation of wheat, 
roots, and barley, in which the seeds were again sown, 
though recently, because his land had improved, he 
was beginning to take an oat crop after the wheat. 
All the corn was consumed upon the farm, and some 
of the wheat was sent to the local mill to be made into 
flour for home consumption. There was again rather 
an unexpected amount of barley on this and on the 
neighbouring farms, but it was all consumed locally 
and none exported ; indeed, we heard of rather higher 
prices than prevailed in English markets, where farmers 
so often sell the corn they have grown and buy the 
cheaper foreign grinding barleys wherewith to feed 
their stock. Here, as generally throughout Wales, the 
barley grown belonged to a variety known as " old 



WELSH BARLEY 329 

Welsh," a stock somewhat mixed, but consisting 
mainly of a type resembling Archer in appearance, 
though early where that variety is late. Under various 
names similar strains have been found in all parts of 
the United Kingdom ; they probably represent the 
" rathe ripe " barley of the early writers ; but though 
some attempts have been made to select pure lines 
from these varying aggregates, they have not met with 
success as yet. Probably where the conditions are 
not very favourable and uniformity of quality in the 
produce is not a matter of importance, a rather in- 
definite mixture of this kind may answer better than a 
single strain, just as dredge corn may yield more than 
either oats or barley separately, especially in a season 
adverse to one or other of the constituent crops. 

We saw some very good breadths of turnips, the 
best we had come across in our tour. Half the area 
of turnips received farmyard manure, and there the 
turnips were drawn off; the other half were farmed 
with artificials, and there the roots were consumed on 
the land, thus leaving matters pretty level for the 
succeeding barley. Mangolds and potatoes were also 
grown, the latter good even for the good season and 
promising to be a very profitable crop, for they 
generally find an excellent market in Aberystwith, 
with its large resident population. 

Our host kept a very good class of Welsh cattle of 
the true North Welsh strain, all black except for a 
touch or two of white below. A few herds are to be 
found in North Wales sheeted with white round the 
body like some of the Holsteins, but this is a fancy 
point for which no working justification can be found. 
The North Welsh cattle can be in some respects dis- 
tinguished from the South Welsh or Castle Martin 
breed, and are reputed to be more rapid feeders and 



330 CENTRAL WALES: MIXED FARMING 

better milkers, but the differences are insignificant, as 
has been recognized by the union of herds originating 
from both sources in a common herd-book. The 
Welsh cattle form one of the most valuable and dis- 
tinctive of British breeds ; at home they are esteemed 
for their milk, but they are chiefly known in the Mid- 
lands of England as most profitable grazers of the 
summer pastures. They cannot be forced like the 
Shorthorns, and do not, as a rule, possess quite the 
symmetry of frame of some of the more improved 
breeds, but as big-framed stores of two to two and a 
half years the Welsh Runts they grow rapidly upon 
grass and begin to put on weight early in the season, 
when other less hardy breeds would be standing still. 
Butchers approve of them, as they die fat with a high 
proportion of carcase to live weight, and with meat of 
good marbled quality. Considering to what extent the 
breed is in the hands of small men, the general quality 
and uniformity of the stock is remarkable ; but there 
is evidently a considerable opening for the extension 
of the co-operative principle, which already seems 
congenial to the temperament of the Welsh farmer, to 
the purchase of bulls of high quality for the use of 
groups of neighbouring farmers. Of course, there is 
the danger of the spread of contagious abortion by 
the bull, but we could hear little of the disease among 
the herds of the Principality, and with due watchful- 
ness in the organization its dissemination need hardly 
be apprehended. Our host was chiefly a rearer, selling 
out steers and heifers at two years old ; but he milked 
his cows, made butter, and raised the calves on the 
separated milk. 

He also kept sheep of the true Welsh mountain 
breed, which with certain local variations is found all 
over the great stretches of featureless moorland occupy- 



WELSH SHEEP 331 

ing the whole of the heart of Wales. In the main the 
Welsh hills are grass rather than heather clad, and are 
enclosed by wire fences into sheepwalks of from 400 
to 2000 acres, even upon the most craggy and barren 
summits of North Wales. The Welsh sheep are small 
and slow growing, and at four years old should yield 
legs of mutton weighing not more than 6 lb., whose 
excellence lies in quality and not in size. The sheep 
are supposed to be " acclimatized " to their own farms, 
and should change hands with them, but no custom of 
excessive valuation for the acclimatization of the flock 
has grown up in Wales as it has in the Highlands. 
As a rule the flock is moved off the hills in October, 
going back in April to lamb, though where the sheep- 
walk is not too elevated the wethers may be left up for 
the winter. At three years old the wether lambs are 
fattened out, the best practice being to give them a 
season of grazing on the richer grass of the lowlands 
before putting them on the turnips. The older custom, 
which still yields the finest mutton, was to fatten them 
in their fourth year only on grass, for the true Welsh 
sheep should not be fat : " The valley sheep were 
fatter, but the mountain sheep were sweeter." Men 
who do not occupy hill land for breeding buy in 
mountain ewes and cross them with a Kerry Hill or 
Wiltshire ram to get earlier and larger lambs for 
fattening; or, again, they may buy in early summer 
wethers from some of the more elevated districts where 
there is no grass that will bring stock into a state for 
market. 

In that district most of the land was rented, rents 
running from 2os. an acre to a little higher. A few 
men owned their own holdings, but our host had a 
strong opinion that the worst farmers were the small 
men who owned their own land, because as owner a 
22 



332 CENTRAL WALES: MIXED FARMING 

man gets careless and neglectful about matters for 
which he would be taken to task if a tenant. Labour 
was in fair supply but dear, men getting 32 a year 
with their board and lodging, and on the usual farm of 
a hundred acres or so there would be one or two of 
such hired men. Where the custom of the country is 
to have only single labourers living in there must be a 
provision of small holdings to give a man a chance of 
getting married and sticking to the land, but our host 
disapproved of the way most of the recently created 
small holdings had gone to tradesmen and not to 
agricultural labourers. In his opinion the younger 
generation were not taking so keenly to farming, 
though he admitted the extension of the milk business 
round Aberystwith had provided new openings, while 
the increased sale of manures and feeding stuffs in the 
district showed that the industry was prospering. 
After taking leave of this good farm and good farmer, 
for so he would be regarded out of Wales as well as in 
it, we took a day or two off from agriculture, because 
we had arrived at the verge of the mountains, where 
the sheep become only a minor incident in the scenery. 



NORTH WALES: SLATE QUARRIES AND 
WATERING-PLACES 

WELSH mountains under the tropical rains of July 
1912 soon lost their attraction, and we set out once 
again to see something of the farming of North Wales. 
North of the estuary of the Dovey what one may call 
the mainland is chiefly occupied by mountains ; the 
industrial features are the slate quarries in the inland 
valleys, and the watering-places, large and small, which 
form a continuous fringe along the coast from Aber- 
dovey round to Rhyl. In these districts farming 
takes a secondary place, and it only becomes again 
the staple industry in the Lteyn peninsula which juts 
out from the top of the Principality, and in the island 
of Anglesey over against it. Each of these districts 
also possesses its fringe of watering-places, which are 
thickly populated during the summer from Lancashire, 
Birmingham, and the Potteries ; but the towns are 
small and the inland population is solely dependent 
upon agriculture. It is this part of the Principality, 
even more than South Wales, that gives one the 
impression of a Celtic country. Just as in Brittany 
or in Ireland, the inhabitants are gathered into small 
villages ; the cottages are long and low, built of rough 
stone and whitewashed over; the farming is chiefly 
concerned with milk and milk production ; and various 
little traits, such as a long-shafted spade or shovel 

333 



334 NORTH WALES 

without any cross handle, betray the common origin 
of the peoples. 

The Lleyn peninsula mainly consists of gently 
undulating uplands, which here and there run up into 
shapely but not very lofty hills. The soils are mostly 
light and suited to arable cultivation, and the land 
is cut up into small enclosures by big grassy banks, 
though here and there are to be found wide expanses 
of heath and rough grazing, none of which, however, 
appear to be grazed in common, but are in the 
occupation of single farmers. The farms generally 
run very small ; in the peninsula itself it is estimated 
that only about 17 per cent, of the holdings are above 
50 acres. Despite this extreme subdivision of the 
land the demand for small holdings still increases, and 
the County Council have recently acquired a large 
estate near the point of the peninsula in order to 
satisfy this demand. Rents are comparatively high, 
averaging about 2Os. an acre, and much higher prices 
are paid for the small farms on the lower land near 
the sea. Though the holdings are so small, with 
quite a fair proportion of the land under the plough, 
the farming almost entirely depends upon the live 
stock. Practically the whole of the produce of the 
farm is consumed, and the chief items of sale are 
milk, butter, two-year-old store cattle, and sheep. Out 
of the local markets the dealers gather the store beasts, 
which find their way eastward and are eventually 
sold to the Midland graziers for fattening, while on 
the northern side of Carnarvon the markets are well 
worked by buyers of mutton from Liverpool and 
Manchester. 

But a small holder can never make much of a 
living out of live stock alone ; the turnover is too 
slow and his own labour contributes too slight a share 



STOCK RAISING 335 

to the value of the product. Of course he may do 
well enough by producing and selling milk, because 
he adds the routine of a milk round to the work of 
feeding and milking his stock, and obtains the profit 
of the retailer as well as that of the producer. Again, 
payments come in week by week, which is a great 
help to the economy of a farm that is generally short 
of capital. Butter-making and calf-raising also bring 
in regular returns, but do not require so much labour ; 
hence the profits to the small holder are less, though 
this may be compensated for by keeping a large 
proportion of the land under tillage and so producing 
an extra quantity of food upon the farm, or by heavy 
purchases of feeding stuffs, the object in either case 
being to carry an exceptional head of stock per acre. 
The slowest return, because the minimum amount of 
labour is expended on the product, comes from rearing 
stock on grass until they are fit to sell as stores ; in 
itself the operation is profitable enough, but the profit 
is small per acre, though it can be made large per 
man when plenty of land is to be had cheaply. 
Grassland farming is undoubtedly an easy business, 
and the corn grower of East Anglia often envies the 
men in the West who can make a living " by looking 
over the gate." However, the Welsh farmer in the 
Lleyn peninsula and in Anglesey does cultivate a 
considerable proportion of his farm, though by his 
exclusive attention to live stock he misses the great 
opportunities his soil and situation offer. In the first 
place, the summer visitors provide an exceptional if 
temporary market ; during their stay there is a dearth 
of milk and cream in the district, and the local supply 
of butter is quite inadequate to the demand. But, 
as a farmer cannot increase his milk production to 
meet a special call, he would be well advised to drop 



336 NORTH WALES 

making butter at this season and sell only milk and 
cream, both of which are more profitable than butter 
at any time and can rise in price with the demand, 
whereas butter prices are checked by the foreign 
supply, which extends into the smallest watering-places 
round the coast. Sheep and especially lambs sell well 
during a summer season, and we are acquainted with 
more than one farmer near a watering-place who lays 
himself out to get rid of all his lambs fat in and 
about August. 

But the profitable opening before the Welsh farmer 
lies in the production of vegetables and fruit; we 
saw no market gardening and very few large gardens 
near the watering-places, and we were informed that 
the whole of the vegetables and fruit consumed by 
the immense visiting population was imported from 
Liverpool and Manchester. Even potatoes are im- 
ported, though we saw some excellent breadths of 
main crop potatoes and one or two of earlies, the 
latter sufficient to show that with proper management 
a valuable business in early potatoes could be 
established in Wales, as in so many other districts 
on the western seaboard. But not a single field of 
cabbages, cauliflowers, marrows, or peas did we see, 
all crops which might yield from a single acre pretty 
nearly the whole rental of the usual North Wales 
farm. It is not merely a question of supplying the 
summer visitors for a two months' season ; the light, 
easily worked soils, the absence of frosts, and the 
mild growing climate induced by the proximity of 
the western sea, might make Carnarvon and Anglesey 
the market garden of the thickly-populated slate- 
mining areas close at hand, and also of Lancashire, 
the Potteries, and the Black Country, with which there 
is direct and easy communication. At present Lanca- 



MARKET GARDENING 337 

shire gets its early potatoes first from Penzance, then 
from St. Malo and Ayrshire. North Wales possesses 
far superior transit facilities and a climate that is 
intermediate between Cornwall and Ayrshire. Even 
Cheshire and West Lancashire grow early potatoes, 
and broccoli and cabbage succeed the potatoes. But 
we were informed that the Welsh farmer would scorn 
to grow a cabbage lest he should derogate from his 
social status as a farmer. 

Some efforts are being made to introduce more 
intensive crops ; at one or two places we saw trial 
patches of tobacco, which, however, were looking a 
little backward because of the rainy and sunless 
weather that had prevailed almost continuously since 
the May drought, itself a hindrance to planting. 
Again, in Anglesey we saw a new enterprise in the 
shape of a bulb farm chiefly devoted to daffodils, on 
which the bulbs were then being lifted and put away 
in potato boxes to dry in a long airy shed. In a 
few weeks they would be cleaned up, the marketable 
bulbs packed off, and the small offsets replanted to 
provide the stock for another year. The whole farm 
is about 25 acres in extent, but only five acres have 
been as yet planted with bulbs ; it is not intended 
ever to crop all the area with bulbs, but to take 
potatoes and run beans over a fourth of the land 
every year, thus avoiding some of the dangers which 
have overtaken the bulb land in Holland, which gets 
little or no rest. The soil was a reddish stony loam, 
easy to work but fairly retentive, and it was found 
to produce somewhat smaller but denser bulbs than 
come from Holland, where the soil is almost pure 
seasand modified by cow dung. The whole production 
of the farm was taken by a well-known firm of bulb 
sellers who have a reputation for the quality of their 



338 NORTH WALES 

produce; and as this small area already provided 
occupation for seven men, it was an excellent example 
of the kind of rural industry that should be developed 
in this country. In the United Kingdom, farming 
should be a business that produces large returns per 
acre by the employment of foresight in the manage- 
ment and skill in the labour, instead of one that 
depends on skimming the small profit which a large 
area of land will return unaided. 

We have been coupling Anglesey with the Lleyn 
peninsula, and the character of its surface and its 
farming is very similar, though there is, as the traveller 
to Holyhead knows, perhaps a greater proportion of 
uncultivated land in Anglesey. The island is con- 
stituted of a series of parallel folds of the older rocks 
from the Coal Measures downwards, giving rise to a 
variety of soils and a number of badly drained valleys 
that are often swampy at their bottoms. The farms 
are small, but rents run high and labour is cheap 
indeed, in the remoter parts of the island the rate falls 
to the Irish level of los. a week. And much of the 
land is excellent ; we saw splendid fields of oats and 
roots where no very great care had been lavished on 
the farming. The fields are generally divided by 
wasteful grass banks with gorse atop, and the grass- 
land which largely predominates is occupied by the 
usual black Welsh cattle and mountain sheep, which 
are generally crossed with a foreign ram to produce 
larger and earlier lambs. A curious survival for this 
purpose is the old Wiltshire horned sheep, now extinct 
in its original county, but still bred in North Wales 
for crossing purposes. And a remarkable creature 
does an old Wiltshire ram look ; high on the legs and 
with a long fleece that is pulled off instead of being 
shorn, it is therefore a thing of patches in the 



SMALL FARMERS 339 

summer, until the casual observer often finds a difficulty 
in separating the sheep from the goats. 

With Anglesey our inspection of Welsh agriculture 
ended. There is some excellent farming in the Vale 
of Clwyd and in the counties bordering on Cheshire 
and Shropshire, but it possesses no features to dis- 
tinguish it from the farming across the border and has 
no specially Welsh character. In Wales proper we 
could but conclude that the agriculture generally is 
undeveloped and below the opportunities offered by 
the soil and climate. In part this may be set down to 
the barriers of distance and language which in the 
past cut the Welsh farmers off from their improving 
brethren in the Eastern Counties, and perhaps to some 
want of sympathy between the landowning and the 
farming class, but probably it is chiefly due to the 
smallness of the farms. Small holding farmers, 
however stable as social elements and excellent as 
rent-payers, rarely originate, rarely even improve their 
land or their methods ; they have no margin for 
experiments, and must hold fast to what has been 
proved to yield the living to which they are accustomed. 
There are exceptions ; but if a small holding com- 
munity in Wales or elsewhere is in the future to rival 
the large farmer in adaptability, in seizing opportunities 
for business, in making the most of the land, it will 
only be after enlightenment by education and under the 
direction of a co-operative movement. 



VI 
CORNISH MARKET GARDENING 

CORNWALL used to be known as West Wales, so one 
may allege some sort of sequence in resuming in the 
far south-west the farming pilgrimage that had been 
interrupted in Anglesey. Both counties are strong- 
holds of the Celtic folk, and one might well expect 
that in so primitive an art as agriculture much would 
survive to indicate the common origin of the peoples. 
Indeed, if such survivals were common there should be 
a good deal of the old Celtic farming customs left 
throughout England, because it is impossible to believe 
that the invading Saxon races killed off the native 
British in charge of the land, however much they may 
have exterminated the warriors. But few such traces 
remain ; it is true that the shepherds of the South 
Downs and even in East Anglia still count their sheep 
with Celtic numerals that run up to fifteen (bumpit = 
Welsh pymthaeg) and then continue one-and-fifteen, 
two-and-fifteen, etc., but in the main the farming of 
Great Britain is of comparatively late birth, and we 
must seek its origins on the Continent rather than 
among the primitive customs of our own constituent 
peoples. It was the intercourse with Flanders and the 
Low Countries from the time of Henry VII. down to 
the Commonwealth that taught the English how to 
farm and gave us such crops as turnips, clover, and 

hops ; from this starting-point the landlords and larger 

340 



MOUNTS BAY 341 

farmers of the East of England worked out systems of 
management which have been very little modified since. 
From the East of England the improved farming 
spread all over the country, through the example and 
precept of reforming landowners, the enterprise of the 
larger farmers which was stimulated by the growth of 
population round them, and the missionary zeal of 
writers like Jethro Tull and Arthur Young, who 
diffused the information they had derived from the 
best practitioners. And if under very similar con- 
ditions of soil, climate, and inaccessibility Welsh 
farming has dropped very much behind Cornish, the 
result must be largely set down to the barrier of 
language that Wales retained and the difficulties of 
mental rather than of physical intercourse between the 
west and east of the country. 

The contrast is certainly great enormous when we 
contrast the market gardening round Penzance with 
the unintensive stockraising and milk production on 
the southward shores of Carnarvon and Anglesey, 
where soil and situation can be but little inferior. 
The Cornish market gardening is, however, a very 
special business, and in its most concentrated form is 
found only in a very limited area round Mounts Bay, 
the little village of Gulval, about half a mile east of 
Penzance, being the centre. The land most esteemed 
lies about half a mile back from the water's edge on 
the gently rising southern slope ; the soils are mostly 
light, derived from the decomposed " killas /' or clay 
slate, though here and there are other soils arising from 
the intrusive volcanic rocks. The determining factors 
are, however, the warm, growing temperatures that 
prevail all through the winter, and the freedom from 
frost or snow, three or four degrees of frost at any time 
being a very rare occurrence disastrous when it 



342 CORNISH MARKET GARDENING 

comes. On this favoured land two crops can be grown 
in the year, the first of early potatoes harvested in 
May, followed by broccoli harvested between Christmas 
aud the latter part of February, and some of the fields 
have carried these two crops year after year without 
break for the past forty years. Few of the men engaged 
in this business occupy very much land ; from five to 
fifteen acres is the usual holding, but even such an area 
requires considerable capital, for the rents are from 
8 to 10 an acre, and the expenditure on manures 
and labour is enormous. 

As the broccoli crop is cleared the preparation of 
the land for potatoes begins ; the land is dressed 
with seasand, which contains a good deal of broken 
shell, and seaweed, of which as much as a hundred 
loads to the acre may be applied. Sand and weed 
are. carted up from the beach whenever convenient. 
There is no such allocation of particular stretches of 
foreshore to particular farms as prevails in Guernsey, 
but a certain number of men on the beach live by 
drawing up the seaweed at low tide ready for the 
gardeners' carts. The seasand is ploughed in, the 
seaweed put in the drills with 10 cwt. or 12 cwt. 
per acre of rich guano, and then towards the end 
of February or early March the potatoes are planted. 
Imported seed is always used, Scotch seed that has 
grown one year in Lincolnshire being preferred, and 
the seed is obtained in the autumn and sprouted 
on boards that are stacked up in tiers in the adjacent 
barns. The convenient boxes used elsewhere for sprout- 
ing and carrying out the potatoes for planting are not 
here employed. As the seed sprouts the tubers are cut 
to a single eye, however small may be the piece 
planted, for the growers prefer a single haulm, though 
it is not worth while to set about rubbing out all the 



EARLY POTATOES 343 

extra shoots. When the potatoes are up they are 
dressed with nitrate of soda, and as much as 10 cwt. 
to 15 cwt. per acre of that fertilizer are applied. 
Pace is everything, and any outlay that will bring 
the crop to hand two or three days earlier is justified 
by the higher prices which prevail just when the 
market opens. Something like 2$ an acre having 
thus been spent on rent and manure, without taking 
the seaweed into account, no trifling returns are 
needed to redeem the grower's position. His crop 
should be ready to draw early in May, and he hopes 
to begin with a yield approximating to I cwt. per 
lace (a lace is about six-fifths of a rod, 160 laces 
going to the Cornish acre), at a price approaching 
153. per cwt, from which it declines to 8s, or even 
5s. as the season advances. Of course, packing, 
freight, and commission have to be deducted, and, 
when the labour has been paid for, little profit remains 
from the potato crop alone, often none at all, as had 
generally been the case in the season of 1912, when the 
crop was actually cut off by blight, an unprecedented 
occurrence. As soon as potatoes are off and the 
land cleaned up, the broccoli, which have been raised 
in a seed bed and then transplanted once, are set out 
and receive no further manuring, except occasionally 
a little dressing of nitrate. They are ready to cut 
from December to March, and may be sold on the 
ground at 20 an acre, but good crops when marketed 
by the grower may realize as much as 60 an 
acre. 

The standard variety is a local " Cornish Early " 
broccoli, of which the growers save their own seed, 
but the stock is said to be deteriorating and to have 
become coarser and later, with a tendency to throw 
woolly heads. This is scarcely to be wondered at, 



344 CORNISH MARKET GARDENING 

for several other varieties are now grown and also saved 
for seed ; bees will effect cross pollination from con- 
siderable distances, and deterioration inevitably follows 
indiscriminate crossing. One of the growers also 
averred that sufficient discrimination was not exercised 
in the selection of the plants allowed to seed ; the 
occupants of some convenient corner were left without 
considering whether they were specially early or late, 
of good habit, or otherwise. One or two seedsmen's 
varieties are now extensively grown for succession, 
but none of them come so early as the true native 
stock. 

On some of the land nothing but potatoes and 
broccoli are ever grown, but most of the market 
gardeners make an occasional change ; a small area 
will be sown with wheat or rye, because the straw 
is wanted for packing, and in the corn clover will 
be sown and allowed to stand for a single crop of 
hay. Spring cabbage or savoys sometimes take the 
place of the broccoli, and they had been a very 
profitable crop in the spring of 1912. Onions and 
carrots were other crops that paid well on occasion, 
and a little farther afield several men were engaged 
in a more general market gardening business with 
a considerable variety of crops, one advantage of 
which is an equalization of the work throughout the 
season, so that labourers can be permanently employed 
instead of taken on for the job. One such holding 
that we visited, in addition to the usual potatoes 
and broccoli, produced cabbages, onions, and carrots, 
also strawberries on a large scale, though Penzance 
has no longer the monopoly of the early outdoor trade 
in strawberries, Southampton being practically as early. 
Some of the land was under fruit apples and goose- 
berries, though in the Cornish climate fungoid diseases 



HIGH RENTS 345 

are rife, and there were breadths of asparagus, runner 
beans, violets, daffodils, and, as in other districts, 
wallflowers under the standard trees. All the land 
showed evidence of strenuous and enterprising farming, 
such as, indeed, is necessary in order to pay such 
rentals. 

But a little distance back from the sea early 
potatoes cannot be grown with success, and the 
rent of the land falls sharply to something in the 
neighbourhood of 4 an acre. The cartage of sea- 
weed and sand from the shore becomes more expensive, 
and the week or so by which the potatoes are later 
causes the loss of the best of the market and forces 
the crop to be sold in competition with the potatoes 
that are then coming in quantity from St. Malo. 
We visited an excellent example of such a farm 
where a five or six years' rotation was followed ; 
on the broken up ley broccoli were planted to be 
followed by cabbage and mangolds, with breadths 
of onions and carrots ; this was succeeded by one or 
two years' corn wheat, or oats, in which the seeds were 
sown and left down for three or four years. In the 
soft, warm climate a good take of seeds and an 
abundant pasture were always assured, and this was 
pastured by cows, the main source of income on the 
farm being the sale of milk. There was a considerable 
orchard, and raspberries were found to grow excep- 
tionally well in the equable, moist climate. The 
land was highly farmed, the manure bill almost 
represented a second rental, and feeding stuffs had 
also to be purchased to keep the large head of stock 
going. Considering that only one crop making big 
money could be grown in a five or six years' rotation, 
and that the rest of the revenue had to be earned by 
ordinary farming, 4 an acre seemed a great rent 



346 CORNISH MARKET GARDENING 

for this land, but even at that price farms are in 
demand, and a small holding of some 20 acres 
without any buildings upon it that was up for sale 
was expected to command about ^100 an acre. 

Indeed, much of this Penzance market gardening 
looked like one of those industries which would be 
regarded as impossible did they not exist. To grow 
broccoli and potatoes alternately on the same land 
for forty years would itself be declared impossible, 
yet there can be no very pronounced deterioration 
of crop, nor has any special disease manifested itself. 
There were great complaints of finger-and-toe or 
club-root, and some men did roundly assert that the 
land is getting sick and ought to go down to grass 
for a few years, though that was not possible unless 
the rents were abated. Certainly the area under the 
very special farming is shrinking, and though great 
profits have been made we were told that very few 
of the old gardening families still remained in the 
business. Such facts were more significant than 
opinions about the deterioration of the crops, for 
who could be otherwise than pessimistic in a season 
of such continuous rains and lack of sunshine, when 
the broccoli did not grow but were turning blue day 
by day. Another fact to be taken into account is 
that the standard of quality is rising ; St. Malo presses 
close on Penzance for early potatoes, and it was 
agreed that second-rate broccoli have become un- 
saleable because of the uniform excellence to which 
the RoscofT growers have accustomed the market. 
Labour also has been getting dearer, though the 
standard wage was still no more than i8s. or 2os. 
a week, or 33. 6d. a day when men are only engaged 
for the spell of work. As regards the early potato 
crop, competition is likely to increase rather than 



EXCEPTIONAL RENTS 347 

slacken, as countries much farther south improve their 
methods, and with that the farming must take a more 
normal and less expensive form. 

Something may, perhaps, be saved on the present 
extravagant and one-sided manuring, though a priori it 
is unwise to pronounce that men with so much experi- 
ence must be wrong. Even so it is difficult to believe 
that the Penzance farmers can continue to retain 
their very specially profitable market. They may still 
continue to grow early potatoes, but they will not 
be early enough to justify either manures or rents on 
their present scale. On the whole, the landlords are 
getting the special profit attaching to the situation of 
this land ; the growers, as far as we could learn, were 
not on the average earning much more than other 
small farmers. But for all that the^ Cornish market 
gardening is a notable industry, and presents a fine 
object-lesson to the farmers on the seaboard of Wales, 
who as yet have not attempted to take advantage of 
a very similar climate and situation and a closer 
proximity to the great markets. 

Over but a limited area do rents of 10 or even 4 
an acre prevail ; still, land in West Cornwall is in 
great demand, and about 2 an acre seemed to be the 
ordinary rental. We were told that some of the recent 
demand had arisen from Cornish miners, returned from 
South Africa with a little money and anxious to settle 
on the land in their native country. They were said 
to offer too much for the land, and landlords were 
blamed for taking them to the detriment of the old 
tenants. But the grumbling was chiefly directed at 
small landlords, men who possessed perhaps only a 
farm or two bought as a speculation in the time of 
the depression : and we met one man looking for a 
fresh holding who declared he would only take a farm 
23 



348 CORNISH MARKET GARDENING 

on a large estate, where he would not be subject to 
the caprice of an owner trying to screw a quick profit 
out of his bargain. 

The farmers were all uneasy at the sales of estates 
that were going on, as tending still further to increase 
the insecurity of their position. In this district lease- 
holds of 14 to 21 years are a common form of 
tenure, but with the rising values landlords are 
beginning to hold out for yearly agreements. Con- 
sidering the demand for land it was surprising to see 
so much waste, even in the immediate neighbourhood 
of Penzance and at low elevations gorse-covered 
banks and tracts of marsh, wet enough in that dripping 
summer, but surely capable of reclamation when the 
result would be so valuable. There were orchards, 
too, which only cumbered the ground, so old, distorted, 
and diseased were the trees. 

West Cornwall is a bare, open country of small 
fields divided by banks and stone walls ; as a rule, 
the only trees grow round the homesteads or in the 
deeply cut valleys, where they can find shelter from 
the incessant wind. The holdings run small, about 
40 acres being a typical size; and though almost 
entirely under the plough the mainstay of the business 
is dairying. The seeds stay down for from three to 
five years, then come three years of corn and roots, 
and on the better land as far east as St. Ives there will 
always be a breadth of broccoli as part of the root 
break. Otherwise, all the produce is consumed on 
the holding, and the Cornish farmers are great buyers 
of artificial manure so as to get as much food as 
possible out of the land. All the farmers sow dredge 
corn, and spring wheat is often mixed with the barley 
and oats to get as all round a feed as possible out of 
the grain. The farms are heavily stocked one man 



MILK PRODUCTION 349 

we saw milked 26 cows on 50 acres and to carry so 
many cattle feeding stuffs as well as manures must be 
purchased, though we were informed that too large a 
proportion of the business was done in proprietary 
articles, "special manures" and "oilcakes," of which 
the composition was imperfectly apprehended by the 
buyer. 

Some of the farms sold milk, especially in the 
summer, when the demand from visitors is very great ; 
but milk selling was still regarded as impoverishing to 
the farm, despite the ease with which such losses can 
be repaired now that artificial feeding stuffs and 
manures have become available. We were told of one 
landlord who gave a tenant notice because he sold 
milk instead of butter, and thus had no separated 
milk on which to rear pigs in order to make dung. 
The milk, then, is chiefly converted into butter and 
clotted cream ; and there are creameries in the district 
which purchase the separated cream from the farmers, 
though none of these enterprises are on a co-operative 
basis. Except for the subsidiary profit derived from 
pig-keeping on the separated milk, it was difficult to 
see why men should stick to butter-making ; the local 
price was only is. a pound, whereas the milk would 
fetch gd. a gallon wholesale. On most of the farms 
the work was done by the farmer and his family with a 
single hired man if there were no grown sons ; where 
the herds were large the women of the labourers were 
hired to do the milking. 

The stock we saw were disappointing ; indeed, con- 
sidering how purely a cattle country Cornwall is, we 
were surprised at the indifferent quality of the animals 
grazing in the fields. The Cornish farmer seems to 
ask for no more than a dairy cow, and the prevailing 
type is a mongrel with a Devon or South Ham, or 



350 CORNISH MARKET GARDENING 

occasionally a Shorthorn, foundation, but with a strong 
infusion of Guernsey blood. Pure bred Guernseys are 
highly thought of; fresh-born calves will fetch as 
much as 4 apiece. Generally, however, we were told 
the dairy farmer is quite careless about the bull he 
uses, and the only grading up that even the better ones 
practise is to retain for the herd the heifer calves from 
the best milkers. We were told that contagious 
abortion was rife ; our informant never bought a cow 
nor borrowed nor lent a bull, lest he should introduce 
the disease ; he even feared its malicious communica- 
tion by some envious neighbour letting his bull break 
through. With this point of view he had no use for 
any scheme of improving the live stock of the district 
by the purchase of high-class bulls to be let out at a 
small fee for the use of groups of farmers. Improve- 
ment is certainly needed, for one good farmer told 
us that his cows did not yield on the average 400 
gallons of milk a year, but he paid little attention to 
their milk yield provided they produced 8 Ib. of butter 
apiece per week. Of course, with the prevalence of 
Guernsey blood, the milk is rich in cream ; the 
analyses of the milk brought into Penzance show an 
average of well over 4 per cent, of butter fat. Milk 
can be produced cheaply in Cornwall with the 
abundant grass and the warm winters, though the 
cows must be housed in the winter and only the young 
stock can be left afield. A feature of the farming of 
this part of Cornwall is the general habit of turning the 
pigs out to grass ; always the large black drooping- 
eared pig was in evidence, Devon and Cornwall, 
with Sussex and Essex, being its strongholds. It 
makes a fine bacon pig, long-sided with a good pro- 
portion of lean, and it is a very prolific breeder. On 
many of the farms a colt or two was to be seen ; but 



A WET SEASON 351 

light horse-breeding we were told was declining 
because of the uncertainty of the returns, though a 
good many farmers with working mares of the right 
stamp, not too heavy, would still put them to a 
thoroughbred stallion. 

Though the stock farmer suffers least from a rainy 
season, the outlook in West Cornwall was poor 
enough in 1 9 1 2 ; in mid- August a great deal of hay 
was still in the fields, some of the corn had been cut 
for a fortnight and rained upon every day since, the 
uncut corn was going down under the wild winds, the 
second cut clover had shot to such a height that it 
would be difficult and wasteful to graze, and the roots 
were all thick with weeds, which hoeing had done little 
more than transplant. Fortunately Cornish farmers 
do not sell their corn, so that if they could harvest it 
at all, discolouration and even sprouting would be of 
little consequence ; but, accustomed as they were to 
rather more rain and wind than the ordinary arable 
farmer, 1912 was proving a heartbreaking experience. 

From Penzance we moved east to Padstow, the 
market town of a rather special district of arable 
farming, distinguished by its considerable acreage of 
barley. The country was not unlike Cornwall farther 
west, consisting of the same treeless uplands divided 
by immense stone-faced banks with scrub atop, valued 
for the protection they afford against the winds that 
sweep from one sea to the other over the peninsula. 

Though the fields were still small, farms were larger 
than in West Cornwall, from 130 to 250 acres, and 
rents ranged from 2os. to 305., having risen by 25 per 
cent, or so within the last few years. Labour was 
described as scarce, the standing wage being 153. a 
week, with a cottage and a breadth of potatoes and 
sundry other perquisites, which would make up the 



352 CORNISH MARKET GARDENING 

equivalent of 1 a week. One farmer who showed us 
round argued strongly against the custom of a standing 
wage for all men alike, and insisted on the necessity 
of paying higher rates to the better men, if only to 
encourage them to improve their work. He told us 
that there were a fair number of small holdings in the 
district, on which a labourer who had saved money 
might make a start and earn a reasonable living by 
dairying, raising chickens, etc., the summer visitors 
providing a very good market for small holders' produce. 
For all that, very few boys were taking to farming ; he 
had not a single one on his farm ; most of them went 
into the Navy or drifted into some form of seafaring. 

Though the small men grew milk, the normal industry 
was mixed farming, in which the chief revenue was 
derived from stock rearing. A usual rotation was 
wheat, barley, roots, barley, and seeds, which were 
allowed to stand from three to five years ; but every 
farm had also a fair proportion of permanent grass, 
though little of it was up to fatting quality. Dredge 
corn was common in place of barley, which was the 
only corn to be sold, and even of that the greater part, 
with the wheat and oats, was consumed on the farm. 
As in other western counties, we found wheat held in 
high esteem for feeding purposes when mixed with 
other grain. 

Throughout the district we found a local Cornish 
barley being grown ; in many cases the seed had not 
been changed on a particular farm for a couple of 
generations, and such occasional introductions as had 
been made had only served to add another variety to 
the already mixed stock of seed. As far as a Cornish 
type can be distinguished it is stiff-strawed, narrow- 
eared barley yielding thin and coarse-skinned grain ; 
but it represents an aggregate of varieties that has 



DEVON CATTLE 353 

acclimatized itself, and it crops better than the seeds- 
men's sorts that have been set against it. We did, 
however, see a small field of a new variety which 
promises to yield both bigger crops and a uniform 
sample of higher quality. 

Another local speciality was a form of perennial red 
clover, known as " Cornish marl clover," said to be 
more persistent and to stand grazing better than the 
usual cow grass. 

The chief item in the revenue came from the sales 
of Devon cattle, which leave the farm as forward two- 
year-olds in the spring ; many go to the Midland 
pastures, others to Southampton and Chichester, whence 
the Pevensey Levels are largely stocked, as we had 
seen in an earlier stage in our pilgrimage. Some men 
were also able to fatten stock with the aid of corn 
upon their grass, Southampton being also the market 
for fat beasts ; but Devons do not tie up well, and 
there is little winter feeding. Store cattle can stay 
out all the winter, and as they thus retain their coats 
they are eagerly sought for by the Midland graziers 
who want to make an early start. Sheep were general 
on the farms, chiefly Devon Long Wools, though a few 
men like our host kept Oxford Downs for their earlier 
maturity. He made a point of fattening all his lambs 
for sale during the summer visitor season, and had at 
that time succeeded in disposing of nearly all his crop 
at prices ranging from 303. to 403. apiece. 

With all this grazing we were told that little cake 
was bought, the Cornish farmer preferring to spend 
money on manures and grow as much of the food as 
possible. Basic slag was not in favour, superphosphate 
was the standard manure, and large quantities were 
used even on the grass, where its value was said to be 
very manifest. Most of the land appeared to be short 



354 CORNISH MARKET GARDENING 

of lime, and an old custom that had largely fallen into 
disuse had been to spread shell sand from the beach. 
We were told, however, that it always had a bad effect 
upon oats, though it benefited other crops, and where 
the sand had stood in heaps the injury was said to be 
manifest in the oat crop for many years. We found 
the same opinion in other parts of Cornwall ; even 
liming, a practice which is reviving under the stimulus 
of the agricultural teachers, is thought to be injurious 
to the oat crop. 

At present the shell sand is chiefly being used on 
the upland heather, of which there is much common 
land only now being enclosed and brought under the 
plough. As grazing, these heathy commons are said 
to be good for cattle and young horses, but bad for 
sheep. Altogether farming in that part of Cornwall 
struck one as brisk and prosperous, though, as else- 
where, the prospects of the season were deplorable, 
hay still being out in the field at a time when the 
corn harvest ought to have been in full swing or 
nearly over. 



VII 
DEVON GREENERY 

WE parted with the Cornish farmers with regret. 
Not only is their style of farming good, exceptionally 
good for the size of their holdings, but they themselves 
are exceedingly interesting and pleasant men to talk 
with, quick and intelligent and with a charming habit 
of speech, with a curious suggestion of American in 
some of their intonations. We have other reason to 
suppose that in the geographical distribution of intellect 
Cornwall takes a high place, for the county has always 
been honourably distinguished by the number of 
evening classes it has been able to maintain among 
young farmers, and the quality of their work. Oddly 
enough it was among the gardeners of Gulval that 
we did hear some of those denunciations of technical 
education that were common enough among farmers 
twenty years ago, but which have become- rare and 
even unpopular of late. And yet it was of one of 
these very West Cornish farmers that an anecdote was 
told us which illustrated how much even a limited 
technical instruction might save their pockets. The 
farmer in question, as a concession to new ideas, applied 
10 cwt. per acre of superphosphate to one of his fields, 
with excellent results. Encouraged by this, he in- 
creased the application to 1 6 cwt. in the following year 
on the same field, and not unnaturally got little or no 

355 



356 DEVON GREENERY 

crop. He then reverted to dung and obtained a 
magnificent return, because with the nitrogen of the 
dung the hitherto unused superphosphate came into 
action ; but the conclusion he drew was that super- 
phosphate and such like manures were foolishness, and 
that dung alone was good. 

From the Padstow country we made our way 
Londonwards by the main road, and found the eastern 
part of the county more given up to grazing and less 
to corn than the western ; indeed along the Great 
Western line about Liskeard the production of milk to 
be put on rail becomes a general industry, and the 
farming mainly depends on dairying and the raising 
of store cattle. The farming of South-West Devon 
has many features in common with that of the east of 
Cornwall ; indeed the valleys of the Tamar, Tavy, 
Lynher, and other streams that flow down to Plymouth 
Harbour form a natural agricultural unit, in which we 
paused to see one farm in the neighbourhood of Tavi- 
stock. Perhaps the most characteristic feature of the 
region, and one that was accentuated during that rainy 
season, was the greenness and the rankness of the 
vegetation. Every field carried a growth of grass that 
seemed superabundant to one accustomed to the pastures 
of the east or midlands, the grazing was rough, and 
there was little attempt to keep the herbage bitten 
down close. 

Trees are also very much in evidence, for the small 
fields are divided by huge banks faced with stones, 
which generally carry on the top a line of hedgerow 
timber twenty or thirty feet high. There must be an 
enormous amount of waste from these banks ; not only 
is the area they actually occupy considerable, but for 
many yards they exercise an evil influence upon the 
corn, rendering it weak and blighted during growth, 



WASTEFUL HEDGEROWS 357 

and slow to dry during harvest. A big hedge to a 
small field is quite enough to cause the repeated loss 
of the rare opportunities of getting home a crop that 
do occur even during such a rainy time as the August 
of 1912, when only the farmers who seized upon bare 
possibilities of harvest saved their crops before the 
deluges that marked the latter part of the month. 
Hedges, again, are always harbours of weeds and of 
those growing plagues, rats and sparrows, and the only 
good that can be said of them is that they provide 
shelter for stock. As to the waste of land by our big 
wandering hedges, Prout calculated that by straighten- 
ing up his Sawbridgeworth farm he gained 16 acres 
in 450. Again, the prevalence of small and irregularly 
shaped fields forms one of the great obstacles to really 
economic farming in England. It is not merely that 
time is wasted over the constant turnings, but a man 
gets thereby into a retail way of looking at things, 
and puts out of his consideration all schemes for 
handling crops on a large scale with the help of 
machinery. In most parts of England the necessary 
preliminary to any capitalist exploitation of the land, 
such as would be extremely profitable on the thousand 
or two thousand acre scale, would necessarily begin 
with a complete reconstruction of the existing divisions 
of the land. When the old landlords drained and 
marled to improve their estates, it is a pity they did 
not also remap them ; many of our fields have remained 
unchanged in shape or name from as far back as their 
history is recorded, for the changes wrought by Enclosure 
Acts only affected a portion of the country. | 

The farm we went to visit was fairly typical of the 
conditions that prevail near Tavistock, where the soft 
Devonian shales weather down to a deep red soil, 
rather heavy to work in the moist climate but intrinsic- 



358 DEVON GREENERY 

ally hardly to be called a clay. The farm extended 
to some 250 acres, of which about 30 acres were under 
crop, the usual custom being to leave the seeds down 
for three years or more, and then to take a crop of 
corn, one of roots, and another corn crop, in which the 
seeds were again sown. It was not, however, necessary 
on this farm to let the cropping move over the whole 
area, for the best of the grassland was permanent 
pasture that would have been damaged by ploughing 
up. Wheat had almost disappeared from the district, 
and barley alone was little grown, the staple corn 
crops being oats and dredge corn, both of which were 
consumed upon, the farm. As usual on a heavy- 
stocked farm worked on a rotation that keeps the land 
down for three years in grass, the difficulty with the 
corn crops was to keep them standing. The soil gets 
in too high a condition, because some extra food, often 
a great deal, is sure to be given to the stock grazing 
the seeds, and the intervening root crop receives all the 
dung made on a farm that is large compared to the 
extent under the plough. When one considers 
the possibilities of intensive farming and the raising 
of the level of production, it is well to remember that 
over a large part of Great Britain the factor which to-day 
chiefly limits the yield of grain per acre is the lack of 
sufficiently stifF-strawed varieties. Manure is in excess, 
with good cultivation and in average seasons the 
rainfall is sufficient for crops of double the usual size, 
yet no existing variety of wheat, barley, or oats can 
live up to its opportunities except in most favourable 
seasons. That farmers recognize this limitation is seen 
in the prevalence of names t like " stiff straw," " stand 
up," etc., among cereals, and generally the first question 
a farmer asks about a new wheat concerns the straw 
rather than the grain. 



WEEDS 359 

The high condition of the arable land on this farm 
could be seen in the heavy crops of mangold and 
cabbage ; the swedes having been sown later had 
suffered from the cold and rainy weather, and were on 
the small side, with the blue leaves that tell of arrested 
development. The season had suited the cabbage, 
which were immense, and we have often wondered why 
stock farmers do not grow this magnificent fodder 
crop more freely. Of course, in severe climates it will 
not keep like swedes (though with care the solid 
varieties may be stored), and the transplanting requires 
a little extra labour, but the return is great on many 
soils that are not first-rate for swedes. The root land 
showed how difficult weeds had been to deal with 
during 1912; the preceding hot summer had ripened 
an extra crop of seed, and when they 'germinated 
hoeing did little more than check and transplant the 
weeds. Spurrey was a good deal in evidence here 
and in other places in Devonshire, showing that with 
the lack of lime and the moist climate the soils had 
passed the safe limit and were becoming acid. Yet 
liming, formerly one of the most regular operations in 
Devonshire farming, had not been forgotten on this farm, 
though as elsewhere the practice had become greatly 
neglected. Men will fix their attention on the harm 
that may be done by liming ; as in Cornwall a tradi- 
tion prevailed that lime is bad for the oat crop even 
after several years, and our host could recall several 
instances where liming a field already poor had still 
further impoverished it. Of course, lime in itself is not 
a plant food ; it is a means of maintaining a neutral 
reaction in the soil, without which manure is not 
effective nor plants healthy. The old rhyme, " Lime 
and lime without manure will make both farm and 
farmer poor," sums up exactly the practical aspect of 



360 DEVON GREENERY 

the question. As might be expected, basic slag had 
proved a most valuable manure on this land, and its 
effects were visible in the condition of the permanent 
pastures ; but again basic slag gave its best results 
where the grassland also received good dressings of 
farmyard manure. 

Our host, as usual in this part of the country, was 
chiefly a stock farmer; he kept 20 cows in profit, 
selling the milk into Plymouth, and he bought in his 
dairy cows, mostly South Hams and Shorthorn crosses 
of no particular breeding as long as they showed a 
promise of milk. But he reared Devons and could 
fatten them out on the grass with a little assistance. 
In the valleys about Tavistock are some real fattening 
pastures that will finish stock ; but it is only a limited 
area on which this can be done, and the hill farmers 
live by selling stores. The Devon breed of pure red 
cattle are well known in the show-ring, but have not 
established themselves to any great extent outside 
their native district. Belonging to the same funda- 
mental red stock as the Herefords and Sussex cattle, 
the race that is not improbably supposed to have come 
with the Saxons, they are essentially graziers' beasts, 
to be fattened on the rich pastures in the summer 
rather than on cake and turnips in the yards. Hardy 
and active, they differ but little from the Sussex, 
except in their lighter frames ; indeed the older type 
of Devon was the smallest of the true beef breeds. 
Locally they have some reputation as milkers, but 
they have never been really bred for this purpose. 
Sheep were important, the flock consisting of South 
Ham or South Devon ewes, while Dartmoor sheep 
were often bought off the hills to be crossed with a 
Hampshire Down ram for the production of early 
lambs. An outsider finds some difficulty in sorting 



DEVON SHEEP 361 

out these West Country sheep ; both the Devon long 
wool and the South Hams belong to the big long- 
woolled white-faced hornless race that probably came 
to England from Flanders. When the improvement 
of sheep set in, Lincoln and Leicester blood was 
introduced, and the characteristics that now separate 
the breeds are of no great antiquity nor importance. 
The Dartmoors, again, are a rougher sheep, nowadays 
with a grey rather than a white face, but betraying 
their common origin, modified by selection and 
hardened by exposure on that wind-swept upland. 
The usual cider orchard and some newer orchards 
planted with table fruit completed the farm ; the 
cider, however, was only made for the men, who could 
have what they wanted during the day and also take 
some home. In Devonshire there are a good many 
of these customary allowances to be added to the 
standing wage of 155. or i6s. a week for example, a 
breadth of potatoes on the root land and a cottage at 
I5d. a week. It is a question though, whether cottage 
rents will not soon get raised to a level more nearly 
representing an economic interest on their capital 
value. 

We were informed that the Duke of Bedford had 
recently been selling part of his Tavistock pro- 
perty, and the tenants who wanted to hold on to 
farms which were yielding them a good living found 
themselves, to their alarm and disgust, compelled to 
pay in the open market a good deal more than the 
capitalized value of their old easy rentals. It was still 
worse when the rates were raised to correspond to the 
scale of values not only upon the farms that had been 
sold, but upon others alongside, until in some cases 
the rateable value has been fixed higher than the rent 
actually paid. The change was even more manifest in 



362 DEVON GREENERY 

regard to cottages; cottages let (and rated) at is. 6d. 
a week were relet at 43. 6d. after their sale and rated 
to correspond ; obviously other similar cottages still 
let at is. 6d. could not be allowed to escape their 
fair share of the rating, and were brought up to the 
same level without reference to the actual rent charged. 
Rating on a basis of value may force on a general 
custom of charging an economic rent for cottages with 
a corresponding rise of wages ; a desirable change, 
because it will render cottage building again possible 
as an ordinary business proposition. Meantime there 
was, naturally enough, much indignation and soreness 
among the farmers of this part of Devon ; the old 
regime was more than good enough for them, and 
neither the magic of ownership nor the independence 
conferred by the feeling that they are paying for 
their holdings the true market price afforded any 
compensation for depleted pockets. The process of 
getting the great patriarchal estates on to a business 
footing may be inevitable, may even be for the 
ultimate good of the industry, but one cannot expect 
the old tenants to like it. 

From the Tavistock country we made our way into 
the Devon of one's traditions and imaginations, the 
land of bright red marls cut into cleeves and combes 
and deep lanes from Tor Bay up the Exe Valley into 
Somerset, the land of apple orchards, which " hardly 
bear the red fruit up that shall be next year's cider 
cup." It was not farming, however, that took us over 
Dartmoor, but the mere joy of the moor on a day 
when the fierce wind occasionally rent the piled clouds 
and let flying gleams of sunshine traverse the long 
slopes of heather and grass. We saw only the hardy 
Dartmoor sheep, the forest ponies, and the red Devons 
cropping the scant pasturage, with now and then a 



THE RED SOILS 363 

farmer on his nag, for the Devonshire farmer rides to 
market instead of driving the usual gig. From the 
moor we dropped down to Exeter and the warm 
valleys lying on the red Permian marls and sandstones, 
that give rise to easy working soils of extraordinary 
vividness of colour, as cheerful to the eye as they are 
grateful to farm. 

We visited one of these favoured farms in the Exe 
Valley, rather larger than usual, being upwards of 
270 acres, half of which was under the plough. The 
day was fine, and cutting was in full swing ; some of 
the wheat had, however, been standing in shock for a 
fortnight, and showed signs of growing in the ear 
wherever it had been kept damp by the neighbourhood 
of a hedge. The fields were of fair size, the fences 
good, and the whole country had a comfortable, 
prosperous aspect. The arable land was worked on a 
five-course rotation of barley, wheat, roots, spring corn, 
and seeds, our host preferring the unusual course of 
taking barley before wheat because it enabled him to 
graze his seeds for a few months longer. We should 
expect this plan will only answer on lightish land into 
which the roots work freely and deeply, otherwise we 
have seen the shallow-rooted barley so deplete the 
surface soil as to give the wheat a very poor start. 
Good barley is grown in this district and in the valleys 
farther south ; indeed, Devon does a small export trade 
in barley. Wheat also survives, Exeter being a con- 
siderable milling centre, buying local grain and grading 
it up with the stronger foreign sorts though in this 
district there is still grown one of the finest English 
wheats, Rough Chaff, locally known as Taunton Buff, 
which is almost strong enough to mill alone. Black 
Tartar oats are commonly grown, though white oats 
are also general. As in Cornwall, it is a usual practice 
24 



364 DEVON GREENERY 

to grow dredge corn. Our host had one field in 
which peas were also included in the mixture ; and as 
the peas had gone on growing long past their usual 
time, the result was a dreadful tangle of twisted 
vegetation, which would, however, cut up into excellent 
fodder after the bulk of the corn had been threshed 
out of it. 

We were in the thick of the apple country; and, 
though West country orchards are apt to be rough 
and neglected as compared with the carefully-managed 
Kentish plantations, the thirty acres or so on this farm 
were well kept and in good bearing order. They were, 
as usual in the West, entirely grass orchards of standard 
trees ; and the same effort was not made to keep them 
closely grazed as in Kent, where it is said one ought to 
be able to walk in slippers across an orchard in any 
weather. Still, our host's trees were young and 
in vigorous bearing, not the straggling lichen-covered 
ancients that are all too common in the cider districts. 
It is a common opinion that many of these old cider 
apples, with their cheerful names Sops in Wine, 
Jock o' Sot, Sheep's Nose, Fox Whelp are worn out 
through continuous asexual propagation by grafts. 
The evidence seems, however, very doubtful ; for when 
one can secure some scions from even the most 
decrepit-looking of the old trees and regraft them on 
fresh stocks they grow as vigorously and crop as freely 
as ever they can be supposed to have done in their 
early prime. It is but a hypothesis that age overtakes 
the variety, regarding a variety as an individual of 
which the multitudinous trees that may have been 
propagated are only parts ; if the variety has only a 
sound constitution to begin with there seems no limit 
to the number of times it can be rejuvenated by 
grafting on to fresh stocks. The Ribston Pippin, so 



CIDER 365 

often quoted to the contrary as having deteriorated 
and become liable to canker from age, was ever, as we 
learn from the old records, a bad doer, only healthy on 
the choicest soils even in the early years after its 
introduction. It is true that old varieties disappear, 
whether of potatoes or apples; but they disappear 
because they are displaced by better ones. Com- 
petition is the determining factor, as we may argue 
from the short vogue of some new varieties and the 
marked endurance of some of the older ones. 

Our host made a special feature of his cider, and we 
tried to estimate the relative return from land planted 
with cider or edible fruit. It is, however, almost 
impossible to arrive at any general conclusion, so 
variable is the crop and so entirely dependent are the 
returns upon both the skill and the scale of expendi- 
ture of the grower. But our host expected to make 
in an average year five hogshead of cider per acre, or 
270 gallons for sale at about 7d. a gallon. Not a big 
return, but the trees get no cultivation, and the labour 
of the vintage comes after harvest, when there is not 
much other work ; moreover, something must be added 
for the grazing under the trees, which do not greatly 
reduce the value of the grass. In an ordinary season 
the fruit is only good enough to produce draught cider 
to be drunk up during the following summer ; from 
time to time come the vintage years, when the best 
liquor may be put in bottles in the following spring 
and will fine and improve for several years. In the 
previous year we ventured to predict that the heat and 
sunshine would result in a memorable vintage; but 
the cider of 1911 has turned out curiously disappoint- 
ing, thin and without quality, quite unworthy of a 
long life in bottle. It is generally a slow continuous 
growth that makes for fineness, either in man or in 



366 DEVON GREENERY 

fruit ; but in 1911 maturity came with a rush. The 
hops also of 1911 were to be the hops of the century, 
so rich and ripe, so full of rub and fragrance, yet we 
gather from several sources that they proved rather 
disappointing in the brewery. Eminent brewers have 
declared that they must use sugar and other alien 
products in order to get into their beer that sunshine 
in which English malt and hops are deficient, a plaus- 
ible theory which does not, however, square with results 
in 191 1. 

But cider and beer are not the whole of agriculture ; 
and after testing an old vintage that had long lain 
in our host's cellar we sallied out again to look at his 
live stock. He milked ten cows, Devons of a good 
class, because the tenants on the estate could obtain 
the use of a first-class bull at a trifling fee, and he 
was quite satisfied with the milk-yielding powers of 
the Devon. Some of the milk he sold locally, the 
rest was put through the separator. But, despite the 
separator, the cream was still turned into butter by 
his wife in the old-fashioned Devonshire way, by 
beating with the hand instead of by churning. Such 
a practice does not exactly square with modern ideas 
about never touching the butter with the hand during 
any stage in its making ; but the results seemed good 
enough ; and when the dairymaid possesses the 
necessary cool hand by which she was selected for 
her job in the old days, the human dasher need be 
no less cleanly than the wooden one. However, most 
people would want to know the dairymaid before they 
would have much confidence in the butter. The 
calves were reared on the separated milk, and extra 
calves - were also bought in to utilize it fully. The 
young stock thus raised, except for the heifers that 
were drafted into the herd, were grown on and 



BREEDING CATTLE FOR FATTENING 367 

eventually fattened out on the grass with such artificial 
foods as were necessary. We are convinced that 
where a farm possesses grassland of decent quality 
by far the cheapest way of producing fat stock is 
to breed and make the cows in milk also rear extra 
calves, especially if these can be bought from a dairy 
where a good bull is kept. The animals should then 
grow on the grass without any forcing, and at or about 
two years old should be fattened out still on the grass, 
but with the help of cake and corn. 

But the grass should do the bulk of the work, and 
it is more profitable to help the grass with artificial 
manures than to enlarge the cake bill above a certain 
amount. Of late it has become cheaper to grow food 
than to buy it, while another advantage attending 
such a system is that home-bred cattle do not get 
the check which attends every store during its period 
of wandering from market to market between leaving 
the breeding farm and arrival on the fattening farm. 
A bunch of bought stores generally contains one or 
two wasters which sadly take off the profit ; and, 
though one cannot breed and rear everything of good 
quality, the general level can be kept more uniformly 
high by breeding than by buying. 

On the lighter arable soils of the Exe Valley, sheep 
play an important part in the farming, for the land 
is light enough to permit of folding in the winter. 
Our host kept a breeding flock of over one hundred 
ewes of the Devon long wool breed, half of which were 
kept pure, the other half crossed with a Hampshire 
Down ram. A few of the lambs were fattened out, 
but he mostly expected to keep them round and 
fatten them off as hoggs on the turnips in their second 
winter. He usually had to buy in more to make use 
of all his fodder. 



368 DEVON GREENERY 

More beautiful land to farm than those soft slopes 
of the lower Exe Valley we do not hope to see, and 
if the rents, about 353. an acre, seemed pretty high 
as compared with other parts of the country, good 
land is rarely dear ; it is the cheap stuff that usually 
proves so expensive. Leases had ceased to be general ; 
only about one farm in five in the district was then 
let on lease. Labourers, we were told, received 145. 
or 153. a week in money, their cottages free, a breadth 
of potatoes in the root field, and their wood was drawn 
for them. They also had two quarts of cider a day, 
though on some farms this was commuted for an 
extra fifteenpence a week. With harvest money a 
man's earnings would be equivalent to about 1 8s. 
or 2 os. a week, with a cheap house a sum on which 
an agricultural labourer has hitherto been able to 
manage very comfortably, though he is now beginning 
to feel the pinch of rising prices. But for all that 
we were told that emigration was considerable among 
the younger men ; the Colonial agents were inde- 
fatigable, and there is still enough of the old spirit 
of adventure left in the Devon blood to determine 
men to have a flutter with fortune across the seas. 
As we have seen him, the agricultural labourer is not 
disposed to quarrel with his work, only with its lack 
of opportunity to make an independency. 



VIII 

NORTHERN CORN-GROWING : THE MORAY 
FIRTH 

As several notable types of farming still remained 
imvisited we determined on another traverse of the 
country, this time from north to south, and convenience 
dictated a start with that far northern arable area 
which lies by the shores of the Moray Firth. This 
favoured district may be said to extend round the 
Firth from about Banff through Elgin and Forres, 
across the Beauly Firth to the Black Isle, then across 
the Cromarty Firth for some miles farther up the 
coast the Easter Ross country in a strip of low 
land between the foothills of the Highlands and the 
sea, not more than 1 2 miles broad at its widest point. 
The good land is all below the 500 ft. contour line, 
the best of it practically at sea level ; and it is dis- 
tinguished by possessing an average rainfall of little 
more than 25 inches, some of the area receiving even 
less, a condition which is only elsewhere paralleled 
round the Wash and in Essex. The mean tempera- 
tures are also high, comparable with those of South 
Yorkshire; and though the summers are much cooler 
than those prevailing in the Midlands and south- 
east of England the winters are no colder, while the 
crops are also favoured by the long duration of the 

summer days. The result is that at 58 deg. N. the 

369 



370 NORTHERN CORN-GROWING 

latitude of Northern Labrador and Kamschatka we 
find an almost purely arable country, growing barley 
as one of its staple crops, and even linseed and 
mangolds. 

In many respects the district resembles the Lothians, 
though potatoes are not such a feature of the farming 
and harvest is somewhat earlier; but both areas are 
distinguished by the same equable and prolonged late 
summer or early autumn, so favourable to good quality 
in the crops. The soils are also very similar to those 
of the Lothians ; the underlying formation is the Old 
Red Sandstone, and though drifts obscure the rock 
they are largely derived from the Old Red and give 
rise to light reddish soils passing into grey alluvials 
and black moss soils, in places near the coast being 
rendered even lighter by the admixture of sea-sand. 
Sometimes the farmers speak of clay soils on particular 
farms ; but they are little more than easy-working 
loams comparable with the brick-earths and other 
alluvials of England, and never containing more than 
a small percentage of what the scientific man calls 
true clay. As far as our experience goes, real clays, 
like the London or the Weald clay, do not occur in 
Scotland, or at any rate are not in cultivation. Pre- 
sumably the drift origin of all the Scottish arable 
soils, coupled with the generally greater rainfall, has 
removed most of the finest particles, and the generally 
crystalline nature of the rocks from which the soils 
have been denuded contributes to their lightness. 

Taking Elgin as a centre we visited several farms 
within reach of that town, and also crossed the low 
watershed into Strathspey, where the farming is of a 
very similar nature. Elgin itself is prettily situated on 
a ridge of undulating ground by the Lossie, almost an 
island in the flat country, and has long been known 



RECLAMATION OF LAND 371 

for its agriculturists, its Farmers' Club being one of 
the oldest that has preserved a continuous existence. 
Seaward of Elgin lies an extensive plain known as the 
Laigh of Moray, much of it only 20 ft. or so above 
sea level, where the prevalence of names in Muir tell 
of the conditions that prevailed at no distant date, 
while the ditches and the drainage canals show the 
means by which it has been reclaimed. Indeed the 
reclamation has been a process well within living 
memory; the greater part of it was accomplished 
about two generations ago, mainly by tenant-farmers 
who took a 19 years' improving lease, within which 
period they had to win back the money and labour 
expended in bringing the greater part of their farms 
into cultivation, and in many cases erecting the very 
substantial buildings that are now found. On some 
estates the tenants had a claim for improvements, 
which was allowed for in fixing the new rent. Generally 
the farms are of a fair size, the average being about 
200 acres, though a few are larger. In the flat mari- 
time district crofts are few, those small holdings are 
generally situated on the foothills above the plain ; as 
far as we could gather, there are as many if not more 
than are wanted, and but few applications for small 
holdings have come in to the new Scotch Board of 
Agriculture. They are mostly devoted to stock raising, 
and as such are valuable to the farmers of the plain, 
who fatten but do not breed cattle ; but the raising of 
stores is not a very intensive form of farming, and the 
general opinion was that there was more call for the 
improvement of existing small holdings than for the 
creation of new ones. Among these hill farms some- 
thing might be done to improve the quality of the live 
stock they produce, by introducing good-class bulls to 
stand at a small fee, as at present the strain of cattle 



372 NORTHERN CORN-GROWING 

is poor, and, with the absence of any co-operative 
action, no one has capital enough for the purchase of 
a sire of better class. 

The farming of the Laigh of Moray may be taken 
as typical of that prevailing on all the low-lying land 
round the Firth. It is almost wholly arable, and 
though the former strictness in holding the tenant to 
a particular rotation no longer prevails, there is little 
departure from the accepted course of cropping. The 
standard rotation is the five shift, defined as white corn, 
green crop, white corn, grass of which the first cut only 
may be hayed, and grass ; but this system was found 
to bring the turnip crop round too frequently. The 
light soils of Morayshire are deficient in lime, and 
liming has almost entirely fallen into disuse, so that 
finger-and-toe has become a serious obstacle to the 
successful growth of turnips. The attack may be 
mitigated by lengthening the rotation, so that seven 
and eight year shifts have become more general, in 
which the seeds stay down for three instead of two 
years, or a second corn crop, known as a yaval crop, 
is taken after the ley. One farmer told us that he 
began his farming on the five shift, and lengthened it 
by the inclusion of the yaval crop in order to keep off 
finger-and-toe with success for some time, but had now 
also been compelled to add a third year of grass, by 
which means he had become quite free from disease. 
Even this remedy may only be temporary, though the 
three years' grass, by excluding charlock and other 
cruciferous weeds which carry on the fungus, does 
much to suppress it ; but liming would undoubtedly 
be more effective, and would also add to the fertility 
of the soil. The three years' grass cheapens the labour 
bill, but the land is apt to become over- rich for the 
first corn crop after the ley. Typical rotations were 



SEED BARLEY 373 

oats, oats, turnips, barley, seeds ; or oats, potatoes, 
barley, turnips, barley, seeds, in which the farmyard 
manure was applied to three successive crops the 
potatoes, barley, and turnips. 

Little wheat is now found in the district, oats form 
about two-thirds of the cereals, and almost as much 
rye is grown as wheat. Until quite recently Sandy 
was the standard oat, but, thanks to the experiments 
carried out by the College at Aberdeen, it is being 
generally replaced by some of the newer and more 
heavily cropping varieties. Indeed, these experiments 
have aroused a general interest in improved varieties ; 
the Scotch common barley, still the kind generally 
grown, is now recognized as a very mixed stock, and 
trials are being made of the selected Archer varieties 
introduced by the Irish experiments, and of Plumage 
a wide-eared variety originally selected at Svalof. 
One farmer, we found, had begun to pick out pure 
lines for himself, though it is doubtful whether a farmer 
can profitably carry through the long and tedious 
testings that are necessary to establish the superiority 
of any one of such selections. Morayshire is a notable 
barley district, and as most of the great Scotch whisky 
distilleries are close at hand, a good and regular 
market is assured. The vexed question of change of 
seed was also discussed, for in Moray it is impossible 
to obtain what the farmer generally desires a stock 
of seed from a later and more northern district. How- 
ever, Mr. Beaven's suggestion ought to answer that 
the farmer should grow his own seed barley on a 
small area of specially enriched land. The virtue of 
northern-grown barley lies in the size of the grain ; 
it is large and bold even if coarse and off colour 
for malting purposes ; the farmer can attain this 
character on his own land by manuring, though for 



374 NORTHERN CORN-GROWING 

sale to the maltster he needs to grow his general stock 
more finely. 

Harvest was just getting into full swing at the 
beginning of September ; the start had been delayed 
by the rains, but at that time no harm had been done. 
The corn crops were heavy, and very generally were 
badly laid and twisted, worse than we had seen them 
in any part of Britain ; but the mischief was more the 
result of a heavy storm when the crops were just 
earing than of the rains towards the end of August. 
In many cases the binder could not travel even by 
cutting only in one direction, and there was a shortage 
of the extra labour necessary to deal with the crop ; 
scythe-men, we were told, could command as much 
as 355. a week. On many farms, especially on the 
crofts, a little patch of lint i.e. flax was to be seen, 
grown for the linseed, which is much esteemed for 
feeding. The root crops were excellent, though the 
potatoes had begun to show disease and the turnips 
had rather shut down their growth during the cold 
weather of August. Moray is, of course, a famous 
turnip district, the yellow-fleshed hybrids being perhaps 
more general than swedes. In this district turnips are 
left in the field until they are wanted, and not pitted. 
Mangolds are little grown, though they are quite 
successful ; turnips are preferred for cattle feeding, and 
even the milk producers find they can feed turnips up 
to 80 Ib. daily per cow without imparting any taste 
to the milk. 

Nothing strikes the south country farmer more than 
the fine buildings that prevail even on small farms 
in the north ; in Morayshire the steadings were sur- 
prisingly ample and well built, many of them modern, 
showing that the large estates thereabouts had not been 
afraid to expend capital in order to keep up the rent 



LIVE STOCK 375 

roll. Covered courts were almost universal instead of 
the byres that are usual further south, and generally 
there were several small courts instead of the large 
yard one meets with in England. 

Most of the Morayshire farmers fatten cattle in the 
winter on their turnips and oat straw, which in the 
north is highly nutritive and entirely takes the place 
of hay. They do not breed, but depend upon bought 
stores, mainly Irish Shorthorns. It is true there are 
in the district a number of famous Shorthorn herds, 
and the hill country again is almost the native home 
of the black polled Aberdeen Angus ; still the sup- 
ply of stores from the smaller farmers, who do not 
attempt pedigree stock and have no land good enough 
for fattening, is quite insufficient for the local demand. 
Generally the stock begin their feeding upon mashlum 
the mixture of oats, beans, peas, and sometimes vetches, 
of which a few acres are grown on each farm to provide 
fodder for the weeks that intervene between the grass 
and the turnips. Draff from the distilleries is largely 
bought for feeding. Dairying is extending in the 
district, not only on the crofts, but on some of the 
larger holdings ; one farm, for example, which we 
visited, had 40 cows in milk, the milk being all sent 
away by rail. So many losses had been experienced 
on this farm from contagious abortion, despite various 
forms of antiseptic treatment, that the occupier had 
given up all attempts to breed and depended upon 
buying newly-calved cows, which were fattened out as 
they dried off. Sheep are not of much account in the 
farming ; there are few breeding flocks in the low 
country, where cross-bred s are chiefly brought in to 
fatten on the grass and the turnips. Some of the 
farmers breed heavy horses we saw some very fine 
Clydesdales on one farm and again deplored the 



376 NORTHERN CORN-GROWING 

unfortunate separation, now in all probability per- 
manent, of the Clydesdale and Shire breeds, but the 
farmers will have nothing to do with light horse 
breeding. Poultry are becoming more numerous on 
the farms, but local prices for fully-fattened birds are 
not high enough to tempt men into that business. 

The Laigh of Moray is certainly an impressive 
farming country ; it lies well between the low pine- 
clad hills and the border of lofty sand-hills by the sea ; 
the farms are easy working and well laid out, the 
farmers themselves come of an energetic and thought- 
ful race, having no affinities either in descent or habits 
with their Highland neighbours. Rents were high 
from 253. to 405. an acre, and tending to rise, so that 
landlords were holding out for yearly tenancies instead 
of the 1 9-year leases which have long been the custom 
of the country. Labour was cheaper than in Aberdeen- 
shire, but it is becoming scarcer because of the strong 
tide of emigration that sets as much from the crofts as 
from the larger farms. Every year sees a great move- 
ment to Canada, and this movement is not likely to 
be checked by the provision of more small holdings 
only by higher wages and the increased use of 
machinery to justify them. Much the same type of 
farming prevails all round the Firth ; inland on the 
hills the farms become smaller and the arable land 
dwindles ; then at the back of the first range of hills 
comes beautiful Speyside, well cultivated on the alluvial 
flats and on the lower slopes, but more of a stock 
country than the coast ; finally, beyond the Spey one 
rises into the Highlands proper, where the blackfaced 
sheep range up to the grouse moors and the deer 
forests. 



IX 



ABERDEENSHIRE STOCK BREEDING AND 
FEEDING 

AGRICULTURALLY, Aberdeen is by far the largest 
county of Scotland ; it possesses 628,000 acres under 
cultivation, of which about 95 per cent, come under 
the plough and only 5 per cent, lie in permanent grass. 
Nor is quality lacking in the farming ; every one has 
heard of the Aberdeen-Angus black cattle, but it is 
perhaps not so generally known that the most famous 
Shorthorn herds of recent years have also their home in 
Aberdeen. Aberdeenshire farmers are further renowned 
as graziers, for some of the finest examples of what the 
Londoner knows as "Scotch beef" come from this 
county. The agricultural area forms a broad fringe 
between the coast and the mountains, which in the 
north of the county lie 30 miles or so back from the 
sea. A line drawn north by a little west from Aber- 
deen takes one into the thick of the farming, and there 
one finds an open rolling country, rounded by glacia- 
tion and divided into large fields by stone walls. In 
the bright air of an early September morning the 
smooth wide sweeps of the land, the absence of hedges, 
and the black belts of trees which sharply outlined 
every rise above a certain elevation, gave the landscape 
a characteristic note of its own, more akin to Northern 
Germany than to any other part of the United 

377 



378 ABERDEENSHIRE STOCK BREEDING 

Kingdom. The soils are all of glacial origin and 
deeply overlie the rock basis, in fact, most of the 
minor features of the landscape are due to moraine 
mounds and other detritus brought down by the ice 
from the Highlands. As in Moray, all the soils are 
light and contain but little true clay ; black moss soils 
are very common, having accumulated in the little 
undrained hollows left on the surface of the drift. 
The climate is harder, both colder and with more rain, 
than in the country farther north ; bitter winters prevail, 
and spring comes slowly up that way. 

Most of the farming land has been reclaimed within 
the last 60 or 70 years ; the old farms had a little 
land round the homestead known as the " Infield," 
which alone was cultivated ; beyond that lay a rough 
tract of poor grass, heather, fern, and bog, known as 
the " Outfield," where the young cattle and sheep 
scratched a living during the summer months. The 
tenant obtained a ip-years' improving lease, and piece 
by piece took the outfield in hand, drawing out the 
stones and building them into dykes, draining in the 
early days with broken stone, later with tiles and 
then liming the newly broken up land. Limestone is 
to be found in the county, and old limekilns are not 
uncommon ; but they are all out of use now, for the 
practice of liming has almost become extinct since the 
hard times 30 years ago. Not only are the kilns out 
of order, but imports of lime into Aberdeen have 
continuously declined in spite of the increased demand 
for lime for building and industrial purposes. For a 
generation at least the farmers have been living upon 
the stock of lime with which their forbears endowed 
the soil. But that stock has pretty well run out on 
the sandy as well as on the black moss soils, and 
finger-and-toe among the turnips has become a most 



LATE HARVESTS 379 

serious trouble, and has disturbed the system of cropping 
upon almost all the farms. 

We visited the farm of one of the famous Shorthorn 
breeders, about 400 acres in extent, rather an excep- 
tional size for the district, where a hundred -acre farm 
is a common type, but otherwise showing no essential 
difference in management. The land was farmed on a 
typical Scotch seven-year rotation oats, oats, turnips, 
barley, and seeds for three years, the duration of the 
grass having been increased in order to keep off 
finger-and-toe. The oats grown were chiefly Sandy 
and other Scotch varieties, with some black Tartars ; 
the modern varieties have not succeeded so well in 
Aberdeenshire as they have farther north, the general 
opinion being that they degenerate after a year or two 
in that severe climate. The barley in the district was 
nearly all " Scotch common," and wheat had disappeared 
entirely. 

Harvest had not begun, indeed many of the late- 
sown oat fields were still quite green; very often 
harvest lasts on into October, and it is no unusual 
thing to see the stocks whitened over by a fall of snow 
before they are finally housed. For this reason several 
men were making trial of drying racks for their corn : 
long wooden penthouses about 7 feet high, the shelves 
formed of stout wire and just wide enough to take two 
sheaves. The rack is set up on the crest of some 
eminence to get all the wind, and packed with the 
butts of the sheaves to the outside, so that the air can 
circulate freely while the corn itself is almost wholly 
protected from rain. Opinions varied as to their value ; 
the capital cost is considerable, though one farmer 
declared he had recovered his outlay in a single season. 
Extra labour is required, though perhaps no more than 
is spent on taking down and setting up again the 

25 



380 ABERDEENSHIRE STOCK BREEDING 

stocks in a rainy season, and there is some loss of shed 
corn in putting in and taking out the sheaves. Another 
plan is to build large loose stooks in the field on the 
wooden tripods which are commonly used in Scotland 
for hay. Some such artificial aid to harvesting is 
certainly needed in this late district, for the days grow 
rapidly short, and after the equinox there is no longer 
the prolonged twilight that characterises the northern 
summer. All the same, the farmer makes the afternoon 
as long as possible, and sets the clocks back, for harvest 
work cannot begin until the morning is well advanced 
and the dews have dried off. Fortunately cold anti- 
cyclone weather often sets in with September, as it did 
in 1912, and then all goes well. The corn crops were 
heavy, and throughout the district were standing up 
well, having escaped the storm which had done so 
much damage in Moray shire. Every farm has a few 
acres of mashlum ; potatoes are usually grown for 
home consumption only ; but the chief attention of the 
farmer is centred upon his turnip crop. That year it 
had made an excellent start, but with the later rainy 
and cold weather the bulbs had not swollen as they 
should, and the land was full of weeds, which like the 
turnips that had been singled out had only grown 
again after the hoeings. The temporary pastures all 
carried an excellent growth and were full of clover ; to 
a southern eye they were long and rough, and some of 
the aftermaths had shot so much that it seemed waste- 
ful to think of grazing them. However, a pedigree 
herd must never be stinted of food, and even at the 
cost of some waste must always have a full fresh bite. 

In this district the rye-grass controversy is still alive 
in a different form, whether the temporary mixtures 
used for sowing down the two or three year pastures 
should be based on rye grass, perennial as well as 



SCOTCH SHORTHORNS 381 

annual, or should chiefly consist of " natural " grasses 
like cocksfoot and Timothy. While the seedsmen's 
prescriptions and general practice incline to rye grass, 
the college experiments showed a notable advantage 
from the use of the natural grasses. 

We are hardly competent to discuss in detail our 
host's famous herd, one that had been in his family on 
this and neighbouring farms for three generations ; 
we were perhaps most impressed by the bull calves 
getting ready for the annual sale and by the noble 
cows who formed the foundation of the herd. Heavy 
coats of full red and deep roan predominated the 
fashionable colours ; light reds are disliked, and light 
roans are regarded as more appropriate to a milking 
herd. Pure whites are also in favour, bulls of that 
class being wanted farther south to cross with the 
Galloways and produce the well-known " blue greys " 
for the feeders. Central Aberdeen is the home of the 
Scotch Shorthorn ; close by, at Sittyton, Amos 
Cruickshank about 1840 began to build up his herd, 
buying somewhat indiscriminately but with a pre- 
ponderance of Booth blood. He paid little attention 
to the feud that raged between the supporters of 
Booth and Bates strains a feud that resulted in the 
decline of both strains through too close inbreeding 
and attention to fancy points ; but success did not come 
to Cruickshank until the birth, about 1 860, of one of 
those outstanding animals, " Champion of England," 
an example of what might nowadays be described as 
a mutation, which stamp their own character on 
all their descendants. In the next twenty years the 
fame of Cruickshank's herd was firmly established, 
especially among the American and Argentine buyers ; 
indeed, the whole herd was purchased in 1889 for 
export, though the bargain was not completed and 



382 ABERDEENSHIRE STOCK BREEDING 

most of the stock remained in this country. About 
that time the Scotch Shorthorn became fashionable in 
England, and has been largely introduced into all the 
best herds, but the Cruickshank blood and tradition 
was worthily continued in its own country by Mr. 
William Duthie and the Marrs. At the present time 
there is perhaps a reaction from the Cruickshank cattle 
in favour of more milking strains, though their sup- 
porters will not admit that with proper management 
the Scotch type is inferior in this respect. Aberdeen 
is also the home of the pre-eminent beef-producing 
breed the black polled Aberdeen- Angus ; but they 
live more in the hill country, and, despite their fame 
in the show-ring and at Smithfield, the Shorthorns 
possess a great numerical superiority. 

Notwithstanding the presence of these classic herds, 
the Aberdeenshire farmer is, in the main, a feeder and 
not a breeder: in the substantial steadings which are 
found on all the farms he ties up cattle for the winter 
and feeds them mainly on oat straw and turnips, of 
which enormous quantities are consumed daily. In 
the south nothing appears to be gained by giving 
more than 40 Ib. to 60 Ib. of roots per diem, but the 
Aberdeenshire turnips possess a special feeding value, 
and can be fed with success up to a hundredweight 
or more. They are drawn straight from the fields, 
where the yellow-fleshed hybrid will keep perfectly 
sound through the winter until it is succeeded by 
swedes in March or April. With this great con- 
sumption of roots a very watery dung is produced, 
and on the best farms the liquid is run off at once to 
a tank and carted out for distribution on the grass. 
We saw one or two examples of the enormous growth 
that follows such an application of liquid manure. 
The greater part of the stock thus fattened are Irish 



LABOUR AND EMIGRATION 383 

stores, the home-bred cattle are quite insufficient in 
number, and it is precisely in this part of Scotland, so 
famous for its breeding, that we have found the 
strongest opinions in favour of the admission of live 
stores from Canada. The producer of beef looks 
upon store cattle as raw material, and his argument 
is that ordinances obtained under the pretence of keep- 
ing off disease are used as measures of " protection " 
in its economic sense, in this case for the protection 
of the Irish cattle-breeders. Of course both sides 
play the same game. Canada has declined, on the 
score of possible infection with " canker," to admit any 
more Scotch potatoes, which were being imported in 
spite of the tariff wall, though these potatoes were for 
consumption and not for seed. 

Sheep are not much seen in the arable part of 
Aberdeenshire, though we were told of some farms 
where one or two pairs of horses had been put down 
and the land laid down to permanent pasture for 
sheep. 

Labour is becoming a serious problem in Aberdeen ; 
men are paid 30 to 36 a year and get customary 
allowances in the shape of oatmeal, milk, potatoes, etc. 
The married men have cottages ; the single men live 
in the house or in bothies, where they take their 
allowances and do for themselves. But the bothy 
system, rough even to barbarism, is dying out ; it has 
been a demoralizing and brutalizing mode of life, and 
one large factor in the great emigration to Canada 
that still takes place. The district is well provided 
with small holdings or crofts, some as small as ten 
acres, so that a hard-working labourer can work his 
way up from a croft to a considerable farm. But 
though many such cases can be cited, few men care to 
face the toil and self-denial involved ; the crofts are 



384 ABERDEENSHIRE STOCK BREEDING 

far from profitable because they are managed on the 
same plan as the neighbouring large farms, and there 
are few openings for the intensively grown special 
products which should be the mainstay of the small 
holder. Milk production is increasing; some of the 
large farms also have recently taken to the business, 
and one of the wholesale purchasers has facilitated 
matters for the small farmer by establishing depots 
along the roadside where the full churns are left to be 
collected by a single wagon working between the 
farthest farm and railhead. The sale of fresh milk is, 
however, not general, and the crofters depend mainly 
upon raising store cattle for their larger neighbours to 
fatten. The admission of Canadian stores would prob- 
ably finish off the Aberdeen crofters ; their numbers 
are shrinking already through emigration, and we were 
informed that there are no applicants from this district 
for small holdings under the new Land Act. Most 
of the crofters who hold their own are engaged in 
some other business also the carpenter, the mason, 
the postman were instanced : in many cases they do 
not keep a team, but get their ploughing, etc., done by 
contract. It is the small holder entirely dependent 
on his farming who tends to disappear, and the cause 
is really the rising standard of living and the oppor- 
tunities emigration offers. For this reason the loss 
is not entirely to be deplored. Away in the hills, not 
only in the Highlands, but south of the Forth also, 
may be seen traces of old crofts where only the sheep 
and the grouse now abide ; the men who tilled them 
worked as no slaves ever work for a bare subsistence, 
always hovering on the brink of starvation. The 
history of these deserted holdings is to some extent 
being repeated now ; the old men persist in the old 
homes, but their sons will not face the life, and it is 



THE VALUE OF CROFTS 385 

not to the interest either of agriculture or the State to 
try and hold men to such ill-remunerated toil. But 
where small holding methods and special industries can 
be devised that will give the occupier both a living 
wage and an opening for advancement, there a certain 
proportion of crofts to large farms will fulfil a most 
necessary function that of giving the agricultural 
labourer his chance of rising in life. 



X 
CARSE FARMING IN FORFAR 

IN our earlier visit to Scotland we had heard of Carse 
farming as something out of the common, so we took 
an opportunity after leaving Aberdeen of looking 
over one of the large farms of this kind not far from 
Dundee. 

The Carse of Cowrie and the Carse of Stirling is 
very similar is a low alluvial flat which stretches 
along the north side of the estuary of the Tay between 
Perth and Dundee. It is all about 4oft. above tide 
level and at its widest about three miles broad between 
the Sidlavv Hills and the water's edge. For the 
district it is heavy land, and as so often is the case 
with alluvial flats heavier inland than by the water ; but 
though described locally as a heavy clay the texture 
is really that of a free-working loam, resembling very 
closely on a cursory examination the brick earth one 
finds on the maritime flat of Sussex. We could walk 
about comfortably on the arable land within twenty- 
four hours of a rainfall of over half an inch, and that 
would never be possible on real clay land such as one 
gets in Essex. The Carse farms are fairly large ; 
most of them are described as four-pair farms, meaning 
thereby that four pairs of horses are needed to work 
them, and a pair of horses accounts for about 70 acres. 
As a rule they are rented, but a few are owned by 



ROTATIONS 387 

their occupiers, and some of these, we are told, were 
wholly left down in grass because the owner had 
been rendered short of working capital by his purchase. 
Rents stood at about 303. an acre for the land under 
cultivation, but to the farm we were visiting was 
attached rent-free a considerable area of salt marsh at 
a lower elevation, awash at every tide, but still carrying 
a dense vegetation of reeds and salt grass. The usual 
rotation followed is an eight-year shift of oats, beans 
and potatoes, wheat, turnips, barley, seeds which are 
hayed in their first year, and then grazed for two 
years longer. The main difficulty is to get a satis- 
factory turnip crop, and the Carse farmer is often 
compelled to take a bare fallow over a considerable 
proportion of the turnip land. Finger-and-toe is 
fortunately absent ; the difficulty lies in getting a 
proper seed-bed on the comparatively stiff and wet 
land. Lime is valuable on this land, as it greatly 
improves the tilth. On the farm we were visiting the 
rotation was extended to ten years by taking a bare 
fallow after the wheat and following it with a second 
wheat crop before sowing the turnips. The farmyard 
manure is applied to the turnips and potatoes, both 
of which also receive 4 cwt. to 5 cwt. of artificial 
manure ; but no other fertilizer is employed, except 
occasionally some nitrate of soda on the grass. 

All the Carse farms we saw were carrying very 
heavy grain crops, and cutting was just beginning in 
the first week of September; as very little of the corn 
was laid or damaged in any way, and a month of 
almost uniformly fine weather succeeded, the farmers 
in this district had every reason to be pleased with 
their year's working. Good as 1911 was, 1912 turned 
out even a better year; prices were higher all round, 
and turnips and grass were just as abundant as they 



388 CARSE FARMING IN FORFAR 

had been scanty in the previous season. Whether 
it might be attributed to the bare fallows or not, the 
Carse farms were exceptionally clean, more free from 
weeds than any other land we have seen in that 
exceptionally weedy year. The wheat grown was 
usually Standard Red, so common on similar land in 
the south ; we also saw a single field of Red Fife, that 
wheat of superb quality though poor cropping power 
which came to this country from Canada, where it 
forms the bulk of what the miller knows as No. i 
Hard Northern. The barleys were all wide-eared, and 
the grain from the Carse is more of distillers' than 
maltsters' quality. Sandy was the prevailing oat, 
though some of the newer varieties are being introduced 
with success. Heavy as the cereals were, the most 
surprising crop to be seen in the Carse was the beans ; 
they are spring sown, sometimes pure, sometimes 
mixed with oats and peas, but they had grown to a 
height of 6 ft. or more, and were still in full vigour. 
At that time they were being cut green for the 
bullocks ; later on they would be harvested and 
threshed in the usual way, but the haulm and the 
unripe pods would always provide an immense bulk of 
rough fodder possessing considerable feeding value. 

When the grass comes round in the rotation pure 
Timothy is sometimes sown, and the pasture thus 
obtained may be left down for longer than the usual 
three years. Pure Timothy meadows are common 
enough in the United States, especially in the Middle 
West, where they constitute one of the very few 
departures from alternate cropping with wheat and 
maize, and they yield a great weight of rather coarse 
stemmy hay, the kind of hay that is more esteemed 
by the horsekeeper in the cities, who chaffs all his hay, 
than by the farmer. In Scotland on moderately 



BULLOCK FATTENING 389 

strong land Timothy certainly makes a most profitable 
temporary ley, which has been known to yield as much 
as four tons of hay to the acre in the first cut, but we 
are not aware that any considerable trial has been 
given to it in England. However, on the Carse the 
seeds mixture usually consisted of clovers and rye 
grass, and after the rainy weather during August we 
saw some tremendous aftermaths. 

The Carse farms carry both bullocks and sheep, 
though neither are bred on the land, but are bought 
in to be fattened. The bullocks are generally Irish 
stores ; some are fattened out on the grass during the 
summer with the help of cake, only a little of the land 
heavy permanent pasture at the foot of the hills 
being good enough to fatten a bullock without aid. 
As the season advances more bullocks are bought, 
started on the grass, and gradually drafted into the 
yards to be finished ; one lot we saw were being fed 
on the green beans given whole just as they were cut, 
together with about 10 Ib. of cake per diem. Heavy 
cake feeding is usual, so heavy that it is difficult to see 
where the profit comes in, even with the fine markets 
for beef close at hand. Sheep, usually cross-breds. 
are only bought in to eat off the aftermath; the land 
is too heavy to allow them to go on to the turnips. 
The fold is made with coarse netting instead of the 
south country hurdles, and yarn nets are giving place 
to wire. But though fattening is a considerable item 
in the programme of a Carse farm, the greater part of 
the produce is sold right away, because the tenants 
have almost complete freedom of cropping and sale. 
The hay is sold except what is wanted for the horses, 
for the Scotch farmer very rarely feeds hay to his 
bullocks ; and even a good deal of the straw is sold, 
because for bedding purposes it can be replaced by 



390 CARSE FARMING IN FORFAR 

reeds cut from the salt marsh. Close in to Dundee 
turnips and green meat are sold to the town dairymen. 

The fringe of salt marsh also added to the saleable 
products of the farm : first of all comes a belt of the 
usual tall feathery-headed reeds, the haunt of wildfowl 
in the winter and frequented at the time of our visit 
by enormous flocks of starlings feeding on the seed 
in the waving purple tops. This is cut over once 
a year for bedding in the byres and stables, and some 
of it is put up into bundles for sale into the towns. 
Beyond the reeds down to the edge of the pure mud 
there is another belt of " salt grass," a kind of tall 
carex, very tough and possessing a dangerous cutting 
edge ; this material, though not so tall as the reeds, 
forms a better and more lasting thatch, and is sold 
for that purpose as well as used on all the stacks 
on the farm. 

The farms we saw in the Carse of Gowrie showed 
close business-like management, and the system has 
been well devised to suit the soil and the local 
markets ; it looked very profitable farming, so much 
of the produce being sold away. Naturally such a 
course of cropping and sale involves a considerable 
labour bill, and with Dundee at hand to compete for 
men wages are high up to 2os. a week with allow- 
ances, though the 2os. a week labourer generally earns 
his money much better than the man at 155. Here 
also we were told that emigration had reduced the 
supply of rural labour far more than the attractions 
of the towns. Just across the Firth in the county 
of Fife one of our informants estimated the average 
wage of a good man as 245. a week, made up as 
follows : 40 a year, a pint of sweet milk daily, 
half a boll of meal per month, two tons of potatoes, 
and a free house, with some extras in harvest ; and 



SALE OF PRODUCE 391 

as the women also work in the fields in this part 
of Scotland, the earnings of a household may be 
considerable. These men, however, represent the 
aristocracy of farm labour, and are highly skilled ; 
and as they carry far greater personal responsibilities 
than, say, a miner or a riveter, they cannot be regarded 
as overpaid. 

To the east of Dundee near the shore the soils are 
far lighter than on the Carse, but the farming systems 
are dominated by the opportunity the city presents 
for the sale of all kinds of farm produce. A six-year 
rotation is common oats, potatoes, wheat, turnips, 
barley, hay and in some cases nearly everything 
is sold off the farm, the tenant drawing manure back 
from the town dairies to which he sells his turnips, 
straw, etc. Dairying is increasing, and where that 
becomes a leading feature of the farming the rotation 
is generally lengthened by leaving the seeds down for 
two or three years. 

Across the Tay, in Fifeshire, the farming is very 
similar, except that the increased difficulties of 
transport put an end to the sale of the turnips and 
green crops, which are consumed by fattening bullocks 
or dairy stock. East Fife forms rather a good 
example of the skill and energy of Scottish agri- 
culture; most of the country is very steeply un- 
dulating, without rising to any great elevation, the 
only flat land being near the sea or in the Howe 
of Fife. The soils are not particularly good, except, 
perhaps, in a few places where a warm, reddish soil 
is found, derived from the old volcanic rocks that 
have brought about the generally disturbed and rugged 
aspect of the country. The climate also is hard and 
bleak, though fairly dry, especially in the autumn. 
Yet with all these drawbacks Fifeshire is highly 



392 CARSE FARMING IN FORFAR 

farmed ; in the eastern part of the county one passed 
for mile after mile through big cultivated fields, often 
open, sometimes divided by stone walls or low, well- 
kept quick hedges that cause no waste of land. Little 
or no stock were to be seen in the fields, sometimes 
sheep eating off the aftermath, sometimes cows where 
a farmer had taken up dairying, but in the main the 
country was being farmed for crops on the six-course 
rotation described above, though, of course, Irish stores 
were bought for winter fattening in the byres. The 
buildings were ample, the stacks well made, and, 
without taking into account the excellent crops that 
were to be seen in process of cutting during the first 
week in September, there was a general air of 
prosperous briskness and attention to detail that gave 
us a very favourable impression of the local agriculture. 
In most parts of England you may find first-class 
farmers and land managed in a fashion that is beyond 
criticism, but these men and farms stand apart, and 
their neighbours on the estate may show all degrees 
of careless and slipshod management. In Scotland 
the general average of the farming is certainly higher, 
and wherever the land is really suitable the whole 
district looks well managed and possesses an aspect 
of hard business which is rare over any considerable 
area in England. The farms gave one the impression 
that considerable capital had been put into them of 
recent years ; buildings are extensive and in good 
repair, drainage is still going on, hedges had been 
straightened up and are kept close, the bad farmer 
is not allowed to drag on at an easy rent because 
he makes no calls on the estate. Agriculture, after 
all, depends on the men who direct it; and the 
farming of the east of Scotland very much reflects 
the dour, hard-bitten character of its men. 



XI 
AYRSHIRE: EARLY POTATOES 

WE had often been told of the early potato growing 
in Ayrshire as a form of highly specialized farming 
so admirably carried out as to rival even the agriculture 
of the Lothians ; from Fifeshire, therefore, we found 
our way to Glasgow and down the West Coast. Close 
to Glasgow and in northern Ayrshire the land is 
generally poor, for the Coal Measures rarely yield 
anything better than cold, stiffish, unfertile soils ; but, 
thanks to the markets provided by the huge industrial 
population close at hand, the land there is intensively 
farmed for milk. To maintain the production at a 
high pitch the land has to be under the plough, but 
the Ayrshire farmer has devised a rotation which gives 
him the food he wants and does away with turnips, 
the most difficult and least remunerative crop on such 
wet soils, where also the drainage is much impaired 
owing to the constant subsidences brought about by 
coal mining. Oats are followed by oats, and many 
of the Ayrshire farms are celebrated for the quality 
of the meal from these oats ; in the second oat crop 
seeds are sown which are hayed for the next two 
years and then pastured for three, whereupon the oat 
crop comes round again. The farms are not large 
1 20 acres is a not unusual size and on them will 
be employed a ploughman, an " orra " or odd man, 



393 



394 AYRSHIRE: EARLY POTATOES 

women to milk, and a harvester or two in the season. 
Often the cows are let to a " bower," i.e., a dairyman 
and milk seller who has no farm. The farmer finds 
the cow and certain rations of meal, hay, straw, green 
meat, and pasturage, for all of which he receives 1 4 
a year. The bower not infrequently supplements the 
food himself in order to keep up the flow of milk, 
and as the farmer also gets back the dung made in 
the byres he profits by this extra feeding. 

The very special Ayrshire farming is, however, 
strictly localized on a narrow strip near the coast, 
beginning about Irvine and extending to a mile or 
two south of Girvan, perhaps 30 miles in all. The 
actual shore is fringed with sand hills and given over 
to golf; Troon with its six courses, Prestwick of 
championship fame, Turnberry, and others of lesser 
note form a pretty continuous strip that is never, 
perhaps, more than two miles broad. Inland of the 
blown sand comes another strip of light land, the 
best of which is reddish and stony, drift derived from 
the Old Red, just as in the Lothians on the other 
shore. This stretch of low land, never very broad, 
and narrowing in places to the width of a single field, 
is backed by the hills, up the sides of which the 
plough creeps but a little distance before sheep walk, 
bracken, and heather set in. Even on the cultivated 
area a further division is made between the land that 
is farmed on a rotation and the choice fields that 
carry potatoes every year, and it is only towards the 
south about Girvan locally known as the land of 
Goshen that the whole or the greater "part of any 
farm can be given up to potatoes. The distinguishing 
feature of the Ayrshire potato-growing is its restriction 
to earlies, with perhaps an acre or two of. main crop 
potatoes for the use of the house and the farm hands. 



SEED POTATOES 395 

The warm soils, the sheltered situation, and the 
freedom from spring frosts conferred by the proximity 
of the Western sea afford the Ayrshire farmers the 
opportunity of which they have taken so great an 
advantage ; their crop succeeds the very early potatoes 
coming from the Channel Islands and Penzance, and 
is in the main later than the St. Malo imports, being 
harvested from the first week of June on to the 
middle or even end of July. 

The potato land is heavily manured, beginning 
with about 1 5 tons per acre of farmyard manure 
ploughed in in autumn, followed up by 12-13 cw t- 
per acre of a very concentrated artificial manure, 
applied immediately before planting by means of a well- 
devised machine peculiar to the district, which strikes 
out a couple of drills and sows the manure in them, 
Before planting, which takes place in February, the 
seed is always carefully sprouted in boxes, and it 
is generally obtained from a slightly more northern 
district, still on the West Coast. The prevailing 
variety was " Epicure." A few other well-known 
earlies were grown, but Epicure greatly predominated, 
the choice of the others being generally determined 
by the fact that the small ones command a good price 
for seed. In 1912, for example, with the wholesale 
destruction that had been wrought by disease and 
flood in the English potato area, the price of seed 
was exceptionally high. 

After the first manuring no other fertilizer is 
employed : nitrate of soda is only given when one 
of the rare frosts has cut down the young shaw. 
Though most of the farmers fatten bullocks or keep 
dairy cows in order to make farmyard manure for 
the potato land, the supply is necessarily insufficient, 
and immense quantities are brought by rail from 
26 



396 AYRSHIRE: EARLY POTATOES 

Glasgow, a considerable proportion coming off the 
Transatlantic cattle-boats. But, as in London, town 
manure is becoming more difficult to obtain, dearer 
and of inferior quality, and the Ayrshire potato- 
growers will have before long to face the question 
of a substitute. Seaweed is also largely employed, 
most easily, of course, on the farms south of Turn- 
berry, where no intervening strip of links separates 
the farming land from the sea. 

By almost universal custom the crops are sold 
standing by auction ; the merchant lifts them at 
his convenience, being under obligation to clear the 
land by a certain date, and the farmer has no further 
responsibility except to cart the full barrels to the 
station. Long before the crop is ready the merchants 
pervade the district, taking stock of each field and 
watching the growth with critical eyes in order to 
estimate the price they can afford to give ; and as 
these prices had ranged up to 4$ an acre during 
that season, some knowledge both of the land and 
the men working it is necessary to avoid losses. 

Once the land is clear the farmer resumes possession 
and sets about a catch crop; most generally rape is 
sown to be eaten off by sheep brought down from 
the hills in October and onwards. Italian rye grass 
is another favourite catch crop; it stands feeding 
more than once, and can be left down until the turn 
of the year and still be ploughed up in time for the 
succeeding potato crop. We saw one field of a new 
kind of rye grass called locally " Western Wolds " 
grass, sown after potatoes and yet cut in the second 
week in October. It was to be threshed for seed, 
and if the weather held up for a few days longer 
it promised not only hay, but a passable yield of 
mature if somewhat green and light seed. Another 



CATCH CROPS 397 

astonishing catch crop was barley, common four and 
six rowed varieties; some of it was being grazed by 
sheep, but as a rule it was cut and was being harvested 
and threshed in the usual way. The grain in many 
cases was very green and was being crushed and fed 
straightway to the stock, but much of it was ripe 
and was even on occasion sold for malting. In that 
wonderful year 1911 as much as 6 qrs. per acre was 
obtained on one field, and all sold for malting at 
over 3 os. per qr., this after an exceptionally valuable 
crop of potatoes. The immature barley straw was 
also greatly valued for feeding. Another catch crop 
seen in the Girvan district was curled kale, to be cut 
and sold to Glasgow as winter greens ; but the bulky 
nature of the produce only permits of this crop when 
a station is near at hand. 

This Ayrshire potato growing is certainly an 
astonishing industry, almost more interesting to see 
in the late autumn, when the catch crops are prominent, 
than in the heyday of the potato sales. The land 
possesses no great intrinsic fertility, its virtue lies in 
its ease of working and its warmth, combined with 
its favoured situation. As is so generally the case 
in Scotland, the soil is short of lime, finger-and-toe 
prevails in the turnips and rape, and spurry and 
corn-marigold are typical weeds, showing the acidity 
following on the lack of lime. 

Off the particular strip of red sandy soil consecrated 
to potatoes year after year the usual five or six shift 
rotation is followed, wheat and oats being the cereals, 
while a portion of the root land is generally given 
up to cabbage because of the milch cows. 

In this district we found pure Timothy meadows very 
general ; they can be readily established, and will yield 
up to four tons of hay per acre. Moreover, the hay 



398 AYRSHIRE: EARLY POTATOES 

is threshed for seed, and will yield up to 3 cwt. per 
acre of seed, which may sell as high as 8os. per cwt. 
The threshed hay, very coarse and stemmy, also very 
green to an English eye, is always chaffed before 
feeding, but is locally esteemed as highly as rye grass 
hay. For his temporary leys for grazing our host pre- 
ferred a mixture containing a large proportion of both 
Timothy and cocksfoot; he maintained that cocksfoot 
obtains its bad name because too little is sown, thus 
introducing in the pasture isolated plants, which are 
allowed to run up and become hard. Where the 
cocksfoot forms a considerable element in the sward 
it can be kept eaten down and remains tender, where- 
upon it becomes a most valuable grass. 

On these Ayrshire farms, Irish-bred stores, Galloways, 
and blue-grey crosses from the country farther south, 
also Ayrshire-Shorthorn crosses, are tied up and fattened 
during the winter as much for their dung as for any 
profit attaching to the beef. A good proportion of the 
beef, as of the cross-bred sheep fattened on the catch 
crops, are sent off to London for sale rather than into 
the local markets. Milch cows are kept on many of 
the farms near the towns or with good railway facilities ; 
always the native Ayrshires are found, in many cases 
also the farmer lets them to a bower. There is a fair 
amount of breeding of the favourite Clydesdales, but 
the raising of light horses appears to have died out 
within the last few years. In this delightful country, 
easy to farm as it is charming to the eye, with the 
shapely hills of Arran and Ailsa Craig out across the 
curving bay, the rents could not be considered ex- 
cessive, ranging from 305. to 505. an acre, the choicest 
land a little higher still. Labour was dear and getting 
scarcer ; the regular men got 2os. a week, with potatoes, 
milk, and a house free. They were nearly all married 



LABOUR 399 

men, and the bothy system did not prevail ; still, 
emigration had been extensive. Women do a good 
deal of work and supplement the family earnings. In 
the potato harvest, Irishmen come over, but the supply 
has been much restricted of late years, a sure sign of 
increasing prosperity at home. There appeared to be 
few or no small holdings in the district, the farms run 
large 300 to 400 acres and the tenants, with such 
an exceptional system of farming to practise, are 
flourishing men, who well deserve their prosperity 
by the skill and energy with which they have developed 
the opportunity afforded by their soil and climate. 



XII 

MILK PRODUCTION IN SOUTH-WEST 
SCOTLAND 

ONCE away from the intensive arable country of the 
Ayrshire coast most of the rest of the south-west of Scot- 
land is given up to stock farming and milk production. 
The district is the home of two very distinct races of 
cattle, the Galloways and the Ayrshires, each holding 
a leading position in the live-stock world, the one for 
milk, the other for beef, but with no points in common. 
The Ayrshire breed appears to have originated in the 
uplands of Ayr and Renfrew, always on thin, poor soils 
and in a wet inclement climate, so that it has become 
an exceedingly hardy race, capable of maintaining a 
flow of milk under difficult conditions of weather and 
pasturage. The same causes have operated to produce 
a small breed ; the ordinary Ayrshire cows of to-day 
weigh no more than 9 or 10 cwt, though regularly 
giving as much milk as Shorthorns weighing half as 
much again. Ayrshires are characteristic dairy cows 
in their fine heads and angular wedge-shaped frames 
that seem to carry little flesh because all the food has 
gone to make milk ; as far as the records go they 
appear to have undergone little change in character 
for the last century or so. Originating in a country 
of hill pastures they are active, quick-moving cattle, 
and this characteristic is accentuated by the upward- 
pointing horns ; all the experts insist that an Ayrshire 



400 



AYRSHIRE CATTLE 401 

cow should look " gay." The colour is very distinct, 
a white ground splashed with a dark red, or chestnut 
with a blackish shade in it ; light reds or yellow browns 
are not esteemed, nor are the brindled or black patches 
which used to be common enough in the earlier years 
of the breed. Every year, however, we were told, the 
colour tends to be less prominent ; in a fashionable 
herd nowadays the general impression is of white. 
A black nose is typical, as in the dairy races of Celtic 
origin, but it is not considered as essential by fanciers, 
though regarded by many as an indication of a hardy 
constitution. 

The history of the Ayrshire provides a curious 
illustration of the tendency of breeders to become 
obsessed by fancy points, which have no practical 
value in themselves and indeed when cultivated to 
excess may prove detrimental. As belonging to a 
dairy breed great attention was naturally paid in 
judging the cow to the shape and disposition of the 
udder the vessel, as it is always called in Scotland. 
The Ayrshire breeder demanded that it should extend 
well forward under the body with the teats spaced out 
and symmetrically placed. Then with neatness and 
symmetry in his mind the fancier began to insist upon 
small teats, until smallness grew to be regarded as an 
excellence in itself, so much so that it became actually 
difficult to milk the highly-bred show Ayrshire of a 
dozen years or so back. Milk records have, however, 
changed the point of view, and the old breeders are 
now lamenting that the value of external points and 
a good type of frame are being forgotten because milk 
performances alone are being studied in breeding. 
There is little danger, however, of the neglect of external 
features ; if one may take an analogy from plants, the 
sugar beet of to-day is just as symmetrical and true to 



402 MILK PRODUCTION IN S.W. SCOTLAND 

its type as the mangel. Yet the sugar beet has been 
selected only by analysis from the richest roots, where- 
by its sugar content has been raised by 50 per cent, 
within a generation, whereas the mangel, selected by 
appearance alone, has grown no richer during the 
whole of its history. 

It is among the Ayrshires that the system of regular 
milk testing has been^organized, thanks to the advocacy 
of the late Mr. John Speir. Of course individuals in 
many places had kept records of the daily yield of 
their cows ; it was Mr. Speir's idea to appoint official 
testers so that the records of the cows in the herds 
submitted to the test would rank with their pedigrees 
and give to those pedigrees a new significance. The 
society appoints a tester for each 12 or 1 8 farmers 
subscribing; he spends a day with each in turn, seeing 
the milk of each cow weighed both morning and even- 
ing, and taking a sample for determination of the butter 
fat. Thus each herd gets tested once in two or three 
weeks, and it is found that these intervals permit of a 
reasonably accurate average being struck that will give 
the total milk yield of each cow during its lactation 
period and the quality of the milk. Although the 
scheme had not been widely in operation for many 
years its effect was already manifest ; herds that only 
averaged 500 gallons of milk per cow were then yield- 
ing 600 to 700 through the elimination of the wasters 
and breeding only from the best. Cows yielding 1000 
gallons a year were not uncommon, an enormous pro- 
duction when one considers their small live-weight. 
The milk records are of the utmost value in the inter- 
national market. Canada, for example, is a great 
buyer of Ayrshires, and it is now the milk pedigree 
that draws the purchaser. With all its excellences the 
Ayrshire has never obtained much foothold in England. 



GALLOWAY CATTLE 403 

Scottish farmers coming south have often introduced 
them, but only for a time. Sometimes the type is said 
to deteriorate under the warmer and drier conditions ; 
what has been perhaps more the determining factor is 
the very low value attached in English markets to the 
Ayrshire cow that has been fattened off. In Canada and 
North America, however, the breed is in great favour. 

The black-polled Galloway belongs to the country 
a little farther south along the shores of the Solway. 
Galloway is, in fact, the old name of Wigtown, " The 
Shire," and Kirkcudbright, " The Stewartry." Among 
the hills of that rugged country and across the Border 
into Cumberland this very marked race of polled beef 
cattle has long existed. Its origin is unknown, but 
the type has not changed greatly since any records tell 
of the local cattle, except that the dun and brindled 
colours have given place to an entire black. Even in 
the seventeenth century the district was noted for its 
cattle, which travelled on foot to Norfolk and Suffolk 
to be fattened out ; indeed, the Norfolk red-polls are 
said to derive their hornless character from crossing 
with the " Carrick " cattle, as the Galloways were often 
called. The trade flourished all through the eighteenth 
century, but nowadays the Norfolk grazier fills his 
yards almost entirely with Irish beasts. Though not 
of its former importance, the Galloway is one of the 
most marked of our pure breeds, distinguished especi- 
ally by its hardiness, for the young stock have always 
been wintered out, even far up on the hills. Like 
other very pure races, it stamps itself very markedly 
upon the offspring from a cross, and the bullocks 
arising from one Galloway cross possess a special 
reputation for their rapid growth and superb value as 
beef the famous " blue-greys," which most properly 
are the produce of a white Shorthorn bull upon a 



404 MILK PRODUCTION IN S.W. SCOTLAND 

Galloway cow. They are polled, and the blue-grey 
coat represents a pretty equal admixture of black and 
white hairs. Repeatedly animals of this parentage 
have carried off the championship at Smithfield, and 
they are in great repute among north-country graziers. 
They are mostly raised in Galloway or about the 
Border, and sold in Carlisle market. But even in the 
Stewartry we were informed that the black-polls were 
being displaced by the Ayrshires. Milk-selling is more 
profitable than stock-raising if the farmer is within half 
a dozen miles of a railway, and even at greater 
distances milk can still be made profitable by convert- 
ing it into cheese. More particularly intensive arable 
farming can find its outlet in milk, whereas the raising 
of store cattle cannot readily be speeded up and is 
most appropriate to comparatively cheap grassland. 
Hence, as the farming in Scotland has improved, the 
arable farmer in the better lands along the valleys has 
sought some business that would turn over his capital 
more rapidly than cattle-raising, which tends to become 
confined to the strip of grassland lying just below the 
pure sheep walks of the uplands. In the neighbour- 
hood of Kirkcudbright, for example, one sees a sharply 
undulating country, where the rock is deeply clothed 
with glacial deposits, often marked by great banks of 
gravel and sand the kames or eskers that represent 
ancient moraines. Where the slopes are gentle a light, 
stony soil prevails well suited to arable cultivation ; 
and this is divided into good-sized farms of 300 acres 
or so, mainly under the plough. The land is not rich, 
nor is it very highly farmed, but the common Scotch 
six-course rotation is followed, in which two straw 
crops and a turnip crop are followed by three years of 
grass, the first being laid up for hay. Very little 
barley and no wheat are grown, oats being the 



CROSS-BRED SHEEP 405 

universal cereal. Potatoes are not general beyond a 
small acreage for the use of the farm, and in a general 
way the farming depends upon milk and sheep. As 
a rule the sheep are bought off the hills to fatten ; 
sometimes a Down ram will be used, and both the 
ewes and lambs will be fattened together. 

The sheep are either cross-breds, which in local 
parlance signifies the progeny of Blackfaced ewes and 
a Border Leicester ram, or half-breds i.e. Cheviots 
crossed with the Border Leicester ram. The half-breds 
can be treated almost as a pure breed and crossed 
again with the Border Leicester ram with success, this 
being practically the only case in Great Britain where 
a second cross attains any commercial success. As a 
rule a first cross between two distinct breeds results in 
offspring possessing a general conformity to a particular 
type, with superior vigour and a quicker growth than 
either of the parents, but further crosses result in 
segregation into a motley group of mongrels, many of 
which show distinct degeneration from the butcher's 
point of view. For milk, Ayrshires are universally 
employed ; a few only of the farmers raise cattle and 
fatten them out for beef. Away from the railway the 
milk is converted into cheese, and the south-west of 
Scotland has mainly given itself up to the production 
of Cheddar cheese. So thoroughly has the art been 
learned that great rivalry prevails with Somerset for 
the leadership of the market, and many were the 
rejoicings we heard at the news just come to hand 
that the Scottish cheese makers had carried off the bulk 
of the prizes at the Dairy Show at the Agricultural 
Hall. Nearly every farm breeds a few heavy horses, 
this being the true Clydesdale country. 

The farming of Kirkcudbright struck us as fair 
without being in any way exceptional ; the rainfall is 



406 MILK PRODUCTION IN S.W. SCOTLAND 

always heavy, so 1912 had not been a very propitious 
year ; the turnip crops were below the average ; the oats, 
we were told, had run too much to straw ; and even in 
the first week of October some of the hay was still 
out in the fields or just being led home. Considering 
the land and the markets, rents were pretty high, at 
an average of 233. an acre, but the farms were all taken 
up and any vacancy produced a number of applicants. 
As elsewhere in Scotland, labour was becoming scarce ; 
every district had the same tale of emigration to tell. 

Before we crossed the Border we spent a little time 
in the favoured valley of the Nith, where in the 
neighbourhood of Dumfries there is a small arable 
district worthy to be compared to the Lothians or the 
choice Ayrshire coastland. Again one found the light 
red soils, always workable with two horses and not 
harmed by the folding of sheep, even with the heavy 
rainfall of the west coast. Rents ran from 303. to 
5 os. an acre; all the land is under the plough, and 
milk, sheep, and potatoes earn most of the profits of 
the farm. There is, however, a fair acreage of barley, 
and some wheat is still grown in the district. Pota- 
toes form a valuable crop, and one or two farmers 
in favourable situations near Dumfries go in for early 
potatoes as intensively and as skilfully as on the 
Ayrshire coast. The milk is mostly sent by rail to 
Glasgow or Newcastle ; when too far from the station 
it is converted into cheese. Sheep are not bred, but 
cross-breds are bought from the hills and set to 
produce another lamb, lamb and ewe being fattened off 
together, though some farmers make a speciality of early 
lamb. It would be hard to picture a more delightful or 
more fertile country than the valley of the Nith, which 
showed again the general high level of farming that we 
had noted before as a characteristic of Scotland. 



XIII 
THE MIDLANDS 

ON neither of our previous journeys had we touched 
the Midland Counties of England, so from Dumfries 
we came south into Derbyshire without halting until 
we reached our next farm on the high limestone plateau 
that lies between Buxton and Ashbourne. There are 
few districts in England that have undergone less 
change during this last century of unrest ; the farms 
have descended from father to son in many cases the 
line can be traced for two hundred years and we 
cannot suppose that the farming methods have under- 
gone much alteration for a long period. 

The countryside has a character all its own, one that 
stamps itself on the secret affections of those who are 
brought up in its lonely farmhouses. A bare, green 
country, generally above the 1000 feet contour line, 
cut up into vivid patterns by a profusion of white stone 
walls, here and there a little eminence a bank swells 
up and may be broken by an equally white terrace of 
the prevailing limestone. The only trees are a few 
sycamores round the farmhouses or the villages ; and 
though the rainfall is considerable, nearly all the water 
flows underground, the young Dove being the only 
visible stream, crystal clear, as all limestone waters are. 
A little farther south it enters the narrow gorge it has 

cut for itself Beresford Dale, with the little fishing 

407 



408 THE MIDLANDS 

hut which Charles Cotton built to mark his friendship 
with Izaak Walton, and flows by the white scars and 
luxuriant vegetation of Dovedale, until beyond Ash- 
bourne it reaches the softer valleys and more fertile 
meadows that lie on the New Red Sandstone. 

In the stone-wall country the farms run small, most 
of them about 50 acres, and only one field on each 
farm is under the plough for oats. So high and bleak 
is the country that the bulk of these oats does not 
ripen ; that year in the first days of October many ot 
the fields were grass green, and others were being cut 
to feed in the straw without threshing. The best of 
the oats only are threshed and ground locally for home 
consumption. But the farmers were in no hurry about 
their oats ; haymaking was still going on, and here and 
there was a field still uncut. It is the custom to carry 
the hay very green ; and as it is thrown up into a loft 
to lie loose, there is less danger of its heating than 
when made into a stack. In these northern counties 
everything is built under one roof, the house at one 
end, the shippon for the cows next, with the hay loft 
over, and the stable beyond. Most of the farms have 
a small Dutch barn alongside for the straw and the 
rest of the hay. 

The whole of the farming in this countryside depends 
on milk ; the cows are pastured on the grass during 
the summer and live on the hay and oat straw through 
the winter. Little imported food is bought, just as 
artificial manures are rarely applied to the grassland ; 
no effort is made to produce winter milk, for which, 
indeed, there is small outlet except where a farmer is 
near a station ; even then it is regarded as unprofitable. 
The milking is done in the open, the cows are entirely 
out of doors until the winter sets in. When they are 
indoors they get no litter, the small stock of straw is 



STILTON CHEESE 409 

all wanted for food, and, indeed, in its green state is 
too valuable a fodder to be wasted underfoot. The 
cows are all Shorthorns, but of no great quality, 
decidedly inferior in type to those found in the similar 
limestone country in the West Riding of Yorkshire, 
Ribblesdale, and Lunesdale. Good blood is evidently 
wanted in the district, and, as all the farmers are small 
men unable to buy expensive bulls solely for their own 
use, there should be an opening for co-operative schemes 
for the purchase of bulls capable of improving the 
country stock, especially as we were informed that 
contagious abortion is practically unknown. Of course, 
bulls of milking strains would be wanted, because all 
the farmers make their living out of milk. We only 
heard of one who depended upon stock-raising, fattening 
out the steers, and selling the heifers when in milk 
with their first calves ; he, however, was an educated 
man with a comparatively large farm, the grass of 
which he had immensely improved by judicious 
manuring. 

A large proportion of the milk produced in the 
uplands of Derbyshire is sold to cheese makers ; at 
one time cheese was made on most of the farms, but 
specialization has gradually set in until one man may 
deal with the milk from 50 or 60 farms besides his 
own. There is a true Derbyshire cheese, a large flat 
cheese of the hard curd type with a texture approxi- 
mating to that of Cheddar or Gruyere, which has the 
advantage of being ready for sale very quickly after 
making ; but the really important cheese in this district 
is the Stilton. Now that the methods of manufacture 
have been standardized one can almost say that any 
cheese can be made anywhere ; but South Derbyshire 
and Leicestershire form the original home of the 
Stilton, which only acquired that particular name 



4 io THE MIDLANDS 

through an accident. The cheese first attracted 
general notice on the table of the Bell Inn at Stilton 
on the Great North Road in the coaching days about 
the middle of the eighteenth century, but it was made 
by one Mrs. Paulet, of Melton, and had nothing to do 
with Huntingdon, in which Stilton is situate. We 
visited one cheese factory in Hartington, which made it 
very evident why the making of Stilton cheese should 
have become concentrated into the hands of specialists. 
Not only is the actual manufacture a somewhat nice 
process, requiring exactitude in such matters as the 
proportion of rennet to add and the degree of acidity 
to which the milk should have attained, and judgment 
in deciding upon the consistency of the curd before it 
is packed into the mould, but only a reasonably large 
output can justify the necessary arrangements for heat- 
ing or cooling, ventilating, etc., the cheese room. 

Stilton is only manufactured during the summer, 
and then requires from three to six months' ripening 
before it is ready for market ; this ripening must take 
place in a room maintained at nearly a constant tem- 
perature, yet supplied with fresh air and kept moist. 
The ripening is watched with anxiety, as upon its 
character depends the price the cheese will fetch. The 
maker is constantly inspecting his cheeses, boring out 
samples with a little semi-circular auger, and scrutiniz- 
ing them for colour and texture the desiderata being 
bright green mould on a white ground without any 
trace of yellow or brown stain, a short crummy 
structure, neither soapy nor greasy, and a sharp charac- 
teristic smell. Defects will creep in, and it is a difficult 
matter to track their causes ; sometimes intrusive 
bacteria enter with the water, sometimes an excess 
of one of the necessary materials, rennet or salt, 
for example, disturbs the due equilibrium existing 



YEOMAN FARMERS 411 

between the normal organisms of the milk. Our host 
would only make Stilton cheese from grass-fed cows, 
and the open-air milking which in Derbyshire accom- 
panies the natural feeding aids the production of a 
trustworthy cheese, because the milk is much freer from 
dirt contamination than when it is drawn in a dirty 
shippon. Our English cheeses have as yet been little 
investigated, and it is unknown whether there are any 
special organisms concerned in the ripening which give 
rise to the difference in flavour between, say, a Stilton 
and a Wensleydale. Cheddar cheese has indeed been 
investigated, the process of manufacture has been 
standardized and a good deal has been learnt about 
the mechanism of the ripening process, nearly all by 
the labours of American and Swiss savants. The 
other English cheeses offer almost a virgin field to the 
investigator, both as regards the standardization of the 
processes and the source of the difficulties that are 
regularly met with. Many of the makers of Stilton, 
for example, are much troubled by a yellow stain which 
comes in the cheese, and may, if widespread, reduce 
the price from something like 1 3d. or I4d. a Ib. to less 
than 8d. 

This high Derbyshire country affords a very in- 
structive example of stable conservative small holdings, 
held by real yeoman farmers, if we may use yeoman 
in its original sense to include tenants as well as 
owners. Considering the class of land, its elevation 
and remoteness, rents are comparatively high, from 
255. up to 2 an acre for the farming land, the banks, 
of course, standing at a much lower rate; but the 
rents are paid regularly and there is not so much 
fluctuation in the prosperity of the occupiers with the 
seasons as in an arable country. The farms change 
hands very little, and the farmers work hard and live 
27 



412 THE MIDLANDS 

simply, " in the kitchen," as one of our hosts put it. 
But they have a character of their own, a robust 
independence, and the countryside still yields them its 
simple primitive pleasures. Little extra labour is 
employed, most of the farms keep one hired man who 
lives in the house, and in most cases is as independent 
as his master. These men form a valuable society ; 
on the other hand, one could not but conclude that 
their farming is unprogressive and unenlightened ; 
without changing the system, but with more capital 
and knowledge, the grassland might be made far more 
productive, and with a better class of stock, the output 
of milk could be greatly increased. 

South and west of Ashbourne much the same kind 
of limestone country prevails on the hills, gradually 
dropping to rich pastures in the valleys. The 
elevation is not so great and the soils a little better; 
the farms still run small, 50 to 80 acres, and they 
have rather more land under the plough, two fields 
instead of one, with a breadth of roots as well as of 
oats. All the farmers depend on milk production ; 
but though they grow a little winter food from the 
arable land and buy grains from Burton to eke out the 
grass, they confine themselves as much as possible to 
summer dairying and consider that the production of 
milk in the winter does not pay, in spite of its higher 
price. Rents run from 2Os. to 303. an acre, hired 
labour is scarce and dear, and in consequence some of 
the larger farms and there are a few that run to two 
or three hundred acres are inadequately worked. It 
was, in fact, in this district that we began to hear, as 
we did not infrequently through the Midlands, of 
good-sized farms worked prairie fashion by a farmer 
either single-handed or with the one man customary on 
the small farms, everything neglected, land and fences 



CONDENSED MILK 413 

going downhill, the farmer skimming little more than 
a bare living though he obtains an excessive return on 
the nominal capital he has put into the business. 
These men got their farms at a trifling rent during 
the depression, when tenants were scarce and the land- 
lord in despair accepted and in many cases almost 
bribed some of the little men to undertake a larger 
venture. The tenants would be better off now if the 
landlord would resume the greater part of the holding 
and make a second farm of it, additional tenants would 
not be lacking if the owner would risk more capital 
in erecting a further set of buildings. 

We finished up the day in Ashbourne itself, looking 
at a milk factory that is just being erected by one of 
the great international firms producing condensed milk. 
The factory is meant to deal with twenty to thirty 
thousand gallons of milk a day during the season, all of 
which is to be bought from the farmers round about, 
who will deliver daily. It will form a valuable new 
outlet for the farmers of the district, competing as it 
will with the cheese makers and the wholesale milk 
dealers in Manchester, to whom much of the present 
production is consigned. Going over the factory, what 
struck us most forcibly was the contrast between the 
intensive use of science, the refined labour-saving 
machinery, and the minute yet broad-minded organiza- 
tion that was being put into the industry of condensing, 
while the production of the milk itself, upon which the 
whole business depended, still remains primitive and 
uncombined, deriving no help from modern knowledge 
or modern methods. 



XIV 
THE MIDLAND MILK BELT 

SOUTH of Ashbourne the Dove valley becomes broad 
and tranquil and the country falls into the great 
Midland plain, arable land towards the north, where 
throughout Cheshire, parts of Stafford and Shropshire, 
South Derbyshire and Notts the soils are derived from 
the New Red Sandstone, but almost purely grassland 
further south, where the broad belt of Lias clay comes 
in. It is true that the rock is generally obscured by 
drifts often of considerable thickness, but the greater 
part of the overburden has not travelled far, and so 
partakes of the nature of the formation below. Near 
Leicester we visited a large farm of 400 acres or so, 
typical of the Midlands in its big Dutch barn and 
extensive range of comparatively modern brick build- 
ings, well equipped with machinery and labour-saving 
contrivances for preparing and distributing fodder, 
winter fattening being one of the considerable items 
in the economy of the farm. 

The land was set out in large fields of 40 acres or 
so, divided by closely kept straight fences, the work of 
a good tenant under a landlord he could trust, for the 
farm was the property of a college ; and though there 
is a heavy indictment against college bursars as 
business men, they are in good repute as landlords and 

seem to strike the happy mean between the munificent 

414 






A LATE HARVEST 415 

proprietor who spoils his tenants by over-easy rents 
and the rack-renter who is always having new tenants. 
It is difficult to make a success of the British system 
of tenant-farming unless the landowner can afford to 
take a long view and follow a continuous policy. The 
farm was worked on what is now the usual English 
variant of the Norfolk rotation, a five-course shift of 
roots, barley, seeds, wheat, and oats or other spring 
corn ; three saleable crops in the five years are justified 
in modern farming by the great fertility that has been 
imported in artificial manures and feeding stuffs. On 
most of the fields the texture of the soil changed down 
the slope from a light sandy loam to something much 
stiffer, approaching a clay, so the swedes were always 
sown on the lighter half with such potatoes as were 
grown, while mangels and cabbages occupied the 
heavier land. Our host was a great advocate of 
cabbages, using them both for his milch cows and his 
sheep ; but, contrary to the usual opinion, he believed he 
got better results when they were drilled in situ than 
when transplanted. He was certainly a master of 
the technique of root-growing, usually the best test of 
skill in husbandry, and though 1912 has been a com- 
paratively easy year in which to get a stand of roots, 
his swedes were a picture for size and regularity. 

Though October had come, the last of the harvest 
was just being carted in some spring wheat in which 
the clover had grown so rankly that it had been 
extremely difficult to get the sheaves into a fit state to 
carry. Some of the land being on the early side, the 
corn had suffered severely from the weather ; a whole 
field of oats, for instance, was not to be threshed, but 
was being cut up for food, corn and straw together. 
Our host, however, spent a great deal of trouble over his 
corn, sorting it when it was carted, and grading the 



416 THE MIDLAND MILK BELT 

sheaves a second time as they were passed to the 
threshing machine, with the result that he had already 
been able to sell the pick of his barley for malting at a 
very good price. 

The farm was heavily stocked : there was a milking 
herd of Shorthorns of very good quality, the milk being 
all sold wholesale, though our host for a long time had 
retailed it in Leicester, but had found himself hardly 
repaid for the trouble of managing a very detailed 
business at some distance. He had experienced great 
difficulties a few years ago with contagious abortion, 
almost to the extent of driving him out of the milk 
business, but the disease had run its course and he 
was then free. He reared and fattened the young 
stock that were not drafted into the herd, and also 
bought in stores for winter feeding. An extensive 
flock of sheep was also kept for the turnips, the lighter 
land being fit for folding. Leicesters are now but 
little seen in the county from which they derive their 
name ; they have been almost entirely displaced by 
Lincolns and Oxford Downs ; indeed, there is not much 
sheep-raising in the county, where the farmers mostly 
depend upon flying flocks. In this district rents ran 
high, our host paid 353. an acre, but all farms were 
taken up and were in increasing demand. 

As might be expected from the proximity of so 
many large towns, labour was well paid ; our host's 
men received i6s. to i8s. a week, a free cottage 
(which was reckoned at 2s. a week, though from what 
we saw of them their economic rent must have been 
at least 53.), a breadth of potatoes, and whatever milk 
they wished to buy at 2d. a quart. Our host declared 
that he would have no objection to the establishment 
of a minimum wage, for it would justify him in the 
dismissal of several men whom he now retained on 



MILK PRODUCTION 417 

the farm, though he did not think they earned their 
wages. But he considered that the flat rates of wages 
that prevail act most prejudicially on the quality of 
agricultural labour. Few of the labourers, we were 
told, showed any disposition to take up small holdings, 
which were mostly being sought by men from the 
towns or small tradesmen with some other occupation 
that could be worked in with their farming. In the 
past purely agricultural small holdings had proved 
a failure ; one of our host's big fields had once been 
given up to that purpose, and had been passed on 
to him rent free for a year because of the bad condition 
into which it had been reduced. 

We next moved a little farther south into the 
purely grassland of high Leicestershire, the extensive, 
undulating pastures which form the cream of the 
English hunting country. The soil is heavy, largely 
derived from the Lias clays even when that formation 
is covered by deep glacial drifts, and it grows sound 
grass of excellent feeding quality, and vigorous thorn 
hedges, by no means so well cared for as they were 
a generation ago. We saw one or two farms in the 
neighbourhood of Melton ; as a rule they do not run 
large, from 130 to 200 acres, rented at 2os. to 305. 
an acre, and they are nearly all in permanent grass, 
only from 10 to 20 acres on each farm being given up to 
roots and oats for winter feeding. Milk is the chief 
source of income ; some of it is put on rail for the 
large towns, the rest is sold to the cheese makers, 
this being a centre of the Stilton industry. Shorthorns 
only are to be seen ; on one farm of 150 acres we 
visited we found the tenant keeping a valuable bull 
and selling his bull calves for stock purposes. He 
also had been greatly troubled by abortion, which 
was rife in the district and took away much of the 



4i8 THE MIDLAND MILK BELT 

profit of the milk business. He was then free, but 
only after exercising the greatest care in buying his 
bulls, in reserving them exclusively for his own herd, 
and in never bringing in bought cows until he had 
kept them under observation for one calving on 
another small farm he worked. He had also dressed 
all his pastures with gas lime, but was not prepared 
to conclude whether that had caused the cessation 
of the disease or had only coincided with it. On 
this farm we saw some very fine grassland, full of 
clover, though much of it had only tumbled down 
from poor arable fields during the depression and had 
been brought to its present condition by careful 
management and the use of basic slag, to which the 
heavy soil responded admirably. Our host held 
however, that all the grassland thereabouts would be 
the better for an occasional ploughing and resowing, 
if only to get rid of the patches of " hassock " Aira 
ccespitosa which establish themselves and gradually 
extend where the drainage is imperfect. 

He declared that under much of the land in the 
district the drainage was faulty ; often the drains had 
been set 4 ft. deep at wide intervals, under one of 
the mistaken theories advocated in the early days 
of tile drainage, when it was not clearly realized that 
drains ought to be set deep or shallow, according 
to whether the water rises from below or is only the 
rain soaking down. On the heavy clays of the 
Midlands the function of the drains is to get the rain 
away from the land, so they should not be set more 
than 30 in. deep. Landlords were nowadays, our 
host declared, indisposed to spend money on draining; 
he had, however, mole-drained one of his own fields 
with excellent results under an agreement with his 
landlord to share the expense. Much of the grass- 



RIDGE AND FURROW 419 

land in the district was of high antiquity, as could 
be seen from the way it is thrown up in high ridge 
and furrow, the long curves the furrows made at the 
ends of the fields telling of the old ox-teams that 
took so much room to turn. Doubtless some of this 
land went back to grass in the early years of the 
1 9th century, consequent on the great fall of prices 
at the close of the Napoleonic wars, but there is 
evidence of a still earlier conversion of plough land 
to grass. 

The ridges and furrows form a serious handicap 
to modern mowing machines, but it is disastrous to 
throw them down, because it takes years to bring 
into condition the raw subsoil that gets bared on 
the crown of the old furrows. October as it was, 
we found our host still carrying hay. As part of his 
business he cut and carried for his neighbours and 
also worked a carting business ; in consequence his 
own hay had been pushed in the background during 
the uncertain summer, and he had only just got his 
horses free to bring it home. But he had adopted 
the northern custom of getting the hay up early into 
big pikes, when it can remain for a long time in the 
field without taking much harm. The fact that he 
should do so much horse work for his neighbours 
spoke of a somewhat restricted farming equipment 
in the district, and we were informed that most of 
the farms were worked with very insufficient labour, 
a man per 100 acres, whereas at least a man per 
50 acres was needed to do justice to the land. 

A 4OO-acre farm was pointed out to us that was 
worked by a man and a boy in addition to the tenant, 
though there were 30 to 40 acres under the plough ; 
it was a miserable example of neglect, land and fences 
equally going to ruin, and the farm paying but a 



420 THE MIDLAND MILK BELT 

starvation rent. These were the cases, according to 
our host, which justified the outcry of the small holders 
against the farmers for engrossing the land ; in his 
own opinion 150 acres was about as much as a 
working farmer needed or could handle to the best 
advantage. He equally inveighed against the capitalist 
farmer, of whom one meets with many examples 
throughout England, who holds half a dozen or 
more scattered farms, aggregating 2000 to 3000 
acres, each managed with a cheap bailiff no better 
than a promoted labourer. We have often marvelled 
at the methods of such men ; they have no business 
organization, often keeping no accounts beyond their 
cheque-book, but they are shrewd buyers and sellers, 
and they risk little in the way of expenditure upon 
the land. We have never met one of them who would 
pay for skilled assistance and organize his business 
as a manufacturer would do; they are content to 
take the small profits which the land itself will bring 
in under cheap farming, and are not too greatly 
concerned at being robbed by their bailiffs, provided 
the robber is cunning enough to leave them a profit. 
As a rule, such men found their opportunity and got 
their many farms during the depression twenty years 
ago : they were the men who learnt the art of working 
cheaply to meet the fall in prices ; farms were thrust 
upon them and no questions asked about the manage- 
ment, provided they could pay the rents. But rising 
prices and rising rents must compel them into better 
methods. 

We were interested to find a farmer in the very 
heart of Leicestershire, with the Quorn kennels almost 
within view, breeding heavy horses ; light horses he 
had abandoned as too speculative a business for a 
farmer, and no assistance in the way of nominations 



BULLOCK GRAZING 421 

to superior stallions would induce him to take them 
up again. Young hunters are not only a risk but 
a nuisance upon a farm ; the farmer can make no 
use of them before they are sold or if an accident 
renders them unfit for market. Though a bit of a 
hunting man himself, he declared the feeling against 
hunting was growing, especially among the smaller 
farmers, who were increasing their stock of poultry 
in the fields and were careless about shutting them up 
properly at night. 

We found most of the farmers in the district 
produced little except summer milk ; farming cheaply 
and growing their milk upon the natural pastures, 
they were averse to spending money upon the feeding 
stuffs and facing all the troubles of management that 
attend winter dairying. They contended that the 
higher price of winter milk was not sufficient to pay 
for the feeding, especially as they had to compete 
with more favoured districts where the winter is not 
so severe and cows can graze longer than on the 
bleak Midland plateau. Moreover, one great milk 
market, that of the Stilton cheese makers, is confined 
to the summer. In this district, as in Derbyshire, 
the cheese maker has become a specialist, taking the 
milk of many farms, whereas thirty years ago cheese 
was made in almost every farmhouse. 

Farther south and east the country falls away a 
little, and along the river valleys in particular in South 
Leicestershire and Northampton come the famous 
bullock pastures of the Midlands, where during the 
summer heavy cattle Herefords, Devons, Welsh, and 
Irish can be fattened out upon the grass without any 
artificial aid. It was once all corn land; in 1639, 
Gabriel Plattes describes the Vale of Belvoir as the 
best corn land in Europe, but for many years grass 



422 THE MIDLAND MILK BELT 

has been supreme, and it is not until one gets south 
to the light soils of the Oolites and the Lower 
Greensand in Buckingham, Bedford, and Hunts that 
any considerable proportion of arable land sets in 
again. 



XV 
MIDLAND MARKET GARDENING 

THE fame of the market gardening of the Evesham 
country or of North Kent is widespread, but one hears 
curiously little about the strip of light land which is 
cultivated with equal intensity in Bedfordshire in the 
neighbourhood of Sandy and Biggleswade. We 
entered it from the north on one of those brilliant 
mornings in early October, the St. Luke's little 
summer, with which 1912 made amends for its dripping 
August. The market gardening begins by St. Neot's 
in the broad valley of the Ouse, a dull country with- 
out hills or any large shapely outlines in the contour 
of the land. The villages straggle untidily along the 
roadside, but are alive and fully occupied, indeed, in 
many parts there is a great dearth of cottages ; the 
only beautiful features in the landscape were the well- 
grown elms just exchanging their green for gold. 
Half-way to Sandy we called upon one of the larger 
farmers of the district, dealing with 400 acres on the 
same system of cropping as his neighbours with from 
three to 30 acres, but farming higher and getting more 
out of the land. He was not a native of the district, 
but the son of a salesman in the Manchester vegetable 
market, who had invested some of his money in land 
and then had set his son to grow the produce he could 

continue to sell. If not bred a farmer, he had made a 

433 



424 MIDLAND MARKET GARDENING 

shrewd business instinct serve his purpose, and his 
farming had been governed by two north country 
maxims " If tha never puts nowt on tha'll get nowt 
off" ; " If tha does owt for nowt do it for thyself." 

The land under ordinary farming conditions would 
have been deemed of little value, a thin hungry loam 
underlain by gravel, and so stony that a plough 
requires three shares a day for the first ploughing, 
quickly parching in the summer, and liable to lose 
much of its manure by washing out in the winter. 
But it is all on the flat, is easy to work in any weather, 
warm and early, and London is not far away, whence 
the Great Northern Railway brings the stable manure 
which alone can make such a soil productive. London 
dung and the railway facilities for sale northward and 
southward have made the district. 

Large as the farm was, our host followed no rotation, 
taking in fields as they came convenient and regulating 
the cropping according to his expectations of the 
market. In this district Brussels sprouts form the 
most important crop, until it seems inconceivable that 
the country can consume so many Brussels sprouts in 
one short winter. The sprouts are either drilled and 
then singled out, or raised in a seedbed and then 
transplanted, which latter method gives better results, 
more thickly set stalks and firmer sprouts. We did 
hear of fields marked out in squares and seed dibbled 
at the intersections, so as to simulate a transplanted 
field, but doubtless the buyers too are fully acquainted 
with such tricks of the trade. The sprouts are sold 
on the field, and the merchant has to pick them. The 
price ranges from g to ig an acre, according to 
quality, and the field must be cleared by March in 
order to enable spring corn to be sown. Three 
pickings are made, beginning, as a rule, early in 



INTENSIVE CULTIVATION 425 

October. The stalks are rather a trouble to deal with ; 
they have to be cut off, then forked up, and laid after- 
wards in the furrow behind the plough. A certain 
acreage of savoys and other cabbage is seen, but 
Brussels sprouts hold an enormous pre-eminence. As 
a rule they are followed by oats, barley being rarely 
grown in the district; latterly the French spring 
wheats have proved a very useful introduction, as they 
can be sown after the green crop and the produce is 
more valuable than oats. Thin as the soil is, and it must 
be manured for every crop, eating up even farmyard 
manure in a single season, two corn crops are often 
taken in succession, the only rest the land gets being a 
clover ley once every five or six years. Turnips are 
not much grown, there are few live stock in the district, 
and the roots are also subject to finger-and-toe. The 
land lacks lime, as could be seen by the abundance of 
corn marigold, sheep's sorrel, and spurrey among the 
weeds. Many of the stubbles also were white with 
stinking mayweed, a weed which was exceptionally 
prevalent in 1912 on all classes of land. 

Though Brussels sprouts form the staple crop of the 
district, many other vegetables are grown ; nowhere 
else have we seen so much parsley, of which there was 
a breadth, large or small, on nearly every holding, 
planted between onions, which are pulled before the 
parsley spreads much. Marrows and kidney beans 
are extensively grown and had just been cut off 
by the first October frost ; we saw wagon-loads 
of marrows being drawn away to the dung-heap or 
to the pigs, for the numbers that had to be cleared 
made them no longer worth selling. Breadths of 
parsnips and carrots were common, and we saw one 
small plot of land which had grown carrots for seed 
for many years. Our host was just stacking a crop 



426 MIDLAND MARKET GARDENING 

of mangold seed, a speculative business, but the heads 
had filled well despite the rainy year; he was also 
about to transplant the young seedlings for the coming 
year's crop. 

For all this intensive cultivation a good deal of 
labour is required, and everywhere we got a bad report 
of the quality of the men to be obtained in the district. 
Labourers received 2s. 6d. a day, but most of the work 
was done by the piece, and the average earnings were 
about 1 a week. The land under market garden 
cultivation, especially the smaller pieces, let at 2 to 
505. an acre, though the larger farms on the outskirts 
of the intensive cultivation still were rented at no more 
than 2 os, an acre. We saw no stock in the fields, and 
many of the farms have little or no accommodation 
beyond storage for their baskets and very often an 
open shed in which the onions for seed can be spread out 
to dry. Our host, however, specialized in pigs large 
White Yorkshires, which were kept under model 
conditions of cleanliness and had learnt to walk round 
before visitors with the docility of house pets. 

Towards Sandy the farming becomes more intense 
and the land is very much cut up ; we were told that a 
market gardener with an increasing business may often 
have to work eight or nine separate holdings to attain 
to 20 acres. The land is still the same thin gravel 
until at Sandy one comes upon the belt of Lower 
Greensand which runs across Bedfordshire and gives 
rise to even lighter soils. Just east of Sandy this 
formation rises into a ridge clothed with pine and 
chestnut ; as we drove up the road in the brilliant 
October sunshine, jays flashed across the openings with 
their wild scolding cries, a sure indication that game is 
of no great importance in the neighbourhood, and red 
admirals fluttered above the sandy banks, making the 



SIZE OF HOLDINGS 427 

most of the few days that remained before their winter's 
sleep or death. On the crest of the ridge we found 
barren heath clad in broom and heather with here and 
there a slender birch, but to the depth of a field on 
either side of the road the land had been reclaimed 
and was being farmed high by small holders. The 
soil is of the lightest character, pure sand full of 
fragments of brown carstone, and the London manure 
it needs has to be laboriously carted up the hill from 
Sandy or Potten on either hand. 

The holdings ran up to 50 acres, but one of the 
men with whom we talked considered that 20 acres 
was about the most convenient size for a single man. 
On the upland, rents were below 2Os. an acre; but so 
great was the demand for land that much larger offers 
had recently been made for a holding that had fallen 
vacant, and the sitting tenants expected to have to pay 
more in future. Early potatoes are extensively grown, 
and followed by carrots or turnips; sprouts, onions, 
marrows, and runner beans are the other crops ; of 
course the small men do not grow any corn. Asparagus 
is only grown on the heavier land lower down towards 
Biggleswade, where the rents run much higher, even up 
to 8 an acre. It was^- remarkable to find how well 
the small men seemed to be doing on this extremely 
poor land, which even a few years ago was as un- 
promising-looking a heath as could be found. Their 
takings were not large, perhaps, and they had to work 
and live hard, but they were independent, and a man 
of character could make headway. They had been 
hard hit during the drought of last year, but 1912 
had made amends on land that likes at least two 
showers a week. Before we turned off the hill we 
were interested to see the remains of the old coprolite 
pits which used to supply the raw phosphate for the 
28 



428 MIDLAND MARKET GARDENING 

original manufacture of superphosphate Henslow's 
discovery which followed so timely on Lawes's invention 
of superphosphate. The band of phosphatic nodules 
is too thin and the mineral itself too poor to be worth 
working any longer in competition with the enormous 
supplies that are now available from Florida and 
Tunis ; the discovery of basic slag finally put these 
Potton pits out of action. 

From Sandy to Biggleswade and almost to Hitchin 
the belt of market gardening prevails, nearly all of it 
in the hands of small men, who, if the reports were to 
be believed, are mostly rack-rented on terms that 
leave them very little profit. It is not an attractive 
country, a farming East-end in fact, and the occupiers, 
small or large, work entirely by rule of thumb, looking 
over one another's hedges but possessing no basis of 
technical knowledge. They all depend upon town 
manure from London, and are likely soon to be in con- 
siderable difficulties, for the supplies are rapidly running 
short as motors displace horses with the omnibus 
and carrying companies. The price of manure on rail 
in London has risen from is. to 43. 6d. a ton between 
1905 and 1912, and the quality has become inferior; 
yet it is difficult to see how the market gardeners are 
going to replace it. Artificial manures alone will not 
suffice on these thin soils that need humus ; green 
crops will have to be turned in, and the rents are too 
high to allow of the land remaining long unproductive 
for such a purpose. We were most of all impressed by 
the fierce individualism of these market gardeners ; the 
larger men despise the small holders, and all look down 
on the labourers, who were described as a rough drink- 
ing lot, capable of earning by piece-work 2 a week 
and more, but can rarely be found on the land on 
Mondays. There was no co-operation in the district 



ABSENCE OF CO-OPERATION 429 

for either purchase of manures or sale of produce ; each 
man carted his own produce to the station, and there 
was no combination either in transit or marketing. 
The industry has been built up from below, and is 
still in the hands of uneducated men hardened by 
bitter competition. 

In spite of our admiration of the way the poor 
land is being utilized, and the sterling, if rough, popu- 
lation it carries, it was somewhat of a relief to 
reach once more the chalk land with its broad fields 
and its sober, uneventful farming. Let us record in 
conclusion that on October 8 we saw a field of wheat, 
still grass green and being cut, a remarkable illustra- 
tion of the abnormal weather that marked the year 
1912. 



XVI 
GENERAL CONCLUSIONS 

AFTER three years' wanderings from the Moray Firth 
to Cornwall, from Norfolk to Cork, one cannot help 
drawing some general conclusions about the state of 
British farming and some of the problems arising 
therefrom which have latterly been interesting a 
wider public. In this connexion it may be useful to 
state how little the questions that are most fiercely 
debated in other places seem to trouble the farming 
community. Amongst the farmers themselves there is 
no land question, no smouldering feeling nor general 
current of opinion that calls for a " policy " ; in the 
main they would ask to be let alone. But we should 
like to enter a preliminary apology for the use we shall 
have to make of the term farmers. Half the difficulties 
of controversy arise from the fact that each party has 
a different group in view when it speaks of farmers. 
One is thinking of the tenants of from 200 acres to 
500 acres; another of men with 30 acres to 80 acres 
working for their daily bread ; a third, and perhaps the 
most vocal, of the men who dominate the Farmers' 
Clubs and Chambers of Agriculture, men who may be 
owners or tenants, but are primarily business men 
connected with land, dealers in pedigree stock, valuers 
and agents, making the main part of their income by 

other means than sheer cultivation of the soil. 

430 



RISING RENTS 431 

In the first place we must recognize that the industry \ 
is at present sound and prosperous. The great de- 
pression touched its nadir about 1894; since that time / 
prices have been moving upwards and methods im- / 
proving. By degrees men learnt to cheapen production, 
in some cases by improved machinery and by savings 
in the actual husbandry, in others by a change of 
objective, as when grass and milk replaced wheat and 
beans. Rents were reduced, and before the century T 
ended it began to be evident that a new race of farmers/ 
had grown up capable of making a living under the I 
existing conditions. From that time all the advances 
in the price of corn and produce, of meat and milk and 
wool, have been so much clear gain, but it was not unti 
about 1909 that there was any general recognition o: 
returning prosperity. About that time it became diffi- 
cult to obtain a farm which had not some patent dis 
ability attached to it ; the advertisements of vacancie 
that prior to Michaelmas used to fill pages of the 
county newspapers in the nineties dwindled to a column 
or more, and agents found themselves able to pick and 
choose among would-be tenants. By 1912 the process 
has gone still farther, rents have definitely risen with 
the demand for land that cannot be satisfied, and in al 
parts of the country men are obtaining very large 
returns indeed on the capital they embarked in the 
business. Of course every farmer has not been making 
money ; bad business habits and slipshod manage- 
ment are far too common, and nothing is more surpris- 
ing than the way bad farming exists alongside good. 
We suppose that among grocers or gunmakers, solicitors 
or saddlers, the same inequality of performance exists, 
though the results are not set out so openly ; but still 
other businesses can be standardized in a way that is 
not possible to agriculture. But to a man who takes 



432 GENERAL CONCLUSIONS 

the trouble to learn and attends to his business, farming 
now offers every prospect of a good return on his 
capital ; there are no fortunes to be made, but on the 
other hand the farmer obtains without expense much 
of open air and country life and sport for which the 
city man is prepared to pay heavily. 

As to land tenure we need to recognize that the 
characteristic British system, to which our farming 
owes the pre-eminence it still enjoys, is one of tenancy 
of comparatively large farms, a system which, whatever 
may be its defects, draws men of capital to agriculture 
and leaves them with their capital free to put into 
their business. It is not a logical system, it admits of 
injustices, it often condones bad farming, but our 
people being what they are, it works ; and judged by 
results it has got more out of the land and produced 
better crops and stock than any other existing system. 
The Agricultural Holdings Acts have cut off the 
possibilities of the worst injustices, and except in 
certain special cases have given the tenant a reasonable 
measure of security of tenure, so that to-day he very 
generally prefers to hold by yearly agreement rather 
than on a lease. There is little or no demand for a 
land court or any external rent-fixing agency, little 
call for any stiffening of the Acts either in the direction 
of longer notices or an enlarged definition of improve- 
ments. Some men would like to be paid for continued 
good farming, and such a claim would be sound 
enough if anyone could produce a definition of good 
farming or a method of compensation capable of ex- 
pression in figures. Perhaps, if owners were more 
insistent on good farming the grievance would vanish ; 
good farming should be its own reward, only as things 
are the man who has done well by the land feels a 
little sore at not being able to leave on better terms 



THE EVESHAM CUSTOM 433 

than his slipshod neighbour. It is when one comes to 
specialist crops, to fruit, market produce, hops, even 
pedigree stock, that the existing law fails to satisfy the 
tenant. He has embarked his capital in a speciality, 
and has no claim to drag in his landlord as a co- 
partner; all the same he or his estate is liable to 
heavy loss if he is turned out or the tenancy is deter- 
mined by death. A tenant who plants fruit may 
easily double the capital value of the land. It is 
equally unjust either to force an unconsenting landlord 
to take up the speculation, for speculation it is until 
a new tenant is found willing to pay rent on the 
outlay, or to allow the landlord to forfeit the improve- 
ment, legally at will, in practice on the death of the 
tenant. One solution would be the general adoption 
of the Evesham custom, by which the outgoing tenant 
finds a new tenant willing to take over the improve- 
ments at a price, and this tenant the landlord is bound 
to accept. But, speaking generally, owners are not 
willing to have tenants imposed upon them ; freedom 
of choice, a power of selection on non-economic 
grounds, is a thing for which they are willing to pay 
in reduced rental, and do in fact so pay. We need' 
to realize all the time that the ownership of land in 
this country is not entirely treated as a matter of 
business ; there is a give and take, a rough partnership, 
between tenant and owner, which finds its working 
expression in the fact, vouched for by the recent De- 
partmental Inquiry, that land is mostly let at rents 
below its competitive value. 

For this reason the farmers stand by the landlord's 
party, notwithstanding their divergent interests ; hence 
also they view with so much alarm the recent disturb- 
ance of the owner's confidence in landed property that 
has led to the partial break up of so many estates. The 



434 GENERAL CONCLUSIONS 

owner of a large estate is indeed in a somewhat 
invidious position ; his net return is only about 3 per 
cent, on the present sale price of the land, even though 
that price may be less than the original cost, or as may 
be demonstrated on various estates, less than has been 
expended in permanent improvements during the last 
sixty years. Furthermore, much is expected from the 
landowner : the locality considers it has claims on him, 
and is not shy of pressing them ; yet he has no longer 
any power or political influence other than that which 
any man of means may win by his personality or his 
pocket. Hence, if the rural landlord is threatened 
with some of the odium attaching to the owner of 
improving urban land, and generally given to under- 
stand that he ought to be taxed out of existence, small 
wonder that he thinks of transferring his capital into 
more remunerative securities burdened neither with 
responsibilities nor reproaches. It is a delicate and 
unpopular task to raise rents to their economic level, 
and in consequence we must expect a continuance of 
the sales of all land that has not a sporting value 
round the demesne. There are three possible buyers : 
new owners who will in their turn let the land, the old 
tenants or corresponding men who want to farm 
it themselves, or the State in some form or another. 
Now by universal agreement small owners who look 
upon their land as an investment make the worst 
landlords ; as a rule they are short both of knowledge 
of agriculture and of spare capital, and are the less likely 
to take that long view of their position which makes 
for the stability and prosperity of the farming com- 
munity. Nor is experience more favourable to owner- 
ship occupation, even though the tenant has been 
assisted to purchase ; the mortgage is generally higher 
than the old rent, and the farm is apt to be starved in 



SMALL V. LARGE HOLDINGS 435 

order to try to pay off the debt. Moreover, the ex- 
perience of the past in this and other countries shows 
that each cycle of depression has crushed out a large 
proportion of small owners, for reasons that lie deep 
in human nature. There remains the last but distant 
alternative ownership by the State or other permanent 
corporation, of which we will only record that we have 
always found the Crown, the colleges, and other similar 
bodies spoken of as good landlords ; their estates are 
well cultivated and their people prosperous. The 
disintegration of the historic estates must come under 
economic pressure, but the process will be a slow one, 
and we doubt if there is any case for interference. 
However, from the point of view of good farming alone 
it will be better if the change moves in the direction 
of large permanent owners rather than small individual 
proprietors. 

Closely associated with the question of ownership 
is that of large versus small holdings, whether owned 
or rented. It is difficult to put aside one's pre- 
possessions ; to one man small holding farming appears 
as uneconomic as handloom weaving. From another 
point of view capitalist farming has resulted in the 
degradation of the labourer and the depopulation 
of the countryside. Illustrations may be found to 
support either view, but the size of the holding is 
often an accident and not the causal factor in the 
cases quoted. For example, in many parts of the 
country, as round Evesham and Biggleswade, where 
intensive market gardening and fruit growing is 
pursued, men are making a living off as little as ten 
acres, and producing a much larger amount of food 
per acre than adjoining large farmers who are growing 
corn or milk on old-fashioned lines. Favourable as 
the comparison appears to the small holder, who 



436 GENERAL CONCLUSIONS 

inveighs against his larger neighbour for holding up 
the land, the contrast is really between modern 
intensive tillage and the old unenlightened routine ; 
amongst the intensive cultivators themselves the man 
with fifty nearly always beats the man with ten acres 
i.e. produces more and earns a bigger profit per 
acre. Even with the minute and skilled operations 
of fruit growing the large farmer possessed of organizing 
ability is generally able to get his work done better 
than the small man will do it for himself. Knowledge 
and organization tell in farming as in every other 
business, and the small grower who possesses these 
qualities is soon utilizing them on a larger scale. 
We never yet met a small holder who saw any virtue 
in a small holding as such ; he regarded it only as 
a stepping-stone to bigger things. Of course small 
holding communities are going to be taught to 
co-operate, instructors of various arts are being 
planted among them with a view of increasing their 
productive capacity ; but all these aids cost money 
to the State as a whole if not to the small holdings 
and the larger occupier who is being asked to give 
up his land may well object that he at least is paying 
his way without any such crutches. In many parts 
of the country we found large farmers with more 
land than they could profitably utilize, through lack 
of skill and capital, but in these backward districts 
the small men were equally wanting in all the arts 
of husbandry. And when intensive culture of the 
market garden type is not possible the occupier of 
from twenty to sixty acres has a very hard fight 
so hard that his sons are very generally giving it up 
and emigrating. Small holdings are needed as 
adjuncts to other employments the smith, the 
postman, the wheelwright all can make use of a bit 



LANDLORDS 437 

of land and especially as stepping-stones whereby 
the labourer can make a start at becoming a master 
himself. The struggle is intense and not always 
successful, but wherever we found farms of graduated 
sizes we heard of men who had worked their way up. 
The labourer is thinking of these things, and will tell 
you that he wants to put his boy on the railway 
because thereby he gets a chance of rising and some 
better prospect than the workhouse for the close of 
his life. 

If we consider the men who are engaged in this 
business of agriculture, we must conclude that the 
owners, however kindly and helpful to their tenants, 
are yet deficient in leadership. There is nowadays 
no one to set beside Coke of Norfolk or the land- 
owners who did pioneering work in the second quarter 
of the nineteenth century; almost the only working 
part they take in agriculture consists in the breeding 
of pedigree stock, and that rather as a form of social 
competition than for the improvement of farming. 
The great opportunities of leadership they might 
exercise in the way of drawing their tenants into 
co-operative marketing and purchase, or improved 
methods of farming, are rarely or never exercised ; 
at their worst landlords become mere rent receivers 
and must inevitably become crowded out unless they 
take some higher view of their function. The model 
farms that were not uncommon a generation ago 
were justly discredited as only instructive in their 
expensiveness ; what we do lack are examples of 
large-scale capitalist farming distinguished by its 
rigorous application of science and business to the 
real purpose of the industry making money. 

We doubt if there are many more profitable 
enterprises open at the present day than would be 



438 GENERAL CONCLUSIONS 

provided by a 2OOO-acre farm on good land with 
an adequate backing of capital. But we are rather 
deficient at present in the kind of men to run a 
business of the kind the highly educated expert 
that we find in charge of the great domains in 
Germany or the syndicate farms in France. Land 
I agents, speaking generally, are better qualified as 
1 solicitors or accountants than as farmers; their educa- 
'tion has been legal rather than scientific. The 
manager we have in view begins with a scientific 
education and learns his business as assistant on 
some other estate ; despite his university training, he 
is a good deal more practical than the rule-of-thumb 
farmer, for he has put his science into bookkeeping 
and business organization, he has trained himself to 
face facts and act on them, instead of on sentiment 
and tradition. The difficulty in England is to get 
the right sort of start in life for the promising student 
from an agricultural college or university ; farmers, 
however big their businesses, do not employ skilled 
assistants or managers ; of the system and organization 
found in any other business of half the size there is 
none. Many of the big farms are excellently managed, 
but all depends on the one man's instinct and 
memory ; for very often he keeps no books beyond 
a cash record, sometimes he lets his bank pass-book 
serve even for that, while his dealings are jotted down 
on the backs of envelopes and the like. He makes 
money because he is shrewd, spends little on his 
ventures, and because the land makes it for him, 
but often he is wasting great opportunities. This 
cheap and slipshod management is perhaps chiefly 
seen where men were allowed to put farm to farm 
when things were at their worst twenty years ago ; 
in the arable counties cases are to be found of men 



THE TENANT FARMER 439 

in occupation of several thousand acres often in 
scattered farms, and this vast acreage they cultivate 
almost as cheaply and as scantily as a colonial farmer 
would real extensive farming that pays because the 
expenditure is low enough to leave a margin of 
profit even with the small returns. These men 
worked in the spirit of the late Sir John Lawes's 
dictum, that high farming is no remedy for low prices, 
and when things were at their worst they were useful 
in keeping the land going somehow ; but with better 
prices and with the openings that have been found 
for specialized agriculture the need for such prairie 
farming is past. 

However, the greater part of the land of the country 
is held by men occupying single farms of from 150 to 
500 acres, the men who may most rightly be labelled 
farmers. Now, if we examine the methods of a good 
example of this class, engaged in growing corn, raising 
stock or milk, it would be very hard for the most 
enlightened and scientific expert to show him how to 
improve his business. His actual husbandry is generally 
above reproach : it might perhaps be cheapened by 
newer machines and a little courage in straightening 
boundaries and throwing fields together ; his choice of 
seed and manures is sound, if somewhat traditional and 
conservative ; and the feeding of his stock is not sus- 
ceptible of any revolutionary reform. Again, his business 
methods, if simple, are cheap and fairly adequate ; for 
the farm of the size we are considering forms a reason- 
able economic unit that purchases and sells on moderately 
wholesale lines. Undoubtedly by co-operation some- 
thing might be knocked off the cost of materials bought, 
and in the end a more stable market might be found 
for the produce (the uneconomic nature of the present 
system may be gauged by the number of dealers, 



440 GENERAL CONCLUSIONS 

auctioneers, agents, etc., even the smallest country 
market supports), more enlightenment could get better 
value at lower cost for both manures and feeding stuffs, 
just as a sound system of bookkeeping would open the 
farmer's eyes to wastages and mistakes of policy. But 
the effect of each of these improvements is in itself 
slight, sometimes in the order of five or ten per cent, 
and the whole of them would not materially alter the 
character of the industry. There is nothing revolu- 
tionary in sight : America and the Colonies, so often 
quoted as examples of modern farming, have nothing 
to teach us, and the lesson of the highly-farmed 
Continental countries Holland, Belgium, Denmark 
is not the transplantation of this or that industry, but 
that intelligence and foresight will be always finding 
openings for profit in various directions. Fruit, 
vegetables, hops, pedigree stock, the growing of seeds, 
bulbs, poultry, and a score of other special businesses 
can be made to pay handsomely, though many of them 
have been unduly neglected in Great Britain ; but after 
all they are and must remain the fringes of the great 
industry, which is fundamentally concerned with corn 
and meat. 

What the ordinary farmer needs above all things is 
better education ; and by this we mean not so much 
additional knowledge of a technical sort, but the more 
flexible habit of mind that comes with reading, the 
susceptibility to ideas that is acquired from acquaintance 
with a different atmosphere than the one in which he 
ordinarily lives. The British farmer will be brought 
to co-operate with his neighbours not by the doubtful 
bait (and doubtful it must be to each individual) of 
better discounts through wholesale buying or higher 
returns from pooling his produce with that of his 
competitors, but by acquiring a mind open to the 



AGRICULTURAL EDUCATION 441 

large and generous idea of the power of collective 
action. After all, a co-operative society functions as 
a middleman by means of a paid officer, and the farmer 
with fifty tons of manure to buy can often by energetic 
inquiries get a price lower than the society is able to 
quote ; the able farmer has to be induced to feel that 
in the long run it is better to help his inferior colleague 
to a living than to beat him at a bargain. It is, again, 
possible perhaps to teach farmers new industries and 
new methods, but it is a much surer procedure so to 
enlarge their perceptions that they find out the oppor- 
tunities for themselves. Men mostly learn by example, 
by looking over the hedge ; and the bad farming one 
sees so often in England alongside the best is not due 
to any lack of knowledge, but to the low mental calibre 
of many of the men occupying the land. Of course 
this lack of intelligence, of respect for the things of 
the mind and the bearing they have on practical life, 
is not a specially agricultural characteristic ; it is far 
too much an English trait, common to all professions 
and classes ; but it is answerable for most of the 
deficiencies that can be justly charged against our 
farming. Let us acknowledge, however, that things 
are changing, and more rapidly than might have been 
expected. It is little more than twenty years since 
any widespread attempt at agricultural education 
began in this country ; and those who remember the 
hostility and scorn with which agriculturists viewed 
the establishment of colleges, of lectures and experi- 
ments, and contrast the attitude of the farmers of 
to-day, cannot but conclude that the first step which 
counts has already been taken. The country, too, is 
now in a fair way to obtain a system of agricultural 
education and investigation which will satisfy all the 
demands for specialist knowledge that the farmers of 



442 GENERAL CONCLUSIONS 

the next generation are likely to make on it. It is 
the general rather than the technical training of the 
future farmer that we are fearful about. 

The same argument applies to the consideration of 
what is probably the greatest source of loss to our 
farmers, their bad credit and general indebtedness to 
dealers. In all parts of the country, when one gets below 
the surface, one nearly always finds a large proportion, 
even a majority, of the farmers entirely tied to some 
trading intermediary who has advanced them money. 
In some districts it is the cattle salesman or auctioneer, 
in others the corn and cake dealer, but through one or 
other of these traders the farmer has to deal, and dares 
not grumble at either the quality of what he buys or 
the price of what he sells. The joint-stock banks are 
often accused of treating the farmer harshly and forcing 
him into illegitimate borrowings by the small accom- 
modation they will allow him, but the bank manager 
knows too well the ramifications of country credit and 
the difficulty of checking the position of a business that 
is conducted without books to take again the risks that 
proved so disastrous a generation ago. As a remedy 
the creation of special credit banks has often been 
suggested, with some form of assistance or guarantee 
from the State ; but if such banks are merely to give 
credit to farmers, qua farmers, without a commercial 
consideration of the security involved, they will be used 
just as long as money can be borrowed from them, but 
can only collapse and demoralize. On the other hand, 
real credit banks, consisting of a group of farmers 
raising money on the collective security of the whole 
body and lending it to the members on the knowledge 
they possess of their character, are still outside the 
range of ideas of our British farmers, and are not likely 
to be organized until our men have been further imbued 



THE LABOURERS 443 

with the co-operative idea. But if the intelligence and 
mental activity of the farmer is stimulated he will 
realize for himself the intolerable position into which 
he must sink under the present system of credit, and 
as soon as he sees clearly that such methods are neither 
inevitable nor customary, he will find a way out for 
himself, either through ordinary channels or by the 
formation of a mutual credit society wherever the banks 
are unable to undertake his type of business. But the 
awakening of the farmer must go hand in hand with, 
if not precede, any action of the State in his favour. 

The third estate of the farming community the 
labourer is perhaps in the worst case. He is by no 
means the serf that he is sometimes represented as 
being; his wages rose even during the depression, and 
now all over the country are equivalent or rather more 
than equivalent to a pound a week ; but, considering 
the comparatively skilled character of his work, he is 
much worse paid than his fellows in any other industry. 
His hours are very long, his holidays few or none, 
and he has no trade union to protect him from the 
occasional tyranny of his employer. Not that the 
farmer is a bad master as a rule, but sometimes, from 
inability to appreciate the changed conditions under 
which labour has to be managed, he plays the bully 
and mishandles his men, to his own detriment. The 
farmer's general complaint is that the majority of his 
men are not worth their wages, and that is very prob- 
ably true ; they will have to be more highly paid still 
before they will earn their money. Men are paid far 
too much by customary scale, whether they are good 
or bad workers, and the farmer does not sufficiently 
consider how he can make them earn more both for 
themselves and for him. There is very general com- 
plaint that the knowledge of the old crafts is dying 
29 



444 GENERAL CONCLUSIONS 

out ; draining, ditching, brushing, and laying a hedge, 
thatching, etc., are nowadays usually in the hands of quite 
old men, and no successors are in sight. In many 
counties attempts are being made to teach these arts 
by means of classes, but from all we have seen this 
seems to be a wrong method of going to work. The 
farmer ought to be the teacher, either with his own 
hands or by ensuring that some of the lads are set 
to work with the skilled leader. In many cases the 
master ought to be taught to dispense with the craft 
rather than the men to practise it. For example, 
sheep-shearers are scarce in many districts, but, instead 
of instructing men in the use of the shears, it would be 
wiser to show the master the advantages of a machine. 
Similarly Dutch barns are more economical than the 
best of thatchers. The technical education of the 
labourer can best be left to the farmer, and it is mostly 
nonsense to complain that it is our system of elemen- 
tary education that is driving the men off the land. 
In a sense all kinds of formal education tend to unfit 
the pupil for practical life. The education monger 
regards education as a kind of marshal's baton to be 
put in the boy's brain, he wants to set him on the first 
step of the ladder that will lead him into Parliament, 
and to this end he does not mind wasting the general 
material that has no capacity for rising in this special 
way. So our boys cannot apply their brains to their 
fingers and our girls cannot cook or keep house, but 
we have an unlimited supply of clerks and typewriters 
for the service of the climber for whom the system is 
designed. But the town suffers equally with the 
country from the education which is based not on the 
work that lies round about, but on the off chance of 
making a career. Even a career generally turns out 
no great thing, the career of a minor functionary 



LACK OF COTTAGES 445 

only, for our millionaires seem to have been trained 
rather by their practical life than by their educa- 
tion. Men have left the land because fewer men 
have been needed per acre with every introduction 
of machinery ; and indeed it is the better ideal to be 
able to manage a farm with two men per 100 acres 
minding machines and earning 303. a week each than 
with ten men digging or its equivalent at IDS. a week 
each. Actually the contrast is not so bad as that, 
but still many farmers waste manual labour because it 
is comparatively cheap. 

Nowadays two main factors are driving the best of the 
youngsters away from the farms : the lack of a chance 
to rise to any sort of a position and the deficiency of 
cottages. We need not labour the former point, but 
the provision of more cottages is in many parts of the 
country the most pressing and also most difficult of 
problems. By long custom country cottages, whether 
tied to the farms or not, are let at rents that will not pay 
a living interest on their cost, and the farmer takes it out 
by paying lower wages. If every landowner could be 
compelled to charge 45. or 5s. a week for his cottages, 
and the farmers to raise their wages by a corresponding 
2s. or 35. a week, it would then be possible to build 
cottages as an ordinary business proposition ; but any 
attempt on the part of an individual to raise rents and 
wages together only results in his men pocketing the 
higher rate and trying to live at a distance or to crowd 
in with some one else as lodgers. To build assisted 
cottages by means of loans or grants to the local 
authority would only perpetuate a vicious system and 
a false standard of wages which needlessly enhances 
the existing glamours of the town. But we see no 
way at present of forcing people to face facts and of 
ensuring that a cottage which costs 55. a week to build 



446 GENERAL CONCLUSIONS 

and maintain shall be let at that figure. Perhaps the 
raising of the assessment of cottages to their real and 
not their rental value would push people in the right 
direction ; but rural rating is already such a wilderness 
of anomalies that one small reform might make very 
little difference. The farmer is fundamentally over- 
rated because, while practising a primitive industry, he 
is made to live up to an urban standard in such 
matters as roads, education, sanitation, etc.; and the 
rough and ready methods that have been adopted of 
giving him relief only take off some of the burden 
without removing the injustice. Still he lives, and is 
managing in the United Kingdom to-day to do justice 
to the land and to get a good deal of food out of it ; 
for all his various disabilities and difficulties, we can 
see only one panacea - u More light." Whatever the 
future may have in store for our agriculture and we 
look forward with a confidence founded on the changes 
of the last twenty years we can still be proud of its 
state to-day, for it need fear no comparisons whether 
we regard it as a living art or as a mother of men. 



INDEX 



Aberdeen, 377. 

Aberdeen -Angus cattle, 141, 294, 

375. 382. 
Abortion, contagious, 350, 375, 416, 

417. 
Agricultural Colleges, 151, 219, 

225. 
Agricultural Holdings Acts, 59, 

432- 

Anglesey, 338. 
Aphis, 52, 192. 

Apples, 56, 87, 175, 196, 364. 
Ards, the, 258. 
Asparagus, 75, 176, 427. 
Axholme, Isle of, 101. 
Ayrshire, 393. 
cattle, 400. 

Bacon factory, 67. 

Bagshot Sand, 27, 33. 

Bake, 3, 160. 

Bakewell, 46, 120, 124. 

Barley, 8, 60 81, 95, 116, 127, 
139, 1 6 1, 182, 207, 276, 288, 
293.297,322,327, 328, 351, 

363, 373- 

Archer, 9, 276, 293. 

breeding of, 8. 

Chevallier, 10, 22, 30. 

sprat, 75, 293. 

wide-eared, 10, 127, 207. 

winter, 4, 12, 30, 36, 41. 
Basalt, 125. 
Basic Slag, 4, 42, 126, 307, 314, 

3I5 4i8. 

Beayen, Mr. E. S., 8, 373. 
Bedford, Duke of, 361. 
Beech, 40. 
Bent Grass, 24. 



Biggleswade, 422. 
Black currants, 55. 



Blackmoor Vale, 15. 

Black soil, 4, 42, 72, 74, 76, 378. 

Blairgowrie, 142. 

Blandford, 33. 

Blue-greys, 129, 381, 403. 

Blue vinny, 27. 

Bog, 271. 

Bone manure, 213, 223, 241, 316. 

Book-keeping, 20, 84, 152. 

Bordeaux mixture, 90. 

Bothy system, 383, 399. 

Bower, 394, 398. 

Bowland, Forest of, 236. 

Bracken, 28. 241, 325. 

Brick earth, 35, 90, 386. 

Broccoli, 342. 

Brooks, 44, 48. 

Brussels sprouts, 424. 

Buckwheat, 75. 

Buildings, farm, 6, 80, 98, 116, 119, 

129, 217, 257, 374. 
Bulb-growing, 87, 337. 
Bullock fattening, 5, 67, 82, 217, 

374, 382, 389, 398. 
Burford, 169. 
Butter, 246, 325, 326, 349, 366. 

Cabbages, 165, 359, 414. 
Caerphilly cheese, 311, 315. 
Cants (measure of land), 44. 
Carmarthen, 313. 
Carr land, 112, 118. 
Carrots, 216. 

Carse of Cowrie, 138, 386. 
Castle Martin cattle, 323, 329. 
Catch crops, 12, 23, 36, 396. 
Cattle, Aberdeen- Angus, 141, 294, 
378, 382. 

Ayrshire, 400. 

blue-greys, 129, 381, 403. 

Castle Martin, 323, 329. 
3*, 2 35 2 39> 4<>i. 



447 



448 



INDEX 



Cattle, Devon, 21, 38, 49, 353, 360. 

Galloway, 199, 401, 403. 

Hereford, 189, 198, 210, 285, 
308. 

Lincoln Red, 91, 100. 

Red Poll, 82, 403. 

Sussex, 49. 

Welsh, 217, 323, 329, 338. 
Chalk, the, 2, 27, 57, 40, 60, 70, 

78,98, 118, 158. 
Chalking, 4. 
Charlock, 5, 30, 372. 
Chatteris, 73. 
Cheddar cheese, 405. 
Cheese, 212, 235, 311, 405, 409, 

421. 

Cherry orchards, 57. 
Cheshire, 219. 

cheese, 212, 222. 
Chestnut, sweet, 56. 
Cheviot, the, 131. 

sheep, 5, 127, 159. 
Chichester, 35. 
Cider, 195, 308, 361, 364. 

Institute, 196, 308. 
Clay soils, 370, 386. 
Clay, with flints, 28, 57, 162. 
Clover, alsike and white, 30, 44, 
95, 99, 116, 120, 328. 

Cornish marl, 352. 

crimson, 67. 

red, 37, 68. 
Clunch, 80. 

Clun Forest sheep, 201, 310. 
Clwyd, Vale of, 339. 
Clydesdale horses, 375, 398, 405. 
Cobbett, William, 34, 115, 166. 
Coke of Norfolk, 78, 85. 
Colmatage, in. 
Colts wolds, 169. 

sheep, 82, 170. 

Compensation for improvements, 58. 
Congested Districts, 287, 292, 300. 
Connemara, 299. 
Co-operation, 142, 203, 291, 298, 

303, 3i8, 439- 
Coprolites, 427. 
Corduroy farming, 102. 
Cornbrash, 16. 
Cornwall, 340. 
Cottages, 98, 266, 274, 290, 361, 

445- 

Couch, 24, 96, 289. 
onion, 18, 24. 



Covent Garden, 59. 
Cramming poultry, 37, 47. 
Creameries, 291, 297, 349. 
Credit, 442. 
Crofts, 371, 383. 
Cross-bred cereals, n. 

sheep, 128, 405. 
Cruickshank, Amos, 381. 
Cumberland, 253. 

Dairy cattle, 31, 235, 239, 401. 
Dairying, 4, 12, 24, 44, 47, 211, 
219, 233, 348, 356, 375, 391. 
Dartmoor, 362. 

sheep, 359. 
Dean, Forest of, 305. 
Depression, Royal Commission on 

Agricultural, 92, 106, 156. 
Devon, 355, 366. 

cattle, 21, 38, 49, 353, 360. 

long-wools, 353. 
Dorset, 27. 

Down sheep, 19, 31. 

Horn sheep, 21, 31. 
Drainage, 108, 271, 378, 418. 
Dredge corn, 23, 30, 348, 352, 358. 
Drought of 1911, 157, 287. 
Dry farming, 29. 
Drying racks for corn, 140, 379. 
Dumfries, 406. 
Dun bar, 131. 
Dutch barns, 408, 414. 

Economics, 19. 
Eden, Vale of, 253. 
Education, 152, 355, 440. 
Eel- worm in oats, 17. 
Elgin, 370. 
Ellman, John, 45. 
Embankments, 108. 
Epworth, 107. 
Essex, 17, 62. 
Everard, Sir Nugent, 279. 
Evesham, 172. 

custom, 59, 174, 178, 433. 
Experiments, 20, 29, 44, 85, 184. 

Fallow, bare, 66, 115, 182. 

Farleton Knot, 245. 

Fattening bullocks, 5,67, 82,217, 

374, 382, 389, 398. 
Fells, the, 241. 
Fens, the, 70, 86. 
Filberts, 56. 



INDEX 



449 



Finger and toe, 22, 126, 206, 

346. 

Flax, 113, 258, 323, 374. 
Flints, 42. 

Folding, 4, 13, 31 , 38, 4 1, 45. 
Foot and mouth disease, 13. 
Foot-rot, 38. 
Forage crops, 30, 298. 
Forestry, 185, 253. 
Four-course rotation, I, 70, 99, 

1 20, 125. 

Four-field land, 3. 
Foxgloves, 28. 

Freehold, 105, 314, 321, 331. 
French wheats, 64, 425. 
Frit-fly, 17. 
Frosts, spring, 55. 
Fruit, 55, 58, 86, 136, 173, 190, 

194, 214, 267, 344. 
packing, 60. 

Fruit and Cider Institute, 196, 308. 
Furlong, 102. 
Furness, 244. 
Fylde, the, 236. 

Galloway cattle, 199, 401, 403. 
Game, 147. 
Gault Clay, 3, 40, 57. 
Girvan, 394. 
Glynde, 45. 

Gooseberry mildew, 55. 
Gorse, 325, 338. 

Grass land, 156, 212, 223, 270, 
278, 287, 33i, 335 367, 
408, 417. 

orchards, 195, 364. 

seed, 264, 267, 396. 
Grazing, 285, 292, 300. 
Green fly, 51, 192. 
Greensand, Lower, 55. 

Upper, 3, 1 6. 
Grey-faces, 253. 
Gritstone sheep, 240. 
Guernsey cattle, 350. 

Hallett, Major, 9. 

Hampshire Down sheep, 5, 13, 
19. 

Harper Adams Agricultural Col- 
lege, 219. 

Hassock, 418. 

Hay, 1 6, 166, 224. 

Heathfield, 47. 



small 



Hedges, 133, 206, 356. 

Hemp, 77, 285. 

Herdwick sheep, 252. 

Hereford cattle, 189, 198, 210, 
285, 308. 

Higglers, 47, 105. 

Holderness, 115. 

Holdings, size of, 6, 43, 76, 84, 
100, 113, 116, 120, 125, 
136, 159, 174, 211, 218, 

222, 233, 246, 257, 275, 
288, 296, 306, 321, 328, 

348, 3Si, 371, 387, 399, 
407, 413, 419, 426, 435. 
1, 6, 15, 25, 32, 48, 68, 77, 
92, 103, 117, 149, 1 68, 
177, 3 J > 307, 3", 324> 
334, 37i, 384, 393, 4", 
417, 435- 

Holkham sheep shearings, 85. 

Holmes Chapel Agricultural Col- 
lege, 225. 

Hop-poles, 56. 

Hops, 49, 187, 190. 

Horned crag sheep, 245. 

Horse breeding, 73, 200, 247, 269, 
375> 405, 420. 

Hundred of Hoo, 62. 

Husbandry, 29. 

Hybridisation, 8. 

Hybrid sheep, 202. 

Implements, 298. 

Industrial school boys, 314, 324. 

Ireland, 258. 

Irish Department of Agriculture, 

10, 276, 280, 303. 
Irish labourers, 75, 114. 
Iron in soil, 186. 

Judicial rent, 265, 285. 
Jurassic formations, 16. 

Kale, 30, 67. 

Kames, 125, 404. 

Kelso fair, 128. 

Kent, 17, 55. 

Kerry Hill sheep, 201, 331. 

Kildare, 288. 

Kilns, hop, 49, 192. 

Kimeridge clay, 71. 

Knockmeledown Mountains, 296. 

Kohlrabi, 75. 



450 



INDEX 



Labour, 6, 32, 39, 43, go, 98, 114, 
120, 129, 136, 142, 153, 184, 
211, 218, 230, 241, 266, 269, 
274, 290, 306, 314, 324, 332, 
338, 346, 35 i, 36i, 367, 376, 
383> 390, 398, 412, 416, 426, 
443- 

Laigh of Moray, 371. 

Lancashire, 227. 

Land Acts, 265. 

Land Court, 286. 

Landlords, 179, 265, 347, 414, 437- 

Land tenure, 59, 147, 432. 

Lawes, Sir John, 428, 439. 

Leaseholds, 348, 368, 378. 

Leicestershire, 414. 

Leicester sheep, 46, 120. 
Border, 128. 

Lewes, 42. 

Lias clay, 173, 181, 414- 

Lime, 4, 28, 37, 48, 126, 206, 216, 
241, 255, 315, 325, 354, 359, 
372, 378, 387, 397- 

Limestone, ground, 255. 

Lincoln Heath, 94. 
sheep, 91, 96, loo. 
Red Shorthorns, 91, 100. 

Linseed, 114. 

Little England beyond Wales, 320. 

Lleyn peninsula, 334. 

Logan berries, 175. 

London clay, 63. 

Long Mynd sheep, 201. 

Lonk sheep, 239. 

Lothians, 130. 

Lucerne, 17, 42, 44, 165, 183. 

Maidstone, 55. 

Maize, 44. 

Manure, town, 63, 70, 396, 424, 
428. 

Market gardening, 63, 173, 341, 422. 

Market Gardens Act, 179. 

Marl, 221. 

Marrows, vegetable, 63, 425. 

Marshes, 62. 

Mashlum, 140, 375, 380. 

Meath, 279. 

Medway, 55. 

Midlands, the, 407. 

Milk, 125, 161, 222, 234, 247, 254, 
296, 311.318,332,345,349, 
352, 384, 400, 404, 408, 421. 
condensed, 297, 413. 



Milk, records, 309, 401. 

Minimum wage, 416. 

Monmouth, 305. 

Moors, 101, 109. 

Moray Firth, 369. 

Moss land, 221, 230, 251, 378. 

Mustard, 75, 87, 115. 

New Forest, 33. 

New Red Sandstone, 21, 101, 156, 

205, 253, 408, 414. 
Nitrogen, excess of, 75. 
Norfolk, i, 78. 
North Downs, 28, 57. 
Northumberland, 121. 
Nuts, 56. 

Oast houses, 49, 52, 192. 

Oat-grass, 18. 

Oats, 41, 223, 264, 373. 

diseased, 17. 

wild, 24, 66. 

winter, 17. 
Old Red Sandstone, 132, 189, 370,. 

394- 

Onion -couch, 18, 24. 
Oolite, 1 6. 
Opium poppy, 104. 
Orchards, 21, 267. 

cherry, 57. 
Osiers, 270. 

Oxford Down sheep, 20, 128, 164, 
217. 

Parsley, 425. 

Pastures, temporary, 248, 256, 315. 

Peas, 67, 94. 

Peat, 221, 251. 

moss litter, 109. 

Pedigree corn and stock, 8, 13, 121, 
164, 208, 250, 269, 273, 379. 
Pell, Albert, 73. 
Pembrokeshire, 320. 
Penzance, 341. 
Perry, 195. 
Pershore, 173. 
Pevensey Level, 48, 353. 
Pewsey, Vale of, 155. 
Phosphoric acid, 315. 
Pigs, 67, 213, 350, 426. 
Pikes, hay, 140, 419. 
Ploughing, 80. 
Plunkett, Sir Horace, 301. 
Poppy, opium, 104. 



INDEX 



For lock barley, 23. 

Portsdown Hill, 34. 

Potash, 22, 31, 74, 260. 

Potatoes, 63, 70, 75, 87, 113, '33, 
139, 183, 186, 215, 223, 228, 
264, 268, 294, 299, 316, 323, 

342, 393- 

early, 62, 224, 341, 393. 
Poultry, 37, 47, 203, 309, 376. 
Pure line breeding, 9, 64. 
Pusey, Philip, 169. 

Quality of produce, 65, 75. 

Rabbits, 185, 257. 

Ragstone, 55. 

Rape, 4, 36, 41, 162, 396. 

Raspberries, 142, 345. 

Rating, 362. 

Read, Clare Sewell, 78. 

Reclamation of land, 72, 108, 251, 
371, 378. 

Red Poll cattle, 82, 403. 

Rents, 6, 24, 32, 39, 43, 68, 76, 
84, 92, 98, 100, 106, 113, 
117, 129, 136, 142, 147, 184, 
203, 211, 218, 230, 241, 246, 
249, 257, 264, 275, 291, 306, 
324, 331, 334, 342, 345, 347, 
35 i. 367,376,387,398,4 6, 
411, 416, 417, 426, 427- 

Resettled estates, 300. 

Retting, 260. 

Rick-building, 119. 

Ridge and furrow, 419. 

Rivet wheat, 64. 

Romney Marsh, 48. 
sheep, 49. 

Roothings, 66. 

Roscoff, 346. 

Roscommon sheep, 289. 

Rotations, 4, 12, 22, 30, 36, 66, 
70, 74, 113, 116, 120, 125, 
134, 139, 160, 165, 182, 207, 
215, 224,227,248,254,275, 
288, 307, 315, 322, 328, 348, 

358, 363, 372, 379, 387, 39i, 

393, 404, 414. 

Rothamsted Experiments, 162. 
Rough chaff wheat, 65, 363. 
Rye, 4, 12, 30, 36, 41, 223. 
Rye-grass, 63, 267, 380, 396. 
Ry eland sheep, 201, 310. 



Sainfoin, 4, 17, 31, 42, 44, 95. 

99. 

Salisbury Plain, 3, n, 15, 158. 
Salt Marsh, 249, 390. 
Sandy, 422. 
Sarsen stones, 32, 163. 
Seaweed, 259, 263, 342, 396. 
Seed, change of, 89, 373. 

corn, 62, 289, 293. 

growing, 87, 425. 

potatoes, 89, 139, 268, 272. 
Selection of new varieties, 9. 
Selion, 102. 

Sheep, 2, 4, 6, 13, 20, 37, 40, 45, 
49, 61, 67, 71, 82, 120, 127, 
158, 200, 239, 245, 249, 252, 
254, 289, 297, 329, 360, 367, 
404. 

Blackface, 159, 239, 254. 

Border Leicester, 128. 

Cheviot, 5, 127, 159. 

Clun Forest, 201, 310. 

Cotswold, 82, 170. 

Cross-bred, 128, 202, 253, 405. 

Dartmoor, 359. 

Devon long wools, 353. 

Dorset Down, 19, 31. 
horned, 21, 31. 

Gritstone, 240. 

Hampshire Down, 5, 13, 19. 

Herdwick, 252. 

Horned Crag, 245. 

Kerry Hill, 201, 331. 

Leicester, 46, 120. 

Lincoln, 91, 96, 100. 

Long Mynd, 201. 

Lonk, 239. 

Oxford Down, 20, 128, 164, 217. 

Romney Marsh, 48. 

Roscommon, 289. 

Ry eland, 20 1, 310. 

Shropshire, 200, 208, 250, 323. 

Southdown, 37, 45, 71, 208. 

Suffolk, 82. 

Swaledale, 239. 

Wensleydale, 240. 

Wiltshire, 331, 338. 
Sheep-shearers, 32. 
Shelf land, 86. 
Shell sand, 354. 
Shire horses, 73, 247. 
Shorthorns, 124, 129, 164, 238, 
247, 250, 269, 273, 289, 
318, 375, 379, 409- 



452 



INDEX 



Shrave, 35. 

Shropshire, 205. 
sheep, 200, 208, 250, 323. 

Silt soil, 72, 86, 109. 

Small holdings, 6, 15, 25, 32, 48, 
68, 77, 92, 103, 117, 149, 
168, 177, 301, 307, 311, 

3 2 4, 334, 37i, 384, 393, 

411, 417, 435. 
Smoke, 221, 230. 
Somerset, 21. 
South Downs, 35, 40. 
Southdown sheep, 37, 45, 71, 208. 
South Eastern Railway, 59. 
Spalding, 87. 
Speir, John, 402. 
Spraying, 51, 90, 193, 299. 
Statesmen, Cumberland, 257. 
Statistics, Agricultural, 18, 24, 42, 

79- 

Steam cultivation, 29. 
Stilton cheese, 409. 
Store cattle, 309, 325, 334, 356. 
Straw, stiffness of, 37, 129, 358. 
Strawberries, 34, 142, 344. 
Strip farming, 102. 
Suffolk sheep, 67, 82. 
Sugar-beet, 68, 323. 
Superphosphate, 4, 74, 76, 117, 

120, 126, 353. 
Sussex, 35, 47. 

cattle, 49. 

ground oats, 37, 47. 
Swaledale sheep, 239. 
Swedes, 81, 126. 
Sweet peas, 65. 

Taunton, 21. 
Tavistock, 357. 
Teme Valley, 187. 
Tenant farming, 147. 

right, 265, 275, 291. 
Thanet, Isle of, 60. 
Thistles, 66. 
Thrips, corn, 232. 
Tillage, 292, 297. 
Timothy grass, 139, 388, 397. 
Tobacco, 172, 279, 337. 



Townshend, Viscount, I, 78. 
Towy Valley, 313. 
Trifolium, 23, 31, 36, 67. 
Turbaries, 103. 
Turnips, 29, 36, 374, 380. 

Underwood, 251. 

Vegetable growing, 63, 173, 216, 

263, 336. 

Vermuyden, Cornelius, 108. 
Vetches, 4, 30, 36, 38, 67. 

Wages, 6, 32, 39, 43, 90, 98, 114, 
120, 129, 136, 142, 153, 184, 
211, 218, 230, 241, 266, 269, 
274, 290,306,314, 324, 332, 
338, 346, 35i) 36i, 367. 376, 
383,390,398, 412, 416, 4*6, 
443. 

Warminster, 8, 158. 

Warping, 72, 109, 251. 

Weald, the, 40, 47, 49. 

Webb, Jonas, 71. 

Weeds, 5, 36, 78, 96, 217, 255, 

359, 397, 425- 

Welsh cattle, 217, 323, 329, 338. 
Wensleydale cheese, 311. 

sheep, 240. 

Wheat, 64, 363, 388, 429- 
White, Gilbert, 40. 
White land, 241. 
Wilburton, 73. 
Willows, cricket-bat, 68. 
Wiltshire, I, 24, 158. 

rotation, 4. 

sheep, 331, 338. 
Windermere, 251. 
Winterbourne, 12. 
Winter fogging, 316. 
Wisbech, 86. 
Wolds, Lincoln, 99. 

Yorkshire, 118. 

Yaval crop, 372. 

Yeoman farmers, 257, 411. 

Yorkshire, 115. 

Young, Arthur, I, 46, 70. 



Printed by MORRISON & GIBB LIMITED, Edinburgh 



SUTTON'S 

Pedigree 

SEEDS 




IN USE 

THROUGHOUT 
THE WORLD 

ROOT SEEDS 
GRASS AND 
CLOVER SEEDS 

SEED POTATOES 
VEGETABLE 

AND 
FLOWER SEEDS 



600 GOLD, Etc,, MEDALS Awarded 



Illustrated Catalogues 
post free 



SUTTON & SONS 

Ikino's Seefcsmen, READING 



British Farming 



ARE YOU SATISFIED WITH YOUR CROPS? 

If they are BAD, make them GOOD 

If they are GOOD, make them BETTER. 

You can do this by using 

NITRATE OF SODA 

In conjunction with Phosphates and Potash. 

It is successful in all parts of the country. 

Give it a trial and see the result. 



Send for Special Pamphlets, entitled:" How to Use Nitrate of Soda." " The 
Improvement of Pastures and Meadows,'' " Catch Crops : The Farmer's Standby." 



Supplied gratis and post free, by 

THE CHILEAN NITRATE COMMITTEE 

FRIARS HOUSE 

NEW BROAD STREET, LONDON, E.G. 



POTASH MANURES 

KAINIT, SULPHATE OF POTASH, MURIATE 
OF POTASH, &c. 



These Manures afford the only means of supplying Potash, 
which is 

ESSENTIAL FOR ALL CROPS 

The heavier and better the crop required, the more Potash must 

be supplied. May be obtained of 
ALL MANURE DEALERS 



The Chief Commercial Agents are : 

S. ENGLAND & IRELAND Messrs BERK & CO., 1 Fenchurch Avenue, London. 
N. ENGLAND Messrs CAMERON, SWAN, & CO., 4 St Nicholas Buildings, 

Newcastle-on-Tyne. 

E. SCOTLAND Mr H. KNOBLAUCH, 28 Baltic Street, Leith. 
W. SCOTLAND Messrs SCHNEIDER & CO., 13 Bath Street, Glasgow. 



Particulars may be obtained from the above, and Pamphlets and advice 
on Manuring from the 

AGRICULTURAL OFFICE OF THE POTASH SYNDICATE 

117 VICTORIA STREET, WESTMINSTER, S.W. 
Or, 52 NORTH BRIDGE, EDINBURGH ; or, 50 ESSEX STREET, DUBLIN 



POUND FOR POUND or UNIT FOR UNIT 

WATER SOLUBLE PHOSPHATE 

IS THE BEST VALUE 



: Y ? 

Because 

It can be applied at any time 
It distributes itself in the soil 
It acts the quickest of all phosphates 

Obtainable as Superphosphate, Potassic Super, and all complete. 
Compound Fertilisers should contain most of their phosphate in 
this form. 



For Information, Pamphlets, etc., gratis, address 

THE FERTILISER MANUFACTURERS' ASSOCIATION 

AGRICULTURAL DEPARTMENT 

68=70 FENCHURCH STREET, LONDON, E.G. 

ALBERT'S BASIC SLAG 

ORIGINAL BRAND! LARGEST SALES I 

Sold on Precise Guarantees of 

CITRIC SOLUBLE PHOSPHATES 



NOTE. The Phosphates thus guaranteed arc 

SOLUBLE 



HOW AND WHEN TO APPLY 

For Root Crops Along Seed Rows when Drilling in Spring. 
For Potatoes Shortly before or time of Planting. 

For Autumn -sown Crops and for Grassland Early application is recommended. 
Light Soils need Potash as well. 



Write for Descriptive Pamphlets, and name of Nearest Agent, to 

CHEMICAL WORKS, late H. & E. ALBERT 

15, PHILPOT LANE, LONDON, E.G. 



CELEBRATED 



SUPER XXX 35, SOLUBLE AND POTASSIC SUPERPHOSPHATE 

FOR GRASS LANDS 
BONE MANURES AND SPECIAL MANURES FOR ALL CROPS 

IMPORTERS OF GUANO 



LAWES' CHEMICAL MANURE CO., LTD. 

Head Office: 59 MARK LANE, LONDON 



THE NEW STIMULANT 

VASTLY INCREASED CROPS 

Are obtained by the addition of a small percentage of 

SULPHATE OF MANGANESE 

TO ORDINARY MANURES 

At a cost not exceeding 55. to 75. per Acre. 



Prices on application to the Manufacturers 

R. H. PICKLES & CO. 

Chemical Works, DRQYLSDEN, Near MANCHESTER 

PRACTICAL 

AGRICULTURAL 

CHEMISTRY 

By S. J. M. AULD 

D.Sc. (Lond.), Ph.D. (Wiirzburg), F.I.C., F.C.S. 

Professor of Agricultural Chemistry at University College, Beading 

And D. R. EDWARDES KER 

B.A. (Oxon.), B.Sc. (Lond.) 

Head of the Chemical Department, South-Eastern Agricultural College 
(University of London), Wye, Kent 

Thirty-two Illustrations 5s. net 

This book is intended as a practical handbook in Agricultural 
Chemistry for students working through courses of instruction for 
the London B.Sc. degree in Agriculture and other examinations of a 
similar type and standard. 

LONDON: JOHN MURRAY, ALBEMARLE STREET, W. 

4 



OTHER WORKS BY THE SAME AUTHOR 
THE SOIL 

AN INTRODUCTION TO THE SCIENTIFIC STUDY OF 
THE GROWTH OF CROPS. With Diagrams. 5s. net. 

' ' The volume may be described as the best we have on this particular 
subject, and as the soil, even in its scientific aspect and Mr. Hall makes 
a point of writing for the layman as well as for the expert merits the 
serious consideration of the farmer no less than that of the student, the 
book should have a wide circulation. The farmer may learn much from a 
study of its pages that will be of service to him in cultivating and manuring 
his land, and to the student the book is indispensable." Field. 

FERTILISERS AND MANURES 

With Illustrations. Crown 8vo. 5s. net. 

"No one is more competent than Mr. Hall to turn the riches of 
Rothamsted to account for the benefit of practical farmers, and his latest 
volume constitutes a fit companion to 'The Soil,' and that in itself is a 
high compliment. The present volume is a natural and valuable 
supplementary treatise to the large and complex subject dealt with in 
the initial volume of the series. . . . The subject is an old one, and 
farmers may plead that they have been inundated with literature bearing 
upon it. In regard to a question of this sort, however, Rothamsted 
stands upon a level by itself. It is the centre of scientific investigation 
of matters pertaining to the land, and Mr. Hall has in the pages of his 
handsome volume shed the radiating light of the world-renowned station 
upon the intricacies of soil management with telling effect." Field. 

THE FEEDING OF CROPS AND STOCK 

AN INTRODUCTION TO THE SCIENCE OF THE NUTRI- 
TION OF PLANTS AND ANIMALS. 24 Illustrations. 5s. net. 

"Mr. Hall covers a wide field in a concise and lucid fashion, and 
we have no hesitation in assuring him that his book will be read with 
genuine interest and profit by farmers . . . merits a place in the library 
of every farmer, both for systematic study and emergency reference, and 
we have the greatest confidence in bespeaking for it high appreciation 
alike by farmers and students." Field. 

THE BOOK OF THE 
ROTHAMSTED EXPERIMENTS 

Issued ^with the Authority of the Lawes Agricultural Trust Committee. 
With Illustrations. Medium 8vo. 10$. 6d. net. 



THE BULB BOOK 

OR, BULBOUS AND TUBEROUS PLANTS FOR 
THE OPEN AIR, STOVE AND GREENHOUSE. 

CONTAINING PARTICULARS AS TO DESCRIPTIONS, CULTURE, PROPAGA- 
TION, ETC., OF PLANTS FROM ALL PARTS OF THE WORLD HAVING 
BULBS, CORMS, TUBERS, OR RHIZOMES (ORCHIDS EXCLUDED). 

By JOHN WEATHERS. 

Illustrated. Medium 8vo. 15s. net. 

"Meritorious, remarkably informative and accurate, almost beyond 
criticism. . . . The most complete bulb book of the present day, and 
likely to remain a classic." Journal of Horticulture. 

" The most complete work on the subject known to us. ... An 
admirable work, and reflects high credit on the author artist." Gardener. 

"Gardeners will discover in his carefully written descriptions, 
remarkable for their accuracy and fulness of instructions for cultural 
treatment, exactly the sort of information needed to enable them to 
succeed where before they had failed." Field. 

FRENCH MARKET-GARDENING 

INCLUDING PRACTICAL DETAILS OF "INTENSIVE 
CULTIVATION " FOR ENGLISH GROWERS. 

By JOHN WEATHERS. 

Author of " A Practical Guide to Garden Plants," etc. 

With a Preface by WILLIAM ROBINSON. 

With numerous Illustrations. Large Crown 8vo. 3s. 6d. net. 

" The best book we have seen on the intensive system of cultivation, 
and it is exhaustive and comprehensive." Pall Mall Gazette. 

"This useful and interesting work deals with every phase of that form 
of intensive culture known as French Gardening. It is well written and 
is easily understood." Fruit, Flower, and Vegetable Trades' Journal. 

A HANDY BOOK OF HORTICULTURE 

AN INTRODUCTION TO THE THEORY AND PRACTICE 
OF GARDENING. 

By F.-C HAYES, M.A., 

Rector of Raheny ; Lecturer in Practical Horticulture in Alexandra College, Dublin. 
With Illustrations. Crown 8vo. 2s. 6d. net. 

" Not so big that it need frighten the ardent amateur, nor so much of a 
primer that it may be disdained by the fairly accomplished gardener, it 
has a good scheme. The first part, consisting of eight chapters of general 
principles, in simple, non- technical language, is a model of useful 
information in a small space ; the second part deals with departments 
of gardening ; the third, with types of flowers ; and the fourth is a 
calendar to work by." Daily Chronicle. 



ELEMENTS OF AGRICULTURE 

A TEXT-BOOK PREPARED UNDER THE AUTHORITY OF THE ROYAL 
AGRICULTURAL SOCIETY OF ENGLAND. 

By W. FREAM, LL.D. 

Eighth Edition. With numerous Illustrations. Crown 8vo. 5s. net. 

A UNIONIST AGRICULTURAL POLICY 

By A GROUP OF UNIONISTS. 

6d. net. 

"Stands out among the numerous programmes and policies recently put 
forward or promised as the only one which attempts to deal comprehensively 
with the whole problem." Times. 

THE OCCUPYING OWNERSHIP 
OF LAND 

AN ANALYSIS OF THE POSITION OF THE TENANT FARMER, AND 

SOME SUGGESTIONS ON THE CREATION OF THE PEASANT 

OWNER, DRAWN FROM PRACTICAL EXPERIENCE. 

By BEVIL TOLLEMACHE. 
With a Preface by ROWLAND E. PROTHERO, M.V.O. 

Crown 8vo. 2s. 6d. net. 

Politicians of all shades of opinion are agreed as to the necessity of some 
reform and regeneration of our greatest National Industry Agriculture. 
Many schemes have been set forth, mostly by people who are profoundly 
ignorant of country life. This work, however, is based on close practical 
experience of the needs of farmers it advocates the creation of a peasant 
class in this country, and shows how this can be best accomplished from the 
practical results of experiments, by legislation and otherwise, which have been 
attempted from time to time. 

Attention is drawn to the insecure position of the tenant farmer in this 
country because of the large number of landowners who are selling their 
estates owing to the trend of recent legislation. Arguments are drawn as to 
why the State should advance the whole of the purchase money on a reducible 
mortgage to enable them to acquire their holdings. 

ANNUAL AND BIENNIAL GARDEN 
PLANTS 

THEIR VALUE AND USES : WITH FULL INSTRUCTIONS 
FOR THEIR CULTIVATION. 

By A. E. SPEER, F.R.H.S. 

With numerous Illustrations. Demy 8vo. 7s. 6d. net. 

1 ' Not many new gardening books have as strong a claim to the attention of 
the garden lover as Mr. Speer's manual. It is a book that will be welcomed 
by every gardener, of whatever degree, for it deals fully and comprehensively 
with a class of plants that call for specialised description, so slightly and so 
discursively are they treated in most general works on flower cultivation . . . 
the horticulturist will find adequate data relating to most varieties of every 
flower. . . . Mr. Speer's work bears evidence of an intimate knowledge of 
cultural conditions relating to a vast floral family, and it deserves to rank as a 
standard authority." Pall Mall Gazette. 



WORKS BY WILLIAM ROBINSON. 



THE ENGLISH FLOWER GARDEN AND 

HOME GROUNDS. DESIGN AND ARRANGEMENT 
SHOWN BY EXISTING EXAMPLES OF GARDENS IN GREAT 
BRITAIN AND IRELAND, FOLLOWED BY A DESCRIPTION OF THE 
PLANTS, SHRUBS, AND TREES FROM THE OPEN-AIR GARDEN, 
AND THEIR CULTURE. Numerous Illustrations. 158. net. 

THE VEGETABLE GARDEN: 

ILLUSTRATIONS, DESCRIPTIONS AND CULTURE OF THE GARDEN 
VEGETABLES OF COLD AND TEMPERATE CLIMATES. By MM. 
VILMORIN-ANDRIEUX. English Edition published under the 
direction of W. ROBINSON. Numerous Illustrations. Demy 
8vo. 15s. net. 

THE WILD GARDEN ; OR, THE NATURALIZATION AND 
NATURAL GROUPING OF HARDY EXOTIC PLANTS. With a Chapter 
on the Gardens of British Wild Flowers. Cheaper Edition. 
Illustrated by ALFRED PARSONS. Demy 8vo. 10s. 6d. net. 

THE GARDEN BEAUTIFUL : HOME WOODS AND 

HOME LANDSCAPES. Illustrated. 7s. 6d. net. 

ALPINE FLOWERS FOR GARDENS : ROCK, 

WALL, MARSH PLANTS AND MOUNTAIN SHRUBS. Fourth 
Edition, Revised. With Illustrations. 8vo. 10s. 6d. net. 

GOD'S ACRE BEAUTIFUL ; OR, THE CEMETERIES 
OF THE FUTURE. With 8 Illustrations. 8vo. 7s. 6d. net. 

GRAVETYE MANOR ; OR, TWENTY YEARS' WORK 
ROUND AN OLD MANOR HOUSE. Being an abstract from the 
Tree and Garden Book of Gravetye Manor, Sussex, kept by 
the Owner, WILLIAM ROBINSON. With Illustrations. Folio. 
Vellum, 3 3s. net; paper, 2 12s. 6d. net. 

THE VIRGIN'S BOWER. CLEMAT,S : CuMBmo 

KINDS AND THEIR CULTURE AT GRAVETYE MANOR. With 
Illustrations. 3s. 6d. net. 



-I 



rH 




(Tj 

v-i 



C! 



IH 
O 

d> 
+> * 

5 H 



UNIVERSITY OF TORONTO 
LIBRARY 



Do not 



re m( 
the caiu 
from this 
Pocket. 




Acme Library Card Pocket 

Under Pat. " Ref. Index File." 
Made by LIBRARY BUREAU 



