m 



■sM 






:-,^r/,.;.;,V^:,:v, 



1, - •■' ^S,''.-'',:'r,''<i\^''-'-^S-.' 







Book 



CopyrightN^. 



COPyRIGKT DEPOSIT. 



..J 



A SECOND COURSE IN 
HOMEMAKING 







"A 

o 

m 

W 

o 

:? 
1— ( 

u 



A SECOND COURSE 
IN HOMEMAKING 



WITH TWO HUNDRED INEXPENSIVE 
COOKING RECEIPTS 



BY 

MABEL HYDE KITTREDGE 

President of the Association of Practical Housekeeping 
Centers of New York City. 

Author of "Practical Homemaking" 




NEW YORK 

THE CENTURY CO. 

1915 



u1 



i^' 



Copyright, 191 5, by 
Mabel Hyde Kittredge 



APR 141915 

©GiA;j97562 



TO THE MANY FAITHFUL INSTRUCTORS 

WHO IN THE PAST AND IN THE PRESENT ARE 

RESPONSIBLE FOR THE WORK OF 

THE ASSOCIATION OF 

PRACTICAL HOUSEKEEPING CENTERS. 



CONTENTS 



CHAPTER PAGE 

I PRESERVING FRUITS 3 

II CITY REFUSE 12 

III LAUNDRY WORK 29 

IV BAKING LESSONS 52 

V SENSIBLE DIET ^g 

VI DIVISION OF INCOME 70 

VII MARKETING 80 

VIII CARE OF CHILDREN 97 

IX FOOD FOR INFANTS I18 

X FOOD FOR CHILDREN BETWEEN ONE AND FIVE 

YEARS OF AGE I27 

XI A HOT WEATHER LESSON I40 



INEXPENSIVE COOKING RECEIPTS 
INDEX 



155 
239 



FULL PAGE ILLUSTRATIONS 
A canning lesson Frontispiece \^ 

FACING 
PAGE 

After the sheets have been laundered 40 ^' 

Kitchen work after baking lesson 56 1^ 

After the cooking lesson l6l y 



PREFACE ; 

I 
I 

The object of this book is to teach homemaking by i 

doing the actual work connected with the home. 

Talking about work is not doing work. This book is ; 

written for those who would make their hands their per- j 

feet tools. To do this, theory and study must go hand 
in hand with action. No lesson is learned when you can 
recite it ; it is still a lesson until you can do it ; only \ 

,1 

then it becomes a habit, for a habit is " aptitude or 1 

facility acquired by doing frequently the same thing." i 

We are told too that habit is also " an action which by j 

repetition has become easy, spontaneous, or even uncon- ' 
scious." The method of teaching homemaking in a 

Housekeeping Center is action with explanation inter- ; 

spersed ; never explanation with action interspersed. ) 

The season of the year is considered in the arrange- 
ment of the chapters ; as for instance " Preserving 

Fruits " comes naturally as Chapter I, to be studied at | 

the beginning of the school year, when fruit is plentiful. ] 

In the preparation of " A Second Course in Home- ! 

making " I wish to acknowledge my indebtedness to the ^ 

authors of the following books : " How to Feed Chil- j 
dren," by Louise E. Hogan (J. B. Lippincott Company) ; 
" The Care and Feeding of Children," by L. Emmett 

Holt, M.D. (Appletons) ; The Library of the American I 

School of Home Economics ; " Food and Dietetics," by J 

R. Hutchison (Wm. Wood & Co.) ; " Methods for Home ] 
Laundering," by Mary Beals Vail (Procter & Gamble ' j 

Co.) ; " Home Economics," by Maria Parloa (Century ! 

ix 



X PREFACE 

Company) ; " Wage Earners' Budget," by Louise E. 
More (Henry Holt & Co.) ; "Laundry Manual," by L. 
Ray Balderston ; '' Sanitation of the Isthmus," by Joseph 
Bucklin Bishop (Scribne/s Magazine) ; and for informa- 
tion on flies to C. G. Hewitt and G. S. Graham-Smith. 
I am especially indebted for personal help to Edward D. 
Very, engineer; Miss Bernice Laura Van Nest, domestic 
scientist; Miss Ada Beazley and Miss Lena T. AlHson, 
trained nurses ; and Miss Mary Smith of the Babies Hos- 
pital of New York. Some of the cuts are drawn from 
designs in the catalogue of Best & Co., of New York. 
To Mrs. Fannie Merritt Farmer, to the author of " The 
Century Cook Book " and the compiler of " The Hartley 
House Cook Book," I acknowledge my indebtedness for 
some of the receipts in this book. 

Mabel Hyde Kittredge. 

62 Washington Square, New York, 
February i, 191 5. 



DIRECTIONS TO TEACHERS 

For pupils who have completed the first year's work in 
the science of making a home, as taught in " Practical 
Homemaking," the following review will need only careful 
reading before beginning this book. If they have been well 
taught the work will be approached with a keen interest and 
quick comprehension. Their minds will be orderly and 
their hands skillful. The habit has been acquired (or should 
have been) of doing nothing less than the best work. For 
girls who are beginning the study of homemaking two or 
three weeks of preliminary housecleaning is a necessity be- 
fore studying the advanced course. Every kind of work 
mentioned in this review can be actually performed by the 
pupils as they put their house in order. Then as they study 
the chapters in this book, with every lesson should come the 
opportunity to repeat these necessary tasks of homework, 
until the acts become easy and spontaneous. 

REVIEW ON SUMMARY OF " PRACTICAL 
HOMEMAKING" 

The House Itself. 

Select, if possible, a western or southern exposure. Sun 
helps toward cheerfulness, health, and cleanliness. 

Have as many rooms with direct air as possible. Shun 
air-shafts and inner rooms. 

Make the landlord paint the walls; papered walls are 
places for dirt and vermin to hide. Dirt of all kinds is 
brought in from the street on boots and clothing. Such dirt 
falls on the floor ; be sure, therefore, that every floor in your 
house will wash. Carpets do not wash. 

Choose a few good pictures rather than many that give no 
pleasure. Don't hang a picture that you do not enjoy just 
because you have it. 

xi 



xii DIRECTIONS TO TEACHERS 

Buy furniture that can be dusted in every part with a 
damp duster. 

Be sure that the curtains are short and can be washed 
easily. 

Study color, so that your rooms will suggest light, rest- 
fulness, and harmony. 

Strive for space rather than for things. Give away all 
that you do not need. Throw away what is useless. 

The tenement law reads: 

" No room in any tenement shall be so overcrowded that 
there shall be afforded less than 400 cubic feet of air to 
each adult and 200 cubic feet of air to each child under 12 
years of age." Remember this law. 

The Stove. 

Know your stove; be able to take it apart and clean every 
corner of it. 

The damper (the door in the chimney) must be open 
when the fire is starting, and closed as soon as possible to 
save heat. 

The draft (the door under the fire-box) should be opened 
when a greater combustion of coal is wanted; but when 
slower combustion is adequate, close the draft and save 
coal. 

The check is over the fire-box, and is for the purpose of 
checking the fire when it is burning too fast or when a slow 
fire is wanted. Never light the morning fire until the stove 
inside and out is clean. 

Always lay the paper and wood lightly. Remember that 
it is the circulation of air that makes the fire burn. A 
stuffed fire cannot burn. Coal is saved by closing the dam- 
per and the draft, as combustion is then less. Coal is wasted 
by leaving open the damper and the draft when unnecessary. 

Dish- washing. 

Scrape dishes thoroughly before piling, and pile them be- 
fore washing. Wash only in very hot soap or soda water; 
rinse in clean hot water ; drain on tray before wiping, thus 
saving dish-towels. Use dish-cloth, not mop, for washing 
dishes, and be sure you have plenty of clean dish-towels. 



DIRECTIONS TO TEACHERS xiii 

Wash towels, and stretch, not throw, them on a clothes- 
horse after every dish-washing. 

Cleaning. 

Never begin to clean until sure that all cloths, soaps, 
powders, and anything that can be needed for the cleaning 
are at hand. White, or natural, wood is cleaned with Dutch 
Cleanser or Sapolio, never with soap. 

Woodwork is dusted with a damp duster; never with a 
dry one, except in the case of polished mahogany. 

Beds are cleaned with kerosene frequently, and with a so- 
lution of carbolic acid when necessary. 

Pipes of all kinds are kept free from the accumulation 
of grease by never washing an unscraped dish, never pour- 
ing anything down the toilet that is not clear liquid, and 
washing out all pipes several times a week with boiling soda 
water. 

Bath-tubs are kept clean by every member of the family 
washing out the tub with soap and hot water after each 
bath. At least once a week the tub should be washed with 
kerosene. 

Wash-tubs are kept clean, first, by never using them for 
any purpose except the washing of clothes, and, second, by 
wiping dry every crack and hidden corner after each wash- 
ing. 

Garbage-can. Line with newspaper and wash often with 
soda water. 

Tinware. Use Bon Ami to polish, and always keep dry. 

Ironware. Kerosene and ashes will take off rust. Soda 
added to hot water will clean when greasy. 

Ice-box. Window-box. Clean with hot suds every day, 
except in very cold weather, when every other day is suf- 
ficient. Do not consider the ice-box cleaned until every 
crack is free from all grease and odor. Use soda water 
twice a week. 

Windows. Wash with Bon Ami or with water and a lit- 
tle kerosene. Add alcohol in freezing weather. Polish 
hard. 

Brass. This should be rubbed over with dry chalk or sil- 



XIV DIRECTIONS TO TEACHERS 

icon after it has been thoroughly cleaned with brass polish. 
It will keep bright twice as long. 

Silver. After cleaning with silver polish, never forget to 
wash all pieces of silver in clear hot water. 

Cleaning a Room thoroughly. Dust all movable objects 
and take them from the room that is to be cleaned before be- 
ginning the hard cleaning. 

Beds. 

Remember that we spend one-third of our lives in bed. 
No thought and care is too much to give to this very impor- 
tant subject. 

Points to be studied about beds : 

First, what to buy in the way of beds, mattresses, sheets, 
blankets, etc. 

Second, the proper way and time to air a bed. 

Third, how to make a bed with square corners correctly. 

Fourth, how to care for the sick in bed; changing sheets 
with patient in bed, etc. 

Fifth, how to prevent bedbugs, and how to get rid of 
them if they come. 

Bluing (not liquid). For laundry work. 

Starch. For laundry work. 

Stove blacking. Paste, not enamel. Enamels are diffi- 
cult for children to apply because of lack of strength. 
They are expensive. 

Bluing, in liquid form, is usually a compound of ferro- 
ferric oxide; that is, an iron compound, and injurious to 
clothes in combination with an alkali. Soap is an alkali ; 
therefore, clothes not well rinsed, after bluing, will often 
show rust-marks. 

Necessary Cleansing Material. 

Sal-soda. For cleaning where grease has collected; also 
for dish-washing in Jewish homes. 

Soap — 

Brown soap. For laundry and cleaning. Buy soap with 
the least amount of resin. 

White soap. Use for white paint and fine laundering. 



DIRECTIONS TO TEACHERS xv 

Scouring Material. 

Coarse, scouring soap for iron and steel ware. 

Fine scouring soap for windows, enamel, nickel and tin. 

Scouring powders. For unfinished wood and tinware. 

Kerosene, plain or with sifted ashes. For cleaning zinc, 
removal of rust, cleaning bath-tubs when stained, knives, 
iron sinks, etc. As a vermin preventive, kerosene is ex- 
cellent. 

Brass polish. Liquid or paste. 

Silver polish. Whiting or prepared polish. 

Vermin destroyers. Carbolic-acid preparations; corro- 
sive sublimate prepartions. 

Disinfectants, without oils. For mattresses, general dust- 
ing, especially, in cracks and dark places. 

Sulphur preparations. For destroying and preventing 
roaches, ants, etc. 

Alcohol. To prevent water from freezing. 

Ammonia. Use after cleaning bath-tub with kerosene. 
Soak handkerchiefs in ammonia water. Use sparingly in 
laundry work. Ammonia water brightens rugs. 

Chlorid of lime. For sinks and water-closets. 



" When we speak of training the senses, just what do we mean? 
Do we not mean that we propose to train the child to see cor- 
rectly or accurately, to touch deftly and to learn more and more 
by touching, and to hear zvith precision in regard to tone, time, 
rhythm and inflection^ All this is, obviously, training in ac- 
curacy, in doing whatever zve do just light, and not about right, 
or well enough. . . . When we require a boy to plane a board 
to a true level, or a girl to produce a pudding or cake from a 
well-expressed, accurate receipt, we are training him or her to 
win moral effects on his or her character as well as a material 
result. To do a mechanical or artistic piece of zvork thoroughly 
is much more than the material operation; it is a moral achieve- 
ment. . . . 

"All the while the child should have it in mind that he is ac- 
quiring arts and faculties which will enable him to make himself 
useful to others." 

Charles W. Eliot. 



XVI 



A SECOND COURSE IN 
HOMEMAKING 



A SECOND COURSE IN 
HOMEMAKING 



CHAPTER I 
PRESERVING FRUITS 

Note to Teachers. 

In this lesson make the head learn through the hands. 
One week the class can study the dried fruits, and cook at 
least one of them. Another week the lesson will be canning ; 
then preserves and marmalade, and in a fourth week the 
class can make the fruit into jelly. Before beginning to 
work, the kitchen table should be prepared with all needed 
fruit and working utensils. The material and jars, for this 
preserving, should be brought from home by the pupils, and 
the filled jars or glasses, being the property of the girls, can 
be taken home by them. All utensils, including jelly-bag, 
must be on hand before beginning the work. 

The method of learning this lesson on canning will be 
by doing the work in the fruit season, not by studying about 
it during the months of the year when the fruits are out of 
season. Certain fruits are in season in the spring and others 
in the autumn. It is, therefore, well to divide all fruit- 
preserving lessons between these two seasons. Plave two 
or three lessons at the beginning of the school year, and 
lWO or three more before school closes. For our autumn 
lessons we will buy pears, peaches, plums, or grapes, as this 
is the season when they are ripe and most plentiful in the 
markets. For the spring lessons we will buy berries, cher- 
ries, or pineapple. 

3 



4 A SECOND COURSE IN HOMEMAKING 

Different Ways of Preserving Fruits. 

Fruits are best liked when served ripe, and in season, 
but the season is a short one, and when winter comes 
fruits are not only difficult to get, but are too expensive 
for the majority of people to buy. We do well to store 
fruits for winter when they are cheap in summer. 

There are different ways of preserving fruits in season 
so that they may be used out of season. They may be 
dried in ovens or in the sun, so that all water is evapo- 
rated. Dried fruits, such as apples, peaches, apricots, 
dates, raisins, when boxed and sealed, keep an indefinite 
length of time. They can be purchased by the pound at 
any grocery store. Other ways of keeping fruits are to 
preserve them in a heavy sugar solution, to reduce them 
to juice, or jelly, and still another way is canning. 

Food Value of Fruit. 

Most fruits have but little nutritive value, the average 
amount of water being 85 per cent., but our systems 
need this water. We need also the mineral properties of 
fruit, and the odor and flavor act as a stimulant to the 
appetite and as an aid to digestion. 

There are a few fruits that have a high nutritive value, 
and these are the dried ones : dates, figs, prunes, and 
raisins. Raisins have the highest per cent, of nourish- 
ment, and prunes the next highest. 

The dried date is a staple article of diet in Egypt. 
Half a pound of dates and half a pint of milk are food 
enough for a meal for a man. 

Half a pound of dried figs is more nourishing than half 
a pound of bread. A pint of milk and six ounces of 
figs are a hearty meal. 

Prunes are dried plums ; they not only have a high 
value as food, but have a laxative quality which is one 



PRESERVING FRUITS 5 

reason why they are given to children as a means of 
regulating the bowels. 

Fruits are dried in great sheet-iron stoves, which look 
like tall towers. These stoves have a number of wire- 
netting shelves, one on top of the other. The fresh- 
cut fruit is laid on these shelves. A fire is built at the 
bottom of the stove, and the fruit is bathed in steam 
vapor until all moisture has passed out of it in the form 
of steam, leaving the fruit dry. In this dried condition 
it is packed into boxes and sealed. 

The receipts for cooking dried fruits are on page 220. 
Cook one or more in class. Try the others at home. 

Cooked fruit is more digestible than raw fruit. It 
takes the stomach over three hours tO' digest two raw 
apples, while a cooked apple will digest very quickly. 
The acid in raw fruit, if at all unripe, causes irritation to 
the intestines. Diarrhoea and colic are often the result 
of eating unripe fruit. 

Canning. 

In canning fruits the flavor of the fruit is preserved 
better than in any other way, since less sugar is used 
in canning than in preserving. Therefore, this means o-f 
preservation gives us the best substitute for fresh fruit. 
Canning fruit is simply putting sterilized fruit into steril- 
ized jars, and making the jars air-tight and water- 
tight. Sugar may be used or omitted. When we use the 
word sterilize, we mean killing all bacterial life by means 
of heat. To sterilize our jars we simply boil them un- 
til all possible bacterial life has disappeared. 

Buying in quantity is the cheapest way to buy fruits. 
Much better value can be obtained for your money by 
buying by the crate or the basket rather than by the 
pound. Do not buy from stands or from carts, as it is 



6 A SECOND COURSE IN HOMEMAKING 

very necessary to have fresh fruit for all cannhig and pre- 
serving. Fruits for canning should be firm, fresh, and 
ripe, but never overripe, as overripe fruit ferments, even 
though it has been boiled and put up in air-tight jars. 

After purchasing the fruit, the sugar, and as many 
one-quart jars as will hold the fruit desired, the next 
thing to do is to prepare the table, as we would in a 
cooking-lesson. Surely every girl who reads this chap- 
ter in the homemaking course has learned the lesson, that 
she must never begin to cook until everything she needs 
is ready on the kitchen table. 

Draw the table into the middle of the kitchen, away 
from the wall ; for the preservation of the wall and for 
the greater convenience of the cooks. Cover the table 
with a paper. Collect all materials, fruit, sugar, jars, and 
cooking utensils. These utensils are : pan, in which to 
sterilize the jars; kettle for cooking the fruit (this should 
be of agate or enamel, never of tin) ; wooden or silver 
spoon for filling the jars and for stirring the fruit; a 
working plate; a cloth for standing jars on and wiping 
them ; silver knife ; funnel for filling jars with small fruit 
(the larger fruit is dropped into the jars with the 
spoon); scales; measuring-cup; brush for cleaning the 
fruit; paring-knife; quart jars, and covers; rubber rings; 
colander for washing berries and draining the water from 
the fruit, as an excess of water will make the fruit taste- 
less. 

Go carefully over the receipt and notice for yourself 
what utensils and what materials will be needed in this 
canning lesson. Not until these are on the kitchen table, 
and every girl wears a large apron and has perfectly clean 
hands, and the kitchen fire is at its best, is it time to be- 
gin work. 

In canning we use glass jars with tight-fitting covers 



PRESERVING FRUITS 7 

and rubber rings. The jars and covers may be used for 
years, but the rings should never be used but one year, 
as the rubber becomes porous, and will let in the air if 
used a second time. 

To Test Jars. 

Wash the jar, the cover, and the rubber ring in soapy 
water, and rinse. Fill the jar with clear water, put on 
cover and rubber ring, and turn it upside down, allow- 
ing it to stand in this position for some little time. If 
the water comes from under the cover, the jar is not 
water-tight, and it is useless to sterilize it, as the best 
sterilization will not make it fit to use for your canning. 
Remember it is by keeping all air from the- fruit from the 
time it is canned until the time it is used, that prevents 
fermentation. 

After testing the jar in this way and finding it is not 
tight, it can sometimes be made air-tight by putting on 
a different rubber ring or a different cover, but never 
use a jar until it will stand this water test. After you 
have proved them air-tight, sterilize your jars. 

To Sterilize Jars. 

Wash the jars, and fill with cold water. Set them in a 
pan of cold water, having the entire jar well covered. 
Put this pan with jars on the fire and let the water slowly 
come to the boiling point. Boil for at least five minutes. 
While the jars are being sterilized, prepare the fruit for 
them, for they should be filled with the fruit while still 
hot. 

The covers should stand in the boiling water at least 
five minutes, but the rubber rings should be dipped in and 
taken out at once. Never allow the rubber to boil in 
the hot water, as water softens it. 



8 A SECOND COURSE IN HOMEMAKING 

General Rules for Canning Fruit. 

All fruit should be washed in cold water, never in hot 
or warm water. If berries are being canned, hull them 
after washing. Cherries may or may not be stoned. 
Pears are cut in half, pared, and the core taken out. 
Peaches are pared, and the stone taken out. Apples are 
pared, cut in quarters, and the core taken out. Plums are 
skinned by scalding them in boiling water. The stone of 
the plum need not be taken out for canning. Grapes 
are skinned for jelly and marmalade, but are not skinned 
for canning. Rhubarb is peeled before canning. 

While thus preparing the fruit, the syrup can' be cook- 
ing on the stove. As has been said, sugar does not neces- 
sarily need to be used, but it help-s to keep the fruit from 
fermenting. For all fruits, such as plums, cherries, and 
berries, make a syrup of one cup of sugar and three cups 
of water. This amount of syrup is sufficient for each jar 
of fruit. For sweeter fruits, such as peaches and pears, 
use three-fourths of a cup of sugar and three cups of 
water for each jar. While the syrup is boiling, put the 
prepared fruit into the syrup carefully, so as not to break 
it. Cook until the fruit is tender. To know if the 
fruit is tender, the pupils can try it with a fork. Be sure 
that the fruit is well heated through, or it will spoil after 
being put into the jars. 

Now that the jars and fruit are sterilized by boiling, 
the time has come to fill the jars with the fruit. 

To Fill the Jars. 

Remove sterilized jars from the water and place on a 
plate covered with a hot, wet cloth, so as to avoid all 
danger of the jar breaking. 

Fill the jar with the boiling fruit until it overflows. If 



PRESERVING FRUITS 9 

it is large fruit, it should be put in with the spoon; if 
small fruit, put it in through a funnel. Run the blade 
of a silver knife around the outside of the fruit after 
it is in the jar ; dip the rubber in the boiling water for a 
moment, and put in place around the top of the jar ; then 
take the cover from the boiling water and screw on 
tightly. 

Turn the whole thing upside down and let it stand on 
its head to cool. When it is cool, be sure that the cover 
is on so tight that no juice leaks from the can. Wipe 
ofif your jar with a damp cloth, and put it in a cool 
place until you are ready to use the fruit. 

If the fruit has fermented when the time comes to use 
it, it will be for one of three reasons : the jar and the 
fruit were not perfectly sterilized ; the jar was not air- 
tight; or the fruit was overripe. 

Marmalade. 

The dictionary says that marmalade " is a pulpy con- 
sistence made from various fruits." Marmalade is the 
pulp and the juice of fruit with sugar, while jelly is the 
juice and sugar without the pulp. 

Preserves, marmalades, and jams .are virtually the 
same, being the preservation of fruit in a strong sugar 
solution ; but marmalade is usually made from the more 
acid and bitter fruits. Marmalade is less apt to spoil 
than canned fruits, because of the quantity of sugar used. 

It is economy to put up marmalade when fruits are 
in season, for the expense at that time is comparatively 
slight, and later this preserve can be used on bread in 
place of butter ; it is delicious in sandwiches, and adds 
much to a dinner if served with meat. 

Receipts for marmalade are on page 224. 



10 A SECOND COURSE IN HOMEMAKING 

Jellies. 

Jellies are made of cooked fruit-juice and sugar, there 
being an equal proportion of juice to the sugar. 

Not all fruits can be made into jelly. There is a cer- 
tain quality in fruit called pectose, and only when this is 
present will .the fruit jellify. In overripe fruit this 
quality is lost. If the fruit and juice cook too long 
the power to make the juice firm is gone. Consequently, 
if you fail to obtain a firm jelly, it can be explained by 
one of these reasons : the fruit was too ripe or it was 
cooked too long. Sometimes, when fruits are picked 
directly after a rain, the juice will not harden into jelly. 
The best fruits for jelly are grapes, quinces, crab-apples, 
and currants. 



Jelly-glasses. 

These should be prepared in the same way as the jars 
were prepared for canning: sterilized by placing them in 
cold water and allowing this water to come to a boil, 
and boiling at least five minutes. After the jelly is 
poured into the glass, cover with paraffin. Paraffin may 
be bought by the cake, melted, and poured over the jelly. 

If the glass has not a 
tin cover, a piece of 
paper, cut round, and 
placed over the top, 
and pasted down over 
the edge of the glass, 
with mucilage, will do 
as well. 




Fig. I. Jelly-bag 



Jelly-bag. 

A jelly-bag is neces- 
sary to strain the juice 



PRESERVING FRUITS ii 

of the fruit from the pulp. To make this bag, take 
cheese-cloth, fold it double, then fold two opposite cor- 
ners together ; round the pointed end, and sew, making it 
the shape of a cornucopia. Bind the top with tape, and 
sew on two or three loops of tape by which to hang it. 
Jelly receipts on page 225. 



CHAPTER II 
CITY REFUSE 

Note to Teachers. 

In " Practical Homemaking," the subject of the disposi- 
tion of New York City's garbage, ashes and refuse is dis- 
cussed in full. This chapter takes up a larger view of 
the street-cleaning problem ; — and the final disposition of 
refuse is considered from a more scientific point of view. 

The reason why school-girls need to be educated on this 
subject is because the thoughtlessness of citizens is keep- 
ing back this disease-prevention work. Look down any air- 
shaft, or in the alleys back of the tenement houses, and 
see the absolute disregard of the law which reads: "No 
person shall place ashes, rubbish, garbage, refuse or other 
matter in the yards, open areas or alleys connected with or 
appurtenant to any tenement house, except in suitable re- 
ceptacles provided for the same." Until this law is known 
to every individual, and kept, the Street Cleaning Depart- 
ment and the Health Department combined cannot make a 
city healthy. 

We have a contemp.t for persons who break such a law 
as " Thou shalt not steal " ; we should also have a contempt 
for the' housekeeper who breaks a law by throwing bundles 
of rubbish from the window. 

Why is it difficult to make individuals do their part in 
this daily, municipal house-cleaning? Because so many lack 
the necessary imagination to take an interest in things out 
of sight. As soon as garbage or refuse is out of her house 
many a woman ceases to feel any responsibility for the harm 
it may do. Only education can create this interest, and only 
a social spirit can make men and women regard the work of 
the municipality as a personal obligation. 

12 



CITY REFUSE 13 

The material in this chapter should be studied before 
and while the pupils are working, for there is much actual 
work for the girls in the class to do in connection with the 
subject of the sanitary care and disposition of the city 
waste. 

The teacher can ask the girls to get for her, from the 
Street Cleaning, the Health, and the Tenement departments 
of the city, the laws governing the care of all city waste. 
Each city has different laws, and they are free to any 
one. 

Take up these laws, one by one, and see for yourself how 
many are kept and how many are broken, and whether it 
is the householder's or the city's fault if a law is broken. 

An interesting way to do this will be for the entire class 
to walk around the block, each with a pencil and paper, 
making notes of what they see. Are the cans placed where 
they should be? Report on cleanliness of cans. Are they 
covered according to law? Is any law of cleanliness broken 
in connection with the yards, courts, passages, areas or al- 
leys within the block on which the school stands? After 
walking over the ground carefully, and making notes, each 
girl should report to the teacher the condition of the street 
on which she lives, also, the condition of the sidewalks and 
the sewers. 

Be sure before beginning this lesson that the laws relat- 
ing to street cleaning and city waste are at hand. 

The work in the house is to clean the water-closet, sink, 
and all pipes connected with them; also the garbage can. 
If it is necessary to refresh one's mind on this subject, re- 
view Plumbing-lesson, Chapter XIV, " Practical Homemak- 

ing." 

Waste matter, enough to make a great river, flows down 
our pipes every day; it is the city's responsibility to care 
for this waste after it reaches the sewers; but it is our 
business to have it reach the sewers and to see to it that 
none of it remains in our pipes or in our house receptacles. 

The following chapter should be studied before class by 
every pupil. Then the method of teaching will be to treat 
this chapter as a reading lesson in class; the teacher ex- 
plaining any new words. 



14 A SECOND COURSE IN HOMEMAKING 

Care of City Refuse. 

" The individual needs fresh air, pure water, good food, 
safe shelter, and should have a clean body, and something 
beautiful to look at." 

When any person, desiring these healthy surroundings, 
becomes a part of a city, he must assume his share of 
obligation. Take, for example, the matter; of the removal 
of w^aste. 

We say, it is the business of the municipality to remove 
promptly all offensive and dangerous city refuse, but the 
burden is too heavy for any city departm.ent to carry 
alone ; without the help of the individual it is impossible. 
A great deal is said of those diseases that could be pre- 
vented if the surroundings were cleaner. No city board 
alone can control this preventive work. The street clean- 
ers are the doctors keeping down the death-rate, but until 
every person who desires health is willing to do his or her 
part, no number of doctors can prevent disease. 

There are in New York City 6,500 men employed in 
keeping clean 1,359 ii^iles of streets. The great majority 
of citizens are so absolutely uninterested in this work that 
day after day they not only do- nothing to help make the 
city beautiful and healthy, but they actually hinder the 
men, whom they are taxed to pay to do the work. 

If the refuse of New York City for one year were 
put into a pile it would fill the entire area of Bryant 
Park, or one large city block, and the pile would be 1,200 
feet high, or nearly twice as high as the Singer building ; 
and if the sewage of New York was collected into one 
stream it would make a continuous flowing river as large 
as the Hudson in summer. Surely, with a problem as 
great as is the disposition of this huge amount of waste 
matter, every man, woman and child must be trained to 
do his part ; there must be. no possibility for the excuse : 



CITY REFUSE 15 

" I did not know the law," or " I did not know it was my 
business." Action is created through interest, and what 
we are interested in we take care of. 

In studying the disposition of the city refuse, it is 
necessary constantly to keep in mind the two sides of the 
question, — the sanitary and the business side. 

All city waste should be taken care of by the city, 
rather than by persons or companies. The municipal 
method is more systematic, more sanitary, cheaper for the 
people, and easier for the street cleaners. No city is in 
the first class where the municipality is not responsible 
for the disposition of its garbage and refuse. 

City Refuse or Waste. 

This is composed of 

Sewage, or night soil. 

Street sweepings' — that Is, the soot and air dust; the 
rubbish falling from refuse-cans ; manure ; pavement dirt ; 
leaves ; droppings from carts ; bits of material from build- 
ing construction. 

Garbage — which includes animal and vegetable matter, 
and, in many cities, dead animals. 

Ashes — including unburnt coal. 

Rubbish — which consists of paper-boxes, rags, bed- 
ding, leather, rubber, metals, bottles and glass, paper- 
sweepings from houses, etc. 

Snow. 

Waste is matter whose present usefulness is over. It 
must be so taken care of as to do no harm, and must be 
changed or reduced into by-products as valuable as is 
consistent with the health of the community. Health is 
so closely allied with the disposition of waste that this side 
of the subject is of the greatest importance to every 
person. 



i6 A SECOND COURSE IN HOMEMAKING 

The expense to a city of keeping its streets clean is so 
great that the matter of the by-products becomes very im- 
portant. They must help to pay the cost of cleaning. 

A by-product is a secondary product. It is some- 
thing produced in addition to the principal product. As, 
for example, food is the principal product or use of ani- 
mal or vegetable matter, but when that matter becomes 
garbage it may be turned into a secondary by-product, as 
grease. 

Danger and Loss. 

A short study of every kind of city waste will show 
clearly where the danger lies if this waste is not prop- 
erly cared for, and the economical loss is not reduced to 
its maximum of value or its most marketable by-products. 

First. Liquid waste or sewage. 

Sewage is house sewage and street refuse and area 
drainage. 

There is an average of one hundred gallons of sewage 
per person to be disposed of each day. The burden of 
caring for this falls on the city, and there is no profit 
to be derived from this liquid waste. 

Inland communities must burn or bury the sewage ; 
this is both costly and unsatisfactory. In cities situated 
near water, where the sewage can be carried into the 
rivers, ocean or lakes, the great danger is the pollution 
of the water. 

In the last few years there has been much progress 
made in the purification of domestic sewage, which can be 
so disinfected and filtered that all danger is removed. 
Engineers, sanitarians and chemists are constantly work- 
ing on the subject of the safe disposal of sewage, — but 
there is much municipal house-cleaning still to be done. 

Second. Street sweepings. 



CITY REFUSE 17 

Country-road dust . is composed principally of 
ground-up rock, and is comparatively clean, because the 
country roads are but little used for travel. There is a 
natural fouling of the city streets which comes from the 
animal manure, wear from the pavements, soot, dust from 
the air, leaves, slobbering of animals. This dirt cannot 
be avoided ; it can only be scientifically taken care of. 
There is also the unnatural, unnecessary dirt: sputum 
from human beings, scattered garbage, house-sweepings, 
and droppings from carts. The danger comes when this 
mixture, of natural and unnecessary filth, becomes pul- 
verized by the action of traffic. In this condition it is 
mud or slime in wet weather, and dust in dry weather. 
The slimy mud sticks to the feet and clothing of the 
people, and in this way is carried into homes and stores ; 
where it dries and mixes with the air, which, being filled 
with dust and disease germs, finds a lodgment in the lungs 
of the occupants. This is a constant danger. Man can 
do without food for three weeks; without water for 
three days; but he cannot do without air for three min- 
utes. So it is safe to say that dust is the greatest enemy 
of man, not only when it contains actual disease germs, 
but because it is, an irritant of the lungs. It also settles 
on and contaminates food. 

Dust, in dry weather, requires neither clothing nor 
boots to carry it into our homes ; it blows in through 
windows, doors and the smallest crack. Mud, out of 
doors, is less objectionable than dust, but mud in warm 
weather is simply a breeding-place for germs. 

There are three methods of cleaning the streets. It 
should be remembered that it is not enough to remove 
layer-dirt; it is the mud and dust underneath that hold 
the disease germs. 

Method I — Hand-sweeping. 



i8 A SECOND COURSE IN HOMEMAKING 

Method 2 — Machine sweeping. 

Method 3 — Flushing. 

SprinkHng paved streets does not in any way clean 
them ; it simply turns dust into mud, which soon dries and 
becomes dust again. It is believed by experts that if 
streets are properly cleaned, sprinkling will be unneces- 
sary. 

Disposition of Street Sweepings. 

For the sake oi the city's health, street sweepings, be- 
ing dangerous, should be disposed of every day. They 
and night-soil are the only refuse which have no value, 
and stre the most difficult of disposal. For example, it is 
not easy to burn street-dirt because the sweepings carry 
moisture and sand. This clogs furnaces, and adds vir- 
tually nothing to the heat. The animal manure is too 
often mixed with other rubbish to be of much value as a 
fertilizer. 

In some places the street sweepings are disposed of in 
dumps, or are used to fill in roads, but this creates offen- 
sive odors, and the disease-laden material is blown into 
the air in the form of dust. In Columbus, Ohio, the 
sweepings are mixed with water and flushed down the 
sewers, and all danger is avoided. But a noxious deposit 
is formed at the sewer outlet, which must be cared for. 

The care of the sewers is every person's responsibility. 
We have no right to take the time of our street-cleaners 
to work over a dammed-up sewer, clogged only because 
some one has thrown down sticks, stones or other solid 
material. 

In 191 1, the expense of cleaning the streets of New 
York was $6,329,850.06, apart from the expense of re- 
moving the snow, which was $2,470,950.47. It is esti- 
mated that if the people would not throw litter on the 



CITY REFUSE 19 

streets or in the sewers, and would follow the laws re- 
garding care of garbage, the cost of cleaning the streets 
would be reduced at least $400,000 a year. Other ways 
in which people can assist in keeping streets clean is to 
refrain from the filthy habit of spitting, and from shaking 
rugs and mats on the sidewalk or from the windows. 
Both are unlawful in many cities. 

A desire for cleanliness is contagious. We can make 
it our habit to be clean, and others, almost unconsciously, 
will copy us. Each person should resolve that, " As an 
individual I will do nothing that will contribute to the 
disorder of the city streets, and wherever possible I will 
prevent others." 

Is there anything more that the city can do to make 
the careless man and woman keep the street-cleaning 
laws? 

The city can compel officials who have the power to ar- 
rest and fine all persons who will not keep the law. As 
it is at present, in almost all cases, this is a mere farce. 

The municipality, also, can make the keeping of the law 
a possibility. For example, when it says " no person 
shall throw papers on the street," a receptacle, in which 
to throw the papers, should always be placed near-by. 

The city's third waste, to be disposed of, is ashes. The 
ashes, which are dumped into the city ash-cans, contain 
much unburnt coal. This reclaimed coal has a heating 
value of fifty per cent, of new coal. The cost of obtaining 
this coal is collection and the labor of separating the coal 
from the ash. This combined labor is less than the fifty 
per cent, value. The fine ashes can be used to fill in low 
land, or ashes mixed with lime will make Portland 
cement. In certain combinations they make a common 
brick material ; in other combinations, ashes are used to 
make ornamental tiles, and an artificial stone used for 



20 A SECOND COURSE IN HOMEMAKING 

sidewalks. In some communities, cesspool material and 
ashes together are used for fertilizing. 

Fourth and Fifth. The city's largest refuse, Garbage 
and Rubbish. 

As has been already stated, garbage means, simply, ani- 
mal and vegetable waste matter that has served its 
usefulness as food. 

Swill is another word for garbage. This word was 
used in Connecticut and Rhode Island, and is used to-day 
in some parts of Massachusetts. Slops was the word 
used for years in Philadelphia. 

The reason why it is necessary to define exactly what 
is meant by these words is that the public may under- 
stand the laws, ^nd, also, that the contractors, who often 
are licensed to collect and dispose of garbage, may know 
the exact material for which they are contracting. 

A Fev7 Laws about Garbage from Different Cities. 

" Rain water, liquids, and dish-water must not be mixed 
with garbage." " Garbage must be kept in proper re- 
ceptacles." " Wells, courts, passages, areas and alleys 
must be kept free* from same." In some places, " Gar- 
bage-cans must be outside in summer and inside in win- 
ter." In one city, *' Garbage-cans shall be placed two feet 
outside of lot line." In another, they *' shall stand out- 
side of street line." 

These laws are for the householder, but a law that is 
made and not kept is worse than no law at all. There 
are three ways for the city to enforce garbage laws : 

Educate the people. 

Lord Derby has said, " sanitary instruction is even 
more important than sanitary legislation." 

Fine those who will not keep the law. 



CITY REFUSE 21 

Refuse to collect garbage if it is not placed according 
to the law. 

The city of Washington and most other cities make it a 
crime for any person to disturb garbage after it has been 
put in the garbage receptacle. This is to prevent the 
turning over of garbage for the collection of possible 
junk, food, bones and fat. 

Odors and Decay. 

Garbage is subject to rapid decay, and as this decay 
takes place most objectionable odors are given forth. 
This is one reason why the collection of garbage is such 
an insistent part of the municipal house-cleaning, and why 
dumping and burning are offensive. Decay takes place 
more rapidly in warm weather than cold, and there is 
half as much more garbage in summer than there is in 
winter. When we consider the fruit-skins, pea-pods, 
melon-rinds and other vegetable coverings that are 
thrown out during the summer months, it is easy to ac- 
count for this increase. While the odors from decaying 
garbage are most offensive they are not carriers of dis- 
ease as is the dust from our streets. 

Garbage Cans. 

These are nearly always offensive, and how to keep 
them clean is a difficult matter. To disinfect these cans 
and to make laws that will insure their cleanliness have 
been the attempt of many cities and hundreds of indi- 
vidual experts; but the great size of the city's garbage- 
cans makes it impossible to force this labor on the women 
of the home. For example, in New York the cans must 
be large enough to contain the garbage for thirty-six 
hours; in Cleveland for forty-eight hours; in Yonkers 



22 A SECOND COURSE IN HOMEMAKING 

for three days ; in Rochester the can must hold one gal- 
lon of garbage for every member of the family. The 
law in Philadelphia is, that no can shall be too large 
to be handled by one man. It has so far proved im- 
practicable for the householder or the garbage collector 
to wash these cans. Therefore, in nearly all cities they 
are offensive in looks and odor. In Buffalo, from May 
I to October 30, there is a law that all cans must be 
thoroughly disinfected every day to the satisfaction of 
the Board of Health, when they are emptied. Water- 
tight, covered receptacles are universally required, and 
this requirement may be easily enforced, but a garbage 
receptacle is really clean only when washed daily. 

Final Disposition of Garbage. 

In small places garbage is fed to swine, the farmers 
being willing to call for it on condition that it is kept 
separate from that which is not fit to eat. This method 
is not considered sanitary, because disease is spread by 
the pigs eating contaminated meat. Hogs so fed are 
apt to develop disease, and their feeding-places are dirty 
and offensive. 

Dumping is still a method of disposal, but the dumps 
soon become unsanitary, a breeding-place for flies, and a 
gathering-place for the poor of the city who hope to 
find junk or food. 

In still other towns garbage is buried. This method 
is expensive, as it requires much unused land. It is also 
a nuisance, for such a burying-place has to be near the 
city, and the avoidance of long hauls is one of the things 
to be considered in the disposition of garbage. 

Garbage when carried out to sea and dumped in the 
water, floats back to shore. Dumping garbage at sea is 
an acknowledged failure. 



CITY REFUSE 23 

There are but two scientific methods of disposing of 
garbage : 

First: Reduction method, cooking the garbage into 
grease. 

Second: Incineration, burning and destroying it. 

One or the other of these methods is now employed 
in most of the large cities. 

The general manner in disposing of waste by the re- 
duction method is to cook the garbage into grease and sell 
the grease ; the rubbish is sold separately. 

Rubbish should be collected by the city, and the city, 
not the householder, should be held responsible. In 
Cleveland, Ohio, the rubbish is collected by workhouse 
prisoners ; in Buffalo, the city contracts for the collection 
of ashes, rubbish, and garbage ; in New York, it is col- 
lected by the Street Cleaning Department and sold to a 
contractor. 

The principal rubbish from which we obtain by-prod- 
ucts is : 

Paper and rags. These may be sold to the paper-stock 
trade, and reappear in the form of paper boxes and com- 
mon paper. 

Tin cans. These are generally melted and molded into 
sash weights. The tin and the solder are often reclaimed. 
Cans are also melted and rolled out into sheets of tin 
from which buttons are punched out. These are used 
for nailing down building paper. The tin sheets are used 
also in fireproof and burglar-proof safes. 

Bottles. The unbroken white glass bottles are usually 
sold back to the firm whose name is blown in the glass. 
Broken bottles and old glass are melted and reblown. 
Glass in combination is used in making artificial stone. 

Empty Barrels. These are often returned to com- 
mission merchants to be used again for vegetables, etc. 



24 A SECOND COURSE IN HOMEMAKING 

Old Iron. This is used for low-grade castings. 

Old Shoes. These are sold for burnishing and polish- 
ing castings. 

Mattresses. The ticking of old mattresses is, unfor- 
tunately, often used to cover barrels. The hair is picked 
over and used again. 

The grease made from garbage is the largest by-prod- 
uct. Dead animals, in some cities, are included with 
garbage, while in other places they are sold separately. 
Every part of an animal can be used as a by-product. 

Reduction Plant. 

A description of the plant used in New York is given 
in detail in " Practical Homemaking." 

Columbus, Ohio, is said to have the best reduction 
plant. Its garbage collections are made by the city and 
disposed of at the city's plant. These collections are 
made in covered carts, with spring seats for the drivers. 
The horses are provided with good stables, the men with 
bathrooms and lockers. 

The carts dump the garbage into steel cars which 
carry it to the reduction building. There the garbage is 
weighed in the car, which then turns over, dumping the 
contents upon a floor. In this floor are drains, and the 
water from the garbage drains into a gutter, from which 
it passes into a catch basin, thence into grease separating 
tanks, in order that any grease remaining may be freed 
from the water. The garbage is then shoveled into long 
troughs and conveyed to the top of the reduction build- 
ing; thence it goes into big spouts, which discharge it 
directly into eight great digesters. Here it cooks from 
six to eight hours. It is then poured into receiving 
hoppers. From these hoppers this cooked mass passes 
into presses which press out the moisture and grease. 



CITY REFUSE 25 

leaving a fiber, used as a fertilizer filler. The grease is 
then pumped into tanks, where it is separated from the 
remaining water. In Columbus, there are six of these 
tanks. The grease rises in the first and overflows into the 
second, and so on, until it reaches the sixth tank, when it 
is almost pure grease. Thence it passes to the drier, and 
the remaining water is evaporated. 

After the grease has been taken off, what is left is a 
molasses-like compound called " stick," which is added 
to the fertilizer. 

This by-product, grease, is very valuable. A certain 
contractor pays to New York, an average of $85,500 
a year for its garbage, and that does not include the 
garbage from hotels or large restaurants, which is sold to 
private scavengers, at from $1,200 to $3,000 a year for 
each hotel ; nor does it include dead animals, which in 
New York are disposed of by contract by the Board of 
Health. 

Incineration. 

This means destruction by burning. 

An incinerator burns and destroys rubbish as well as 
garbage. This is the method approved by the medical 
profession, as it destroys all germs of disease. 

There are four classes of waste to be disposed of under 
this method: 

First — Wet Garbage, which has heat value. This 
includes dead animals. 

Second — Refuse that is combustible, such as shoes, 
rubbers, bedding, paper, etc. 

Third — Refuse that is not combustible, such as cans, 
iron, stones. 

Fourth — Ashes, which have the heat value of unburnt 
coal. 



26 A SECOND COURSE IN HOMEMAKING 

Incinerator Plant. 

Generally, an incinerator plant consists of from two 
to twelve furnaces. It is three stories in height, with a 
high chimney, which is necessary to induce sufficient 
draft. The raw material is received at the top of the 
building. Many incinerators have the refuse dumped on 
a moving platform. On each side of this stand " sorters " 
who pick out the non-combustible material as it passes, 
and this is later sold as a by-product. The refuse re- 
maining is then mixed for burning. This mixing is 
necessary, as there must be at least twenty-five per cent. 
of dry material in order to insure combustion. This 
mixture of garbage, ashes, rubbish and dead animals is 
fed into the furnaces, from the rear, on to a grate where 
it is partly dried. It is then raked forward, where the 
heat, created by forced draft, passes over it, causing 
evaporation, and under it, causing combustion. After 
the refuse has been destroyed, the clinker (broken up 
with bars) falls through to the basement, and is raked 
into clinker cars. In nearly all incinerators coal, coke or 
shavings are added to help combustion. 

The by-products, from this method of burning garbage, 
and rubbish, are : 

First by-product — the heat formed into steam. In 
Minneapolis, steam is used to heat the poor-house, but 
coal, in addition to refuse, is used. This steam also 
drives the machinery and produces the electricity used in 
the street-cleaning plant. 

In Frederiksburg, Denmark, the steam from the in- 
cinerators heats twenty-four blocks of hospital buildings, 
and, moreover, is sufficient for the washing, cooking and 
all disinfecting. 

Second by-product — clinker. This combined with 
asphalt makes a dustless, sanitary paving. Building 



CITY REFUSE 27 

blocks, slabs, brick and mortar are also made from 
clinker, in combination with other material. 

Third by-product — dust. The dust left from combus- 
tion, when mixed with asphalt, makes a good filler. Five 
hundred tons of dust (which is a good yearly average 
for a large city) can be sold for about $1200. 

One of the arguments for the reduction method as 
against incineration, is that burning is so difficult that 
only a part of the refuse is destroyed, which means that 
the remainder has to be dumped. To appreciate the diffi- 
culty of burning this wet material, one has only to think 
how hard it is to burn wet grass. It easily becomes a 
smouldering mass which cannot be stirred. But even 
when dumped the material is sterilized by the cook- 
ing. 

Another reason against the practicability of incineration 
is that the principal by-product, steam, is too variable to 
be useful. In summer there is an excess of wet garbage 
and an equal decrease of ashes, with the half-burnt coal ; 
consequently the steam cannot be relied on. On the other 
hand, an equal number of reasons are given why the 
incinerator is better than the reduction method. 

Reduction plants, because of the odor, are usually built 
at a considerable distance from a city, and this neces- 
sitates long hauls. In Rochester, N. Y., however, the 
plant is in the center of the city. 

The reduction-plant machinery is expensive to operate 
and to keep in repair; thus, but one furnace is built 
for each city, as against the many incinerator furnaces. 
It stands to reason that it would be a great calamity to a 
city to have this one plant destroyed or even seriously 
injured. 

The one great claim for the incinerator over reduction 
is that all infected matter is destroyed and disease is 



28 A SECOND COURSE IN HOMEMAKING 

checked. The one great claim for reducing refuse, In- 
stead of burning it, is that the by-products, especially 
grease, are too valuable to be destroyed by burning when 
they can be sold for the benefit of the city. 

Only scientists can decide these important questions, 
but surely every one of us, if we are intelligent in re- 
gard to so vital a matter, may be of some help. 



CHAPTER III 
LAUNDRY WORK 

Note to Teachers. 

It will be useless even to attempt to teach laundry work 
in fewer than five lessons. If a class, having an eighty- 
minute lesson once a week, can during one term, alternate 
baking- with laundry-lessons, such an intensive study of 
these two branches of homemaking will be more profitable 
than touching on many subjects and not knowing one suffi- 
ciently well to be able to practise it alone. What only can 
be done under the guidance of a teacher, is still a lesson to 
be learned. Give six weeks to laundry if possible. 

Clothes Necessary for Learning Laundry Work. 

It is not always practical to have soiled clothes brought 
from home by the pupils. Therefore, before beginning these 
lessons, see that the housekeeping center or school is pro- 
vided with the following things : 



Table linen 



Bed linen 



Towels 



fEmbroidered centerpiece, 
Napkins, 
Doilies, 

Small tablecloth (not really necessary). 
Sheets, 
Pillow-cases, 
Bedspread. 

'Hand towels, 
Bath towels. 
Wash cloths. 
Dish towels. 



Underclothes may be represented by a doll's outfit. This 
outfit should be made by the pupils, as a part of the lesson, 

29 



Doll's Clothes, 



30 A SECOND COURSE IN HOMEMAKING 

" What the baby should wear." As a doll will be useful in 
many lessons, it is well to have a life-sized baby doll as a 
part of the necessary equipment of a Housekeeping center. 

Two flannel bands. 
Two flannel shirts, 
Two flannel skirts. 
Two white skirts, 
Two dresses, 
Two night-slips. 
Two diapers. 
One coat, if possible. 

One or two pairs of black stockings should be kept only for 
the washing-lesson. 

For colored clothes, use the pupils' checked, cooking aprons. 

To teach how to wash silk, a piece of silk may be kept for 
that purpose, or one of the girls' hair ribbons. 

When the time comes to wash shirt-waists, one or more 
girls can bring waists, that need laundering, from home. 

To arrange laundry-lessons so that each lesson for every 
class shall have a direct relation to the previous lesson, it 
will be necessary, so far as possible, to have many classes in 
laundry during the same week, one class leaving the work 
to be immediately carried on by the next class. An entire 
lesson should be given to a study of the equipment before 
actual laundry work is undertaken. 

Laundry Equipment. 

Before doing the first stroke of work a good work- 
man is sure that he has at hand all the necessary tools 
and material for the performance of his particular task. 
This is true of every piece of work, if you would keep 
your mind and work orderly. 

In this task, first, be sure that you have time enough; 
hurried work is usually poor work. 

Second, see that the place you have to work in is the 
best at your command. A light, airy basement is the 
ideal laundry; but the majority of women must use the 



LAUNDRY WORK 31 

kitchen. If the kitchen is also the laundry, great care 
must be taken that the soiled clothes (many of them un- 
derclothes) are not about at the time the food is cooking. 
On wash-day very simple food should be served and as 
much of this as possible cooked the day before. This is 
the cleanest, easiest, and most orderly way. 

As the stove will be needed for the clothes-boiler and 
irons, there will be but little space for pots and pans. 

Stove. 

In some homes, where space and money are plentiful, 
there are laundry stoves separate from cooking stoves. 
Such a stove is never blackened, because the irons must 
be kept absolutely clean ; it is rubbed clean with a dry 
brush. 

In the majority of homes the cooking-stove is used for 
irons. Therefore, be very careful that on ironing-days, 
especially, the stove is rubbed as free from blacking as is 
possible. 

Tubs. 

Porcelain or soapstone tubs are the best ; wooden tubs 
absorb odors. 

The most perfect stationary tubs are set away from 
the wall, but these are seldom found in any apartment. 
When the tubs are built against the wall it means more 
care for the housewife, when they are not in use, to keep 
dry every crack and edge and hidden crevice. 

If galvanized tubs are used, be careful that they do not 
rust. Dry well and occasionally oil. 

In the country, portable wooden tubs are used ; if they 
are allowed to become too dry, between washings, they 
will fall apart. When in use such tubs are placed on a 
bench, which should be about thirty-six inches high. The 



Z2 A SECOND COURSE IN HOMEMAKING 

advantage of portable tubs in the country is, that it is 
possible to wash out of doors, and fresh air and sunlight 
sweeten the clothes. 

Stoves and tubs are what are called stationary equip- 
ment and are usually put in by the landlord ; but every 
woman or girl is responsible for their condition when 
wash-day comes. It is only a bad housekeeper who uses 
her tubs for a storing-place between washings, or who, 
when she lifts the cover, finds cockroaches because of the 
damp condition of the tubs. 

Movable* Equipment. 

If the laundress is the right kind of laundress, she 
will see that all equipment necessary for washing and 
ironing is on hand and in good repair before wash- 
day comes. 

In a small kitchen many things, that we have for 
every-day use, may be utilized in our laundry work, thus 
avoiding too many things about. 

Rubbing-Board. 

There are three kinds : 

Glass. Which is most easily cared for, and wears 
longest. 
Zinc. 
Wood. Which is the least desirable. 

Wringer. 

This is not a necessity, but helps to make easier the 
wringing of clothes. It is more economical to buy a 
wringer of good quality, even if more expensive. A 
good wringer requires very careful treatment. To keep 
the rubber-rollers clean, it is very necessary after each 
washing, to unroll them and wipe them dry. A very 



LAUNDRY WORK Z3 

good housekeeper will have a slip bag to keep her rollers 
in. 

Boiler. 

An oblong boiler is more practical than a round one ; 
it holds more clothes and fits better on the stove. 

A copper boiler w^ill outlast .all others, but it is expen- 
sive. 

A tin boiler, with copper bottom, is a very practical 
boiler to buy. 

An all-tin boiler is cheap but it does not last. 

Any boiler must be carefully dried after each wash- 
ing. 

Clothes-Stick. 

An old broom-handle is as good a stick, as any other 
to take clothes from the boiler. 

Pail. To carry water. 

Dipper. The house dipper will answer. 

Agate pan. This is for starching ; the dish-pan will 
answer. 

Saucepan. To make the starch in. 

Tea-kettle. Be sure it is absolutely clean. 

Three Brushes. 

One for scrubbing the wood-work of board, tubs, 
etc. 

One for removing very soiled spots from clothes. 

One when it is necessary to use cleaning fluids. 

Wooden spoon. For starch. 

Strainer. For starch. 

Clothes-basket. Large wicker basket is easily handled. 

Clothes-horse or towel-rack. 

Clothes-line and clothes-pins. 



34 A SECOND COURSE IN HOMEMAKING 

Get a good clothes-line, it lasts longer; a poor line 
is not safe. Take the clothes-line down every time it 
is used. Wipe with damp cloth before using. Metal 
lines rust easily. 

Clothes-bag for pins. Have this of pretty cretonne, and 
make it an attractive addition to the kitchen. 

Duster for clothes-line. Any clean duster will answer. 

A clean cloth for wiping tubs, boiler, etc. 

Small piece of clean cloth, always at hand to rub off 
any spots. 

Equipment for Ironing. 

Ironing-table or board. It should be covered with 
canton flannel or a coarse blanket, and cotton cloth 
pinned tightly over this. A drawer in an ironing-table is 
a great convenience. 

Irons. There are many kinds of irons: gas, electric, 
which are expensive. 

Nickel-plated. These do not rust. 

Iron ones are the most common and many a laundress 
will use no other kind. These must be of different sizes. 
They must be kept smooth. When not in use keep in a 
dry, clean place. Wash, and heat irons before using. 

Iron-holders. Do not use any old rag for an iron- 
holder, but take time to make three or four of suitable 
material. 

Iron-stand. A tin cover may be used for this. 

Wax. To prevent irons from sticking. 

Heavy paper and cloth. To try the irons on ; never try 
them on the board. 

Materials Used in Laundry Work. 

Soap. Kirkman's, or a soap containing little resin. 
Ammonia. Mild. 



LAUNDRY WORK 35 

Borax. For removing stains and softening water. 

Sal-soda. For cleaning the tubs and pipes. 

Wax. Beeswax or old candles ; for waxing irons. 

Salt. Used for smoothing irons ; also for stains. 

White vinegar. Sets color. 

Alcohol. For stains. 

Sandpaper. For smoothing irons. 

Bluing. 

Starch. 

There are many liquids for removing stains, such as 
Javelle water, ether, etc., but any girl who is not a 
trained laundress cannot be trusted with these things ; 
when not used properly they spoil the clothes. 

We will take it for granted now that every girl who 
has reached this point in this chapter has a personal 
knowledge and an intimate acquaintan.ce with every article 
mentioned above. As in cooking, let us know our tools 
first. 

Many clever motliers have found substitutes for vari- 
ous articles of laundry equipment that may for some 
reason be missing. It will be interesting to hear from 
any member of the class of any substitution that has taken 
place in her home. 

The division of laundry work into these five lessons 
is only one way of doing the work. Any teacher should 
feel perfectly free to divide the work in any other way 
which seems to her more practicable. 

LESSON I 
Body Clothes. 

Clothes which are worn absorb waste matter thrown 
off from the body in the form of perspiration, and in bits 
of dead skin which are being constantly rubbed off. 



2,6 A SECOND COURSE IN HOMEMAKING 

The food that we eat repairs this waste. Our undercloth- 
ing, because of this waste matter, becomes damp, sticky, 
and oily. This condition is unhealthy, for the proper 
absorption and evaporation of moisture from the body is 
prevented. Unclean clothes increase the heat of the body 
in summer and make it colder in winter. A bath every 
day, winter and summer, followed by clean clothes at 
least once a week in winter and much oftener in summer, 
will do much to prevent discomfort and illness. In the 
case of small children clean clothes will often stop their 
fretting, which indicates irritation. 

As every girl knows, dirt comes also from the out- 
side and must be removed, if for no other reason, be- 
cause dirt indicates the possible presence of disease 
germs. 

Sorting the Clothes. 

Sorting is the separation of clothes, before washing, 
into the divisions in which they are to be washed. 

Table linen. Towels, 

Bed linen. Flannels, 

Underclothes, Stockings, 

Handerkerchiefs, Print or colored dresses. 

As the pupils sort the clothes, and before beginning the 
actual washing, it will make the labor much more inter- 
esting to know something of the materials that are to be 
washed. This was found true in the garbage lesson ; 
every girl knowing all about the disposition of garbage 
found it much more interesting to take her place and do 
her work well, as one of the laborers in a great industry. 
If she failed to care for the ashes, garbage and refuse, 
she felt herself a poor workman in a big business. The 
care of the stove was more interesting work after study- 



LAUNDRY WORK 37 

ing about coal. Take the following as a reading lesson : 

Linen. 

Linen is not so good for many things as cotton; it 
wrinkles easily and is much more expensive. For the 
table it is the best material to use, for its smooth, brilliant 
texture adds to the beauty of the table ; it looks fresh and 
clean and when properly laundered lasts well. 

Linen is woven from flax. Flax is a plant which grows 
from two to three feet high, bears small leaves and blue 
flowers. When the seeds of flax begin to ripen the plant 
is pulled up by the roots. Then follows a process called 
" rippling " by which the seeds are taken from the plant, 
which is then steeped in water to produce fermentation 
and to separate the fiber. Then " scutching," which is to 
remove all woody particles ; then a process called " heck- 
ling " by which the fiber is combed out, straightened, and 
the longer threads separated from the woolly mass. 

Making linen of flax is but one of its many uses. The 
seed is very nutritive ; linseed oil, which is made from the 
seed, is a great industry. Flax used to be raised on in- 
dividual farms, and the women of the family took the 
flax after the heckhng and with their own hands did the 
spinning, weaving, bleaching, and finishing. 

The cultivation of cotton did much to lessen the neces- 
sity for linen, and the introduction of machinery did away 
with flax-growing and weaving as an individual farm in- 
dustry ; even the dragging up the flax by the roots is all 
done now by machinery. Hand-linen looms are not used 
to-day, and many families were ruined when the ma- 
chinery for making linen was introduced, as their hand- 
looms were their only wealth. 

In speaking of the process of spinning and weaving 



38 A SECOND COURSE IN HOMEMAKING 

linen, you will notice that '' finishing " is the last step. It 
is in this finishing that the linen manufacturers are able 
to deceive the public. This finishing or sizing is the gloss 
on the linen ; it is often simply starch ironed in, and pol- 
ished hard. The starch will wash out with the first 
laundering. When you buy linen the way to test good 
from bad is to rub a piece of it between the fingers ; if it 
is thickened with starch instead of being really heavy 
linen, the starch will come ofif on your fingers ; also after 
you have rubbed a little of the starch out the linen will 
have a thin look, while good linen will stand rubbing, not 
losing its firm' appearance. 

Cotton Cloth. 

Underclothes nearly always are made of cotton cloth, so 
also is what we call " bed-linen." This expression comes 
from the old times when sheets and pillow-cases were 
always made of linen. Linen is too expensive now to be 
generally used for sheets. 

Cotton is now our chief vegetable fiber. At least six 
billion pounds a year are produced, and the United States 
raised three-fourths of this. 

Cotton is the white downy covering of the cotton-plant, 
and the value of the cotton depends upon the evenness 
and strength of the fiber. In cheap cotton the fiber is 
about an inch long ; when the fiber is two inches long the 
cotton is very good. Long fiber cotton is used for fine 
cotton laces, fine lawn, and muslin goods, while the short 
fiber cotton is made into inexpensive cloth. One reason 
why cotton is cheap is that there is only five per cent, loss 
in preparing it for use. 

There is not time in a book like this to make a study of 
the manufacture of cotton, but every woman and girl 
must know good cotton cloth from a poor quality. It is 



LAUNDRY WORK 39 

true In cotton, as in linen, that the finish or sizing is de- 
ceptive. This, too, can be put on with starch which, when 
washed out, leaves the clothes loosely woven and flimsy. 
Rub it, and feel it with your fingers and you will soon be 
able to judge the quality of the cloth. 

Do not blame the woman behind the counter if you find 
that you have bought a nightgown, for example, that is 
useless after a few washings. The saleswoman does not 
make the goods, and does not set the price; very likely 
she herself has no knowledge of cottons. She is paid to 
make you buy the nightgown. 

It is well to remember a few good rules about ready- 
made cotton underclothes. If an article is cheaper than 
the market price there is usually some reason for it ; if it 
is being sold at a marked-down sale it is worth while to 
examine it very carefully. After you have rubbed it in 
your fingers if it feels thin and loosely woven do not buy 
it, no matter how tempting the bargain. If one gets 
good cloth and good work one has to pay for them. 

Colored Cotton Cloth. 

Gingham is made of yarn which is dyed before it is 
woven into cloth. Cretonne, chintz, and calico are made 
into cloth and then stamped. 

Outing cloth, which is an imitation of wool, is soft and 
light and made of cotton. It does not shrink like wool, 
and the best grades do not fade. 

Flannels. 

Flannel, which is all wool, is made from the soft, hairy 
covering of sheep and goats. The wool of the llama of 
South Africa is also used in making stuffs for women's 
wear. Sheep-raising was a business long before agricul- 
ture was known ; in fact so long ago that no one knows 



40 A SECOND COURSE IN HOMEMAKING 

when man first realized that the wool of sheep was valu- 
able. As soon as wool began to be used for cloth the 
sheep-raiser saw the need of improving the fleece. This 
was done by careful breeding, careful feeding, and by pro- 
tecting the wool-bearing animals in bad weather ; in other 
words, the more domestic a sheep is the softer and finer 
the wool. Much of the wool used in this country comes 
from Australia, South America, and South Africa. 

The wools used for blankets and carpets come from a 
lower quality of sheep, where the hair is harder and 
coarser. 

Cashmere wool is the most costly of all wools, and 
comes from the cashmere goat in the Himalaya Moun- 
tains. 

In old times, wool manufacture was a home industry, 
just as linen was. The beautiful hand-spinning and 
weaving done then have not been excelled to this day. 
The first wool machine in this country was in Pittsfield, 
Massachusetts, in 1790. 

Manufacture of Woolens and Worsteds. 

First, the wool is washed, and the sheep is then 
sheared; then the wool is beaten to get rid of dust and 
other impurities, then washed again. This second wash- 
ing, after the wool is taken from the sheep, is not only 
needed to remove dirt but a fatty secretion, called " yolk." 
Wool is washed in a soapy solution, often with soda 
added; and is passed from one tub to another until it 
comes from the last tub comparatively clean ; it is then 
dried, bleached, or dyed. Even after all this, the wool 
has a matted appearance, and contains some dust and 
sand. The process of removing this is called " willow- 
ing," and is done by a machine that gently tears the 
matted locks apart, and frees the wool of all impurities. 



> 

*^ 

H 

W 
50 

a 

w 

w 

w 

K 
H 

> 
< 

K 

W 
M 

m 

r 

> 

c: 
o 

w 
o 




LAUNDRY WORK 41 

" Mixing " comes next, and is a process whereby wools 
of different quality are mixed together. If other ma- 
terial, such as silk or cotton, is to be blended with the 
wool, it is done at this time. 

Oiling. The wool, after its many washings, is hard and 
wiry, and in order to restore its natural softness it is 
slightly oiled while it is being mixed. Up to this point 
worsteds and woolens go through the same process ; after 
this the work is dift'erent: worsted thread is combed 
and the thread twisted until it becomes hard. Woolen 
yarn, from which woolen goods are made, is simply 
carded and loosely spun. 

Carding. This process produces a thread whose fibers 
lie loosely, projecting from the main thread in little ends 
which form the nap of the cloth. 

Spinning is the art of drawing and twisting this fiber 
so that it is formed into continuous threads, ready for 
weaving or knitting. 

Weaving. This is the art of making thread into cloth. 

Stains. 

As a good laundress sorts her clothes she will look for 
stains. Any garment or article having a stain on it should 
be laid aside, for if put into hot soapy water it will set 
the stain and make it difficult to remove. 

Blood Stains. Wash in cold water, then rub with 
naphtha soap, and soak in warm water. If the stain 
remains apply a paste of raw starch. 

Chocolate or Tea. Sprinkle with borax, and soak in 
cold water; then, when put in the boiling wash water 
the stain will come out. 

Coffee, Fruit. Lay the stained part over a bowl and 
pour boiling water on it ; have the water come from, a 
height so as to give it force. 



42 A SECOND COURSE IN HOMEMAKING 

Glue. Vinegar rubbed on with a cloth will remove 
glue. 

Grass Stains. Warm water and naphtha soap should 
take out grass stain. If white goods ammonia may be 
added. 

Grease. Warm water and soap ; if that fails wash in 
gasoline. 

Ink. Let the stained part stand in milk, and when the 
milk is discolored change it to fresh milk. Wash next in 
cold water, and lastly wash in warm water with a little 
ammonia, if the goods are white. 

Kerosene. Use fuller's earth made into a paste, and 
let this remain on the stain for twenty-four hours. 

Machine Oil. Wash first with soap and cold water, and 
then rub with turpentine if the stain is not removed. 

Mildezv. Usually it is our own fault if the clothes 
are mildewed; they have been neglected and left damp 
in a close place. If they should become mildewed, 
squeeze lemon juice on the stain, and lay it in the sun- 
light. If this does not remove the stain, make a paste of 
soap, starch, lemon and salt, and let this paste stand on 
the spot for twenty-four hours. 

Milk. If on a colored* dress, wash with cold water. 

Paint. Use benzine or turpentine. 

Perspiration. Soap-suds and sunshine. 

Scorch. Rub the scorched article with lemon and put 
in the sun. 

Stove Polish. Naphtha soap and cold water. 

Wagon Grease. Rub with lard" and then wash with 
warm water and soap. 

Wax. Place brown paper over grease spot and press 
paper with warm iron. 

Wine. Put a layer of salt on the stain ; then pour 
boiling water over the spot, as in fruit stains. 



LAUNDRY WORK 43 

The next step after sorting clothes and looking for 
stains is to 

Soak Clothes. This is done to loosen the dirt so that 
the garment will require less rubbing when washed. Add 
a little soap to the water in which clothes are soaked. 
The cleaner articles, stockings, and colored clothes, are 
not soaked. 

LESSON II 

When the pupils come into class they should find the 
clothes soaking. 

This lesson will represent the morning after the clothes 
have been soaked overnight. 

First, wring out the clothes. Wash the tubs and fill 
nearly full of, hot water. Fill the boiler half full of cold 
water and add enough dissolved soap to make a light 
suds. Put a coarse, clean cloth in bottom of the boiler, 
to prevent scorching of clothes. You are now ready to 
wash, not to talk about it, but to do the actual work. 

In clothes, as in dishes, the cleanest are washed first. 

Table and Bed Linen. 

Put these in one tub of hot water ; use soap freely. As 
each piece is washed wring it with the hands and drop it 
in the next tub of water. When all of this first lot are in 
the second tub, wash again with soap, as before; as each 
piece is washed and wrung from this tub, drop it in the 
boiler of cold water. When the boiler is full light the 
fire, if it is a gas stove ; pull it over the hot fire, if it is a 
coal stove. Press the clothes down with a wooden stick, 
which is also necessary to turn the clothes and take them 
from the boiler. 

While the first tubful of clothes is scalding in the boiler, 






44 A SECOND COURSE IN HOMEMAKING 

rub out the second tubful of underclothes, which are the 
next cleanest, in the same manner. 

When the second lot is ready for the boiler, the first 
should have finished boiling and be ready to take out. 
Put these in a tub of clear water. Wash the third lot, 
which will be the very soiled clothes and towels, while 
the second lot is in the boiler. Take the second lot from 
the boiling water and put them in the tub with first 
clothes, and then put third washing in the boiler. It is 
now time to rinse the first and second clothes. First, 
wash out and thoroughly clean the tubs that have been 
used in washing, as they are to be used for the rinsing. 
Fill both tubs with clear hot water ; rinse and wring from 
one tub into the other, then wring out into bluing 
water. The last boiler of clothes should be rinsed in 
the same way and blued. As the clothes are wrung out 
from the bluing water separate those that require starch- 
ing. 

Bluing Water. 

Use clean cold water, and have the bluing ball tied in a 
cloth, to prevent specks coming on the clothes. Never 
allow the clothes to stand in this water, as they will be- 
come streaked, and never, for the same reason, allow them 
to rest on the bottom of the tub. 

Hanging. 

Be sure the lines are clean and tight. Every time they 
are used they must be wiped with a clean, damp cloth. 
See that the clothes-pins- are clean and not broken. Hang 
clothes of a kind together, and hang white clothes in the 
sunlight, if possible. All articles should be hung on the 
wrong side. Hang the sheets out first, as they take the 
longest time to dry. In hanging fine pieces, and the un- 



LAUNDRY WORK 45 

derclothes, be careful that the clothes-pins do not tear the 
garments. 

Starched clothes must be left for the next lesson. 

LESSON III 

Starched Clothes. 

Bed linen, towels, table linen and handkerchiefs should 
never be starched. People differ about underclothes. 
Many care for no starch, while others wish a little, real- 
izing that garments iron more easily when starched, and 
keep clean longer. 

To Make Starch. 

Thick starch. 

Half cup of starch, 

Half cup of cold water, 

One quart of boiling water, 

One quarter teaspoon ful of lard or wax, 

One teaspoon ful of borax. 

Mix the starch with cold water, and make smooth ; 
slowly add lard, borax, and boiling water. Allow the 
starch to cook about fifteen minutes, and then strain. 
Use the starch hot. Borax gives stiffness, gloss, and 
whiteness to clothes ; w'ax keeps irons from sticking. 

Thin starch is made in the same way, except that three 
quarts of hot water, instead of one quart, are added. 
Wring out in hot starch while they are still wet. Hang 
them out of the wind to dry ; wind blows, the starch from 
the clothes. 

Raw starch. 

Two tablespoon fuls of starch. 
One half teaspoonful of borax, 
Two cups of cold water. 



46 A SECOND COURSE IN HOMEMAKING 

Dissolve the borax In a little hot water ; mix starch with 
cold water and add this to the borax. This Is used for 
starching shirts and' collars and cuffs. 

When cold water is used, the articles to be starched 
must be thoroughly dry before starching. As each article 
Is starched, squeeze It and roll It In a towel for an hour 
before ironing. 

Woolens and Flannels. 

As these require great care to prevent them from 
shrinking. It Is well to do them on a separate day from 
the regular washing. All woolen material should be 
washed In lukewarm water, and rinsed in water of the 
same temperature. In the first water use a soap solution ; 
never rub soap on the garment. If woolen garments are 
not thoroughly rinsed, so that no soap remains, they will 
not be soft. When washing, do not rub flannels more 
than Is necessary, as rubbing hardens and thickens them. 
Use borax and ammonia if the water is hard. Dry flan- 
nels in the sun or In the air; never near a hot stove. 
Squeeze dry, and shake well, before hanging. Hang 
wrong side out. Never let flannels freeze because It 
shrinks them. White clothes are not Injured by freezing. 
It Is well to bring flannels Indoors before perfectly dry ; 
roll them in clean cloths and iron as soon a.s possible. 

Blue flannel will keep Its color better if a tablespoon ful 
of vinegar is added to the rinsing water. 

White flannels are blued, as are other white clothes, 
but great care must be taken to have the water of the 
same temperature as the washing- and rinsing-waters. 

Good Things to Remember about Flannels. 

Plrst. Don't allow them to get very soiled before 
washing, as rubbing hard injures them. 



LAUNDRY WORK 47 

Second. Wash in lukewarm water, one piece at a time. 

Third. Do not soak flannels, as it hardens them; do 
not boil, as it shrinks them; wash quickly. 

Fourth. Rinsing- and bluing-waters should be of the 
same temperature as the washing- and boiling-waters. 

Fifth. Shake flannels before washing and shake them 
after washing, before hanging. 

Blankets. 

Select a clear, windy day in which to wash blankets. 
Fill two tubs with lukewarm water ; pour a soap solution 
into one tub and a weak soda solution into the other. 

Dissolve three tablespoonfuls of borax in a quart of 
water and divide this between the two tubs. 

Shake the blankets ; then put one pair into the first tub, 
sop it up and down until the dirt seems out of it ; squeeze 
water out and put in the next tub ; sop up and down as 
before. Now rinse the blankets very thoroughly in water 
of the same temperature as the washing water. Run the 
blankets through a wringer, if you have one. Shake hard 
before hanging up to dry. Hang, by firmly pinning in 
many places, so that no great strain may come on any one 
part of the blanket. 

If there are any soiled spots on the blanket spread it 
on a board and rub with a brush ; rubbing with the hands 
twists the fiber. Have fresh water for each pair of 
blankets. Be sure that the blankets are perfectly dry 
before they are taken from the line; brush with a soft 
brush after drying. Fold and place between sheets with 
a heavy weight on the top ; this is better than ironing. 

Colored Clothes: 

To set the color in clothes before washing: rinse the 
colored garments in one gallon of water to which has been 



48 A SECOND COURSE IN HOMEMAKING 

added, either, one tablespoon ful of salt or one quarter cup 
of vinegar. Colored clothes should never be soaked. Do 
not use much soap in washing ; do not have the water hot, 
only warm; do not use strong, yellow soap or washing- 
powder or ammonia ; do not rub any soap on the garment 
but wash in suds. Colored clothes must not be boiled or 
blued. Dry quickly and dry in the shade. 

If a pupil will remember all of the " don'ts " connected 
with the washing of colored clothes, she may be trusted to 
wash them as she would white clothes. 

To Wash Silks. 

Make warm, soapy water of ivory soap. Rub article 
to be washed as little as possible ; squeeze the dirt out so 
as not to hurt the weave. Do not use ammonia on white 
silk ; it makes it yellow. One teaspoon ful of borax dis- 
solved in a pint of boiling water softens the water. This 
is sufficient for two tubs of water and should be added 
to the soapy water. Rinse in two waters ; wring as gently 
as possible, and hang out to dry. When half dry, take in, 
roll tightly in clean cloth, towel or sheet ; let it stand thus 
for an hour and then press. 

Ribbons are washed by spreading them on a clean 
board, scrubbing them with a soft brush, rinsing well and 
pressing the same as silk. Do not use too hot an iron on 
silk; it makes it stiff. 

Stockings. 

Great care should be given to the washing of stockings. 
Every girl, who studied the first book in this course, 
knows that clean, fresh stockings mean warmer feet in 
winter and cooler feet in summer. Stockings half washed 
are not '' clean " stockings. 

Stockings should be first washed on the right side and 



LAUNDRY WORK 49 

then turned and washed on the wrong side. Never rinse 
stockings in water that has been used for other clothes, as 
it contains lint. It is well to rinse new stockings in salt 
water to set the color. 

Silk stockings are washed like other silk goods. 

Woolen stockings are washed the same as flannels. 

Cleaning of Tubs. 

This is the last task connected with washing, and is 
most important. First, the tubs should be scrubbed to 
remove the grease and scum. Lint from the clothes is 
very bad for the pipes ; therefore, they should be flushed 
with soda water after every washing. If the water runs 
slowly down the pipes, even after using soda, pour down 
potash with boiling water. 

Dry the tubs, and the woodwork all about them. Do 
not use tubs for soiled clothes between washings. 

It will be necessary for every pupil to apply herself very 
closely if she learns how to wash clothes in these three 
lessons. 

LESSONS IV AND V 

Ironing. 

It is not possible to learn ironing in two lessons ; for a 
knowledge of this art comes only with practice. Iron- 
ing is like cooking; all that the school can do is to start 
a pupil in the right way. As was taught in the very 
beginning of the laundry lessons, do not begin to iron 
until everything for the purpose is at hand. Go over once 
more these necessary things. 

Ironing table or board, Cloth and paper for trying irons, 
Flat-irons, Wax, 

Iron holders, Sandpaper, 



50 A SECOND COURSE IN HOMEMAKING 

Iron stand, Bowl and cloth for redampening dry spots. 

First, be sure the work of covering the ironing-board 
is understood. Every girl should be able to cover an 
ironing-board so that it will be smooth and tight. 

To obtain good results, clothes must be well dampened. 
Spread each article out on a clean cloth and sprinkle one 
piece at a time. This is done with the hand or a clean 
whisk-broom, that is used for nothing else. Then roll the 
clothes, turning in the edges as you roll. 

Plain articles, such as towels, napkins, handkerchiefs, 
may be rolled together. After sprinkling and rolling 
it is a good thing to let them stand several hours before 
ironing. Starched clothes need to be damper than those 
that are not starched, excepting cold water starch. 

There are always some clothes that do not require iron- 
ing, such as knitted underwear, woolens and stockings. 
It is only necessary to smooth these out well and fold 
carefully ; they are fresher if not ironed. 

Be very sure that the irons are clean before heating. 
Place the articles needed for the ironing on the ironing- 
board, at the right. Iron the coarser things first, as the 
irons become smoother the longer they are used. 

First towels, then napkins, table doilies, sheets and pil- 
low-cases, and handkerchiefs. 

Be careful that the hems are properly ironed and the 
edges even — edge to edge. If there is embroidery on the 
articles iron this first and on the wrong side. 

Fold hems of sheets together and fold wrong side out. 
Iron table-linen on the right side. Iron all pieces until 
dry, that is, until all steam stops rising. 

Underclothes. 

If embroidered, iron as directed. Then the sleeves, the 
yoke, and lastly the body of the garment. Iron over as 



LAUNDRY WORK 51 

large a space at one time as possible, and do the work 
rapidly, or the garment will dry. 

Skirts. 

The ruffle is ironed first, then the band, and lastly the 
body of the skirt. 

Any garment with folds and seams should hang for a 
while before being folded ; it is difficult to get the seams 
perfectly dry with the iron. Starched clothes require a 
very hot iron. 

Remember the appearance of napkins and handker- 
chiefs depends upon the way they are folded. Fold all 
napkins in the same way so they will look the same on the 
table. 

Place a Turkish towel under any embroidered article; 
this will make the embroider}^ stand out. 

Never allow irons, when not in use, to stand on the 
stove ; they lose their temper, and are not able to hold the 
heat. 



CHAPTER IV 
BAKING LESSONS 

Note to Teacher. 

The art of baking cannot be mastered quickly. No pu- 
pil can get an understanding of it in fewer than five les- 
sons, and even then she will not have gone far; she must 
practise by herself at home if she wants to know it thor- 
oughly. If a girl is not enthusiastic enough to work out 
baking receipts out of school, these few lessons in school 
will prove useless. 

Suggestion for Plan of Work. 

Taking it for granted that each class has one lesson a 
week, make every other lesson for ten weeks a baking lesson, 
in the following order: 

Baked Meats, one week 

Baked Puddings, one week 

Baked Cheese and Vegetable dishes, one week 

Muffins, Corn Bread and Baking Powder Biscuit, one 

week 
Cookies and Cake, one week. 

This is a very short time to allow for learning to bake, 
and the author urges, if possible, that more lessons be given 
on this subject. 

The contents of this chapter can be studied during the 
weeks of baking. 

Cooking in General. 

There are four reasons for cooking food : 

1. To bring out new flavors. 

2. To please our taste. 

52 



BAKING LESSONS 53 

3. Because cooked foods are usually more digestible 
than raw foods. 

4. To destroy harmful microbes. 

Cooking consists in applying heat to raw food. There 
are many methods of cooking; the most common ways 
are: 

Boiling. That is, cooking food in boiling water, the 
food being covered by the water. 

Stewing. That is, boiling food in a small amount of 
liquid. 

Broiling. Cooking food directly over a fire or in front 
of a fire. 

Roasting. That is, cooking meats, or fish, in an oven, 
allowing the juices to be drawn out into the roasting pan, 
and basting, or moistening, the roast with these juices. 

Frying. Cooking food in hot fat. 

Baking. Cooking in an oven by heated air. 

Frying is a very common method of cooking, because 
it is the easiest and the quickest. It is the least health- 
ful method. In frying, the food absorbs the hot fat, 
and hot fat is very irritating to the stomach, unless it has 
been subjected to long and slow cooking, as in the case 
of baked cakes, cookies, muffins, etc. Even with these it 
is better, before eating, to allow the fat in them to cool. 
A muffin is more digestible cold than fresh from the 
oven. The reason for this is that fat which has been 
heated and then cooled is more granular ; the water has 
been driven off in steam, the fat becomes brittle, and thus 
is more easily broken up in the stomach. 

Baking is a healthful way of cooking food. In baking, 
the heat of the oven expands the air or gas in the food, 
the water in it turns to steam, and a part of this water is 
evaporated while a part remains in the food. It is the 
steam from the food and the expansion of the gases that 



54 A SECOND COURSE IN HOMEMAKING 

work the physical changes in the raw materials that have 
been mixed together. 

The physical changes consist in a blending of all the 
materials that make up the food. No substance is lost, 
but some of the substances are changed. For example, 
in a cake, after it is baked the sugar is still sugar; the 
starch is still starch, and the fat is still all there ; but the 
materials have been blended together, and as this blend- 
ing takes place new flavors are developed. A proportion 
of the starch and sugar in the crust will change to what 
is called caramel. (In the back of this book is a receipt 
for caramel sauce, and any girl can see for herself how 
the flavor of sugar is changed by cooking.) (Page 214.) 

In the back of this book are receipts for baking cake, 
muflins, corn bread and biscuits, baked meats, baked pud- 
dings and baked vegetable and cheese dishes. 

Let us take it for granted that there are to be at least 
five lessons in school from these baking receipts, and that 
all the remaining baking receipts for which there is not 
time in class will be tried by the pupils at home. 

The first thing to be sure of in baking is that you per- 
fectly understand your oven, and that it is in the 
best condition for baking. A freshly made fire is apt to 
give a hotter oven than one that has been burning for 
many hours ; but a fresh fire is by no means always pos- 
sible. Therefore, have your fire as free from clinkers 
and ashes as you can, and have the coals red. 

For a hot oven, close the damper, open the draft, and 
be sure that the check is closed tight. 

There are two ways to test an oven : 

I. Place a piece of clean white paper in the oven and 
time with the clock. If the paper burns in five minutes, 
the oven is a " hot oven." If the paper takes eight min- 
vites to brown, the oven is a " moderate oven." 



BAKING LESSONS 55 

2. An easier test is to hold the hand in the oven and 
count. Your hand will feel very hot in six counts in a 
" hot oven.'' You can count eight before it will feel very 
hot in a " moderate oven." 

Keep the inside of the oven clean ; do not think that 
because no one sees it you can neglect this necessary 
cleaning. 

Doughs or batters, containing a large proportion of 
eggs, should be cooked in a moderate oven to prevent 
toughening. Any pupil can see why this is so if she will 
boil an Qgg rapidly and then boil one slowly ; the first 
Qgg will be tough. 

In baking doughs, the larger the mass, the lower must 
be the temperature of the oven. This is so that the heat 
may have time to penetrate to the middle of the dough, 
and expand the gas and harden the albumen and gluten 
before the crust forms around it. If you are baking a 
cake, for instance, and the crust forms before expansion 
has taken place, the cake will be heavy. 

An oven which has in it food that is giving off much 
moisture, or water vapor — com cake, for example — 
requires more heat. If, at one time, there are several 
dishes in the oven all throwing off steam, the oven should 
be hotter than if those dishes are to be cooked in it sepa- 
rately. 

No brown crust can be formed in baking until the 
water from the surface has nearly all evaporated. 

Remember that every time you open the oven door to 
look at what is baking, you allow cold air to enter the 
oven. On the other hand, don't think for one moment 
that when the dough is in the oven you can forget it. 
It is your responsibility every minute until it is thor- 
oughly cooked. 

If the cake is put on the lower shelf of the oven, the 



,i 



56 A SECOND COURSE IN HOMEMAKING 

greater heat will reach it from the bottom, and the cake 
will cook more slowly (giving the gases time to expand) 
than if the cake was first put on the top shelf, where the 
heat would come on the top of the cake, making a hard 
crust before the dough was heated through. 

All of these points in regard to the oven have to be 
known before the mixing and the baking begin, because 
after the mixture is put together, as little time as possible 
should pass before it is in the oven and the door is shut. 
There is no time to study the oven after the batter is 
mixed. 

Getting Ready for Baking. 

Cover the kitchen table with paper. 

Collect all the utensils and materials that will be used. 

Before you begin work be sure that teaspoon, table- 
spoon, measuring cup, utensil plate, materials to be 
mixed, bowls for mixing, flour sifter, baking pans, even 
paper for buttering pans, are on the table. Every good 
cook will use such forethought in getting ready so that 
after she has once begun to combine the food materials 
she will not have to leave the table until she is ready to 
put the batter into the oven. 

There are good cooks and bad cooks, and to be a poor 
cook takes just as much time as to be a good one. The 
thing that makes a good cook is a thorough interest in 
cooking. Cookery is an art ; and to succeed in it, you 
must, while working, give it your whole attention, your 
common sense, your muscle, and your taste. When a 
girl is a trained cook, she can use her own judgment. 

Doughs. 

Doughs are made light and porous in the following 
way; 



I— I 
H 
O 

w 

w 

o 
>« 

> 

H 
W 
50 

W 

> 

a 

w 
t/) 
c« 

o 




i 



BAKING LESSONS 57 

1. When baking-powder unites with moisture, the gas 
in the baking-powder is set free. To test this, put dry 
baking-powder in a spoon, drop a Httle water on it, and 
at once you will see bubbles of gas. It is this gas in 
dough that makes it light. 

2. Gas is produced by yeast. Yeasts are very minute 
plants. These tiny plants, when they come in contact 
with sugar, so break it up as to produce from it carbonic 
acid gas and alcohol. This process is called fermenta- 
tion. The use of yeast is simply to manufacture the 
gas from the sugar that is in the dough. 

3. Doughs are also made light by beaten eggs. The 
whites of eggs, especially, can be expanded by beating air 
into them. Then, when the egg is added to the dough, 
the air is also added. Batter without eggs can be beaten 
so hard that air is beaten into the batter. When eggs 
are used as leavening agents, the whites are beaten sepa- 
rately, as they will expand much more when they are 
separate from the yolks. The whites are folded into the 
mixture last of all, and a; good cook will be careful to 
break as few air cells as possible. 

4. Soda in combination with an acid such as sour milk 
or molasses liberates a gas that makes the dough light. 

5. The expansion of water into steam, as the heat 
enters the dough in the oven, also lightens the dough. 

All material used for leavening must be kept cold, as 
cold air expands more on being heated than warm air. 

General Rules for Mixing Dough and Batter. 

Two cups of flour require about 4 teaspoons of baking 
powder. But batter and muffin mixtures require more 
baking powder to the amount of flour than soft dough. 

When eggs are added, there should be one less tea- 
spoon of baking powder for each egg. 



58 A SECOND COURSE IN HOMEMAKING 

Fats are added to a dough or batter mixture to make 
it brittle. This is called shortening, and greatly en- 
riches the dough. Fat should be cold when added to 
pastry, but melted when mixed with batter. 

Food that is served cold needs more sweetening than 
food that is to be eaten hot; because warm food tastes 
sweeter than cold. 

To Test any Batter. 

A cake or corn bread or any soft batter is ready to be 
taken from the oven when a toothpick (keep a number 
for this purpose ; do not use a straw from the dirty 
broom) can be inserted in it and no batter sticks to the 
toothpick. 

Some Reasons why the Baking is not Always a 
Success. 

Girls forget to watch the fire, and put on coal at the 
wrong time. 

They are apt to think that any oven will bake, and so 
do not test it. 

Cake is not put in the oven at once after mixing. 

The leavening agents are not cold. 

Girls sometimes forget to move the cake from the 
bottom to the top shelf at just the right time. 

Girls sometimes forget to watch the cake and test it 
with the toothpick before it is overdone. 

An interested cook is usually a good cook. 



CHAPTER V 
SENSIBLE DIET! 

Note to Teachers. 

The first thing to do in this lesson is to read over the 
chapter carefully. Each girl should have her book and fol- 
low as the girls in turn read aloud. The teacher should take 
all the time she thinks necessary to explain the new words as 
they occur in the text. It will take all of one lesson to go 
over the chapter carefully in this way, not omitting the 
sample meals at the end of the chapter, because until these 
are clearly understood by the pupils, it will not be possible 
for them to go on and do original work. 

The second week's lesson may take up the actual cooking 
of a breakfast, the week following, the preparing and cook- 
ing of a dinner, and the week after, the preparing and cook- 
ing of a supper. The combination of foods or the menu 
used at these meals should be selected in the following way : 

Each girl should prepare at home the menu for an entire 
day — breakfast, dinner, and supper, — taking into considera- 
tion the idea of economy, nourishment, digestibility, and 
balance of foods. These menus will be handed to the 
teacher, and each one discussed by her before the entire class. 
Every girl must be made to feel that her work is thoroughly 
appreciated and in no way be made to feel ashamed of any 
errors that may occur. After all the menus have been thus 
criticized, the best menu of each meal should be chosen as 
the one to be cooked in class. Thus, if a girl has planned a 
good breakfast, but not so good a supper and dinner as an- 
other girl, her breakfast should be chosen, while the other 
girl's supper or dinner should be selected. 

1 This chapter is rewritten from a paper by Eugene Lyman Fisk, 
M.D., a New York doctor, read by him at a meeting of the Med- 
ical Society of the County of New York. 

59 



6o A SECOND COURSE IN HOMEMAKING 

Sensible Diet. 

Why do we need advice in regard to what we eat? 
Why should we not eat what we want when we want it, 
so long as we feel well ? The answer is that we do not 
know that because we feel well to-day we shall continue 
to be well ten years hence when the result of our diet has 
had its effect on our heart, brain, liver, or kidneys. 

We know that the average person is not as strong and 
well as he ought to be, so that we have the right to con- 
sider whether there is not possible some improvement in 
our food, as there is certainly possible an improvement 
in many of our other daily habits. Wise men have been 
for some years testing the results of food, and they have 
found out how an improvement in health is possible. 

There are two ways of treating this subject : 

First. To prepare a daily list of foods, and to ask 
you to have faith enough to believe that they are what 
you ought to eat. 

Second. To outline a few important principles in 
regard to food, and then to let you make up your own 
bill of fare. 

In this chapter we shall try to make some of the prin- 
ciples clear, and in addition we shall add a few simple 
bills of fare at the end. 

The practical questions that confront the housewife 
are : What is the cheapest, best-tasting and most digesti- 
ble food that will keep a family in the highest state of 
health? What are the most important food require- 
ments? What are the least important? 

The most important foods for the human body are 
energy foods. These energy foods are called carbona- 
ceous foods. Just as coal, the simplest form of carbon 
is fuel for a steam engine, so are the carbonaceous foods 



SENSIBLE DIET 6i 

fuel for the human engine. Carbonaceous, or energy- 
giving foods are sugar, starches, and fats. The sugar 
and starches are called carbohydrates ; the fats are called 
hydrocarbons; but the single term carbonaceous covers 
all. It is well for us to get familiar with these terms. 
For the average human body about six-tenths of the heat 
or fuel needed should come from the carbohydrates, 
namely, sugar, potatoes, bread, cereals, and vegetables. 
Three-tenths should come from hydrocarbons, namely, 
fats, butter, oils, milk or cream, and the fat of meat, 
the latter the least desirable. A person who exer- 
cises a good deal, or works very hard, needs more fuel 
food than one who does very little with his body. 

The least important foods are those which we take for 
the purpose of building up or repairing the body. These 
are the nitrogenous, or protein foods. We have seen 
that from' energy-giving foods we should get six-tenths 
plus three-tenths of our needs. This leaves one-tenth, 
and that one-tenth should come from what are called 
proteins. Examples of these are the lean of meat, fish, 
all flesh foods, white of eggs, and cheese. Certain vege- 
tables are also rich in protein, especially peas, beans, and 
lentil. There is protein also in nuts, cereals and bread. 
These latter foods contain both elements, heat and 
energy. 

Now, after a skyscraper has been built, we do not keep 
piling brick and mortar and steel girders into it. A cer- 
tain amount of wear occurs, and a limited amount of re- 
pair material is needed right along. So it is with the 
human body. The body having been built, these protein 
materials are needed in limited quantities for mainte- 
nance; not more than 5 per cent, is needed for growth. 
These proteins can also be used for energy, but they are 
an expensive source of energy, just as oak or mahogany 



62 A SECOND COURSE IN HOMEMAKING 

wood is an expensive fuel to burn in the furnace. If the 
body takes in too much protein fuel, the intestines become 
poisoned. Careful experiments by many wise men in 
this country and in Europe have shown that we can have 
sound health and strength on about half the quantity of 
protein or meat foods that are generally eaten. Increased 
muscular work does not call for more meat, but for more 
energy food. " More work — more meat " is not true. 
It is true that a man doing hard outdoor exercise can 
burn up greater quantities of meat or protein food than 
a man working quietly in the house, but he may still 
poison his body, and the meat food is an expensive fuel 
from a financial as well as a health standpoint. The 
homemaker, for these reasons, should keep herself and 
her family from too much of this class of foods. There 
is less risk of injury from peas, beans, lentils, eggs, 
cheese, and nuts than from meat. Such foods are like- 
wise cheaper, so a goodly portion of the protein should be 
got from food other than meat. Meat makes an acid 
gas in the intestines, and does not stimulate them, and 
they are apt to become sluggish and not throw off the 
poison or waste. Meat, fish, or eggs once a day will 
keep one's body fairly safe. Many people keep in good 
health without any meat, but until we know more about 
it, it is well to keep meat in our dietary so long as it is 
used in small quantities. 

Other important elements in our foods are the fruit 
and vegetable acids and alkaline salts, and other in- 
organic material such as phosphorus and iron. These 
elements are not exactly foods, as they do not supply 
energy and are little needed for repairs, although they 
enter into the bone, teeth, and other tissues, and are 
needed for growth and to maintain a certain chemical 
balance in the blood and elsewhere. Lack of these 



SENSIBLE DIET 6^ 

elements, especially lime, may cause serious disease. 
For this reason, we must eat in abundance fruit and 
green vegetables. These keep the kidneys active and 
the blood healthy. 

As to arranging a dietary with the above to guide 
us, it is necessary to have at least a rough idea of the 
energy requirements of the body. This is measured in 
what are called calories. Calory means a definite, easily 
understandable unit of measure. Just as a scuttle of 
coal will produce a certain amount of steam pressure, so 
will a definite quantity of food produce a certain amount 
of heat or energy when burned in the body, — in other 
words, when digested and absorbed. The body is losing 
heat constantly, and this heat must be replaced or the 
body will grow cold and the internal activities will 
stop. 

A woman weighing 155 pounds requires 2900 calories 
a day. The number of available calories in the various 
foods have been determined by scientific experiments. 

Nuts are high in protein and calorific value and can 
be substituted for meat and other protein foods, but they 
should not be added to a meal already rich in protein, 
such as an ordinary Christmas or Thanksgiving dinner. 
Peanuts, or peanut butter, and apples, form a well-bal- 
anced ration that would supply the body's needs 'at small 
expense. Macaroni and cheese also forms a well-bal- 
anced ration of protein, carbohydrate, and fat. Needless 
to say, foods must be made digestible by cooking, or their 
calorific value is lost. 

It is not so hard to think in calories as one might im- 
agine. Take a dinner and analyze it, — Roast beef, 100 
calories. Bread 150, Butter 150, Rice Croquettes 128, 
Baked Potatoes 100, Bread Pudding 128, Sugar (two 
lumps) in coffee 100. Total 956, about one-third of the 



64 A SECOND COURSE IN HOMEMAKING 

day's requirements in calories. This meal has too much 
protein, but the balance would be restored by lack of 
protein and more green vegetables and fruit at the other 
meals. An ordinary portion of these hearty foods aver- 
ages about 100 calories. 

When one is working hard, the portions of bread, po- 
tatoes, butter, and rice can be increased and will easily 
raise the meal to the energy requirement, without the 
addition of a protein ration. If a man has worked hard 
and is hungry, help him to more potatoes and vegetables, 
or simple pudding, but do not increase the meat portions. 
Corn bread and syrup will carry him far on a cold day, 
and if he works hard he will burn it up completely ; there 
will be no ashes, as in the case of meat or other protein. 

The beacon lights I would hang up are as follows : 

To keep you warm and give you energy for work, eat 
energy or fuel foods, potatoes, bread, cereals, corn bread, 
syrup, and other sugars. 

To keep your muscles and organs in repair eat a 
limited and fixed amount of repair foods, meat, eggs, 
cheese, nuts, flesh foods, peas, beans and lentils. 

Do not increase the repair foods with increase in work 
or exposure to cold; increase the fuel foods for further 
energy. 

Eat fruit every day. Canned fruits are good. Cooked 
fruit is often better than fresh fruit. 

Eat green vegetables whenever you can get them. 
Thoroughly wash all raw foods. 

Have plenty of bulky vegetables of low food value, 
like carrots, parsnips, spinach, turnip, squash and cab- 
bage to stimulate the bowels and give flavor to the diet 
and prevent over-nourishment. 

Eat slowly and taste your food well, and it will slide 
down at the proper time. 



SENSIBLE DIET 65 

Do not let any one bring a grouch or a cross feeling 
to the dinner table ; it will upset all the food values. 

A Sample Italian Menu. 

Breakfast 

Apple Sauce 

Scrambled Eggs 

Rolls or Italian Bread 

Coffee or Cocoa 

Lunch 

Polenta with Tomato Sauce 
Bread Sticks 

Dimier 

Minestra or Vegetable Soup 

Veal Cutlets 

Mashed Potatoes 

Lettuce Salad with French Dressing 

Italian Bread 

Tea 

A Sample Italian Menu. 

Breakfast 

Oranges 

Poached Eggs on Toast 

Cocoa or Coffee 

Lunch 

Split Pea Soup 
Jam Sandwiches 



66 A SECOND COURSE IN HOMEMAKING 

Dinner 

Meat Balls with Spaghetti 

String Beans 

Salad with French Dressing 

Fruit 

A Sample Day*s Menu. 

Breakfast 

Oranges 

Oatmeal with Milk 

Coffee or Cocoa Toast 

Lunch 

Bean Soup 
Bread and Butter 

Dinner 

Vegetable Soup 

Creamed Codfish Baked Potatoes 

Baked Corn Pudding 

Apple Pie 

Sample of Daily Food Expenditures. 

For Family of Six. 

Father, mother, and grandmother. 

Boy of 15 years. 

Child of 6 years, and baby i^ years. 

The child of six years has four meals a day, and the 
baby five meals. The total cost is $1.78 or $.29% per 
person per day. 

This does not provide for anything left over. 



SENSIBLE DIET 67 

Breakfast 

Stewed Prunes 

Oatmeal 

Coffee Milk 

Scrambled Eggs 

Buttered Toast 
Baked Apple for Baby 

COST OF BREAKFAST 

I cup oatmeal $.02 

4 tbsp. coffee 04 

6 eggs 20 

^ loaf bread 02^ 

y2 lb. prunes 06 

I qt. milk 08 

2^2 tbsp. butter 03^ 



2 



8 tbsp. sugar 02 

I apple 02 

Total $.50>4 

Lunch or Supper 

Pea Soup 

Tea 

Bread and Butter 

Apricots 

COST OF SUPPER OR LUNCHEON 

% lbs. apricots $.10 

1 loaf bread 05 

2 tsp. tea 04 

3 tbsp. butter 04 

I pint milk 04 



L_ 



68 A SECOND COURSE IN HOMEMAKING 

2^ tbsp. sugar oi 

Pork for soup 043^ 

I onion 01 

I baked potato for baby 02 

I ^gg 05 

I cup peas for soup 05 



Total $453^ 

Dinner 

Pot Roast with Browned Potatoes 
Lettuce Salad 
Bread and Butter 
Corn Starch Pudding 

COST OF DINNER 

3 lbs. beef >. .$.48 

6 potatoes 08 

I head lettuce 05 

Dressing for salad 03 

1 loaf bread 05 

2 tbsp. corn starch 01 

4 tbsp. sugar 01 

Seasoning for corn starch 03 

I pint milk 04 

I extra pint milk a day for baby and girl 

of 6 04 

Total $.82 

1. What does the protein in foods contribute to our 
bodies ? 

2. What is carbohydrate in food? Name some foods 



SENSIBLE DIET 69 

that contain carbohydrates in large quantities. What 
does carbohydrate give to our body ? 

3. Name foods rich in fats. 

4. What value is there in food except the protein, 
carbohydrate, and fats? 

5. Why ajre large quantities of protein and fat-giving 
food needed in cold climates and during our winters? 
Why are fruits and vegetables valuable in hot weather? 

6. Can you read food-charts as easily as you read 
a printed book? This is necessary for intelligent work. 

7. Can you work from printed receipts without help? 
Master them; you cannot carry a teacher about with 
you. 

Never think that what you do is as important as what 
you are. If you learn to respect your body, you will de- 
mand that the food that nourishes it is the right food 
as truly as that the house it lives in conforms to every 
law of health and beauty. 



CHAPTER VI 
DIVISION OF INCOME 

Note to Teachers. 

The purpose of this chapter is to give every girl a clear 
understanding of such expressions as income, percentage, 
division of income, household accounts, budget, etc. Every 
girl should know what it means to keep account of the money 
coming into a household and the money going out of it and 
why this is necessary. 

The author of this book suggests that the chapter be read 
aloud at first, with many pauses; that there should be fre- 
quent explanations on the part of the teacher; and that the 
pupils should be given an opportunity to ask questions about 
anything which they do not understand. The next step will 
be for the teacher to decide which one of the two methods 
of keeping accounts here given is the better one for her 
pupils to practise. To try first one and then the other would 
confuse the class. 

If the envelope method of keeping accounts is selected, get 
stout manila envelopes for the purpose. Make paper money 
to the amount of $20 (one week's wage at a yearly income of 
$1040), or make $86.66 of paper money — the monthly in- 
come from the same year's wage. Have plenty of change, 
as well as some bills. The class must work out the amount to 
be allowed for each expenditure and put it into the right en- 
velope. When an imaginary shopping trip is made the list 
of articles to be bought should be written down by the 
teacher, and the girl she selects to» do the shopping must 
take the money needed from the proper envelope and put a 
slip in its place showing the expenditure. Start every class 
with a new set of envelopes. 

If the pad method is selected, use sheets like the sample 

70 



DIVISION OF INCOME 



71 



given below, and follow instructions as shown later in the 
chapter. Have enough sheets to give more than one to every 
pupil of every class. Mistakes will be made at first, and the 
girls will have to go over the work again and again. 



Weekly Expense Account. 
For the week ending - 



To expend $ 



Day of 
Month 




20 
j>er 
cent 

1 


43 
per 
cent 

u* 
1 


5 

per 
cent 

!^ 


10 

per 
cent 

1 


4 

per 
cent 

S 


2 
per 
cent 

1 
<5 

i 

$ 


16 
per 
cent 

8 

1 

to 


100 
per 
cent 

3 



$ 


Savings $ „ 

forward 

Deficit $ 

forward 




Monday 




















Tuesday 












~ 










Wednesday 






Thursday 






Friday 


To reckon per- 
centa{(e multiply 




Saturday 
















the total sum to 
expend by the 




Sunday 


















per cent thus, 43% 
(per cent) of $20. 




Total Rec 


elDts i 








a week, is .43 
times $20.=$8.60 
.43 
20 




Expenses $.. 
Savings t. 








8.60 













Division of Income. 

What is income ? 

The dictionary says that income is the money which 
" comes in to a person as payment for labor or services, 
or as gain from business, land or investment." 

The income of an ordinary family is what is paid the 
father each week for his labor, or what he makes from 
his store or office ; and added to this is such money as 
the mother or the children earn by their individual labor. 



^2 A SECOND COURSE IN HOMEMAKING 

Sometimes an income may be increased by renting rooms 
in the home to outside persons. All this money added 
together makes up the family income. 

Why is it necessary to divide one's income before 
spending it ? Why must one plan how to spend it before- 
hand? Because certain expenditures are absolutely 
necessary to keep us alive, while other expenditures 
are what we call luxuries — we can live and be happy 
without them. 

Wise business men and women have taken hundreds 
of family incomes and have calculated what part or what 
percentage of these incomes should be spent for food, 
what percentage for rent, what for clothes, etc. Restau- 
rants, stores and hotels are run in this way. Experience 
has shown that the man or woman in charge of a restau- 
rant will not succeed if he spends more than 43 per cent, 
of his income for food ; 28 per cent, for the cook and 
waitresses, or what is called labor ; and i lyi per cent, for 
rent and all other necessary expenses. The percentage 
must stay the same whether the restaurant makes little or 
much money; that is, if he decides that his expenses 
shall amount to 82^ per cent, of the income, he pays out 
about five-sixths of what comes in and no more. If he 
takes in $100 a week, $82.50 will go to buy food, pay the 
cook and the other necessary charges. If he has a larger 
restaurant and takes in $1000 a week, he can have better 
food, more people to work for him, and spend $825.00, 
but the percentage is still the same ; he is still paying out 
about five-sixths of what he takes in. 

Now, we should run our homes in much the same 
way ; but, as a family's income increases, the percentage 
for food, rent, fuel, becomes smaller. That is, if a man 
gets $20 a week, he spends (or should spend) about 
$13.50 for food, rent and heat. If he gets $25 a week, he 



DIVISION OF INCOME 73 

spends little more for these necessities, but more for 
clothes, education, recreation and health. The division 
of an income differs in different places. Rents in large 
cities are twice as high as in small towns. Fuel in the 
country is less than in a city. Carfare is an important 
item of expense to a man in the suburbs, while it does not 
count to a man who can walk to business. The division 
in this chapter is that of the average city family. ] 

There are people so rich that they do not need to divide ■ 

their income before spending it; but many rich people j 

do make this division. Some of them put into their bud- j 

get (that is, their calculations) a certain percentage j 

which is to be given away. Some give away lo per cent. ' 

of all the money that comes in, some even more. Many 
families fa«il Xp live well, not because they have not ; 

enough income, but because they do not calculate before 
spending it how it can be spent to the best advantage. 

It is (as every girl knows) the woman, the house- ! 

wife, the mother in the home, who manages the expendi- 
tures ; and the girls who study this book are the house- i 
wives of the future. An orderly mind in this matter of ] 
money and how to spend it, is what is lacking in nearly 
all homes. To have this clear sense of order in house- I 
hold management, several things are necessary. ] 

First. A woman must feel within herself the ability | 

to do every kind of housework perfectly with her own I 

hands. This gives a consciousness of power and does ''■ 

away with the feeling of confusion that often comes 
from facing tasks of which we are not the master. 

Second. Be a good marketer. Forty-three per cent. i 

of the average small income goes out for food. To buy | 

well is almost half of the battle won. I 

Third. Know the value of foods, so that you will ] 

not spend 25 per cent, for water and waste, and only i 



74 A SECOND COURSE IN HOMEMAKING 



i8 per cent, for nourishment. Make your money buy 
just as much as possible of the food that makes bone and 
tissue and good red blood. 

Fourth. Know how to cook. Make the most of the 
food purchased, bringing out all the flavor, and assur- 
ing its digestibility. Never waste any left-over food. 

Fifth. Be an expert at sewing and mending and mak- 
ing over clothes. A woman who can't sew, trying to live 
on a small income, will never clothe her family well 
on the allowed one-tenth of her income. Darn the stock- 




tMJ^,, ,,,,,,, .,xM^,»,.,,.,n..,m))i^ .:,,,.,,,,m£^ 



11 • i I 11 1 1 II P 



"^nn — ^<o — '^^n — ''"^ir 




Fig. 2. Rack for Writing Desk 

ings when the holes are small. Sew on a button when it 
first comes off; buttons cost very little and take little 
time to sew on, but one would think they were worth 
dollars, so many safety pins are used in their place. 

Sixth. A simply furnished, orderly house is the ex- 
pression of a good housekeeper. When you visit a 
house where there is a place for everything and every- 
thing is in its place, you know at once that the housewife 
has a good business mind. There is one article of furni- 
ture that is almost a necessity in this home, if accounts 
are to be kept : that is a desk or table for writing, and a 



DIVISION OF INCOME 75 

drawer in which to keep papers. Buy a kitchen table 
for $2.40, with a drawer, and with square legs. Make 
an alcohol stain by mixing wood alcohol with enough 
dry stain to make the required color. Stain the entire 
table with this. After it is thoroughly dry, rub ofif all of 
the dry stain with a soft cloth, and lastly, wax with any 
floor wax or common beeswax. Make a rack for the 
back of the desk to hold bills, papers, etc. (Any carpen- 
ter can make a rack like the picture.) Have a tray to 
hold pens and pencils, a glass ink-well that can be washed 
and a large blotter. This desk, completely equipped, will 
make it easier to keep the family accounts; no one is 
likely to do this work well if the materials are not handy. 
Remember, no work is accomplished without labor. 

From now on we will imagine five people when we 
speak of a family : father, mother and three children. 
Each family has its own standard of living. For in- 
stance, a family paying $15 a month for rent has dif- 
ferent food, different clothes, lives in a different way 
from the family spending $100 a month for rent. Not 
until the income is more than $icxx) a year does the 
style of living change much ; then the standard of living 
is different in every department. In the household with 
the smaller income, the women work and keep no serv- 
ant; in the one with the larger income, it is possi- 
ble to employ a servant to do the housework. Every- 
thing in the two houses will be different, from the furni- 
ture to the cut of meat that is bought for dinner. But 
the woman who makes a pleasant home, and feeds her 
family well with the smaller income, proves herself the 
more remarkable business woman, although her window 
curtains may not cost as much, or her hands be as soft. 

A family cannot be said to have a living wage (or 
income) unless enough money comes in every week to 



^G A SECOND COURSE IN HOMEMAKING 

buy sufficient food to nourish thoroughly every member 
of the family ; to provide a shelter that gives each person 
enough room to sleep and eat and live in comfortably, 
and clothes enough to keep the body v^arm,; to secure an 
education for the children up to the age of fourteen 
(at the very least) ; and to have enough money besides to 
keep the house and its equipment in repair. To be an 
adequate income there must be some money for recrea- 
tion (as perfect health is seldom possible without this 
contrast from work) and a little money to put away 
against possible sickness. If there is not this ability to 
save, the wage earners worry, and worry is like poison, 
it saps the strength that in 2c worker is turned into the 
labor that is exchanged for money. 

What is the lowest living wage for a family of five? 
What is the least a. family can live on and keep out of 
debt? Different writers give different figures, but in 
New York City $832.00 a year is given as the least, or 
$16 a week. But $1040 a year, or $20 a week, is a more 
possible living income. So, in learning how to divide the 
money that a family spends we will take this sum. 

We learned before in this chapter that with an income 
of from $832 to $1040, the expenditure for necessities is 
about the same; with the larger wage, however, more is 
spent for clothes and extras. 

There are two ways in which it is possible to learn 
to keep accounts — by envelopes or by weekly pads. 
With either method, the percentage to be expended for 
each item is the same. Forty-three per cent, of your in- 
come, or nearly half of what comes in each week, should 
be spent for food ; only 20 per cent, for rent (if your 
family has only $16 a week to live on, not more than 
$3.20 a week, or about $13.50 a month should be spent 
for rent). On $20 a week you can take an apartment for 



DIVISION OF INCOME "Jl 

$17.33 a month. Only 5 per cent, of your income should 
be spent for coal and gas, 10 per cent, for clothes, and so 
on. Starting with the pad system — on one sheet of the 
pad each girl can work out for herself how her income 
should be divided. There should be fifty-two sheets in 
each pad, one for every week in the year. Each sheet is 
divided into columns giving the percentage of the income 
allowed for each household expense, and each column is 
divided into spaces for the days of the week. In the 
lower, right-hand corner is shown how to reckon percent- 
age. At the head of each column is a dollar mark. Reckon 
for yourself how much, with different weekly incomes 
you should spend- for each item, and then see how 
nearly you have approached this at the end of the week. 
If you try. this method of keeping accounts, beside 
the pad an account book should be always at hand. No 
matter where you go, take your account book with you (a 
penny blank book will do), and make an entry in it every 
time you spend money for carfare, marketing, clothes, 
rent, etc. Put down the amount you spend' and what you 
spend it for. At the end of each day enter the total 
of each expenditure on your pad. For example, " Mon- 
day " you spend and write in your account book the 
following items : 

Bread $ .05 

Potatoes and fruit 20' 

Gas (quarter meter) 25 

Shoes mended 50 

New pail 25 

Carrots 05 

Soup meat 10 

Sugar 05 

Milk 07 



78 A SECOND COURSE IN HOMEMAKING 

Moving pictures 15 

Carfare 10 

Coal 20 

Month's rent 17-33 

That evening write" in the rent cohimn of your pad 
after Monday $4.00; for although you pay by the month, 
a rent of $17.33 comes to $4.00 a week. Your food, on 
Monday, added together comes to $.52; gas and fuel 
$.45 ; clothing (that would include the mending of shoes) 
$.50; you do not put .anything in the insurance column 
for we will suppose that the collector comes to you on 
Fridays. Recreation (that takes in carfare and moving 
pictures) is $.25. The new pail for $.25 will go in the 
sundries column. 

To practice this method in class, six girls may be se- 
lected, and each girl may be assigned one day in the week 
to go on an imaginary shopping trip. The prices of the 
articles bought by each girl should be entered in the 
correct column. After the entries have been made for 
the whole week, add all the expenditures together and 
see how far out of the way they are. If they come 
to more than; they should, put the amount under deficit, 
and realize that you should not spend any more on the 
accounts where you have exceeded the average per- 
centage until the amount has been made up. 

Every girl who has the care of the house expenditures 
may have a pad of this kind. 

To use the envelope method one should have seven en- 
velopes. At the top of one write " Rent," of another 
" Food," then " Light and Fuel," " Clothing," " Insur- 
ance," " Recreation," " Extras." If other divisions are 
more convenient, they may be used ; these are merely 
suggestions. In each envelope put the amount of the 



DIVISION OF INCOME 79 

week's wages that can be spent for that especial account, 
calculating on the same percentage basis as that used with 
the pads. When any member of the family takes money 
out of one of the envelopes, she must put in its place a 
slip of paper on which is written the anx)unt taken out, 
by whom taken out, and what it is spent for. At the 
end of the week there should be in each envelope either 
the money or the slip accounting for the money. On 
the outside of the envelope, the expenses for each day 
can be entered and added together at the end of the 
week to see how nearly the amount spent compares with 
the amount that should have been spent. If the money in 
the envelope marked " Clothes " is insufficient, you may 
have to borrow from the envelope marked " Food," but in 
that case enter the loan on a slip and pay back the 
" Food " envelope next week. This also can be practised 
in class with make-believe money and make-believe buy- 
ing. 

When a woman knows how much money she can spend 
she should not spend more. A mistake one month will 
be corrected the next. 



CHAPTER VII 
MARKETING 



Note to Teachers. 



It is not possible to have pupils go to market with the 
teachers often enough to secure for them any real ac- 
quaintance with, foods or knowledge of how to buy. One 
visit to the butcher shop is of some benefit in learning the 
cuts of meat, but by means of charts in the quiet of the class 
room a teacher can help her pupils fully as much, if not 
more. This marketing lesson is one that must extend 
through the entire year. Every time there is a cooking 
lesson there will be buying. This buying should be done by 
the pupils, and after each article is bought and brought into 
the kitchen it should be examined by the class, the price dis- 
cussed and the questions asked and answered from every 
point of view. Have we bought the best for the money 
spent? Is it clean material? Was the shop sanitary? Has 
any one any suggestion as to how this particular purchase 
could have been better made? The teacher will vary the 
purchases by buying as many different kinds of food as pos- 
sible. The table of weights and measures on page 158 will 
help to show the pupils the advantage of buying by the quan- 
tity. Send a girl out to buy, for example, 2 cents' worth of 
sugar, 10 cents' worth of butter, a package of farina, and 
then from the groceries in the kitchen have her measure out 
the same amount. Compare the percentage of price paid 
for the small amount with that paid for the large amount. 

How to Learn Marketing. 

Marketing is like cooking, the only way to learn how 
to cook is by cooking day after day, making mistakes, 
producing unexpectedly good results, blundering along, 

80 



MARKETING 8i 

working, working, working, until finally, you instinctively 
know the taste of the pudding before you begin to com- 
bine the ingredients. You know instantly what flavor- 
ing is lacking in the stew the moment you taste it. You 
can make an entire meal from the left-overs in the ice 
box by adding here and combining there ; and never will 
you waste so much as one Qgg shell. Only then are you 
a first-class cook. Marketing is mastered in the same 
way. Not one visit to the market with a teacher can 
teach you how to buy. All that teachers and books 
can do is to give you the rules to work by and a few un- 
derlying principles that you must fit to your exceptional 
case. Few cases conform exactly to the general type 
portrayed in books on Food and How to Buy It. Taste, 
education, amount of money, digestibility, time, all go to- 
ward making your case different from others. 

Don't begin to market after you get to the store. The 
ice-box, the window shelf that holds the left-over food, 
the stale-bread box; these are the first places to visit. 
Any one can go to the market and buy steak, vegetables, 
salad, dessert, but only an artist of the kitchen can see 
in the liquid part of the left-over mutton stew the foun- 
dation of a clam chowder; or can make good meat balls 
from the strained off pieces of meat, the few pieces of 
the stale bread in the bread-box and one onion, by putting 
them through the meat grinder, and seasoning cor^- 
rectly. To a woman with a creative mind, the cold 
cereal of yesterday is not something for the garbage 
pail, but thickening for soup. All children do not 
like cereals plain. A wise housekeeper is glad of 
the chance to give such a child the same nourish- 
ment in combination with other foods. In that same 
wonderful ice-box you may find the water that yester- 
day's corned beef was cooked in, or the vegetable water 



82 A SECOND COURSE IN HOMEMAKING 

from yesterday's beets. At once you think of pea soup, 
using the corned beef water instead of pork, or you will 
spend five cents for vegetables and use the beet water for 
soup stock. A few pieces of stale cake are in the cake 
box; that means that with one egg, a little milk, sugar 
and chocolate you have the pudding for dinner. 

Now when you start for the butcher's and the grocer's 
you buy only what will supplement and make into new 
combinations the food at home. 

What are some of the foundation principles that 
every housewife should carry with her to the market? 
We can mention only a few: 

Waste is one of America's greatest faults. 

You want the meat of an tgg to-day rather than the 
egg shell, but it is wasteful not to foresee that to-morrow 
morning you will want the shell to clear the coffee. In 
the same foolish way, women buy meat, and stand and 
look on while the butcher (having made those women 
first pay for the entire weight) trims off the fat, and cuts 
out the bone, and throws this valuable food in a box 
under the counter to be sold again ; and yet these women 
know that the bone is good for soup and the fat for 
frying. Why do they do it? Indifference and laziness. 

Another rule to carry to market is : don't buy in small 
quantities. The author of this book knows that space is 
valuable, and that storage place is sadly lacking in most 
homes, but many buy five cents' worth of this, ten 
cents' worth of that, because no thought has been given 
to using what space there is. 

Glass jars take up very little room; they cost only 
from five to ten cents each, and they last forever. Put 
a shelf in the kitchen ; and on it a row of quart jars, each 
holding a dry grocery ; and you have added to the beauty 
of your kitchen, you have saved money by buying in 



MARKETING 83 

quantity, and you have saved the labor of running out 
every morning for the flour, sugar, cofl'ee and staple 
articles that should be always in the house. See frontis- 
piece, '' A Canning Lesson." 

Don't try to buy cheaper than the market price. If 
butter is selling for 41 cents a pound, and you can buy it 
for 30 cents, there is something the matter with the 
butter. When you think you buy 45 cent eggs for 25 
cents, you don't; you buy only 25 cent eggs. The sales- 
man deceived you by making you believe you were saving 
money, instead of telling you that you were paying a high 
price for bad eggs. 

In some shops sugar, flour, rice, etc., is all done up in 
pound packages ; *' to save time," you are told. Have 
the dry groceries you buy weighed out before you. 
It takes a little more of your time, but you get the full 
weight for your money. When you buy crackers by the 
package, you pay for paper and the labor of packing. 
One half pound of loose soda crackers has 35 crackers, 
and costs 5 cents. One package of soda crackers has 
24 crackers and costs 5 cents. You sacrifice eleven crack- 
ers for the paper package. 

Meat. 

To buy meat to the best advantage a girl must know 
the different cuts ; which ones are tough and which are 
tender; where the juicy parts lie; what the proportion of 
meat is to bone in each cut and why the quality and 
price of the meat is different in one part from another. 
This knowledge may be gained by a careful study of 
meat charts; by asking questions of those who know, and 
more than all else by going to market and learning by 
experience. 

To study and acquire a perfect knowledge of the charts 



84 A SECOND COURSE IN HOMEMAKING 

given in this chapter is the best way for a class to study 
this question of meats. 

Tal<e, first, Fig. 3. This is a picture of the bones in an 
ox. The vertebrae run from the head to the tail. Study 
the bones in the spine v^ith the help of the text under- 
neath, so that when you see those bones in the butcher 
shop you will know at once from which part of the ani- 




Fig. 3. Location of the Bones in the Various Cuts of Meat 

01 to 02, neck; 02 to 03, six chuck ribs; 03 to 04, seven prime ribs; 
04 to 05, loin or porterhouse; 05 to 06, thick or hip sirloin; 06 to aS, rump 
piece; 07, where rump is divided into top and tail end; c, d, shoulder- 
blade; e, e, e, e, cross-rib-piece; f, g, bones in shoulder of beef; h, 
sternum; i, head of thigh-bone; k, socket; I, ball. 

mal each cut comes. As the beef hangs in the market it 
is split in two down the back bone. Remember this 
when you try to locate the bones as seen in the picture. 
See Fig. 4. 

A careful study of the text under these two cuts will 
give you a clear knowledge of where the porterhouse 
steak, the rib roasts, the chuck, the round steaks, etc., 
come from. No matter, at first, about the cost; learn 



MARKETING 



85 




Fig. 4. Side of Beef — New York Method of Cutting 

a, neck; 02 to 03, six chuck ribs; 03 to 04, seven prime ribs; aA to a^ 
porterhouse roasts or steaks; ^5 to a6, thick or hip sirloin; a6 to a? tAl 
end of rump; a7 to a8, top of rump; aS to ag, round; aio leg; ft top of 
rib T'sh'in ' ^' P^'' P''"' "' "'^'^' ^' f' ^'''^^'' ^' should!;; %'c7oss. 



86 A SECOND COURSE IN HOMEMAKING 

only the location of the varioiis cuts ; be familiar with 
the names, and learn what cuts have little and what have 
much bone. 

Now pass on to Fig. 5 and again study the different 
cuts; this time with thought as to the price and the 
quality of the meat. 

The cuts of beef can be divided into three qualities ; 
first, those from the middle of the back, called ribs. 




Fig. 5. Diagram of Ox 

I, rump or short steak; 2, round; 3, loin; 4, flank; 5, leg; 6, ribs; 7, 
chuck; 8, neck; 9, brisket; 10, shoulder; 11, navel; 12, plate. 

There are seven of these ribs, as you can see by counting 
in Fig. 3. They are marked 6 on Fig. 5. Porterhouse, 
sirloin and Delmonico steaks are cut just back of these 
ribs. These are the most expensive cuts ; in New York 
City the meat costs from twenty-four to thirty cents a 
pound. These roasts and steaks are also the tenderest 
part, because they are the least muscular, that is the least 
exercised. There is, as you will see in Fig. 3, a great 
deal of bone that you pay for when you buy these expen- 



MARKETING 87 

sive cuts. As the butcher cuts the meat from nearer 
the head and nearer the tail he charges less. Cuts from 
these parts of the beef are the second quality. Rump and 
round, marked i and 2 on Fig. 5, are the back cuts, and 
the chuck (marked 7) is the part near the head. In both 
of these extremities the meat is more muscular. Watch 
a cow moving its head back and forth, or notice the 
constant motion of its hind legs, and you will see at once 
how much more the muscles are used here than in the 
back. Although this makes the meat less tender and 
therefore cheaper, we find in these second quality cuts 
less bone and fat than in the rib ; and the meat has more 
flavor, and is juicier. The tenderness is gained by lon- 
ger cooking. The chuck and round make excellent rolled 
steaks and pot roasts. The round is used because of its 
juicy quality for making beef broth, beef tea, scraped 
beef and stew. These second quality cuts, in New York, 
are from 18 to 24 cents a pound. 

The third quality is the toughest meat; that on the 
legs, that part below the neck called the brisket (marked 
9 on Fig. 5) and the meat on the belly, called the navel 
and plate (11 and 12 on the chart). From the neck 
we get good stew meat, beef for broiling and mince 
meat. The brisket, navel and flank are often put into 
brine and sold as corned beef. The heavy part under the 
ribs is sold too for stew meat and pot roasts. The price 
of this meat is from 16 to 18 cents a pound. It is from 
the legs, or shin as it is called, that much of the good soup 
meat comes ; the bone adding to the flavor because of the 
marrow inside and the gelatin from the tissue. This shin 
or soup meat costs 16 cents for the meat, not counting 
bone which is thrown in. 

Every part of the animal is utilized. The bone which 
is not used in our kitchens is ground into manure or 



88 A SECOND COURSE IN HOMEMAKING 

turned into numerous articles ; the skin is made into 
leather, the ears and hoofs into glue; the hair is mixed 
with mortar; and the horns are cut and molded into 
spoons and other useful articles. 

Mutton. 

This meat is called lamb if the animal is less than a 
year old, after the year it is called mutton. The first 
eight ribs on a sheep are what we call mutton chops, next 




Fig. 6. Sheep 



I, leg; 2, ribs and loin; 3, flank; 4, chuck; 4^^, neck; 5, breast; 6, 
shoulder. 

to these rib chops and nearer the tail are the loin chops. 
(These rib and loin parts are marked 2 in Fig. 6.) The 
loin mutton chops are what in beef we call steaks ; they 
are better to buy than the ribs because there is more 
meat in comparison with the bone. When the thin bones 
of the rib chops are trimmed they are called French 
chops. 



MARKETING 



89 




Fig. 7. Mutton 
shouldef: ^' "''' ^""^ ^°'"' ^' ^^"^' 4. chuck; 41/2, neck; 5, breast; 6, 



90 A SECOND COURSE IN HOMEMAKING 

The leg is the most economical cut of mutton be- 
cause there is so little waste. The shoulder makes a 
good, cheap roast for a large family. Roasts, stew and 
pot pie meat are cut from the shoulder, the chuck and the 
flank. 



Pork. 

Pork is the flesh of the hog. Pork is more apt to be 
diseased than any other meat and the ways to know 
healthy pork from unhealthy should, be known to every 




Fig. 8. Pork 

I, ham; 2, flank; 3, loin; 4, brisket; 5, ribs; 6, shoulder; 7, neck; 8, 
head; 9, head. 

housewife. Pork should be cooked a long time and it is 
a good rule to make not to buy pork in hot weather. 

The quality of the meat depends upon many things ; 
age of the animal, kind of food eaten by the hog, the 
way the meat is prepared for market and the length of 
time it has hung after being killed and dressed. The 
dirty food which many pigs eat is the chief reason for the 
bad meat which we must avoid in buying pork. 

A large part of the hog is too fat to eat fresh, and 
that part has to be salted down and sold as salt pork. 



MARKETING 



91 




Fig. 9. Pork 
heldj^T'he^d!^^"^* ^' ^°'"' '^' ^'^'^'^' 5' "bs; 6, shoulder; 7, neck; 8. 



92 A SECOND COURSE IN HOMEMAKING 

As in the case of beef and mutton the ribs and loin are 
the best cuts. These are marked 3 and 5 in the Figs. 8 
and 9. When ready for the table we know these cuts as 
pork chops and roast pork. 

The shoulder, marked 6 on the 'charts, is often used 
fresh for roasting and boiling. 

Ham comes from the leg ; and bacon is pork which has 
been salted and smoked as well. The brisket, in the belly 
of the hog, is the part used most often for this bacon. 

Salt pork is made from the flank, the head, the bris- 
ket. Any of the fat part can be salted, in fact, is salted, 
down and sold as salt pork. 

Sausages are made from pork; sometimes alone and 
also in combination with beef or veal. It is very easy 
to put any left-over scraps into sausages ; the only way 
you can be sure you are getting good meat is to have 
confidence in the sausage maker. 

How to Know 'Good Meat From Bad. 

Only by experience can the odor of bad meat be 
detected. No teacher can convey by words the difference 
between a fresh and stale odor. 

Good beef is firm, fine-grained, bright red in color, 
moist, juicy. The fat is light straw color, the suet white, 
firm, dry and crumbly. 

Bad beef is coarse meat, flabby, dark in color. The 
fat is dark yellow. The suet oily and fibrous. 

Diseased pork has a dull appearance, with yellowish 
lumps through the fat and lean. 

Fresh pork has fat which is firm, clear, and white, 
and the lean meat is pink. 

The price of the different cuts is learned from daily 
experience, trying different markets until you feel a confi- 
dence in your butcher. Never go to any market that is 



MARKETING 93 

not clean,. Leave any butcher that allows customer or 
employee to spit on the floor. 

When porterhouse steak sells for 28 cents a pound, 
round steak should sell for about 20 cents, and the chuck 
steak in the cuts just back of the neck for 16 cents. In 
buying the chuck ribs for 10 cents you buy more than 
one-half bone. In the round, one-twelfth is waste, and 
in the expensive porterhouse cuts one-eighth. Of course, 
every girl knows that bone and fat are not really waste, 
but they are worth only 7 cents a pound not 25 cents. It 
is well, therefore, to know just the proportion of 25 cent 
meat and of 7 cent bone and fat that you are paying full 
price for. Never forget that when you buy meat you get 
less nourishment for your money than in other food. 
Such foods as eggs, milk, peas, beans, fish, cheese, give 
you the nourishment at less cost. Remember that a 
cheap cut of meat cooked slowly has more flavor than an 
expensive cut cooked quickly. The best way to reduce 
the meat bill is to cut down the amount of meat. It is 
never necessary to have meat oftener than once a day. 
Other foods can be substituted, such as eggs, cheese, milk, 
peas and beans. Meat also may be used in combination 
with vegetables and dough as in meat and vegetable pie ; 
or in combination with cereal, as in baked rice and meat ; 
thus the flavor of the meat is extended through a larger 
amount of food than merely the meat itself. Another 
way to get a better value for our meat bill money is to 
buy intelligently, getting cuts that have flavor and little 
waste and not to pay so much for the tenderness of meat. 
Depend on long cooking, and as has been said, use every 
scrap of fat and bone that is paid for. Meat is one 
of the most expensive items in the family food bill. 
It will pay to give much study as to how to reduce this 
steady drain on the income. 



94 A SECOND COURSE IN HOMEMAKING 

Fish. 

When you think of buying fish, Friday, very likely, 
comes into your mind, but you can buy better fish and 
cheaper fish on other days than Friday, when the demand 
is less. Learn to appreciate the value of fish. It does 
not contain all the nutritive value of meat, but it is a good 
substitute. Buy fish from a fish dealer you can trust. 
If he cuts ofif the head, fins, etc., make him give them to 
you if you have paid for their weight. These fish trim- 
mings are good for chowder. 

Left-over fish can be made into half a dozen good 
dishes, so it is more economical to buy a good-sized whole 
fish, and to make it last for two days' meals, rather than 
to buy a small fish that is just enough ; there will be more 
meat to the amount of waste in the larger fish. If the 
fish is cleaned at the fish dealer's watch to see that it is 
cleaned thoroughly. Above all, learn to tell fresh fish 
from stale. In a fresh fish the eyes are bright, the gills 
red, the flesh firm and without odor, the fins firm and 
erect. 

A stale fish has not firm flesh, has an odor, and after 
being cooked is watery rather than creamy and is of a 
bluish appearance rather than white. To test a fish, put 
it in water ; like an egg, it will sink if it is fresh, and 
float if it is not. 

It is very dangerous to eat fish that is not perfectly 
fresh. Buy fish in their season, if you would have them 
fresh. Fish out of season are kept in cold storage. 

From January to June shad is good. 

September to March Oysters 

June to September Smelts 

May to September Mackerel 



MARKETING 95 







May to October Bluefish 

All the year Cod, haddock and halibut 

A reliable fish dealer will tell you what fish is fresh 
and in season. Ask before buying. Don't buy frozen 
salmon and pay a high price, when you can buy fresh 
cod for less than half the price. Haddock is a good, 
cheap fish for frying; it is firmer than cod. In buying 
a fish for boiling have it as firm as possible. 

Buying Vegetables and Fruit. 

Vegetables, like fish, should be bought when in season, 
for what we want is freshness. You can read book after 
book on the subject of vegetables, and the writers will 
tell you to " cook the vegetables the day they are picked." 
In our large markets it is hard always to buy these 
perfectly fresh vegetables ; try for this freshness. Po- 
tatoes, onions, cabbage, beets, carrots, spinach, turnips, we 
have all the year. Corn, June to November ; cucumbers, 
peas, squash, string beans through the summer months ; 
asparagus, March to June ; and so as you go to the vege- 
table market day after day, you will become as familiar 
with the different vegetable seasons as a country girl is 
with the times of the year in which the daisies, the violets 
and the wild roses come. 

Another thing that is an important part of buying vege- 
tables is to learn how much to buy. For example, peas 
in the pod, squash that boils dow^n seemingly to nothing, 
are deceiving. The following list will be a guide, but ex- 
perience is the best teacher: 

Asparagus, i bunch will serve 4 people 



96 A SECOND COURSE IN HOMEMAKING 

Cabbage, a good, solid one, will serve 8 people 

Cauliflower will serve 6 people 

Carrots, i small bunch will serve 4 people 

Onions, I qt. will serve 4-6 people 

Peas, I qt. will serve 4 people 

String beans, i qt. will serve 4 people 

Tomatoes, i qt, 5 to qt. will serve 6 people 

Greens and salads should be crisp, and should have no 
appearance of decay or of being bruised or wilted. 

Cabbage and cauliflower should look solid and have 
no discoloration. Don't buy very large or very small 
vegetables ; there is much waste in the small ones and the 
large ones have lost some of their best taste. 

A good pumpkin and a good winter squash will be dark 
in color, also heavy and hard. 

These are only a few hints ; the rest every girl must 
learn by marketing, not hurriedly or in a spirit of indif- 
ference, but going to market just as she goes to school, 
to learn something. 

A business man would not think of buying goods until 
by feeling, looking and testing these goods in every way 
he knew the value of what he was buying, and yet a 
woman will go to market and take anything the butcher 
or the grocer gives her. Never let that be said of you. 



CHAPTER VIII 
CARE OF CHILDREN 

Note to Teachers. 

It is very necessary to have either a real baby or a doll 
in order to make the work in this chapter intelligible to 
pupils. It is seldom possible, and never fair, to use a real 
baby for the purpose of experimental work in school classes. 
A large doll can be effectively used to take the place of a 
real infant. 

In beginning the study of the child, let us imagine that in 
the housekeeping center, or school-room, there is an un- 
clothed, life-sized doll. Each teacher must be the judge as 
to whether the garments for this doll shall be cut before 
meeting the class and only the sewing be done by the pupils, 
or whether the first class of pupils shall actually begin the 
work by cutting out the garments. It will be a loss to the 
girls both in interest and experience if they do not make the 
clothes themselves. Every class can take its part in the sew- 
ing, each class taking up the work where the last class left 
off. In this way it should not take more than two days, at 
the longest, to clothe the doll. 

Clothes for the Young Baby. 

A baby does not need a lot of expensive, useless things, 
but only enough to keep it warm, fresh, and dainty. 

The clothes should be made by hand rather than pur- 
chased ready-made, for clothes made by hand give better 
value for the money expended, and they will last longer. 
Inexpensive material may be used, but, of course, goods 
of better quality wear longer, if they can be afforded. A 
baby's clothes should be extremely simple, never over- 
trimmed, and ready when the infant is born, 

97 



98 A SECOND COURSE IN HOMEMAKING 



Necessities for a Baby. 

A number of diapers of canton flannel, or from two to 
four dozen of bird's-eye diapering, 
Four flannel bands, 
Three wool shirts, 
Two flannel skirts, 

Two white skirts (these are not necessary at first), 
Two or three dresses. 
Three night-slips. 
One cap and coat. 
Two flannel or knitted blankets. 
Three pairs long white stockings, for winter. 

Soft lawn or nainsook is the best fabric for slips and 
skirts. The cloth should be washed before being made 
up to protect the tender skin of the baby from chemicals 
that may have been used in bleaching the material. 




Fig. 10. Wrapper 



CARE OF CHILDREN 



99 




Nightgown 

It will be necessary to buy paper patterns ; the cost 
is only ten cents each. 

Diaper. Eighteen inches wide, one yard makes one 
diaper ; twenty inches wide, ten yards make nine diapers ; 
twenty-four inches wide, four yards make three diapers. 
Never use rubber diapers. 

Band. Three quarters of a yard of flannel for four 
bands. A small baby wears a flannel or knitted band as 
a safeguard against rupture, or as a support to its little 
body, and for warmth. Bands should be made of fine, 
white flannel. 

Bands should be cut, and the goods left with raw edges, 
so that the bands will stretch, or they may be torn straight 
across the goods. Make them six inches wide and eight- 
een inches long. These should be worn only two months. 

Shirts. The baby should have at least three all-wool or 
silk-and-wool shirts. 



loo A SECOND COURSE IN HOMEMAKING 




Fig. 12. Flannel Skirt 



Merino shirts are 
the best. Do not get 
the first size, as the 
baby outgrows them 
too soon. The second 
size will fit for a long 
time. 

Flannel skirts. 

These should be made 
to hang from the shoul- 
ders, and not with a 
band to pin around the 
abdomen. A white 
skirt is not necessary 
for a young baby. The 
flannel skirt should be 



2J inches long; if a white skirt is used make it of cambric 
or nainsook. 

Dress. Twenty-seven 
inches wide goods take 
two and five-eighths 
yards; thirty-six inches 
wide goods take two 
yards. Dress when fin- 
ished twenty-seven inches 
long. Neck should be 
fastened with tape, not 
buttoned. See Fig. 13. 

Nightgown or night- 
slip. Twenty-seven in- 
ches wide goods two and 
one-eighths yards. Open 
in front. See Fig. 11. 

A pinning-blanket is not necessary, and it prevents 




Fig. 13. Dress 



CARE OF CHILDREN 



lOI 




the baby from using 
its feet freely. 

It is necessary, in 
winter especially, to 
protect a baby from 
draft ; a wrapper such 
as shown on page 98, 
made of Scotch flan- ^^^^ ^4- Flannel Sacque 

nel or outing flannel, is a useful garment for this pur- 
pose. A paper pattern can be bought for ten cents. Tie 
the wrapper at the neck with ribbon to match the flannel. 

The flannel sacque as shown in Fig. 14 is worn for the 
same reason as the wrapper, to protect the baby from 
draft. The sacque is so simple that no pattern is neces- 
sary. Cut the flannel as in Fig. 15, making a hole in the 
middle for the neck and an opening in the front and at 
the sides as in the picture. Bind it all around with bind- 
ing ribbon or work a blanket stitch around the entire 
edge. Tie together i and i, 2 and 2, 3 and 3, 4 and 4. 

Topics to be Discussed while Sewing. 

These lessons on 
care of a baby are 
difficult lessons for 
grown-up people and 
still more difficult for 
girls to learn, for 
there are many facts 
that must be learned 
by heart. It is easy 
to have near us in the 
kitchen the many re- 
ceipts for cooking. 
Fig. 15 and if our memory 




102 A SECOND COURSE IN HOAIEMAKING 

fails, we have simply to turn to the proper page in the 
cook-book ; but it is not possible to carry about directions 
how to give a tiny, irresponsible child its best chance for 
health and happiness. The rules that lead to this every 
girl must make a part of her spirit and her mind. She 
must know by heart the right thing to do at the right time. 
The care of little children is a much more serious occupa- 
tion than any other. An infant is absolutely helpless, and 
the entire responsibility for its very life falls on the girl 
or the mother who has it in charge. While we are sew- 
ing the clothes for our make-believe bab}^ a great many of 
these important facts about the real baby may be learned. 
If the baby in your house is sick, the first thing for the 
girl or the mother to do is to see a doctor or a nurse and 
find out where the trouble lies. Do not take the advice of 
neighbors; they mean well, but the advice is often igno- 
rant. 

Before proceeding farther on this subject of children, 
it seems to the author that a tribute should be paid to the 
big sisters who take much care of the tiny members of 
the family. This responsibility means constantly sacri- 
ficing the playtime of the day, and it means endless pa- 
tience on the part of these older sisters. But this posi- 
tion of " minding the baby " is taken almost always with 
a spirit of love and unselfishness — a spirit that is one 
of the most beautiful things in our city life. 

It needs more than love and an unselfish spirit to care 
for a baby. Every girl must have knowledge, and she 
must learn to control herself and to control the infant in 
her charge. It is not enough to know that the baby 
should not eat candy or suck a comforter; one should see 
that he does n't. Every girl who takes the responsibility 
of a little brother or sister must see that rules are obeyed. 
Let every girl from this day on make this firm resolution : 



CARE OF CHILDREN 103 

" As I know the laws of life, I will do- all in my power to 
keep them and to enforce them." This strengthenmg of 
the will and this power of control are more important 
than any other education in the world. 

Clothing. 

As our minds are on the subject of the child's clothes 
while our hands are busy working on these garments, it 
\w\\\ be natural to begin our talks with the subject of 
clothing. These facts will be repeated many times in 
connection with washing the clothes, dressing the baby, 
etc. Let every pupil who studies this book drop forever 
from her mind the idea that the important subjects of life 
are known after once being studied. The remark is con- 
stantly made by school-girls, " I studied that," or '' I did 
that last term ; I don't see why I need to learn it again." 
The pupils who are now taking this lesson for the first 
time, at fifty still will be studying the subject, " How to 
take care of the baby." 

Diapers. 

Diapers should be washed every time they are soiled, 
and dried, if possible, in the sun and open air. Never 
dry a diaper and use it again without washing. Keep 
diapers in covered pails until washed ; and really soiled 
diapicrs should be washed out at once. 

Very few clothes are needed by the baby in hot 
weather; a diaper and a gauze shirt are often, enough. 
More harm is done by putting too many clothes on a baby 
than by not putting on enough. It is because babies are 
loved so much and seem so frail to grown-up people and 
to big sisters that the fear of their taking cold is exag- 
gerated, and so the baby is wrapped up until its body is 
too warm, and the child finds it hard to use its limbs or 



104 A SECOND COURSE IN HOMEMAKING 

to breathe the fresh air. The body of a tiny child is 
warmer than the body of old people, and it feels the heat 
more. The skin wants to breathe, and the air wants a 
chance to enter the pores of the skin. It is the fresh air 
that gives life, and yet some babies are wrapped up as if 
fresh air were a poison and must be kept away from the 
little lungs. 

Perfect circulation is necessary, if a baby is to have 
rich blood, and good air must enter the lungs, and the 
clothing must be loose to insure this circulation. Fresh 
air cannot enter the lungs of any child that has a shawl 
wrapped around its head or has so many clothes on its 
tiny body that its lungs cannot expand. 

The only way a baby exercises is by screaming, kick- 
ing, and squirming. Tight clothes prevent this. 

The baby's clothes should be thin, light, and soft, and 
always without starch in them. They should hang from 
the shoulders. 

For a baby to sleep well, its clothes should be loose. 
Remember, if an infant is too warm, its sleep will be rest- 
less. 

A child suffers from wet clothes, but cannot tell of its 
discomfort. It is for the one in charge of the baby to 
have such a spirit of thoughtfulness and kindness that 
she will change those clothes as soon as they become wet 
or soiled. 

Before Birth. 

The care of a baby should be started before it is born, 
and there are many things that even schoolgirls can do to 
help their mothers in this important event. Of all the 
babies who die under one year of age, thirty-five per cent, 
or over one-third, die before they are a month old. 
Many of these babies die because at birth they are weak 



CARE OF CHILDREN 105 

and sickly, and this is due largely to the fact that their 
mothers did not have proper care during the months be- 
fore they were born ; so that every girl will see that one 
way to save the life of her baby brother or sister is for 
her to help the mother as much as possible before the 
baby is born. 

In the first place, more respect should be shown to all 
women at this time. Very often a woman is irritable 
when she is carrying her child. This is because she is 
uncomfortable, and her whole nature feels the discom- 
forts and hardships of life more than at any other time. 
It is a small part of the burden to take if the children of 
the family show great patience toward the mother at 
this time. Remember she is about to give a human life 
to the world. This is the hardest thing that a woman 
does, and her children can help her by being considerate 
and patient. Another way a girl can help is to spare the 
mother all the steps and all the housework possible, never 
allowing her to carry the coal or lift any heavy weight, 
taking from her as much of the cooking, bed-making, 
cleaning, and care of the house as is practicable. 

In many cases the big girls of a family hear more 
about such institutions as settlements, milk stations, and 
hospitals than does the mother. It is, therefore, the 
daughter who will see that her mother has the address 
of a good trained nurse or a good hospital or the best 
possible doctor before the time of her confinement. This 
will relieve the mind of the woman, and will be of great 
benefit to the tiny baby. 

Some of the causes which weaken the mother before 
the birth of the child are, as has been stated, doing too 
much heavy work and being overburdened with too many 
cares. Beside this, improper food, irregular meals, and 
lack of rest and sleep reduce her strength, and she has 



io6 A SECOND COURSE IN HOMEMAKING 

not the proper strength to give the baby who is depend- 
ing upon her. 

Every child has a right to be born healthy. Life is a 
hard battle, even if wo. have all the strength that is our 
due, but it is unfair, if it can be avoided, to start a baby 
with a weak body. If every schoolgirl feels the crying 
need that a woman who is bearing a child should be in the 
best physical, mental, and spiritual condition possible, it 
will do a great deal to make better men and women in the 
coming generation. Heredity is what a baby gets from 
its father or its mother, and environment is the condition 
under which the child comes into the world, and the con- 
dition under which it lives and grows to be a man or a 
woman. A great deal has been said about heredity, that 
a baby could not help being this or that because it in- 
herited it from its father or mother; but now we know 
that environment — that is, conditions over which v^^e 
have control — have more to do with the life of a child. 

The Nursery. 

The nursery is the room in which the baby sleeps. 
This room should be free from all unnecessary articles 
that collect dust and interfere with the circulation of the 
air. Even while the class is sewing on the doll's clothes, 
let it take time to look, at the model room that has been 
selected for a nursery. It is the mother of the house 
who, in most cases, decides where the children, including 
the baby, shall sleep ; it is she who furnishes the rooms ; 
consequently schoolgirls have little power to carry out 
individual ideas excepting by suggestion. Every girl has 
a right to her own ideas and taste, and the chance will 
come when she can furnish a nursery her way, and in the 
meantime she can help, and often advise her mother. 

The baby's room should be the room that the sun shines 



CARE OF CHILDREN 107 

in, if there Is such a room in the house. Grown people 
spend much time at the shop, the factory, the school, or 
in the street. The baby spends at least three-fourths of 
every day at home, and it needs the sun to help it grow — 
surely as much as a flower does. If any big girl makes 
a crib for her baby brother or sister, she should have only 
such trimming as can be easily taken off and washed. 
Even though schoolgirls cannot regulate many things 
about their parents' house, they can often detect close air 
in a room when the mother does not notice it. This is 
because the mother, steadily staying in the house, does not 
get the contrast which her girls get, who constantly run 
out into the open air. When the air in the baby's room 
seems impure, open the window wide for a few moments, 
taking the baby into another room while you thus change 
the air of the nursery. If the girls of this class can pre- 
vent it, do not dry the diapers in the room where the baby 
is sleeping; don't cook food there; and it is better not to 
have the gas burning at night in the nursery. 

Your baby does not want too much heat in the room 
any more than it wants an over amount of clothes. 
Thermometers do not cost much; make your mother a 
present of one, and keep it in the nursery. Never let the 
thermometer go above seventy degrees. If it does, open 
the window a little from the top and bottom, and let the 
overheated air out and the fresh air in. 

Have the room the baby lives in a bright, pretty room, 
but not fussy. The baby and its equipment need all the 
space possible. Nothing is more beautiful than a nursery 
that in every detail shows that it belongs to a little child. 
The bed in this nursery should be a crib or a single bed, 
for a baby should sleep alone, and never with a grown 
person. 



io8 A SECOND COURSE IN HOMEMAKING 

Nursing a Baby. 

Again, the pupils of this class may say that this is their 
mother's business, but for three reasons it is everybody's 
business to learn about this subject. First, because it 
makes every one anxious to help a nursing mother so 
that she can better perform this great obligation to her 
child. It makes every one respect her and show this 
respect in every possible way. And, third, this subject 
is so important that girls should begin to realize it when 
they are young and when there is time and opportunity 
to study about these things. 

These are a few of the reasons given by the Board of 
Health in New York City " Why a Mother should nurse 
her Baby." 

1. One death out of every five which occur at all ages 
is that of a baby under one year of age, and the greatest 
number of these deaths is in bottle-fed babies. 

2. In the city of New York during 191 2, 3392 babies 
under one year of age died from bowel trouble, and nine 
out of every ten of these babies were bottle-fed. 

3. Mother's milk is the only safe food for a baby dur- 
ing the first six months of its life. 

4. Cow's milk or prepared food can never equal breast 
milk as the proper food for the baby. 

5. Breast-fed babies rarely have bowel trouble. Bottle- 
fed babies rarely escape it, particularly during warm 
weather. 

6. Babies fed on breast milk show the best develop- 
ment ; the teeth will appear at the proper time ; the mus^- 
cles and bones will be stronger, and walking will not be 
delayed. 

7. A breast-fed baby is not so likely to have bronchitis 
or croup, and, if attacked by any disease, has a much 
better chance of living than a bottle-fed baby. 



CARE OF CHILDREN 109 

8. Pneumonia in babies is fatal more often in bottle- 
fed babies than in breast-fed babies. 

There is a great deal that mothers should know about 
nursing their babies that schoolgirls must learn later, but 
one fact let every girl know by heart and teach to as 
many women as she can. A baby must be nursed only at 
regular intervals and at the same time each day. A 
doctor, a trained nurse, or any milk station will tell a 
mother how far apart these intervals should be, and then, 
no matter how hard the baby cries, no food should be 
given between times. Remember, when little girls or 
women give children what they cry for because they cry 
for it, it shows unkindness and selfishness, and is cruel to 
the child. 

Children's Diseases. 

A little knowledge as to the signs of illness is neces- 
sary, so that girls can be ready to act in time to prevent 
serious sickness. If you have not sufficient knowledge to 
know when the baby is sick, you will not know when to 
tell your mother to send for the doctor. 

The common diseases of children are the following: 

Colic. This can be known usually by the sign of pain, 
hard crying, and drawing up of the feet. 

If this happens, get the feet warm, and put a hot 
flannel on the stomach and rub the stomach gently. No 
young girl should give medicine. If the pain continues, 
call at once on some one with experience. 

Convulsions, You can recognize a convulsion by a 
choking sound, spasmodical breathing, stiffness of the 
body, eyes staring, hands clenched, and mouth firmly shut. 

Send for the nearest doctor and while you are waiting 
for him, put the baby in a hot bath, and, if this does not 
relieve it, soak the feet in mustard water. 






no A SECOND COURSE IN HOMEMAKING 

Constipation. This is the responsibility of the older 
members of the family toward the little children. Small 
children cannot know the importance of having their 
bowels move every day and at the same time each day. 
It is one of the duties of big girls to train their baby 
brothers and sisters to form this habit of regularity. 
Begin this training when the baby is only two months old. 
Buy a small chamber not larger than a pint bowl. Let 
the mother or sister hold this between her knees and 
place the baby on the chamber, with its back against her 
chest and its body firmly supported. Do this twice a day, 
always at the same hour, after the morning and evening 
feedings. After the baby has learned to use a chamber 
at regular times, he is benefited physically ; whoever 
cares for the baby is saved much labor; and, above all, 
the danger of future constipation is less. Let no girl ever 
lose sight of the fact that constipation is a fearful danger ; 
the system becomes clogged and finally poisoned, often 
for no larger reason than that children forget, or are in 
too much of a hurry, to attend to the cleaning-out of their 
beautiful, wonderful bodies. 

If the children, in spite of care, become constipated, 
the following simple rules remedy this : see that the baby 
often has cool boiled water, and make the small children 
drink at least one glass of water before breakfast, and 
five or six glasses during the day. Fruit juice is good for 
little children ; fruit for older children. Constipation is 
occasioned sometimes from eating too much bread and 
potatoes and not enough green vegetables. If big sisters 
will feel responsible for the regularity of their little 
sisters, and keep a few simple rules, they will be doing a 
great work. 

Diarrhea is too frequent movements of the bowels, and 
comes usually from indigestion ; two or three loose move- 



CARE OF CHILDREN in 

merits a day may be the beginning of a serious illness. 
The baby is sick when it vomits or has diarrhea ; it is 
seriously ill when it has several loose, green, passages a 
day. Stop all food, give cool boiled water, and take the 
baby to a doctor. Older children often have diarrhea 
from buying and eating what the little stomach can not 
digest. Giving a penny to a child to keep it quiet is a 
cruel act to the child ; there is no kindness in it. If the 
child in your care has diarrhea, there are two things to 
do: stop all food and keep him quiet. If he is not better 
in five or six hours, ask a doctor's or the nurse's advice. 

Earache. If your baby screams as if with pain, puts 
his hand to his head, and cries when he is touched, the 
trouble is often earache. No girl knows enough to treat 
the ear. Do not even drop oil or hot water in the ear. 
Put a hot water-bag or a warmed piece of flannel against 
the ear; but if this does not stop the cries, carry the baby 
to the dispensary or to the nearest nurse. Nurses do not 
treat diseases, but they can tell us the very best place to 
go and how to get there. 

Croup. This usually comes to a child at night when it 
is difficult to get the doctor or nurse at once. Croup 
begins with a dry, hard cough, and the baby shows diffi- 
culty in breathing. While the father, or some one, is 
getting dressed to go for the doctor, the big sister can do 
the following things : start the tea-kettle boiling and let it 
boil in the room with the baby, for the steam helps it to 
breathe. Also, hot cloths put on the throat may relieve 
the child. The room should be kept warm. This is all a 
young girl can do except to keep her head and help the 
family to keep calm, and get the advice of a doctor or 
nurse, not a neighbor's advice. 

Measles begin with sneezing, watery eyes and nose, a 
cough, and an eruption appearing on the face and neck. 



112 A SECOND COURSE IN HOMEMAKING 

Under these conditions keep the baby warm, out of all 
drafts, and quiet until the doctor comes. And keep the 
sick one away from all other children if there is any erup- 
tion until you have seen a doctor, as so many diseases are 
contagious. 

IV hooping-cough. This also is very contagious. It 
begins like an ordinary cold, growing more severe as time 
goes on, until the child begins to " whoop." It is not a 
dangerous disease, except with tiny babies, but it means 
suffering and terrible discomfort. Children are apt to 
vomit when they cough, and this requires much labor and 
much patience on the part of big sisters. 

Mumps is indicated by a swelling beneath the ear and 
a sore throat. Take the child to a doctor if you fear 
mumps. It sometimes proves very serious, always pain- 
ful. An ordinary case is over in nine days. 

If a child shows symptoms of serious illness, put him to 
bed at once. Keep all other children out of the room 
until the doctor comes. And do not wait until to-morrow 
to send for the nurse or doctor. Send at once. 

Don't get irritated at your baby if he seems cross. He 
may be ill. Look for the following signs : a hot, dry 
skin means fever. Vomiting means the baby is trying to 
get rid of something that is n't digesting. If he won't 
nurse or take his bottle, there is surely something wrong. 
If he has a cough, find out at once if it is serious. 

A cross and fretful baby is usually a sick baby. A well 
baby sleeps most of the time and is happy when he is 
awake. 

Most children's sicknesses and deaths can be prevented 
if we big people know what to do, and do it. 

Now, I am sure that the doll clothes are finished. Let 
us lay them on a chair near the fire, and with the doll as 
our baby we will have a lesson in: 



CARE OF CHILDREN 113 

How to Bathe a Baby. 

This is not to be talking merely, but really doing the 
work, except that we shall not put the doll actually into 
the water. 

A baby can have a tub bath after it is ten days old. It 
should not be bathed for one hour after feeding, and if 
the room is cold in the morning, bathe the baby just be- 
fore he is put to bed for the night. 

Get everything ready for the bath before undressing 
the baby. See that the room is warm. 

Place the baby on a pillow on the table, — first protect- 
ing the pillow with rubber or oilcloth. If the room is 
cold, have the table near the stove, or have the baby on a 
blanket over a hot-water bottle. 

Have clean clothes on a chair near the stove. 

Have plenty of hot water, Castile soap, soft towels, and 
a piece of cheese-cloth (not a sponge), several cotton 
swabs, and a glass of clean water to wash out the baby's 
mouth. 

In taking off the clothes, unfasten them and pull them 
all down over the feet. In undressing a child have a 
separate place for wet diapers. 

Cover the baby with a blanket, then lay a towel over the 
blanket. 

Shake soap in water lightly and wash the face. Never 
use cold water; it frightens a baby. 

Pay special attention to the corners of eyes and ears. 

Wash the ears carefully, and in back of the ears. If 
dirt is found, apply white vaseline to back of ears with 
cotton swabs, then wash. Twist wash-cloth very finely, 
and wash inside of the ears. 

Rinse the cloth and wash the face all over, then dry it. 

Then wash the head, soaping well, and dry very care- 
fully and quickly. 



114 A SECOND COURSE IN HOMEMAKING 

If there are crusts on the head, use vaseHne to soften 
them. 

Wash the mouth by wrapping absorbent cotton around 
the finger, dip the finger in a glass of clean water, clean 
under the tongue, the roof of the mouth, and around the 
teeth. 

Then clean the nostrils by twisting the wash-cloth. 

Be sure the water is warm. It should feel warm on 
the elbow. As it cools quickly, have the water warmer 
than you wish for the bath when you first draw it. 

Take away towel and blanket. Soap the body before 
putting the baby in the basin. Do this very gently to 
avoid frightening the child. 

Wash it all over very carefully and thoroughly in the 
bath. 

Take the baby in one hand and the towel in the other 
and put the baby back on the pillow. 

Never lift the baby by its arms. Put one hand under 
the head and the other hand under the back. 

The navel must be kept clean. If necessary, use vase- 
line. 

Dry the baby by patting it with the towel ; do not rub 
it. Give the child a bath every day, and more than one 
a day can be given in hot weather. This is to cool the 
baby, more than for cleansing purposes. 

Wash the baby, when soiled, every time you change its 
diapers. Use no soap, only warm water, and dry thor- 
oughly to prevent chafing. Chafing comes always from 
moisture. 

Dressing a Baby. 

Keep in mind that no clothing must be tight, and that 
no common pins can be used. Pull all clothes on over 
the feet, not over the head. 



CARE OF CHILDREN 115 

Have clothes warmed before putting on. Damp 
clothes might cost the baby its life. 

First put on the shirt, and push it up out of the way, 
so that the band can be put on. 

The belly-band is rolled before it is put on, and then 
unrolled as it is put around the body. Pin just at the 
side of the middle in front. Never use cheap safety-pins. 
Stitch the band on or use reliable pins. Be careful when 
pinning not to stick the baby. Put pins one inch apart. 
Have the band tight enough to support the abdomen and 
protect the navel, but not tight enough to cause ridges in 
the flesh. 

Have the blanket always over the baby's legs, and pull 
skirt down over the band. 

Then put on a diaper. Fold the diaper to fit the baby, 
always diagonally. For older babies, two diapers should 
be used, and put on in the same way. 

Pin the shirt to the diaper, but do not have the diaper 
too tight ; it must be comfortable. 

Put the stockings on next and pin them to the diaper. 

Sleeping. 

After the class has bathed and dressed the baby for 
the daytime, dress it for the night. 

At night all the baby needs is a diaper, belly-band, and 
nightgown, flannel in winter and nainsook in summer. 
In winter turn the nightgown up at the bottom, like an 
envelope, to protect the feet. 

As we have learned, it is much better for a baby to 
sleep alone. Grown people have been known to roll on 
children, during sleep and smother them ; and if an infant 
sleeps with the mother, there is always the temptation to 
frequent nursing at night. 

It is quite important to have a baby's bed in our prac- 



i 



ii6 A SECOND COURSE IN HOMEMAKING 

lice house. This bed should have a mattress, firm, but 
soft; a rubber sheet to protect the mattress. A very thin 
pillow, or none at all, and never a comfortable, but only 
blankets that can w^ash. 

A tiny, healthy baby should sleep nine-tenths of the 
time. At six months old, two-thirds of the time. 

Never rock a baby to sleep. 

Never give it a " pacifier." 

Never let a child in your charge stay up after seven 
o'clock. 

The room a child sleeps in should be darkened and 
quiet. In our crowded homes quiet is hard to secure, 
but let every big sister try to get a restful sleeping- 
place for the little members of the family. 

When a baby cries at night it is a signal for help. Get 
up and see that the bedding is smooth, the hands and feet 
warm, the diaper not soiled or wet, and the baby turned 
over. Don't take it up, or it will get used to expecting it. 

Not only do babies sleep at night, but they take one or 
two long naps in the daytime. Out of doors is the best 
place for these naps. Night or day, while a child sleeps, 
have the window open to admit fresh air. 

To Lift a Baby. 

Practise on this doll how to lift a baby in the right way. 
With the right hand grasp clothing below the feet. Slip 
the left hand beneath the infant's body and head. It is 
then raised on the left arm, and the entire spine is sup- 
ported. 

How to Give a Baby Air in Bad Weather. 

Dress him as if he were going out, and then open all 
windows. Place the carriage or crib near the window, 
but not in a draft. Start with a fifteen-minute airing and 



CARE OF CHILDREN 117 

increase it to an hour or even more. So long as the 
baby is out of a draft and away from the dampness, it 
will do him good. A veil is not necessary if he is n't in 
a draft, and in the street keep the sun from his eyes 
rather than use a veil. 

Washing a Baby's Clothes. 

It would be good practice for the class to wash the 
doll's clothes. It is a waste of time to wash these clothes 
before they are soiled, but when they need washing it 
will be a good lesson to launder them. 

A baby's band, shirt, dress, and stockings should be 
washed every day. No starch, bluing, or soap powders 
should be used. Especially is this true in washing the 
diapers, as they might chafe and poison the skin of a 
small infant. 

The flannels have to be washed with care to prevent 
shrinking. All flannels should be washed and rinsed in 
tepid water, and let the water be of the same temperature 
throughout. (See Laundry Lesson.) The flannels 
should be stretched into shape before being left to dry, 
and not dried near the fire. 



CHAPTER IX 
FOOD FOR INFANTS 

Note to Teachers. 

In placing within the reach of every schoolgirl the simple 
study of infant feeding we are' trying to open the eyes of 
future mothers to a part of the great science of disease pre- 
vention. No girl must feel that the general knowledge taught 
in this chapter completes the study ; but she should have her 
interest so aroused that when more responsibility is laid upon 
her she will realize the necessity of getting the special knowl- 
edge with which to meet that responsibility. 

The Vv^ay this subject of food should be studied is by a suc- 
cession of cooking lessons, beginning with the preparation 
of milk for an infant, and taking up the various kinds of food 
a child should eat every year, up to the age of five. The 
work of preparing the food is to be done by the pupils in the 
class. 

It is seldom a lack of love, but often a lack of knov^rl- 
edge, on the part of the home-maker, that compels a child 
to face life handicapped because of a weak body. 
Mothers and big sisters must learn that love will not 
excuse them. " All breaches of the law of health are 
physical sins." We sin against an irresponsible child 
when we allow it to eat the wrong food or unclean food, 
or to eat any food at the wrong time. 

This study interests the world, for weak children grow 
into useless children ; and the strength of a child and 
the value of a citizen depend largely upon the food that 
is given to the baby; when it is too young to select for 
itself. 

ii8 



FOOD FOR INFANTS 119 

Milk. 

Milk seems to be all liquid, but in the stomach it be- 
comes partly solid. It has in it every kind of food that 
a baby requires. It is thirteen parts solid and eighty- 
seven parts water. The solid parts are fat (or the 
cream), sugar, proteids (or the curd of the milk), and 
salts. The fat helps the bones to grow, feeds the nerves, 
gives heat, and may be stored for future use ; the sugar 
also gives heat ; the proteids give growth to the blood cells 
and the muscles ; the salts help the growth of the bones. 
An infant cannot digest its food without water, nor can 
it get rid of the waste material. Milk, as we know, is 
the first food for animals, including human beings ; and 
as it is the only food taken for the first-five or six months, 
it is spoiled if not well prepared. In France, it is against 
the law to give solid food to children under a year old 
without a doctor's prescription. 

Let every girl begin this lesson with the fact firmly 
fixed in her mind that during the first three months of a 
baby's life it needs perfect care, more so than at any 
future time; a wrong start may mean a long life of suf- 
fering, as the life is so delicate and the body unable to 
resist hurtful things. Bad milk is the easiest way to 
start the baby wrong, for bad milk is poison to an infant. 
This danger is one of the chief reasons why mothers are 
urged to nurse their children, rather than give them cow's 
milk ; for the mother's milk is fresh and pure, whereas, it 
is almost impossible to get cow's milk that has not been 
kept at least twenty- four hours. A healthy mother's milk 
is free from the danger of bacteria, and this means that 
it is good milk, which means clean milk ; bad milk means 
milk in which the bacteria are multiplying. 

Flies in milk-shops are apt to carry and contain more 
bacteria than those in other food-shops in the same neigh- 



120 A SECOND COURSE IN HOMEMAKING 

borhood. The reason for this is because milk (especially 
in summer) is an excellent medium for bacteria. 

Milk is more easily infected than many other foods, 
whether flies drink it or fall into it. The same flies that 
spoil the milk by infection may walk on meat and not 
poison it. 

Remembering these facts, every girl will encourage her 
mother to nurse her baby if it is possible for her to do so. 
This study is to help those handicapped babies who must 
eat from a bottle instead of nursing. 

It is often the work of the big sister in the family to 
regulate the baby's food ; this chapter is not, however, 
intended to teach what food should be given to the infant 
at a certain age, but Iiozv to prepare any food that is 
given, so that it may be pure and clean when it reaches 
the baby's stomach. 

There are many things that the big girls in the family 
can learn about milk. One is to know bad, from good, 
milk. If you see any sediment or dirt in the bottom of 
a glass, or in the bottle of milk, do not use the milk ; that 
sediment is dirt and has already begun to poison the milk. 
But, unfortunately, a great deal of dirty milk looks clean. 
Bacteria are tiny living things that poison milk. These 
bacteria microbes are too small for any one to see without 
a microscope. There are thousands of them in one drop 
of bad milk, and they increase very rapidly, not only be- 
fore you give the milk to the baby but after it is in the 
baby's stomach. All cow's milk contains germs, even 
when handled carefully ; but they may be harmless germs, 
and if the milk is kept cold they will not increase. Many 
germs are harmless ; some simply make the milk sour, 
while others produce typhoid fever, diarrhea, and tu- 
berculosis. A single microbe, found in all stables, can 
in twenty-four hours increase to more than ten billions. 



FOOD FOR INFANTS 121 

Loose milk is the most likely to have poison bacteria in it. 
If any girl will stand for fifteen minutes at the door of a 
grocery, where loose milk is sold, she will see how often 
the lid of the can is lifted, how many chances the dusty 
air has to enter, and flies to light on the milk. A fly puts 
its feet for a few seconds into the milk and flies away, 
leaving one tiny spot behind, and that spot may increase 
into millions of microbes. It is, therefore, every girl's 
duty to advise her mother to buy only bottled milk, and 
when the big sister goes out to buy (in almost all cases 
she is the one who markets for the family), she can 
insist that she will take only bottled milk, for the milk 
in bottles is kept from contact with hands, insects, and 
other impurities. Bacteria multiply not only when milk 
is in a dusty place but even when it is in a warm place. 

Having bought the milk in the bottle, as free from 
genns as possible, take it at once to a clean, cold place 
until you are ready to use it. The delay in putting the 
milk in a cold place immediately is often the reason for 
sour milk. It is so easy for a little girl, after she has 
purchased it, to let the bottle stand in the sun, near the 
stove or on the kitchen table, and then make the excuse, 
" I thought my mother would put it in the ice box." 
Every girl who purchases milk should feel the responsi- 
bility of it until it is put in a clean, cold place and sealed 
against the air and insect life. 

There are many ways of keeping milk sweet and clean, 
even if you have not an ice-box. For example, take an 
old pail with a cover, make a hole in the bottom, put a 
piece of ice in the pail and the milk bottle on the ice. 
Put the cover on the pail, and throw a clean blanket over 
the whole. Place this simple ice-box in a dish-pan, so 
that when the ice drains through the hole in the bottom 
the water will not go on the floor. Do not forget that 



122 A SECOND COURSE IN HOMEMAKING 

your pail and the blanket over it must be kept scrupu- 
lously clean. 

There are many things that every girl may learn on 
this subject, and a few ternis with the meaning of which 
she should make herself familiar. 

" Modified milk " : to modify milk means to make the 
cow's milk as nearly like the mother's milk as possible. 
Mother's milk is very much weaker than cow's milk, or, 
as the latter is called, " whole milk." For example, there 
are three times as much protein in cow's milk as in 
mother's milk; therefore, if you give a little baby four 
or five days old, milk from the bottle, you cannot give it 
" whole milk " direct from the cow ; it must be weakened 
so that there will be only one part milk and three parts 
water. As a baby gets stronger more milk and less water 
is used, until at last, when- the child is nine to twelve 
months old, it can take the cow's milk without any water. 

There are many different ways of preparing or modify- 
ing milk : milk and water ; barley water and milk ; oat- 
meal and other preparations that doctors may decide are 
the right food for dififerent children at different ages. 
The proportions used in these preparations are called 
" formulas," and any mother or big sister, living in our 
cities, who wants to know how to feed her baby can find 
out at a milk station. Take the infant there; it will be 
weighed and its age asked. The doctor, at the station, 
will then give the nurse just the *' formula " that the baby 
should have, and the nurse will show the mother how to 
prepare it. These formulas must be worked out only by 
a doctor or a trained nurse who has made this a study for 
years. Modifying milk by these formulas is a work that 
experts consider so necessary that many cities spend thou- 
sands of dollars a year in establishing milk stations and 
paying baby specialists. The invitation is given to every 



FOOD FOR INFANTS 123 

mother to call and get the right formulas for her baby. 
I would advise girls who have charge of little brothers 
and sisters to visit one of these milk stations, talk with 
the nurse and learn how the work should be done; if 
there is no station in your city, take the baby to a nurse 
or consult a doctor. Don't guess at so important a ques- 
tion as the preparation of milk for the baby. 

Taking it for granted, therefore, that no girl is going 
to work out any formula without the help of an experi- 
enced person, our lesson will be simply how to do the 
work after the doctor has given the formula. 

Prepare the table as for cooking; cover it with clean, 
white paper, or a perfectly clean towel or cloth. All the 
basins, bowls, bottles, and any utensil used for the prep- 
aration of milk, should be used for no other purpose. 

The articles (which should be on the table before be- 
ginning to work) are as follows : 

Six feeding bottles. These should be round, not flat, 
so that they will clean easily, having no inside corners 
to collect the milk. Feeding bottles are marked with one 
ounce and half-ounce m^easurements, which enable any 
one to use them in place of a measuring glass. They 
come in different sizes, but an eight-ounce bottle is a good 
size, for when the baby is small the bottle may be partly 
filled, and when older it may be used entirely full. Two 
of these bottles may be bought for five cents. Prepare 
every morning as many bottles as will be needed during 
the next twenty- four hours. Put only food enough in 
each bottle for one feeding. 

Have also on the table rubber nipples, with a small 
hole at the end so that the milk will not rush through 
into the tiny stomach. These should be of black rubber 
to pull over the neck of the bottle. A rubber feeding 
tube must never be used. 



124 A SECOND COURSE IN HOMEMAKING 

A pitcher Is needed in which to mix the food. If pos- 
sible, have this of glass, as germs do not collect on glass 
as readily as on other material. 

A glass funnel, to be used in pouring the milk prepara- 
tion into the bottles, must be at hand ; also corks for the 
bottles. Absorbent cotton often is used, but corks can 
be boiled every day and are cheaper. A bottle brush, 
some bicarbonate of soda, or if that is not convenient, 
common salt; a fine wire strainer (some use gauze to 
strain the barley water, but a fine wire strainer is easy 
to wash and to keep perfectly clean), a saucepan, sugar, 
a teaspoon, barley (Robinson's preparation is good, but 
many doctors use ordinary clean store barley), a glass, 
and a pint bottle of milk. 

In teaching this lesson, it is necessary to begin the work 
as if it were the day before. This we must do in order 
to learn how to leave the bottles and nipples clean at the 
end of the day. 

After each feeding, bottles and nipples must be rinsed 
in cold water, and the bottle left filled with cold water (a 
little bicarbonate of soda may be added), and the nipple 
placed in a glass of cold water with half a teaspoonful 
of salt added. Cold water cleans off all the milk, while 
hot water will sour any milk that has stuck to the bottle 
or the nipple. Corks in use should stay in a glass of 
water until the end of the day. 

Bottles, corks, and nipples should be thoroughly washed 
once a day with hot water, soap and soda. Use the 
brush for the inside of the bottle, and turn the nipple 
inside out, washing it thoroughly. When nipples are 
new, boil them for at least ten minutes. 

The time has now come to prepare the baby's food. 
This should be done in the morning, early, and all food 
needed for the day should be prepared at one time. 



FOOD FOR INFANTS 125 

When the table is ready be sure that your hands and 
apron are clean, and that no soiled cloths are hanging 
over or near the table ; remember how sensitive milk is to 
any microbe. 

Take the battles, corks and nipples (all of which have 
been made perfectly clean, but not sterilized) and put 
them in a clean pan of cold water; place them on the 
stove and allow them to stay there until the water has 
boiled twenty minutes. Washing bottles is not sufficient ; 
something may stick to the bottle that only boiling will 
loosen. 

The formula given here is a simple milk modification. 
We will use it only as an example : 
Ten ounces milk. 
Ten ounces barley water, 
Half ounce sugar, 
and put up in five 8-ounce bottles. 

Take a saucepan, and with three cups of water use two 
teaspoonfuls barley flour. Put the water on to boil ; mix 
the barley flour with a little cold water, tO' avoid lumps, 
and then add it to the saucepan of boiling water. Add a 
pinch of salt, and boil for twenty minutes. 

To sterilize milk, it must be boiled, but this is not 
necessary if the milk is bottled and certified. Scalded 
milk only paralyzes any possible germs ; it does not kill 
them. 

When the bottles are boiled, pour off the water, but 
leave the bottles in the saucepan and put the saucepan 
in a dish-pan of cold water until the bottles are 
cool. 

Take the corks from the water with a spoon, never 
with the fingers. Take the nipples from the water in 
the same way. 

Now allow the barley water, which has boiled twenty 



126 A SECOND COURSE IN HOMEMAKING 

minutes, to cool while the bottles are cooling ; it will cool 
more quickly if placed in a pan of cold water. 

When the barley water, milk and bottles are cooled, 
pour ten ounces of milk into the glass pitcher. If there 
is no measuring cup at hand, measure by the extra feed- 
ing bottle, filling it full once and then measuring out two 
ounces more. Dissolve half an ounce, or four teaspoon- 
fuls of sugar in the barley water. If you have lump 
sugar, not granulated, one lump of sugar is equal tO' a 
teaspoon ful, so that four lumps will be four teaspoonfuls. 
Strain this barley water and sugar into the milk. 

Now that the milk, barley water, sugar and the pinch 
of salt are mixed together in the glass pitcher, pour this 
mixture into the cooled, sterilized bottles. If five bottles 
are used, put four ounces of this milk-and-water mixture 
into each bottle. Cork at once and put on the ice. 

Before giving the bottle to the baby place the bottle in 
a saucepan of hot water. Test the milk by putting a drop 
on your wrist ; if it feels warm- it is the right temperature. 
Never touch your lips to the bottle. 

If lime water is required, buy it at a drug store. A 
large amount may be purchased for five cents, and will 
keep, in a cool place, for three or four weeks. Lime 
water is not used in place of water, but to make the milk 
more easily digested. It is also used for babies suffer- 
ing with colic. 

After the milk is in the bottles, it will be the work of 
the next class to empty it out and rinse bottles, nipples 
and corks, as directed. Then wash them thoroughly, 
after which prepare the formula, again leaving the full 
bottles for the next class. 



CHAPTER X 

FOOD FOR CHILDREN BETWEEN ONE AND 
FIVE YEARS OF AGE 

Note to Teachers. 

The question of " what little children shall eat " cannot be 
answered in fewer than three or more lessons. The pupils, 
in order to become familiar with the subject, must cook a 
number of the following dishes, with the aid of a teacher, 
in class, and then work out the remaining ones at home. 

List of General Foods for Little Children. 

Cereals. Made into gruels. 

Broths. From beef, mutton, and chicken. 

Soups. Milk and vegetable. 

Eggs. Coddled, poached, scrambled, custard (never 
fried). 

Meats. Broiled, roasted. 

Fish. Broiled, baked, never fried. 

Vegetables. Celery, peas, asparagus, potatoes, rice, 
macaroni, cauliflower, carrots, beans, spinach. 

(Learn to prepare the following especially for Children.) 

Stewed fruits. Apples, cherries, grapes, raspberries, 
strawberries, blackberries, dates, figs, prunes, pears, 
peaches. 

Juice of oranges, pineapple, berries of all kinds. 

Desserts. Junket, custards, plain-fruit jellies, fruit- 
juice with gelatine, milk puddings, tapioca pudding. 

127 



128 A SECOND COURSE IN HOMEMAKING 

Food for Children Under Five Years. 

There is no subject more important for school children 
to study than the care of Httle children, and food is the 
most important element in that care. The work in the 
home falls so heavily upon the mother, the cooking and 
serving the meals take so much of her time, that the re- 
sponsibility for the younger children of the family is 
assumed very largely by the older sisters. The very 
first thing that these older sisters must learn is that the 
little children must be saved from themselves ; that what 
they want and w^hat they do not want is of no value ; de- 
cisions must be made by older minds than theirs. The 
excuse, " He will not do it," or " He will not eat it," or 
" He wants this," or " He wants that " is a silly excuse 
for any big sister to give for allowing her little sister 
or brother to have the wrong thing, or to eat food which 
she knows is not good for the stomach. A child under 
eight years of age does not know what is good for him, 
and will almost invariably choose the wrong thing. If a 
big sister is not strong enough to make her little charges 
eat nourishing food, if she has not the power to keep 
them from eating between meals, then she is not capable 
of looking after a child. 

The work in this lesson is the preparation of food for 
children after the first year. As we have seen in the 
last chapter, children under a year live almost entirely on 
milk. They have no teeth and cannot chew food, neither 
has the stomach the juices to digest food, other than milk. 
Before beginning the preparation of these foods for chil- 
dren, over a year old, let us take up a few of the rules 
of life that grown-up people must learn and must teach 
little children, in order that the body will be in condition 
to turn the food into fuel. In the stove lesson no coal 



FOOD FOR CHILDREN 129 

was put into the stove until the stove was cleaned and in 
perfect working order. 

Sleep. 

Sleep is an absolute necessity to life, and the amount 
of time a child spends in sleep, and the regularity with 
which it takes these rests, have a great deal to do with 
its health. Children under three years of age should 
sleep twelve hours every night, and besides this should 
take a nap in the daytime. Not only does the body need 
rest, but also the heart, the lungs, and the stomach. 
These organs all work at night, but they do not work 
so hard as in the daytime. The eyes need rest, too, and 
all the nerves of the body need to be absolutely quiet for 
at least half of the twenty-four hours. Even if a child 
is able to live with little sleep, and even if he looks healthy 
as a baby, that child will not be so intelligent a man or 
so big a man, if he does not have his right amount of 
sleep. There is no use to feed a tired body ; it is like 
piling coal into a worn-out stove. 

Air. 

A little child of two or three years of age has no 
idea how much air should be in the room when he 
goes to bed ; this must be decided by the big sister if 
she is taking care of the little one. If you put your 
little sister to bed in an overheated, close room, she will 
wake up in the morning more exhausted than when she 
went to bed, and will lose all the feeling of refreshment 
which should come after a night's sleep. One sign of this 
will be that she will want no breakfast. The food that a 
child eats at night is not given a chance to digest if that 
child sleeps in a close room. The waste matter is not 



ISO A SECOND COURSE IN HOMEMAKING 

thrown off, the system is clogged and the child feels 
heavy, and has no appetite. 

Exercise. 

Playing and running about is the way that children 
exercise, and this exercise is absolutely necessary for 
digestion. But one thing that a big girl, wdien she is 
playing with a little one, must remember is that the exer- 
cise must not be violent. A walk across the room is a 
long journey for a baby, and a walk a block long is a 
long journey for a small child. It is sometimes difficult 
for a grown-up girl to realize how very delicate the mus- 
cles and nervous strength of a child are; if these are 
overstrained, if the play is too violent it may weaken the 
heart of the little sister for her whole life, for the heart 
will pump hard and try to keep the body going. I have 
often seen big girls pull little ones by the arm, to make 
them hurry. Remember that children cannot hurry, and 
it is as cruel to try to make them; walk upstairs fast as 
it would be to make a big girl run five miles. 

Bathing. 

One fact about children is that they never seem to 
want to be clean, especially little boys who object even to 
having their hands and faces w^ashed, and to taking a 
bath unless it means a swim in the river. So this part 
of their daily life must be decided by some one who 
knows better than they do. 

In " Practical Home-making " we learned that a skin 
which is not clean becomes inactive, and often diseased. 
It certainly would be a cruel thing to let a child's skin 
get into an unhealthy condition before the age when he 
is responsible. The entire body of a child must be 
washed with warm water, at least once a day, to keep the 



FOOD FOR CHILDREN 131 

skin active. Do not put food into a dirty body ; the 
waste matter, from the pores of the skin, must be 
washed away. 

Teeth. 

Every one wishes to be as good-looking as he can be, 
and there is nothing that makes a man or a woman ugUer 
than bad teeth. It is extremely cruel not to care for the 
teeth of a little child, and to neglect them in childhood 
means expense later on, and very often at a time when 
money is most needed for other things. It also means 
indigestion and malnutrition, that is, the food cannot 
nourish the body unless the teeth are in condition to do 
their part. Brush a child's teeth every morning and 
every night; take it for granted that he will never want 
them brushed, that he will cry and do everything he can 
to make you omit this morning and evening duty. Later 
on, he will thank you, if you are faithful. Good, firm 
teeth prepare the food by chewing and breaking it thor- 
oughly apart. Remember this is the reason why we have 
teeth. 

Habits. 

A child comes into the world with no habits, either 
good or bad, and his life later on is decided by what 
habits are formed in childhood. A great responsibility 
in the care of a child is to make him form good, rather 
than bad, habits. 

One of these habits is the habit of liking the right, 
rather than the wrong, food; this is accomplished by 
never giving the child any wrong food. If you hear a 
child crying for tea and refusing milk, it is because his 
mother or big sister has given him the former and 
created in him a taste for the stimulating, rather than 



132 A SECOND COURSE IN HOMEMAKING 

the nourishing, drink. Another habit that must be 
formed in a child is getting rid of the waste matter of 
his body at a regular time every morning. As you 
learned in another chapter with infants, this is done by 
teaching the baby of a few weeks old regular habits, and 
later on by making the older child go to the closet at the 
same hour every morning, whether he wants to or not. 
The habit of going to bed early is formed in the same 
way. If you let a child go to bed one night at seven 
o'clock and the next night at ten o'clock, and when he 
does n't feel sleepy allow him, to sit up until the grown 
people go to bed, how can that child understand that he 
should go to sleep at a regular hour? 

Food. 

It is a very common error for grown-up people to 
think that children can eat " what is on the table." The 
child sees certain foods that are served three times a day, 
and naturally asks for them, often by loud cries. It is 
estimated that one-half of the cases of illness among 
children are the result of eating this grown-up food ; not 
wrong for people who have their growth but wrong for a 
child. 

In the first place, the child lacks the strong teeth to 
masticate the food. The juices of the stomach in a 
child are very different from those in a grown-up; the 
stomach and intestines are small and tender, as is the 
child itself. No girl would expect her baby brother of 
three to carry up the coal or scrub the floor, as her 
mother and father do. Why should she expect that his 
stomach can do their kind of work? 

A child not only should be prevented from eating the 
wrong food, but he must eat the right food. We big 
people must know how much waste and water there is in 



FOOD FOR CHILDREN 133 

each food, — what foods build tissue, what kind furnish 
heat, which contain minerals to purify the blood. Peo- 
ple in very cold countries eat foods that contribute heat. 
Old people eat foods that repair waste. To our children 
we give much of the food that contains protein, for that 
makes muscle and tissue and provides the elements needed 
for the growing body. Never think again that all ages 
can be fed and treated alike. The growing boy eats 
twice as much food as his grandmother, for she eats only 
to provide heat and to repair the waste of the tissue ; 
he eats to increase the weight and height of his body. 
The old people feel cold when the children in the same 
atmosphere are too warm. That is because the circula- 
tion is slow in the former and quick and healthy in the 
child; just as a fresh fire gives out more heat than a low, 
partly burnt-out fire. Human life is a wonderful study. 
Make it such by knowing a great deal about it. 

The right diet for a child must be well-balanced. That 
is, it must contain the right proportion of proteins for 
tissue building, these we find in such foods as meat, eggs, 
milk. The diet must contain a right quantity of carbohy- 
drates and fats, as in potatoes, sugar, oil, butter. These 
give the energy that makes the child run and exercise, 
and keep his body warm. The vegetables give largely 
the mineral salts, besides water and some nourishment. 

But you cannot give large quantities of food hoping 
to make your child grow faster, for if you do the waste 
increases more rapidly than the body can throw it off, 
and the result is suffering and illness. When food is not 
digested it is like a poison in the body. 

To make our children strong it is necessary to use 
animal food as an important part of the diet ; in the 
form of milk, eggs, and gruels for very little children, 
and eggs and fresh meats for older children. 



134 A SECOND COURSE IN HOMEMAKING 

The fact that the starch in the potato is easily digested 
makes the potato a good food for very small children, 
but do not suppose that a baked potato is a complete 
meal. It is not sufficient, unless in combination with 
bread and butter, and milk ; when the child gets older 
a chop or some meat should be given with the potato. 
Do not give potato every day ; substitute macaroni or spa- 
ghetti. There is much nourishment in macaroni ; it gives 
every class of food except the fat. (Add oil for this.) 

Dr. Rotch, a man who knows a great deal about what 
children should eat, divides the child's life into four 
periods. The first period is the first year of the baby's 
existence, and in that time, as we have learned, he lives 
on milk. The second period is from one year to thirty 
months old, and in these months of the child's life it is 
very necessary to have variety in the food, always remem- 
bering that the foods given must contribute to its growth. 
The child is still a baby, and its chief diet is milk, but 
this may be varied with fruit-juices, broth, gruel, white 
potato, and after eighteen months, an egg. Increase the 
quantity of the food only as fast as the stomach of the 
child can digest it. The third period begins when the 
child is two and a half years old, and it then begins to eat 
vegetables, such as fresh squash and peas. It may have 
more kinds of fruit, but always cooked fruit, not raw. 
It also must have more protein, and we will add this 
element by beginning to give the child a little bacon 
or scraped meat. Then, when the child is three years 
old it may have such meats as chicken, mutton chop, 
roast beef and beefsteak, but these should be cut into 
very small pieces, with a little salt added, but no pepper. 
When a child is three years old it is well to give meat 
one day and an tgg the next. A child eats eggs before 
it eats meat, that is, a child can have eggs when it is a 



FOOD FOR CHILDREN 135 

year and a half old, but it should not have meat until it 
is three years old. 

Dr. Thompson is another doctor who knows a great 
deal about feeding little children, and he gives the follow- 
ing general rules : 

'' I. Allow time for m£als. 

" 2. See that the food is thoroughly masticated. 

"3. Do not allow nibbling between meals. 

" 4. Do not tempt the child with the sight of rich and 
indigestible foods. 

" 5. Do not force the child to eat against its will, but 
examine the mouth, which may be sore from coming 
teeth, and examine the food, which may not be properly 
cooked or flavored. If good food is refused from peev- 
ishness merely, remove it, and do not offer it again be- 
fore the next meal-time. 

" 6. In acute illness, reduce and dilute the food at once. 

" 7. In very hot weather give about one-fourth or one- 
third less food, and offer more water." 

Preparation of Food. 

Gruel. The great point in making cereal gruel is to 
cook it thoroughly. Oatmeal, farina, barley, hominy, 
and rice are the best cereals to use. Receipt, page 227. 

Until the child is four years of age milk forms the chief 
part of the diet, but after the first year it is used much 
in combination with other things. 

Put milk in soups, in puddings, in gruel, and give a child 
dried bread and milk if he says he is hungry. 

Never give a child really cold milk; warm the milk a 
little for an infant under two. 

Never let any one, when overheated, drink cold milk. 
Milk is a food, not a drink. 

Never give a child an Qgg until you have tested it. 



136 A SECOND COURSE IN HOMEMAKING 

(See page 165.) Fried eggs and omelets are not good 
for children. Soft-boiled eggs are the most digestible. 
Page 165. 

Fruits. After a child is a year old we must know how 
to prepare for it, orange juice, stewed prunes, and apples. 
Page 222. 

The utensils used in preparing food for a child should 
be scrupulously clean. If possible, keep separate for this 
cooking a saucepan, a double boiler and the few other 
needed utensils. 

Two or three teaspoons ful of olive oil served with 
food each day is very healthy. 

The following are suggestions for the diet for little 
children. (All of the receipts for these suggestions are 
in the back of this book.) 

Division of Child Hygiene. 

Diet for Child from Twelfth to Eighteenth Month 

FIRST MEAL, ON RISING 

(i) Two to three tbls. of juice of a sweet orange, or 
juice of six stewed prunes, or two tbls. of pineapple juice. 

(2) One cup milk with either zwieback, or dried out 
bread. 

Note : Fruit must be given either half an hour before 
or half an hour after milk. 

SECOND MEAL DURING MORNING 

Milk alone or with zwieback. 

NOON MEAL 

(i) Small cup of meat soup or broth. 

(2) Dried bread may be added to the above. 

Note: Soup may be made of chicken, beef or mutton. 



FOOD FOR CHILDREN 137 

FOURTH MEAL AFTERNOON 

Milk or zwieback and milk. 

EVENING MEAL 

(i) One half cup thick gruel mixed with one half cup 
of milk, from top of bottle. Taken with zwieback. 
Total milk in twenty-four hours, one quart. 
Note: Eight ounces is equal to a half pint. 

Diet for Child from Eighteenth to Twenty-fourth 

Month 

BREAKFAST 

(i) Juice of one sweet orange, or strained pulp of six 
stewed prunes, or pineapple juice, two tbls. 

(2) A cereal, such as cream of wheat, oatmeal, farina 
or hominy with top milk salted. Page 164. A glass of 
milk and dried bread. 

FORENOON 

A glass of milk with zwieback, or dried bread. 
(This is better than crackers for a very little child.) 

DINNER 

(i) Broth or soup made of beef, mutton or chicken, 
and thickened with peas, farina, sago or rice, or occasion- 
ally. 

Beef juice with dried bread, or clear vegetable soup 
wdth yolk of Qgg, or 

Egg soft boiled, with bread, or the Qgg poached, with a 
glass of milk. 

(2) Dessert: apple sauce, prune pulp, or junket. 

Do not give milk at dinner if beef juice is supplied. 



138 A SECOND COURSE IN HOMEMAKING 

(A child can often digest junket when its stomach will 
not retain milk.) 

SUPPER 

Glass of warm milk, with zwieback and custard or 
stewed fruit. 

Total milk in twenty-four hours, one quart. 

Diet for Child from Two to Three Years 

BREAKFAST 

(i) Juice of one sweet orange, or pulp of six stewed 
prunes, or a little pineapple juice, or apple sauce. 

(2) A cereal, such as oatmeal, farina, cream of wheat, 
hominy or rice, slightly sweetened or salted, as preferred, 
with the addition of top milk. Or 

A soft boiled or poached tgg with dried bread or toast. 

(3) ^ glass of milk. 

Note: Milk and raw fruit-juice must not be given at 
the same time. 

DINNER 

(i) Broth or soup made of chicken, mutton, or beef, 
thickened with arrowroot, spaghetti, rice or with the addi- 
tion of the yolk of tgg or toast squares. 

(2) Scraped beef or white meat of chicken or boiled 
fish, never fried (small amount), and mixed with mashed 
or baked potato. Fresh peas or spinach, or carrots may 
be given, but must first be pressed through a sieve. 

(3) Dessert: apple sauce, baked apple, rice pudding, 
junket, custard. 

SUPPER 

(i) A cereal or egg (if egg has not been taken with 
breakfast), with stale bread or toast. Corn bread with 
milk or with cocoa or bread and custard. 



FOOD FOR CHILDREN 139 

Never give a child under three meat every day ; alter- 
nate with eggs ; alternate potato with macaroni. 
(2) Stewed fruit. 

Diet for Child from Three to Six Years 

BREAKFAST 

(i) Fruits: an orange, apple, pear or stewed prunes. 

(2) Cereal: oatmeal, hominy, rice or wheat prepara- 
tions, well cooked and salted, with thin cream and 
sugar, or 

Egg: soft boiled, poached, or scrambled. 

(3) Milk or cocoa. 

DINNER 

( 1 ) Meat : chicken or beefsteak, or roast beef, or lamb 
:chops, or fish. 

(2) Vegetables: spinach or carrots or string beans, 
peas, cauliflower-tops, mashed or baked potatoes, beets 
or lettuce (without vinegar) or macaroni, or spaghetti. 
Bread and butter (not fresh bread or rolls). 

(3) Dessert: custard, rice, bread or tapioca pudding. 
Home-made ice cream (once a week), corn-starch pud- 
ding (chocolate or other flavor), stewed prunes or baked 
apple. 

Never give a child bought ice cream, the milk of 
which it is made may not be fresh ; the freezer may not 
have been clean ; nor can one know exactly from what the 
flavoring is made. Don't give candy. 

SUPPER 

(i) Milk toast or Graham crackers and milk. Or a 
thick soup, such as pea, or cream of celery, with bread 
and butter. Or a cereal and thin cream with bread and 
butter. 

(2) Stewed fruit; custard or plain pudding; jam or 
jelly (homemade). 



CHAPTER XI 
A HOT WEATHER LESSON 

Note to Teachers. 

The first piece of work in this chapter covers the subject 
of packing away winter clothes for the summer months. 
The children should be able actually to do this work. It is 
explained in full, and much benefit will be lost if the pupils 
only talk about it and do not actually pack the clothing into 
a box. 

The second object lesson is the preparation of picnic 
luncheons : taking into consideration the best food to be car- 
ried in hot weather, the sanitary preparation of that food, 
and working out how to get the greatest amount of nourish- 
ment in a small space, for example, how to make the filling 
of the sandwiches supply the food value needed for a meal. 

Hot weather has to be faced every year, and the ma- 
jority of people are not prepared to meet it. Not enough 
importance is attached in this country to climatic changes. 
In India, for example, where the thermometer is seldom 
below 80 degrees, clothing, food, hours for labor, are 
studied with a view to preserving health and comfort in 
spite of the heat. In most parts of the United States we 
have only a few weeks of really warm weather, but we 
endure this rather than meet it with forethought and in- 
telligence that come from education on the subject. The 
person who really desires to make the summer free from 
discomfort often does not know how. 

Air. 

One of the great advantages of summer is that fresh air 
has the opportunity to enter our homes, as it has not in 

140 



A HOT WEATHER LESSON 141 

the cold weather. Doors and windows are wide open 
night and day, and there is little danger of breathing ex- 
hausted air. Every person should make the most of this. 
Sleep with every window in the house wide open; insist 
upon fresh air in the store or office or factory ; spend all 
of the recreation-time possible in the open air. To ride 
in an open car or on top of a stage or on a ferry-boat ; to 
read on a park bench instead of in the house ; to use the 
roof for reading or working — are all perfectly possible 
open-air city pleasures. Remember that summer is the 
only season in the year when we can live under open-air 
conditions. It is much better for a girl to spend her 
money in trolley fare or for the short railroad journey that 
will take her to the country than it is to spend that same 
amount of money for a hat with a feather on it. 

Summer Furnishing. 

There are three reasons why warm clothing, dust-col- 
lecting table-covers, curtains, ornaments, etc., should be 
put away in hot weather. 

First. They create a feeling of stuffiness and irritation. 
Every one is more sensitive to disorder, to the overcrowd- 
ing of a room, and to dirt, in hot weather than in cold. 
Nerves are on edge, and the vitality that in cold weather 
can laugh at the discomfort of disorder and crowded 
quarters is lacking in summer. Things press against us 
when we are suffering from the heat. Give the rooms in 
summer an atmosphere of space. 

Second. Curtains, table-covers, etc., collect dust when 
the windows are open, and add to labor and to the danger 
of disease germs. 

Third. A crowded room takes away from the free cir- 
culation of air, and in sunnner we must have all the air 
possible. 



142 A SECOND COURSE IN HOMEMAKING 

Packing Away for Hot Weather. 

First, get a wooden box. Any grocery store will have 
one and will take it to your house for a few cents. A 
box the length of the window and thirty-seven inches high 
makes a good window-seat as well as packing-box. 
Scrub this box thoroughly inside and out with soap and 
soda and hot water. When dry, paint the inside cracks 
with turpentine. Five cents' worth of turpentine and a 
small brush will do the work. Stain the outside of the 
box, including the cover, with alcohol stain and wax. 

To make stain. Mix with alcohol enough dry aniline 
stain to make the required color. 

After the stain has dried thoroughly, rub off with a 
cloth the powdery remains of the stain which have not 
passed into the wood. Wax with melted beeswax or with 
any prepared floor wax. Hinges are seldom found on 
these grocery-store boxes, but such hinges can be pur- 
chased from any hardware store for ten cents. 

When the box is cleaned, stained, and the cover hinged, 
line it with newspaper, having the paper overlap so that 
there are no cracks between. Shake, brush, and air thor- 
oughly every article of clothing or other material that is 
to be packed. Then fold carefully, and place in the box, 
with newspaper between each separate article. When 
the box is full, cover with a newspaper, tucking in so that 
no air can reach the clothing. Fasten the cover on tight, 
and do not open until autumn. 

Mosquitoes. 

Mosquitoes in tropical countries are the carriers of 
malaria and yellow fever, and are the one channel through 
which persons are infected with these diseases. The 
Panama Canal, because of the prevalence of yellow fever 
in the Canal Zone, could never have been built had it not 



A HOT WEATHER LESSON 143 

been for the discovery that these fever poisons are carried 
from one person to another by the bite of a mosquito. 
In 1880, the French started to build the canal, but were 
obliged to give it up because the prevalence of the fevers 
made labor impossible. It v^as through the acts of brave 
men, among them Dr. Carroll and Dr. Lazaer, that the 
fact was proved that these tiny insects were dangerous. 
These men allowed mosquitoes that had bitten yellow- 
fever patients to bite them, and in fevery case the disease 
was contracted. Dr. Lazaer studied the mosquito as it 
lit on his hand and drank his blood. Three days later he 
came down with yellow fever, and died, but his death 
proved that the mosquito must go. Havana has been 
free from yellow fever since 1902 because a man called 
Wm. C. Gorgas got rid of mosquitoes. 

Mosquitoes breed in damp places and in stagnant water. 
When the United States was ready to build the canal and 
it was decided that either the mosquito must go or the 
canal remain unbuilt, the first thing that was done in 
Panama and Colon was to install a perfect system of 
sewers and to pave the streets. This did away with the 
filth and the mud that had existed up to that time. As 
mosquitoes also breed in damp undergrowth, this was 
cleared away, swamps were drained, and stagnant pools 
were oiled. It was not possible at once absolutely to ex- 
terminate the disease, but as soon as any one showed 
signs of yellow fever, he was put into a screened room, 
and an officer was put on duty day and night to see that 
the screen door was always closed and that no mosquitoes 
in the room could possibly fly out. As soon as the case 
was over, the house was fumigated and all mosquitoes 
were killed. 

This drainage and sanitary work cost our country over 
nine millions of dollars and the lives of many valuable 



144 A SECOND COURSE IN HOMEMAKING 

men, but the discovery that the mosquito was a disease 
carrier was worth the lives of these scientists and doctors, 
and to clean up this one little spot in the world was worth 
all it cost. It is facts like these that make us respect the 
word " sanitation." The one man who was at the head 
of all this cleaning-up work was Colonel Gorgas, and 
what that man did in a big way each girl can do in a small 
way. He stands simply as the greatest house-cleaner that 
ever lived. He made perfectly clean and healthy the place 
that was given him to clean, and that is all that is expected 
of any one. 

Flies. 

Flies are another danger of the summer months. A 
fly carries both in and on its body the filth and bacteria 
from the substances on which it feeds. The house fly is 
a disease-carrier not because it infects people by its bite, 
as the mosquito does, but because it eats and lives and 
lays its eggs in infected material. Dead animals and ex- 
creta are its principal food. But if your house and the 
near-by street have no filth or disease bacteria exposed 
for the fly to feed on, it is a harmless, though annoying, 
insect. If one does not like the thought that the fly now 
walking around the edge of the cream-jug was a short 
time ago eating and walking on a dead fish, sour milk, 
the garbage-pail, or even in more disgusting filth, the only 
thing to do is to keep all such feeding-places covered. 

The body of the fly is thickly covered with tiny hairs, 
its legs are like little brushes, and the dirt and germs 
stick to this hairy body. It is estimated that a fly can 
carry about infected bacteria on its legs and wings for 
at least eighteen hours. Not only do flies carry germs, 
but they also drop this dirty material from their body 
after they have eaten it. The fly always overeats, and it 



A HOT WEATHER LESSON 145 

overeats decayed material, which it prefers to fresh food. 
This overeating causes a distension of the body, and in 
order to relieve this feeling, the fly drops the undigested 
food as it moves from object to object. The girls who 
study this book may have noticed that when a fly falls 
into the milk it will leave a trail as it crawls out. These 
trails are the droppings from the intestines and the mouth. 
They have been studied and proved to be often infected. 
Every girl has also seen fly-spots where the fly has 
walked. These spots are the same things : little drops 
of dirt, which are quite as likely to be dropped on the 
food you are about to eat as anywhere. Flies feed on 
sputum, and when this sputum has dried to such an extent 
that the fly cannot draw it into its mouth, it will inject 
fluid and moisten in this way the dried sputum, so that it 
can be sucked in. 

The dirty habits of the fly are also conspicuous from 
the places in which it lays its eggs. Some flies prefer the 
wounds of animals, in which cases extensive sores are 
the result. Some will lay their eggs in the dirt of the 
street. A certain kind of fly will lay its eggs only in 
cheese, bacon, or some fatty material. As the common 
house fly does not pierce the skin, it cannot carry poison 
to the blood, but a fly will light on our skin again and 
again so that it may feed on the skin secretions. The 
danger from a fly lies, then, in the fact that they breed 
in dirty, infected places, and that they return to these 
places to feed and then light on the food of human beings. 
You may never see the fly that poisons you or that makes 
your baby sick, for all that is necessary is that the hairy 
little body shall walk over filth and then light on the meat 
or milk that you buy, possibly a day later. But the germ 
has been left, and when taken into your stomach will 
begin its poisonous work. 



146 A SECOND COURSE IN HOMEMAKING 

Intestinal diseases are those most often given by the 
fly to human beings. This is because of the matter that 
the fly eats. Diarrhea in summer is the most common of 
these diseases. A single fly can carry on its body 6,600,- 
000 bacteria, and in one examination in England between 
the months of July and October, twenty per cent, of the 
flies were found to be infected with diarrhea germs. 

A fly does not move much from street to street or from 
house to house. So if the house you live in and the street 
you live on are clean, you are safe. The amount of dirt 
carried by flies, measured in terms of bacteria, accords 
with the habits of the people and the condition of the 
street near which that fly lives. 

What is our part in this question? Flies zvill walk in 
filth if there is any filth to walk in. That is a habit we 
cannot control in flies, but the milk and food in your 
house can be covered so that the dirty feet of the fly 
cannot touch what you eat. Garbage-cans, ash-cans, and 
any waste for which you are responsible can be covered, 
and so made impossible for the fly to use as a feeding 
place. The windows can be screened. A screen costs 
only twenty-five cents, and the purchase of this may save 
the baby's life. A screen is also necessary to keep the 
mosquitoes away. In this country mosquitoes are not 
the deadly carriers of disease that they are in the tropics, 
but they do poison many people, they heat the blood, and 
they certainly annoy and rob one of sleep. A net over 
the bed in summer will keep both mosquitoes and flies 
away. Do not shut the windows to keep insects out when 
a screen will do the same work. Do not forget that just 
as uncovered garbage is a breeding-place for flies, so stag- 
nant water, even only a small quantity of water in a pail, 
will act as a breeding-place for mosquitoes. 

Those who study this book cannot go to Panama or 



A HOT WEATHER LESSON 147 

giv'e their lives to help science, but every one can take the 
rules that these great scientists have discovered, can learn 
them by heart, and can live by them day by day, and 
every girl can clean up her little corner or her one house, 
just as Colonel Gorgas did his larger house-cleaning. 

Foods. 

Food is to the body what coal is to the stove, and as 
no one builds a big fire in the stove on a warm summer 
day if it can be helped, so no one should overheat the 
body in hot weather. One-fourth to one-third less food 
is needed in hot weather than in cold, and not only is the 
quantity of the food different but the quality is also dif- 
ferent. The foods such as meat, oil, butter, sugar, that 
contain carbohydrate, fat and protein, create heat in the 
body. Proteins and carbohydrates are quick fuels. For 
example, if energy is wanted quickly one may obtain this 
by giving the body eggs or sugar. It is well to remember 
this fact when one is tempted to buy candy in hot 
weather. The desire for candy in summer is not a 
healthy taste ; it often means that one has n't much appe- 
tite and the energy of the body is getting low. 

To produce heat slowly in the body, and a heat that 
will last, as a hard coal fire outlasts a wood fire, we should 
eat oils, nuts and fat meats. It is for this reason that 
in cold countries, on all Polar expeditions, the men eat 
great quantities of fat, but this heat-giving food must be 
avoided in summer. 

Cooling foods are the foods that contain much water. 
There is a constant loss of moisture from our bodies in 
summer as there is loss of heat in winter. In hot 
weather, therefore, we must eat food that makes up for 
this water loss, just as in winter we must eat food that 
gives back the loss of heat. Water is as cooling to the 



148 A SECOND COURSE IN HOMEMAKING 

inside of the body as the cold bath is to the outside. Eat 
uncooked vegetables such as celery and lettuce ; such 
fruits as pears, peaches and oranges, these being largely 
composed of water ; but when you eat this uncooked food 
be very careful of two things: that it is fresh and clean, 
for food decays very rapidly in hot weather. Never eat 
any fruit or vegetable or salad without washing it thor- 
oughly. 

Freshly cooked vegetables, such as peas and beans, con- 
tain much nourishment and in summer they are better to 
eat than meat. Do not give the stomach a great deal of 
work to do in hot weather. Eggs are more easily digested 
than fat meats. 

Eat foods in summer that require a short time to cook, 
and in the morning cook the food necessary for the day, 
thus allowing the fire to go out and insuring a cool house 
to sleep in. Let us be thoughtful of the servant in hot 
weather; she suffers from the heat as truly as her em- 
ployer. A supper of cold meat, crisp cool salad, cold 
milk and bread and butter is surely more appetizing than 
a steaming hot dish for the workers of the family to 
come home to at night. 

Buying in Summer. 

One reason for the increase in disease in warm weather 
is bad food. Every girl in this class knows that to keep 
food from decaying in summer it must be put on the ice ; 
in winter the cold weather takes the place of the ice-box. 

In winter most people are obliged to eat canned vege- 
tables, which never have the sweetness of the fresh vege- 
tables. Do not open a can of peas in July because it is 
easier than shelling the fresh, and equally cheap, peas 
from the market. In buying vegetables, remember that 
they must be crisp. Lettuce that is not crisp is not fresh. 



A HOT WEATHER LESSON 149 

If possible, buy fruit with the skins on. Never buy pine- 
apple or watermelon by the slice, as the dust and germs 
from the street have entered every piece. 

Sweet, syrupy drinks do not take the place of water, 
as the sugar in soft drinks is heating, and clear water is 
much better and more cooling. Our bodies cry out for 
moisture because of the great loss of water from the 
pores of our skin. 

Let each girl seriously take up the problem of hot 
weather living. The death rate of children is much 
greater in summer than in winter. This increase lies in 
the danger from decaying food, because fermentation is 
quickened by the heat. The man who sells you fresh 
vegetables from a cart may be perfectly honest when he 
tells you they were fresh that morning. They may have 
been, but in summer a few hours are all that are needed 
to produce decay. Then, too, there is more dust in sum- 
mer than in winter. Our windows are open, and the dust 
easily enters our homes. In summer, housewives re- 
quire more will power to dust properly every morning 
and get rid of dust. Flies and mosquitoes infect the 
food in summer, and the overheated bodies of little chil- 
dren easily furnish lodgment for disease. 

The care of little children has been taken up in another 
lesson, but while we are on this subject let us go over a 
few absolutely necessary facts about helping the baby 
during the summer. 

The baby should never be weaned in hot weather, but 
if it takes cow's milk, the milk must be kept in a cool 
place and covered. 

Milk which has been heated by the sun or by hot air, 
or has been too near the stove, is bad milk. 

A baby feels the heat more than grown-up people ; in 
hot weather it should wear as little clothing as possible. 



150 A SECOND COURSE IN HOMEMAKING 

A loose cotton shirt and a diaper is sufficient for a hot 
day. 

In warm weather give the baby a cool sponge bath 
several times a day, and give it plenty of clean, cool boiled 
water to drink; never forget that it gets thirsty and is 
unable to ask for water. 

If the baby vomits or has diarrhea, stop all feeding. 
Give it boiled water, and send for the doctor at once. 
If the doctor is not near get a district nurse. 

Picnics. 

While many people think picnics are only childish things 
and not important enough for a school study, we believe 
they are worth studying for two reasons. 

First — They are held out of doors ; and to eat in the 
fresh air gives the body the best possible medicine. 

Second — A great many people who, at home, are very 
particular about meals think anything will do for a picnic. 
On the contrary, cold food that is to take the place of a 
hot meal should be prepared with even more care if 
possible than the meal at home. It is usually eaten in 
a warm atmosphere after being carried some distance. 

Every girl can recall how many children come home 
from picnics (which should mean health, relaxation and 
amusement) sick at their stomachs. Why? Because 
they either eat the wrong food, or the right food prepared 
in the wrong way, and as soon as the stomach feels the 
motion of the ferry or the car it rebels at the insult. 
For it is an insult to our stomachs to fill them with un- 
wholesome food. 

What should be taken on a picnic? Sandwiches, fruit 
and something to drink. Sandwiches should be the main 
part of the lunch. In a sandwich we have the bread 
which every one wants at a meal; bread contains the 



A HOT WEATHER LESSON 151 

necessary starch ; butter contributes the fat, and a proper 
filling adds to the nourishment. In making sandwiches 
very little butter should be used in summer, for it is apt 
to get rancid, and fat is heating. The filling of the sand- 
wiches must contain as much food value as possible, and 
whether it consists of meat or salad or cheese it is the 
most convenient way to carry the main part of the meal. 

Making Sandwiches. 

Have your hands clean when you make them, for they 
must be handled. Bread a day old is better than fresh 
bread. Have the filling very cold. 

As sandwiches are usually eaten in hot weather and 
away from ice, they should be done up in oiled paper to 
keep out the air and to preserve them from spoiling. 
Germs are very active in warm weather. Sandwiches 
should not be of that material which easily decays. Meat 
is expensive, and quickly spoils in a warm place, so it is 
well, when possible, to select a substitute for meat. 

Quarter lb. of cheese contains the same nourishment as 
I qt. of milk. 

Quarter lb. of cheese twice as much as ^ lb. of meat. 

Two eggs are equal to ^ lb. of meat. 

Nuts are only 5 per cent, water and the remaining .95 
per cent, is nourishing. 

Thirty walnuts (without shells) contain as much fat 
as }i lb. of meat. 

There is much nutritive value in olive oil. 

From sandwiches made from salad plants, such as let- 
tuce, chicory, cucumber, etc., we do not get much nourish- 
ment apart from the oil and bread, but we do get refresh- 
ment, water and salts. This is true also of celery. 

Vegetables, fish, cut fruit and meat make good sand- 
wiches, but will not keep long away from the ice. 



152 A SECOND COURSE IN HOMEMAKING 

Salad oil becomes rancid if kept in a warm place for 
any length of time. 

All these facts should help a girl to decide what kind 
of sandwiches should be taken on a picnic. 

As a rule, cold food is not so appetizing as hot food (I 
am not speaking of iced dishes), and hence great care 
should be taken to make every sandwich dainty, even 
though it seems fussy and unnecessary at the time. All 
should be the same shape and size, and the edges cut even 
with a sharp knife. 

To Make a Sandwich. 

Prepare the material that you are to put in the sand- 
wich. 

Have oiled or tissue paper ready (if the sandwich is to 
be taken away). 

Cut the bread in slices one quarter of an inch thick. 
Butter with soft butter (mash if butter is hard). If 
very dainty sandwiches are desired, cut off the crust, but 
remember that the crust cut off is just so much food value 
wasted. 

Spread filling on one slice of bread and place the other 
evenly on top. Wrap in the paper before bread dries. 

For at least two lessons the pupils should select sand- 
wich receipts from the back of the book (page 229) and 
prepare them in class. 

Remember that knives and forks are not usually at 
hand when sandwiches are eaten. Anything of fibrous 
texture must be chopped fine, as eating with the fingers 
is unattractive if the food is not very dainty. 

Never use anything excepting oiled or tissue paper for 
wrapping the sandwich. Never use newspaper. There 
are people who are so careless and have so little thought 
for health that they will use a dirty, inky newspaper to 



A HOT WEATHER LESSON 153 

wrap about a luncheon. Newspapers are made from 
dirty rags ; the printer's ink used on the type is black, 
greasy oil (rub it off on your hands and see for your- 
self). After the newspaper is printed it is carried by 
boys who handle it with dirty hands and throw it about 
anywhere. 

After one or two lessons on hot weather food and the 
preparation of a picnic luncheon, the subject will become 
familiar to every pupil in the class. For the last lesson 
on this topic it would be instructive and interesting for 
each girl to bring from home what she considers the best 
luncheon for one person, prepared and wrapped in the 
best way. All such luncheons may be placed on the 
table, without names attached, and the teacher will criti- 
cize all errors, taking into account food values, daintiness 
of appearance and manner of wrapping, and give a re- 
ward for the best luncheon, not forgetting to give every 
girl credit for the eft'orts made. 






INEXPENSIVE COOKING RECEIPTS 



CONTENTS OF COOKING RECEIPTS 

PAGE 

Weights and Measures 158 

Cereals 161 

Eggs 165 

Soups 168 

Soups for Children 173 

Fish 175 

Fish for Children 178 

Inexpensive Meat Dishes 179 

Baked Meat Dishes 183 

Vegetables 188 

Cheese 193 

Muffins, Breads, etc 195 

Sauces 200 

Salads 202 

Cold Desserts 206 

Baked Puddings and Pies . 209 

Pudding Sauces 214 

Cake 216 

Cooked and Preserved Fruits 220 

Fruits for Children 222 

Receipts for Marmalade, Jam and Jelly 224 

Receipts for the Sick 227 

Sandwiches 229 

Italian Receipts 232 

Kosher Receipts 235 



15; 



Useful Weights and Measures. 

32 tbsp. in a pound of butter 
2 cups in a pound of butter 
5-cent loaf of bread cuts 18 pieces 
4 cups of flour to I pound. 
2 cups of sugar to i pound 
234 cups dry beans to i pound 
2^ cups brown sugar to i pound 
2^ cups oatmeal to i pound 
2% cups corn meal to i pound 
1% cups rice to i pound 
4^ cups coffee to i pound 

2 cups chopped meat to i pound 

3 tsp. in I tbsp. 
16 tbsp. in I cup 

2 cups farina in one package 
2 cups farina in one pound 
I pint of rice in i pound 

Table of Proportions. 

I cup liquid to 3 cups flour for bread 
I cup liquid to 2 cups flour for mufiins 

1 cup liquid to i cup flour for batters 

2 teaspoons soda to i pint sour milk 

1 teaspoon soda to i cup molasses 
]/^ teaspoon salt to 4 cups custard 

2 teaspoons salt to 4 cups water 

% teaspoon salt to i cup white sauce 
y^ teaspoon pepper to i cup white sauce 
y2 pint or I cup is 8 ounces of milk 
32 ounces in i qt. of milk 
2 tbls. in one ounce 

158 



TIME TABLES 159 

All receipts in this book take it for granted that when 
the terms teaspoon and tablespoon or *' tsp." and *' tbls." 
are used, level teaspoon, and level tablespoon shall be 
understood. 

Time Table for Roasting Meats. 

Beef — 15 minutes to the pound 
Lamb — 20 minutes to the pound. 
Pork — one half hour to the pound 
Veal — one half hour to the pound. 
Chicken — 20 minutes to the pound 
Turkey — 20 minutes to the pound 

Time Table for Baking. 

Fish — 15 minutes to the pound. 
Bread — 45 to 60 minutes. 
Cookies — about 10 minutes. 
Thin Cake — 15 to 30 minutes. 
Loaf Cake — 40 to 60 minutes. 
Indian Pudding — 3 hours or more. 
Bread Pudding — 45 minutes. 
Pies — 30 to 45 minutes. 
Scalloped Dishes — 20 to 30 minutes. 
Baked Beans — 5 to 7 hours. 



CEREALS 

Cereals include wheat, oats, rye, barley, Indian corn, 
and rice. 

In "Practical Homemaking " the subject of cereals 
was taken up quite thoroughly. In Chapter VI, in that 
book, was given the time table for cooking breakfast 
cereals. As the nutritive value of cereals is very high, 
it seems important that every girl should be familiar with 
as many ways of cooking this nourishing food as possible, 
and the following cereal receipts are added to those 
already learned. 

Things to Remember About Cooking Cereals. 

1. It is better not to eat cereals at all than to eat 
them undercooked. 

2. Have the cereal stiff enough to be chewed. If too 
soft it is swallowed without being chewed and is, there- 
fore, not easily digested. Infant food is different. 

3. It is a good rule to cook cereals twice as long as 
directed on the package. 

Suggestions for Serving Cereals. 

1. Berries, applesauce, sliced peaches or sliced bananas 
can be served in the same saucer with any cereal and it 
makes a very appetizing dish. 

2. Figs or dates, cut in small pieces, may be stirred 
into cooked farina or mush before serving, and the mush 
then served with cream and sugar. This contains enough 
nourishment for an entire meal. 

161 



i62 A SECOND COURSE IN HOMEMAKING 

Hominy Mush with Prunes 
Pour slowly one cup of hominy into four cups of boil- 
ing water, salt, and boil one hour. 

Wash and pick over one-half pound prunes. Soak 
these in cold water two hours, then cook in same water 
until soft. When nearly cooked, add one-half cup sugar. 
Pour prunes over hominy and serve hot. 

Rice and Cheese 

1 cup rice % lb. cheese 
3 cups water i tsp. salt 

2 cups white sauce A little pepper 

Boil rice as in previous receipt and add white sauce. 
Fill a pudding dish with this cooked rice. Cover with 
fine shavings of cheese, and bake until brown. 

Boiled Rice 

Boiled rice is not an easy dish to prepare. A very 
careful study of the subject is therefore necessary. 
I cup rice 3 cups water 

I tsp. salt 

Put water in a saucepan and let it boil. Pick over 
and wash the rice in four or five waters. When water 
is boiling rapidly, drop in rice so slowly that it will 
not stop the boiling of the water. If the grains settle on 
the bottom stir them gently with a fork, not with a spoon. 
Allow rice to boil from twenty to thirty minutes in 
a covered saucepan. Add salt when rice is nearly 
cooked. Turn into a strainer and drain thoroughly. Dry 
in a serving dish in the oven for a few moments before 
serving. 

Old rice absorbs more water than new rice and takes 
longer for cooking. 



INEXPENSIVE COOKING RECEIPTS 163 

Cornmeal and Syrup, 
One cup cornmeal to six cups boiling salted water. 
Cook in double boiler for three hours, add more water if 
necessary. Serve hot with maple syrup. 

Samp 

Samp is but four cents a pound and makes a delicious 
vegetable. 

Soak two cups of samp over night. In the morning 
drain, and pour cold water over the samp in order to 
remove the starchy substance. Then boil in enough 
salted water to cover for from three to four hours. If 
the water boils away add more. Drain all water from 
samp, and when dry add two tablespoons of butter and a 
little salt ; serve hot. 

Hominy Pudding 
Cook one cup of hominy in four cups of boiling salted 
water for one and one-half hours. Drain and let stand 
until partly cool, then mix hominy with one-half pint 
of milk, two beaten eggs, i tablespoon butter. Bake in 
pudding dish in oven for about ten minutes. Cheese can 
be sprinkled on top of hominy before baking, if desired. 

Rice Croquettes 

Warm one pint of cooked rice in one or two table- 
spoonfuls of hot milk. Add the beaten yolk of one egg, 
and salt to taste. Allow this rice mixture to cool, then 
shape it in rolls and fry in hot lard or deep fat of any 
kind. 

Cereals for Children 

All starchy foods, among them cereals, should be 
cooked long enough to be easily digested. The starch 
must be liberated by the bursting of the granules. This 



i64 A SECOND COURSE IN HOMEMAKING 

starch is changed into a substance called dextrine if it 
is cooked in a very high temperature and a very long 
time. If starch is eaten by a child before it is changed, 
it is not easily digested. It is for this reason that such 
emphasis is laid on the necessity of cooking cereal a 
long time. Imperfectly cooked cereals are worse than 
nothing for little children. 

Cereals for Children Under Three. 

Cook in boiling salted water for at least three hours. 
Strain and mix with milk or thin cream. Season with 
salt but no sugar. 



EGGS 

There are four reasons why raw eggs are given to the 
sick. 

1. They contain much food value. 

2. They are easy to eat. 

3. They are easily digested when raw or soft cooked. 

4. They are free from bacteria. 

How to Tell if an Egg is Fresh. 

1. Observe the shell. A fresh tgg has a thick rough 
shell. 

2. Drop the egg into cold water. If it sinks it is 
fresh. If it floats it is stale. 

Care of Eggs. 

1. Wash the eggs with a damp cloth when they first 
come from the store. 

2. Keep the eggs in a cool, dry place. 

3. Never throw away the shells of eggs, as they may 
be used to clear coffee. 

Receipts for Eggs. 

Soft-Boiled Eggs 
Put water in a saucepan. Let it come to the boiling 
point. Lower the eggs into it with a spoon. Remove at 
once from the fire and let stand, covered, for about ten 
minutes. 

Eggs in a Nest 

Separate the white of an egg from the yolk. Beat the 
white stiff and dry. Put it in a cup or small dish, mak- 

165 



i66 A SECOND COURSE IN HOMEAIAKING 

ing in the top of it a hollow the size of the yolk. Into 
this hollow slip the yolk. Set bowl in a covered saucepan 
containing boiling water. Cook until the top of the 
white of the egg is firm. 

Goldenrod Eggs 

I cup white sauce 6 slices toast 

4 eggs boiled hard 

Separate the whites from the yolks of the hard boiled 
eggs. Cut the whites into rather small pieces and add 
to the well-seasoned white sauce. Press the yolks of the 
eggs through a strainer or potato ricer. Serve white 
of egg and white sauce on toast with the riced yolks 
sprinkled on top. A little parsley around the dish adds 
to the taste and the appearance. 

Creamed Eggs 

I cup white sauce 4 hard boiled eggs 

2 tbsp. grated cheese 

Remove the shells of the eggs and cut in cubes. Place 
eggs in a baking dish and pour over them the white 
sauce. Sprinkle a little grated cheese on top and serve 
very hot. If the eggs have cooled in the preparation, 
place the dish in the oven for a few moments before 
serving. 

Scrambled Eggs 

4 eggs ^ tsp. salt 

34 cup milk A little pepper 

Heat frying pan. Melt butter in it. Beat the eggs, 

whites and yolks together. Add milk, salt and pepper. 

(Water can be used instead of milk.) Be sure that the 

frying pan is very hot before eggs are poured in. 



INEXPENSIVE COOKING RECEIPTS 167 

Stir eggs and scrape from bottom constantly while cook- 
ing. As soon as eggs are creamy take from fire and 
serve. 

Poached Eggs 

Break eggs carefully one at a time into a saucer 
and slip into a frying pan of hot salted water. Dip the 
hot water over the yolks with a spoon while the egg is 
cooking. When the white is firm, take up the eggs with 
a skimmer, and serve on hot buttered toast. Sprinkle 
over each egg a little salt and a little paprika. 

Eggs in Spanish Style 

I cup tomato 4 hard boiled eggs 

J/2 green pepper 2 this, butter or oil 

I tbsp. chopped onion Salt and pepper 

Parsley 

Cut eggs in half lengthwise ; separate yolks from 
whites. Put yolks in a bowl and mix with salt, pepper 
and a little olive oil. Put the yolk mixture back in 
whites of eggs. Make hot tomato sauce (see pg. 200). 
Pour sauce over eggs : heat through and serve hot. 

Omelet 

Beat eggs, whites and yolks together, with a teaspoon of 
milk (or water) for each egg. Season with salt and 
paprika. Turn the beaten egg into a very hot pan which 
has in it enough butter to just cover the bottom of pan. 
Constantly run a silver knife under omelet as it begins 
to harden, allowing uncooked egg to flow under. When 
all is of a creamy consistency fold and serve at once on 
hot platter. 



SOUPS 

Cream of Tomato Soup 

i^ cups milk i^ cups tomato 

3 tbsp. flour Yz tsp. salt 

3 tbsp. butter ^ tsp. soda 

Little sugar 
Melt butter, stir in flour. Add the tomato, stirring 
constantly. Add the soda to this tomato mixture. Have 
milk scalded and add milk to tomato until they are thor- 
oughly blended and the mixture thickens. Add the sea- 
soning before taking from the stove. Serve with crou- 
tons. Strain before serving soup. 

To make croutons, cut stale bread into one-third inch 
slices, cut off the crusts. Spread thinly with butter. 
Cut slices into cubes. Place in a pan in oven and allow 
to get a delicate brown. 

Fish Chowder 

I lb. fresh fish (cod or i^ pt. milk 
haddock) 3 water crackers 

3 large potatoes Pepper, salt and ^4 lb. 

I large onion pork 

Cut fish, potatoes and onion into slices. Try out pork 
and fry onion in it until a light brown. Place in alter- 
nate layers in saucepan — first potatoes, then fish, 
then pork and onions. Dust with salt and pepper and 
continue in this order until all the materials are used. 
Cover the whole with boiling water and let the mixture 
simmer for thirty minutes. Scald the milk. Arrange 
the fish mixture in dish, cover with softened crackers and 
pour over the whole the hot milk. 

168 



INEXPENSIVE COOKING RECEIPTS 169 

Vegetable Soup with Meat 

1 lb. soup meat Small stalk celery 

2 carrots (chopped) 

4 or 5 potatoes (cut in 2 cents' worth soup 

squares) greens 

Yi cup tomato Yi cup rice 

I onion (chopped) Pepper and salt to taste 

Put meat in cold water. Let it come to the boiling 
point and cook one-half hour. Take meat from water, 
cut in small pieces and return to the pot, adding more 
water, also the chopped carrot and celery. Boil twenty 
minutes. Wash the rice, and add this and the potato 
to the soup, with seasoning and chopped soup greens. 
Cook all together for twenty minutes more. 

Scotch Broth 

I lb. lean beef and bones 

I cup dried green peas (washed and picked over) 

J4 cup barley 

1 potato 

Little chopped cabbage 

2 cents' worth soup greens. 

Soak peas over night. In the morning drain and cook 
in fresh water with meat, bones and barley for one hour. 
Add chopped cabbage, potato and seasoning. Cook for 
one hour more, or until peas are soft. 

Vegetable Soup with Spaghetti 

I cup cabbage, chopped i cup tomato 

4 potatoes cut in cubes 2 tbsp. lard or oil 

y^ lb. spaghetti 2 cents' worth soup 

I onion greens 

J^ cup carrot Salt and pepper to taste 



I70 A SECOND COURSE IN HOMEMAKING 

Fry onion in fat until brown. Add this to one quart 
of boiling water, with cabbage, tomato and carrot. 
Cook one-half hour, then add potato, spaghetti and 
chopped soup greens, and cook one-half hour more. Sea- 
son with salt and pepper. 

Tripe Soup 

J/2 lb. tripe 2 tbsp. lard or dripping 

2 cups milk I onion 

2 cups cut up potatoes ^ tsp. salt 

2 tbsp. flour ys tsp. pepper 

Wash tripe and boil with sliced onion and cut up 
potatoes for one-half hour. Melt fat and mix with flour. 
Scald milk and add to this the flour, fat and tripe mix- 
ture ; season, and let it all boil together until it begins to 
thicken. 

Lentil Soup 

I lb. lentils 2 tbsp. lard, oil, or drip- 

I cup tomatoes ings 

Soup greens i onion 

Salt and pepper to taste 

Soak lentils over night. Allow them to cook in the 
morning for two hours. Fry onions in oil or drippings 
until brown. • Add to this onion mixture tomato and 
seasoning. Cook one-half hour with soup greens, which 
have been chopped. Now add tomato mixture to lentils 
and boil all together for fifteen minutes. 

Clam Chowder (without Tomato) 

25 clams I tbsp. butter 

I onion 2 tbsp. flour 

Small piece salt pork 2 cups milk 

3 potatoes y2 tsp. pepper 
y2 tsp. salt 



INEXPENSIVE COOKING RECEIPTS 171 

Boil the clams in their own liquor for three minutes. 
Remove clams and return liquor to fire. Fry pork, cut 
in slices, and chopped onion together until both are 
brown. Add flour, stir, and allow flour to get well 
cooked. Then add this to clam liquor and season 
with salt and pepper. Have potatoes cut into dice, and 
cook in clam liquor until tender. When ready to serve 
add milk and clams, which have been chopped. 

Corn Soup 
I can corn 2 tbsp. butter 

J/2 pt. boiling water 2 tbsp. flour 

I pt. milk I tsp. salt 

I slice onion Pinch pepper 

Cook corn and water together for twenty minutes. 

Scald milk with chopped onion, and add milk to corn. 

Add butter and flour which have been cooked together. 

Season with salt and pepper. 

Celery Soup 

Cut stalks and leaves of one large head of celery 
in one-half-inch pieces and add to one quart of boiling 
water. Boil until tender. Make white sauce of one 
tablespoon flour, one tablespoon butter, two cups of milk, 
and salt. Press the cooked celery through a sieve. Add 
this celery to the white stock and heat thoroughly be- 
fore serving. 

Mock Bisque 



2 cups tomatoes 


y2 onion 


2 tsp. sugar 


2 tbsp. butter 


4 cups milk 


6 cloves 


Yi tsp. salt 


yi tsp. pepper 


Sprig of parsley 


I bay leaf 


V2 


tsp. soda 



172 A SECOND COURSE IN HOMEMAKING 

Scald milk with chopped parsley and the bay leaf. 
Remove bay leaf after milk scalds. Cook the tomato, 
onion, cloves, and sugar together; add soda and press 
through a sieve. Add this tomato mixture to the milk 
mixture, adding at the last the salt, pepper, and butter. 



THE PREPARATION OF SOUPS FOR 
CHILDREN 

Beef Juice 

Buy one-half pound lean beef. Take off all fat and 
gristle. Broil over a clear fire from six to eight min- 
utes. Cut the meat into small pieces and squeeze out 
juice with a lemon squeezer (being sure it is perfectly 
clean). Add salt. When you are ready to warm this 
juice do not heat it directly over the fire but put it in a 
cup and set the cup in hot water. 

Beef Broth 

Buy chopped lean beef and use one pound of meat 
to one quart of water. (If the child is over three, one 
onion can be used.) Soak the meat in cold salted water 
(with or without the onion) for from two to six hours, 
keeping it on ice or in a cool place all the time. Then 
in the same water let it slowly simmer on the stove for 
three hours. Cool over night. Remove the fat in the 
morning. Keep this broth covered in a cold place until 
needed, when it is reheated. 

Clear Vegetable Soup 

One hour before beef broth or stock is cooked, add 
any vegetables desired. First wash, scrape, and cut 
into pieces. Just before soup is done add the salt. 
Take from fire, strain all through a fine sieve into an 
earthen bowl. Let it cool without covering. When 
ready to serve remove the grease, add more salt, and 
heat. 

Mutton Broth 

Buy one pound of the best end of the neck of mutton. 

1/3 



) 



174 A SECOND COURSE IN HOMEMAKING 

Cover with one quart of cold water, add pinch of salt 
and one tablespoon of crushed barley. Let it stand at 
the back of the stove one hour. Then move it forward 
and let it simmer for three hours. Add water so that it 
will not fall below one-half pint. Strain and allow to 
cool. When cold remove the fat, adding more salt if 
necessary. 

This can be thickened with a little cornstarch ; cook 
for ten minutes, and then add three ounces of milk to 
one-half pint of broth. 

Chicken Broth 

Cut up a fowl into small pieces. Take out all skin 
and fat. Cover with cold water and let it simmer for six 
hours. Cool over night. Take the fat off that has 
risen to the top. Season, strain off the broth, and heat. 
A four-pound chicken will make one quart of broth. 

A little cornstarch, flour, or arrowroot may be used 
to thicken the soup. 

Cream Soups 

Cream soups (which are very good for little children) 
can be made of any vegetables; asparagus, green peas, 
string beans, spinach, and celery being especially good. 
All of these vegetable soups are made in the same way. 
The vegetable is boiled until soft, and is then pressed 
through a sieve. A white sauce is made of one table- 
spoon of butter, one tablespoon of flour, a very little pep- 
per, salt enough to season, and two cups of milk, or one 
cup of milk and one cup of beef or chicken broth. In 
the place of white sauce, two teaspoons of cornstarch 
may be used as thickening. Add the strained vegetable 
to the milk, replace on the fire, and allow it to simmer 
for a few minutes. 



FISH 

Codfish Hash 

}i lb. salt codfish Yi cup milk 

6 medium-sized potatoes 2 tbsp. butter 
Parboil codfish for fifteen or twenty minutes. Pick 
it over, taking out all bone or skin. Boil and mash pota- 
toes, and add them to the fish. Add also the butter, and 
enough milk to make it a soft mass. Beat well, and 
season with salt and pepper. Put into the oven to 
brown or put into buttered frying pan, and cook on 
top of the stove without stirring, until brown under- 
neath. Fold and serve. 

Fish Balls 

^ lb. salt codfish 

2 heaping cups potatoes (cut in small pieces) 

Yz tbsp. butter 

Boil and mash the potatoes. While they are cooking, 
cover the codfish with boiling water. Let it soak for 
twenty minutes. Drain and pick fish into shreds. Mix 
the fish, potatoes, butter and beaten eggs together. Beat 
the mixture well. Make into round cakes and fry in 
a buttered pan or deep fat. 

Shredded Codfish Balls 
I box shredded codfish 2 eggs 

6 potatoes i tbsp. butter. 

Salt and pepper 
175 



176 A SECOND COURSE IN HOMEMAKING 

Soak codfish well and pick over. Put into saucepan 
and cover v^ith cold water. Let it come to the boiling 
point, but do not boil it as that would make it hard. 
Strain water from fish. Put potatoes on to boil, cutting 
them in small pieces so that they will boil quickly, and 
at the same time put on the fire one and one-half pounds 
of lard in a deep kettle. This lard must be very hot 
before it can be used to fry the fishballs. Beat the 
eggs stiff, the whites and yolks separately. Mash the 
potatoes and mix with the butter. No milk should be 
used, but the potatoes and butter should be beaten until 
creamy. Add potatoes to fish. Mix fish and potato 
mixture and yolks of eggs together, beating hard. The 
last thing beat in the whites. Mold with a spoon, not 
with the hands, and drop in the hot fat. Cook until 
a nice brown. 

Baked Fish 

Bluefish, weak fish, or any whole fish can be used for 
baking. 

I cup cracker crumbs, or 3^ tsp. pepper 

bread crumbs i tbsp. chopped onion 

% lb. fat salt pork i tbsp. capers 

^ tsp. salt I tbsp. pickle 

y^ cup melted butter 

Clean fish, and wipe thoroughly outside and in with 
cloth wrung out of cold water. Make a stuffing of the 
above ingredients, that is, bread crumbs, onion, parsley, 
capers, pickles, butter and seasoning. Mix these thor- 
oughly together. Put the stuffing in the cavity of the 
fish and sew up the opening with clean coarse thread. 
Rub the fish thoroughly on both sides with butter and 
pepper and salt. Cut gashes across the sides of the 
fish about two inches apart, and in these put tiny strips 



INEXPENSIVE COOKING RECEIPTS 177 

of fat salt pork. Dredge the whole with flour. Put in 
baking dish, with small pieces of pork placed on the 
back, and bake about ten minutes to the pound, bast- 
ing frequently with the pork which will melt into the 
baking fish. When nicely brown serve on platter, with 
pieces of parsley, sliced lemon and, if desired, hard 
boiled eggs around the dish. 

A Good Way to Cook Fish 

I slice fresh codfish i onion 

(about I lb.) 2 tbsp. butter 

I carrot Salt 

1 turnip Paprika or pepper 

Cut up the carrot, turnip and onion. Boil these vege- 
tables gently, and when they are half boiled, drain and 
put into a stew pan or casserole with butter, one cup 
of vegetable water, parsley and seasoning. When these 
vegetables are nearly cooked add the fish, and cook until 
tender. 

Baked Halibut with Tomato Sauce 

2 lbs. halibut Yz tbsp. sugar 

2 cups tomato 3 tbsp. butter 
I cup water 3 tbsp. flour 

I slice onion ^ tsp. salt 

3 cloves Yz tsp. pepper 

Cook the tomato with onion, cloves and sugar for 
twenty minutes. Mix butter and flour and stir into hot 
tomato mixture. Add salt and pepper. Cook for ten 
minutes and strain. Clean fish, wipe, put into baking 
pan and pour around it half the sauce. Bake thirty-five 
minutes, basting often. Remove to hot platter, pour 
around it the remaining sauce, and garnish with parsley. 
Add boihng water to the sauce if it is too thick. 



178 A SECOND COURSE IN HOMEMAKING 

Codfish Pudding 

Yz lb. dried codfish 4 good-sized potatoes 

2 tbsp. butter ' 2 cups milk 

2 tbsp. flour 
Soak the codfish over night. Throw away the water 
in which the codfish was soaked. Boil in fresh water 
for one hour. Boil and then mash the potatoes. Take 
the bones out of the codfish and mix fish and potatoes 
together. Make white sauce of the butter, milk and 
flour. Add fish mixture to white sauce. Put in a bak- 
ing dish and brown in the oven with crumbs on top. 

HOW TO COOK FISH FOR CHILDREN 

Fish is an excellent food for children if it is absolutely 
fresh. It is nourishing and more easily digested than 
meat. As soon as the fish comes from the market it 
should be scaled, skinned, washed and put into a cool 
place at once. If the flesh of fish is not firm and hard it 
is not fresh. Never fry the fish for children, but boil, 
bake or broil it. In broiling fish, turn the flesh side to 
the flre first and then the skin side. Be very careful 
not to scorch the skin side. Fish for children can be 
served plain or with a milk sauce. 

Milk Sauce for Fish 

To white sauce add the well-beaten yolk of an ^gg. 
Do not add ^gg until you have taken the sauce from the 
fire. 



INEXPENSIVE MEAT DISHES 

Casserole of Meat and Rice 

2 cups cooked rice ^ cup boiling water 

I lb. meat (chopped) i tsp. salt 

I egg Dash of pepper 

1 onion i tsp. celery salt 

2 tbsp. bread crumbs i tsp. parsley 

Mix meat, rice and seasoning together with chopped 
onion and parsley. Beat egg stiff and add to meat 
mixture. Put this in a baking dish, sprinkle bread 
crumbs on top and cover. Bake in oven at least thirty 
minutes. 

Beef Stev7 

2 lbs. upper part of shin 4 tbls. flour 
of beef with bone 2 onions 

3 qts. boiling water 3 potatoes 

1 turnip I tsp. salt 

2 carrots i tsp. pepper 

Have meat cut in one and one-half inch pieces. Wipe 
the meat and bone with a damp cloth, and sprinkle meat 
with salt and flour. Put fat from meat in a hot frying 
pan and try out. Add the meat to this fat, turning it 
often until it is well browned. Then put the meat into a 
soup kettle with the bones and seasoning and boiling 
water, rinsing out your frying pan with some of the 
water and pouring the contents into the soup kettle so 
that none of the good of the meat will be wasted. Let 
the meat boil hard for five minutes, then set the kettle 

179 



i8o A SECOND COURSE IN HOMEMAKING 

back on the stove and allow it to simmer slowly for two 
hours. Prepare vegetables by peeling and cutting them 
into one inch cubes. Add these to meat and allow them 
to cook thoroughly. Peel and cut potatoes in cubes and 
add them to the soup kettle about twenty minutes be- 
fore serving. 

Mince Meat on Toast 

Use leftover meat, remove gristle and chop meat fine. 
Moisten with gravy and season wdth salt, pepper and 
celery salt. Put a little fat or butter in frying pan 
and when very hot add chopped meat and heat quickly, 
stirring so that it will not stick to the bottom of the 
pan. When thoroughly hot, serve on slices of hot but- 
tered toast. 

Pigs in Clover 

Cut bacon very thin. Cut calves' liver about one- 
fourth inch thick. Drop the liver into water below boil- 
ing temperature and let it remain a few minutes to cook. 
Roll each piece of liver in a slice of bacon, holding 
bacon together with a toothpick. Cook in hot fat until 
a light brown. This is much improved when served on 
hot toast. 

Hamburg Steak 

I lb. chuck steak i onion 

I tbsp. butter i tsp. salt 

}i tsp. pepper 

Chop meat and onion together (every one should have 
her own meat grinder and grind her own meat). Season 
meat with pepper and salt. Make into firm balls, sear 
in butter. Turn balls often and serve rare. Chopped 
parsley and lemon juice may be added, yi cup water. 



INEXPENSIVE COOKING RECEIPTS i8i 

Plain Stew 
I lb. breast of veal or ^ tsp. pepper 

lamb I onion 

I qt. water i carrot 

I tbsp. butter ' i turnip 

1 tsp. salt 2 potatoes 

Gravy: i tbsp. flour, 2 tbsp. water 

Cut meat in small pieces. Put in saucepan with salt, 
pepper and cold water or stock. Raise slowly to sim- 
mering point, and keep there until tender (two or 
three hours). Cut vegetables into small pieces, brown 
them in butter and add them to the stew, twenty minutes 
before serving add potatoes which have been peeled and 
cut into squares. Before taking from fire add the thick- 
ening made of flour and water. Boil hard for ten min- 
utes after flour is added. 

A Good Way to Use Leftover Meat 

I cup leftover meat, chopped 

I green pepper 

Yz cup tomato 

Yz cup rice, boiled 
Put in the center of a baking dish a mixture of the 
meat, chopped green pepper, tomato, pepper and salt. 
Cover this meat mixture with the rice and bake in a 
hot oven. 

Corned Beef Hash 

2 cups corned beef Yi cup milk 

2 cups potatoes 2 tbsp. butter 

I tsp. salt Yz tsp. pepper 

Drop corned beef into boiling water and simmer, al- 
lowing thirty minutes to the pound. When cold chop 
meat, but not too fine. Chop cold cooked potatoes, also 



i82 A SECOND COURSE IN HOMEMAKING 

not too fine. Mix corned beef and potato together. 
Butter the bottom of a pan. Put in the corned beef and 
potato mixture. Over the top put the seasoning and the 
butter. Pour the milk over the whole and put the pan 
in the oven. Let it remain th'ere for a half hour, stirring 
the first ten minutes. If brown hash is desired, reserve 
half of the butter, and after the second stirring melt the 
butter and pour on top. Let the mixture remain in the 
oven without stirring until it is brown. 



BAKED MEAT DISHES 

Hot Pot 

I lb. of shoulder of beef cut up into 2 inch squares 
4 potatoes sliced thin 

1 onion cut up fine. 

In a deep dish, which has first been well buttered, place 
a layer of meat. Sprinkle with salt an-d pepper. Over 
this sprinkle one-half the onion then a layer of pota- 
toes and a little butter. Repeat this, having a thick layer 
of potatoes on top to brown nicely. Moisten with water 
in a covered dish and bake two hours in rather a slow 
oven. 

Braised Beef 

3 lb. of beef from lower part of round or face of rump 

2 thin slices of fat salt pork 
Yz tsp. peppercorns 

3 cloves 

^ cup each of carrots, turnips, onions, celery (cut 
these in dice) 

A little salt, pepper and one bay leaf 

Try out pork and remove scraps. Wipe meat and 
sprinkle with salt and pepper, dredge with flour and 
brown entire surface in pork fat. Place in deep granite 
pan or in earthen pudding dish and surround with vege- 
tables, peppercorns and three cups of boiling water. 
Cover closely and bake four hours in very slow oven, 
basting every half hour and turn after the second hour. 
Throughout, the liquid should be kept below the boiling 

183 



i84 A SECOND COURSE IN HOMEMAKING 

point. Serve with brown sauce made from the liquid 
in pan. 

Beef Croquettes 

Chop very fine two cupfuls of roasted or boiled beef. 
Fry one teaspoonful of chopped onion and one table- 
spoonful of butter until a light brown, then add the 
chopped meat and one teaspoonful of chopped parsley. 
Now add one cupful of mashed potatoes, season with 
pepper and salt, stir in, the last thing, two eggs well 
beaten. Form into croquettes, dip in egg then in crumbs 
and fry in hot fat. 

Stuffed Spare Rib 
I whole spare rib cracked, in the middle 
4 apples 
34 lb. raisins 
Wipe meat with damp cloth. Slice apples, seed 
raisins, place apples and raisins on half of spare rib 
and fold balance over. Tie together (or sew). Put 
it on rack in roasting pan and into hot oven. After ten 
minutes or after the outside is seared reduce tempera- 
ture of oven and put a little water in the pan with which 
to baste the roast occasionally. Cook three hours, serve 
with the gravy made in the pan. 

Meat Pie 
For meat pie it is not necessary to have always the 
same things. Leftover meat is needed and 

1 cup flour ^2 tbls. lard 

2 tsp. baking powder ^ cup milk (or milk 
3/2 tsp. salt and water) 

y2 tbsl. butter 
Cut up meat, add any left over vegetables that may be 
on hand. A little gravy or stock that may be left from 



INEXPENSIVE COOKING RECEIPTS 185 

the day before will add richness. Season with salt, 
pepper and a little celery salt and cover with a crust made 
after the receipt of baking powder biscuits. 

It is fully as necessary to learn how to put left over 
materials together in an appetizing way without a receipt 
as to be able to follow a receipt book perfectly. This art 
comes with practice, by tasting frequently while preparing 
the dish ; and it comes also by an appreciation of the 
value of every scrap of left over food and thus saving 
many dollars during the year. 

Crust of meat pie 
Mix and sift flour, salt and baking powder. Cut in 
lard and butter. Add milk, mixing with knife. Bake in 
oven until dough is thoroughly cooked. 

Cannelon of Beef 

2 lbs. of beef from top of round 

I tbls. of fine chopped parsley 

I tsp. salt, I of onion juice and ^ tsp. of mace. 

I egg beaten. 

}i cup soft bread crumbs 

54 tsp. pepper 
Put meat through the chopper several times. Add sea- 
soning, the beaten egg, and the bread crumbs (which have 
been soaked and wrung dry). Mix thoroughly and shape 
in a roll. Bake for thirty or forty minutes. Baste fre- 
quently with fat from salt pork and hot water. Serve 
with tomato or mushroom sauce, or with macaroni and 
tomato sauce. 

Chops — Lamb or Mutton 

Chops should never be fried, always broiled over or 
under a hot fire. The broiler should be turned very 
often. A good plan is to turn the broiler every time you 



i86 A SECOND COURSE IN HOMEMAKING 

count ten. When the meat is puffy it is done. If you 
cook the chops too long they will be hard and dry. What 
we want to do in cooking a chop is to sear the outside at 
once. Thus the juices are shut in. It is the steam shut 
into the chop that gives it the puffy look. It should 
not take more than eight or ten minutes to broil a chop. 
If your chop is two inches thick it is better than when 
thinner, as the thicker meat will be more juicy. Before 
broiling, trim off the fat and wipe with a damp, clean 
cloth. Be sure that the fire is lively, and not one that 
has begun to cool. 

Beef Kidney Stew 

Soak kidneys in salt and water for half an hour. Melt 
two tablespoonfuls of butter in a casserole. Add to butter 
a small onion chopped fine and the kidneys, which have 
been salted, add pepper, and dredge with flour. Then 
add two-thirds cup of hot water and slice of lemon. 
Cook ten minutes. 

Cottage Pie 
I cup left over meat Yz green pepper 

I cup gravy i onion 

I cup mashed potatoes Salt and pepper 

Chop onion and pepper, mix it with meat and gravy 
and season with salt and pepper. Line baking dish with 
potato and put meat mixture in the middle. Spread 
lightly over the top more mashed potato. Let the whole 
bake in oven until the top of potato is a good brown. 

A Good Gravy to Use with Leftover Meats 

Yz cup soup stock I tbsp. butter or drip- 

I tbsp. flour pings 

Little salt and pepper 
J/2 tsp. minced onion, or green pepper, or both 



INEXPENSIVE COOKING RECEIPTS 187 

Melt fat, add flour and cool for about three minutes. 
Add soup stock and onion, and bring to the boiling point. 
Add the seasoning the last thing. 

Potato with Meat Gravy 

2 cups freshly boiled potatoes 

Yz lb. meat 

2 onions 

I tbsp. flour 

J4 cup canned tomatoes 
Mash the potatoes and season with pepper and salt. 
Put meat in cold water and allow it to boil until tender. 
Take out the meat and chop fine or put through meat 
grinder. Make a gravy of the stock, in which the meat 
was boiled, by adding onion, fried in drippings, and toma- 
toes and flour. To this gravy add the chopped meat. 
Have the mashed potatoes very hot and serve by pour- 
ing the meat gravy over the potatoes. 



VEGETABLES 

In " Practical Homemaking " we learned a great deal 
about potatoes, but as they are one of the chief foods 
there is much more to add. 

Why is potato so valuable a food? 

1. It is easy to cultivate. 

2. It can be kept through the winter. 

3. It is easy to prepare as a food. 

4. Potatoes give us the needed bulk rather than any 
large amount of nutritive value. Potatoes lack protein 
so potatoes should be used with meat or fish or eggs or in 
combination with milk and cheese. Potatoes are cheaper 
when bought by the quantity, and as they keep well, 
should not be purchased in small amounts unless neces- 
sary. 

Potatoes keep best in cold dry cellars ; in barrels or in 
bins. When the sprouts appear on potatoes they should 
always be removed, as these sprouts spoil the potato. 

Hozv to Buy Potatoes 
Select potatoes with smooth skins, and have the sizes 
as even as possible. 

Baked Creamed Potatoes 

Take left over potatoes, cut in squares and mix with a 
white sauce ; be sure that potatoes are well seasoned. 
Butter a baking dish, put in the creamed potatoes. Cover 
the whole with buttered bread crumbs and bake until 
crumbs are brown. Half the quantity of bread crumbs 
and half grated cheese will make this dish more nourish- 
ing and, to many people, more appetizing. 

188 



INEXPENSIVE COOKING RECEIPTS 189 

Another Creamed Potatoes with Cheese 
4 cups cold boiled potatoes cut in small squares or 

chopped 
I pt. white sauce 

y^ lb. store cheese cut into small pieces. 
Heat the potatoes in the white sauce. Add the cheese 
and cook all together until cheese is well melted. 

Potato Pancake 

Take seven or eight good-sized potatoes, pare and grate 
raw. Drain through a cheesecloth to remove the brown 
water that gathers on them. Then turn the grated po- 
tato into a dish and pour over them a pint of boiling hot 
milk (this whitens the potato again). Salt to taste, add 
two beaten eggs, mold and fry in hot lard until a nice 
brown. 

Do not squeeze the potato through the cloth. Only 
let the brown water run through. 

Baked Beans 

One quart pea beans. Cover with cold water and soak 
over night. In the morning drain, cover with fresh water 
and boil on top of the stove at least two hours. Put 
beans in bean pot with a small piece of fat salt pork. 
Mix one teaspoon of salt, four tablespoons of molasses. 
Pour enough of the bean water over the beans to moisten 
them. Cover the bean pot, put in oven, and bake for 
about one hour. 

If beans are baked over night it is not necessary to 
boil them first, cover with boiling water before baking. 

Baked Corn 

1 can corn 13^ tbsp. butter 

2 eggs I pt. scalded milk 
I tsp. salt Ys tsp. pepper 



190 A SECOND COURSE IN HOMEMAKING 

Drain water from corn. Add to corn the eggs slightly 
beaten. Add salt, pepper, melted butter and scalded 
milk. Stir thoroughly and turn into a buttered baking 
dish. Bake in a slow oven until firm. 

Vegetables Especially for Children 
Many of the following receipts give the preparation of 

vegetables for children. In cooking for adults it is not 

necessary to put the cooked vegetable through a sieve. 
Vegetables good for little children are : asparagus tips, 

string beans, stewed celery, young beets, carrots, squash, 

potatoes. 

White Potatoes 

These should be baked, boiled or mashed, never fried 
for children. They may be served with beef juice or 
milk. 

Peas 

Cook peas, if possible, the day they are picked. Boil 
for at least thirty minutes in a granite saucepan. Salt 
before taking from the fire. Press through a sieve be- 
fore giving these peas to a young child. 

Spinach 

Carefully pick over, take out wilted leaves, wash in 
four or five waters. Cook in boiling salted water for 
half an hour. When spinach is young and tender, it will 
boil in its own moisture and no water needs to be added. 
Strain, chop, and press through a sieve. 

Asparagus Tips 
Use only the soft part that will snap off. Wash, re- 
move scales and boil in salted water for one half hour. 
Strain and press through a sieve, or serve whole. 



INEXPENSIVE COOKING RECEIPTS 191 

String Beans 

Cut off strings and cut into one inch pieces. Wash 
and cook in boiUng water from two to three hours. Add 
salt at the last. 

Stewed Celery 

Cut off roots and leaves. Separate stalks, wash, scrape 
and cut into one inch pieces. Boil in salted water one 
half hour or more. Strain. Mix this celery with a 
sauce made of one half celery water and one half milk. 
Season with salt to taste. 

Young Beets 

These roots contain much sugar and are not, when 
fresh and young, indigestible for a child over five years 
of age. Wash the root without bruising it. Cut off 
the top at least one inch from the beet. Cook in boiling 
water from one to two hours. Salt, drain and put into 
cold water. Then remove skins and chop fine. 

Carrots 

Wash and scrape carrots. Boil in salted water until 
soft enough to press through a sieve. The length of 
time of boiling depends upon whether the carrot is young 
or old. 

Squash 

Squash should be young, tender and thin skinned. 

Wash squash and cut it in thick slices. Cook one-half 
hour (or until very soft) in boiling salted water. When 
done turn into a piece of cheesecloth, or a fine sieve and 
drain out all the water. Now mash, and strain again 
through the sieve. Season with a little butter, salt and 
(for children) very little, if any, pepper. 



192 A SECOND COURSE IN HOMEMAKING 

Macaroni 

Macaroni (or spaghetti) is a very nourishing food. It 
is formed chiefly of gluten, which is the more valuable 
part of wheat. It is more digestible than meat, and has 
some of the same tissue building quality. 

To prepare macaroni, have the water boihng and salted 
in the saucepan before adding the sticks of macaroni. 
Drop these sticks in one by one so as not to stop the 
water from boiling. Boil for twenty minutes, drain off 
the water, pour over it cold water, put the macaroni back 
in the saucepan, adding a cream or white sauce, and allow 
it to simmer at the back of the stove for a few minutes. 



CHEESE 

Any girl who studied " Practical Homemaking " learned 
in Chapter V that cheese had so much food value that 
it was often used as a substitute for meat. A pound of 
cheese has as much food value as a gallon of milk. It 
contains all the protein and fat of the milk with the water 
taken out. Therefore, it is very necessary for each 
housekeeper to know as many ways as possible for using 
cheese. 

Cheese Crackers 

Spread grated cheese on Uneeda biscuit, or on any 
plain cracker, and sprinkle with a few grains of Cayenne 
pepper. Put these cheese crackers in a baking tin and 
brown in the oven. These are very good served with 
salad, or with afternoon tea. 

Cheese Fondu 

I tbsp. butter i cup grated cheese 

I cup milk 2 eggs, well beaten 

I cup bread crumbs ^ tsp. mustard 

y^ tsp. salt 
Melt the butter and add milk, bread crumbs, cheese, 
salt and mustard. Cook over hot water until the cheese 
melts. Then add the eggs and cook for two or three 
minutes longer. Pour into a greased baking dish and 
bake about twenty minutes in a moderate oven. This 
must be served at once. 

193 



194 A SECOND COURSE IN HOMEMAKING 

Cottage Cheese 

Put thick sour milk into a pan on the back of the stove 
until the curd has separated from the whey. Then pour 
into a piece of cheesecloth and drain the whey from the 
curd. Season the curd which remains with salt and 
pepper. If desired, a little cream can be added. 

Creamed Eggs with Cheese 
This receipt is given on page i66 with the Egg Receipts. 

Rice with Cheese 

(For 8 persons) 

Steam one cup of rice, allowing one tablespoon of salt. 
Cover bottom of buttered pudding dish with this rice. 
Add in small pieces one tablespoon butter. Sprinkle 
with thin shavings of cheese and a little paprika. Repeat 
until all the rice and one-fourth pound of cheese are used. 
Add milk to half the depth of contents of dish, cover 
with cracker crumbs and bake until cheese melts and top 
browns. 

Baked Macaroni with Cheese 
(For 8 persons) 

Put a layer of boiled macaroni in buttered baking 
dish. Sprinkle with grated cheese and white sauce. 
Repeat. Cover the whole with butter, a few bread 
crumbs and a last layer of cheese ; bake until the crumbs 
are brown. 

Cheese Sticks 
I cup flour I tbsp. melted butter 

y2 cup grated cheese i tsp. baking powder 

A little salt and enough milk to make stiff dough. 

Mix all together and roll out, then cut in strips. Bake 
on brown paper until a light brown. 



MUFFINS, BREADS, ETC. 

Johnny Cake 

Cream one tablespoon butter with one of sugar. Add 
one beaten egg, one cup of milk, a pinch of salt, one 
cup flour and three teaspoons baking powder. Now add 
one cup cornmeal. Mix all thoroughly together and fill 
muffin tins with this mixture. Bake in a moderate oven 
twenty minutes. 

One Egg Muffins 

(For 8 persons) 
2 cups flour I tbsp. melted fat or but- 

1/4 cups milk ter 

1 egg 3 tsp. baking powder 

I tsp. salt 
Mix and sift dry ingredients. Add milk and beaten 
egg. Beat thoroughly. Add melted butter or fat the last 
thing. Bake about twenty minutes in buttered gem pans. 

No Egg Muffins 

(For 8 persons) 

2 cups flour I tbsp. butter 

I cup milk • 3 tsp. baking powder 

yi tsp. salt 
Mix and sift dry ingredients. Stir in milk and beat 
well. Add melted butter last. Bake about twenty min- 
utes in buttered gem pans. 

195 



196 A SECOND COURSE IN HOMEMAKING 

Oatmeal Muffins 

(For 8 persons) 

Yz cup rolled oats i cup scalded milk 

Mix these together and allow to stand until cold. Add 

3 tbsp. sugar i^ cups flour 
2 tbsp. melted butter i egg 

4 tsp. baking powder ^ tsp. salt 

Mix well, and bake twenty or twenty-five minutes. 

Corn Bread 

(For 6 persons) 

I cup corn meal ^ tsp. salt 

I cup flour Yz cup sugar 

I cup milk 2 tsp. baking powder 

1 ^g'g 2 tbsp. melted butter 

Mix together corn meal and white flour, salt and sugar 
and baking powder. Sift twice. Beat ^g% until very 
light, to the ^gg add milk and melted butter. Unite the 
two mixtures and beat hard until smooth. Bake in a 
buttered, shallow pan in a hot oven twenty-five or thirty 
minutes. 

Baking Powder Biscuits 
(For 12 persons) 

2 cups flour 4 tsp. baking powder 
^ cup milk and water i tsp. salt 

in equal parts i tbsp. butter 

I tbsp. lard 
Mix dry ingredients and sift twice. Cut in butter 
and lard. Add liquid, mixing with a knife. Toss on a 
floured board, pat and roll. Cut with biscuit cutter. 
Bake in hot buttered pans fifteen minutes. 



INEXPENSIVE COOKING RECEIPTS 197 

Short Cake 

(For 12 persons) 

2 cups flour I tbsp. lard 

^ cup milk I tbsp. butter 

4 tsp. baking powder i tsp. salt 

Mix dry ingredients and sift twice. Cut in butter and 
lard with a knife. Gradually add the liquid. Roll to a 
thickness of one-half inch. 

When short cake is cooked, take from oven and 
slit open. Fill with any fresh fruit ; strawberries are the 
best. Mash these slightly, keeping out a few of the best 
to put on the top of the cake. Place the crushed fruit 
between the upper and lower crust. 

Peaches cut up and sugared are also a good fruit to 
use. 

Dried Bread 

Cut the bread into thin slices. Place in the oven with 
the door open. Dry until crisp, but do not burn. 

Buckwheat Griddle Cakes 

I cup buckwheat flour 2 tsp. baking powder 

Yz tsp. salt ^ cup cold water 

1 tbsp. sugar ^ cup milk 

Sift dry ingredients. Add water and mix thoroughly. 
Drop on hot griddle and turn with pancake turner when 
brown on one side. 

Corn Meal Griddle Cakes 

2 cups milk I tsp. salt 

y2 cup corn meal 3 tsp. baking powder 

Enough flour to make a smooth batter, but thin. Stir 
all together and bake on hot, well-buttered griddle or 
large frying pan. If sour milk is used, use one-half tea- 



198 A SECOND COURSE IN HOMEMAKING 

spoon soda dissolved in one-fourth cup hot water and 
two teaspoons baking powder instead of three teaspoons 
baking powder. 

Sour Milk Griddle Cakes 

23^ cups flour 2 cups sour milk 

Yz tsp. salt I ^gg 

2 tsp. soda 

Mix and sift dry ingredients. Add sour milk and 
beaten ^gg. Have griddle very hot and greased. Turn 
when brown and cook on other side. Serve hot with 
syrup or molasses. 

Brown Bread 

2 cups sour milk i cup white flour 
I cup sugar 4 tsp. salt 

3 cups graham flour 2 tsp. soda 

Sift dry ingredients, except graham flour. Dissolve 
baking soda in sour milk, add graham flour to other dry 
materials and stir in milk. Bake in two loaves in well- 
buttered pan. 

Oatmeal Muffins 
For these mufiins use leftover oatmeal, 
i/^ cups cooked oatmeal Yi cup milk 

1 cup flour 2 tsp. melted butter 

2 tbsp. sugar Yz tsp. salt 

4 tsp. baking powder 
Mix and sift dry ingredients (flour, sugar, baking pow- 
der, salt). Add to this one-half of the milk and whole 
^gg well beaten. The remainder of the milk should be 
mixed with the oatmeal and beaten thoroughly. Now 
add dry ingredient mixture to oatmeal mixture, adding to 



INEXPENSIVE COOKING RECEIPTS 199 

the whole the melted butter. Bake m buttered muffin 
pans for fifteen or twenty minutes. 

Bread Omelet 

'J/2 cup soft bread crumbs 2 eggs 

4 tbsp. milk % tsp. salt 

1 tsp. butter Pepper 

Soak the bread crumbs in the milk until the milk has 
been absorbed, and then add salt and pepper. Separate 
the yolk from the white of ^gg. Beat the white stiff. 
Add beaten yolk to the bread crumbs. Fold in the white 
and proceed as in a plain omelet. 

Mushrooms and Bread Omelet 

5 mushrooms i cup bread crumbs 

2 tbsp. butter i tbsp. cheese 
2 eggs 

Leaf of marjoram 
Clean mushrooms, cut into rather small pieces and put 
in a frying pan with butter and salt. Fry lightly until 
the mushrooms are brown. In the meantime beat up 
separately yolks and whites of eggs, add to the eggs the 
bread crumbs which have been soaked in water, add also 
the cheese grated, and two leaves of marjoram. Go on 
beating until the bread has become absorbed by the eggs. 
Pour this mixture into the frying pan with the mush- 
rooms, mix all together and make omelet in usual way. 

Zwieback 

Zwieback is Vienna bread or rusks. Cut bread into 
slices and dry in a slow oven until the bread is of a 
deep yellow color. 



SAUCES 

Horseradish Sauce 

Yi cup horseradish ^ cup cream 

Yz cup cracker dust i tsp. mustard 

1 tsp. salt y^ c^P vinegar 
Pepper 2 tsp. powdered sugar 
Mix salt, pepper, cracker dust and horseradish. Make 

paste of mustard and cream and add it, with rest of 
cream, to mixture. Add full amount of vinegar if horse- 
radish is fresh, and heat the whole over boiling water. 
Serve hot. 

German Horseradish Sauce 

Yi cup horseradish 
Vinegar to cover 

2 tsp. sugar 
I tsp. salt 

I sour apple grated 

Mix all thoroughly and serve cold. 

Tomato Sauce 

(For Omelet or Meat) 

I cup tomato i onion 

Yz tsp. salt Yi green pepper 

Yi tsp. sugar A little parsley 

I tbsp. butter 

Fry butter, chopped onion and green pepper together. 
Cook tomato until quite thick (at least one-half hour). 
Add this tomato to butter and onion. Chop parsley and 

200 



INEXPENSIVE COOKING RECEIPTS 201 

add to tomato mixture. Cook all together for a few 
minutes with salt and pepper and sugar. Serve hot. 

White Sauce 

(For 6 persons) 

23^ tbsp. butter y^ tsp. salt 

3 tbsp. flour Pepper 

I pt. milk 
Melt butter in upper part of double boiler or saucepan. 
Add flour and salt and stir to a smooth paste. Remove 
from fire. Stir in milk. Put back on fire, or over hot 
water if made in double boiler, and cook until sauce 
thickens. 

Cream Sauce for Oysters 

4 tbsp. flour 

Piece of butter the size of 2 eggs 

Cut up I cup celery and boil it. Press through a sieve. 

Scald I qt. milk. 

Cream together flour and butter, add this to scalded 
milk. Add celery and cook about fifteen minutes. Cook 
oysters in their own liquor a few minutes and then add 
to cream sauce with a part of its own liquor. Serve on 
toast. 

Onion Sauce 

2 tbsp. dripping, before melting 

3 tbsp. flour 
3 onions 

Salt and pepper 

Melt drippings, add flour. Let this brown in the frying 
pan. Add enough water to make a creamy sauce. Let 
this cook for ten minutes. Cut onions in rings and fry in 
the sauce until a golden brown. Season with salt and 
pepper. 





SALADS 




Boiled 


Dressing 


2 tbsp. sugar 




I ^gg (not absolutely 


Yz cup milk 




necessary) 


Yz cup vinegar 




2 tbsp. flour 


I tbsp. butter 




I tsp. salt 


Yt tsp. pepper 




I tsp. mustard 



Mix dry ingredients and stir to a smooth paste with the 
milk. Beat this well, add the vinegar and blend together 
thoroughly. The last thing add the butter and the beaten 
^gg (if ^gg is used). Cook until the mixture thickens. 

Mayonnaise Dressing 

Yolk I ^gg lYz tsp. lemon juice or 

Yz tsp. salt vinegar 

About I cup salad oil A little pepper 

Be sure that the oil and ^gg are cold before beginning 
the dressing. Also, the dish in which the dressing is 
made must be cold. In summer it is often necessary to 
chill the plate with ice. 

Have yolk of ^gg free from all white. Add oil to yolk 
very slowly, at first drop by drop. After the ^gg begins 
to thicken the oil can be added a little faster. Add oil 
until ^gg will hold no more and the dressing is too 
thick to pour, now add seasoning and vinegar and a little 
mustard. 

The difficult part of mayonnaise dressing is to keep it 
from curdling. The cold ^gg, cold oil and cold dish 
should prevent this, if oil is added drop by drop at first. 

202 



INEXPENSIVE COOKING RECEIPTS 203 

If the dressing does curdle, a tiny piece of ice added 
sometimes brings it back. 

Do not throw away the Qgg if it does curdle, but add 
the curdled mayonnaise slowly to a fresh yolk. 

French Dressing for Salad 

;>^ tsp. salt 2 tbsp. vinegar 

^ tsp. pepper 6 tbsp. oil 

J^ tsp. mustard Onion 

Mix salt, pepper and mustard together (a little onio-n 
juice adds much to the flavor). Pour oil slowly on mus- 
tard and salt mixture, stirring thoroughly. Add vine- 
gar the last thing. No good cook will depend absolutely 
on a written receipt for French dressing, but will depend 
upon her own taste as to whether there is salt or pepper 
enough, or whether she should add a little more oil or a 
little more vinegar. 

When greens areT used for salad they should first b'e 
washed and then allowed to stand in very cold water 
until thoroughly crisp. 

Potato Salad 

6 good-sized cold potatoes 

I onion 

A little parsley 

At least, I cup French dressing as potatoes, absorb a 
great deal 

It is better to boil the potatoes with skins on and re- 
move them after potato is cold. 

Cut potatoes into small thin pieces. Chop parsley and 
onion, and mix all with French dressing. Serve on let- 
tuce leaves. 

Remember you can never trust entirely to a receipt; 
taste before serving to be sure the se'asoning is perfect. 



204 A SECOND COURSE IN HOMEMAKING 

Potato salad can be mixed with boiled dressing instead 
of French dressing. 

A Few Suggestions for Salads 

Water Cress and Apples 

Have water cress cold, crisp and dry, as with lettuce. 
Slice apples thin. Serve with French dressing. 

Celery used for a salad should be washed, scraped and 
cut into pieces one-half inch long. 

Cucumber and Tomato Salad 
Slice cucumbers and tomatoes, and so arrange them as 
to look well on lettuce. 

Salad with Hard-boiled Eggs 
Boil eggs, slice and serve on lettuce, or stuff egg as in 
picnic receipt, serve in halves on lettuce with French 
dressing or Mayonnaise. 

Celery and Walnut Salad 
Use one-third as much chopped walnuts as chopped 
or cut up celery. Mix well the celery and nuts with 
Mayonnaise. Serve one spoonful of the mixture on each 
lettuce leaf. 

Fruit Salads 

Such fruits as orange, grape fruit and grapes make 
a delicious salad, and can be used in place of dessert. 

Be sure there are no seeds left in the fruit. 

Cut the orange in thin slices. 

Separate grape fruit from skin. This can be done 
by cutting grape fruit in half and cutting good part 
away from bitter skin with sharp knife. 

Cut grapes in halves and remove seeds. 

Fruit salads are served with boiled or French dressing. 



INEXPENSIVE COOKING RECEIPTS 205 

Cold meats and cold fish make good salads. 
The meat must be free from all skm and gristle, and 
the fish free from bones and flaked. 

Vegetable Salads 

Salads such as lettuce, water cress, cucumber, tomato, 
contain very little nourishment, but they help the appe- 
tite and are valuable for the water and salts they contain. 
The olive oil used in the dressing contains much nourish- 
ment and is a valuable fat for the system. 

Nearly all vegetables can be served as salad. They 
must be fresh and they must be cold. If there is any 
green, the leaves must be crisp and dry. 

In serving lettuce, be sure no water is on the leaves 
when French dressing is added, for the water will spoil 
the dressing and the oil will not adhere to the lettuce 
if damp with water. 

Never put dressing on lettuce until the moment of 
serving. 

Beets, peas, beans, cauliflower, lima beans, all make 
delicious salads. 

If fresh vegetables are used: 

Boil vegetables in salted water. Drain and allow to 
get very cold. Then mix with French or boiled dressing, 
and serve on lettuce leaves. 

If left over vegetables are used, be sure they are cold 
and arranged in an attractive way. 

Beets should be cut in even cubes. 

String beans in tiny lengthwise strips. 

Cauliflower into small flowers. 

Where several vegetables are used in the same salad, 
each should be separately mixed with dressing before 
putting into dish. 



COLD DESSERTS 

Dried Apple Sauce 

J/2 cup dried apples i cup cold water 

2 tbsp. sugar A little nutmeg 

Soak dried apples over night, then cook the apples 
with sugar, nutmeg and water for three-quarters of an 
hour. Add more water as needed. 

Fresh Apple Sauce 

4 apples Lemon 

Yi cup sugar 

Wash, quarter, core and pare four apples (sour apples 
preferred). Make a syrup of boiling water, sugar and 
rind of lemon cut into small pieces. Cook the apples in 
this syrup until soft. 

Apple Snow 

First make apple sauce from dried or fresh apples.. 

1 cup apple sauce (strained) 
y^ cup sugar 

White of I ^%% 
Lemon juice and grated rind 

Beat all together until white and fluffy. Serve with 
boiled custard. 

Soft Custard 

2 cups scalded milk ]/% tsp. salt 
Yolks of 3 eggs or 2 ^ cup sugar 

whole eggs Yz tsp. vanilla 

Scald milk. Beat eggs slightly, add sugar and salt. 
Add hot milk to ^gg mixture so slowly as to prevent 

206 



INEXPENSIVE COOKING RECEIPTS 207 

lumping. Pour all back into double boiler and cook 
until mixture coats the spoon. Now remove at once 
from the fire and flavor and cool. If cooked too long 
the custard will curdle. If eggs are expensive two 
tablespoons of cornstarch may be substituted for one 

Junket 

Heat one cup of sweet milk in a clean enameled 
saucepan. Dissolve a junket tablet in one tablespoon of 
cold water. Turn this into the warm milk, and stir just 
enough to mix it. Add a very little sugar and vanilla 
or chocolate flavor. Turn into a bowl to cool. A beaten 
Qgg added just before taking from the fire adds to the 
nourishing quality. 

Blanc Mange 

Into a pint of boiling fresh milk stir two tablespoons- 
ful of cornstarch made smooth in a little cold milk. 
While thickening, add two tablespoons of sugar and one- 
half cup of the juice of some fruit or chocolate. Turn 
into a double boiler and let it steam for half an hour. 
Pour into molds and let it cool. Serve with cream. 

Ice Cream 

Scald a pint of milk in a double boiler. Thicken with 
one tablespoonful of cornstarch, which has first been 
rubbed smooth with a little cold milk. Add one egg 
(beaten) and one cup of sugar. When it thickens set 
aside to cool. Flavor and freeze. A pint of cream 
whipped and added before freezing will make the ice 
cream richer. 

Baked Custard 
4 cups scalded milk ^ cup sugar 

4 eggs 14 tsp. salt 

A little grated nutmeg 



2o8 A SECOND COURSE IN HOMEMAKING 

Beat eggs slightly, add sugar and salt and scalded milk. 
Strain into buttered pudding dish. Sprinkle with nut- 
meg. Place dish in pan of warm water. Bake in slow 
oven until firm. Run a knife blade into custard. If 
knife comes out clean custard is done. 

Caramel Custard 

(For 6 persons) 

3^ cup sugar ^ tsp. salt 

2 cups milk (scalded) ^ tsp. vanilla 

2 eggs 

Melt sugar in saucepan. Add scalded milk and cook 
until free from lumps. Pour slowly into beaten egg. 
Add vanilla. Bake in dish placed in pan of hot water in 
a moderate oven until knife blade put in center comes 
out clean. 

Lemon Milk Sherbet 

(For 6 persons) 

I qt. milk Juice of 3 lemons i^^ cup sugar 

Mix the juice and sugar together and gradually stir 

in the milk. Freeze in an ice cream freezer and serve. 

Junket Ice Cream 

Heat three-fourths cup of sugar in one quart of milk 
and one cup of cream. When lukewarm add one 
junket tablet dissolved in cold water. Pour directly into 
the freezer. When it begins to thicken flavor with 
vanilla, chocolate or any fruit syrups and freeze. 



BAKED PUDDINGS AND PIES 

Indian Meal Pudding 

Three tablespoons of meal in one pint of boiling milk'. 
Let it boil a few minutes. Add one pint of cold milk, 
two beaten eggs, four tablespoons molasses, one table- 
spoon butter, one-half teaspoon salt and one-half teaspoon 
ginger. Butter dish, and bake slowly three hours. 

Bread and Butter Apple Pudding 

Put in bottom of a baking dish some apple sauce. 
Cut stale bread in slices and cut in small squares. Spread 
with softened butter and brown slightly in the oven. 
Arrange closely together over the apple. Sprinkle gen- 
erously with sugar, to which add a few drops of vanilla. 
Bake in a moderate oven and serve with hard sauce (or 
any pudding sauce desired). 

Apple Dumplings 
(For 6 persons) 

2 cups flour 3 tbsp. butter 

Yz cup milk 3^ tsp. baking powder 

6 apples Yz tsp. salt 

Mix dough as for biscuits (see baking powder bis- 
cuits). Roll and cut large enough to cover an apple. 
Pare and core apple, fill center with sugar and squeeze 
in a little lemon juice. Place this apple in the middle 
of dough and draw piece of dough up over each apple, 
pressing the edges together at the top. Put on floured 

209 



2IO A SECOND COURSE IN HOMEMAKING 

tins and bake in a moderate oven until apples are tender. 
Serve with hard sauce or molasses sauce, or melted 
butter and sugar. (See pudding sauces.) 

Apple Pudding 

Fill a buttered pudding dish with alternate layers 
of bread crumbs and apple sauce which has been sweet- 
ened with brown sugar and slightly spiced. A table- 
spoonful of melted butter mixed with the top layer of 
crumbs will give a crisp crust. Cover with a plate 
and bake slowly for one-half hour. Remove the cover 
for the last five minutes and brown on top. Raw apples 
sliced or chopped may be used, but in that case the pud- 
ding must be baked for an hour or until the apples are 
tender. Serve hot with sauce. 

Spiced Pudding 
Soak one packed cup of the browned crusts of bread 
in one pint of scalded milk until soft. Then add one- 
half cup of molasses, one tablespoon salt, one- fourth 
teaspoon of spices, one-half cup of raisins. Stir oc- 
casionally at first, and bake in a very moderate oven. 
Serve with hard sauce. 

Steamed Rice w^ith Chocolate Sauce 
Steam rice in double boiler, or boil for thirty minutes, 
as in " Boiled Rice " receipt. Serve this rice with hot 
ichocolate sauce. 

Scalloped Apples 
(For six persons) 

lYi cups apples Nutmeg 

I cup bread crumbs Cinnamon 

i>^ tbsp. butter }i tsp. salt 

% cup sugar 3^ cup boiling water 



INEXPENSIVE COOKING RECEIPTS 211 

Melt butter and stir crumbs and butter tosfether. 
Put one-fourth of them in bottom of buttered pudding 
dish. Then put in a layer of one-half of the apples. 
Mix sugar, salt, spices and lemon rind and sprinkle one- 
half of this over apples in dish. Now repeat with an- 
other layer of crumbs, apples and lemon. Add the water. 
Sprinkle crumbs on top. Cover and bake thirty to 
forty-five minutes, or until apples get soft. 

Apple Tapioca 

(For eight persons) 

^ cup minute tapioca 2^ cups boiling water 

Yi tsp. salt Yz cup sugar 

7 sour apples 

Add 4 more cups of water and ^ tsp. salt. Cook in 
double boiler until transparent. 

Core and pare apples and put in buttered pudding 
dish. Fill cavities of apples with sugar and a little 
lemon juice. Raisins and nuts may be put in the center 
also. Pour the tapioca over the apples and bake in a 
moderate oven until the apples are soft. Serve with 
sugar and cream or with one of the pudding sauces. 

Peaches, pears, bananas, cooked figs or quinces can 
be substituted for apples. Bread crumbs sprinkled on 
top of pudding will brown, also keep the moisture in. 

Plain Bread Pudding 

1 cup bread crumbs 3 tbsp. sugar 

2 cups milk Yz tsp. salt 



212 A SECOND COURSE IN HOMEMAKING 

Lemon Bread Pudding 

1 cup bread crumbs 4 tbsp. sugar 

2 cups milk Yt. tsp. salt 

I ^gg Rind of I lemon 

Chocolate Bread Pudding 

1 cup bread crumbs 8 tbsp. sugar 

2 cups milk y^ tsp. salt 

I tgg I oz. chocolate 

Soak crumbs and milk until crumbs are soft. Beat 
^gg with sugar and salt and add this to the soaked 
crumbs. Put into a buttered dish and bake in a moderate 
oven for thirty or forty minutes, or until a knife can be 
put into the pudding and come out clean. 

Serve plain puddings with milk and sugar. Chocolate 
pudding with chocolate sauce, and lemon pudding with a 
lemon sauce. 

French Toast 

I ^gg I tbsp. butter 

Yz cup milk y% tsp. each salt and pep- 

I tsp. sugar per 

4 slices bread 

Beat ^gg slightly, and add salt, sugar and milk. Soak 
bread in mixture until soft. Have buttered griddle very 
hot. Fry bread on griddle, browning first on one side 
and then on the other. This can be served for breakfast 
or luncheon, or with a sauce can be served as a dessert. 

Rice Pudding 

4 cups milk Yi tsp. salt 

Yz cup rice 34 cup sugar 

A little grated nutmeg or i tsp. vanilla 

Wash rice in at least three waters. Mix all ingredients 



INEXPENSIVE COOKING RECEIPTS 213 

together in a bowl. Pour into a buttered baking dish. 
Bake three hours in slow oven. 

It would not be possible to use in class a receipt that 
takes so long a time to bake. Therefore, when time is 
limited : Wash rice. Put in scalded milk, steam twenty 
minutes, add sugar, salt and flavoring. Pour in but- 
tered baking dish and bake thirty or forty minutes. 

Parson's Pie 

Cut apples into eighths and fill your pie plate full. 
Pour over the apples two-thirds of a cup of molasses 
and one teaspoon of cinnamon. Cover this with a pie 
crust and bake until the apples are done. 






PUDDING SAUCES 

Brown Sugar Sauce 

1 cup water i^ tbsp. flour 

2 tsp. lemon juice % cup brown sugar 
I tbsp. butter A little nutmeg 

Mix sugar and flour together, pour over it boiling 
water. Cook until clear and slightly thick. Add butter 
just before taking from the stove, and lemon just before 
serving. 

Caramel Sauce 

3/2 cup caramel Yi cup water 

4 tbsp. flour 3 tbsp. sugar 

Yz tsp. vanilla 

To make caramel, melt one-half cup of sugar, stirring 
constantly but not allowing it to burn or get dark. Take 
it from the fire for a minute and add one-half cup boiling 
water. Return to fire and boil until smooth. This cara- 
mel will keep for a long time. 

Mix flour and sugar with a little water until smooth. 
Add this to the caramel and cook until slightly thick and 
clear. Add vanilla. 

Fruit Sauce 
White of I ^gg Yz cup powdered sugar 

Y2, cup of fruit juice Lemon juice 

Put unbeaten white of ^gg in bowl, add fruit and 
sugar gradually, beating in with the Dover ^gg beater. 
Beat until smooth and thick. Lemon juice is added to 
bring out the flavor of the fruit and less sugar is needed 
if fruit is sweet. 

214 



INEXPENSIVE COOKING RECEIPTS 215 

Hard Sauce 

Four' one? tablespoon boiling water over one-half cup of 
butter. Stir until creamy and then mix in one cup of 
granulated sugar. Flavor with nutmeg or lemon or van- 
illa. Serve cold. 

Molasses Sauce 

1 cup golden drip syrup 

2 tbsp. vinegar or juice 3^ lemon 
Pinch of salt 

I tbsp. butter 
A little vanilla 

Cook all together until the mixture begins to thicken, 
then take from stove and cool, or the sauce can be 
served hot. 

Chocolate Sauce. No. i 

1 cup sugar i^ tbsp. cornstarch 

2 tbsp. cocoa 2 cups boiling water 
Pinch salt I tsp. vanilla 

Mix dry ingredients. Add boiling water slowly, stir- 
ring constantly. Cook on slow fire for ten minutes. Re- 
move from fire, add vanilla and serve hot with rice or any 
pudding. 

Chocolate Sauce. No. 2 
I cup water i oz. bitter chocolate 

Yz cup sugar ^ tsp. vanilla 

I tbsp. flour 

Mix sugar and flour. Pour over it boiling water. 
Cook until clear, and slightly thick. Add melted choco- 
late and vanilla just before taking from the stove. 



CAKE 

Spanish Cake 

% cup butter i scant cup flour 

%. cup milk I ^gg 

y2 cup sugar i^ tsp. baking powder 

3^ tsp. cinnamon Pinch of salt. 

Mix dry ingredients. Cream together butter and sugar. 
Beat the yolk of ^gg and add this to the milk. Now add 
milk and ^gg mixture to flour mixture, and then sugar 
and butter, and lastly the white of the Qgg beaten. 

Spice Cake 

J^ cup sugar i tgg 

y^ cup sour milk i tsp. soda 

y2 cup molasses i tsp. ginger 

i>4 cup flour I tsp. salt 

Mix and sift dry ingredients, excepting sugar. Com^ 
bine sugar and molasses. Add to this the beaten ^gg, 
and then add to the molasses and ^gg mixture the flour 
and the milk alternately. Bake twenty minutes in muffin 
tins. 

Dutch Apple Cake 

(For 6 persons) 

2 cups flour 3 tsp. baking powder 
I cup milk, scant 2 tbsp. sugar 

3 tbsp. melted butter i t.gg 

y^ tsp. salt 
Mix dry ingredients together. Add milk and Q.gg 
(beaten). Add melted butter. Spread this batter about 
three-quarter inch thick on a buttered tin. Stick this full 

2l6 



INEXPENSIVE COOKING RECEIPTS 217 

of thin slices of apple. Sprinkle with sugar and cinna- 
mon, and bake until brown. This can be served with a 
number of sauces, one of which is Brown Sugar Sauce, 

Feather Cake 

(For 12 persons)" 
4 tbsp. butter 2^ tsp. baking powder 

I cup sugar 2 eggs 

i'^ cup flour Yz cup milk 

Put butter in a mixing bowl and work it with a spoon 
until creamy. Then gradually add sugar, continuing to 
cream it. Sift salt, baking powder and flour together. 
Separate the yolks of the eggs from the whites, beat yolks 
and add to milk. Now add the milk and ^gg mixture and 
the flour mixture to the creamed butter, alternating first 
one then the other. Add a little vanilla, and the last 
thing stir in the whites of the eggs beaten to a stiff froth. 
Bake in a shallow pan. Either butter this pan slightly or 
line with buttered paper. Bake about thirty minutes. 

Ginger Bread 

(For 12 persons) 

2 cups flour y^ cup sour milk 

J/2 cup brown sugar i tsp. cinnamon 

Y^ cup molasses 2 tbsp. butter or 

I tsp. soda I tbsp. butter and 

I tsp. ginger I tbsp. lard 

Sift together dry ingredients. Mix soda and molasses 
and milk, and stir slowly into the dry ingredients. Melt 
the butter (or the butter and lard) and add this tO' the 
whole. Bake from twenty to thirty minutes in moderate 
oven. Test with a toothpick kept for the purpose, not 
with a broom straw. 



2i8 A SECOND COURSE IN HOMEMAKING 

Cinnamon Cakes 

(For 12 persons) 
y^ cup butter i^ cups flour 

I cup sugar 3 tbsp. baking powder 

Yolks 2 eggs I tbsp. cinnamon 

Yz cup milk Whites 2 eggs 

Cream butter and sugar. Beat yolks of eggs, add 
milk. Add ^gg and milk to butter and sugar. Sift all 
dry ingredients and add to wet mixture. Beat whites 
of eggs stiff and fold in, to mixture. Put on well but- 
tered muffin pans and bake until done when tested. 

To Test an Oven 

1. Place a piece of clean white paper in oven and time 
with the clock. If paper browns in five minutes, oven is 
hot ; if paper burns in 5 minutes, oven is too hot ; if paper 
browns in eight minutes, oven is moderately hot. 

2. Another test is holding the hand in the oven and 
counting. Your hand should feel very hot in six counts 
for a hot oven and in eight counts for a moderate oven. 

To Test a Cake 

1. Take a clean toothpick and pierce center of cake 
when it begins to seem done. If toothpick comes out 
dry and clean, cake is done. If moist, the cake is not done. 

2. A cake shrinks from the sides of the pan when done, 
unless a pound cake. 

3. Press a cake lightly with tip of finger ; if it rebounds 
cake is done, if not cake is not done. 

Cookies 

1 cup butter 2 cups flour 

2 cups sugar 2 eggs 

I cup milk Yz tsp. vanilla 

2 tsp. baking powder 



INEXPENSIVE COOKING RECEIPTS 219 

Beat butter and sugar together and to this add milk and 
beaten ^gg. Sift flour and baking powder together and 
add this to butter' mixture. 

Cookies 
(For 12 persons) 

1 cup sugar 3 tbsp. butter or 
^ cup milk 3 tbsp. fat 

2 cups flour 2 tsp. baking powder 

1 egg Yz tsp. salt 

Little nutmeg 
Beat butter and sugar together (hard). Add beaten 
egg. Sift dry ingredients together, and add to butter and 
egg mixture flour and milk alternately. 

Hermits 
Yz cup butter i tsp. cinnamon 

J/2 cup sugar 23^ cups flour 

3 eggs I cup sour milk 

2 tsp. soda I cup molasses 

I tsp. ginger i cup chopped raisins 

I tsp. cloves Yz cup chopped nuts 

Sift dry ingredients. Add butter creamed, add mo- 
lasses and sour milk in which soda has been dissolved. 
Lastly add the beaten eggs, raisins and nuts. Drop as 
thin as possible onto buttered tin. 

Oatmeal Cakes 

1 cup sugar i tbsp. butter 

2.Y2 cups Quaker Oats i tsp. baking powder 

2 eggs I tsp. vanilla 

Cream together sugar and butter. Add to this eggs 
(beaten) and Quaker Oats mixed with baking powder. 
Add vanilla at the last. Butter pans and dredge with 
flour. Drop batter on to pan and bake in hot oven. 



COOKED AND PRESERVED FRUITS 

Stewed Prunes 
I lb. prunes Pinch of salt 

Cold water 2 tbsp. sugar 

Wash and pick over prunes. Put in a saucepan of cold 
water and soak for two hours. Then in the same water 
allow the prunes to cook until soft. When they seem 
nearly soft enough add the sugar and salt. Molasses can 
be added instead of sugar, or cook with no sugar. 

Prune Jelly 

^ lb. prunes 2 tbsp. almonds 

I cup sugar ^ box Cox's gelatine or 

2 tbsp. granulated gelatine 

Soak washed prunes in cold water as for stewed 
prunes, and stew until tender. Take out the stones and 
add sugar. Dissolve the gelatine in a little cold water. 
Add this gelatine to the prunes while boiling hot. Also 
add the juice of one lemon and the almonds, which have 
been blanched and chopped. Pour the jelly into a mold 
and put on ice, or cover it and put it in a cold place. 
This is better eaten with cream or milk. 

Stewed Apricots 

^ lb. apricots i tsp. lemon juice 

I tbsp. sugar Pinch of salt 

Pick over and wash the apricots. Put in saucepan 
and allow to soak for at least two hours. Then cook in 

220 



INEXPENSIVE COOKING RECEIPTS 221 

the same water until soft, adding- more water if neces- 
sary. Add sugar, lemon and salt, and serve hot or cold. 

Dried Apple Sauce 

I cup dried apples 34 cup sugar or mo- 

3 cups cold water lasses 

A little nutmeg 

Wash apples and let them soak in cold water about 
a half hour. Stew in same water until soft. Add sugar 
and nutmeg (lemon juice can be added in place of nut- 
meg). Serve hot or cold. 

There are many desserts made from dried fruits that 
can be found in any receipt book : for example Fig Pud- 
ding, Prune Souffle, Prune Pudding, Fig Sandwiches? 
Fig filling for cake, Dried Apple Pie, Dried Apple Pud- 
ding. 



FRUITS FOR CHILDREN 

Stewed Fresh Fruits 

Raw fruits are not good for children or persons with 
deUcate stomachs. The steamed or stewed fruit is pre- 
pared by washing" the raw fruit, peeHng, coring it, and 
cutting it into quarters. It can be cooked with a little 
sugar. 

Fruit can be cooked without extra sugar, as the sugar 
in the fruit is enough for children. 

Steamed Apple 

Pare and core the apple and drop it at once into cold 
water, for if it begins to discolor it is bad for the child. 
Put the apple into the top part of the double boiler, add- 
ing no water to the apple, but having plenty of boiling 
water in the lower part. When apple is soft, beat it with 
a spoon. Add a very little sugar and strain through a 
fine strainer. An agate strainer is better than tin, as the 
latter destroys the flavor of the apple. Apple sauce may 
be made instead of steamed apple, and strained in the 
same way. 

Orange 

Squeeze the juice from the orange. Strain it through 
a fine strainer so that no pulp remains. At first give a 
child two tablespoonfuls, and very gradually increase to 
six. 

Other fruit juices which are good for children are: 
Peach, red raspberry, strawberry, pineapple. All of 
these should be strained very carefully, as neither pulp or 



INEXPENSIVE COOKING RECEIPTS 227, 

seeds should be given to a child. To extract the juice, 
it may be necessary to cook the fruit for a few moments 
before straining. Give fruit juice to a child in the morn- 
ing; never at night. 



RECEIPTS FOR MARMALADE, JAM AND 

JELLY 

Grape Marmalade 
Pick over, wash, drain and remove stems from grapes. 
Separate pulp from skins. Put pulp in kettle and cook 
until seeds separate then strain through sieve. Return 
pulp to kettle with skins. Add three-fourths as much 
sugar as fruit. Cook slowly twenty minutes. Stirring 
occasionally. Put in sterilized stone jars or jelly glasses. 

Rhubarb Marmalade 

One quart bright red rhubarb stalks. Yellow rind and 
pulp of six oranges. One and a half pounds of granu- 
lated sugar. 

Wash and cut rhubarb in small pieces, add orange pulp 
and cook until thick when tried on a cold saucer. Re- 
move from fire and add one cup of nuts which have been 
cut in small pieces. Cut the orange rind in strips and 
cook until tender; then cut in still smaller pieces and 
add to rhubarb. Also add one cup of raisins. Put back 
over the fire and boil ten minutes. Pour into sterilized 
jars or tumblers. 

Raisins and rhubarb may be cut with scissors. 

The orange rind is what imparts the bitter taste to the 
marmalade. 

Orange Marmalade 

6 large sour oranges 3^ pts. cold water 

3 lemons 4 lbs. sugar 

Scrub and cut fruit in slices, rejecting ends and seeds. 
Cover with the water and soak over night. The follow- 

224 



INEXPENSIVE COOKING RECEIPTS 225 

ing morning add sugar and cook one hour. Two cups of 
shredded, blanched almonds may be added just before 
taking from the fire. 

Raspberry Jam 

Pick over raspberries, wash, put in a preserving kettle 
and mash fine with a potato masher. Heat to boiling 
point and add an equal quantity of sugar. Cook slowly 
until thick when tried on a cold saucer. Put in sterilized 
jars or jelly glasses. Blackberries may be used in the 
same way. 

Grape Jelly 

Pick over grapes, wash, remove stems, put in a pre- 
serving kettle and heat to boiling point. Then mash and 
cook for thirty minutes. Strain through a coarse strainer 
to remove skins and seeds. Then put in a jelly bag and 
drain. Measure juice, put in the kettle and boil five 
minutes. Add sugar (equal portion) boil three minutes, 
and pour into sterilized glasses. 

Do not squeeze pulp for jelly, it makes the jelly cloudy. 

Currant Jelly 

Currant jelly is made the same way as grape jelly, only 
currants do not need to be removed from stems at the 
beginning. 

Crab-apple Jelly 

Crab-apple jelly is made the same as grape, only apples 
are wiped and cut in quarters, stems and stem end being 
rejected. In making crab-apple jelly, the apples are 
cooked in enough water to come to the edge of apples in 
the kettle, and are cooked until tender. 

Cranberry Jelly 
Pick over and wash berries. For every four cups of 



226 A SECOND COURSE IN tlOMEMAKING 

berries use one cup of boiling water. Cook until soft. 
Rub through five sieve, add two cups of sugar and cook 
for five minutes. Turn into glasses or a mold. 

Cranberry Sauce 

Pick over and wash three cups berries. Put in a sauce- 
pan with one and one-fourth cups of sugar and one cup of 
cold water. Boil until soft. Skim and cool. 



RECEIPTS FOR THE SICK 

Gruel 

Wash the grain to be used (wheat, oatmeal). Use 
four tbls. of oats with one-half tsp. salt; cook in two cups 
of water in a double boiler for three hours. It will 
then be thick and creamy. Be watchful to see that there 
is always enough boiling water in the under part of the 
double boiler. After this long boiling, strain through 
a fine sieve, mix with an equal quantity of milk, a little 
salt, and serve at once. Mix eight tablespoons of the 
strained cereal with eight tablespoons of top milk. 

Barley Gruel 

Dissolve two tablespoonfuls patent barley in a little cold 
water. Stir in one pint of boiling water. Add a pinch 
of salt. Cook thirty minutes in a double boiler. Strain 
and add as much hot milk as there is gruel. 

Pearl barley may be used by soaking four or five hours 
and then boiling four or five hours. Add water from 
time to time. 

Oatmeal Gruel, without double boiler 

J/2 cup oatmeal i tsp. salt 

3 cups boiling water 3^ cup milk 

Add oatmeal to boiling salted water, cook one hour. 
Add milk and let all get hot before removing from fire. 
Strain before serving. 

Arrowroot Blanc Mange 

54 cup sugar 2 tbsp. arrowroot 

I pt. milk I tsp. lemon 

227 



228 A SECOND COURSE IN HOMEMAKING 

Heat milk to boiling point. Mix arrowroot and sugar 
together and a little milk to make paste. Add this paste 
to hot milk. Cook all in double boiler for twenty minutes 
and then strain. Add flavoring just before taking from 
fire. 

Arrowroot can be purchased from any drug store. 

Junket 

I qt. milk 2 junket tablets 

4 tsp. sugar y^ tsp. salt 

I tsp. vanilla 
Dissolve the junket tablets in one tablespoonful of cold 
water. Heat the milk. Add to the hot milk the sugar, 
salt, flavoring and junket. When it begins to thicken take 
from fire ; put in a glass dish and set in a warm place until 
firm and then put in a cool place. Serve cold. 

Albumen Water 

This is ordered in case of vomiting, and a child will be 
able sometimes to retain albumen water when no other 
food will stay in his stomach. 

White of one fresh ^gg 
y2 pint of cold water 
I tsp. brandy 
Pinch of salt 

Shake all ingredients thoroughly together, and feed to 
child with a spoon or from the feeding bottle. 



SANDWICHES 

These are only a few of the many kinds of sandwiches 
that can be made. 

Cheese Sandwiches 

Mash very smooth two tablespoon fills of cream cheese. 
Add one tablespoon ful of melted butter and one table- 
spoonful of chopped parsley. Spread bread with cheese 
paste, being careful that none squeezes out between the 
slices of bread. In this case it is not necessary to butter 
the bread before spreading, as there is butter with the 
cheese. 

Cheese and Nut Sandwiches 
Chop any nuts fine, and mix the nuts with cheese which 
has been mashed smooth. The amount of nuts depends 
upon the taste of the maker. Spread between bread as in 
cheese sandwiches. 

Egg Sandv/iches 
Boil eggs hard. The number of eggs must be deter- 
mined by the number of sandwiches you wish to make. 
Separate whites from yolks and chop whites fine. Mash 
the yolks and season with pepper and salt. Or make a 
French salad dressing and mix it with the yolks. Stir in 
the whites and spread on buttered bread. 

Cheese and Olive Sandwiches 

Make cheese sandwiches as in cheese receipt. Chop 
olives fine and sprinkle on top of spread bread. 

229 



230 A SECOND COURSE IN HOMEMAKING 

Lettuce Sandwich 
Make French dressing. Dip lettuce leaves in the dress- 
ing and lay them between the slices of bread. Any green 
salad can be used in this way for a sandwich. 

Celery Sandwich 

Make mayonnaise dressing and spread the bread with 
it instead of butter. Wash, scrape and chop (or cut in 
very small pieces) the tender part of celery. Put this be- 
tween the mayonnaise spread bread. Nuts chopped in 
with the celery add to the food value, as well as to the 
taste. / 

Meat Sandwiches 
Any cold leftover meat can be used. Chop this meat 
and mix it with mayonnaise dressing and spread between 
slices of bread. 

or 

Spread bread with butter and use meat simply seasoned 
with salt and pepper. A little chopped celery added to the 
meat gives a good flavor. 

or 

Cold meat can be cut in thin slices and placed between 
slices of buttered bread. Sprinkle a little salt over the 
meat. 

Fish Sandwiches 

Any cold, cooked fish may be used. Take from the 
cooked fish all bones and skin. Mash fish to a paste, sea- 
son with salt and pepper and a little lemon juice. Spread 
this paste between slices of buttered bread. 

Raw Beef Sandwiches 

Raw meat is more easily digested than cooked meat, and 



INEXPENSIVE COOKING RECEIPTS 231 

for this reason is given to persons who need the npurish- 
ment but cannot digest the cooked meat. 

Buy beef from the round, scrape with grain of meat and 
with a silver spoon or knife ; spread between thin slices of 
bread. Sprinkle with salt and pepper. These sand- 
wiches can be eaten cold, or put on a toaster and heated 
through. 

Water Cress Sandwiches 
Wash first, and then chop one bunch of water cress. 
Mix this water cress with a French dressing. Cut the 
bread in thin slices and butter. Between two slices of 
this buttered bread spread the water cress. These sand- 
wiches are better served cold. 



ITALIAN RECEIPTS 

Beans and Posta 

Yz lb. posta I tbsp. chopped onion 

2 tbsp. oil or drippings ^ red pepper 

I cup or Yz lb. beans Little salt 

Cook beans about two hours after soaking over night ; 
add posta and cook about half an hour more ; heat oil in 
separate saucepan with red pepper, and chopped onion. 
Cook half an hour with posta and beans. 

Macaroni with Tomato 

1 lb. macaroni i green pepper 

2 tbsp. oil or drippings Salt 

I pt. can tomatoes i tbsp onion 

Cook tomato, drippings, pepper, seasoning, and onion 
together for one hour slowly ; cook macaroni in boiling 
water for about half an hour; drain off water and 
pour cold water over macaroni, then tomato mixture 
over the whole. A quarter of a pound store cheese 
grated should be added to the hot macaroni just before 
serving. 

Rice and Pea Soup 

Yz cup rice 

I cup whole dry green peas 

Cook same as posta and beans 

Lentils and Rice 

Put lentils to soak night before ; drain off water, add 
lentils to fresh boiling water, and cook until soft. Fry 
separately two tablespoons drippings, half chopped small 

232 



INEXPENSIVE COOKING RECEIPTS 233 

onion, pepper and salt ; fry until onion is brown ; add to 
this two tablespoons chopped celery and a little chopped 
parsley and add all to lentils. Now add rice, which has 
been well washed, and cook the whole for half an hour. 

Dried Lima Beans 

J^ cup dried Lima beans y^ pound posta 

These are cooked the same as beans and posta. Lima 
beans may be used with rice instead of posta. 

If it is desired to have the lentils, macaroni, peas and 
beans more of a soup consistency, the water is not drained 
off ; but the seasoning sauce, which has been cooked sepa- 
rately, is added to the macaroni after it has cooked for 
twenty minutes, the whole being allowed to cook for ten 
minutes more. 

Polenta 

I cup corn meal i cup cooked tomato 

2 tablespoons oil seasoning 

Salt, pepper, and garlic, if desired. Boil corn meal in 
boiling water and salt for at least two hours ; cook in 
saucepan tomato, oil garlic, and a small onion for at least 
one hour, or until tomatoes are quite thick. Place layer of 
hot corn meal in dish, then layer of tomato mixture, 
more corn meal and tomato covering whole. Sprinkle 
grated cheese on top. 

Rice with Tomato and Cheese 

One cup rice and tomato sauce, as in macaroni ; two 
tablespoons grated cheese (Roman cheese is used by 
Italians). Cook rice in boiling water for half hour; 
drain off water, pour tomato mixture on the rice, and just 
before serving sprinkle grated cheese on top. 



234 A SECOND COURSE IN HOMEMAKING 

Rice and Beans 

Rice and beans are cooked in the same way as posta 
and beans. To half cup of rice and half cup of beans 
a little garlic is usually added by the Italians as seasoning. 

Menestra 

2 cups tomato i small cabbage 

I onion 3 good-sized potatoes 

1 green pepper ^ tsp. salt 

2 tbsp. olive oil 2 cents' worth soup 
I stalk celery greens 

3 carrots A little garlic 

Chop onion, green pepper and garlic and fry in oil. 
Chop cabbage and soup greens, and boil for about ten 
minutes in one quart of water. At the end of ten mm- 
utes add the carrot sliced, and the potato cut in cubes and 
allow to boil for half hour more. Add the tomato and 
the oil and onion mixture. Season, and when all are 
thoroughly blended together, serve. 



KOSHER RECEIPTS 

Noodles and Cheese 

Yz lb. noodles ^ lb. pot cheese 

Butter size of walnut Salt to taste 

Put water on to boil, with salt. Cook noodles in boil- 
ing water about half hour. Strain off water, add butter 
and cheese to noodles after taking from fire. Stir before 
serving. 

Oatmeal and Potatoes 

I pound potatoes Butter size of walnut 

I onion Salt to taste 

y^ cup oatmeal. i cent's worth soup 

greens 
Put one and half quarts water to boil, with salt. Cook 
oatmeal in boiling salted water quarter of an hour. Add 
potatoes cut in cubes and boil half hour longer. While 
potatoes and oatmeal are boiling, fry the onion in the 
butter with the chopped soup greens. Add this to potato 
and oatmeal mixture. Season to taste. 

Noodles and Milk 
i^ qts. milk ^ lb. noodles 

Salt to taste 

Cook noodles in boiling salted water until soft. Do 
not strain off quite all of the water. Add boiling milk 
just before serving. Season to taste. 

Pea Soup 

I cup dried split peas 2 cents' worth soup 

I onion greens 

Yz lb. noodles Salt to taste 

Butter size of walnut 

235 



236 A SECOND COURSE IN HOMEMAKING 

Soak peas over night. In the morning boil peas slowly 
for about one hour. Fry chopped onion, soup greens, 
and butter together in a frying pan. Add to cooked peas 
half pound of noodles twenty minutes before serving. 
Add the fried onion and butter at least ten minutes be- 
fore taking from fire. 

Lima Beans and Barley 

I cup dried Lima beans Yz cup barley 

I onion Butter size of walnut 

Soup greens Salt to taste 

Cook beans two hours, add barley, and cook one hour 

longer. Add fried butter and onion mixture, as in receipt 

for oatmeal and potatoes. 

White Beans and Rice 

1 cup white beans ^ cup rice 
Butter size of walnut i onion 

I cent's worth soup greens 
Cook beans two hours, add rice and cook for twenty 
minutes longer. Just before serving, add fried butter, 
onion, and chopped soup greens mixture, as in receipt 
for oatmeal and potatoes. 

Beans and Green Peppers 

Yz lb. red kidney beans ^ lb. cheese 

2 peppers 

Cayenne pepper and salt to taste 
Soak beans over night. In the morning, cook slowly 
for one hour. Chop peppers and cook with beans. Just 
before taking from fire, add cut-up cheese to hot beans 
and peppers. Serve hot on toast. 

Nut Loaf 

Mix together one cup ground peanuts and one cup 
chopped walnuts or almonds, one teaspoon salt, quarter 



INEXPENSIVE COOKING RECEIPTS 237 

teaspoon pepper, two and half cups fine bread crumbs. 
When well blended, add two eggs, slightly beaten, and 
mold into a loaf. Place in a well buttered roasting tin, 
and cook in moderate oven about ten minutes. Then 
pour over it one cup hot water in which one tablespoon 
butter has been stirred, and bake half hour, basting as in 
meat. Make a gravy from the drippings. 



INDEX 



INDEX 



Accounting, 71 

Air for children, 129 

Air, summer, 140 

Albumen water, receipt, 228 

Apple dumpling, receipt, 209, 

210 
Apple sauce, receipt, 206, 221 
Apple snow, receipt, 206 
Apple, steamed, receipt, 222 
Apple tapioca, receipt, 211 
Apricots, stewed, receipt, 220 
Arrowroot blanc mange, re- 
ceipt, 227. 
Ashes, disposal of, 19 
Asparagus tips, receipt, 190 

Babies, food for, 1 18-126 
Babies, 

sleeping, 115 
Baby, 

bathing, 113 

care of, 104, 113-117 

dressing, 114 

nursing, 108 
Baby's clothes, 97-103 
Baked beans, receipt, 191 
Baked custard, receipt, 207 
Baking, 53-56 

time table, 159 
Baking powder biscuits, re- 
ceipt, 196 
Barley gruel, receipt, 227 
Barrels, empty, 23 
Bathing a baby, 113 
Bathing children, 130 
Batters, 57, 58 

Beans and green peppers, re- 
ceipt, 236 



Beans and posta, receipt, 232 
Beans and barley, 23O 
Beans and rice, receipt, 236 
Bed linen, 

laundering, 43 
Beef broth, receipt, 173 
Beef croquettes, receipt, 184 
Beef juice, receipt, 173 
Beef, methods of cutting, 85 
Beef stew, receipt, 179 
Beets, receipt, 190 
Blanc mange, receipt, 207 
Blankets, laundering, 47 
Blood stains, to remove, 41 
Bluing water, 44 
Boiler for laundry, 23 
Boiling, 53 

Bones, location of in beef, 84 
Bottles, 23 

Bottles for feeding infants, 123 
Braised beef, receipt, 183 
Bread and butter apple pudding, 

receipt, 209 
Bread omelet, 199 
Bread puddings, receipts, 212 
Broiling, 53 

Brown bread, receipt, 198 
Brown sugar sauce, receipt, 214 
Brushes for laundry, ^3 
Buckwheat griddle cakes, re- 
ceipt, 197 
By-products, 

from garbage, 25 

from incineration plants, 26, 

27 
from rubbish, 23 

Cake, to test, 218 



241 



242 



INDEX 



Calico, 39 

Calory, definition of, 63 

Cannelon of beef, receipt, 185 

Canning fruit, 5-9 

Cans, garbage, 21 

Caramel custard, receipt, 208 

Caramel sauce, receipt, 214 

Carbohydrates, definition of, 61 

Carding wool, 41 

Carrots, receipt, 191 

Celery and walnut salad, 204 

Celery sandwiches, receipt, 230 

Celery, stewed, receipt, 190 

Cereals, cooking, 161 

Cereals for children, receipt, 

163 
Cheese and nut sandwiches, re- 
ceipt, 229 
Cheese and olive sandwiches, 

receipt, 229 
Cheese crackers, receipt, 193 
Cheese fondu, receipt, 193 
Cheese sandwiches, receipt, 229 
Cheese sticks, receipt, 194 
Chicken broth, receipt, 174 
Children, 

air for, 129 

bathing, 130 

care of teeth, 131 

diet for, 136 

exercise for, 130 

food for, 127-139 

fruits for, 136 

gruel for, 135 

habits of, 131 

preparing soups for, 173 

sleep for, 129 
Children's diseases, 

colic, 109 

constipation, no 

convulsions, 109 

croup, III 

diarrhea, no 

earache, in 

measles, iii 



mumps, 112 

whooping-cough, 112 
Chintz, 39 

Chocolate sauce, receipt, 215 
Chocolate stains, to remove, 41 
Chops, lamb or mutton, receipt, 

185 [ 

Cinnamon cakes, receipt, 218 
City refuse, care of, 14, 15 
Clam chowder, receipt, 170 
Clothes for baby, 97-103 
Clothes, soaking, 43 
Clothes, soiled, sorting for 

laundry, 36 
Clothes-stick for laundry, 33 
Codfish balls, receipt, 175 
Codfish hash, receipt, 175 
Codfish pudding, receipt, 178 
Coffee stains, to remove, 41 
Colic, 109 

Colored clothes, laundering, 47 
Constipation, no 
Convulsions, 109 
Cookies, receipt, 218, 219 
Cooking, 
cereals, 161 

definition and methods, 52, 53 
table of proportions, 158 
Corn, baked, receipt, 192 
Corn bread, receipt, 196 
Corned beef hash, receipt, 181 ' 
Cornmeal and syrup, receipt, 

163 
Cornmeal griddle cakes, receipt, 

197 
Cottage cheese, receipt, 194 
Cottage pie, receipt, 186 
Cotton goods, 38, 39 
Crabapple jelly, receipt, 225 
Cranberry jelly, receipt, 225 
Cranberry sauce, receipt, 226 
Cretonne, 39 
Croup, III 

Cucumber and tomato salad, re- 
ceipt, 204 



INDEX 



243 



Currant jelly, receipt, 225 
Custard, receipts, 206, 207 

Dates, food value of, 4 

Deserts, receipts, 206 

Diarrhea, no 

Diet, sensible, 60-69 

Diets for children, 136 

Diseases of children, 109 

Doughs, 56 

Dressing a baby, 114 

Dutch apple cake, receipt, 216 

Egg sandwiches, receipt, 229 
Earache, in 
Eggs, 165-167 
creamed, receipt, 166 
goldenrod, receipt, 166 
in a nest, receipt, 165 
poached, receipt, 167 
scrambled, receipt, 166 
soft-boiled, receipt, 165 
Spanish style, receipt, 167 
Equipment for ironing, 34 
Equipment for laundry, 30-34 
Exercise for children, 130 

Feather cake, receipt, 217 
Figs, food value of, 4 
Fish, 94 

baked, receipt, 176 
Fish balls, receipt, 175 
Fish chowder, receipt, 168 
Fish sandwiches, receipt, 230 
Flannels, 39 

laundering, 46 
Flies, 144 
Food, 

elements in, 61, 62 

expenditures, 66-68 

for children, 127-139 

for infants, 1 18-126 

requisites, 64 
Foods, classification of, 61 

for hot weather, 147 



French salad dressing, receipt, 

203 
French toast, receipt, 212 
Frying, 53 
Fruit, 

buying, 95 

canning, 5-9 

dried, 4, 5 

food value of, 4 

jars, testing and sterilizing, 7 

preserving, methods of, 4 
Fruit salads, receipt, 204 
Fruit sauce, receipt, 214 
Fruit stains, to remove, 41 
Fruits, cooked, receipts, 220 
Fruits for children, 136 
Fruits, fresh, stewed, receipt, 
222 

Garbage, 20-28 

cans, 21 

disposal, 22-27 

incineration of, 22, 25 

laws concerning, 20 

odors and decay, 21 

reduction of, 23, 24 
Ginger bread, receipt, 217 
Gingham, 39 
Glue, to remove, 42 
Grape jelly, receipt, 225 
Grass stains, to remove, 42 
Grease stains, to remove, 42 
Gruel for children, 135 
Gruels, receipts, 227 

Habits of children, 131 
Halibut, baked, receipt, 177 
Hamburg steak, receipt, 180 
Hanging clothes, 44 
Hard sauce, receipt, 215 
Hermits, receipt, 219 
Hominy mush, receipt. 162 
Hominy pudding, receipt, 163 
Horseradish sauce, receipt, 200 
Hot weather buying, 148 



244 



INDEX 



Hot weather, 
foods for, 147 
packing away for, 142 
insect pests, 143-146 
Household accounting, 71 
Household management, yz 
Hydrocarbons, definition of, 161 

Ice cream, receipt, 207 
Incineration of garbage, 25-27 
Income, definition of, 71 
Income division, 70-79 
Indian meal pudding, receipt, 

209 
Infants' food, 1 18-126 
Ink stains, to remove, 42 
Ironing, 49 

Ironing, equipment for, 34 
Italian receipts, 232 

Jams, 9 

Jars, fruit, testing and steriliz- 
ing, 7 
Jellies, 10 

receipts, 225 
Jelly-bag, 10 
Jelly-glasses, 10 
Johnny cake, receipt, 195 
Junket ice cream, receipt, 208 
Junket, receipt, 207, 228 

Kerosene stains, to remove, 42 
Kidney stew, receipt, 186 
Kosher receipts, 235 

Laundering, 

blankets, 47 

colored clothes, 47 

silks, 48 

starched clothes, 45 

stockings, 48 

table and bed linen, Z7^ 43 

underclothes, 38 

woolens and flannels, 46 
Laundry equipment, 30 



Laundry materials, 34 
Laundry work, 

cleaning tubs, 49 

hanging clothes, 44 

ironing, 49 

removing stains, 41 

soaking clothes, 43 

sorting clothes, 36 

starched clothes, 45 
Laws concerning garbage, 20-22 
Lemon milk sherbet, receipt, 

208 
Lentils and rice, receipt, 232 
Lettuce sandwiches, receipt, 230 
Lima beans and barley, receipt, 

236 
Lima beans, dried, receipt, 233 
Linens, Z7 

laundering, 43-45 

Macaroni and tomato, receipt, 

Macaroni, baked, with cheese, 

receipt, 194 
Macaroni, receipt, 191 
Marketing, 80-97 

fish, 94 

in hot weather, 148 

meats, 83-93 

vegetables and fruit, 95 
Marmalade, 9 

grape, receipt, 224 

orange, receipt, 224 

rhubarb, receipt, 224 
Measles, iii 

Meat and rice in casserole, re- 
ceipt, 179 
Meat, buying, 83 
Meat gravy, receipt, 186 
Meat pie, receipt, 184 
Meat sandwiches, receipt, 230 
Meats, 

cooking, 93 

selection of, 92 
Menestra, receipt, 234 



INDEX 



245 



Menus, sample, 65-68 

Mince meat on toast, receipt, 

180 
Mildew, to remove, 42 
Milk for infants, 119 
Milk stains, to remove, 42 
Molasses sauce, receipt, 215 
Mosquitoes, 142 
Muffins, receipt, 195 
Mumps, 112 
Mushrooms and bread omelet, 

receipt, 199 
Mutton broth, receipt, 173 
Mutton, methods of cutting, 88, 

89 

Noodles and cheese, receipt, 235 
Noodles and milk, receipt, 235 
Nursery, 106 
Nursing baby, 108 
Nut loaf, receipt, 236 

Oatmeal and potatoes, receipt, 

235 
Oatmeal cakes, receipt, 219 
Oatmeal gruel, receipt, 227 
Oatmeal muffins, receipt, 196, 

198 
Omelet, receipt, 167 
Onion sauce, receipt, 201 
Orange, receipt, 222 
Outing cloth, 39 
Oven, testing, 218 

Package groceries, 83 

Paint, to remove, 42 

Paper and rags, 23 

Parson's pie, receipt, 213 

Pea soup, receipt, 235 

Peas, receipt, 189 

Picnics, 150 

Pigs in clover, receipt. 180 

Plain stew, receipt, 181 

Polenta, receipt, 233 

Pork, methods of cutting, 90, 91 



Potato pancake, receipt, 189 
Potato salad, receipt, 203 
Potato with meat gravy, re- 
ceipt, 187 
Potatoes, 

baked creamed, receipt, 188 

creamed, with cheese, receipt, 
189 

white, receipt, 189 
Preserves, 9 
Preserving fruits, 4 
Proteid, definition of, 161 
Prune jelly, receipt, 220 
Prunes, food value of, 4 

stewed, receipt, 220 

Raspberry jam, receipt, 225 
Raw beef sandwiches, receipt, 

230 
Receipts 

albumen water, 228 

apple dumpling, 209 

apple pudding, 210 

apple sauce, 206, 221 

apple snow, 206 

apple, steamed, 222 

apricots, stewed, 220 

apple tapioca, 211 

arrowroot blanc mange, 227 

asparagus tips, 190 

baked beans, 191 

baked corn, 192 

baked custard, 207 

baking powder biscuits, 196 

barley gruel, 227 

beans and green peppers, 236 

beans and posta, 232 

beef broth, 173 

beef croquettes, 184 

beef juice, 173 

beef kidney stew, 186 

beef stew, 179 

beets, 190 

blanc mange, 207 

boiled salad dressing, 202 



246 



INDEX 



braised beef, 183 

bread and butter apple pud- 
ding, 209 

bread omelet, 199 

bread puddings, 212 

brown bread, 198 

brown sugar sauce, 214 

buckwheat griddle cakes, 197 

cakes, 216 

cannelon of beef, 185 

caramel custard, 208 

caramel sauce, 214 

carrots, 191 

casserole of meat and rice, 
179 

celery sandwiches, 230 

celery soup, 171 

cereals for children, 163 

cheese and nut sandwiches, 
229 

cheese and olive sandwiches, 
229 

cheese crackers, 193 

cheese fondu, 193 

cheese sandwiches, 229 

cheese sticks, 194 

chicken broth, 174 

chocolate sauce, 215 

chops — lamb or mutton, 185 

cinnamon cakes, 218 

clam chowder, 170 

clear vegetable soup, 173 

codfish hash, 175 

codfish pudding, 178 

cookies, 218, 219 

corn bread, 196 

corn soup, 171 

corned beef hash, 181 

cornmeal and syrup, 163 

cornmeal griddle cakes, 197 

cottage pie, 186 

cottage cheese, 194 

crabapple jelly, 225 

cranberry jelly, 225 

cranberry sauce, 226 



cream of tomato soup, 168 
cream sauce for oysters, 201 
cream soups, 174 
creamed eggs, 166 
creamed potatoes with cheese, 

189 
currant jelly, 225 
desserts, 206 
dried apple sauce, 206 
dried bread, 197 
dried Lima beans, 233 
Dutch apple cake, 216 
egg muffins, 195 
egg sandwiches, 229 
eggs in a nest, 165 
eggs, soft-boiled, 165 
eggs, Spanish style, 167 
feather cake, 217 
fish, baked, 176 
fish balls, 175 
fish chowder, 168 
fish sandwiches, 230 
French salad dressing, 203 
French toast, 212 
fruit sauce, 214 
fruits, cooked, 220 
fruits, fresh, stewed, 222 
German horseradish sauce, 

200 
ginger bread, 217 
goldenrod eggs, 166 
grape jelly, 225 
gruels, 227 
halibut, baked, 177 
hamburg steak, 180 
hard sauce, 215 
hermits, 219 
hominy mush with prunes, 

162 
hominy pudding, 163 
horseradish sauce, 200 
ice cream, 207 
Indian meal pudding, 209 
Italian, 232 
jellies, 225 



INDEX 



247 



Johnny cake, 195 

junket, 207, 228 

junket ice cream, 208 

kosher, 235 

lemon milk sherbet, 208 

lentil soup, 170 

lentils and rice, 232 

lettuce sandwiches, 230 

Lima beans and barley, 236 

macaroni, 191 

macaroni and tomato, 232 

macaroni, baked, with cheese, 
194 

marmalade, grape, 224 

marmalade, orange, 224 

marmalade, rhubarb, 224 

mayonnaise dressing, 202 

meat gravy, 186 

meat pie, 184 

meat sandwiches, 230 

menestra, 234 

milk sauce for fish, 178 

mince meat on toast, 180 

mock bisque soup, 171 

molasses sauce, 215 

muffins, no egg, 195 

mushrooms and bread ome- 
let, 199 

mutton broth, 173 

noodles and cheese, 235 

noodles and milk, 235 

nut loaf, 236 

oatmeal and potatoes, 235 

oatmeal cakes, 219 

oatmeal gruel, 227 

oatmeal muffins, 196, 198 

omelet, 167 

onion sauce, 201 

orange, 222 

parsons pie, 213 

pea soup, 235 

peas, 189 

pies, 209 

pigs in clover, 180 

plain stew, 181 



poached eggs, 167 

polenta, 233 

potato pancake, 189 

potato salad, 203 

potato with meat gravy, 187 

potatoes, baked creamed, 188 

prune jelly, 220 

prunes, stewed, 220 

pudding sauces, 214 

puddings, 209 

raspberry jam, 225 

raw beef sandwiches, 230 

rice and beans, 234 

rice and cheese, 162, 194 

rice and pea soup, 232 

rice, boiled, 162 

rice croquettes, 163 

rice pudding, 213 

rice with tomato and cheese, 

233 
samp, 163 
sandwiches, 229 
salads, 204 
scalloped apples, 210 
Scotch broth, 169 
scrambled eggs, 166 
shredded codfish balls, 175 
short cake, 197 
soft custard, 206 
sour milk griddle cakes, 198 
Spanish cake, 216 
spice cake, 216 
spiced pudding, 210 
spinach, 190 
squash, 191 
steamed rice with chocolate 

sauce, 210 
stewed celery, 190 
string beans, 190 
stuffed spare rib, 184 
tasty hot pot, 183 
tomato sauce, 200 
tripe soup, 170 
vegetable soup with meat, 

169 



248 



INDEX 



vegetable soup with spa- 
ghetti, 169 

water cress sandwiches, 231 

white beans and rice, 236 

white potatoes, 189 

white sauce, 201 

zwieback, 199 
Reduction plant for garbage 

disposal, 24 
Refuse, by-products from, 16 

care of, 14, 15 
Ribbons, washing, 48 
Rice and beans, receipt, 234 
Rice and cheese, receipt, 162 
Rice and pea soup, receipt, 232 
Rice, boiled, receipt, 162 
Rice croquettes, receipt, 163 
Rice pudding, receipt, 213 
Rice, steamed, with chocolate 

sauce, receipt, 210 
Rice with cheese, receipt, 194 
Rice with tomato and cheese, 

receipt, 233 
Roasting, time table, 159 
Rubbing-board for laundry, 32 
Rubbish, disposal of, 23 

Salad dressings, receipts, 202 
Salads, receipts, 204 
Samp, receipt, 163 
Sandwiches, 151 

receipts, 229 
Sauce, cream, for oysters, re- 
ceipt, 201 

horseradish, receipt, 200 

meat, for fish, 178 

onion, receipt, 201 

tomato, receipt, 200 

white, receipt, 201 
Scalloped apples, receipt, 210 
Scorch stains, to remove, 42 
Scotch broth, receipt, 169 
Sewage, 16 

Short cake, receipt, 197 
Shortening, 58 



Silks, washing, 48 
Skirts, ironing, 51 
Sleep for babies, 115 
Sleep for children, 129 
Soft custard, receipt, 206 
Sour milk griddle cakes, re- 
ceipt, 198 
Soup, celery, receipt, 171 

corn, receipt, 171 

clear vegetable, receipt, 173 

cream, receipt, 174 

cream of tomato, receipt, 168 

lentil, receipt, 170 

mock bisque, receipt, 171 

pea, receipt, 235 

rice and pea, receipt, 232 

tripe, receipt, 170 

vegetable, with meat, receipt, 
169 

vegetable, with spaghetti, re- 
ceipt, 169 
Soups, 168 

Spanish cake, receipt, 216 
Spare rib, stuffed, receipt, 184 
Spice cake, receipt, 216 
Spiced pudding, receipt, 210 
Spinach, receipt, 190 
Spinning wool, 41 
Squash, receipt, 191 
Stains, removing, 41 
Starch, making, 45 
Starched clothes, 45 
Sterilizing fruit jars, 7 
Stewing, 53 

Stockings, laundering, 48 
Stoves, for laundry, 31 
Street cleaning, 14-20 
Street sweepings, 16-19 
String beans, receipt, 190 
Summer furnishings, 141 
Swill, see garbage 

Table linen, 

laundering, 37, 43, 44 
manufacture of, 27 



INDEX 



249 



Tea stains, to remove, 41 

Teeth, of children, 131 

Tin cans, 2;^ 

Tomato sauce, receipt, 200 

Tubs, 

cleaning, 49 

for laundry, 31 

Underclothes, 
ironing, 50 
laundering, 38 

Vegetable salads, receipt, 205 
Vegetables, buying, 95 

Wage, living, 76 

Washing baby's clothes, 117 



Water cress and apple salad, 

receipt, 204 
Water cress sandwiches, re- 
ceipt, 231 
Wax stains, to remove, 42 
Weaving, 41 

Weights and measures, 158 
Whooping-cough, 112 
Wine stains, to remove, 42 
Woolens, 40 

laundering, 46 

manufacture of, 40, 41 
Worsteds, manufacture of, 40, 

41 
Wringer for laundry, 32 

Zwieback, receipt, 199 



I 



i 



■,^'^^••'^•^■•V;.-■;^., '■■-;.';>-■ 






LIBRARY OF CONGRESS 




014 184 598 6 



■■.''':"■;■';■ •■ '"■!ri'''''"'';'7f;';'tir;1 

■■>'*'."''V;'*'V'-??;''T 
:•:•■'>,.■■:•.■■; >;C^ ft! 






'-■.',■;''.,• •.^'.■V.';''l'.V.','.;.''" I] ■ 

■■■" -:^^m^mP-' ■'■''':■ ' 









