/ 




Class IDJ ^tlS. 
Book. 






Copyright }J°. 



COPYRIGHT DEPOSIT. 






Good Things to Eat 



Being a collection of recipes which have passed 
the crucial test of experience, they are therefore 
presented with absolute confidence in their merits. 



BY 

LADIES' AID SOCIETY 

OF THE 

High Street United Brethren Church 
Dayton, Ohio 

1916 



"We may lite wiOtoul poetry, music and art; 
We may live without conscience and lice without heart; 
We may live without friends, we may live without boolis: 
But civilized men cannot live without cool^s." 



THE OTTERBEIN PRESS. 
Dayton, Ohio 






Copyright, 1915, 

by 

Ladies' Aid Society of the 

High Street United Brethren Church 

Dayton, Ohio 



DEC I! i9l5 

(S)CI.A418012 



CONTENTS 



Page 
Beverages 61 

Bread and Bolls 35 

Cakes 46 

Candies 66 

Chafing Dish Delicacies 55 

Eggs 54 

Fish 14 

Household Hints 69 

How to Cook a Husband 4 

Ices 63 

Meats 16 

Pies 41 

Puddings 58 

Eelishes 33 

Rules for Serving 10 

Salads 28 

Sandwiches 31 

Small Cakes 52 

Soups 11 

Table Etiquette 7 

Table of Weights and Measures 6 

Table Setting a. 



HOW TO COOK A HUSBAND 

In selecting your husband you should not be guided by the silvery ap- 
pearance, as in buying mackerel, or by the golden tint, as if you wanted a 
salmon. Be sure and select him yourself, as tastes differ. Do not go to the 
market for him, as the best are always brought to your door. It is far better 
to have none unless you will particularly learn how to cook him. A preserv- 
ing kettle of the finest porcelain is best, but if you have nothing but an 
earthen pipkin, it will do, with care. See that the linen in which you wrap 
him is nicely washed and mended, with the required number of buttons and 
string nicely sewed on. 

Tie him in the kettle with a strong silk cord, called comfort, as the one 
called duty is apt to be weak. They are apt to fly out of the kettle and get 
burned and crusty on the edges, since, like crabs and lobsters, you have to 
cook them while alive. Make a clear, steady fire out of love, neatness, and 
cheerfulness. Set as near this as seems to agree with him. If he sputters 
and fizzles do not be anxious ; some husbands do this until they are quite 
done. Add a little sugar in the form of what confectioners call kisses, but 
no vinegar or pepper on any account. A little spice improves them, but it 
must be used with judgment. Don't stick any sharp instruments into him 
to see if he is becoming tender. Stir liim gently, \ratch the while lest he 
lie too flat and close to the kettle, and so become useless. You cannot fail 
to know when he is done. If thus treated you will find him very digestible, 
agreeing nicely with you and the children ; and he will keep as long as you 
want, unless you become careless and set him on too cold a place. — Selected. 



HOW TO PRESERVE A HUSBAND 

Be careful in your selection. Do not choose too young, and take only 
such as have been reared in a good moral atmosphere. When once decided 
upon and selected, let that remain forever settled, and give your entire 
thought to preparation for domestic use. Some people insist in keeping 
them in a pickle, while others are constantly getting them into hot water. 
This only makes them sour, hard, and sometimes bitter. Even poor varieties 
may be made sweet, tender, and good by garnishing them with patience, well 
sweetened with smiles and flavored with kisses to the taste. Then wrap 
well in the mantle of charity, keep warm with a steady fire of domestic devo- 
tion, and serve with peaches and cream. When thus prepared, will keep 
for years. 



Home Phone 2600 



Bell Main 600 



F. W. BERK'S SON 



Undertaker and Embalmer 



Dayton, 



Ohi 



lO 



The Prettiest Cut Flowers at 



Horlacher's 



919 Alberta Ave. 



Both Phones 



OPTICIANS 



DIAMOND EXPERTS 



Atnan & Co. 

Je\velers 

Diamonds, Watches, Jewelry 
Fine Repairing 



17 E. Fifth Street 



Dayton, Ohio 



THE McCABE-SHEPHERD-COE CO. 

O. P. McCABE, President JANE A. COE, Vice President 

BRUCE C. SHEPHERD, Secretary-Treasurer 

SECOND FLOOR, REIBOLD BUILDING 

'OUr^r^ac^ BELL 526 and 787 

r noneb home 4728 and 3150 

Representing Leading Fire, Casualty and Bonding Companies 
Prompt and Experienced Service in all Insurance Companies 

PATRONIZE OUR ADVERTISERS 



TABLE OF WEIGHTS AND MEASURES. 

Two tablespoonfuls of flour 1 ounce 

One tablespoonf ul of butter 1 ounce 

One pint of liquid 1 pound 

Two cups of granulated sugar 1 pound 

Two and one-half cups powdered sugar 1 pound 

Four cups of flour 1 quart or 1 pound 

Two heaped cups oL' butter 1 pound 

Four tablespoonfuls 1 wane glass 

Two wine glasses 1 gill 

Four gills , 1 pint 

Butter size of an egg 2 ounces 

Eight tablespoonfuls 1 cup of sugar 



TIME TABLE. 
BREAD AND CAKES. 

Eolls and biscuit 15 to 20 minutes 

Loaf bread 40 to 60 minutes 

Gingerbread 20 to 30 minutes 

Graham gems 30 to 35 minutes 

Pie crust 30 to 40 minutes 

Plain cake 30 to 40 minutes 

Fruit cake 2 to 3 hours 

Cookies 10 to 15 minutes 

Custard 15 to 20 minutes 

SUMMER VEGETABLES. 

Corn 30 minutes 

Green peas 30 minutes 

Potatoes 30 minutes 

AsparagTis 30 minutes 

Beets 1 hour 

Squash 1 hour 

String beans 2 hours 

Turnips 1 hour 

WINTER VEGETABLES. 

Baked sweet potatoes 1 hour 

Beets 3^ hours 

Cabbage 3 hours 

Carrots 1^ hours 

Parsnips 1 hour 

Potatoes (Irish) 30 minutes 

Potatoes (Baked) 1 hour 

6 



Potatoes (Sweet) 45 minutes 

Squash 1 hour 

Turnips 1^ hours 

MEATS AND FISH. 

Bacon per pound 15 minutes 

Beef per pound 12 to 15 minutes 

Chicken baked, 3 to 4 pounds 1 to 1^ hours 

Fish (small) 25 to 30 minutes 

Fish (large and thick) 6 to 8 pounds. . . .1 to 1^ hours 

Lamb per pound, well done 15 minutes 

Mutton (leg) per pound 10 to 12 minutes 

Pork per pound, well done 20 to 30 minutes 

Turkey (10 pound) 3 hours 

Veal per pound 18 to 20 minutes 



TABLE ETIQUETTE. 

"The table is the touchstone of the gentleman; a man may hide 
his ignorance everywhere but at the table." 

It is proper to stand behind 3^our chair at the table until all guests are 
ready to be seated. 

The napkin should not be spread out to its full size, but placed double 
across the lap. 

Soup should be taken into the mouth noiselessly, from the side of the 
spoon, never from the point. 

Do not place knife or fork on the tablecloth, or with points resting on 
the edge of the plate during a meal, but keep them on the plate. 

When a plate is passed for a second helping, the knife and fork should 
be placed side by side at the right, on the plate. 

ISTever use a knife to convey food to the mouth. 

Use the fingers in helping yourself to bread, celery, radishes, olives, 
pickles, and cheese. 

When individual salt cups are not provided, and salt is passed, place 
a small quantity on the butter-plate, or on the place-plate. 

A slice of bread should ])e broken in two, and one half spread with 
butter, resting the bread on the plate, never on the cloth, nor on the hand; 
broken pieces of bread should be placed upon the plate, unless bread and 
butter plates are provided. 

At the end of the meal, the napkin should he placed upon the table un- 
folded, unless you expect to return for the next meal. 

Before drinking from a glass at table, the lips should be wiped with 
a napkin. 

7 



HEINZ & COMPANY 

Dry Goods, Notions and 
Furnishings 



Corner Fifth and Samuel Sts. 



Dayton, Ohio 



OUR SPECIALTY 


COAL and ICE 


Fruits and Vegetables 


Quality - Service - Satisfaction 


Fresh from the markets every 
morning 


Buy Coal Efficiency, not "High Price" 
Excuses 


THE EAST END MARKET 

Sajovitz Brothers 


The Otis F. Lake Coal & Ice Co. 


Home 6/47 Fifth and McClure Sts. 


East 46 3rd & Montgomery Sts. Home 2046 


Harry O'Donel 


Bell 1377 Phone Home 3377 


Groceries and 


Fred W. Schantz 


Meats 


Choice Meats and Fancy 




Groceries 




Stall No. 24 Central Market 


Corner Richard and High Sts. 

Bell Phone, East 2035 


1425 East Fifth Street Dayton, O. 



FOR BEST RESULTS= 



Telephone for our Quality Products 
with the Best of Service 

The Dayton Pure Milk & Butter Co. 

Clarified and Perfectly Pasteurized Dairy Products. Distributors of 
Moraine Farm Certified Milk 

PATRONIZE OUR ADVERTISERS 



After stirring cream or sugar into coffee or tea, remove the spoon from 
the cup and place it upon the saucer. 

Toothpicks must not be used at the table; if unavoidable, it should be 
used behind the napkin. 



TABLE SETTING. 

"There is a best way of doing even the smallest things. Mastery of 
these best ways constitutes civilization." 

Use absolutely clean linen. Have the cloth long enough and wide 
enough to hang well around the table. Under the linen cloth have a 
silence cloth of some soft and heavy material, to protect the table, to give 
the cloth a more brilliant whiteness, and to prevent noise when placing 
dishes on the table. Place the center of the cloth in the center of the 
table, having the folds straight with the edge of the table. Decorate by 
placing in the center of the table a vase of flowers, a small plant, or a 
dish of fruit. 



RULES FOR PLACING DISHES. 

Arrange dishes symmetrically, although not necessarily in straight 
rows. When there are no warm dishes to be served, place a plate, right 
side up for each person, having them even with the edge of the table. If 
plates are decorated with a crest or monogram, place the plate with the 
decoration toward the middle of the table. 

Place knife on right side, sharp edge toward plate. 

Place fork at left side, with tines up. 

Place soup spoon at right of knife, bowl up. 

Place teaspoons in front of plate, handle to the right, bowls up. 

Place tumbler, top up, at right of point of knife. 

If additional glasses are required, group them around tumbler. 

Place butter plate at the left of knife. 

Place open salt cellar at point of fork. 

Place napkin at the left of fork, neatly folded. 

Place soup ladle in front of hostess, the handle to the right, bowl up. 

Place the carving set in front of host. 

Place several large spoons at each end of the table. 

Place dishes that are to be served at table directly in front of server. 

When finger bowls are used, put them on dessert plates, with a doily 
underneath the bowl, place at the left side of each person. 

Where the hostess pours the tea or coffee, arrange the service neatly in 
front of her. 

Arrange chairs at a sufficient distance from the table so they need not 
be d^a^vn out when people are to be seated. 

9 



RULES FOR SERVING. 

Cold food should be served on cold dishes, hot food on hot dishes. 
Wlien passing a dish, hold it so that the thumb will not rest upon the 
upper surface. 

In passing dishes from which a person is to help himself, pass always 
to the left side, so that the food may be taken with the right hand. 

In passing individual dishes, such as coffee, etc., set them down care- 
fully at the right side. 

When the dishes are being served by a person at the table, the waitress 
should stand at the left, hold the tray low, and near the table. 

Take on the tray one plate at a time, and place before the person for 
whom it is intended, setting it down from the right side. 

When one course is finished, take the tray in the left hand, stand at the 
left of the person, and remove with the right hand the soiled dishes, never 
piling them on top of each other. 

Soiled dishes should be first removed, then food, then clean dishes, 
then crumbs. 

Fill the glasses before every course. 

Never fill glass or cup more than three-fourths full. 

Before the dessert is served, remove crumbs from the cloth, either with 
a brush, crumb knife, or napkin. 

Do not let the table become disorderly during the meal. 

The hostess should serve soup, salad, dessert, coffee, and at a family 
dinner the vegetables and entrees. 

The host serves the fish and meat. 



10 



Soup 



" 'T is not enough to have the art 
Savory dishes to prepare; 
The cooks must know his master's heart 
His every wish and taste must share." 



SOUP STOCK. 

Select a soup bone costing five or ten cents. Cut off the meat from the 
bone and stir it over the fire with a little hot butter until brown. Place 
all in a soup kettle, cover well with cold water and place over a slow fire 
where it will require about one hour to bring it to a boil. Simmer gently 
four hours, then add one small turnip, two carrots, one onion, a few celery 
tops, and leaves or root ; a few cabbage leaves, one bay leaf, one blade macp, 
six cloves, one quarter teaspoon pepper corns, one half a red pepper, one 
teaspoonful salt to each quart of stock. Simmer one hour longer and cool. 

MACARONI SOUP. 

To a rich beef or other soup, in which there is no seasoning otlier than 
salt or pepper, take a half a pound of small pipe macaroni^ boil it in clear 
water until it is tender, then drain it and cut it in pieces an inch long, 
boil it for fifteen minutes in tbe soup and serve. 

CHICKEN CREAM SOUP. 

Boil an old fowl in four quarts of cold water, until there remains but 
two quarts. Take it out to cool. Cut off the breast, chop very fine. Mix 
with pounded yolks of two hard-boiled eggs. Cool, skim, and strain soup 
into a soup kettle. Season, add the chicken and Qgg mixture, simmer ten 
minutes, and pour into the tureen. Then add a small cup of boiling milk 
and serve. 

CREAMED TOMATO SOUP. 

Always use fresh tomatoes when in season. Put one quart of stewed 
tomatoes through a fine colander or sieve to remove all hard lumps and 
seeds. Bring to the boiling point, add one and one-half pints cold milk. 
Be sure the milk is fresh or it is apt to curdle. Turn the milk into the 
tomatoes as quickly as possible, and stir rapidly; this will avoid curdling. 
Bring to the boiling point again, stir in one rounding tablespoonful of flour 

11 



(Burst's Best) that has previously been rubbed smooth with a little milk, 
add one tablespoonful of butter, and serve. This is a delicious soup and 
can be made in a very few minutes. 

POTATO SOUP. 

Having selected, washed, and pared some nice potatoes, cut them into 
small pieces, and boil them until they melt away. While they are cooking, 
brown two tablespoonfuls of flour (Burst's Best) in a skillet over a slow 
fire and stir constantly ; then stir into the potato broth, season with butter, 
salt, and pepper. 

OYSTER SOUP. 

Two quarts of oysters, one quart of milk, two tablespoonfuls of butter, 
one teacup of hot water ; pepper, salt. Strain all the liquor from the oysters, 
add the water and heat. When near the boiling point add the seasoning, 
then the oysters. Cook about five minutes from the time they begin to 
simmer until they "ruffle." Stir in the butter, cook one minute, and pour 
into the tureen. Stir in the boiling milk, and serve. 

DUMPLINGS FOR SOUP. 

One cup of flour (Burst's Best), one-quarter teaspoonful of salt, one tea- 
spoonful of baking-powder sifted together. Add one-third cup of lard and 
enough milk to make a stiff dough. Make into dumplings the size of 
marbles, drop into soup, cover, and boil ten minutes. 

NOODLES FOR SOUP. 

To one beaten egg add as much flour (Burst's Best) as it will absorb, 
a little salt; roll thin as a wafer and let dry one and one-half hours; dusl 
lightly with flour (Burst's Best) ; roll in a large roll; slice thin from end; 
shake out loosely; put in boiling broth and boil ten minutes, stirring often. 

CROUTONES. 

Cut pieces of stale bread into cubes and brown in the oven. Can be used 
the same as dumplings. 



12 



"V^HEN we tell you that a METROPOLI- 
TAN Style at $20 will serve you faith- 
fully and heighten your attractiveness that's 

enough. WE KNOW. 



VHe 




QtwJitV Corner Ltidlow a* IbiiHli. 

^ "Our m»4JomM T^U ' 



L«dlt 



Engravings for Weddings, Etc. 

Pictorial Review Patterns, Fine Stationery, Score 
Cards, Bibles, Globe-Wernicke Sectional Book 
Cases, Desk Lamps, Desks, Chairs, Filing Cab- 
inets, Mosler Safes. . _ - . _ 

The Everybody's Book Shop Company 

21-23 West Fifth Street 

C. W. SCHAEFFER FRANK J. HOEFLER GEO. H. GENGNAGEL 

PHONES ]«-J^Eas^t^33 



ANTHRACITE ^^^ /^ \ T BLACK RAVEN 
POCAHONTAS f j I I /\ I v BLOCK 
COKE ^^ ^^^ -*■ ^ -■-' S. & G. OHIO 



Schaeffer, Gengnagel & Company 

Main Yard South Park Yard West End Yard 

812 East First St. Alberta and D. L. & C. R. R. First St. and Dale Ave. 

PATRONIZE OUR ADVERTISERS 



Fish 



Fisli are good when the gills are red, eyes are full, and the body of the 
fish is firm and stiff. After washing them well, they should be allowed to 
remain for a short time in salt water sufficient to cover them ; before cook- 
ing, wipe them dry, dredge lightly with flour (Burst's Best) and season 
with salt and pepper. Salmon, trout, and other small fish are usually fried 
or broiled ; all large fish should be put in cloth, tied closely with twine, and 
placed in cold water, when they may be put over the fire to boil. Wlien fish 
are baked, prepare the fish the same as for boiling, and put in the oven on a 
wire gridiron over a dripping pan. 

BAKED HALIBUT. 

Two pounds of halibut, one cupful of tomatoes, two tablespoonfuls of 
flour (Burst's Best), two tablespoonfuls butter, three-fourth teaspoonful 
salt, one-eighth teaspoonful pepper. Clean flsh, season with salt and pep- 
per, dredge with flour, place in buttered baking pan, pour over tomatoes, 
and dot with butter. Bake in a moderate oven, basting often. 

SALMON FRITTERS. 

Eemove skin and bones from a pound can of salmon, mince and add an 
equal quantity potato that has been mashed and mixed with butter and 
cream; work the mixture into little patties and fry in a little butter. 

SALMON LOAF. 

One can salmon, two eggs, eight or ten crackers. Season some, beat 
eggs, add to salmon and put in crackers, form into a loaf, spread butter 
on top, put a little water into a pan and bake until done. 

SALMON CROQUETTES. 

Cook one cup of rice, beat well together two eggs, then add the rice and 
stir well. Mix one can of salmon well; season; then add to the rice and 
eggs, make into little croquettes, then fry in butter. 

BAKED WHITE FISH. 

Inside Dressing. Eoll crackers, one-third sour school pickle, one-half an 
onion. Juice of half a lemon, butter size of a walnut, salt, and pepper. 
Bake one hour. 

14 



Outside Dressing. Brown one tablespoonful of butter and two table- 
spoonfuls of flour, one cup of milk, yolk of one egg. Add a little more 
milk, add onion, rest of lemon juice, salt, pepper. Beat white of egg 
stiff and fold in rest of dressing. 

PLANKED FISH. 

Clean and split a three-pound shad or white fish, put skin side down 
on an oak plank one inch thick, and a little longer and wider than the fish, 
sprinkle with salt and pepper, and brush over with melted butter. Bake 
twenty-five minutes in hot oven. Remove from oven, spread with butter, 
and garnish with parsley and lemon. The fish should be sent to the table 
on the plank. 

SCALLOPED OYSTERS. 

One pint of oysters, four tablespoonfuls of oyster liquor, two table- 
spoonfuls of milk or cream, one-half cup of stale bread crumbs, one cup 
of cracker crumbs, one-half cup melted butter, salt and pepper. Mix 
bread and cracker crumbs, and stir in butter. Put a thin layer in the bot- 
tom of the buttered shallow baking dish, cover with oysters and sprinkle 
with salt and pepper; add one-half each oyster liquor and cream. Eepeat, 
and cover top with remaining crumbs. Bake thirty minutes in hot oven. 
Never allow more than two layers of oysters for scalloped oysters; if three 
layers are used, the middle layer will be under done, while others are 
properly cooked. 

FRIED OYSTERS. 

Clean, and dry between towels, selected oysters. Season with salt and 
pepper, dip into flour (Dursfs Best), egg, and cracker or stale bread 
crumbs, and fry in deep fat. Drain on brown paper, garnish and serve. 

OYSTER PATTIES. 

Make some rich puff paste and bake it in very small tin pans; when 
cool, turn them out upon a large dish ; stew some large fresh oysters with 
a few cloves; then add the yolk of one egg, boiled hard and grated; add 
a little butter, and enough oyster liquid to cover them. After stewing a 
little take them out of the pan to cool. When cold lay two or three oysters 
in each shell of puff paste. 



15 



Meats 



I love it, I love it, 
And who shall dare 

To chide me for having my 
Meat cooked rare. 



CREAMED BEEF OR VEAL. 

Take cold roast beef or veal cut into small squares. Put one pint of 
milk on to boil. Mix two tablespoonfuls of flour (Burst's Best) with two 
of butter; add salt and pepper and stir into the boiling milk. Let boil for 
a few minutes then pour over the squares of beef or veal. Place some 
squares of buttered toast on a hot platter; pour the creamed beef over this 
and serve. 

HORSE RADISH SAUCE. 

One pint horse radish sauce. Juice of one lemon, one teaspoonf ul sugar^ 
one teaspoonf ul salt, one-half cup vinegar. 

YORKSHIRE PUDDING. 

Two cups milk, two cups flour (Burst's Best), one-half teaspoonful 
salt, four eggs. Beat eggs; add flour and salt, gradually; continue beat- 
ing. Add milk and continue beating flve minutes. The mixture should 
be perfectly smooth. One-half hour before meat is done, pour this mixture 
into dripping pan under meat and baste when basting meat, turning pan 
that pudding may be golden brown throughout. 

DRIED BEEF WITH CREAM. 

One-fourth pound smoked dried beef, thinly sliced, one cup scalding 
cream, one and one-half tablespoonful flour (Burst's Best). Eemove 

16 



skin and separate meat in pieces, cover with hot water, let stand tea 
minutes and drain. Dilute flour with enough cold water to peur easily, 
making a smooth paste; add to cream, then cook in boiler ten minutes. 
Add beef, and reheat. 

BREADED LAMB OR MUTTON CHOPS. 

Prepare loin or French chops as for broiling. Dip in crumbs, egg and 
crumbs, and fry in deep fat. Drain on brown paper and serve. 

SPARERIB POT PIE. 

Cut spareribs once across and then in strips three or four inches wide; 
put in kettle with hot water to cover, stew until tender, season with salt 
and pepper, and turn out of kettle; replace a layer of spareribs in bottom, 
add a layer of few potatoes (quartered if large), some bits of butter, small 
squares of baking-powder dough, roll quite thin; season again, put in an- 
other layer of spareribs, and so on until kettle is two-thirds full, leaving 
the squares of crust for last layer; then add the liquor in which spareribs 
were boiled, and hot water if needed. Cover and boil half to three-quarters 
of an hour, being careful not to boil dry, adding hot water if necessary. 
The crust can be made of light biscuit dough, without egg or sugar, as 
follows : Eoll thin, cut out, let rise, and use for the pie, having plenty 
of water in the kettle, so that when the pie is made and the cover on, it 
need not be removed until dished. If after taking up, there is not suffi- 
cient gravy, add hot water and flour (Durst's Best), and butter rubbed 
together; season to taste, and serve. To warm over pot pie, set it in a 
dripping pan in the oven, add lumps of butter with graw\' or hot water, 
and more squares of dough may be laid on top. 

CHICKEN PIE. 

Dress, clean, and cut up two chickens. Put in a stewpan with one- 
half onion, sprig of parsley, and bit of bay leaf; cover with boiling 
water, and cook slowly until tender. When chicken is half cooked, add 
one-half tablespoonful salt, and one-eighth teaspoonful pepper. Kemove 
chicken, strain stock, skim off fat, and then cook until reduced to four 
cups. Thicken stock with one-third cup flour (Durst's Best), diluted, 
and with enough cold water to pour easily. Place a small cup in center 

17 



of baking dish, removing some of the larger bones; pour over gravy and 
cool. Cover with pie crust in which several incisions have been made, that 
there may be an outlet escape of steam and gases. Wet edge of crust 
and put around a rim, having rim come close to edge. Bake in a moderate 
oven until crust is well risen, and brown. Eoll remnants of pastry and 
cut in diamond shape pieces, bake, and serve with pie when reheated. If 
puff paste is used, it is best to bake top separately. 

JELLIED CHICKEN. 

Boil chicken until it will slip easily from the bones, let the water be 
reduced to about one pint in boiling ; pick the meat from the bones in good- 
sized pieces, taking out all gristle, fat, and bones; place in a wet mold, 
skim the fat from the liquor, add a little butter, pepper and salt tO' the 
taste, and one-half ounce of gelatine. When this dissolves, pour it hot over 
the chicken. The liquor must be seasoned highly, for the chicken absorbs. 

ROAST DUCK. 

Wash and dry the duck carefully, make a stuffing, season with sage 
and onion ; insert and sew up that the stuffing may not escape. If tender, 
ducks do not require more than one hour to roast. Keep them well basted, 
and send to table with a good brown gravy poured over them. Accom- 
pany with currant jelly, and if in season, green peas. 

ROAST TURKEY. 

After drawing and washing off turkey, stuff it with bread, oysters, or 
any other stuffing desired, then sew it up, truss and rub with butter and 
sprinkle with salt, pepper and flour (Burst's Best). Put in hot oven to 
roast ; reduce the heat when browned all over, and put two cupb of water 
into the dripping pan. Baste frequently and each time dredge with flour, 
roasting twenty minutes to the pound, and twenty minntes extra. 

OYSTER DRESSING. 

Eemove the crust from a small loaf of baker's bread, crumb very fine ; 
pour on hot water enough to moisten it; and cover it tight. Chop one 
large onion and one quart of oysters, take one-half cup of melted butter, 
one teaspoonful of powdered sage, and salt to taste ; mix all together, and 
if the oyster liquor does not make it moist enough, add a little hot water. 

IS 



FROGS. 

Only the hind leos of frogs are used, and these are considered a great 
delicacy. Tliey must be skinned and blanched before cooking, as follows: 
Drop them in siiltcd boiling water to which some add a little lemon juice, 
boil three or four minutes, put in cold water a few minutes, then take out 
and drain. Trim and clean. Sprinkle with salt and pepper, dip in 
crumbs, egg, and crnmlis again, then fry three minutes in deep fat, and 
drain. 

SWISS STEAK. 

Get round steak about three inches thick. Season and pound in as 
much flour (Burst's Best) as the meat will take up. Put in irymg pan 
and brown well on top of the stove, then put in the oven and bake about 
two hours. Baste. 

HAMBURG STEAK. 

Chop finely one ]iound lean, raw beef; season highly with salt, pepper, 
and a few drops onion juice. Shape, cook, and serve as meat cakes. A 
few gratings of nutmeg and one egg slightly beaten may be added. 

CODDLED STEAK. 

Take round or the cheaper cuts of steak. Cover the bottom of the 
pan with a thin layer of steak, salt, cover with crumbs. Add alternate 
layers of steak and crumbs, salt each laj^er of meat. A little minced onion 
or powdered sage may be added in the way of seasoning, if desired. Place 
in a steam cooker and steam until tender. Will require from forty-five 
minutes to two hours according to amount and quality of meat. (Most 
wholesome and delicious.) 

STUFFED BEEFSTEAK. 

This can be prepared from a round steak and is as nice for dinner as 
a more expensive roast; pound well, season with salt, pepper and bits of 
butter, then spread with a nice dressing made of one egg, bread crumbs, 
pepper, sage and a little cream or butter; roll up and tie closely with 
twine; put in kettle with quart boiling water, and a lump of butter, if 
desirable, and boil slowly one hour; take out and place into dripping pan, 

19 



adding water in which it was hoiled, basting frequently until a nice brown, 
and making gravy of the drippings. It is delicious sliced cold. This is 
known also as MocJc Duck. 

CURRIED LIVER. 

Cut the liver in small, thin pieces, and for every pound take four 
tablespoonfuls butter, two slices of onion, two tablespoonfuls flour (Burst's 
Best), speck of cayenne, salt, pepper and teaspoonful of curn' powder. 
Heat butter in frying pan, cook the liver in it slowly five minutes, then 
add flour and other ingredients; cook two minutes, stirring all well, and 
serve. 

HAM OMELET. 

One cup of cold ham cut fine, two beaten eggs, and enough mashed 
potatoes to thicken enough to make into small cakes or patties and fry 
in hot lard. 

VEAL OR BEEF OMELET. 

Two and one-half pounds chopped veal or beef, one-half pound salt 
pork chopped, one cup rolled crackers, two eggs beaten, one-half cup 
cream, one and one-half tablespoonfuls salt, one teaspoonful pepppr. Mix 
well, form into one or two loaves and bake one and one-half hours. Bast- 
ing with hot water and butter. 

VEAL BIRDS. 

Wipe slices of veal from leg cut as thinly as possible, then remove 
bone, skin, and fat. Pound until one-fourth inch thick, and cut in pieces 
two and one-half inches long by one and one-half inches wide, each piece 
making a bird. Chop trimmings of meat, adding for every three birds a 
piece of salt pork fat cut one inch square and one-fourth inch thick; pork 
also to be chopped. Add to trimmings and pork one-half their measure 
of fine cracker crumbs, and season highly with salt, pepper, cayenne, poul- 
try seasoning, lemon juice and onion juice. Moisten with beaten egg 
and hot water, or stock. Spread each piece mth a thin layer of mixture 
and avoid having mixture come close to the edge. Eoll and fasten with 
skewers. Sprinkle with salt and pepper, dredge with flour, and fry in 

20 



hot butter until a golden brown. Put in stewpan, add cream to half cover 
meat, cook slowly twenty minutes, or until tender. Serve on small pieces 
of toast, pouring cream remaining in pan over birds and toast, and garnish 
with parsley. A thin white sauce in place of cream may be served around 
birds. 

POT-ROAST OF BEEF. 

Put a rather thick piece of beef in a wide, flat bottomed kettle with 
some fat or slices of pork, or suet, and a sliced onion or two if liked, and 
fry brown, turning to brown on all sides; four hours before needed pour 
on just boiling water enough to cover; cover with a closely fitting lid, boil 
gently, and as the water boils away add only just enough from time to 
time to keep from burning, so that when meat is tender, the water may 
all be boiled away as the fat will allow the meat to brown without burn- 
ing; turn occasionally, brown evenly over a slow fire, and make a gravy 
by adding hot water if necessary to the drippings and thicken with browned 
flour (Burst's Best). Season the meat with salt an hour before it is done. 

ROAST BEEF. 

Prepare for the oven by dredging lightly with flour (Burst's Best), 
and seasoning with salt and pepper; place in the oven, and baste fre- 
quently while roasting. Allow quarter of an hour for every pound of meat, 
if you like it rare ; longer if you like it well done. 



21 



MARY A. CARTER 



Notions, Ladies' and 
Gents' Furnishings 



1422 East Fifth Street 



Opp. Dutoit Street 



For Reliable Jewelry go to 

A. Moser & Co. 

Jewelers 

12 NortL Main St. Dayton, Okio 



For the Best 

f^f^ A T Home 6939 
V>Wi\L> Bell, East 2404 

E. H. FAUVER 

Cor. Third and Dutoit Streets 



MORRIS WETZEL 



Dealer in 



Fresh and Smoked 
Meats 



Cash 



1933 E. Third St. 



TELEPHONES: 

Bell Private Branch E. 745 Home 5152 

Out Mollo—"Co-opcralion }or Mutual Benefit' 

The Lindner Bros. Sanitary Milk 
Company 

"LINDNER BROS. QUALITY BRAND" 

Milk, Cream, Butter and Ice Cream 

Plant Open for the Inspection of yisitors at All Times 



719-723 E. May St. 



Dayton, Ohio 



PATRONIZE OUR ADVERTISERS 



Vegetables 



MASHED POTATOES. 



Potatoes are not good for mashing until they are full grown; peel 
them and lay them in water for an hour or more before boiling for mash- 
mg. Put them in a stewpan with enough water to cover them, cover and 
boil until done. Pour off the water and place them in a heated earthen 
vessel. Use a vegetable press for masliing, as then there will be no lumps 
appear. Season with salt and butter and heated milk or cream. Beat 
well and serve. 

BAKED POTATOES. 

Into a moderate oven place the required number of medium-sized Irish 
potatoes. "\^Tien done take from the oven, remove one end of potato and 
scoop out the interior. Season with salt, pepper, butter, and cream, 
beat well and place inside of the peeling; return to the oven until the 
meal is ready to serve. 

FRIED POTATOES. 

Peel the potatoes with a potato peeler. Slice them on a slaw-cutter, 
so as to have them thin and all the same size. Have some bacon grease 
hot in a frying pan to receive the slices, season with salt and pepper. 
When one side is brown, turn with a cake turner; when other side is 
done, serve very hot. These are delicious with rump steak. 

POTATO CROQUETTES. 

Cold mashed potatoes mixed with two beaten eggs and rolled in flour 
(Burst's Best) or bread crumbs. Shape into patties and fry in hot 
lard or bacon grease. Make a quick meal. 

CREAMED POTATOES. 

Peel potatoes and cut into squares and place into a stewpan, cover 
with milk, season with salt, and cook over slow fire. 

23 



ESCALLOPED POTATOES. 

Mis two cups potato cubes witli two cups white sauce, cover with 
bread crumbs and bake thirty minutes in hot oven. A few drops onion 
juice may be added. 

POTATOES AU GRATIN. 

Put creamed potatoes in buttered baking dish, cover with buttered 
crumbs, and bake on center grate until crumbs are brown, 

DELMONICO POTATOES. 

To Potatoes Au Gratin, add one-third cup grated mild cheese, arranging 
potatoes and cheese in alternate layers before covering with crumbs. 

SWEET POTATOES BOILED. 

Peel very tliin six medium-sized sweet potatoes, (Jerseys) are best. 
Place on fire with one-half enough water to cover, one teaspoouful salt, 
two tablespoonfuls of sugar, lard or butter the size of an egg, and let 
boil dry, and brown the potatoes in this syrup. The secret is not to place 
too much water in the pan. A little more water can be added if necessary. 

TURNIPS. 

1. Turnips Alone. 1. Boil until tender, mash and 

2. Turnips with Meat. season with butter, pepper, salt, and a 

3. Turnips and Potatoes. little rich milk or cream. 

2. Turnips boiled with a piece of beef and seasoned with salt and 
pepper are delicious. 

3. Turnips and potatoes boiled and mashed, same as mashed potatoes, 
are relished by some, who dislike turnips. 

SWISS CHARD. 

This plant belongs to the beet family, but is prepared and cooked 
the same way as spinach; but is relished by some who do not care for 
spinach. 

SPINACH. 

An excellent way to serve spinach is to first look it over carefully, 
wash it in two or three waters. If the stocks are not perfectly tender, 
cut the leaves from the stock. Place over a slow fire and enough juice 
will be drawn out to cook until tender. Sprinkle the leaves with salt, 

24 



then put on the stove. Serve with mayonnaise dressing, garnish with 
hard-boiled eggs, cut in slices or rings, that is, with the yolk removed 
and the rings of white only left. 

ESCALLOPED CORN. 

After cutting the grains through the center, remove from the cob. 
Put into a pan, one layer of corn, a layer of cracker crumbs, pieces of 
butter, season with salt and pepper; pour one and one-half pints of milk, 
put on top cracker crumbs, and bake brown. 

CORN AND CHEESE PUDDING. 

One tablespoonful of butter, one tablespoonful chopped green pepper, 
one-fourth cup of full flour (Burst's Best), two cupfuls of milk, one 
cupful of chopped corn, one cupful of grated cheese, three eggs, one- 
half teaspoonful salt. Melt the butter and cook the pepper thoroughly 
in it. Make a sauce out of the flour, milk, and cheese; add the corn, 
yolks, and seasoning; cut and fold in the whites beaten stiffly; turn into 
a buttered baking dish and bake in a moderate oven over thirty minutes. 

CORN FRITTERS. 

Eemove the corn from one dozen ears of corn, when it first comes, 
or one-half dozen after it is grown. Mix well with the yolks of two eggs, 
one-half cup of sweet milk, a lump of butter, the size of a walnut, 
pinch of salt, and pepper, and a small cup of flour (Burst's Best) ; lastly, 
beat to a stiff froth the whites of four eggs. Fry brown on both sides in 
a frying pan vrith fresh lard, and serve hot. 

CREAMED CAULIFLOWER. 

Boil in salted water until tender, then put in one cup of milk or 
cream and a very little thickening ; season with butter, pepper, and salt. 

CREAMED ONIONS. 

Cook same as cauliflower. 

ASPARAGUS. 

Leave it in bundles and boil in a light salt water until soft, then take 
a lump of butter in a stewpan and when melted add a tablespoonful of 
flour (Burst's Best), mix well, and add some of the water the asparagus 

25 



was boiled in, stirring all the time. Have ready in a dish a well-beaten 
yolk of an egg, stir this butter gravy into it, and lay the asparagus around 
the dish into the gravy, tops down. 

BAKED TOMATOES. 

Wash five or six little tomatoes, cut a piece from the stem end, the 
size of a twenty-five cent piece; put a salt spoonful of salt, half as much 
pepper, and a bit of butter the size of a nutmeg in each. Set them in a 
dish or pan and bake in a moderate oven for nearly an hour. 

STUFFED TOMATOES. 

Cut a slice from the stem ends of the tomatoes, scoop out the seeds 
and a portion of the hard centers. To each six good-sized tomatoes, one 
pint of bread crumbs, one tablespoonful of chopped parsley, a table- 
spoonful of grated onion, a level teaspoonful of salt, a pinch of pepper, 
and two tablespoonfuls of melted butter; mix, stuff this into the tomatoes, 
heaping it slightly. Stand them in a baking pan, add one-half cup of 
water. Bake them in a slow oven for three-quarters of an hour, basting 
once or twice with melted butter. 

STRING BEANS. 

String, snap, and wash two quarts of beans, boil in plenty of water 
about fifteen minutes, drain off and put on again in about two quarts of 
boiling water. After having boiled a piece of salted pork one hour, add 
beans and boil an hour and a half. For shelled beans boil half an hour 
in water enough to cover and season with salt, pepper, and one and one- 
half tablespoonfuls of butter. 

BAKED BEANS. 

Pick one quart of beans from stones and dirt. Wash and soak in cold 
water over night. In the morning pour off the water, cover with ho*" 
water, add a little salt and bacon or ham, cook until they begin to split 
open. Pour about half of the beans in a deep earthen crock, then put 
in the bacon and finally the remainder of the beans. Mix one teaspoonful 
of mustard, one tablespoonful of molasses with a little water. Pour this 
over the beans and then add boiling water to just cover. Bake slowly ten 
hours. Add a little water often. 

26 



FRIED EGG PLANT. 

Peel and cut them in one-half inch slices; sprinkle with salt and 
pepper, pile them and place a weight over them for one hour or more, 
so the juice may drain away. Dry each slice and season with pepper and 
salt and dip in flour (Burst's Best). Fry crisp in plenty of lard and 
butter. 

PIMENTO AND CHEESE ROAST. 

Two cupfuls of cooked Lima beans, one-fourth pound of cream cheese, 
three cans pimentoes chopped, bread crumbs. Put in the first three in- 
gredients, mix thoroughly and add bread crumbs until it is stiff enough 
to form into a roll. Brown in the oven, basting occasionally with butter 
and water. 

VEGETARIAN ROAST. 

One cupful of grated bread crumbs, one cupful of grated peanuts, 
one-half cupful of grated walnuts, one cupful of corn pulp, one-half 
cupful of cheese, two eggs, one tablespoonful grated onion, one heaping 
tablespoonful of minced parsley, one-half cup of entire wheat flour 
(Burst's Best), salt to taste. Mix the ingredients well together, press 
in small bread pan or baking dish, and bake or steam for one hour, st<3am- 
ing preferred. 

MACARONI AND CHEESE. 

One cupful macaroni broken into small pieces; two quarts of boiling 
salted water; one cupful milk; two tablespoonfuls of flour; one-fourth 
to one-half pound of cheese; one-half teaspoonful salt; speck of cayenne 
pepper. Cook the macaroni in boiling salted water, drain in a strainer 
and pour cold water over it to prevent the pieces from adhering together. 
Make a sauce of flour, (Burst's Best) milk, and cheese. Put the sauce 
and macaroni in alternate layers in a buttered baking dish, cover with 
buttered eruni])s, and heat in the oven until the crumbs are brown. 



27 



WALDORF SALAD. 

Two apples, one banana, one-half cup English walnuts, one-half cup 
celery cut in pieces. Peel and dice the apples, and the bananas, chop 
the walnuts, cut celery in small pieces. Squeeze over this the juice of 
the lemon and mix with mayonnaise dressing. 

FRUIT SALAD. 

One cup Malaga grapes, one cup celery, one cup English walnnts, three 
oranges. After seeding the grapes, cut walnuts, celery, and oranges. Line 
a salad bowl with crisp, tender lettuce leaves and heap with mayonnaise 
over the fruit; nuts and celery. This salad is delicious as well as orna- 
mental. 

CHICKEN SALAD. 

Boil one chicken tender; chop moderately fine the whites of twelve 
hard-boiled eggs and chicken; add equal qiiantities of chopped celery and 
cabbage; mash the yolks fine, add two tablespoonfuls of butter; two 
of sugar, one teaspoonful mustard; pepper and, salt to taste; and lastly 
one cup good cider vinegar. Pour over the salad and mix thoroughly. 
If no celery is at hand, use chopped pickled cucumbers or lettuce and 
celery seed. This may be mixed two or three days before using. 

POTATO SALAD. 

One cup cider vinegar with a little salt and a little water, one-half 
cup granulated sugar, boil one tablespoonful flour (Burst's Best), one 
teaspoonful mustard, one large tablespoonful butter, rub all together to 
a smooth paste with water; stir all into the vinegar; beat up one egg and 
stir in after fire is turned off; put to cool. Thin with cream or milk. 
Boil the potatoes and let cool, cut up in dice; add celery and onion to 
taste. Salt. Use white pepper. 

28 



Home Telephone 4842 



Bell. East 42 



MORRIS & SONS 

Funeral Directors 

Automobile and Horse Drawn Vehicles 
Coaches for All Occasions 



Chapel in Connection 



1809 East Third Street 



Dayton, Ohio 



Matthews the Florist 

^JTnDi^Q /Phillips Hotel 

Greenhouses and Nurseries in 
Riverdale 

His Slogan— " It Pays to Please" 



Phone Main 2567 



Miss Tiffany 

Waists, Blouses, Neckwear, Handker- 
chiefs, Hosiery, Laces, Veilings, 
Chiffons, Nets, Trimmings. 

43 Fourth St. West, Dayton, O. 



AMERICAN 

Loan and Savings Association 

Davies Building, Third Floor 

For more than forty years this association has paid to its depositors regularly every 
six months the highest dividends that could be earned through prudent business. In 
that time no man has lost a dollar of his money entrusted to us, and no one has been 
put to expense or suffered loss in obtaining his money when it was wanted. We loan 
on first mortgages, only, have a Safety Fund ample for protection under any conditions, 
and consider our certificates as good, for all practical purposes, as Government Bonds. 

Samuel W. Davies, Pres. Frank M. Compton, Sec'y & Atty. 

PATRONIZE OUR ADVERTISERS 



PINEAPPLE AND CHEESE SALAD. 

Take nice crisp lettuce leaves ; place sliced canned pineapple cut in rings 
on the leaves. Fill the center with cheese and celery cubes, mixed with 
mayonnaise dressing. Sprinkle with English walnuts, and serve. 

SALMON SALAD. 

One can salmon; take out the bones and mash well. Chop eight small 
pickles ; chop one cup cabbage ; eight butter crackers rolled fine ; four hard- 
boiled eggs. 

Dressing. One tablespoonful flour, two tablespoonfuls sugar, two table- 
spoonfuls prepared mustard; a lump of butter the size of a walnut. Mix 
well, then add one-half cup of vinegar. Put in vessel; let it boil; stir all 
the time, and then pour this over the salad; mix well. Salt and pepper 
to taste. 

COLD SLAW. 

Beat the yolks of two eggs, one-half pint cream, two tablespoonfuls of 
vinegar, one tablespoonful of celery seed, one teaspoonful salt, a little 
pepper, a piece of butter the size of a walnut. Mix together and put in a 
sauce pan; stir until it boils; chop cabbage fine and pour the mixture 
over while hot. Let stand until cold before serving. 



/ 



Dressings for Salads 



MAYONNAISE DRESSING. 

One egg, one small teaspoonful salt, one small teaspoonful mustard ; three 
large tablespoonfuls of sugar, one-half cup of vinegar, butter the size of 
a walnut. Beat the egg well with the sugar, mustard, salt and stir in 
vinegar slowly; butter drop by drop. Cook in double boiler and stir 
constantly. 

CREAM DRESSING FOR COLD SLAW. 

Two tablespoonfuls of whipped sweet cream, two of sugar and four 
of vinegar; beat well and pour over the cabbage, previously cut very fine 
and seasoned with salt. 

SALAD DRESSING. 

One egg beaten fine, one-half cup sugar, one-half cup vinegar, butter 

size of a big walnut; cook all together. 

30 



Sandwiches 



LETTUCE SANDWICHES. 

Cut thin slices of bread and butter lightly; have fresh, crisp lettuce 
leaves spread with mayonnaise dressing, and spread between layers of 
bread. 

HAM SANDWICHES. 

One-half pound boiled ham ; four hard-boiled eggs ; chop fine ; season 
with a little onion juice and a dash of cayenne pepper; add vinegar 
enough to spread; place between layers of bread. 

NUT SANDWICHES. 

Thin slices of entire wheat bread cut circular and buttered. The fill- 
ing should be made of chopped, roasted and salted peanuts mixed witli 
sufficient mayonnaise to spread. 

CLUB SANDWICHES. 

Three slices of bread thinly cut in any desirable shape, toasted and 
buttered, are the basis of the club sandwich. Place a lettuce leaf on the 
lower slice, and on its top put slices of chicken breast, then put another 
slice of toast on top of that with another leaf of lettuce, followed by thin 
slices of breakfast bacon, topped with a third slice of toasted bread. Finish 
the sandwich Math thin slices (lengthwise) of small pickles on top of the 
last slice of toast. The toasted bread and the breakfast bacon should 
be hot. 

OLIVE SANDWICHES. 

Thin slices of bread, evenly buttered, cut hexagon shape. Between 
each two slices place a layer of ISTeufchatel cheese mixed to a paste with 
equal quantities of cream and salad dressing and covered thickly with 
chopped olives. 

31 



KIMONO SANDWICHES. 

Three pimentoes, two hard-boiled eggs, one-half pound New York 
cream cheese, one teaspoonful chopped onion, one-fourth teaspoonful red 
pepper, one-half teaspoonful salt. Chop all fine and mix with a dressing 
made of one tablespoonful of sugar, one egg, one tablespoonful of butter, 
four tablespoonfuls vinegar, one-half cup sweet milk, one tablespoonful 
(Burst's Best) flour. Boil, spread between thin slices of buttered bread. 

DEVILED HAM SANDWICHES. 

Three boxes of deviled ham, the five-cent boxes ; three hard-boiled eggs : 
four sweet pickles ; two spoonfuls of prepared mustard. Mix well and serve 
between fresh buns or bread. Use lettuce leaves if you have them. 

RIBBON SANDWICHES. 

Take three square, thin slices of white bread and two corresponding 
slices of entire wheat. Butter them and place between each two slices, the 
white bread being on the outside, a filling made of eggpaste. Take a sharp 
knife and cut crosswise into thin slices, each five (3 white, 2 entire wheat) 
slices of bread cut into six sandwiches. 

Eggpaste is prepared by mashing the yolks of three hard-boiled eggs 
to a paste and adding two tablespoonfuls of salad dressing and pepper and 
salt to taste. 

APPLE SANDWICHES. 

Two thin slices of bread buttered. Between them place a thin slice of 
a tart apple, which has been steeped for an hour in a mixture of lemon 
juice and sugar. 

CHICKEN SALAD SANDWICHES. 

Between two thin, oblong slices of bread, buttered, place a layer of 
chicken-salad on a lettuce leaf. In making chicken-salad for sandwiches, 
chop the chicken and celery much finer than for ordinary purposes. 



32 



Relishes 



CHILI SAUCE. 

Eight quarts of tomatoes, three cups of peppers, two cups of onions, 
three cups of sugar, one cup of salt, one and a half quarts of vinegar, 
three teaspoonfuls of cloves, same quantity of cinnamon, two teaspoon- 
fuls each of ginger and nutmeg; boil three hours; chop tomatoes, pep- 
pers, and onions very fine; bottle up and seal. 

COLD CHILI SAUCE. 

One-half peck of ripe tomatoes, scaled and peeled; twelve medium- 
sized onions, nine red peppers, four cups of sugar, four cups of vinegar, 
one-half cup Shaker salt, two tablespoonfuls ground cinnamon, two table- 
spoonfuls ground allspice, one tablespoonful ground cloves. Mix all to- 
gether and put vinegar in last. It is then ready for use. It will keep 
without sealing. 

CORN SALAD. 

One dozen ears of com, twelve mangoes, eight onions, one head of cab- 
bage, one stalk of celery, three pints of vinegar, two cups of sugar, two 
tablespoonfuls of mustard seed, one teaspoonful turmeric powder, one table- 
spoonful salt. Boil twenty minutes. 

TOMATO RELISH 

Chop one peck of green tomatoes, add one-half cup salt and drain. 
Add two cups chopped celery, six onions, four green peppers, two cups 
sugar, two ounces of white mustard seed, one quart of vinegar. Do not 
cook if to be kept in a dark place. Will not need to be air tight. 

GREEN TOMATO PICKLES. 

One gallon of green tomatoes sliced. Let them stand in salt over night. 
In the morning strain and heat to the boiling point. One quart of vinegar, 
two pounds sugar, cinnamon and cloves to taste. Cook until tender and 
seal. 

33 



MIXED MUSTARD PICKLES. 

Four quarts each cucumbers and onions; two large cauliflowers; two 
pounds brown sugar; one-fourth pound mustard; one gallon vinegar; five 
cents turmeric powder; one cup flour. Soak vegetables over night in salt 
water, breaking the cauliflower in small pieces. If cucumbers and onions 
are small do not cut. In the morning drain and cook until tender, in 
equal parts of vinegar and water. Put two quarts of vinegar and water 
on to heat; mix the mustard, flour, and tumeric powder to a smooth paste 
with one pint of cold vinegar. Stir into the scalding vinegar; drain the 
pickles from the mixture in which they were cooked. Put them in the 
mustard mixture as soon as it thickens, but do not boil. Just let all come 
to the boiling point; remove from the fire and put into jars while hot. 
Other vegetables may be added as liked. 

CHILI CON CARNL 

One can tomatoes; one can kidney beans; eight onions fried with one 
pound of hamburger; salt and red pepper. One-half bottle catsup. 

COLD PICKLES. 

One-half gallon of vinegar, one-half cup salt, scant, one-half cup 
ground mustard, ten cents' worth of saccharine. Wash and wipe pickles 
dry, pack in jar, add above ingredients. Make a paste with mustard before 
adding all the vinegar. A piece of horse radish may be added. 

PEPPER HASH. 

Eight red m^angoes, eight yellow mangoes, eight green mangoes, one 
dozen onions, two heads cabbage, three hot red peppers. Grind and salt 
over night. Press through sieve, add one and one-half pints of sugar, four 
tablespoonfuls celery seed, four tablespoonfuls mustard seed, three pints 
of vinegar. Bottle cold. 

TOMATO CATSUP. 

Boil one bushel of tomatoes. Let them stand all night, then take 
through a sieve. Add one pint of vinegar; two pounds sugar; one-half 
cup salt; five cents whole mixed spice; five cents ground cloves, allspice, 
and cinnamon mixed; eight large onions ground; red pepper to suit taste, 
boil down one half. Tie spices in a bag. 

34 



Bread and Rolls 



"This week my husband has been heavy, sour and sad, 
Kinsman to grim and comfortless despair, 
And now I find the cause therefor — • 
The bread was bad." 

— Shakespeare. 



SALT RISING BREAD 

Stir two tablespoonfuls corn meal and one-half teaspoonful salt into 
one-half pint of hot water. Cover the dish and set in a warm water bath 
at about 160 degrees Fahrenheit, and keep it thus for five or six hours. 
Then scald one quart of milk and let it get lukewarm ; add one teaspoonf ul 
salt and enough flour (Burst's Best) to make a batter that will drop from 
the spoon. Beat well, pour in the salt and meal rising, beat, cover and 
set in a pan of warm water about two hours. Then mix in flour (Burst's 
Best) to make a dough thick enough to knead. Knead until smooth and 
elastic. Mold into loaves, (this recipe will make four) cover with a clotli 
and let rise in a warm place. Bake about an hour in a moderately quick 
oven. 

PLAIN WHITE FAMILY BREAD. 

In the evening, soak one cake of Fleischmann's Yeast half an hour in i 
cup of water warmed. Peel and boil one pint of sliced potatoes in one 
quart of water. When done, pour water over one pint of sifted flour 
(Burst's Best) mixed with one handful of salt and one-half cup of sugar. 
Mash the potatoes and stir in the above mixture. When cool, stir in the 
cup of yeast, and put in a warm place until morning. Sift some flour 
(Burst's Best) in a bread pan, empty the sponge which was made the 
previous evening and knead until it does not cling easily to tlie hands.. 

35 



R. J. CONNELLY, President JOS. M. GEYER, Sec. and Treas. 



The P. M. Harman Co. 



Carpetlngs, Rugs, Draperies, 
Wall Papers, Frescoing, 
Furniture, Etc., Etc. -:- -:- 



30-32 N. Main Street Dayton, Ohio 

SATISFACTION 

A good meal together with the knowledge of having a Savings 
Account with interest compounded at 

The Market Savings Bank 

Wayne Avenue and Richard Street Dayton, Ohio 



A. HO 

Druggist 



BOTH PHONES 

314 Xenia Avenue, Corner Viot Street 
DAYTON, OHIO 



Home Phone 2942 Bell Phone 20M 



LEONARD DAUT 



Meats and Provisions 



S. W. Cor. McLain and Allen Streets 
DAYTON, OHIO 



PATRONIZE OUR ADVERTISERS 



Cover with a cloth and let rise until it doubles itself. Make into loaves, 
allowing room for each loaf to double itself and let rise again, and bake 
one hour in a moderate oven. 

PARKER HOUSE ROLLS. 

Three cups scalded milk; four tablespoonfuls butter; three tablespoon- 
fuls sugar; one teaspoonful salt; eight cups sifted flour (Burst's Best), 
one cake Fleischmann's yeast; dissolved in one-fourth cup liikewarni water. 
Pour scalded milk over the salt, sugar, and butter. When lukewarm, beat 
in four cups of flour. Mix well and add the dissolved yeast. Cover closely 
and let rise in a warm place. When light add enough flour to knead (four 
cups). Cover, let rise until light. Boll out to one-half inch thickness. 
Shape with a biscuit cutter; brush each shape with melted butter; crease 
through the center, fold over and press the edges together. Place in a but- 
tered pan, one inch apart and let rise until very light ; then bake in a brisk 
oven fifteen minutes. 

CORN BREAD. 

One pint of sour milk ; two eggs, one-half teacup of sugar, one-half 
tin cup flour (Burst's Best), one teaspoonful soda, one teaspoonful salt, 
butter size of an egg, finish with corn meal. Bake thirty minutes. 

MUFFINS. 

Sift two cups of flour (Burst's Best), one-half teaspoonful salt, twn 
teaspoonfuls baking-powder, one teaspoonful sugar, one cup milk. Rub in 
the hand one teaspoonful butter. Beat two eggs very light without 
separating. Add the milk; pour over the dry ingredients; beat well and 
bake in muffin pans about twenty-five minutes, in quick oven. 

LOVERS' KNOTS. 

One cup scalded milk, two tablespoonfuls sugar, one-half teaspoonful 
salt, one-half cake Fleischmann's Yeast dissolved in four tablespoonfuls 
of lukewarm water, two tablespoonfuls of melted butter; one e<yg; grated 
rind of one-half lemon; and flour (Burst's Best). 

Way of Preparing. Add sugar and salt to the milk. When lukewarm. 
add the dissolved yeast, and one and one-half cups flour (Burst's Best). 
Cover and let rise. When light, add the well-beaten egg, lemon rind, and 

37 



butter; then enough flour to knead; let rise again. Eoll out into sheet one- 
half inch thick, cut into strips one-half inch wide, and nine inches long, 
take up each strip and tie into knot. Place in a buttered pan, allowing 
some space between each two; let rise until light, and bake in a hot oven 
from fifteen to eighteen minutes. 

RAISIN BREAD. 

One cake Fleishmann's yeast, one pint milk scalded and cooled, four 
and one-half cups flour (Durst's Best), one cup raisins, one-half cup 
sugar, one-half teaspoonful salt, three tahlespoonfuls butter, two eggs. 

Dissolve yeast and one tablespoonful sugar in one-half glass lukewarm 
water about ten minutes. Add to milk the yeast, and one and one-halF 
cups flour. Beat, set in warm place one hour. Add sugar, butter, and 
eggs well creamed, salt the remainder of flour, knead lightly and add 
raisins. Let rise one and one-half hours. Make into loaves (three) and 
bake forty-five minutes. 

RAISIN OR CURRANT BREAD. 

One quart of the sponge as for plain bread, one egg, one-half cup sugar, 
one-half cup shortening, one cup seeded raisins washed and rolled in flour 
(Burst's Best). Knead same as plain bread, using less flour (Burst's 
Best), and bake in a moderate oven. 

GRAHAM BREAD. 

One cake yeast (Fleischmann's) ; one cup milk scalded and cooled; 
one cup lukewarm water; four tahlespoonfuls light brown sugar or mo- 
lasses; two tablespoonfuls lard or Imtter melted; four cups graham flour; 
one cup sifted white flour (Burst's Best) ; one teaspoonful salt. Bissolve 
the yeast and sugar or molasses in lukewarm liquid. Add lard or butter, 
then flour, gradually or enough to make a dough that can be handled, 
and the salt. Knead thoroughly, being sure to keep the dough soft. Cover 
and set aside in a warm place to rise, for about two hours. When double 
in bulk, turn out on kneading board, mold into loaves, and place in well- 
greased pans, cover and set to rise again al)0ut one hour, or until light. 
Bake one hour in a slower oven than for white bread. If wanted for over 
night use one-half cake of yeast (Fleischmann's), and an extra half -tea- 
spoonful of salt. 

38 



BOSTON BROWN BREAD. 

Four cups graham flour; one cup yellow corn meal; one teaspoonful 
salt; one cup molasses; one cup sour milk; one cup hot water; one cup 
cold water; two teaspoonfuls soda. Mix in order given, dissolving the 
soda in the hot water. Divide into four one-pound baking-poM'der cans 
with tightly-fitting covers. Steam three hours or bake slowly one and one- 
half hours. 

BAKING-POWDER BISCUIT. 

One pint flour, (Burst's Best) three level teaspoonfuls baking- 
powder, one-fourth teaspoonful salt, one level tablespoonful lard or butter, 
one cup milk. Sift baking-powder and flour together; add salt; rub into 
this the lard or butter and one cup of milk. Roll out and cut into small 
biscuits. Bake ten minutes in hot oven. For one quart of flour, double 
the quantity. 

BAKING-POWDER SHORT CAKE. 

Two cups of flour (Burst's Best), three level teaspoonfuls baking- 
powder, one-half teaspoonful salt, one egg, one-half cup milk, one-fourth 
cup butter, one-half cup sugar, one quart berries. Mix all dry things; 
then rub in butter, then milk and eggs mixed. 

NUT BREAD, FOR SANDWICHES. 

Four cups flour (Burst's Best) ; sifted four times; one egg; three- 
fourths cup granulated sugar; one and one-half cups milk; one teaspoon- 
ful salt; four teaspoonfuls baking-powder; one cup of nuts chopped fine. 
Bake forty-five minutes. 

BUCKWHEAT CAKES. 

One cake Fleischmann's Yeast, two cups lukewarm watei, one cup 
milk, scalded and cooled, two tablespoonfuls light brown sugar, two cups 
buckwheat flour, one cup sifted white flour (Burst's Best), one and one- 
half teaspoonful salt. Bissolve yeast in sugar in lukewarm liquid. Add 
buckwheat and white flour gradually and salt. Beat until smooth. Cover 
and set aside in warm place to rise — about one hour. When light, stir 
well and bake on a hot griddle. If wanted for over night, use one-fourth 
cake yeast, and an extra half -teaspoonful salt. Cover and keep in a cool 
place. 

39 



PANCAKES. 

Two cups of flour (Durst's Best), sifted with two teaspoonfuls of bak- 
ing-powder; six eggs; one saltspoonful of salt; milk to make a thin batter. 
Beat the eggs lightly ; add salt, two cups of milk, then the whites and flour 
alternately with milk, until the batter is of the right consistency. Run a 
teaspoonful of lard over the bottom of a hot frying-pan, pour in a large 
ladleful of batter and fry quickly, 

CHEAP PANCAKES. 

One pint of sour milk, one level teaspoonful of soda and a pinch of 
salt. Beat well, add flour to make a thin batter. Bake in a hot frying-pan, 
previously greased with good lard. 

OATMEAL FRITTERS. 

One pint of cold rolled oats or oatmeal, previously cooked and cooled, 
two well-beaten eggs, saltspoonful salt. Beat lightly and pour a large 
tablespoonful of batter into a hot frying-pan and fry quickly, being cau- 
tious not to burn. 

CORN MUSH. 

Into four quarts of boiling water salted to taste, stir one and a half 
quarts of meal, letting it sift through the fingers slowly to prevent lumps, 
adding a little faster towards the last, until as thick as can be conveniently 
stirred with one hand. Let boil slowly until done and turn out in a square 
pan to cool, and you have an excellent food to fry for breakfast. This can 
be prepared in the evening and part of it served with cream. 



40 



Pies 



GOOD PIE CRUST. 

One cup flour (Burst's Best), one-half cup butter and lard mixed, 
a pinch of salt. This is enough for one pie, upper and lower crust. Apple 
pie or fruit pie of any kind should be baked one-half hour. 

CHOCOLATE PIE 

One cup sugar, two layers of a cake of sweet chocolate, three eggs, two 
cupfuls sweet milk, two tablespoonfuls flour (Burst's Best). Put on the 
stove and stir until thick. This is siifficient for two pies. Bake the crust 
before putting in the filling. Beat the whites of three eggs; put in two 
tablespoonfuls powdered sugar; spread on the pie and put in the oven to 
brown. 

COCOANUT PIE 

Four tablespoonfuls sugar, two cupfuls of milk, one-fourth cupful 
cream, two tablespoonfuls com starch, two eggs, one-half of cocoauut, 
one-half teaspoonful vanilla extract. 

Grate the cocoanut ; scald the milk ; beat the yolks of the eggs light 
with the sugar; add the corn starch and mix with the scalded milk. Cook 
and stir until it thickens. Take from the fire and add the cream and 
cocoanut; put away until cool. Beat the whites of the eggs to a stiff 
dry froth, add to the custard with the vanilla extract. Bake the bottom 
crust and brush it over with the whites of eggs. Put in custard and 
brown in a quick oven. Let the pie cool before serving. 

BUTTER SCOTCH PIE 

Two cups of brown sugar, one cup of hot water, two tablespoonfuls of 
butter. Boil to a thick syrup. Beat the yolks of three eggs and three 
tablespoonfuls of flour (Burst's Best), two cups of milk; stir into the 
syrup and make like custard. Beat whites of eggs and put on top ; l)rown 
in oven. Bake the crust before putting in the filling. 

41 



SQUASH PIE 

Two teacups of baked squash, three-fourths of a teacup of brown 
sugar, three eggs, two tablespoonfuls molasses, one teaspoonful melted but- 
ter, one teaspoonful ginger, one teaspoonful cinnamon, two teacups full of 
milk, a little salt. This makes two pies. 

CREAM PIE. 

Pour a pint of cream upon a cup and one-half of powdered sugar. 
Let stand until whites of three eggs have been beaten to a stiff froth ; add 
this to the cream and l)eat up thoroughly. Grate a little nutmeg over the 
mixture and bake in two pies without upper crust. 

PUMPKIN PIE. 

Wash the pumpkin cut in halves, remove the seed, and invert each half 
in a roaster, and place in the oven and bake until done. Remove the 
pulp, run through the colander or fruit press. To one pint of pumpldn, 
mix one tablespoonful melted butter, two tablespoonfuls flour (Burst's 
Best), one teaspoonful cinnamon, one-half of a level teaspoonful of ginger, 
one-quarter teaspoonful gi'ated nutmeg, one and one-half cups of sugar, 
three eggs (yolks and whites beaten separately), one quart of rich milk. 
Line the dish with good crust and pour in the above filling which is suffi- 
cient for two pies. 

CRUMB PIE. 

Line the dish with a good crust, pour a cup of l)rown sugar, dissolved 
in one cup of water and a pinch of soda. One cup of flour (Burst's Best), 
mixed with one teaspoonful of l)aking-powder. Rub one tablespoonful of 
butter into dry ingredients and scatter over top of sugar and Avater and 
bake slowly. 

LEMON CUSTARD PIE. 

Yolks of three eggs, two cups of sugar, butter size of an egg, juice and 
rind of one lemon, two taldespoonfuls of corn starch, and two pints of 
boiling water. Place on the fire to boil until thick, stirring constantly. 
Then pour in baked cnist. This is sufficient for two pies. Beat the whites 

42 



Hlgh-Grade Wall Paper and Always something new Painter's and Paper Hanger's 

Interior Decorations Supplies 

The Poeppelmeier Company 

Wall Paper, Paints, Glass, Linoleum, Oil 
Cloth, Window Shades 

412-414-416-418 S. Wayne Avenue 
S^ore^VrnSo'"" Dayton, Ohio 



-:- AURORA PAINT -:- 

spartan Art Stains — Art Wall Firasli — Varnislies — Calcimo 
Wall Finisk — Glass — Etc. 

THE DAYTON PAINT SUPPLY CO., '''^'^''lE^I^^i ^'''^ 

N. W. Corner Fifth and Jackson Streets 
Bell Phone, Main 308 Home Phone 2308 

"^"^ VAL HEGMAN JOHN C. KLINGES 

30 Years with D. Leonhard's Son 

Hegman & Klinges 

Dealers in and Manufacturers of 

Harness, Trunks, Bags and Suit Cases 

Every Requisite for the Horse and Traveler 

REPAIRING OF ALL KINDS PROMPTLY 
ATTENDED TO 

9 and 11 South Jefferson Street 

Rear Merchants National Bank, Odd Fellows Temple 

Bell Phone, Main 4573 DAYTON, OHIO 

You are extended an inviiaiion to use the facilities of 

THE FOURTH NATIONAL BANK 

N. E. Cor. Third and Jefferson Streets Dayton, Ohio 

FOR YOUR BANKING -:- 

Safe Deposit Boxes for Rent 

PATRONIZE OUR ADVERTISERS 



of the eggs, add slowly two tablespoonfuls of powdered sugar, spiead on 
the pie and place in the oven to brown. 

LEMON TARTS. 

Mix well together the juice and grated rind of two lemons, two cups 
of sugar, two eggs, and the crumbs of sponge cake. Beat all together until 
smooth, put into twelve patt)^ pans lined with puff paste and bake until the 
crust is done. 

APPLE SAUCE PIE. 

One and one-half pints apple sauce, one-half pint sugar, one teaspoon- 
ful corn starch, pinch of salt, little lemon juice and rind, three eggs 
beaten separately, adding the whites last. Bake in a slow oven ten min- 
utes. This is sufficient for two pies. 

APPLE PIE. 

Line the dish with a good crust and fill with ripe apples peeled and 
sliced thin, regulating the quantity of sugar used by their sweetness. One 
tablespoonful of butter, two of water, and a little flour sprinkled over the 
top before placing on the upper crust, improves the taste. 

CHERRY PIE. 

Line the dish with a good crust and fill with ripe cherries, regulating 
the quantity of sugar you scatter over them by their sweetness. Sprinkle 
a tablespoonful of sifted flour over them, cover and bake. 

MINCE MEAT. 

Two bowls chopped apples, two liowls chopped meats, one-fourth pound 
chopped suet, the grated juice and rind of one lemon, two teacups of 
molasses, one large teaspoonful of cinnamon, one large teaspoonful cloves, 
one nutmeg grated fine, one pound seeded raisins, one-half pound currants, 
one-fourth pound citron cut fine, one quart of boiled cider, and sugar and 
salt to taste. 

IMITATION MINCE MEAT. 

One-half peck green tomatoes, one-half peck apples, six cups granu- 
kted sugar, two cups brown sugar, two pounds raisins, one pound currants, 

44 



two cups of suet, two tablespoonfuls of ciimamon, one teaspoonful ground 
cloves, one nutmeg, and one-third cup vinegar. Grind and salt tomatoes 
over night, squeeze out the liquor in the morning; pour scalding water 
over the tomatoes, and let them simmer ten minutes; squeeze out again 
and mix all ingredients together. Add a good pinch of salt, let boil slowly 
for one hour. Seal in jars. This makes six quarts. 



45 



Cakes 



They talk about a woman's sphere as 

though it had a limit; 
There's not a place in earth or heaven, 
There's not a task to mankind given, 
There's not a blessing or a woe. 
There's not a whispered yes or no, 
There's not a life or birth. 
That has a feather's weight of worth, 
Without a woman in it. 



WHITE CAKE. 

Whites of five eggs beaten stiff, and added last to the remaining in- 
gredients. TwO' cups of sngar, one-half cup butter, one-half cup warm 
water or milk, one-half teaspoonful vanilla, one-half teaspoonful lemon, 
two teaspoonfuls of baking-powder, two cups of flour (Burst's Best). 

HICKORY NUT CAKE. 

One cup of chopped hickory nuts, one and one-half cups sugar, one- 
half cup butter, two cups flour (Durst's Best), three-fourths cup sweet 
milk, two teaspoonfuls baking-powder, one teaspoonful vanilla, whites of 
four eggs beaten well. Bake as solid cake in moderate oven. 

FIG CAKE. 

One cup sugar, whites of four eggs, one-third cup butter, two teaspoon- 
fuls baking-powder, one-third cup water, one and one-half cups flour 
(Durst's Best). 
Gold Part. 

One-half cup sugar, one-third cup of butter, one-fourth cup water, 
one-fourth teaspoonful baking-powder, three-fourths cup flour, yolks of 
three eggs, one-half pound of figs cut fine, cinnamon and allspice to taste. 

FRUIT CAKE. 

One pound brown sugar, one-half cup bittter, one cup sweet cream, 
four eggs, one and one-fourth pounds flour (Durst's Best), two pounds 

46 



raisins, two pounds currants, ten cents worth citron, one teaspoon ful 
each of allspice, cinnamon, and nutmeg, and three teaspoonfuls baking- 
powder. 

BLACK CHOCOLATE CAKE. 

Two cups bro\\Ti sugar, one-half cup butter, two eggs, one-half cup 
sour or buttermilk, and beat all together. Dissolve one small teaspoonful 
of soda in one-half cup hot water. Grate one-third cake Baker's Choco- 
late, stir in with hot water and soda, two heaping cups of sifted flour 
(Burst's Best), one teaspoonful vanilla. Bake very slowly. Can be made 
a layer cake or a loaf cake. 

MARBLE CHOCOLATE CAKE. 

One and one-half cups of sugar, one-half cup butter beaten to a cream. 
One cup of water, three level cups of sifted flour (Burst's Best), two 
rounded teaspoonfuls baking-powder, flavored to taste, whites of four 
eggs well beaten. Take out one cup of the mixture, add three teaspoonfuls 
of cocoa, one-half teaspoonful cinnamon, one-half teaspoonful allspice, 
little grated nutmeg, one-half cup seeded and chopped raisins, two table- 
spoonfuls of chopped English walnuts. Place a layer of white mixture 
in the bottom of the pan, then a layer of dark, then a layer of the first. 
Then place in a moderate oven. Bake forty-five minutes. 

ONE EGG CAKE. 

One heaping cup flour (Burst's Best), one cup sugar, one teaspoonful 
baking-powder, mix together dry. Break one egg into a cup with one- 
fourth cup of butter; finish filling the cup with sweet milk. Mix all to- 
gether, stir well; add flavoring. Bake as layer cake. 

LEMON CAKE. 

Two eggs, one cup sugar, one-half cup milk or water, scant one-half 
cup butter, one and one-half cups flour (Burst's Best), two teaspoonfuls 
baking-powder. Bake as layer cake. 

Filling. Grated rind and juice of one lemon, two apples pared and 
grated. Stir together and let come to a boil. Spread between s>nd on top 
of cake. 

47 



CRUMB CAKE. 

Two cups flour, one cup sugar, two teaspoonfuls baking-powder. Sift 
all together. Eub with hand butter size of an egg. Take out one-half 
cup of mixture or crumbs. Then add two well-beaten eggs and enough 
sweet milk to make cake dough. Put in two cake pans. Sift one-half cup 
of crumbs on top and bake. 

CLOTH OF GOLD. 

Five eggs, one coffee cup sugar, one cup sifted flour (Burst's Best), 
one tablespoonful lemon juice, one-half teaspoonfiil lemon extract. Beat 
the whites and yolks separately and thoroughly. Put the lemon juice in 
the yolks and stir well and sugar in the whites, and put the eggs together. 
Add flour, and last the flavoring. Start Avith oven as for bread and bake 
forty-flve minutes. 

ANGEL FOOD CAKE. 

^^^lites of eleven small eggs or nine large ones, one and one-half cups 
fine granulated sugar, one cup sifted flour (Burst's Best), four times 
with one teaspoonful of baking-powder, one teaspoonful of vanilla. Whip 
the whites to a firm stiff froth, put in lightly the sugar, then the flour 
mixed with the baking-powder, lastly the vanilla. Pour into an ungreased 
pan and bake in a moderate oven forty minutes. 

SCRIPTURE CAKE. 

Four and one-half cups First Kings, IV-22; (Flour) 
One cup of Judges, V: 25, last clause; (Butter) 
Two cups of Jeremiah, VI: 20; (Sugar) 
Two cups of First Samuel, XXX: 12; (Raisins) 
Two cups of Nahum, III: 12; (Figs) 
Two cups of Numbers, XVII: 8; (Almonds) 
Six cups of Jeremiah XVII: 11; (Eggs) 
One cup of Judges, IV: 19, last clause; (Milk) 
Six tablespoonfuls First Samuel, XIV : 25 ; (Honey) 
Two teaspoonfuls Amos IV: 5; (Baking-Powder) 
A pinch of Leviticus, 11:13; (Salt) 
Season to taste of Second Chronicles, IX: 9; (Spice) 

4g 



EGOLESS, BUTTERLESS, MILKLESS CAKE. 

One cup raisins, one cup water, one cup sugar, one-half cup lard. Put 
on stove and let come to a boil. Set aside to cool. When lukewarm, put 
in two cups of flour (Burst's Best), one-half teaspoonful soda, one-half 
teaspoonful each of cloves, cinnamon, and salt. Flavor to taste. Bake in 
moderate oven one hour. 

SAUSAGE CAKE. 

One pound raisins, one pound brown sugar, one pound fresh sausage, 
one teaspoonful nutmeg, one teaspoonful soda. Boil raisins ten minutes 
and take one cup of water from the raisins. Put soda in this water. 
Three cups of flour (Burst's Best). Bake one hour in a slow oven. 

SPICE CAKES. 

One and one-fourth cups of sugar, one-half cup shortening, one egg, 
little salt, one cup sour milk, one teaspoonful soda, one cup chopped 
raisins, one teaspoonful each of cinnamon, allspice, and cloves. Flour 
(Burst's Best) enough to thicken. 

GINGERBREAD. 

One cup of sugar, one teaspoonful salt, one tablespoonful ginger, one 
tablespoonful soda, three and one-half cups flour (Burst's Best), one cup 
Orleans molasses, three eggs, one cup hot water, three-fourths cap lard or 
butter. Mix together sugar, salt, and ginger, then the shortening. Add 
molasses, and mix again. Then the eggs well beaten. Add flour and 
lastlj' the hot water in which dissolve the soda. Bake in small pans. 



49 



Bell Phone East 232 



Home Telephone 3613 



Jackson & Whitmer 

Funeral Directors 

Private Motor Ambulance 

Motor or Horse Drawn 1802 East Third Street 

- - Equipment - - DAYTON, OHIO 



Martin's Pharmacy 

Ice Cream, Candies, 
Drugs 

Home Phone 3148 Cor. 5th and LaBeile Sts. 



HERMAN SOEHNER 

Sole Agent for — — 

"GARLAND" STOVES AND RANGES 
ALSO "STEWART" FURNACES 

Special attention given to Roofing, 
Spouting and Jobbing 



Bell Phone Main 820 
112 S. Jefferson St. 



Home Phone 3820 
Dayton, Ohio 



-:- H. N. GAGEL - Seeds -:- 

Implements and Hardware, Cyphers 

Incubators, Poultry Supplies, 

Bee Sundries. 

EVERYTHING FOR THE FARM 
No. 212 E. Third St. 

Bell Main 1182 Home Phone 3182 



PATRONIZE OUR ADVERTISERS 



frostings 



CARAMEL FROSTING. 



One pound brown sugar, three tablespoonfuls water, boil until it spins 
a thread. Have beaten whites of two eggs; add S3^rup very slowly, stirring 
the eggs very quickly all the while. Beat thoroughly and spread on cake 
quickly as possible. 

ICING WITH CREAM. 

Two cups of granulated sugar, one-half cup of cream or rich milk and 
butter. Boil together and stir while boiling, until it will ball in cold 
water. Beat hard when taken from the fire and spread between and on 
top of cake. 

WHITE FROSTING. 

One cup granulated sugar, one-half cup water, boil until it spine a 
thread. Have beaten white of one egg; add syrup very slowly; beat thor- 
oughly and spread on cake. 



51 



Small Cakes 



OATMEAL GEMS. 

Two cups brown sugar, heaping cup shortening, two eggs beaten, one- 
half cup milk (buttennilk or sweet milk), two and one-half cups of rolled 
oats, scant two and one-half cups flour (Burst's Best), scant level teaspoon- 
ful soda in the flour; heaping teaspoonful baking-powder, one-half pound 
Griffin's Raisins, one teaspoonful cinnamon, one-half cup rolled nuts if 
desired. Bake in gem pans or drop them in large pan and bake slowly. 

DOUGHNUTS. 

Two large coffee cups buttermilk or sour milk, three eggs, two cups of 
sugar, three-fourths cup shortening, one teaspoonful salt, one teaspoonful 
soda, one-half teaspoonful of lemon or cinnamon, flour to roll. Cut with 
doughnut cutter and fry in hot lard. This will make seven dozen. 

FRUIT JUMBLES. 

Three eggs, two cups of sugar, one cup butter, one-half tup milk, 
three cups flour (Burst's Best), three teaspoonfuls baking-powder, one 
cup of currants, one-half nutmeg. Spread in shallow buttered tins, one- 
half inch thick. Cut in squares while warm. 

SUGAR CAKES. 

Two and one-half cups sugar, one cup butter and lard, three eggs, one 
sifter full of flour (Burst's Best), one tablespoonful baking-powder, one 
pint sour cream, one teaspoonful soda and flavoring. Bake in slow oven. 

EGGLESS GINGER CAKES. 

One quart Orleans molasses, two teacupfuls of sour cream, one teacup- 
ful of butter, one teaspoonful soda, two tablespoonfuls ginger, and a pinch 
of salt and flour to roll. 

52 



CHRISTMAS COOKIES. 

One pound flour (Burst's Best), one-half pound butter, one-fourth 
pound sugar, six eggs, one teaspoonful rose water. Mix, roll about as 
thick as finger. Cut into strips three inches long and form into an "S." 

HICKORY NUT COOKIES- 

One and three-fourths cups sugar, stirred into well-beaten yolks of 
four eggs, and then into the beaten whites. Two cups of flour (Burst's 
Best), one heaping teaspoonful baking-powder, two cups of hickory nut 
kernels, cut in small pieces and rolled in flour. Mix quickly and thor- 
oughly, and drop in small spoonfuls upon buttered and floured pans. Bake 
moderately twenty minutes. 

SPICE COOKIES. 

Two cups of sugar, good one-half cup butter, two level teaspoonfuls 
cinnamon, scant one-half teaspoonful cloves, one-half small nutmeg, two 
well-beaten eggs, one cupful milk. Sift in two and one-half cups flour 
(Burst's Best) with two heaping teaspoonfuls of baking-powder until it is 
sticky enough to roll into balls. Eoll them in granulated sugar and bake 
in a moderate oven. 



53 



Eggs 



FRIED EGGS. 

Heat omelet pan. Put in one tablespoonful butter; when melted, 
slip in an egg, and cook until the white is firm. Turn it over once while 
cooking. Add more butter as needed, using just enough to keep egg from 
sticking. 

POACHED EGGS. 

Fill a saucepan three- fourths full with water; add salt and vinegar, 
stir the boiling water vigorously. Break egg in cup and drop deftly into 
eddy formed by swift stirring of water. When white is firm, remove with 
buttered skimmer, trim and serve. 

EGGS A LA GOLDENROD. 

Three hard-boiled eggs, one tablespoonful of butter, one tablespoonful 
flour (Burst's Best), one cup of milk, one-half teaspoonful of salt, one- 
<eighth teaspoonful of pepper, five slices of toast, parsley. Make a thin 
-white sauce with butter, flour, milk, and seasoning. Separate yolks from 
whites of eggs. Chop whites finely, and add them to the sauce. Cut foiir 
vslices of toast in halves lengthwise. Arrange on platter, and pour over 
the sauce. Force the yolks through a potato dicer or strainer, sprinkling 
over the top. Garnish with parsley and remaining toast, cut in points. 

CREAMY OMELET 

Four eggs, one-fourth teaspoonful salt, one-half cup milk, one-eighth 
teaspoonful pepper, two tablespoonfuls flour (Burst's Best), one table- 
spoonful butter. Melt butter; add flour, milk, and yolks of eggs, beaten 
until lemon colored and thick. Beat whites until stiff, cut, and fold in 
the first mixture. Add seasoning; pour into buttered pan, and cook until 
golden brown. Turn on to a hot platter; garnish with white sauce and 
parsley. 



54 



Chafing Dish 
Delicacies 



WELSH RAREBIT. 

One tablespoonful butter, one teaspoonful corn starch, one-half cup 
thin cream, one-half pound soft mild cheese, cut in small pieces, one- 
fourth teaspoonful salt, one-fourth teaspoonful mustard, few grains of 
cayenne, toast or zephyrettes. 

Melt butter, add com starch, and stir until well mixed, then add cream 
gradually, while stirring constantly, and cook two minutes. Add cheese, 
and stir until cheese is melted. Season and serve on zephyrettes or bread 
toasted on one side, rarebit being poured over untoasted side. Much of the 
success of a rarebit depends on the quality of the cheese. A rarebit should 
be smooth and of a creamy consistency, never stringy. 

TOMATO RAREBIT. 

Two tablespoonfuls butter, two tablespoonfuls flour (Burst's Best), 
three-fourths cup thin cream, three-fourths cup stewed and strained to- 
matoes, one-eighth teaspoonful soda, two cups finely cut cheese, two eggs, 
slightly beaten, salt, mustard, and cayenne. 

Put butter in chafing dish; when melted, add flour (Burst's Best). 
Pour on gradually, cream, and as soon as mixture thickens add tomatoes 
mixed with soda; then add cheese, eggs, and seasonings to taste. Serve, 
as soon as cheese has melted, on graham toast. 

ENGLISH MONKEY. 

One cup stale bread crumbs, one cup milk, one tablespoonful butter, 
one-half cup soft mild cheese, cut in small pieces, one egg, one-half tea- 
spoonful salt, and a few grains cayenne. 

Soak bread crumbs fifteen minutes in milk. Melt butter, add cheese, 
and when cheese has melted, add soaked crumbs, eggs slightly beaten, 

55 



and seasoning. Cook three minutes, and pour over toasted crackers which 
have been spread sparingly with butter. 

OYSTERS A LA THORNDIKE. 

One pint oysters, two tablespoonfuls butter, one-half teaspoonful salt, 
few grains cayenne, slight grating nutmeg, one-fourth cup thin cream, 
yolks two eggs. 

Clean and drain oysters. Melt butter, add oysters, and cook until 
oysters are plump. Then add seasonings, cream, and egg yolks slightly 
beaten. Cook until sauce is slightly thickened, stirring constantly. Serve 
on zephyrettes or pieces of toasted bread. 



56 



JENKINS' CUT RATE DRUGS 



Fifth and Ludlow 
Third and Terry 



Both Phones 



Fifth and Wayne 
Third and Broadway 



Bell Phone Main 1833 



Home Phone 4310 



Acme Seed Go. 

Headquarters for choice Seeds for 
Garden, Lawn and Field 

Complete line of Farm Supplies, Poultry Feed, 
Remedies and Supplies. 

Goods Right. Prices Right. Service Right. 

Your Patronage Solicited. 

21 E. Second St. Dayton, Ohio 



CHRISTMAS SLIPPERS 

for Men, Women and Children 

Gypsy Boots for Women, Blue or Black 
Velvet or Kid. 

Men's Shoes. 

Children's School or Dress Shoes. 

AT LOWEST PRICES 
QUALITY CONSIDERED 

The Hutcheson Shoe Company 

15 East Fifth Street 




A GOOD COOK 

must have a good stove. Here is one that 
is recommended by almost all Good Cooks. 

The 

Clermont Gas Range 

It is "Made in Dayton" by skilled work- 
men and from the best material known to 
stove manufacturers. Clermont Ranges 
have been in use in Dayton for over 
thirty years and most of the first ones 
sold are still giving daily service. 
Come in and let us demonstrate these 
wonderful ranges. 

They run in price from $20 to $42. 



THE WAYNE STORE 



'Dayton's Popular Furniture House" 



123 East Fifth Street 



MORRIS & SIMES— Men's Bootery 

$4.00 to $8.00 

Algonquin Hotel Building 23 South Ludlow Street 



PATRONIZE OUR ADVERTISERS 



Puddings 



SNOW PYRAMIDS. 

Beat to a stiff foam the whites of half-dozen eggs, add a small teacup- 
ful of cmrant jelly, and whip all together again. Fill as many dishes half 
full of cream as you have guests, dropping in the center of each dish a 
tablespoonful of the beaten egg and Jelly in the shape of a pyramid. 

TAPIOCA PUDDING. 

Three ounces of tapioca, one quart of milk, two ounces of butter, 
quarter of a pound of sugar, four eggs. Mix all ingredients together ex- 
cepting tapioca, place on a small fire, and when the boiling point appears, 
stir in the tapioca. Remove and pour over two sweet oranges cut fine. 
If the fruit seems sour, add more sugar while cooking. 

BANANA FRITTERS. 

Use the doughnut recipe and place sliced bananas on a small piece of 
the dough, wrapping the dough around the fruit, and fry in hot lard. 
Sprinkle with powdered sugar. 

APPLE SNOW. 

Pare and core twelve large apples; fill opening with one cup chopped 
hickory nuts, one cup sugar, one-half cup butter; fill pan one-half full 
with water and bake in slow oven. When cold serve with whipped cream 
flavored with vanilla. 

JELLIED GRAPES. 

A very delicate dish is made of one-third cup of rice, two cups of 
grapes, half a cup of water, and two teaspoonfuls sugar. Sprinkle the 
rice and sugar among the grapes, while placing them in a deep dish ; pour 
on the water, cover closely and simmer two hours slowly in the oven. 
Serve warm as sauce or cold as pudding. 

58 



APPLE MERINGUE. 

Ten good-sized apples, the rind of one lemon, six ounces of sugar, two 
tablespoonfuls of water, and boil until tender. Pulp the apples through a 
sieve if necessary to free them from lumps. Pour into a dish that it will 
not injure to set in the oven and yet suitable to place on the table. 
Cover the sauce well with the beaten whites of three eggs; place in the 
oven until the eggs have become a delicate brown. 

APPLE DUMPLINGS. 

Work together one quart flour (Burst's Best), one-half cup of lard, 
one teaspoonful of salt, three teaspoonfuls baking-powder. Stir in milk 
to make dough; cut in strips and roll around the apple; fill apples with 
sugar (when the core has been removed), butter the tops and pour a little 
Avater in the baking dish upon placing in the oven. 

FAVORITE PEACH PUDDING. 

Put whole peeled peaches in the l)ottom of a buttered dish and pour 
over them a batter made of one cup of sugar, one cup milk, one egg, two 
teaspoonfuls baking-powder, and flour (Burst's Best) to make a drop 
batter; spread over the peaches, and bake a dark rich brown, turn from 
the dish with peaches on the top and serve with cream or sweet sauce. 

DELICATE PUDDING. 

One can apricots, drain ofl: one and one-third cups of tha syrup, and 
add juice of one lemon. Heat to boiling, and stir in sugar to taste sweet. 
Bissolve three tablespoonfuls corn starch in enough water to make a thin 
paste, turn quickly in boiling liquid and stir until thick, then cover and 
cook ten minutes. Separate three eggs, to the white add pinch of salt, 
whip to stiff froth and stir into mixture on fire; stir slowly for three 
minutes, then take off and add two cups of apricots cut in bits, and one 
cup of nuts, and turn into molds. 

Serve with a sauce made as follows : To the yolks of eggs, add three 
tablespoonfuls granulated sugar, and one and one-half cups of scalding 
hot milk. Stir over fire in double boiler until thick, add teaspoonful of 
vanilla. 

WHIPPED CREAM. 

One cup of cream, one-half cup sugar, and a little vanilla. Whip these 
to a stiff froth and serve with kisses or macaroons. 

59 



QUEEN OF PUDDINGS. 

One pint sifted bread crumbs, one quart milk, one cup sugar, yolks of 
four eggs, butter the size of an egg, add grated rind of lemon. Bake until 
done, do not boil, whip the whites of eggs to a stiff froth with five table- 
spoonfuls sugar and juice of one lemon. Spread on top and brown. 

SUET PUDDING. 

Shred and chop one cup of suet, stone one cup of raisins, pick, wash, 
and dry one Cup of currants. Beat the suet, one cup of sugar, and yolks 
of two eggs until light, then add one cup of milk, three cups of flour 
(Burst's Best), beat until smooth; add one tablespoonful cinnamon, one 
teaspoonful salt, one-half of grated nutmeg, well beaten whites of the 
eggs, and two teaspoonfuls baking-powder. Mix well; add fruit well 
floured; turn into greased molds and boil three hours or more if needed. 

ENGLISH PLUM PUDDING. 

One pound of raisins, one pound of currants, one pound of suet, one- 
quarter pound of citron, four eggs, one teaspoonful cloves, two teaspoon- 
fuls cinnamon, one-half grated mitmeg, one wine glass of brandy, one 
teaspoonful salt, one cup sugar, one cup milk; flour (Burst's Best) enough 
to make a thick batter. Butter a pudding mold and boil four hours. Pour 
a little brandy over the pudding and bring to table burning hot. 

CRANBERRY SAUCE. 

Cranberries, one quart ; 
Hot water, one pint; 
Sugar, one pint. 
Wash cranberries. To a quart of berries, use a pint of hot water, and 
a pint of sugar. Cover and cook quickly. When done, add sugar. 

SAUCE FOR ALL. 

One teacup sugar, one tablespoonful flour (Burst's Best), a lump of 
butter the size of a walnut, one pint boiling water. Mix the dry in- 
gredients and pour the boiling water over same. Place on stove and let 
boil for five minutes. Flavor with nutmeg, cinnamon, or lemon. A little 
vinegar added to this gives it an appetizing flavor. 



60 



Beverages 



"May your coffee and slanders against you be ever alike — without grounds." 



COFFEE. 

Two heaping tablespoonfuls coJffee to one pint of boiling water. 
Measure the ground coffee; mix with a little cold water to moisten it, also 
a small quantity of egg or the shell of the egg. Put the mixture into a 
heated pot and pour in the freshly-boiled water. Wlien it boils, remove to 
the back of the stove. It is sometimes allowed to boil five minutes. Add 
one-fourth cup of cold water; after standing a few miniites, it i.s ready to 
serve. It should be served with cut-loaf sugar and hot milk or cream. 

TEA. 

One teaspoonful tea to one cup freshly-boiled water. Scald the teapot. 
Place the tea in the teapot, pour freshly-lioiled water over it, then steep five 
minutes. It may be served hot, or cooled and iced. Stir the tea before 
serving. 

COCOA. 

One pint scalded milk, one pint boiling water, two tablespoonfuls pre- 
pared cocoa, two to four tablespoonfuls sugar. Mix the cocoa and sugar in 
saucepan, stirring the water gradually, and boil five minutes; add the 
milk and cook five minutes longer, or until smooth and free from any raw 
taste. Beat well with Dover egg-beater to prevent albuminous scum 
forming. 

COCOA FOR FIFTY PEOPLE. 

One and one-half cups cocoa, one quart of cold water, two quarts of 
boiling water, six quarts of scalded milk, three-fourths cup sugar, two tea- 
spoonfuls salt. Mix the cocoa, sugar, and salt. Add cold water, and boil- 
ing water, boil five minutes, add to scalded milk. Beat well with Dover 
egg-beater and serve. 

61 



GINGER PUNCH. 

One quart cold water, one cup sugar, one-eighth poiuid of canton 
ginger, one-half cup orange juice, one-eighth cup lemon juice. Chop 
ginger, add to water and sugar, hoil fifteen minutes, add fruit juice, cool, 
strain, and dilute with crushed ice. 

GRAPE JUICE PUNCH. 

One cup grape juice, juice of one lemon, strain into juice and dilute 
with ice water. Serve. 

FRUIT PUNCH. 

One-third cup lemon juice, one-third cup orange juice, one cup sugar, 
and one pint water. Make syrup, add lemon and orange juice, one-third 
cup maraschino cherries, and one-third cup mint. Chill and serve. 

TEA PUNCH. 

Six cups of water, one cup sugar, two teaspoonfuls of tea, four lemons, 
and three oranges. Make tea, using two teaspoonfuls to three cups of 
water. Boil remainder of water and sugar three minutes. Strain tea into 
boAvl, add syrup and strained fruit juice. Dilute with more water and 
chill with ice. Any acid fruit may be added. 

LEMONADE. 

One cup sugar, one-third cup lemon juice, one pint water. Make syrup 
by boiling sugar and water twelve minutes. Add fruit juice, cool, dilute 
with ice water to suit individual taste. Lemon syrup may be bottled and 
kept on hand to use as needed. 



"Turn failure into victory, 

Don't let your courage fade, 
And if you get a lemon 

Tiist make the lemon aid." 



62 



Ices 



PINEAPPLE ICE. 

Two large pineapples, one and a quarter pounds of sugar, one quart 
of water, juice of two lemons. Boil sugar and water together five minutes, 
add grated pineapple and lemon Juice when cool, then freeze. 

LEMON ICE. 

Four lemons, one quart of water, one orange, one ponnd of sugar. Boil 
the sugar and water, and then the rind of the lemons and oranges, which 
have been cut in small pieces. Stand away to cool. Squeeze the lemoB 
and orange into the syrup, then strain and freeze. 

VANILLA ICE CREAM. 

One quart of cream, one pint of milk, two cups of sugar, whites of 
two eggs, one teaspoonful of vanilla. Mix the sugar with the cream and 
milk, add flavoring and strain into freezer. Beat the whites to stiff froth 
and add just before freezing. 

PEACH ICE CREAM. 

One quart of cream, one pint of milk, two cups of sugar, whites of two 
eggs, one dozen ripe peaches. Pare and mash the peaches, let it stand; 
add cream and milk just before freezing the beaten whites. 

BANANA ICE CREAM. 

One pint cream, one pint milk, one-half pound of sugar, yolks of three 
eggs, four bananas. Scald the milk, add the beaten yolks and sugar; stir 
till it thickens. Add cream and when cool the bananas, which should be 
mashed through a fruit press. Freeze at once. 

CHOCOLATE ICE CREAM. 

One quart of cream, one pint of milk, two cups of sugar, two eggs 
beaten light, five tablespoonfuls grated chocolate, rub smooth in a little 
milk. Heat milk to mere boiling, pour in slowly beaten eggs and sugar; 

63 



then chocolate. Cook until it thickens, stirring constantly, cool, beat in the 
cream, and freeze. 

HOKEY POKEY ICE CREAM. 

One can condensed milk, two tablespoonfuls corn starch, two quarts 
of milk, one tablespoonful vanilla. Moisten corn starch with a little cold 
milk, put remainder of milk in double boiler, and when hot, add corn 
starch; cook a few minutes, then add condensed milk, and stand to cool, 
add vanilla and freeze. 

ITALIAN TUTTI FRUTTI. 

One pound candied fruits, three lemons, four oranges, one quart of 
water, one and a quarter pounds of sugar, one gill sherry wine, one table- 
spoonful gelatine. Chop fruit fine and soak it in sherry wine; soak gela- 
tine in one-half pint water, put one and a half pints of water, sugar, and 
chipped yellow rind of two lemons and one orange on to boil five minutes ; 
add gelatine, when cool, add juice of lemons and oranges, strain, and 
freeze; then stir in the fruit and let it stand a half hour before using. 



64 





Use Parker's, K. & B. (Pink) Herb Tablets, 50c per box. 

for Kidney and Bladder disorders, weak heart and nervousness, and the 

Genuine Indian Herb Tablets 

for Constipation, Headache, Rheumatism and Stomach 
trouble. 50c and $1.00 size. 

Mail orders receive prompt attention 

GEO. H. PARKER 

324 E. Fifth Street Dayton, Ohio 

The Otterbein Efficiency Record 

For Up-to-Date Sunday Schools 

When ordering your Sunday-school supplies don't forget to include the Efficiency 
Record. 

The percentage system is the only fair one to compare the work of the different 
classes. It does justice to both the large and small ones. This system is used in the 
Efficiency Record. All efficiency percentages printed in red, everything else in black. 

The binding is half leather, and the finest tinted ledger paper is used. 
Two sizes. 

No. 21, for 15 classes, price, .$1.00 No. 22, for 45 classes, price, .$1.50 

U. B. PUBLISHING HOUSE Dayton, Ohio 



The Dayton Ice Cream & Dairy Co. 

Ice Cream, Perfectly Pasteurized Milk 
and Cream, Creamery Butter, Cottage 
Cheese and Buttermilk are our products. 

748 South Main Street Both Phones 

"The Most Delicious Coffee I Ever Tasted" 

That's what you'll say after you have tried a pound of Our Special 
Steel Cut Refined Coffee. All the chaff, dust and other injurious 
parts removed by our New Hobart. STOP and SEE how it's done, 
and the results, at 

O. W. KEARNS, Fancy Coffee and Tea Stand 

We give S. & H. Green Stamps 47 Arcade, 0pp. Trailer's Entrance 

PATRONIZE OUR ADVERTISERS 



Candies 



DIVINITY. 

Divinity needs careful supervision in measurements and cooking, and 
a strong arm for beating the candy is most essential to its perfection. 
Part One: 

Take two cups granulated sugar, one cup syrup, 
one cup vrater, one tablespoonful vinegar, one tea- 
spoonful vanilla. Boil slowly without stirring until a 
little hardens in cold water, then set aside to cool. 
Part Two: 

Eequires the white of an egg beaten stitf, boil one 
cup granulated sugar and one-half cup water until it 
threads, beat this slowly into whites of eggs, just as 
for cooked icing. When part one has slightly cooked, 
quickly turn in the part two and beat rapidly for 
twenty minutes; put in two cups of English nuts or 
pecans, stir gently into the mixture without breaking 
the nuts. 



PANUCHI. 



Three cups of brown sugar, one cup of sweet milk, 
three-fourths cup of nuts, three tablespoonfuls butter, 
pinch of salt, pinch of soda, one teaspoonful of vanilla. 
Boil this until a soft ball test. When almost cool, 
put in nuts and vanilla, and beat until it begins to 
harden, then pour out on buttered plate. Stir con- 
stantly while cooking. 



FUDGE. 



Two cups granulated sugar, two-thirds cup sweet 
milk, one tablespoonful butter, two tablespoonfuls 
cocoa, one teaspoonful vanilla. Put butter in granite 
66 



PEPPERMINTS. 



pan, when melted, add sugar and milk. Heat to boil- 
ing, then add cocoa. Stir constantly until it is a soft 
ball test. Then remove from fire, add vanilla. Let 
stand until partly cool, then beat until creamy. WTien 
mixture begins to sugar around edge pour into but- 
tered pan. 



One and one-half cup of granulated sugar, one-half 
cup boiling water, and six drops oil of peppermint. 
Put sugar and water into granite saucepan, and stir 
until it is dissolved. Boil ten minutes; remove from 
fire, add peppermint, and beat until a right consist- 
ency. Drop from -tip of spoon on slightly buttered 
paper. 



FONDANT. 



Take two cups granulated sugar, one-half cup of 
water. Set over the fire until the boiling begins, then 
remove the spoon. If any grains of sugar are thrown 
up the sides of the pan while boiling is in progress, 
remove with a brush, wet in cold water. Boil five 
minutes and then add one-fourth teaspoonful cream 
tartar. If you are using a Fahrenheit thermometer, 
it should now register 238 degrees, the soft ball stage. 
It may also be tested by means of a fork. Plunge the 
fork into the syrup; if the syrup hairs, that is, forms 
a hair like thread from the ends of the tines, it is suf- 
ficiently cooked. Worhing the fondant. When the 
sugar is done, turn out on a large platter, or a marble 
slab, moistened with water. Allow to stand without 
touching, until a dent can be made in the surface, 
then with a spatula or wooden spoon work back and 
forth until it is a creamy white paste. While still 
soft and warm, knead as bread, then press into a bowl, 
cover closely with wax paper and then a heavier paper. 
Allow to stand in a cool place for twenty-four hours. 
67 



Using the Fondant. 
Use the fondant from the bowl as desired. Flavor 
to suit your own taste. It is possible to combine 
flavors, nuts, and fruits in any way to suit one's in- 
dividual taste. Often many new confections are main- 
tained. 

CHOCOLATE CARAMELS. 

Two and one-half cups sugar, three-fourths cup 
pure corn syrup, one-half cup butter, one-eighth 
teaspoonful cream tartar, two and one-half cups whole 
milk (not skimmed), two and one-half squares of 
chocolate, one teaspoonful vanilla extract. Put the 
sugar, pure corn syrup, butter, cream of tartar, and one 
cup of the milk over the fire. Stir constantly, and 
when the mass has boiled a few moments, gradually 
stir in the rest of the milk. Do not let the mixture 
stop boiling while the milk is being added. Stir ever)^ 
few moments and cook to 248 degrees Fahrenheit, or 
until, when tested in cold water, a hard ball may be 
formed; add the chocolate and vanilla, and beat them 
thoroughly through the candy, then turn into two but- 
tered pans. When nearly cold, cut into squares. 



68 



Household Hints 



To Take Out Mildew, 

Wet the cloth and rub on soap and chalk, mix together and lay in the 
sun; or lay the cloth in buttermilk for a short time, take out and place in 
hot sun; or apply lemon juice and treat in the same way. 

To Remove Grease Spots from Silks, Woolens, Paper, Etc. 

Grate thick over the spots French (or common will do) chalk, cover 
with brown paper, set on it a hot flat iron, and let it remain until cool. 
Eepeat if necessary. The iron must not be so hot as to bum paper and 
cloth. 

To Wash Chamois Skin. 

Use a weak solution of soda and warm water; rub plenty of soft soap 
into the leather; let it lie in the water two or three hours; then rub it 
clean. Einse well in a weak solution of soda, warm water, and yellow 
soap (rinsing in water would only make it stiff and hard) ; wring in a dry 
towel; dry quickly, then pull about and brush it well. 

To Clean Ribbons. 

Dissolve white soap in boiling water; when cool enough to bear the 
hand, pass the ribbons through it, rubbing gently so as not to injure the 
texture; rinse through lukewarm water and pin on a board to dry. If the 
colors are bright yellow, maroon, crimson, or scarlet, add a few drops of 
oil of vitrol to the rinse water. If the color is bright scarlet, add a few 
drops of muriate of tin. 

Onion Odors. 

When cooking onions set a tin cup of vinegar on the stove, and let it 
boil, and you will smell no disagreeable odor. 

Dirty Coat Collars. 

Apply benzine, and, after an hour or more, when the grease has become 
softened, rub it or remove with soap suds. 

69 



To Clean a Refrigerator. 

Use bi-carbonate of soda dry on a damp cloth. Rub the zinc well with 
it, and any musty smell will be destroyed. 

Furniture Polish. 

Take a small bottle, fill it two-thirds full with spirits of turpentine, 
then fill the bottle up with the best linseed oil. Shake well, apply with a 
very thin cloth, and wipe with the same. 

Paint or Varnish. 

Oil of turpentine or benzine will remove spots of paint, varnish, or 
pitch from white or colored cotton or woolen goods. After using it, they 
should be washed in soap suds. 

Camphor. 

Placed in trunks or drawers will prevent mice from doing them injury. 
Placed with silverware will keep it from tarnishing. 

Icy Windows. 

Windows may be kept free from ice and polished by rubbing the glass 
with a sponge dipped in alcohol. 

Packing Away Furs. 

All furs should be well switched and beaten lightly, free from dust and 
loose hairs. Well wrapped in newspapers with bits of camphor laid about 
them and in them, and put away in a cool dark place. If a cedar closet or 
chest is to be had, place furs in that. In lieu of that, new cedar chips 
may be scattered about. Never delay packing furs away until late in the 
season, for moth will early commence depredations. 

Improving the Lawn. 

To rid the lawn of dandelions, put a drop of sulphuric acid into the 
heart of each dandelion plant, being careful not to touch the surrounding 
grass with the acid. One drop will suffice to destroy roots of small plants. 
Large plants may need a second application. 



70 



Washing Fluid 



Washing Made East. 

Washing Fluid. — One box of concentrated lye, one ounce of salts of 
tartar, two ounces of aqua ammonia, one-half pound of borax, six quarts 
of water (soft preferred). 

How To Prepare The Above. Boil one gallon of water. Go out doors 
and turn lye into granite dishpan or a two-gallon crock. Wliile you are 
doing this wear a closely-woven damp towel around your mouth and nos- 
trils. Pour boiling water over lye, add the salts and borax, then the two 
quarts of cold water and ammonia, and bottle at once. It must be kept in 
a glass jar as it is so strong it will eat through the jug. If it is put in 
Mason Jars, do not fill jars full, as it will spoil tops. 

How To Use. Soak clothes in a tub nearly full of warm water into 
which has been dissolved one teacupful of the washing fluid and make a 
suds with melted soap. After they have soaked an hour or so in the morn- 
ing wring them out and place in boiler one-half full of soft water. After 
boiling twenty minutes take out and rinse through three waters. 



71 




GHKHrmcGuM 



Dry Cleaning and Chan Drying 

E. M. MENDENHALL 

29 South Ludlow Street 

Our work is the best and prices lower than others. We Dry Clean any gzo-- 
ment from the most delicate evening dress to household goods, rugs, carpets, etc 

Phone sStShoL brings Our Auto to Your Door 

Household Hints 

Pickles of vinegar will not keep in a jar that has ever had any kind of 
grease kept in it. 

Clam shells are mare convenient for scraping pots and kettles than a 
knife, requiring less time to remove the burnt surfaces. 

If grease is spilled on the kitchen jfloor or table, cold water poured on it 
at once will prevent the spot from soaking into the wood. 

If the ceiling becomes smoked from a lamp wash off the blackened sur- 
face with a little weak soda water. 

Lamp chimneys may be quickly cleaned by rubbing them with a clean 
soft cloth and polishing with a piece of newspaper. 

A scorch mark, if not too heavy, may be removed by moistening with 
water and laying in the sun. Repeat the moistening two or three times 
until the spot disappears. 

A whisk broom is just the thing to clean a horseradish grater. 

"Wood ashes put in a woolen bag and placed in the water will make 
hard w^ater soft. 

A special broom should be kept for kitchen and pavements. 

Drain pipes should be regularly cleaned at least once a week, with lime 
water, carbolic acid, or chloride of lime. 

72 



"Prayerfully, carefully, 
We've told you how to cook — 
Soup, fish, vegetables, and meat, 
And other things good to eat. 

Bread and Rolls — Pies and Cake, 
Most anything you care to make. 
Salads and Puddings — Beverages and Ices, 
Afford a meal at very low prices." 



"The book is completed 
And closed, like the day ; 

And the hands that have written 
Lay it away. 

Cover the embers, 

And put out the light ; 
Toil comes with the morning, 

And rest with the night." 



73 



NOTES 



74 



NOTES 



75 



NOTES 



1(> 



NOTES 



n 



NOTES 



78 



NOTES 



79 



THE FARADOR 




A remedy for every curable disease. 

No drugs—no battery. First cost 
the only cost— lasts a lifetime. 

Call, write or phone for free circulars 
and investigate our drugless method 
of healing. 

Hundreds of home testimonials. 

PHONES: Bell. Main 3684 Res., Home 6870 

Myers Sales Company 

605 Conover Building Dayton, Ohio 



PATRONIZE OUR ADVERTISERS 




LIBRARY OF CONGRESS 




007 958 206 2 -^ 




mm 






;{:j:^;:;:j;i;!:ilj:j:j:| 



