lJUUIIUT 




I 

I 



FOOD AND FEEDING IN HEALTH 
AND DISEASE 



FOOD AND FEEDING 

IN 

HEALTH AND DISEASE 



A MANUAL OF 

PRACTICAL DIETETICS % 

\ 

% 

BY 

CHALMERS WATSON, M.D., F.R.C.P.E. 

Assistant Physician, Royal Infirmary, Edinburgh 
Editor of the '■'■ Encyclopcedia Medica^' 



SECOND EDITION-REVISED 



TORONTO 

M^AINSH & CO., LIMITED 

4-12 COLLEGE STREET 

1915 



17/!)' 



PREFACE 

The aim of this work is purely practical. It aims at provid- 
ing a complete and practical epitome for the dietetic student. 
It is now many years since the late Sir Henry Thompson, a 
distinguished authority on dietetics, pointed out that no one 
can be a really accomplished practitioner who has not made 
dietetic principles and practice an important part of their 
professional education, yet the subject of dietetics has still 
no recognised place in medical teaching, and the facilities for 
the student acquiring a practical knowledge of it can hardly 
be described as adequate. 

The first thing necessary for food and feeding in health 
and disease is to be well instructed in the elements of 
physiology, the nature of foods, the normal laws of feeding, 
as well as in the deviation by which the action of these laws 
is modified. To this must be added some practical acquaint- 
ance with kitchen usage and processes. A certain familiarity 
with the resources of the cook is essential to provide a 
suitable daily menu which will be agreeable to the invalid, 
and as much as possible varied within the narrow limits 
induced by the circumstances of each case. In the following 
pages an attempt is made to present this information con- 
cisely, and applied, so far as possible, to the everyday require- 
ments of the medical practitioner. 

In the preparation of the work I have derived much help 
(more especially with the data of the chemical composition of 
foods) from many sources, special mention being made of the 
writings of Atwater, Langworthy, and of the analytical reports 
published from the Lancet laboratory. The reader will observe 
that in the section on disease, less attention than is usual in 



vi PREFACE 

works on diet is devoted to the details of the chemical com- 
position and heat vakies of the food, and more to its 
influence on thr digestive and bacterial processes in tho 
gastro-intestinal tract. This plan has been deliberately 
adopted as being in strict accordance with the general trend 
of recent advances in our knowledge of the physiology and 
pathology of digestion, and also more in iiarmony with the 
teaching of everyday clinical experience. 

It is both a duty and a pleasure to me to express my 
very great indebtedness to my wife for invaluable assi-stance 
in this work. In my capacity as editor of The Encyclopcedia 
Medica, I received many requests from its readers for the 
republication of the article on invalid feeding, arranged for 
that work and written by her. This experience confirmed me 
in thinking that there is room for a work on dietetics which 
deals more fully with the practical aspects of the subject 
than other works with which I am familiar, and it is impossible 
for me to overestimate the assistance gained from her in my 
endeavour to supply this deficiency, 

I have also to acknowledge my indebtedness to Dr 
Dingwall Fordyce for the section on infant feeding in health 
and disease. Keeping in view the practical nature of the 
work, I felt I could not do better than entrust this section to 
one of his recognised abilities, both in the scientific and 
practical aspects of this subject. 

I have taken the opportunity of republishing in the form 
of an appendix the results of the experimental researches 
carried out by myself and others in collaboration, in the 
Physiological Laboratory of Edinburgh University since 1900. 

It is hoped that the practical value of the book as a " 
work of reference may be enhanced by the inclusion of an 
exhaustive index. 



PREFACE TO THE SECOND EDITION 

As a medical text-book the present work is an acknowledged 
departure from long-established routine. In the section on 
Disease less attention than is usual in works on diet is 
devoted to the chemical composition of the heat values of 
food, and more to its influence on the digestive and bacterial 
processes in the digestive tract. This plan has been deliber- 
ately adopted as being in strict accordance with the general 
trend of recent advances in our knowledge of the physiology 
of digestion, and also more in harmony with the teaching of 
clinical experience. The very gratifying reception which the 
book has received may be taken as a proof of the soundness 
of this plan. 

In the last year or two special attention has been directed 
to the important subject of the adulteration of some common 
foodstuff's, for example — bread. An account is here given 
of the present-day methods of the bleaching of flour, and of 
other methods, which, there is good reason to believe, impair 
the nutritive properties of some every-day foods. 



CONTENTS 



CHAPTER I 

PAOX 

Food and its Functions— 

Classification of Foods ..... i 

Methods of Determining the Nutritive Value , . 3 

Physiological Properties ..... 5 

CHAPTER II 

Digestion, Absorption, and Metabolism of Foods— R6le 
OF Bacieria — 

Digestion ....... 7 

Absorption ....... 10 

Metabolism ....... 13 

Role of Bacteria in Digestion . . . . .15 

CHAPTER III 

Daily Amount of Food Required, and Factors Modify- 
ing it— 

The usually Accepted Standard . . . .20 

The Chittenden Standard ..... 22 
The Influence of Various Conditions . . . .24 

CHAPTER IV 
Milk and its Products— Eggs— 



Composition of Milk . . . , . 

Cow's Milk ...... 

Digestion, Absorption, and Nutritive Value of Milk 

Milk Adulteration and Impurities 

Milk Derivatives . . . . . 

Eggs ....... 



28 

30 
33 

yj 
38 

45 



CONTENTS 



CHAPTER V 



Animat. Food?;— 



Composition of Meats ..... 


50 


Fish 


. 58 


Digestibility of Meats ..... 


. 65 


Cookiny; of Flesh and Fish .... 


. 65 


Soups ....... 


72 


Home-made Beef-Teas, Extracts, and Essences 


75 



CHAPTER VI 



Vegetaiu.e Foods — 



Cereals 








86 


Breadmaking . 








90 


Digestibility and Varieties of Breads 








92 


Other Preparations of Wheat 








95 


Other Cereals, Oats, etc. 








97 


Pulses .... 








101 


Fruits, Nuts, and Fungi 








105 


Roots and Tubers 








114 


Green Vegetables 








117 


Methods of Preparing Vegetables 








122 



CHAPTER VII 

Mineral Constituents of Food — Food Accessories- 

Mineral .Salts ....... 

Acidity and Alkalinity of Foods 

Food Accessories ..... 



125 
127 
127 



CHAPTER VIII 

Beverages— Water, Aerated Waters, Tea, etc.— Alcohol— 

Water ....... 

Aerated and Mineral Waters .... 

Tea, etc. ...... 

Alcf'hol. ...... 



132 
134 
136 

139 



CONTENTS 



XI 



CHAPTER IX 
Patent, Proprietary, and Predigested Foods- 



1. Nitrogenous Foods. 

2. Carljohydrate Foods 

3. Cow's Milk with Cereal Additions 

4. Combined Foods 
Predigested Preparations 

(a) Ferments 

(i) Predigested Milk Products 

(c) Predigested Meats 

(d) Malt Extracts . 
Invalid Foods . 



155 
168 
168 
170 
171 
171 

175 
176 
178 
183 



CHAPTER X 

Food Preservatives, Food Adulteration, and Diseases 
Caused by Food — 

Methods of Preservation ..... 

Food Adulteration ...... 

Diseases Caused by Food ..... 



187 
190 
191 



CHAPTER XI 

Diet at Different Periods of Life — 

Childhood .... 

At School .... 

Diet in Old Age 
During Pregnancy . . . 



193 
201 
203 
211 



CHAPTER XII 

Under-feeding and Over-feeding — 

Under-feeding .... 
Over-feeding .... 
General Rules for Framing a Dietary 



215 
217 
219 



CHAPTER XIII 

General Serving of Food for Invalids — Rectal Feeding— 

General Serving of Food for Invalids 

Rectal Feeding ...... 



220 

221 



xii 



CONTENTS 



CHAPTERS XIV and XV 

Infant Feeding in Health and Disease 

(By I)r Dingwall Foidyce) 

Physiological Characteristics of Early Infancy 
IJreast-feeding ..... 
Artificial Feeding .... 

Dietetic Treatment in Cases of Minor Ailment 
Improper Feeding .... 
In Serious Illness .... 

Dietary of Second Year . . 



CHAPTER XVI 



Dietary in Fevers and Acute Infective Diseases — 



Principles of Feeding . 

Milk and its Derivatives 

Eggs, and Meat Preparations 

Farinaceous Foods 

Thirst-quenchers 

Stimulants 

Typhoid Fever. 

Pneumonia 

Acute Rheumatism 

Scarlet Fever . 

Whooping-cough 

Measles 

Influenza 

Diphtheria 

Smallpo.x 

Typhus Fever 



CHAPTER XVII 
Diet during Convalescence— 



Principles of Feeding . 

Daily Dietaries 

Farinaceous Puddings 

Soups . 

Fish . 

Meats 

Vegetables 



CONTENTS 



CHAPTER XVIII 



Diseases of the Stomach- 



Indigestion . . . . 






. 314 


Chronic Indigestion in Children 






. 320 


Gastric Catarrh 






. 322 


Hyperchlorhydria 






. 326 


Gastric Ulcer . 






• 330 


Gastrorhexis 






. 337 


Dilated Stomach 






. 339 


Cancer of Stomach 






. 343 


Gastroptosis 


• 




. 344 



CHAPTER XIX 



Diseases of the Intestine — 



Auto-intoxication 












346 


Acidosis 












349 


Constipation 












352 


Diarrhoea 












354 


Enteritis . • 












355 


Colitis . 












357 


Intestinal Colic 












363 


Intestinal Ulceration 












364 


Intestinal Obstruction 












364 


Meteorism 












364 


Appendicitis 












365 


Haemorrhoids . 












. 366 


Sprue . 












. 366 



CHAPTER XX 
Diseases of the Liver and Pancreas— 



Biliousness .... 


. 370 


Jaundice .... 


. 371 


Gall-stones .... 


. 373 


Cirrhosis of the Liver . 


. 375 


Pancreatitis .... 


• 377 



CHAPTER XXI 

An>f.mia and Diseases of the Blood— 

Anaemia in Children 
Chlorosis 

Pernicious Anaemia 
Leukaemia 
Scurvy . 



381 
384 
388 
391 
392 



xiv 



CONTENTS 



CHAPTER XXII 



Arterio-sclkrosis— 



Dietetic Errors as a Cause of 
Illustrative Dietaries . 
Hyperpeiesis . . 



394 
396 
398 



CHAPTER XXIII 
Diseases of the Heart— 



Functional Heart Disease 


• 399 


Acute Pericarditis and Endocarditis . 


401 


Chronic Heart Disease 


402 


The Senile Heart .... 


• 407 


Diet in Aneurism . . . , 


. 408 



CHAPTER XXIV 

Diseases of the Kidney— 

Acute Nephritis ..... 

Subacute and Chronic Nephritis 

Treatment of Chronic Nephritis by a Chloride-free Diet 

Other Renal Disorders 

Albuminuria 

Lithaemia . . 

Oxaluria . . 

Phosphaturia . . 



411 
412 
416 
417 
417 
418 
418 
419 



CHAPTER XXV 



Tuberculosis — 



Principles of Feeding . 

Dietaries .... 

Diet for the Poorer Classes 

Tuberculosis in Cases with Impaired Digestion 

Tuberculosis of Intestine 

Haemoptysis .... 

Laryngeal Tuberculosis and Dysphagia 

Tuberculosis in Children 



421 

423 
425 
428 
433 
435 
436 
440 



CONTENTS 



CHAPTER XXVI 
Gout, Rheumatism, and Rheumatoid Arthritis- 

Gout ...... 

Rheumatism ..... 

Rheumatoid Arthritis .... 



444 
463 
465 



CHAPTER XXVII 
Glycosuria and Diabetes 



470 



CHAPTER XXVIII 



Obesity 



Principles of Treatment .... 


• 493 


Banting Method ..... 


. 494 


Oertel System ...... 


. 495 


Ebstein Regime ..... 


. 496 


Sahsbury Diet, etc. ..... 


. 498 


Fluids in Obesity ..... 


. 498 



CHAPTER XXIX 
Diet in Nervous Diseases — 



In Organic Disease .... 


. 501 


In Nervous Children .... 


• 504 


Headache, Insomnia, etc. 


. 505 


Apoplexy ..... 


. 507 


Neurasthenia ..... 


. 508 



CHAPTER XXX 

Diet in Diseases of the Lungs, Thyroid Gland, and 
Skin— 

Diseases of Lungs ...... 

Thyroid Gland ....... 

Skm Affections ...... 



512 
515 
517 



CHAPTER XXXI 



Special Diet Cures- 



Vegetarianism ..... 


f. 


520 


Lacto-\'egetarian Diet 


i^ 


529 


Purin-free Diet .... 


5^ 


Salisbury Diet ..... 




534 


Fruit Cures ..... 


. 


538 


Milk and Whey Cures .... 


. 


538 


Buttermilk and Lactic Preparations . 


. 


540 



xvi CONTENTS 

CHAPTER XXXII 

PAOB 

Hospital Dietaries — 

Clas>-ification ....... 545 

Comparison of Official and Actual Dietaries. . . 547 

APPENDIX 

Record of Experimentai, Observations on the Effect of 

Diet on the Structure of the Tissues . 551-615 

Index ...... ^ . . 617 



J 



FOOD AND FEEDING 



CHAPTER I 



FOOD AND ITS FUNCTIONS 



Classification of fooils — 

1. As tissue-builders . 

2. As sources of heat and energy 
Method of determining the nutri- 
tive value — 

(rt) Chemical composition. 



Method of determining the nutri- 

2 tive value — continued. 

2 {b) Heat value . . . - 

(c) Physiological properties — 

digestibility and rate of 

J absorption 



Food is required for two purposes — to build up the body and 
repair tissue waste, and to supply potential energy, which can 
be converted into heat and work. Foods are classified as 
follows : — • 



Proteins . . 

Carbohydrates . 
Fats . 

Mineral matter . 
Water 



j" Myosin of meat and casein of milk 
*' I Albimiinoid, i.\^. gelatine 
e.s;- Sugars and starch ... 
e.g. Butter, cream .... 

fSodium, potassium, calcium, mag 
A nesium, iron, phosphorus, chlo 
y rine, sulphur 



Organic. 



Inorganic 



The proteins contain carbon, hydrogen, nitrogen, oxygen, 
and a small amount of sulphur. Carbohydrates and fats 
contain carbon, hydrogen, and oxygen only. 

Almost all articles of food are complex substances con- 
taining both nitrogenous and non-nitrogenous ingredients, 
and the element which predominates in the food gives it 
its distinctive class. The various foods perform the functions 
of supplying building material, muscular energy, and heat in 
different degree. 

» A 



2 FOOD AND ITS FUNCTIONS 

The building material for forming and repairing tissue is 
commonly supposed to be supplied only by the 

Proteins ... .1 

Mineral salts . . - Tissue-builders, 

Water . . . .J 

the carboliN'd rates and fats not ranking as tissue-builders. 
In recent )'ears, however, it has been shown that a carbo- 
h\-drate radicle enters into the composition of the protein 
molecule, and this suggests that carbohydrates may play a 
much more important part in the growth and repair of 
tissue than has formerly been supposed. The second great 
function of food — source of heat and energy — is shared by 
ail the organic foodstuffs — 

Proteins . . , ."j 

Fats Sources of heai and energy. 

Carbohydrates . . .J 

These possess potential energy. The force which holds 
the food elements together in combination is called potential 
energy. In the body the proteins, fats, and carbohydrates 
undergo oxidation, the oxygen necessary for their combustion 
being taken in with the inspired air. The oxidation processes 
are attended by the liberation of energy, which may take the 
form of heat or work. Fats require the greatest amount of 
oxidation, and are thus the most important fuel food. It is 
owing to fat's great value as a heat producer that it forms 
such a prominent article of food in the dietaries of the 
inhabitants of the Arctic regions. 

The animal body has been aptly compared to a steam 
engine. The fuel, the source of energy, is represented by the 
food. The inlet for the draught of air and the outlet for 
the waste gases, the products of combustion, are combined in 
one organ, the lungs, which we use to take in Oxygen, and 
give out COo and HoO ; and just as the coal used in engines 
has some incombustible constituents which remain as ash and 
have to be raked out, so there are parts of our food which 
the body cannot make use of, and which leaves the body as 
excrementitious matter or faeces, having passed through the 
digestive tract without at any time having formed part of the 
tissues. 



THE NUTRITIVE VALUE OF FOODS 3 

There are still two constituents of foodstufTs which have 
to be £]jot rid of after the elimination of COo and H.^O by the 
lungs, viz., the nitrogen and sulphur present in proteins. 
This function is served by the kidneys. The nitrogen is com- 
bined in the body with carbon and oxygen and forms urea, and 
in this form is excreted by the kidneys, together with salts and 
water as urine. The sulphur is oxidised to a sulphate, and 
in this form appears in the urine. The income and output of 
the body may be arranged in the form of an equation — 

Food + Oxygen taken up = Fasces + CO2 + H2O + Urea ; 
and in the same way we may make an equation of the 
income and output of energy — 

Energy set free by the 1 _ / Work done by the body, 
combustion of food J I and heat given off. 

Methods of Determining the Nuti'itive Value of Poods. 

— A knowledge of the nutritive value of food may be gained 
in the following ways : — 

1. By a study of its chemical composition. 

2. By ascertaining its heat value. 

3. By reference to its physiological properties — the ease 

with which it is digested and absorbed. 

Chemical composition of food. — Chemical analysis of a 
food tells us the proportion of protein, fat, carbohydrates, 
salts, and water present in its composition. The results of 
chemical analysis, therefore, give us some information as to 
the value of food, both as a tissue-builder and as a source of 
energy or heat production. 

The heat value of a food — Physical and physiological 
heat values. — The heat value of different foods may be 
determined experimentally by the use of an instrument 
known as the Bomb calorimeter, the result being expressed 
in calories. The standard of heat production is the calorie, 
which means the amount of heat required to raise the 
temperature of i kilogram of water 1° centigrade. The 
amount of heat evolved by the combustion in a calorimeter 
of I gramme of the different foodstuffs is as follows : — 

I gramme of Carbohydrate produces 4 calories. 
I „ Protein produces 4 calories. 

I ,, Fat produces 8-9 calories. 



4 FOOD AND ITS FUNCTIONS 

These figures represent the amount of energy set free by 
I gramme of the foodstuff combining with oxygen to form the 
end-products of its combustion. This constitutes tJie pJiysical 
heat value of the food — that is, the amount of heat produced by 
complete combustion of the food in a special calorimeter 
chamber. The physiological heat value of the food is the 
amount of heat produced by the complete combustion of the 
food in the living tissues. Carbohydrates and fats are com- 
pletely oxidised in the tissues ; their physiological and physical 
heat values are therefore the same. Proteins, on the other 
hand, are not completely burnt up, urea, the end-product 
of nitrogenous metabolism in the tissue, being an incompletely 
oxidised product. The physiological heat value of protein is, 
therefore, less than the physical heat value by the extent to 
which urea is capable of further oxidation outside the body. 

The physiological properties of food. — The digestibility 
of food and the ease with which it can be absorbed in 
the intestine are the most important facts to be considered 
in connection with any food. The time required for 
food to be digested in the stomach can be gauged by 
the time which elapses before it passes into the intestine. 
During this time the food is being converted into a fluid 
condition, and the more rapidly this is done the greater the 
digestibility of the food. The following table gives the 
results of some standard observations on the rate of digestion 
of some common foods : — 

(a) One to two hours. 
7 oz. boiled milk. 5 oz. white fish. 

7 oz. beef-tea. 7 oz. cauliflower or asparagus. 

Whites of 3 eggs. 2^ oz. toast, rusk, biscuits. 

7 oz. water, tea, coffee, and cocoa. 

(b) Two to three hours. 

5 raw or poached eggs. 2^ oz. oysters. 

3^ oz. raw meat. Si oz. bread or biscuits. 

9 oz. sweetbread. 5^ oz. rice, spinach, apples, or 

carrots. 

(c) Three to four hours. 

8 oz. stewed or roast chicken. 3i oz. beefsteak. 

(d; Four to five hours. 
Roast beef, goose, or duck. Mashed lentils, peas, French 

beans. 



ABSORPTION OF FOODS 5 

The most easily digested foods are not necessarily the 
most easily absorbed. Information as to the ease and 
cfHTipletcncss of absorption of different foods is obtained 
by a comparison of the results of a joint analysis of the food 
and faeces. The figures gained by , analysis of the faecal 
matters are, strictly speaking, not entirely reliable, since 
some of the nitrogen in the faeces is an excretion from 
the epithelial lining of the bowel. Proteins are less 
completely absorbed than fats and carbohydrates. Carbo- 
hydrates are the most completely absorbed. Experiments 
on the absorption of fats have shown that as much as 
^ lb. of butter can be absorbed daily by individuals in health, 
but when taken in excess of that amount the balance 
appears in the faeces. The percentage of protein absorbed 
is greater when taken in a mixed diet. On a diet of beef, 
bread and butter, milk, oatmeal, potatoes, and fruit the 
percentage absorbed has been found as follows : — 



Protein . 

Fat 

Carbohydrates 



91-3 per cent. 

95-9 

977 



The proteins of vegetable food are less easily absorbed 
than the proteins of animal foods. This is well brought out 
in the following table : — 



Table showing percentage of Proteins, Fats, and Carbohydrates 
absorbed for different Foods. 





Proteins. 


Fats. 


Carbohydrates. 


Animal Foods . 
Cereals and Sugars . 
Vegetables and Fruits 


98 

85 
80 


97 

90 
90 


100 
98 
95 



The bowels require a certain amount of residue (ballast) 
to act as a stimulus to peristalsis. In " invalid " feeding 
it is sometimes imperative to take advantage of the dif- 
ferent absorptive powers of the intestine for various 
foodstuffs. For example, in cases of diarrhoea where peri- 
stalsis is excessive, foods like rice, milk, white of egg, 
pounded meat, which leave little residue, are indicated. 



6 FOOD AND ITS FUNCTIONS 

On the other hand, constipated subjects require a certain 
proportion of food to act as ballast for the intestine — these 
being taken from wholemeal bread, coarse oatmeal porridge, 
green vegetables, and the like. These points are further 
considered in the sections dealing with the treatment of 
disease. 

In health, diet is usually prescribed in one of two ways, 
cither by using tables of percentages by weight of proteins, 
fats, and carbohydrates — known as the ivciglit per cent. 
method; or by using tables with the number of calories in 
form of proteins, fats, and carbohydrates per ounce of food — 
known as the calories per ojince method. These methods are 
necessary for the formation of dietaries for healthy people in 
large institutions, such as the army, navy, prisons, and work- 
houses ; they are also of some value in the framing of hospital 
dietaries. Their value in clinical work is, however, much less 
than is commonly supposed. In diseased conditions the diet 
has to be adjusted in each instance from a knowledge of the 
digestive and assimilative power of the patient, special refer- 
ence being paid to the influence of the food on fermentative 
and putrefactive processes in the intestine, little clinical 
importance attaching to the caloric value of the food. 

Before passing to the more detailed consideration of 
the nutritive constituents of food, it is advisable to give a 
resume of our present knowledge of the processes of diges- 
tion, absorption, and assimilation ol lood. This is given in 
the following chapter. 



CHAPTER II 

DIGESTION, ABSORPTION. AND METABOLISM— rOle OF 
BACTERIA 

PAGE PACK 

Digestion 7 Metabolism 13 

The changes undergone by the Role of bacteria in digestion of — 

food in the a!iment:iry canal 8 Carbohydrates . . . .16 

The faeces ..... 10 Proteins — putrefactive bacteria . 16 

Absorption of — Influence of various factors on 

Proteins Ii digestion .... 18 

Fats II Influence of diet on resis'.anre to 

Carbohydrates . . . .12 disease 19 

Water and salts . . .13 



Digestion. 

Under the vague term digestion all these processes may be 
included to which the food substances are subjected and the 
resultant changes which the various food constituents undergo 
in order to prepare them for assimilation by the tissues. 
It therefore comprises a series of changes all tending 
towards the same point, namely, the transformation of 
substances which in their original state could not be made 
use of by the cell into pabulum which can be easily taken up, 
assimilated, and used for the nutrition of the tissues. The 
changes which the food undergoes are brought about by 
secretions, which special glands elaborate, and are carried out 
mainly by the action of enzymes (ferments). The decomposi- 
tion of the food principles into smaller molecules takes place 
gradually, the final products of metabolism being found in 
the tissue cells. The final transfonnatio7i aLzvays results in the 
production of work and heat, and products which cannot be 
used further by the organism are excreted. The food 
7 



8 DIGESTION. ABSORPTION, AND MRTAFOMSM 

principles are the following: — Proteins, fats, carbohydrates, 
mineral matter, water. 

In order to prepare the food for absorption it is necessary 
to break it down and transform it into material which can pass 
into the blood or l\mph. This is effected in the alimentary 
canal, where the food is subjected to processes cf two great types 
— mechanical and chemical. A short summary of the changes 
which the food undergoes in the alimentary canal is here 
given ; this is followed by an account of the manner in which 
the food is absorbed, and of its fate after absorption, those 
points only being considered which are of practical importance 
in dietetics. 

The changes undergone by the Food in the Alimentary 
Canal. — In the month the food is broken up into small particles 
by mastication, and moistened with alkaline saliva, in order to 
fit it for deglutition. A small part of the starch is converted 
into dextrin or maltose under the influence of the ferment 
ptyalin in the salivary secretion. Thorough mastication of the 
food is of the first importance, not only for enabling this oral 
digestion to be normally carried out, but as an aid to healthy 
gastric and intestinal digestion. Defective mastication with 
impaired oral digestion from a septic condition of the teeth 
or gums, is frequently referred to in later chapters as an impor- 
tant contributory factor in the etiology of disease. 

In the stomach the action of the saliva may go on for an 
hour. At the end of this time the secretion of gastric juice 
excited by the presence of food and of alkaline saliva in the 
stomach is sufficiently abundant to neutralise and render 
acid all the gastric contents, and so stop the action of the 
ptyalin. Under the action of the gastric juice the greater part 
of the protein is dissolved and converted into syntonin, 
albumoses, or peptones. The connective tissues are also 
dissolved, setting free the fat, which floats about in a free 
state. At the same time some of the salts and sugar which 
have been swallowed, and the peptones formed from the food, 
are being absorbed by the gastric mucous membrane. For 
the first half-hour after ingestion of a meal of solid food the 
pylorus is firmly closed. At the end of this time it relaxes 
at intervals to allow the passage of the fluid parts of the 
gastric contents, which are spoken of at this period as chyme 



DIGESTION OF FOODS 9 

The pnssa<]^e of food through the pjlorus goes on for seven 
or eight hours after the ingestion of food, and towards the 
end of this time larger hnnps of undigested material are 
allowed to pass on into the duodenum. 

As the acid chyme is squirted through the pj-lorus into 
the duodenum, it comes into contact with the cells of the 
mucous membrane, and in them causes a conversion oi 
pro-secretin into secretin (Starling). The latter is absorbed 
by the blood-stream and carried to the pancreas and liver, 
causing a flow of pancreatic juice and an increased secretion 
of bile. The strongly alkaline pancreatic juice neutralises 
the acid ch)'me. So long as the duodenal contents are acid 
the pylorus remains closed, but opens as soon as sufficient 
pancreatic juice has been secreted to neutralise the chyme 
that has already passed through. When this happens the 
pylorus relaxes, a fresh quantity of acid gastric contents is 
forced through, more secretin is formed, and the pancreatic 
secretion is again excited until the second amount of chyme 
is neutralised ; and this self-regulating mechanism of the 
activities of the stomach, pancreas, and intestines goes on until 
all the food has passed through the pylorus. At the same time 
the pancreatic juice poured into the gut evokes a secretion of 
intestinal juice {Sucais etitericus), which supplies the entcro- 
kinase necessary for the formation of the proteolytic ferment 
of the pancreatic juice. 

I?i the duodeiiiim the chyme comes into contact with the 
bile, the flow of which is also quickened under the influence 
of the secretin which is being poured into the circulation. 
This causes a precipitate in the chyme consisting of bile 
acids, syntonin, and albunioses. This precipitate is dissolved 
later on by the further operation of the pancreatic juice. Here 
the remaining digestive processes take place ; the undigested 
proteins are dissolved, and the acid albumin and albumoses 
resulting from gastric digestion are converted into peptone 
and partially into leucine, tyrosine, and similar nitrogenous 
bodies (amino-acids). Starches are changed into dextrin 
and maltose, and under the further agency of the intestinal 
juice into dextrose. The fats are partially split up and 
emulsified. 

Throughout the whole of tJie small intestines active secre- 



10 DIGESTION, AHSOUPTION, AND METABOLISM 

tion aiifl absorption arc takinsj place, so that the amount of 
water in the intestinal contents in the lower part of the 
small intestine is about the same as in the upper part. The 
contents of the lower part acquire a distinct faecal odour from 
the indol and skatol produced by the action of putrefactive 
bacteria on the proteins of the food. In this part of the 
intestine carbohydrates are also acted on by bacteria, which 
produce from them organic acids, which exercise a restraining 
influence on the putrefaction of the proteins. In the large 
intestine the processes of absorption predominate over those 
of secretion; hence that part of the intestinal contents which 
has not been absorbed becomes less and less watery, and 
acquires the character of faeces, in which form it is periodically 
expelled from the body. 

The faces consist mainly of the indigestible residue of 
the food, or of substances which have been taken in too large 
quantities to be digested, and contain — 

(a) Cellulose, woody fibre, elastic tissue, keratin, and remains of 
muscle fibre, starch grains, and fat. 

(/') The unabsorbable part of the digestive juices, such as mucin, 
bile pigments, cholesterin. 

(f) Disintegrated epithelial cells from the intestinal mucous mem- 
brane, and indol and skatol, decomposition products derived 
from the proteins of the food. 

{(i) Various forms of bacteria, and especially members of the 
Bacillus colt group. The influence of bacteria on the 
digestive process is further considered on p. 15 ; their 
importance becomes much more pronounced in various 
pathological conditions. 

Valuable information as to the motor power of the stomach 

and bowels is given by the use of bismuth test meals. Precise 

information as to the existence of gastric stasis, and stasis in 

the small or large intestine, is afforded by this means. 

Absorption. 
There are two main paths by which the food constituents 
are absorbed into the circulation — the blood-vessels and 
lymphatics. The blood-vessels pour their contents into the 
radicles of the portal vein, which carry them to the liver. 
The lymphatics in the submucous coat of the intestine join to 
form larger trunks, which run between the two layers of the 
mesentery to a collection of lymphatic glands at the back of 
the peritoneal cavity. The lymph, after flowing through 
these glands, is collected into a large vessel, the receptaculum 



ABSORPTION OF FOOD 11 

chyli, frnm which it is carried in the thoracic rhict to be flis- 
charijed into the blood-stream at the junction of the left 
jugular and subclavian veins. 

Absorption of protciyis. — The most recent investigations 
render it probable that proteins are not absorbed in the form 
of peptones, as was formerly supposed, but in the form of 
amino-acids and bases, products which represent an even more 
complete disintegration of the proteins. These amino-acids 
are absorbed as such into the blood, and built up again into 
proteins in the living cells of the tissues, the extent to which 
any individual protein is broken down during digestion being 
determined by the degree in which its composition approxi- 
mates to that of the normal proteins of the digesting animal. 

Absorption of fats. — It has been shown that the greater 
part of the fat is absorbed by the chyle, and 60 per cent, of 
the absorbed fat can be obtained from the chyle through a 
canula placed in the thoracic duct. It has not been found 
possible to trace the mechanism of absorption of that portion 
of the fat which does not enter the blood by way of the 
lacteals. It is believed that it may be utilised or built up 
into more complex compounds in the tissues of the intestinal 
mucous membrane. In what form is the fat taken up by the 
epithelial cells covering the intestinal cells? It was formerly 
thought that the digestion of fat essentially consisted in a 
splitting up into particles fine enough to be taken up by 
the epithelial cells, but this is now disproved, and it is now 
believed that fats, like proteins and carbohydrates, are 
absorbed in a state of solution. In the digestion and 
absorption of fat there is a concerted action of the pancreatic 
juice and the bile. The pancreatic juice splits about 6 per 
cent, of the neutral fat — which forms the great proportion of 
the fat of food — into fatty acids and glycerine. In the 
presence of excess of alkalis the fatty acid forms a soluble 
soap, which, together with the glycerine, is absorbed by the 
epithelial cells, and reconverted in the body of the cell into 
neutral fat. If, as is often the case with a highly fatty diet, 
the reaction of the small intestine be acid, the formation of 
soaps can no longer go on. The fat-splitting action of the 
pancreatic juice, however, continues, and the fatty acids set 
free are dissolved by the bile acid and taken up by the 



12 DIGESTION, ABSORPTION, AND METABOLISM 

epithelial cells. Here the sj'nthesis ot the neutral fat once 
more occurs, .uid the bile acid is carried by the portal blood 
to the liver, to be resecreted with the bile into the intestine, 
where it may aid the absorption of a further amount of fat. 
As the free fatty acids and soaps are absorbed, the pancreatic 
juice is able to split up a further portion of the neutral fat 
until the whole of the neutral fat of the food has been absorbed 
by the epithelial cells of the intestine in a state of solution as 
soaps or fatty acids. It is partly on this account that, after 
extirpation of the pancreas, fats are not absorbed, even if 
administered to the animal in the form of a fine emulsion 
containing neutral fat suspended in a solution of soap. If, 
however, to this emulsion chopped-up pancreas is added, a 
large proportion of the fat is absorbed. 

Absorption of carbohydrates. — It is generally believed that 
the blood in the capillaries of the intestinal wall takes up 
sugar in the form of dextrose, and carries it to the liver, where 
the excess of sugar is taken up by the hepatic cells, and con- 
verted by them into the colloid carbohydrate glycogen which 
is deposited in the substance of the cell. In this way the 
liver acts as a storehouse of carbohydrate material, and pre- 
vents the sugar in a rich carboh)'drate meal from escaping 
into the general circulation. According to Pavy, this view of 
the manner of absorption of carbohydrates is an erroneous 
one. This author believes that the main channel of absorp- 
tion of carbohydrates is the lacteal system, the sugar being 
absorbed in a combined state, a synthesis between the carbo- 
hydrate and protein radicle taking place in the intestinal villi 
through the agency of the leucocytes. Our knowledge of the 
exact mechanism of absorption of carbohydrate foods is as yet 
uncertain. Viewed from the clinical standpoint, there is much 
to be said in favour of the general correctness of Pavy's view. 

Absorption of water and salts. — Water and salts are 
absorbed almost entirely by means of the blood-vessels. 
The rate of absorption of water by the alimentary canal 
increases from above downwards. No water or dilute saline 
solution appears to be absorbed by the stomach. In the 
small intestine the process of absorption is much more rapid 
in the ileum than in the jejunum. In consequence, however, 
of the continual secretion of the Succusentericus the intestinal 



METABOLISM OF FOOD 13 

contents reach the ilco-crecal valve in a fluid condition, and 
the excess of water is only absorbed in the large intestine. 
The absorption depends on two factors, a physical and 
physiological one. When the salts are of small or of no 
physiological importance the cells appear to have little 
power of physiological absorption, and the salts exert their 
full physical influence, absorbing water or retaining that by 
which they are dissolved, so that they act as saline purges, 
e.g. sodium or magnesium sulphate. 

Metabolisra. 

Proteins. — The combustible parts of the food are built up 
together with oxygen into the living protoplasm of the cell to 
form a highly unstable molecule with large potential energy. 
In the breaking down of this molecule there is a rearrange- 
ment of atoms to form more stable compounds, the carbon 
and oxygen combining into carbon dioxide with the evolution 
of energy, which may be displayed either as heat or work. The 
earliest scientific observations concerning nutrition were 
founded upon the commonly noted fact that in spite of large 
quantities of food eaten, a normal man did not vary greatly 
in size from year to year. The weight added by the ingestion 
of food and drink is lost in the urine and faeces and in the 
excretions of the lungs and skin. The expenditure of the 
body must balance its income ; it must lose as much 
nitrogen as it takes in, otherwise it would put on flesh ; it 
must lose as much carbon as it takes in, otherwise it would 
put on fat. Again, the body may be losing or gaining fat, 
giving off more or less carbon than it takes in, while its 
"flesh" — its protein constituents — remain constant in amount, 
the expenditure of nitrogen being exactly equal to the 
income. In both cases we say that the body is in nitrogenous 
equilibrium. A starving animal or a fever patient, on the 
other hand, is living upon capital — the former entirely, the 
latter in part ; the expenditure of nitrogen is greater than the 
income. A growing child is living below its income, and is 
increasing its capital of flesh. In neither case is nitrogenous 
equilibrium present. Where fats or carbohydrates are given 
in addition to proteins, nitrogenous equilibrium is attained 
with a smaller quantity of the latter. Fats and carbohydrates 



H DIGESTION, ABSORPTION, AND METABOLISM 

therefore economise proteins i.o a certain extent, and are 
spoken of as prctein-sparcrs. 

The greater part of the living structure of the body is 
composed of proteins, or of more complex nitrogenous bodies 
in the building-up of which the proteins play a preponderat- 
ing part. In the young and growing animal these tissues arc 
constantly being added, and the raw material for growth can 
be supplied by proteins, and by proteins only. Moreover, in 
the period of adult life when the body is neither gaining nor 
losing weight, every vital act is associated with a certain 
degree of what we may term " wear and tear " of the living 
structure. Most of the cells are continually dying and being 
replaced by fresh ones. For this nutritional metabolism a 
supply of proteins in the food is an absolute necessity. 
Every diet therefore must contain a certain viinimuni amount 
of protein to supply the niitritiojial needs of the organism^ while 
the energy requircjuents can be supplied at the expense of either 
proteins, fats, or carboliydrates. Feeding an animal with excess 
of protein only leads to increased excretion of urea. If, for 
instance, a man were taking lo grammes of nitrogen in the 
form of protein in the day, with a sufficiency of fats and carbo- 
h\'drates to maintain his weight constant, he would probably 
excrete also lo grammes (9 grammes in the urine, i gramme 
in the faeces), and would therefore be in a state of nitro- 
genous equilibrium.. On doubling the protein intake, the nitro- 
genous excretions would rise in proportion, and the man would 
remain in a state of nitrogenous equilibrium, however much 
hi'^ protein intake were increased. The increased protein 
diet would, however, raise his energy income above his daily 
requirements. A certain amount of the fat and carbohydrates 
would therefore escape oxidation, and would be stored up in 
the form of fat, and the man would therefore increase in 
weight. In these circumstances there has also to be con- 
sidered the extent of the wear and tear of the tissues involved 
in eliminating the excess of proteins. 

Gelatine is a special type of protein, with interesting and 
valuable properties. When used alone it has little nutritive 
power, but in proper combination with other foods it is a 
most useful aliment. It has been shown that by the addition 
of gelatine very large quantities of albumin can be spared in 






METABOLISM OF FATS AND CARBOHYDRATES 15 

the body or devoted to increase of bulk, just as by the 
supply of fats and carbohydrates. 

Fats. — The fats absorbed as food may subserve several 
purposes. Through its oxidation it is a source of heat 
e;iergy ; it may be stored in the tissues as part of the body 
fat ; it may be synthetised with other substances to form more 
complex constituents of the body, such as lecithin ; and in 
view of the fact that fats economise proteins to a certain 
extent, they play an important part as protein-sparers. The 
final fate of fat in the economy is its transformation through 
oxidation into carbon dioxide and water. The exclusion of fat 
from the dietary leads to the development of cold extremities, 
notably the fingers, feet, and ears ; also a liability to chilblains. 

Carbohydrates. — The carbohydrates of the food may be 
stored up as glycogen or be converted into fat. As in the case 
of fat, the final end-products resulting from its oxidation are 
carbon dioxide and water. In the metabolism of carbo- 
hydrates the internal secretion of the pancreas plays an 
important part. The Juncticn of carbohydrates in the 
economy are — 

(a) A source of energy for muscular work. 

{d) Source of heat production ; each gramme of sugar 

yields 4 calories of heat, 
(r) Oxidation of the sugar protects the proteins of the 

body ; like fats, they are protein-sparers. 

It has long been taught that carbohydrates, like fats, are 
of no value as tissue-builders. Some doubt has of late been 
thrown on the correctness of this view by recent researches, 
which go to show that there is a carbohydrate radicle in the 
protein molecule. These researches seem to point to the 
Hv'cessity of additional importance being attached to the 
carbohydrates of the food as tissue-builders, as well as 
sources of energy and heat production. When carboh\'dratcs 
are given in excess, actual or relative, the'r metabolism is 
incomplete, a'd sugar appears in the unne. 

Role of Bacteria in Digestion. 

It is becoming increasingly recognised that the role of 
bacteria in digestion is, from the clinical standpoint, a much 



16 DIGESTION, ABSORPTION, AND METABOLISM 

more important one than formerly supposed. Active bacteria 
are numerous in the alimentary canal. These include : — 
Bacteria, spores of fungi, yeasts, sarcin^e. 

Since many bacteria can break up carbohydrates, and also 
proteins, in a manner similar to that of the intestinal ferments, 
it is admittedly difficult to say where pancreatic digestion 
ends and bacterial activity begins. The chief points of 
importance in regard to bacteria ard their action in digestion 
are as follows. 

Bacteria acting on Carbohydrates. — Lactic acid bacilli 
of many kinds are introduced with the food. These make 
lactic acid from cane sugar and milk sugar as follows : — 

Cane Sugar. Lactic Acid. 

CeHiPe -= 2C3H0O3 

Milk Sugar. 
Cr-Hj-Pii + H.O = 4C3H6O3 

T^ere arc aiso several varieties of butyric acid forming 
bacteria in the alimentary tract. These change lactic acid 
and cane sugar into butyric acid, h}drogen, and carbonic 
acid. Yeasts change dextrose (grape sugar) into alcohol, 
succinic acid, and glycerine ; and the Mycctouia aceti and 
other bacteria convert carbohydrates and alcohol into acetic 
acid, carbonic acid, and water, and also change acetates into 
carbonic acid and carbonates. It has to be noted that the 
organic acids produced by decomposition of carbohydrates 
inhibit or reduce the activity of the putrefactive bacteria. 

Putrefactive bacteria. — Putrefactive bacteria are numerous. 
These split up proteins into the following : — 

1. Fatty acids and amino-acids, ^.^., leucine, tyrosine, indol, 

skatol. 

2. Other aromatic bodies, e.g. phenol and cresol. 

3. Various ptomaines, £?.^., neurine, choline, cadaverine, and 

other ammoniacal compounds. 

4. Various gases, e.g. sulphuretted hydrogen. 

Putrefactive bacteria also split up fats into fatty acids, 
which are later changed into volatile acids. 

In health the decomposition products arising from the 
influence of bacteria on carbohydrates and proteins are either 
removed or neutralised by the liver or other gland, or are 



I 



I 



rOle of racieuia in digestion 17 

changed into harmless compounds, as in the ethereal sulphates 
in the urine. As already mentioned, the organic acids pro- 
duced from the decomposition of the carbohydrates exercise 
an inhibiting influence on the putrefactive bactericU 

In various diseased states these decomposition products 
are produced in excess, with the result that they are absorbed 
into the system and induce various manifestations (jf disease 
(see Auto-intoxication). The products of bacterial activity 
may be roughly grouped as follows : — 

1. Gases and acids which are produced chiefly from 

carbohydrates. 

2. Alkaloids produced from decomposition of proteins. 

The recently published results of Herter and Kendall on 
the influence of dietary alternations on the types of intestinal 
flora are of great interest. Experimenting with monkeys 
and cats, these observers showed that on a protein diet the 
bacterial flora was of a strongly proteolytic character, but 
that on a change to a carbohydrate diet these organisms were 
rapidly replaced by others of a non-proteolysing type. 
Associated with this change there was a change in the putre- 
factive products of the urine and faeces, and a reduction in 
the indol, skatol, phenol, and sulphuretted hydrogen, and 
diminution in the indican in the urine. These observations 
are of great value, as from analogy there is every likelihood 
that similar results hold good for man. 

It will be obvious from the foregoing that diet may pro- 
foundly modify the bacterial activity in the intestinal tract. 
Speaking generally, a restriction in the amount of protein 
reduces the formation of putrefactive decomposition products, 
and a reduction in the carbohydrates lessens the develop- 
ment of gases and acids which are injurious to the system. 
Some authors consider that the administration of any protein 
above 70 grammes is bad, as inevitably tending to auto-intoxi- 
cation. Further, the kind of food has to be considered. In 
some patients a milk diet may be unsuitable because of the 
large amount of lactose leading to the formation of lactic 
acid, and later, butyric acid, carbonic acid, and water. 
Again, certain carbohydrates such as potatoes are by many 
digested with difficulty, being carried well down into the 

B 



1? DIGESTION, ABSORPTION, AND METABOLISM 

ileum before dij^cstion, thus forming a suitable nidus for 
abnormal bacterial activity. On the other hand, in certain 
cases the administration of stewed fruits may be advisable, 
on account of the organic acids present. These points are 
further referred to in discussing different diseases. 

Influence of various Pactors on Digestion. 

Referencp must be made to various conditions which 
interfere with normal digestion. One of the comnionest is 
unduly hurried meals. The bolting of imperfectly masticated 
food is a fruitful cause of indigestion. Irregularity in meals 
is another factor which may derange digestion. This irregu- 
larity may take the form of unequal and irregular hours 
between meals, as, for instance, allowing six hours to elapse 
between the first and second meal of the day, and three 
hours between the second and last, or it may take the form 
of want of regularity in the size and nature of the meals, as 
the partaking of a heavy middle-day meal by a person who 
has accustomed himself to a light luncheon in the middle of 
the day. Constipation interferes with healthy digestion, 
more especially if it be associated with auto-iiitoxication such 
as frequently arises from altered bacterial activity in the 
digestive tract, the result of a septic condition of the teeth 
(oral sepsis). Lack of appetite may lead to a weakening of the 
digestive powers, but in this connection we have to note that 
in some people the introduction of food into the stomach 
seems to induce an appetite. A sudden change in diet may 
adversely affect digestion. The researches of Pawlow have 
shown that the digestive juices adapt themselves in a remark- 
able manner to the kind of food — a protein diet leading to the 
development of juices specially adapted for the digestion of 
proteins, a carbohydrate diet similarly inducing secretions 
specially adapted to digest carbohydrates. It is therefore 
easy to understand that any sudden and complete change of 
diet may for the time being interfere with normal digestion. 
The digestive powers may also be modified by the nature 
of the food. For example, a fatty diet interferes with the 
action of the gastric juice ; excess of fluid may lead to an 
impairment of its action, through over-dilution ; or new 
bread, new potatoes, and the like may throw a strain on the 



INFLUENCE OF VARIOUS FACTORS IN DIGESTION 19 

gastric secretion which it is unable adequately to deal with. 
The temperature of tlic food is of some importance, hot food 
stimulating the flow of the salivary and gastric secretions, 
iced foods sometimes arresting the digestive process, especi- 
ally when taken immediately after hot foods. Lastly, active 
physical or mental work should be avoided during the earlier 
stages of digestion, as the blood is then primarily required 
for the digestive processes. 

Sleep in relation to meals. — Sleep is afrbcted by the 
quantity and kind of food taken. A heavy meal taken shortly 
before going to bed may be followed by a disturbed and 
restless night, and sleep of an unrefreshing character. As it 
ordinarily takes three hours to complete gastric digestion, 
that time at least should elapse between the last regular meal 
of the day and bedtime. Many patients find that their sleep 
i.s disturbed after taking certain articles of food or drink in 
the preceding afternoon or evening, e.g., strong tea or coffee, 
new scones, and the like. On the other hand, sleeplessness is 
often observed in elderly subjects who have taken only a light 
evening meal, and may be promoted by taking a little fluid 
food at bedtime, e.g., cup of hot beef- tea, malted milk, or thin 
gruel. 

The effect of Diet on the Resistance of Animals to 
certain Poisons. 

Dr Reid Hunt^ has recently made a valuable contribution 
to our knowledge of the specific action of various foods upon 
the resistance of animals to certain poisons. Dr Hunt's 
earlier experiments showed some very striking alterations 
in the resistance of animals to certain poisons produced 
entirely by changes in diet, animals on certain diets being 
able to resist as much as forty times the amount of certain 
poisons fatal to animals fed upon other diets. The results 
obtained by Dr Hunt were attributed by him largely to a 
specific action of the diet upon the thyroid gland, and they 
confirm in a striking manner the results of the author's 
experimental observations in illustrating how an internal 
secretion may be modified in a definite manner by diet {see 
Appendix). Dr Hunt's experiments are of much value in 
suggesting new lines of research by the experimental method. 
' IkiUetin No. 69, Hygienic Laboratory, U.S. Public Health Insiiiule, 
Washington, 1910. 



CHAPTER III 

DAILY AMOUNT OF FOOD REQUIRED, AND FACTORS 
MODIFYING IT 





PAOK 


Rest and exercise . 


. 25 


Climate and season 


. 26 


Idiosyncrasy. 


. 26 



The usually accepted standard d.et 20 
Tlic Chittenden standard , . 22 
Jnlluence of age and sex , . 24 

Amount of Food reqviired. — The amount of food required 
varies under different conditions. Thus, the growing child 
requires relatively more than the adult, old people need less 
than the middle-aged, and the food requirements of a stout 
muscular subject engaged in active physical work are greater 
than those of a thin weakly subject leading a sedentary life. 
We will here consider the minimum diet required for a 
man of average build and weight, doing a moderate amount 
of muscular work — in other words, the standard amount of 
the different nutritive cojistituents required daily. At the 
outset it must be clearly indicated that no final statement 
can yet be made on this important point, since the results 
of recent researches have thrown considerable doubt on the 
correctness of the teaching that has long been regarded as 
definitely established. 

A healthy man of average weight and doing a moderate 
amount of muscular work, excretes from 16 to 20 grammes 
of nitrogen and about 320 grammes of carbon daily. The 
investigations of Atwatcr, Rubner, Voit, and others, until 
lately regarded as classical, established the standard amounts 
of the nutritive constituents required to make good this loss 
daily, as follows : — 

Protein . .125 grammes, or 4A oimces. 

Carbohydiuie . . jfxj „ or 18 ,, 

Fat . . ,50 „ or lo' „ 

2U 



DAILY FOOD REQUIREMENTS 



'Jl 



These yield the following amount of heat in calories : — 

Calories. 
Protein . . . . 125x4-1 = 512-5 

Carbohydrate . . . 500x4-1 = 2050 

Fat ... . 50x9-3 = 465 



3027-5 
If expressed in terms of nitrogen and carbon : — 

Nitrogen. Carbon. 

125 grms. of protein . = 20 grms. and 62 grms. 
500 „ carbohydrate = 200 „ 

SO „ fat . . = 38 „ 



20 grms. and 300 grms. 

or, in the proportion of i gramme N to 15 grammes of carbon. 
No single article of food contains these elements in a proper 
proportion, and for this reason a mixed diet is necessary, 
as by that means only can we avoid taking too largely of 
one or other ingredients. 

Expressed in terms of ordinary foods, the above dietary 
is approximately as follows : — 



I lb. Bread, containing 
^ lb. Meat „ 

i lb. Fat 

I lb. Potatoes „ 

^ pint Milk „ 

^ lb. Eggs (2 eggs) „ 
^ lb. Cheese „ 



355 21 

or, if expressed in meals : — 

Breakfast — 

2 slices of thick bread and butter. 
2 eggs. 

Dinner — 

I plateful of potato soup. 

Large helping of meat with fat (about 6 ounces of cooked meat). 

4 moderate-sized potatoes (j lb.). 

I thick slice of bread and butter. 

Tea — Glass of milk and 2 thick slices of bread and butter. 

Supper — 2 thick slices of bread and butter and 2 ounces of cheese. 

In the case of subjects engaged in severe muscular work, 
it has long been taught that the amount of food required is 



Carbon. 


Nitrogen 


grms. 


grms. 


117 


5-5 


34 


7-5 


84 


... 


45 


1-3 


20 


1-7 


15 


2-0 


20 


30 



22 DAILY AMOUNT OF FOOD REQUIRED 

jrre.itcr than the above, the increase bcinpj shared by all 
three food constituents so as to furnish an enerj^y value of 
4500 to 5000 calories. 

In recent years the researches of Chittenden have thrown 
considerable doubt on the correctness of these views. 
Chittenden's observations were made on three classes of 
subjects : 

(i) Men engaged in mental work, 

(2) Soldiers engaged in moderate exercises, and 

(3) Highly skilled athletes, 

his experiments being conducted with great care and over 
long periods. Chittenden's work has rightly attracted a very 
large amount of attention, because of the very large number 
of persons simultaneously experimented upon, and the com- 
pleteness of the experiment from the point of view of 
chemical analysis. Chittenden found that a state of nitro- 
genous equilibrium and good bodily health was maintained 
on a diet which contained from ^ to J of the protein in the 
standard diet. 

It will be seen that Chittenden's results throw much 
doubt on the correctness of the teaching hitherto regarded 
as well established. There is no question that the ideal diet 
consists in the smallest amount of protein food, together with 
non-nitrogenous food, that will keep the body in a state of 
vigour. The question is whether it is right to accept as 
correct, for protein consumption, 

(i) The minimum of 100 to 120 grammes of the 
commonly accepted standard dietary ; or 

(2) The minimum of 50 to 70 grammes of the Chittenden 
standard. 

These figures refer to men of average size and weight. 
Strictly speaking, the amount of proteins should be indicated 
in terms of so many grammes per kilogram of body-weight, 
since we must recognise the need for varying the amount of 
food taken with the size of the body to be nourished. 

Chittenden's explanation of the advantages of a low 
protein is that the protein food when metabolised yields 
a number of crystalline nitrogenous products which are 
excreted through the kidneys. If proteins arc taken in 



THE CHITTENDEN STANDARD 23 

excess, tlic kiflncys are overworked, and the end-products of 
protein metabolism eitiier surcharge the blood or are 
deposited in the tissues, giving rise to various diseased states 
(see Auto-intoxication, p. 346). Reviewing the position as a 
whole, it may be said that further observations are required 
before we can finally accept Chittenden's results as giving a 
standard for universal application. There is, in the author's 
opinion, however, no doubt whatever as to the correctness 
of Chittenden's main contention that the amount of protein 
required daily to maintain the body in a satisfactory state of 
health is considerably less than the amount hitherto regarded 
as essential ; and secondly, that some at least of the excess 
is injurious to health. This view is now very largely held 
by clinicians. Some of the directions in which excess of 
protein may injuriously effect the tissues are indicated in 
the results of the author's investigations (see Appendix). 

With regard to the amount of carboJiydrates and fats, it 
has to be borne in mind that the more fat and carbohydrates 
in the diet, the less is the protein of the food used up for 
the production of energy. Carbohydrates and fats are both 
protei7i-sparers ; and one cannot replace the other in a mixed 
diet as a source of energy. Any excess of protein-sparers in 
the diet may produce similar results to an excess of protein 
itself, by protecting the latter from complete oxidation. 

Mineral Constituents of Pood. — Death ensues if salts are 
withheld from the food. They are essential for the growth 
and repair of the tissue. There are no exact data available for 
indicating how much is required, but we know from experience 
that there is enough in an ordinary mixed diet, the mineral 
matter being present, as a rule, in organic combination. 
Calcium is specially required for the growth of bone — it occurs 
abundantly in milk, eggs, and rice; meat foods are deficient 
in calcium. Oxalate of lime is present in certain foods, notably 
tea, coffee, spinach, rhubarb, and pepper. It is absent in 
animal foods. About 10 milligrams of iron are requijed daily, 
and are taken in organic combination. It is relatively abund- 
ant in meat and yolk of eggs ; it is deficient in milk and its 
derivatives. For this reason, persons who are kept for a long 
time on a purely milk diet are apt to become ana_^mic. It 
might be assumed that the paucity of iron in milk is a 



24 DAILY AMOINT OF FOOD REQUIRED 

disadvantage in the feeding of infants and young children, 
but this is not so, as the \oung child has a large reserve 
store of iron in the liver which it has obtained from the blood 
of the mother. 

Vegetable foods, r^., green vegetables and fruits, are rich 
in potassium ; animal foods are rich in sodium. It is 
probable that the potassium in vegetables and fruits acts 
beneficially, largely because of the vegetable acids with 
which it is combined, and which by oxidation assists in 
maintaining the normal alkalinity of the blood. Sodium is 
taken abundantly in the form of common salt, of which about 
20 grammes are taken daily in a mixed diet, this amount being 
considerably above the actual body requirements. Phosphorus 
is one of the most important mineral ingredients in the food, 
more especially for growing subjects. It is present in organic 
form, and also in an inorganic form as phosphates of the 
alkalis or earthy metals, and there is reason to believe that 
the former are the more valuable. Animal foods arc much 
richer in phosphorus than vegetable foods. The foods richest 
in phosphorus in combined organic form, are fish roe, 
thymus, calves' brains, and the germ of wheat. 

The Influences of various Conditions upon the Amount 
of Pood required. 

Influence of Age and Sex. — The age of the individual 
not only modifies the absolute amount of food required, but 
also the relative quantity in proportion to body-weight. 
The rapid growth of children in early life necessitates a 
relatively larger consumption of food than at any other 
period of life ; more especially it calls for a large supply of 
building material, i.e. proteins. 

The standard of increase usually adopted is as follows : — 

A child under 2 requires 0-3 the food of a man doing moderate work. 
A child of 3 to 5 requires -4 „ „ „ 

A child of 6 to 9 requires -5 „ „ „ 

Achildof loto I3requires -6 „ „ „ 

A girl of 14 to 16 requires 7 „ „ „ 

A boy of 14 to 16 requires -8 „ „ „ 

In old age the processes of assimilation are less active and 
the bodily activit'es arc restricted, hence less food is required. 



FOOD REQUIREMENTS FOR REST AND EXERCISE 25 

Over-feeding is a fruitful cause of serious trouble in elderly 
subjects. 

Under similar conditions women require less food than 
men, for the reason that they are usually smaller, and do 
less muscular work. Given precisely similar conditions as to 
weight of subject and amount of physical work performed, 
there is probably no difference in the amount of food 
consumed. The diet in pregnancy should be liberal but 
not excessive. During lactation the amount of food must 
be increased, more especially in protein and fat, in order to 
make good the nutritive elements lost in the milk. 

Rest and Exercise. — Much less food is required during rest 
than during exercise. The following is the generally accepted 
statement of the number of calories which must be supplied 
for work of different degrees of severity (Rubner). 

Calories. 
Rest, e.g. a child at a desk .... 2500 
Moderate muscular work, e.g. house-painter . . 3121 

Severe muscular work, e.g. shoemaker , . 3659 

Hard labour, e.g. blacksmith . . , .5213 

The researches of Chittenden, however, already alluded 
to, throw great doubt on the correctness of this teaching. 
Chittenden found that the average daily nitrogen excretion of 
eight athletes on a reduced protein diet was 8-8 grammes, this 
being obtained from a protein intake of 55 grammes, the caloric 
value of the total food being from 2500 to 2800 calories. 
Similar results were obtained in the case of the soldiers on the 
prescribed diet. The meals were selected from the following : — 

Breakfast — 

Coffee, rolls and butter, bananas, fruit, hominy with sugar and 
cream, farina, Indian meal, baked potato, boiled rice or 
oatmeal. 

Lunch — 

Coffee, bread and butter, sphagetti, potato, stewed tomato, boiled 
onions, string beans, fruit, hominy and syrup, oysters, cold 
tongue, baked apple. 
Dinner — 

Soup, pea, cream of celery, bean, tomato ; fish, bacon, sausage, 
chicken, lamb chop, steak, fried or boiled potatoes, spinach, 
lettuce, celery, apple salad, Lima beans, cream puffs. 

In the present state of our knowledge it is not possible to be 



36 DAII-V ANKUTXT OF FOOD REQriRRD 

too dodfmatic on the subject, but there is in the writer's view 
little cUniht that, just as the hitherto accc|)tecl standard of 
3000 calorics for a man cnf:[aj;cfl in lisj;ht work has been proved 
by Chittenden to be excessive, so the above increase of over 
2000 calories is materially greater than is necessary or 
advisable for subjects engaged in hard physical labour. It 
is probable that an increase of food by one-fourth or one-third 
of the normal is all that is necessary for subjects engaged in 
severe muscular work. 

The question arises as to whether the increase of food 
undoubtedly necessary for subjects engaged in hard physical 
work should afifect mainly the proteins, fats, or carbo- 
hydrates. There are no data by which this can be precisely 
determined. By those engaged in training for athletics, 
proteins are largely relied on to supply the extra energy ; 
but for ordinary purposes it is certainly advisable that the 
increase should be equally distributed among the proteins, 
fats, and carbohydrates of a mixed dietary, sugar being 
specially advantageous. 

Climate and Seasons. — Climate anrl temperature influ- 
ence the quantity and quality of food required. In troj)ical 
countries the natives live largely on vegetable foods and 
fruits, and consume less animal food and fat ; in the 
Arctic regions the inhabitants consume enormous quantities 
of flesh and fat. The explanation of this is to some extent to 
be found in the fact that the natives of any country eat what 
they can most easily obtain. At the same time, the necessity 
for supplying the body with a large proportion of combustible 
food, such as carbohydrates and fats, when the external 
temperature is very low is obvious ; and it is also clear that 
less food of this kind is required when the external tempera- 
ture is high. In this country common experience has shown 
the advisability of modifying the diet in the heat of summer, 
less animal food being taken, vegetable substances and fruits 
entering more largely into the dietary. 

Personal Idiosyncrasy. — It is a matter of common 
observation that some people habitually eat much less than 
others, although living under the same general conditions. 
This is, in all probability, to some extent a result of habit and 
general training. At the same time there is no reason to 



EFFECT OF IDIOSYNCRASY 27 

iloubt tiiat some tissues work more economically than rithcrs, 
with correspondintj advantage to the individual. Many special 
idiosyncrasies with re^^ard to diet have to be considered. 
Some persons cannot take eggs in any form ; others cannot 
take milk ; some arc made ill by certain kinds of fruit or meat. 
These may be the result of inh^-rited tendencies, or may be the 
cfrowth of hiibit. 



CHAPTER IV 

MILK AND ITS PRODUCTS— EGGS 

PACK PAOB 

Introduction 28 Methods of increasing the di^esti- 

Composition of milk of dilTerent bility . . . , .33 

animals . . . . .29 Adaptations of milk for the sick . 34 

Cow's milk f. Human milk . . 29 Methods of altering the taste. . 34 

Milk, composition of — Uses of milk . . . . .36 

Proteins, fats, etc. . . .31 Milk adulteration and impurities . 37 

Other milks — Mire's, goat's . , 32 Milk derivatives — Cream, whey. 
Clotting and curdling of milk . 33 butter, cheese, koumiss, etc. . 38 

Digestion and absorption of milk . 33 Eggs ...... 45 

Milk is the type of a complete food provided by nature. In 
early life it forms the exclusive food of all young mammals. 
It can also be employed as the chief food for adults under 
certain pathological conditions, which will be referred to in 
later chapters ; but on account of the large amount that is 
required for daily consumption, it is not a very practicable 
food for healthy adults. 

It is in the highest degree important for the well-being 
of young children to have milk which is of excellent 
quality at its source ; and, secondly, it is equally necessary 
that it should not be adulterated or infected in the 
process of transit and distribution. Since the sources of 
contamination are numerous, the task of obtaining an 
absolutely pure supply is a difficult one, and in recent years 
the question of the milk-supply of our large towns has engaged 
more and more the attention of the profession and of civic 
authorities. 

The milk of all animals contains the elementary sub- 
stances — proteins, fats, carbohydrates, salts, and water — com- 
as 



COMPOSITION OF MILK 



29 



billed in such proportions as are best adapted for the period 
during- which growth is most active. The proportions of 
these elements vary in different milks, as shown in the 
followinsT table : — 



Composition of milk of different animals. — 













Ollior Nitrogeiiou.s 




Protein. 


Fat. 


Sugar. 


A.sh. 


and Unknown 












Bodies. 


Human . . 


0-9 


3-52 


6-75 


0-19 


0-6 


Cow .... 


3-0 


3-55 


4-51 


0-70 


0-3 


Goat .... 


2-8 


3-40 


3 -So 


0.95 




Mare .... 


1.9 


I-OO 


6-33 


0-45 


0.49 


Ass t . . . 


1-6 


0-93 


5 -60 


0-36 





Milk is an emulsion consisting of fine oil globules sus- 
pended in a colourless liquid or plasma — 



Milk an emulsion 



/"Suspended matters -! 



il globules. 

ine grranular casein. 



'Plasma 



fProteinsl 

-| Sugar !-in solution. 

[salt J 



When freshly drawn, the reaction of milk varies in dif- 
ferent animals. Human milk is alkaline ; cow's milk is 
neutral ; and the milk of carnivora is acid in reaction. On 
standing, all milk becomes acid, owing to the formation of 
lactic acid, through the action of bacteria normally present in 
milk. The average proportion of the chief ingredients in 
cow's milk and human milk are here given for comparison : — 







Cow's Slilk. 


Unman Milk 


Proteins- 


-Casein 


• 5-251 


r -6 
20 { 
U-4 




Lactalbumin 


. -75} '^•^ 


Fat . 


. 


• 3-5 


3-5 


Sugar. 


. . 


. 4-0 ' 


7-0 


Salts . 


• • 


•7 


0-2 


Water 


. 


. 87-8 


87-3 



It will be seen that the chief differences in composition 
arc the much larger amcjunt of protein and the smaller [)ro- 
purtion of sugar present in cow's milk. There is further an 



30 MILK AND ITS rilODUCTS— EGGS 

important difilcrence in the nature of the proteins, for while in 
cow's milk they consist chiefly of casein, the proportion of 
casein to lactalbumin being 4: i, in human milk lactalbumin 
is the chief protein, the proportion of casein to lactalbumin 
being approximately i : 2. The practical importance of this 
is readily appreciated if samples of the two milks are treated 
by the addition of weak hydrochloric acid. Large masses of 
curd are at once formed in the cow's milk, while the human 
milk shows a fine flocculent precipitate. Similar changes 
occur n the stomach. Another important difference is the 
sterility of human milk in contrast with the large number of 
bacteria normally present in cow's milk as it reaches the con- 
sumer. Human milk is further considered on p. 231. We 
will now consider cow's milk and its derivatives. 

Cow's Milk. — The composition of milk varies within wide 
limits, so that it is impossible to gauge within 20 per cent, 
the aniount of nutritive materials contained in a given 
quantity. The main variations are in the amount of fat and 
protein present. The composition, quality, and quantity of 
milk are influenced by a variety of circumstances : — 

(1) The influence of breed. Alderneys give a milk rich in 

fat ; Longhorns a milk proportionately rich in casein. 

(2) The milk with a first calf contains less water, and is 

richer, but the quantity yielded is less than in sub- 
sequent pregnancies. 

(3) The oftener the mammae are emptied the richer the 

UMlk becomes in casein, and the milk withdrawn at 
t le end of milking is always richer in butter than at 
t le beginning. The evening milk contains a larger 
proportion of butter than the morning. 

(4) The nature and quality of the food exercise consider- 

able influence over the amount and quality of the 
milk. Fresh green pastures produce the sweetest 
flavoured and best milk. Beetroot and carrots 
increase the amount of sugar. Turnips, brewers' 
grains, and oilcake impart a peculiar flavour and 
deepen the colour. 'Ihc colour, the odour, and 
even poisonous properties may pass from the vege- 
tables or plants consumed into the milk secreted. 



COMPOSITION OF COW'S MILK 31 

(5) The cle<Trce to which the milk has been adulterated by 
the addition of water, sugar, or of preservatives such 
as formalin, salic)'lic acid, and the like. 

The specific gravity of milk is from 1026 to 1035. This is, 
however, of no value as a test of its quality, because skimming 
milk raises the specific gravity, since fat is lighter than water. 
1 lencc, milk can be skimmed and water added to keep the 
specific gravity the same. An estimation of the fat is 
essential for determining the nutritive value of milk. Good 
milk should contain 4 per cent, of fat. 

The proteins of milk consist of casein and a small amount 
of lactalbumin. 

Casein is the principal protehi, and is kept in a state of 
solution by the phosphate of lime present in milk. This 
protein is distinctive in containing no nuclein, and seems to 
)'ield no uric acid when split up. Casein further diff"ers from 
other proteins in not being coagulated by heat ; it is readily 
coagulated by acids and also by rennet, a ferment secreted 
by the stomach. From casein a substance resembling flour 
has been prepared, and is in the market under the name 
protene. Another substance — Nutrose — is casein in com- 
bination with a soda salt. Plasmon is a similar preparation. 
These preparations of casein are used to increase the nutritive 
value of gruels, soups, teas, and puddings. They are further 
referred to on p. 158. 

Lactalbumin is present only in very small quantity in 
milk ; it coagulates slowly when boiled, and forms the "skin " 
on boiled milk. 

The carbohydrate of milk is in the form of lactose or 
milk sugar. This is less soluble than ordinary sugar, from 
which it also differs in having no sweet taste. Unlike 
glucose, it is not readily fermented by yeasts, but it is readily 
split up by certain micro-organisms, with the production of 
lactic acid, a process which occurs in the souring of milk. 
Many cases of diarrhcx-a in infancy are due to the irritation of 
lactic acid produced in this manner. The absence of carbo- 
hydrate in milk makes it a specially useful food in cases of 
severe diabetes. 

The fat of milk is in the form of an exceedingly fine 



32 MII.K AND ITS rUODrCTS— EGGS 

emulsion, beini:j suspended in the plasma of milk in the form 
of globules, which impart to milk its white, opaque appearance. 
The proportion of fat should not be less than 3 per cent. On 
standing;, the fat globules run together and lloat on the surface 
in the form of cream. This finely divideil form of fat is one 
of the most easily digestible fats. When the cream is 
removed skimmed milk is left ; this, however, may still contain 
h to I per cent, of fat. If the cream be removed by a separator, 
the fat is much more completely abstracted, and the milk so 
prepared is known as separated milk. 

The viincral viattcrs are of great importance, the most 
important salts being the phosphate of lime and phosphate of 
potassium. The one important mineral constituent that milk 
lacks is iron, and this has to be borne in mind when giving a 
prolonged course of strict milk diet to adults. The deficiency 
of iron in milk is of less importance in the feeding of infants 
because of the large reserve amount of iron normally stored 
in the foetal liver. 

Citric acid is present in milk, chiefly combined with lime 
as calcium citrate. This is only sparingly soluble. It is 
stated that a good cow yields as much citric acid in a day as 
would be found in two or three lemons. It has been 
suggested that the citric acid is the antiscorbutic element of 
milk. 

The remaining ingredient is ivater. This keeps the solid 
constituents in solution, but makes milk a dilute and bulky 
food. 

As was shown by table on p. 29, the relative proportions 
of the different con.stituents of milk vary considerably in 
different animals. 

Goat's milk is rich in fat and protein. It is poor in sugar, 
and is not much liked on account of its peculiar smell, due to 
the characteristic acid. Still records the case of an infant 
who was fed on goat's milk for several months; the goat cost 
fourteen pence a week to keep, and yielded at least two to 
three pints of milk twice a day. Goat's milk requires dilution 
in the same way as cow's milk. 

Marc's milk resembles human milk very closely, hut is 
rather poorer in fat and proteins. Like human milk, it is 
richer in sugar than the other varieties. The richness in 



! 



THE CLOTTING OF MILK 33 

sugar is taken advantage of to prepare kouinis.s by alcoholic 
fermentation. 

Ass's milk is the poorest in solids, but it is a sweet milk. 
The deficiency of fat and casein makes it easily digestible for 
infants and invalids who are unable to digest cow's milk. 
The small amount of fat present makes it unsuitable for 
continued use. 

Cow's milk is remarkable for its large proportion of 
protein and fat, and the comparatively small amount of 
sugar. 

Clotting of milk, and its effect on the digestibility. — 
Milk is not truly a fluid food, for whenever milk enters 
the stomach the ferment rennin and the acid of the gastric 
juice change the milk into a solid curd. This is brought 
about under the influence of the salts of lime. The clotting 
of milk is well illustrated in the making of curds or junket 
This coagulation or clotting of milk must be distinguished 
from the curdling of milk. Curdling is due to the casein 
separating out of the milk in the form of a fine precipitate of 
unaltered casein, this taking place under the influence of 
lactic acid fermentation, which removes the casein from its 
combination with lime salts. In the process of clotting, on 
the other hand, the casein is profoundly changed, and acquires 
new and distinctive characters. The clot consists of the 
solidified casein with fat entangled in its meshes. The clot 
gradually shrinks and becomes more tough and less easily 
digested. Under normal conditions this clot redissolves in 
the alimentary tract ; but in pathological conditions, such as 
enfeebled states of the digestive ferments, a hard, firm, 
indigestible mass forms in the stomach, which proves an 
irritant to the whole intestinal tract, inducing pain, flatu- 
lence, diarrhoea, or constipation, and sometimes is recognis- 
able unchanged in the faeces. 

Various methods are adopted to control the density of the 
curd, and so improve the digestibility of milk. 

{a) By reducing the proportion of casein ; this is done by 
diluting the milk. The diluent may be simply plain water; 
a mixture of half and half will materially lessen the clotting. 
The addition of an aerated mineral water acts in two ways; 
firstly, by dilution, and, secondly, the aeration makes the clot 

C 



34 MILK AND ITS I'RODUCTS— EGGS 

more friable ; potash, seltzer, soda, or Salularis may be used. 
The admixture of barley-water, toast, rice, or oatmeal water 
is also useful ; the thickened fluid hinders the formation of 
large curds and makes the clot more friable. Gelatine jelly, 
using it in the proportion of i teaspoonful to 2 ounces milk 
and 2 ounces of water, is also useful. 

(d) By reducing the toughness of the clot, the addition of 
liiih-zuatcr in the proportion of I in 3 acts in three ways on the 
milk. It dilutes it ; the addition of lime renders some of the 
soluble lime salts insoluble, and so neutralises the acidity of 
the milk ; this effects the desired result of lessening the tough- 
ness of the clot. Lime-water causes constijjation, and if the 
patient is suffering from diarrhoea, this may be an advantage, 
but in other cases it is prejudicial. Sodiian bicarbonate in 
solution (4 drams to i ounce) can be used in the same propor- 
tion as lime-water (i in 3), and does not produce constipation. 

The method of preparation of the diluents is as 
follows : — 

1. Thick Barlcy-Watcr. 

(Barley can be used twice.) 

7 ounces pearl barley. Rind and juice of half lemon. 

3 pints cold water. Sugar to taste. 

Method. — Wash the barley well, put it into a saucepan with cold water 
to cover it. Bring the water to the boil, and then pour it away. Wash 
again with cold water, and rinse out the saucepan. (This is to 
blanch the barley, and if it were not done, the colour of the water would 
be dark.) Return the barley to the saucepan with 2 pints of cold 
water and the thinly peeled rind of half a lemon. Simmer slowly for two 
hours, strain, sweeten, and strain in lemon juice. This is served hot or 
cold. Time, two hours. 

Note. — This is a refreshing drink, and a favourite with most invalids. 
The lemon juice must be omitted if it is to be used as a diluent for 
milk. 

2. Clear Barley- Water. 

2 ounces pearl barley (Robinson's). Rind of half a lemon. 

I pint boiling water. Sugar to taste. 

Method. — Wash barley well, and put into a jug with thinly peeled rind 
of a lemon and a little sugar. Pour freshly boiled boiling water on 
barley. Cover jug. and stand till cold. Strain, and it is ready for use. 



NUTRITIVE VALUE OF MILK 35 

3. Toast Water. 
I slice crust of bread. r pint cold water. 

Method. — The crust of bread is better than the crumb, as it does not 
sour so soon. 

Toast well on both sides until dry and nicely browned — not burnt. 
Have the fresh cold water in a jug, and break the toast into pieces and 
put into it. (If the water is poured on to the toast it makes a thick 
muddy mixture.) Cover the jug, and let the toast remain soaking until 
the water is the colour of sherry wine. 

4. Rice Water. 
I tablespoonful rice. i quart water. 

Wash the rice, then allow it to soak in a quart of water at the side of 
the fire for two hours, then boil for one hour, and strain. 

5. Oatmeal Water. 
I tablespoonful oatmeal. 1 pint water. 

Mix the meal and boiling water, and then boil for one hour. Keep 
adding water to keep the quantity up to a pint. Strain. 

6. Gelatine Jelly. 

Soak a teaspoonful of chopped leaf gelatine in half a pint of cold 
water for three hours, then stand it over boiling water until the gelatine 
is dissolved. 

The boiling of milk does not apparently render it more 
easily digested. It has been found that a pint of buttermilk 
remains three hours, raw milk about three and a half hours, 
and boiled milk four hours in the stomach of a healthy m^an. 

Nutritive value. — With regard to its nutritive value as 
a food for adults, milk cannot be recommended as the sole 
article of food, for the following reasons: — In order to get 
sufficient carbohydrates a very large quantity of milk is 
required (8 pints). This means that the body is supplied 
with more fat, protein, and fluid than is necessary, or than 
can readily be digested. Further, although milk is bulky 
It does not supply sufficient residue to set up peristalsis, and it 
is therefore constipating. If combined with a carbohydrate, 
that element in which it is defective, milk is an excellent food, 
and if taken with bread a smaller quantity of milk would 
suffice. A combination erf 10 ounces of bread (lUi.) and 
I pint of skimmed milk (^d.) may be cited as a practical illustra- 
tion of a cheap meal, with a fuel value of over 900 calories. 
In states of illness or during convalescence these objections 



36 MILK AND ITS PRODUCTS— EGGS 

to a milk dietary largely disappear, and milk at once takes 
its place as the most useful food. 

The chief clinical uses of milk may be summarised as 
follows : — 

(i) In fever, milk acts as a quencher of thirst as well as 
a food. 

(2) Milk, from the large amount of fluid present, acts as a 

diuretic ; it is the main article of food in inflam- 
matory conditions of the kidney. 

(3) In patients requiring extra nourishment, milk may be 

taken with meals in the place of other non-nutritive 
fluids. 

(4) The digestibility of milk is increased by the addition 

of substances which tend to make a finer clot, such 
as barley-water ; also the administration of some 
solid food, such as bread, 

(5) Milk is of special value in cases of hyperacidity of 

the stomach and other gastric disorders, since 
the casein is an efficient neutraliser of the acid. 
Skimmed milk is here of very special value. 

(6) Owing to the lack of residue from this food, milk is of 

great value in states of catarrh and ulceration of the 
gastro-intestinal tract. 

(7) In patients at rest in bed the bulkiness of milk is no 

drawback, as not more than 3 or 4 pints are required. 

To vary the monotony of a milk diet the following recipes 
will be found helpful : — 

I. Milk Bovril. 
Make a meat-extract preparation as directed upon the bottles, but use 
boiling milk instead of water. This quite disguises the taste of the milk. 

2. Milk Tea and Milk Coffee. 
Two teaspoonfuls of tea in a warmed teapot, and pour over it a small 

quantity of boiling water, about 3 tablespoonfuls. Al'ow to stand for 
three minutes, then add a pint of boiling milk. Stand another minute, 
pour off, and strain. Hot milk flavoured with coffee may also be used. 

3. Milk Fortified with Starch. M 
Milk, I pint. Cornflour, arrowroot, or farina, 2 ounces. 

Benger^s liquor pancreaticus, i teaspoonful. 
Mix the cornflour into a thin paste, with a little milk ; boil the rest of 



! 



MILK CONTAMINATION 37 

the milk and pour it upon the mixed cornflour, stirring continually until 
the whole mass thickens. Add the liquor pancreaticus, stirring continu- 
ously until the preparation is the consistence of cream, when it is again 
boiled for five minutes. 

4. Milk and Cinnamon Drink. 
Boil I pint of new milk with sufficient cinnamon stick to flavour it 
pleasantly ; slightly sweeten with sugar. Taken cold, with a teaspoonful 
of brandy, this is specially valuable as a nutritive drink in diarrhoea. 

Milk Adulteration and Impurities. 

It is advisable to refer very briefly to some of the more 
common defects in milk as an article of food. The most 
commonly encountered adulteration is dilution with water. 
When the dilution is made with pure water it is a fraud, and 
when, as sometimes happens, the water is from an impure 
source, it is a crime. Milk is sometimes artificially coloured 
by the addition of minute quantities of colouring matter, a 
little special pigment being added to impart the yellow colour 
characteristic of good cream. A pinkish or reddish colora- 
tion of the milk may arise from the ingestion by the animals 
of food rich in pigment. Various preservatives are frequently 
added to the milk, notably borax, boric acid, salicylic acid, 
and formaldehyde, and these may be very prejudicial to the 
digestion of milk in the case of infants and delicate children. 
The milk, after a preliminary dilution, is frequently fortified 
by the addition of flour, farina, whiting, tragacanth, or 
magnesium carbonate ; the addition of one or other of these 
substances gets rid of the thin colour of diluted milk. Sugar 
may also be added to the diluted milk to raise its specific 
gravity to a satisfactory standard. 

Milk contamination. — Milk may be contaminated by 
the cow's disease germs, e.g., tuberculosis and diphtheria. 
Extraneous disease genns may find their way into milk through 
contact with unclean hands, or from polluted water used for 
dilution or for washing cans and pans. Examples of diseases 
so induced are typhoid fever, scarlet fever, gastro-entcritis, 
diarrhoea, etc. The milk is often tainted with excrementi- 
tious matter from the cowshed. Professor Silvanus Thompson 
describes the ideal system of cleanliness which provides a 
"guaranteed milk " : — 

" Each milkman, before milking, is required to cleanse his 



38 MILK AND ITS PRODUCTS— EGGS 

hands in hot water with soap and a nail-brusli ; he then dons 
a clean white Hnen suit from the sterilising chamber, and takes 
a clean towel and milking stool ; he is not allowed to moisten 
his hands with the milk in milking, and he must wash his 
hands each time before milking another cow. All cows must 
have given a negative tuberculin test, and all are groomed 
twice a day before milking. The milk is drawn into pails 
with small openings, and exclude droppings from the animal's 
belly. The milk is strained through sterilised absorbent 
cotton, and placed in a cooler, which reduces the temperature 
to 40" F. within twenty minutes after leaving the udder. It 
is then bottled and stored in ice water ready for shipment." 

Good, clean, uncontaminated milk should keep fresh, 
exposed in a clean room at ordinary temperature of 68° F., 
for forty-eight hours, without souring and coagulating. But if 
the air is warmer, or if the milk be in any way contaminated, 
it will sour in a few hours. Boiled milk will keep fresh about 
half as long again as fresh milk. A large number of bacteria 
are capable of inducing lactic acid fermentation of the milk 
sugar, and some of them carry the decomposition further, to 
the development of carbonic acid and alcohol. This latter 
interferes with the normal digestion of milk. Lastly, it is 
important to bear in mind the absorbent power of milk: it 
may acquire a flavour or odour from substances in its vicinity. 
It should not, therefore, be kept in a pantry beside such food- 
stuffs as stale cheese or onions, and it should not be left 
exposed in a sick-room or anywhere near a waste-pipe. 



Milk Derivatives. 

PAGE PAOK 

Cream 38 Cheese 42 

Whey ...... 40 Buttermilk . , ... 43 

Butter . . . . , .41 Koumiss 44 

Margarine 41 Kephir 44 

Cream. — Cream consists mainly of the fat of milk. It, 
however, also contains protein and sugar in the same propor- 
tion as milk. The real difference between cream and milk is 
that cream contains less water. 

When milk is allowed to stand for some time the fat 
globules in the milk rise to the top, forming cream. The 



CREAM 39 

thickness of this layer of cream varies. The normal averacje 
quantity of cream is over 8 to 9 per cent, of the volume (jf the 
milk, but there may be over 20 per cent. If the cream falls 
below 5 per cent, of the volume of milk, the milk has been 
watered. The proportion of cream in milk is dependent on 
various factors, such as the breed, age, and food of the cows. 
Alderneys and Guernsey cows give a milk very rich in cream. 
The milk which comes towards the end of milking contains 
more fat than that which is first drawn. Afternoon milk is 
richer than morning milk, both in protein and fat. The ri.se 
of the cream is favoured by a cool temperature; the addition 
of a little warm water added to the milk hastens the rising of 
the cream by altering the specific gravity of the milk. 

The percentage of fat in cream may be 10 to 20 per cent., 
as in cream obtained by skimming milk ; cream produced 
by centrifuge may contain from 40 to 60 per cent. ; and 
the clotted Devonshire cream may contain as much as 7c 
per cent, or more. A legal standard for cream would be 
advantageous. 

Varieties of Cream. — Tea cream as sold in the dairy is 
generally a thin cream produced by skimming milk in the 
ordinary way. 

Double o'cani^ or separator cream, is obtained from the milk 
by centrifugal force. A small and large drum are placed one 
within the other, leaving a space of a few inches between. 
The inner drum is made of porous material. It is filled with 
milk and set in rapid revolution. The lighter portion, the 
cream, remains in the inner drum, while the other ingredients 
are forced through it into the outer drum. 

This method of obtaining cream is far more rapid than 
when it is allowed to rise by standing, and also it obtains 
almost all the fat from the milk. Cream procured in this 
manner does not remain fresh so long as ordinary cream, for 
it is separated at a temperature favourable to the growth 
of bacteria. 

Condensed or evaporated cream consists of one-fourth cream 
and three-fourths other ingredients of milk, the whole milk 
having been evaporated. It is, therefore, a natural product 
and is not artificially sweetened. 

Clotted or Devonshire cream is a special variety prepared 



40 MILK AND ITS PRODUCTS— EGGS 

by heatinc[ the milk in deep pans over a slow fire not above 
150" F. This causes a rapid and complete separation of fat. 
The proportion of fat in such cream is about 60 to 70 per cent. 
Devonshire cream contains only about half as much suc]jar as 
ordinary cream, and it is peculiarl)' suited to be a source of fat in 
the dietary of diabetics. Fothergill wrote :" Devonshire cream 
is delicious with preserved ginger, while cream and maraschino 
form a nutritive drink for the affluent consumptive." 

Cream is one of the most wholesome and agreeable forms 
of fat. It is often eaten too rich and may disagree on that 
account, whereas diluted with an equal bulk 01 water or of 
lime-water it can be easily digested. 

Where there is difficulty in digesting milk, 3 or 4 table- 
spoonfuls of cream in a tumblerful of Vichy makes a nourish- 
ing and digestible beverage. The nutritive value may be 
increased, if desired, by the addition of half an ounce of sugar 
of milk. It may be used along with or to replace cod-liver 
oil in pulmonary tuberculosis, and it is an admirable food in 
any case of long-continued suppurative disease, c.^., hip joint, 
empyema. It must be avoided in cases of flatulent indigestion, 
in most forms of gastric disorder, in obesity, and in gall-stones 

In the feeding of infants who cannot readily take diluted 
milk, and in infants suffering from diarrhoea, marasmus, and 
the like, cream given in well-diluted form is of great value. 

The addition of strong liquors to cream lessens its digesti- 
bility: the alcohol coagulates and toughens the envelopes of 
the fat globules. 

Ice cream is a frozen mixture of cream, sugar, and flavouring 
agent. When very simp!)' made it is nutritious, and may be 
allowed to man\' patients. It is .soothing to inflamed throats, 
and is enjoyed by convalescents from fevers. It should be 
eaten very slowly, so that it may get warmer in its passage to 
the stomach, and not retard digestion by a cold mass being 
suddenly introduced. The nutritional value of ice cream can 
be increased by the addition of egg or plasmon. 

"Whey. — When milk has been standing for .some time a 
spontaneous coagulation occurs, and whey is .squeezed out of 
the contracting clot. Whey so prepared has a sourish taste, 
and is less palatable than the artificially prepared varieties. 
Whey is also artificially prepared by the addition of rennet. 



BUTTER AND MARGARINE 41 

To the pint of fresh milk warmed to blood heat (98 to 
100° F.) add 2 teaspoonfuls of rennet, set it aside in a warm 
place for a quarter of an hour, when clotting will have 
occurred. The clot is then very thoroughly broken up by 
stirring, and the whole strained through muslin. The whey 
has percentage composition of water 93, lactose 5, albumin -8, 
ash -6, fat 3. It is practically an aqueous solution of milk 
sugar. It is apt to turn sour. 

Whey can also be prepared from milk by boiling with 
lemon juice, e.g., boil a pint of milk with 2 teaspoonfuls of 
lemon juice. Strain in muslin ; squeeze out all fluid from the 
curd. The whey can be added to beef-tea, or yolk of egg 
beaten up in hot water. 

Whey may be similarly prepared by boiling two parts of 
milk with one part of white wine, e.g., sherry. 

Whey makes a palatable drink, with slightly diuretic and 
laxative properties. Whey cures, where up to 5 pints of the 
whey are taken in twenty-four hours, have been established for 
the treatment of renal and dropsical affections (see p. 538). 

Butter. — Butter is made from the cream of milk by 
churning. It consists of about 80 per cent, of fat, 15 per cent. 
of water, with a little casein and sugar. A certain amount of 
common salt is added to increase its keeping qualities and to 
improve its taste. Pure cultures of certain organisms are 
made use of to ripen butter, and so impart a constant flavour. 
The rancidity which develops when butter is kept too long is 
due to the casein, the protein decomposing and liberating a 
ferment which separates fatty acids and glycerine. Butter is 
easily digested and absorbed. Most persons eat about an 
ounce a day of butter, but two or three times that amount may 
be taken by some people. 

Margarine and Butterine. — These are purified animal 
fats so made up as to closely resemble butter. They are 
made by melting down and clarifying various animal fats. The 
melted fat is allowed slowly to cool, and in the process the 
various fats solidify at different temperatures. After the 
stearin and palmitin have solidified, the olein is removed by 
pressure, churned up with a little milk, and tinted with a 
vegetable dye, and is then ready for use. These butter sub- 
stitutes, in comparison with butter, contain fewer soluble and 



42 MILK AND ITS PRODUCTS— EGGS 

volatile fritty acirls. The absence of butyric acid and casein 
is a distinct advantage, as these two ingredients are the 
main cause of butter becoming rancid, and therefore the 
substitutes "keep" much better. They have been declared 
to be perfectly innocuous, and are an admirable and cheap 
substitute for a necessary but expensive food. They could 
with advantage be made more use of, especially in cooking. 
The legal control of their sale is mainly intended to prevent 
them from being fraudulently offered as butter. 

Cheese is another milk derivative, consisting of casein 
of the milk, separated by rennet, with some of the fats or 
oils. Cheese, as a foodstuff, presents a large amount of nutri- 
ment in small bulk, one pound of cheese containing as much 
nitrogenous food as two pounds of meat. In countries where 
meat is scarce and dear, the country people consume large 
quantities of the heavier, less highly flavoured cheeses. The 
wealthy classes eat cheese more as an extra taken after meals, 
and employ the higher flavoured varieties. 

Method of preparation. — In all cheese the method is to 
take the milk, either whole, skimmed, or fortified with cream, 
heat it to about So" F., and then curdle with rennet. The 
curd is then minced, strained, coloured, salted, and finally 
pressed into shape, the whey being thus expelled. The 
varieties of cheese depend upon — 

{a) The quantity of water they contain ; this chiefly 
determines the hardness or softness. 

(J?) The quantity of fat present, this being small in amount in 
cheese made from skimmed milk, and large in amount 
in cheese made from milk fortified with cream. 

{c) The kind and degree of the fermentation processes, 
upon which the flavour largely depends. 

The nutritive value of chee.se depends largely on the pro- 
portion of fat present in its composition. There are three 
leading varieties — soft, hard, and skimmed milk. A fair 
average for the fat and nitrogen present in these three types, 
when fresh, is as follows (Fleischman) : — 

Soft. Hard. Skimmed Milk. 

Fat . . . 31 to 44 29 2 to 3 

Nitrogen . 13 to 24 28 19 to 33 

Such cheeses as Stilton, Gloucester, Gorgonzola, Edam, 



CHEESE 43 

Cheshire, and Roquefort, are examples of rich cheese made 
from milk fortified with cream ; while skimmed milk is chiefly 
used in the manufacture of Single Gloucester, American, 
Dutch, Suffolk, and Parmesan. The fat present in the "rich 
cheeses " makes the cheese soft and friable, and they decom- 
pose more rapidly. This process is called " ripening." 

The fatty acids present in cheese have been considered 
detrimental, but, on the other hand, it is possible that in 
some cheeses, especially the richer varieties, the acids formed 
by bacteria in them may be inimical to other putrefactive 
processes going on in the alimentary canal. If so, this would 
explain the absence of injurious effects from the taking of these 
cheeses, noted in some cases of otherwise weak digestion. 

Cheese cannot be regarded as an article of diet suitable 
for patients with a weak digestion. This is specially true of 
the richer cheeses, in which the large amount of fat interferes 
with the ready digestion of the casein. It is well to 
recommend patients who are very fond of cheese to partake 
of one of the softer varieties, as, although less digestible, 
they are much less likely to be taken to excess. The 
addition of an alkali {e.g. bicarbonate of potash) makes it 
more easily digested, the alkali forming a soluble compound 
with the casein. This is best done by adding a pinch of 
the salt to \ lb. of grated cheese, which may then be mixed 
with another foodstuff, such as milk or eggs. The large 
number of bacteria in ripe cheese is another factor which 
makes cheese an unsuitable article of diet for invalids. The 
recently introduced lactic St Ivel cheese is a very palatable 
cheese, rich in lacto-bacilli. It has undoubted advantages 
over other cheeses for patients not endowed with a robust 
digestion (see p. 544). 

Buttermilk. — Buttermilk is the milk left after churning, 
and removing the fat. Its sourness is due to the presence of 
lactic acid, derived from the conversion of sugar. Chemical 
analysis gives the following average composition : — 

Water . . -91 

Lactose and lactic acid ... 4-0 
Casein and albumin . . . 4-0 

Fat ..... -3 

Ash ..... 7 



44 



MILK AND ITS PRODUCTS— EGGS 



The casein is present in a flocculent form, and on this account 
buttermilk is a readily digested food. It is a cheap food, 
since it is a £jood source of protein. A pint of it contains as 
much nourishment as 2 ounces of bread. It is a wholesome 
drink, with diuretic and special medicinal properties. These 
arc specially considered on p. 540. 

Koumiss. — Koumiss is a fermented milk, prepared by 
both lactic acid and alcoholic fermentation. It is made from 
the milk of a certain breed of mares in South-eastern Russia; 
it is al.so made from cow's milk, to which an artificial ferment 
has been added. The milk is mixed with a koumiss ferment, 
the lactic acid ferment changing some of the sugar into lactic 
acid, while another part of the sugar is converted into alcohol 
and carbonic acid. Koumiss is an acid effervescing drink, 
with an agreeable bitter taste, and contains from i to 2 per 
cent, of alcohol. The strength of koumiss varies with the 
duration of fermentation, as shown in the following table. 
It is very sensitive to temperature changes, and its composi- 
tion is always changing, unless the fermentation is controlled 
by extreme cold. It is very easily digested, being much 
more digestible than milk (see also p. 540). 

Koumiss — Duration of Fermeyitation, 





6 hours. 


18 hours. 


30 hours. 


4 day.s. 


Carbonic acid . 


3-8 


60 


70 


II-O 


Alcohol . 


18.5 


19-5 


30-0 


30-0 


Lactic acid 


3-9 


5-6 


6.4 


6.4 


Milk sugar . 


i8-8 


16.3 






Albumin 


22.5 


22-6 


20-0 


16.1 


Fat ... 


18-9 


20-0 


19-0 


19-0 


Salts 


4-5 


4K) 


40 


40 



Kephir. — Kephir is another form of fermented milk, 
resembling koumiss. It is made from cow's milk — alcohol, 
lactic acid, and albumin being formed as a result of the 
fermentative process. The casein is partly digested. Tablets 
of the kephir ferment are .sold for the home manufacture of 
the milk ; it may also be made as follows : — 

Boil fresh milk, and when nearly cold put into quart 
bottles, leaving room to shake. Add half an ounce of crushed 
lump sugar and a piece of Vienna yeast the size of a hazel 



EGGS 46 

nut {i.e. 20 LCrammcs), cork with new corks, tic flown, keep 
cool ; lay the bottles horizontal, but shake twice daily. It 
will be ready to drink about the sixth day, or earlier in hot 
weather and later in cold weather. It can be made with 
skimmed milk (see also p. 540;. 



Eggs. 







PAOK 


Substitutes for egg ; 


ovo, etc. 


. 47 


Recipes 


. 


. 47 



PAOE 

Composition of . . . • ^3 
Nutritive value ami digestibility . 47 

Eggs contain all the ingredients necessary to support Hie 
and develop the organism. 

From their chemical composition it is readily understood 
how they are such valuable articles of food in the dietetic 
treatment of disease, especially in some ailments occurring in 
childhood and youth. 

Comparing the composition of the edible part of the 
whole egg with that of moderately lean meat, we find as 
follows : — 

Egg. Lean Meat. 
Water . . . 737 7yo 

Protein . . . 14-8 2i-o 

Fat . . . IO-5 5-5 

Ash . . . i-o i-o 

The nutritive matter is thus seen to be almost the same 
as meat, eggs being poorer in protein but much richer in fat. 
The nutriment found in the yolk and white of the egg is as 
follows : — 

White. Yolk. 

Water . . . 857 5o-9 

Protein . . , 12-6 16-2 

Fat . . . 6-25 3175 

Ash . . . 0-59 109 

The white of egg contains its protein in a solution 
enclosed in numberless little cells. When white of egg is 
beaten up, the walls of the cells are ruptured and the protein 
is set free. The result of beating is to increase the digesti- 
bility of egg-white, the protein being more easily broken up 
when released from the cell. 

From this table it is evident that the yolk of the Ggg is 



46 MHK AND ITS PRODrCTS— EGGS 

much the most nourishing portion. In its ash there are some 
very important mineral constituents, viz., phosphoric acid, 
lime, and iron. The phosphorus and iron are almost 
entirely present as organic compounds. As mineral matters 
are most easily absorbed when combined with an orc^anic 
substance, it follows that yolk of egg is a useful adjunct in the 
treatment of several forms of nutritional and blood diseases. 
In chlorosis and some other forms of anremia, and also in 
rickets, the great richness of the yolk in lime, phosphorus, 
and iron make it most valuable. 

The fats present are the same as those present in butter. 
They appear in emulsion form, and are thus very easily 
digested. Eggs, from their chemical composition, should be 
used with a carbohydrate diet. The usual custom of prepar- 
ing rice and starchy preparations, such as arrowroot, tapioca, 
cornflour, with eggs in the making of milk puddings is a 
perfectly right one, the result being a perfect food. The 
nutrient value of an egg corresponds approximately to a full 
half-tumblerful of milk, or to i| ounces of fairly fat meat. 

The digestibility of eggs varies, depending on the form in 
which they are taken. From results of experiments by 
Pcnzoldt, it is surprising to find that a raw egg takes longer 
to leave the stomach than a lightly boiled one ; a raw egg is 
hardly digested by the stomach, being passed into the 
duodenum almost unchanged. A raw egg, therefore, is 
probably the better article of diet for a stomach requiring 
rest. Hard-boiled eggs are much more indigestible than 
those lightly boiled. 

Eggs are very constipating for some people This is 
partly due to the large amount of lime present, and partly to 
the fact that absorption in the intestine goes on to such an 
extent that only a very small residue remains. 

Some patients show a remarkable idiosyncrasy to eggs, 
being unable to take any without acute symptoms of gastro- 
intestinal derangement supervening. Others are unable to 
take eggs in a plain form, but can take them in the form 
of a pudding or cake. If the absorption of eggs from the 
intestine is delayed, decomposition ensues, with productioii 
of sulphuretted hydrogen and ammonia with accompanying 
intestinal derangement. 



METHODS OF USING EGGS 47 

Ovo, a powder made up in packets, is sold as a substitute 
for eggs; each packet containing the equivalent of one egg. 
It is the egg dried, and on the aj)plicalion of water is 
redissolved. Its only use is for cooking purptjses if fresh 
eggs are not obtainable. 

Egg and custard powders are also sold as substitutes for 
eggs. The.se have no nutritive value, and are in no way 
equal to genuine custard. They consist chiefly of starch, a 
little baking soda, tartaric acid, and some vegetable dye to 
give the )-ellow colour. 

Raw Eggs are of special value in the treatment of 
tuberculosis. They are given in the following ways: — 

Water of Egg-white, or Allniniin Water. 

Take the white of an t.'g'g, and to this add twice its own volume of 
water and strain it through muslin. This gives about 3 ounces of a clear 
solution, containing as much protein as is found in an average sample of 
commercial beef juice. 

This fluid added to a beef extract — either home-made beef-tea or to 
one of the many beef extracts in the market (lemco, etc.), just dissolved 
in hot water — makes a very nutritive solution almost indistinguishable 
from beef juice, and at a fraction of the cost. Egg-white water added 
to any of the beverages (see p. 275) makes them at once possess a 
decided nutritive value, and is useful especially in pyrexial conditions. 

Prairie Oyster. 
I fresh ^g<g. I tablespoonful of vinegar. 

Put the vinegar into a small cup and break the &%% into it. Serve at 
once This is a very digestible way of serving an ^'g'g^ and it is very cool 
and refreshing. 

The next three recipes give the way of making up raw 
eggs into nourishing stimulant drinks. By adding nutmeg, 
cinnamon, or lemon juice, the flavour can be altered. 

Egg Drink. 
I ^"gg 1 teaspoonful sugar. 

I teacup of milk. i tablespoonful sherry wine. 

Beat up the egg, add to it the wine and sugar, beat together with a 
fork slightly, and strain through a fine wire strainer. Heat the milk in 
a small saucepan, and when almost boiling pour it on to the d'g'g, stirring 
all the time. Serve hot. 

This can be made without wine, flavouring with cinnamon or lemon 
juice. The yolk of the egg only may be used, and soda-water instead of 
milk. 



48 MILK AND ITS PRODUCTS— EGGS 

Plain Egg Flip. 

I teacup of milk. i tcaspoonful sugar. 

I white of egg. 
Roil the milk or make it thorouj^hly liot ; beat up the white of egg to 
a stiff froth. Tour the boihng milk over the white of egg, stirring all the 
tmie. Add sugar to taste, and serve. 

Rich Egg Flip. 

I white of egg. i tablespoonful brandy. 

I tablespoonful cream. Sugar to taste. 

Beat up the white of egg stiffly. Add to it the brandy and cream, 
with a little sugar if wished. Mix very thoroughly, and serve. 

Egg with Brandy and Crcavi. 

I white of egg. i tablespoonful cream. 

I tablespoonful brandy. 

Beat up the white of egg stiffly. Add to it the brandy, cream, and a 
little sugar. Mix very thoroughly, and serve. 

Caudle. 

Beat up an egg ; add a glass of sherry and halt a pint oi gruel ; 
flavour with lemon peel, nutmeg, or sugar. 

Cooked Eggs appear as the main basis in custards, 
souffles, and omelets. They are also used with carbo- 
hydrates in the making of puddings, and for the thickening 
of soups and sauces. Eggs cooked by themselves can be 
used in the following ways : — 

Boiled Egg. 

Put enough water into a small saucepan to entirely cover the G.gg. 
Allow the water to boil ; lower the egg gently into it. Draw the pan to 
the side of the fire, and allow the water to simmer slowly. Cook the egg 
for three and a half to four minutes, then lift out and serve at once. If it 
is allowed to stand it becomes hard. 

Poached Egg. 

I tgg. Lemon juice. 

Boiling water. Pinch of sail. 

Round of toast. 

Break the egg into a cup, keeping the yolk whole. Into a small 

saucepan of boiling water add a pinch of salt and a squeeze of lemon 

juice. Draw the water to the side, and when just off the boil slip the egg 

carefully into it. Cook slowly for three minutes, when the white should 



METHODS OF USING EGGS 49 

be quite set. Lift it out with a small fish-slice or perforated spoon, and 
trim off any ragged edges of white. Place on a square of newly-made 
toast, and serve at once. 

If required, this egg can be made richer by being served on buttered 
toast, or a little hot cream poured over it, A poached egg served on 
2 tablespoonfuls of carefully prepared spinach is also a very nice dish. 

Ricmbled Egg. 

I egg. Pepper and salt. 

I tablespoonful milk. \ ounce butter. 

A piece of toast. 

Heat in a small saucepan the milk. Pour into the hot milk the ^%,<g 

beaten up in a cup with pepper and salt. Stir quickly over the fire until 

it begins to thicken, remove it then from the fire and continue stirring 

until it forms a creamy mixture. Put on a piece of newly-made toast, 

and serve at once. If cooked too long, or allowed to stand, it becomes 

leathery and indigestible. 

Baked Egg. 

Grease a china or paper ramekin case thoroughly ; into this care- 
fully break an egg. Add pepper and salt and a /easpoonful of cream. 
Place in a moderate oven and bake three or four minutes until lightly 
set, and serve at once. 

Savoury Custard. 

Add the yolk of two eggs and a cupful of beef-tea, with pepper and 
salt to taste ; butter a cup or jam-pot, pour the mixture into it, let it 
stand in a pan of boiling water till the custard is set. 



D 



CHAPTER V 

ANIMAL FOODS 





PAOK 




PAOK 


Composition of flesh . 


. 50 


Comparative digestibility of 


meat 


Varieties of meats — 




foods .... 


. 65 


Beef, mutton, etc. . - 


. 54 


Cookinp of flesli and fish — 




Poultry, pame, etc . . 


• 58 


(a) When juices retained. 


. 67 


Fish- 




((6) When juices extracted 


• 70 


Varieties of . . . 


. 60 


Soup and soupmaking 


• 71 


Crustacea and mollusca 


. 63 


Home-made beef-teas and extracts 75 



Animal Poods. 

The term animal food is popularly used to denote the flesh 
of animals, birds, and fish only, though it ought also to include 
soups (made from meat or bones), beef extracts, beef-teas, beef 
juices, jellies, i.e. food prepared from gelatine ; milk, with its 
derivatives of cream, butter, skimmed milk, cheese ; and eggs. 

Composition of Flesh. — The flesh of animals comprises 
muscle with the connective tissue, fat, nerves, and blood- 
vessels supplying the muscle. Microscopic examination 
shows the muscle to be made up of fibres. The length of 
the fibre varies in different varieties of animal flesh; e.g., 
very short fibres are present in the breast of a chicken, 
and very long fibres in the limbs. For this reason the 
former are more easily digested. 

The fibres are held together by connective tissue ; this 
connective tissue yields gelatine on boiling. The amount of 
connective tissue is proportionate to the age of the animal, 
being large in amount in old animals. Everyone is familiar 
with the difference between a chicken and an old hen ; the 
latter, however, makes better soup. 

The composition of meat is affected by varimis factors, 
such as the age of the animal, breed, condition, and feeding; 

60 



COMPOSITION OF BEEF 



61 



and whether the blood has been drained off, as in veal, or 
retained, as in beef. 

In young animals the muscles are not fully formed, and 
are more watery, so that young meat (lamb and veal) loses 
half to three-quarters of its weight in cooking; the muscle 
albumin is replaced by gelatine-forming substances, and the 
fats and salts are also smaller in amount. Veal is known to 
be very indigestible to some people, but it is useful lor making 
soup, as the protein-forming gelatine, on boiling, produces 
good jelly stock. 

The best beef is obtained from a two-year-old ox, and the 
best mutton from a two-year-old sheep. In addition to being 
more digestible, the flesh of full-grown animals is richer in 
extractives and has more flavour than the flesh of an immature 
animal ; this explains why lamb is eaten with mint sauce and 
veal with mixed herbs. 

The influence of feeding, on the flavour of the flesh, is 
illustrated in the difference between the flavour of mutton 
from hill-fed sheep and from sheep fed on turnips. Wild 
rabbits are much more palatable than tame ones, probably on 
account of the aromatic herbs, such as thyme, in their diet. 
Seabirds have a fishy flavour, and are not easily digested. 

The chemical composition of the meat is greatly influenced 
by the breed, the condition, and general health of the animal, 
i.e.^ the degree to which the animal has been fattened, and 
also by the particular part from which the cut is made. The 
flank contains 43 per cent, of water, and the round of beef 
60 per cent, (see fig., p. 52). 

The average composition of meat is given in the following 
table :— 



Beef. Water. 


Matter. 


Fat. Ash. 1 


Lean . . 
Medium . , 
Fat ... 


76-5 

73 

53 


21 

20-5 
17 


1-5 
5-5 
29 


I 
I 
I 



Note the relationship between water and fat — the less 
water the more fat. Flattening, therefore, represents an 
absolute gain of nutritive value, and not a replacement of 
nitrogenous niatlcr by fat. 



52 



ANIMAL FOODS 



The usual Scotch Mode of Cutting-up an Ox. (More economical 
than the English mode.) 




Explanation of diagram of the usual Scotch mode of cutting-up an ox :— 
I A. Cheek. 

IB. Chip, generally used for hare-soup. 
2. S'eck^ used for soups, stews. 
3 and 4. Spare riiis, generally roasted ; sometimes stewed. 

5. The rihs, roasted ; sometimes boned, rolled, and salted. 

6. First runner. This is cut close by the shoulder-bone, and is used for 

boiling or stewing. 
7 and 8. Also runners. These two are sometimes divided across by the 
dotted line, and the fleshy end (next the head) used for stewing, 
boiling, or beefsteak pie, and the thin end salted. Sometimes only two 
runners are cut, sometimes only one. 

9. Nine holes, used chiefly for pickling, sometimes for plain boiling or 

stewing ; not so fat as the briskeU 

10. Brisket, stewed or corned. 

1 1. Marrow bone. 

12. Hough or shin^ used for soup ; the fleshy end is good for stewing. 

13. Sirloin, cut generally into three parts, called the double side, middle cut 

(or Scotch and English), and the thin end. 

14. Thin flank, used for boiling ; often salted. 

15. Thick flank or fleshy end of heuck-bone, used for stewing steak, or salted 

and rolled, also for pies ; no bone in it. 

16. Heuck-bone, best for gridiron steak. 

17. Kump, generally boned and salted ; sometimes stewed with the bone in, 

or boiled. It is used in France for pol-au-/eu. 

18. The round. This weighs about 30 to 40 lbs. ; the upper part is some- 

times cut into steaks. Sometimes the whole is cut into two rounds ; a 
thick flap of fat, called the shaugh, is left to roll round the bare side of 
the bone. 

19. Used for mince, slew, 01 beef-tea. 



COMPOSITION OF BEEF 53 

The chief viitieral substances present in meat are salts of 
phosphoric acid and potassium. Iron is present in the red 
colourinc^ matter. These mineral substances are of great 
importance in nutrition. 

The nitrojrenous part of flesh consi.sts chiefly of the fol- 
lowing proteins: Myosin, mu.sclc albumin, and haemoglobin. 
Myosin coagulates after death, this condition being known as 
rigor viortis. Meat in this state is tough and indigestible ; on 
this account meat should either be eaten immediately after 
killing, before rigor mortis has had time to supervene, or it 
should hang until the stiffening has passed off. In hot 
climates, where decomposition sets in rapidly, flesh is cooked 
immediately on being killed. The disappearance of rigor is 
due to sarcolactic acid being formed, and the transformation 
of the myosin into an acid albumin. Whenever the rigor 
mortis is over, the flesh begins to decompose slowly, and this 
incipient decomposition makes it more tender and better 
flavoured for a time. 

The serum albumin of muscle is one of the mo.st soluble 
of the muscle proteins, and this albumin can be extracted by 
water; and this extract, amounting to 5 or 6 per cent, repre- 
sents the maximum strength of an aqueous extract of beef-tea. 
The remaining 14 or 15 per cent, of proteins are insoluble in 
water, though dissolved by the digestive juices. 

The extractives in meat are substances which can be 
extracted by boiling water. They have no direct nutritive 
value, but are important since they impart the characteristic 
flavour to meat. These are more fully considered in the 
section on beef-teas and extracts on p. 75. 

Fat is embedded in the connective tissue between the 
fibres in mutton and beef. Fat is almost entirely absent in 
game, and in the breast of chicken, and in most varieties of 
white fish. In pork, duck, goose, herring, mackerel, and 
salmon the fat is abundant. The fat seems to lessen the 
digestibility of the meat, possibly by forming a coating round 
the fibres. 

Meat should be cut or carved at right angles to the long 
axis of the fibre. It is then more easily chewed, the flavour 
is better, and the digestive juices reach the fibres more easily. 

The acids which develop in meat while hanging improve 



54 ANIMAL FOODS 

the flavour, and also help to increase the dicjcstibility. This 
effect can be brought about by various devices, such as the 
addition of vinegar to boiling meat, the rubbing over veal 
with lemon juice before frying or stewing, and by eating 
vinegar with crab and 'obster. 

Varieties of Meats. 
Parkcs gives the following cliaractcristics of good meat : — 
The flesh should be firm, elastic, of a bright, uniform colour ; 
in fresh meat the outside is lighter than the inside, owing to 
oxidation of the haemoglobin of the blood ; lean meat is paler 
than blood, so that a dark purple colour shows that the blood 
has not been properly drained away ; when fresh meat is 
placed on a plate it should always part with a slight amount 
of reddish juice; the flesh of young subjects is always paler 
than that of the mature animal. The muscle should be fine- 
grained, have a slight, pleasant odour, becoming savoury 
when heated ; the flesh should present a marbled appearance, 
owing to the admixture of fat with the muscular fibres. On 
cutting, the interior should show no softening of the con- 
nective tissue, as this indicates the commencement of decom- 
position. The " knife-blade " test is easily applied : push a 
clean knife-blade down to the bone, and any internal softening 
will be detected by lessened resistance, and by an unpleasant 
smell of the blade on withdrawal. The fat should be healthy- 
looking, free from bleeding, and firm, not jelly-like in texture ; 
its colour varies from straw-white to pale yellow, being whiter 
in young animals. The state of the marrow is often a good 
test of the condition of the meat. It should be light rosy red 
in colour, and in the hind legs solid and firm twenty-four 
hours after killing, while in the fore legs it is rather softer, 
like honey. 

Beef is at its best when got from an ox of two years of 
age. Besides being affected by the factors already mentioned, 
it varies in quality according to the part of the animal 
used, and also to the style of cooking employed. The best 
parts are the rump, sirloin, and ribs (see fig., p. 52). Ox fat 
is softer than mutton fat, on account of the larger proportion 
of olein in it. 

Mutton is generally considered to be more easy of digestion 



VARIETIES OF MEAT 55 

than beef; this may be due to the finer fibres and looser con- 
nective tissue. Experiments, however, do not seem to prove 
this concUisively. The flesh of the sheep is usually much fatter 
than beef, and the fat is hard and solid, (nving to the greater 
proportion of stearin. There is no doubt that hot mutton fat 
is irritating to some digestions. Mutton differs very greatly 
in quality and flavour; when of the best qualit)-, it is a 
most excellent form of animal food. 

Tut Ui;uAL Scotch Mode of Cutting-up a Sheep. 




Explanation of Scotch mf de of cutting-up a sheep : — 

1. Gigot^ leg, or haunch ; roasted or boiled. 

2. Loin. This is the finest piece for chops ; sometimes roasted. 

3. Flank or flap, used for soup or cheap stews. 

4. The back-ribs and neck, used for chops, stews, and scup. 

5. The brisket or breast, generally stewed. 

6. The shoulder. When 4 and 5 are not cut through at the black line which 

separates them, the shoulder may be removed at the dots, and it is 
generally baked, sometimes roasted. If a large shoulder is wanted, 
cut it off close to the bone ; if, on the other hand, it is desired to leave 
the meat beneath for chops, the shoulder should be taken off by the 
seam. 

7. The head, boiled ; used for broth. 

8. The shank, used for soup ; sometimes stewed. 

9. The trotters, made into broth with the head ; sometimes stewed. 

Of the breeds of sheep, the black-faced stand first in 
sweetness of flavour; then come South Downs. The best 
parts of mutton are the leg or gigot, and thick rib chops. 

A leg of mutton improves by hanging. It should not be 
in contact with other food. Before cooking, the meat can be 
made more tender by being smacked (beaten with a wooden 



56 ANIMAL FOODS 

roller). The probable explanation is that some of the fibres 
are broken. 

Lamb greatly exceeds mutton in its proportion of fat, and 
is corrcspondin<;ly less digestible. The flesh is more watery 
than that of the mature animal. Lamb needs to be freshly 
killed, as it does not keep well. 

Veal is much less nutritious than beef, containing more 
gelatinous and fewer albuminous substances. In spite of its 
fibres being softer, experience and experiment show that it is 
not so easily digested as beef When the same quantity of 
beef and veal are taken, it is found that the former takes two 
hours, while the latter takes two and a half hours to digest. 

Hare, when young, is very tender, and possesses an excel- 
lent flavour. The fibres are short, and the flesh is very 
digestible. 

Rabbits, when young and cooked with plenty of grav}% 
are very digestible; they are the better of the addition of a 
little fat in the form of streaky bacon. 

Tongue. — The tongue of the ox, sheep, and pig is eaten 
both fresh and pickled. It is very tender, and is quite suit- 
able for invalids and children if the tender central part is 
used ; the base contains much fat, and the fibre is indigestible. 

Tripe. — This is the name applied to the stomach and 
intestines of the ox or sheep ; the mucous lining is scraped 
off, leaving connective tissue, fat, and muscle. The latter is 
very easy of digestion, and the large proportion of fat in it 
makes tripe one of the most nutritive diets, and most suitable 
for those with a weak digestion. It is rather deficient in 
flavour, owing to the want of extractives. The average com- 
position of tripe is as follows : — 

Water. Proteini. Fat. Salts. 

68 13-2 1 6-4 2-4 

The special points to be noted in the preparation of tripe will 
be found on page 309. 

Sweetbreads. — Under this term two distinct organs are 
referred to — the thymus or "throat sweetbread," and the 
pancreas or " stomach sweetbread." Both glands are cellular 
organs, held together by a loose connective tissue. They are 
very rapidly digested by the stomach — nine ounces being 



ANIMAL VISCERA, ETC. 57 

digested completely in two and three-quarter hours, while a 
similar quantity of beefsteak demands four and a half hours. 
Sweetbreads require great care in the preparation for cooking, 
so as to rid them of the masses of fat mixed in the connective 
tissue. 

Liver and Kidneys, — These are compact solid organs 
containing little connective tissue. Tiiey are not very 
digestible. The livers of the calf and lamb are the most 
tender ; these parts should be used very shortly after killing. 
The protein contained in these organs is nucleo-protein, 
which yields nuclein on digestion. The glycogen in liver 
makes it an unsuitable article of food for diabetics. 

Bones. — All the connective tissues, including bones and 
cartilages, yield gelatine on boiling. Gelatine itself can take 
no part in the repair and growth of tissue, but it is valuable 
as a protein-sparer. By adding gelatine to the diet the 
protein in the food can be spared in the body, or devoted to 
the increase of bulk, just as by the supply of fats and carbo- 
hydrates. It is specially useful in soupmaking and for 
making jellies. Well-prepared jellies are very useful foods 
for invalids, and may be administered with advantage in 
feverish states. 

In order to get the maximum amount of gelatine, the 
bones are broken up into small pieces, and cooked in the 
oven with a high-pressure pot (see p. y^). 

Bones are a really cheap source of gelatine, as they 
contain gelatine to the extent of 15 to 50 per cent; the 
ordinary jelly, such as calfs-foot jelly, is an expensive food, 
because, as already indicated, it has little or no nutritive 
value, and as a source of energy it ranks very low. 

The marrow of bone has much nutritive value. It is an 
easily digested fat It can be used in the form of marrow 
bones or marrow toast, and has the advantage of being a 
very cheap food (see p. 197). 

Heart. — The heart of an ox or sheep is denser in structure 
than ordinary beef, but forms an admirable diet for the healthy 
individual. It has the merit of cheapness. 

Blood. — Blood is sometimes used in the form of black 
puddings. It is not an easily digested food, nor is it at all 
palatable. 



58 ANIMAL FOODS 

Poultry. — These arc characterised by short muscular 
fibres and a small amount of fat. Birds like the common 
fowl ami turkey, which have a white flesh, are the most easy 
of dicjcstion, beint][ tender and of a delicate flavour. A young, 
well-fed chicken is the most digestible of all animal foods. 
Short-legged fowls are more delicate in flavour, and as for age 
a one-year-old cock will be found too tough for roasting or 
brazing, and only edible when stewed for soups. The flavour 
and tenderness of the flesh is greatly increased by removal of 
the sexual organs — the capon is the term for this. Ducks and 
geese have more fat, are generally richer, and have a stronger 
flavour than fowls. Their flesh is darker in colour, and is 
more difficult of digestion. 

Game. — Partridges and pheasants, when young, are very 
delicate m flavour; pigeons less so. Grouse, woodcock, snipe, 
quail, ptarmigan, and wild duck have muscles with a very 
firm, close fibre, and on this account are generally "hung," 
to impart tenderness and develop flavour. The best portion 
for people with delicate digestion is the breast. 

Pork is indigestible on account of the large amount of fat 
present. The amount of fat may be greater than the amount 
of protein in the pork. 

Bacon is much more digestible than pork, and ham occu- 
pies an intermediate position. The fat in bacon is friable, 
and much more easily acted on by the digestive juices, and 
for this reason bacon is an admirable food for delicate 
children, and invalids in general, who require abundance of 
fat in the dietary. 

Sausages. — In this country these are made of uncooked 
meat, and various carbohydrate substances such as bread 
are frequently added ; the vegetable matter is not in- 
frequently disguised by the addition of colouring material. 
Seasonings of various sorts also enter into their composition. 
As sources of protein they are not more economical than 
ordinary meat, and their uncertain composition makes them 
unsuitable for invalids. 

Pish, including Crustacea and MoUusca. 
A distinguished authority on dietetics long ago pointed 
out that a large proportion of our town population would 



FISH 59 

profit by exchanc^ing some of their meat as an article of diet 
(lail)' for fisli. There is no doubt that without exercise in the 
open air the- (h'j^estive system is apt to become overloaded 
and oppressed b}' meals consisting chiefly of meat, and even 
if, as often happens, the primary digestion of the meat is, in 
the circumstances, fairly accomplished, many constitutions 
suffer from an over-supply of nutritive material which cannot 
be disposed of easily without considerable habitual muscular 
energy. In comparison with meat, fish is characterised by an 
alteration in the relative proportion of nitrogenous consti- 
tuents, fish containing more gelatine and a smaller amount 
of extractives than meat. The proportion of water in the 
heavier varieties of fish is, moreover, much greater than in 
lean meat. 

The special value of fish as an article of diet thus lies in 
the fact that it contains, in smaller proportion than meat, 
those materials which, taken abundantly, demand much 
physical labour for their complete combustion. The moderate 
amount of flesh-forming material present in fish, and in a 
form which entails little labour on the digestive organs — for 
most persons certainly less than meat — render fish a par- 
ticularly valuable article of diet. The smaller amount of 
extractives present in fish is in one respect no disadvantage, 
since this diminishes the tendency to indulge in excess. Its 
greater richness in gelatine-yielding substances causes fish to 
lose more in boiling than meat does, and on this account 
boiled fish is an insipid and unattractive article of diet. The 
cheapest fish are cod, ling, herring, mackerel, and sprats, the 
cost of course varying with the supply. 

Fish as a foodstuff contains a large proportion of water, a 
varying amount of fat and protein. The latter belongs chiefly 
to the gelatine-forming order. Isinglass, the finest form of 
gelatine, is obtained from fish bones, but more especially from 
cartilaginous fish, like the skate and sturgeon. According 
to the proportion of protein and fat in fish, they may be 
divided into two groups of "fat" and "lean." 

Fish with more than 5 per cent, of fat — eel, salmon, 
turbot, herring. 

Fish with from 2 to 5 per cent, of fat — halibut, mackerel, 
mullet. 



60 



ANIMAL FOODS 



r'ish with less than 2 per cent, of fat — cod, whiting, 
haddock. 

Fish arc at their best just before spawning, when the)- are 
said to be in season (see table) ; later they become poor and 
flabby. 

FisJi in Season. 





Jan. 


Feb. 


Mar. 


Apr. 


May. 


June. 


July. 


Aug. 


Sept. 


Oct. 


Nov. 


Dec. 


Bloater . 


+ 


+ 


+ 










+ 


+ 


+ 


+ 


Cod. 


+ 


+ 


+ 




... 










+ 


+ 


+ 


Crab 






... 


+ 


+ 


+ 


+ 


+ 


+ 








Flounder. 


... 


+ 


+ 


+ 






+ 


+ 


+ 


+ 






Haddock . 


+ 














+ 


+ 


-1- 


+ 


+ 


Halibut . 


+ 


+ 


+ 












.*■ 


+ 


+ 


+ 


Herring . 










+ 


+ 


+ 


+ 


+ 


+ 


+ 


+ 


Ling 


+ 


+ 


+ 


+ 














+ 


+ 


Lobster . 


+ 


+ 


+ 


+ 


+ 


+ 


+ 


+ 


+ 


+ 






Mackerel. 


+ 


+ 


+ 


+ 


+ 


+ 








+ 


+ 


+ 


Ojsters . 


+ 


+ 


+ 


+ 










+ 


+ 


+ 


+ 


Plaice 


+ 


+ 


+ 


+ 










+ 


+ 


+ 


+ 


Salmon . 




+ 


+ 


+ 


+ 


+ 


+ 


+ 


+ 








Skate 


+ 


+ 


+ 


+ 














+ 


+ 


Smelts 


+ 


+ 


+ 


+ 












+ 


+ 


+ 


Sole. 


+ 


+ 






+ 


+ 


+ 


+ 


+ 


+ 


+ 


+ 


Trout 




+ 


+ 


+ 


4- 


+ 


+ 


+ 










Tiirbot 


+ 


+ 


+ 


+ 










+ 


+ 


+ 




\Vhiteb:.it 


+ 


+ 


+ 


+ 


+ 


+ 


+ 










... 


Whiting . 


+ 


+ 


+ 


+ 


, 


... 




+ 


-1- 


+ 


+ 





Fish decompose readily, and cannot be cooked too fresh. 
The perfection of fish-cooking is obtained when the fish is 
transferred immediately from the water to the pot. Keeping 
in ice deteriorates the flavour. Skate and sturgeon are 
exceptions ; they improve by being " hung," the mu.scular 
fibre becoming softer. Smoked, salted, and pickled fish arc 
much less digestible than when fresh, and in this form they 
are better avoided by dyspeptics. The fish best suited for 
smoking are firm, oily fish, like the salmon and herring. 

In selecting fish, the following are the main indications of 
freshness: — The flesh is stiff and firm, the animal being in a 
state of rigor mortis ; the skin should be well covered with 
scales, and there should be no disagreeable smell, A most 
important point is that the eyes and gills are bright, while the 
tail is firm and not drooping. Cod, haddock, and whiting keep 
best, then flat fish ; mackerel and herrings very rapidly get soft. 
Varieties. — The edible fishes fall into two groups — 



COMPOSITION OF FISH 



61 



"white" and "oily" — the difference being whether they have 
the fat stored in the liver or distributed throughout the body. 

The white fishes are the most digestible ; they comprise 
the whiting, haddock, cod, brill, sole, plaice, flounder. 

The following analysis of the flesh of cooked fish may 
be taken to represent approximately their average com- 
position : — 

Analysts of Flesh of Cooked Fish. 







iiig 
ices 

tter 
ose. 




Solids 


n Dry Substance. 1 




Water 
in Flesli. 


Reduci 
ubstat 
in 
Ty Ma 
5 Glue 


Ash in Dry 

Substance. 




















Nitrogen. 


Fat. 


Protein. 






M Q cs 










Brill . 


62-74 




4-42 


15-49 


1-62 


93-9 


Cod . 




76-32 


6-67 


3-31 


15-30 


I-15 


91-5 


. (salt) . 




72-35 


7-14 


14-26 


12-41 


0-94 


76-0 


Eels . 




6i-o8 


8-91 


2-II 


7-36 


44-68 


42-8 


Gurnet . 




73-77 


14-77 


3-53 


14-24 


1-81 


89-1 


H;iddock . 




72-37 


13-15 


3-28 


13-II 


1-29 


79-5 


Hake . 




84-88 


13-64 


3-90 


12-86 


5-67 


81.3 


Halibut. 




7.1-46 




4-11 


13-32 


15-81 


79-6 


Herrings 




6o-54 




5-56 


ii-ii 


25-25 


67-0 


„ (salt 


) .' 


46-03 


17-59 


19-69 


7-12 


21-90 


38-8 


John Dory 




77-89 


14-29 


2-06 


13-32 


8-52 


79-5 


Lemon Soles 




78-11 


14-80 


4-42 


11-04 


12-96 


69-8 


Mackerel 




73-13 


13-93 


4-07 


10-46 


25-73 


62.3 


Oysters . 




77-71 


18-32 


12-16 


11-85 


7-77 


65-4 


Plaice . 




76-86 


11-56 


4-06 


13-02 


9-84 


75-1 


Red Mullet 




68-26 


9-79 


5-43 


11-59 


24-52 


66-2 


Roach . 




75-37 


6-28 


I -08 


13-03 


15-03 


79-1 


Salmon . 




65-32 


14-89 


4-94 


10-70 


29-43 


56-6 


Sardines 




44-35 




12-03 


8-54 


33-49 


55-4 


Smelts . 




So-73 


2-17 


4-73 


11-61 


9-76 


82-0 


Soles . 




79-20 


1 1 -87 


3-47 


14-00 


1.71 


86-0 


Sprats . 




75-77 


9-88 


6-42 


9.26 


27-37 


57-9 


Trout . 




73-58 


4-68 


6-60 


11-96 


8-8.1 


80-0 


Tunny . 




63-49 




5-52 


IO-55 


30-68 


66-0 


Turbot . 




77-84 


11-81 


2-41 


13-76 


4-75 


84-7 


Whiting 




78-78 


17-54 


1-92 


13-28 


1-86 


79-5 



The Whiting has been termed " the chicken of the sea." 
It is very light, easily digested, and when fresh possesses a 
very delicate flavour. 

Haddock^ when fresh, possesses a very delicate flavour ; the 
flesh is firmer and harder than whiting. It is best to select 
one of medium size ; when large, their flesh is coarse. Sm.oked 
haddocks are very well known, and vary greatly in digesti- 
bility. The small sort, known as the " Aberdeen findon," are 
quite tender ; they are smoked with peat smoke. The 



62 ANIMAL FOODS 

Arbroath smokies are also easily digested. The larger forms, 
smoked with petroleum, are tough, and have not nearly so 
fine a flavour. 

Cod is the toughest of the white fish. Its quality varies 
at the different seasons ; sometimes the flesh is hard and full 
of fibre. In selecting cod a plump one of medium size, the 
head and tail .small in proportion, and the sides looking as if 
the ribs were in the flesh, should be selected. The tail 
portion is the most tender, but has least flavour. 

Ling. — A cheap fish, not unlike cod; rather tasteless; 
requires a good sauce. 

Trout. — A fresh-water fish. The body has a silver and 
golden appearance when fresh. Those weighing about one 
pound are best. When in condition have excellent flavour, 
and very digestible. 

Suiclts. — A very small fish, but much esteemed. When 
fresh, have a silvery hue. 

Whitebait. — A very small fish, of silvery appearance. 
Highly esteemed. Must be used quite fresh. Best in May, 
June, and July. 

JoJin Dory. — The flesh is rather tough, and it is the better 
of being kept a day or two before being cooked. It is an 
unsightly fish, but of good flavour. It is best baked. 

The flat fishes form another section of the white fishes, and 
comprise — 

Sole. — Very delicate, and easily digested. It is a fish of 
excellent quality. Medium size is best. 

Plaice and Flounders. — Flat fish of rather poor quality and 
flavour, easily digested. Moderate price. Choose one with a 
thick, firm body. They are best boiled, fried, or baked augratin. 

Skate. — Tough, A very decided flavour ; improves with 
keeping for a day or two. The flesh should be firm and 
creamy in appearance. It requires to be skinned; unwhole- 
some when out of season. 

Brill. — Like turbot in appearance, and much cheaper. 
When fre.sh, the flesh .should be of a yellowi.sh tint ; if blue, it 
is not good. It is generally boiled. 

Halibut. — A flat fish, like turbot in appearance. Its flesh 
is very wholesome, and of excellent flavour. A middle cut 
of this fish is the best. 



FISH 63 

The oily fishes comprise — 

Turbot. — The best of all flat fish. The flesh is firm, rich, 
and white. The thick part of the fins is especially favoured 
by the epicure. A middle-sized fish is the best. This fish 
improves by keeping for a day. 

Salmon. — A red fish ; this is very rich in fat, which is 
found most abundantly on the under side. Its flesh is so rich 
that most people require a corrective in the way of vinegar or 
other acid sauce. In selecting salmon, one with a small head 
and tail and broad shoulders is best. The scales should be 
bright and silvery. The more freshly a salmon is cooked the 
better. 

Eel is exceptionally rich in fat, the proportion being about 
double that of proteins. Although oily, it is readily digestible 
and possesses a delicate flavour. There are salt- and fresh- 
water eels. The conger eel is a favourite with many people. 
The flesh is firm and hard, and requires long and careful 
cooking. 

Herring is the cheapest and most abundant of the oily 
fishes. West coast fishes are the richest and largest ; those 
caught off the East coast are smaller, seem less fat, and are 
not so indigestible. This fish should be cooked fresh ; when 
newly caught they have a bright and silvery appearance. If 
red about the eyes they have been dead some time. It 
should be well covered with scales, and plump. Herring are 
much used in the salted and smoked forms. When smoked 
for an hour or two they are called " bloaters." As the 
smoking continues, they become "kippers," "red herring," or 
" black herring." 

Mackerel readily taints, and gives rise to symptoms of 
ptomaine poisoning if eaten in this condition. The mackerel 
seasons are spring and autumn ; the latter fish are the finer. 
Sardines, sprats, and pilchards belong also to this group 
of fish. 

The Crustacea require a few words ; the edible forms are 
lobster, crab, crayfish, shrimps, and prawns. 

The lobster and crab consist of two distinct parts. The 
fle.sh, which is contained in the claws, legs, and tail, is very 
indigestible, mainly on account of the density and coarseness 
of the fibres. The habit of eating vinegar with lobster and 



64 ANIMAL FOODS 

crab is perfectly sound, the acid helping to soften the fibre. 
The body of these animals is also eaten. This is composed 
mainly of liver ; it contains a considerable quantity of fat, and 
is very rich. 

Lobster. — The lobster is more digestible than the crab ; 
the flesh of the claws is better than that of the tail. It 
decomposes rapidly, and therefore is best bought alive. 
The bright red part within the body is the ovary; their 
spawn is very nutritious, and is often used in sauces for the 
sake of its flavour and colour.^ 

Crab is inferior to lobster ; the flesh is tougher and more 
indigestible. The medium-sized ones are best. Choose a 
heavy one, for if light it is watery. The male crab is best 
for table, and may be distinguished by the large claws. 

Crayfish. — Used principally as a garnish, or for making 
soup. Like lobsters in appearance, but smaller and of more 
delicate flavour. 

Slirivips and Prawns can scarcely be classed as a food. 
They are best cooked in salt water, and have a distinctly 
appetising effect. 

Mollusca are represented by the oyster, mussel, whelk, 
periwinkle, and cockle. The oyster is the most typical and 
popular, and is the only one described. Oysters are in 
season from September to April, There are several kinds ; 
the " Natives" are considered the best. 

The composition of oyster is mainly water, over 88 per 
cent. ; protcid, 6 per cent. ; and carbohydrates, 3 per cent. 
The proportion of solid nutriment is not large, three dozen 
moderate-sized oysters only containing 5^ ounces of solids. 
The carbohydrate is present in oysters in the form of 
glycogen ; this makes oysters unsuitable in diabetic cases 
where a rigid dietary is being enforced. When eaten raw, 
oysters are an exceedingly easily digested food, three 
medium-sized oysters being completely digested in three- 
quarters of an hour. Cooking tends to make them tough 
and leathery. 

In recent years oysters have fallen into some disrepute, as 
they are known in some cases to have been the cause of typhoid 
fever. If oysters are grown in the mouths of rivers, they can 
easily be contaminated by typhoid germs in the sewage. 



DIGESTIBILITY OF MEATS 65 

This risk can be avoided by keeping the oysters alive for a 
day or two in salt water which is frequently changed. This 
washes out and destroys the bacilli. Cooking renders them 
innocuous, but they are rendered less digestible by the 
process. 

The roe of the sturgeon is known as caviare, when highly 
salted. It should be of a greyish colour when in good con- 
dition. Fresh roe of herring, haddock, and cod, prepared in 
different ways, are a very pleasant addition to an invalid's 
dietary, being both nutritious and easily digested. 

Digestibility of Meats. — The digestibility of meat foods 
varies so much according to the quality of the meat, the 
manner of cooking, and the state of the digestive organs, that 
no very precise statements can be made on this subject. At 
the same time, the following table may be taken as an 
average of the ease of digestibility of the different animal 
foods referred to : — 

Table of Comparative Digestibility, commencing with the Most 
Digestible and ejtding with the Least Digestible of Meats 
and other common Animal Foods. 

Oysters, raw. Chops, mutton or lamb. 

Soft-cooked eggs. Corned beef. 

Sweetbread. Veal. 

White fish, boiled or broiled. Ham. 

Chicken, boiled or broiled. Duck, snipe, venison, rabbit, and 

Lean roast beef or beefsteak. other game. 

Eggs, scrambled, omelet. Salmon, herring, mackerel. 

Mutton, roasted or boiled. Roast goose. 

Partridge. Lobsters and crabs. 

Bacon, crisp. Pork. 

Roast fowl, chicken, capon, turkey. Smoked, dried, or pickled fish and 

Tripe, brains, liver. meats in general. 

Roast lamb. 

Cooking of Flesh and Pish. 

The chemical composition of meat is modified by cooking, 
the results varying according to the method of cooking- 
employed. Cooking abstracts a large amount of water, about 
20 per cent, also part of the extractives, salts, and fat. A 
large amount of the extractives are removed by boiling ; 
hence boiled beef is deficient in flavour. The cooking of 
animal food develops in it new flavours and a greatly im- 

£ 



66 ANIMAL FOODS 

proved appearance — two factors of importance in promoting 
the digestibility of meat, the attractiveness of well-cooked 
food producing an increased secretion of gastric juice. The 
functions of digestion and assimilation are best carried on at 
a blood heat, therefore another object of cooking is to raise 
the food to a suitable temperature. The application of heat 
exercises a mechanical and also a chemical action on all food- 
stuffs. The mechanical action is more important when the 
question of cooking vegetable substances is considered. The 
prolonged heat acts by softening hard tissues and preparing 
tough tissues for mastication. Cooking of food is also of 
value in destroying parasites and pathogenic bacteria. With 
regard to the influence of cooking on the digestibility of meat 
foods, it is probable that most forms of cooking tend to lessen 
the digestibility of meat, the reverse holding good for vege- 
table foods. 

The effect of heat on the proteins is to coagulate them — 
the connective tissues being transformed into gelatine, and 
the protein of the meat at the same time developing odorous 
substances (extractives) which impart flavour and stimulate 
the appetite. 

The fats of food do not appear to be much affected by 
heat. Fat which has been heated and allowed to cool again 
is often found to become more granular than before. This is 
probably due to the driving off of water, which tends to make 
the fat more brittle and therefore more digestible. This 
change is well seen in fried bacon. 

The effect of different degrees of heat on albumin is the 
keynote of all the various culinary methods, which are varia- 
tions of one another, depending on whether the meat juices 
are to be retained or extracted. 

(a) When the meat juices are to be retained there is 
first a preliminary case-hardening of the albumin by intense 
heat ; after which, cooking proceeds at a lower temperature, 
rising in the interior of the meat just to the coagulating point 
of albumin. This object may be carried out by any of the 
following methods : — 

(i) Roasting, grilling, baking. — The heat being radiant 
heat and hot gases. 

(2) StcuDiing and boiling. — In this the heat is hot water. 



COOKING OF MEAT 67 

(3) Frybig, wet or dry. — This process is carried on by hot 
oil or hot oil and conduction. 

By following these methods we retain all the nutritive 
sapid qualities within the portion, leaving none of them, or 
very little, in the medium used. 

{b) When the juices are to be extracted from the meat, the 
result is a stew or a soup. Stewing first extracts the juice and 
then cooks the meat in it, and is thus conducted slowly and 
over a long time. Soupmaking aims at extracting as much 
as possible, and therefore begins in the cold, never rising 
above 160° F. The processes will now be referred to in detail. 

When the Meat Juices are Retained. — When this is the 
main object there is first a preliminary case-hardening of the 
albumin by intense heat ; after v/hich cooking proceeds at a 
lower temperature, rising in the interior of the meat just to 
the coagulating point of albumin. This object may be 
carried out by : — 

I. Roasting. — In this method of cookery the meat is cooked 
by the radiant heat of a fire from a large glowing surface 
free from smoke. The meat is exposed to this heat, a few 
inches from the fire, for five to ten minutes, and is basted with 
melted dripping, the surface albumin being coagulated to the 
thickness of a sixpence. After this has taken place the meat 
is removed one-half to one foot farther from the fire, and the 
cooking process is continued slowly at a greatly reduced 
temperature, the meat being slowly cooked in its own juices. 

If the heat is too great the hardened case is apt to crack, 
allowing the juices to escape. To prevent this the meat is 
basted with hot dripping, which prevents charring and crack- 
ing of the surface. If properly done, this fat does not soak 
into the meat. Although the surface heat is very great, the 
heat in the interior of the joint should not be much above the 
coagulating point of albumin, and any rise above this renders 
the meat less digestible, the albuminous matters becoming 
hard and horny. The inside parts of a properly roasted joint 
are the best for a weak digestion. 

This process requires a quarter of an hour per pound for 
beef and mutton, but longer for veal and poultry. The meat 
loses weight from expulsion of water — from about 20 to 25 
per cent. 



, 



68 ANIMAL FOODS 

2. Bfikifij:^. — Joints of meat can be well cooked in the oven 
of an ordinary kitchen range or in a gas-cooker, and the 
results arc very similar to roasting. 

If the heat of the oven is not properly regulated the 
results are different, the meat being richer, more flavoured, 
but more indigestible. This is owing to the process being 
conducted at too high a temperature after the preliminary 
case-hardening. 

3. Broilitig^ grilling, or brandering. — This is a similar 
process to roasting, and is admirably adapted for quickly 
cooking a chop, steak, kidney, fish, fowl, or mushroom. The 
object is the same as in roasting — the formation of a surface 
skin of coagulated albumin, and the retention within this of 
all the juices of the meat. The effect of the heat on a thin 
piece of meat seals the surface, but also coagulates the protein 
throughout, so that the meat is practically cooked at once. 
This happens when a chop is cooked on a grill ; the complete- 
ness of the sealing is shown by the fact that the water-vapour 
produced from the fluids is unable to escape, and causes the 
chop to assume the puffy form characteristic of good cooking. 

A clear smokeless fire is required, and the process of 
cooking is carried on by holding the article to be cooked over 
the fire. To avoid breaking the coagulated layer of protein, 
steak-tongs should be used instead of a fork for turning the 
meat This form of cookery is so rapidly carried out that 
there is not much time allowed for softening the food, so that, 
unless the meat is very tender, this process is not to be 
recommended. 

4. Boiling and steaming, as described here, consists in 
cooking meat or fish, either with hot water or steam^ 
with a view to retain in the meat all the flavours, and is 
the opposite of soupmaking, which aims at withdrawing the 
meat juices. Here, again, the first step is to coagulate a 
surface layer of albumin by plunging the joint into a large 
pot of boiling water to which has been added a handful of 
salt. Salt is added on account of the boiling-point of salt 
water being higher than that of fresh water. The formation 
of this hardened case takes about seven minutes; the pot 
should then be withdrawn and kept at the side of the fire, the 
temperature not higher that 180°. This method is not only 



METHODS OF COOKING 69 

much more economical, but the meat is very much more 
tender if the cooking is slowly conducted over a period of f^ve 
or six hours. The best method of slow cooking is by steam- 
ing the article of food in its own juice ; this can be done most 
satisfactory in a Warren cooking-pot or Bain-Marie. This is 
a pot consisting of three compartments connected by a steam 
chimney. Water is put into the lowest pot, in the second the 
meat and its flavourings, and in the top the vegetables. The 
food is thus cooked by steam ; less fuel is required, and there- 
fore it is more economical ; all the juices of the meat are 
retained ; and the meat will be found to be much more 
succulent, tender, and digestible than if simply boiled in water. 
If the boiling is carried to excess and the water really boils, 
the meat is boiled to shreds. In these circumstances the 
connective tissue has become gelatinised, and the muscle fibre 
has become tough like leather, and may often be recognised in 
the faeces. 

Steaming is an excellent way of cooking fish. It retains 
the flavour and also preserves the shape. 

5. Frying is boiling in oil, but as practised in this country 
is a dirty and wasteful method, being usually a combination 
of broiling and scorching. There are two forms. In dry 
frying — which is our national form of frying — a shallow frying- 
pan is used, and the food is either cooked in its own fat or 
with the aid of sufficient fat to prevent burning. It is only 
suitable for fatty food like herrings and sausages, but the 
products of this form of frying are often greasy, and for many 
persons exceedingly indigestible. 

Wet frymg or sauteing is, essentially, boiling in oil. For 
this there is required a deep pan of clarified dripping, or of 
olive oil. If the process is properly carried out, the food is 
deliciously cooked and absolutely free from grease. The 
temperature of the fat is important. When fat is placed on 
the fire and reaches 212° F. (the boiling-point of water), it 
bubbles and makes a hissing sound, due to a small portion of 
the water in the fat becoming steam and being got rid of. 
Fat, however, does not boil until it has reached a much 
higher temperature. At a temperature of 340° F. a slight 
bluish vapour is given off, and this is the time when, if a 
piece of bread be dropped in, it becomes brown in a second 



70 ANIMAL FOODS 

or two; on being taken out of the fat, it almost instantly loses 
its greasy appearance. If the fat gets hotter and begins to 
boil — a state of affairs to be avoided — it begins to smoke and 
decompose. 

The principle on which the success of frying depends is 
that at the moment of contact with the almost boiling fat 
a thin film is formed over part of the surface of the fish or 
other object to be fried, and all the juices and flavours are 
retained. The food is kept in until it has a golden brown 
colour, when it is removed from the oil bath. It may look 
greasy for a moment, but this drains off very quickly if put 
on a piece of paper near the fire, and it is absolutely free from 
grease when it appears at table. If the object to be fried is 
coated with egg and breadcrumbs, the crumbs should be 
very fine, and firmly pressed down, to prevent the grease 
adhering to the surface and being absorbed by it. 

The best substance to use is second quality of olive oil, 
or roast-beef dripping ; clarified lard should never be used, as 
the other media for frying are as easily obtained, and are 
much better. 

"When the Juices are Extracted. — Stewing and braising 
are processes by which meat and poultry can be prepared and 
served in the most tender condition possible. 

1. Stewing aims at making an extract of nutritive juices 
of the food, which are then used for cooking. A low, steady 
heat is wanted, and since nothing is lost in this process, it is 
one of the most economical ways of preparing food. The 
meat is chopped into convenient-sized portions, seasoned (if 
there are bones, they are also broken up and put into the 
pot) ; the whole is covered with cold water and a tight-fitting 
lid put on to the pot, which is placed near the fire but never 
allowed to boil. The old saying, " A stew boiled is a stew 
spoiled," is a true one. If vegetables are to be added, they 
are best put into the pot after the meat is half-done, as the 
flavours of the vegetables are lost with too continuous cooking. 
The more slowly the stew is cooked the better it is done. 
Tough meats are rendered more digestible by the addition of 
a little vinegar to loosen their fibres and to convert them into 
acid albumoses. 

2. Braising is very much the same as stewing. The meat 



SOUPS 



71 



is a^.iin slowly cooked in a closed vessel, the meat being just 
covered with an extract of animal and vegetable juices (stock) 
instead of water, and by this means the flavour of the meat is 
improved, the meat becoming impregnated with the flavours. 
This method is best adapted for foods somewhat insipid in 
themselves, like veal, poultry, and sweetbreads. At the end 
of the process the meat should be browned ; this is carried 
out by having a concave lid in which hot cinders can be 
placed, or it may be done by radiation before the fire. 

3. Boiling. — This brings us to the consideration of Soup 
and Soupmaking. 

Soups. 

Nutritional value. — The amount of nutriment to be got 
from a simple soup is very small. Soupmaking proceeds 
upon the principle of taking as much as possible from the 
materials, the extraction being effected by the use of a con- 
siderable quantity of water at a very moderate heat, extending 
over a long time. A clear soup contains the flavouring con- 
stituents and some of the salts of the meat of which it is 
prepared, also a very small proportion of soluble protein, all 
the coagulated protein having floated to the top and been 
removed as a brownish scum during the making; there is 
also present a small quantity of fat. Most clear soups contain 
only from I to 2 per cent, of solids ; thick soups contain a 
little more, as may be seen from the following analysis by 
KonisT : — 





^'^ter. ^Ker^ ^»*- 


Other Nitrogen- 
free Substances. 


Cellu- 
lose. 


Mixed 
Substances 


Pea Soup . 
Potato Soup 


88-26 3.38 
90-96 1-37 


0-93 
I-53 


5-60 
4.87 


0-70 
0-26 


I-I3 
0-99 



If soup is to be made even moderately nutritious, the soup 
must simply be used as a vehicle by means of which other 
food materials can be made use of The following ingredients 
are frequently used to thicken soup : — Starchy materials, such 
as cornflour, barley, rice, and potatoes ; macaroni and vermi- 
celli, both containing a good deal of gluten. The pulses, e.g., 
lentils, peas, beans, added to weak stock, produce the most 



72 ANIMAL FOODS 

nulrilious soups to be found on the table. Eggs, grated 
cheese, and cream have all their places in the preparation of 
nutritious soups. Purees of meat, chicken, game, and fish 
can also be added to soup. 

In spite of its low nutritional value, ciear soup has its own 
place in dietetics. To begin dinner with, a small quantity 
(8 to lo oz.) of soup is a good method ; it promotes the gastric 
secretion, and consequently aids the digestion of the meal that 
follows. A larger quantity may be a drawback to digestion, 
on account of diluting the gastric juice. For some invalids 
a strong soup is useful as a stimulant for rousing the appetite 
and increasing the digestive powers, but it does not count for 
much as nutriment. 

Soupmaking. — In order to expose as large a surface to 
the water as possible, the meat is cut up into pieces ; the 
solvent power of the water is increased by the addition of a 
little vinegar to the water. The temperature is kept at 
a little below i6o° F. for several hours. As vegetables 
require a very much greater heat than this to soften them, 
they should either be first boiled, and then the meat should 
be added, or the vegetables can be cooked separately, and 
only added to the soup when it is almost ready ; this pre- 
serves the colour best. Flavouring herbs should be put in at 
the last moment. In all soups made from meat, great care 
should be exercised in the removal of the fat. This is done 
by the soup being made the day before it is required, put 
aside in a basin to cool, and, when quite cold, the fat carefully 
skimmed from the to]j. 

Varieties of Soup. — The term "stock" is usually given 
to the liquid part, to which the nutritious thickening and 
other ingredients are added. 

Stock is the foundation of soups, and to be successful in 
soupmaking the manufacture of stock is necessary. There 
are varieties of stock, i.e.^ wliite^ brown, and fish stock. Of 
white and brown a first and second stock is made. 

White stock is made principally from beef, with sometimes 
a little mutton or veal added. 

Brown stock is made in the same way as white, but more 
vegetables are added to colour it. 

Fish stock is made from fish and fish trimmings. 



SOUPS 73 

"Meat boilings" is the name given to the water in which 
a joint of meat, fowl, or rabbit has been boiled. 

Consomme is a clear soup made from first stock, and 
served with different garnishes. 

Puree is a thick souo made from first or second stock. 
The thickening may be either meat, game, or vegetables, the 
substance with which it has been thickened being first rubbed 
through a sieve. 

Stock may be made in a proper stock pot, or in a large 
goblet. The stock pot should receive all scraps of meat and 
vegetables that are over from the preparation of other dishes ; 
also any meat boilings. A sufficient quantity of fresh cold 
water must always be added, and a little salt to throw up the 
scum. 

A stock pot should be kept slowly boiling, gradually con- 
centrating its contents, and should not stand by the side of 
the fire in a lukewarm condition. Skim the stock thoroughly 
once or twice. A few washed egg-shells put into the stock 
will help to clear it. One whole day is sufficient to boil stock ; 
then strain thoroughly, wash the pan, and set it outside to air. 
These precautions are necessary to prevent the stock becoming 
sour from fermentation. 

The bones and any pieces of the meat may be put on next 
day with any fresh scraps. The vegetables are useless once 
the flavour has all been extracted. 

Stock and soup should never be allowed to cool in the 
saucepan, but should be poured into basins and left uncovered. 
The grease that rises to the top should not be removed before 
the soup is used, as the covering of fat helps to preserve it. 

If the stock has to be kept some time, it is best preserved 
by putting into a saucepan and bringing it to the boil each 
day. 

The next variety of soup is that which is made on the lines 
of a good Scotch broth, of meat and vegetables, either boiled 
in stock or in water. This is known in F"rance as pot-an-feii, 
and here the boiled meat is intended to be eaten with or 
immediately after the soup. 

Grand bouillon is a stronger extract than pot-au-feu. In 
this, to the meat and vegetables are added bones and connec- 
tive tissue for the sake of the gelatine. This, when cold and 



74 ANIMAL FOODS 

strained, forms a slightly firm jelly, which can be cleared and 
flavoured in many ways. (This variety is usually "clear 
soup.") If an extract sufficiently strong to be termed grand 
bouillon be taken, and to this is added extract or puree of 
roast meat, fowl, or vegetable, the result is known as a con- 
somme. This form of soup is the most nutritious, because it 
contains most albumin. 

In framing a diet, due weight must always be given to the 
composition of the particular soup to be taken. 

Method of making Stock. 
First Stock for Clear Brown Soup. 

3 lbs. shin of beef, or 2 or 3 stalks of celery, or teaspoon- 

2 lbs. „ „ and ful celery seed. 
I lb. knuckle of veal. 2 doz. peppercorns. 

3 quarts cold water. 8 cloves. 

I carrot. i blade of mace. 

I turnip. A few parsley stalks, 

1 teaspoonful mixed herbs. I dessertspoonful of salt. 

2 small onions. 

Method. — Wipe the meat with a damp cloth, and remove all marrow 
from the bone. Take a very sharp knife and cut the meat into small 
pieces, keeping back any fat, but using the skin. Put the bones and 
meat into a stock pot with the cold water and salt, and let them soak for 
half an hour ; then put the pot on the fire, and bring the contents slowly 
to the boil. Simmer for half an hour, and then remove any scum that 
may be on the top. Add the vegetables, prepared and cut rather small, 
and the herbs, celery, seed, and peppercorns, etc., tied in a small piece 
of muslin. Simmer slowly from four and a half to five hours, never 
letting it go off the boil. Then strain through a hair sieve or cloth 
stretched over a colander into a basin, and stand until cold. 

A darker coloured stock may be obtained by frying the meat in a little 
dripping or butter before pouring on the water. 

Do not throw away the meat or vegetables left after straining, but put 
them on again with the same quantity of water as before, and boil again 
for second stock. 

First Stock for White Soup. 

3 lbs. knuckle of veal, or 2 lbs. knuckle of veal and i lb. neck of mutton. 
3 quarts cold water. 

Make in the same way as first stock for brown soup, but use fewer 
vegetables. Rabbit or chicken may be used along with the veaL A 
piece of lean ham or a small ham bone will improve the flavour. 



BEEF-TEAS 75 

S(\ond Stock for Purees, Gravies, atid General Use. 

After the first stock is made, the meat and vegetables should be put 
on again with the same quantity of water, and boiled as before. This 
has not the fresh flavour of first stock, but is useful for making sauces, 
gravies, and many soups for which a good stock is not required. Some- 
times the meat and vegetables are fried in a little dripping first. This 
gives the stock a darker colour and a richer flavour. 

Home-made Beef-teas, Extracts, and Essences,* 

Meat Infusions or Teas. — Home-made infusions of beef, 
mutton, veal, and chicken are always in demand for the sick- 
room. They are to be regarded more in the nature of 
pleasant, palatable, and stimulating beverages than as foods. 
Their nutritive value depends entirely on how they are made. 
If the cooking is carried out so that the infusion contains 
some of the protein of the meat, then there is some nutritive 
value ; but, on the other hand, if made as ordinarily done, 
only the extractives and salts of the meat are dissolved out, 
and it cannot rank as a food. There is evidence that the 
meat extractives are capable of removing the effects of 
muscular fatigue, and enabling an exhausted muscle to 
become active again. On this account they can claim to 
be stimulating. 

Preparation of meat infusion or tea. — When it is pos- 
sible to select the portion of meat to be used, it is best to 
order for beef-tea, meat freshly killed, from the buttock, 
rump, or thick flank in preference to the shin of beef In the 
same way fillet of veal is preferable to the knuckle or neck. 
For chicken-tea a full-grown fowl should be selected ; the legs 
and dark part of the fowl can be used for soup, while the 
white portion can be served in some other way. In mutton 
and veal tea equal parts of the meats are used : this gives a 
very delicate flavour, and is often a pleasant change. In the 
process of cooking, the tea must not be allowed to boil, other- 
wise the juices are not extracted, owing to the insoluble 
albuminous coating formed on the surface of the meat. In 
every case care must be taken to insure that all the fat is 
removed from the surface before serving. 

* The patent and proprietary meat extracts are described on p. i6l. 



76 ANIMAL FOODS 

Beef -ten 

Mtihod I. — The following recipe gives method of extracting the 
greatest possible quantity of nutriment : — 

I lb. lean juicy beef. I pint cold water. 

I small teaspoonful salt. 

Wipe the meat with a damp cloth, and then place on a board, and 
with a sharp knife shred down as finely as possible. Keep back any 
pieces of connective tissue and fat. In this way all the fibres of the 
meat are removed from the connective tissue which holds them together. 
Place the shredded meat in a basin with salt and water, stir it well 
up, cover the basin with a plate, and let it stand for half an -hour. 
While the mixture is standing most of the soluble proteins of the meat 
will be dissolved out along with the extractives and salt. By the end of 
the half-hour the solution is practically a raw-beef juice. Then pour the 
contents of the basin into a clean, lined saucepan, place the pan over a 
slow fire, and whisk it well until it almost reaches boiling-point — on no 
account let it boil. Draw the pan to the side of the fire, put on the lid, 
and allow the beef-tea to simmer as slowly as possible for about fifteen 
minutes. Strain through a coarse strainer, pressing the meat as dry as 
possible with a wooden spoon. Skim all the fat off carefully before 
serving. After cooling, the tea will be found to have settled into two 
layers, a lower layer composed of flocculent particles and an upper layer 
of brown fluid. The lower flocculent layer consists of the protein which 
has been slightly coagulated by the heat. If the tea has passed through 
a muslin or fine strainer these particles would have been kept back and 
the value of the infusion lessened. The upper or fluid layer consists of a 
solution of the extractives and salts of the meat only. 

Method 2. — The same proportion of meat and water are used. The 
meat is prepared in the same way, but is placed, after standing in water 
for half an hour, in a beef-tea jar, and cooked in a very cool oven for two 
hours. The jars are strong stone jars, with a strong screw lid, and 
can be obtained from Dale & Co., Edinburgh. This method of making 
beef-tea gives the best flavour. It may be too savoury for a delicate 
palate. 

{Caution. — After making beef-tea in this way the jar must not be 
opened until the contents are cold. If opened too soon the steam 
rushes up, and it is very apt to scald the cook's face and arms.) 

Varieties of teas. — There are various ways in which 
beef-tea may be thickened, e.g., with tapioca, breadcrumbs, 
or baked flour, thus adding considerably to the nutritive 
value. When permissible, the flavouring can be improved by 
the addition of vegetables and celery seed ; or a muslin bag 
containing a variety of vegetables can be cooked with the 
beef-tea and afterwards removed. 



BEEF-TEAS 77 

(i) Thick Beef -tea. 

^ pint of made beef-tea. i yolk of egg. 

I teaspoonful tapioca grout. 
Warm the beef-tea and sprinkle in the tapioca, stirring all the time. 
Let it simmer slowly by the side of the fire until the tapioca turns quite 
clear. This will probably take about fifteen minutes. Beat up the yolk 
of an egg in a cup, pour the beef-tea gradually over it, stirring all the 
time, and it is ready for serving. 

(2) \ pint of made beef-tea. i teaspoonful of arrowroot 

I teaspoonful cold water. 

Mix the arrowroot and the water in a small basin until quite smooth. 
Then add it to beef-tea that is being warmed in a pan ; stir well for a few 
minutes to prevent it becoming lumpy. Then simmer slowly for fifteen 
minutes. 

(3) Beef -tea Gruel. 

I tablespoonful fine oatmeal. i gill beef-tea. 

I gill cold water or milk. Salt. 

Make the gruel (see p. 296). When cooked, add it to the beef-tea ; 
stir them together until quite hot, but do not boil. It is then ready 
for use. 

(4) Beef Puree. 

\ pint good beef-tea. \ lb. lean juicy meat. 

Warm in a pan the beef-tea. Wipe and shred very finely \ lb. of 
meat, pound it well, and rub it through a fine wire sieve. Take a cup, 
make it thoroughly hot, put in the pounded meat, and pour on the hot 
beef-tea. Stir it up well, and serve at once. 

Beef Essence. — One pound of meat will make i gill of 
essence. Chicken can be prepared in a similar manner. 

Prepare meat as in last recipe, shredding it down very finely. The 
chicken is jointed and meat chopped down finely. Place in a jar with a 
pinch of salt, cover with a strong piece of greased kitchen paper. Place 
the jar in a saucepan containing sufficient cold water to reach fully half- 
way up the jar, and let it steam slowly from four to five hours. When 
ready, strain through a coarse strainer, and press the meat well with the 
back of a wooden spoon to e.xtract all the juice. This liquid is thus pure 
extract. When cold, this is in the form of a jelly. 

Meat Juices. — This variety of food differs greatly in 
nutritive value from the beef-teas and essences previously 
mentioned. The meat juice is extracted without any heat 
and under strong pressure, and thus a large portion of the 
albumin is present. The preparation and value of the pro- 



78 ANIMAL FOODS 

prictary meat juices, such as Brand's and Wyeth's meat 
juices, will be later referred to (p. i6i). 

Home-made Meat Juice 

is cheaper than the proprietary preparations, and is more 
valuable on account of its freshness and the absence of 
preservatives. It contains a relatively small quantity of 
extractives, and can be given in considerable amounts with- 
out causing diarrhoea or thirst. The great drawback to 
the home-made product is its red colour, which is decidedly 
objectionable. This can be partially overcome by serving 
in a red glass or a cup. 

Method of Preparation — 

\ lb. best rump steak. i gill cold water. 

Pinch of salt or sugar to taste. 

Wipe and shred very finely \ lb. of meat, pound it well, and rub it 
through a fine wire sieve. Place the meat in a basin with water and salt, 
let it stand, stirring occasionally, for a couple of hours. The liquid will 
then be a bright red colour. Strain through a fine strainer, pressing the 
meat with the back of a spoon. The fluid obtained will contain 4 to 5 
per cent, of protein. 

Meat juice should be made in very small quantities as 
it very soon becomes rancid. Another method, such as 
squeezing the meat in a lemon squeezer, may be tried, but 
this is wasteful, as the pressure is not sufficiently powerful to 
extract all the juice. 



CHAPTER VI 

VEGETABLE FOODS 

PAOK PAOB 

Introduction 79 Classification of vegetable foods — 

Starches and Sucjars . . .81 Tubers and roots — 

Classification of vegetable foods . 85 Tubers : potatoes, artichokes, 

Seeds and Fruits — yams . . . .114 

(a) Cereals : wheat, oats, etc. Roots: carrots,turnips,radishes 1 16 

Breadmalting . . 86 Stenms and leaves — 

(J>) Pulses: peas, beans. Green vegetables . . .117 

lentils .... loi Methods of preparing vege- 

(c) Fruits and nuts , . 105 tables . . . .122 

The large and varied class of foodstuffs derived from plants 
have a strikingly common feature as far as their chemical 
composition goes. They are all very rich in carbohydrates, 
and as a rule are poor in fats. They contain vegetable 
proteins in different proportions. 

Richness in protein and fat is the characteristic of animal 
foods, while the vegetable kingdom yields carbohydrates in 
abundance in the form of starch and sugar. 

Vegetable proteins exist as vegetable albumin and vege- 
table casein. Vegetable albumin is not unlike egg albumin, 
and is coagulated by heat. Legumin or vegetable casein is 
coagulated by rennet and by acids, and is not coagulated by 
heat There is a striking difference in the protein from animal 
and vegetable sources, the former yielding 11 per cent, gluta- 
minic acid on decomposition, the latter 37 per cent. Little is 
known as to the significance of this. Vegetable proteins do not 
contain many of the substances known as " nucleo-proteins," 
and are therefore considered by some authorities as a more 
suitable source of protein in gout. Extractives are present 
in vegetables in abundance, and belong to the group of 

7U 



80 VEGETABLE FOODS 

chemical substances called amines. Asparagin, found in 
the potato, is one of the best known ; these are of no value 
as foods. 

Though there is no true gelatine substance in carbo- 
hydrates, there is a peculiar group of bodies known as 
" pectoses." These substances give to fruits their power of 
forming jellies when boiled. Little is known of their exact 
chemical nature. 

The salts of plants exist largely as salts of potash and 
phosphorus ; in many of the cereals {e.g. wheat) iron is also 
present in combination with phosphoric acid. This differs 
from animal food, where the salts are mainly chlorides ; thus 
in the eating of vegetables it is important to add sodium 
chloride (common salt). 

Vegetable proteins are not so easily digested and 
assimilated as animal proteins. The proteins in peas and 
beans are rich in sulphur, and are therefore prone to induce 
flatulence. 

On the whole, plant life is not rich in fats. The fat 
resembles in chemical composition the animal fats, but 
contains as a rule more of the oily constituent (olein) and 
less of the solid components. The solid vegetable fats are 
cocoa-nut oil, palm oil, and cocoa butter, none of which are in 
great use as foods. The fluid oils are classed as drying and 
non-drying oils, owing to the fact that on exposure to air 
some absorb oxygen and become dry and solid, e.g., linseed, 
hemp, walnut, and poppy ; others are non-drying oils, e.g., 
olive oil, cotton-seed oil, and almond oil. 

Vegetable butters are now made from mixtures of these 
fats, and closely resemble cooking and table butter. In 
addition to the oils obtained by pressure, most plants contain 
volatile or essential oils, to which they owe their fragrance. 
These oils are diffused through every part of a plant, but are 
more concentrated in certain parts. Thus in the orange and 
lemon they are found in the rind, in the rose tribe they are 
found in the petals, in the umbelliferae chiefly in the seeds. 
They are mainly used in perfumery, but they enter also 
largely into flavouring agents, and act as condiments to 
excite the appetite and stimulate the digestive juices. 

The carbohydrates form the great bulk of vegetable food, 



CARBOHYDRATES— CELLULOSE, STARCH 81 

and are represented by starch, sugar, and cellulose. There 
is a framework of cells and binding tissue known as cellulose ; 
starch is the substance stored in the cells ; and sugar is the 
partially digested starch which circulates through the plant. 
These will be shortly considered. 

Cellulose belongs to the carbohydrate group, but is 
characterised by its extraordinary insolubility : neither cold 
or hot water has any effect upon it, and in order seriously to 
influence it, prolonged boiling with a dilute acid is necessary. 
Cotton wool may be taken as almost pure cellulose, and 
paper is just felted vegetable fibre. When a plant is young 
its cellulose can be digested readily by man, but as the plant 
grows older the cellulose becomes more woody in structure 
and gets enveloped in resinous material, so that it is indigest- 
ible like paper or sawdust. It is this peculiarly insoluble 
envelope that makes the whole vegetable group difficult to 
digest unless very thoroughly cooked. 

The nutritive parts of the plant are the starch, which is 
stored up in the cells, and the sugar, which circulates through 
the framework. The starches and sugars are convertible : 
the sugar is the digested nutriment of the plant, while the 
starch is the form in which the nourishment of the plant is 
stored for further use. It is also interesting to note that all 
starch eaten by animals has first to be converted into sugar 
before it can be used for the needs of the body. 

Starch is really made up of a number of minute cells ; 
microscopically they are of various shapes, depending on the 
plant from which they are taken, eg:, round, oval, polyhedral. 
The starch granules show concentric markings, showing that 
the cells have been built up layer by layer. Starch grains 
are insoluble in cold water; when boiled, the starch grains 
swell up and burst the cellulose envelopes, and forms with 
water the sticky substance used in laundry work. Cooking 
is essential for vegetable foods in order to rupture the starch 
granules so that the broken-up grains may be brought 
more readily into contact with the digestive juices. Dry 
heat applied to starch, as in baking of bread, pastry, tart- 
making, partially converts the carbohydrate into another 
form known as dextrin (British gum). A temperature of 
about 300" ¥. is necessary to produce this. Dextrin differs 

F 



82 VEGETABLE FOODS 

Irom starch in being very soluble in water, and gives a reddish- 
brown instead of blue reaction with iodine. 

Sugars. 

Sugars are crystallisablc carbohydrates with oxygen and 
hydrogen existing in proportion to form water. There are 
several varieties of sugars, e.g., cane sugar, grape sugar, milk 
sugar, fruit sugar, and malt sugar. They present slight 
differences in their physical properties, such as specific 
gravity, solubility, and effect upon polarising light. They also 
differ in taste and digestibility. 

Sugars have essentially the same use as starches, for all 
starch must be converted into glucose or dextrose before it 
can be made use of in the body. 

Sugars are of value as energy and heat producers, and 
they also can be transferred into fat ; they are, however, not 
essential for this purpose, as they can be replaced either by 
starches or fat They are largely used for preserving 
purposes. Thus, sugars and syrups are used to preserve 
fruits in solution, or in the dried form as preserved cherries 
and crystallised ginger. 

Cane sugar requires to be converted into grape sugar 
before it is absorbed, and therefore grape sugar may be 
considered a predigested carbohydrate. 

There has been a very striking increase in the consump- 
tion of sugar in recent years ; the immoderate use of sugar 
gives rise to flatulent dyspepsia and disorders of nutrition 
(see Glycosuria). 

There are three groups of sugars : — 

1. Sucroses, or di-saccharids, examples of which are cane 

sugar, beet sugar, maple sugar, and malt sugar. 

2. Glucoses, or mono-saccharids, grape sugar (dextrose), 

fruit sugar (levulose). 

3. Invert sugar, best known as honey. 

I. Sucroses. — (a) Cane sugar is the clarified and crystal- 
lised juice of the sugar cane, but may be made also from beet- 
root. To the ordinary consumer the source of the sugar, 
whether from cane or beet, is indistinguishable, but for the 
manufacture of fruit syrups and British wines sugar from 



SUGARS 83 

cane is said to be less liable to fermentation. Commercial 
sugar is extracted from sugar cane and the juice of the com- 
pressed beetroot by a process of refining which produces 
commercial white sugar of various grades. The principal 
steps in this process are as follows : — (i) Melting of the sugar ; 
(2) straining through filters ; (3) filtering through charcoal ; 
(4) boiling or evaporating the decolorised liquid in vacuum 
pans ; (5) separation of crystallised sugar by centrifuge. 

Coarse brown sugar is somewhat impure and has a slightly 
laxative action ; it is not cheaper than the more refined 
varieties. 

Maple sugar is derived from the sap of the sugar maple 
of North America. The bark is tapped in early spring, and 
allows the sap to escape as it flows upwards. The sap is 
evaporated, the sugar crystallises out, and the residue is 
used as maple syrup. 

There is no chemical difference between maple sugar and 
the other two described above, but it contains certain ethereal 
substances which give it its peculiar flavour. Maple sugar is 
chiefly used as a confection. 

Molasses, treacle, and syrup are by-products formed during 
the process of refining the above sugar. The first two, owing 
to impurities, are more laxative than golden syrup, but all 
contain besides sugar — acids, extractives, salts, and more or 
less impurities. 

Heat applied to sugar makes it change its crystalline form. 
When strongly heated it melts into a yellowish liquid, and on 
cooling it does not crystallise, but forms a transparent, brittle 
mass — familiar as barley sugar. Sugar candy is made by 
extremely slow crystallisation. Caramel is made by heating 
refined cane sugar to about 40G' F., when it is melted, 
browned, and converted into a non-crystaliisable fluid with 
a distinctive "caramel" flavour. Caramel may be added to 
insipid invalid foods such as milk, custard, farina, arrowroot, 
and the like. 

Confectionery and sweets are made from cane sugar or 
glucose (grape sugar), with the addition of butter or other 
fats, nuts, fruits, .starch, and flavouring extracts. Sweets 
in moderation are good for growing children. There is no 
proof that sugar is harmful to the healthy, although doubtless 



84 VEGETABLE FOODS 

sweets which adhere to the teeth undergo fermentation with 
the production of acids which attack the teeth. 

(b) Maltose. — Though one of the same group of sugars as 
eane, etc, it varies very considerably in chemical and physical 
properties. When taken in the form of malt extract the 
sugar is less apt to irritate the stomach, and although not 
capable of direct absorption as such, maltose may yet be 
regarded as a partially digested form of carbohydrate. Malt 
sugar is formed in the process of malting. The grain is roasted 
in a kiln till it shows signs of sprouting, when the temperature 
is raised to arrest further growth. The grain is now called 
malt, and is brownish, some of the starch having been changed 
into dextrin and part of it into sugar. The object of the 
malting is to convert the insoluble starch into the soluble 
sugar and dextrin (see Malt Extracts, p. 178). 

(c) Lactose, or milk sugar, is the carbohydrate of milk. It 
differs from cane sugar in its flavour, being almost tasteless. 
It is hardly possible to ferment it by yeasts. It is therefore 
very useful in cases of stomach derangement with fermenta- 
tion. It is readily split up by micro-organisms to form lactic 
acid. 

(d) Mannite is obtained from the sweet juice of the stems 
of the ash tree ; it is found also in beetroots and .some other 
vegetables. Like sucrose, it crystallises and is white. It does 
not ferment with yeast. It is laxative, and may be used in 
diabetes, not being excreted in the urine as glucose. 

2. Glucose, or grape sugar, is present in almost all fruits, 
in some in abundant quantities. In peaches, pineapples, and 
strawberries it is found with cane sugar, and in grapes and 
cherries it is combined with other varieties. Grape sugar is 
known by the name of dextrose. When grapes are dried to 
form raisins, the little dried masses on the outside are dextrose. 
Commercial glucose is usually obtained by boiling starch with 
acid, and it is sold in a syrupy form. When heated it turns 
brown and is used as sugar-colouring. Glucose mixed with 
egg albumin is largely employed by confectioners in the 
preparation of icing and fondants. 

Levu/ose, or fruit sugar, is found in most fruits ; it is difficult 
to crystallise. It is now sold under the name of " Diabetin," 
for the use of diabetics, on the ground that it is better borne 



J 



SUGARS 85 

than any other form of snnrar. Diabctin is sweeter than cane 
sugar, and has a somewhat fruity taste. It may be taken 
in considerable quantities without disordering digestion, as 
saccharin is apt to do. 

3. Invert Sugar is a mixture of dextrose and levulose. 
It can be prepared from cane sugar by the action of ferments, 
or by boiling. Inversion goes on rapidly if cane sugar is 
boiled with fruit juice. A large proportion of cane sugar is 
converted into invert sugar in the process of jam-making. 
Honey is " an invert sugar " prepared by bees from the cane 
sugar of flowers ; the insect transforms a part of the sugar into 
dextrose. Honey is a vegetable product manufactured by 
an insect, and contains besides the sugar — wax, gum, pigment, 
and odorous substances. Honey was more in demand for 
sweetening before the discovery of sugar-refining. It is a 
wholesome, fattening food. Artificial honeycombs are now 
made from parafifin stamped into cells, which allows the bees 
more time for the storage of honey. Run honey is mixed 
with fluid glucose and sold as honey ; it is innocuous, but should 
be sold at a cheaper rate. Honey gathered from poisonous 
flowers has occasioned symptoms of poisoning. 

Saccharin and dulcin (sucrol) are chemical substitutes 
for sugar. They have many hundred times the sweetening 
power of sugar, but are of no use as foods. They are used 
to replace sugar as a flavouring agent in diabetes, gout, and 
obesity. 

Vegetable Poods Proper. 

Almost every part of plants furnishes food, but more 
especially seeds, roots, stems, leaves. These may be classified 
as follows : — 

A. Seeds and Fruits. 

(a) Cereals. — Wheat, oats, maize, etc. - 

(b) Pulses. — Peas, beans, lentils. 

(c) Fruits and Nuts. — Oranges, almonds, walnuts. 

B. Tubers and Roots. 

Tubers. — Potatoes, Jerusalem artichokes, yams. 
Roots. — Carrots, turnips, radishes. 

C. Stems and Leaves. 

Green I ^egcta hies. 



86 VEGETABLE FOODS 

A. Seeds and Fruits. 
Cereals. 

(^7) The Cereals, from Ceres, goddess of corn, comprise 
all grains or corn-bearing plants. They are really grasses 
cultivated so as to develop the maximum of food material 
with a minimum of husk — the growth of millet, lentils, and 
barley being prehistoric in origin. In geographical distribu- 
tion they extend over the whole globe — sorghum and millet 
growing at the tropics, while barley, oats, and rye are grown 
in the extreme north of Europe. The seeds dry easily, and 
can be stored and shipped without loss. They contain from 
5 to 14 per cent, nitrogenous matters, chiefly in the form of 
gluten, while the bulk of the grain consists of starchy the 
whole enclosed in a covering of cellulose. The proportion 
o{ fat varies in different members of the group. It is interest- 
ing to note that it tends to be most abundant in those cereals 
which grow in the temperate or cold zones, e.g.^ oats, whereas 
in cereals of tropical growth, e.g. rice, there is hardly any 
present Wheat and rye, owing to peculiarities in their 
gluten, are the only ones suitable for breadmaking, but 
all of them can be made into cakes, porridge, puddings, or 
soup. 

The process of grinding first removes the outer coats of 
cellulose, and an unbroken meal or flour is obtained. The 
gluten lies next the outer surface. The salts in grains 
amount to about 2 per cent. This amount depends largely 
on the kind of soil and manure employed — they consi.st 
chiefly of phosphates of soda and potash, with lime and 
magnesia, and a little silica and iron. The organic salts 
are almost absent 

The average composition of cereals is as follows : — 



Water 


. 10 to 12 per cent. 


Proteins 


. 10 to 12 „ 


Carbohydrates 


. 65 to 75 „ 


Fat. 


. ito 8 „ 


Mineral matter 


2 „ 



The average composition of the more important individual 
cereals may be taken as follows : — 



WHEAT 

Composition of Cereals. 



87 





Water. 


Protein. 


Fat. 


Carbo- 
hydrates. 


Cellulose. 


Mineral. 


Barley .... 


12-3 


lO-I 


1-9 


69.5 


3-8 


2-4 


Buckwheat , 


I3-0 


10.2 


2-2 


61-3 


ii-l 


2-2 


Maize .... 


12.5 


9-7 


S-4 


68-9 


20 


1-5 


Millet .... 


12-3 


10-4 


3-9 


68.3 


2.9 


2-2 


Oats .... 


lO-O 


IO-9 


4-5 


591 


12-0 


3-5 


Oats, hulled . 


6.9 


I3-0 


8-1 


68-6 


1-3 


a. I 


Rice in the husk, paddy 


10.5 


6-8 


1.6 


681 


9-0 


40 


Rice, polished 


12-4 


6.9 


0.4 


79-4 


0-4 


0-5 


Rye ... 
Wheat .... 


no 


IO-2 


2-3 


72-3 


2-1 


2-1 


120 


IIO 


1-7 


71-2 


2-2 


1.9 



Parkes gives the following order of merit of the common 
grains, in respect of proximate principles : — 



Proteins. 


Fats. 


Starch. 


Salts. 


Wheat 


Oats 


Rice 


Barley 


Barley 


Maize 


Maize 


Oats 


Rye 


Barley 


Wheat 


Wheat 


Oats 


Rye 


Rye 


Rye 


Maize 


Wheat 


Oats 


Maize 


Rice 


Rice 


Barley 


Rice 



The cereals contain a great excess of carbohydrate, and 
mankind has instinctively added fat and protein ; so that we 
eat butter with bread, milk with porridge, and make cereal 
puddings up with eggs and milk. 

Wheat. — The first place among the cereals must be 
assigned to wheat — it is estimated that 6 bushels per head each 
year are consumed. There are two varieties, summer and 
winter wheat. The following is the average composition : — 



Water 

Nitrogenous 

Fat 

Sugar 

Gum 

Starch . 

Cellulose 

lAsh 



13-56 

12-42 Higher in Italian and Russian wheat. 
170 
I -44 1 

2-38 .- Varying from 60 to go per cenL 
6407 J 
2-66 

r Chiefly phosphates of potash, magnesia,with 
t lime, soda, and silica in small quantity. 



179 



Russian wheat is richer in nitrogenous matters, ranging 
up to 2ii per cent. The hard Italian and Hungarian wheats 



88 VEGETABLE FOODS 

are also rich in nitrogenous matters, containing soluble 
albumin as gluten. In order to transform wheat grains 
into a useful domestic substance, the grains have to undergo 
the process of grinding or milling. It is necessary, in order 
to follow the processes of grinding, to have some knowledge of 
the different parts of the wheat grain. These are : — 

1. The husk, or cuticle. 

2. Kernel, or food supply. 

3. Germ, or young plant. 

TJic husk consists of three layers, consisting mainly of 
cellulose with some pigment. When the wheat is decorticated 
the product is known as bran. Wheat-bran contains about 
15 per cent, nitrogen, 35 per cent, of fatty matter, and 
6 to 7 per cent, mineral matter, mainly phosphates ; all of 
which materials should be nutritious, but very little bran can 
be absorbed, and it is irritating except to patients with a 
robust digestion. The keryiel or endosperm : this consists 
of the nutritive material for the young embryo, and 
makes up 85 per cent, of the grain. Microscopically it is 
found to consist of a honeycomb of cellulose, into which is 
packed starch cells and gluten granules. Gluten is a mixture 
of proteins, viz., gliadin and glutenin, which have the peculiar 
property of becoming viscid when mixed with water. This 
important feature will be mentioned again under Bread- 
making. The relative proportions of starch and gluten differ 
in different kinds of wheat It may be said that the hard, 
translucent, horny grains are rich in gluten, while those that 
are soft, opaque, and floury on section are rich in starch. 

The gervi or young plant represents \\ per cent, of the 
whole grain. This is very rich in nitrogen and fat. The 
germ in removed as well as the bran in the preparation of 
flour, for the following reasons : — The abundant supply of 
fat in the germ may become rancid, and so spoil the flour, and 
the soluble proteins present are apt to act on the starch of 
the flour, converting part of it into soluble forms (dextrose 
and sugar), which darken in colour in the oven and detract 
from the appearance of the cooked flour. 

Thus, in the process of milling to which the wheat is 
subjected, its different parts are broken up and various mill 



PREPARATION OF FLOUR 89 

products are produced. The <niter coats j'iclds bran, fine 
pollards, sharps, and middlings ; the germ is removed as offal, 
while the flour is derived solely from the kernel. 

F'lour, according to the amount of grinding, is yellowish 
white, from the presence of gluten ; or pure white, in which 
case it is likely to contain little except starch. Good flour 
should have a pleasant smell, and should have no acid or 
rancid taste. It should not contain more than 15-2 per cent, 
water. The flour itself is classified and divided into two parts : 
the larger part, known as " bakers " or " household," and a 
smaller portion, very white in colour, and therefore poor in 
proteins, known as "patents"; from the latter, genuine 
Vienna bread is made, and also the best class of fancy breads 
and pastry. 

The " bakers " or " household " flours are still further 
divided, but as they are again blended before being sold, it 
is not necessary to follow the commercial terms. 

By removing the germ and the bran, the most useful 
constituents of the wheat are lost, viz., germ protein and fat, 
and the bran minerals and protein matter. Whole wheaten 
meal baked is more nutritious, much better flavoured, but is 
apt to be irritating on account of the indigestible outer coat, 
consisting of cellulose and silica, etc., and while it is useful 
as a laxative its use has not become general. 

Other flours are obtainable where only the two outer 
layers of the husk are removed. Bread made from these is 
not nearly so indigestible as bread made from whole wheaten 
meal. 

Two patent processes have also been devised to prevent 
the waste. Smith' s patent takes the separated germ and par- 
tially cooks it by means of superheated steam. This kills the 
ferment, which otherwise acts on the starch and at the same 
time sterilises the fat, and so prevents it becoming rancid. 
The germ so heated is ground to a fine meal, and of this one 
part is added to three of ordinary flour, and the mixture is 
known as Hovis flour. It is much richer in protein and fat 
than ordinary' flour. There are now several germ breads in 
the market, in all of which the germ is treated much along 
these lines. The Prague food process treats the bran. The 
bran is boiled under high pressure, the mineral matters and 



90 



VEGETABLE FOODS 



part of the nitrogen are recovered. The watery extract is 
filtered atid evaporated to dryness. This is Frame food 
extract. This extract forms the basis of preparations 
prepared by the Frame Food Manufacturing Company. 

This brings us now to the cooking of flour, or bread- 
making; but before taking up this point, I would direct 
special attention to the present-day methods, largely in 
vogue, of artificially bleaching flour. This is really a lorm 
of adulteration. 

Cookery of Flour. 

(a) Brcadviakitig. — The making of bread is possibly the 
most important of all cooking processes now in use. 

Bread is a mixed food containing fat, protein, salts, sugar, 
and starch ; it does not contain enough fat to be a perfect 
food, and hence the almost universal custom of using butter 
with it. 

The chemical composition of bread is thus given by 
Atwater : — 





Water. 


Protein. 


SalU. 


White Bread . 
Brown Bread . 


35-4 
400 


9-5 
5-0 


I-I 
1-9 



The whole process of bread making aims at converting 
the dough (flour and water) into a porous mass. 

Dough is prepared by kneading together by hand or 
machinery the necessary proportions of flour and warm 
water. A pound of bread is made from f lb. of flour by the 
addition of 25 per cent, of water. The porosity of bread, 
which distinguishes it from biscuit, is obtained by the dis- 
engagement within the mass of carbonic acid gas, according 
to one of three methods: — (i) Fermentation, the carbonic 
acid gaS" being produced by the use of yeast, or by a leaven 
of dough already fermenting ; (2) by the use of baking 
powders, the ordinary domestic baking powder being bicar- 
bonate of soda and tartaric acid ; and (3) by the use of 
carbonic acid gas under pressure, by means of machinery, 
giving aerated bread. 



ADULTERATION OF FLOUR 91 

The Adulteration of Flour by Bleacliifi^. 

All who appreciate the value of pure food will welcome 
the announcement made by the President of the Local 
Government Board a short time ^^o, that a Bill was in pre- 
paration designed to render illegal the bleaching of flour and 
the addition of phosphates as "flour improvers." It is not 
generally known that the bulk of flour used in this country 
is not the natural product of the wheat, but is flour which 
has been submitted to various forms of special treatment 
for the purpose of whitening it and otherwise increasing its 
commercial value, these processes being, there is good reason 
to believe, not without risk to the consumer. In view of a 
recent test case on " Bleached Flour " which has created 
widespread interest in the milling and baking trades, the 
present work is an opportune time for laying before the pro- 
fession a short account of the process of bleaching. 

The United States Government have previously taken up the subject 
of Bleached Flour. A public hearing on this subject was held by the 
Secretary of Agriculture and the Board of Food and Drug Inspection 
in 190S, and at this hearing those who favoured the bleaching process 
and those who were opposed to it were given equal opportunities to be 
heard. The conclusion was arrived at that flour bleached by nitrous 
oxide fumes was an adulterated product, and its sale in the United States 
is now illegal. In this country, the subject was first seriously taken up 
by Dr Wilson, Medical Officer of Health for Lanarkshire, and as a 
result of representations made to the Local Government Board in 1909, 
that body undertook an investigation into the subject, the results of this 
investigation being embodied in two reports, " On the Bleaching of Flour 
and the addition of so-called 'Improvers' to Flour," by Dr J. M. 
Hamill, and " On the Chemical Changes produced in Flour by Bleach- 
ing," by Dr E. W. Monier-Williams. 

Dr Hamill's report, which was adverse to the process of bleaching, 
aroused widespread interest in the trade, meetings of millers and 
of bakers being held at which the bleaching of flour was specially 
discussed. At a meeting of the National Association of British and 
Irish Millers, held in April 191 1, the following resolution was made 
and agreed to: "That in the opinion of the Association wheaten flour 
sold as such, without any qualifying designation, should be the un- 
bleached and untreated product of properly cleaned and 'conditioned' 
wheat only." At a later date, the Council of the National Association 
of Master Bakers appointed a Committee to report on flour treatment, 
and this Committee arrived at the conclusion that the bleaching of flour 
was objectionable, and recommended that no bleached flour should be 
sold to the bakers without the fact that it is so bleached being disclosed. 

The case which was recently concluded in the Sheriff"-Court of 
Lanarkshire is of interest and importance to the public. This was a 
prosecution at the instance of the County Council of Lanarkshire 
against Uddingston Co-operative Society, charging the respondents 
with having sold for i lb. of flour a quantity of material which pur- 
ported to be flour but which was not genuine flour, in respect that it 
had been bleached with pero.\ide of nitrogen, a poisonous noxious gas, 
and contained 3.43 parts or thereby of nitrites per million parts of 



9S VEGETABLE FOODS 

flour, which was in excess of that found in genuine flour. The prosecu- 
tion was the first of its kind in Scotland, and beinj; a test case, it has 
aroused universal interest in the millini; and baking trades. After a 
lengthy hearing, Shcrifi" Shennan found the charge not proven. His con- 
clusions that the prosecution was based on a])prchendcd evils rather than 
proved deterioration, and that no proof had been tendered of deleterious 
results due to bleaching, will appeal to most medical men as sound. 
But it must be borne in mind that in the circumstances there can be no 
direct and conclusive proof as to the prejudicial effects of bleached flour 
as an article of diet. The indirect evidence, however, is conclusive that 
flour so treated is not so easily digested and is therefore less nutritive, 
and, in the interests of growing children more particularly, it should not 
be substituted for the genuine product of the wheat. 

Rice flour boiled is sometimes added in breadmaking, 
causing the bread to become more adhesive and to hold more 
water. Hence bakers sometimes resort to this means to 
make their bread heavier when it is sold by weight 

Fresh-baked bread is less digestible than stale bread, the 
moist new bread forming a tenacious mass in the mouth 
which is not readily penetrated by the saliva and other 
digestive juices. Stale bread crumbles into small particles 
and is easily attacked. Similarly, the crust is more digestible 
than the interior part of the loaf 

Spoiled bread. — Bread may be unfit for use from being 
made with adulterated or old flour, sour from bad flour, 
bitter from yeast, and may be sodden from insufficient 
fermentation ; and it may grow mouldy from exposure to 
warm, damp air when it is moist. 

Digestion, Absorption, and Nutritive Value of Bread. 

The digestion of bread commences in the mouth, where, 
under the influence of the saliva, the starches are converted 
into dextrin and maltose. Thorough mastication is all-import- 
ant tor this process. The crust of bread, and also various 
special forms of bread, such as rusk, are more easily digested, 
because their starch has been already partly converted 
in the process of manufacture. New bread is indigestible 
because of its liability to form doughy masses, which interfere 
with the ferment getting proper access to the ingredients. 
Bread is very well absorbed ; the proteins in bread, however, 
are less completely absorbed than are the proteins in meat 
Brown bread and wholemeal breads are less completely 
absorbed, on account of their greater richness in cellulose. 
The nutritive value of bread is considerable. The ratio of 



VARIETIES OF BREAD 93 

proteins and carbohj-drates (i : 8) is too low to be a perfect 
food, and its deficiency in fat has already been referred to. 
Various means are adopted to increase the nutritive value of 
bread, e.o^., baking the bread with skimmed milk, adding pease 
meal, meat, or casein. A good example of a bread with 
increased nutritive value is Hovis, a germ bread containing 
extra proteins and also fat (p. 89). 

Varieties of Breads. 

Bakers produce various types of loaves — pan, household 
french, cottage, etc. The chief difference is the type of 
crust and the porosity of the bread. The pan loaf is gener- 
ally the most porous, and consequently makes the best toast. 

Toast is bread browned by heat in front of an open fire, 
the starch being partly converted into dextrin in the process. 
The additional caramel or flavour and dryness acquired 
lessen the time of digestion of toasted as compared with 
fresh bread by about one-third. A slice of bread if cut 
sufficiently thin toasts dry and crisp throughout, but if thick 
the outer layers are scorched while the mass within may 
become softer than before toasting. 

Baked bread. — Slices of bread put into a cool oven and 
slowly dried, and very slightly browned, make a very 
pleasant change. The slow baking transforms the starch 
into dextrin. The bread is hard and needs a great deal of 
mastication, and with a plentiful supply of butter makes an 
excellent food for children. Many rusk biscuits are prepared 
in this way. 

Dinner toast. — Another method of presenting bread to 
people with weak digestion is by giving very thin slices of 
bread dipped in milk and slowly browned in the oven. 

Buttered dry toast is still another way of serving bread. 
The crisp toast is buttered when hot, and the fat droplets 
penetrate it. This is a good method of giving an extra 
supply of butter. 

Brown breads. — This is an elastic term, meajiing that a 
certain proportion of bran or germ, or of both, have been 
added to the flour. It is also applied to bread made from 
whole-wheat meal. Any bread made with the addition of 
bran is richer in mineral constituents. Another difference is 



94 VEGETABLE FOODS 

the amount of water present. The protein of bran converts 
some of the starch into dextrin, and this keeps the brown 
bread moist. There is a smaller proportion of carbohydrates 
in brown as compared with white bread, and a larger amount 
of cellulose. For this reason brown bread is recommended 
in constipation. 

Of the pafgfit breads the most are of the brown variety. 
They are made from flours prepared by various patent 
processes. Some are wholemeal breads, with the bran 
reduced to varying degrees of fineness. Others contain the 
germ in various proportions (see Hovis, p. 89). 

Others are malted, e.g., Bermaline, Carr's, Veda, etc. The 
malting consists in adding malt extract. When the malt 
extract is mixed with the dough, the latter is ultimately 
converted into malt sugar and dextrin. This makes the 
bread keep moist, but its activity is stopped as soon as the 
bread is placed in the oven, the ferment being destroyed by 
the heat. Thus malted bread does not aid digestion of other 
starchy food. 

Vienna bread \s made from the whitest flour (the patents) 
fermented with compressed yeast, and milk often added to 
the dough. The crust is glazed by being subjected to the 
action of overheated steam before leaving the oven. 

Pumpernickel is German black bread made with sour 
dough ; it is somewhat laxative. 

Zwieback is a thoroughly dry form of aerated bread 
which is very wholesome for invalids. 

Gluten bread. — Bread made from gluten flour is useful 
where there is diabetes, and in some cases of obesity. It is 
very unappetising. The best breads contain 40 to 50 per cent. 
of gluten, but some only contain 16 per cent, of gluten, and the 
rest starch. It can be toasted like ordinary bread. 

Poluboskos (meaning "much nourishment") is a gluten 
food which claims to contain only 04 per cent of starch. It 
is given to diabetics in doses of one or two teaspoonfuls 
in milk. 

Rusks may be regarded as a kind of toast. They are 
made in much the same way as bread, with the addition of 
butter and milk, and sometimes sugar. They are twice 
passed through the oven, which thoroughly dries them. 



BISCUITS AND PASTRY 95 

Biscuits are made from flour, but no yeast is used in the 
manufacture. They are made from fine starchy flour, and 
worked into dough, either with water, as ordinary ship biscuits, 
or with butter, milk, and sugar, in the case of table biscuits. 
All their starch is converted into dextrin, and many good 
infants' foods are made up largely of biscuit powder. 
Biscuits contain less water than bread, \ lb. biscuit being 
equivalent to i lb. bread. Biscuits are deficient in fat and 
salts, and are thus not a suitable diet for constant use. 
Biscuits claiming to be starch- and sugar-free are made, for 
use in obesity and diabetes. 

The bread supplied to sailors at sea has to be of the 
unleavened sort, and takes the form of " ship biscuits " or 
"hard tack." These biscuits are exceedingly hard and tough, 
and require soaking before they can be eaten. 

Most biscuits if kept long exposed to the air become 
exceedingly tasteless and soft, though they do not mould. 

Pastry and Puddings and Cakes. 

These are prepared in innumerable variety from flour, 
in various proportions, with milk, cream, butter, sugar, eggs, 
flavouring agents, nuts and fruits (such as currants, raisins, 
pineapple, cherries, ginger). The dough is usually raised by 
baking-powders or whipped white of &^^ ; sometimes alcohol 
or yeast are used. For puddings a hot fire is used, and the 
mixture is either baked, boiled, or steamed, so that the flour 
is altered by the heat in much the same manner as in the 
manufacture of bread. The digestibility of these foods 
cannot be classified ; they are rich, and on the whole not 
easily digested, except the farinaceous puddings. Sago, 
semolina, and the like, when simply made and thoroughly 
cooked, are useful in the feeding of invalids. 

Pastry, even when well made and light, is a buttery 
compound, and the temperature at which it is cooked 
prevents the whole of the flour being properly cooked, and 
the uncooked buttery starch is almost always indigestible. 

Preparations of Wheat other than Flour. 

The wheat grain may be used as a food in its entirety. 
It is soaked in water till it swells up and bursts ; it is then 



96 VEGETABLE FOODS 

boiled in milk with the addition of sugar, so forming 
a nourishing dish called fruvienty. 

WJuatcn groats are made by crushing, and this can be 
made into porridge, used like oatmeal. 

WJicatcna is a nutritious food containing all the wheat 
germ excepting the husk, and is finer than crushed wheat, and 
more easily digested. The starch granules are partially 
cooked. It is eaten as a porridge. 

Gratiosc and Granola are flaky forms of the entire wheat 
grain. They are palatable and nutritious, are ready cooked, 
and are eaten with cream or hot milk. 

Shredded wheat, Trisket, and pulled bread are all prepared 
much in the same way. The shredded wheat biscuit is made 
of wheat, thoroughly cleansed and cooked, and treated by 
machinery, which draws out the wheat kernels into long 
continuous filaments without separation of the parts. The 
shreds are folded into oblong biscuits, which are cooked at 
successive temperatures until they are quite dry and ready 
for use. They may be eaten with butter, or soaked in milk, 
cream, or soup. They are easily digested ; they require 
mastication, and are quite palatable. 

Farina is a general name meaning flour, but sometimes it 
is also applied to potato flour, which forms a jelly like arrow- 
root when cooked. 

Farola is another granular preparation, but is made from 
the endo.sperm or germ, and is specially rich in proteins and 
mineral matters. 

Florador, another granular wheat preparation, is recom- 
mended for puddings and shapes ; it is certainly more 
nutritious than cornflour. 

Semolina is prepared from the central part of hard wheat, 
and is rich in gluten. It contains about ii per cent, of 
protein, or half the amount contained in an equal weight of 
beef It is thus a fairly rich nitrogenous food, and is used 
for making puddings and for thickening soups. It is also 
used extensively in the manufacture of the alimentary pastes, 
such as macaroni. 

Macaroni, vermicelli, and spaghetti, etc., are made from 
mixing different flours rich in gluten {e.g. semolina). The 
flour is made into a paste, kneaded, put into a cylinder the 



OATS— OATMEAL 97 

bottom of which is pierced with holes. A piston descends in 
the cylinder and the paste comes out from the perforations in 
the form of long tubes, which are cooled, cut in lengths, and 
dried. It contains i6 to i8 per cent, of gluten as against 
lo and 1 1 per cent, in the case of white bread. 

Weight for weight, macaroni may be regarded as not less 
valuable for fleshmaking purposes than beef or mutton. 
Most people can digest it easily and rapidly. 

After thorough soaking, and when well cooked by boiling 
or stewing in milk or stock, it is very nutritious, and it is often 
agreeably combined with cheese. The other pastes are much 
the same in composition ; they are wholesome, but tough, and 
require prolonged cooking. 

Other Cereals. 

Oats contains more protein and fat than flour and meal 
from other cereals. Maize meal is the most closely allied to 
it. Starch is present in proportion of about 38 per cent. 
The nitrogenous portions contain 94 per cent, protein, which 
is thus all available for tissue-building. There is great diffi- 
culty in completely getting rid of the husk, so a good deal of 
cellulose is left in the meal in the form of sharp particles. 
Oatmeal is obtainable in coarse, medium, and fine varieties, 
the two latter being those in household use. To those 
with a delicate digestion this makes oatmeal an unsuitable 
food ; but for constipation oatmeal is an excellent article 
of diet. Oatmeal is an excellent food for the growing 
child. This may probably be explained by the stimulating 
effects of the oats on the thyroid gland (see Appendix). 
In some subjects it heats the blood, causing rashes and 
gastric derangement. 

If oats are simply cleaned and ground, the result is 
oatmeal of various degrees of fineness. Oat flour, e.g. 
Scott's oat flour, is the product after the branny particles 
are removed — this is the best form for infants and invalids. 
Groats, e.g. Robinson's groats, consist of oats from which the 
husk has been entirely removed. 

Rolling oats is another method of preparation instead ot 
grinding. Rolled oats are more easily softened by cook- 
ing ; probably the great pressure between the rollers breaks 

G 



98 VEGETABLE FOODS 

down the cell envelopes. In some of the rolled oats 
preparations heat is also used. This requires less cooking in 
the house, and sterilises the fat, so that there is no fear of the 
abundant fat present turning sour and altering the flavour. 
" Rolled oats," Quaker oats, A venine. Provost oats, and Porrage 
oats are all examples of this preparation. 

Oatmeal is unfitted for breadmaking, owing to the 
absence of gluten. It is made into oatcakes by mixing the 
meal with water, fat in some form (dripping or butter), and 
salt. Made into cakes and baked on the girdle in the form of 
breadstuff, it is much used in Scotland as a breakfast bread- 
stuff, and can either be home-made or bought in tins. 
Oatcake is as nutritious as breads and contains a great deal 
higher food value. 

Oatmeal needs prolonged boiling to soften the cellulose. 
For persons with limited digestive power oatmeal should be 
cooked so as to acquire a consistence which enables it to 
pour readily, and on cooling it should form a soft, gelatinous 
mass. (For making of gruel and porridge, see p. 296.) 

Brose is an old Scotch dish made by stirring oatmeal into 
boiling water. It is not a food for a delicate digestion. 

A soupplateful of porridge is equivalent in protein to 
two slices of a large loaf f to i inch thick. If the bread 
is buttered, it would be equal in food value to a plateful of 
porridge and \ pint of good milk. 

Maize or Com may be dried, parched, and roasted, 
whole, or ground into meal of various degrees of fineness. 
Its chemical composition shows it to contain a considerable 
amount of fat and protein (three globulins, one or more 
albuminoids, and maize fibrine, or zein) as well as starch, 
and it furnishes abundant energy and heat. It is very 
fattening both for man and the lower animals. There are 
innumerable varieties, but the common kinds are known as 
white, yellow, and red. As a fresh vegetable, sugar corn, 
unless eaten very young and tender, is indigestible, and 
canned corn is notoriously so — chiefly on account of the 
husk of the kernel. It may give rise to flatulency, indiges- 
tion, and diarrhoea. When maize becomes mouldy it causes 
a disease known as " pellagra." The chief preparations 
are : — 



MAIZE PREPARATIONS 99 

Cornmeal. — This is digestible, and like oatmeal somewhat 
laxative. It makes a dry, friable bread, for it contains no 
gluten. As compared with wheat flour, it contains more fat 
but is deficient in salt. It is not largely used in this country. 

Polenta. — A maize meal largely used by the Italians. 

Cornstarch is very white and soft; contains 53 per cent, 
of starch ; contains proportionally little nourishment. May 
be used instead of arrowroot. 

Indian vieal'xs yellow, granular, and coarser than cornstarch. 

Homhiy, cerealine, and samp are preparations of broken or 
split maize of various degrees of fineness. Samp is very 
coarse, and can only be used when well boiled. The first 
two make excellent puddings. 

Cornflour, maizina, oswego. — These are made from maize 
by washing away the protein and fat. They contain very 
small quantities of nitrogen, and are therefore only agreeable 
forms of starch, and are generally taken with a protein and 
fat, such as eggs or milk. 

Popcorn. — A small variety of maize that is roasted and 
swells up and bursts ; it is then known as popped popcorn ; 
it is the basis of many sweetmeats. 

Mush is made of well-ground Indian meal or cornmeal 
boiled in salted water. It mixes well with cream, and is 
very digestible and nutritious. 

Buckwheat or blackwheat is used in Russia, Siberia, and 
Brittany. The meal has less protein and more carbohydrate 
than flour. It is usually eaten as porridge, and can be made 
into griddle cakes. It is not used in this country. 

Millet or Sorghum is used in Africa, Southern Europe, 
and in China, but not in this country ; it is similar in 
composition to buckwheat. White sorghum is a grass or 
corn, and can be converted into a flour — "dhoora" — much 
used in India. A fine quality of alcohol may be made from 
it. In the United States it is grown chiefly for molasses 
and syrup, and sugar is made from it. 

Bread made from millet or sorghum meal when warm is 
fairly palatable and nutritious, and is used in China. When 
it grows cold it darkens and crumbles. 

Rye may be said to stand very close to wheat in import- 
ance as a food. It is in use in Europe, and mainly in 



100 VEGETABLE FOODS 

Germany. In Germany the rye production is double that 
of wheat, and in Russia it is even [greater. 

Rye flour yields a coarse, dark, less well-raised bread than 
wheat, but is equally nutritious, though not so digestible ; 
it contains less gluten than wheaten bread, and it takes 
less time to raise and bake it, provided the oven is hot. If 
properly made it is easily assimilated, and to many people its 
flavour is agreeable. 

Rye is often combined with wheat in France, under the 
name mildly and the Spaniards combine it with barley. Rye 
flour is poorer in protein than a wheat flour of a similar 
grade. It is very apt to be attacked by the fungus known 
as ergot, which causes the grain to swell up and become 
dark purple. 

Rice is the poorest cereal in protein and fat, and contains 
76 per cent, starch. Rice, when boiled, swells up and absorbs 
nearly five times its weight of water, while some of the 
mineral constituents are lost in the water. It should therefore 
be steamed, or if boiled the water it has been boiled in 
should be used as stock. Rice is only moderately easy of 
digestion, and often gives rise to flatulence ; this is probably 
owing to the stomach not being the place to digest starch, 
and hence it takes a considerable time to leave the 
stomach. 

Its poverty in protein and fat docs not adapt it for an 
exclusive food. It is rarely taken alone, but combined with 
other foods like meat or legumes rich in proteins, or made 
into puddings with eggs or milk. 

It cannot be made into bread, but rice flour is often added 
to wheaten flour. Rice forms the staple food of about one- 
third of the human race. The whole grain is called paddy, 
and is coloured in various shades of yellow ; when this 
coloured skin is removed the grain is known as rice Rice- 
water makes a cooling drink (p. 35). 

Barley contains more salt, fat, and cellulose than wheat, 
but less protein and carbohydrate. The ash of barley is 
rich in phosphates and iron. The proteins resemble those 
of oats, and do not form gluten but remain soluble ; thus it 
cannot be made into bread, but is used as barley scones 
and cakes and barley meal porridge. 



PULSE FOODS 101 

In the preparation of barley the whole grain is ground to 
form barley meal. When stripped of the husk and roughly 
ground it is called pot barley or milled barley ; when the 
grains are further rounded and polished it is known as pearl 
barley. In the form of barley broth it forms a common 
article of diet. 

Barley-water made from pearl barley or Robinson's patent 
barley is a useful sedative in all irritable states of the urinary 
passages. Barley-water is often added to cow's milk in 
infant feeding. 

Legumes or Pulses. 
Peas, Deans, Lentils, Pea Nuts, Butter Beans. 

The ripe seeds of pulses rank next to cereals in import- 
ance as vegetable foods. They are especially rich in nitrogen, 
the chief proteins being legumin or vegetable casein. They 
are also rich in starch, but deficient in fats. They are richer 
in salts than in cereals, especially in potash and lime, but 
poorer in magnesia and phosphates. 

The leading points in the composition of pulses may be 
stated as follows : — 

Advantages. Disadvantages. 

Rich in proteins. Deficient in fats. 

Rich in carbohydrates. Contain much cellulose. 

Rich in salts. 

Dried peas, like dried beans, contain a large amount of 
nourishment. In this respect dried beans, dried peas, and 
lentils are practically equal, the peas and lentils containing 
rather less fat and more cellulose than the beans. Dried 
peas are not readily digested. Very special care is necessary 
in the cooking, so as to promote digestibility. 

The protein present is rich in sulphur, which tends to 
produce sulphuretted hydrogen and similar compounds, so 
that a leguminous diet tends to cause flatulence. Pulses 
are rather indigestible on account of the leathery external 
envelope which they possess when old. Hence they require 
prolonged cooking in order to promote digestibility. They 
require to be cooked in soft water, since the lime and 



lOS 



VEGETABLE FOODS 



magrnesia found in hard waters form insoluble compounds 
with Icgumin. An analysis of the chief pulses is given by 
Bauer as follows, the average composition of wheat being 
given for comparison : — 





Water. 


Protein. 


Fat. 


starch. 


Cellulose. 


Ash. 


Peas 


14-3 


22.6 


1-7 


53-2 


5-4 


2-6 


Beans 


13-6 


231 


2-2 


53-6 


3-8 


3-5 


Lentils 


12.5 


24-8 


1.8 


54-7 


3-5 


2.4 


Wheat 


13-5 


12-4 


1-7 


67.8 


2.6 


1-7 



It will be seen from the above table that their nutritive 
value is considerable, especially as regards the amount of 
proteins. They are a cheap and efficient method of supple- 
menting the deficiency of nitrogen in a vegetable diet, and on 
account of the large amount of proteins they contain, they 
are admirably adapted as food for the poorer classes. Their 
defects as compared with the cereals are their relative 
indigestibility, their unsuitability for breadmaking, and their 
less agreeable taste. About 6 per cent, of the ingested pea 
passes out unchanged, and starch cells giving a blue reaction 
with iodine are found in the faeces. 

The pea nut is not a nut but a legumen. It resembles 
nuts in the large percentage of fat in its composition. It is 
used largely as a diabetic food, and it also enters largely into 
the composition of the patent food " Nutrose." 

Peas. — Varieties of fresh peas. — Fresh peas are sweetish, 
and should be cooked by boiling in water with a little salt ; 
when old they lose water, become very dry, and require pro- 
longed steeping so as to soften them. When old they lose their 
colour, and copper is sometimes added as a preservative, and 
cases of copper-poisoning have been ascribed to this source. 
Garden peas are sometimes served up in an immature state, 
with the pods included, as " haricots rus." 

Dried peas are met with in two forms, the split yellow pea 
and the dried whole green pea. Split peas are chiefly used 
to make pea soup ; or are ground into pea flour or pease 
meal, from which pease brose and pease pudding are made. 
Pease brose is made from the fine flour of the white pea by 
forming it into a mass merely by the addition of boiling- 



BEANS 103 

water nnd a little salt. It is eaten with milk or butter, and is 
a good nourishing article of diet specially suitable for persons 
of a costive habit. Pease pudding is made by soaking a 
quart of peas in water for twelve hours, throwing away those 
then found floating on the top. The peas are then drained 
into a pudding cloth, put into cold water, and boiled for two 
to three hours till tender. They are then rubbed through a 
wire sieve. About one and a half to two ounces of butter 
with some pepper and salt are then added to the mass, which 
is then tied up again in a cloth dusted with flour, and boiled 
for another hour, when it is ready for serving. This is a 
cheap food for persons of robust digestion, but the cost of 
cooking adds materially to the price. 

Beans. — There are several varieties. The chief are : — 

(i) The kidney or haricot bean. 

(2) The broad or Windsor bean. 

(3) The scarlet runner. 

Haricot beans almost rank first among vegetables as a 
nourishing article of diet. It holds its own against the beef 
and mutton of the animal kingdom. By most stomachs 
haricots are more easily digested than meat, while the com- 
parative cost is greatly in favour of the former. The average 
composition of the haricot bean is as follows : — 

Per cent. 
Water . . . . .13-6 



Proteins 

Fats 

Carbohydrates 

Cellulose 

Ash 



23-1 

2-2 

53-6 
3-8 
3-5 



Haricot beans are only good when fresh, and the younger 
they are the better. When old they require prolonged 
boiling. If old beans are not tender after half an hour's 
boiling they should be made into a puree or pudding, dishes 
which are only suitable for a strong digestion. They must 
be eaten immediately after cooking. A stew made up of 
one part meat with ten parts of haricots is a much more 
nutritious and wholesome dish than a stew of all meat and 
no haricots. They are very useful for thickening soup or 
using as a salad flavoured by adding tomato or similar 



104 



VEGETABI.K FOODS 



vegetables. Beans form the basis of a i^reat many useful 
vegetarian dishes. 

The " scarlet runner " is chiefly used as a green 
vegetable, being served up in the pods under the name of 
" haricots rus." 

Soya beans are specially rich in proteins, contain a large 
amount of fat, but are deficient in starch. They are largely 
used as a bread substitute in diabetes. Several varieties of 
cheese are made from its vegetable casein. 

Lentils are one of the most nutritious pulses. Their 
general composition is as follows : — 

Per cent. 
Water . . . . .12-5 



Proteins 
Fats 

Carbohydrates 
Cellose . 
Ash 



24-8 
1-8 

547 
3-5 

2-4 



They contain little sulphur, and are therefore less liable 
to cause flatulence than peas or beans. They have the 
further advantage of being specially rich in iron. There are 
two kinds of lentils, German and Egyptian. The former are 
green or olive coloured, the latter are red and smaller than the 
German. The German lentils are very savoury, and have 
a " meaty " flavour. Either kind can be used for making 
excellent soup and puree ; like all legumes, they require to 
be steeped in water for twelve hours before boiling. They 
are sold as split lentils and also as lentil flour. They are an 
economical as well as a highly nutritious food. 

Revalcfita arahica is a patent preparation composed largely 
of lentil flour, mixed with pea or bean meal, to which oat 
and barley meal are sometimes added. 

Butter beans resemble small haricots, but are finer and 
boil down more quickly. They make a rich white soup, and 
may be used for savouries. They are also very good as 
a simple stew. 



FRUITS 105 



Fruits, Nuts, and Fungi. 



ruits — 




General composition . 


. 105 


Varieties of . . . 


. 105 


Chemical composition 


. 106 


Uses of fruit 


. 107 


Fruits in detail . 


. 108 



Nuts- 
Composition of . . . .Ill 
X'aiieties of . . . .112 

Fungi — including mushrooms, 

lichens, and algae . ' ll3 



Fruits. 

Fruits, speaking generally, are composed largely of water, 
with starches, sugar, organic acids, pectin, cellulose, essential 
oils, and ethers. Some fruits contain a little protein, chiefly 
as albumin. Fruit sugars are sucrose and invert sugar, 
containing dextrose and levulose in equal amounts. 

Fruits are valued chiefly for the water in them and the 
vegetable acids, free or in combination, upon which depend 
their valuable properties as antiscorbutics. These acids are 
chiefly malic acid in apples, tartaric acid in grapes, and 
citric acid, found in lemons, oranges, and kindred fruits. 
They are generally combined with potash or soda so as to 
form acid salts. The organic acids in the case of fruit are 
rich in potash salts, and contain also those of lime, magnesia, 
and iron ; apples, and more especially strawberries, have 
also much soda. Fruits all contain pectin, or vegetable jelly, 
cellulose, and an insoluble substance — pectose — which, by the 
action of a ferment in the plant, is converted into pectin in the 
process of ripening. This pectin forms the main constituent 
of fruit jellies. 

Fruits may be classified as follows : — 

1. Apple, pear, quince. 

2. Orange, lemon, lime. 

3. Stone fruits — e.£^., plum, peach, apricot, cherry, olive, 

date. 

4. Acid fruits — e.^^., grape, gooseberry, currant, cranberry. 

5. Fleshy fruits — e.^., strawberry, raspberry, blackberry, 

mulberry. 

6. Pineapple, banana. 

7. Nuts. 

The composition of the edible part of fruits is given in 



106 



VEGETABLE FOODS 



the followinp; tabic. The carbohydrates include sugar and 
cellulose ami vegetable gums. As a general rule, it may be 
taken that about 60 per cent, of the total carbohydrates 
consists of fruit sugar or levulose : — 





Water. 


Protein. 


Carbo- 
hydrates. 


Cellulose. 


Acids. 


Apples 


82.5 


0-4 


12-5 


2.7 


i-o 


Apricots 




850 


I-I 


12-4 




I-o 


Bananas 




74<5 


1-5 


22*9 


0.2 




Blackberries 




88-9 


0-9 


2-3 


5-2 




Cherries 




84-0 


0-8 


lo-o 


3-8 


l-o 


Cranberries 




86.5 


0-5 


3-9 


6-2 


2-0 


Currants 




85-0 


0.4 


7-9 


4-6 


1-4 


Figs, dried . 




20-0 


5-5 


62-8 


7-3 


1-2 


Goosebeiriec 




86.0 


0.4 


8.9 


2-7 


2-5 


Grapes 




79-0 


I-O 


15-5 


2-; 


o-s 


Lemons 




89-3 


I-O 


8-3 






Nectarines . 




82.9 


0.6 


15-9 






Oranges 




86.7 


0.9 


8.7 


1-5 


r-o 


Peaches 




88-i 


0.5 


5-8 


3-4 


0-7 


Pears . 




83-9 


0.4 


11-5 


3-1 


O-I 


Pineapples . 




89-3 


0-4 


9-7 




... 


Plums 




78.4 


I-O 


14-8 


4-3 


I-o 


Prunes, dried 




26-4 


2-4 


66-2 




2-7 


Raspberries 




84.4 


10 


5-2 


7-4 


1.4 


Strawberries 




39-1 


I-O 


6-3 


2-2 


I-o 



In the following table there are given the proportions 
between acid, sugar, and pectin in some common fruits : — 





Acid. 


Sugar. 


Pectin. 


Apples . 




II.2 


5-6 


Apricots . 






1-7 


6-1 


Blackberries 






3-7 


1-2 


Currants . 






3-0 


O-I 


Gooseberries 






4.9 


0-8 


Grapes . 






20-2 


2-0 


Peaches . 






2-3 


II-9 


Plums . 






1-6 


3-1 


Prunes . 






7.0 


4-4 


Raspberries 






2-7 


I-o 


Strawberries 






4.4 


O-I 



W/ien to eat Fruit. — The laxative effects of fruit are 
most obtained if the fruit be taken alone the first thing in 
the morning on an empty stomach, half an hour before 
breakfast, with a little water. 



USES OF FRUIT 107 

The Uses of Fruits are as follows : — To supply nourish- 
ment — the greatest amount is contained in the banana, date, 
ficr, prune, and grape, this being due to the large proportion 
of sugar which they contain. 

They are thirst-quenchers, and supply water, the most 
watery fruits being melons, oranges, lemons, limes, and 
grapes. 

They possess well - marked antiscorbutic properties, 
especially those which have an abundant supply of potash 
salts as well as lime and magnesia — e.g., apples, lemons, 
limes, and oranges. There is also a diuretic influence, partly 
due to the water, but chiefly to the organic acids and salts, 
which stimulate the circulation and also probably the 
activity of the renal epithelium. 

The acidity of the urine is lessened or even made alkaline 
by the ingestion of fruit, the alkaline salts are broken up in 
the blood or tissue, and re-formed into alkaline carbonate and 
as such are excreted. Their laxative action is due to the 
cellulose and seed, and to the special influence of their organic 
ingredients : the best fruits to attack constipation are fresh 
apples, figs, oranges, grape fruit, prunes, and peaches. 

Their digestibility depends on the fruit, its ripeness, 
freshness, and the personal idiosyncrasy of the consumer. 
The most easily digested are grapes, oranges, grape fruit, 
lemons, cooked apples, figs, peaches. Somewhat less 
digestible are water-melons, prunes, pears, apricots, bananas, 
raspberries, currants, pineapples. The best for invalids are 
juice of lemons, oranges, baked apples, pulped stewed prunes 
grapes, and pineapple juice. 

Preserving and Cooking of Fruits. — This is most 
commonly done by drying, or by making jam, just before 
they are fully ripe. Dried fruits are more nourishing, but 
less digestible. Of these mention may be made of currants 
and citrons ; figs, prunes, raisins, sultanas, and dates contain 
much nourishment ; all are preserved in their own sugar 
(glucose). 

Evaporated apples, pears, peaches are preserved by the 
evaporation of the excess of water which they contain. 

When dried fruits have become too hard they can be 
softened by pouring boiling-water over them and allowing 



10J5 VEGETABLE FOODS 

them to soak for a few hours. Stewed fiiiits aro much used ; 
the cookiiii^ sterih'ses and softens the fruit. 

Fruits are made into jams and jellies. The fruit is 
boiled with equal weight of sugar in the making of jams, 
and in the making of jellies 14 oz. to i lb. are 
allowed for each pint of juice. If the cooking is carried 
out successfully the jelly and jam should stiffen from the 
pectose present. These conserves are good for children, 
satisfying the natural craving of children for sweets. They 
are wholesome, and their flavour may encourage the eating 
of more nutritious but less agreeable flavoured food, such as 
rice, semolina, etc. 

Fruit syrups are made with about half as much sugar 
as fruit juice. 

Fruit soups are common in Germany, and are prescribed 
in fevers when there is no diarrhoea. Bauer recommends 
soups " made by boiling fresh or dried fruits with water, with 
or without sugar, lemon peel, and freed from all solid residue 
by pressure." 

When fruits are exposed to the sun and to considerable 
changes in temperature, they are liable to decompose and 
undergo fermentative changes which make them injurious to 
health. Insufficiently ripe, or over-ripe, soft, decomposing 
fruits are certain to cause diarrhoea, colicky pains, cramp, 
and sometimes nausea and vomiting. Gastritis may be 
induced in young people by indulgence in unripe apples, 
pears, cherries. This condition is best treated by a dose of 
castor oil to remove the irritating matter in the intestines. 

Group I. — Apple, Pear, Quince. — Good apples are a 
wholesome fruit. They arc useful for their antiscorbutic and 
also for their laxative properties. They should be given to 
invalids only when cooked. When well masticated they are 
one of the best forms of fruits for children, being specially 
valuable for cleansing the teeth. They are better avoided by 
the diabetic. Crab apples are used to make a jelly, with a 
distinctive sweet acid taste and beautiful colour. 

Pears and quinces are less digestible than apples, and 
should not be given to invalids. 

Guavas are a wholesome and nutritious fruit. There are 
many varieties. In the tropics they are used largely, and 



FRUITS 109 

they are imported into this country in the form of a table 
jelly. 

Group II. — Orange, Lemon, Lime, and Grape Fruit. — 
Oranges and other members of this family are specially 
rich in free citric acid, and their chief value in therapeutics 
lies in their well-known antiscorbutic properties. Sweet 
oranges are eaten raw. Bitter oranges are used for making 
marmalade. When oranges or lemons are wanted for flavour- 
ing, as in Russian tea or lemonade, the juice alone should be 
used. Orange juice is laxative, especially for infants. 
Small unripe oranges, known as orange-berries, are used in 
making curacao. Lemon juice is useful in cleansing the 
tongue and assuaging the thirst in fevers. It is also of 
value for imparting flavour to otherwise tasteless foods, such 
as rice or barley water. (For Lemonade drinks, see p. 276.) 
Lime juice, sweetened and unsweetened, is used largely as a 
beverage, especially in warm weather The shaddock and 
grape fruit are useful for their laxative and slightly diuretic 
properties, when taken early in the morning. The some- 
what bitter taste may be disguised by the addition of 
sugar and a little brandy. 

Group III., Stone Fruits. — Plum, Sloe, Damson, Green- 
gage, Bullace, Peach, Apricot, Cherry, Olive, Date, and Prune. 
— Damsons, greengages, bullaces, and sloes may be regarded 
as varieties of the plum. Plums are a wholesome fruit when 
wholly ripe and not over-ripe. If consumed in the over-ripe 
or unripe state they are very liable to induce colic, diarrhoea, 
and other evidences of gastro-intestinal derangement. A 
special variety of plum forms, when dried, the medicinal 
prune. Common prunes are dried plums, and are largely 
used in desserts ; they are useful for constipation. The ratio 
of sugar to free acid in plums is low, i-6: i, but in damsons 
it is higher, 7 : i. 

Peaches, apricots, and nectarines do not contain so much 
sugar as apples and some other fruits, and are useful in 
diabetes. Peaches contain less than 2 per cent, of sugar. 
These fruits do not keep well ; their juice has a distinctly 
laxative action in many subjects. Cherries, in this country, 
are eaten fresh, stewed in tarts, or preserved. Cherry brandy 
is made by mixing brandy with cherry juice. Maraschino is 



110 VEGETABLE FOODS 

similarly prepared, specially fine sugar being employed in its 
preparation. 

Dates are the fruit of the date palm. They rank in 
nutritious value with grapes ; dried dates contain from 50 to 
60 per cent, of sugar and allied substances. The fruit is eaten 
fresh or dried, and in the latter state is made into flour. It 
forms a staple article of diet to the Egyptians. Figs, though 
hardly a stone fruit, may conveniently be referred to here, 
since they rank with dates in nutritive properties. Dried 
figs are a highly nutritious carbohydrate food, containing 
from 50 to 60 per cent, of carbohydrate and 3 to 4 per cent. 
oT protein. 

Olives are little used in dietetics except as appetisers. The 
taste is an acquired one. Olive oil is largely used cis a salad 
dressing. 

Group IV., Acid Fruits. — Grape, Gooseberry, Currant, 
Cranberry, etc. — Grapes are specially rich in sugar, in this 
respect resembling dates. The amount of sugar present 
is always high, and ranges from 10 to 30 per cent. ; the 
ratio of sugar and acid in good grapes being 25:1; and in 
slightly sour grapes, 10 : i. The acid in grapes is mainly 
tartaric acid, combined with potash, lime, and magnesium. 
Grapes have laxative properties. The "grape cure" is 
sometimes employed for constipation and obesity (see 
p. 538). Raisins are dried grapes, and are prepared in 
two ways, the finest — Muscatels — bein^j dried on the 
growing plant ; other varieties — Uxias — being dried after 
collection. 

Currants, raspberries, barberries, gooseberries, cran- 
berries, blackberries, mulberries, all contain considerable 
free acid. The ratio of sugar and acid is, as a rule, 
about 4:1, and they are therefore eaten with sugar. 
They are used to make refreshing beverages, or to make 
jelly or jam. 

These may be usefully employed, especially in the feeding 
of children. The fruits in the following section also come 
into the category of acid fruits. 

Group V., Fleshy Fruits. — Stra^vberry, Raspberry, Black- 
berry, Mulberry. — The ratio of sugar and free acid in 
strawberries ranges from 2 to i up to 7 to i in the pineapple 



BANANA, PINEAPPLE— NUTS 111 

strawberry. They are rich in potash and soda salts. When 
taken in moderation, they are a wholesome and very agree- 
able food. Many people have an idiosyncrasy against them, 
manifested by the development of urticaria or gastro- 
intestinal trouble. Gouty subjects should partake very 
sparingly. Strawberries have special value in the treatment 
of sprue (see p. 369). 

Group VI. — Bajiana, Pineapple. — Bananas are very rich 
in carbohydrate, and for a fruit contain also a high proportion 
of protein. A diet consisting solely of this fruit will maintain 
life for long periods. In its ordinary form, however, it is too 
bulky to serve as the staple constitutent of food. Dried 
bananas are now imported into this country, and form a 
pleasant, highly nutritious dessert food. Dried bananas 
are also ground into a meal or flour, which has valuable 
properties as a food. It can be made into a thin gruel or 
porridge, and when taken with cream is a very nutritious 
foodstuff. The cheapness of bananas is another point which 
adds greatly to their value as an important food. Torrefied 
bananas ground down make a coffee which is a wonderfully 
good substitute for ordinary coffee. 

Pineapple is one of the less digestible fruits, on account 
of its fibrous nature. Its juice is pleasant and wholesome, 
and has the power of digesting protein. It enters into the 
composition of Mosquera's beef meal. 

Nuts. 

Nuts contain a large quantity of fat, protein, some starch, 
and very little water. The shell forms on the average about 
half the nut. Nuts are not easily digested, owing to the 
dense cellulose framework which surround the kernel of the 
nut. They can, however, be bought prepared (cleaned), and 
can be ground down ; in both cases this renders them 
more easily digestible. Protoid nuts, prepared by Christian, 
are an excellent sample of a highly nutritious and easily 
digested food. Most of the nuts are eaten raw, but chest- 
nuts and cocoa-nuts, almonds and walnuts are used also in 
confectionery. For some specially prepared nut preparations 
and butters, see Vegetarian Cookery, p. 522. 



112 



VEGETABLE FOODS 



The composition of the common nuts is given in the 
following table. Their vcr)' high proportion of fat and proteins 
niai<e them a very valuable foodstuff if carefully employed. 

Composition of Nuts. ' 





Refaae. 


Edible 
Portion. 


Conip»rative Value of Edible Portion. 


Water. 


Protein. 


Fat. 


Carbo. 
hydrates 


Asb. 


Almonds 
Brazil Nuts . 
Fill^rts 

Hickory Nuts . 
Pecan Nuts , 
Chestnuts 
Walnuts, English . 
Letchi , 


64-8 
49.6 
52.1 

62-2 

53-2 
i6-o 
5S.0 
41-6 


35-2 
50-4 
47-9 
37-8 
46.8 
840 
420 
58.4 


4-8 
5-3 
3-7 
3-7 
3-0 
45-0 

2-8 

17-9 


2I-0 
170 

15-6 
15-4 

Il-O 

6.2 

16.7 

4.9 


S4-9 
66-8 
65-3 
67-4 
71-2 

5-4 

64-4 

0-2 


17-3 

7-0 

I3-0 

11.4 

13-3 
42-1 
14-8 

77-5 


2-0 

3-9 

2-4 
2-1 

1-5 
1-3 

1-3 
1-5 



Almonds (sweet and bitter) contain a large amount of fat 
and protein, but no starch and very little sugar. The small 
proportion of sugar makes them of great use in the treat- 
ment of diabetes. They are ground and made into almond 
cakes and biscuits. Salted almonds are eaten with dinner 
as an aid to digestion. Macaroons are a pleasant form of 
cake, composed of almonds and sugar. The bitter almonds 
contain hydrocyanic acid, and are only used medicinally. 

Wabuits contain a large proportion of protein and fats ; 
eaten freely between meals, they sometime have a very 
laxative effect. They are usually eaten ripe and dry with 
dessert; the unripe fruit is made into walnut ketchup. The 
walnuts are taken before the shell has hardened ; they are 
beaten to a pulp and the juice separated by straining ; salt 
and vinegar are added, also spices, and after considerable 
boiling down the ketchup is bottled and may be kept for 
years. The green walnut is used as a salad in France, mixed 
with onion, vinegar, salt, and pepper. 

Chestnuts contain a small amount of oil and a large 
amount of carbohydrates. In Italy they form a valuable 
adjunct to the food supply. They may be boiled, roasted, or 
ground. When mixed with flavourings and maize meal, they 
form prilcnta. Flat cakes are made from chestnut flour and 
water, and baked between flat stones. The meal may be 
used for soups, puddings, and as the basis of the stuffing of 
poultry. 



FUNGI 113 

Brazil nuts, pecan nuts, beech nuts, hazel nuts, hickory 
nuts, pine kernels, filberts, all contain much oil, and are 
imported in enormous quantities from Spain for the sake of 
their oil. Barcelona nuts are kiln dried before export, and 
keep indefinitely ; if hazel nuts or their cultivated varieties, 
cobs and filberts, are not dried, they lose their flavour unless 
kept in airtight vessels. Butternuts easily become rancid 
after being shelled. 

Cocoa-nuts are very indigestible even when thoroughly 
desiccated and grated. The nuts are eaten both ripe and 
unripe by the natives of the tropics, and the juice (cocoa-nut 
milk) is drawn out and drunk. They contain fully 70 per 
cent of cocoa-nut oil or cocoa-butter, which is used as a food 
or for lighting and lubricating purposes. The butter is 
suitable for cooking, and can be used instead of margarine. 
Acorns are used as food in some countries. They are used 
like chestnuts, and like them contain starch. They are 
described as a very good fruit, savoury to the taste and 
healthful to the body. 

Pistachio, a nut native to Syria, has a green-coloured 
kernel ; it is much used on account of this for confectionery 
and for ices. 

Fungi. 

Fungi are largely employed as food in Southern Europe. 
They are eaten raw. They are also dried or preserved by 
cooking in vinegar, brine, or olive oil, which takes away the 
characteristic acrid taste of some of them. They are fairly 
rich in nitrogenous matter, but experimental observations 
have shown that this is imperfectly absorbed. They also 
contain fat, sugar (mannite and dextrose), fungic acid, and an 
acrid ingredient. They are used in this country chiefly for 
their flavour, and also for pickling and making ketchup. 

A good brief description of the poisonous fungi is given 
by Knight as follows : — 

Poisonous fungi d^xQ. comparatively few, but as they closely 
resemble the edible forms, some distinctions must be observed. 
The common notion that poisonous fungi might be detected 
by discolouring a silver spoon, owing to the presence in them 
of sulphur compounds, is unreliable. The poisonous varieties 
are recognised generally by their high colour, scaly or spotted 

H 



114 VEGETABLE FOODS 

surface, and flesh either tough or watery. They usually grow 
in clusters upon wet or shady ground. On bruising they 
show a play of colours and yield a pungent milk, while their 
taste is bitter or burning the throat ; on drying they become 
bluish. The poisonous matters in these belong to the class 
of narcotico-irritants, and cases of poisoning are best treated 
by the free use of emetics and castor oil. Edible fungi, on 
the other hand, are seldom high-coloured, scaly, or spotted, 
but are generally red or brownish. They break with a brittle 
fracture, retain their colour on drying, and grow best upon 
open, dry pastures. They have an agreeable smell and taste, 
but in some species any acrid taste may be dissipated by heat. 

The chief edible fungi are the common mushroom 
generally used for making savouries and ketchup. The 
latter is made from the common mushroom by breaking it 
into small pieces and mixing with salt, which reduces it to 
an almost liquid state, then straining and boiling down to 
half the bulk. Spices of different kinds are added, and 
occasionally wine. 

Lichens. — Iceland moss is a lichen found in Arctic regions. 
It contains 70 to 80 per cent, of a starch (lichenin) which is 
not very easily digested. Its nutritive value is therefore of 
a low order. 

Algae, — Irish or carrageen moss is a seaweed. The chief 
ingredients present is a vegetable jelly, the chemical 
composition of which is not fully known. It is specially 
noteworthy for the manufacture of a pleasant drink, made by 
adding cold water in the proportion of half an ounce of 
carrageen and 3 pints of water, then boiling and straining. 
It may be flavoured by spices if desired. If more carrageen 
is employed, the result is a mucilage which yields a jelly on 
boiling, which may be used as a nutritious and pleasant 
article of food which is fairly easily digested. 

B. Roots and Tubers. 

The roots and tubers used for food comprise the potato, 
turnip, carrot, parsnip, artichoke, onion, with the different 
plants yielding arrowroot, tapioca, and sago. The main 
nourishment of these plants is stored up almost entirely in 
the form of carbohydrates, chiefly starch. They contain very 



POTATOES 115 

little protein and fat, and are therefore vastly inferior in 
nutritive value to the cereals and pulses. Some of the 
members of this group contain vegetable acid chiefly combined 
with potash, and these salts give them their recognised anti- 
scorbutic properties. A considerable amount of the salts, 
however, is usually lost in the process of cooking. 

The potato is the most important member of this group. 
About 95 per cent, of the potato consists of water and 
starch, the rest of the solids being made of fibre, sugar, 
vegetable jelly, and pectin. It is very poor in nitrogen, and 
contains practically no fat. The richness of the potato in 
starch — about 20 per cent. — is its most marked character- 
istic, starch being largely extracted from potatoes for com- 
mercial purposes. Of the total amount of nitrogen in 
potatoes only one-half is in the form of protein, the remaining 
half being in the form of ammonia compounds, e.g. asparagin, 
which are not available for food. Owing to this poverty in 
protein and fat, potatoes are not suitable as an exclusive food, 
but they are a valuable adjunct to other foods rich in nitrogen. 
In the process of cooking the albuminous juices are coagulated, 
the starch granules swell up and absorb the watery juices, and 
the potash assumes a mealy appearance. In this form it is 
easily digested. If the changes described do not take place, 
as happens with young potatoes, the potato has a more 
solid and waxy consistence, and in this form is much less 
digestible. As ordinarily cooked, some of the salts are lost, 
and to avoid this potatoes should be cooked in their jackets, 
or else steamed. The relatively large amount of alkaline 
salts in potatoes makes them specially useful in the treat- 
ment of scurvy. 

Tlie sweet potato is not used as an article of diet in 
this country, but is largely used in France, Spain, and 
the United States. It contains about 16 per cent, of 
starch, and 10 per cent, of sugar. It is too sweet to eat 
with meat as a vegetable. It is a most wholesome article 
of diet. 

TJie yam is a tuber of a tropical climbing plant. It 
contains much starch. When cooked it becomes mealy and 
like the potato in flavour. 

Beetroot. — Beet contains So to 90 per cent, of starch and 



116 VEGETABLE FOODS 

sugar, and is one of the chief sources of cane sugar. Young 
beets are eaten boiled, and served with salad or eaten with 
vinegar. 

The turnip. — The nutritive value of the turnip is very 
small. It contains about 91 per cent, of water, and 5 to 6 
per cent, of carbohydrates, chiefly in the form of pectin 
bodies, and about i per cent, of nitrogenous substances, 
most of this being in non-albuminoid form. Turnips have 
a marked tendency to cause flatulence. 

Carrots are more nutritious than turnips, having about 
8 to 10 per cent, of carbohydrates, chiefly in the form of 
sugar. They are not readily digested nor easily absorbed. 

Parsnips closely resemble carrots in composition. They 
are rich in starch and sugar, the latter being largely lost in 
the process of cooking. 

Jerusalem artichoke is a tuber. Like turnips, it contains 
no starch, but is rich in carbohydrates, chiefly a variety of 
sugar belonging to the gummy series. It has a sweet taste, 
and remains watery after cooking. It is of no great import- 
ance as a food, but is of value for making good soups and 
sauces. 

Onions are of value both as flavouring agents and as 
vegetables. They impart a strong typical odour to the breath, 
due to the presence of a pungent oil. The large Spanish 
onions are used as food. They have a moderate laxative 
action, due to their richness in cellulose. 

Arroccroot is derived from the tuber of a West Indian 
plant (Maranta arundinaceci). The roots are dried and pulver- 
ised to a fine starchy flour, which consists of practically pure 
starch, with 15 to 20 per cent, of water. Its quality is 
judged by its whiteness, and by the ease from which there 
is made from it a firm, transparent, pleasant-tasting jelly, 
which remains firm and of good taste for three to four days. 

It is easily digested and very completely absorbed, and 
is therefore of special value in the treatment of diarrhoea 
and some gastro-intestinal derangements. In cases where 
there is difficulty in digesting starches or sugars, arrowroot is 
an unsuitable food. It is also used to thicken clear meat 
soups and extracts. 

Tapioca. — Tapioca is also a pure starch obtained from 



GREEN VEGETABLES 



11' 



the tuber o{ Manihot utilissimn, cultivated in South America. 
Its grains arc small. It contain.s over 85 per cent, of .starch. 
It is not quite so easily digested and absorbed as arrowroot. 
It is useful for adding to soups, and for making into pudding 
with milk. 

Sago is another starch obtained from the pith of the 
stems of several species of palm. In its composition and 
uses it is similar to tapioca. 

C. Stems and Leaves — Green Vegetables. 
Green vegetables are even less nutritious than roots, and 
arc chiefly valued for their mineral salt.s, especially salts of 
potassium, and as a source of ballast, their indigestible 
residue stimulating intestinal movements. These vegetables 
contain about 90 per cent, of water and only from i ^ to 3 per 
cent, of nitrogenous matter, probably only half of this consist- 
ing of protein (see table). In addition they contain cellulose in 
large amount, chlorophyll, sugars, gum, pectin, and sometimes 
traces of fat. 

Composition of Vegetables. 









Edible Portion. 




Water. 


Protein. 


Fat. 


Carbo- 
hydrates. 


Calories 
per lb. 


Cabbage . 
Celery 
Cucumber 
Lettuce . 
Onions 
Rhubarb . 
Spinach . 
Squash 
Tomatoes 






77-7 
75-6 
8i-i 
80.5 
78.9 
S6-6 

92-3 

44-2 

94-3 


1.4 
0-9 

0-7 

I-O 

'.1-4 
0-4 

2-1 

0-7 
0-9 


0-2 
O-I 
0-2 
0-2 
0-3 

0-4 
0-3 

0-2 
0.4 


4-8 

2.6 
2-6 

2-5 
8-9 

2-2 

3-2 

4-5 
3-9 


"5 
65 
65 
65 

190 
60 

95 
100 
100 



The young vegetable has a bitter flavour and is more 
digestible than an old one. As age advances they become 
tough and stringy from the increase in cellulose. Their 
digestibility is increased by careful cultivation in suitable soil. 
They should be eaten fresh, for owing to the large quantity 
of water which they hold, they soon dry when stored, and so 
loose their freshness. Celery and winter cabbage are 
exceptions, as they may be kept for weeks. Before use they 
should be carefully cleaned, not only by removal of dead and 



118 VRGKTABI-F FOODS 

deca)ini^ parts, hut h\- cairful washinf; aiul soaking in salt 
and water: the latter to kill any embryos of tapeworms, etc. 

Vegetables as a whole are not very easily digested, 
on account of the large amount of cellulose. In the process 
of cooking, vegetables gain much water and lose some of the 
carbohydrates and proteins, and much of their salts. As the 
nutritive value and digestibility of vegetables depend largely 
on their careful cooking, and special attention should be 
directed to this, a short account of the best methods of 
preparation is given later (p. 122). 

The Crucifcra: tribe of green vegetable, to which the 
cabbage and its varieties belong, furnish a large proportion of 
the vegetables for table use. 

Cabbages. — There are many varieties, but they all 
contain a large quantity of sulphur, which tends to cause 
flatulence, hence they are not suitable for invalids. When 
fresh and tender, cabbage is a wholesome food for the healthy, 
and has decided antiscorbutic properties. When young, they 
can be eaten raw with vinegar. They may be used in broth, 
or boiled and made into a puree. 

Cauliflower is the flower of a variety of cabbage grown 
large and tender by cultivation. It is one of the most easily 
digested green vegetables. It is boiled and eaten with white 
sauce or cheese sauce ; or if shredded down and dressed with 
vinegar and oil, it can be added to salad, and it is also used 
as a pickle. Broccoli is a variety of cauliflower, but inferior 
in flavour. 

^^ Greens ^^ or Kale have open heads* of leaves. German 
greens are the most delicate. They should be boiled and 
mashed like cabbage. 

Senkale are the tender young sprouts of the sea cabbage 
grown in the dark, so that there is no chlorophyll. The 
presence of the green colouring matter gives a disagreeable 
acrid taste. When properly cultivated they are as easy to 
digest as the cauliflower. 

Brussels sprouts are clusters of leaves resembling minia- 
ture cabbages growing in the axils of the main leaves. They 
are very nice when thoroughly cooked. 

Savoy is another variety of cabbage. 

Sauerkraut^ a German dish. The leaves of the white 



CELERY, ASPARAGUS, SPINACH 119 

cabbage, when fully grown, are taken out, layers of salt laiVJ 
between them and pressed ; this bruises the leaves and 
squeezes out the juice ; it is then set aside until fermentation 
commences. It is generally eaten boiled, like fresh cabbage. 

Celery is much cultivated for the blanched leaf-stalks or 
for the root. It is eaten raw, alone or in salad. It may 
be cooked in milk and used as a vegetable, or used in the 
flavouring of soup. It can also be made into a puree, and 
used as celery cream. 

It is not easily digested, but its aromatic flavour makes it 
very popular. Celery salt and celery seeds are much used as 
flavourings. It has a great reputation for rheumatism ; the 
reason for this is not quite clear. 

Green artichoke. — A cultivated thistle. The heads are 
cut before they expand. They are either boiled or eaten raw 
with salt and pepper. The vegetable contains tannin, and 
is easily digested, but has a curious flavour and is not in 
common use. 

Asparagus is considered a great delicacy, and was even 
cultivated by the Romans. There arc two varieties, white 
and green — the green is probably the finest. This vegetable 
possesses a very delicate flavour, and is much appreciated by 
invalids. The seeds are sometimes used on the Continent 
instead of coffee. The ingestion of asparagus has a diuretic 
effect, largely increasing the quantity and imparting a strong 
and disagreeable odour to the urine ; it appears within one 
hour after it is eaten, and may persist from twelve to twenty 
hours. It is due to a sulphur product, a methyl mercaptan 
which is formed in the intestine during digestion and is 
excreted by the urine. 

Spinach is a favourite vegetable, but contains no 
nutriment. It is used for improving the complexion, and 
it is certainly of benefit in relieving chronic constipation. If 
the leaves are young and tender, and if they arc cooked until 
they are quite soft and then rubbed through a sieve, it is a 
very easily digested vegetable. 

"Beet tops" turnip tops, and dandelion leaves can all be 
used in the same way as spinach. 

Salad vegetables {lettuce, endive, cress, green peppers, mint, 
tarragon, parsley, chcvril, borage, chive^ horse-radish, etc.). This 



120 VEGETABLE FOODS 

is a group of vegetables, lettuce being the chief t\pe, the 
leaves of which are eaten raw. These arc not very easily 
digested, they arc cooling, antiscorbutic, nutritious, and gently 
laxative. They furnish a pleasant variety during a meal. 
They are usually eaten with oil and vinegar or some other 
salad dressing. Some of these salad vegetables are used 
for pickles and relishes as well as for salad. They stimulate 
the digestive secretions and give a fillip to the appetite. 

Onion family are all nutritious — containing a quantity of 
nitrogenous materials and sugar in the colloid form as well as 
a pungent oil rich in sulphur, to which they owe their 
pungency and smell. The parts used are the bulb, young 
leaves, and seedlings. 

Onions when scalded, i.e., covered with boiling-water and 
a pinch of salt, are not nearly so strong in flavour as 
unscalded ones. Boiling makes them much milder in taste 
than when raw. Onions are valuable as blood-purifier. 
They are edible as fresh vegetables, e.g., spring onions in 
salads, and after long keeping are useful as flavouring agent for 
salads, stews, and soup, etc. There are a good many varieties. 

The onion proper is of two sizes: the strong, small, onion 
largely used for flavouring ; and the Spanish onion, much 
milder in flavour. Syboes are the young seedlings, and much 
esteemed for soups and stews. Shallot or eschalot is a delicate 
onion with a strong taste, but wanting the pungent smell of 
onion. Chives, a smaller variety, where the leaves and bulb 
are both used. The Welsh onion or cibot is larger than the 
chive, and is also valued for its tender leaves. Leek belongs to 
the same class, and the leaves and bulb are al.so both used. 

All onions impart a strong typical odour to the breath. It 
appears in two or three hours, and may persist for twenty- 
four hours or more. This is due to volatile substance 
absorbed by the blood from the digestive tract and excreted 
by the lungs. 

Garlic belongs to the onion family, but instead of having 
a bulb it is composed of small bulbs known as "cloves." In 
Spain it forms part of every di.sh, and is very nutritious. 
Used as a condiment, it is stimulant and tonic and aids 
digestion. Garlic odour is due to oil of garlic, which is a 
sulphide of allyl, found also in watercress and radishes. 



RHUBARB, TOMATO, VEGETABLE MARROW 121 

Rhubarb is composecl of tho stems of the leaves, and is 
used more as a dessert, beiiii; eaten with sugar and cream. 
Its flavour is tart ; cooking renders it soft and easily digested. 
It tends to produce calcium oxalate in the urine when eaten 
to excess, and it is not good for gouty and rheumatic 
people. 

Tomato, although a fruit, is generally used as a vegetable. 
It is becoming very much appreciated. It may be eaten raw 
with green salad vegetables, or alone with pepper and salt ; 
it can be baked, fried, stuffed, and used in innumerable ways. 
The skin should be avoided, the pulp only being eaten. As 
a flavouring agent, such as tomato sauce, tomato ketchup, 
tomato beans, an enormous amount of tomatoes are canned 
every year ; they retain more of their original flavour than do 
most other vegetables treated in this wa\-. 

Egg plant is allied to the tomato, but contains many seeds 
and is not so easily digested. 

Vegetable marrozv is the best-known member of the 
gourd family in the British Isles. The pumpkin is a large-sized 
variety, and so is the squash. Marrow is a succulent whole- 
some vegetable with an agreeable flavour. It may be baked, 
boiled, or stufffed, or made into preserves. It is an easily 
digested vegetable. 

Cucumbers are mainly eaten raw, they are generally used 
in salad. Immature young cucumbers are pickled as gherkins. 
Cucumber may be cooked and served in the same way as 
vegetable marrow, and is then easily digested. 

Melon is more of a fruit, but belongs also to the cucumber 
family. It is more a drink than a food, since the solids only 
amount to 5 per cent. The juice of the water-melon makes 
an agreeable cooling drink. Melons are eaten raw either 
with sugar or with ginger and pepper. The seeds of the 
Indian melon {kaukoor) contain a great deal of starch and 
vegetable fat ; they are ground into meal. 

In health, vegetables, and especially green vegetables, 
should enter into the daily dietary, as their richness in 
alkaline salts makes them a useful food, and at the same time 
gives them valuable antiscorbutic properties. As has been 
indicated, their nutritive value is very low. Their relative 
indigestibility, on account of the large amount of cellulose 



122 VEGETABLE FOODS 

present, and liability of tho latter to iiivlcrc^o abnormal 
fermentation, restricts their value as a food for invalids. 

The followint; are a few good methods of preparing vege- 
tables for those with weak digestion : — 

One of the most easily digested vegetables if properly cooked. The 
preliminary difficuhy in thoroughly cleaning spinach and the removing 
of the tough stalks are the two important points in its preparation. 
It also reduces enormously in cooking, and i lb. will make a very 
small dish. Double the leaves lengthways and strip off the stalks, 
then wash the spinach thoroughly in several waters until all the grit is 
removed ; place it in a saucepan without any water except that which 
adheres to the leaves, sprinkle it with salt, and put the lid on the pan. 
.Spinach is the only green vegetable which is cooked with the lid on the 
pan, as no water is used. Were the lid off, the spinach miv^ht burn from 
evaporation. Cook until it is quite tender for twenty or thirty minutes, 
stirring it occasionally with a spoon. When ready, drain off the water 
in a fine wire sieve with a basin below, then remove the basin and rub 
the spinach through the sieve on to a plate. Scrape the sieve well 
beneath. Return the spinach to a saucepan with a small piece of butter, 
pepper and salt, stir over the fire until thoroughly hot, add a squeeze of 
lemon juice or a little cream. This can be eaten with small pieces of 
toast or fried bread. If served with a poached egg upon it, it forms a 
very light and easily digested dish. 

Boiled Let hue. 

Wash a couple of lettuces thoroughly, and remove any discoloured 
leaves, or let them lie in water for a short time. Drain the water off and 
put them in a pan of boiling water and a little salt. IJoil quickly for 
about twenty minutes, when they should be quite tender. Keep the lid 
off the pan. Remove any scum that rises. When cooked, drain, and 
chop up the leaves on a board. Return to the saucepan with a small 
piece of butter, pepper, and more salt if required. 

Tomatoes. 

These have most flavour when baked, but can be boiled or stewed. 
Wipe them first and remove the stalks. Put them on a greased baking 
tin or fireproof dish, a little pepper and salt, and cover with a piece of 
greased kitchen paper. liake for ten minutes until they feel soft ; lift 
on to a clean hot dish, and serve. 

Steamed Asparagus. 

Trim the asparagus, and steam by putting it in a jam-pot nearly 
filled with boiling water, placed in a large saucepan half-full of boiling 
water and lightly covered. The asparagus will take nearly an hour to 



PREPARATION OF VEGETABLES 123 

cook in this manner. Serve with a sauce made of i ounce of mehed 
butter, I tablespoonful of cream, the yolk of an egg, and 5 drops of lemon 
juice. Stir the mixture for a few minutes over the fire until thoroughly 
warmed. 

Celery, Seakalc, Young Leeks. 

For celery, choose it when fresh and crisp. Remove the coarse outside 
leaves, as they can be used for flavouring. Put away the root, separate 
the stalks, wash and brush them well in cold water, and scrape off any 
brown or discoloured parts with a knife ; cut the stalks equal length, tie 
them together with tape (string would cut through), and throw them into 
a basin of clean water, and allow to soak in this for a few moments 
before cooking. 

To cook all these vegetables : — 

Place in a saucepan of freshly boiling mixture of equal parts of milk 
and water and a little salt. Boil with the lid off for about half an hour, 
when they will be quite tender. Drain well, remove the tape, and serve 
on a small piece of toast. This is not meant to be eaten, but it is for the 
purpose of more thoroughly drawing the moisture from the vegetables. 
All these vegetables can be served with a little well-made white sauce 
poured round them. If improperly made this sauce is a compound of 
uncooked flour and milk, and is indigestible. 

White Sauce. 

\ ounce butter. i giil of milk or white meat stock. 

^ ounce flour. Squeeze lemon juice. 

Pinch of salt. 

Take a small lined saucepan ; rinse it out first with cold water to 
prevent the sauce sticking to the foot of it, and melt in it the butter ever 
the fire, being careful it does not brown. Then add the flour, and mix 
with a wooden spoon until smooth ; cook it for a minute or two over the 
fire to give it a glossy appearance. Draw the pan to the side of the fire, 
add the milk or stock, and then stir constantly over the fire until boiling. 
Boil for two or three minutes in order to thoroughly cook the flour, and 
season to taste. 

Caulifloiver. 

Select a young cauliflower with a firm close head. Trim off the thick 
part of the stalk and nearly all the leaves. Split the stalk, so that the 
water may get in and cook it well. Wash in cold water, and let it lie in 
fresh water and i teaspoonful vinegar to draw out any insects. Have on 
the fire a deep saucepan three-quarters full of briskly boiling water, add 
salt to it, and put the cauliflower in head downwards. Let it boil from 
twenty minutes to half an hour, until the flower feels tender but net 
broken up. When ready, lift it out and drain for a minute or two on a 
sieve, and then serve with while sauce or white sauce and grated 
Parmesan cheese. 



124 VEGETABLE F(^OI)S 

Otriflvs. 

Spanish onions are by far the best for eating as a disli, the flavour 
not being so pungent. When onions are plain I'oilcd \.hty are best served 
on dry toast without any sauce. A large Spanish onion takes about 
three hours' boiling to become tender. To luike onions, the onion should 
be partly boiled, and then placed on a baking tin with a little butter and 
basted occasionally. When finished they should be of a nice brown 
colour. If softened by two hours' boiling, one hour in the oven will be 
sufficient. To stew, place a large Spanish onion in a saucer at the 
bottom of the saucepan, and put sufficient equal parts of milk and water 
to reach the edge of the saucer. Keep the lid of the saucepan tightly 
closed, and let it steam about three and a half hours until quite tender. 
The water irom the onion will prevent the necessity of adding Iresh 
water. 

Ves^ftnhle Jlfat-rozu. 

Wash the m.irrow, cut it in quarters, remove the seeds, and peel it 
very thinly If large, cut it into neat-sized pieces and throw them into 
cold water until wanted. Place the marrow into a saucepan of salted 
water (i dessertspoonful of salt to the quart). Boil gently with the lid 
on the pan for half an hour or more until the marrow feels tender when 
pierced with a fork. Drain well in a colander, and serve in a hot vege- 
table dish with white sauce poured over it. The marrow may be boiled 
in milk, the milk afterwards used for making tl:e sauce. 



I 



CHAPTER VII 

MINERAL CONSTITUENTS OF FOOD — FOOD ACCESSORIES 

PACE PAOK 

Their importance in nutrition . 125 The acidity and alkalinity of 

Calcium, sodium, potassium, iron, foods 127 

ctc. ..... 126 Food accessories .... 127 

Mineral salts are of very great importance in nutrition. 
This will readily be understood if we bear in mind that 
analysis of the tissues yields 5 per cent, of ash. Death occurs 
in a few weeks if salts are cut out of the diet. The two 
most important salts are calcium phosphate, which enters 
largely into the composition of bones, and sodium chloride, 
which occurs in all the tissues and fluids of the body. Mineral 
substances are of great value as tissue-builders, and indirectly 
are sources of energy. We have no very precise knowledge 
as to the exact amount required daily, but we know that an 
ordinary mixed diet contains sufficient for the body require- 
ments. Salts enter the blood in organic combination, and 
much importance attaches to the special form in which the 
different mineral substances are combined with the other food 
constituents. They pass into the blood as a rule unchanged 
by digestion. The chief mineral constituents are calcium, 
sodium, potassium, magnesium, and iron ; phosphorus, 
chlorine, and sulphur ; traces of silica, iodine, fluorine. 

The chief uses of the salts may be summarised as 
follows : — 

1. They enter into the composition of the tissues, e.g. 

the bones and teeth. 

2. They subserve special functions, such as the iron in 

ha:moglobin, calcium in coagulation of the blood, and 

133 



126 MINERAL CONSTITUENTS OF FOOD 

sodium chloride in the production of hydrochloric acid 
in gastric digestion. 

3. They exercise a powerful influence on the chemical 

composition of the blood, this being effected by 
their influence on processes of secretion and excretion. 

4. They control the rate of absorption by osmosis. 

The order in which foods stand as regards richness in 
salts is as follows : — 

(i) Pulses and cereals rank first; (2) vegetables; (3) 
meat comes next ; and (4) fruits and nuts contain the least 
amount of salts. 

Cakiuui. — Foods rich in lime are milk, eggs, cereals 
(especially rice), vegetables (especially asparagus and spinach), 
and drinking-water, when that is of the hard variety. Foods 
poor in lime are meat, fish, potatoes, and fruits. An adequate 
supply of foods rich in lime is essential, and more especially 
during the growing period. Deficiency of lime leads to soft- 
ness of the bones, and changes of a rachitic-like nature. Excess 
of lime salts in the diet is supposed to predispose to renal 
and vesical calculi. Reference may here be made to oxalic 
acid, which is present in food as oxalate of lime. It occurs 
specially in tea, coffee, rhubarb, spinach, and pepper. Cereal 
foods contain little ; this knowledge is of value in the treat- 
ment of calculus. 

Sodium and Potassium. — Salts of sodium are specially 
required for the fluids of the body, salts of potassium for the 
cellular constituents, notably the red-blood corpuscles and 
muscles. Vegetable foods are, as a rule, rich in potassium 
salts ; animal foods, on the other hand, have a larger proportion 
of sodium salts. Green vegetables and fruits are the chief 
sources of these salts, these foods being valuable on account 
of their containing vegetable acids with which the minerals 
are combined, the presence of the salts tending to maintain 
a proper degree of alkalinity of the blood. A deficiency of 
alkaline salts in foods leads to scurvy. Sodium chloride is 
the most important salt. It supplies chlorine for the pro- 
duction of the hydrochloric acid of the gastric juice, it stimu- 
lates appetite, it promotes renal secretion, and it induces 
thirst, which is of value in encouraging the drinking of fluid. 
On an average more than 10 grammes are taken in the daily 



i 



SODIUM CHLORIDE, IRON, PHOSPHORUS 127 

dietary, this representing an amount which is far in excess of 
the actual body requirements. This excess of salt above the 
real requirements is more particularly observed in people who 
live largely on vegetarian foods. There is an ample supply 
of salt in a mixed diet without adding salt as an extra. 
There is no certain evidence that the excess of salt ordinarily 
taken is on the one hand of special value, or on the other 
injurious. The therapeutic effects of a salt-free diet are 
described on p. 416. 

Iron. — Beef, eggs, oatmeal, and lentils have a relatively 
large amount of iron ; milk and its derivatives are poor in iron, 
A prolonged milk regime leads to ansemia in some people. 
Iron exists in food in organic combination. A knowledge of 
the amount of iron in the food is of little practical value, since 
we cannot influence the state of the blood as regards iron by 
that means alone. Iron is of value in chalybeate waters. 

Phosphorus. — Meat and vegetables are rich in phos- 
phorus. It occurs usually in organic form, and to a less 
extent in inorganic form as phosphates of the alkalis and 
earths. It is especially valuable for growing children. 

Acidity and Alkalinity of Poods. 

Foods may be classified according to the reaction of the 
ash left after incineration, into acid, neutral, or alkaline foods. 
Foods which give an acid reaction include meat, oats, barley, 
wheat, eggs, and rice ; an alkaline reaction is given by milk, 
peas, and beans, potatoes, lemon and orange juice ; animal 
fats and sugar have a neutral reaction. According to 
Wright, a deficiency of foods which yield an alkaline ash is 
a cause of scurvy. 



Pood Accessories. 

I'AOE PAOK 

Condiments 127 Ginger, cinnamon, etc. . . .129 

Vinegar, mustard, pepper . .128 Aromatic herbs, curry, horse-radish 130 

Condiments. 

A large number of sapid substances are added to the 
foods to stimulate the saliva and gastric juices. They add 
flavour, and relieve the monotony of diet. 



128 MINERAL CONSTITUENTS OF FOOD 

It is easy to fall into the habit of taking condiments to 
excess, especially vinegar, pickles, and strong curries. This 
is sometimes met with in the case of Anglo-Indians. If used 
in excess they may over-stimulate gastric secretion and 
derange the intestinal digestion. 

Flavourings. 

Those in common use are salt, vinegar, mustard, pepper. 

Vinfgar. — Among all the different condiments there is 
none so useful as vinegar. Its flavour is stimulating, and in 
addition vinegar has an important action in softening the 
fibres of hard meat and the cellulose of green vegetables 
hence it is eaten with lamb in the form of mint sauce, with 
salmon as vinegar sauce, and is also added to salads. Vinegar 
is acetic acid ; it can be made from wine, beer, various fruits, 
and from the distillation of wood. Good French vinegar 
contains 5 per cent, of acetic acid. Genuine vinegar is 
produced by oxidation of alcohol by a fungus {Mycoderma 
aceti) ; wood vinegar is produced by the destructive distilla- 
tion of wood, the product being often coloured by burnt 
sugar. This lacks the volatile ethers which characterise pure 
vinegar. Malt vinegar ought to be made from the fermenta- 
tion of malt, but it is frequently made from dilute spirit got 
from sugar or molasses. Vinegar has also an antiseptic and 
preservative action — and it is largely used for pickling fish, 
oysters, and vegetables. 

Vinegar enters largely into sauces — Worcester sauce, 
Yorkshire relish, ketchup, etc. These are useful to give 
flavour to an insipid dish, or to add to soup. Taken in 
moderation they are harmless. For invalids for whom 
strong sauces are not desirable, a little harmless flavouring 
can be added to the food by boiling a few aromatic herbs, 
e.g., parsley or mint with water, adding pepper and 
salt. 

Mustard ?>\TCi^\y stimulates the .salivary and ga.stric glands, 
and thus increases the digestive juices. Mustard owes its 
properties to an oil of mustard which is in combination with 
a nitrogenous ferment; from these, on the addition of water, 
the oil is gradually formed, hence mustard should be made 
freshly so as to secure the full flavour. It is used to 



FLAVOURINGS 129 

advantacjc in modcr.iticjn in salad dressings and with cold 
meat. Mii.stard seeds ground would be un[j<'ilatable, hence 
the commercial article is always diluted with starch. Its 
use as a counter-irritant applied to the skin is well 
known, and a useful emetic can be readily prepared by 
adding a tablespoonful of mustard to a tumbler of luke- 
warm water. 

Pi'Ppcr occurs as peppercorns, the natural berries in their 
dried and shrivelled state ; also as black pejjper, where the 
whole berry is dried and ground for use. White pepper is 
made from the same berry, ground after the outer husk has 
been removed. The pungent property is due to a volatile 
oil containing peperine ; this is more irritating than oil of 
mustard. 

Cayenne pepper is made from the crushed pod of various 
species of capsicum. The red pods of the capsicum are used 
in pickles, and are called chilies. It is a strong irritant to 
both skin and mucous membrane. It is generally eaten 
with raw oysters and whitebait. It is used as a substitute 
for alcohol for dipsomaniacs, and is used as a tincture to 
relieve the drink craving. 

Spices are solely of value in giving variety of taste to 
food. Tasteless farinaceous foods can be made attractive by 
spicing. The simplest flavourings are vanilla, ginger, and 
cinnamon, and these may be used for invalids and children. 

Ginger is a rhizome or underground stem ; it contains 
starch, which makes the substance a food as well as a 
condiment. 

The rhizome is scraped and dried, and sold as " root 
ginger," or it is afterwards powdered and sold as powdered 
ginger. The young roots boiled and preserved in syrup 
constitute preserved ginger, or if the substance is boiled in 
sugar it becomes crystallised ginger. Ginger owes its 
properties to oil of ginger, from which the essence of ginger 
is made ; this is much used in flavouring and in the making 
of ginger beer, .syrup ginger, and aerated water. Home- 
brewed ginger beer is made from ginger roots, sugar, lemons, 
cream of tartar along with yeast, and bottled before fermenta- 
tion is complete. Ginger wine is made like ginger beer, with 
the addition of spirit, and, like true wines, im[Movcs with 

I 



130 FLAVOURING SUBSTANCES 

keeping. Its action may be described as stimulating and 
carminative. 

Cinmxmon. — An aromatic ; it owes its properties to oil of 
cinnamon, which is got from the bark of a small tree. Its 
action is tonic, stomachic, and carminative ; it is also a 
strong disinfectant and germicide. Its odour and flavour 
are delightful, and it is used medicinally and as a flavouring 
agent. 

Nutmegs and mace are got from the same plant Mace 
is the surrounding membrane of the nut. They are aromatic 
substances imparting a very characteristic flavour. 

Cloves are flower buds of a plant taken and dried. About 
one-fifth or one-sixth of their weight consists of oil of 
cloves, and to this they owe their hot taste and characteristic 
smell. 

Allspice. — Jamaica pepper, or pimento, is a fruit grown 
in the West Indies. The name com.es from the aroma 
resembling a mixture of cloves, cinnamon, or nutmeg. Like 
cloves, it is aromatic. 

Caraway seeds are from an umbelliferous plant ; they 
are carminatives and tonics. Oil of caraway is given for 
flatulence. They are used in confectionery and for flavouring 
cordials. 

Coriander seeds are carminative and aromatic, and used 
in the same way as caraway seeds. 

Vanilla is obtained from vanilla beans, the pods of an 
orchid grown in Mexico and other tropical regions. Its 
essence makes a very agreeable flavouring agent for puddings, 
custards, and ices. Its chief use is in the manufacture of 
chocolate. 

Aromatic herbs are used for flavouring in various ways. 
These are : parsley, chopped and added to soup or sauce ; 
mint, either spearmint, used in mint sauce, or peppermint, 
an aromatic carminative much used ; thyme and marjoram, 
used for seasoning; sage, chiefly used in the stuffing of geese; 
dill, a member of the umbelliferai — the leaves are used to 
flavour pickles, and the fruit made into dill water makes a 
favourite carminative for infants ; fennel is another herb of 
the same family, used as a flavouring for salads and sauces. 
Curry powders of various sorts are prepared by mixing 



CURRY 



131 



strong aromatics and condiments with starchy substances. 
It owes its peculiar odour ajid bright colour to the presence 
of turmeric, a variety of ginger largely cultivated in the East 
Indies. Thorough cooking is absolutely necessary to develop 
the full flavour of the various ingredients in curry powder. 
Two recipes for curry powder oiay be given (Knight): — 



Turmeric powder . 


6 ounces 


Turmeric 


. 5 ounces 


Coriander seed powder 


8 „ 


Coriander 


. 3 » 


Black pepper 


4 „ 


Black pepper 


I >i 


Fenugreek . 


1 


Ginger 


^ » 


Ginger . 


n 


Cayenne 


^ J) 


Cayenne 


I I 


Mustard 


* j> 


Cinnamon seeds . 


h » 


Mace . 


I dram 






Cinnamon . 


* >> 






Cardamom . 


2 „ 



Horse-radish is a condiment which increases the saliva ; 
may be eaten shredded down with meat or oyster, or made 
into a piquant sauce. 



CHAPTKR VIII 

BEVERAGES — WATER— AERATED WATERS— TEA, ETC. — 
ALCOHOL 

PAGE PAGK 

Water 132 Cocoa 138 

Aerated and mineral waters . . 134 Chocolate I39 

Tea 136 Alcohol I39 

Coflfee 137 

Water. — Water is indispensable to life. About two- 
thirds of the total body-weight is composed of water, and 
water also enters largely into the composition of all food- 
stuffs. It is useful as a solvent, carrying nutrient material to 
the tissues and effete material to be eliminated by the 
kidneys and skin. 

Daily requirements. — On an average, about 4 pints of 
water may be taken as the daily requirements of the tissues, 
of which about one-fourth is ordinarily taken in solid food. 
The best way of supplying water to the body is by drinking 
it in its pure state, when its useful solvent and eliminant 
properties can be fully utilised. The equivalent of the 4 
pints ingested is excreted daily, 50 per cent, being voided in 
the urine, about 28 per cent, by the skin, 20 per cent by the 
lungs, and 2 per cent by the fiEces. The amount of water 
required daily in fluid form varies with the amount of loss 
by the excretory organs, skin, kidneys, and lungs ; and 
this in turn depends to an important extent on the outside 
temperature, on the amount of muscular activity, and on the 
nature of the food. In hot weather there is a free dia- 
phoresis, and more fluid is called for ; whereas in cold weather 
the skin is less active, and less fluid is necessary. Active 
muscular exercise promotes diaphoresis and diuresis, hence 
13:^ 



WATER-DRINKING 133 

abundance of fluifl is desirable. If the diet is a solid and 
dry one, and rich in nitrogen, more water is necessary, in 
order to eliminate the extra amount of urea and other 
nitrogenous products ; whereas if vegetables and fresh fruits 
enter largely into the dietary, less water is required. Natural 
foods which are specially rich in water are milk and succulent 
fruits, such as grapes, oranges, melons, and plums ; also 
vegetables, such as cucumbers, tomatoes, and salads. All 
vegetables contain more water than meats, and fresh fruits as 
a rule contain more water than vegetables. 

The effects of drinking ivater on the tissues. — The ingestion, 
even of a large amount of water, has very little effect on the 
tissues other than of a temporary character, this being due to 
the remarkable tendency on the part of the blood to maintam 
equilibrium as regards its composition. After the ingestion 
of a large amount of water the blood is very temporarily 
diluted, the blood-pressure slightly raised, and, in proportion 
as the latter is present, there is a slightly increased activity 
of the heart muscle. These effects quickly subside, coincid- 
ently with the rapid withdrawal of the water from the tissues 
by means of the kidneys and skin. Metabolism of proteins 
is not notably affected. 

Deficiency of water a common dietetic error. — One of the 
commonest dietetic errors is taking too little water. The 
important influence of water on nutrition is shown by a 
study of the influence of water starvation. Water starvation 
leads very speedily to the development of thirst, a dryness of 
the mucous membranes, constipation, defective absorption 
from the gastro-intestinal tract, with resulting impaired 
nutrition, emaciation, muscular weakness, convulsions, coma, 
and death. It is important to bear in mind that many 
patients are willing to take water in the form of a table- 
water who will not readily take it in the form of ordinary 
drinking-water. 

Drinking-waters are spoken of as hard and soft, according 
to the proportion of mineral matters present in the water. 
Hard water contains excess of lime salts, the drinking of 
which may induce constipation, indigestion, and disturbance 
of the general health. In some people the use of hard water 
in the cooking of food is sufficient to upset the general 



134 BEVERAGES 

health. By boilinpr the water, its hardness, which is due to 
the presence of earthy carbonates, is diminished, as the 
carbonic acid which assists in holding the carbonates in 
solution is driven off. lk)iling is also the most effective way 
of ridding the water of organic impurities. Boiled water 
when cooled has an insipid taste, but this may be largely got 
rid of by subsequent aeration in a gazogene, or by simply 
shaking up the water with air in a stoppered bottle. 

Water, then, is an indispensable beverage. It is absorbed 
quickly, and as rapidly eliminated. As a general rule, it may 
be said that at least 1 1 to 2 pints of pure water should be 
taken daily. This amount, it may be added, is considerably 
in excess of that taken by the average man. A useful 
method of prescribing water is to give a full tumblerful of hot 
or cold water on an empty stomach — 

(a) The first thing in the morning ; 

(d) An hour before the midday meal ; and 

(c) The last thing at night. 

The addition of water to the dietary is a valuable thera- 
peutic agent in many diseases. Special value attaches to its 
use in fevers, where it assists in eliminating the toxins by 
means of the kidneys and skin. Further reference to its use 
in disease will be found in the sections dealing with individual 
diseases. 

Aerated and Mineral Waters. — Artificial aerated waters 
are made by charging water with carbonic acid gas at high 
pressure. The chief varieties of artificial aerated waters are 
as follows : — 

1. Aerated distilled water, e.£^. Salutaris water. Here all 

the mineral substances have been removed by distil- 
lation prior to being charged with gas. 

2. Ordinary water impregnated with carbonic acid gas. 

3. Alkaline waters, such as soda, potash, or lithia water. 

These contain on an average about 5 to 10 grs. of 
alkaline salt to the bottle. 

4. Seltzer water, an imitation of the natural mineral 

water of Seltzer (in Nassau). This contains common 
salt, bicarbonate of soda, carbonate of magnesia, and 
hydrochloric acid. 



MINERAL WATERS 135 

5. Sweetened waters, such as lemonade, ginger beer, 
ginger ale, and the like. It is important to note 
that these arc very acid drinks, and also rich in 
sugar. 

Natviral Mineral Waters. — Mineral waters are frequently 
taken as substitutes for ordinary water. They differ from 
ordinary water in the greater amount of gaseous and solid 
matters they contain. The gaseous constituents are mainly 
carbonic acid gas, and in much lesser degrees sulphide 
of hydrogen ; the solid constituents are salts of sodium, 
potassium, magnesium, aluminium, iron, iodine, bromine, 
chlorine, and sulphur. Some waters have a purgative action, 
others a laxative, and others a diuretic effect, according to 
their composition. For ordinary table use a water must not 
contain more than i per cent of mineral matter, otherwise 
the specific effect of the saline ingredients present may be 
obtained. 

The natural mineral waters most largely used as table- 
waters in this country are Apollinaris^ JohanniSy Seltzer, 
Kronthal, St Galniier, and Vicky iCelestvi). These are all 
alkaline, well-aerated waters, containing carbonate of lime and 
soda, and also sodium chloride. According to their chemical 
composition, mineral waters may be classified as follows : — 

Purgative, 

Laxative, 

Diuretic and medicinal. 

The pui\[^ative waters are characterised by the large 
amount of sodium sulphate and magnesium sulphate in this 
composition, the chief among these being Apenta, Ilunjadi 
Janos, Friederichshall, Kissingen, Franz Josef These are 
bitter waters. 

The laxative waters are less rich in the salts which 
induce active peristalsis of the bowels. These include waters 
of Harrogate, Kissingen, Kronthal, Seltzer, Wiesbaden, 
Contrexeville. These are relatively rich in sodium chloride. 

The diuretic ajid medicinal waters include the ordinary 
table-waters above mentioned, also special waters rich in 
bromine, iodine, iron, and sulphur, which are found in 
different health resorts. 



136 REVERAGES 

Uses of viineral 7i'atcrs. — When taken before meals, 
w.itcrs containing carbonic acid have a soothini; effect on the 
gastric mucous membrane. At the same time, carbonic acid 
acts as a stimulant to the movements of the stomach, and 
may thus aid digestion. If taken in excess, all carbonated 
waters arc apt to produce indigestion, with flatulent distension 
of the stomach or bowel. The slight alkalinity of .some of 
the table-waters has led to their being used to neutralise the 
acidity of some of the more acid wines. In practice we 
find that many patients will not readily take ordinary water, 
but are willing to take an alkaline table-water. Probably the 
greatest use of aerated and simple mineral water in thera- 
peutics is to be found in the treatment of this class of patient. 
Many of the natural mineral waters have been found to be 
distinctly radio-active, and recent observations suggest that 
some therapeutic value may attach to this property. In this 
respect the natural mineral waters have a distinct advantage 
over the artifically prepared waters. The sweetened mineral 
waters have no therapeutic value ; they may be pleasant drinks 
to people in health, but should be avoided by gouty and 
rheumatic subjects, on account of the acid and sugar present 
in their composition. 

Beverages may be classed into the following two 
groups : — 

1. Those whose stimulant qualities depend on an alkaloid, 

e.g., tea, coffee, cocoa, kola, coca. 

2. Those whose stimulant qualities depend on alcohol, e.g., 

spirits, wine, beer. 

The.se will be in turn considered. 

Tea is a preparation made from the leaves of the young 
shoots of an evergreen plant, " Thca." It is grown chiefly in 
China, India, and Ceylon. There arc two varieties, black and 
green tea. In the former the leaves are allowed partly to 
decompo.se, and the black colour is due to their incipient decay 
due to fermentation. As in the process of fermentation the 
tannic acid becomes less soluble, black tea contains much 
less tannic acid than green tea, with the result that black 
tea has now the market practically to itself The chief 
ingredients of tea arc caffeine, tannin, and traces of 



TEA 137 

volatile oils. The average composition of tea ma)- be given 
as follows : — 

Caffeine . . . 2 to 4 per cent. 

Tannic acid . . . 10 „ 12 „ 

Volatile oils ... ^ >> 

Extractives and gummy substances are present in small 
amount. As a general rule, we may say that China teas 
have a delicate flavour, with little astringency ; Indian teas 
have more body and astringency ; Ceylon teas are also 
rich in caffeine, but not so strong as Indian teas. Most 
ordinary teas are blends. 

Composition of an infiisio7t. — As caffeine is very soluble, 
all the caffeine present is dissolved at once on the addition of 
hot water. Tannin is much less soluble, the result being that 
prolonged boiling increases the amount of tannin present in 
the solution. This is specially true of all the cheaper teas. 
In some high-class China teas, costing 5s. per lb., the propor- 
tion of tannin extracted may not be appreciably greater after 
ten or fifteen minutes' infusion. On an average, it may be 
said that a teacupful of tea, after a ^q\v minutes' infusion, 
contains about i gr. of caffeine to rather more than 2 grs. of 
tannic acid. Tea should be prepared with water that has 
j'ust come to the boil, and is best after from three to five 
minutes' infusion. If extracted too long, it contains more 
tannin, and a greater proportion of bitter principles. It is 
important that the water used should not be too hard or too 
soft. Excessive hardness may be neutralised by adding 
a pinch of soda to the teapot. A very soft water extracts 
more fully the bitter principle from the leaves. 

Tea is not a food, but a pleasant beverage which has a 
stimulating effect on the nervous system. If made with 
boiling milk it possesses nutritive properties. When taken 
to excess it deranges the digestive, the cardio-vascular, and the 
central nervous systems. Various symptoms of indigestion, 
excitability, sleeplessness, anremia, constipation, and rapid, 
feeble pulse are the chief symptoms induced by excessive 
indulgence. 

Cotiee is prepared from the seeds of Caffca arabica, the 
seeds being stripped of their covering and dried, and specially 
prepared by a roasting process, in which the berries lose 



138 



BEVERAGES 



about 20 per cent, of their wciiijht by water, and about half 
the caffeine present in their composition. The roasting 
process sets free a volatile oil which imparts the character- 
istic aroma of coffee. After grindiuf^, this volatile oil tends 
to disappear ; hence the importance of using freshly ground 
coffee. The essential constituents of coffee are : — 



Caffeine. 

Tannin and caffco-tannic acid. 

Fat. 



Gummy matters. 

Cellulose. 

Ash. 



The relative proportion of these is shown in the following 
tabular analysis (Rlyth) : — 





CalTeinft. 


Tannin and CaQblne. 


Gummy 

iiiattors. 


Cellulose. 


Ash. 


Tannic 
Acid. 


Fat. 


Finest Jamaica . . . 
Finest Green Mocha 
Ceylon .... 
Washed Rio . 
Costa Rica . , 
Malabar .... 
East Indian . . 


1-43 
0-64 

1-53 
I-I4 
i-i8 
0-88 

lOI 


22-7 
23-1 

20-9 
20-9 
2I-I 
20-7 

19-5 


14.76 

21-79 
I4-.S7 
15-95 

21-12 

i6-8o 
17-00 


25-3 
22-6 
23-S 
27-4 

20-6 

25-8 

24-4 


23-8 
29-9 
36-0 
32-5 
33-0 
31-9 
36.4 


3-8 
4-1 
4-0 

4-5 
4.9 

4-3 
4-0 



When coffee is made by infusion, in the ordinary ways of 
this country, there is extracted about 20 per cent. To obtain 
the full strength of the coffee, the example of the East should 
be followed, and the beverage prepared by infusion and 
decoction combined. When so prepared, coffee should yield 
fully one-third of its weight of extract. Like tea, coffee is 
not a food, except for the milk and sugar added to it. As 
ordinarily prepared, the amount of caffeine and tannin in a 
cup of coffee is very similar to that in a cup of tea. The 
most common adulterant is chicory, and many people prefer 
coffee with a chicory flavour. It differs from coffee in having 
very little caffeine, tannin, or volatile oil, and it is much richer 
in sugar, having over 10 per cent, of sugar, whereas ground 
coffee has less than i per cent. 

Cocoa is prepared from the seeds of Theobroma cacao^ 
deprived of their outer pulp and roasted, in which form, as in 
the coffee bean, the starch of the seed is changed into dextrin. 
The peculiar aroma is due to a volatile oil. The striking 
feature in its composition is the high percentage of fat. It is 



COCOA 139 

also rich in starch and albuminous matter, one-fifth of the 
latter, however, being of an indigestible nature. Konig gives 
the following analysis: — 



Water . 


. 


. 3-25 


Nitrogenous . 


1476 


Theobroma . 


. 


. 1-6 


Other non-nitrogenous . 


12-35 


Fat 


, 


. 490 


Cellulose 


3-68 


Starch . 


. 


• 13-31 


Ash . . . . 


3-65 



Chiefly salts of potassium and phosphoric acid. 

In many commercial cocoas there is a large addition of 
sugar and starch. Cocoa thus ranks as a foodstuff of 
distinct value. By reason of the large amount of sugar and 
fat present, if used in excess, it is liable to upset digestion. 
When not too rich, it forms a nutritious drink especially 
useful for children and convalescents. The special prepara- 
tion of cocoa advertised by Sandow contains less fat than 
most other cocoas, and is on that account a valuable pre- 
paration for many subjects with a delicate digestion. 

The kernels when finely ground constitute cocoa nibs ; if 
boiled in water for about two hours and the fluid strained off, 
a decoction of pure unadulterated cocoa is obtained which is 
a nutritious and easily digested drink. For children and 
invalids peptonised cocoas are undoubtedly the best forms. 
Savory & Moore and Allenbury supply good brands. 

A " fortified cocoa " can be prepared as follows : — 

1 teaspoonful of peptonised cocoa. ^ cup of water. 

2 tablespoonfuls of milk sugar. i ounce of cream. 

I Mix the cocoa and sugar, add the water, and boil for four or five 
minutes ; then add the cream, plain or whipped. 

Chocolate is cocoa to which has been added starch, sugar, 
and flavouring substances, generally vanilla. It contains 
about 1-5 per cent, of theobromine, 15 per cent, of fat, 
about 60 per cent, of sugar, and 5 per cent, of nitrogenous 
substances. 

Plain Chocolate (a good make). 

To \ oz. allow \ pint of water and \ pint of milk. Make the milk and 
water hot, break the chocolate into small pieces, add it, and stir until 
quite dissolved. 15ring to boiling point, then strain, and serve with 
sugar. (Excellent drink in cold weather.) 



110 BEVERAGES 



Alcohol. 

Introduction .... Iju Milt liquors 145 

Gcncr.il cfferts . . . . I4> Wines 147 

Nature and source . . . 143 Therapeutic uses . . . .151 

Spirits 144 

Introduction. — A remarkable chang^c has occurred in 
the past twenty years in the attitude of the medical 
profession on the question of the value of alcohol in the 
treatment of disease. Whereas formerly wines and spirits 
were largely used in the treatment of many acute and 
chronic diseases, the present tendency is more and more to 
discard alcohol in the treatment of disease. This change in 
the custom of the profession is very well shown by a reference 
to the following figures. In the year 1890, the annual cost 
of wines and spirits per occupied bed in the Royal Infirmary 
of Edinburgh was 12s. lo^d. — los. for spirits, and 2s, loW. for 
wines. In 1908, the annual cost was is. per head per annum 
for spirits, and nothing for wines. 

Additional evidence of the general trend of medical 
opinion upon this matter is found in the steady fall in the 
amount of alcohol used in seven of the London hospitals 
in the past forty years. Quoting from a diagram in Horsley 
and Sturge's book on Alcohol and the Hinuan Body, we 
find that whereas in 1862 the cost of alcohol for the year in 
the seven main London hospitals was a little under ;{^8ooo, in 
1902 the cost is under ;^3(X)0. The extent of this decrease is 
enhanced by the fact that in the later period a very much 
larger number of patients were treated than in the earlier 
years. This decrease of alcohol has been seen alike in 
surgical and medical cases. In surgery it is probable that 
the development of the antiseptic system has been to a great 
extent responsible for the diminished use of alcohol in recent 
years. The only surgical condition in which alcohol is still 
considered by some to be of use is " shock," and even here it 
is largely giving place to other forms of stimulant. The 
decrease of alcohol in medical cases is very well illustrated by 
a reference to its use in fevers, which are generally the main 
class of disease for which alcohol has in the past been 



i 



ALCOHOL 141 

extensively used. In the year 1894 the cost of stinuihuits 
in the hospitals under the Metropolitan Asylums Hoard, 
London (quoted by Horsley), was is. 46. per head; in 1904 
this had fallen to 4d., a very pronounced reduction. This 
reaction against the prescribing of alcohol in the treatment 
of disease has been very general, both in this country and 
abroad. There is little doubt that this movement is in the 
right direction. 

The reason for this change is found in the fuller know- 
ledge we now possess of the unfavourable effects of alcohol, 
on the structure, function, and resisting power of the body 
generally, and also to some extent to the recent discovery of 
valuable medicinal substances which have taken the place of 
alcohol in the treatment of certain diseases. While the use 
of alcohol in the treatment of disease is now very restricted, 
there is no question as to its undoubted value in the 
treatment of certain diseases, more especially in their critical 
stages, and we have to consider shortly the physiological 
effects of alcohol, its therapeutic uses, and the composition 
and characteristics of the leading alcoholic beverages. 

Gejieral effects. — Alcohol is a general stimulant, small 
doses exciting, larger doses paralysing the nervous system, 
beginning with the higher centres ; it also stimulates the 
cardio-vascular system, accelerating the circulation, but not 
notably increasing the force of the heart. In large doses the 
blood-vessels are paralysed, thus becoming dilated, resulting 
in a fall of the body temperature. It also stimulates 
primary digestion to a slight extent, due to its influence on 
the gastric vessels, and on the muscle wall of the stomach. 
It does not increase the amount of the gastric juice. Alcohol 
cannot be regarded as a food. It is beyond the province of 
this work to describe in full the toxic effects of alcohol, it will 
suffice to refer briefly to the facts regarding it which bear on 
its use in the treatment of disease. 

Is Alcohol a Food? — Injlucnce on inctabolisin. — When 
taken in moderate amount, alcohol is completely oxidised 
in the tissues ; when taken in larger amounts, it escapes 
unoxidiscd with the breath and urine. It is therefore clear 
that alcohol can furnish energy to the organism, and in virtue 
of this, alcohol is by some writers regarded as a food. There 



U2 BEVERAGES 

is no doubt, however, that the fact of a substance being burnt 
up in the body with the liberation of a certain amount of 
energy does not entitle it to be regarded as a food. Alcohol 
does not produce energy for muscular work ; on the contrary, 
the reverse is the case. It is not a physiological source of heat 
production, because the heat produced by its oxidation is at 
once lost by the marked dissipation and loss of heat which 
occurs through the skin. Alcohol possesses ?io power of 
repairing tissue. Liebig, the renowned chemist, stated that 
9 quarts of the best ale contain as much nourishment as 
would lie on the end of a table knife. And lastly, there is 
little or no evidence that alcohol has any effect in ihe preven- 
tion of tissue waste. We must, therefore, conclude that when 
judged by the requisite standards alcohol cannot be regarded as 
a food. It may be true that in a very acute illness a patient 
may live for some days on nothing but large quantities of 
whisky, brandy, or champagne, and may apparently not emaci- 
ate in that time as much as he would have done if he had been 
living merely on his own tissues ; but even if this be so, it does 
not justify us in regarding alcohol as in any real sense a food. 

A further effect of alcohol has to be noted, viz., alcohol as 
a cause of deficient oxidation of tissue. In virtue of its 
affinity for oxygen it interferes with the process of oxidation 
in the tissues, and so leads to fatty degeneration and infiltra- 
tion of the tissues. Hence the obesity observed in many 
subjects who take alcohol to excess. 

Action of alcohol on the cardio-vascular system. — Small 
doses increase the frequency of the heart-beat, partly in- 
directly through stimulating the gastric mucous membrane, 
and partly directly through acting on the nerves and muscles 
of the heart. There is no evidence, however, that alcohol 
strengthens the force of the heart-beat ; on the contrary, the 
available experimental evidence rather points in the opposite 
direction. In disease, however, when the heart is beating 
quickly but feebly, alcohol may diminish the number of beats, 
and at the same time increase its force. Alcohol dilates the 
peripheral blood-vessels, with the result that more heat is 
given off by radiation than is produced by its own combus- 
tion, so that the body temperature is lowered. It is therefore 
a mistake to take alcohol in any form with the object of 



ALCOHOL 143 

"keeping out the cold," as the initial feelings of warmth are 
soon followed by a lowered temperature from the increased 
radiation of heat from the skin that immediately ensues. If 
taken in excess, a state of chronic congestion of the peripheral 
vessels is induced, hence the purplish appearance of the face 
seen in subjects who take much alcohol. Degenerative 
changes in the vessels are also induced by the immoderate 
use of alcohol in any form. 

Action on the nervous system. — Alcohol induces a tem- 
porary initial stimulation or excitation of the central nervous 
system. It is now known, however, that this is the result 
of a deadening of the higher centres, and is in no sense due 
to a real stimulant action, as was formerly supposed. The 
effects of small quantities of alcohol on the more highly 
specialised functions of idealism, reasoning, etc., have been 
very minutely investigated in a very ingenious manner in 
recent years by Kraepelin, whose researches have clearly 
proved that there is no real quickening of brain activity 
under alcohol, but the reverse. 

Action on the digestive system. — The chief effect of alcohol 
when taken in small doses is to increase the motility of the 
stomach, and thus indirectly stimulate digestion. There 
is no evidence that it otherwise improves the powers of 
digestion. 

Action upon the muscular system. — As in the case of 
the nervous system, there is an initial apparent increase in 
the muscular activity. This is not a real increase, however. 
An interesting experiment on the sustaining power of alcohol 
was made upon three British regiments, and reported in 1899 
(quoted by Thompson). The men were subjected to fatiguing 
exercises. To one regiment a ration of whisky was allowed, 
to a second a ration of malt liquor, and to the third no 
alcohol. The men taking whisky exhibited more energy for 
about four days than either of the other groups, but then 
became fatigued and weak ; whereas those taking none 
steadily gained in endurance, and those taking malt liquor 
showed an intermediate condition. Alcohol is usually for- 
bidden to athletes in training, for although it may temporarily 
lessen muscular fatigue, it soon reduces the power of 
endurance. 



144 



BEVERAGES 



Alcohol — Nature and Source. — Alcohol is obtained from 
fermentation of grape sugar by means of yeast. The source 
of the grape sugar is grain, especially barley, grapes, and in 
some instances potatoes — the different kinds of alcoholic 
liquors obtained depending to some extent on the particular 
kind of sugar, and also the special yeast employed. The 
various by-products in the process of fermentation also 
materially influence the nature of the product. The strength 
of alcoholic liquors is usually expressed as the percentage of 
alcohol by volume, the percentage of alcohol by volume in 
some of the commoner alcoholic beverages being roughly as 
follows : — 



Whisky \ 
Brandy - . 
Rum . J 




. 43 per cent. 




Gin 


. 35 


Port . 


• 25 


Sherry , 


• 21 



Champagne lo to 15 per cent. 
Hock . 10 ,; 

Claret . 9 „ 

Bottled beer 7 „ 

Lager . 4 „ 

We have to consider shortly the three difTerent classes of 
alcoholic beverages : spirits, malt liquors, and wines. 

Spirits. — Spirits are obtained by distillation of the pro- 
ducts of fermentation of different saccharine substances, the 
alcohol and various volatile substances being separated by 
distillation. Distillation of malted barley furnishes whisky, 
malted grape yields Onindy, and malted molasses give ruin as 
a distillation product, the flavour in each instance being due 
to the by-products of fermentation. The by-products can 
be entirely removed by means of patent stills, leaving an 
almost pure spirit, known as silent spirit, because its source 
cannot be traced. Amongst the by-products of fermentation 
there are alcohols in a higher series, a mixture of which is 
known as fusel oil (amyl alcohol). Fusel oil is the last 
product of distillation, and it is formed especially when spirit 
is made from grain or potatoes instead of malt. It should be 
noted that all spirits are free of sugar, and all have a very low 
degree of acidity: brandy with i gr. per ounce (reckoned as 
tartaric acid), and whisky and gin having only -2 gr. per ounce. 

Whisky. — Whisky is a spirit made from malt, or malt and 
grain. It is of two kinds. Malt whisky, made in pot stills, 
and grain whisky, made in patent stills, ordinary whisky being 



BRANDY— RUM— GiN l45 

usually a blend of the two. In the case of malt whisky the 
by-products of distillation give the whisky a raw and dis- 
agreeable taste ; this, however, gradually mellows, the percent- 
age of alcohol diminishing by 5 to 8 per cent, in the course 
of a few years. Irish malt whisky differs from Scotch 
whisky in being prepared from a mixture of malted barley 
with unmalted grain, the malt not being dried over peat, as in 
the manufacture of Scotch whisky. 

Grain whisky is made from a mixture of grains, barley, 
rye, and maize, with a little malt to convert the starch into 
sugar. It is distilled in patent stills, in order to separate to a 
large extent the by-products of fermentation, including fusel 
oil. Its method of manufacture makes it soon ready for use, 
and, unlike malt whisky, it does not improve on keeping. 
Most commercial whiskies are blends of malt and grain 
whisky. In recent years, the introduction of patent stills and 
the extended scale of manufacture has led to an increase in the 
amount of potato and grain spirit, and it is in these spirits, made 
from unaltered starch, that fusel oil is specially found. The 
legal limit for dilution of whisky is 42-7 alcohol by volume. 

Brandy. — Genuine brandy is a product of the grape, and 
is prepared from the distillation of wine. Good brandy keeps 
on improving, due to the formation of the volatile ethers. 
Most commercial brandies, however, are not genuine brandies, 
but are made from silent spirit, the product of potato or 
grain coloured with burnt sugar, and flavoured by special 
essences in imitation of genuine brandy. The alcoholic 
strength of brandy and whisky is the same. Good malt 
whisky is more likely to be pure than brandy, and it has the 
advantage of being much cheaper. 

Rum is the product of distillation of fermented molasses 
obtained in the manufacture of raw sugar, the by-products 
of fermentation giving rum its characteristic flavour. The 
best varieties are made from fermentation of the juice of 
sugar cane; much of the commercial rum is made, as in the 
case of brandy, from silent spirit, flavoured with special 
essences, the colour being imparted to it by the addition of 
burnt sugar. The alcoholic strength of rum is rather greater 
than whisky — about 50 to 60 per cent, by volume. 

Gin is a product of fermentation of a mash of rye and 

K 



146 LEVERAGES 

malt, and distillation of the product, juniper berries, a little 
salt, and occasionally hops being added in the final distillation. 
Genuine gin is made in Holland. Much of the commercial 
gin is made, as in the case of brandy and rum, from silent 
spirit, flavoured with juniper berries, salt, turpentine, etc. 
The legal strength of gin is 37 per cent, by volume, the 
usual strength being about 50 per cent. A sweetened and 
diluted gin goes by the name of Old Tom. Unlike the other 
spirits, it is not coloured by the presence of oil of juniper or 
similar oils, which cause a milkiness when diluted with water, 
since they are insoluble in water. The oil of juniper gives 
gin distinct diuretic properties. 

Liqueurs are spirits sweetened with cane sugar, and 
flavoured with aromatic or other herbs or essences. The 
proportion of alcohol in them is high, ranging from 35 to over 
55 per cent.; they are usually rich in sugar, such liqueurs 
as Chartreuse, Kiimmel, Anisette, and Benedictine having 
about 30 per cent, of cane sugar in their composition. 

Beer is the product of fermentation of malt (barley) with 
hops. In the preparation of most commercial beers, however, 
cheaper substitutes for malt are employed. Those include 
potatoes, maize, and rice. The quality of beer depends 
largely on the temperature at which the " mashing" is carried 
out, the higher the temperature the greater the proportion of 
malt sugar in the beer ; also on the temperature at which the 
fermentation process is conducted ; as this is usually high, 
most of the sugar is broken up, and beer is, therefore, fairly 
rich in alcohol. In Germany the fermentation is carried out 
at a lower temperature, with the result that German beers 
contain less alcohol and more carbonic acid. A light beer is 
one which contains more malt and less hops, and in its 
preparation the rnalt is dried at a higher temperature. Some 
beers, e.g. India pale ale, are very thoroughly fermented, and 
therefore contain very little sugar. The essential substances 
in beer are four in number : alcohols, sugars, free acids, and 
bitters. The proportion of alcohol varies from about 2 to 
7 or 8 per cent, in the stronger British beers (Bass's and 
M'Ewan's). 

Stout and Porter are made in the same way as beer, 
but the malt is first subjected to a roasting process, 



I 



WINES 



147 



which induces the formation of caramel, to which the 
colour is due. Caramel is added artificially in the prepara- 
tion of many commercial liquors. Porter is a mixture of 
dubious composition, containing often liquorice, treacle, 
linseed, etc. 

The approximate composition of beer is given in the 
following table : — 





Water. 


Alcohol. 

Per cent. 
per vol. 


Total 
Extract. 


Protein. 


Sugar. 


Acidity. 


Ash 


English ale and\ 
porter . . J 


89-1 


4.89 


6-03 


0-53 


0-84 


0-31 


031 



The composition of stout is given as follows {Lancet 
analysis) : — 

Oat Stout. " Nourishing " Stout. 
Extract . . •6-3 S-o 

Alcohol by volume , » 6-24 6-55 

Acidity . . . 0-90 

Ash .... 045 0-35 

On an average, it may be taken that the chief ingredients 
of a pint (20 ounces) of good bottled beer is as follows : — 



Alcohol 
Extract 



I fluid ounce. 
I to 2 



Free acids 
Salts . 



25 grains 
13 „ 



Wine. — Wine is (or should be) the product of the juice of 
the grape by fermentation. When so prepared, it is an 
alcoholic solution varying in strength from 6 to 25 volumes 
per cent., and containing flavouring and other substances. 
The chief chemical constituents of the juice are sugar, for 
fermentation of alcohol ; organic acids or their salts, chiefly of 
tartaric, citric, or malic acid ; and albuminous substances. 
The stones or seeds furnish essential oils, which are largely 
responsible for the bouquet of wines, and the skins and stones 
furnish pigments and tannin. The quality of wine depends 
on the amount of sugar and albumin in the juice. In the 
process of fermentation the yeast germs split up the sugar, 
with the formation of alcohol. If there is a small amount of 
sugar and a large amount of albumin in the juice, fermenta- 
tion goes on till all the sugar is split up. This furnishes a 



148 BEVERAGES 

dty wine with a slightly acid taste, e.g. hock. If, on the other 
liand, there is a large amount of sugar and much smaller 
amount of albumin, the fermentation is less complete, some 
sugar is left in the wine, as in ^^ sweet zvines." When as a 
result of fermentation the proportion of alcohol has risen to 
15 per cent, by volume, the process of fermentation is arrested 
by the alcohol, hence a natural wine never contains more than 
15 per cent, alcohol. Wines are often fortified by the addition 
of spirit. This has the twofold effect of adding to their 
strength and preserving them from further fermentation, and 
so preventing the production of acetic and other acids. 

Red Wines. — Dark grapes are used in the making of red 
wines, the skins and stones being left to ferment with the 
pulp, to which they yield tannin, pigment, and extractives. 
The average composition of red wines may be taken as 
follows : — 

Alcohol . 8 to II percent. Sugar ... -5 percent. 
Acids . -5 „ -65 „ Tannin and pigment •! to -2 „ 

"White Wines are usually made from white grapes. They 
are produced in great variety, and they have as a rule a 
rather higher percentage of alcohol than red wines. 

General Composition of Wines. — The important in- 
gredients in wines, from the medical point of view, arc the 
following : — 



Alcohol, 
Acids, 



Sugars, 
Ethers. 



There are in addition slight amounts of extractives, 
chiefly of a carbohydrate nature, and of glycerine, produced in 
the process of fermentation, but these are of little practical 
importance. 

Alcohols. — The amount of alcohol (ethylic) present in 
wines ranges from 8 to 1 1 per cent, or thereby in the case of 
natural red wines, to 20 per cent, or more in fortified wines, 
e.g. port. All natural wines are comparatively poor in 
alcohol, and thus readily undergo the acetic fermentation, A 
fortified wine therefore keeps better, subsequent fermentation 
being restrained. Amyl alcohol and other higher alcohols 
are present in traces even in sound wines. As is invariably 



COMPOSITION OF WINES 149 

the cnsc when alcohol Is formed b}' fermentation, carbonic 
acid gas is given off, and if a wine is bottled when this action 
is all over, the product is a " still wine " ; if, on the other hand, 
the wine is bottled, like beer, before the fermentation is quite 
over, then the liquor becomes charged with carbonic acid gas, 
which effervesces or liberates, producing a " sparkling " wine. 
Sparkling wine may also be made on the principle of aerated 
waters, by passing carbon dioxide into the wine underpressure. 

Acids. — In a good wine the total acidity should be not 
more than 0-3 to 0-7 per cent. The taste of a wine cannot 
be regarded as a criterion of its acidity, as the acid may be 
masked by a high proportion of sugar. The acidity is due 
to natural acids and acids produced by fermentation. The 
natural acids in wine are tartaric, tannic, and malic acid. 
Tartaric acid exists in combination with potassium in the 
form of potassium bitartrate. As the proportion of alcohol in 
wine increases with age, the bitartrate becomes less soluble, 
and settles out in the form of " tartar." The tannic acid in 
wine is responsible for the astringent taste of certain wines. 

Acetic, formic, succinic, and other fatty acids are produced 
in wines by fermentation. Red wines usually contain rather 
more of these volatile acids than white wines. If present in 
excess, the wine is slightly " turned," that is, on its way to 
become vinegar. 

According to Dupre, the amount of acid, reckoned as 
tartaric, in a bottle of wine is as follows : — 



Claret 


. 65 to •J^ grains. 


Sherry . 54 to 61 grains 


Hock 


• 57 „ 70 „ 


Port . . 49 „ 62 „ 




Marsala 


. 39 to 46 grains. 



Sugars. — A natural wine should contain about h per cent, 
of sugar. Fortified wines may contain 2 per cent, or more, 
and sweet wines as much as 20 per cent. The following 



lysis IS given by L 


)upre : — 






Hock . 


1-4 to 8-6 g 


rains per bottle. 


Claret . 


II „ 18 






.Sherry 


. 217 „ 421 






Port . 


• 221 „ 519 






Old Marsala . 


• 3SS „ 45J 






Sautcrne 


125 






Champagne . 


500 grains down 


to almost none 



150 BEVERAGES 

Ethers. — The ethers present in wine impart to it its 
bouquet. The volatile ethers are derived from the volatile 
acids, ^.i^. acetic acid ; the fixed ethers arc the product of the 
fixed acids, e.g. tartaric acids. 

As already stated, wines are divided into two great classes, 
natural wines and fortified wines. The chief natural wines 
are claret, hock, and the Hungarian, Italian, Australian, and 
Californian wines; the principal fortified wines being port, 
sherry, Marsala, Madeira, and, as a rule, champagne. A few 
short notes on these various wines are appended, attention 
being chiefly directed to the points of practical importance 
from the medical point of view, viz., the proportion of alcohol, 
sugar, and acid present in each. 

Claret. — A natural wine containing from 8 to 13 per cent, 
of alcohol, about \ per cent, of sugar, and about | per cent, of 
acid. 

Biirgundy. — Similar to claret, rather higher percentage of 
alcohol as a rule, and richer in extractives, and has therefore 
more body. Chablis, a white Burgundy made from white 
grapes. 

Hock. — Similar alcoholic strength to claret ; only traces 
of sugar, and acidity about the same as claret ; very small 
amount of acetic acid ; good keeping qualities. 

Hungarian Wines. — Two varieties ; red and white ; alco- 
holic strength as in claret ; almost free of sugar. 

Italian Wines. — Red and white ; rather low percentage of 
alcohol, and relatively high acidity. 

Californian and Australian Wines. — Full-bodied natural 
wines ; red and white variety. 

Port. — A fortified wine, containing from 15 to 20 per 
cent, of alcohol ; full of body, on account of large amount of 
extractives ; relatively low acidity, but good deal of tannic 
acid, which diminishes with age. Rich in sugar (from i to 
6 per cent.), giving a strong, dry wine or strong, sweet wine 
respectively. 

Sherry. — The white wine of Spain. A fortified wine ; 
percentage of alcohol similar to port. Amount of sugar 
varies very greatly ; may contain mere traces or as much as 
4 per cent, giving a strong, dry wine or strong, sweet wine 
respectively. Low acidity ; improves greatly with age. 



I. 



THERAPEUTIC USES OF ALCOHOL 151 

Madeira. — Similar to sherry; rich in volatile ethers. Dry 
and sweet varieties, as with port and sherry. 

Marsala. — A Sicilian wine resembling sherry, but contains 
on an average more sugar ; very slightly acid. 

Champagne. — A fortified sparkling wine ; may be dry or 
sweet Sugar varies from nothing to 12 or 14 per cent. 
True dryness is the result of age, and is due to a very slow 
conversion of sugar into alcohol ; in many commercial prepara- 
tions the " dryness " is attained artificially, and really repre- 
sents very varying degrees of acidity. Acidity, about \ per 
cent.; alcohol, about 10 to 12 per cent. 

Cider and Perry. — Made from apple and pear respectively ; 
very mildly alcoholic, 2 to 8 per cent. Sugar, -2 to -6 per 
cent.; slightly acid, -i to -6 per cent., chiefly malic acid. The 
more acid wines may contain as much as 20 grains of tartaric 
acid per tumblerful. 

Medicated Wines. — There are several varieties of " medi- 
cated wines " in the market, such as " meat and malt wine," 
made from extract of meat, malt extract, and sherry or port ; 
and "coca wine," made from cocoa leaves and sometimes 
cocaine. The use of these wines is to be strongly deprecated 
from every point of view. 

It is, perhaps, hardly necessary to say that many of the 
cheap wines imported into this country are artificial, being 
made from cider or ordinary potato and grain spirit, flavoured 
with cenanthic ether, and coloured, by aniline dyes or by 
vegetable extracts like madder, beetroot, or logwood. As 
an example, the following is a recipe for making "port" 
(Knight) :— 

Cider . . 3000 Old hock with cider . 3000 

Kino . . 8 Brandy . . . 1000 

Nitric ether alcoholised. . . 8 

For the detection of these impurities, elaborate schemes 
are given in analytical works. 

Therapeutic Uses of Alcohol. — As already indicated in 
the introduction to this section, alcohol is now very much less 
employed in the treatment of disease than it was some ten or 
twenty years ago. There is little doubt that this restriction 
in its use has not been attended with any disadvantageous 
results to such patients as would in former years have been 



152 BEVERAGES 

freely '•stimulated." On the contrary, there is reason to think 
that this alteration in the custom of the medical profession 
regarding the use of alcohol in disease has been a factor of 
some value in diminishing the number of those who ultimately 
fall a victim to its effects. We must, at the same time, 
recognise that alcohol is a very valuable therapeutic agent in 
the treatment of some diseased conditions. These call for 
detailed consideration. 

In acute diseases. — In certain acute fevers, such as 
pneumonia, diphtheria, and the like, when the circulation is 
distinctly failing, as shown by a rapid, weak, and irregular 
pulse, the administration of alcohol in doses of i dram to i 
ounce every two or four hours, according to the age of the 
patient and the severity of the fever, is followed by a very 
material improvement in the general condition of the patient. 
It should be noted, however, that the proportion of cases of 
pneumonia which call for its administration is a really small 
one. In the general run of cases occurring in healthy 
subjects of non-alcoholic habits there is no necessity to have 
recourse to stimulants. In exceptional cases, however, and 
in those who have been previously addicted to its use, the 
free use of stimulants is necessary. Diphtheria is such a 
treacherous condition, and the risks of establishing a habit 
from its use are here so remote, that it is advisable to have 
recourse to the use of stimulants if there is the least dissatis- 
faction with the general state of the patient or the condition 
of his circulation. It may be given in doses of i to 4 drams 
or thereby every two or four hours, according to indications. 
In weak elderly subjects suffering from bronchitis with 
congestion of the lungs, and in elderly subjects with chronic 
heart disease, a little whisky, brandy, or dry champagne is 
often of very great value as a .stimulant. It may have at the 
same time a sedative effect on the nervous system, as it often 
tends to promote sleep. 

In chronic diseases. — Alcohol is sometimes of consider- 
able value in cases of failure of digestive power, as indicated by 
inability to take and enjoy food, and also in states of general 
weakness. Here it may be given in the form of a little 
whisky {\ ounce), twice or three times a day with meals, or as 
a glass of dry champagne or other sound wine, given with 



ALCOHOL AS A TONIC IN CONVALESCENCE L^)3 

lunclieon and dinner. Great care is, however, necessary in 
prescribing alcohol in these cases, more especially in the. case 
of female patients suffering from general nervous exhaustion, 
as these are so prone to become permanently addicted to its 
use. The use of all medicated wines, elixirs, and the like 
cannot be too strongly deprecated. A glass of beer or 
stout given with one or two meals daily for a time is 
occasionally of distinct value, acting as a bitter tonic, and at 
the same time supplying a relatively large amount of 
nutriment in a fluid form. 

Gout and rheiniiatisiu. — Patients afflicted with gout or 
rheumatism are, speaking generally, better w^ithout alcohol in 
any form. This, however, is often a counsel of perfection, and 
as such impracticable. Such patients should therefore be 
advised to abstain from malt liquors, and all wines rich in 
sugar, and also those with a high degree of acidity. Whisky 
is for them the safest drink, and after that a dry sherry 
or Madeira or sound claret, and these should not be taken 
every day. 

As a iojit'c in convalescence. — In protracted convales- 
cence from some acute diseases, a glass of beer, a little whisky 
in water, or a glass of wine taken with the chief meals, may 
improve the tone of the digestion and accelerate the rate of 
recovery. The advantages of these are perhaps best seen in 
some cases of influenza. 



CHAPTER IX 



PATENT, PROPRIETARY, AND PREDIGESTED FOODS 



Classification 


, 


. 155 


Combined foods . 


170 


Nitrogenous foods — 






Predigested foods — 




(a) From milk . . 




155 


I. Ferments . . , . 


171 


(i) From meat 




161 


2. Predigested milk foods 


175 


(c) From eggs . 




167 


3. Predigested meat prepara- 




{d) From vegetables 




168 


tions . . . . 


176 


Carbohydrate 




168 


4. Malt and malt extracts 


178 


Cow's milk with cereal add 


itions 


168 


5. Invalid foods , , 


183 



There are numerous patent and proprietary foods in the 
market, many of which are largely advertised and extensively 
used by the public and the profession. It is therefore necessary 
to investigate their claims. These foods are made by pro- 
cesses of concentration, evaporation, and condensation, from 
meat, eggs, milk and milk products, cereals, vegetables, 
fruits, and nuts. In some, partial or complete predigestion 
of the natural food is carried out. Some foods claim to be 
specially suitable for feeding infants and invalids, by being 
made less bulky, and simpler in composition, and therefore 
more digestible. Others claim simply to lose their bulk, and 
to be suitable for travellers and the like. With regard to the 
value of such foods, it may be definitely stated that pro- 
prietary foods are not necessary in health, but are of very 
great value in cases of sickness. At the same time it 
should be added that the more knowledge we possess of the 
composition of natural and proprietary foods, and of the 
effects of cooking natural foods, the less often will it be found 
necessary to have recourse to the more expensive patent pre- 
parations. In the following pages an account is given of the 
leading facts in the composition and uses of the best-known 
proprietary foods. The data given under the heading of 
composition have been taken partly from the results of 



i 



CLASSIFICATION OF PROPRIETARY FOODS 155 

the analysis recorded by the makers, and partly from the 
analyses of the individual foods published from the Lancet 
and other laboratories. Proprietary foods may be classified 
as follows : — 

Classification of Proprietary Poods — other than 
Predigested. 

A. Nitrogenous Foods. 

1. Prepared from cow's milk. — (a) Condensed, with or 

without sugar ; {U) dried milk preparations ; {c) 
modified milk. 

2. From meat. — Meat teas, extracts, juices, powders, 

3. From eggs, usually in combination with milk protein 

or animal protein. 

4. From vegetables, either alone or in combination. 

B. Carbohydrate Foods. 

Starch, unchanged, or partially changed into soluble 
carbohydrates, or completely changed. 

C. Cow's Milk with Cereal additions. 

D. Combined Foods. 

A. Nitrogenous Poods. 

(i) Foods prepared from Cow's Milk. 

Condensed milk. — The importance of studying condensed 
milk is evident when we realise that we import 500,000 cwt. 
of it into this country every year, and that among the poorer 
classes there is no commoner substitute for cow's milk. 
The condensed milks arc all made from cow's milk, either 
whole or skimmed. It is prepared by slowly evaporating 
the water off the milk by moderate heat in vacuo to the 
consistence of honey. As a rule, the milk is only reduced to 
one-third of its original volume. Most brands of condensed 
milk have cane sugar added to help in its preservation. We 
have thus three types of condensed milk : — 

Whole milk, condensed and unsweetened. 
Whole milk, condensed and sweetened. 
Skimmed milk, condensed and sweetened. 



lofi PATRXT. PROPRIETARY, AND PRF.DIGESTED FOODS 



I, ll7/o/r mi Iks, condi'iiscd aud unsweetened. — The follow- 
\x\^ arc the chief brands: Ideal, First Swiss, Peacock, Viking, 
Hollandia. Their composition is as follows : — 





WBtPT. 


Protein. 


Fat. 


Ijictose. 


Ideal 

First Swiss 
Peacock . 
Viking , 
Hollandia 


6200 
62-15 
64.05 

57-00 


8-3 
9.9 

8^9 
"•3 


12-4 

"•33 

1004 

9.4 

9-8 


1600 

14.44 

1-28 

3-4 



These are prepared by evaporation by heat sufficiently 
strong to render the milk sterile, so that no preservative 
materials are added. This milk is open to the same 
objections as the use of sterili.scd milk, but it is better for 
infants than those forms of condensed milk in which pre- 
servation is secured by the addition of too large a proportion 
of cane sugar. A dilution with two parts of water makes 
the mixture approximate more or less closely to cow's milk 
Further dilution and the addition of cream and sugar are 
necessary to make the fluid at all similar in composition to 
human milk. 

The unsweetened milks tend to go bad quickly when 
opened. For this reason they should be kept in a cold place 
after being opened, and the smallest size of tin should be 
procured. 

2. Whole milks, condensed and sweetened. — These are 
made from whole milk, with the addition of cane sugar 
to such an extent that the cane sugar added is greater 
than the solids of the milk — its function is to act as a 
preservative. The following is the composition of some 
of the best brands : — 





Solid.s. 


Protein. 


Fat. 


Milk- 
sugar. 


Cane 

Sugar. 


Nestle 


77-2 


9-7 


13-7 


I5-0 


37-2 


Rose . 


76.6 


8-3 


12.4 


17-6 


36-1 


Milkmaid . 


76-3 


9-7 


no 


14.6 


387 


Full Weight 


76-5 


12-3 


II.O 


13-5 


37-2 


Anglo-Swiss 


74-4 


8-8 


10-8 


160 


37-1 



On account of the large amount of sugar present in these 



CONDENSED MILKS 157 

preparations, in order to make the milk palatable a degree 
of dilution is required which makes it impossible for the 
resulting mixture to be at all like cow's milk in its propor- 
tion of protein and fat. 

Hiunanised condensed milk is prepared by the addition 
of cream and lactose, before condensation, in such quantities 
as to form a solution when suitably dilute equivalent to 
human milk in percentage composition. 

3. Sweetened and condensed skimmed milk. — The chief 
characteristic of the condensed separated milks is its poverty 
in fat — as a rule, not exceeding 1-5 per cent. When 
suitably diluted these milks are very deficient both in 
protein and fat, and are thus foods not well adapted for 
infant feeding. Such brands may be useful as food for 
culinary purposes and for addition to tea, but should certainly 
never be given to infants. 

Advantages and disadvantages of condensed milks. — Con- 
densed milks are more easily digested than cow's miik, due 
to the fact that in the process of preparation the casein is 
altered in some way unfavourable to the development of a 
hard curd. For this reason, condensed milk is occasionally of 
much value in the treatment of infants who are unable to 
digest ordinary milk. The great popularity of condensed 
milk is chiefly due to the ease with which the infant's meal 
is prepared. The disadvantages are marked. They contain, 
as a rule, too little fat. The unsweetened milks are alone 
satisfactory in this respect. In suitable cases this can be 
remedied by the addition of cod-liver oil to the diet. In 
the dilution recommended they are usually deficient in 
protein, this holds good very specially for the skimmed milk 
preparation. This deficiency may be remedied by the 
administration of protein in other forms, e.g. &%^ albumin. 
Further, they are not fresh foods. They all lack the 
important "antiscorbutic" element present in fresh milk. 
This can to some extent be counteracted by adding to 
the dietary a little fruit juice every second day. The 
nutritive value of any preparation depends on the quality 
of the milk, the degree of condensation, the addition of 
cream (if any), and the amount of cane sugar added. It 
need hardly be added that only the best brands should be 



158 PATENT, PROPRIETARY, AND PREDIGESTED FOODS 

used. It should also be noted that condensed milks 
are expensive in comparison with ordinary milk. As 
a rough computation, it may be said that the price 
of the milk diluted and ready for use works out at 4d. 
per pint. 

Dried milk preparations. — There are a large number of 
preparations of dried milk in the market ; they belong to 
various groups : — 

1. Milk powders, composed of milk modified by the 
abstraction of casein or addition of sugar, or both. Allenbury 
No I Food is a food of this sort — it is made from cow's milk 
from which the excess of casein has been removed and the 
deficiency of sugar and fat corrected. It is free from starch, 
and is often very useful during the first three months of 
infant life, when a temporary change from fresh cow's milk 
mixture is indicated. 

2. Dried milk, made from whole or skimmed milks. 
Whole milk dried is sold as Glaxo (Nalhan & Co.), and 
Lacvitam (Prideaux), at is. to is. 3d. per lb. Dried skimmed 
milk is sold as Lacumen, at 5d. to gd. per lb. 

3. Casein preparations. — There are a large number of 
these preparations. The nutritive value is high, containing 
as a rule over 90 per cent, of pure protein. Their great 
value consists in that they can be added to other foods, 
thus " fortifying " them with protein. The preparations are 
tasteless, compact, easily digested, and soluble. Their 
solubility enables them to be added to other food, such 
as soups, jellies, milk puddings, greatly raising the nutritive 
value of the diet. 

Dried casein is a product of the Protene Company, and 
forms the basis of many of the patented preparations. It is 
in the market as Protene flour. Casein is purin-free, does 
not clot, and is easily digested and absorbed. It is 
indicated in all affections in which additional protein is 
needed, and is useful as a means of giving phosphorus in 
organic combination. It is specially valuable in acid 
dyspepsia, the protein fixing the acid. 

Casein combined with ammonia is sold as Eucasin, and 
with sodium as Niitrosc. Sanose is a mixture of casein 80 
per cent, and egg albumin 20 per cent. Sanatogen is a 



PROTEIN— PLASMON 159 

valuable casein preparation with 5 per cent, sodium glycero- 
phosphate added. 

Plasmon is a tasteless, odourless, white powder, entirely 
soluble in water; it is casein of milk made into a readily 
soluble powder by the addition of an alkali, and it contains 
phosphorus in organic form. It is one of the cheapest of 
the dried milk preparations. 

One teaspoonful of plasmon powder is equivalent to the 
protein value of about 2 pints of milk. Plasmon is best added 
to soups, milk gravy, etc., after it has been dissolved. 

Plasmon, 3 teaspoonfuls. 1 ^ » j 1 

,TT / • js 1 • f Prepared plasmon. 

Water (tepid), \ pmt. j ^ f 

Add 3 tablespoonfuls of tepid water to the plasmon, stir and rub into 
a paste ; then gradually add the tepid water, place on the fire, bring to 
the boil, stirring well all the time, and boil for two minutes. This can 
now be added to milk or other liquid beverage. When cold, the dissolved 
plasmon will form into a jelly, which when whisked will turn into a 
thick cream. The jelly or cream can be added to all food — liquid or 
solid. 

Plasmon Milk {hot). 

Plasmon, 3 teaspoonfuls. Water, 3 ounces. 

Milk, I pint. 
In a clean enamelled saucepan mix the plasmon into a smooth 
paste with the tepid water, then place on the fire, stir in gradually the 
pint of milk and boil all together for two minutes, stirring continuously. 

Plasmon Milk {cold). 

Dissolve the plasmon as directed above, then stir in slowly the pint 
of milk until all is well mixed, and allow to cool. 

Plasmon Snow Cream. 

Dissolve the plasmon as above. When cold, whisk the jelly 
thoroughly for a few minutes, and a beautiful firm snow cream will result. 
Sugar, flavourings, or cream may be added during the whisking, which 
allows a large variety of dishes to be prepared. If the plasmon be 
dissolved with milk instead of water, the snow cream is richer, and can 
be made into a very nutritious ice cream. 

Plasmon Porridge 
is simply ordinary porridge to which has been added I teaspoonful 
of dissolved plasmon to every plate of porridge, and then boiled. 

Plasmon Butter. 
A teaspoonful of plasmon may be thoroughly kneaded into \ lb. of 
butter, and be used for making sandwiches. 



160 PATENT, PROPRIETARY, AND PREDIGESTED FOODS 

The following articles are also on the market already 
combined with plasmon — plasmon cocoa, chocolate, arrowroot, 
oats, tea, biscuits, blancmange custard. 

Casuuicn (Prideaux) is a white, flake-like powder, odour- 
less, tasteless, and soluble, and miscible with ordinary food 
and drink. It is free from starch and sugar, and keeps 
indefinitely. It is combined with other foods in much the 
same way as plasmon is. A diabetic milk can be made from 
it by the addition of water, a weak alkali, and saccharin. 

Protein and Tilia are also similar preparations. 

All these casein foods are of great service in improving 
the protein value of the diet. They are superior to meat 
preparations. They are useful in the treatment of acute 
fevers, diabetes, and many conditions of debility. They have 
a special value in the treatment of hyperchlorhydria, aa the 
casein fixes the acid more effectively than other forms of 
protein. 

Modified milk — milk laboratories. — The establishment 
of milk laboratories is a recent development of practical 
value for the feeding of infants. The milk is designated 
modified milk, the process consisting in separating the chief 
components of cow's milk and recombining them, to the pro- 
portion present in human milk. This system of feeding 
infants is known as jjercentage feeding, and was first intro- 
duced by Rotch, in America. In order to prepare modified 
milk by Rotch's method, we require: — (i) Pure cream con- 
taining the fat; (2) pure milk containing the albuminoids 
and no fat ; (3) distilled water ; (4) a 20-per-cent. solution 
of milk sugar, made fresh daily with distilled water; (5) 
lime-water. 

As an example of prescribed diet of modified milk, Rotch 
gives the following prescription : — 

For Girl at. 6 years — Catarrhal Jaundice. 

^ Fat . . . 050 

Milk sugar . . 6-oo 

Albuminoids . . 400 

Give 4 ounces every 2 hours. Send 12 tubes, each 4 ounces. 
Lime-water, ^(^. 

Various preparations of modified milk are sold as 
humanised milk. These consist of ordinary milk which has 



BUDDISED MILK 161 

been modified in some way, as by the addition of cream or 
whey, or by a reduction in the amount of casein and the 
addition of lactalbumin, albumins, or peptones. 

Buddiscd milk. — The addition of peroxide of hydrogen 
to milk has been worked out scientifically as well as 
practically by Dr Budda of Copenhagen. It is claimed that 
by the use of the nascent oxygen, as evolved from peroxide 
of hydrogen in contact with milk at a suitable temperature^ 
the milk is rendered practically sterile, and that its nutritive 
properties otherwise are unaltered. This milk is prepared on 
a commercial basis, at a cost very little in excess of ordinary 
milk. It is as yet too soon to say whether the claims for 
this preparation are as well founded as is claimed for it. 
Some cases of well-marked scurvy have been ascribed to 
its use. 



(2) Foods Prepared from Meat. 

These exist under the name of meat teas, meat extracts, 
meat juices, peptones, peptonoids, dried meat powders, and 
lozenges. A large number of meat preparations do not 
contain the nutritive constitutents of meat, or only contain 
them in very small proportions ; on the other hand, they 
contain large amounts of extractives which may derange 
digestion and impair the action of the kidneys. Meat 
contains on an average about 20 per cent, of protein. It 
is, therefore, impossible to concentrate meat down to less 
than one-fifth of its bulk, if the total nutritive value of the 
protein is to be retained. When it is stated that i lb. of 
meat extract is equal to 34 lbs. of meat, it should be clearly 
understood that i lb. of the extract contains only the whole 
flavouring matter from 34 lbs. of meat, and nothing more. 
These extractives have no nutritive value as tissue-builders 
or energy producers, but have some value as stimulants of 
the digestive secretions and for removing temporarily 
muscular fatigue. Such preparations, therefore, as contain 
little or none of the nutritive constitutents of meat are to 
be regarded as flavouring agents rather than as foods. 
If given in too large amount they may induce thirst, 
diarrhoea, and other evidences of deranged health. It will 

L 



1G2 PATENT, PROPRIETARY, AND PREDIGESTED FOODS 

be convenient to discuss these preparations in the following 
order : — 

1. Meat teas and meat extracts. 

2. Meat juices. 

3. Meat powders and lozenges. 

4. Partially digested preparations. 

Jifcat teas and meat extracts. — A meat tea or meat extract 
is prepared by cutting up the meat into small pieces, heat- 
ing slowly in water, then boiling quickly; the product is 
then strained, the protein (which is coagulated by heat and 
which forms a nutritive sediment) is thrown away, and the 
result is a fluid with an agreeable flavour, consisting of water, 
extractives, salts, and a very small amount of gelatine. One 
pound of lean bdef extracted with i pint of water, yields about 
25 to 30 ounces of good beef-tea, which contains about 
\\ per cent, of protein and extractives. Some commercial 
meat teas are strengthened by the addition of some of the 
shredded-down meat fibres. Meat teas are often made from 
one of the proprietary meat extracts in place of fresh meat, 
and a meat tea so prepared compares very favourably with 
the home-made preparations, alike as to flavour, stimulating 
properties, and expense. The better known of these pre- 
parations are as follows : — 

Mason's home-jnade beef -tea. Composition — 

Meat fibre .... 374 
Soluble albuminoids and extractives . 10-58 
Mineral salts .... 2-37 

The directions are : — Dilute a tinful with a pint of water. 
This reduces the nutritive value to one-third, and brings it 
in strength to much the same proportion as in good home- 
made beef-tea. The cost works out at about 3J,d. a pint. 
A comparison of the cost of this with that of other pre- 
parations may be given in tabular form : — 

Lemco . . . i.jd. per pint. 

Oxo .... 2d. „ 

Invalid Bovril . . 2^d. „ 

Mason's Beef-tea . . 3id. „ 

Brand's Beef-tea . . 6,\A. „ 

The cost of home-made beef-tea varies with the quality of 
meat used. One pound of meat yields i^ pints, and the cost 



MEAT EXTRACTS 



163 



can be calculated from the quality of beef. On the whole, 
home-made beef-teas as ordinarily prepared are more 
expensive than those made from the above meat extracts. 

All beef-teas have little nutritive value, but are useful 
stimulants. They are therefore an expensive form of diet. 
In fevers and certain debilitating conditions associated with 
impaired digestion, poor appetite, and furred tongue, the 
patient can take a hot, clear, more or less nutritive drink 
more readily than any other form of food. The rest to the 
digestive organs associated with the use of such a diet for 
twenty-four or forty-eight hours will be helpful in restoring 
the patient's capacity to digest and assimilate a really 
nutritive diet such as milk. 

Of the pure meat extracts, Liebig's is the most represen- 
tative : 34 lbs. of pure beef yield i lb. of extract, which 
makes 70 pints of beef-tea, each pint containing the 
extractives from \ lb. of meat. The composition of the 
extract is roughly as follows : — 

Moisture 

Mineral salts . , 

Extractives 

It contains no protein and no fat 

of Liebig's process have been 

recognised that the fluid had practically no nutritive value. 

These modifications consist in the addition of meat fibre, so 

as to give the extract some definite nutritive value. The 

following table gives the approximate composition of the 

chief meat extracts : — 



16 to 21 per cent. 

18 to 22 „ 
56 to 60 „ 

Numerous modifications 
introduced since it was 





Water. 


Proteins 

and 
Gelatine. 


Extrac. 
tivcs. 


Nitro>;eii 

from 

Sub.stances. 


Salts. 


Armour's Extract 
Bovril . . . . 
Bouillon Fleet . 
Brand's Beef Bouillon 
Brand's Essence 
Hipi (mutton preparation) . 
Lemco .... 
Liebig's Extract 
Mason's' Essence 
Oxine Extract , 

Oxo 

Viking Beef Essence 


24-3 
39-5 
6i-9 
36-2 
87-1 
35-0 
I7-S 

20-0 

77-0 
62.9 
38-1 
90-6 


l5-o 

9-1 

11.8 

9-5 
10-4 
38-0 
1 6-4 

3-0 
13-0 
i8-9 

3-6 


20-5 

34-1 
9-8 

19-3 

l-O 

i6-o 

38-1 

55-7 

7-4 

4-5 

20-3 

1-8 


20-0 
1-2 

3-8 

'V 

1-5 

6.0 

0-9 

2-9 

5-3 

2-4 


19-0 

'3-5 

12.5 

15-0 

1-3 

8-4 

21-5 
24.0 

9-5 
19-6 

17-3 
1-4 



lf.4 PATENT, I'llOl'KIETARV, AND PllEDIGESTED FOODS 

These extracts have considerable value as stimulating, and 
iti pro/>oriion to the protein present, nutritive beverages. They 
can advantageously be used to add to other foodstuffs. The 
following recipes will be found useful : — 

1. Extract Soup. 

Make according to directions, and add albumin water (p. 47), made 
from the white of one or two eggs. 

2. Extract Soup. 

Beat up egg, place it in a soup bowl and pour over it a pint of hot 
(not boiling) extract soup, as directed. 

3. Milk Bovril. 
The taste of milk can be completely disguised by making Invalid 
Bovril or other meat extract as directed on the bottles, but using boiling 
milk instead of water. 

4. Extract Custard. 

Take "Milk Bovril" and to this add one or two eggs as directed 
under Custards, boiled ahd baked (p. 49), and a delightfully flavoured 
dish is prepared. 

5. Meat Juice zvith Milk. 

Three-quarter pound rump steak of fillet of beef free from fat, it pint of 
milk. Armour's beef extract or any other meat extract for flavouring. 

Pass the steak through a fine mincing machine, or scrape very finely ; 
this should give 7 oz. of meat pulp. Mix thoroughly with the milk, and 
pass through a fine strainer or muslin. This should give about a pint 
of fluid of the consistency of cream. Half a teaspoonful of extract is to 
be used for flavouring. 

The preparation can be warmed by standing the vessel in hot water ; 
excessive heat causes curdling (coagulation). 

There are a number of methods of cooking eggs with 
meat extracts — which make a pleasant variety. 

6. Steamed Egg. 

I fresh egg. i tablespoonful milk. 

^ teaspoonful of meat extract. Salt 
Grease a cup, into this add the milk in which the extract has been 
dissolved ; break the egg gently and drop it in ; sprinkle over with salt. 
Place the cup in a saucepan and pour enough boiling water to come up 
half-way. Boil slowly for ten minutes, and turn on to a slice of toast or 
buttered toast, and serve hot. 

7. Savoury Scrambled Eggs. 

Beat up an egg ; to this add \ ounce of milk to which has been added 
a \ teaspoonful meat extract. Melt a little butter in a saucepan, and 



MEAT JUICES 



1C5 



when tlioroiiEjlily hot pour in the e^'^ and milk mixture ; keep beating 
with a fork until the eyg has set. Serve on slice of hot buttered toast. 

8. Savoury Veal Jelly. 

A pint of jellied veal stock, i ^^Zt ^ teaspoonful meat extract. Melt 
the vcnl stock, dissolve the meat extract, and beat up the egj,'. Mix the 
three ingredients, add salt to taste. Place in a basin, and when cold a 
nicely flavoured jelly will turn out. 

Meat juices. — Meat juices are quite different from the 
extracts. They consist of the fluid substance contained in 
the muscle fibre. They are prepared by extracting the 
juice by strong pressure, and subsequently concentrating the 
product by evaporation in vacuo. Heat has to be avoided, 
as it coagulates the soluble proteins. The process is expen- 
sive, and the product is liable to decomposition. Glycerine, 
salt, or other preservative is added. A true meat juice 
should yield a spectrum of oxyhaemoglobin. 

Home-made fresh meat juice is cheaper, and, on account 
of its freshness, more valuable than the proprietary prepara- 
tions. The blood-red colour characteristic of many of the 
meat juices is repugnant to many patients. This difficulty 
can be overcome by serving in a red glass or cup. The 
preparation of home-made beef juice is given on p. 77. 

The approximate composition of the beef juices is given 
in the table (Sutherland) : — 





Water. 


Proteins 

and 
Gelatine. 


Extrac- 
tives. 


NitroRen 

from 

Substai.ces. 


Mineral 
Substances. 


Armour's Beef Juice 
Armour's Soluble Beef 
Bovinine 

Bovril Beef Juice . 
Brand's Meat Juice 
Burgoyne's Meat Juice 
Esco Beef Juice 
Lipton's Fluid Beef 
Liquor Carnis 
Puro . 

Valentine's Beef Juice 
Vitalia Meat Juice 
Wyeih's Meat Juice 




74.1 
23-0 
81.0 
52-0 
59-1 
49-5 
52-4 
42.9 
56.0 
36.6 
6o-3 
66.5 
44.8 


8-3 
33-3^ 
13-9 

7-2 
15-4' 
i3-o^ 

7.6 

22-14 
6.9 

30-3 
0-3 

2I-0 

3.S-o'^ 


9-5 
13-4 

3-4 
14-0 
i6-5 

8-1 

5-9 
18.7 

5-0 
19-1 

29-1 

6-0 


6-7 
20.7 

I3-6 
28.4 


7-5 

13-2 
I-O 

5-9 

8-8 

14.2 

20-3 
I (-2 

3-5 
9-7 

"•3 
6-5 

I7-I 



1 Thirty-two per cent, soluble. 2 Fjve per cent. coa?ulable. a Three per cent. coat,ulablc. 
•• tjix per cent, coagulable. 5 Including extractives. 

Puro is extremely rich in protein, which is present in the 



IG6 PATENT, rROPIUETARY, AND PRRDKJESTED FOODS 

form of egcj nlhiimin. It is a dark brown fliiifl, becoming 
red on the addition of water. Its colour is repugnant to 
many patients, but the flavour is agreeable. However, if 
such a food is necessary, it is cheaper and just as efficacious 
to take the white of an egg (which contain approximately 
12 per cent, of egg albumin), with this prepare albumin 
water (p. 47), and add to it either a few drops of meat 
extract or home-made beef-tea. In this way a nourishing 
fluid rich in protein is prepared, at a much less cost than 
by the use of the proprietary preparations. 

Boviuinc is one of the cheapest meat juice preparations, 
it contains a large proportion of protein, and when examined 
with the spectroscope gives the spectrum of mcthremoglobin. 
It probably consists of blood and glycerine. There is no 
doubt its nutritive value is high, but its flavour is not very 
agreeable. The amount of coagulable protein is much less 
in Brand's beef juice, Bovril Company's juices, Liquor 
carnis, and Wyeth's, though all show signs of unaltered 
blood and may rightly be regarded as uncooked juices. 

Special attention may be made of Valentine's meat juice, 
which according to Chittenden only contains -55 per cent, 
proteins, and has therefore no more claim to being a nourish- 
ing meat juice than many of the beef extracts and soups. 

Vinsep is made of blood, boric acid, and a little alcohol, 
and contains 16 per cent, of protein; the flavour is not 
agreeable. Alcoholic compounds of meat extracts should 
all be condemned — even if strengthened with malt or other 
carboh)'drate food. These are apt to induce the alcoholic habit. 

Dried Meat Pcwders. — These can be made at home by 
mincing cold boiled beef, drying it thoroughly in a slow 
oven, and grinding it up in a coffee-nut mill. These can 
also be bought in the form of various proprietary foods, such 
as Brand's nutrient powder, Pemmican, Mosquera beef meal, 
Meatox, and others. In the preparation of a meat powder, 
nothing is removed except the water of the fresh meat and 
the tough, stringy, and indigestible portion rejected in sifting. 
One ounce of the powder is equivalent in nutritive value 
to 4 ounces of fresh lean meat A meat powder may be 
utilised to increase the nutritive value of soup, or given in 
the form of sandwiches. 



DRIED MEAT POWDERS 1G7 

Pemmican. — To every fifty parts of powdered meat forty 
parts of fat arc added, the resulting product being a food 
rich in both proteins and fat. 

Mosqucra beef meal is a preparation of high nutritive 
value. It contains 90 per cent, of nutritive material, 13 per 
cent, of this being fat. The meat is partially digested by 
the ferment of pineapple juice. 

Meatox is a powdered beef which contains above 75 per 
cent, of nutritive matter. 

Brand's nutrient powder qowsa^X?, of powdered muscle fibre 
from which the moisture has been removed at a temperature 
below the coagulation point of the muscle proteins ; it is 
readily digested and assimilated. Reference is later made 
to Soviatose, a similar preparation, in which the proteins are 
partly transformed into albumoses. 

Marvis is a dried fish powder, consisting largely of 
proteins ; it can be used in the same way as other meat 
powders. 

Meat lozenges, beef-tea tabloids, and all combinations of 
meat extracts with oiher foodstuffs are not to be commended. 
They are quite useless as a food, and are simply concentrated 
salts and extractives. 

(3) Proprietary Foods made with Eggs. 

These exist usually as combinations with milk proteins, 
animal proteins, and fat ; the most useful are the following : — 
Virol, made from marrow fat, yolk of &^^^, egg-shells, malt 
extract, and lemon juice, is a palatable preparation of con- 
siderable nutritive value. The maker's analysis gives the 
composition as 20 per cent, of fat and 60 per cent, of malt 
extract. Virvis is a similar preparation of much the same 
composition. Sanose is a powder consisting of about 80 
per cent casein and 20 per cent, of albumose, derived from 
white of egg. Mujfleys food, sold by the Aylesbury Dairy 
Company, consists of desiccated milk, powdered white of egg, 
wheaten flour, and lactose. Puro, a meat juice preparation 
(p. 165), contains much egg albumin. The preparation 
prepared by Brand, termed Fever food, is most nutritious ; 
it consists of essence of beef, eggs, and cream. In appear- 
ance it resembles custard, and has a very agreeable flavour. 



IGS PATENT, PUOPRIETARY, AND I'REDIGESTED FOODS 

which is quite distinct from tlic mcal>- llavour of the beef 
juices and extracts. 

(4) Propnctary Foods made from Vegetable Proteins. 

The chief vegetable protein foods are : — A /euron, prepared 
from the proteins of wheat — a white, tasteless, fairly soluble 
preparation ; also Aleuronat, a yellowish-brown powder, 
almost insoluble in water. These are extremely rich in 
protein, fairly cheap, and arc valuable in the feeding of 
diabetics. Glidinc, a concentrated protein food is prepared 
wholly from wheat ; it is absolutely free from carbohydrate, 
and is easily digested and assimilated. Leguinin, a vegetable 
casein, is made from pulses, and is a useful vegetable 
protein food. Roborat is made from cereals ; it is the most 
soluble of all the vegetable protein preparations. Tropott 
and Vegox are two preparations of recent introduction, in 
which the protein of vegetables is combined with the protein 
of animals, chiefly fish. They are used chiefly stirred up in 
thick soups and purees. Further reference is made to pro- 
prietary vegetable preparations in the vegetarian section, 
under Nut meats, and Nut butters (p. 522). 

B. Carbohydrate Foods. 

Many of these foods are made from wheat flour or mixed 
flours, and consist oi practically tmchanged starcJi. 

As examples, mention may be made of Albany food, 
Marr's food, Ridge's, Robinson's patent barley, Scott's oat 
flour, Hovis oats, Quaker oats, and other varieties. Some- 
times the flour is baked, the heat converting a small amount 
of the carbohydrates into a soluble form. In other foods of 
the same kind a small amount of fat and a pulse food are 
added, ^.^.,/'W^««, consisting of baked cereals and bran flour; 
also Nutrox\ made from cereals and a pea flour. Sugar may 
also be added, as in Frame food (see p. 89). The composition 
of these foods is given in the table on the following page. 

C. Cow's Milk -with Cereal Additions, 
Mention must be made of some proprietary foods made 

with cow's milk to which has been added carbohydrate from 

cereals. There arc three varieties : — 

I. Foods with the starch practically unchanged. 



COMPOSITION OF CARBOHYDRATE FOODS 



169 













(0 








.e i 

•5 2 




















































XI 








i"; >« 






















bo 








K-:; c 


















J3 












lour. 

mplet 

;uatio 




3 




3 














'rt 










o 




^ 






m 








C 








"« O (X 




03 










.M 








o 






J3 


*- O li 




^j 


t^ 


3 






d 




•^ 




o 






rt 






rt 


_1) 


O 






c 




<u 


o 


pj 






A taa 




^ 


rt 








£ 




Ml 

c 
u 

5 


B 


rt 

c 

rl 






"rt 
a 


s :ird pe; 

Said to 

ed durin 


J3 
rt 


T3 


42 

rt 

■o 


rt 
O 

-a 


3 
O 

cc 

rt 
o 








j= 


o 








u 


Cereal 
fat. 
vert 


c 


c 

3 


c 
3 


0) 

c 








3 


< 








o 
u. 


'rt 


bio 

< 


O 


o 
O 


< 




















' — . — ' 


















-1- 


ON 




O- 


O 


O 


9 


yo 


•><- 


ON 


t^ 


T 






■s. 


6 


6 




6 








6 


6 








t 




























































ta 






























•c 




S. 


-<- 


T 


ON 


^"^ 


M 


n 


o 


ON 


vO 


r» 


9 


V 


>. 




a 


6> 


a» 


ON 


~r 


6 


■+ 


v6 


«-~ 


CO 


r^ 


<j-> 


00 


•^ 




r^ 


r^ 


t^ 




r^ 


r^ 


o 


«^ 


r^ 


r^ 


f. 


f^ 


_j; 




Tj 


























u 






























a 






























o 


































S 








rO 


t^ 


j^ 




















t 


t 


t 


rt 


vr» 


■V 


t 


y-n 




■+ 


! 


; 






"o 








M 






















M 




























t-> 






O 


>/^ 


-t- 


yo 


1^ 






O 


ON 


vO 


o 




£ 




'^ 


N 


<^ 


6 


6 


M 


6 


6 


KM 


6 




ur> 




X 






























•S 




>o 


•t 


•+ 


^ 


■:7n 


M 


ON 


D 


►-H 


^ 


fO 


t;^ 




c 




6^ 


Oi 


OO 


to 


6 


CO 


w-1 


ON 


o> 


u-^ 


^ 


ON 
































lli 






























2 




^ 


■+ 


O 


vO 


ip 


9 


op 


p> 


ON 




■+ 


CO 




rt 




oo 


oo 


1^ 


t^ 


•I* 


u-1 


'O 


ON 


6 


6 


6 


vVj 




'^ 












>H 






















. 




. 


• 


. 




. 


. 




?s 


. 


. 










I-. 
















a> 














3 






























O 
















'T^ 






























n 












* 


E 


• 


• 




• 


• 


• 


• 


CQ 


• 


• 










V 






























"o 






6 










c 


a 


3 










JS 






3 


. 


^ 


^ 


, 


.«_* 


o 


_o 










? 




T3 


C 

rt 










rt 


O 


[i, 








• 


"c 




O 
O 


6 


• 


o 


• 


• 


o 


'a 

a 


rt 

o 








c 


S 




<u 


ii 


."" 


o 


'v 


3 


c 


c 


.■» 








rt 


_o 

rt 


E 

rt 


<u 


k4 


3 


o£ 

r2 


s 


IS 
o 


IS 
o 


o 








< 


O 


U, 


£ 


^ 


Y. 


c2 


O 


Oi 


Di 


in 



170 PATENT, rROPRIKTARY, AND rrtKniGESTRD FOODS 



2. Foods with the starch partly or entirely converted 

into soluble carbohj-dratcs. 

3. Foods partially predigested. 

Foods xvith the starch practically uncliauf^ed. — The chief 
ingredients of these foods are condensed milk, baked wheat 
flour, and sugar. These foods are rich in starch and sugar and 
deficient in fat and proteins, and from their composition are 
unsuitable foods for infants. The chief varieties are Anglo- 
Swiss, American-Swiss, and Franco-Swiss foods. 





S 





t 


Carboliyil rates. 




Remark)). 


3 

3 



U3 


Anglo-Swiss 
American-Swiss 
Franco-Swiss . 

Muffler's Food. 


6.5 

5-6 
4.4 

5-6 


10-26 
10-54 
I3-0 

14-3 


4-9t 
5-81 
3-70 

5-8 


46.4 

45-3 
46-0 

27-4 


29-4 
30-0 

30-8 
44.4 


2-02 

1-2 

1-4 
2-3 


Much cane sug.ir. 

r Contains powdered 
\ white of egg. 



Combination Foods. — Virol is a good example of a 
combined food. It is made from malt extract, marrow 
fat, yolk of o.^'g and egg-shells, and lemon juice. Its 
approximate composition is as follows : — 



Water. 


Protein. 


Fat. 


Carboli yd rates, 
Soluble. 


Ash. 


240 


4.1 


10-7 


59-2 


1-8 



This is an excellent preparation. Crcmalto is a mixture 
of Devonshire cream and malt, with the following composi- 
tion : — 



Water. 


Protein. 


Fat. 


Carlxjliylrate.s. 


Ash. 


22-2 


6.4 


20-2 


44.6 


1-7 

1 



Pevimican consists of the dried product of the best beef 
and fat, in the proportion of 50 of the former and 40 of 
the latter. This is also a useful compound. Mostelle grape 
juice is a nutritive, wholesome, non-alcoholic drink, made 



PREDIGESTED FOODS 171 

from the pure fruit of the G^rapc, procured by pasteurisation 
before fermentation has taken place. It contains about 25 
per cent, of sugar, and has a very low degree of acidity. 
This may be used to replace fresh fruit if the latter is not 
available. 

Classification of Predigested Preparations. 

1. Ferments for predigesting foods at home. 

2. Predigested proprietary milk foods, either alone or in 

combination with starch. 

3. Predigested proprietary meat preparations. 

4. Malt and malt extracts. 

5. Malted foods, in which starch is partially changed or 

completely changed into soluble carbohydrates. " In- 
valid foods." 

I. Ferments. — In the preparation of predigested foods 
two classes of agents have to be relied upon : the action of 
the digestive ferments, of which pepsin and pancreatic extract 
are best known, and which act upon the proteins and carbo- 
hydrates of the food ; and secondly, the vegetable ferment 
diastase or malt, which has the property of converting starch, 
an insoluble substance, into the soluble sugar maltose. 

Tlie digestive ferments find their use in the following 
directions — {a) as therapeutic agents, being used as remedies 
for indigestion ; {b) as peptonising agents, for the artificial 
digestion of food. These ferments are obtained by simple 
infusion of the fresh gland or the secreting membrane, and 
in the proper media behave in the same manner as the 
natural juices. They may be dried and made into powders. 
These digestive ferments possess enormous energy, being 
capable, even when only in an infusion, of converting into 
solution many thousand times their weight of alimentary 
substance. Pepsin is found only to be active in an acid 
medium, pancreatic ferments in neutral, alkaline, and feebly 
acid solutions. The dried powders are preferable to the 
fluid preparations, being more constant in their action. 
An additional point of importance is that the dried powders 
hardly effect the flavour of the food treated, while the 
infusions all tend to impart their peculiar repulsive taste to 
the food. 



172 I'.VIF.NT, lMU)lMUKr.\liV, AND I'KKDICESTED FOODS 

1 
Pepsin can he administered b)' the mouth to aid feeble I 

digestion or to relieve indii^^estion, but it is not available for 
peptonisinf;^ food for the sick, its action being restricted to 
albuminous substances in an acid medium. This has to be 
remembered, since the words peptonised and peptone are 
erroneously associated with pepsin. Practically all pre- ' 
digestion of foods is done with pancreatic ferments. 
Pancreatic extract contains a ferment capable of trans- 
forming proteins into peptones like pepsin, but it acts in a 
neutral or alkaline or faintly acid medium ; another ferment, 
trypsin, has a special power in digesting milk; there is in 
addition a starch-digesting principle. | 

Peptonised foods should only be employed when it is 
necessary to assist the digestive organs for a time by giving 
the alimentary canal some degree of physiological rest. 

They are indicated in many acute diseases associated with 
impairment in the gastric functions, such as gastric ulcer, 
cancer of the stomach, and some severe constitutional 
diseases in which irritability of the stomach is a prominent 
feature. Some of the so-called humanised milks arc prepared 
by partial pcptonisation or pancreatisation of the milk 
proteins. 

Pepsin in the form of pepsin powder or tablets, Pepsencia 
(Fairchild's), or Liquor pepticus (Benger's) is administered 
directly after a meal, and is not mixed with the food before 
being swallowed, because, as already explained, to get it to 
act on the food the pepsin must be mixed with dilute 
hydrochloric acid, and this spoils the flavour of the food. 

Savory & Moore have produced a saline essence of 
pancreatine, and saline essence of pepsin ; these have an 
agreeable ketchup odour and flavour, and may be used with 
roast meat or fowl as a sauce, or a small quantity may be 
added to beef-tea, soup, or broth. In actually peptonising 
milk and foods by means of pancreatic ferments there are 
several reliable preparations that may be employed. Liquor 
pancreaticus (Benger's), Allcnbury's Extractum pancreaticum 
and peptonising powders, and Byno pancreatin arc all reliable ; 
the latter can be used either for peptonising food or can be 
taken with meals. Fairchild's "Zyminc" powder and pepton- 
ising tubes are always reliable. Savory & Moore manufacture 



PEPTONISED FOODS 173 

peptoni.sii\L"f pellets, each wciq;hing 5 j;^rammcs. This form of 
powder does not require a lars^e excess of alkali, and the 
flavour of the foodstuff is hardly altered. 

All these pcptonising preparations ^ive full directions for 
their use on their wrappings ; in addition the following 
recipes may be given : — 

Peptonised Milk. 

1 pint milk. \ pint water. 

2 teaspoonfuls Liquor pancreaticiis. 

20 grs. (i small teaspoon) bicarbonate of soda. 

Allow the milk to stand. Skim off the cream. Dilute the skimmed 
milk with | pint of water, and heat to a temperature of 140° F. Mix with 
the warm milk the Liquor pancreaticus and 20 grs. of bicarbonate of 
soda. The mixture is poured into a covered jar, with a tea-cosy over it, 
and put near the fire. Let this stand for one and a half hours. Bring the 
mixture to the boil for two or three minutes to arrest any further 
fermentative action, which will make the milk unpalatable. Now add 
the cream that was removed, and it is ready for use. 

When peptonised by the cold process described below, the 
milk has no taste or evidence of the presence of the peptonis- 
ing agent, and is especially suitable for d)'speptics. 

Method. — IMix the peptonising agent in cold water and cold milk as 
above, and immediately place the bottle on ice without suljjecting it to 
any heat. When needed, pour out the required portion, and use in the 
same manner as ordinary milk. 

It is recommended to try the milk by the cold process in 
those cases in which food is not quickly digested, and in 
which the digestive functions are impaired or even practically 
suspended. It has been found in many such cases that the 
peptonising principle exerts sufficient action upon the milk 
in the stomach to ensure its digestion and proper assimilation. 

Effei've scent Peptonised Milk. 

Put some finely crushed ice in a glass and then half-fill it with 
Apollinaris, Vichy, or carbonated water as preferred, and then quickly pour 
in the peptonised milk and drink during effervescence. Peptonised milk 
may be made agreeable to many patients by serving with a little grated 
nutmeg, sweetened, or flavoured with a little brandy. 

Peptonised Gruels are acted upon by the ferment, the 



174 PATENT, PROPRIETARY, AND PREDIGESTED FOODS 

starch being transformed into sugar, and the albuminoid 
matters are peptonised. 

The gruel may be made from any farinaceous article in use— oatmeal, 
Quaker oats, etc. The gruel should be thoroughly well boiled. It is 
placed in a covered jar when it is below the temperature of 140° F., the 
pancreatising agent is added, and the jug is covered and kept warm as 
before. After standing two hours, boil the mixture for five minutes, and 
then carefully strain. 

Pephmiscd Milk Gruel. 

This was a favourite preparation of Sir W. Roberts. It is an 
artifically digested milk, and forms a complete and highly nutritious 
food for weak digestions. 

A thick gruel is made from farinaceous material (see p. 296). To the 
boiling gruel add an equal quantity of cold milk. This will then have a 
temperature of about 140° F. To each pint of the milk gruel add 3 
teaspoonfuls of Liquor pancreaticus and 20 grs. of sodium bicarbonate 
(or other peptonising agent). Let it stand covered in a warm place for 
two hours, boil for five minutes, and then strain. The peculiar flavour of 
predigested milk is quite masked by this process, and most invalids will 
take it without the least objection. 

Peptonised Milk Lemonade. 

Juice of I lemon. i gill effervescing water. 

I gill peptonised milk. i tablespoonful of sugar and rice. 

Fill a small tumbler one-third full of crushed ice, add the water, 
lemon juice, and the sugar to the ice, and fill up the glass with milk. 

Peptonised Milk Punch. 

Take a small tumbler and fill it about one-third full of crushed ice, 
pour on to this a tablespoonful of St Croix rum, and half a tablespoonful 
of brandy ; then fill the glass with peptonised milk, stir it well, sweeten to 
taste, and sprinkle over the top of the mixture a little grated nutmeg. 

Peptonised Meat. 

Add 4 ounces of minced meat to ^ a pint of water, and gradually bring 
to the boil. Then add \ a pint of cold water, so as to reduce the 
temperature to about 140° F., and add 30 grs. of Zymine or other 
peptonising agent, and 20 grs. of bicarbonate of soda. Keep warm for 
three hours and the meat will be peptonised. 

Peptonised Meat, Broths, and Teas. 

\ lb. lean beef, finely minced. i tablespoonful Liquor pancreaticus. 

I pint water. 20 grs. bicarbonate of soda. 

Mix together and simmer slowly for one and a half hours ; when it 
has cooled down to 140' F., add Liquor pancreaticus ; keep it warm under 



PEPTONISED FOODS 175 

a cosy for two hours ; occasionally shake it up, then decant off the liquid 
portion and boil for five minutes. 

This has a relative value in nitrogenous materials almost 
equal to milk. The tea can be flavoured with celery seed or 
vegetables, or thickened with sago, breadcrumbs, etc. (see 

P- 75)- 

Feptonised Soups, Blancmanges, and Jellies. — With a 
little ingenuity a variety of peptoniscd dishes can be obtained. 
There is no difficulty in doing this if it is always remembered 
that any peptoniscd fluid after standing at most two hours 
must be boiled, in order that the action of the ferment may 
be arrested. For the making of soups, use peptonised gruel 
(p. 173) instead of water. For the making of blancmanges, 
peptonised milk is added to the cream. For jellies, mix the 
Liquor pancreaticus with gelatine in the proportion of 2 
teaspoonfuls to the pint, allow it to stand for one and a half 
hours in a warm place, and then check the further action by 
boiling. 

Peptonised Oyster Soup. 

Take half a dozen large oysters with their juice, and h a pint of water. 
Heat in a saucepan until they have boiled briskly for a few minutes. 
Pour off the broth and set aside. 

Mince the oysters finely, and reduce them to a paste with a potato 
masher. Place the oysters in a jar with the broth that has been set 
aside, and add Liquor pancreaticus 2 teaspoonfuls, sodium bicarbonate 
15 grs. Let the jar stand in hot water or in a warm place for one and 
a half hours, then pour into a saucepan, and add \ a pint of milk. Heat 
over the fire slowly to boiling point, flavour with salt and pepper, 
and serve hot. Any undigested oysters may be strained out. The milk 
will be sufficiently digested during the few minutes which will elapse 
before the mixture boils, if heated gradually. 

2. Predigested Milk Products. — Mention must be first 
made of Fairchild's peptogenic milk powder. By means of 
this powder and process cow's milk is so modified as to 
conform remarkably to normal mother's milk, thus affording 
a food for infants exactly suited to the powers of infant 
digestion ; the amount of the predigcsting process can be 
gradually reduced until the infant can digest normal milk. 
Savory & Moore supply a number of concentrated pep- 
tonised milk preparations — viz., condensed peptonised milk 
peptonised cocoa and milk, a really excellent and highly 



17G PATENT, PHOPRIETAUY, AND PUEDIGESTED FOODS 

nourishing preparation ; Cafe zylak, a peptonised coffee and 
milk (this when dikited with hot water makes a superior 
cup of cafe au lait) ; milk chocolate peptonised is a 
sjx:cially good sweetmeat for children ; all are palatable and 
nutritious foods, which can be very readily prepared. Some 
of the milk companies prepare a predigested milk, and pre- 
digested varieties are sold under the name of Loeflund's 
peptonised milk and Backhaus milk. These are not to be 
recommended, as there is no means of knowing how far 
the predigestion has been carried. 

^Filk in covibmation with cereals tvith tJic starch partly 
or entirely converted into soluble carbohydrates. — The chief 
foods in this group are given in the table on the following 
page, which gives also the composition. 

From the point of view of infant foods these foods have 
all the disadvantages of condensed milk, in respect of lack 
of freshness and deficiency of fat. The chief difference 
between these and condensed milk preparations is the 
form of the soluble carbohydrates in place of the cane 
sugar. 

3. Predigested Meats and Peptones. — The advantages 
of having a meat nutriment which contains the albumins in 
a soluble and readily assimilable form is obvious in the 
treatment of those patients in whom the digestive powers 
are more or less in abeyance, either in acute or chronic 
medical conditions or in some surgical emergencies. Pre- 
digested soups and meats can be prepared at home (see 
p. 175); there are also many preparations in the market in 
which the proteins have been largely converted into albumins 
and peptones. These include various preparations of pep- 
tones, peptonoids, fluid meats, meat jellies, and meat powders 
The strong meaty odour and bitter taste of the peptones is 
an objection to their use to many patients. A further 
difficulty sometimes encountered is the occurrence of vomiting 
and diarrhoea induced by the albuminoids and peptones. 
The composition of the various preparations varies widely, 
the amount of protein — albumins and peptones — varying from 
.5 per cent, in Valentine's meat juice, to over 70 per cent, 
in Somatose. In some of the preparations, e.g. Carnrick's, 
a large amount of carbohydrate is present, this being derived 



MILK WITH CEREALS 



177 











_1J 


K 

V 


4j 


k. 
O 


i 


"3 U 
= 5 




B 








T3 


s « 


•o 


J3 


u 


"-' 


^ 3 


tj 


rt 








O 




.. 


* 


TD 


•T3 




-O rt 


rt 
O 
o 








tij 


u" "* 


■^ 


-o 


<u 


4> 


2 c 


■u bo 










g W- 


c^ 


V 






— rt 


^ 3 


O 








,_, 


o o 


*^ 


rl 


rt 


n 


rt lO 


t^ 










q= 4^ 


__ 


rt 


E 


E 


E J' 


E <u 










d 




<u 


S 






_ c 


c 


C 




00 






o 
o 

rt 


B 

rt 




11^ 


if w c 


o T3 

C 


'rt 

C 

o 




a 




e 


^-5 


r_0 






E-^ 


-O to "^ 


^ rt 


o 








HI 


V ri 




O ■" 




4( C '^ 


2i rt 


t— JO 








o rt 


o o" 


•— rt 


.E ■* 


rt ■- 


"■^ rt 

o X Ml 


rt 










i 


■gs 


•^'H 


rt lU 




"S rt 


2 -O to 


"7, rt 










< 


c 


S 


s 


o 


Q 


C 


Q 


< 










'~.— ' 


"— V— ' 


"— .— ' 


^— , — ' 


"~-— ' 


' — , — ' 


'-^'— ' 






"2 




in 


CO 


rO 


vC 


Cf- 


o 


9 


rh 


to 




•3 




CO 


«*> 


\n 


N 


N 




w 


to 


to 






^ 










o 


o* 


to 


t^ 


to 


03 




• 


6 


« 


« 


to 


\r\ 


u-> 


VO 


^ 


•£ 




C8 


* 




* 


* 


VO 


t~~ 


►H 




►- 


a 




M 




















i-i 
























>> 














































,c 
























o 
























JQ 

5 




a! 

3 


» 


M 


r> 


•^ 






o. 


vp 


w 




N 


C^ 


■^ 


ON 




• 


CO 


to 


C7> 




o 


r^ 


vO 


vn 


'^ 






VO 


\o 


■vj- 






M 


























T* 


oo 


CO 


to 




VO 


Y> 


O 


o 




























a 




M 


CO 








w-» 


>i^ 


VO 


6 




Eb 










t-( 














= 




M 


■+ 


O 


.. 




1^ 


to 




M 




^ 




<> 


Cn 


»_« 


00 


w^ 


ob 


-V 


VO 


^ 




2 






1— 


c< 




t-t 




•-• 




rj 




Oc 
























a, 




CT. 


lO 


T 


to 


o 


CO 


op 


o 






a 




«W 


M 


ir, 


■+ 


h1( 


CO 


to 


\i-» 


4(- 














M 










































• 


• 


• 


c 


• 


• 


• 


• 


• 














o 




















• 


• 


'to 


• 


• 


• 


• 


■ 








T5 






"a 


















O 

o 


^ 


-a 
o 


e 








rt 


rt 








tlH 


«i 


UJ 


• 


-n 


• 


.S 


E 








6 
1^ 


"rt 


6 


E 

rt 

6 


• 


o 

o 
Ci. 

c 


• 
■T3 


c 

c 


'Srj 








5 

c 
1) 










c 

3 
C 












ji 
y 


"a 
CQ 

c 


-T3 

c 

3 


o 


O 
O 

o 


c 
'a> 


u 
rt 

c 
'S 










o 


"o 


O 


rt 


rs 


rr^ 


J3 


JC 








< 


f-M 


wj 


s 


Hi, 


S 


H 


H 



Ai 



178 I'ATENT, I'ROPIUETAUY, AND PREDIGESTED FOODS 

from wheat. The approximate composition of the chief 
peptone preparations is given in the table on p. 179. 

Sof/Ki/ost' is a meat preparation in which the albumin of 
the meat is mainly converted into albuminoids. It is a 
greyish powder, freely soluble in water, forming a practically 
tasteless solution. It contains from 60 to 70 per cent, of 
protein. It can be given in water, in tea, in soup, or in milk, 
in which it readily dissolves. One teapoonful is equal to 
about a h ounce of lean meat. It costs is. 8d. per ounce, and 
yields from that amount only as much nourishment as is 
present in about ^ lb. of beef. It is a valuable preparation 
for increasing the nutritive value of other foods. Somatose 
is supplied in three forms : (a) somatose ; (d) iron somatose, 
an organic combination of somatose and iron ; (c) milk 
somatose, which contains somewhere about 5 per cent, of 
tannin. 

Savory & Moore's meat peptone is another useful concen- 
trated form of nourishment. It possesses a full, meaty 
flavour. It may be used as soup, or spread between bread 
and butter as sandwiches. 

Bcngcr's pcptonised jellies. — These consist of meat and 
chicken respectively, boiled and digested by means of the 
tryptic ferment in the Liquor pancreaticus, by which means 
almost all the flesh is converted into soluble bodies. The 
fluid is then made into a jelly by the use of gelatine. These 
jellies can be used cold, or dissolved with hot water to form 
a soup. 

Panopeptone is made from both meat and cereals, and 
claims to contain the nutritive principles of beef and bread. 

4. Malt Extracts — Diastase and Maltose. — Diastase or 
malt is a vegetable ferment which has the property of con- 
verting starch into the soluble maltose. In nature it is the 
action of diastase which causes the ripening of fruits and 
vegetables by converting their starches into dextrins and 
sugars. Diastase is soluble in water and weak alcohol, and 
insoluble in strong alcohol ; it is much more powerful than 
the ferments in saliva and the starch-splitting ferment of 
the pancreatic juice. It acts in alkaline solutions, but unlike 
the above ferments it continues to act in acid media, hence 
its action is not disturbed by the gastric juice. 



PEPTONE PREPARATIONS 



179 











X) 


•- o 




























B 


Jd - 




























a 
































1 ^ 




























"rt 


T3 





























c" 


"-3 






t« 






















o 


»r bo 






l/> 






























x> 














a. 






• 


3 


<l> rt 






3 




















rt 

rt 

"bio 


E 

1) 

XI 

ig 


- ■" . 

XI > rt 

E u'S. 






bO 3 




















_B 

-a 


o > ^ 






" 




















•— .ti o 


























>■ 


T3 J3 


T3 2 rt 






cS 






















nj O 


rt C <j 






u 




















<u 






























CO 


s 


«S 






















o 




CO 


-*■ 


w u^ 


»r» 




V «> 


CO 


o> 






to 


10 


"5 


f"o 


h4 


6 


1-4 


iri -i- 


eV> 




w 1^ 


VO 


en 


t 


tv 


u-> 


^1, 


72 


























































































0^ u 










CS 




















>'S.u 










,:. 




















■■§^2 


l~» 


ON 


r> 




T ^ 9 


t-t 




N 


r^ 


VO 





I? '^ 


■vO 


t^ 


2~^ 


ill 


<C| 


N 


J 


•'. >, r^ 


6 


; 


vo 6 


v6 


■^ 


to 


« t^ 


ci 


f^l 




t-< 






vo ^ r- 


t<i 






1^ 


N 




^ — vn 




N 


*j ^ ^ 






























X =1 






























H 










'^ 




















-05 






























.£ 'H ~ S 


vO 


9 


^ 


o 


O O 


VO 




M 


1^ 


f 





M 


" 


VD 


il^l 


■+ 


ro 


i— 


t-» 


-+ Th 


6 




to i-.* 


■+ 


to 


ON 


06 


c^ 


\o 


r- 








M 


to 




^ 


CO 


to 


N 




vO 




&<-j) e-i 
































M 








M 








■+ 













S2 


to 


• 


• 


• 


: ^» 


• 




: M 


11 


• 


00 


s 


• 


• 


£h 






























M 


ON 


9 


O 


\D 


■f " 


i_^ 


Th 


to 




CT> 







M 





c3 


>£) 




Ov 


■+ 


•^ N 


vri 


00 


•^ to 


6 


»I« 




J^ 


Tj- 


ON 


Is 




oo 


CO 


no 




r» 




00 to 


-^ 


to 




w 












_>> 








• 


• 




• 


• 


• 
















xn 














u-i 








. 




"o 




T3 


• 


, 


<u 


. 


, 


, 


<u 


, 


^ 






0) 






■5 






B 








CQ 










B 






B 























O 


4^ 











i) "5, 








TS 








c 
o 

a, 
<u 

o. 

at 


a. 

B 


ax 

c 
o 

S. 

<u 

a. 


B 
O 

CL, 


= 1 

-1 CL, 




73. 
'3 


B 


0. 
<U 


C 1, 

a- *^ 

rt m 


0) 

B 


D, 
V 

CL, 

rt 


B 



0. 




■3 







0) 


'3 

1—. 




""i- 




CQ 


■^ '^ 


E 


<u 


T3 'C 


s 


Cu 


rt 


=id 


<U 


"lU 
E 

B 




— 


3 


5 


"O 




>, 




-c E 


tn 


"bo 


3 


>N 







c 


O 

e 

k4 


bo 

c 


B 


C B 

rt n 


XI 
rt 


rt 

B 


rt "U 


x: 



XI 
9> 


cr 
b 


p 


rt 

E 





< 


< 


ca 


» 





Q 


Q 


U. « 


t<J 


U 


c« 


> 



180 PATENT, PKOPHIETAUY, AND PllEDIGESTED FOODS 

Farinaceous meal of any kind mixed with one-eiijhth of 
its weight of ground malt forms a highly digestible combina- 
tion. These malted foods are in great demand for the 
feeding of invalids and children in any condition where the 
digestive power has been weakened, c.^., convalescence from 
fever, tuberculosis, sepsis, neurasthenia, and disorders of diges- 
tion. Malt extracts can also be made and added to any 
ordinary farinaceous dish. 

Malt extracts are malt infusions evaporated down z'n 
vacuo at a low temperature in order not to destroy the 
diastatic ferment ; this makes them expensive. The average 
percentage composition of malt extracts is as follows : — 

Protein . . . 5 to 6 per cent. 

Soluble starch . . 10 „ 15 „ 

Sugar . . . 50 „ 55 

Ash . . . . I „ 2 „ 

Water . . . 22 „ 34 

Malt extracts and malted foods in general are simply 
predigested starches, with other nutritive substances as 
above. A variety of malt extracts and malted foods are in 
the market, and these are of decided value in the treatment 
of many subacute and chronic diseases, such as neurasthenia, 
tuberculosis, and some forms of gouty dyspepsia. As foods 
they are, however, deficient in fats and proteins. A useful 
combination would be a farinaceous meal of any kind mixed 
with one-eighth of its weight of ground malt. The chief 
proprietary extracts of malt are : — 

1. Kepler's vialt extract is a thick, treacly preparation, and 
can be given in teaspoonful doses after meals in milk or soda- 
water, or it may be spread on any form of starchy food. This 
type of extract is a very good one to mix with cod-liver oil. 
It is rich in diastase. 

2. Hoff's malt extract (or Homax) is given as a wineglass- 
ful with meals. It is a liquid preparation not unlike beer, 
and to many people is more easily taken than the sticky 
preparation. It can be taken diluted with water, soda-water, 
or milk. It contains considerable diastase, and not more 
than 10 per cent, of alcohol. In the author's experience 
it is of special value in the treatment of some forms of 
indigestion in gouty subjects. 



MALT EXTRACTS 181 

3. Tromincr^ diasiatic cxirnct of lunlt, marlc from barley 
malt — very syrupy in consistence, and sweet. A teaspoon fiil 
dose at first is enough to start with. 

4. Maltivc is made from three cereals — barley, wheat, and 
oats. It is rich in diastase. It. is frequently given mixed 
with equal parts of wheat or barley flour, the mixture being 
used as a diluent of milk. It may be taken after meals, 
either plain or in various combinations, such as cod-liver 
oil, hypophosphites, etc. 

Byjtin, a. fluid malt extract prepared by Allen & Hanbury. 

In the desiccated malt extracts all the water has been 
removed, e.^. Curtis' desiccated malt extract and Gramalt. 

Malt may also be made as an infusion at home, and can 
be prepared freshly ; it is much cheaper than the preparations 
above mentioned. 

Ma/t Infusion {Sir W. Roberts). 
Crushed malt, 3 ounces. Cold water, \ pint. 

Mix the malt thoroughly with the cold water in a jug-. Let the 
mixture stand nine hours. Decant off the liquid carefully, and strain this 
through muslin until it comes out clear and bright. 

This has a colour like dark sherry, and a faint maltish taste. 
It should be freshly made, as it is liable to ferment. 

Malted Gruel. 

The gruel may be made of any farinaceous substances — oatmeal, 
Quaker oats, Farina, arrowroot, barley or lentil flour, preferably those 
from prepared flour. (For method of making gruel, see p. 296.) 

When cool enough to swallow, add the malt infusion or an extract of 
malt. About one tablespoonful of the infusion or a teaspoonful of the 
extract is sufficient to digest a plateful of gruel. The action is very rapid, 
and in a few moments the gruel becomes thin from the transformation of 
starch and maltose. 

The malted proprietary foods in the market may be only 
partly converted (as in Table A, p. 182), into dextrins, 
maltose, and dextrose. 

In some members of this group (Table A), the starch is 
little altered ; in others, Allenbury's No. 3, Hovis babies' No. 
2, and Moseley's food (Table B), considerable conversion has 
taken place ; and it is stated that some of them, e.g. Coomb's 
malted food, are completely changed during the preparation, 
and therefore rank as completely malted foods. Mcllin's food. 



182 PATENT, PROPRIETARY, AND PREDIGESTED FOODS 




























Jq oi) 








bk) 
























o-S 








c 
























^ X 








'S 
























•2 S 








e 




















3 
O 




rt bo 








be 

c 




















CB 




. 3 








•c 




. 
















C 


J3 


4= -a 








•ra 






















o 


ki "^ 








c 
o 




(2 






















a 

V 












43 










T3 
"rt 


J3 
o 

3 

e 


3 ° 


o 






1 

8 










tij 


^ 


^ 






s 


c 


CS 


t^ 






flj 










>t 


" 


** 






>, 


'rt 




J3 






O- 










"a 














■^ CU 


<J 






o 
O 


















Ch 


C 

o 

o 


11 


'J5 










^ 




■^ 


1^ 


9 


vr. 




VD 


00 


•+ 


»^ 


r» 


t* 


j^ 






< 




" 


-' 




6 




6 


" 


6 


i-i 


-• 


N 


" 


1 
















P 














































d 










H 
















l-l 




/a 


w 


\J~h 


g> 


t^ 


f 


Qi 


ON 


9 


00 


•-1 


rrt 


r^ 


9 


>* 




M 


oi 


6 


vi) 


u^ 


<^ 


> 


N 




VO 


6 


CO 


6 


o> 


•g 




CS 


u 


oo 


r^ 


t^ 


00 


VO 


t>. 


r^ 


a\ 


^ 




-1- 


O 






< 










o 












































3 


u 


^ 






. 




N 








VO 


!;» 


t^ 






s 






Z 




J 


^i 


«M 


i 


I 


• 


t-~ 


to 


*~t 






CO 












M 








CO 


r< 


n 


1 
















Cd 
< 






















!Ii 


























^ 




K 


T 


t^ 


*? 


o 


(^ 


o 


g> 


op 


H4 


\o 


O 


oo 




c. 

U4 




O 

< 

H 


M 


' 


<^ 


M 


o 

< 


' 


«o 


N 


6 


6 




' 




c 


































ro 


1^ 


lf> 


*-^ 


yj 


f 


M 


»_, 


r>. 


►i^ 


N 


»^ 




*. 




^" 


6 


t~» 


M 


li, 




6 


v6 


r4 


W1 


>!■ 


CO 


•+ 




£ 

Pm 














cq 










»-« 




l-( 




1- 






tr> 


o\ 


vp 


•f- 




o 


N 


o\ 


■+ 


VD 


CO 


oo 




a 






vn 


^ 


OO 


N 




Ml 


t^ 


I> 


« 


^ 


oo 


6 


































fS 






































• 


• 












" 


r« 






• 












^ 














d 


















1> 




-a 




o 
o 


•T3 
o 


•a 

o 




TS 


















o 

o 




CO 


o 

fa 


o 

fa 


-a 
o 
o 

fa 

'co 

IS 




O 

o 

fa 












o 

o 


-a 
o 
o 


c 


o 

ex, 




6 


c 


1 


6 


c 
c 


T3 

o 
o 

fa 

tn 












"o 


3 






t. 
a 


*4> 
C 


J3 

a 

o 


P3 


"3 

CQ 

a 


c/1 


"3 










H 




1 


o 




< 


O 


o 
O 


o 

a: 


o 


3 


o 



BENGER'S FOOD 



183 



Horlick's food, Ilovis babies' food, No. i, are examples of 
completely malted foods. 

Of foods which are completely malted or nearly so, the 
best are Mellin's, Horlick's, Paget's malted farina, Chiltinc 
maltose food, Diastased farina, Hovis babies' food. No. i. 
The composition of these is given in the following table : — 

C. STARCH COMPLETELY CONVERTED. 





Water. 


Protein. 


Fat. 


Carbohydrates. 


Ash. 


Soluble. 


starch. 


Chiltine Maltose Food 
Diastased Farina 
Horlick's Malted Food 
Hovis Babies' Food, No. i 
Mellin's Food (maker's analysis) 


4-6 
8-3 
9-7 
3-7 
5-6 


5-3 
7-6 
10-4 
7-7 
7-5 


0-2 
1-3 

0-3 

0-2 

0-3 


87-6 
81-7 
76.8 
86-6 
59.6 


2-2 


2-a 

i-i 

I-8 
5.6 



5. Invalid Poods. — These are a group of foods of various 
composition that are of great use in the dietary of invalids. 

Benger's food conta.ins ferments which convert the proteins 
and starch during the preparation. It consists of cooked 
wheaten meal, to which is added the natural digestive 
ferment of the pancreas. 



Water. 


Protein. 


Fat. 


Carbohydrates. 


Ash. 


Soluble. 


Starch. 


II. 2 


10-4 


I-I 


9-9 


66-3 


0-9 



When mixed with warm milk, as recommended, the car- 
bohydrates are nearly all converted into soluble dextrin 
and sugar, and the proteins are also partially peptonised. 
This is certainly one of the most useful proprietary foods 
on the market. It is specially useful in the feeding of weakly 
infants, and in cases of acute gastric intestinal derange- 
ments such as typhoid fever and malnutrition generally. 

Benget's pancreatised lentil Jloiir is specially prepared for 
children and invalids. Lentils form a highly nutritious food, 
being rich in nitrogenous matter, and the method of prepara- 
tion of the flour makes it easy of digestion. 

Savory & Moore's best food for invalids. — The manufacture 



1S4 PA TENT, rilOPRIETAKY, AND PKEDIGESTED FOODS 



of this foocl was oric^inally sucfc^cstcd by Licbif]^, but the 
process has since been much improved. The flour is 
specially prepared and then partially malted. On mixing in 
the manner described on the label of directions, the diastase 
converts the carboh)-drates into soluble forms. It is very 
digestible, and may be given in all cases in which a milk diet is 
indicated. Its pleasant malty flavour makes it a favourite food. 

Sai'ore is another nutrient food prepared by Savory & 
Moore. The carbohydrates are partially malted and contain 
active diastase, assisting enfeebled digestive function. The 
milk and cereal proteins arc not peptonised, so that the 
digestive apparatus has little work to perform. 

AUenburys malted food. No. 3, like the above, is a 
farinaceous food which requires the addition of cow's milk. 
It is a partially digested food composed chiefly of carefully 
cooked whcaten flour ; to this is added malt in a soluble 
form. This food, though intended primarily for the use of 
infants after the fifth or sixth month, is of great value for 
invalids and convalescent patients who require a light and 
easily digested diet. 

Carniick's soluble food \s another preparation in this class : — 



Water. 


ProtPin. 


Fat. 


Carboliydratcs. 


Ash. 


Soluble. 


Starch. 


5-17 


16.6 


5-5 


28-1 


41.5 


3-0 



It consists of desiccated milk, malted wheat flour, and milk 
sugar. In the preparation the starch granules are partially 
digested, but much starch remains unchanged. This prepara- 
tion is not so valuable as those mentioned above, as the latter 
have the advantage of being made with fresh milk. 

By the use of the above-mentioned foods in combination 
with milk, a variety of di.shes can be made. The special 
directions for each food are detailed on the tins, but the 
following notes will be found useful : — 

I. Invalid Food. 

I ounce of invalid food. 4 tablespoonfuls of cold milk. 

i pint boiling milk. 



INVALID FOOD PREPARATIONS 185 

Mix the food into a paste with 4 tablespoonfiils of cold milk. Add 
this cjradually to the S pint of milk, which should be almost boiling ; keep 
stirring all the time. Set aside in a warm place for twenty minutes ; 
then boil the whole for a minute, stirring all the time, and strain if 
necessary. This can now be taken as an invalid food, or used in the 
making of various dishes. The following are useful recipes. 

2, Custard Pudding. 

\ pint of invalid food made with milk. 
2 eggs. 2 teaspoonfuls of sugar. 

Prepare the food according to direction on the tin ; after it has cooled, 
add to it the sugar and the eggs well beaten. Pour into a greased pie- 
dish and bake in a moderate oven from ten to fifteen minutes. Flavour- 
ing, such as nutmeg, cinnamon, or grated lemon rind, may be added. It 
can be served hot or cold. 

3. Batter Pudding. 

\ pint of invalid food made with milk. 

2 eggs. A pinch of salt. 

Take the prepared food and let it boil up. Allow to cool, add the 

salt and eggs, well beaten. Pour the mixture into a well-greased basin, 

cover with greased paper, and steam slowly for half an hour. Do not 

fill the basin too full, as the pudding will rise. When ready it will be 

firm to the touch. It can be served with sugar, preserves, or meat 

gravy. 

4. Invalid Food Jelly. 

\ pint of invalid food with milk. \ ounce French leaf gelatine. 

2 teaspoonfuls of castor sugar, and flavouring. 

Make the invalid food. Add while hot the gelatine, and stir over the 

fire until dissolved. Add the sugar and any suitable flavouring — port, 

sherry wine, lemon, vanilla. Pour into a wetted mould until set. Turn 

out and serve cold. 

5. To prepare Peptonised Cocoa and Milk with Invalid Food. 

Take i tablespoonful of the food (| ounce) and i or 2 teaspoonfuls of 
cocoa (any good brand). Mix together in a basin and add gradually 8 
tablespoonfuls of cold water. Then add slowly a pint of boiling milk 
and water (say half and half). Set aside to digest for ten or fifteen 
minutes, then pour into a clean saucepan and bring to the boil. When 
cool it is ready. Sweeten to taste. Take half the above quantities for a 
breakfast cup. 

The natural digestive principles contained in the Benger's food digest 
the cocoa as well as the milk with which it is mixed. The Benger's food 
is also partially digested. 

6. Invalid Food with Chocolate. 
Prepare the food in the usual way according to the directions on 
every tin, then add your chocolate grated. Those who are not fond of 



186 PATENT, PROPRIETARY, AND PREDIGESTED FOODS 

chocolate may relish the food better if it is flavoured with cinnamon, and 
for this an inch or so of cinnamon stick will be sufficient for a breakfast- 
cup of invalid food. Others ay^ain prefer the flavour of lemon, and in 
this case a small piece of lemon rind, pared off very thinly, is better than 
essence of lemon. 

In these ways one is able to vary the taste of the food to please even 
the most fastidious invalid. 

7. Inz>alid Food and Raw Egg. 

Beat up a fresh egg to a froth, then add the prepared food, gradually 
stirring the while. Brandy, sugar, or other flavouring may be added if 
desired. 

N.B. — The prepared food should not be hotter than can be sipped 
comfortably, when the egg is added. 

8. Arrowroot Pudding, made with Prepared Invalid Food. 

1 tablespoonful arrowroot. A sprinkling of nutmeg. 

2 teaspoonfuls sugar. i tgg. 

i pint prepared invalid food. 

Method. — Mix the arrowroot with a little cold water, add the prepared 

food to the mixture whilst stirring ; return the whole to a saucepan and 

boil three or four minutes, add the sugar and nutmeg, beat up the tgg 

and add to the mixture. Pour into a buttered dish and bake in a slow oven. 

9. Queen Puddings made with Prepared Invalid Food. 
i pint prepared food. i tablespoonful jam. 

1 ounce butler. 2 tablespoonfuls castor sugar. 

2 eggs. \ pint of white breadcrumbs. 

Flavour with vanilla or lemon rind. 
Method. — Mix the breadcrumbs, i tablespoonful sugar and butter, 
together in a basin, pour over these the prepared food, stir in the yolks 
of the eggs, previously well beaten, and the flavouring ; pour the whole 
into a buttered dish, and bake twenty or thirty minutes, or until set. 
Then spread the jam on the top, beat up the whites of eggs to a stiff 
froth, add to them the remainder of the sugar, pile this on the top of the 
pudding, and return to the oven until set. Serve hot or cold. 

10. Sago Pudding, made with Prepared Invalid Food. 

I ounce of sago. A little grated lemon rind. 

I ounce of castor sugar. A pinch of salt. 
\ ounce butter. \ pint of water. 

\ pint prepared food. 
Method. — Put the sago into a saucepan with the water and salt, and 
slowly simmer for twenty minutes to half an hour. Then add the 
prepared food, sugar, lemon rind, and the egg, previously well beaten. 
Pour into a buttered dish and bake in a slow oven for about half an 
hour. Semolina may be used instead of sago if preferred. 



CHAPTER X 

FOOD PRESERVATIVES, FOOD ADULTERATION, AND 
DISEASES CAUSED BY FOOD 

I. Food Preservatives 

PAOB PAQE 

r. Drying, smoking, and salting . 187 4. Antiseptic and preservative sub- 

2. Freezing and cold storage . 188 stances • . . . 1S9 

3. Exclusion of air — canned foods . 188 General effects of preservatives . 189 

Food adulteration . . .190 

Preserved foods of all kinds now enter so largely into 
the daily dietaries of nearly all classes of the community 
that some reference must be made to the different methods 
of preservation of foods, and to their effects on the nutritive 
value of the food. 

I. Drying, Smoking, and Salting. 

(a) Dried foods. — Milk, vegetables, and fruits are 
preserved in this way. The watery constituents of the 
food may be partially removed, as in the case of condensed 
milk, or completely removed, as in the desiccated form, where 
the dried powder is used to increase the nutritive properties 
of other foods. Tea and coffee are examples of foodstuffs 
prepared in this way, so also are peas, beans, grapes 
(raisins), apples, prunes, and figs. Sugar or salt arc 
frequently employed to aid the drying and to assist in 
preventing the decomposition of the food. Pemmican is 
a good example of a concentrated food of a mixed kind. 
It consists of slices of meat cut and dried in the sun, to 
which is added fat, sugar, and dried fruit. 

(b) Smoked food. — The process of smoking is applied 
to beef, fish, tongue, ham, and bacon. It consists in hanging 

137 



ISS FOOD PRESERVATIVES, FOOD ADULTERATION, ETC. 

the meat in a chamber, in which the air is saturated with 
wood smoke, the antiseptic substances derived from the 
combustion of the wood impregnating the outer layers of the 
meat and so preserving the whole. This process is usually 
employed after salting. Meat so prepared is not so easily 
digested as fresh meat. 

(c) Salting. — The addition of salt to meat or fish absorbs 
the moisture, and dries and preserves the meat. In the 
process some of the extractives and salts of the meat may 
be removed. Food so prepared is rather less nutritious and 
digestible than fresh meats. Salted meat requires prolonged 
cooking. 

2. Freezing and Cold Storage. 

(a) The process of freezing consists in subjecting meat 
to a temperature of about 26° F. below zero, the meat when 
hard being transferred to a refrigerating chamber. Meat so 
prepared can be kept almost indefinitely. Frozen meat 
should be cooked when thawed, as decomposition sets in 
more readily than in non-frozen meat. Frozen meat loses 
some of its nutritive value in cooking, this loss being 
greater than in the case of non-frozen meat ; it also loses a 
little delicacy of flavour. These disadvantages, however, are 
more than outweighed by the diminished cost. 

(b) Treatment by refrigeration. — Here the meat is not 
actually frozen, but is kept in chambers maintained at a 
temperature a few degrees above freezing point. The 
temperature is maintained by a draught of cold air. This 
process involves less alteration in the meat than freezing. 
In addition to meat, fish, eggs, fruits, and vegetables can be 
so treated. 

3. Exclusion of Air — Canned Foods. 

The decomposition of all foods is prevented or retarded 
by excluding air from the food. This is done by the process 
of canning, or by varnishing the food, or by covering it with 
a substance of an impermeable nature, such as melted fat. 

Canned foods are very extensively used at the present 
time. The food is first made sterile by heat, or by the use of 
chemicals — the latter method being often abused in the 



CANNED FOODS 189 

hands of unscrupulous people. After the fresh food is placed 
in the new tin can, the lid is soldered on, leaving a minute 
hole on the top for the escape of air and steam. The can is 
then immersed in a bath of boiling fluid which has a higher 
boiling point than the water in the food. The latter boils, 
expels at first air, then steam, and so cooks the food, render- 
ing it aseptic. The lid is then soldered, so as to render the 
can airtight. It should be noted, however, that the presence 
of anaerobic bacteria in the food may induce decomposition of 
the food so treated. Canned foods are on the whole less 
digestible and also less tasty than fresh foods. It has also to 
be borne in mind that some people may have an idiosyncrasy 
to the preservative used. The possibility of the occurrence 
of copper, tin, lead, or zinc poisoning from the prolonged use 
of canned meats must be borne in mind. The ingredients in 
many foods have a solvent action on the cans, as a result of 
which toxic symptoms are set up. 

4. Antiseptic and Preservative Substances. 

A large number of substances are used for this purpose. 
Many of these are innocuous, e.g., sugar, salt, oil, and vinegar ; 
others are harmless in minute doses, but injurious in the 
amounts that are occasionally present, such as salicylic acid, 
formalin, borax, sulphuric acid. 

The process of food adulteration has called for legislative 
action, but the condition is not always easily detected by any 
analytical method. It has been shown experimentally that 
the addition of boric acid to the food in the proportion of \ 
per cent, is not injurious to health ; this would be equivalent 
to the consumption of about 7| grains of boric acid daily. In 
conditions where the excretory functions of the kidneys or 
bowels are defective, smaller amounts of salicylic acid, borax, 
formalin, and the like in the food would produce injurious 
results more readily than under normal conditions. The 
injurious results that may be induced are gastro-intestinal 
derangement, albuminuria, and an impairment in the general 
health. 

General effects of preservatives on the food. — Generally 
speaking, the effects of preservatives are to render the food a 
little less nutritious, probably by interfering with the normal 



190 FOOD l'RESEKVA'HVES,FOOD ADULTERATION, ETC. 

action of the digestive ferments. In some cases the food is 
rendered less tasty, and its nutritive value thereby impaired. 

2. Food Adulteration. 

Food may be adulterated cither by the fraudulent substi- 
tutes of cheaper foods, or by the addition of substances which 
have a deleterious action. The objects arrived at by the 
manufacturer who engages in this malpractice are — (i) to in- 
crease the bulk of the food ; (2) to give an erroneous impression 
as to the strength of the food ; and (3) to alter the appearance 
in a manner favourable to the manufacturer. An instructive 
table illustrating the extent to which adulteration of food was 
practised in America prior to the passing of the Pure Foods 
Act is given by Thompson as follows. This shows that about 
40 per cent, of foodstuffs were adulterated. The forms in 
which food may be adulterated are legion. As common 
examples, mention may be made of wheat flour with bran, 
milk with water and sugar, powdered sugar with barium sul- 
phate, honey with glucose, coffee with sugar and caramel, 
oleo-margarine as butter, pickles with copper and iron ; wines 
and liquors with hsematoxylin, alum, and other salts ; olive oil 
with cotton-seed oil. The adulteration of flour by bleaching 
is fully dealt with on p. 90. 



Table illustrating Adulteration of Foods. 





T.jt.il. 


Adulterated. 


Unadulterated. 


Baking-powder 


50 


45 


II 


Butter 


147 


29 


118 


Canned Goods . . 


6 




6 


Catsups, Pickles . . 


57 


45 


12 


Cofifee 


3 


I 


2 


Cornstarch .... 


I 




I 


Flour (Wheat) . 


20 




20 


Jellies, Preserves . 


23 


i's 


5 


Lard , . . . . 


40 


n 


-9 


Milk (Sweet and Buttermilk) 


150 


35 


115 


Mince Meat .... 


7 


7 




Olco-margarine 


18 


1 6 


2 


Olive Oil .... 


2 


I 


I 


Pepper, Spices, etc. 


14 


II 


3 


Sweet Cider and Grape Juice 


3 


3 




Syrups, Honey, and Sugar . 
vinegar .... 


50 


y 


41 


126 


59 


67 



DISEASES CAUSED BY lOOD 191 

3. Diseases caused by Food. 

PAOK PAOE 

Ptomaine poisoning . . . 191 Food-poisoning due to grains . 192 
Food-poisoning due to poisoned Foods containing parasites or their 

non-putrclying meat . . 191 embryos .... 192 

In other sections we have considered diseased conditions 
induced by over-feeding, over-drinking, and under-feeding ; 
reference must now be made to some special diseases 
dependent on dietetic sources. 

Ptomaine Poisoning. — This may arise from tainted meat, 
milk, or fish, more especially shellfish. Ptomaines are 
alkaloidal substances produced by decomposition, or putre- 
faction of proteins under the influence of bacterial action. 
The bacilli specially associated with meat-poisoning include 
some members of the anaerobic group, e.g. Bacillus botultuus, 
which occurs notably in tainted ham and sausages ; also 
bacilli of the protein group, such as Bacillus butyricus, which 
normally cause putrefaction in wholesome food ; and various 
members of the para-typhoid group, especially the Bacillus 
enteritidis of Gartner. Serious and even dangerous symptoms 
— pain, sickness, vomiting, collapse — may arise from eating 
food tainted as above. In the case of poisoning from eating 
tainted fish or mussels, the symptoms may arise within an 
hour or two, and affect mainly the central nervous system. 
Ptomaine poisoning more commonly arises from eating canned 
meats which have stood some time after opening. In these 
cases it may not be easy to determine whether the poison is 
derived from the tainted meat, or is due to metallic poison- 
ing from ingredients used in the process of tinning. It is 
well also to keep in view the possibility that it is the result of 
the " preservative" used. In addition to meat — milk, cream, 
ice cream, and cheese may also be tainted and induce acute 
ptomaine poisoning. In connection with ptomaine poisoning, 
it is important to keep in mind the frequency with which 
idiosyncrasy is met with to special articles of diet, such as 
shellfish, strawberries, and the like. 

Food-poisoning due to poisoned non-putrefying meat. — 
Reference must be made to the occasional occurrence of 
cases of this kind, e.g., turkey eating deadly nightshade leaves. 



192 FOOD PRESEUVATIVES, FOOD ADULTERATION, ETC. 

followed by symptoms of atropine poisoning in the human 
subject ; grouse and hares have been known to be poisoned 
through eating the tender shoots of the laurel and rhodo- 
dendron shrubs ; oysters similarly may be the cause of 
typhoid, from being taken from contaminated oyster-beds. 

Food-poisoning due to grains. — Mouldy flour and unripe 
grains when old develop poisons from decomposition of their 
gluten. The more common diseases that are so induced 
are ergotism and pellagra. The symptoms of ergotism may 
be of a gangrenous or convulsive character, and are due to 
the action of the fungus Claviceps purpurea^ which grows 
on rye. Pellagra is a disease of Southern Europe which 
arises from eating fermented unripe maize or Indian corn 
made into polenta. It is characterised by an erythema of 
the skin accompanied by severe mental symptoms. The 
disease is said to be preventable by the addition of salt to 
the corn meal. 

Lathyrism is a condition analagous to ergotism and 
pellagra, but resulting from the adulteration of flour with a 
grain called the chick-pea vetch ; it is met with in India, 
Italy, and France. 

Foods containing parasites or their embryos. — Food 
sometimes serves as the medium for the introduction of 
parasites or their embryos, such as tapeworm, roundworm, 
cchinococcus, and trichina. The chief source of infection 
is the use of raw or imperfectly cooked flesh, a rarer 
source being the ingestion of vegetables that have been 
tainted from the excrement of infected animals. Trichinosis 
is acquired from eating ham or pork infected with the 
parasites. It may be a serious, and is sometimes a fatal 
disease. 



CHAPTER XI 

DIET AT DIFFERENT PERIODS OF LIFE 



Childhood 193 Old age 203 

School age 201 Pregnancy . . . , .211 



Diet dxiring Childhood, from Two Years to Seven 
Years of Age. 

PAGE PAGB 

Importance of promoting mastica- Meat foods 198 

tion . , . . • 193 Foods to be avoided . . '199 

Normal weights and heights . 195 Daily dietary . . . .199 

The food requirements of children 195 Diet for a " gouty " child . . 200 

Proteins, fats, carboh]idrates . . 196 Diet for a child predisposed to 

Milk, eggs, bread foods . . 196 tuberculosis .... 200 

Cereals, vegetables, fruits . . 198 Diet for a "nervous" child . . 201 

Puddings 198 

(See also Infant Feeding, p. 226.) 

A COMMON fault in the feeding of children is giving a diet 
which consists too largely of pultaceous foodstuffs, which 
require little or no mastication. Such foodstuffs are usually 
of a kind which lead to acid fermentation. Serious conse- 
quences follow this defective system of feeding. In the first 
place the muscles of mastication and the jaws are imperfectly 
developed, with the result that the post-nasal space is small 
in size and liable to be further encroached on by excess of 
lymphoid tissue (adenoids), with resulting unfavourable 
effects on the growth and general nutrition of the child 
Secondly, the carbohydrates of the food lodge round the 
teeth and undergo acid fermentation, with resulting dental 
caries. A first essential in the feeding of children, therefore, 
is to see that the food is of a nature that demands mastica- 

198 ^ 



194 DIET AT DIFFERENT PERIODS OF LIFE 

tion. At each meal the child should receive one or other of 
the following articles of diet, baked bread (slice of ordinary 
bread placed in a quick oven until it is quite dry and crisp), 
milk toast (thin slice of stale bread dipped in milk and baked 
in a slow oven until it is brown), unsweetened rusks, un- 
sweetened biscuits, oatcakes, unfircd bread (Christian's, p. 529), 
apples, bananas, and nuts. As these forms of administering 
carbohydrates tend to lessen the bulk of food consumed, it is 
important to supplement it by extra fat or sugar. The latter 
is unfavourable to the teeth, and an extra supply of fat or 
cream should therefore be given. After a meal which 
contains much carbohydrate in the form of cakes, or sweets, 
the acid in the mouth may advantageously be neutralised by 
the salts present in a little raw fruit, such as apples, bananas, 
or nuts. 

There is another point of great importance in the diet of 
children at this period of life that is usually lost sight of, viz., 
the necessity of adapting the diet to the diathesis of the 
child. The diet of a child of tuberculous stock, of say five 
years of age, is different from that of a gouty child of the 
same age. This point is one of great practical importance. 
The former child is usually of comparatively feeble develop- 
ment, shows relatively little muscular activity, is slightly 
anaemic, and altogether forms a marked contrast to the well- 
developed, muscular, active child of good colour that is 
characteristic of the gouty diathesis. Attention will first be 
directed to the dietetic management of the average child, 
one with no specially pronounced diathetic tendency, and 
thereafter to the diet appropriate to the child of gouty stock, 
to the highly nervous child, and to children predisposed to 
tuberculosis. 

From two years of age onwards the normal child has a 
well-developed digestive apparatus and a keen appetite, and 
is well able to digest most foodstuffs if given in modera- 
tion. The teeth by this time are through the gum, and it is 
of the greatest importance that they should get a diet which 
develops the art of mastication. The movement of the jaws 
in mastication in growing children promotes the development 
of the muscles of the tongue, palate, and naso-pharynx ; it, at 
the same time, favours the normal development of the nasal 



FOOD REQUIREMENTS OF CHILDREN 



195 



and naso-pharyngcal cavities, which is of so great importance 
for the purposes of respiration and general nutrition. Too 
much importance, therefore, cannot be devoted to the question 
of a proper diet in the developing period. 

The following table gives the average weights and heights 
of children at different ages. It should be borne in mind 
that these averages are calculated from tables of the weights 
and heights of a large number of persons, and though accurate 
as a general guide, are not necessarily true for each person. 
A deviation of 15 per cent, in either direction from the 
standard is not seriously regarded. Of more importance than 
the actual weight is the proportion between height and 
weight. Care must be taken that patients who are weighed 
periodically should always be weighed under precisely corre- 
sponding conditions as to scales, clothes, etc. 



Males. 


Females. 


Age last 
birthday. 


Height. 


Weight. 


Age last 
birthday. 


Height. 


Weight. 




ft. in. 


St. lb. 




ft. in. 


St. lb. 


I 


2 Sh 


I 4i 


I 


2 Zh 


I 4 


2 


2 8i 


2 4i 


2 


2 7 


I II:i 


3 


2 II 


2 6 


3 


2 10 


2 3i 


4 


3 I 


2 9 


4 


3 


2 8 


5 


3 4 


2 12 


5 


3 3 


2 II 


6 


3 7 


3 2i 


6 


3 6 


2 I3t 


7 


3 10 


3 7;i 


7 


3 8 


3 :h 


S 


3 II 


3 13 


8 


3 10^ 


3 10 


9 


4 I? 


4 4i 


9 


4 ci' 


3 I.-' 


10 


4 32 


4 "i 


10 


4 3 


4 6 


11 


4 5i 


5 2 


II 


4 5 


4 12 


12 


4 7 


5 6;^ 


12 


4 7i 


5 6i 


13 


4 9 


5 I2i 


13 


4 9t 


6 3 



The Pood Requirements of Children. — The quantity of 
food required by children is out of proportion to their size 
and weight, for the following reasons : the rapid groivtJi taking 
place requires muscle-forming protein material for the con- 
structive processes ; the incessant activity calls for an abundant 
supply of energy-producing food — carbohydrates and fat : 
the loss of heat in children is more rapid than adults, and an 
abundant supply of heat-forming food is necessary. The 
general principles of treatment are as follows : — 

I. An abundant supply of protein, carbohydrate and fat. 



106 DIET AT DIFFERENT PERIODS OF LIFE 

2. The meals to be given at regular hours, nothing being 

given in the interval. 

3. The diet should be simple, nothing being necessary to 

tickle the palate or stimulate the appetite. 

4. The diet should include a sufficient amount of hard 

food, so that the habit of proper mastication may be 
acquired. 

Proteins are best supplied in the forms of milk, eggs, and 
the proteins in the various cereals and legumes. The proteins 
of red meat and white meat are very appetising, and much 
relished by children, but they should be used sparingly. 
Fish, chicken, and rabbit are preferable to red meats. Meat 
soups thickened with various cereals and vegetables may be 
recommended. 

Milk should be the great standby ; in the feeding of 
children the allowance of 2 to 3 pints of milk daily, according 
to age, is not at all too much for a child. Some of this can 
be taken plain, some mixed with cocoa to make a hot drink, 
and the remainder used in the cooking of gruels, puddings, 
custards, etc. 

Carbohydrates are mainly supplied by bread in all its 
varieties, also by the different cereals, and by vegetables 
properly prepared. 

Fats. — Cream, butter, bacon fat, dripping, suet, yolk of 
egg, are all forms in which fat can be presented to children in 
an appetising form. Fat is a most important clement in the 
food of children at this period of life. Cream and butter are 
excellent forms of administering fat to growing children. 
From I to 3 ounces of cream may be given daily, this being 
given in the form of creamy milk, or with puddings or 
stewed fruit. Bacon fat and marrow fat are excellent forms 
of fat administration. Good recipes are here given : — 

Bacon Rashers. 

Choose a piece from the back or streaky part of the pig for these. 
Remove the rind (which should be reserved for the stock pot), and cut 
the bacon in very thin, even slices, with a very sharp knife. These may 
be fried, toasted, or baked. 

To fry bacon. — Place the slices in a cold frying-pan and cook until the 
fat is transparent, turning the rashers once or twice. It must be cooked 
blowly or the fat will become scorched and toasted. If not wanted crisp 



DIETARY FOR CHILDREN 197 

and dry, turn the slices before they look * le ir, and remove them before 
all the fat is run out. 

Toasted bacon is easily done by means of a Dutch oven or a toaster or 
toasting-fork in front of the fire, putting a plate underneath to catch the 
fat. The fat of the bacon when cooked should look transparent and 
crisp. The flavour of toasted bacon is superior to that which is fried or 
baked. 

Baked bacon. — Melt a little fat in a dripping tin ; when quite hot but 
not scorching, lay in the slices of bacon. Place them overlapping each 
other so that the fat of one piece rests on the lean of another ; cook about 
ten minutes in a good oven. 

Bacon rolls., which are used as a garnish for many dishes, are made by 
cutting the bacon very thin, then rolling the slices up neatly, and 
slipping several together on a thin skewer. These should be baked or 
toasted. 

Bacon should be served on a hot-water dish if possible, and it may be 
served on small pieces of bread which have been fried in the bacon fat. 
Eggs and bacon served together are too rich a dish for invalids, and not 
necessary for children. 

Marrow Bones. 
Ingredients : Marrow bones, flour, dry toast. Saw the bones into 
short lengths, cover the ends with a paste made of flour and water, tie 
them in a floured cloth, and boil from one and three-quarters to two 
hours. Remove the cloth and crust, set the bones upright on a dish 
covered with a hot napkin, and serve with dry toast. 

Marrow Toast. 
Marrow from two beef bones, buttered toast, salt and pepper. Soak 
the marrow in tepid water for two hours. About fifteen minutes before 
the dish is wanted, cut the marrow into inch lengths, place them in cold 
water, and bring rapidly to boiling point and drain well. Have some 
squares of very hot, well-buttered toast, put the marrow on them, break- 
ing it up and spreading it with a fork, and season with salt and pepper. 
Place the toast before the fire or in a hot oven until the marrow is 
thoroughly melted. Then serve as hot as possible. When savoury 
marrow is prepared, sprinkle the above with chopped parsley, chives, 
and lemon juice, just before serving. 

Eggs are excellent for children ; given every day, a child 
tires of them, and in some children they cause " biliousness." 
Very occasionally children cannot take eggs. 

Bread and biscuits {oxm the staple method of administer- 
ing carbohydrates. The bread should never be new. It 
should be given twice daily as dry, crisp toast, or as baked 
bread, as these promote mastication. Dry, crisp rolls arc al.so 
advisable. New scones and buns are not advisable, but on 



198 DIET AT DIFFERENT PERIODS OF LIFE 

the second day are vn^ gfood if toasted. These different 
bread fi)0(ls promote mastication, if care be taken to sec that 
the child is not alhnved to swill them down with fluid. IMain 
biscuits should always be available, but rich sweet varieties 
should only occasionally be given. Plain sponge cake and 
biscuits are also allowable. But all rich cakes with fruit, rich 
butter pastry, and heavily iced cakes should be withheld. 

Cereals. — Almost any kind of cereal may be given for 
breakfast, and a sufficient variety should be given to prevent 
the child tiring of them. The following may be recom- 
mended : — Oatmeal, whole-wheat flour, as Wheaten groats or 
Artox, Hominy, puffed rice ; pease flour, lentil flour, maize flour, 
arc also good. (See also Cereals and Legumes, pp. 86, loi.) 
Vegetables may be given for dinner, such as plain boiled 
or mashed potatoes, plain boiled and well-cooked cauliflower, 
spinach, cabbage, or lettuce rubbed smoothly down and well 
boiled. 

Meat foods. — Fish of the white varieties, boiled, broiled, 
and fried, are always allowable. Chicken and rabbit may be 
given twice a week. Beef and mutton boiled and roasted is 
quite digestible, but it is generally advisable not to start with 
red meats until towards the end of this period. 

Broths and soups should not be made too strong, or 
thickened with meat puree ; but meat stock can be added to 
good vegetable soup made with carrots, turnips, onions, leeks, 
potatoes, lentils, peas. This may be thickened with barley, 
rice, tapioca, groats, sago, macaroni, yolk of Q.gg, cream. A 
nourishing fish soup can be prepared and thickened by adding 
a purde of the fish. 

Puddmgs should be taken once daily, the most suitable 
being custards, plain, baked, or boiled ; milk puddings of 
different grains made with or without eggs ; jelly (lemon or 
orange or other fresh fruit) ; curds with cream. Suet pud- 
dings are less digestible, and should certainly not be given 
frequently. 

Fruits are good for children ; the fresh juice contains 
properties which are good for the blood, and they contain 
sugar in an easily assimilable form. Some fruit should be 
taken daily. Of fresh fruits, oranges, apples, grapes, bananas, 
may be taken, avoiding the skin and stones. 



DIETARY FOR CHILDREN 109 

The fresh berries — raspberries, red and white currants, 
brambles, etc. — are best cooked and the juice eaten with a 
pudding. Strawberries should be tjiven very sparingly, as in 
many children they disagree. 

Stewed fruit — apples, prunes, rhubarb, apricots, pears — may 
all be given as an agreeable change to the milk puddings. 

Sugar. — The growing child demands sugar, and usually 
shows a great craving for it. It is best to supply this in the 
form of sweet pudding or stewed fruit. Honey, syrup, jam, 
eaten with bread and biscuits, are also good. A little good 
chocolate or pure plain toffee drop can do no harm in 
moderation, but the indiscriminate partaking of confectionery 
is prejudicial to the teeth and to the general nutrition. 

It will be convenient at this stage to indicate the special 
articles of food which may with advantage be withheld from 
children under seven years of age. 

Meats. — Sausage, pork, salted fish, corned beef, goose, 
kidney, liver, stewed meats. 

Vegetables. — Fried vegetables of all varieties, raw or fried 
onions, raw celery, radishes, lettuce, cucumbers, beetroots. 

Bread and cakes. — All newly baked bread, rolls, scones, 
buns. All rice cakes containing dried fruits and thick 
icings. 

Dessert. — Candies, pies, tarts, pastry of every descrip- 
tion. 

Drinks. — Tea, coffee, wine, beer, cider. 

The following diet sheet is adopted for a child at this 
period of life. The actual amount of the foodstuffs to be 
given will vary with the age and size of the patient : — 

Meals. 

If child awake early (6 to 6.30 A.M.) — Drink of milk, a piece of dry 
bread, or plain biscuit. 

Breakfast : 8 A.M. — 

Milk to drink, or cocoa made with milk. 

A well-cooked cereal with salt and cream (no sugar or syrup). 

Toasted bread and butter (with crusts), a little jam. 
This should be a sufficient breakfast for children up to seven years, 
but if more is found necessary it should not be more than an egg boiled, 
poached, or scrambled, or a little fish. A little fresh fruit may be taken 
after breakfast or during the forenoon. 



200 DIET AT DIFFERENT PERIODS OF LIFE 

During the forenoon, about 1 1 A.M., a drink of milk and a biscuit is 
advisable, or fruit may be taken. 
Z)inmr—M\\k to drink and toast to eat (with crusts) ; and a two-course 

dinner as follows. As the child get older, soup and a more liberal 

supply of vegetables may be added. 



I 


"y 


3 


4 


5 


Soup, well 


Eggs with 


Fish, 


Chicken 


Roast meat, 


thickened, 


a vetjetable, 


Potatoes, 


or rabbit. 


Potatoes, 


Milk pudding. 


Junket. 


Suet pud- 


Stewed fruit. 


Custard. 



ding. 

7V/I— Milk, or milk and cocoa ; bread and butter, biscuits, plain scone, 

jam. 
Supper— 'S\\]k and bread and butter, with a cereal (c.i^. gruel). 

The child should be taught to eat slowly, and to chew the 
food well. In this connection attention may again be directed 
to the importance of such articles of diet as crusts of bread, 
crisp rolls, and the like being given daily, care being taken 
that the child chews the food and does not merely wash it 
down with fluid. The importance of this can hardly be over- 
estimated. The quantity of food depends largely on the 
appetite of the child. The appetite should not be forced. 

If the food is not all taken, it is well to wait until the next 
meal. Loss of appetite is often an indication that the 
digestive organs require a rest. This rule does not apply to 
sick children. 

Diet for a "Gouty" Child. — In families where there is a 
marked gouty tendency the diet of the children should be 
carefully regulated, since it is certain that with care much 
can be done to eradicate the tendency. The special points to 
observe are : — (i) The necessity of bringing up the child very 
largely on a lacto-vegetarian diet ; red meats of all kinds 
should be withheld, or, at most, given very occasionally ; and 
(2) sugar and foodstuffs rich in sugar should be given spar- 
ingly. If the child is carefully dieted along these lines 
during the growing period, he will be much less prone to 
develop gouty symptoms in later life (see also p. 526). 

Diet for Children predisposed to Tuberculosis. — I n 
families where there is a marked tendency to tuberculous 
disease the question of diet is a highly important one, since 
as in the case of gout, much can be done to eradicate the 
tendency. The special feature about the diet in such cases is 



DIET FOR CHILD OF TUBERCULOUS TENDENCY 201 

the necessity of an increased amount of animal protein food, 
and more especially meat or raw-meat juice. The beneficial 
effects of a properly planned dietary in these cases are very 
remarkable. Needless to say, the appropriate diet must be 
continued for many months, or even for a year or two, if the 
best results are to be obtained. The following diet sheet is 
adopted for a child of five or six years of age with a strong 
hereditary tendency to tuberculosis : — 

Diet for a child of five years, of tuberculous stock. — This 
dietary contains a more liberal supply of animal proteins in 
the form of milk, eggs, meat, and soup than an ordinary diet, 
the diet including 2 pints of milk, and meat foods at least 
three times daily. This point should be insisted on and 
continued during the growing period. 

6.30 A.M. — Milk, biscuit and butter. 

Breakfast — Milk, butter, bread, t.%%, fish, or bacon. 

Lunch — Cup of soup (meat stock), or egg flip. 

Dinner — 

Soup, with raw Pounded meat Fish, with Chicken, 

meat, and vegetable, sauce, potato. Bread sauce, 

Curds and cream, Stewed fruit cream, Custard pudding, Vegetable, 
Glass of milk. Glass of milk. Glass of milk. Blancmange 

cream, 
Glass of milk. 
Tea — Milk, bread and butter. 

Supper— Good meat soup, thickened with milk ; or egg, or meat puree, or 
lentil puree. 

Diet for the "Nervous" CMld. — In children, where there 
is a family history of nervous disorders, including mental 
derangements, careful regard must be paid to the diet. It 
must essentially be ot a non-stimulating character; meats 
and meat foods must be withheld, milk, farinaceous foods, 
fruits, and vegetables forming the dietary. The diet should 
be of the lacto- vegetarian character described on p. 526. 



Diet during School Life. 
During this stage of life the rapid growth and incessant 
activity still continue, and to this is now added the brain- 
work. It thus follows that growing boys and girls require a 
large amount of nourishing food. 



203 DIET AT DIFFERENT PERIODS OF LIFE 

If a child has been wisely brought up and has a duly 
proportioned amount of work and play and sleep, his appetite 
is the best guide to the amount of food required. The 
appetite of a child that has been pampered, and has not 
been brought up on plain, wholesome food is not a reliable 
guide to the amount of food required. 

A ver\' important point in the diet of younc^ subjects is 
that of not starving the growing child in any one foodstuff. 
A requisite amount of proteins, fats, and carbohydrates is 
essential. To stint is very often to starve, therefore in 
arranging the diet the meals should be at regular intervals, 
three good meals being given daily. A due amount of con- 
sideration must be given to the whole diet. Abundance of 
milk, a fair supply of fresh meat, and a liberal amount of 
vegetables and fruits, are the essentials in the dietary of this 
period. The question of hours is important. Breakfast 
should be punctual, to allow the child to have time to eat a 
good hearty meal, and have time before starting for school 
to get the bowels attended to. Day scholars are often much 
upset through neglect of this wholesome rule. The meals 
should not be bolted, ample time being taken to effect proper 
mastication of the food The following dietary may be 
recommended : — 

The breakfast should be the heartiest meal of the day. Begin with a 
small plate of porridge and glass of milk; this followed by an egg or fish, 
bread and butter, or toast and butter, and tea or coflfee largely made with 
hot milk ; jam or marmalade and oatcake. 

11.30 A.M. — A dry biscuit and a drink of milk (not hot scones, buns, or 
pastry) ; a little fresh fruit, ej^., apple, orange, or banana. 

Dtfifier, in the middle of the day, should consist of soup, meat, vege- 
tables, and pudding. The soup does not require to be made of rich 
meat stock — lentil, pea, broth, or rice soup are all e.xcellent, giving 
a good foundation for the meat course. 

Mea/. — Roast, boiled meat, and stews are the best, served always with 

potatoes and a vegetable. 
Puddi7i}^ should be varied : suet puddings with fruit or jam, milk 
puddings, or stewed fruit. A glass of milk may be given with 
this meal, and as much bread as the child wishes to take. 
Tea should not be later than 5.30 p.m. — to consist of: 

LJeverage, milk or cocoa (not tea as a rule) ; as much plain bread 
and toast as the child can eat ; plain cake, sometimes an egg, 
or tish, or potted meat, marmalade, jam, or honey. 



I 



DIET IN OLD AGE 203 

Supper. - A drink of milk and a biscuit is all that is necessary. A large 
supper is not advisable. It is better for all rliildrcn to go to bed 
with the stomach comparatively empty. 

In j^rowint^ boy.s and girls with a tuberculous tcncl(Micy, 
special care is necessary in regard to their feeding. A 
practical difficulty sometimes encountered is fastidiousness of 
appetite or want of appetite. The particular point to be 
attended to here is the administration of ample proteins in 
the form of milk, eggs, and meat. The.se cases demand 
ample fresh air, little mental work, and appetising foods (sec 
also p. 42 1 ). 

With regard to alcohol, it cannot be too strongly 
emphasised that alcohol in every form should be avoided by 
the growing boy. The habit of allowing schoolboys beer 
regularly or occasionally is a very pernicious one. 



Diet in Old Age. 

PACK PAOE 

Principles of treatment , . . 203 Points re individual foodstuffs . 205 
A typical dietary .... 204 Liquids and stimulants . . .210 

Diet in Old Age. — Increasing years are associated with 
diminishing activity and a lessening demand for energy. 
Less nourishment must therefore be taken in proportion as 
age advances, or the individual will suffer. If a man of sixty 
continue to take the same abundant breakfast, substantial 
lunch, and heavy dinner, which he indulged in at the age of 
thirty or forty, it will lead to serious trouble. He may 
accumulate fat which will still further diminish his general 
activity, and will lead to serious heart mischief Or he will 
develop various symptoms of gout or rheumatism, which will 
be in turn associated with evidences of kidney weakness and 
marked liability to apoplexy. We must bear in mind that 
the tissues in later life have less power to eliminate, and that 
the excretory activity of organs like the kidneys diminishes 
with increasing years. The amount of food therefore con- 
sumed in old age must be proportionate to the lessened 
demand of the tissue, and to the diminished powers of 
elimination. The total intake of food must be reduced. For 
the same reasons a man of seventy requires less food than a 
man of sixty years of age, and an octogenarian less than a 
man of seventy. It is often difficult to get the relatives of 



204 DIET AT DIFFERENT PERIODS OF LIFE 

an old man to believe that it is inadvisable to "support" 
the weitjht of years by liberal feeding. The attempts Ic 
strengthen the old man by giving extra nourishment in llu 
form of strong becf-tcas, egg flips, and the like, cannot be too 
strongly deprecated. Such liberal feeding merely goes to 
overcharge the blood with impurities, and to accelerate the 
decay of the tissues. Given a fair constitution, the use of a 
physiological diet in old age promotes a comfortable life, and 
is attended by a freedom from serious trouble which is of the 
greatest advantage both to the individual and to his relatives. 
It will be convenient to give the guiding rules for the dietetic 
management of a person of seventy years of age. Care has 
to be taken in the following directions : — 

i. To restrict the total amount of food. 
ii. To make the diet simple and nutritious, avoiding 

excess of animal food, 
iii. To pay special attention to the form of administration 

of carbohydrates ; old people are specially prone to 

flatulence. 

Diet. — The food should be given at short intervals, say 
five to six times in twenty-four hours ; the diet should be 
simple ; by this it is to be understood that not only is the 
quantity of food taken to be gradually diminished in propor- 
tion to decreased activity of body and mind, but that not 
more than two or three different forms of food should be 
served at any one meal. There is no objection to variety in 
the choice of foods. All food must be in a form admitting of 
easy mastication. 

Any system of diet must be varied according to the 
circumstances and personal idiosyncrasies of the individual, 
but the following arrangement of meals can be recom- 
mended. If the patient is markedly obese, the diet mu.st 
be restricted and modified along the lines laid down for 
Obesity on p. 500. 

6 A.M.— Cup of tea freshly made ; nothing to be eaten with it. 

Breakfast: 8.30 A,M. — A small cup of tea or coffee ; breadstuff should 
not be hot rolls, or indigestible new bread ; eggs or fish cooked 
in various well-known ways. 



DIET IN OLD AGE 205 

Lunch: \ or 1.30 P.M. — Fish and a farinaceous puddiny ; or, fish and 
biscuits and cheese. It is, in most cases, better to reserve the meat 
or fowl to the evening meal. 

4 P.M. — A cup of freshly made tea. 

Dinner : 7 P.M. — Should generally commence with a little soup, a vege- 
table puree, or a good fish soup {vide infra). 
Fowl or game, red meat only occasionally, and one dish of vegetable. 
Pudding of a light, farinaceous variety, or stewed fruit. 

10 P.M. — A cup of good consomme, or beef-tea or chicken tea, with a 
thin slice of toasted bread, is a very good thing lor an old person just 
as they get into bed. 

Milk and cream. — Cream is a capital substitute for other 
forms of fatty food, and should be taken with tea and 
pudding. 

Milk, if it can be digested, should always form a part of the 
dietary of the aged ; the tendency should be to increase the 
amount of milk used as the vegetables and fruits are 
diminished. Milk is, of course, used in the cooking of gruels 
and farinaceous foods. As a beverage, milk can be taken 
with cocoa or coffee, or warmed and taken with a little saline 
or effervescing water. 

Bread. — White or brown bread should always be toasted, 
and some forms of bread are found to be more digestible than 
others, e.g. a "pan loaf" The toast should be thoroughly 
toasted through, and quite brittle ; two to three slices crisply 
toasted should be sufficient. Dry biscuits and rusks have 
also special value in the diet of the aged (see also p. 93). 

Butter. — Fresh butter is the most wholesome of all fat 
foods ; I ounce being taken in some form in the twenty- 
four hours. 

Soups. — The light forms of consomme, vegetable purees, 
and fish soup are all appreciated when taken in small 
quantity. Rich animal purees, hare soup, kidney soup, ox-tail 
and turtle, all throw too much strain on the digestive glands, 
and should be avoided. (Sec also Soups for the Gouty, p. 448.) 

Chicken, veal, and bccf-teas may all be used for the 
light supper meal at night. A few additional recipes may be 
given for useful soups. These are supplementary to those 
recommended under the section on Convalescent Diet (p. 302), 
which have also special value in the dietary of the aged. 






206 DIET AT DIFFERENT PERIODS OF LIFE 

Brunoise Soup. 

1 carrot, young. i ounce butter. 
\ turnip, young. I \>\\\\. water. 

2 leaves celery. i pint milk. 
Flower of small cauliflower. i teaspoonful salt. 
I onion. Pepper. 

2 ounces of stale bread, toasted. 
Stew the ingredients, except the toast, together for one hour, then 
break the toast in pieces, add it to the rest, and stew all together for 
another hour. Pass all through the sieve, and return to the stewpan to 
get hot 

Lentil Soup. 

Wash the lentils thoroughly in cold water, and add the lentils to 
water in the proportion of \ lb. lentils to a gallon of water or of second 
stock. Add pepper, salt, onion, turnips, carrot, and celery. Boil all for 
three or four hours. Pass through fine wire sieve or colander, put on a 
few minutes to heat, and send to table with toast cut in dice. A little 
curry powder may be added if desired. 

This soup is somewhat flatulent to those of weak digestion, but if 
made with Benger's pancreatised lentil flour and without the additional 
vegetables, it will be found very acceptable to the most delicate stomach. 

Pea soup served with dried mint, and haricot bean soup, can be made 
in the same way. 

Potato Soup. 

I lb. potatoes. i ounce butter. 

I leek. I pint milk. 

I onion. i pint water. 

Stew the potatoes, put them with leek, onion, and butter into a pint 
of boiling water in a stewpan. Boil until the vegetables are soft, then 
pass them through a sieve, adding a pint of hot milk. Put them all 
into the stewpan until it boils, then serve. Serve with dice of fried 
bread. 

Rice and Tomato Soup. 

I pint of mutton, veal, or chicken broth. 3 fresh tomatoes. 

I dessertspoonful Patna rice. A little salt. 

Put the broth into a clean lined saucepan, with the rice well washed, 
and the tomatoes wiped and cut in slices. Boil slowly for half an hour, 
stirring occasionally. Then rub through a hair or fine wire sieve. Heat 
again, season to taste, and it is ready for serving. 

Pish. — Fi.sh arc allowable for old people. The oily fi.shes 
— such as salmon, herring, mackerel — are the only ones 
that are apt to disagree with digestion, unless taken in small 
quantities. 



DISHES FOR THE AGED 207 

In addition to the usual methods of boiling-, frying, and 
baking fish already described, a variety of dishes may be 
made from this class of food that are found to be appetising 
as well as quite satisfying. 

Boiled Cod or Boiled Haddock Roes. 

Wash the roe well ; then weigh it and tie it up in a piece of muslin 
or a pudding cloth. Put it into a saucepan or fish kettle, with enough 
boiling water to cover it. Add i teaspoonful of vinegar and \, teaspoon- 
ful of salt to each quart of water. Boil slowly, allowing twenty minutes 
to the pound, or until the roe feels quite firm to the touch. Lift out, 
drain well, and serve as much as will be required at one time. It can be 
served with plain cold butter or white sauce. 

Grilled and Fried Roe. 

The roe must be boiled first. When it is cold cut into slices half an 
inch thick with a sharp knife. 

To grill, grease the grill or gridiron with a little butter, and make it 
quite hot. Lay the slices of roe on it, and broil in front of a clear fire 
for five or seven minutes. Serve this very hot. 

To fry, melt i ounce butter in a frying-pan when smoking hot ; put 
in the pieces ot roe. Fry them a nice brown colour on both sides. 
When ready, lift out and drain on a piece of double paper. Serve 
very hot. 

Fish Baked in Batter, 
J lb. uncooked fish, haddock, or sole, i egg. 
I ounce flour. h ounce butter. 

\ gill milk. Pepper, salt, and lemon juice. 

First make the batter ; rub the flour through a wire sieve, make 
it free from lumps, and put it into a basin. Beat up the egg with a fork 
and add it to the flour ; beat with a wooden spoon until quite smooth 
and free from lumps. Then add the milk and beat for a few minutes 
longer. The more the batter is beaten the lighter it will be. 

Have the fish free from skin and bone, and cut into small pieces. 
Lay these at the foot of a small greased pie-dish, and season with pepper, 
salt, and a squeeze of lemon juice. Pour the butter over, and put the rest 
of the butter in small pieces on the top. Allow this to stand for a few 
minutes before cooking ; this gives time for the flour in the batter to 
swell, and it will be lighter when baked. Bake in a quick oven from 
twelve to fifteen minutes until well risen and nicely browned. Serve at 
once, as the batter quickly lalls. 

Fried Haddock and Tomatoes. 
I dried haddock. I small onion. 

■1 tomatoes. i ounce butler. 

Penner, salt, and parsley. 
Soak the fish for three hours ; then skin it. Take out all the boneb, 



208 DIET AT DIFFERENT PERIODS OF LIFE 

and break up the fish into flakes Slice the onion and tomatoes ; chop 
up the parsley ; sprinkle with pepper and salt, and cook all in the butter 
until quite soft ; then add the fish, and cook for ten minutes longer. 
Dish up in a border of boiled rice or mashed potatoes. 

Fish SoujgHd. 

\ uncooked fish. \ gill fish stock or milk. 

\ ounce butter, 2 eggs. 

A ounce flour. Pepper, salt, and lemon juice. 

First make a panada with the butter, flour, and fish. This is done by 
melting the butter in a small saucepan, adding the flour, and mixing 
until it is smooth with a wooden spoon. Then pour on the milk or fish 
stock, and stir until the mixture is thick and free from lumps, and leaves 
the sides of the pan quite clean. 

Scrape the fish down finely with a knife. Put the panada into a 
mortar with the fish, seasoning, and yolks of eggs. Pound well together 
and rub through a sieve. Beat up the whites of eggs to a stiff froth, and 
stir lightly into the fish mixture with an iron spoon. Pour into a greased 
basin, which should be only half full. Cover with a greased paper. 
Steam for twenty minutes. When firm, lift it out and turn out on a hot 
plate. 

CufTied Fish. 
A very nice way of having fish is to curry it and serve it with a border 
of rice. The following ingredients should be put into the curry : — 

1 lb. fish. I apple, or stick of rhubarb. 

2 ounces fat or butter. i small onion. 

I tablespoonful flour. i tablespoonful curry powder. 

I teaspoonful lemon juice or vinegar. Salt and pepper. 

Scalloped Fish. 
\ lb. cold cooked fish. Breadcrumbs. 

I ounce butter. Pepper and salt. 

Fish stock or milk 
Butter a scallop shell of firejjroof china ; sprinkle on it a layer of 
breadcrumbs ; then a layer of fish broken up into pieces ; some pepper, 
salt, and piece of butter. Cover this with more breadcrumbs and bits of 
butter, and pour on a few drops of fish liquor or milk. Bake ten minutes. 

Kedgeree. 
\ lb. cold fish or dried haddock. i ounce butter. 

\ lb. boiled rice. i egg. 

Cayenne pepper and salt. 
Wash and boil the rice ; boil the G.g^ very hard ; break the fish into 
pieces and carefully remove all the bones ; take the egg, break off the 
shell, and cut the whites into small square pieces. When the boiled rice 
is dry moll the butter in a stewpan, add the rice, then the fish, chopped 
white of egg, cayenne pepper and salt. Mix them well together and 
serve on a hot dish, and sprinkle the yolk of egg over it. 



DISHES FOR THE AGED 209 

Sf earned Sole or Whiting. 

Skin and fillet the fish ; wash and dry the fillets, and put in a jam-pot 
which is placed in a saucepan half-full of boiling water. Cover tightly, 
and let it boil for ten minutes. Mix i ounce of butter with i ounce of 
flour in saucepan over the fire. Add i gill of milk and liquor from the 
fish, and cook for ten minutes, stirring well. Pour this sauce over the 
fillets, and garnish with slice of lemon. 

Meat Dishes. — Chicken and tongue are useful in the 
dietary of the aged. The receipts in the Convalescent section 
(pp. 305 ct scq.) may be supplemented by the following : — 

Chicken Puree. 

Remove all the skin and bones from a part of roast chicken. Chop 
the meat and pound it in a mortar, and rub through a sieve. Take the 
bones of the chicken, boil for several hours with onion, carrot, two leaves 
of celery, and enough water to cover them. Strain through a sieve, and 
remove all the fat. Add the pounded meat, and simmer until it is sufifi- 
ciently thick. Add \ gill of cream, a few drops of lemon juice, and a 
small lump of sugar. 

Creine de Volaille. 

Melt \ ounce of butter and \ ounce of flour in a saucepan, and add 
\ gill of white stock. Take the flesh of half a chicken, chop, pound it, 
and rub it through a sieve. When the sauce is cool, add one ^^^^ \ pint 
of cream, and mix well together. Put into buttered mould ; steam for 
quarter of an hour. 

Tongue. 

In choosing a tongue, find out how long it has been pickled or 
smoked. Select one with smooth skin, which denotes it being young and 
tender. If a dried one and rather hard, soak it at least for twelve hours 
previous to cooking it ; if, however, the tongue is fresh from the pickle, 
two or three hours will be sufficient for it to remain to soak. Wash the 
tongue well, and trim it neatly at the root. Put the tongue into a stew- 
pan with plenty of cold water and a bunch of savoury herbs, and a few 
pieces of vegetable for flavouring ; let it gradually come to the boil, skim 
well, and simmer very gently until tender. A large smoked tongue will 
take four to four and a half hours, a small unsmoked one would take 
about two to two and a half hours. When the tongue is tender, take it 
up, plunge it into cold water, and then skin it carefully. If to be eaten 
hot, cover the tongue with greased paper after skinning, and heat in the 
oven for a few minutes. Then glaze it or cover with browned bread- 
crumbs. Garnish with greens and tufts of cauliflower, and serve good 
brown sauce in a sauce-boat. If to be eaten cold, after stewing turn it 
into shape on a board by fastening it down at root and tip with fine 
skewers, and leave it until cold Glaze it or not as preferred. Put a frill 
round the :oot, garnish with paisley, a id serve. 

O 



210 niKr AT DIFKEUENT PERIODS OK LIFE 

Vegetables and Fruits. — Old people arc very apt to give 
up vcLjctablcs, owing to their flatulent properties. This 
practice is not a good one, for if persisted in, some minor 
s)-mptoms of scurvy not infrequently develop. Everything 
depends on the form in which the vegetables are administered, 
and on the amount and nature of the other ingredients of the 
meal. 

A small quantity of potato should be taken every day if 
possible, and also a certain amount of well-cooked vegetables. 
Spinach, stewed lettuce, stewed or baked tomatoes, vegetable 
marrow, cucumber, boiled or stewed celery, seakale, aspar- 
agus, leeks, the flower of cauliflower, large Spajiish onions, 
and French beans are all suitable. Uncooked vegetables as 
partaken of in salads are not very satisfactory, since they are 
apt to cause fermentation. The same holds good for cabbage, 
greens, brussels sprouts, turnips, parsnips, and old carrots. 
For methods of preparation of the vegetables, see p. 122. 

Fruit taken in small quantity is also permissible. It is 
best to take it cooked, either stewed or baked, and eaten 
with cream. This gets over the difficulty of eating a crisp 
apple when the teeth are imperfect. 

In stewing fruit, if cane sugar is added by the cook the 
resultant product is very apt to turn acid. It is therefore 
better to neutralise the acidity with an alkali rather than to 
attempt to mask the flavour with sugar. Thus, to each pound 
of fruit add as much bicarbonate of soda as will lie on a 
shilling. The bitterness of the fruit will be gone, and the 
natural flavour of the fruit will become apparent, which is 
usually quite sweet enough. If this simple method be 
adopted, many old people will find they can enjoy stewed 
fruit without the annoyance of acidity or heartburn afterwards. 

If there is a desire for sweetness, saccharin can take the 
place of sugar. The usual rule, however, will be found that 
the desire for sweetness disappears, and that food with a relish 
has to be provided instead. 

Liquids. — Very weak tea is generally best at breakfast, 
with a good proportion of milk and cream. This should be 
drunk at the conclusion of the meal. At lunch a cup of 
coffee and milk, or cocoa and milk may be taken, or a glass 
of water may be taken after the meal is finished. 



I 



DIET DURING PREGNANCY 211 

Stimulants in Old Age. — The question of the advisabihty 
or not of givinc^ stiinuhuits to old people depends largely on 
the previous habits of each individual. In the case of these 
who have not been accustomed to liquor in any form, no 
advantage is to be gained by recommending it — they are 
better without it. For those who have been accustomed to 
indulge in a little wine or spirits, a small amount of alcohol 
may be advisable daily. This should be given with the chief 
meal of the day. A tablespoonful of whisky in a little water 
or table-water is probably the best form in which the stimulant 
may be administered. There is no reason why a glass of 
sound wine of any variety should not occasionally be taken 
in place of the whisky, but it is not advisable to take wine 
daily — this almost inevitably leads to raaaifestations of 
" rheumatism " or deranged digestion. 



Diet during Pregnancy. 

PAGE PAGE 

General directions . . . 2II Diet during the puerperium . . 213 
Diet udajiieJ to modify the size of Diet during abnormal pregnancy . 214 

the child 212 

Diet during Pregnancy. — A good mixed dietary is the 
one best adapted for the normal pregnant woman. If the 
bowels are kept regular, and if the patient take the requisite 
amount of fresh air and exercise, no special dietary pre- 
cautions are called for. Too much importance cannot be 
laid on the necessity of preventing constipation, and on the 
value of fresh air and exercise for the parturient woman. In 
many pregnant women, however, it is advisable to modify the 
diet. The necessity for this is shown by the presence of 
certain symptoms or physical signs in the patient which 
indicate the existence of a special strain on the kidneys and 
other organs of excretion. Thus, morning sickness in an 
exaggerated degree, albuminuria, and dropsy are serious 
symptoms in pregnancy, and their presence calls for very 
special attention being directed to the diet. In these circum- 
stances the lightest possible diet, one that throws the least 
strain on the kidneys and other glands, must be given. Such 
a regime is a milk diet. In severe cases it may be necessary 



1 



212 DIET AT DIFFERENT PERIODS OF LIFE 

to have recourse to an exclusive milk rosjjimc ; in less severe 
cases, a diet of milk, bread, farinaceous foods and fruits may 
suffice, while in the milder forms of derani^emcnt all that is 
necessary is that the patient should avoid red meats and 
richer dishes of all kinds, and live on the lacto-vcgctarian diet 
described on p. 526. The quantity of nourishment must not 
exceed what is usually required by a healthy woman ; the 
meals should be taken at regular intervals, and all indigestible 
articles of food and any that are known to disagree with the 
patient should be avoided. The morning sickness and 
pyrosis of pregnant woman are not markedly affected by 
diet, small simple meals at frequent iiltervals are the best. 

In the later months it is necessary to take food in smaller 
quantities,more frequently, since over-distension of the stomach 
causes discomfort, owing to the size and position of the uterus. 
"Longings" for particular foods, so far as they are kept 
within reasonable bounds, can be gratified ; but there is no 
evidence that the refusal to satisfy unreasonable caprices has 
any effect on the physical or mental development of the child. 

Pregnancy may be associated with glycosuria, diabetes, 
heart disease, tuberculosis, obesity, and other disorders. 
These must be treated along the lines laid down in these 
sections. In glycosuria and diabetes, special restrictions are 
called for in the sugars and starchy foods ; in heart disease, 
on account of the dangers associated with over-distension of 
the stomach from flatulence or food, very special care is 
necessary in regard to the forms in which starchy foods are 
taken, and also to the amount and nature of the fluid taken 
with meals. In tuberculosis a special supply of protein is 
called for, but the extra strain thrown on the kidneys by a 
diet rich in protein food must be kept in view. Pregnancy 
complicated by obesity should be treated by gentle exercises, 
massage over the abdomen, and a careful restriction of the 
carbohydr^ftes and fluids in the dietary. Further details on 
these points will be found in the sections dealin;; with these 
diseases. 

Diet adopted to modify the Size of the Child, — The 
trend of modern thought, experience, and to a certain extent 
scientific research, tend to show that diet to a certain extent 
can modify the maternal and foetal tissues in such a way a.3 to 



DIET IN PREGNANCY 213 

make the labour more easy, and to increase the probabihty of 
a viable child being born. Tlus is of special importance in 
the case of women who have a small pelvis, and who have in 
consequence of the dangers associated with this, given birth 
to one or more still-born children. 

According to Prochownick, Paton, and other investigators, 
a diet deficient in carbohydrates and fluids will result in a 
small child, which is otherwise perfectly developed. Pro- 
chownick claims that with a conjugate diameter of 8 cm. a 
difficult labour can be obviated, and even induction of pre- 
mature labour can be rendered unnecessary. A special diet 
should be begun three months before labour is expected, 
and should be rigidly followed out, more particularly for the 
last two months. The diet he recommends is as follows : — 

Breakfast — 

Small cup of coffee, 3 ounces. 
Breadstuff, i ounce, with a little butter. 

Dinner — 

Meat, eggs, or fish, with a little sauce. 
Green vegetables, prepared with cream. 
Salad cheese. 

Supper, much as Dinner — i to 1^ ounces of bread with butter. 

(Water, soups, potatoes, desserts, sugar, and beer are strictly withheld.) 

Thirst is complained of during the earlier part oi this 
treatment, but passes off. The large amount of animal food 
was objected to by some patients. All the confinements 
reported were much easier than on former occasions, even 
when the child was large and fat. All the children were 
born alive. The children were usually lean at birth, with the 
bones of the head unusually mobile ; they were apparently 
mature in every way, and in the majority of cases the child 
gained normally after birth, and the diet had apparently 
exercised no injurious effect whatever on the child, or on the 
mother during pregnancy or the lactation period. On such a 
diet it is essential that the condition of the urine should be 
carefully observed, the amount of urea and the presence or 
absence of albumin in the urine being specially noted. Unlike 
what might have been expected, it was found that this diet 
did not apparently favour the onset of eclampsia. 

Diet dviring the Puerperium. — .After labour the exhaustion 



214 DIET AT DITTRRKNT PERIODS OF LIFE 

of the patient may be relieved b\' the administration of a cup 
of bccf-tea or warm milU, and for the first twenty-four hours 
the diet should be restricted to milk and beef-tea. During 
the second day it is advisable to keep mainly to fluid food, 
with a little bread and butter. After a thorough clearing out 
of the bowels has been effected, there is no reason why we 
should not begin a light convalescent diet, including plenty 
milk. The amount of milk and milk foods can be overdone; 
the addition of one good meat meal a day (rump-steak, grilled 
chop, or underdone roast beef) is advantageous for the milk 
supply, probably on account of its stimulating effect on the 
thyroid gland (sec Appendix). No benefit is obtained either 
to the mother or infant by attempting to stuff the patient. 

Diet during Abnormal Pregnancy. — The diet for cases 
complicated by heart disease, glycosuria, diabetes, and tuber- 
culosis has already been referred to. The pernicious vomiting 
of pregnancy is a condition which may be very intractable. 
In bad cases it is essential to keep the patient at complete 
rest, and administer food in little more than teaspoonful 
doses at a time. Milk and beef-tea preparations strengthened 
by the addition of plasmon, sanatogen, or other concentrated 
foodstuffs are the mainstay in treatment. In exceptional 
cases nothing arrests the vomiting, and it becomes necessary 
to terminate the pregnancy by inducing labour. Pronounced 
salivation is another condition which is occasionally a trouble- 
some feature in pregnancy. There is no evidence that diet 
plays any special role in connection with this ; a lacto- 
vegetarian diet is probably the best. The dietetic treatment 
of dwrea in pregnancy is on the same lines as for chorea in 
the non-pregnant individual. Any metital disorders develop- 
ing during pregnancy should be treated by a meat-free diet, 
the food consisting of milk, farinaceous foods, and fruits. 

Special attention must be paid to the albnviiuuria of 
pregnancy. This is frequently only discovered by the practi- 
tioner in the course of his examination of the water; in its 
earlier stages the patient may show no .symptoms, but later 
there is great liability to eclampsia. The diet for this 
condition is the milk diet of acute nephritis (p. 410). 



Under-feedinfj 


tauk 
. 215 


Illustrative cheap, 


nutritious 


dietaries 


. 216 



CHAPTER XTI 

UNDER-FEEDING AND OVER-FEEDING 

PAOB 

Over-feeding and over-drinking . 217 

Seasonal over-indulgence . .218 

General rules for prescribing a 

dietary . . . . 219 

Under-feeding. — The effects of under-feeding may reveal 
themselves as a result of, on the one hand, an insufficient diet, 
and, on the other, an ill-balanced one. The latter is the more 
common cause, as owing to the lack of knowledge among people 
of the poorer classes as to the principles and practice of sound 
feeding, children are often fed on a relatively expensive and 
innutritious or actually injurious dietary. For these patients 
some reference may be here made to various cheap and good 
sources of food supply. The most useful foods are the follow- 
ing : oatmeal, meat of the cheaper varieties, herrings, skimmed 
milk, cheese of the cheaper sorts, lentils, peas, and margarine. 
Of these, oatmeal is the most useful, especially during the 
growing period. 

Meat may be quite wholesome and nutritious and yet of 
an inferior quality. The flesh of cows is commonly sold at 
a low price. For strong soups and stews there is no advan- 
tage in choosing the best quality of meats. Foreign meats 
are now imported in large amount, and it is by no 
means easy to tell the difference between home - fed and 
foreign mutton. The latter is considerably cheaper than the 
former. The cheap parts of beef are " thick flank," which is 
coarse in fibre, contains no bone and little fat, and is sold at a 
reasonable price, and is a good, economical piece for pies, 
puddings, and stewing. The " thin flank " is also cheap, but 
is rather fatty. It is best salted and pickled, and eaten cold. 
" Leg of meat " is also low in price, and is good for slow 
stewing and for soupmakin^^ "Brisket" is also good for 

215 



216 UNDER-FEEDING AND OVRR-FERDING 

stcwiiii;, and is cheap. Ox check is a cheap ami nutritious 
food. Allowance must always be made for the amount of 
bone in the meat purchased. Thus, ribs of beef are cheaper 
than beefsteak, but there are 2 to 3 oz. of bone in the pound. 
Rump-steak, beefsteak, and loin are all solid, without any 
bone. One shilling will purchase 2 lbs. of loin, i lb. of beef- 
steak, or 12 oz. rump-steak. Of mutton, the leg is the most 
economical joint ; though higher in price than shoulder, it 
contains less bone and fat, and cuts up better. Sheep's head 
makes excellent broth, and also supplies a fair amount of good 
meat. Haggis made from " pluck " is one of the cheapest 
forms of nourishment. Pig yields a cheap food in the form of 
pig's " cheek " and pig's " trotters " ; other parts are rather 
expensive. Sheep's trotters and pig's trotters yield a 
gelatine of considerable value as a food, because of its 
protein-sparing properties. 

Of fish, herring — e.g., kippers, bloaters, red herrings — are 
the cheapest fish. Sprats, eels, mackerel, pilchards, ling, and 
John Dory are other varieties of cheap nourishing foods. 

Of vegetables, pulses are the most economical and 
nourishing. Peas, beans, and lentils are to be commended. 
Of fruits, mention may be made of rhubarb, apples, oranges, 
and bananas. An intelligent housewife selects her vegetables 
and fruits from those which are at the time plentiful and cheap. 

Illustrative Cheap Dietaries. 
Breakfast — Cereal — Porridge and skimmed milk. 
Dinner — To be selected from the following : — 
Soup made from — 

(i) Peas, beans, or lentils. 

(2) Sheep's head, flavoured with rice or barley and vegetables, 

turnip, or cabbage. 

(3) Fish soup made from cod's head or "trimmings." 
Meat courses selected from — 

(a) Liver, tripe, neck of foreign mutton, mince (made up with 

breadcrumbs and potatoes). 
{V) Fish, either haddock fried in batter, herrings with 
potatoes, ling or John Dory fried in batter or made intc 
fish potato pie. 
Bread with skimmed milk, margarine or dripping toast, and cheap 
skimmed milk varieties of cheese. 
Supper^ selected from — 

Bread and butter, cocoa, cheese as above, fried potatoes, or por- 
ridge and skimmed milk. 



OVER-FEEDING 217 

Such articles of diet as <^ggs, sardines, and pastry foods, 
which are largely bought b)' the working-classes, cannot be 
regarded as cheap good foods. 

Frojn an ill-balanced diet. — This is a common cause of 
under-feeding. As e.xamples of diseased conditions arising 
from this cause, we find anaemia induced by a diet consisting 
largely of tea and bread, to the exclusion of good animal 
foods ; scurvy from a dietary deficient in fresh fruit or 
vegetables ; and rickets from deficiency of fat, proteins, 
and salts, with excess of carbohydrates. Under-feeding 
lowers the resistance of the tissues to disease generally. 
Mote particularly, a deficiency of animal protein food — 
meat, eggs, and pure milk — is a predisposing cause to 
tuberculosis. 

Over-feeding and Over-drinking. 

Insufficient attention is sometimes paid to the effects 
of over-drinking in forming dietaries. Quite apart from the 
abuse of alcohol in the form of whisky, beer, and the like, 
ill-health not infrequently results from excessive tea or coffee 
drinking, more especially the former. It is no uncommon 
thing to find patients who drink tea in large quantity, three, 
four, or five times daily, the tea not being freshly prepared, 
which increases its liability to cause ill-health in the form of 
palpitations, indigestion, anciemia, insomnia, and general 
weakness. Inpatients with atony or dilatation of the stomach 
special precautions have to be taken not to over-distend that 
organ by excess of fluid. 

The injurious effects of over-eating are of far-reaching 
importance. It has been said that more harm results from 
over-eating than by over-drinking. Be that as it may, there 
is no question that over-indulgence of the appetite is the 
most important factor in the development of many serious 
diseases. Occasionally the excessive ingestion of protein 
food induces a temporary albuminuria; similarly, glycosuria, 
pentosuria, and obesity arises from over-indulgence in 
sugary and starchy foods. Apart from these conditions, 
however, there is no question that prolonged over- eating 
tends to promote serious disease of the cardiac, vascular, 
and renal systems, and is also an important factor in 



218 lINDER-FEKniNG AND OVRR-FERDING 

the development of the common (Hscascs of metabr)H.'^m — 
gout .ind rheumatism. It cannot be too strongly emphasised 
that very many of the cases ordinarily met with of heart 
disease, kidney disease, cerebral h.-emorrhage, and the like, 
are a direct outcome of long-continued errors in feeding. 
These points are more fully dealt with in the sections dealing 
with these various disorders. Excess of proteins, and more 
especially animal proteins, is, generally speaking, a more 
serious defect than excess of carbohydrates and fat. This 
is due to the fact previously pointed out, that proteins are 
incompletely oxidised, and any increase in the products of 
imperfect metabolism of proteins tends to the accumulation 
of the waste products in the blood, and these act as poisons, 
acting injuriously in the different directions already indicated. 
In this connection we must bear in mind that an excess of 
carbohydrates and of fats may produce similar results through 
shielding the proteins from complete oxidation. 

There is no end to the forms in which over-eating is 
met with in everyday practice. The appropriate dietary 
for any given case can only be framed after full know- 
ledge of the feeding habits of each individual. In this 
connection it is wise not to lay too much stress on what the 
patient says. Few will admit that they habitually over-eat, 
and the most that many gourmands will admit is that they 
" enjoy their food." The patient's statements have therefore 
to be qualified by the impression gained by the practitioner 
from the general appearance and history of the patient. The 
writer finds it useful to get the patient to give in writing a 
full statement of his or her ordinary diet for one or two days. 

A word should be said about seasonal over-indulgence. 
To err is human, and to err occasionally in feeding is 
not only human, but is for the time being exceedingly 
pleasant. In the spring-time the advent of vegetables leads 
to a slight over-indulgence, with resulting development of 
indigestion, or, as in the case of rhubarb, to calculus forma- 
tion. In early summer the too frequent indulgence in the 
luscious sugar-coated strawberry induces lumbago, neuritis, 
pruritus, and other so-called gouty manifestations. Similarly, 
in the autumn, ill-health may arise from too freely partaking 
of pears, plums, and other autumn fruits. 



PRESCRIBING A DIETARY 219 

It may be useful to ^^ive a few freneral rules that should 
be kept in mind when framing a dietary. 

General Rules to be kept in mind Tvlien framing a 
Dietary in Disease. 

{a) Directions should not be of a general nature ; all direc- 
tions should be made specific, and in writing. 

(d) The relation of the meals to rest, exercise, and work 
should be clearly defined. 

(c) The quality and quantity of fluid ingested may be as 

important a consideration as the solid constituents of 
food. 

(d) Keep in mind that in many instances the patient is 

simply giving free play to his appetite, and all that 
is necessary is to get him to stop over-eating. This 
may require a little tact, as in (e). 

(e) Begin by cutting off some of the " extras" in the dietary. 

Tell the patient that these are bad for him. These 
may not in themselves be injurious,- but as a part of 
the whole they are throwing an unnecessary strain on 
the digestive functions. 

(/) The patient's previous experience of the food recom- 
mended should be investigated. Regard must be 
paid to any idiosyncrasy, if such really exist. 

(^^) All meals should be taken slowly, special attention being 
directed to efficient mastication of the food. 

(//) It may be advisable to make any radical change in diet 
slozvly ; a return to a normal diet should certainly be 
made gradually. 

{i) If you decide to put the patient on a special system of 
diet, and more especially a restricted diet, and a 
satisfactory result is not obtained within two or three 
weeks, the diet is unsuitable and should be changed. 

(y') Keep in mind the season of the year with its associated 
proclivity to over-indulgence in certain articles of 
diet, especially fruits. 

{k) The application of the pancreatic reaction in the urine is 
of value in indicating whether the sugars and starches 
should be specially restricted (p. zn\ 



CHAPTER Xiri 

GENERAL SERVING OF FOOD FOR INVALIDS — RECTAL 
FEEDING 

The manner in which the food is served is of great practical 
importance. A meal served in a careless, slovenly manner 
may disgust the patient and seriously retard convalescence. 

Everything should be served as daintily as possible, the 
dishes, glasses, and traycloth being thoroughly clean. To 
most invalids the meals are the events of the day, and too 
much care cannot be exercised to ensure that all the details 
should be done in as attractive a way as possible. Patients 
should not, as a rule, be consulted as to their meals, but there 
should be an endeavour to ascertain beforehand what the 
patient likes. Any particular fancy as to sweetness or other- 
wise should be remembered. Untouched food should never 
be left in an invalid's room, but should be put aside in a cool 
place ; and no food should be cooked or prepared in the 
invalid's presence if it can be done elsewhere. Food should 
never be tasted in presence of the patient, and it should not 
be cooled by being blown upon, as this naturally disgusts the 
patient. 

In the case of helpless patients who cannot feed them- 
selves, nourishment may be given by the spoon or the feeding- 
cup. When the patient is very helpless, a useful device is to 
pull out the cheek, by inserting the finger between the gum 
and the cheek, and thus introduce the fluid nourishment 
slowly at one side. A teaspoon is the most convenient size 
of spoon for child-feeding, and a dessertspoon for the adult 
As to drinking-cups, the shape made with three handles is 
very convenient for the patient to use when feeding himself; 

220 



RECTAL FEEDING 221 

but when the ?icrvicc,s of a nurse are required, a small boat- 
shaped feeding-cup with a curved spout, and about 3 inches 
of rubber tubing attached, is the most useful. In the case of 
the latter, great care must be taken to maintain thorough 
cleanliness of the apparatus in use. 

In feeding with a spoon or feeding-cup, it is certainly- 
easier for the patient to have the head raised, if this is 
permissible ; the nurse in these cases passes the left arm 
under the pillow on which the patient is lying, and gently 
raises the head. 



Rectal Feeding. 

lAOB PAGE 

Nutritive value . . • . 221 Recipes 224 

Details of management . . . 221 Forced feeding (Gavage) . . 224 
Foodstuffs used . . . .222 

Artificial feeding — rectal alimentation. — Rectal feeding 
is a method of alimentation of great value in the treatment 
of some diseases. It is indicated in many disorders of the 
stomach or other part of the upper alimentary tract, such as 
gastric ulcer, oesophageal and gastric cancer, and acute 
gastritis resulting from the action of corrosive and other 
poisons. It is also useful in cases of prolonged reflex vomit- 
ing, such as occurs in some cases of pregnancy, and in other 
conditions in which the power of absorbing food is temporarily 
suspended, as in cases of severe cerebral haemorrhage and the 
like. A vast amount of investigation has been carried out on 
the subject of the amount of proteins, fats, and carbohydrates 
that are absorbed from the large bowel, when food is intro- 
duced into the system in this way. The results obtained 
from these investigations are somewhat conflicting, and are 
not always in accord with the results of clinical experience. 
This much is certain : sufficient nourishment can be absorbed 
from rectal alimentation to maintain life and fair nutrition 
even for some weeks ; and as in the great majority of cases it 
is not necessary to have recourse to this system of feeding for 
more than eight or ten days at the outset, it is certain that 
rectal alimentation, when carefully carried out, is of very great 
value in treatment. 

Details of inanageuient. — Great care is necessary with 



222 GENERAL SERVING OF FOOD FOR INVALIDS 

resjard to certain details in the manaG^ement. In the first 
place, it is essential to clear out the bowel as a preliminary 
measure. All mucus and fa;ccs must be removed by an 
injection of soap and water, preferably followed by an enema 
of plain water. In the next place, the nutrient enemata must 
be carefully rec^ulated, both in number and amount, so as to 
diminish the irritation in the bowel and avoid excessive 
peristalsis. The nutrient enema should be preferably given 
by a long flexible tube, which is inserted, in the case of adults, 
8 or 10 inches into the bowel. By this method the injection 
is less likely to be rejected, and the food constituents are 
absorbed into the inferior mesenteric vein, from whence they 
pass to the liver via the portal vein, in place of passing direct 
into the inferior vena cava, as they do when brought into 
contact with the lowest part of the rectum only. Not more 
than 4 to 6 ounces should be given at a time, the patient 
being instructed not to strain during administration. The 
patient should lie on his left side with his hips raised. Care 
must be taken not to inject air. The temperature of the food 
is important, it should range from 95 to 100° F. If too hot or 
too cold, absorption is interfered with, and undue peristalsis 
may be induced. As a general rule, the frequency of 
administration should not exceed one every six hours. 
The bowel should be thoroughly cleansed out once daily, 
the tube being connected with a funnel to a height of 
2 to 3 feet. The addition of ten to twenty drops of tinc- 
ture of opium to the nutrient enema once a day, or every 
second day, is of value in diminishing the irritation in 
the bowel. 

Foodstuffs employed. — All the various classes of food may 
be employed in rectal feeding. Proteins are supplied in 
the form of milk, white of o.^^, meat juice, peptones, and 
various concentrated protein foods such as Plasmon, Protene, 
and Somatose. Carbohydrates are given in the form of lactose 
in milk, dextrose in its pure form, and grape sugar (glucose). 
Care has to be exercised not to administer too much sugar, 
as this may induce pain and diarrhoea. Not more than from 
4 to 6 ounces of a 10 per cent, solution of sugar should be 
given. Starch may also be employed, and appears to be 
fairly well absorbed, even when given in the raw state. Fats 



RECTAL FEEDING 223 

have a more restricted value, and the best form of administra- 
tion is the yolk of eggs. The recent investigations of 
Koester have shown that more than 50 per cent, of cream is 
absorbed when emulsionised with I'ancreon. 

Reference must be made to the digestion and absorption 
of nourishment from the bowel. There is little or no power 
of digestion in the large bowel, hence protein foods should 
always be administered in a predigested form. Pancreatised 
preparations are here of the greatest value (see p. 173). 

Probably about one-fourth of the nutriment required by the 
body can be absorbed by the large bowel, and this suf^ces to 
tide patients over a critical period, extending it may be over 
several weeks. Absorption of all the food constituents in the 
enema is facilitated by the addition of common salt, this 
probably being due to the action of the saline in inducing 
reverse peristalsis. From I to i teaspoonful of common salt 
should therefore be added to each nutrient enema. The 
recent investigations of Boyd and others appear to show 
that protein foods are less completely absorbed than has 
hitherto been supposed, and increasing attention is now 
being directed to the special value of the sugars when 
given in pure form. Dextrose and glucose should there- 
fore enter largely into the dietary of a patient who is 
being fed entirely by the bowel. The chief food con- 
stituents of value for rectal alimentation may be tabulated 
as follows : — 

rr(jttiins. Carbohydrates. Fats. 

Milk. Dextrose. Yolks of eggs. 

Beef juice. Milk sugar, 

White of eggs. 
Concentrated proteins, 

such as Plasnion, 

Somatose, and the 

like. 

As the addition of common salt facilitates absorption of 
the nutrient elements of food, a good pinch of salt should be 
added to each nutrient enema. The addition of alcohol, 
notably in the form of whisky or brandy, is also of much 
value in treatment. Some authorities attach more value to 
the use of the injection of 15 to 20 ounces of normal saline, 
containing from ^ to i ounce of puie dextrose, twice or thrice 



224 GENERAL SERVINCi OF FOOD FOR INVALIDS 



daily, than to the use of ordinary nutrient eneniata. 
following series of recipes will be found of value : — 



The 



1. Plain milk. 

Pancreatised milk 
Common salt 



51V to 5VJ. 



2. Afill: in combination with eggs, meat preparations, sugar, and stimu- 
lants, e.g. — 

(a) Pancreatised milk . . . . 5'^ to ^vj. 
Whites of 2 eggs 

Common salt . . . . 5j' 

5ij of milk sugar may be added. 

(b) Pancreatised milk and pancreatised beef 

juice, each .... 5iij. 

{c) Pancreatised milk .... Jiv. 

Beaten -up t^^ 

Brandy or whisky (diluted with equal amount of 
water) , . . . . 5J. 



Common salt 

{(f) Pancreatised milk 
Peptone 
Common salt 

{e) Pancreatised milk 
Grape sugar . 



3j. 

.^iv. 

3j. 

5iv to ?,vi. 
5ij- 



}. Dextrose. This may be given either in normal saline, or as a con- 
stituent of a nutrient enema, as follows : — 



(a) Dextrose 

Normal saline 

{b) Dextrose 

Pancreatised milk 



5ss. to 3J. 
5x to 5XX. 

5'v to 5vj. 



As already stated, the total amount of nourishment 
absorbed from the judicious use of these enemata is very 
small. But it amply suffices in the great majority of cases to 
tide the jjatient over a critical period in his illness. 

Nutrient suppositories. — There are numerous nutrient 
suppositories in the market, their chief basis being peptone. 
These are not as a rule readily absorbed, and their use is 
rarely advisable. 

Forced feeding by the stomach tube (Gavage). — In 



GAVAGE 225 

asylum practice and in certain medical affections of the 
tongue, pharynx, and oesophagus which render deglutition 
impossible, recourse is had to forced feeding by the stomach 
tube. This is inserted either through the nose or mouth, and 
food is administered two or three times in twenty-four hours. 
Milk, eggs, beef juices, and concentrated meat teas are 
suitable foods for administration. A good mixture to employ 
consists of I pint of milk, one egg, i ounce of milk sugar, and 
a pinch of common salt. This mixture can be fortified if 
desired by the addition of a dried milk preparation, e.g:, 
Plasmon, Somatose (p. 158). The food should be introduced 
slowly. 

In nasal feeding the above rules apply. The apparatus is 
simple : the small glass barrel of a urethral syringe with about 
10 inches of narrow rubber tubing attached. This is well oiled, 
and passed gently along the floor of the nose in a backward 
and slightly outward direction ; it slips over the posterior 
surface of the velum palati, and from thence into the pharynx 
and gullet. Patients soon become tolerant of this method, 
provided there is no obstruction m the nasal passages. 



CHAPTER XIV 



INFANT FEEDING DIET IN FIRST TWO YEARS OF LIFE^ 

A. Infant Feeding in Health 



I'AOK 

General ..... 226 

Physiological characteristics of 

early childhood . . . 227 

(i) The digestive powers . . 227 

(2) The bodily needs . . 230 

Breast-feeding . . . .231 

(i) The mother . , .231 

(2) The child . . . .232 

(3) The practice of breast-feed- 

ing 233 

Artificial feeding .... 235 
Cow's milk .... 235 
(i) Modifications to counteract 

impurity . . . 237 

(2) Modifications to alter the 

percentage composition of 
the different constituents . 238 

(3) Modifications to increase or 

favour the digestibility . 239 



Artificial feeding — continued. 
Condensed milk . . 

Proprietary foods 
The practice of artificial feeding . 
Tabular scheme . 

What is the most satisfactory 

artificial diet for the average 

baby ? . . . . . 
The manner of modification of 

the milk .... 

Cleanliness of utensils . 
The dilution of the milk . 
The number of daily feeding 

periods, and the amount to 

be given at each time 
The prescribing of the diet 
The weakly baby 
The big, strong baby . 



PAOB 

, 240 

. 241 

. 341 

. 242 



243 

244 

245 
246 



247 
248 
248 
250 



In all civilised countries the subject of infant feeding has, 
of late years, been attracting much attention, and in 
Germany, France, America, and our own country much 
has been done to unravel medical difficulties, to avert 
unnecessary sources of evil, and to grapple with many 
of those social and economic problems which are so inti- 
mately bound up with the supply and administration of 
nourishment for the young child. 

In our own country, all the different conditions connected 
with the subject — the conditions of life, of food-supply, climate, 

' Ijy Dr Din;,'wall Fordyce. 
220 



I 



INFANT FEEDING 227 

environment in cfeneral — all, naturally, vary to a certain extent 
from those in other countries. 

Thus, while at the base of the subject of the scientific 
practice of the feeding of infants and young children there 
rest broad laws applicable on all occasions, yet it is not 
surprising to find that the methods successfully employed 
in one country vary considerably from those employed in 
another, where the various factors entering into the life of 
the child are modified to a considerable degree. The broad 
basal laws, the scientific principles, are, however, such as 
demand consideration and recognition from all medical men 
to whose charge is entrusted the medical supervision of early 
childhood. 

Physiological Characteristics of Early Childhood — (i) 
The digestive powers. — At the period of birth, and immediately 
after it, the secretion of saliva by the infant is small in amount. 
As the weeks pass, this amount rapidly increases, and by 
the time the infant is two or three months old the secretion 
is free. Yet its digestive power is still limited, and it's 
composition is different to that in adults. The starch- 
splitting ferment, ptyalin, is a constituent of the salivary 
secretion which is present in extremely minute quantities 
during the early weeks and months of life ; as life advances 
it increases in amount — by the third or fourth month it may 
be present in quite considerable quantities, and at about the 
period of the commencement of the primary dentition (the 
sixth to the tenth month) it increases rapidly to large propor- 
tions. Starch, therefore, if occurring in the infant's food, will, 
up to at least the sixth month of life, pass into the stomach 
very largely unaltered by the salivary secretion ; while, after 
this period, the average infant will be found to possess, in its 
saliva, the means of initiating the digestion of a not incon- 
siderable amount of starchy food. 

During the early months of life the natural food of the 
infant is his mother's milk. This milk is obtained by the 
process of sucking from the maternal breast ; mastication 
is unnecessar}', the jaws are not called upon for active 
exercise, and the secretion of saliva is comparatively small 
in amount and [Kjor in digestive capacity. With the develop- 
ment and eruption of teeth, marked changes occur. The 



298 INFANT FEEDING 

masticatory powers now call for development, the jaws 
demand exercise for proper i:[rowth, and the digestive quality 
and the quantity of the saliva increase markedly. With the 
eruption of succeeding^ teeth the mvisticatory and digestive 
capabilities progressively increase, and by the end of the 
second year are in an advanced stage of development. 

The position of the stomach in infancy is more upright 
than that which it ultimately assumes, and as a consequence 
the regurgitation of the gastric contents is a simple process. 
Of the ingredients of the gastric juice, rennin is present from 
birth in considerable amount ; while pepsin and hydrochloric 
acid, though secreted shortly after birth, are present at first in 
only small amount. The digestive powers of the gastric 
juice are therefore at first very limited, and it appears that 
at this period the greater part of digestion is carried on 
in the intestine. The reaction between human milk and 
rennin results in but very fine curd-formation, and, con- 
sequently, a large quantity of the milk passes rapidly through 
the pylorus to undergo the major part of digestion in the 
small intestine. The gastric mucous membrane is sensitive 
and intolerant of the presence of foreign bodies, particularly 
during the early months of life, and large, tough curds — 
such as those of cow's milk — and, at a later period, lumps of 
food or irritating liquids are badly borne, and usually quickly 
rejected by vomiting. 

The secretion of bile is, on the other hand, free from birth 
onwards. The liver is comparatively large at birth, its 
activity considerable, and its digestive powers well developed. 
Likewise, the digestive powers of the pancreatic secretion are 
considerable, with this marked limitation, however — the 
starch-digesting power is largely in abeyance. Amylopsin 
in the pancreatic juice, like ptyalin in the saliva, is, during 
the early months of life, chiefly conspicuous by its absence ; 
the bodily powers of digesting starch develop gradually only 
after birth, and, until the period of the commencement of the 
first dentition, are extremely limited. In the small intestine 
the greater part of digestion takes place. The intestines in 
infancy are v^ry freely movable, and as this is a period 
when musculai spasm and muscular inco-ordination are 
of common occurrence, it is readily seen how vomiting. 



I 



PHYSIOLOGY OF DIGESTION 229 

diarrhoea, anrl intussusception easily occur. Examination 
of the feces of a breast-fed infant shows that bacteria are 
present in abundance, and that they arc mostly positive in 
reaction to Gram's stain. Bacillus hifidus is here the 
dominant form (Herter); it is anti-putrefactive, does not 
attack protein, and forms lactic acid on sugar media. 

A variety of other organisms are also present, among 
them Bacillus coli (Gram negative) and Bacillus lactis(Erogcnes. 

In the case of bottle-fed infants the number of bacterial 
forms present is greater than in breast-fed infants, and the 
dominant type is not the Bacillus bifidus but the Bacillus coli. 
The difference in the bacterial flora in the two cases is 
important, because of the tendency of Bacillus coli to further 
putrefactive changes. 

In both breast- and bottle-fed babies very little putre- 
factive decomposition ordinarily occurs in the intestine, and 
it is well here to note that milk has a restraining effect upon 
intestinal putrefactive processes. With an increased and 
varied diet different bacterial conditions are obtained in 
the intestine, although putrefactive processes as compared 
with adult life are not active. During the first few weeks of 
life the infant has three or four movements of the bowels 
daily ; later, two movements daily are common. It is 
important to note the character of these stools : they consist 
of some 2 or 3 ounces of a light yellow, homogeneous, semi- 
solid fluid, with a faintly acid reaction to litmus paper. 

As regards the digestive processes, from the point of view 
of the foodstuffs it has been shown that the power of the new- 
born baby to digest starch is very limited. Normally this 
power gradually increases in amount until the period of 
the first dentition, when its development takes place rapidly. 
Sugar is readily digested even in early infancy, and forms an 
important part of the infant's diet. The readiness with which 
it undergoes fermentative change — more particularly under 
the action of the lactic acid bacillus — results in its tendency, 
when present in excess in the food, to cause gastro-intestinal 
disturbance, and such disturbances associated with, or caused 
by, fermentative processes are, consequently, common in early 
childhood. 

Fat and carbohydrate are the chief sources of animal 



2.?0 INFANT FRF.DTNG 

heat : in the adult the vahic of fat in this respect is, in an 
onh'nary diet, markedly less than that of carbohydrate ; in 
the infant the conditions arc reversed, fat being of greater 
value than carboh)'drate. h'at is urgently needed by the body 
cells in childhood ; it is as a rule readily digested at this 
period, and it assists in the absorption of mineral salts. 

At no period of life are the differences between the 
varieties of protein more clearly demonstrated than in 
earliest infancy. The greater bulk of the curd resulting 
from the ingestion of cow's milk compared with that of 
human milk is largely due to the difference in the relative 
proportions of the protein constituents in the two milks, and 
is a cause of many of the difficulties associated with the 
artificial feeding of infants. The digestive functions of the 
stomach are constantly stimulated to fuller development as 
age advances, owing to the ever-changing amount and quality 
of the fluid secreted and the consequent changing reactions 
between it and the milk. By the period of the first dentition 
all the digestive juices are fully active, and are secreted freely ; 
the stomach is capable of containing larger meals, and the 
intervals between meals can be considerably lengthened. 
The anatomical peculiarities of the infant stomach have 
become less marked, the susceptibility of the gastro-intestinal 
mucous membrane to local sources of irritation is much 
diminished, and the general muscular tone has developed 
considerably. 

(2) The bodily needs. — In practice, the correct recognition 
of the individual influences which affect the amount of food 
required, and of the nature of these influences, is necessary 
for the regulation of a suitable dietary. 

Of such factors bodily growth is one of the most important. 
In childhood, assimilative powers arc great and growth is 
active — so powerful, indeed, is this tendency towards nitrogen- 
retention that even in times of illness, when the child is 
receiving a meagre diet, poor in protein, and emaciation is 
occurring, yet nitrogen is retained by the cells, and growth 
takes place. 

In the case of a child the calls of the organism for growth 
necessitate an ample diet, and, more particularly, an adequate 
supply of nitrogenous material. Owing to the great 



BREAST-FEEDING 231 

surface extent of the child in relation to his bulk, and the 
consequent considerable loss of heat, his need of a relatively 
large supply of non-nitrogenous food as compared with the 
adult is also marked. In this relation, as has previously 
been noted, fat is of geater value than carbohydrate to the 
infant, and thus we find that abundance of fat is one of 
the chief characteristics of the food in infancy and early 
childhood. 

Breast-feeding. — (i) The mother. — In the case of all 
healthy mothers, even when it is unlikely that the period 
of suckling will be long-continued, the full extent of this period 
should be utilised. Every day of suckling granted to the 
infant during the first few weeks of life is of immense service 
to it. 

Maternal milk supplies an easily digested form of 
nourishment to the infant, and one which is specially 
designed to meet its needs until such time as an artificial 
diet can readily be made use of The health of the mother 
during pregnancy and lactation is, consequently, of the 
greatest importance. During the first few days after birth 
a small amount of fluid, colostrum, is secreted by the maternal 
mammary glands. This fluid differs in composition from the 
later milk and serves as a preparation for its ingestion. 

About the third day after birth the secretion of milk 
becomes established, and the process of suckling stimulates 
this secretion. So much is this the case that it is possible 
for a mother to suckle her infant for a much longer time 
than is good either for the health of her infant or herself 

Human milk is a fluid of varying composition, and for 
practical purposes the following figures suffice : — 

Approximate Percentage Composition of Human Milk. 

Protein . . . . , 2 per cent. 

Fat . . . . . 4 „ 

Carbohydrate . . . . 6 „ 

Mineral salts . . . . 02 „ 

The protein present is largely in the form of albumin, 
with caseinogen in half this quantity, this caseinogcn being 
peculiar in that it yields no carbohydrate when split up by 



252 INFANT FEEDING 

digestion, and contains no nuclcin. It forms the curd when 
acted on by rcnnin. 

iMilk varies in quality durinjjj each act of suckling; at its 
commencement the percentage of fat is low and of protein 
high, while towards the close the reverse is the case ; and 
the frequency of suckling also afifects the quality of the milk. 

The diet of the mother and the condition of her general 
health naturally exert a most powerful influence on the com- 
position of her milk. The nursing mother requires a liberal 
diet of plain food with abundance of milk ; she should avoid 
alcohol, and as a rule all highly spiced or indigestible forms 
of food. It is possible for a mother in poor health to suckle 
and rear a healthy infant, yet such a condition is uncommon 
and the procedure usually inadvisable. 

Transitory attacks of acute illness of minor degree have, 
as a rule, no marked effect upon the milk. If her condition 
demands it, there is no reason to hesitate in giving any drug 
to a nursing mother, as it is the long-continued admini.stra- 
tion of a drug which may injuriously affect the infant through 
the milk. 

The return of menstruation is not uncommon during 
lactation, and, as a rule, this is an occurrence of no importance 
to either mother or child. It is not a sign of ill-health on the 
part of the mother, and though occasionally the child's 
digestion is disturbed at this period, yet partial or complete 
artificial feeding for the few days readily counteracts this, and 
weaning is never called for unless there are also definite 
signs of ill-health on the part of the mother or the child. 
Pregnancy may occur during lactation, though it is uncommon 
before the eighth month, and it is always advisable to 
commence weaning when this occurs. 

Suckling is also contra-indicated when the mother is the 
subject of serious chronic, organic, or infective disease, of 
acute mammary affections, and, usually, of serious acute illness. 

Wet-nursing is a custom little practised in this country. 
The social and other difficulties necessarily associated with 
the procedure are great ; yet when these can be overcome, 
the advantage to the weakly or wasted infant of a diet of 
human milk is often very marked. 

(2) The child. — The capacity of the infant stomach is at 



BRRAST-FERDING 233 

birth about i fluirl ounce ; but as in early infancy the curd 
which is formed in the stoinacli by mother's milk is very soft 
and flocculent, and passes readily through the pylorus, a 
larger quantit}' than this can be taken at one feeding. At 
the age of six months the stomach capacity is about 6 ounces ; 
but as, with advancing age, the secretory powers of the stomach 
have increased, and their reaction with the milk become some- 
what more complicated as a provision for the development of 
the digestive powers, so the resulting curd becomes ever more 
solid, and passes less rapidly through the pylorus. 

The infant demands that all its sustenance should be 
derivf^d from its mother up till the close of the ciglith month 
of life, while the value of maternal nursing is greatest in the 
early days and weeks. 

It is important to determine periodically how an nifant is 
thriving, and this is best done by ascertaining the weight of 
the child and keeping a record of it. When possible, it is 
well to weigh the infant weekly for the first six months, and 
every second week during the next six months. A record of 
continuous gain in weight does not necessarily mean that the 
infant is growing and developing satisfactorily, though for 
satisfactory growth and development increase of weight is 
essential. During the first week of life there is usually a 
loss of weight amounting to perhaps 6 ounces. Thereafter 
there is a steady gain in weight, interrupted at times it 
may be by slight functional disturbances. It is useful to 
remember that an average baby (yh lbs.) doubles its weight 
at six months (15 lbs.), and trebles it at twelve months 
(22 i lbs.). 

(3) The practice of breast-feeding. — During the first two or 
three days of life the infant is put to the breast six-hourly as a 
rule, for a period of five to ten minutes at a time. It thereby 
obtains colostrum, and the process of suckling stimulates milk- 
secretion in the breasts. In addition small quantities of 
warm, boiled water should be given frequently. 

The training of the infant should commence as soon as 
the maternal milk-secretion is established, and regularity in 
the occurrence of nursing periods and limitation of the time 
of nursing are, from the first, all-important. 

During the first month the infant is given the breast at 



234 . INFANT FEEDING 

intervals of two hours durinp; the day (eicjht nursinp^ periods), 
and twice during the night. Kach nursing period is h'mited 
to fifteen minutes, and the infant should be wakened if neces- 
sary at the regular time. 

During the second and third months the breast is given at 
intervals of two and a half hours during the day (seven 
nursing periods), and once at night. At this time the infant 
will sleep five or six hours at night without feeding. During 
the third, fourth, and fifth months the infant is given the 
breast at intervals of three hours during the day (six nursing 
periods), and once at night. 

After the fifth month the breast is given at intervals of 
three hours during the day (six nursing periods), and it is 
unnecessary at night. 

The plan of mixed feeding must be adopted when the 
maternal secretion of milk is insufficient, or when the state of 
her general health renders it inadvisable that she should bear 
the whole strain of nursing. In the early days of lactation a 
little artificial assistance such as this may serve to render full 
maternal suckling possible later. It is also not infrequently 
necessary, from social or other reasons, in cases where both 
mother and infant are healthy, to supplement mother's milk 
with artificial food. The mother may be able to suckle her 
child only during part of the day, or during the night and 
not during the day. Whatever the period of suckling be, the 
hours for feeding must be adhered to. The infant here 
begins with a milk-and-water mixture corresponding in 
strength to that for an infant four or six weeks younger, and 
this mixture is gradually strengthened till it is of suitable 
strength for the infant of that particular age (p. 242). 

Weaning, when possible, should be a gradual process. 

At the beginning of the ninth month one of the nursing 
periods in the morning is omitted and an artificial feed is 
substituted : after two or three days the substitution of another 
feed — in the afternoon — is made, and gradually the infant is 
entirely weaned from the maternal breast. It is always 
advisable during lactation to accustom the infant to the 
bottle — in case sudden weaning may at any time become 
necessary — by offering it once a day a bottle containing warm, 
boiled water. 



ARTIFICIAL FRKDING 



235 



Artificial Feeding. — In the event of mother's milk bcitifj 
unavailable for the infant, it becomes essential to provide a 
substitute for it, and we look first naturally to the milk of 
other mammals. Animals, other than the cow, from which 
milk may be obtained for the nutrition of the infant, are 
the ass, the goat, and the mare ; but for all practical purposes 
cow's milk is of pre-eminent importance. 

The chief characteristics of mother's milk arc purity, ready 
digestibility, and suitability for adequate nutrition and 
development; and though cow's milk is lacking in many 
particulars, yet it is the nearest natural substitute for 
mother's milk. All patent and artificial foods are wanting 
in the essential quality of freshness. None contain the 
elements of the foodstuffs necessary for the infant's healthy 
nutrition, in a form so closely resembling mother's milk, as 
does cow's milk ; many differ from it very markedly in 
quality, many are deficient in certain constituents, and many 
contain totally unsuitable constituents. 

The composition of cow's milk varies according to many 
of the conditions of life of the animal, and thus the milk 
from a herd is more constant in composition than that 
from, a single cow. The milk of Jersey, Guernsey, and 
Alderney cows is, as a rule, unsuitable for infant feeding, 
because it contains a high percentage amount of fat, and 
the nature of this fat is more unlike the fat of human milk 
than is the fat in the milk of other breeds of cows. 

In comparing the average composition of human milk and 
cow's milk the following figures are sufficiently accurate for 
all practical purposes, as the variations in the composition of 
commercial milk are wide. 

Comparison of tlic Pei'ce7itage Composition of Human and 
Cow's Milk. 





Human Milk. 


Cow's Milk. 


Protein 

Fat 

Carbohydrate .... 
Mineral Salts .... 


rer cent. 
2 

4 
6 

0-2 


Tor cent. 

4 
4 
4 
0-6 



936 INFANT FEEDING 

The varieties of protein present in cow's milk are, like 
those in human milk, chiefly caseinogen and lactallnimin, 
but they «ire present in double the amount of those in 
human milk. The difference between the protein of the 
two milks is not, however, merely the amount. The bulk 
of the protein present in maternal milk consists of lact- 
albumin, whereas in cow's milk it consists of caseinogen. 

Although the amount of fat in cow's milk is approxi- 
mately the same as that in human milk, yet it differs from 
the latter in chemical composition and is not so readily 
digested. Sugar occurs in solution, as in human milk, but in 
considerably less quantity, and thus, associated with an excess 
of protein, there is a deficiency of carbohydrate in cow's milk. 

The salts in cow's milk are about three times as plenti- 
ful as in human milk ; but as the}' occur largely in states of 
combination different from those found in human milk, their 
absorption takes place less readily. 

Cow'.s milk, as supplied to the infant, is impure and stale. 
Fresh milk possesses the property of inhibiting bacterial 
development, and this power is considerable where the infant 
receives its mother's milk. Fresh cow's milk has slight 
power in this respect ; but milk which is old, or milk which 
has been heated, lacks the power, while milk which has 
been merely frozen after milking retains it to some degree. 
Owing to the fact that lactic acid bacilli swarm in cow's milk, 
this milk when stale becomes sour ; but even before a 
degree of sourness has been reached which is readily appreci- 
able by the examiner, these bacilli may have caused such 
changes in the milk as to have rendered it very indigestible 
for the infant. Practically all milk as drawn from the udder 
of the cow contains many bacteria, and milk is a fluid in 
which bacteria grow readily. The presence of lactic acid 
bacilli tends to hinder the growth of other organisms, and 
in the case of an infant large numbers of bacteria are always 
dangerous, quite irrespective of their nature. 

Tuberculosis is a very common disease among cows, and 
in the milk of infected animals tubercle bacilli are very 
frequently found. These bacilli from a bovine source are 
undoubtedly capable of causing tuberculosis in the human 
being; yet, while milk containing them is a dangerous food 



EFFECT OF HEAT ON MILK 



237 



for the infant, a still more dangerous means of infection is 
through contamination of cow's milk with tubercle bacilli 
from a human source — c.^. sputum. 

With the object of remedying or minimising the disad- 
vantages attendant on artificial feeding, various methods of 
modification of the milk are commonly employed, and these 
may be suitably grouped under the following three headings : — 

1. Modifications to counteract impurity. 

2. Modifications to alter the percentage composition of 

the different constituents. 

3. Modifications to increase or favour its digestibility. 

I. Modifications to counteract impurity. — The danger from 
impurity of milk is obviated by the application of heat, and 
to this end various degrees of heat are employed. 

Thus we may pasteurise, i.e., heat to a temperature of 
1 50°- 1 60" F. for twenty or thirty minutes ; or scald, i.e., heat to 
boiling-point ; or sterilise, i.e., expose the milk to a tempera- 
ture of 212'' F. for forty minutes — in each case rapid cooling 
succeeding the application of heat. 

For practical purposes, scalding is the most satisfactory 
procedure. The effect of pasteurisation is uncertain, and 
prolonged sterilisation causes marked changes in the com- 
position of the milk, without satisfactory compensatory 
advantages in the matter of sterility. 

The effects of the three jjrocesses may be summarised 
shortly as follows : — 

The Results of the Application of Heat to Milk. 



Pasteurised Milk. 


Boiled MUk. 


Sterilised Milk. 


I. Partial destruction of 

bacteria. 
2 


Approximate sterility. 
Partial coagulation of 


Sterility. 

Large coagulation of 


3- 


protein. 


protein. 
Interference with fat 
emulsion. 


4. 





Caramelisation of lac- 
tose. 


S- Slight precipitation of 

calcium sails. 
6. Probable destruction 

of ferments. 


Greater precipitation of 

calcium salts. 
Destruction of ferments. 


Large prcripitatioti of 

c;dciuin salts. 
Destruction of ferments. 



238 INFANT FEEDING 

Consequent on the above changes induced in the milk by 
the different degrees of heat, alterations occur in its digestion. 
With large precipitation of calcium salts, rennin curd forms 
slowly in the stomach, and, consequently, is a softer and 
more flocculent curd the higher the degree of heat to which 
the milk has been subjected. The flocculent curd of highly 
heated milk is not so fitted for gastric digestion as that of 
milk heated at a lower temperature, and it passes more readily 
onwards to the intestine. 

2. Modifications of the percentage composition of milk. — The 
usual and most satisfactory method of carrying out this modifi- 
cation is to dilute milk with water, and add cream and sugar. 
By this means the protein percentage is reduced, while the fat 
and carbohydrate content is retained. It is unwise to give 
an infant, for any length of time, a mixture weaker than one 
part of milk and two parts of water. With such dilution the 
protein percentage is largely reduced, yet the initial relative 
preponderance of caseinogen in the protein was such that it is 
still present in larger quantities than in human milk. 

Other diluents frequently employed are lime-water and 
barley-water. Lime-water, besides acting as a diluent, alters 
to a slight extent the proportion of lime salts present in the 
mixture, and also serves to render the mixture more alkaline. 
This last action is the most important, because rennin only 
acts in the presence of an acid, and consequently its action is 
delayed, and a less dense curd is formed in the stomach. 

Barley-water contains minute amounts of protein, fat, 
and mineral salts, and a more considerable, though still 
small, amount of starch. It consequently possesses a small 
nutritive value, the most of which, however, is due to its 
starch content. The power of the infant to digest starch is 
comparatively weak, though it varies considerably in different 
children. It is, consequently, always advisable to know the 
strength of the barley-water which is being employed, and a 
useful method for its preparation is to add i tablespoonful of 
prepared barley flour to i pint of water, boil for twenty min- 
utes, and make up with water again to a pint. The barley- 
water so prepared contains rather less than i per cent, of starch. 

Milk may also be modified by separating it into its con- 
stituents — whey, cream, lactose, and water — and subsequently 



ii 



MODIFICATIONS OF MILK 239 

mixing them again, with or without the addition of fresh milk. 
Such a method of procedure is termed "the percentage 
method," and for its satisfactory conduct requires knowledge 
of the original richness of the milk. Lacking such know- 
ledge, accurate percentage modifications are impossible, but 
the principle underlying the procedure is that which must 
guide us in our prescription of all milk-mixtures (see p. 242). 

3. Llodifications to increase or favour the digestibility of 
milk. — By the addition of sodium citrate to milk, many of the 
soluble calcium salts are precipitated, and as a result a smaller 
and softer rennin curd is formed in the stomach. One grain of 
sodium citrate added to i ounce of pure milk, or to so much 
of a milk mixture as contains i ounce of milk, serves partially 
to prevent rennin action, while 2 grains prevents it entirely. 

By means of "peptonising powders," consisting of pan- 
creatic extract and bicarbonate of soda, artificial prcdigestion 
of milk can be obtained, more or less complete, according to 
the length of time which the powders are allowed to act. 

The method of employment is simple, and consists in 
mixing the powder with the milk, and placing the bottle con- 
taining the mixture in water at a temperature of 110° F. for 
the length of time desired. Thus, after twenty minutes' 
heating, partial digestion occurs, and there is no bitter taste 
in the milk ; while the longer it is heated — up to two hours — 
the more complete is the digestive process, and the more 
marked becomes the development of a bitter taste. 

Various other preparations of milk as well as a variety of 
foods, are frequently used in the feeding of young children. 

Buttermilk has practically the same protein and inor- 
ganic salt content as the ordinary milk : it contains, 
however, extremely little fat, and a diminished amount 
of sugar, as some of the sugar has been changed into 
lactic acid. Its two chief characteristics are, consequently, 
a small amount of fat and a large amount of lactic acid. This 
milk is very digestible, and may be given to the infant in 
the raw condition, whereby the benefit due to the presence of 
living lactic acid bacilli will be obtained. It is also frequently 
given mixed with flour and sugar and then boiled, and in 
such a case the characteristics of the food are its poverty 
in fat, its acidity, and its high carbohydrate content. 



240 INFANT FEEDING 

Condensed milk is cow's milk from wliicli, as a rule, about 
two-thirds of the water has been removed by heating and 
evaporation ; but as the composition of the original cow's 
milk is very variable, the composition of different brands of 
condensed milk is also variable. In addition to condensation 
of the milk, there is frequently also the addition to it of cane 
sugar, and we meet, therefore, with three types of condensed 
milk : — 

1. Condensed whole milk, unsweetened. 

2. Condensed whole milk, sweetened. 

3. Condensed skimmed milk, sweetened. 

It is obvious that for the use of the infant all types require 
plentiful dilution. Twofold dilution with water restores the 
original composition of the milk, with or without, according 
to the type, the addition of cane sugar. Further dilution, to 
make the amount of protein approximately correspond to 
that in mother's milk, results in the amount of fat being 
reduced to a minimum. The vast majority of all condensed 
milks are artificially sweetened with cane sugar, and their 
two outstanding characteristics are, accordingly, lack of fat 
and abundance of sugar (see p. 157). 

Of such milks, two of the best are Nestle's and Milkmaid. 
What is their place in the feeding of the infant? In ordinary 
circumstances these milks are altogether undesirable as part 
of the diet of a healthy infant. When freely diluted and 
mixed with cream, the sugar and fat content of the mixture 
may be rendered satisfactory, but in such a case the protein 
content is utterly insufficient. If, on the other hand, the 
amount of protein present is to be satisfactory the quantity 
of carbohydrate is necessarily excessive. In extraordinary 
circumstances, however, they have a definite value, and for 
short periods form a safe and satisfactory diet. For sea- 
voyages and railway travelling, when milk from a Walker- 
Gordon dairy ^ is not readily obtainable, they are excellent 
forms of nourishment, as are also the Allcnbury foods, and 
in certain conditions of delicacy and dibcasc in infancy to 
be mentioned later, their employment is of great value. 

' From such dairies sterilised milk can be obtained, modified accord- 
ing to prescription. 



PROPRIETARY FOODS 24i 

An immense number of proprietary infant foods are now 
on the market, and their composition varies widely. Some 
are intended as substitutes for cow's milk, and some as 
additions to it. For the infant under nine months of age 
the latter are not only unnecessary but harmful ; for an 
older child, however, most of them form a useful and readily 
digested addition to the diet. 

Those forms intended to be used as substitutes for milk 
are more suitable than the others for young infants, but even 
with their employment there are associated many drawbacks. 
All lack the antiscorbutic property, and none are so suitable 
in composition as carefully modified cow's milk. When the 
employment of one of these foods is preferred to other 
methods of feeding the infant, Allcnbury No. i is probably 
the best food for an infant during the first two or three 
months of life. 

For older children, i.e. over three months of age, the most 
suitable foods are Allenbury No. 2 and Horlick's malted milk. 

These three foods — Allenbury, Nos, i and 2, and Horlick's 
malted milk — are intended as substitutes for cow's milk ; they 
consist of desiccated milk with a small amount of cereal — the 
starch of which is largely converted into malt sugar, and for 
use they are mixed with water. 

Many foods, however, contain no milk in their composition, 
and are intended as additions to cow's milk. All such foods 
are composed of cereals, i.e. powdered grain, and are con- 
sequently rich in starch. In the case of Mellin's food the 
starch is completely converted into malt sugar, as is also the 
case in Hovis No. i ; in Savory & Moore's food, Benger's 
food, and Allenbury No. 3 it is partially converted ; while 
in most of the other foods the starch remains almost entirely 
unconverted. (See also Chapter IX., p. 154.) 

The Practice of Artificial Feeding. — Cow's milk, boiled 
(scalded) and suitably modified, is, however, the best 
artificial food obtainable for the infant. 

This modification as a matter of routine consists of 
dilution with water, and the addition of cream and sugar; 
further modification is necessary in special circumstances, 
and may consist of the addition of sodium bicarbonate 
sodium citrate, gruel, etc. 

Q 



242 



lNFv\NT FEEDING 



Before C[oinc]j into any details of diet, I give the followlnpj 
table, which shows succinctly the diet likely to prove 
satisfactory for the average healthy infant : — 




In the foregoing table the amount of food to be given at 
each feeding for babies of different ages has been placed in 
the first column. The figures are only valuable as a 
general guide, but as such — as an approximate indication of 
the capacity of the infant stomach — they are certainly of 
practical use. 

In the second column there are placed the number of 
meals which are to be given in the twenty-four hours — for 
the first two months the infant is fed twice at night, and 
afterwards till the sixth month once at night. 

In the third column it has to be understood that the food 
of the infant gradually passes from one strength to the next 
as age advances. 

In the final column it is noted that the amount of cream 
and sugar administered — which to begin with .should be very 
small (p. 246) — should for a baby under nine months of age 
never exceed the quantities therein mentioned. The sugar 
is preferably milk sugar, but cane sugar is also quite 
satisfactory. 

The infant at birth whose future destiny largely depends 



.1 



ARTIFICIAL FEEDING 243 

upon the contents of its feeding-bottle, requires most careful 
supervision. Brcast-nursinij^ is the ideal condition for the child, 
but in the vast majority of cases, artificial feeding" can be con- 
ducted to a satisfactory issue without any serious difficulties. 
The digestive capabilities of the infant are broad and elastic, 
and capable of suiting themselves, within limits, to the nourish- 
ment presented to them. And this very power is too often 
its own undoing. Infant feeding is a simple branch of 
medicine compared with many others ; simple, that is to say, 
in its successful practice, though not, perhaps, in its science. 
But the subject demands intelligent attention, a little thought, 
and some clinical experience, and without the two former the 
latter is totally inefficient. The accoucheur is, as a rule, 
professedly blissfully ignorant of everything in connection 
with the subject. The baby introduced by him to the troubles 
of this world is relegated to some female guardian, "to be 
fed on Allenbury No. i," " Horlick's malted milk," " boiled 
milk and water," or its nourishment may depend on the 
particular fad of that particular female. A little later the 
general practitioner, or it may be the pa^diatric physician, is 
called in wJicn trouble has commenced^ and such an infant 
starts with a heavy handicap. 

Or it may be the general practitioner is acting accoucheur, 
or he sees the infant at, or shortly after, birth, in which case 
its chances are much more hopeful. Prevention is always 
better than cure ; but with regard to the digestive functions 
of the young infant, the alternative — cure — is not infrequently 
only a possibility. Catastrophes are apt to occur suddenly 
and with violence, and the issue is taken out of our hands ere 
ever we are able to influence it. When entrusted with the 
charge of an infant's diet, we must know what we want to do, 
how we ought to do it, and see, so far as we can, that our 
method is carried into practice. To achieve these objects 
we have, first of all, to decide on the form or forms of 
nourishment which we consider most suitable, and in making 
this decision it is absolutely insufficient to be guided by 
hearsay, fashion, or chance. Definite knowledge of the 
peculiarities and various reactions of different foods or milks, 
or on the other hand, wide clinical experience — one or other, 
but preferably both — must be the driving force controlling 



Ui INFANT FEEDING 

the decision. No back-door rush to a proprietary food 
is justifiable, when used as an avenue of escape from 
ic^norance. 

Proprietary foods, as is well known, are very largely used 
in this country in the rearing of healthy children. Many of 
the foods themselves are most excellent, and, in the hands of 
different practitioners, give consistently good results. When 
these foods are definitely chosen by the physician from 
among the various means at his disposal for the rearing of 
the infant, with a due appreciation of their composition, 
characteristics, and peculiarities, and are deliberately employed 
by him as being the best existent form of nourishment 
available, one may question the validity of his reasoning and 
possibly the reliability of his opinion as regards the healthi- 
ness of his patients, but the manner of his practice is above 
all reproach. He has definite, valid reasons for what he does, 
and these, combined with his clinical results are, to his mind, 
convincing, or at least sufficient. The science of infant feed- 
ing, the scientific substitution for mother's milk of a substance 
sufficient in all respects for the needs of the infant, is itself 
in its infancy ; circumstances differ in different countries and 
in different localities, and our knowledge is not yet so pro- 
found that any one line of action can be singled out as 
definitely the best; but in this country at the present day, 
for the average healthy infant, suitably modified cow's milk 
and water is in my opinion the most satisfactory diet. 

We settle, then, in our own mind that this average baby 
is to be reared on suitable modifications of cow's milk and 
water. What do we mean by " suitable modifications " ? 
How is the milk to be modified ? Is it to be used raw or 
heated ? And if heated, to what degree, and for what length 
of time? 

Owing to the many sources and forms of contamination of 
cow's milk which have previously been alluded to, and which, 
consequently, do not call for recapitulation, raw cow's milk 
cannot, as a rule, be considered a safe food for a young 
infant. Doubtless, in certain parts of the country and from 
a few dairies in towns, milk can be obtained approximately 
clean, but for the great majority of infants, the possibility of 
injury resulting from contaminated milk is too great to 



SCALDING MILK 245 

justify the physician in prohibiting^ the apph'cation of heat 
to it. And the drawbacUs associated with this process 
of hcatini]j arc not in themselves sufficient to warrant such 
a prohibition. 

Rickets and scurvy are both diseases which have been 
attributed at times to the boiling of the infant's milk, but 
there is no reason to believe that, given a milk or milk- 
mixture of adequate composition, the application to it of a 
reasonable degree and time of heating will produce such 
conditions. 

It is an unfortunate necessity we have to face, that the 
probability of cow's milk being seriously contaminated is 
so great, the danger must be obviated by boiling the 
milk. The process of pasteurisation has no advantages over 
that of scalding ; and the latter, as being the more definite 
procedure, we consequently recommend. The infant's milk, 
then, obtained from a reputable dairy (preferably from cows 
tuberculin-tested), requires to be scalded before use. This 
process of scalding consists in placing the milk in an open 
dish on the fire, leaving it there till it commences to boil, 
removing it, putting a cover on the dish, and cooling the 
milk rapidly by setting the dish in cold water. The whole 
of the milk for the infant's use can be treated in this way 
on its arrival from the dairy, and it can be modified later as 
required, in which case the cream and water will require 
separate scalding. 

Or, on the other hand, the total amount of milk, cream, 
water, and sugar required for the infant in the course of the 
day may be mixed together, scalded, and then stored for use. 
This latter is usually the more convenient method. Imme- 
diately after the process has been carried through, the milk- 
mixture is divided into quantities such as the infant is to 
receive at each feeding period, and into a properly sterilised 
bottle this quantity is poured. The bottle is then sealed with 
a rubber cap, and placed in a cool situation till required by 
the infant, when it is gently warmed by being set in warm 
water. Care of the milk in the house is of the utmost import- 
ance, and contamination must be most zealously guarded 
against. The bottles, also, and the teats must, likewise, be 
carefully chosen and attentively looked after. The bottle 



246 INFANT FEEDING 

should be ns simjilc as possible ; it shcnilrl have no rigidly 
defincci neck, and no internal ancjles or corners. The neck 
must not be so narrow as to prevent the ready entrance of a 
brush to cleanse the interior : it may be an upright bottle 
with sloping neck and rounded internal curves at the bottom, 
or it may be a boat-shaped bottle. Either must be thoroughly 
rinsed and brushed out with boiling water after use, placed in 
weak boracic or soda solution, and washed out once more 
with boiled water before being used again. The rubber teats 
require like careful treatment. 

So much, then, for the modification of the milk by heat 
and its subsequent prevention from contamination. How 
about the further modification of its composition ? Water, as 
has previously been pointed out, is the best diluent, and 
cream and white sugar are added as desired. In the case of 
maternal suckling, the infant, during the first day or two of 
life, receives from the breast a modified form of milk — 
colostrum — which contains only a small amount of readily 
absorbed nourishment, and which acts as a mild purgative. 
To our artificially fed infant, therefore, during these first few 
days we give no milk, but only water with a little sugar 
dissolved in it, and by the third day feeding with milk- 
mixture is commenced. Realising as we do that cow's milk 
is an unnatural form of nourishment, we accordingly, though 
confidently expecting that its digestion and assimilation will 
be ready, and that no untoward results will ensue, wish to 
commence with as simple a form of food as possible, and to 
add the ingredients of our milk-mixture one at a time. 

Accordingly, on the third day, we add milk to the sugar 
and water. How much milk and how much water? Rather 
more than a tablespoonful of water to each teaspoonful of 
milk, and, with this, just a pinch of sugar. As the days go 
by and the infant keeps well, we gradually increase the 
strength of the milk, until by the end of the first week the 
infant is given a mixture of one part of milk to two parts 
of water. 

All going well and the infant being hungry, and, perhaps, 
with a tendency to constipation, we add to our mixture 
during the second week a little cream. How much? To 
begin with, very little — a teaspoonful in the twenty-four hours 



FOOD ^^IXT^RES 247 

— and, if this adclition proves satisfactory, the amount may 
be gradually and slowly increased. From this stage onwards 
— from the stage when the baby first receives a mixture of 
milk, water, cream, and sugar — the mixture is slowly and 
steadily increased in strength. 

Thus, while according to the table already given, the 
mixture consists of two parts water and one part milk at the 
beginning of the second month, during the second and third 
months it is gradually strengthened, until at the commence- 
ment of the fourth month it consists of equal parts of milk 
and water, and so on thereafter. In the same manner the 
amount of cream and sugar is gradually increased. 

Should the proportion of the different elements of the 
mixture be altered separately or simultaneously? Always 
separately. Here again we guard against unnecessary 
ignorance in the event of digestive disturbance. If we 
strengthen the mixture in all or several of its elements 
simultaneously, and the infant becomes ill, we cannot say 
with certainty which element is causing the trouble — whether 
it is the fat, the sugar, or the protein. On the other hand, by 
increasing each separately, we have a guide to direct us in 
the event of digestive disturbance. As age advances, then, 
we gradually strengthen our mixture in all directions, and wc 
increase each element of it separately. But is this all we do? 
Is this the only possible way of strengthening the nourish- 
ment ? How about the total amount of food to be given in 
the course of the day, and the amount at each feed ? 

Obviously, we can increase the amount of nourishment we 
are giving, not merely by strengthening the mixture but 
otherwise, or also by increasing the amount. Just as it is 
unwise to increase the elements of the mixture simultane- 
ously, so is it unwise to increase the amount and the strength 
of the mixture at the same time. During the first two days 
we give the infant an occasional teaspoonful of boiled water, 
or of a dilute sugar solution, and on the third day commence 
feeding with 3 tablcspoonfuls of the milk-mixture at each 
feeding period. This amount at each feeding we continue 
throughout the first fortnight, and then gradually increase, 
till by the beginning of the second month the infant receives 
2 ounces at each feed, and thereafter the amount is gradually 



248 INFANT FEEDING 

increased, as set f<>ilh in the tabic. And llic number of feeds 
in the course of the twenty-four hours? We must ahvays 
strictly enjoin that a minimum interval of two hours must 
elapse between two succeeding feeds. Human milk passes 
readily through the pylorus, cow's milk less readily, and even 
in the case of the most dilute solutions of the latter we 
calculate that the stomach is not empty until about one and 
a half hours after a feed. To give the stomach necessary 
rest, then, a minimum interval of two hours must be 
demanded, this interval gradually lengthening as the amount 
and strength of the mixture increases. 

Thus, during the first month ten feedings are given, eight 
during the day at intervals of two hours, and two during the 
night; by the end of the third month the number of feedings 
is reduced to seven, of which six are given during the day at 
intervals of two and a half hours, and one at night; during 
the sixth month, six feedings arc given, all during the day 
at intervals of three hour.s, and this procedure is continued 
thereafter. 

The prescribing of the diet. — So much for the diet of the 
average health}' infant, but how are we to prescribe it? In 
the first place we do well to remember that wc have to 
prescribe it. A written prescription somewhat after the 
following form is essential in every case : — 

3 tablespoonfuls milk ^ 

3 tablespoonfuls water I 

I teaspoonful cream Y"" ^e scalded, and serve as one feed. 

I teaspoonful white sugar I 

Six bottles to be given during the day (a feeding period never to 
exceed fifteen minutes) at intervals of two and a half hours, and one 
bottle at night. 
Or else this may be stated otherwise as — 
21 tablespoonfuls milk "| 

2 1 tablespoonfuls water | This mixture is to be scalded and divided 

7 teaspoonfuls cream | into seven feeds. 

7 teaspoonfuls white sugar I 

.Six bottles to be given during the day (a feeding period never to 
exceed fifteen minutes) at intervals of two and a half hours, and one 
bottle at night. 

Tlie weakly baby. — In the preceding few pages the diet to 
be recommended for an average healthy infant has been briefly 



PRESCRIBING OF DIET 249 

outlined. But some healthy infants arc markedly below the 
averat^e, and others just as markedly above it: they differ 
from it as regards nutritional needs, and as regards digestive 
capabilities. \Vc meet, on the one hand, with the unusually 
small and weak, or the premature infant. The premature 
infant is frequently unable to suck satisfactorily, and, when 
possible, the secretion of the maternal breast should be drawn 
off and given to the infant by the spoon. If, however, 
artificial feeding is necessary, the infant should be fed by the 
spoon every hour or one and a half hours, according to its 
age and strength. It is usually wise to commence with i 
tablespoonful of sugar and water (i teaspoonful of white sugar 
in I pint of boiled water) every hour for a day or two, and 
afterwards to add h teaspoonful of peptonised milk to each 
feeding, and to feed every one and a half hours instead of 
every hour. The amount of milk is, later on, gradually 
increased, and the degree of peptonisation gradually 
decreased. It is frequently advisable to add two or three 
drops of brandy to each feed. In some cases very dilute 
condensed milk (i dram Nestle's milk in 3 ounces of 
water), given in small quantities (i- ounce) hourly, is also 
very useful as the initial food. 

In the case of an infant which is merely undersized, the 
food should be that suitable for a younger infant, and, as a 
rule, it should be adapted more with regard to the weight 
than the age of the infant. 

This, however, does not always result successfully, and 
when satisfactory gain in weight is not attained, the food must 
be increased in amount or quality, or some other change 
must be made. The methods most likely to be successful 
in such a case are two in number: either a cereal gruel 
(thick barley water, p. 34, or oatmeal gruel, p. 29C) may 
be added to the milk-mixture, or the milk-mixture may be 
replaced by Nestle's milk (one of the best varieties of con- 
densed whole milk sweetened). When the infant is receiving 
a milk-mixture of a composition suited to its age, and, conse- 
quently, somewhat over-strong when consideration is had of 
its weight, when there are no symptoms of digestive disturb- 
ance, and when there is not satisfactory gain in weight, in 
such a case add a cereal gruel to the food, replace the water 



250 INFANT FEEDING 

with barlcy-watcr. When, however, the infant shows in any 
manner that the digestive powers arc beincj highly taxed, 
while the addition of a cereal gruel may prove of value, it is 
usually advisable rather to have recourse at once to Nestlc's 
condensed milk. Give this milk in the proportion of i tea- 
spoonful of the milk to 6 tablespoonfuls of water, and, of this, 
give at each feeding time the amount suited to the age of the 
child. This mixture should be continued for ten days, a 
fortnight, or even longer, and then, if all goes well, cow's milk 
is gradually added to it. Now, in these two changes — the 
change from a cow's milk-mixture to Nestlc's milk, and later 
the addition to this latter of cow's milk — an important prin- 
ciple in infant feeding is involved, and it is this : 

In altering the diet of an infant, when the change to be 
made is that from a food of higher nutritive value and greater 
digestive strain to that of a lower value and less strain, the 
alteration may be made suddenly ; but when the alteration is 
in the reverse direction, it must be undertaken slowly and 
step by step. 

The big, strong baby. — In the case of a big, strong infant, 
the quantities and the strength of the food previously men- 
tioned are insufficient for his needs ; the milk-mixture must 
be more rapidly strengthened, a cereal gruel may be added to 
it, and to the infant of six months of age and over, a malted 
food, such as Horlick's malted milk, may be given once or 
even twice daily. 



CHAPTER XV 

INFANT FEEDING — DIET IN FIRST TWO YEARS 
OF LIFE — contiiiucd 

B. Infant Feeding in Disease, and Diet to Close 
of the Second Year 



The dietetic treatment 

of minor ailment . 

Constipation . . 

Vomiting . 

Colic and diarrhoea . 



251 

251 

252 

253 



The employment of sodium citrate 253 
Peptonised milk . . .253 
The use of Inittermilk . . 253 
Improper feeding .... 254 
Acute symptoms (acute gastro- 
intestinal catarrh) . -254 
Chronic symptoms (chronic 

gastro-intestinal catarrh) , 255 
Malnutrition — marasmus . . 255 

Scurvy 256 

Some further conditions of serious 

illness in infancy . . . 256 
Serious cases of vomiting . . 257 
Examination of the vomited 

matter .... 257 
Examination of the stools in 

infancy .... 258 



Some further conditions of serious 
illness in infancy — continued. 
The dietetic treatment of con- 
genital hypertrophic stenosis 
of the pylorus 
Congenital syphilis 



260 
261 



Diet till the end of the second year 261 

The foodstuffs .... 261 

Acidosis ..... 262 
The general dietary of the second 

year 263 

Particulars of the diet for average 

healthy children . . . 263 

Forms of sickness in young children 265 

Acute illness .... 265 

Gastro-intestinal . , . 265 

Non-gastro-intestinai . . 265 

Chronic illness .... 265 

Gastro-intestinal . , . 265 

Rickets 265 

Anoemia .... 266 

Tuberculosis .... 266 



The Dietetic Treatment in cases of Minor Ailment. — 

Of minor ailments occurring in infancy, avistipatioti is one of 
the commonest, and in its treatment diet is all-important. 

Constipation frequently occurs in infants who are appar- 
ently suitably fed, and in all cases it is necessary to exclude 

261 



253 INFANT FEEDING 

any local affoclion of the rectum or anus. Habit is important 
in the prophylaxis of constipation, and careful training is 
always valuable in its cure. The addition of a dilute cereal 
gruel, such as barley-water, to the food, an increase in the 
amount of cream, a change from milk sugar to cane sugar, a 
tablespoonful of a fresh fruit juice thrice daily — all arc 
important dietetic methods of counteracting this condition in 
the case of bottle-fed infants. The employment of citrated 
milk is frequently associated with the condition of constipation, 
and the addition of sodium citrate to milk-mixtures must 
always be onl)' a temporary expedient. 

In other cases variation of the food is frequently useful, 
and a teaspoonful of a proprietary food, such as linger or 
Mellin, added to one or two of the bottles in the day, may 
prove very satisfactory. 

The condition is not uncommon among breast-fed infants, 
and in such cases the digestion and the diet of the mother 
must in the first place be carefully attended to. Consti- 
pation occurs when the baby is not getting enough food, 
and when its food is not strong enough ; in both cases 
the remedy is simple, when the cause of the condition is 
recognised. 

Enemata should not be continued in routine use. There 
is a great tendency, when the practice is once started, to 
continue, daily, syringing out the infant's rectum. This is 
distinctly inadvisable, and when the condition is not amenable 
to treatment by dietetic measures, olive oil (i dram) or 
cascara (5 m.) thrice daily, are more satisfactory. 

Voviiting may occur through over-filling of the stomach 
in cases where the amount of food is too large, or it may be 
due to the infant drinking too quickly; both conditions, when 
recognised, are obviously readily remedied. All infants 
occasionally regurgitate a small quantity of fluid soon after 
drinking. This condition must not be allowed to continue, as 
a habit of vomiting is readily developed in certain infants 
and is often very difficult to treat. If the amount of 
fluid given at each feeding-time is not too large, and if the 
infant docs not drink too quickly, it is usually sufficient, to 
stop the habit of regurgitation in early cases, to prop the 
upper part of the baby's body up in the cot after feeding, 



COLIC AND DIARRH(EA 263 

and to avoid rocking, nursing, or moving him about. The 
chief cause of serious vomiting is irritability of the stomach, 
due to the presence in it of undigested or unsuitable food, 
and such cases are dealt with on pages 256 to 258. 

Colic and diarrJuva, due, it may be, to a chill, or to some 
temporary indiscretion in the diet, require, in the first place, 
satisfactory cleansing of the contents of the alimentary tract, 
and this is most satisfactorily brought about by a dose of 
castor oil. Thereafter, for twenty-four or thirty-six hours, the 
infant is given a food considerably weaker than it was 
accustomed to ; then gradually a full diet is regained. The 
addition oi sodium citrate to the milk-mixture is frequently a 
valuable dietetic means of treatment (p. 239). It is of use in 
a variety of conditions. An infant may have to be weaned 
suddenly, while still in the early months of infancy, owing to 
the illness of the mother, and this infant may at first bear badly 
a diet consisting of a cow's milk-mixture. By adding sodium 
citrate, a milk-mixture of adequate strength can, however, 
be more readily tolerated, and the infant's nutrition satis- 
factorily maintained. Again, when breast-nursing has been 
irregular, when, perhaps, in addition, a proprietary food has 
been given occasionally, and when, in all probability, the 
digestive powers of the infant have been somewhat irregularly 
developed, it is, as a rule, wise to commence milk-feeding 
with a citrated milk. Or, when a strong infant is recovering 
from an attack of acute gastro-enteric catarrh, citration of a 
milk-mixture may permit of stronger and more satisfactory 
food being given early ; while to any infant recovering from 
such an attack, citrated milk is one of the steps which may be 
taken on the way to regain a natural diet (p. 255). 

The indications for the prcdigestioji or pcptonisation of a 
tnilk-mixturc are acute illness, high fever, and in many cases 
those already mentioned in which sodium citrate is of use. 

In chronic conditions peptonised milk is, however, of less 
value practically than theoretically it ought to be, and not 
infrequently citration of the milk proves more satisfactory 

(P- 239)- 

Buttermilk, prepared naturally or by artificial means, is a 
valuable form of diet in certain cases. It is, however, not 
yet possible to lay down any very definite rules as to the 



254 INFANT FEEDING 

cases in which it should be given. When given raw, its 
outstanding characteristics are its poverty in fat, and the 
presence in it of living lactic acid bacilli, and, theoretically, 
it should accordingly be given in those cases in which there 
is diftkulty in fat digestion, and in which we wish to extend 
the area of the lactic acid flora. The ordinary putrefactive 
changes in milk occurring in the digestive tract take place 
through the agency of organisms acting in an alkaline 
medium, and the presence of large numbers of lactic acid 
bacilli in the milk prevent the action of these organisms. 

I have found buttermilk — raw commercial buttermilk 
— of marked value in cases of summer infective diarrhoea. 
Being a food of low nutritive value, it is well to add to it as 
the symptoms improve a small amount of barley or oatmeal 
flour, and as there is a tendency for the infant to become so 
accustomed to this form of nourishment as to render it 
unwilling to return to a more suitable diet, the administration 
of the buttermilk should be of as temporary a nature as 
possible (p. 239). 

Improper Feeding. — The results of improper feeding may 
display themselves as acute or as chronic symptoms, ^.^. acute 
or chronic gastro-intestinal catarrh. Such conditions may be 
brought about by other causes also, but, as improper feeding 
is by far the most common cause, it is convenient to consider 
the dietetic treatment under this heading. When the con- 
dition is acute, one must recognise that the alimentary canal 
of this infant is intolerant of food ; its digestive power is 
disordered and, for the time being, inactive ; its gastro- 
intestinal tract is unduly irritable, and constantly irritated by 
obnoxious contents ; digestion is at a standstill ; diarrhoea 
and vomiting constantly drain away the strength ; vitality is 
at a low ebb. The two primary indications are to sustain the 
infant's strength, and to remove the irritating contents of the 
alimentary canal. No attempts to administer food are, for 
the time being, permissible, and the length of time during 
which the administration of food is refrained from, and the 
nature of the food first given, must depend upon the age of 
the child and the severity of the condition. A purgative and 
an enema are always called for ; it may be necessary to wash 
out the stomach ; transfusion with saline solution is always 



IMPROPER FEEDING 

advisable, and brandy well diluted (30 drops in I ounce of 
water) may be given by the mouth. 

In commencing nourishment the steps must be very 
gradual by which we regain the dietetic normal. At the com- 
mencement, albumin water and brandy (5 m.) are given to the 
infant freely — hourly. With improvement in the condition — 
diminution of diarrhoea, absence of vomiting, disappearance 
of felled, toxic facies — whey is substituted for the albumin 
water. The period during which all milk or cream is 
excluded from the diet of the young infant in severe cases 
lasts several days, and it is always prudent to wait for marked 
improvement in the facies and number of stools before 
making such addition. On the other hand, it must be 
remembered that an infant on a diet of whey and brandy 
is apt to pass numerous liquid stools, and if the general 
appearance is otherwise satisfactory some more satisfying 
form of nourishment is called for. A small amount of cream 
is now added to the food, and an infant of about three 
months of age now gets 2| or 3 ounces of whey with h 
dram of cream every two hours, brandy being continued 
if necessary. The amount of cream is slowly increased day 
by day for two or three days, and this mixture is then 
replaced by dilute fully citrated milk (i part of milk, 2 parts 
of water, 2 grains of sodium citrate, to each ounce of milk), or 
by dilute peptonised (forty minutes) milk. Thereafter the 
normal diet is gradually regained. 

In cases, however, where in spite of acute digestive 
disorder the general condition of the infant is fairly satis- 
factory, after six, eight, or ten hours of abstention from milk 
food, feeding may be recommenced with a dilute milk. 

When the symptoms are c/irom'c, gradual correction of the 
causal dietetic impropriety may suffice, but usually more 
than this is necessary. The digestive powers have, in som.e 
manner, been over-taxed, and they must, consequently, be 
partially and temporarily rested. To this end the food 
must, in the first instance, be restricted in all its elements, 
and only gradually strengthened. Many of these cases are 
extremely intractable, and marked malnutrition occurs. 
The term inaras)niis is sometimes used to denote a condition 
of extreme malnutrition whatever the cause may be; it is 



256 INFANT FEEDING 

frequently used in connection with cases of extreme mal- 
nutrition due to prolonged improper feeding or long-standing 
digestive disorder; it also, however, appears to apply to a 
condition due to inherent weakness of the digestive powers, 
and in these latter cases it is occasionally found that small 
doses of thyroid extract (^ grain to ^ grain) thrice daily give 
beneficial results. 

In all cases of malnutrition or marasmus, to enable us 
to judge of the dietetic means most likely to restore or 
improve the infant's health, we have first of all to seek by 
all means in our power to discover any underlying cause for 
the condition. The history must be fully entered into ; 
syphilis, tuberculosis, empyema, etc., carefully excluded, the 
previous diet of the infant closely considered in conjunction 
with his present condition, the nature of his stools, vomit, 
etc. The history may supply us with a hint as to the food- 
stuff probably at fault, or it may be impossible to lay our 
finger on any one factor which more than another seems to 
have brought about the condition. We consequently strive 
to find the directions in which the infant's digestion is 
stronger, and to avoid those in which it is weaker. To do 
so we commence with a food likely to be well within his 
digestive capacity — it may be whey and brandy — gradually 
strengthen and add the various milk ingredients to this, 
keeping a careful eye on the nature of the stools. In many 
cases J grain of grey powder, given night and morning, 
proves of great value. 

It is well to allude here to the condition of scurvy. 
The infant suffering from early scurvy not infrequently 
shows no marked physical signs, and displays no definitely 
characteristic symptoms ; it, however, refuses food, or is 
unable to digest it. In these cases arrangement of the 
diet is of no avail unless the scorbutic condition is first 
treated with fruit juices, when digestive difficulties will 
greatly diminish (see also p. 392). 

Some further Conditions of Serious Illness in Infancy. — 
Vomiting has previously been alluded to as one of the minor 
ailments of infancy. The act is an easy one ; it is a common 
symptom in a wide variety of conditions, and its nature and 
significance vary considerably. The common cause of 



TREATMENT OF VOMITING 257 

serious votiiitiug \s irritability of the stomnch, clue to the 
presence in it of undigested or unsuitable food. It may be 
that there is excess of sugar, of fat, or of protein, of one or of 
all in the food ; the vomit and the stools require careful 
examination, and treatment has to be conducted on the 
lines already laid down. 

Now, what may we learn from examination of the 
vornited material, and what from examination of the stools? 

With regard to the vomit, it is important in the first 
place to recognise the manner of the act of vomiting and its 
relation to the taking of food. Thus the gastric contents 
may, after a feed, gently trickle out of the corners of the 
mouth, or they may be forcibly shot out in a stream to 
some considerable distance ; or vomiting may occur twenty, 
thirty, or sixty minutes after a meal ; or the vomiting may 
occur so irregularly as to have no definite relationship to 
the taking of food. This last condition is that present when 
cerebral or meningeal affections lie at the root ot the evil, 
and to it I shall not again refer ; vomiting as a symptom of 
acute diseases, such as intestinal obstruction, is also not a 
condition which permits of dietetic treatment. 

The vomiting of early infanc)', caused by digestive 
disorder, is, as a rule, not markedly forcible ; the muscular 
system in general, and the muscular coat of the stomach in 
particular, is largely undeveloped, the upright position of 
the stomach renders regurgitation easy, and consequently, 
in order to evacuate its contents, no great gastric force is 
called for. When, however, the muscular wall of the 
stomach and of the pylorus is abnormally developed or 
increased, the process of vomiting tends to be much 
more forcible, and if the food is unable to pass through the 
pylorus, shortly after a meal very forcible ejection of the 
gastric contents takes place. Such is the condition of affairs 
in the affection known as congenital hypertrophy of the 
pylorus ; the vomiting in the early stages always occurs 
shortly after taking food, and the nature of the vomiting is 
a more important diagnostic sign than the character of the 
vomit, as, especially in its later stages, the condition is 
likely to be complicated with disturbance of gastric digestion. 
When, on the other hand, digestive disturbance is the 

K 



258 INFANT FEEDING 

primary cause of the condition, examination of the vomited 
matter may give assistance, and although in many instances 
such examination docs not greatly facilitate our diagnosis 
as to the food clement with which the disturbance has arisen, 
and moreover, while in most cases there probably is already 
difficulty in dealing with all food substances, yet this 
examination should never be omitted, and is an additional 
point of possible assistance to us. 

Vomiting may be originally due to indigestion caused by 
abnormal changes in the protein, fat, or sugar of the food 
occurring in the stomach. In sugar indigestion the vomiting 
is usually accompanied by much eructation of gas, and the 
vomited material is extremely acid : when fat is at fault, 
the vomited matter has a peculiarly sour and acrid odour ; and 
when the protein is the cause of the vomiting, tough curds 
are vomited, usually, however, with a considerable degree of 
acidity or sourness. Examination of the vomited material 
is, of course, only one point in our diagnosis, another point 
is t'xaiiii nation of the stools. Here again we have to realise 
that it is often quite impossible to say what has been the 
exciting cause of the condition, as the process, once initiated, 
has caused disturbance of many or of all the digestive 
functions. 

For clinical and practical purposes our methods of 
examination of the stools are markedly restricted in number, 
and, in the main, consist in accurate observation and simple 
chemical reactions. In the case of a healthy breast-fed 
infant, the stools are acid to litmus-paper, owing to the 
presence of volatile fatty acids, and more especially to the 
presence of free lactic acid ; when the infant is fed on cow's 
milk the reaction shows signs of a certain degree of protein 
putrefaction, and is, consequently, faintly alkaline. In cases 
of feeding with buttermilk, unless there is much carbohydrate 
mixed with the milk, the reaction of the stools is naturally 
alkaline, owing to the presence of ammonia. The yellowish 
colour of a " normal " stool is undoubtedly subject to con- 
siderable variation ; it varies within the bounds of normality 
according to the composition of the milk or milk-mixture 
employed as food, the amount and activity of the digestive 
juices, and on the degree of bacterial action which takej 



STOOLS AS A GUIDE TO TREATMENT 259 

place durinof its progress through the ah'mentary canal. 
Thus, with a large amount of carbohydrate in the diet, the 
stools tend to be brown ; with an amount of fat bordering on 
the maximum " normal," or with a tendency to inefficient 
fat digestion, the colour becomes more grey ; while with an 
excessive degree of protein putrefaction and intestinal 
bacterial action, the stools become quickly and markedly 
green on exposure to the air. In cases where the stools are 
green, this colour is due to oxidation of the normal colouring 
matter of the faeces — bilirubin — into biliverdin ; such a 
change is a very frequent accompaniment of various forms of 
food disturbance, and is very largely brought about by 
bacterial action. Along with the administration of calomel, 
green stools are common, the explanation of this apparently 
being the increased alkalinity brought about in the upper 
bowel ; with various other drugs the colour of the faeces, as 
in adults, is also affected. Of abnormal constituents, blood 
is recognisable, as in the case of adults. A small amount of 
mucus is common in the stools of healthy children, more 
especially when there is a tendency to constipation, or when 
the amount of ingested protein material is greater than the 
digestive juices are capable of dealing with. Much mucus 
means irritation of the intestinal v\'alls through food or 
bacteria ; the mucus is usually from the large intestine, but 
when it comes from the small intestine, it occurs as small 
flakes in a liquid motion. 

Fat in the stools occasionally occurs as greasy, opalescent 
molecules, frequently more or less closely connected with true 
protein curd, and thus gives to the casual observer an appear- 
ance of somewhat massive curds in the stool. 

When associated with diarrhoea, fat appears in the stools 
as yellow lumps in a green fluid motion. Frothy, liquid stools 
are common along with fermentative changes in the alimentary 
canal, and are frequently due to excess of carbohydrate in the 
food. 

In the great majority of cases of ordinary infantile 
diarrhoea, when this diarrhoea is at all profuse, the stools show 
the following characteristics : — They are acid to litmus-paper, 
green and watery in appearance and consistence ; they contain 
numerous white solid curds, and there is constantly present a 



260 INFANT FEEDING 

distinct amount of inuciis, which, however, varies considerably 
in quantity. Towards the diagnosis of the primary cause of 
the digestive disturbance these stools give, I think, no assist- 
ance ; they indicate, on the other hand, disturbance of all 
digestive functions, and emphasise the necessity of digestive 
rest. When treatment has been commenced, however, 
examination of the stools is doubly important. By their 
appearance we are greatly assisted in judging of the wisdom 
of our dietetic treatment and of the form of food constituents 
which we may safely increase. 

In the digestive disturbances of infancy vomiting is usually 
associated with a certain degree of diarrhoea ; in the important 
condition to which I have already alluded, however — con- 
genital pyloric stenosis — this is not the case, and vomiting here 
is usually associated with constipation. 

The medical treatment of these cases is practically entirely 
dietetic. 

As a consequence of the abnormal condition at the pylorus, 
food passes with difficulty from the stomach into the 
duodenum, the hypertrophied stomach wall attempts to 
forcibly press it through, but its efforts largely result in 
merely producing vomiting. Some of the milk remains in the 
stomach, and, in the course of time, fermentation occurs, 
irritation of the gastric mucous membrane succeeds, and a 
gastric catarrh is set up. 

Medical treatment is naturally most successful when the 
condition is recognised early, and when, consequently, suitable 
dietetic procedures are adopted before the development of 
secondary catarrhal conditions, which in themselves increase 
the tendency to muscular spasm. 

Food should be given in small quantities frequently. The 
best form of food is mother's milk, but when this is not obtain- 
able, a fully peptonised or fully citratcd milk-mixture should 
be given in tablespoonful doses, hourly. As the condition 
improves, the amount at each feeding period and the intervals 
between these periods may be gradually increased. 

A very important aid to treatment consists in washing 
out the stomach. This procedure is usually called for how- 
ever early the case is seen, and is always necessary when 
secondary catarrh has been set up. 



CONGENITAL SYPHILIS 2C1 

The fluid used may be plain sterilised water or slightly 
alkaline water, and the procedure is to be carried out 
daily. 

In the condition known as summer diarrhoea, infective 
diarrhoea, or acute gastro-enteric infection, the dietetic treat- 
ment has to be carried out very largely along the lines already 
mentioned, when speaking of the acute symptoms resulting 
from improper feeding (p. 254). 

The rearing of an infant suffering from congenital syphilis 
is not, infrequently, a matter of the greatest difficulty. Most 
syphilitic children brought up on breast milk, and regularly 
treated with grey powder, do extremely well, and many 
artificially reared infants also do well when carefully treated. 
But deprivation of its mother's milk is a much more serious 
matter for a syphilitic than for a non-syphilitic child, 
and the artificial rearing of these children is frequently a 
matter which taxes to the utmost the resources of the 
physician. 

Diet till the End of the Second Year. 

During the latter three or four months of the first year, 
the milk should be strengthened by some farinaceous food. 
Most of the proprietary infant foods can now be used with 
advantage, and are a useful means of adding sugar and starch 
to the food and of lending variety to the diet (see p. 154). 

Carbohydrate can, however, be usefully added to the diet 
in another form. The infant has reached an age at which he 
demands something to chew, and also at which the eruption 
of teeth and the development of the jaws is in active 
process. 

A crust of stale bread is now a valuable part of the diet, 
and it is well to spread this crust freely with butter. Other 
than milk, which still forms the bulk of the diet, and occasion- 
ally a portion of a raw egg, animal food is not advisable at 
this time. 

During the second year, however, animal food in the form 
of soup, gravy, fish, and minced meat comes to occupy a 
large and important place in the dietary. Such food is 
rich in protein, and is a valuable means of securing healthy 
development. 



262 INFANT FEEDING 

C.irbohyHratcs at this pcriorl, as in later life, are readily 
ciigcstcd antl readily absorbed. For these reasons it is 
obvious that carbohydrate is a very valuable form of foodstuff 
in childhood. Ikit carbohj'dratc is apt to be given in excess 
at this time, and sooner or later bacterial fermentation sets in, 
with its resulting gastro-intestinal symptoms. 

Fat is still an important element in the diet, and is 
usually readily digested in the form of cream or butter. 
Cream, butter, and eggs are valuable forms of nourishment 
for the child, and care must be taken that their place is not 
usurped to any extent by increase in the amount of carbo- 
hydrate. But, on the other hand, excess of fat in the food 
is also associated with danger, and is intimately connected 
with the extremely complex subject oi" acidosis" in children. 
The exact explanation of this condition is unknown. It is 
invariably associated with the presence of acetone in the 
urine, and minor degrees of this condition of acetonuria are 
extremely common. 

Owing to the vomiting which accompanies the serious 
acute condition of acidosis, it is frequently impossible to give 
the child anything by the stomach. If solution of sodium 
bicarbonate (15 grains, hourly, for six hours) is not retained, 
the stomach must be washed out, normal saline solution 
injected subcutaneously, and attempts made to inject the 
alkaline solution intravenously if it is still rejected by the 
stomach. 

In the minor cases of acetonuria a purgative should be 
administered, the diet restricted to milk diluted according to 
the age and general condition of the child, and alkalis given 
freely. 

With the resumption of a fuller diet, care must be taken 
to see that the various food constituents occur in their 
right proportions. 

On the other hand, the importance of a sufficiency of fat 
in the food has been frequently alluded to, and will be con- 
sidered more particularly later, in connection with the subject 
of rickets. 

In any ordinary diet salts are present in abundance, and 
during the first two years of life it is important that they 
.should be obtained from milk, which is rich in three of the 



DIETARY IN SECOND YEAR 263 

substances most necessary at this period — calcium, potassium, 
and phosphorus. Some of the more important sources of 
iron are vegetable substances, such as oatmeal, also meat 
and eggs. 

Most healthy children eat more than is absolutely necessary 
for their bodily requirements, and a small surplus amount 
of food in general cannot be regarded as other than good 
for the child. Habitual under-feeding is undoubtedly 
markedly injurious. 

The General Dietary of the Second Year. — What is the 
average diet for the average child ? What is his food to 
consist of? How often is he to be fed in the course of the 
day? How much food is he to get at one time? 

Before particularising, it is useful to briefly survey the diet 
for the period. At the age of twelve months and throughout 
the second year the baby is to be given five meals in the day, 
although in many cases four are sufficient before the end of 
the second year is reached. Between meal-times water may 
be allowed in moderation, but it is of the utmost importance 
that the hours for feeding be strictly observed, and that no 
food be given in the intervals. Throughout the second year 
the child should receive 2 pints of milk a day, a certain 
amount of which he obtains in the form of milk puddings, 
whereby he also receives farinaceous food. At this time 
also he should be given eggs, plain soup or gravy, with a 
little breadcrumb or mashed potato ; and about the eighteenth 
month a little minced meat or fish. Now also some 
well-boiled green vegetable should be added to his diet. 
The digestive powers at this period are comparatively 
limited, but the child is growing and developing rapidly in 
every direction : he demands variations in his food and in the 
nature of the foodstuffs, and it is unwise, for many reasons, 
to limit his diet to those articles which are most readily and 
fully digestible. 

Stewed fruit, bread and butter, porridge and milk, arc 
valuable forms of food at this period, and animal protein 
other than that in milk should be given once daily in the 
form of minced meat, fish, or egg. 

About the close of the eighth month of life weaning should 
be commenced in the case of a breast-fed infant, and by the 



264 INFANT FEEDING 

twelfth month, at latest, breast-nursinc; should entirely cease. 
Whenever possible, the infant, on weaning from the breast, 
should be fed from a cup and have no intermediate period of 
bottle-feeding. 

A/ the uiuth mouth the feeding of the average infant is 
approximately as follows : — Food is given six times during 
the day, at, say 7 A.M., 10 A.M., i P.M., 4 P.M., 7 P.M., 10 P.M. 
At each of these periods the food consists of 6 to 8 ounces 
of milk, with i dessertspoonful to i tablespoonful of cream. 
Along with the second and fifth meals there is given a crust 
of .stale bread or a piece of toast well toasted. The milk of 
the third and fourth meals is strengthened with a table- 
spoonful of a cereal or of a proprietary food, such as Mellin's, 
or of some food such as Farola. In addition, a little fresh fruit 
juice suitably sweetened may be given occasionally, and, should 
the infant desire it, water may be given freely between meals. 

By the tivclfth month the food can usually be conveniently 
given at five meal periods, at, approximately, 7 A.M., 10 A.M., 
2 P.M., 5 P.M., 9 P.M. The food is to consist of about 2 pints 
of milk and 2 ounces of cream, thickened with some food, 
such as Farola. A crust of bread or a piece of toast covered 
with a little butter is allowed at any meal. Twice a week, 
at the midday meal, half a raw egg is beaten up in the milk. 

Fp'ojh the twelfth till the eighteenth month, thin porridge 
and milk or bread in milk forms a suitable breakfast. For 
the second meal, a good drink of milk — about half a pint — 
and a buttered crust suffice. The third meal consists of 
either plain soup, with a thin half-slice of bread and butter 
and a drink of milk ; or, a lightly boiled egg, a table.spoonful 
of mashed potatoes and butter, and a drink of milk ; or, a 
little gravy and breadcrumbs, with a milk pudding. The 
fourth meal consists of a drink of milk and a buttered crust, 
and the last meal of the day, of milk thickened with a cereal. 

By the eighteenth mo)ith many infants wiP do with four 
meals daily instead of five, and thereafter, till the close of the 
second year, four meals are usually sufficient. During this 
period minced meat, fish, and well-cooked vegetables are 
added to the dietary, and these should be given at the meal 
in the middle of the da\'. 

In the case of ail healthy children variety in the diet is 



SICKNESS IN CHILDREN 265 

important, mirl to this end it is always wise to allow the 
mother or nurse a certain reasonable latitude in the ordering 
and nature of the food, but only in the case of healthy 
children. Strictly forbid alcohol, tea, coffee, salad, pickles, 
and all such condiments ; salted food, canned food, raw 
vegetables, pastry, nuts, and unripe fruit. 

Forms of Sickness in Young Children, — For delicate 
children or for sick children, the diet must be prescribed in 
detail and in writing. 

During acute illness^ at this period the food must consist 
solely of milk, and it is always well to give the milk diluted 
with a third or a fourth of its bulk of water or of lime-water. 

When the condition is primarily (^astiv-intcsfinal, even 
milk must be temporarily withheld. In these cases imme- 
diate treatment is purgative and stimulant, associated 
in most cases with gastric lavage and hypodermic saline 
injection. Water is the essential dietetic constituent here ; 
the dietetic ladder must be slowly climbed, rung by rung, and 
in many cases no milk should be given until the temperature 
is approximately normal. In the serious condition oi vnicous 
colitis some form of milk poor in curd is often useful, and 
Nestle's milk (i dram in 4 ounces water) given frequently 
in small quantities is a satisfactory form. 

When the primary condition, on the other hand, is no7i- 
gastro-iniestinal, milk diluted about one-third can, as a rule, 
b3 given almost from the commencement. It is inadvisable 
to give more than i| pints of milk in the twenty-four hours to 
an infant of two years old, but frequent drinks of water are 
beneficial. Theoretically, milk in these cases should always 
be peptonised, but this is often quite unnecessary : this 
procedure should, however, always be carried out when for 
any reason in the past history, weakness of the digestive 
powers is to be feared, and, of course, immediately it is 
suspected that non-peptonised milk is unsuited to the infant. 
Of chronic illnesses at this period, gastro-intestinal con- 
ditions are very common, and are to be treated along the 
lines already laid down. This is the time of life when rickets 
occurs, and the rachitic child requires careful dietetic treat- 
ment. He requires regulation of his feeding times, he 
almost certainly requires restriction of the amount of carbo- 



26r> INFANT FEEDING 

h}'drritc fond which he is rcccivinc]^, and he usually requires 
more milk and less of whatever form of improper food it has 
been his attendant's pleasure to give him. As a rule, the 
digestive processes in these children are disturbed to a 
greater or less extent, and caution in the diet is the first 
indication. Along with reduction of the carbohydrate 
element in the food and elimination of improper forms of 
food, gradual digestive improvement occurs, fat in the form 
of cream, butter, and eggs should be increased in amount, and 
the protein element in the food well sustained. 

Excess of carbohydrate in the food, and more particularly 
of starch, is the chief cause of rickets. The presence of 
abnormal amounts of this foodstuff interferes with the 
digestion of fat, and though lack of fat in the food frequently 
causes rickets, yet very often rickets occurs although there is 
an ample amount of fat present in the milk-mixture, and in 
these cases the condition is usually due to carbohydrate excess. 
In treating the case, then, while it is extremely important that 
an ample supply of fat be given, care must also be taken 
that the amount of carbohydrate is strictly limited. 

For many cases of anamia occurring at this period dietetic 
treatment is all-important, and, in most, dietetic errors suc- 
ceeded bygastro-intestinal disorders lie at the root of the evil. 

To detail the treatment in these cases, therefore, would 
signify recapitulation of the rules already laid down as 
applicable to infant-feeding in general. 

To no one foodstuff alone can the condition be ascribed. 
The whole environment, method of life, and dietetic history 
must be carefully considered, and it has to be remembered 
that an important factor in the causation of the condition 
may have been a dietetic error in connection with ajiy of the 
food constituents. 

Finally, this is the period of life when the earliest, or it 
may be only the premonitory, signs and symptoms of 
tuberadous infectio7i disclose themselves, and this, conse- 
quently, must be the time when most strenuous measures are 
undertaken to counteract the infection. Of such measures, 
not the least important is a plentiful supply of fat in the diet, 
and cream, butter, eggs, and cod-liver oil must be given to 
the verge of the child's capacity to utilise them satisfactorily. 



CHAPTER XVI 



DIETARY IN FEVERS AND ACUTE INFECTIVE DISEASES 



Introduction . . . , . 267 
Principles of feeding . . . 267 
Milk and its derivatives . . 268 

Eggs 270 

Meat infusions and derivatives . 270 
Carbohydrate foods . . . 274 
Thirst-quenchers . , • . 275 
Stimulants 276 



Special fevers — 




Typhoid . . , . 


. 277 


Pneumonia . , 


. 288 


Acute rheumatism 


. 288 


Scarlatina . . . , 


. 289 


Whooping-cough 


. 289 


Measles 


. 290 


Influenza . 


. 290 


Other infective diseases 


. 290 



A HIGH temperature acts on all the tissues of the body, 
causing alteration in normal metabolic processes, and derange- 
ment, more or less severe, of the whole alimentary tract. 
Associated with the high temperature there is rapid wasting 
of the albuminous tissues, with an increased combustion of 
the structural elements of the body. 

As a consequence of this, there is an excessive excretion 
of urea, which is eliminated in the urine, but which may for a 
time accumulate in the blood. There is, also, although to a 
less degree, an increased excretion of carbonic acid. 

At the same time, the functions of the digestive and 
assimilative organs are gravely disturbed. There are morbid 
changes affecting the peptic and other secreting glands in 
the digestive tract. These changes are usually accompanied 
by loss of appetite, and even disgust for food, which, if 
administered, is often vomited. 

Principles of Feeding. — The following are the guiding 
principles in treatment: — 

I. An adequate supply of albumins, carbohydrates and 

2C7 



268 FEVERS AND ACUTE INFECTIVE DISEASES 

gelatines must be given, to nciitirilisc the increased com- 
bustion in the tissues resulting from the high temperature. 

2. No food should be administered which cannot be 
readily absorbed and assimilated, for if the enfeebled digestive 
organs are overloaded, the undigested food will undergo 
fermentative changes, which will lead to gastro-intestinal 
irritation. With suitable feeding, the wasting is less, the 
patient does not become so reduced, and, consequently, the 
convalescence is more rapid. 

3. An abundance of fluid should be given. This over- 
comes the dry and parched sensation in the throat and fauces, 
washes out through the kidneys the waste matter produced 
by the increased rate of metabolism, and promotes the 
elimination of the toxins, 

4. Food must be given in measured quantities at regular 
intervals, and should be daintily served. 

It is specially important to attend to the toilet of the 
mouth in fever. Regular cleansing of the mouth and teeth 
with an antiseptic mouth-wash at least three or four times 
daily checks fermentative processes, and enables the patient 
to take his food to the best advantage. 

Food, in all cases of pyrexia, should be administered in 
the fluid form, the quantity small, from 3 to 4 ounces at a 
time, and given at short intervals (every one and a half 
to two and a half hours) during the day. At night, if 
the strength is being well maintained, simple drinks to 
quench the thirst are all that is required ; by this arrangement 
the digestive organs obtain rest. 

The diet must be selected from the following substances, 
viz. — milk, whey, eggs, meat teas, meat infusions, meat juices, 
meat extracts, soups, meat jellies, calfs-foot jelly, grape 
sugar, starches, fruit juices, fruit soup, and beverages of low 
nutritional value. This diet may be suitably varied by 
changing the flavouring substances. 

Milk and its Derivatives. — Milk is pre-eminently the diet 
for the febrile state. It is also the most convenient form of 
food, but it must be borne in mind that milk forms a solid 
curd when acted on by the gastric juice. On this account 
some per.sons, even in health, find milk indigestible. 

If there is any doubt of the milk being thoroughly 



MILK IN FEVER 2fi9 

satisfactory and fresh, it should be scalded. The necessary 
dilution of the milk depends <^rcatly on the di!:,festive powers 
of the patient. The effect of the diluent on the milk and 
its action on the density of the curd have already been 
considered (p. 33). The milk may be given hot or cold, 
but it is best to be slightly warmed. The following methods 
may be adopted : — 

(a) Simple dilution with boiling water, clear or thick 
barley-water (p. 34), toast, or rice-water, in the proportion 
of equal parts. 

(d) Dilution with an effervescent water — milk and Vichy 
or Vals water, equal parts, or milk one part with two portions 
of potash, soda, or Apollinaris water. In some patients effer- 
vescent drinks set up distension of the stomach and trouble- 
some flatulence ; this quickly subsides when the aerated water 
is stopped. 

(c) Dilution and mixture with an alkali. This method is 
advisable if there is pain and flatulence after the simply 
diluted milk. The addition of 10 grains of soda bicarbonate 
and 10 grains common salt, added to equal parts milk and 
water, often prevents pain and lessens the constipation. Lime- 
w^ater, in the proportion of one part lime-water to three parts 
of milk, is useful if there is pain and a tendency to diarrhoea. 
As to quantity, 2 ounces of the milk, diluted as recommended, 
may be given every one and a half hours. If this does not 
disagree, the amount may be increased. Three to four pints 
of milk daily are readily taken by most adult patients. In 
those cases where a milk regime for a lengthy period is 
necessary, attention should be directed to the points in its 
administration (referred to on p. 278). 

Repugnance to milk can be overcome by modifying the 
flavour of the milk ; for example, tea can be infused with 
boiled milk, or a very weak cocoa made with Allenbury's 
milk cocoa can be specially recommended for this. Horlick's 
malted milk made with milk is very palatable. A small 
amount, e.g. \ a teaspoonful of a meat extract such as Bovril, 
Oxo, Lemco, or Vigoral, added to a cup of warm milk or 
milk and water, is an excellent way of varying the flavour. 

{it) Modifuatioiis of milk. — Occasionally cases occur 
where diluted milk is not digested, and wluy will then be 



270 FEVERS AM) ACUTE INFECTIVE DISEASES 

foiiiKl useful. It will also be found an agreeable chancre in 
the monotony of a milk diet. The proportions and method 
of preparation are described in detail on page 40. VVhcy is 
practically milk minus the curd and fat, which have been got 
rid of by a process of coagulation and straining. Its nutritive 
value may be increased by the addition of strong beef-tea, 
raw-meat juice, egg-water, or Plasmon. Koumiss and Kepliir, 
fermented milks (p. 44), can sometimes be retained by an 
irritable stomach when everything else is rejected. 

Eggs. — Eggs form another permissible food, but ought 
not to be allowed too freely. They may be given as a drink, 
either alone or in combination with milk, or may be used to 
fortify other nourishment. As fluid food is preferable for 
pyrexial patients, eggs are best administered raw. The 
lightest form of egg drink is an ^^^ beaten up, added to 
3 ounces of very hot water, strained and flavoured with 
vanilla essence or cinnamon, and slightly sweetened. Another 
form of c^^ drink, more stimulating and nourishing, is 
described on page 47, where milk and sherry are added to 
the c^^. Egg flip, rich or plain (p. 48), is the white of egg 
added, when well beaten up, to milk or cream, and flavoured. 
A switched egg also may be added to a cup of tea or coffee. 
A whole Q^'g, beaten up with three times as much water, 
strained, and added to light broth or clear soup, is also very 
nourishing. Caution. — Do not add the Qgg to boiling soup, 
or it will curdle. Albumin water (p. 47), added to a clear 
soup or to a cup of 15ovril is nourishing and very pleasant. 

The patent preparation of Brand's termed " Fever food " 
is most nutritive ; it consists of essence of beef, eggs, and 
cream. In appearance it resembles custard, and has a very 
agreeable flavour which is quite distinct from the meaty 
flavours of the beef juices and extracts. 

Meat Inf visions, Juices, Extracts, etc. — This group of 
foods is largely administered, and their usefulness is 
universally admitted. The actual nutritive value of most of 
the beef-teas and clear soup is low, but a French authority 
has pointed out that the most suitable diet for febrile maladies 
is one that contains only a small quantity of albuminous 
matter ; and it is the possession of the saline principles 
(chloride and sulphate of potassium, etc.), dissolved in a 



MEAT INFUSIONS 271 

large amount of water, which constitute the chief recommenda- 
tion of broths and beef-teas. In the selection of a beef-tea 
or beef essence, it is far better to use a carefully prepared 
home-made beef-tea than any of the expensive patented 
beef-teas and meat juices, which are purchased at great cost 
in the belief that they are strengthening. In a previous 
chapter, p. 75, full directions are given for the preparation 
of "teas" (beef, mutton, and veal and chicken). There are 
two methods described ; method i is preferable for fever 
patients, as the flavour is less concentrated. When the 
"tea" has been made in the closed jars, as described under 
method 2, it is rather strong for most fever patients. 

Special attention should be given to the means of 
thickening the teas (p. 'j6) with tapioca, breadcrumbs, baked 
flour, arrowroot, oatmeal, and yolk of an egg ; the last 
mentioned being specially pleasant to a patient who is 
improving. The nutritive value of the food may be greatly 
increased by the addition of one or more of these substances. 

Vegetable flavouring can also be added by cooking vege- 
tables with the meat and straining carefully, without in any 
way injuring the digestibility of the food. Proprietary beef 
extracts, essences, and juices (p. 161) may also be given, but 
are not so satisfactory for fever patients as well-diluted foods. 

Gelatine is another important item in the diet of these 
cases. By itself it has not the same nutritive value as the 
albuminates, and in any case it is necessary to prescribe it 
in considerable quantities to attain the same end. Gelatine 
is not a tissue-builder, but it is a means of saving the 
albuminous waste from the tissues. From this point of view 
gelatine cannot be too strongly recommended. Gelatine may 
be administered in the form of a clear soup — "consomme" 
— or may be given as a meat jelly, calf's-foot jelly, or as a 
sweet jelly. 

Clear Soup or Consommd. 

I quart of first stock. (See Stockmaking, p. 74. This 

should be in the form of a good jelly.) 
6 ounces lean, juicy beef. 
I lump of sugar. 
I white and shell of egg. 

Method. — Carefully remove all fat from the top of the stock, and put 



•272 FEVERS AND ACUTE INFECTIVE DISEASES 

it into a clean-lined saucepan. Wipe the beef with a damp cloth, and 
slircil it down finely as you would for beef-tea, removing all fat and skin. 
Add this to the stock, with the white of the egg and the shell well 
washed and crushed. Whisk these over the fire with a wire whisk until 
the soup just comes to boiling-point. Then remove the whisk, and let it 
boil well up. Draw the pan to the side of the fire, where the soup will 
keep warm but not simmer, and cover it with a plate. Let it stand there 
from ten to fifteen minutes. Tie a clean cloth on to the four legs of a chair 
turned upside down, letting it fall slightly in the middle so as to form a 
bag. I'our some boiling water through the cloth into a basin to thoroughly 
heat the cloth. Place a clean, dry basin underneath, and pour the soup 
gently through the cloth. The soup will not be clear the first time, so 
change the basin and pour the soup through again, repeating this pro- 
cess until the soup runs through quite clear. In repeating, add a lump of 
sugar, which makes the soup sparkle. 

This soup can be varied by the addition of different 
garnishes, e.g. : — 

Consotiinii^ and Egg. 

T quart of consomme. i ^gg. 

Method. — Put the clear soup into a saucepan, and bring it to the boil. 

P>eat up the egg in a small cup or basin with a fork, and pour it slowly 

into the boiling soup, stirring all the time with a spoon. The egg will 

curdle in the soup, and look like threads of yellow. 

ConsoiniiKf with Custard. 

I pint clear soup. \ gill of clear soup. 

I yolk of egg. Pepper and salt. 

Take yolk of egg and a small portion of the white, heat up with \ 
gill of the clear soup, and season with pepper and salt, and strain into 
a greased egg-cup. Cover with greased paper, and steam very slowly 
for ten minutes, or until the custard feels (irm to the touch ; let it cool, 
and turn it out. Cut it into small dice. Put these in tureen, and pour 
boiling hot consomme over them. 

Meat, veal, or chicken jelly can be obtained from preparing 
the meat and chicken, as in beef-tea No. 2 Cp. y6), and 
serving it cold. Also the beef essence (p. yy') served cold 
makes a very nice jelly, but can only be taken in very small 
quantities, as it is very concentrated. 

Veal Jelly. 

1 lb. veal. I teacup of water. 

2 thin slices of turnip. Pinch of salt. 

Slice the veal very thinly, and place a layer of it in ajar with a layer 



CALF'S-FOOT JELLY 273 

of thinly sliced turnip, and repeat this until all is used up ; add the salt 
and water, cover the jar, put it in a saucepan with boiling water to reach 
up half-way, and simmer for four hours. Strain and serve cold. It will 
be in a strong jelly. 

Sweet jelly may be made from calves' feet or from 
gelatine. Calfs-foot jelly is troublesome to make, but if 
thoroughly well made it is much more delicate in flavour 
than gelatine jelly. Both methods are given. 

Calfs-foot Jelly {Sweet). 

I ox foot or two calf's feet. i blade mace. 

A lb. sugar. I inch cinnamon stick. 

4 eggs. 4 cloves. 

4 lemons. 2 glasses sherry wine. 

2 quarts of uater. 

Two calfs feet are equal to one ox foot, and make the same quantity 
of jelly ; they are prepared in the same way as the ox foot, but need not 
be boiled quite so long. Get the ox foot broken across several times ; 
split it up between the toes ; take out the piece of fat between the 
toes and all the marrow from the bones. First blanch the foot, by 
thoroughly washing, cover with cold water, and bring it to the boil. 
Now place it in a basin of cold water, and scrape well. 

After again rinsing in cold water, put it on in a clean pot with 2 quarts 
of cold water, bringing it to the boil and skimming it well, and boil very 
gently for about eight hours. If very gently simmered by the side of the 
fire, the stock does not reduce too much. Strain it into a basin, either 
through a towel or a sieve, and stand aside to get quite cold. There 
should be six breakfastcupfuls of stock. When quite cold, remove all 
the fat from the top ; this must be done very carefully. 

Now put the stock into a clean saucepan, add the sugar, the flavour- 
ings broken into small pieces, the lemon rind very thinly pared off, the 
juice strained, two eggs and the whites of the other two eggs beaten up 
and a little egg-shell crushed up. 

Put this on the fire and whisk briskly until it comes to boiling- 
point. Allow it to boil very gently about seven minutes. Withdraw 
from the fire, cover it with the lid, and allow it to settle for five or ten 
minutes. 

Have a flannel or felt jelly-bag hanging up. Pour a good deal of 
boiling water through the bag, to warm and cleanse it. When the water 
has all run out, put a clean basin under the bag and pour the jelly in. 
Pour the jelly twice through the bag, when the jelly should be clear and 
a brilliant colour. This jelly is excellent without wine. But if wine is 
used, it is best put into the saucepan just before the jelly is poured into 
the bag, 

S 



274 FEVEKS AM) ACUTE INFECTIVE DISEASES 

Il't/ic JcUy (Sweet Wine Jelly from gelatine). 
\\ ounces French sheet gelatine. 3 ounces loaf sugar. 
3 gills cold water. Rind of I lemon, cut. 

A gill lemon juice. 2 or 3 cloves. 

\ gill sherry wine. i inch cinnamon stick. 

I tablespoonful brandy. White and shell of 1 egg. 

The proportion of gelatine is 2 ounces to i quart. 

Put all the ingredients into a lined saucepan ; whisk until they boil ; 
remove to the side of fire when the scum begins to rise to the top. Cover 
the top of the pan with a plate, and allow it to stand fifteen minutes. 
Strain through a hot jelly cloth ; run through three or four times till 
clear, and when cold, mould in a scalded wet mould. 

Whipped Jelly. 
Melt the jelly by standing the basin containing it in a saucepan of 
hot water. When dissolved, put into a large basin ; with whisk whip it 
until it is quite cold, and should become a firm froth and perfectly white. 
By varying the ingredients in the wine jelly, a good many different forms 
can be obtained, e.g. — 

Port Wine Jelly. 
Take 3 gills port wine, i gill water, and i tablespoonful of red-currant 
jelly, instead of the sherry wine, lemon juice, and the large amount of 
water. 

Orange and Lemon Jellies 
are made by substituting orange or lemon juice for the wine. 

Farinaceous Foods containing carbohydrates in the form 
of starch or sugar can be given in moderation. Thin oatmeal 
and barley gruel carefully strained and flavoured with salt or 
sugar is useful (see p. 296). Arrowroot and Farolaare also of 
value (for preparation, see p. 297). 

Malt extract, granulated, dissolved in warm water or 
milk, or with an effervescing water, is good. These supply 
grape sugar (maltose), soluble dextrin, and a small quantity 
of soluble albuminoids (see pp. ly^ et scq.). Among proprietary 
foods, Benger's food is one of the most useful preparations, 
especially for cases of continued fever. Small quantities of 
arrowroot, ground rice, and well-baked flour can also be added 
to clear soup or beef-tea. Great care must be taken not to 
make the soup too thick. 

Baked Flour. 

Spread some white flour thinly on a dish, bake it in a moderate oven 
for about an hour, until it is a delicate colour. Take it out and place it 
on a sheet of kitchen paper ; when cool, roll it smooth with a rolling-pin, 
pass it through a wire sieve, and then keep it in a canister or bottle. 



THlllST-QUENCHEIlS 275 

Grape sugar, which is a kind of predigested carbo- 
hydrate, is strongly recommended, and may be added 
to farinaceous foods, and may also be used to sweeten 
beverages. 

Fruit juice, especially the juice of grapes and oranges, is 
quite admissible, and is usually much appreciated. Special 
stress should be laid on the point that in grapes the skins and 
stones are carefully removed, and in oranges that only the juice 
and pulp are eaten. Fruit soups are commended as agreeable 
and useful. They are made by boiling fresh or dried fruits 
with water, with or without the addition of sugar, lemon peel, 
and freed from the solid residue by pressing and straining. 

Thirst-quenchers. — For thirst an abundance of refreshing 
drinks should be permitted. These all have a very low 
nutritive value. If made with barley (p. 34) or rice-water 
instead of plain water, the nutritive value is slightly increased. 
Again, the addition of a teaspoonful of milk sugar or lactose 
to the pint increases the value considerably without affecting 
the flavour. Iced water should not be forgotten as being 
always much appreciated by fever patients. 

Rice- Water. 

Take 2 ounces of rice in an enamelled saucepan, with 3 pints of 
water, and boil for two and a half hours. Stir it frequently and skim 
carefully. Strain into a jug through a fine wire sieve, and rub through 
the glutinous parts, but not the hard portion. Add flavouring to taste. 

Apple- Water. 

I lb. apples. \ lb. brown sugar. 

I gallon boiling water. 

Cut up the apples into quarters ; take them and put into the jug with 
brown sugar, and pour the boiling water over it. Let it stand until cold ; 
pulp the apples and the fluid through the colander. Bottle for use ; do 
not cork the bottle ; keep it in a cool place. 

Apple Toast Water. 

Toast a piece of bread slowly until it gets quite black. Placed in a 
jug of apple water for three-quarters of an hour, then strained, makes a 
very nice and refreshing drink. 

Apple BarUy and Apple Rice- Water. 
Boil \ lb. of rice or \ lb. of barley, blend with the apple-water, and 
then strain. 



276 FEVERS AND ACUTE INFECTIVE DISEASES 

In spring and summer, rhubarb, green gooseberries, black and red 
currants, and raspberries may all be made into nice cooling drinks, if 
used in the same proportion. 

Imperial Drink. 
A ounce cream of tartar. Juice of i lemon. 

2 tablespoonfuls of sifted sugar. 
Place the ingredients in a jug, pour over a quart of boiling water, and 
cover until cold. 

Lemonade. 

Juice of I lemon. i ounce of sugar. 

1 pint of water. i G'g'g. 

Dissolve the sugar in the water ; add the juice of the lemon ; beat up 
the white of egg, and add this. 

This makes a very palatable drink, with slight nutritive value. 

Lemonade (2). 
4 lemons. \ lb. of loaf sugar. 3 pints boiling water. 

Rub some sugar on the rinds of two of the lemons until it is yellow. 
Strain the juice of the four lemons ; put the sugar and juice into a jug, 
and pour it over the water. Cover it until it is cold. 

Orartgeade. 

2 oranges. 2 or 3 lumps of sugar. 
Juice of I lemon. i pint of boiling water. 

Wipe the oranges with a damp cloth, and peel the rind of one of 
them very thinly. Put this into a jug with sugar, and strain in the 
orange and lemon juice. Pour on the freshly boiled water. Cover closely 
until cold, and then strain. 

Black-CuiTant Drink. 

1 tablespoonfuls black-currant jam. i teaspoonful arrowroot. 

Take the black-currant jam and boil it in a quart of water. Cover it 
and stew gently for half an hour, then strain it, and set the liquor again 
on the fire. Mix the arrowroot in cold water, pour over it the boiling 
liquor and keep stirring. Then let it get quite cold. (This is a very 
pleasant drink, and specially nice for an inflamed throat.) 

Tea and coffee freshly made with milk may be given also 
as beverages with a certain food value. (These are better 
withheld until pyrexia is gone.) Peptonised foods are not 
usually called for in fever cases. They are described in 
Chapter IX. 

Stimulants. — The advisability of administering or with- 
holding stimulants depends entirely on the condition of 
the patient The indications for its administration are as 



USE OF STIMULANTS IN FEVER 277 

follows : — After a long continued pj/rexia, if the circulation 
shows signs of failure, the pulse becoming weak and 
irregular ; or if the digestive powers flag, with sordes forming 
on the lips, with a foul tongue and loss of appetite. Hyper- 
pyrexia may also necessitate the use of alcohol. 

Champagne, brandy, or whisky may be used ; the two 
latter are the best in the acute stages. It may be given in 
plain water, in milk, or in an effervescing water. When 
ordered, the exact quantity should be stated : it is best given 
at regular intervals by day and night. A half to one ounce 
every two or three hours is usually sufficient ; it is seldom 
necessary or advisable to give more than 6 ounces in twenty- 
four hours to an adult. A larger quantity causes over- 
stimulation ; this can be recognised by a feeling of discom- 
fort, a bad taste in the mouth, and an offensive breath. 
Children show a distinct toleration for relatively large doses 
of alcohol. In cases of vomiting, dry champagne is often the 
best form of stimulant. 



Typhoid or Enteric Fever. 

PAGE PAGE 

Introduction 277 Other systems of feeding — 

A milk regime .... 278 A liberal diet, with solid food 

Details of 279 from the outset . . . 285 

Indications for increasing the diet Modification of this system . 286 

in convalescence . . .281 Treatment on the empty bowel 

Value of water-drinking . . 284 theory .... 286 

Dietetic treatment of complications 284 Starvation diet .... 287 

In no disease is the question of diet of greater import- 
ance than in typhoid fever. The disease is a serious one, 
on account of its usually protracted nature, with its corre- 
sponding drain on the patient's general strength. It is, 
therefore, of paramount importance to maintain the strength 
of the patient, but in doing so due regard must be paid 
to the lesion in the intestine (ulceration) which is usually 
present, and also to the impaired digestive powers of 
the patient. At the same time we must recognise that 
it is perhaps more true of this disease than of any other that 
we must treat the patient and not the disease. The truth of 
this is shown by a reference to the different systems of diet 



278 FEVERS AND ACUTE INFECTIVE DISEASES 

that have proved undoubtedly successful in its treatment. 
Some recognised authorities find good results from the use of 
a fairly full diet containing much solid food, throughout the 
whole course of the illness ; others adhere to the time- 
honoured system of a milk diet during the acute phases of 
the disease. Both systems appear to be equally, successful, 
and from this we may conclude that the diet has to be 
judged more from the nature and amount of the residue 
which it leaves in the small intestines than from the form in 
which it is taken into the stomach. It is probable that in 
certain cases a residue of undigested solid curd from an 
exclusive milk regime produces much more local and 
general disturbances of an unfavourable nature than the 
residue from a fish, chicken, or meat diet. In this connection 
it must also be borne in mind that in some cases the local 
lesion in the bowel is of a very slight character, there being 
little or no demonstrable ulceration. In the present state of 
our knowledge it may be said that the most judicious system 
of feeding is that which relies largely on a milk regime. We 
shall therefore first describe this system in detail, and thereafter 
consider the other dietetic regimes that are recommended. 

Milk regime. — Milk should form the chief food, and much 
attention to detail is necessary in its administration. It is 
specially important to closely watch the stools. If the motions 
contain undigested curd, it is clear that the amount of milk 
given or the form in which it is administered are unsuitable, 
and an immediate change in the diet is called for on account of 
the risks to the patient from the mechanical presence of lumpy 
curds, and from the abdominal distension from the fer- 
mentative changes in the food. If attention be paid to the 
following points, milk will seldom fail as a diet in typhoid 
fever. It should be given well diluted, it should be admini- 
stered at regular intervals only, the total amount should not 
exceed from 2 /<? 3 pints per day, and the motions should be 
inspected daily for the presence 0/ undigested curds. 

The milk should be diluted with plain hot water in the 
proportion of one to three, or one to four. The warmth of 
the mixture assists digestion by not chilling the stomach, and 
the dilution prevents the curd being too hard. If the bowels 
are costive, fluid magnesia (Dinneford's) can be used as the 



MILK DIET IN TYPHOID FEVER 279 

diluent and added to the warmed milk ; if the bowels have a 
tendency to be loose, lime-water is the best diluent. The 
amount of milk administered in twent\'-four hours is 
important It must never be used as a quencher of thirst, 
but always as a food ; it must be taken at regular intervals 
and in stated amounts. The prescribed quantity should be 
taken at the proper time, and no milk should be allowed to 
stand at the bedside ; this precaution ensures the stomach 
having time to empty itself. The amount of milk given 
should be limited ; 3 ounces every two hours, i.e. under 
2 pints in the twenty-four hours, is enough at first ; if this 
does not cause curd in the stools the quantity may be 
increased up to 3 or 4 ounces every two hours. No interval 
of longer than three to three and a half hours should be 
allowed during the night without food. 

The presence of undigested curd, whether in large masses 
or flakes, shows that either sufficient attention to detail in the 
administration is not being observed, or that the patient is get- 
ting more milk than he can digest. A reduction of \ ounce 
from the two-hourly feeds will often be sufficient to stop the 
presence of curd, and the improved digestion will probably 
put an end to the slight diarrhoea that may be present. If 
this does not prove sufficient, malted milk may be used, or 
the milk may be partially or completely peptonised. These 
modifications in the manner of administration are helpful in 
patients troubled with meteorism. Whey is a good sub- 
stitute for milk if the latter is not tolerated. During this 
period very special attention is necessary to the toilet of the 
mouth. 

Milk diet is very monotonous, and if a patient is not suffer- 
ing from diarrhoea or blood in the stools, there is no reason 
why this monotony should not be relieved after twenty- 
four hours by the administration of some of the meat broths. 
An allowance of chicken or beef-tea or clear consomme is 
much appreciated, and can be given well salted. Most 
enteric cases crave for salt, and there is no reason why it 
should not be supplied. The actual food value of these 
preparations is small, but they help digestion by acting as 
stimulants. A well-recognised method of administering the 
meat-tea juices is to give a daily allowance of a pint, divided 



280 FEVERS AND ACUTE INFECTIVE DISEASES 

into three portions. One portion should be given as the 
dinner meal, the second portion, given hot about 9 o'clock, 
helps the patient to go to sleep, and the third quantity may 
be given in the early hours of the morning. 

If diarrhoea is persistent, the warm meat-broths tend only 
to aggravate it ; it is then better to use raw-meat juice, or 
one of the many meat extracts on the market. Meat juice 
may be prepared at home, and given in 2 teaspoonfuls, 
slightly salted. The meat extracts should be given cold, 
and mixed with a little water. Bovinine and Wyeth's meat 
juice are excellent, but the strong meaty flavour is much 
disliked by some patients. Brand's chicken jelly is very 
aereeable. and so is home-made chicken essence. 

DIET SHEET I. 

The following dietary is suitable for the acute stage : — 

3 A.M. — Chicken tea (hot), 7 ounces, with 3 ounces milk ; or 

Bovinine and 3 ounces milk. 
5 A.M. — Milk, 3 ounces, hot water, i ounce. 
7 A.M. — Milk, 3 ounces, hot water, i ounce. 
9 A.M. — Milk, 3 ounces, hot water, i ounce. 
II A.M. — Milk, 3 ounces, hot water, i ounce. 

I P.M. — Hot beef-tea, 7 ounces, milk, 3 ounces ; or 

Chicken essence and milk. 
3 P.M. — Milk, 3 ounces, hot water, i ounce. 
5 P.M. — Milk, 3 ounces, hot water, i ounce ; or 

Cup of tea, with 3 ounces milk, freshly made. 
7 P.M. — Milk, 3 ounces, hot water, i ounce. 
9 P.M. — Hot chicken tea, 7 ounces, milk, 3 ounces ; or 

Valentine's beef juice, 2 teaspoonfuls, and milk, 3 ounces. 

II P.M. — Milk, 3 ounces, hot water, i ounce. 

I A.M. — Milk, 3 ounces, hot water, i ounce (if awake). 

When there is excessive wasting, or if the fever is very 
prolonged, or if there has been a relapse after a prolonged 
first attack, the nutritive value of the diet should be increased. 
The prepared proteins, e.g., Plasmon, Somatose, Protene, 
Sanatogen, may be added, 2 to 4 teaspoonfuls being given in 
the twenty-four hours (see p. 158). Albumin water added to 
the milk will be found useful. Also half an egg added to 
milk may be given twice daily in the form of custard boiled 
or baked, or as egg flip. A small amount of well-boiled 
sago or arrowroot may be given in the chicken tea. Calfs- 



TYPHOID FEVER 281 

foot jelly (p. 273), with fruit or wine flavourin<^, or blancmange 
made with milk may be given (p. 301). 

DIET SHEET II. 

Diet chart for a case of prolonged fever, or for relapse with much fever. 

3 A.M. — Chicken tea, 8 ounces. 

5 A.M. — Milk (diluted), 3 ounces, with prepared Plasmon, i ounce 

(p. 159). 
7 A.M. — Milk, 3 ounces, and albumin water. 
9 A.M. — Milk, 3 ounces, and half-beaten &gg. 

I P.M. — Chicken-broth tea, 8 ounces, and i ounce Plasmon (hot) 

salted. 
3 P.M. — Milk, 3 ounces, and albumin water. 
5 P.M. — CalPs-foot jelly, or milk blancmange. 
7 P.M. — Milk (diluted), 3 ounces. 
9 P.M. — Milk, 3 ounces, and half egg (as baked custard). 

II P.M. — Chicken tea, thickened arrowroot, 8 ounces (salted), 

I ounce Plasmon. 
I A.M. — Milk, 3 ounces, diluted (if awake). 

Indications for increasing the diet in convalescence. — 
Assuming a patient has satisfactorily passed through his 
fever, and his temperature is approaching the normal line, 
when is the first increase of diet to be made ? Much 
depends upon the circumstances of the individual case. 
Unless he is really hungry, there is no particular advantage 
in making any addition to the diet till the temperature 
is steadily normal. By " real hunger " is to be understood 
a genuine craving for food ; that is to say, it is not enough 
for the patient to reply that he is hungry when asked. He 
must volunteer the information himself. If his hunger is 
real, and all precautions to satisfy a false appetite have 
already been taken, some addition to his food may be 
allowed when his temperature is normal in the mornings, 
the evening readings being disregarded. Should his diet, 
up to this point, have consisted exclusively of milk and meat 
broths, with a few extras that may have been permitted in 
prolonged cases, it is obvious that, before he is allowed solid 
food, he must be content with semi-solids and " sloppy " 
materials. Benger's food or boiled bread and milk (p. 439) are 
usually the first additions, and the effect of even this slight 
increase of diet on the temperature of the patient should be 
carefully noted. If the moniing temperature remains normal, 



282 FEVERS AND ACUTE INFECTIVE DISEASES 

the bread and milk is continued for two or three days, the 
amount given being gradually increased, and a little well- 
made oatflour porridge being added to give variety. Diet 
Sheet III. is a very suitable diet for early convalescence, 

DIET SHEET III. 

Early convalescence, the morning temperature being normal for 
five or six days. 

3 A.M. — Beef consomme, lo ounces. 

5 A.M. — Milk, 6 to lo ounces. 

7 A.M. — Bread and milk, with milk (special, p. 439). 

9 A.M. — Tea, thin bread and butter ; no crusts, 

II A.M. — Milk, 6 to 10 ounces. 

I P.M. — Chicken tea, thickened with sago (later, some form of 

powdered fish, e.g. a souffle in cream) ; milk pudding 

or jelly, 
3 P.M. — Calfs-foot jelly (lemon, orange, sherry). 
5 P.M. — Milk, 6 to 10 ounces. 
7 P.M. — Gruel, made from oatmeal, barley meal, or wheat ; eaten 

with milk and cream, 
9 P.M. — Beef-tea, 10 ounces. 

II P.M. — Milk, 6 to 10 ounces (if awake). 
I A.M. — Milk, 8 ounces (if awake). 

By this time the evening temperature has also frequently 
settled ; but even if not, another increase may be safely tried, 
always provided there has been no rise above normal in the 
mornings. At this stage the first solids may be given, a 
sponge biscuit or a small amount of light sponge cake being 
a quite suitable substance to experiment with. If this is 
tolerated, on the following day a very small quantity of white 
fish may be allowed. This should be boiled or steamed, 
and all skin should be carefully removed. The best fish for 
this purpose is whiting or sole, but in hospital practice fresh 
haddock forms an admirable substitute. A very thin finger 
of bread, from which all crust has been cut, may be given 
with the fish. On the following day, always assuming the 
morning temperature remains steadily normal, a little thin 
bread and butter may be allowed at breakfast and tea time, 
the patient still receiving a reasonable quantity of milk at 
definite intervals, and beef or chicken tea being continued 
exactly as before. For three or four days this diet may be 
continued, the amount of food given being cautiously 



TYPHOID FEVER— DIET IN CONVALESCENCE 283 

increased, and such additions as a little baked custard 
pudding or some well-boiled milk pudding may be permitted. 
A good dietary for this stage is presented in the following 
diet sheet : — 

DIET SHEET IV. 

Full convalescent. 

6 A.M. — Tea with milk, bread and butter. 

8 A.M. — Oatflour gruel, with milk and cream. 
10.30 A.M. — Milk with half egg, beaten. 
1 P.M. — Soup (strained), 10 ounces. 

Fish, or chicken. 

Milk-pudding and stewed fruit, or jelly, or custard; eaten 
with cream. 
4.30 P.M. — Tea, boiled G.^g, bread and butter, jelly, sponge cake. 

7 P.M. — Cornflour, arrowroot, or semolina, made with milk ; eaten 

with cream, bread and butter. 
10 P.M. — Hot beef-tea. 

Should the morning temperature rise above normal, it is 
wiser to go back to the fluid diet at once, until, at least, the 
cause of the pyrexia has been ascertained. It is quite pos- 
sible, of course, that the cause may lie elsewhere than in the 
diet. Constipation, for instance, is often troublesome at this 
stage, and the temperature of the enteric convalescent, being 
extremely mobile, is very readily affected by it Such com- 
plications, moreover, as phlebitis, otitis media, and superficial 
skin abscesses may supervene in convalescence and cause 
some degree of fever. In such instances it is rarely necessary 
to make much modification in the diet, and, the pyrexia being 
satisfactorily accounted for, the appetite of the patient may 
be taken as a rough guide to the amount of food required. 

Should, however, the addition of solids to the dietary 
leave the temperature quite unaffected, after a icw days of 
steady increase in the amount of food given, a further step 
may be taken and the patient allowed a little of the breast or 
wing of a chicken. Patients, as a rule, are ready to begin 
this from three to five days after their first allowance 
of fish. With the chicken may be given a little mashed 
potato, which may be added when the diet is still limited 
to fish. A little stewed fruit may now be added. This 
diet is maintained till all chances of relapse arc over, after 



284 FEVERS AND ACUTE INFECTIVE DISEASES 

which (say after a fortni'cjht's normal temperature) there is no 
reason why meat should not be allowed in moderation. In 
moderation, indeed, success in the dieting of an enteric patient 
usually lies. As much variety of food as possible should be 
given, but at first only in small amounts. 

Value of water-drinking in typhoid fever. — Thirst should 
be assuaged by the drinking of a large amount of plain water, 
from 4 to 6 pints of water being given daily. In addition to 
assuaging thirst, an abundance of water-drinking promotes 
elimination of the toxins. When an insufficient amount of 
water is taken, the tongue gets very dry, even when the 
mouth is being carefully attended to. Aerated waters should 
be avoided, as tending to induce flatulence. Imperial drink 
(p. 2/6), or an acidulated drink made with a few drops of hydro- 
chloric acid and a little syrup of lemons, are also of value in 
allaying thirst. Weak tea made with milk is permissible, 
except in cases troubled with insomnia. 

Dietetic treatmetit of complications. — This has already been 
incidentally referred to, so far as regards the troublesome 
complications of constipation, diarrhoea, and meteorism. In 
the treatment of constipation the addition of fluid magnesia to 
the milk, and of beef-tea to the diet, will prove serviceable ; 
diarrhcca may be combated by the use of lime-water as a 
diluent in place of plain water. If this does not suffice, the 
milk should be peptonised, and the amount given should be 
considerably reduced. Beef-tea should be withdrawn from 
the diet until the diarrhoea has disappeared. Meteorism is 
not a common complication in cases that are judiciously fed. 
It may be combated by peptonising and pancreating the 
milk, and by making more use of beef-tea and chicken jelly. 
If necessary, the amount of milk may be for the time 
reduced, or skimmed milk or whey may be substituted. 

HccmorrJiage is treated by starvation for thirty-six hours, 
and thereafter the administration of teaspoonful doses of 
concentrated foods every three hours. Peptonised milk and 
chicken jelly are the best foods for early administration. If 
no return of symptoms develop, the amount of the.se are 
gradually increased, and also the frequency of administration. 
At the end of the third day the patient may, in favourable 
cases, be getting a diet consisting of lo ounces of peptonised 



TYPHOID FEVER 285 

milk, i ounce of chicken jelly or meat juice, administered in 
small amounts every two hours. If this is well borne, the diet 
can be increased daily with fair rapidity. 

The question of the use of stimulants in cases of 
haemorrhage is a very important one. They should be 
withheld unless the condition of the patient is one of great 
collapse, with an extremely feeble pulse. Under these cir- 
cumstances brandy should be administered in not more than 
teaspoonful doses at frequent intervals, the effect of this 
being very closely watched, so as to avoid risk of over- 
stimulation with a recurrence of the bleeding. 

In the event of perforation occurring, the dietetic treat- 
ment for the first few days after operation should take the 
form of rectal alimentation. Injections of saline, 8 to lo 
ounces, with the addition of dextrose, are of special value. 
Thereafter oral administration may be begun, a start being 
made with very small quantities of peptonised milk, chicken 
jelly, raw-meat juice, given every hour. 

Other systems of feeding. — The system of feeding already 
outlined may be taken as the one generally recognised as 
the most suitable for the feeding of typhoid fever cases. 
Reference must, however, be paid to other systems which 
have found favour with recognised authorities. 

Liberal diet, with solid food from the outset. — This treat- 
ment was introduced by a Russian physician, Bushuyev. His 
method is to allow solid food to all who can take it, from the 
moment they come under observation. The following is the 
dietary suggested by him for the acute stage : — 

7 A.M. — Tea, with a roll. 

8 A.M. — Oatmeal, barley, or wheat liquid porridge, with butter (about 13 

fluid ounces). » 

9 A.M. — One or two boiled eggs, hard or soft as the patient prefers, 
lo-ii A.M.— A glass (about 7 ounces) of milk, a roll, half a cutlet, or a 

piece of boiled meat. 
12-12.30 P.M. — A plate (about 7 ounces) of chicken soup, or ordinary 

soup, and a cupful of jelly. 
3 P.M. — Tea, with a roll. 
6 P.M.— A cup of chicken or beef-tea, semolina pudding or milk, and a 

bit of chicken. 
8 P.M.— Milk, with a roll. 
Duritiii the /i/),^/it—Coffet or lea, with milk, two lo four times ; coifee 

with coijnac. 



286 FEVERS AND ACUTE INFECTIVE DISEASES 

It will be observed that the above dietary is a strikingly 
liberal one. While it has given good results in a large series 
of cases, and does not appear to have been prejudicial in any 
recorded cases, it should certainly not be adopted as a 
routine method. Other authorities, and more especially 
American physicians, have adopted this system of feeding in 
a less prominent and more rational manner. They have 
found, in experimenting with a more varied diet, that no 
harm accrued from giving meat and milk, beef-tea thickened 
in various ways, and milk puddings, during the acute stage. 
Those who have experimented with this more varied diet 
have not found that its use was followed by a relapse more 
frequently than the ordinary system of feeding by an almost 
exclusive milk regime. 

Many American authorities approve of a full diet along 
the following lines : — 

1. Milk in various forms, such as hot or cold, with or without salt ; may 

be diluted with lime-water, magnesia, or plain water, or with the 
aerated waters, e.g., Apollinaris, Vichy, soda-water. Peptogenic 
milk, or peptonised milk, milk with white of egg, buttermilk, 
koumiss, whey ; milk with tea, coftee, or cocoa. 

2. Soups — beef, veal, chicken, tomato, potato, oyster, mutton, pea, bean ; 

carefully strained and thickened with rice flour, arrowroot flour, 
milk cream, &^g, or barley. 

3. Horlick's malted milk, Mellin's food, Somatose, etc. 

4. Beef juice, meatjuices, Bovinine peptonoids. 

5. Gruels (strained), barley-water, toast-water, and albumin water. 

6. Eggs, soft boiled, raw, or with Qgg flip. 

7. Finely minced beef, scraped beef, oyster, well-boiled puddings, 

blancmange, and jellies. 

A liberal dietary is a very important factor in the treat- 
ment of convalescence. As soon as the morning temperature 
is satisfactory, solid food should be increasingly given, pro- 
vided the patient be genuinely hungry. This increased 
dietary is not only of special service in the treatment of 
convalescence in cases running a normal course; it may be 
of great service in cases which show a prolonged swinging 
temperature in the convalescent period. 

Dietetic treatment on the empty boivel theory. — Ewart has 
drawn special attention to the advantages of a diet which 
leaves little or no residuum. According to this view, the 



TYPHOID FEVER— STARVATION TREATMENT 287 

ulceration is refjarded as a preventable condition, rather than 
an integral part of the disease. A good deal can be said in 
favour of this view. The dietary recommended consists in 
from 2^ to 4 pints of whey in the twenty-four hours, common 
salt being added in the proportion of lo to 15 grains to each 
half-pint, in order to correct the deficiency in mineral salts in 
an ordinary milk diet. This diet is continued for three or 
four days. At the end of this period, sugar, albumin, and 
cream are successively added to the dietary — sugar, in the 
form of lactose, 2 drams to each half-pint of whey; albumin, 
in the form of white of egg, which may be given peptoniscd ; 
and fat, in the form of cream, either taken alone, or in the 
whey, or as yolk of egg. Maltine is also useful. Thin 
vegetable soups, fruit juices, and jellies are also recommended. 
In determining each addition to the diet, we must be guided 
by the presence or absence of meteorism, the state of the 
stools, and the general condition of the patient. 

Starvation treatment. — With the object of securing com- 
plete rest for the affected part of the intestines, and effectually 
excluding the possibility of fermentation of partially digested 
food, some writers have recommended systems of feeding 
which are really treatment by starvation. Thus it has been 
recommended that the treatment should be entirely rectal, a 
lemonade drink being the only food given by the mouth. 
A similar line of treatment has been advocated by Williams. 
In some cases this author gives water only for days at a time, 
and he regards half a pint of milk in the twenty-four hours as 
a liberal diet, which he seldom exceeds until the temperature 
is normal. In the hands of other clinicians this system of 
treatment has been found to answer remarkably well in 
certain cases. The patients so treated have not wasted any 
more than the patients more liberally fed, which seems to 
prove that in the latter the food was not being assimilated, 
and that, therefore, no advantage was gained by its adminis- 
tration. The main les.son which the success of this starvation 
treatment should convey is the advisability of judiciously 
starving the patient for a few days at the outset of the illness 
in cases where the power of digestion and assimilation is in 
abeyance, as revealed by marked gastric and intestinal 
disturbance. 



288 FEVERS AND ACUTE INFECTIVE DISEASES 

Pnevunonia or Pneumonic Fever. — In this acute condition, 
the diet must be fluid and light, and adapted to the enfeebled 
digestive powers. (The general directions on p. 267 apply.) 
The food should be given in small quantities and at short 
intervals. During the fever the total quantity of liquid food 
in twenty-four hours should not exceed 3 to 4 pints ; cold 
water may be allowed freely in addition. Milk diluted in 
various ways is the staple diet. If the stomach is irritable, 
whey in some form is preferable, eg:, whey and egg-water, 
whey and cream, or whey and white wine with cream. Any 
of the beef-tea and soup group (pp. 75 and 270) maybe used ; 
beef-tea is best given as directed on page /6. Freshly made 
tea, with cream and a strip of toast or sponge rusk to eat 
with it, is allowable. Milk flavoured with coffee is an excellent 
stimulant, and is very refreshing in the morning after a bad 
night. Fresh fruit juice (grapes, oranges) is much appreciated. 

As soon as the fever has abated, the patient may be placed 
on a convalescent dietary. In judging of the disappearance 
of the fever, we must remember that the fall of temperature 
may be a pseudo crisis, and not a real crisis. In the general 
run of cases, alcohol in any form is not called for. In 
elderly people and in alcoholic subjects the use of 
stimulants is more frequently indicated. The early 
routine use of alcohol in these cases cannot be too 
strongly deprecated. When the heart's action becomes 
weak, Irregular, and intermittent, and the general condition 
of the patient indicates increasing weakness, a stirrulant 
is called for. It may be given in the form of whisky, 
brandy, or champagne. An average dose would be 
h ounce of whisky in twice the amount of water every 
four hours. In exceptional cases, when distinct benefit is 
apparently resulting from the stimulant, a considerably 
larger amount of whisky or brandy may be admmistered. 

Rheumatic Fever — Acute Rheumatism. — The diet for 
acute rheumatism is the diet of acute fever (p. 267). Strong 
meat soups, however, should not be given until convalescence 
is well advanced. The patient should be encouraged to drink 
a large amount of fluids, which allays thirst and promotes 
elimination of the rheumatic poison. The imperial drink 
is a refreshing beverage. 



SCARLET FEVER 289 

Scarlet Fever. — In uncomplicated cases the usual fever 
dietary, with a liberal supply of cold water or lemonade, is 
sufficient. It is important to keep in view the tendency to 
the development of acute nephritis, usually about the third 
week of the illness. The following is a good regime : — 

(i) For the first four days the nourishment should consist 
exclusively of milk, with possibly the addition of some 
lemonade and soda-water. Plain water may be given 
freely. 

(2) For the next four days an egg and any form of 
farinaceous food may be added. 

(3) During the remaining four days the diet may include 
some weak broth, fish, fruit, and vegetables (see Convalescent 
Diet, p. 293). 

(4) After this period, poultry, game, and meat may be 
gradually allowed, and the food administered as freely as 
desired. In young children and in adolescents it is sur- 
prising what amount of food can be consumed with impunity 
in cases when the diet has been restricted as above during the 
initial stages of the illness. On the other hand, the admini- 
stration of a liberal mixed dietary in the initial stages of the 
disease is prone to induce nephritis, with albuminuria, etc. 

If the condition is complicated with severe faucial ulcera- 
tion, or submaxillary swelling, and swallowing is painful, 
the food administered should be of the most nourishing 
character, and given in small bulk, e.g., eggs and milk, raw- 
meat juice, beef or chicken essence. In some cases it is 
necessary to have recourse to nasal feeding. The onset of 
albuminuria necessitates an exclusive milk regime. Cardiac 
weakness calls for a liberal use of stimulants. 

Whooping-Cough, — During the whole course of the illness, 
milk, light soups, and farinaceous foods should form the chief 
ingredients of the dietary. In cases in which the vomiting is 
persistent and the paroxysms severe, the child may become 
greatly weakened. Under these circumstances the child should 
be fed with custards, rich egg flip, beef and chicken essences, forti- 
fied with Plasmon, which should be given after eacJi paroxysm. 
The quantity should not be large, but must be regulated by 
the length of time between the fits. In very troublesome 
cases great benefit may be obtained by substituting whey for 

T 



290 FEVERS AND ACUTE INFECTIVE DISEASES 

diluted milk. Treatment of these patients in the open air 
makes them much easier to feed. 

Measles. — The general directions for a fever dietary 
apply. During convalescence, special care is necessary in 
the case of young and weakly children. The too early 
administration of a strong meat or vegetable soup may 
induce a severe and troublesome diarrhoea. 

Influenza. — The dietetic treatment of influenza varies 
according to the presence or absence of (a) pyrexia and (l>) 
gastro-intestinal derangement. The leading indication is 
to have recourse to a generous dietary as soon as the acute 
stages of the disease are passed. In febrile cases the rules 
laid down under fever dietary apply. As soon as the fever 
has abated, a convalescent diet may be given. In other 
cases a generous dietary is called for from the outset. The 
appetite of these patients usually requires to be tempted, and 
assistance in the selection and preparation of suitable foods 
will be found in the section on Diet during Convalescence. 
Care must be taken in prescribing alcohol in any form in this 
disease. It is usually uncalled for, but in certain cases 
recovery is accelerated by the judicious use of a small 
quantity of whisky, champagne, or Burgundy, which should 
be given once or twice a day with meals. 

Diphtheria. — The diet in diphtheria is the diet of acute 
fever. As soon as the temperature is normal, soft solids may 
be given. Occasionally, even in the acute stages, semi-solids 
are swallowed with greater ease than liquids, in which case 
the soups can be thickened with tapioca, sago, or arrowroot. 
The stock, carefully skimmed from fat, may be given in its 
jelly form. Veal jelly, custard, and curds are also valuable. 
In cases with much faucial trouble, nasal feeding may be 
necessary (see p. 225). If intubation or tracheotomy have 
been required, it is wiser to have recourse to nasal feeding, 
owing to the risks of inhalation pneumonia. Stimulants 
are frequently advisable, and may be given in 1 to 2 tea- 
spoonfuls of whisky, either diluted with water, or added to the 
egg flip. 

Smallpox. — The general directions for feeding fever 
patients are again applicable. There should be an abundance 
of fluids, and the foodstuffs should be those which give 



TYPHUS FEVER 291 

least trouble to the digestion. Cold drinks may be given 
liberally. Patients are usually quite ready for their food ; 
if vomiting is persistent, nourishment must be given in 
small quantities, and in a concentrated form — eggs, essences, 
beef jellies; if no nourishment is retained, nutrient enemata 
should be administered. As the confluent form is exhaust- 
ing, a generous dietary is called for (see Diet in Con- 
valcsence, p. 292). Stimulants must be freely administered 
if the pulse becomes feeble and rapid. 

Tonsillitis (Quinsy) is best treated by a milk and beef-tea 
regime (p. 26S). Semi-solid diets are sometimes taken more 
easily than fluids, and in these cases the semi-solid diet for 
dysphagia (p. 438) may be recommended. 

Typhus. — Owing to the condition of the mouth and 
tongue, and in order to promote the elimination of toxines, 
these patients require a large quantity of fluid. It is absolutely 
necessary to supply water in abundance ; this may be given 
simply as cold water, or as one of the mineral waters — 
Salutaris or Apollinaris. The water should be forced on 
these patients, as they are sometimes unable to ask for it ; 
a quantity of five to six pints in twenty-four hours is 
advisable. 

The digestion is much impaired, and a milk and meat 
•soup dietary, such as outlined on page 268 for fevers in 
general, should be given. When there is great debility 
and manifest failure of strength, the more concentrated 
nourishment, such as essence of meat, or chicken, egg 
flip, or the prepared artifical foods, such as Wyeth's beef 
juice, Bovinine, Brand's beef jelly, are necessary. The 
food in such cases is best administered in small quantities 
every hour and a half. A dried milk preparation may also 
be used to further fortify the food (p. 158). 

Malarin. — The febrile stages of malarin calls for the 
administration of the fever dietary, p. 2C8 ; in the later stages 
the diet in convalescence (p. 292) or the light diet summarised 
on p. 548 is applicable. 



CHAPTER XVIT 

DIET DURING CONVALESCENCE 

PAOl PAOK 

Principles of feeding . . . 292 Soups . ..... 300 



Daily dietaries 
Farinaceous foods 
Eggs . 
Jellies . . 



293 Fish 303 

295 Meats 305 

299 Vegetables , . . « .310 
299 



Diet during Convalescence. — The digestive tract being 
more or less weakened in all cases of acute illness, patients 
convalescing from an acute disease may be regarded as 
dyspeptics for the time being. Great care is therefore 
necessary in regard to both the quantity and quality of the 
food. The digestive capacity of convalescents, however, 
varies widely. There is, for instance, the healthy young 
adult recovering from some sharp attack of infective fever, 
in whom the digestive organs are only weakened, not 
organically affected. His convalescence is rapid, and he is 
soon capable of eating and digesting everything. In this class 
of case there is no necessity to try and tempt the appetite ; 
the food can be simply prepared ; the danger is that the 
patient will overeat. On the other hand, the patient may 
be a delicate child recovering from scarlatina, complicated by 
nephritis. Here it would be absolutely wrong if we did not 
limit the quantity, and give very strict injunctions as to the 
quality of the food. Similarly, after typhoid fever, when 
convalescence is established, a mass of undigested food, 
e.g.^ potatoes or a piece of unmasticated meat, may cause a 
relajjse, by setting up irritation in some recently ulcerated patch. 

At first, in all cases, the fever diet should be continued, the 
milk and beef-tea being gradually reduced, and thickened 



DIET IN CONVALESCENCE 293 

beef-teas and soiios, egg drinks, and various jellies being 
mainly given. This can be extended to include the more 
easily digested starches, either in the form of some invalid 
food, e.g., a simple, well-cooked gruel, malted gruel, or 
Benger's or Savory & Moore's invalid food. The next 
advance would include lightly cooked eggs, either plain 
boiled, poached, scrambled, or in the form of a custard ; or 
combined, as in milk puddings, with a farinaceous food. 
For breadstuffs, thin slices of toast, the crusty portion of a 
Vienna roll, sweetened and unsweetened rusks, toasted sponge, 
finger biscuits, rice biscuits, and plain biscuits may be recom- 
mended. Many of the malted breads now on the market, 
such as Veda, Hovis, Bermaline, Bipsine, etc., are quite 
permissible, care being taken that the bread is not new 
(see Bread). 

As the strength of the patient increases a more liberal 
diet is given, fish, sweetbreads, chicken, game, pigeons, rabbits, 
being gradually added to the dietary. Then follow mince, 
beef quenelles, eye of a tender loin chop, a slice of tender 
beefsteak, or a small piece from the undercut of a lightly 
cooked sirloin of beef, or a slice from a leg of mutton. The 
patient should always be reminded of the necessity of eating 
slowly, and masticating well. Vegetables and fruits must be 
cautiously added to the dietary. 

The following seven days' dietary is sketched to give an 
indication of what is permissible. Doubtless, in some cases 
a more rapid return to ordinary diet could be made, while 
in others the change would require to be more gradually 
effected. This .scheme of dietary is followed by an account 
of the manner of preparation of farinaceous and other food- 
stuffs of special value in convalescence. 

Seven Days' Dietary. 

First Day. 

7 A.M. — If awake early, a small cup of freshly made tea, with cream. 
8.30 A.M. — Milk and thick barley-water, half a slice of toast, cut in 

fingers. 
11.30 A.M. — Calf s-foot jelly, about 2 ounces. 

I P.M. — 

Thick beef-tea (Egg and tapioca grout, p. T]). 
A few grapes (juice and pulp only). 



29 1 DIET DURING CONVALESCENCE 

4 P.M.— Cup often, with milk and cream, thin slice of bread and butter. 
6.30 P.M. — Cup of lienycrs food (or other invaUd foods). 
9 I'.M,— Cup of beef-tea (method i, p. 76). 

Second Day. 

7 A.M.— A small cup of coffee, with milk. 

8.30 A.M. — Malted gruel. 

1 1.30 A.M. — Milk and soda-water, with plain biscuits. 

I P.M.— 

Beef-tea puree (p. 77), with strij) of toast. 

Blancmange. 
4 P.M.— 

Cup of tea, with milk and cream. 

I slice bread and butter. 

I sponge finger. 
6.30 P.M. — Plain egg flip (p. 48), with biscuits. 
9 P.M. — Cup ol chicken soup or chicken jelly. 

Third Day. 

7 A.M. — A small cup of freshly-made tea, with cream and small half-slice 

toast. 
8.30 A.M. : Breakfast — Saucerful of oatmeal gruel, with cream and a little 

piece of Vienna roll (crusty part). 
11.30 A.M. — A teacupful of beef-tea (unthickened), either hot or cold. 

I P.M. — 

Steamed whiting, half-slice of bread. 

Semolina or ground rice pudding. 
4 P.M.— 

Potash and milk, with rice biscuit or sponge cake. 

A little fruit. 
6.30 P.M. — An invalid food, in any form (see p. 183). 
9 P.M. — Some variety of meat tea or infusion. 

Fourth Day. 

8 A.M.— 

Saucerful of hominy porridge or barley-meal gruel, etc, 

A small cup of tea, toast, and a very little butler. 
11.30 A.M. — A teacupful of chicken tea, with milk and potash or a little 

fruit. 
1.30 P.M. — 

Baked or steamed fish (p. 306). 

Spinach. 

Apple cream. 
4 P.M. — Potash and milk, or a small cup of fresh tea, bread and butter, 

and sponge cake. 
6.30 P.M. — Peptonised cocoa and milk, or custard. 

9 P.M. — Some variety of meat infusion, e.g. veal tea. 



DAILY DIETARIES 295 

Fifth Day 

8 A.M.— 

A lightly-boiled e,<(<,^, toast or roll with butter. 
A small cup of tea. 
11.30 A.M. — Teacupful of soup, or a little fruit, and a drink of milk and 

potash. 
1.30 P.M.— 

Rabbit, chicken (roast), two slices from breast, or pigeon served 

with bread sauce. 
A small helping of vegetable, c.f^., stewed vegetable marrow or 

cauliflower, not potatoes. 
Pudding — apples cooked in water sago, eaten with cream. 
6.30 P.M. — Oysters (p. 305). 

9 P.M. — Some variety of soud. 

Sixth Day. 

8 A.M.— 

A piece of boiled or steamed haddock, whiting, or sole 

Tea, bread or toast and butter. 
II A.M. — Soup, or egg drink. 
1.30 P.M. — 

Sweetbread or tripe. 

Vegetable, stewed tomato (pulp only). 

Stewed fruit with custard. 
4 P.M. — Afternoon tea (avoiding rich cakes and pastry). 
6 P.M.— 

Poached q.%^ on toast or spinach. 

Milk and potash. 

9 P.M. — Cup of soup. 

Seventh Day. 

8 A.M. — 

A few rolls of well-fried streaky bacon. 

Toast and tea. 
1 1.30 A.M. — 

Egg flip, or soup, or milk and potash. 

Fruit. 
1.30 P.M. — 

A small slice of tender roast mutton, or the eye of a tender mutton 
chop. 

Vegetable. 

Jelly. 
4.30 P.M. — Afternoon tea (avoiding rich cakes and pastry). 
6.30 P.M. — 

Fish. 

Milk pudding. 

9 P.M. — Cup of soi'p. 

Farinaceous Poods. — The value of different farinaceous 
foods is often much interfered with by defective cooking. 



296 DIRT DURING CONVALESCENCE 

In the preparation of g^rucls and other farinaceous foods^ 
prolonged boiling is required in order to burst the starch 
granules. The stomach can do very little with uncooked, 
starchy food. There are now many half-cooked cereal 
preparations in the market which do not require such 
prolonged cooking (see pp. i68, 183), 

Oatmeal Grticl. 

I tablespoonful fine oatmeal. \ pint cold water. 

Salt or sugar. 

Put the oatmeal into a clean basin and pour the water over it. 
Cover the basin and let it stand for at least half an hour, stirring 
occasionally, then straining the liquid oft' into a small clean saucepan, 
pressing the oatmeal as dry as possible. Stir the strained liquid over 
the fire until boiling, and let it boil from fifteen to twenty minutes. 
The thickness of the gruel is very much a matter of taste ; if too thick 
add more water, or if too thin use more oatmeal. Season with salt or 
sugar. The addition ot a little cream is a great advantage, improving 
the taste and increasing the nutritive value. 

Milk Gruel. 

1 tablespoonful fine oatmeal. \ pint milk. 

Salt or sugar. 

Made in the same way as last recipe, except that milk is used 
instead of water. 

Malted Gruel. 

This gruel may be made of any of the farinaceous substances — Quaker 
oats, Farina, arrowroot, barley, or lentil flour. Make in the same way 
as oatmeal gruel. When cold enough to swallow, add the malt 
infusion or an extract of malt ; about I tablespoonful of the infusion or 
a teaspoonful of the extract is sufficient to digest a plateful of gruel. 
The action is very rapid, and in a few moments the gruel becomes thin 
from the transformation of the starch into maltose. 

Barley-Meal Gruel. 

I dessertspoonful barley-meal. A small piece of butter. 

\ pint milk. Sugar or salt. 

Mix the milk very gradually with the meal, stirring until quite smooth. 
Take a small lined saucepan, and after rinsing with cold water, pour the 
barley and milk into it. Stir constantly over the fire until boiling, let 
it boil ten minutes, season, and serve very hot. 

Port IVtne Gruel. 

Make a gruel with oatmeal or barley-meal and water, then thin it 
down with a glass of port wine ; heat thoroughly, but do not boil again. 



FARINACEOUS FOODS 297 

Caudle. 
Beat up an egg to a froth, add a glass of sherry and half a pint of hot 
gruel ; flavour with lemon peel, nutmeg, and sugar. 

Water Arrowroot or Cornflour. 
i ounce arrowroot or cornflour. i teaspoonfui of sugar. 
^ pint cold water. Seasoning, either nutmeg, sherry, 

or brandy. 
Put the arrowroot into a small basin, add to it a tablespoonful of 
cold water, break it with a wooden spoon until quite smooth. Then 
pour on the rest of the water, mix well, and pour into a small lined 
saucepan. Stir this over the fire until it boils and thickens, then let it 
boil for ten minutes to thoroughly cook the arrowroot. Sweeten to 
taste, and serve in a cup or small basin. A little nutmeg may be grated 
on the top, and wine or cream added if desired. 

Milk Arrowroot or Milk Cornflour. 

\ ounce arrowroot or cornflour. | pint milk. 

\ teaspoonfui of sugar. 
Make as above, using milk instead of water. 

Water Sago or Tapioca. 

\ ounce sago or tapioca. Sugar, brandy, or fruit juice 

I pint cold water. to taste. 

Place the sago and water into an enamelled saucepan, and boil 
gently for an hour and a quarter, adding a little water to make up for 
evaporation. Skim when it comes to the boil, and stir frequently. 
Sweeten to taste ; this may be flavoured with brandy or sherry, or may 
have added to it a puree of prunes with a glass of claret, or stewed 
apples with a few cloves. 

Farinaceous or Milk Puddings. — In the following recipes 
we have boiled farinaceous foods which are further cooked by 
baking ; eggs can be added if desired. The presence of eggs 
in a pudding greatly improves the flavour and appearance, 
but they make it richer and more difficult to digest. The 
essential for a good milk pudding is to have the starchy food 
sufficiently boiled, and the eggs lightly cooked. It is best to 
beat up the white of the o.^^ separately, as this introduces air 
into the pudding and causes it to rise. For flavouring, the 
most suitable substances are fresh lemon rind or juice, 
essence of vanilla, grated nutmeg, and ground cinnamon. 

Arrowroot or Cornflour Pudding. 
i ounce arrowroot or cornflour. i egg. 

^ pint milk. I teaspoonfui of sugar 



293 DIET DURING CONVALESCENCE 

Make in the same way as arrowroot and milk (p. 297), and thoroughly 
boil the mixture for ten minutes. Remove the pan from the fire, add the 
sugar and any flavouring. Separate the yolk from the white, add the 
yolk to the arrowroot whenever it has slightly cooled, add a pinch of 
salt to the white, and beat it up to a stiff froth. Stir this lightly into the 
mixture, and pour into a greased pie-dish, wiping round the edges of the 
dish. Bake in a moderate oven until well risen, and of a nice light 
brown colour. Sprinkle some while sugar over it and serve at once, 
as it soon falls if allowed to stand. 

Semolina or Ground Rice Pudding. 
I ounce semolina or ground rice. i ^<g<g. 

I teaspoonful of sugar. ,{ pint milk. 

Put the grain into a small lined saucepan, and the milk with it. Stir 
these over the fire with a wooden spoon until boiling, and boil for a few 
minutes until the semolina swells and thickens. Remove the pan from 
the fire, add sugar and seasoning, and when it has cooled, mix the yolk 
of the egg well into it. Beat up the white on a plate to a stiff froth and 
mix into pudding, pour into a pie-dish and bake for ten minutes, sprinkle 
with sugar, and serve at once. 

Rice Pudding. 

I ounce whole rice. i teaspoonful of sugar. 

\ pint milk. i t.^'g. 

Flavouring as required. 

Wash the rice thoroughly in water ; put it into a lined saucepan with 

cold water to cover it ; bring it to the boil, and pour the water off. This 

helps to burst the rice more quickly. Then pour in the milk, and let the 

rice simmer by the fire until quite soft ; add the yoke of the egg and the 

white as described in the last recipe, and bake in a well-greased pie-dish. 

Tapioca and Sago Pudding. 
I ounce tapioca or sago. i ^"gg. 

\ pint cold milk. i teaspoonful of sugar. 

Flavouring. 
If small crushed tapioca or sago is used, the directions are the same 
as for semolina pudding. If not, the recipe is as follows: — 

Cover the grain with milk, and soak for an hour. Rinse out a small 
lined saucepan, turn the tapioca and milk into it, and stir over the fire 
until it comes to the boil. Then simmer slowly until it turns clear, 
stirring every now and then. This takes from twenty to thirty minutes. 
If it becomes too thick while cooking, add a little more milk. Then 
finish off the pudding with eggs, etc., as in semolina. (For water sago or 
tapioca, see p. 297.) 

Baked Bread and Butter Pudding. 
I or 2 slices thin bread and butter. \ pint milk. 

I teaspoonful sugar. i egg. 

Grated nutmeg. 



EGGS 299 

Cut some bread and butter rnther thin, remove the crusts, and rut 
into pieces about an inch square. Lay these into a small greased pie- 
dish, making the dish just about half full ; beat up the egg in a small 
basin and add the nutmeg, sugar, and milk. Mix well together and pour 
over the bread in the pie-dish. Allow the pudding to stand about ten 
minutes until the bread gets thoroughly saturated, then bake in a 
moderate oven from ten to fifteen minutes until nicely browned on the 
top. Sprinkle with sugar. 

Eggs may be given raw or cooked. The method of 
giving raw eggs is described on p. 47. When given alone 
they may be given as prairie oyster, boiled egg, poached egg, 
scrambled egg, or baked egg. They can be added to soups 
as thickenings, e.^;, thick beef-tea, consomme with egg, con- 
somme with custard (p. 48). 

The following recipes may be used for custards : — 

Custard Sauce. 

2 yolks of Qgg. I dessertspoonful sugar 

I white of egg. \ pint milk. 

A few drops of flavouring. 

Rinse out a small lined saucepan with cold water, and put the milk 
into it, and let it heat over the fire. Put the yolks and white of &^^'g into 
a basin with sugar, and mix them well together with a wooden spoon. 
Then pour the hot milk gradually on to them, stirring all the time and 
mixing thoroughly. Return all to the saucepan, and stir very carefully 
over the fire until the sauce thickens. On no account must it be allowed 
to boil, or it will curdle. Have ready at hand a clean basin and strainer. 
As soon as the sauce shows signs of thickening, and it is almost boiling, 
remove the pan from the fire, continue stirring for a few moments, and 
then strain into a basin. Add flavouring to taste — lemon, vanilla, 
nutmeg, or cinnamon. This can be made richer by increasing the 
proportion of yolks to white. It can be served as sauce, or in a custard 
glass, with flavouring grated on the top. 

Baked Custard. 

2 yolks and i white of Q^g. i teaspoonful of sugar 

I gill of milk. Flavouring. 

Beat up the eggs in a basin with the sugar and flavouring ; pour in 
the milk and mix again ; strain the custard into a greased pie-dish. 
Stand the pie-dish in a Yorkshire pudding-dish with some cold water 
round it. Bake in a moderate oven from fifteen to twenty minutes until 
firm and nicely browned. A thin slice of sponge cake may be placed on 
the top of the custard before baking. 



300 DIET DUUINC; CONVALESCENCE 

Omelets. — F-i^jG^s ma}- also be advantageousl)- used as 
omelets, as follows: — 

How to innkc an Omelet. 

For an omelet of 2 eggs, break them into a bowl, add salt and 
pepper, and beat them with a fork for about a minute, not longer as a 
rule. When the eggs are sufficiently beaten they "run" off the fork in 
a homogeneous liquid, without any glutinous appearance. It is not 
necessary to beat for several minutes, with the idea that the more the 
eggs are beaten the lighter the omelet. This is a great mistake, as 
too much beating causes eggs to lose their consistency. It is, however, 
better to beat too much than too little. Place the pan on the fire to 
warm it, put in a small piece of butter — about the size of a hazel-nut for 
an omelet of 2 or 3 eggs. Add the contents of the bowl when the butter 
steams. If this precaution is taken, the omelet will not catch, as the 
hiyh temperature of the butter isolates the eggs. It is therefore a 
mistake to shake the eggs directly they are poured into the pan. But 
a second or two later, the fork must be passed round the sides of the 
pan to loosen the eggs, and then they are worked in all directions with 
the back of the fork as if they were scrambled. When they are sufiiciently 
cooked they look in fact almost like scrambled eggs ; but now the 
omelet is shaken on to one side of the pan, and with the fork one half 
is folded on the other and slid on to the dish. The shape of the omelet 
is thus obtained without difficulty, and the heat of one half just finishes 
the cooking of the other as it rests upon it. 



Sweet Omelets. 

K.— Omelet Souffld {Sweet). 

White sugar, i tablespoonful. 2 eggs. 

Pinch of salt. A little powdered vanilla. 

Take two bowls. Put into one of them i teaspoonful of white sugar ; 
into the other a pinch of salt. Break 2 eggs, separate the yolks, and 
drop one yolk at a time into the bowl containing the sugar ; whip them 
well with a wooden spoon and they become creamy like a mayonnaise. 
Add a little powdered vanilla to another h teaspoonful of sugar, and mix 
with the yolks. Put the whites of the eggs into the bowl containing the 
salt, and whip into a stiff froth. Mix with the yolks as lightly as possible, 
and pour the contents into a buttered dish in the shape of a pyramid. 
Cover it with sifted sugar and leave it for three or four minutes on the 
side of the stove. Then put it into the oven for ten to twelve minutes, 
turning the dish occasionally to colour it on all sides. Make two or 
three incisions with a knife, and serve immediately. This omelet must 
be eaten as soon as it is cooked, or it loses both its shape and its 
delicacy. 



OMELETS 301 

B. — Snowball Eggs. 
3 eggs. I pint of milk, 

l^ tablespoonfuls powdered Rind of lemon, or vanilla, 

white sugar. Sugar to taste. 

Place I pint of milk in a saucepan on the fire with the rind of a 
lemon or a little vanilla, and sufficient white sugar to sweeten. 

Break 3 eggs, separating the white from the yolk. Put lA teaspoonfuls 
of powdered white sugar on a plate. Beat the whites of the eggs into 
a stiff froth, adding a small pinch of salt. When sufficiently stifT add 
the sugar, and mix briskly. Take a teaspoonful of this mixture and 
throw it into the boiling milk in the saucepan ; turn it three minutes 
later ; remove it with a skimmer and place it on a dish. Take as many 
spoonfuls of the white of &^g as remain and cook them in a similar 
manner, three or four at a time. (If the white has been beaten sufficiently 
stiffly, when cooked each spoonful will be a compact mass.) Dress the 
snowballs in a pyramid on a dish. Pour the remainder of the milk from 
the saucepan into the yolks of the eggs ; put this mixture into another 
saucepan on the fire, turn it constantly with a spoon, and let it thicken 
without boiling. Pass it through a strainer, and when cold pour it over 
the snowballs m the dish. 

Savoury Omelets. 
A. — Omelet with Tomatoes. 
Break the eggs into a bowl, with salt and pepper ; beat them for a 
few minutes with a fork, place the omelet pan on the fire to warm, 
add a lump of butter. When the butter steams pour in the eggs. Make 
little incisions with a fork to let the heat reach the eggs in all parts ; 
pass a knife round the edge of the pan to prevent the eggs from 
"sticking"; fold one half on the other as soon as they begin to get 
firm, and shake the omelet on to a hot dish. Pour over it a good 
tomato sauce. 

'B.— Bread Omelet. 

Put I tablespoonful of crumbled bread into a saucepan with h gill of 
cream, salt, pepper, and nutmeg. When the bread is swollen with the 
cream, break 3 eggs, beat them, and make an omelet. 

Jellies. — Jellies are a pleasant change to the ordinary 
milky foods, and are much appreciated by invalids. 

The directions for calfs-foot jelly and plain gelatine jelly 
are given on page 273. They may be taken with whipped 
cream, which increases their value as a food substance. 

Cream felly or Blancmange. 
1 gill of milk. I ounce isinglass. 

I gill of cream. Rind of lemon. 

1 ounce sugar. 



302 DIET DURING CONVALESCENCE 

Rinse out .i small saucepan and put into it the milk, isinglass, and 
thinly-pcclcd rind of half a lemon. Let this stand by the side of the fire 
until the isinglass is dissolved and the milk well flavoured with the 
lemon. Stir occasionally to prevent boiling. Add the sugar, and strain 
into a basin to keep back the lemon rind. Add the cream, and stir 
occasionally until nearly cold. If not stirred, the milk and cream will 
separate. Pour into a small basin that has been rinsed out with cold 
water, and place in a cool position to set. Turn out and serve with a 
little red- or black-currant jelly. 

■£■.§:? Jelly- 

\ ounce gelatine. 3 ounces lump sugar. 

I ^%%. \ pint cold water. 

\ pint orange or lemon juice. 
Soak the gelatine in water for twenty minutes. Rub the sugar on 
the oranges to extract colour and flavour. Put the sugar, gelatine, and 
water into a clean saucepan, and stir it over a slow heat until quite dis- 
solved. Then add the juice (strained), let it just get hot, remove it from 
the fire, have the egg ready beaten in a basin, pour the jelly over it 
gradually, stirring well. Let it cool, stirring a few times to let it mix 
thoroughly with the egg. Pour into a small basin that has been rinsed 
in cold water to set. Turn out and serve with a little cream. 

Soups. — The following recipes are those in which the 
ingredients are not too rich for the digestive capacity of con- 
valescent patients. They form a delightful change after the 
monotony of the beef-teas and extracts. These recipes are 
also useful for the dietary of the aged (see p. 203). 

Broth — Mutton^ Chicken^ or Veal. 

1 lb. neck or knuckle of mutton i dessertspoonful of rice. 

or veal, or i chicken. i teaspoonful chopped parsley. 

2 pints cold water. i teaspoonful salt. 

Wipe the meat well with a damp cloth. Cut into small pieces and 
remove it from the bone, and take away as much fat as possible. Put 
meat, bones, water, and salt into a clean-lined pan, put on the lid, and 
bring it very slowly to the boil. Remove with an iron spoon all the scum 
that rises. Simmer slowly for four hours, skimming when necessary. 
When cold, remove ail the fat. Return it to a saucepan well washed. 
Allow it to cook again for twenty minutes, until the rice is soft. Add the 
parsley at the last, and it is ready for serving. 

Tapioca groiit or arrowroot may be used for thickening instead of 
rice. 

Rice Soup. 
I pint of mutton, veal, or chicken soup. Yolk of ^^Z- 
I tablcspoonful of Patna rice. i tablespoonful of cream. 

Strain the broth and remove all the fat from it ; put it into a clean 
saucepan with the rice well washed, and boil till the rice is perfectly soft. 



SOUPS 303 

Then rub all through a fine sieve, rinse out the pan, and reUiin the soup 
to it. Beat up the yolk and cream with a fork, strain them into the soup, 
and stir carefully over the fire until thoroughly hot, but it must not be 
allowed to boil. Tapioca or sago may be used instead of rice to thicken 
with. Also three tomatoes might be boiled with the rice, and then rubbed 
through the sieve. This would make a tomato soup. 

Rabbit Soup. 
I rabbit. \ ounce flour. 

\\ pints cold water, A few pieces of parsley. 

\ pint milk. I bay lejff. 

^ ounce butter. 6 peppercorns. 

\ teaspoonful of salt. 

Wash and clean the rabbit well. Let it lie in salt and water for half 
an hour. Lift out, dry it, and cut into joints. Cut the flesh into small 
pieces, and chop the bones. Put all these into a saucepan with cold 
water, with bay leaf, parsley, salt, and peppercorns. Bring to boil and 
skim well. Simmer slowly from five to six hours ; then strain through a 
fine sieve. Put the meat into a mortar ; pound it well with a little 
liquid, and rub it through a wire sieve. Rinse out the pan ; melt in it 
the butter ; add the flour, and mix till smooth. Then add the sieved 
meat, soup, and milk, and stir until boiling. Boil for ten minutes. 

Game Soup. 
I bird (grouse, pigeon, woodcock, \ teaspoonful arrowroot. 

partridge), or the remains of game. A pinch of celery seed, pepper, 
\ lb. lean, juicy meat. and salt. 

I pint cold water. 

Wipe the game and meat with a cloth ; shred the meat as for beef- 
tea ; cut the game into neat pieces. Put all these into a lined saucepan, 
with cold water and seasoning ; bring slowly to the boil, and skim 
thoroughly. Allow the soup to simmer for four hours. Strain and 
allow to cool, and then remove the fat. Mix the arrowroot with cold 
water ; add this to the soup. Boil for two or three minutes, until the 
arrowroot turns quiet clear. 

Fish Soup. 
Small haddock or whiting, or 3 gills or i pint cold water. 

piece of cod. i gill of milk. 

\ ounce butter. i yolk of egg and \ gill cream. 

\ ounce flour. i teaspoonful finely chopped parsley. 

Wash and scrape the fish very clean ; see that there is no black skin 
lining the inside parts. Remove the eyes. Cut the fish across into 
several pieces, and put them in a lined saucepan. Cover the fish with 
cold water, and add the salt. Bring to the boil and skim. After the 
fish has boiled for a few minutes, lift out a few nice little pieces offish 
free from skin and bone, and reserve them for serving in the soup at the 



304 DIET DURING CONVALESCENCE 

end. Allow the rest to simmer from three-quarters to one hour. Then 
strain throu^jh a wire sieve, and rub some of the white pieces through, 
Kinsc out the pan the soup was cooked in. Melt in it the butter ; add 
the tlour, and m\x these two smoothly together, being careful they do 
not brown. Then pour on the soup that has been sieved, and stir until 
boiling. Heat the yolk of egg and cream and milk together ; and, when 
the soup is off the boil, beat these ingredients into it ; then strain through 
a fine strainer, stirring all the time. Do not let the soup boil after the 
egg is added, or it will curdle. The pieces of fish that were reserved 
and the chopped parsley are now added. 

Oyster Soup. 

I dozen oysters. i gill cream. 

I pint fish stock or white stock. i egg. 

I ounce butter. A few drops of anchovy essence. 

I ounce flour. A squeeze of lemon juice. 

Pinch of cayenne. White pepper and salt. 

Place the oysters in a small saucepan with their own liquor, bring 
them almost to the boil, then strain. Beard the oysters (that is, remove 
the piece like a fringe that encircles them), cut them in two, and put 
them aside for stewing in the soup. Put the beards into a saucepan 
with the liquor and the stock, and let them simmer for half an hour, to 
extract all the flavour from them. If the stock is not previously well 
flavoured, small pieces of the different flavouring vegetables (p. 74) 
should also be cooked in it. Strain through a fine hair sieve or piece of 
muslin, and rinse out the saucepan ready for use. First melt in it the 
butter, being careful it does not brown, add to it the flour, and mix 
together until quite smooth. Pour on the stock, and stir constantly over 
the fire until boiling. Skim if necessary. Season to taste with a little 
white pepper, salt, anchovy essence, and pinch of cayenne. Beat up the 
yolk of eggs in a basin with the cream, strain into the soup. When off the 
boil, stir all the time. Place oysters in the soup tureen, pour the soup 
over them, and serve. 

Veal Soup. 

I lb. veal. I tablespoonful tapioca grout. 

I small knuckle of veal. i gill cream. 

6 breakfastcupfuls water. Yolks of 2 eggs. 

2 square inches of turnip. 

Cut the veal up in small pieces, and break the knuckle up well. Put 
all on with the cold water. Bring to the boil, and skim carefully ; add 
the turnip cut into small pieces, and boil steadily for at least five hours. 
Strain the soup, then add the tapioca previously soaked in cold water, 
and again boil for fifteen minutes, stirring frequently. Place the yolks 
and cream in a basin, and stir well. Gradually add the hot soup to 
the yolk and cream mixture, stirring constantly to prevent curdling, and 
season to taste. 



FISH 305 

Pish. — Raw oysters, whiting, haddock, and sole are the 
most easily digested members of the fish group, and as such 
should come first in the dietary (see also Chapter V. and p. 207). 

Oysters au Naturel. 
Oysters. Cayenne. 

Pepper and salt. Lemon juice. 

Open the oysters carefully and serve them in their shells. Season 
with pepper, salt, and a pinch of cayenne. Garnish with parsley or cut 
lemon. Serve directly they are opened, or the flavour will be spoilt. 
They are best eaten with a little brown bread and butter. Oysters may 
be peptonised and then given, and are an excellent and easily digested 
food (p. 175)- 

This is richer and not so digestible as above, but is quite 
suitable for many convalescent patients : — 

Oysters Scalloped. 
\ dozen oysters. Breadcrumbs. 

\ ounce butter. Pepper and salt. 

Lemon juice. 

Put the oysters and their liquor into a small saucepan, and bring them 
to the boil. Remove the beards from the oysters, and strain the liquor. 
Grease china or well-washed oyster shells. Sprinkle into each dish a 
few breadcrumbs, then put in three oysters into each shell. Season to 
taste with pepper and salt. Pour over a little oyster liquor. Cover with 
more breadcrumbs. Pour some melted butter over the top. Brown in 
the oven or in front of the fire, and serve very hot. 

The white fish can be steained and served without any 
sauce, or stewed in a little milk and served with a white 
sauce, as follows : — 

White Sauce (^French). 

\ ounce butter. \ gill cream. 

\ ounce flour. Pepper and salt. 

Small \ pint fish slock or seasoned milk. 

Method. — Melt the butter in a lined saucepan, add the flour, and mix 
smoothly with a wooden spoon. Cook for four minutes over the fire, but 
do not brown. Draw the pan to the side of the fire, and add the stock 
or milk gradually, then return to the fire, and stir constantly until boiling. 
Add the cream and seasoning, and boil for a minute or two longer. 
Remove the pan from the fire before adding the lemon juice, and strain 
before using. More or less milk may be added according to the thick- 
ness of the sauce required. If considered too rich, the cream may be 
omitted. 

Seasoned Milk.— Vni as much milk as is required into a lined sauce- 

U 



306 DIET DURING CONVALESCENCE 

pan, with a small piece of carrot, turnip, onion, and a few parsley stalks. 
Let the pan stand by the side of the fire until the milk is well seasoned, 
then strain and cool before using. 

Steamed Fish. — This is the lightest and simplest mode of 
cooking fish for an invalid. 

I filleted haddock, whiting, or sole. A small piece of butter. 

A pinch of salt and white pepper. A squeeze of lemon juice. 

Cut the fillets of fish into neat-sized pieces ; grease a soup-plate or 
muffin-dish with a little butter, and place the fish on this. Sprinkle with 
a little salt and white pepper if it is allowed, and squeeze over some 
lemon juice, which helps to keep the fish firm and white. Cover the fish 
with a piece of greased white paper, and then with a lid or basin. Place 
this over a pan half-full of boiling water, seeing that the plate fits well on 
the pan. Keep the water in the pan boiling, so that there may be plenty 
of steam, and cook from twenty to thirty minutes, until the fish loses its 
clear, transparent appearance and looks quite white. If the pieces are 
thick, it is better to turn them while cooking. The liquid that is on the 
plate when the fish is cooked is the juice from the fish, and should be 
served with it. Serve the fish with a little plain cold butter and a piece 
of plain bread or toast. 

Stewed Fish. 

1 filleted fish, whiting, haddock, sole, plaice. i gill milk. 

I tablespoonful breadcrumbs. i ounce butter. 

1 teaspoonful chopped parsley. White pepper. 

I gill cold water. 

Wipe the fish with a damp cloth and cut it into small, neat pieces. 
Rinse out a lined saucepan with water, and place the pieces offish at the 
foot. Sprinkle over them a little salt and white pepper, pour in the milk 
and water ; put the lid on the pan, and let the fish cook slowly by the 
side of the fire until it is ready, which will be in about fifteen minutes. 
Do not overcook, or the fish will be hard. Lift out the pieces of fish on 
to the plate on which they are to be served, and keep them hot. Add the 
breadcrumbs and the butter to the water and milk in the pan. Stir over 
the fire for a few minutes until the breadcrumbs swell and thicken the 
sauce. Sprinkle in the parsley, and then pour this sauce over the fish. 

Baked Fish. 

\ lb. uncooked fish. I e^g. 

2 tablespoonfuls breadcrumbs. ^ gill milk. 
Pepper, salt, and a little lemon juice. i ounce butter. 

Grease a small pie-dish with a little of the butter. Have the fish free 
from the skin and bone, and cut it into neat pieces. Lay half of these 
pieces at the foot of the pie-dish, sprinkle over them a little white pepper, 
salt, and a squeeze of lemon juice, and then put on a layer of bread- 
crumbs. Next, put in the rest of the fish, seasoning, and more crumbs. 
Beat up the egg in a small basin, add the milk to it, and strain this into 



WHITE MEAT 307 

the pie-dish. Put the rest of the butter in small pieces on the top and 
wipe round the edges of the pie-dish, and bake in the oven until nicely 
browned. 

Fried Fish. — Nothing is nicer for an invalid than a really 
well-fried fillet of sole or small whiting, with a slice of lemon 
to squeeze over it. 

Soles to Fry. 
I sole. Pepper and salt. 

A little flour. Egg and breadcrumbs. 

Frying fat. 

Skin and fillet the fish, and wipe the fillets with a damp cloth. Trim 
neatly and cut across in slanting direction into two or three pieces. Dip 
each piece in flour mixed with pepper and salt, then egg and bread- 
crumbs, and fry in boiling fat until well browned. Drain on kitchen 
paper and serve very hot. Garnish with lemon (see method of wet 
frying, p. 69). 

Small whitings and haddocks, small flounders and plaice, can be 
cooked whole in this way. Large flounders, plaice, and haddocks are 
better filleted whole. 

Quenelle of Fish. 

I lb. haddock. i teacupful milk. 

I slice bread. i teaspoonful parsley. 

\ ounce butter. i &^^ and i yolk. 

Pepper and salt. 

Remove the skin and bones from the haddock, and scrape it down, 
putting aside any part that is not white. Soak the breadcrumbs in 
milk, and when quite soaked, strain and place in a small saucepan with 
the butter, parsley, and the yolk of one ^%'g., and stir over the fire till it 
becomes a thick paste. Put it in a mortar with the fish, and powder it 
into a smooth paste ; mix in thoroughly a beaten up ^'g'g^ also pepper and 
salt. Place in a buttered shape and steam for an hour and a half. 

Meats. — Of this class of food, poultry {e.g. chicken and 
turkey), game [e.g. pheasant and partridge), tripe, sweet- 
breads, and rabbit are the most easily digested. They 
can be served in the usual manner of roasting, boiling, or 
stewing. Tripe and sweetbreads form most excellent dishes, 
and only require to be more thoroughly known to be 
appreciated.. Beef and mutton may be served as "minced 
beef," " meat-juice mince," or beef quenelles, and are very 
digestible ; mutton chops, roast leg of mutton, grilled rump- 
steak, require more digestive power. 

A few extra recipes for the preparation of chicken, game, 



308 DIET DURING CONVALESCENCE 

rabbits, and sweetbreads arc given, and also the method of 
preparing and serving Iripe. 

Broiled Chicken. 

I small chicken. i ounce butter. 

Pepper and salt. 

Prepare a young chicken for roasting, split it down the back, lay 
it open, and take only half at a time. Rub the piece of chicken over 
with a little butter to keep the skin from cracking, and season with 
pepper and salt. Grease the gridiron and make it thoroughly hot. 
Lay the chicken on it with the cut side down to begin with ; broil either 
on the top of or before a clear fire for about half an hour. When cooked, 
lift on to a very hot plate, and rub the rest of the butter over it. Serve 
with rolls of bacon round it. If broiling an older fowl, it must be 
partially cooked first, either by boiling or roasting. It may be eaten 
with or without bread sauce, made as follows : — 

Bread Sauce. 
2 ounces breadcrumbs. i pint water, 

i ounce butter. i tablespoonful cream or milk. 

Salt and pepper. 

Pour hot water over the breadcrumbs, cover with a plate, and when 
quite cool, mash it and put in a pan with the butter, cream, salt and 
pepper. Mix all well together and simmer till hot. 

Chicken Souffle. 
Breast of chicken. \ ounce flour. 

I gill cream. i &%'g. 

Pepper and salt to taste. 

Skin the breast of the chicken, chop it finely, pound well in mortar ; 
melt the butter, and stir it into the flour with a tablespoonful of cream. 
Let it come to the boil, and pour over the pounded chicken, add season- 
ing, pound together, and rub through a wire sieve. Switch the remaining 
cream until stiff", mix gently with other ingredients ; butter some cups, 
half-fill with the mixture, cover the cups with kitchen paper, and set in 
stewpan half full of boiling water. Steam for fifteen minutes. Serve 
with white sauce. The boiling water should only come half-way up the 
cups while steaming. 

Chicken or Veal Panada. 
\ lb. breast of chicken, or \ lb. fillet of veal. 
1 tablespoonful cold water. i tablespoonful cream. A pinch of salt. 

Wipe the meat and cut it into small pieces ; free it from fat and skin. 
Place it in a cup with a jjinch of salt and cold water. Tie over it a 
greased white paper, and steam slowly from one to one and a half 
hours. Then lift it out, place the contents of the cup in a mortar, pound 



GAME AND TRIPE 309 

well, and rub through a sieve. Put the sieved mixture into a pan, add 
the cream, and heat thoroughly. This may be served on a piece of 
toast, or taken cold. 

Rrii^flut of Fowl or RiiMif. 
Take the winces and breast of a fowl or the back and legs of a 
rabbii, soak in hot water for five minutes, then put into a jug with salt 
and mace, or peppercorns. Cover with milk, seal the jar closely, set in 
an oven, and bake for three hours. Take out the meat. Pour the milk 
into a basin to cool, so that the fat may be easily removed. Before 
serving, warm in a cup set in hot water, or warm a little of the meat in 
the milk, and serve with thin toast or water biscuits. 

Stewed Partridge. 

I partridge. i blade of mace. 

^ ounce butter. Lemon. 

I teaspoonful of flour. Pepper and salt. 

Cut the partridge into joints and take out the largest bones. Put the 
butter into a small stewpan ; when it gets hot put in the best parts of the 
partridge and fry it very carefully, then add to this a small bit of lemon 
peel, a small bit of mace, and pepper and salt ; add the flour and i tea- 
cupful of water, and the bones that were removed. When this all boils 
up, put on the lid, and let it all stew slowly for three-quarters of an hour, 
or till tender. Take up the best bits on a dish and strain the gravy over 
them. All game is easily digested when cooked in this way. 

Tripe. — Methods of preparing : — The best varieties of 
tripe are those known as the " blanket " (because it has a 
folded appearance), and the dark variety known as the 
" monk's hood " ; these are best for invalids on account of 
their tenderness. The other sorts are known as the " book " 
and the " honeycomb." 

If tripe is properly prepared, it is a most delicately 
flavoured and easily digested article of food, and should be 
in more constant u.se than it is at present. It requires, 
however, very careful cleaning and boiling. In Scotland 
prepared tripe cannot be purchased at the butcher's, so it is 
necessary to understand the whole process. Tripe sold in 
England has generally had a preliminary boiling. 

First wash and scrub in several waters and scrape it 
with a knife, pulling away any pieces of fat from it. Cut it 
into pieces and put it into a clean saucepan with cold water 
to cover it, and bring it to the boil. This is called blanching, 
and is repeated until the water in which the tripe was 
boiled loses all its heavy smell. This may require to be 



310 DIET DURING CONVALESCENCE 

done four or five times. Then rinse the saucepan well, put 
in the tripe with cold water to cover it, bring to the boil, 
and cook slowly for ten to twelve hours. If cooked too 
quickly the tripe will harden. When sufficiently cooked, it 
ought to be so tender that it will pull easily to pieces. Pour 
it out into a basin and cover it with the liquor in which it 
was cooked. This prevents it becoming hard and dry. It 
can then be made up in any way desired. 

The water in which the tripe is boiled should never be 
thrown away, as it contains a certain amount of nourishment. 
It is sometimes served as an invalid jelly. 

The prepared tripe can be stewed in various sauces for 
fifteen minutes, and served in one of the following ways : — 

1. Tripe stewed in white sauce and onions, and served with sippets of 
toast. 

2. Tripe stewed in a thick tomato sauce, and served with little rolls of 
bacon and croquettes of fried bread. 

3. Tripe heated in a good curry sauce, and served with a border of 
rice. 

4. Baked Tripe. — Grease a small pie-dish, and put the tripe, with 
thin square pieces of bread and butter, into this, in alternate layers. The 
last layer should be bread, with the buttered side up. Beat up an egg in 
a basin until it is frothy, add it to half a gill of tripe liquor, and season 
with pepper and salt. Strain this into the pie-dish, and then wipe round 
the edge of the dish with a cloth. Let the mixture stand for ten minutes, 
until the mixture gets thoroughly soaked. Bake in a moderate oven for 
about fifteen minutes until nicely browned. Serve hot. 

Sweetbreads. — There are two varieties of sweetbread — 
the " throat " sweetbread (thymus gland) and the " stomach " 
sweetbread (pancreas). The latter is much more digestible. 
Lamb's sweetbreads are very tender. This article of food 
must be nicely prepared, or it is very unappetising. The 
difficulty is to clear off all the connective tissue and fat from 
between the lobules. 

Soak the sweetbread in cold water for one or two hours. 
Then put it into a saucepan with cold water to cover it. 
Bring to the boil, and boil for five minutes. Then lift it 
out and place in a basin of cold water to cool it. This pre- 
serves the colour of the sweetbread. Then, with great care, 
remove from it all the fat and skin, pulling them off with the 
fingers. It is now ready for cooking. 



SWEETBREADS 311 

Braised Sweetbreads. 
Prepare the sweetbreads as above. Braise them for one and a half 
hours — that is, place the sweetbreads unbroken into a saucepan contain- 
ing a little onion, carrot, turnip, celery, savoury herbs, and seasoninf^ ; 
add a little meat stock, just enouj,di to cover the meat ; cover with paper 
and a well-fitting lid. At the end of the time take them out, brown in 
the oven, and serve on a piece of fried toast or a bed of mashed potatoes. 
Pour a good sauce round them, such as Italienne, made as follows : — 

Sauce ltalie7ine. 
I ounce flour. Onion and sprig parsley. 

I ounce butter. i gill sherry. 

I bay leaf. \ pint second stock. 

Melt the butter ; fry the herbs and onions and flour to a good brown 
colour. Add the sherry, and allow it to cook a few minutes ; add the 
stock when boiling, and allow to simmer for an hour. Strain the sauce 
before pouring round the sweetbreads. 

Stewed Sweetbreads. 
I stomach sweetbread. i teaspoonful arrowroot. 

I gill white stock. i tablespoonfiil cream. 

White pepper and salt. 

Break the prepared sweetbread into small pieces of equal size ; put 
them into a small lined stewpan with the stock ; put on the lid, and allow 
it to simmer slowly until tender. 

When cooked, lift the pieces of sweetbread out, place them on a neat 
square of toast on a hot dish, and keep them warm. Break the arrow- 
root into a small basin with a little cold water, and add it to the stock in 
the pan. Stir over the fire until boiling, and boil for five minutes, so as 
to cook the arrowroot. Add cream, and season to taste. Pour the sauce 
over the sweetbread, and serve very hot. 

See also recipe in diabetic feeding (p. 487) for sweetbreads and 
tomatoes. 

Red Meat. — A slice of plain roasted mutton or beef, or a 
lightly grilled chop or steak, are easily digested. The follow- 
ing recipes will be found useful : — 

Minced Beef. 
\ lb. best rump-steak. Pepper and salt. 

\ pint cold water. Sippets of toast. 

Either get the butcher to mince the steak, or, after removing all the 
fat and connective tissue, put it through the mincing machine. 

Never buy so-called mince collops from the shop for an invalid ; 
there is always too much fat in it. 

Take a small lined stewpan ; put the minced beef into it, with half 
the water and the seasoning. Put the pan on the stove, and pound the 



312 DIET DURING CONVALESCENCE 

meat well until it loses its raw appearance. Then add the rest of the 
water ; simmer gently by the fire for twenty minutes. Do not allow the 
meat to cook too quickly, or it becomes hard. Remove any grease that 
may rise on it, and serve very hot. Garnish the dish with some neat 
sippets of toasted bread. 

Meat-Juice Mince. 

\ lb. best rump-steak. i small piece of butter. 

Pepper and salt. 

Take the meat and rub through the hair sieve until all the red juicy 
part has gone through ; scrape the bottom of the sieve. Melt a very 
little piece of the butter in a small frying-pan ; toss the meat juice in it 
for three or four minutes, until it loses its red colour. Flavour, and serve 
with toast. This looks just like mince, but as none of the fibre is present, 
it is very digestible. This meat-juice mince can be made more easily 
digestible by omitting the butter, and adopting the following method : — 
Take the scraped meat, and add a teaspoonful of beef-tea or simple 
stock, and stir in an iron pan for three or four minutes, when the juice 
granulates and becomes brown in colour. If an enamel pan is used, the 
meat has a very unappetising appearance. 

Beef Quenelles. 
I lb. beefsteak. Salt and pepper to taste. 

Breadcrumbs. i t<g^. 

2 tablespoonfuls stock. 

Pound the beefsteak, half a teacupful of breadcrumbs, salt and 
pepper, ^<g% and stock well in a mortar, rub through sieve, shape with 
tablespoons, and poach in shallow pan for ten minutes in boiling water. 
Serve with sippets of toast, and pour a gravy made of thickened beef-tea 
round the quenelles. 

Vegetables. — The following are the mo.st suitable vege- 
tables for convalescent patients: — Spinach, boiled lettuce, 
baked tomatoes, steamed asparagus, stewed celery, seakale, 
young leeks, cauliflower, onions, and vegetable marrow. The 
most suitable methods of cooking these vegetables have been 
described on p. 122. All these vegetables can be served 
with a little well-made white sauce served round them. 
This sauce must be properly made, as described on o. 123. 

Rice and Macaroni. 
These carbohydrates are the basis of many nourishing and easily 
digested Italian dishes. In cooking, the directions for boiling rice and 
macaroni should be closely followed. 

Plain Boiled Rice. 

Wash well some Patna rice in several waters until the last wafer looks 
quite clean. If there is a pot for steaming the rice in, it is best to use this, 



RICE, MACARONI 313 

but if not, boil the rice in a saucepan of boiling water containing salt, 
which is in the proportion of i teaspoonful to the quart, lioil quickly 
with the lid off, stirring it frequently with a fork to prevent it sticking to 
the pan. Cook from ten to fifteen minutes until the grain will rub down 
easily when one is tested between the finger and thumb. Strain through 
sieve or strainer, and finish the cooking by drying it, either by putting it 
into the saucepan by the side of the fire, or putting it on to a plate in a 
moderate oven. While drying, stir lightly v/ith a fork every now and 
then to keep the grains separate. 

N.B. — The water in which the rice has been boiled contains the best 
part of the rice, so it should not be thrown away, but kept for the stock 
pot. 

Italian Rice {Cheese and Rice). 

Plain boil the rice as directed above. After straining the rice, pour 
it back into a pan. Put a sufficient quantity of butter into a frying-pan ; 
when the butter is melted add the rice, and mix well together for two or 
three minutes. Place the rice in a dish, and cover with grated Parmesan 
cheese. 

Milan Rice {Rice with Meat Extract). 

Place a bit of butter in a saucepan ; when melted, throw in the rice 
(2 oz. is sufficient for one person). Mix rapidly with a wooden spoon 
to prevent burning. When the rice begins to colour, moisten with good 
stock, by degrees, until the rice is thoroughly cooked. Then add a 
small teaspoonful of any meat extract. Mix with it salt, pepper, and 
grated Parmesan cheese, about I oz. A little of the cheese is mixed 
with the rice and the remainder served separately. 

Boiled Macaroni. 

Break the macaroni into short lengths, and throw it into a saucepan 
of freshly boiling water with salt in it. 

Boil quickly with the lid off the pan until it has thoroughly swelled 
and is tender. Stir occasionally, to prevent it sticking. The time depends 
on the variety of the macaroni — the large pipe will take about half an 
hour, the small much longer. Keep it well covered with water. When 
ready, drain, and this may either be served plain with meat, or it may be 
put back into the saucepan with enough stock to cover it and allow to 
stew for half an hour. 

The pulp of a fresh tomato rubbed through a sieve may also be added 
to this. 



CHAPTER XVIII 

DISEASES OF THE STOMACH 

PAOK PAOB 

Indigestion SH Gastrorhexis 337 

Indigestion in children . , . 320 Dilated stomach .... 339 

Gastric catarrh .... 322 Cancer of the stomach . . . 343 

Hyperchlorhydria .... 326 Gastroptosis .... 344 

Gastric ulcer 330 

Indigestion 

PAOE PAOB 

Introduction 314 Principles of dietetic treatment . 318 

Diagnosis of the cause . . • 315 Practical points in dietetic manage- 
Dia'^nosis of functional cases . 316 raent 318 

Under the vague term indigestion there is comprised a 
number of disorders which have one feature in common, e.^., 
the inability to digest ordinary food in the painless, uncon- 
scious manner characteristic of health. This indigestion may 
show itself in a number of different ways. Pain or dis- 
comfort after meals is one of the most prominent symptoms ; 
this may be severe or slight in character ; it may occur 
immediately after the ingestion of food, or some hours later. 
Heartburn and waterbrash are other manifestations which 
are often very distressing. Flatulence is another prominent 
symptom ; this may take the form of belching up of wind, or 
of passage of flatus by the bowel, or of a tightness and oppres- 
sion in the abdomen. Loss of appetite, nausea, general 
physical and mental depression, and derangement of the 
bowels, especially constipation, are other subjective symptoms 
commonly met with. It must be recognised that indigestion 
is merely a symptom. It may be a symptom of — 

I, Chronic constitutional disease in which the digestion 
is involved secondarily, e.^. tuberculosis ; or it may 
result from 



INDIGESTION— CAUSES OF 315 

2. Local disease in the stomach, intestines, or other viscus, 

of an organic nature ; or 

3. Local disease in the stomach or intestines of a 

functional character. ]^y that we mean that no 
structural change is present, so far as can be deter- 
mined by our present methods of investigation. It 
is probable that this group depends on alterations in 
the gastric and intestinal secretions of a nature not 
yet fully understood. 

A few words may be said on the diagnosis of the cause of 
indigestion. 

Diagnosis of the cause of ifidigestion. — An accurate 
diagnosis of the cause of indigestion must precede any 
attempts at its remedial treatment by means of diet. 
Keeping in view the points already laid down, we must first 
determine whether the indigestion is an expression of a 
chronic constitutional derangement. The most important 
constitutional conditions which give rise to indigestion are 
tuberculosis, chronic renal disease, and heart disease. In 
every case, therefore, we must exclude them as the cause ; if 
found to be secondary to one of these conditions, the treat- 
ment has to be directed to the primary condition {q.v.). 
Tuberculosis is frequently the cause of indigestion in young 
people ; and with regard to this it should be borne in mind 
that the indigestion may be an early symptom of the 
tuberculosis, and may precede by many months the develop- 
ment of active tuberculous disease in the lungs or elsewhere. 
Chronic renal disease is often responsible for symptoms of 
indigestion in adult and elderly subjects ; it is not infrequent 
in practice to find that the existence of chronic renal disease 
is ascertained for the first time by the routine examination of 
the urine in cases in which the symptoms have been entirely 
those of " indigestion." In the case of organic heart disease, 
severe anaemia, rheumatoid arthritis, and some other dis- 
orders, we are less likely to overlook the true nature of the 
indigestion than in cases of tuberculosis and renal disease 
already referred to. 

The second point is to determine whether the indigestion 
is the result of an organic lesion of the stomach or bowel, or 



316 DISEASES OF THE STOMACH 

other orphan. If wc cxcliulc acute gastritis, uliich is not a 
cause of indigestion in the ordinary sense, the conditions 
to which attention must be ilirected are the following: — 

1. Lesions in the stomach or duodenum, especially gastric 

or duodenal ulcer, hyperchlorhydria, dilatation of 
the stomach, and chronic gastric catarrh ; the last 
mentioned, it should be noted, may be associated 
with malignant disease. 

2. Appendicitis. Pain in the epigastrium and other 

symptoms of indigestion may be present, and may 
be the chief indications of appendicular mischief 

3. Catarrh of the gall-bladder or bile-ducts, often 

associated with some pancreatic disease. 

4. Floating kidney, and various uterine and ovarian dis- 

orders may be the cause of the " indigestion." 

It is very important to keep these points in mind. If we 
do so, we will avoid a mistake by no means infrequently 
made, of treating certain cases — as examples of " functional 
indigestion " — for weeks or months, with little or no success, 
which are later cured by other clinicians who have detected 
the underlying cause in the appendix, kidney, or uterus, etc. 

Diagnosis of functional indigestion. — Having now deter- 
mined that the indigestion is not secondary to some chronic 
constitutional disease, and further, that it is not dependent, 
so far as can be ascertained, on organic disease of the 
stomach or other ot^an, we now conclude that it is of 
*' functional " origin. By that we mean that it depends, not 
on any demonstrable standard change, but on some alteration 
in the secretions of the gastric or intestinal juice, or in the 
muscle of the stomach wall, of a nature not yet fully 
understood. Thus the gastric secretion may be increased in 
amount or reduced below the normal. When it is increased 
we have the condition of hyperchlorhydria, which is probably 
the only type of "functional indigestion" which admits of 
accurate differentiation. The symptoms of this hyper- 
chlorhydria are quite distinctive, and are the subject of 
special consideration on p. 326. This hyperchlorhydria is 
often associated with motor insufficiency of the stomach wall, 
revealed by a state of dilatation of the stomach, hence the 



INDIGESTION— CAUSES OF 317 

inclusion of this in the organic group above described. There 
remains a very large group of cases which hardly admit, in 
our present knowledge, of more accurate classification than 
that of functional dyspepsia or indigestion. The causation of 
these will soon be shortly considered, the existing cause in 
the majority of cases being dietetic errors. 

Imperfect mastication, defective state of the teeth, hurried 
irregular 7neals of an ill-balanced nature, and constipation are 
probably the most important causal factors. By their action, 
singly or in combination, the digestive functions are seriously 
impaired, with the resulting clinical features characteristic of 
indigestion. Among the dietetic errors which are frequently 
responsible, mention may be made of excessive tea-drinking, 
immoderate use of starchy foods, over-indulgence in sweets, 
and occasionally excess of meat foods. Excess of tea, excess 
of sweets, and too great use of starchy foods is more 
frequently the cause of the indigestion seen in young women; 
in men, excess of tea, or of meat, or of starchy foods is also 
responsible, and their unfavourable action is in them often 
intensified by over-indulgence in tobacco or alcohol. Refer- 
ence should be made to the value of the careful examination 
of the urine as an aid in diagnosis in certain cases of 
indigestion. In cases in which the urine gives a marked 
pancreatic reaction, the indication is to restrict to a marked 
degree the farinaceous and saccharine foods. 

It must be clearly recognised that there are cases of 
functional indigestion which are not dependent on any 
dietetic error, but are the result of a temporary lowering of 
the general nervous tone of the individual. Such cases are 
cured by measures directed to the improvement of general 
health, without special reference to dietetic conditions ; such 
measures as rest, change of air, and general tonic treatment 
alone sufficing to get rid of the indigestion. In the treatment 
of the general run of cases it is essential to point out that 
complete rest in bed for a week or two or longer, and 
attention to the bowels, are points of cardinal importance in 
the treatment. Clinical experience shows that nut a few 
cases which have been diagnosed, after full consideration, as 
cases of functional indigestion, arc really cases of organic 
disease. In some respects this is not a matter of great 



318 DISEASES OF THE STOMACH 

moment, as in cases of doubt the dietetic treatment of the 
two conditions is essentially the same. 

Principles in tlic dietetic treatment. — In the slighter cases 
all that is required is to correct the defects in the dietary, 
which may be ascertained from a careful inquiry into the 
dietetic history of the patient. Tea must be reduced or 
eliminated from the dietary, sweets should be cut off, bread 
and starchy foods must be reduced, and all indigestible 
articles of food should be avoided. In cases where meat foods 
have been taken three or four times daily, these must be 
reduced, and a lacto-vegetarian regimen substituted. If 
these points are attended to, and three simple meals a day 
prescribed, recovery soon takes place. 

In the more severe cases the above will not suffice. Then 
complete rest in bed for some weeks is essential, and the diet 
from the outset has to be adapted to the digestive capacity of 
the patient. It may be necessary to begin with a diet of i, 2, 
or 3 pints of milk in the twenty-four hours, which may require 
to be given diluted or peptonised. As the state of digestion 
improves, beef-tea, bread, milk puddings are cautiously added 
to the dietary. In some cases it is useful to add some 
extract of malt If the symptoms persist in spite of treat- 
ment carried out carefully along these lines, it may point to 
the conclusion that the case is one of organic disease — ulcer 
of stomach or duodenum — which will only be cured by 
operative treatment. 

Reference has already been made to the value of extract 
of malt in certain cases. This is more particularly applicable 
to certain cases of a gouty nature, in which the symptoms 
are in all probability the result of defective pancreatic 
activity. Malt may be given in the form of Maltine, Extract 
of malt, and Homax. The last-mentioned preparation has 
ver)' special value in this class of case. 

The only other point to which it is necessary to draw 
attention is to cases in which flatulence is the predominant 
feature. In these cases, in addition to attention to diet along 
the lines already indicated, it is es.scntial to specially restrict 
the vegetables and pulse foods. 

Practical Rules in the Treatment of Dyspepsia. — {a) 
Small meals, slowly and deliberately eaten, is the first 



INDIGESTION 319 

essential. The meals should be small, and very moderate in 
quantity. A diet should be selected that gives the necessary 
nourishment with the least labour to the stomach. It is 
important to remember that the digestive function begins in 
the mouth. Thorough mastication is, therefore, of paramount 
importance. Particular attention should also be directed to 
the state of the teeth. 

{b) A sufficient amount of time should be allowed between 
meals to permit of complete digestion of one meal before the 
next is taken. When on a fluid diet, and only very small 
quantities being taken at a time, the meals must be taken 
more frequently, two and a half to three-hourly ; but when 
solid food is taken, four to five hours should at least elapse 
before the next meal. This is especially important in 
dyspepsia in elderly subjects. 

{c) Avoid sitting down to food immediately after hard 
physical or mental work, and do not return to work immedi- 
ately after a meal, rest for half an hour. 

((/) A few notes on the most suitable type of food may be 
added : — 

It is exceedingly important that the food of the dyspeptic 
should be carefully and skilfully cooked. Of the meats, the 
shorter-fibred and more easily digested meats and fish should 
be selected. Chicken, turkey, pheasant, partridge, sweet- 
bread, tripe, mutton, are better than beef, goose, duck, wild 
fowl, veal, or pork. Lamb and rabbit are not so digestible as 
is often assumed. Of the fish, the white varieties, as sole, 
whiting, plaice, flounder, are the best, and fish is best grilled, 
or plainly boiled or steamed. For cooking, if the meat is 
tender, grilling is the best method ; underdone roast is also 
good. 

As to sauces, it is best for dyspeptics to avoid rich sauces 
entirely ; and when butter is required, as with fish, to use 
plain fresh butter. 

Fat in some forms is difficult to digest. Grilled fat bacon 
eaten with dry toast is easily digested, tasty, and a good form 
of fatty food. When taken with bread and yolk of egg it 
makes a nutritive and compact meal. Breadstuffs saturated 
with butter, such as buttered toast, hot scones, muffins, pastry, 
are not easily digested, the saturation with fat preventing the 



320 DISEASES OF THE STOMACH 

£]jastric juice c;cttiii£j at it, with the result that these foods 
undergo abnormal fermentative changes. 

Some varieties of bread are indigestible, but often when 
complained about it will be found that the patient is taking 
too much. A digestible bread is one that is not new, which 
breaks short, is open and crumbs easily (pan loaf) ; scones and 
wholemeal bread are often very troublesome for people with 
feeble digestive power (see Bread, p. 93). 

Sweet dishes are apt to undergo acid fermentation, and 
unripe acid fruits, nuts, and the hard coverings of vegetables 
containing much cellulose are difficult of digestion and must 
be avoided. Vegetables should be smoothly mashed, or 
reduced to the form of purees, especially all green vegetables. 

Tea or coffee do not always cause indigestion, but are apt 
to do so in some persons. If they do cause indigestion they 
.should never be taken with or soon after food, but a cup of 
freshly made tea or coffee three or four hours after a meal will 
not un frequently be found to promote the final stage of stomach 
digestion. No food, however, should be eaten at the same 
time. Light China teas are much less likely to cause 
dyspepsia than the stronger Indian kinds. There are other 
varieties of so-called digestive teas on the market, which are 
reputed to contain little tannin, e.g. Typho-Tip.s. 

Clironio Intestinal Indigestion in Children. — The clinical 
picture of a child suffering from chronic indigestion is a varied 
one. The child may be well nourished, but more commonly 
it shows wasting, often in marked degree. Listlcssness and a 
general physical and mental apathy are prominent features, 
and these are associated with loss of appetite, distaste for 
ordinary food, and often a distinct degree of anaemia. A 
derangement of the bowels is usually present, the bowels 
being constipated or loose, the motions being offensive and 
containing undigested foodstuffs. In rare cases the anaemia 
may become very pronounced, the condition becoming one of 
severe anaemia, the treatment of which is discussed in the 
section on Diseases of the Blood. 

The condition arises from over-feeding or injudicious 
feeding of long duration. Too much tea, excess of sweets, 
and the too liberal indulgence in carbohydrate foods, especi- 
ally bread and starchy puddings, are commonly noted causes ; 



INDIGESTION IN CHILDREN 321 

in the children of gouty parents the main defect is usually a 
general excess of all the foodstuffs, more especially farin- 
aceous or meat foods (see also Food Fever, p. 350). Some 
cases are associated with hyperchlorhydria, and in these cases 
treatment must be conducted along the lines laid down for 
that condition. Whatever the cause may be the indications 
for treatment can be clearly defined. 

Treatment. — The whole digestive tract must get a rest, by 
the administration of only small quantities of the most easily 
digested foodstuffs given in fluid form. The benefits of this 
treatment are often more quickly obtained by keeping the 
patient in bed for a few days, and clearing out the bowel 
thoroughly as a preliminary measure. 

The diet at the outset should consist of peptonised whey, 
weak beef-tea, or weak mutton, veal, and chicken soup, given 
in 3 to 4 ounce feeds, with net more than a finger of crisp 
toast. In some cases breadstufifs are better withheld till later. 
In twenty-four or thirty-six hours, skimmed milk, plain or 
peptonised, may be added to the diet, which may also include 
chicken jelly, meat juice, and the like. Ordinary milk, plain 
or peptonised, may soon be given, but the effect of it must 
be carefully observed both on the patient's symptoms and on 
the condition of the stools. If it is well tolerated it may 
then be fortified by the addition of white of egg, Plasmon, 
Frotene, and Sanatogen, and by the addition of simply 
prepared fish, chicken, or sweetbread. Carbohydrates must 
be added very cautiously, beginning with a little crisp toast, 
rusk, or stale bread, going on to a plain milk pudding or pre- 
pared invalid food — Savory & Moore's, Benger's, or Allen- 
bury food (p. 183). There is frequently some difficulty in the 
digestion of carbohydrates, and this may be overcome by the 
administration of Extract of malt or Maltine. As the state of 
digestion improves, fat is cautiously added in the form of 
butter, cream, and yolk of eggs. 

To prevent a recurrence. — Special care must be taken with 
the subsequent feeding of the child. The amount of farin- 
aceous foods and sweets must be carefully regulated, and excess 
in either avoided. Particular attention must be directed to 
the thorough mastication of the food. This is of value in two 
directions. It imitates the normal digestive process in the 



323 DISEASES OV THE STOMACH 

mouth, and so favours a healthy gastric and intestinal 
digestion ; and it diminishes the risk of eating to excess. 
Food must, therefore, be selected which promotes mastication. 
Beef and mutton should be given in the form of roast or 
boiled, and not mince meat ; and the child should be 
encouraged to take crusts, crisp toast, hard biscuits, and other 
foods which require chewing. 

A diet suitable for a child of seven is here given. It must 
be observed that the number of meals is restricted, no food is 
given between meals, and the carbohydrates and fats are 
especially reduced. 

S .x.M. : Breakfast— 

Cup of milk and hot water (unsweetened), allowing lo ounces of milk. 

Bit offish ; or ham or tongue. 

Slice of toast, and a couple of rusks or Vienna roll and a very little 

butter. 

12.30: Dinner — 

Milk, 6 to 8 ounces diluted. 

TFish, with white sauce and potato ; or 

. 1 V 1 • I Chicken, with bread sauce or cauliflower ; or 

A good helping J ' , , , / , , 

I Roast mutton, gravy, and a vegetable (cabbage 

\ puree). 

Pudding, milk pudding, with stewed fruit ; or custard, with raw 

apple ; or jelly, or a meringue ; only a little sugar and cream. 

Dry toast or rusks, given as much as the child requires. 

4 P..M. — Milk, 10 ounces ; bread and butter, limited to i slice ; rusks and 

dry biscuit, as much as child will take. Sweet cakes to be taken 

very sparingly. 

6.30 P..M. — Cup of soup, thickened with wcll-ljoiled sago, macaroni, 

vermicelli, or barley. 

Slice of toast. 



Gastric Catarrh — Gastritis. 

lAGE PACK 

Gastric Citarrh — Gastric catarrh (conliiiued) — 

Acute gastric catarrh . . 322 Gastric catarrh in children . 325 

Chronic gastric catarili . . 324 

The indigestion associated with gastric catarrh, and more 
particularly in its acute form, is distingui.shed from other 
forms of indigestion by the suddenness of its onset, and 
by the fact that a definite cause can usually be assigned 
for it. The most common causes are irritating or toxic 



ACUTE GASTRIC CATARRH 323 

articles of food, and excessive indulgence in alcohol. Con- 
tributory causes are defective mastication, hurried meals, 
and septic state of the teeth. It must be borne in mind 
that an acute gastritis may be an early symptom of one of 
the infective fevers, and a late symptom in advanced cardiac 
or renal disease. In some cases the catarrh spreads to 
the duodenum and bile-ducts, inducing jaundice, and to 
the small and large intestines, inducing diarrhoea. 

Dietetic treatment of acute gastric catarrh. — Complete rest 
in bed, with the application of hot fomentations to the 
abdomen, will give some relief All food should be with- 
held for the first twenty-four to thirty-six hours, the nourish- 
ment being restricted to the administration of lo to 15 
ounces of normal saline by the bowel every six hours. If 
the patient is collapsed, it may be advisable to give an ounce 
of whisky or brandy with each saline injection. Thirst may 
be relieved by the administration of teaspoonful sips of hot 
water, or, if preferred, the patient may be given ice to suck. 
After thirty-six hours, milk is given in 4 to 6 ounce doses, 
diluted one-third with lime-water or barley-water; i to i^ 
pints may be given in the first twenty-four hours. Milk 
should be gradually increased by lessening the amount of 
dilution, and the addition of albumin water, whey, and raw- 
beef juice. On the third or fourth day, an addition to the 
food of arrowroot (thoroughly well boiled) or invalid food, 
crisp toast, or rusks may be made. After this, some of the 
milk may be used for making into blancmange, or added to 
an Qgg, forming a custard, a good meat tea (p. 75) or clear 
soup, and an egg, lightly boiled or scrambled — i.e., about the 
fourth or fifth day the diet may be as follows : — 

8 A.M.— 

I cup of milk, flavoured with tea. 

Crisp toast, half-slice. 
10.30 A.M. — Cup of clear consomme and toast. 
I P.M. — 

I lightly-boiled &g^, with toast. 

6 ounces milk. 
4 r.M. — 

A cup of tea, flavoured with milk. 

Crisp biscuit. 
7 P.M. — Blancmange or custard (baked). 
9.30 P.M. — Cup of chicken tea. 



324 DISEASES OF THE STOMACH 

The diet is gjrndii.illy increased by the addition of bread, 
ejgs, fish, and chicken, and in favourable cases the patient 
may, at the end of ten days, be taking a full convalescent 
diet (p. 295). In cases where the acute gastritis has supervened 
on a chronic catarrh, the progress may be slower, as there is 
usually in these cases some slight dilatation of the stomach, 
with corresponding weakness in the digestive secretions (see 
Chronic Gastritis). 

Dietetic treatment of clirouic gastric catarrh. — Chronic 
gastric catarrh may be primary, when it results from long- 
continued excesses in eating and drinking, aggravated 
usually by hurried and irregular meals, and by septic state 
of the teeth ; it may be secondary, as in advanced heart 
disease, chronic renal disease, cirrhosis of the liver, and 
hyperchlorhydia. In the latter group the treatment has to 
be more particularly directed to the primary disease. 

Complete rest in bed for some days is advisable, and a 
diet of the blandest form is indicated. This should be an 
exclusive milk diet ; about 2 pints of milk, diluted one-third 
with barley-water, may form the sole food for the first forty- 
eight hours. In view of the enfeebled state of the gastric 
secretions, often associated with vomiting, it is sometimes 
advisable to give the milk pcptonised. In cases where the 
plain milk is for any reason impossible, koumiss, Kephir, 
or whey may be substituted. Buttermilk is a useful addition 
to this diet, and should be given in lo-ounce dose.s twice 
daily. The diet should be kept fluid until the patient is able 
to take about 2 pints of milk, or its equivalent, without 
discomfort. The diet is then added to very cautiously. The 
digestion is enfeebled, so that the addition of carbohydrates 
is very apt to cause flatulence. They are best given in the 
form of a predigested foodstuff, e.g., Benger's or Allenbury. 
Only easily digested proteins should be given, e.g., white of 
egg, meat juice, Plasmon, and Somatose. These may be 
arranged in the following way : — 

8.30 A.M. — Milk, 8 ounces, with Plasmon. 
II A.M. — Milk bovril (p. 36), or Allenbury. 
1.30 P.M. — 

Veal jelly and dry toast ; or 

Curds and cream. 



CHRONIC GASTRIC CATARRH 325 

4 P.M. — Milk, S ounces, with I'lasmon. 

7 P.M. — Bender's food. 

9 P.M. — Milk, with white of egg. 

Later, more egg, fish, chicken, undrrdone meat, butter 
and toa.st, and peptoni.scd cocoa may be added. The diet 
must be kept exceedingly simple, and it is necessary to forbid 
sugar, spiced condiments, alcohol. Tea and coffee can only 
be permitted if used as flavouring agents. 

S A.M. — 

Peptonised cocoa and milk. 

Toast and butter, or stale crisp roll. 
II A.M. — Cup of clear consomme or a meat tea, and ^ ounce of prepared 

Plasmon (p. 159). 
1.30 P.M. — 

Small cup of chicken or fish soup. 

Fish, chicken, tripe, sweetbread, with one well-cooked vegetable. 

Stewed apples. 

4 P.M. — 

Cup of milk tea. 

Dry sponge cake or biscuit. 
7 P.M.— 

Steamed fish, or scrambled egg, or chicken soufi3e. 

Toast and butter. 

Small cup of hot milk. 
9.30 P.M. — Consomme or beef-tea. 

The diet should be maintained for some weeks along the 
lines laid down. Thereafter a gradual return to ordinary 
diet may be effected. Alcohol in all its forms must be 
avoided, and the patient must realise the necessity of keeping 
to a simple ordinary diet, avoiding rich dishes, condiments, 
excess of tea or coffee, and other stimulating foods. 

Aaite gastric irritation in cJiildren. — This condition is 
usually associated with some gastric catarrh. It arises from 
an error in diet, and more especially from too many sweets, 
unripe fruit, or a general excess of foodstuffs. It is important 
to note that the children of gouty stock are especially liable 
to attacks of gastric catarrh from chill. 

The treatment is simple. All food should be withheld for 
twelve to twenty-four hours, during which thirst may be 
allayed by sipping hot water. A dose of castor oil or other 
aperient should be given at the outset. In older children, 



326 DISEASES OF THE STOMACH 

wlicrc there is a distinct history of the recent inc^estion of 
unwholesome food, an emetic may be useful. After twelve 
to twenty-four hours' starvation, a little weak beef-tea, or 
chicken, mutton, or veal soup ma}- be given, with a thin wafer 
of toast. If this is well borne, milk in diluted form may 
be added to the dietary, not more than 2 to 3 ounces 
being given at a time. The lighter forms of milk pudding 
and a little fish or chicken can soon be given, the recovery of 
the patient being usually a rapid one. 

In cases of gastric catarrh which develop after a chill, 
the recovery may be more slow (see also Food Fever, p. 350). 
This may necessitate a day or two in bed, and the use of 
peptonised milk, albumin water, and the weaker beef-teas. 
In these patients a preliminary starvation cure for twenty- 
four hours is usually advantageous. In the rare cases in 
which the child is prostrate from excessive vomiting, stimu- 
lants may be advisable, champagne being probably the most 
useful form, given in doses of ^ to i ounce, according to the 
age of the child. 



Hyperchlorhydria. 

PAOE PAOK 

Introduction 326 Treatment — 

Symptoms 327 («) Rich protein diet . . . 328 

(b") Milk and carbohydrate dietary 329 

Hyperacidity or Hyperchlorhydria. — Probably the com- 
monest form of indigestion is that associated with and 
dependent on a hyperacidity of gastric juice (hyper- 
chlorhydria). This condition occurs most commonly in 
young adults, especially men ; some marked examples are 
met with in schoolboys. In its later stages it is associated 
with other pathological conditions, such as (i) slight 
dilatation of the stomach ; (2) gastric catarrh, with excessive 
secretion of mucus ; and (3) spasm of the pyloric end of the 
stomach, of an intermittent character. It is not infrequently 
associated with a gastric or duodenal ulcer. The symptoms 
produced b)' hypcracidit}- are burning pains in the region of 
the stomach, heartburn, flatulence, eructation of acid food, 



HYPERCHr,ORHYDRIA 327 

and, as a rule, constipation. The pain has characteristic 
features. It occurs from one and a half to two hour.s after 
food ; it i.s relieved by food — hence the term hunger pain — 
and also by the administration of alkali, e.g. bicarbonate of 
soda or carbonate of magnesia ; and, further, the pain develops 
after a meal of easily digested food as quickly as it does after 
a heavy meal. Another feature of the pain, in ba(i cases, is 
its liability to occur during the night, some hours after the 
last meal. In these cases the pain may be of a very severe, 
paroxysmal character, closely resembling the pain of biliary 
colic. 

The cause of this condition is unknown. It is believed 
that it may arise from long-continued errors in diet, 
especially the excessive use of protein food, hurried, 
irregular meals, imperfect mastication, injudicious use of 
stimulants and tobacco — more particularly in constipated 
subjects. 

Treatment. — Complete rest in bed for one or two weeks or 
more is an important factor in treatment. Under its influence 
the gastric pains may greatly diminish, and the general 
condition of the patient improve. The bowels should be 
freely opened by a dose of calomel, followed by a morning 
saline of strength sufficient to clear the bowels out thor- 
oughly. An occasional saline is also of value in the later 
treatment. In some cases associated with dilatation of 
the stomach much benefit is obtained from washing out 
the stomach nightly. Attention to the toilet of the 
mouth and thorough mastication are important factors in 
treatment. 

The chief principle in the dietetic treatment is the use 
of such articles of food as combine most readily with the 
excess of acid. Protein foods meet this requirement. Milk, 
eggs, and meat should bulk largely in the dietary. It is 
sometimes contended, on the supposition that excessive use 
of protein has been responsible for inducing the disease, that 
it is inadvisable to continue a regime which, while relieving 
the symptoms, perpetuates the disease ; and the supporters 
of this view recommend a diet less rich in protein, one 
containing farinaceous foods suitably combined with protein. 
This objection is reall)- more theoretical than practical; 



328 DISEASES OF THE STOMACH 

and, in general, it may be said that a diet relatively rich 
in protein is pre-eminently the diet for this disease. 
Large doses of alkalis, r.,(^., bicarbonate of soda or car- 
bonate of magnesia, given in 30 to 40 grain doses 
about two hours after food, neutralise the h}'peracid 
state of the gastric secretion, and are a valuable adjunct 
in treatment. 

Fats tend to lessen the acidity of the gastric contents, and 
are therefore to be commended ; they are best given in the 
form of butter and cream. Milk is valuable, in virtue of its 
being an efficient acid neutraliser ; it is best given with the 
addition of lime-water, in proportion of one part lime-water 
and four parts milk. Foods rich in carbohydrates are to be 
taken sparingly, because free acid appears in the stomach 
soon after their administration, which interferes with the 
normal conversion of the starch under the influence of the 
saliva. The addition of a liquid extract of malt to the food 
aids the digestion in these cases, and sometimes has a 
remarkable effect in at once relieving the pain. 

The most suitable vegetables are spinach and cabbage, 
flower of cauliflower, asparagus, stewed onions, vegetable 
marrow ; and potatoes, peas, carrots, turnips may usually be 
given in moderation in the form of purees. The amount of 
salt taken in the diet should be restricted, since there is 
reason to believe that the addition of much sodium chloride 
favours the formation of hydrogen chloride (hydrochloric acid) 
in the gastric secretion. 

The following dietaries are given as the most appropriate 
for the treatment. No. I., a rich protein diet, is the one to be 
most commended ; No. 1 1., a less rich protein diet, in which the 
farinaceous foods are combined with proteins, has advantages 
in certain cases where the previous history of the patient 
points clearly to the long-continued excessive use of protein 
foods as a causal factor in the disease. 

It will be observed that in both of these diets simplicity 
is aimed at, cutting off or restricting the amount of 
stimulating articles of diet, such as tea, coffee, alcohol, 
mustard, pepper, and vinegar ; soups are not allowed 
because of their bulk, and, in the main, their poor nutritious 
value ; pastry and savouries are forbidden. 



HYPERCHLORHYDRIA 329 

DIET I. 

Rich Protein Diet. 
Breakfast — 

Milk, flavoured with tea. 

Two eggs, or steamed fish, or slice of cold tongue, or slice of boiled 
bacon ; one slice toast. 

II A.M. — Milk, i pint ; or Hoff's malt extract (Homax) ; a biscuit. 
Lunch — 

Steak or mutton chop (grilled), or roast chicken ; cauliflower or 
stewed onions ; slice of toast. 

4.30 p.Nf. — Tea made with milk, and a little cream. 

7 P.M.-Altemative diets /Fish and chicken ; meat and cheese savoury ; 

I meat and entree. 
9.30 P.M. — Glass of milk. 

DIET II. 

Milk and Carbohydrate Diet, 
8.30 A.^r. — 

CoflFee or cocoa, with plenty of milk. 
Bread, toast, roll, or rusk. 
Butter, honey, jam, or marmalade. 

II A.M. — Milk, and one egg beaten up. 

1.30 P.M. — 

Meat, fish, chicken, game, sweetbread ; no vegetable. 
Pudding — milk pudding, or stewed fruit or jelly. 
Cheese, biscuit, and butter. 

4 P.M. — Milk tea, and one rusk or biscuit. 

7.30 P.M. — 

Small bowl of clear consomme (p. 271). 

Fish or meat, one vegetable, potato, spinach. 

Pudding — jelly, custard, blancmange. 

Cheese, biscuits, and butter ; light cheese savoury. 

9.30 P.M.— Milk diluted, in all half a pint. 

In persistent cases of long standing, when the general 
nutrition of the patient is below par on account of his or 
her attempts to correct the condition by adopting a semi- 
starvation diet, it is advisable to put the patient to bed for ten 
to fourteen days, and for the first week give an exclusive milk 
diet — 2 to 4 pints of milk daily. A daily dose of Carlsbad 
salts given on an empty stomach the first thnig in the 



330 DISEASES OF THE STOMACH 

morninc^, should also be j:jivcn. In the second week the diet 
may be cxtcnted by the graflual addition of eggs and malted 
farinaceous foods, milk still forming the staple of the dietary. 



Gastric Ulcer. 

PAOK PAOK 

Different stages at which seen . 330 Lenhartz system . . . .335 

Diet after hacmatemesis . . . 331 Gastrorhexis 337 

Convalescent diet .... 334 Chronic ulcer of stomach or 
Other systems of dietetic treat- duodenum .... 337 

mem . . . • . 335 Post-operative dietetic treatment . 338 

In typical cases the diagnosis of a gastric ulcer is easy. 
Typical cases are those in which ha^matemcsis has occurred 
as a sequel to symptoms of acute or chronic indigestion, 
which may have been of months or years duration. Atypical 
cases, however, are common, and in this the diagnosis is 
often a matter of difficulty. Some of the patients in both 
groups have to seek relief ultimately at the hands of the 
surgeon. Medical treatment is sufficient in the majority 
of cases, and in the medical treatment the most important 
factor is the diet. The dietetic treatment will necessarily 
vary with the actual condition of the patient when first seen. 
Thus, the patient may be seen immediately after hasmate- 
mesis, her condition being one of prostration and collap.se; 
or she may be seen some days or even weeks after the 
bleeding, by which time the ulcer may have largely 
healed, and the general condition of the patient is greatly 
improved. In other cases the patient only comes under 
observation for chronic symptoms, the condition pointing 
more or less clearly to a chronic ulcer, the treatment of which 
is primarily surgical. Yet, again, the condition may be one 
in which the practitioner is only justified in suspecting the 
existence of an ulcer, the treatment of the case being, 
however, essentially the same as for gastric ulcer. Lastly, 
the case may come under observation for the sequelae of old 
ulcerations, adhesions in the neighbourhood of the pylorus, 
with possibly some pyloric narrowing. In the last-mentioned 
group the symptoms are mainly those of gastric ulcer, and 
this treatment, as a rule, is surgical rather than medical. 



1 



GASTRIC ULCER 331 

The general principles of dietetic treatment in these cases 
will now be discussed. 

Dietetic trctit incut of gastric ulcer after hccuiateuicsis. — The 
principle underlying the treatment of a case of h.x-matemesis 
from gastric ulcer is to give the stomach rest. This should 
be as complete as possible. The patient is kept in bed, 
absolutely recumbent. If there is the least doubt about the 
bowels being open, an enema of soap and water should be 
given, and if necessary repeated, so as to thoroughly clean 
out the bowel. No food is given by the mouth for the first 
three or four days, during this period the patient is fed 
by the bowel. Rectal feeding, if it is to be continued for 
days or longer, requires great care and attention to details. 
The food given may be in the form of home-made pre- 
parations, consisting of peptonised gruels, and meat teas, 
eggs, milk, and brandy, or injections of normal saline 
solution containing i ounce of dextrose in lo ounces of 
fluid. The nourishment should not be given oftener than 
six-hourly, even when nothing is being taken by the mouth. 
Preference should always be given to foods made at 
home, rather than the so-called nutrient suppositories. 
(For fuller details on Rectal Alimentation, see p. 221.) If 
great thirst is complained of, an injection of 10 to 20 ounces 
of normal saline is given by the bowel ; and in cases where 
the haemorrhage has been very severe, and the state of the 
patient is one of great prostration, an intravenous injection of 
saline may be administered. It is probably better not to 
allow the patient small pieces of ice to suck, as the 
swallowing of the saliva induces slight peristalsis of 
the stomach, which may interfere with the natural healing 
powers of the ulcer. The dry, uncomfortable condition 
of the mouth may be alleviated by moistening the lips, 
gums, and tongue with hot water, provided there is no 
recurrence of the haemorrhage. On the third or fourth day a 
little food may be given by the mouth. To begin with, a 
tablespoonful of milk diluted by one-third or one-half with 
barley-water or lime-water may be administered. If neces- 
sary this should be peptonised, but as a rule this is unnecessary. 
If the result is satisfactory, and no pain or sickness is set up 
by it, this may be repeated every two hours. The main 



SS9 



DISEASES OF THE STOMACH 



nourishment of the patient is still, however, derived from the 
rectal feeding. The amount of food given by the mouth is 
added to daily. (^n the fifth or sixth day after the 
ha.'morrhage the patient may in favourable cases be taking 
from I to li pints of milk, diluted one-third, in the 
twenty-four hours, this being given in small doses every 
two hours. The following gives in tabular form the dietary 
after h.-ematemesis, the stomach having had complete rest 
for the first three or four days. 

Dietary in Hcematemesis from Gastric Ulcer. 



Fewdinp 
by Mouth. 


Dilation. 


Quantity 
per feed. 


Time 
interval. 


Number 
of feed.s. 
24 hours. 


Quantity 

in 
24 liours 

of 
mixture. 


Rectal 
injections. 


1st day, / 
cold \ 

2nd day, / 
cold \ 

3rdday,body/ 
temperature (^ 

4th day 1 
Sth day 1 
Sth day | 


Pints. 
Milk . . .1 
Barley-water I 

Milk ... I 
Barley-water i 

Milk ... I 
Barley-water I 

Milk ... 2 
Water . . i 

Milk ... 3 
Water . . i 

Milk . . .4 
Water . . i 


Ounces. 

} ^ 

} ^ 

} ^ 

1 6 

} ^ 
1 ^ 


Hourly. 
2 

2i 

3 

3 
3 
3 


9 
9 
6 
6 
6 
6 


Pints. 

I 

li 
li 
2 

^ { 
' { 


As above. 

Reduce. 

Reduce. 

Continue as 
4th day. 

Continue as 
4th day. 



Pain and vomiting are the guides to treatment. If either of 
these recur, it is an indication to reduce the diet, and subse- 
quently to increase it more slowly. If the progress is in all 
respects satisfactory, the milk may be gradually strengthened 
by the addition of Plasmon, Casein, Protene, or Sanatogen — 
the first named being probably the most valuable — i to 2 tea- 
spoonfuls of Plasmon being stirred into a paste with I to 2 
ounces of tepid water, which is then added to the milk. This 
may be given three times in the twenty-four hours. Towards 
the end of the second week the patient is now taking about 2 
pints of milk with half an ounce of Plasmon or other protein 
food in the twenty-four hours, and at this stage a cup of milk, 



GASTRIC ULCER 333 

beef-tea, a little chicken jelly, or raw-meat juice may be given 
twice daily for a change. It is now possible to abandon the 
rectal feeding, and gradually increase the nourishment given 
by the mouth. This is done by the addition of Benger's 
food, cornflour, arrowroot, or breadcrumbs and milk- 
specially prepared (p. 439). At the end of the third week 
of mouth administration, beef-tea, meat extracts, white 
of egg, and such preparations as VVyeth's meat juice or 
Brand's essence may be utilised. The lighter forms of 
milk pudding may also be given. These should be given 
tentatively; a recurrence of pain or discomfort after admini- 
stration indicates the necessity of still withholding protein 
in these forms. At this stage the daily diet would comprise 2 
to 3 pints of milk, diluted one-third, the white of one or two 
eggs, some chicken jelly, and a beef-tea preparation. In the 
fourth week, eggs, fish, and chicken may be gradually added 
to the diet, which may be farther increased by the addition 
of soups and a little vegetable. If the addition of fish or 
chicken leads to a recurrence of the abdominal pain, these 
should be further deferred, and the regime in use in the 
third week should be continued. There is, however, 
very seldom any difficulty with fish and chicken diet at 
this stage, provided these are given in the most suitable 
forms. 

The diet suited to the different periods may be given in 
the following tabular form : — 

Did at end of first week of oral feeding. 

Two pints of milk, diluted, one part in six, given in 6 
ounces supplied every three hours, six meals dail)-. This is 
an insufficient diet, and requires to be supplemented with one 
rectal meal daily. 

Diet during second iveek. 

Durhig the second week of oral feeding one of two courses 
may be adopted — either cautiously increase by the addition of 
a simple nutritious protein dietary of eggs and meat 
extracts, or keep the patient on milk and carbohydrates. 
If there is hyperacidity, the former is probably the better 
plan. 



SS4 



DISEASES OF THE STOMACH 



Protein and Milk. 
7 A.M.— Milk, 6 ounces, slightly 

diluted. 
8.30 A.M. — Milk and beatcn-up 

egg, 8 ounces. 
II A.M. — Heef juice, \ ounce (p. 78). 
I r.M. — Milk bovril, 6 ounces (p. 

164). 
4 r.M. — Custard, 8 ounces. 
7 P.M. — Junket and cream. 
10 P.M.— Beef-lea, with toasL 



Carbohydrate and Milk. 

7 A.M. — Milk, 6 ounces, and 3 tea- 

spoonfuls Plasmon, diluted. 
S.30 A.M. — Bengcr's food with milk, 

6 ounces ; thin slice of bread. 
12 A.M. — Milk with Plasmon, and 

cocoa for flavour ; bread and 

butter. 
4 P.M. — Arrowroot boiled with milk 

and creani ; milk (diluted), 6 

ounces. 

8 P.M. — Benger's food and milk 

(diluted), and i ounce prepared 
Plasmon, or junket and cream. 
10 P.M. — Milk (diluted) ; bread and 
butter. 



Diet towards end of the third week, 

7 A.M. — Milk, with biscuit, 10 ounces. 
9 A.M. — 

Cocoa made with milk, 8 ounces. 

Bread and butter — toast and butter. 

1 P.M.— 

Soup from a vegetable stock, thickened with milk and cream, 8 
ounces ; or a weak meat broth, all the vegetables carefully 
strained. 

Light milk pudding or custard, or blancmange. 

Milk to drink, 8 ounces. 
4 P.M. — Milk, 8 ounces, flavoured with freshly made weak tea; a little 

cream, sponge biscuit, or rusk. 
7 P.M. — 

Soup, as under the i o'clock meal ; or a boiled or scrambled egg. 

Pudding — a custard, junket, or well-made milk pudding (p. 297). 

10 P.M. — Milk, 8 ounces, with Horlick's malted milk, sponge biscuit, or rusk. 

This diet may with advantage be maintained for a week 
or longer, if there is the slightest pain or discomfort with 
the food. In the majority of cases the following convalescent 
diet may be given in the fourth week : — 

Convalescent diet. 
Breakfast — 

Milk, 8 ounces, flavoured with tea, cofifee, or cocoa. 
Bread and butter, or toast, or rusk. 
Egg (boiled, poached, or scrambled). 

11 A.KL— Milk, 8 to 10 ounces, or milk with Horlick's malted milk, and a 

b.scuiU 



\ 



LENHARTZ SYSTEM 335 

Lunch — 

Entrees, oysters, fish (steamed or plain boiled) ; or souffle, or 

creams ; or 
Chicken or game souffle, or cream ; tripe, or sweetbread ; one 

vegetable, potato (mashed), cauliflower, etc. 
Milk pudding or custard, or a light savoury made with eggs. 
Milk, 8 ounces ; dry toast. 
4.30 P.M. — Freshly made tea, with milk and a biscuit. 

Dinner — 

A light soup — consomme, strained mutton broth, or chicken soup ; 
or vegetable stock thickened with milk or cream. 

A meat course, as under Lunch, with one vegetable. 

Milk pudding, with cream. 
9.30 P.M. — Benger's food, with milk. 

According to some physicians the rate of increase in the 
above diet sheets is unduly quick. These would aim at giving 
the diet allowed at end of fourth week not sooner than the 
end of the sixth week. Such a slow rate of increase is not as 
a rule necessary, and the rate of increase indicated in the diet 
list will be found generally applicable. 

Other systems of dietetic treatntetit. — In 1901 Lenhartz 
advocated a system of feeding for gastric ulcer based on a 
radically different principle. He contends that the use of 
rectal feeding and an exclusive milk diet does not give the 
stomach the rest that the advocates of these measures claim 
for them, and that it is better to use a food rich in protein, 
so as to neutralise the excess of acid that is frequently 
present in these cases. He recommended immediate feeding 
and a rapid daily increase of food. For the first week the 
diet is taken from eggs, milk, and a little sugar ; in the 
second week, chopped meat, milk rice, butter, raw ham and 
zwieback are added ; and at the end of fourteen days the 
patients are taking a highly nutritive diet, with a caloric 
value of over 3000 calories. On the first day, 8 to 10 ounces 
of iced milk with two beaten eggs are given in spoonful 
doses ; on the third day, 20 ounces of milk and four eggs, and 
20 grammes ^ of sugar beaten up in the eggs ; on the sixth day, 
six eggs, 30 grammes of sugar, and li to 2 pints of milk, with 
raw chopped meat from the dietary. On the eighth day the 
diet is increased to eight eggs, 40 grammes of sugar, 2 to 
2i pints of milk, raw chopped meat, one piece of zwieback, 
* I ounce avoirdupois = 28-35 grammes. 



SS6 DISEASES OF THE STOMACH 

anrl milk rice. The amount of f<iocl is parochially increased 
in the second week, until on the fourteenth day the patient 
is taking eii;[ht eggs, 50 grammes of sugar, 2i pints of milk, 
raw chopped meat, milk rice, zwieback, and in addition some 
raw ham and butter. According to this dietary, the food 
given on the first, eighth, and fourteenth days after the 
ha;matemcsis is as follows : — 

Lcnhartz diet — First day {all food iced). 

7 A.M. — Milk and Vichy, equal parts, 2i ounces. 

9 A.M. — Milk and Vichy, and half egg (beaten), 2 ounces. 

II A.M. — Milk and Vichy, 2i ounces. 

I P.M. — Milk and albumin water (i egg), 2\ ounces. 
3 P.M. — Milk and Vichy, 2i ounces. 

5 P.M. — Milk and Vichy, 2i ounces. 

9 P.M. — Milk and Vichy and half egg, 2^ ounces. 

Lcuhartz diet — Eighth day. 

7 A.M. — Milk, with 2 eggs beaten up, 8 ounces (sweetened). 
9 A.M. — Milk (8 ounces), lightly boiled egg, and toast. 

I I A.M. — Custard (with i egg, 10 ounces milk, and sugar). 
I P.M. — Raw-beef (scraped) sandwiches ; 8 ounces milk. 

3 P.M. — Benger's food, with milk (8 ounces). 
5 P.M. — Custard, 8 ounces. 
7 P.M. — Light farinaceous pudding, with milk. 
9 P.M. — Raw-beef sandwich and milk. 

Lenhartz — Full convalescent diet {Fourteenth day). 
Have to supply 8 eggs (4 cooked, 4 beaten-up raw), 
sugar, milk (4 to 5 pints), raw beef, milk with a cereal, bread, 
meat, butter, made up as follows : — 
7 A.M. — Milk (i ounce), with eggs, beaten up. 

9 A.M. — 

Milk-flavoured tea, cocoa, coffee. 

Ham, tongue, or eggs ; bread and butter. 
II A.M. — Raw-meat sandwiches, with milk (i ounce). 
I P.M.— 

Milk soup, thickened with egg and cream. 

Eggs in form of panada, souffle, omelet, savoury. 

Fish or chicken (made as cream, souffle, or quenelles). 

Milk pudding, custard, blancmange — all made with eggs and milk 
and sugar. 

Milk to drink. 
4 P.M. — Milk (i ounce), sweet biscuit or sponge cake. 
7 P.M. — Same as Dinner. 
10.30 P.M. — Milk, with beaten-up egg. 



GASTROUHEXIS 337 

The author of this treatment claims, from observation of 
a large number of cases, that the results arc equally satis- 
factor}', and more speedily attained than by the system of 
graduated feeding which is in general use. The writer has 
had no practical experience of this specially liberal regime, 
but in a slightly modified form it has given excellent results 
in some cases. 

Gastrorhexis. — It is convenient here to refer to the 
dietetic treatment of cases of hemorrhage from the stomach, 
unassociated with the presence of an ulcer. This occurs 
especially in young women, the bleeding being due to a 
small erosion in one of the capillaries of the gastric mucous 
membrane. The bleeding is usually small in amount, but 
may be considerable, the condition then being almost 
indistinguishable from that of gastric ulcer. The absence 
of defined localised abdominal pain and of antecedent 
symptoms of indigestion in gastrorhexis are of value in the 
diagnosis. Further, gastrorhexis is more prone to occur at 
or about the menstrual period, when the bleeding may be 
vicarious in character. The dietetic treatment of the two 
diseases is different; whereas in gastric ulcer it is, as a rule, 
advisable to increase the diet slowly after the manner 
already indicated, in gastrorhexis the diet can be increased 
rapidly, the patient being able to take at the end of ten days 
to a fortnight the same diet as is recommended for a case 
of gastric ulcer at the end of the fifth week. 

Chronic Ulcer of the Stomach or Duodeniun. 

The diagnosis of a chronic gastric or duodenal ulcer is 
often a very difficult matter. In some cases the symptoms, 
physical signs, and past history of the patient point con- 
clusively to the existence of an ulcer, and in these circum- 
stances the treatment is essentially surgical. In many cases, 
however, it is by no means easy to say whether the condition is 
due to a gastric ulcer or to a so-called functional derangement 
of the stomach (hyperchlorhydria), and in the latter case the 
dietetic treatment is of very great importance. If medical and 
dietetic means fail, reliable evidence is thereby afforded of the 
condition being one calling for operative treatment. Operative 
means (gastro-enterostomy) gives immediate and usually per- 

Y 



338 DISEASES OF THE STOMACH 

mancnt relief. It is very striking to observe after a case of 
chronic ulcer has been treated for weeks or even months with all 
kinds of light dietaries with little or no success, the immediate 
and as a rule permanent relief which follows the operation of 
gastro-cnterostomy. In this connection reference may be made 
to the post-operative dietetic treatment of these cases. 

Post-opcrathc dietetic treatment of chronic gastric ulcer. — 
For the first twenty-four hours all food is withheld, the 
nourishment being restricted to the administration of lo to 
12 ounces of normal saline per rectum every four hours. On 
the second day milk is administered, diluted one-half or 
one-third with water or barley-water, and as much as one 
pint may be given in the twenty-four hours, with 6 to 
8 ounces of beef-tea. On the third day the amount of milk 
and beef-tea can usually be doubled, and a couple of eggs 
may be added to the dietary. Various invalid foods (like 
Benger's, Allenbury) can be made use of if desired, and 
also proprietary meat preparations. A dose of calomel followed 
by a morning saline should be given on the third night. 
On the fourth day a slice of bread and a light milk pudding 
can be added, and on the following day a little porridge and 
small amount of chicken or fish souffle may be given once 
or twice in the course of the twenty-four hours. In tabular 
form this dietary is as follows : — 

Chronic ulceration of stomachy post-operative diet. 
1st day. — Milk diluted (i and l) with lime-water or barley-water; give 

I ounce every hour = 24 ounces = 12 ounces milk. 
2nd day. — Milk diluted (4 to i) as above — 5 ounces every two hours — 

nine meals, 45 ounces = i| pints milk. 
■^rd day. — Same dilution as second day ; add lo every second feed, 
small quantity of carbohydrate — arrowroot, Benj,'er's, Allenbury. 
At the end of a week a full carbohydrate diet may be reached (p. 334), 
By the end of the second week, fish and chicken (pounded; and eggs 
may be given. 

By the end of three weeks the full convalescent gastric 
ulcer diet can be taken, and this should be maintained for 
some months after the operation, as follows : — 

Breakfast — Porridge and milk, and bread and butter, and cup of tea. 
Dinner — Clear soup, fish or chicken, and one vegetable. 

Milk pudding or stewed fruit. 
Tea — Tea and bread and butter, with cake. 
Supper — Fish or chicken, or mill: .ind bread and butter. 



I 



DILATATION OF STOMACH 339 

Dilated Stomach. 

I'A'iE PAOK 

Introduction .... 338 Dietaries — 

General points in nianagemeni . 339 (a) In severe cases, at rest . 341 

Principles of dietetic treatment . 339 {/') In less severe cases . . 342 

The treatment of dilated stomach varies according to 
the cause. The dilatation may be the result of obstruction 
at the pyloric end of the stomach — obstructive form — which 
is most commonly due to malignant disease, simple ulcera- 
tion, or chronic inflammation with adhesions in and around 
the pylorus ; or there may be dilatation with little or no 
pyloric obstruction — non-obstructive form — which may result 
from {a) a primary defect in the stomach itself, e.g. hyper- 
chlorhydria, or {It) from some general constitutional weak- 
ness, such as neurasthenia, ansemia, tuberculosis, or other 
debilitating illness. 

Dilatation of obstructive origin. — The treatment is here 
mainly surgical. If the cause of the obstruction cannot be 
removed, the dietetic treatment of the dilatation must be 
conducted along the lines to be hereafter indicated (p. 341). 

Dilatation of non-obstructive origin. — We have in the first 
place to keep in view the fact that the dilatation may be the 
result of a primary disorder of the stomach, or it may be 
merely an expression of the general want of muscular tone 
present in any debilitating illness. 

The primary disorder of the stomach is most commonly 
of the nature of a chronic gastric catarrh resulting from 
excessive eating and drinking, and more especially from the 
injudicious use of alcoholic drinks ; another common cause 
is hyperchlorhydria, which is frequently associated with a 
lesser degree of dilatation. Of the general diseases which 
induce dilatation of the stomach in varying degree, special 
mention should be made of neurasthenia, severe anaemia, 
tuberculosis, and advanced renal disease ; in these conditions 
the diet is adapted to the general disease ; it is not as 
a rule necessary to pay special attention to the stomach 
itself. 

Before considering the dietetic treatment, reference may 
be made to other points in treatment which bear directly on 
the question of food and its digestion. Complete rest in bed 



340 DISEASES OF THE STOMACH 

for two to three weeks is essential at the outset of treatment 
in severe cases. A septic state of the teeth is often an 
important predisposing cause, and sometimes an exciting 
cause of the gastric catarrh which has led to the dilatation ; 
it is therefore essential that the teeth should be thoroughly 
attended to. An atonic condition of the bowel with constipa- 
tion is a frequent complication of dilated stomach, and among 
the measures adopted to relieve this, special mention should 
be made of massage and physical exercises specially adapted 
to strengthen the tone of the abdominal muscles. Mild 
counter-irritation, by means of mustard plaster or small 
blisters, is often of great value. If there is evidence of an 
unusually septic state of the intestinal contents, as shown by 
marked foetor of the stools, this should so far as possible be 
corrected by the judicious use of agents which modify this, more 
especially the various preparations of lactic acid bacilli (p. 540). 
And, lastly, the use of lavage — washing out the stomach 
each night or every alternate night for a week or two, or it 
may be longer, is often of the greatest service in treatment. 
The removal by lavage of the numerous toxic fermentation 
products which accumulate in a dilated stomach leaves the 
mucous membrane in a healthier condition, and gives an 
impetus to a more satisfactory digestion of foodstuffs. 

General principles in dietetic treatment. — The general 
principles of treatment are quite clearly defined. We must 
give the maximum of rest possible to the damaged organ. 
We must give the stomach as much rest as possible consistent 
with giving an amount of nourishment adequate to the 
patient's condition. This must be done by reducing the total 
bulk 0/ food, by diminishing the amount of solids in the 
dietary, and giving the food in concentrated form. For the 
same reason the liquids must be restricted, as they mechanically 
distend the stomach and over-dilute the gastric juice. In 
cases of moderate severity, not more than from 20 to 30 
ounces of fluid should be taken in the twenty-four hours. All 
effervescing beverages should be avoided; and stimulants are 
as a rule contra-indicated. 

At the outset, in very marked cases it may be advisable to 
give no fluid by the mouth, but relieve thirst by ice, and 
supply the requisite amount of fluid to the tissues by rectal 



DILATATION OF THE STOMACH 341 

injection of normal .saline. Foods have to be of the 
unfennentablc variety. Farinaceous foods are therefore given 
in very restricted amounts, proteins forming the chief basis 
of the dietary.. In this connection it is important to bear in 
mind that Lactose is an unfcrmcntable sugar, and advantage 
may be taken of this to supply carbohydrate in this form. 
Vegetables which are not readily converted into a semi-fluid 
or pultaccous form in the stomach should not be allowed ; and 
as green vegetables come under this category their use has to 
be carefully restricted, and special precaution taken with regard 
to the cooking and the form in which they are presented. 
No stimulants should be given, such as alcohol, tea, coffee, 
spices, and condiments. Starchy foods should also be avoided. 
The meals should be small in amount and frequently admini- 
stered, and in severe cases a complete hour's rest after meals 
should be enjoined. In the obstructive forms of dilatation 
which are not amenable to surgical treatment, peptonised and 
pancreatised foods are of special value (p. 171). Two illustrative 
dietaries are appended, suitable for a severe case under 
complete rest and a less severe case respectively. 

Diet in dilated stomach — severe form. — In severe cases a 
complete rest for the stomach for forty-eight hours is 
advisable, rectal saline injections being administered. 

A milk diet is not suitable — a dry diet is advisable so as to 
reduce the bulk, the fluid being restricted to 20 to 30 ounces 
of fluid by the mouth in twenty-four hours. To quench 
thirst, rectal injection of salines may be commended. 

Food should be taken hot ; meals should be small and 
frequent. All the nourishment given should be of the highest 
nutritive value, and the more easily digested the better. 
It must be slowly masticated, to allow of oral digestion to 
proceed as far as possible. Meat should take the form of 
underdone steak, chop, or roast, sweetbreads, oysters ; green 
vegetables are bulky, and not as a rule suitable. 

Rest for an hour after the three large meals is a useful 
measure. 

Outline of Treatment — I. Mainly Protein diet. 

8 A.M.— 

Milk or peptonised-milk cocoa, 5 ounces, not more. 
Fish (steamed), or boiled egg ; toast and butter. 



342 DISEASES OF THE STOMACH 

10.30 A.M. — 

Sandwiches made of IMasmon and raw meat, ^ lb. 

Milk, 5 ounces. 
I P.M.— 

Sweetbreads cooked with cream ; or 

Chicken cream, or souffle ; or 

Oysters, or raw-meat mince, ^ lb. 

Toast and butter. 

Milk, 5 ounces. 

4 P.M. — 

Raw-meat soup, 5 ounces, containing | lb. of raw meat scraped ; or 
Savoury custard (p. 49). 

7 P.M.— 

Fish (steamed) ; souffle, pudding, or cream ; or 

Egg and cheese custard (milk, 5 ounces) ; or 

Cheese souffle. 
9.30 P.M. — 

Veal or chicken jelly (p. 165), with Plasmon added ; or 

Allenbury food and milk, 5 ounces, with Plasmon. 

As the condition of dilatation improves, chicken, mutton, 
game may be allowed, all being well masticated, also blanc- 
manges, jellies, and cream, potato puree, and vegetable souffles. 

The carbohydrates must be introduced with great caution, 
the predigested ones coming first (p. 183). 

In some cases where the power of digesting proteins is 
diminished, the carbohydrates may have to form a larger 
portion of the diet, notwithstanding the flatulence they may 
induce, as follows : — 

II. Mainly Carbohydrate diet. 

8 A.M. — Milk. 5 ounces ; toast and butter. 

Gruel with cream and Plasmon, and Malt extract (p. 181). 
10.30 A.M. — Milk, 5 ounces, and l Q%<g (scrambled) and toast. 

I P.M.— 

Milk, 5 ounces ; custard, flavoured with Bovril, cheese, or suf]far ; or 

Raw-beef juice mince, i lb., and slice of toast. 
4.30 P.M. — Milk, 5 ounces, with Plasmon, flavoured with peptonised cocoa. 
7.30 P.M. — Allenbury food and milk, 5 ounces. 

9 P.M. — Beef-tea or chicken tea, 5 ounces, thickened with ^"g^ or cream. 

Somatose, Carnrick's peptonoids, Fairchild's panopeptone, 
Denaeyer's albumose-peptone mixture, may be used in the 
place of some of the milk. 

Diet in dilated stomach — less severe form — patient going 
about. — The meals to be eaten slowly, and the patient to rest 
for fully one hour after breakfast, lunch, and dinner, etc. 



CANCER OF THE STOMACH 313 

8 A.^r.— 

Milk or milk rocon, 5 ounces. 

Toast and butler, one and a half slices. 

Egj,' or fish, or crisply fried bacon. 
10.30 A.M. — 

Milk with Plasmon, 5 ounces. 

Panopcptone, i tablespoonful ; rusk or dry biscuit ; or 

Raw-meat sandwich. 
I P.M. — 

Milk, 5 ounces, with a slice of toast and butter, and a two-course 
dinner, from the following : — 

Fish. Chicken. Raw-beef juice. 

Blancmange. Fruit puree with cream. Savoury custard, nr 

Vegetable puree. 
4 P.M. — Egg beaten up in 5 ounces milk. 
7 P.M. — Same as i o'clock Lunch. 
9.30 P.M.— Cup of soup thickened with egg or Plasmon. 

In convalescence the diet should be largely dry, little 
fluid being given with meals. The meals should be fairly 
concentrated, thoroughly masticated, and slowly eaten. 
Farinaceous foodstuffs should be very cautiously added to 
the dietary. 

lVi//i obstructive conditio7is any dietetic treatment is only a 
preliminary to operative treatment. 

The carbohydrate should be given as Lactose, adding 
I tablespoonful of milk sugar in 8 ounces of milk. Peptonised 
and pancreatised foods are of the greatest value, especially 
Peptonised milk, Panopeptone, Brand's peptonised jelly, 
Benger's beef jelly (peptonised), Valentine's meat juice (see 
Predigested L'oods, p. 176). 

Cancer of the Stomach. 
In inoperable cases of cancer of the stomach the treat- 
ment is purely palliative. There is usually associated some 
degree of gastric catarrh, or dilatation of the stomach, which 
increases the difficulties in the dietetic treatment. In cases 
accompanied with haemorrhage, the dietetic treatment must 
be conducted along the lines laid down for gastric ulcer. 
In other cases, we aim at giving the most nourishing diet 
that is tolerated by the patient's enfeebled digestive capacity. 
The diet must be simple and nutritious, and should be 
given in small quantities at short intervals. Milk, chicken 



844 DISEASES OK THE STOMACH 

tea, meat broths, may be largely used ; tea, coffee, and 
buttermilk arc useful as accessory articles of diet. The 
more easily digested forms of meat foods, such as sweet- 
bread, tripe, chicken, and the lighter forms of fish, are 
all suitable in the earlier stages. Of the vegetables, 
spinach, flower of cauliflower, and Portuguese onions are 
the most to be commended. Among bread foods, preference 
should be given to toast, rusks, and stale dry bread ; and 
puddings made from the invalid foods, and custards and jellies 
(p. 185), are the most suitable. The pulp of good grapes 
and various fruit juices are a pleasant change. Any liking 
which the patient expresses for an article of food should be 
acceded to, unless there arc the strongest reasons for with- 
holding it. It is often surprising what these patients are able 
to take without any apparent gastric or other disturbance. 
In the later stages the diet has to be chiefly fluid, consisting 
of milk, beef-tea, and the like, which may be fortified by the 
addition of white of egg, Plasmon, Protene, or other concen- 
trated foodstuff. A little whisky or brandy is of great value 
as an aid to digestion in these cases. 

Diet in Gastroptosis and Enteroptosis. 

The treatment of the downward displacement of the 
stomach and bowels characteristic of gastroptosis and 
enteroptosis is mainly mechanical, consisting of bandages, 
massage, and in some cases surgical procedure. These 
conditions are frequently accompanied by a degree of 
dilatation of the stomach and intestines, and by a con- 
dition of general neurasthenia, and when these are present 
the treatment must be mainly directed to them {q.v.). The 
symptoms produced by the displacement of these hollow 
viscera are mainly those of indigestion, notably a sense of 
weight, fullness and oppression, eructations, with nausea 
anrl vomiting. The principles of dietetic treatment are 
similar to those in dilatation of the stomach. Rest in bed, 
with general tonic treatment and massage, are important 
factors in the preliminary treatment. Thorough mastication 
and slow eating should be insisted upon. The meals should 
be of moderate bulk, taken at regular intervals, and nothing 
should be taken between meals. The diet should be largely 



DIET IN GASTROPTOSIS 345 

a dry one, little fluid being taken with the meals. Light 
and easily digested foodstuffs only should be taken, special 
care being taken with regard to the amount and nature of 
the carbohydrate foods. Buttermilk may be recommended 
as an accessory article of diet, for its favourable influence 
on fermentative processes in the bowel. Measures must 
be taken to correct the constipation usually present, e.g., 
massage and the use of suitable aperients (see also Dilatation 
of Stomach, and Neurasthenia). 

The Dietetic After-treatment of Operations. 

Diet is one of the most important points in the after- 
treatment of abdominal and other major operations. For 
the first twenty-four hours little or nothing should be given 
except small quantities of hot water, to which a little 
bicarbonate of soda may be added, and a rectal injection of 
saline, lo to 15 ounces. These allay thirst and relieve 
sickness. On the second day, and until the bowels have 
been freely opened, usually on the third day, liquid food only 
should be given, and it should be of a nature little likely to 
cause flatulence. Milk, diluted, is ordinarily given, but it 
frequently disagrees. 

One of the safest and most reliable diets is albumin water (p. 47). 
Two pints of albumin water in twenty-four hours represents a fair 
amount of nutritive material, and are easily digested and non-irritating. 
Prepared Plasmon (p. 159) is another very useful preparation, and may 
be given in 2-ounce feeds every three hours. Grape sugar is strongly 
recommended by Gilford in the form of raisin tea, prepared as follows : — 
Take \ lb. of raisins, chop them up finely, cover well with boiling water, 
stew for about two hours, and filter off the fluid. This tea may be mixed 
with water, and taken either hot or cold ; it may also be combined with 
albumin water or prepared Plasmon, making a nutritive, easily digested, 
and non-fermentative food. After the bowels have been freely opened, 
the diet may include an invalid food (p. 183), gruel, bread and butter, 
a clear soup, e.g.., chicken, beef-tea, or consomme, and cup of tea. The 
diet can then be increased along the lines suggested m the section on 
Convalescence, p. 294. 



CHAPTER XIX 



DIET IN DISEASES OF THE INTESTINE 



Auto-intoxication .... 346 

Acidosis 349 

Food fever 350 

Constipation .... 352 

Diarrhoea 354 

Enteritis 355 

Colitis 357 



Intestinal colic, enterospasm 
Intestinal ulceration 
Intestinal obstruction . 
Flatulence or metrorism 
Appendicitis . . . 
Haemorrhoids . . 
Sprue .... 



PAQR 

• 363 

• 364 

• 364 

• 364 
. 365 
. 366 
. 366 



Intestinal Fermentation and Putrefaction — Auto-intoxi- 
cation. — Intestinal auto-intoxication is a toxaemia resulting 
from the absorption of abnormal food products under the 
influence of bacterial action. Intestinal auto-intoxication is 
responsible for a group of miscellaneous toxzemias which 
include cases of anaemia, headaches, neuralgia, neuritis, 
arterio-sclerosis, rheumatism, neurasthenia, and other condi- 
tions. Some symptoms are in part mechanical, due to 
pressure from gas. The toxins may frequently be recognised 
in the stomach contents (various organic acids), in the urine 
(excess of ethereal sulphates), and in the breath (acetone and 
hydrogen sulphide gas). Alcoholic fermentation of the food- 
stuffs may also occur. The bowels are frequently con- 
stipated, and the motions may be ill-formed and very offensive 
in character. The toxic products produced as a result of 
fermentation of carbohydrate foods are chiefly CO.,, and 
various organic acids, such as lactic acid, acetic acid, butyric 
acid, and to a less extent formic and valerianic acid and 
acetone. The end-products of decomposition of carbohydrate 
foods are COg and water, and no fermentation products are 
recovered from the urine with the exception of oxalic acid in 
oxaluria. The toxic products arising from the abnormal 
decomposition of proteins under the influence of bacterial 

Mft 



AUTO-INTOXICATOIN 347 

action arc various nitroc^cn and sulphur compounds, chiefly of 
the aromatic scries, e.g., indol, phenol, skatol, and hydrogen 
sulphide gas (see p. i6). Other less important products 
are neurin, lecithin, and cystin. The excess of nitrogen and 
sulphur in these putrefactive products are eliminated in the 
urine as ethereal sulphates, and their presence may be 
detected in the urine. 

The dietetic treatment of cases of auto-intoxication is of 
the first importance. The fcriiientation cases should be 
treated with a diet chiefly protein in character. The diet 
should comprise various meat soups, fish, chicken, eggs, 
tripe, sweetbread, and scraped beef; farinaceous foods being 
restricted to dry toast, stale bread, and rusks. The diet 
must be carefully planned, the food given at regular intervals, 
and no food of any kind given between meals. The free use 
of plain water or other diluent should be encouraged. It is 
necessary to point out the importance of proper attention 
being paid to mastication of the food, to the state of the 
teeth, and the careful regulation of the bowels as essential 
points in the treatment. The special value of the soured milk 
treatment and of various lactic acid bacilli is separately con- 
sidered on p. 540. The following dietary is appropriate to 
cases of auto-intoxication resulting from the abnormal 
fermentation of carbohydrate foods : — 

7 A.M. — Tumblerful of hot water. 

8 A.M. : Breakfast — 

Tea, I cup without sugar, and milk, not cream. 

Good helping of fried bacon or fish, or eggs (plain, poached, or 
scrambled) ; or cold ham, or cold tongue, or grilled kidney. 

I slice of thin crisp toast, with very little butter. 
II A.M. — I tumblerful of soured milk, with plain sweet biscuit. 
I P.M. : Lunch — 

(a) Fish, or chicken, or game ; or chop, steak, or roast beef, or roast 
mutton. 

{p) Biscuits, or dry roll with cheese, and with butter ; cup of coffee. 
4.30 P.M. — Cup of soured milk, and half-slice sponge cake or biscuit. 
7 P.M. : Dinner — 

Clear soup, unthickened. 

Meat as at Lunch, without vegetables ; dry toast, and a simple gravy. 

Pudding in form of custard, curds, jelly, cream, or stewed fruit, 
without added sugar ; no coffee. 
10 P.M. — Drink of hot water. 



348 DIET I\ DISKASES OF THE INTESTINE 

The ////;v*/r/r//.-7' cases arc treated with a lacto-vc^jfctarian 
diet. Meat, and especially red meats, are for the time cut off 
from the dietary. Meat soups are similarly withheld. Eggs 
arc also excluded. The diet should coinprisc bread and 
milk, farinaceous foods, green vegetables, and fruits. An 
appropriate diet sheet is here given : — 

7.30 A.M.— Tumblerful of hot water. 
8 A.M. : Breakfast— 

Cereal — c.i:;., porridge. Hominy, Quaker oats, with cream. 

Toast or roll with butter, and a little marmalade if desired. 

I cup of tea. 

II A.M. — I glass of soured milk with biscuit. 

I P.M. : Lunch — 

Egg in some form, or vegetable savoury, e.(^., cauliflower au gratin, 

macaroni cheese, tomato savoury. 
Plain milk pudding with cream. 

4 P.M. — I cup of soured milk, with piece of sponge cake. 

7 P.M. : Dinner — 

Vegetable or milk stock soup, e.q.^ tomato, artichoke, potato, lentil, 

or onion. 
Fish occasionally, or egg in some form if not taken at Lunch, or 

vegetable savoury. 
Pudding — simple pudding, or stewed fruit ; no savouries and no 

coffee. 

10 P.M. — Tumblerful of hot water. 

Foods forbidden in all cases. — Patients who arc specially 
prone to intestinal auto-intoxication have a relatively weak 
digestive power. Their diet must therefore be a simple one. 
All foods which are difficult to digest should be excluded 
from the dietary, and the various "extras" which can be 
indulged in with impunity by healthy subjects must be 
rigorously withheld. The following articles should only 
be given in the most restricted amounts : — Marmalade, 
jams, sugar, sweets, and confectionery ; pastry, sweet cakes, 
new bread, and hot rolls ; made-up dishes of all kinds, 
and all canned foods ; pickles, sauces, spices, caviare, and rich 
gravies, lobsters, mushrooms, shrimps, sardines, salmon, 
mackerel, raisins, nuts, pears, and all preserved fruits. 



ACIDOSIS 349 

I-AOB TAOB 

Acidosis, or acid intoxication — Acidosis, or acid intoxication — 

Nature of the condition . . 349 continued. 

Dietetic treatment in slight cases 349 Dietetic treatment in severe cases 350 

Acidosis, or Acid Intoxication. — Acidosis, or acid intoxi- 
cation, is a clinical condition occasionally met with in 
children. The condition is one to which increasing attention 
is now being paid. It is a toxaemia which is recognised by 
the peculiar smell of acetone in the breath, the presence of 
acetone in the urine and vomit, and in some cases diacetic 
acid in the urine — conditions similar to those met with in 
diabetes. 

The symptoms may be very slight or very serious. In 
the slighter cases the symptoms are those of minor gastro- 
intestinal trouble ; the child is off his food, the bowels are 
deranged, the tongue is furred, and the child is generally off 
colour. The breath has the distinctive odour of acetone. In 
the very severe cases, sudden, uncontrollable vomiting is the 
most prominent symptom, accompanied by constant nausea, 
retching, and great prostration. These latter cases may be 
rapidly fatal. 

The cause of the condition is unknown. It is believed to 
be closely dependent on dietetic conditions, but there is great 
diversity of opinion as to the defects in the diet which may 
be responsible. It has been variously ascribed to excess of 
protein, excess of carbohydrates, and excess of fats, this 
excess being not necessarily absolute, but only relative to 
the digestive power of the individual. In the writer's view 
the carbohydrates are chiefly at fault, and the digestive dis- 
turbance is mainly the result of deranged pancreatic activity. 

Dietetic treatment of the slighter degrees. — A close exam- 
ination of some cases of acute gastric irritation, chronic in- 
digestion, intestinal indigestion, and food fever will show that 
these are associated with acetone in the breath, due to acid 
intoxication. We may therefore conclude that there is a 
very close relationship between these different conditions. 
This close relationship is further reflected in the treat- 
ment. If the diet in use be carefully studied, it will be 
found that it is unsuited to the age of the child. It will 
either have been excessive in amount, or there may have 



360 DIET IN DISEASES OF THE INTESTINE 

been a special excess of farinaceous foods and sweets. Cor- 
rection has to be made accordingly. 

The diet must be a simple one, made up largely of protein 
foods, carbohydrates and fats being restricted. Breakfast 
should comprise skimmed milk, fish, ham, or tongue, and stale 
bread or toast, with a little butter. Dinner. — A bowl of clear 
soup, fish, or chicken, or meat, green vegetables (no 
potatoes), with toast or rusk ; no puddings. A cup of warm 
diluted milk, with half a slice of toast, may be given for tea; 
and the Evening meal should consist of a cup of beef-tea, 
thickened with Plasmon, and a rusk. 

The addition of Extract of malt to the diet is often useful, 
and the administration of large doses of alkali, e.g. bicar- 
bonate of soda (20 to 30 grains), is a valuable remedial 
measure. 

Dietetic treatment of severe cases. — In bad cases the vomit- 
ing may be so severe as to preclude the oral administration 
of food. Nutrient enemata may be necessary, and should 
consist of peptonised milk, glucose, white of z^'g, and brandy. 
Thirst is troublesome, and may be relieved by sips of 
hot or cold water, or barley-water. When the symptoms 
mitigate, food of the most easily digested kind is adminis- 
tered. Skimmed milk, peptonised, and perhaps fortified by 
the addition of Plasmon, white of z%g, or Allenbury food, 
should first be tried. Weak beef-tea, chicken jelly, veal, 
mutton, and chicken soup may also be utilised. Crisp 
toast should be the first bread food allowed. A striking 
feature in these cases is the remarkably sudden recovery 
often shown. The vomiting and other symptoms may 
suddenly disappear after a good night's rest, and the 
patient experiences a sensation of hunger. It is a curious 
fact that the recovery of the digestive powers appears to take 
place coincidently, as after the sudden recovery of appetite 
the patient can digest almost everything. It is, however, 
advisable to keep the patient on a light diet for at least a 
week, and for a long time subsequently to pay special atten- 
tion to the amount and nature of the farinaceous foods and 
sweets. Extract of malt is of great value as a digestive tonic 
in these cases. 

Food Fever. — Under the term "food fever," Eustace 



FOOD FEVER 351 

Smith has described a condition in children characterised 
by the following clinical features. The child is suddenly 
attacked with acute fever, associated with manifestations of 
gastro-intcstinal derangement, vomiting, diarrhoea, headache, 
furred tongue, and general malaise. The stools are frothy, 
ill-formed, and offensive. The fever lasts, as a rule, some 
days, but may persist for a week or two. This condition is 
chiefly seen in children of a neurotic or gouty temperament, 
and occurs between the ages of three and twelve years. 

This condition is one of acute gastric and intestinal 
catarrh, its distinctive feature being the liability to recurrence. 
It arises from indiscretions in the dietary, especially the 
excessive consumption of farinaceous foods and sweets, which 
undergo fermentative changes in the bowels, with resulting 
absorption of toxins, which are responsible for the fever. 

The dietetic treatment consists in restricting or cutting off 
for a time farinaceous foods and sweets. Starvation for the 
first twenty-four hours may be advisable, and so long as 
the fever is high, the patient should be on a febrile diet. 
The diet generally should be selected from skimmed milk, fish, 
tongue, chicken, meat, eggs, stale bread, toast, rusks, and 
green vegetables. Plain milk, farinaceous puddings, pastry, 
sweets of all kinds, acid fruits, sweet drinks, and root 
vegetables should be withheld during the attack. The 
administration of Malt extract may prove advantageous. 
A suitable diet sheet is appended : — 

Dietary during an attack, which may last for a week or longer 
in modified for7n. 
Breakfast — 

Cup of skimmed milk, 8 ounces, diluted with hot water (no sugar). 

Slice of tongue or ham. 

Stale bread and butter, or toast and butter. 

10.30 A.M. — Dry rusk, with butter ; drink of water. 
Dinner — 

Soup, beef-tea, chicken tea, consomme of veal or beef un- 

thickened. 
A helping of fish or poultry, or chop or steak, plainly cooked, and 

plain clear gravy. 
Green vegetable (sprouts, cabbage, cauliflower, boiled onions, or 
leeks) ; no white soup. 

(Avoid puddings, bread and butter, and biscuits and butter.) 



352 DIET IN DISEASES OF THE INTESTINE 

Tea— 

Cup of skimmed milk, or weak tea made with skimmed milk. 
Slice of toast, or dry biscuit or rusk. 

8 P.M. — Cup of carefully skimmed beef-tea, with half-slice of toast. 

After the attack is over, tlie return to the use of starchy 
foods must be made very gradually, and it should be remem- 
bered that these subjects have a limited power of digesting 
carbohydrate foods ; these are sometimes classified as cases 
of intestinal indigestion. 

Constipation, — Food is a factor of some importance in 
the treatment of constipation. Food may promote peristalsis 
through a viechanical action, as in the case of foods rich in 
cellulose, .which leave a large residue in the intestine ; or it 
may influence the bowel by a chemical action, through the 
agency of the organic acids produced by bacterial decomposi- 
tion of the carbohydrates and cellulose of the food, as in the 
case of vegetables and fruits. Among foods rich in cellulose, 
green vegetables, oatmeal, and wholemeal bread occupy a 
prominent place, and these should enter largely into the diet 
of constipated subjects. Fruits are also of great value, more 
especially figs, prunes, dates, apples, pears, oranges, and 
peaches. Fruit should be taken once or twice a day ; it may 
be taken fresh or stewed, and it is best taken on an empty 
stomach the first thing in the morning. Fat is useful as a 
lubricant, and the patient should be encouraged to take 
plenty butter and cream. A little marmalade, honey, or 
treacle taken at breakfast has a useful aperient action. A 
common fault in the dietary of constipated subjects is a 
deficiency in fluid, and patients should therefore be 
encouraged to drink 2 to 3 pints of fluid in the day, one 
tumblerful of hot or cold water being taken the first 
thing in the morning. Excess of meat and excess of tea 
are factors in the development of constipation, and the 
amount of these must be restricted. The main points in 
the dietary for constipation may be represented as follows : — 

Meat foods should be restricted to one meat meal for 

dinner. 
Tea should be taken in moderation, not more than two 

cups daily. 



DIET IN CONSTIPATION 353 

Foods rich in cellulose should bulk largely in the dietary 
e.g., porridge, especially that made from Scotch oat- 
meal and Quaker oats, wholemeal bread. 

Vegetables, especially green vegetables, should be taken 
freely. 

Fruits have a useful aperient action. 

Fats. — The taking of fat should be encouraged, as in the 
form of butter or cream. 

Water-drinking is in many cases a useful corrective of 
constipation. Cider and malt liquor have a slight 
aperient action ; red wines have the reverse. 

Milk is constipating to the majority of individuals, but in 
exceptional cases it has a laxative action. Butter- 
milk has a laxative effect. 

There are many factors at work in the development of 
constipation, and these require attention as well as the diet. 
Lack of exercise, too sedentary habits, matctudinal hurry, 
are important contributory causes. Defective education of 
children as to the acquirement of the regular habit of going to 
stool is often the primary cause ; this can to some extent be 
corrected by cultivating regularity in habit in later life. In 
looking for recovery from constipation in long-standing cases 
it is essential to point out to the patient the necessity of 
patience, and the long-continued use of a diet adapted to 
the condition. Massage and suitable exercises are important 
aids in treatment. 

The following is a suitable dietary for a case of constipa- 
tion. Importance should be directed to the necessity of 
taking the food slowly, and of thorough mastication. 

7 .\.M. — Tumblerful of cold or hot water. 

8 A.M.— 

A little fruit taken before breakfast. 

Bowl of porridge made from Scotch oatmeal, with liberal supply of 

milk and cream. 
Cup of tea ; toast or rolls, butter and marmalade. 

1 P.M — 

Broth. 

Bread and cheese ; wholemeal bread, with liberal supply of butter. 
Stewed prunes. 
4.30 P.M.— Cup ol tea, and thin slice of bread and butter. 

Z 



354 DIET IN DISEASES OF THE INTESTINE 

7 P.M. — Plain three-course dinner. Either soup, meat, and pudding ; 

or fish, meat, and pudding j including plenty green vegetables, 

and stewed fruit, 
lo P.M. — Tumblerful of hot water. 

Diarrhoea. — It is probable that all forms of diarrhoea, 
with the exception of the diarrhoea of pure nervous origin, are 
dependent on the pathogenic action of the bacteria which are 
usually present in the bowels. These bacteria are divisible 
intotwogreat groups — (i) a large group, which abound in the 
small intestine, the ctcum, and first part of the colon, which 
decompose the carbohydrates, with resulting formation of 
organic acids. These organic acids normally neutralise the 
alkaline intestinal juices and keep the contents of the small 
intestine acid. It is further believed that this acidity is of 
value in restraining the action of the putrefactive protein- 
decomposing bacteria to be now referred to ; and (2) a large 
group of protein-decomposing organisms {^Bacillus coli and 
others) which abound normally in the lower two-thirds of 
the colon, but under pathological conditions are present in 
the higher parts of the digestive tract. In all probability 
the diarrhoea which follows the ingestion of some irritating 
article of food results not from the direct action of the 
foodstuff, but from its indirect action in promoting abnormal 
bacterial growth. The different forms of inflammation 
(enteritis) and ulceration of the small and large intestines 
arc undoubtedly of bacterial origin. These will be referred 
to later. 

Diarrhoea may result from excessive fermentation and 
acidit)' in the small intestine, a condition which induces 
loosening of the bowels, flatulence, and colicky pains, or it 
may result from abnormal decomposition of proteins, due to 
excessive activity of the putrefactive bacteria. These are 
two distinct clinical types which can sometimes be differ- 
entiated. The former group must be treated by a reduction 
of the carbohydrates, and their replacement by proteins and 
fats ; the latter require a milk or lacto-vegetarian diet for 
their correction. It must be recognised, however, that it is 
frequently impossible to decide whether the diarrhoea has its 
origin mainly in the small or the large intestine, and the 
condition has to be treated on the following general lines. 



UlARRHa:A 355 

An attempt must be made to recognise the cause of the 
diarrhoea, which must be removed. In this, seek to determine 
whether the diarrhoea results from the derangement of the 
normal digestion of the carbohydrates in the small intestine, 
or of the proteins in the large intestine, as the dietetic 
treatment for the two varies in the manner already indicated. 
A study of the previous dietetic history of the patient, and 
of the nature of the symptoms and of the stools, will be of 
value in this direction. In cases of so-called "acid diarrhoea," 
the stools are very loose, acid, and usually yellow and frothy. 
In all forms the chief aim in treatment is to prescribe a diet 
of the least irritating character, one which will leave as 
little unabsorbed residue as possible. Articles of diet rich 
in cellulose — vegetables, fruits, coarse breadstuff's, malt 
liquors, and sugar — should be avoided. If the diarrhoea 
be severe, complete rest in bed is essential, and it 
may be necessary to withhold all food for a day or 
two, nothing being given but a little barley-water to allay 
the thirst. 

When the symptoms have quietened down, or in milder 
cases from the outset, the diet should consist of arrowroot, 
cornflour, rice, sago, one of the patent cereal foods (p. 183), 
and milk. Milk must be given cautiously, and its effect 
noted on the stools ; it is best given with lime-water, in pro- 
portion of three to one, to start with. Raw-meat juice, white 
of egg, the pulp of underdone meat, and special protein 
preparations, such as Panopeptone and Plasmon, are also 
useful. Thirst may be allayed by ice, cold weak tea, diluted 
red wine, or a lemonade drink. 

Nervous Diarrhoea and Lienteric Diarrhoea. — There are 
subjects in whom the entrance of food into the stomach excites 
an undue peristalsis of the whole bowel, with resulting 
diarrhoea (lienteric diarrhoea). Diarrhoea of essentially 
nervous origin is not uncommon, and this may be accom- 
panied by a sudden influx of fluid into the bowel, with 
resulting profuse and liquid stools. There are many forms 
of nervous diarrhoea. None of them are specially influenced 
by diet. The condition must be treated on general lines. 
Frequently the patient is the best judge of his diet. 

Catarrhal Enteritis. — For all practical purposes the 



356 DIET IN DISEASES OF THE INTESTINE 

diarrhoea of catarrhal enteritis may be regarded as merely 
an exac^geration of the condition (p. 354) already discussed. 
It is undoubtedly of bacterial origin. It is frequently 
secondary to and an extension of acute or chronic gastritis. 
The condition may be acute or chronic. Assistance in 
framing the appropriate diet may be gained from a study 
of the stools. They may be very thin and almost colourless; 
they may be large, pultaceous, and frothy, arising from too 
much carbohydrate foods ; they may be exceedingly offensive, 
suggesting putrefaction of protein material. In the former 
instance the carbohydrates are restricted, the diet con- 
sisting of egg-white, albumin water, whey, raw-meat juice, 
Panopeptone, arrowroot made with water, barley-water, and 
weak tea ; in the latter we give milk diluted with lime- 
water, buttermilk, arrowroot made with milk, cornflour, and 
various cereal preparations. A diet sheet for each of these 
conditions in its acute stage is appended : — 

Diet in Acute Enteritis. 
Protein diet. Carbohydrate diet. 

6 A. >r.— 2 drams of a meat juice. 6 a.m. — Milk with lime-water, 10 

8.30 A.M.— 8 ounces whey, with ounces, 4 to i. 

albumin water. 8.30 a.m.— Benger's food, made 

10.30 a.m. — Panopeptone, \ ounce with milk. 



in alkaline water. 



II A.M. — Buttermilk, 10 ounces. 



I P.M. — Arrowroot, boiled 15 mms. . ,-,,■, 

• , , ' . . I p.m. — Arrowroot, boiled with 

with water, eaten with cream -,, ^ , • , , 

J , 11 milk, flavoured with brandy 

and \ ounce brandy. .' ^ 

', . , , , or cinnamon. 
4 P.M. — Albumin water, added to 

cup of weak tea. 4 P.M.— Tea made with milk ; half- 

, „ ., u- 1 ^ slice toast. 

6.30 P.M. — 10 ounces chicken tea, 

thickened with arrowroot. 6-3° P-M-— Benger's food custard. 

9.30 P.M.— Meat essence or jelly. , j p.m._io ounces milk, with lime- 

II P.M. — Panopeptone. water. 

In chronic cases we similarly seek to determine whether 
the condition arises from a defect in the carbohydrate 
digestion or in the protein. The experience of the patient 
will be of value in enabling us to form a correct opinion on 
this point. Having a.sccrtained this, a diet of a largely 
protein character or of a largely carbohydrate character is 
prescribed according to circumstances (see pp. 347, 348). 



COLITIS 357 

Colitis. — All forms of colitis are the result of bacterial 
or parasitic influences. In most cases of acute intestinal 
catarrh resulting from toxic articles of food, there is an 
associated inflammatory state of the colon ; in these cases a 
mild degree of colitis is present. This catarrh of the colon 
readily subsides under the treatment laid down for the 
correction of the diseased state of the small intestine (p. 356). 
There is a large group of affections, however, in which the 
catarrh involves the colon primarily, and here all grades 
of severity of the disease are met with. Four clinical types 
are recognised : — 

1. Simple colitis, acute and chronic 

2. Ulcerative, acute and chronic. 

3. Dysentery, acute and chronic. 

4. Mucous colitis, or muco-membranous colitis (see p. 360). 

It is probable that ulcerative colitis and dysentery are 
really one and the same condition. 

The treatment of the different forms of colitis is difficult, 
and sometimes unsatisfactory. The patient requires to 
exercise considerable patience in regard to treatment. 

Principles of treatment. — Complete rest in bed is essential. 
Care must be taken that the bowel has been thoroughly 
emptied by a cathartic or by enema. At the outset the diet 
should be restricted to fluid foods, and especially milk. Plain 
milk is not at this stage suitable, but may be given diluted with 
water or lime-water in proportions of three to one. Where the 
diluted milk isfoundunsuitable,skimmed milk, whey,or koumiss 
may be well borne. Thirst is best relieved by sipping tea- 
spoonfuls of hot water or by sucking ice. As soon as the more 
acute symptoms have passed off, milk diluted with lime-water, 
curds, or milk blancmange, Plasmon,yolk of egg, various invalid 
foods such as Allenbury, Savory & Moore's, and Benger's, 
and arrowroot, sago, and other simple farinaceous foods, may 
be added to the diet. Soured milk is also advantageous in 
some cases. Proteins in the form of fish, chicken, sv/eetbread, 
and tripe are then added to the diet. Fatty foods, green 
vegetables, raw fruits, and any of the less digestible foodstuffs 
should be avoided for a long time after the disappearance of 
the acute symptoms. The following dietaries are given as 



358 



DIET IN DISEASES OF THE INTESTINE 



bcinj:; appropriate to the onset of the disease, and at the end 
of the first week of an acute colitis of average severity : — 

Diet in Colitis (Arute). 



At onset of diseasf. 

2i pints of milk in twenty-four 
hours should be given, slightly 
warmed, as follows : — 

Every two hours about 5 ounces of 
sweet milk, either in the form 
of milk diluted with water or 
lime-water, or an equal amount 
of whey, koumiss, skimmed or 
soured milk. 

The milk may sometimes be fortified 
by the addition of albumin 
water (white of 2 eggs), or 
Plasmon, i to 2 drams daily. 



A t end of first week, 

6 a.m. — Milk, 5 to 10 ounces, diluted 
with lime-water. 

8 .A.M. — Milk, 5 to ID ounces, with 
yolk of egg. 

II A.M. — Soured milk, 5 to 10 
ounces. 

I P.M.— 

Rice soup (strained), with yolk 

of egg. 
Milk blancmange, made with 

isinglass ; or 
Arrowroot, well boiled, with 

milk. 
3 P.M. — Milk, 5 ounces, with 

Plasmon. 
5 P.M. — Whey, 5 ounces, with yolk 

of tgg. 

7 P.M.— 

Benger's food, 10 ounces, with 
Plasmon ; or 

Mutton broth, boiled barley 
(strained), and yolk of egg. 

9 P.M. — Milk, 5 to 10 ounces. 

Diet in chronic colitis. — Great care is necessary in selecting 
the diet for these cases. The condition has usually been of 
loner standing, and the patient's attention may be unduly 
concentrated on the state of his digestion, with the result 
that he has cut off one article of food after another, and may 
be living on a semi-.starvation dietary. The keynote to the 
successful treatment is simplicity. It is not, as a rule, 
necessary to cut off either the proteins, fats, or carbohydrates. 
It is, however, essential to cut off all the extras in an ordinary 
dietary, and for each meal to be made up of one or at mo.st 
two dishes, which must be simply prepared. Lavage on the 
Plombiere .system, is frequently of great value. In certain 
patients with hypochondriacal tendencies it is better avoided. 
In most cases it is best to give during the first week of treat- 
ment the diet for acute colitis {supra). The following points 



COLITIS 359 

will be found of value in prescribing the different meals for 
these cases after this preliminary course of treatment is over : — 

7 A.M. — Small glass of milk (warmed). 

Breakfast — 

Lightly boiled &'g<g, toast and butter, weak tea with milk (small cup) ; or 
Tender streaky bacon, toast (no butter), weak tea with milk (small 

cup) ; or 
Steamed fish, bread and butter, weak tea with milk (small cup) ; or 
Slice of tongue or lean ham, weak tea with milk (small cup). 

(Avoid sugar unless in very small amount, jam, marmalade, hot 
scones, and oatcake.) 

II A.M. — Small cup of clear soup, with strips of toast. 

Lunch — 

Fish (fried or steamed, one of the white varieties) ; potato ; or 
Chicken (roasted or boiled), with bread sauce ; or 
Tripe or sweetbread ; or 

Broiled chop or steak, or slice of roast beef or mutton, and one plain 
vegetable. 

4.30 P.M. — Cup of freshly made tea, rice biscuit, rusk, or sponge cake. 

Dinner — 

Not more than two courses. 

Soup — any simple good soup (not broth, unless strained) ; hare, 

kidney, oxtail, and mulligatawny should be avoided. 
Meat, fish, or chicken as above, with one vegetable. 
Pudding — a milk pudding made with ^"g^^ a souffle, custard, c/eam, 

or jelly. 
No suet puddings or pastry. 
No extras such as dessert, fruits, sweets, nuts, or pickles. 

9.30 P.M. — Cup of Benger's food if desired. 

Dysentery. — The dietetic treatment of acute and chronic 
dysentery is the same as for acute and chronic colitis. 
Commencing with a mild starvation diet, we make use of 
milk (diluted or peptonisedj, whey or koumiss, and pass from 
these to thin broths thickened with well-boiled starches, e.g., 
arrowroot, cornflour, potato flour, sago, and tapioca. As a 
rule, tmtil the tongue cleans, barley-water, rice-water, Qg^ 
albumin water, thin chicken or mutton broth, rice- or barley- 
water in which chicken has been boiled, or chicken jelly, 
constitute the most appropriate foods. When the tongue has 
cleaned, milk (at first diluted or peptonised), or raw egg and 
milk may be gradually introduced, and along with rice- or 



S60 DIET IN DISEASES OF THE INTESTINE 

barley-water should be for many days the staple and only 
food. Unlike the simpler forms of colitis, a fluid or semi-fluid 
diet, as described on pp. 281 and 358, must be continued for 
a long time. This is a difficulty in the treatment, as the 
patients get restive under the restrictions. 



PAOB PAOl 

Mucous colitis .... 360 Dietetic treatment — continued. 
Dietetic treatment — (<J) A bland diet with little re- 

(a) A rich cellulose diet . 362 sidue .... 362 

Mucous Colitis, or Muco-membranous Colitis. — In health 
the small amount of mucin secreted by the lining membrane 
of the colon has a lubricating effect, which is of some 
value in promoting normal peristalsis, and so preventing 
constipation. In disease there may be marked hyper- 
secretion of mucin, as in the condition under consideration. 
Mucous colitis is characterised by the occasional passage by 
the bowel of a large amount of mucinoid material, which is 
often present in the form of large tubular casts. The stools 
are usually frequent and very foetid, and in some cases 
contain a little blood. In other cases the bowels are notably 
constipated, and they are usually so in the intervals between 
the attacks. The attacks are accompanied by a varying 
degree of abdominal pain — cnterospasm. This may be 
slight, as in the form of slight tenesmus, or may be very 
severe, simulating the pain present in acute appendicitis. 
The condition is a serious one, and very troublesome to 
treat. It is serious, because it is so often associated with a 
marked degree of hypochondriasis from which the patient 
can with difficulty be aroused ; it is troublesome, because in 
many cases it is complicated by gastric neurasthenia and 
general inanition, from which the recovery is at the best 
slow. The etiology of the disease is unknown. It is by 
some regarded as of nervous origin, a secretion neurosis ; by 
others as a distinct catarrh, probably of bacterial origin. 
The latter is, in all probability, the correct explanation ; it 
is a form of catarrh to which people of a nervous temperament 
are more than usually susceptible. 

Dietetic treatment. — The first point which the practitioner 



I 



MUCOUS COLITIS 361 

should recognise and seek to impress on the patient is the 
fact that in the great majority of instances the patient's 
condition is not nearly so serious as he imagines. The 
attention of the patient should be directed away from the 
continual daily personal examination of the dejecta ; and it 
should be explained to him that some excess of mucin in 
the stool is frequently present in health, and may be of no 
pathological consequence whatever. Attention should be 
more particularly directed to correcting the form and odour 
of the faeces, which are usually ill-formed, pultaceous, and 
foetid. The diet must be framed to diminish the abnormal 
fermentative and putrefactive changes which are responsible 
for this condition. To this end two distinct types of dietary 
have been recommended : one, a coarse cellulose dietary 
which leaves a large residue in the intestines ; the other, a 
bland diet which leaves little residue. The former may be 
beneficial in cases where constipation is a marked feature ; 
its favourable action is, however, probably due to the 
diminished protein putrefaction associated with its use : the 
favourable effect of the bland diet, which leaves little residue, 
is in all probability due to the reduction in the fermentation 
of carbohydrates, and to the lessened strain on the digestion 
in general. At the outset of treatment complete rest in bed 
is for a time advisable. 

Meat foods, and more especially red meat, should be 
restricted or in some cases avoided ; fats should be taken as 
freely as the state of digestive power will allow ; fruits are 
valuable, but little or no sugar should be added to them. 
The diet should be essentially sim.ple, free of spices and 
condiments, and all extras carefully avoided. Alcohol in 
all its forms is, as a rule, inadvisable. Extract of malt 
preparations are of great value in some cases where there 
is deficient power of digesting carbohydrates, and much benefit 
is often derived from the use of various intestinal anti- 
septics, especially the lactic acid bacilli group. Lavage is 
also of value in many cases, but in others its use is distinctly 
disadvantageous. Two illustrative dietaries are here erivcn ; 
the first is arranged on the system of the coarse cellu- 
lose diet recommended by Von Noorden, the second 
illustrates the bland nutritious diet which leaves little 



362 DIET IN DISEASES OF THE INTESTINE 

residue. The author's practical experience has led him to 
conclude that, if the points referred to in the text are 
duly regarded, and if a course of treatment for acute colitis 
(p. 358) is first carried out for eight or ten days, a judicious 
compromise gives the most satisfactory results. 

Cellulose diet for Mucous Colitis. 

7 A.M.— 

Hot water, i pint ; with apples, oranges, bananas, figs, grapes, 
strawberries, gooseberries, etc., in their season. 

8.30 A.M.— 

Tea, coffee, or cocoa, made with milk, one cup. 

Fat bacon, fish, or eggs. 

Brown wholemeal bread (toast), 2 slices. 

Butter, honey, raspberry, strawberry, or black-currant jam. 
Lunch — 

Egg savoury ; vegetable dish, e.g., baked tomatoes, beans and 
tomatoes, artichokes, salads, green, or with beetroot and celery. 

Small allowance of water ; brown bread. 
4.30 P.M.— 

Tea, with brown bread and butter. 

Vegetable soup — celery, turnip, onion, carrot ; broth ; bean soup. 

Fish (fried or steamed), with bread or toast. 

Vegetable dish, as at Lunch. 

Fruit (stewed), made into fritters or souffle, with cream. 

Water to drink. . 

9 P.M. — Glass of hot water ; rusk, or wholemeal biscuit. 

Bland diet for Mucous Colitis. 

7 A.M. — Hot water, \ pint. 

8 A.M. — Milk, diluted with hot water or weak tea. 

White bread — pan loaf, and not new. 
Butter, honey, jam, or jelly. 
Egg or fat bacon. 

II A.M. — Hot milk, \ pint 
I P.M.— 

Vegetable stock, thickened with cream and milk, \ pint ; toast. 

Milk pudding, made v/ith egg and breadcrumbs, sago, tapioca, 
macaroni ; or 

Custard or blancmange, flavoured with fresh fruit juice. ^— 

4.30 P.M. — ^ 

Milk, flavoured with tea or cocoa, i cup. 
Bread and butter, toast and butter, or sponge cake — a small supply. 



i 
I 



INTESTINAL ULCERATION 303 

7 P.M. — 

Vegetable stock soup, e.g., lentil, pea, milk (also p. 206). 

Fish or t^g or oysters. 

Vegetable — potato puree, or balls, or fritters ; spinach, or cauliflower 

or vegetable souffle, with beans or peas, celery, cream. 
Milk pudding or blancmange, with cream and fruit juice. 
Bread or toast. 

10 P.M. — Warm milk alone, or with Horlick's malted milk. 

In some cases it is beneficial to commence the treatment 
with a diet of skimmed milk (2 pints), buttermilk (i pint), 
with the whites of two eggs in the twenty-four hours, con- 
tinuing this regime for six or eight days. In cases where 
the rich cellulose diet gives at the outset good results, 
too frequently this diet must be modified on account of the 
flatulence to which it may give rise. The patient must be 
told that immediate results are not to be expected, as the 
rate of recovery is usually slow. At the same time every 
effort must be made to counteract the hypochondriacal 
condition frequently present in these patients. Undue 
attention must not be paid to the patient's own ideas as to 
what is good or bad for him, as his ideas are often merely 
fanciful. If the colitis be associated with gastric neurasthenia, 
and pain in the stomach follows the ingestion of any solid 
food, an exclusive milk regimen should be given for some 
days. Gain in weight is the most important criterion of 
success in treatment. 

Intestinal Colic (Enterospasm). — Intestinal colic may 
result from constipation, or from enteritis or colitis, and 
more particularly from that form of colitis known as mucous 
colitis. The dietetic treatment therefore varies with the 
cause. If due to constipation, the diet should be one rich in 
cellulose, as given on page 352. If due to catarrh of the 
bowel, the diet should be a bland one, containing a large 
amount of fat in the form of butter and cream. The 
following diet is appropriate : it has ample nutritious 
material, and leaves a scanty residue : — 

Breakfast — 

Milk, flavoured with cocoa. 
Small bowl of gruel, with cream. 
Slice of toast and butter. 



364 DIET IN DISEASES OF THE INTESTINE 

Lunch — 

Vegetable soup, thickened with milk and egg. 
Milk pudding or custard, with cream ; or stewed apples or prunes. 
Bread or toast and butler. 
Dinner — 

Vegetable soup — potato, lentil, or vegetable stock, thickened with 

milk. 
Fish or egg, mashed potato, and a vegetable. 
Milk pudding or fruit jelly, blancmange, with cream. 

Intestinal Ulceration. — The dietetic treatment of gastric 
ulcer has already been fullv discussed (p. 330). The dietetic 
treatment of duodcfial ulcer is essentially the same as that 
for gastric ulcer ; when associated with hyperchlorhydria, as 
it frequently is. the dietetic treatment must be adapted 
accordingly. 

Tuberculous Ulceration. — The dietetic treatment of 
tuberculous ulceration of the bowel is often one of great 
difficulty. When marked ulceration of the bowel has 
developed, the general condition of the patient is usually 
a very grave one. Milk and milk foods should form the 
basis of the dietary, and it is often necessary to give the 
milk peptonised and diluted with lime-water. Whey, skim 
milk, and koumiss are useful forms of administration. Extra 
nourishment may be given by fortifying the milk with white 
of Qgg, Plasmon, or Allenbury food, with the addition of a 
little Extract of malt. Beef-teas are useful if they do not 
induce diarrhoea, and chicken jelly may be given. (See also 
diet on pp. 433 and 441.) 

Intestinal Obstruction. — The treatment of intestinal 
obstruction is essentially surgical, unless in cases due to 
constipation. In acute cases, all foods should be withheld 
until after the operation. Thirst may be allayed by sipping 
ice, or washing out the mouth with hot water, or water 
acidulated with a few drops of lemon. In cases where the 
operation is deferred longer than twenty-four hours, it may 
be advisable to administer salines, glucose solutions, and 
other foodstuffs by the bowel. 

In chronic cases the aim is to give a diet that will be 
easily digested and largely absorbed, leaving little residue. 
The food should be given in small amounts, and at frequent 
intervals — every two and a half to three hours. The follow- 



APPENDICITIS 365 

ing foods are of special value in these cases: — Milk, plain, 
diluted, or peptonised, and strengthened by the addition of 
Plasmon, white of egg, or invalid food, Bovinine, chicken 
or veal jelly, beef or mutton tea, Panopeptone, Brand's 
chicken jelly. (For post-operative treatment, see p. 345.) 

Flatulence or Meteorism. — A flatulent distension of the 
bowel, with accompan}-ing unpleasant noises (borborygmi), 
is met with occasionally in young subjects, especially women, 
and in the later years of life. There may be no other 
symptoms of indigestion. 

Treatment should be directed to improving the general 
health in every way by the administration of general tonics. 
Those patients are usually of a nervous temperament, and 
the condition is aggravated by the attention devo^^^ed to it. 
The diet should be simple and nutritious, farinaceous foods 
and sweets should be restricted to a great extent, and the 
bowels must be carefully regulated. The daily administration 
of some buttermilk or some physiologically active preparation 
of lactic acid bacilli will be found of value in treatment. 

In elderly subjects similar rules of treatment apply. 
Benefit is also obtained by largely restricting the amount 
of fluids and soups given at meals. A dry diet is therefore 
useful, fluid being given on an empty stomach an hour before 
food. Such articles of food as new bread, scones, potatoes, 
cabbage, sprouts, uncooked fruit or cooked fruit eaten with 
much sugar, aerated waters, and beer should be avoided. The 
dry diet recommended on p. 407 will be found helpful. 

Appendicitis. — At the commencement of an attack of 
appendicitis, or at any rate when the patient first comes 
under observation, it may be impossible to say whether 
perforation or gangrene has occurred. 

In the event of perforation or gangrene having taken 
place, it is very important that the stomach and intestines 
should be as motionless as possible, and this can only be 
attained by withholding food altogether for twenty-four 
hours or more, by which time the actual condition of afiairs 
may have been determined. If laparotomy is performed, the 
subsequent dietetic treatment should be cautiously along the 
lines laid down for post-operative treatment after abdominal 
operation, which is given in detail on pp. 338 and 345. 



366 DIET IN DISEASES OF THE INTESTINE 

If it be decided that no immediate operation is necessary, 
4 ounces of fluid nourishment may be given every two hours, 
the food consisting of milk diluted one in three with plain 
water, eg^ albumin, weak beef or mutton tea. From eight 
to ten feeds should be given in the course of the twenty-four 
hours. After a day or so of this diet, when the pain and 
fever have largely subsided, and all fear of localised 
suppuration or general infection is over, the diet can be 
rapidly increased by the addition of gruels made from 
oatflour, or barley-meal, or prepared invalid food (Benger's 
or Allenbury) ; also some of the Plasmon preparations, 
h'ghtly cooked egg, scraped beef, and fish. 

If the attack subsides, and if the appendix is not 
removed, the question arises as to whether diet will prevent 
a recurrence of the attacks. A correct diet will certainly 
greatly diminish the risk of fresh attacks. The diet must 
be a simple one, not too rich or varied, and should contain 
little of the canned food preparations. It must be free from 
excess of foodstuffs that are prone to fermentation or 
putrefaction. Hence moderation in the amount both of the 
carbohydrates and proteins in the food is essential. Thorough 
mastication, attention to the bowels, and the use of various 
lactic acid bacilli preparations may be mentioned as adjuvant 
factors in the prophylaxis. 

Haemorrhoids. — Haemorrhoids may result from any cause 
which interferes with the proper return of the venous blood 
from the vessels in the lower part of the rectum. Among the 
more common causal factors, mention may be made of a 
sedentary occupation, constipation, pregnancy, and intem- 
perance in food and drink, causing chronic congestion of the 
liver. Whatever the cause, it is essential that the bowels 
be kept thoroughly regular by the judicious use of mild 
aperients. With regard to diet, alcohol in all its forms 
should be avoided ; large rich meals should not be indulged 
in ; three simple meals a day should be taken. Red meats 
and condiments of all kinds should be restricted, the diet 
being largely a lacto-vegetarian one, with fish and chicken 
as the main meat foods. For inveterate cases, with a 
liability to recurring inflammation, a diet framed on the 
following lines will be found suitable : — 



SPRUE 367 

Breakfast — 

Porridge and cream. 

Tea, bread and butter and marmalade. 

Cup of tea. 

Lunch — 

Vegetable soup. 

Fish or chicken, and a vegetable. 

Glass of buttermilk. 

Dinner — 

Clear soup. 

Light entree, e.g. chicken cream with vegetable. 

Stewed fruit and cream, or blancmange or jelly. 

Sprue. — Various methods of dieting have been advocated, 
and are used either singly or in combination. These may be 
classified as follows : — 

1. The milk diet. 

2. The meat diet. 

3. The fruit diet. 

4. The mixed diet. 

In all cases the bowels should in the first ii. stance be 
cleaned out by a dose of castor oil. Should pyorrhoea 
alveolaris or other condition of oral sepsis be present, as 
is often the case in this disease, appropriate local treatment 
must be carried out. Complete rest in bed and warmth are 
of the utmost importance in treatment. 

The milk diet. — This regime is the most generally appli- 
cable and effective in this disease. Much attention to detail 
is essential for its successful application. Written directions 
are supplied to the patient as follows (Manson and 
Daniels) : — 

1. Fresh milk, slightly warmed, to be the only food and 

drink. 

2. The milk to be taken at intervals of two or three 

hours, in divided quantities up to the aggregate 
amount of 3 pints in the twenty-four hours. 

3. The milk must never be taken hurriedly, but slowly 

sipped with a spoon or sucked through a strand or 
fine glass tube, in imitation of the natural way of 
ingesting milk. 



368 DIET IN DISEASES OF THE INTESTINE 

4. After each feed the moutli must be rinsed out with an 

alkaline or antiseptic wash, and the teeth lightly 
brushed. 

5. Unless the patient- is very weak, sleep must not be 

disturbed for feeding purposes. 

6. If at any time there is a feeling of nausea or a want of 

appetite, one or more feeds should be intermitted. 

7. Throughout the treatment the patient's weight should 

be taken every three or four days, and accurately 
recorded. 

If after a thorough trial of this treatment for a week there 
is no marked improvement, the diet must be modified. If, on 
the contrary, as is usually the case, improvement is marked, 
attempts to increase the amount of milk must not be made 
too soon ; nor, indeed, till the patient clamours for more food 
and the motions are solid. In this case, increase to the 
extent of half a pint per diem may be allowed every two or 
three days. Not until six weeks after the stools are formed, 
and the soreness of the mouth and the abdominal distension 
have disappeared, may any attempt be made to add to the 
dietary. If things go well, the following may be carefully 
introduced : — Fruit, especially strawberries or bananas 
mashed up with a portion of the milk ; raw or underdone 
eggs ; well-boiled arrowroot, rice-water or barley-water ; 
rusk, crisp thin toast ; custard, malted artificial food, 
stewed apple, chicken broth in which rice has been boiled 
and strained out ; pounded chicken, chicken cream or 
panada ; boiled sole or turbot ; boiled, mashed, and after- 
wards balled potato ; and so gradually, after several months, 
reverting to regular meals and ordinary diet, not for a long 
time introducing anything but the simplest and most 
digestible of food, and avoiding alcohol and beef, and 
unnecessary fluid at meals. 

The milk treatment as above described may fail ; but before 
admitting failure, certain modifications of it should be tried, 
e.g., peptonising the milk, diluting with water or barley-water, 
the use of whey, skimmed milk, koumiss, or buttermilk ; and 
occasionally benefit is derived from the addition of a little 
fruit, especially of strawberries. 



SPRUE 369 

The vieat regime. — This regime is commenced with tea- 
spoonful, gradually increased to tablespoonful, doses of 
carefully prepared meat juice. If this is well borne, scraped 
meat, and later minced and lightly cooked meat, may be 
gradually introduced. At first, an ounce or two of meat 
is given every three or four hours ; if this agrees, the 
quantity is increased, and the intervals between the meals 
lengthened, until a pound or more is taken in the twenty-four 
hours, in three or four meals. Thin, crisp toast may be taken 
with the meat, and hot water in small quantities, taken 
slowly, from one and a half to two hours after the meal. 
The return to a normal diet after a course of meat treatment 
should be as gradual and tentative as after the milk treatment. 
Very great benefit sometimes accrues from alternating the 
milk and meat treatment, e.g. alternating the two every four 
days. This is a point of great practical importance. 

The fruit treatment. — A diet of milk and strawberries, the 
amounts of both being gradually raised to 5 pints of the 
former and 3 lbs. of the latter, sometimes tends to a rapid 
and permanent cure of sprue. When good strawberries are 
not available, bananas form a fair, though inferior substitute. 
The fruit, which must be ripe, must be reduced to a pulp and 
thoroughly incorporated with the milk. Other fruit treat- 
ments have been advocated. 

The mixed diet treatment has already been referred to. 
Special mention ma}' again be made of the value of the 
system of alternating the diets in the manner described. 



2 A 



CHAPTER XX 

DIET IN DISEASES OF THE LIVER AND PANCREAS 

PACK PAOa 

Biliousness ..... 370 Cirrhosis of the liver . . • 375 

Jaundice 371 Cancer of the liver . , . 376 

Diet in cholelithiasis . . . 373 Pancreatic disease . • . 377 

Biliousness. — The term biliousness is a loose one, 
emploN'ed more especially by the public to indicate their 
condition when they feel sick, off colour, headachy, and the 
vomit contains bile. The cause of this condition is a 
duodenal and gastric catarrh, this catarrh being doubtless 
associated with a general congestion of the liver. This 
catarrh is doubtless of bacterial origin, previous dietetic 
excesses on the patient's part being the primary factor in its 
development. In people predisposed to it, chill acts as an 
exciting cause, more especially in gouty patients. The 
dietetic treatment is simple, and consists in starvation for 
twenty-four hours or so, aided by rest, and the use of a blue 
pill and saline purge. After a day's starvation the patient 
should live for a couple of days on the lightest simple food, 
e.g., beef-tea, chicken jelly, milk diluted, gruel, pounded fish 
or chicken, and toast or rusks. The later dietetic treatment 
consists in moderating the diet which has usually been 
excessive, making it simpler where it has previously been 
rich and varied, and especially restricting the amount of 
sweets. This advice is very frequently disregarded. The 
patients prefer the pleasures of the table, and rely on an 
annual visit to some spa for the correction of the functional 
disorders of the liver and other digestive glands induced by 
their immoderate eating and drinking. 

870 



JAUNDICE 371 

Jaundice. — One of the functions of bile is to aid in the 
digestion and absorption of fats. When from any reason bile 
is prevented from getting into the intestine, the absorption 
of fats is interfered with, a state of detective digestion is 
induced, and the amount of fat in the stools is greatly 
increased. One is not surprised, therefore, to find that patients 
with jaundice show a marked repugnance to fat. The diet 
should therefore contain little or no fat. The diet should be 
simple, and should be largely protein in character. Milk in 
the form of skimmed milk, whey, buttermilk, or koumiss ; and 
beef juice, albumin water, and well-cooked barley-water 
should form the dietary in the more acute stages, and in 
cases with irritability of the stomach. Later, soups thickened 
with barley, or sago, or tapioca, the lighter forms of fish, and 
different varieties of lean meat, with toast or roll, may be 
added. The more easily digested vegetables and fruits may 
also be given, such as spinach, onions, asparagus tops, and 
the flower of cauliflower, stewed apples, prunes, and figs. 
Potatoes should be given sparingly, and are best given 
cooked in their jackets, either boiled or steamed. With regard 
to fluids, the drinking of plain water or alkaline water should 
be encouraged ; as much as 2 pints, or more at the outset, 
should be taken daily. Tea and coffee may be given in 
moderate amount ; all stimulants should be withheld unless 
specially indicated. During convalescence the patient should 
be cautioned against eating to excess, or taking rich, stimu- 
lating, or coarse articles of food ; and special care should be 
taken with regard to his return to the use of fats and fatty 
foods. One of the extract of malt preparations, such as 
Extract of malt, Maltine, or Homax, is a useful aid to 
digestion of the carbohydrate foods. The principles of treat- 
ment outlined above are applicable to all cases of jaundice. 
It may be advisable to amplify this by giving detailed 
examples of a dietary appropriate to two distinct groups of 
clinical cases, such as simple catarrhal jaundice, and jaundice 
due to inoperable malignant disease. 

Diet in simple catarrhal jaumiiee — early stages. — The diet 
here is of a fluid character, easily digested, largely protein in 
nature, and free of fats. Its nutritive value is small in 
amount, but is ample for the first three days or so of the 



372 DIRT IN DISEASES OF LIVER AND FANCUEAb 

illness. Its use will promote a speedy return to a more 
liberal regime. 

7 A.M. — lo ounces mineral watei. 

8 A.M.— 

lo ounces skimmedmilk, thickened with white of egg or albumin water. 
I slice of toast without butter. 
ID A.M. — lo ounces buttermilk. 

I P.M. — 

lo ounces clear soup thickened with Plasmon ; or | gU^.^ ^f tg^st 
ID ounces beef-tea thickened with meat juice ; or ■ qj. j.qJ[ 
ID ounces beef-tea thickened with scraped raw beef; J 
Pudding (not made with egg), stewed fruit without cream ; a little 
milk. 

4 P.M. — Cup of tea with little sugar ; half-slice of toast. 

6 P.M. — ID ounces skimmed milk ; a little sherry may be added if desired, 

as a flavouring agent ; an invalid food. 
ID P.M. — lo ounces mineral water. 

As the stomach becomes tolerant and the appetite returns 
the diet can be gradually increased, as follows : — 

7 A.M. — ID ounces mineral water. 
8.30 A.M. — 

Freshly made tea, with very little milk. 

Roll or crisply made toast, no butter. 

Fish (steamed), or slice of ham, tongue, or chicken. 
ID A.M. — 10 ounces buttermilk ; i sweet biscuit. 
I P.M.— 

Cup of barley or sago soup. 

Fish (white, steamed or l)oiled) ; or 

Chicken or pheasant (roast or boiled), slice from breast ; or 

Rump-steak, or tender eye of mutton chop ; or 

Slice of roast beef or mutton, with gravy. 

I vegetable — spinach, or cauliflower, or stewed celery. 

Stewed fruit, eaten with milk and biscuit. 
(Malt extract with Dinner.) 
4 P.M. — Cup of tea ; dry rusk, biscuit, or sponge cake. 
7 I'.M. — Two courses. Cup of soup, and a little meat or fish. 
(Malt extract with Supper,) 

Diet in Jmtndice due to inoperable malignant disease. 

7 A.M. — 10 ounces plain water or mineral water. 

8 A.M.— 

Cup of weak tea, with little sugar. 

Slice of toast or roll, with a little jam or marmalade ; no butter. 

Fish, ham, or cold tongue. 



( 



t 



GALL-STONES 373 

II A.M. — lo ounces mineral water, or an equal amount of buttermilk. 
I P.M.— 

Bowl of clear soup. 

Oysters, fisli, chicken, or sweetbread, with small amount of mashed 
potato, and spinach, cauliflower, or asparagus. 

Stewed fruit, with very little milk ; no cream. 
4 P.M. — Cup of weak tea, with little sugar, and half-slice of toast. 
7 P.M. ; Dinner {two courses). — Much the same as Lunch. 

Steamed fish, or light entree. 

Custard, or curds, or stewed fruit. 

A little alcohol, in the form of whisky or brandy. 

In this dietary the fats are cut off, the carbohydrates are 
reduced, and a simple, easily digested diet of protein nature 
is given. There is no reason for withholding any article 
of food for which the patient expresses a wish, unless it be 
of a nature likely to derange or still further weaken his 
digestion. The meals should not be large. 

As the disease progresses the patient becomes unable to 
digest the above, and a more fluid dietary, along lines 
similar to that adopted for the earlier stages of simple 
catarrhal jaundice must be given. 

Diet in gall-stones. — The chief causes of gall-stones are 
inflammation of the bile-passages and gall-bladder, with 
resulting stagnation of bile. This inflammation of the bile- 
passages is usually the sequel to a catarrh of the duodenum, 
which has resulted from long-continued errors in feeding. 
In some cases it is not so much the amount and nature of 
the food that is at fault, as other conditions associated with 
that system of feeding, and more especially a sedentary life 
and constipation. The dietetic conditions which predispose 
to duodenal catarrh are excess of food, and more especially 
a rich, varied dietary containing a too liberal supply of 
sweets and starchy foods. The digestive powers in these 
patients are generally more than usually limited, and the first 
essential is that the diet must be simplified. The amount of 
fat in the dietary has to be reduced, because in these cases 
fat impedes digestion. Care has to be taken with the 
carbohydrates on account of the special role which the 
liver — the bile-producing organ — plays in their metabolism. 
All foods liable to putrefaction, such as over-ripe 
cheese, shellfish, and the like, should be avoided, because of 



374 DIET IN DISEASES OF LIVEU AND PANCREAS 

the unfavourable influence on the growth of pathogenic 
bacteria in the bowel. Stimulants are better withheld, and 
water-drinking should be encouraged. 

The meals should be given at regular intervals, not too 
far apart, since the introduction of solid food into the stomach 
promotes the flow of bile — four or five meals in the day. Too 
long fasting is therefore injurious. The following regime is 
adapted for a case of gall-stone disease in a middle-aged 
woman of stout tendency. Special mention may again be 
made of the value in treatment of exercise in the open air, 
exercises to promote the action of the abdominal muscles, and 
the judicious use of laxative salines. 

7 A.M. — 

Tumblerful of hot water, with i dram of sodium phosphate dis- 
solved in it ; or 

A Carlsbad mixture. (A useful Carlsbad mixture can be made by 
dissolving 22 grains of sodium sulphate, 12 grains of sodium 
bicarbonate, and 10 grains of sodium chloride in a pint of water. 
Take 2 to 4 ounces at a time, once every fifteen minutes ; 
repeat three times.) 

8 A.M.— 

One cup of tea, with little or no sugar. 
One course of fish, ham and egg, or tongue. 

One or one and a half slices of toast, or roll, with butter (jam and 
marmalade should only occasionally be taken). 
1 1.30 A.M. — Tumblerful of water (either plain, carbonated, or alkaline water). 

I P.M.— 

Fish or chicken souffle. 

Stewed fruit passed through a sieve, or bread and cheese. 

4.30 P.M.— 

Cup of tea, with little sugar. 

Thin slice of bread and butter ; no sweet cakes. 

7 P.M. {Plain three-course Dinner). — Either 

Soup, or Fish, or Fish or meat course, or Soup, 

Me-\t, Entree, Pudding, Entrde, 

Pudding ; Pudding ; Savoury ; Savoury. 

(The soup should preferably be clear, and not made from rich 
vegetable stock. A limited amount of potatoes and green vegetables 
may be given. Rich, oily salads should be avoided. The meat 
should be freshly cooked or cold — no rich sauces or gravies. Suet 
puddings and pastry should only occasionally be taken, the best 
puddings being stewed fruit (without added sugar), custard, curds, 
jellies, blancmange. Extras in the form of fruits, nuts, and sweets 
should be avoided.) 

10 P.M. — Tumblerful of hot water. 



CIRRHOSIS OF LIVER 376 

Cirrhosis of the Liver. — The most common cause of 
cirrhosis of the liver is long-continued indulgence in excess 
of alcohol. The use of highly seasoned foods may also induce 
it, more especially in children. It may also arise from chronic 
intestinal fermentation, resulting from the use of a diet which 
favours abnormal fermentative and putrefactive changes in 
the bowel. It is usually associated with some degree of 
chronic gastric catarrh. 

The principles of dietetic treatment can be readily defined. 
Alcohol in every form must be avoided, until at least the 
later and incurable stage of the disease, when a stimulant 
may be advisable ; all rich and stimulating foods should be 
withheld. Spices and condiments must be excluded from 
the dietary ; fats and carbohydrates need to be restricted. 
The diet must be simple, and in the early stages should be 
largely a milk dietary, or a lacto-vegetarian regime. The 
bowels must be kept open by the judicious use of saline 
mineral water. The diet varies with the complications, 
more especially the presence of marked ascites. An appro- 
priate diet sheet is here given for the early stages of the 
disease, and also for the later stages associated with pro- 
nounced ascites. 

CirrJiosis of liver — early stages, without marked ascites. — 
Here milk should form the basis of the dietary. It may be 
necessary to give it diluted or peptonised, or in the form of 
skimmed milk or koumiss, depending on the degree of 
derangement of gastric digestion : — 

6 A.M. — ID ounces of buttermilk. 

8 A.M. — ID ounces of milk, thickened with white of egg ; slice of 

toast 
II A.M. — Chicken or veal jelly; or soup thickened with sago, Farina, 

or barley. 
I P.M. — lo ounces of beef-tea thickened with meat juice, with a dry roll ; 

or pounded fish, or fish souflfle. 
4 P.M. — lo ounces of milk. 
6 P.M.— An invalid food — Allenbury, Benger's, Savory & Moore's. 

9 P.M. — Cup of beef-tea thickened with Flasmon. 

A course of six to eight days of this dietary will be of 
great value in relieving portal congestion, and inducing a 
healthier state of the whole digestive tract. At the end of 
this time the diet can be gradually increased. 



376 DIET IN DISEASES OF LIVER AND PANCREAS 

CirrJiosis of the liver with pronounced ascites. — Keeping in 
view the general principles previously laid down, a dry diet 
planned along the following lines is recommended : — 

8 A.M. — Cup of tea ; sandwich of potted chicken or raw meat ; or fish ; 
or, occasionally, lightly boiled ft%%. 

II A.M. — 6 ounces meat soup, thickened with Plasmon. 
1.30 P.M. — 

Fish quenelles ; fish souffle^. 

Pounded chicken, or scraped steak mince with toast. 
A small glass of alkaline water. 
4.30 P.M. — Cup of buttermilk, or freshly made tea with milk ; dry sponge 

cake. 
7 P.M. — An invalid food, or light pudding. 

(Malt extract twice daily.) 

In recent years increasing attention has been directed to 
the occurrence of cirrhosis of the liver in children, under 
conditions in which alcohol in all its forms can be excluded. 
These are cases of subacute yellow atrophy, which are in all 
probability due to a chronic infection from the intestines, 
arising in association with a catarrhal condition of the 
duodenum. In these cases it should be kept in mind that 
an exclusive milk diet, or a diet consisting of bread and milk 
and milk puddings, is often more indigestible and therefore 
more prone to maintain a catarrhal state of the bowel than a 
protein diet made up of beef-teas, pounded fish or chicken, 
with puddings in the form of custard, rather than farinaceous 
puddings. In these cases it will be found that the protein 
diet laid down for cases of intestinal catarrh will prove of 
value (p. 356). 

Cancer of the Liver. — There is no special dietetic treat- 
ment for cancer of the liver. In the later stages the digestive 
powers of the patient are very greatly reduced, and the food 
must be given in very small amounts, frequently, and in the 
most easily digestible forms. Plain milk may be too strong, 
and should be diluted or peptonised. Skimmed milk, whey, 
and koumi.ss arc serviceable varieties of milk. The nutritive 
value of the milk may, in suitable cases, be increased by 
the addition of Plasmon, white of egg, or small amount of one 
of the invalid foods. The addition of a little malt may be of 
value. Beef-tea or veal-tea, with chicken jelly, Bovinine, 



PANCREATIC DISEASE 377 

and similar preparations may all be utilised, as occasionally 
one preparation is tolerated when the others induce nausea 
and vomiting. Pounded fish or chicken, milk puddings made 
with invalid food, and clear jellies should be given as freely 
as the state of digestion will allow. Among fruits, orange 
juice or a few grapes may be allowed. Stimulants in the 
form of brandy or whisky are of value in improving the 
digestive power and the general strength of the patient An 
occasional day's rectal feeding, to give the stomach rest, is 
often advantageous (p. 221). 

Disease of the Pancreas. — Indigestion of pancreatic origin. 
— There is little definitely known about the relation of diet to 
pancreatic diseases, but recent advances in the pathology and 
treatment of pancreatic diseases clearly indicate the practical 
importance of this subject. It is known that there is one 
severe form of diabetes commonly associated with pathological 
changes in the pancreas, which is consequently spoken of 
as pancreatic diabetes. These cases run an unfavourable 
course, and are accompanied by much emaciation. In recent 
years Mayo Robson has added largely to our knowledge of 
the different forms of subacute and chronic inflammation of 
the gland ; he has drawn attention to the comparative 
frequency of pancreatic disease, and to the clinical methods 
by which it may be recognised. One of these methods must 
be here alluded to, as in the writer's experience it is of distinct 
value in connection with dietetic treatment. The pancreatic 
reaction in the urine, a test devised by Cammidge for the 
recognition of inflammatory disease of the pancreas is here 
alluded to. The crystals arc believed to be of the nature of 
a pentose. The writer has made an extensive investigation 
into the value of this test, based on the examination of the 
urine of some hundreds of cases of all kinds, medical and 
surgical, under different dietetic conditions, and the results 
have shown that while this test has no special value in the 
diagnosis of pancreatitis, as was at first supposed, it is of 
great value as an indication of the toleration limit of the 
body for carbohydrate foods. His observations on this test, 
since confirmed by many other observers, have shown that 
a positive reaction occurs in a very much larger number 
of " control " cases than was originally described by the 



378 DIET IN DISEASES OF LIVER AND PANCREAS 

author of the test, and that a positive reaction is in no way 
to be regarded as pathognomonic of pancreatitis ^ but simply 
as an indication of derangement of the function of the 
gland. Further, no clinical significance attaches to the 
presence of mere traces of a positive reaction as revealed 
by the presence of only a few crystals on microscopic 
examination, but much significance attaches to the presence 
of a marked positive reaction. As the pancreas is the organ 
most largely concerned in the metabolism of carbohydrates, 
we are probably justified in concluding that in the clinical 
conditions which give a pronounced pancreatic reaction in 
the urine, special attention should be directed to the 
restriction of the carbohydrates in the food, and practical 
experience amply confirms this. This view is in conformity 
with the experience of Mayo Robson, to the effect that not 
a few of the cases which can now be diagnosed with fair 
accuracy as subacute or chronic pancreatic disease ultimately 
develop true diabetes. The treatment of these conditions, 
whether due to functional or organic disease of the pancreas, 
is comparatively simple. The difficulty lies in their 
recognition, which is essential for their successful treatment. 
The following points will be found helpful in treatment : — 

{a) Certain cases of " indigestion," with its varied mani- 
festations, are accompanied by, and in the writer's opinion 
dependent upon, functional pancreatic disease, which is 
revealed by the presence of a. pronounced pancreatic reaction 
in the urine. When these cases are appropriately dieted, 
recovery quickly takes place. 

{b) Some cases characterised by neuritic-like pains, 
commonly regarded as of a rheumatic or gouty nature, are 
in reality dependent on defects in the pancreas, which can 
only be remedied by proper feeding. Defective circulation 
in the feet and hands, with coldness of extremities and 
liability to chilblains, are present in these patients. These 
cases are comparable, in minor degree, to the forms of 
neuritis which are met with in true diabetes. 

{c) In cases of muscular and nervous asthenia, the primary 
fault is occasionally to be found in the pancreas. The 
author has seen cases of neurasthenia of very long standing, 
which had long resisted the ordinary treatment, recovering 



PANCREATIC DISEASE 379 

rapidly when the existence of this relationship was recog- 
nised, and the treatment directed accordingly. 

General principles of treatment. — The two essential points 
in the dietetic treatment arc to restrict the carbohydrates, 
and especially the sugars. Give a simple instead of a rich 
and varied dietary. The diet should be a mild, anti-diabetic 
one. Sugar, jams, and sweets of all kind should be reduced, 
or for a time cut off entirely. In many cases this alone 
suffices to get rid of the patient's symptoms. In others the 
starchy foods have also to be reduced ; potatoes, suet 
puddings, starchy puddings, such as sago, arrowroot, etc., 
and perhaps breadstuffs, must be reduced, and their place 
taken by a more protein dietary. Custards and curds 
may take the place of the largely carbohydrate puddings. 
It is also advisable to exercise caution in the amount of fat 
taken in the forms of butter, cream, and the like. Spices, 
condiments, and extra articles of food in general should be 
avoided, as their presence increases the liability to the 
milder degree of duodenal catarrh which is so often present 
in these cases, and is the exciting cause of the pancreatic 
derangement. The addition of Extract of malt or Taka- 
diastase is sometimes of value in aiding starch digestion. 
The dietary on p. 347 will be found suitable for the average 
case. 



CHAPTER XXI 



ANi^MIA AND DISEASES OF THE BLOOD 



Introduction 


. 


380 


Anaemia in children — 






(a) In milder forms . 


, 


381 


(^) In severer forms . 


, , 


383 


Chlorosis — 






(a) With pronounced 


gastric 




symptoms 


. 


384 


(/') Without much gastric dis- 




turbance 


. 


386 



Pernicious anaemia — 
(a) Cases associated with minor 

gastro-intestinal disturbance . 389 
((5) Cases associated with dilata- 
tion of stomach and bowel, or 
renal disease .... 390 
Other blood disorders — 

Leukaemia, scurvy, etc. • • 391 



A N.EM I A may be secondary or primary. A secondary 
aneemia is one in which the blood disorder is the result of a 
known disease, such as cancer, tuberculosis, rheumatism ; or it 
may result from a serious bleeding, direct loss of blood from 
haemorrhoids, uterine hc-cmorrhage, and the like. A primary 
anaemia is one in which no cause for the morbid condition of 
the blood can be defined. There is good reason, however, to 
believe that the majority of cases of primary anzemia are the 
result of a toxaemia, or an infection having its origin in the 
gastro-intestinal tract, and in these conditions the diet is a 
most important factor in treatment. The dietetic treatment 
of the various forms of secondary anaemia calls for little 
comment here ; when the cause has been removed, the blood 
condition rapidly improves under the influence of rest, fresh 
air, attention to the bowels, administration of iron and arsenic, 
with as full and generous a diet as the patient can assimilate. 
The treatment of the different forms of primary anaemia calls 
for detailed consideration. These may be considered under 
the following sections : — 

•80 



1 



ANEMIA IN CHILDREN 381 

1. Arjcemia in children. 

2. Chlorosis, or simple anremia. 

3. Pernicious or idiopathic anaemia. 

4. Other blood disorders, e.g., leuk.tmia, scurvy, etc. 

Anaemia in Children. — There are two factors of special 
importance in the development of anaemia in children. 
These are (i) defective feeding, and (2) a chronic intestinal 
catarrh, which may be latent and only revealed by observa- 
tions of the stools. Many cases of severe anaemia in children 
are due to the long-continued use of a diet which is deficient 
in blood-forming elements, e.g., a diet consisting largely of 
bread and butter, and pastry, with tea several times daily. 
This system of defective feeding predisposes to chronic gastro- 
intestinal derangement, which, in turn, reacts unfavourably on 
the digestive powers of the child. The existence of chronic 
gastro-intestinal derangement in these cases is shown by the 
presence in varying degree of the following conditions — con- 
stipation, occasional diarrhoea, and, notably, unformed foetid 
stools, which may contain excess of mucus and undigested 
food. A contributing factor may be a septic condition of the 
mouth, due to diseased teeth. Before considering in detail 
the dietetic treatment, reference may be made to some 
preliminary essentials in the management of these cases. 
These include : — 

1. Thorough clearing out of the bowels by a judiciously 

selected course of aperients, e.g., a course of calomel, 
\ gr. to I gr., for several nights according to age of 
child, followed on alternate mornings by a saline 
aperient. 

2. Careful attention should be directed to the state of 

the mouth and teeth. All septic stumps should be 
removed, and an antiseptic mouth-wash used daily. 

3. Complete rest in bed is, in some cases, essential to 

effect a speedy and complete recovery. 

4. Sunlight, fre.sh air, and thorough mastication of the 

food are important factors for successful treatment. 

The Diilder degrees of (Dicrmia. — The first point to deter- 
mine in these cases is whether the condition is a secondary 



382 ANEMIA AND DISEASES OF THE BLOOD 

an.tmia or a primary one. The common causes of secondary 
ansmia in children are tuberculosis, rheumatism, the infective 
fevers, e.g., scarlet, diphtheria, and worms ; if we find the 
anaemia to be of secondary origin, the indication is to treat 
the cause. When, after careful examination of the child, 
none of the recognised causes of secondary anremia are 
discovered, the conclusion is arrived at that the case is one of 
primary anaemia. 

The term "primary" anaemia merely means an annemia of 
which the causation is at present unknown. While there is 
no precise knowledge of the cause of primary anaemia in 
children, there is abundant clinical evidence to suggest that 
it is very frequently associated with, and dependent on, a 
chronic gastro-intestinal disturbance of a nature which may 
have been sufficiently slight to have escaped the observation 
of the parents. Inquiry into the history of these patients 
will often indicate that, in addition to living under unfavour- 
able conditions as to fresh air and sunlight, they have for long 
been injudiciously fed, the diet consisting too largely of tea, 
bread, and jam pastry, and the like, and containing too little 
milk, animal food, and fresh vegetables. In the milder degrees 
of ancBDiia recovery is speedily attained if we stop the 
unwholesome dietary that has been in use, and restore the 
proper balance of protein, fat, and carbohydrates in the food. 
To this end judicious use is made of milk, cream, meat juice, 
meat foods in moderation, fresh vegetables, and fruit. Com- 
plete rest in bed for a short time, careful attention to the 
bowels, and a diet planned along the following lines, will 
speedily effect a cure of the condition : — 

Ancemia — Child cet. Eight Years. 

Breakfast — Bowl of porridge, gruel, or other cereal; milk, lo 

ounces ; slice of bread and butter, or toast and butter, or 

oatcake. 
II A.M.— Cup of clear soup (8 ounces), to which has been added \ lb. 

of scraped raw meat ; or 
Cup of soup (8 ounces), thickened with yolk of egg and a little milk ; 

a biscuit. 

I P.M. — A good two-course dinner, the meat being plainly cooked. 
Fish, or chicken, or meat, potatoes, and a vegetable. Light 
milk pudding, or a custard and stewed fruit. 



I 



SEVERE ANiEMIA IN CHILDREN 383 

4.30 P.M. — A good, wholesome tea, plenty of milk to drink, toast, occa- 
sionally a bit of plain cake or a biscuit, butter, and a little 
jam or jelly. Bread foods should not be new. 

Bedtime — A cup of soup ; or 

A cup of peptonised cocoa or milk. 

In severe ancsnnas. — In more severe cases of anaemia in 
children the treatment may be much more difficult. These 
may be similar in character to the pernicious anaemias 
described on p. 388 ; they are- usually associated with the 
passage of ill-formed, foetid stools. It may or it may not 
be possible to get the child to take a diet framed along the 
lines laid down above, but even if this is possible, no 
improvement results. The condition remains unchanged, or 
may get worse. A radical change of diet is then necessary. 
After a preliminary clearing-out of the bowel by one or two 
doses of grey powder and saline, a diet is selected which will 
throw the least strain on the digestive tract, and at the same 
time diminish the fermentative and putrefactive changes 
taking place in the bowel. For this purpose it is advisable 
to materially diminish the total amount of food given in 
the first few days. The carbohydrates are largely reduced, 
fats are excluded, plain milk is withheld as being for the time 
unsuitable, and the food is selected from skimmed milk, 
buttermilk, white of Qgg, meat juice, and a small quantity of 
bread or toast — not new. 

Plasmon, Sanatogen, and various malted foods, such as 
Mellin's, Benger's, Allenbury's, or Savory & Moore's food, 
may be used to strengthen the fluid nourishment. These 
greatly strengthen the nutritive value of the diet without 
adding much to its bulk or to its difficulty of digestion. The 
beef juice can be given in the form of the juice of \ to 
I lb. good steak stirred into good soup, or as raw-beef 
mince browned by cooking for three minutes, or as scraped 
beef sandwiches. The white of egg may be given beaten up 
in the skimmed milk or beef-tea. The breadstuffs that may 
be allowed must be stale, and include the following : — Malted 
bread (not new); Bermaline, Hovis, or Veda; biscuits 
made of the same materials ; a dry sponge cake or sweet 
rusk and plain toast. A little fruit juice may be given 
daily. 



384 ANEMIA AND DISEASES OF THE BLOOD 

The following dietary may be recommended as most 
suitable for a severe case of this kind in a child of six to 
seven years : — 
6 A.M. — Skimmed milk, S ounces. 

8 A.M.— 

Skimmed milk, 8 ounces, with white of egg beaten up. 
Half-slice of baked bread.' 

1 1 A.M. — Raw-beef juice from I lb. of steak given in beef-tea (6 ounces). 

1,30 P.M. — 

Skimmed milk, 8 ounces, with white of egg beaten up. 
Half-slice stale bread or crisp toast. 

4 P.M. — Buttermilk, 8 ounces, with toast. 

6 P.M.— 

Beef-tea or chicken tea. 

Slice of toast. 

If awake later, drink of skimmed milk, or buttermilk if readily taken. 

Under this regime there may be an initial slight increase 
in the anaemia, but this will soon give place to an improve- 
ment which will steadily and in favourable cases will rapidly 
progress. There is at the same time an improvement in 
the condition of the stools, which soon lose the unformed 
foetid character formerly present. As a rule, in about eight 
or ten days the diet may be gradually increased by the 
addition of meat in the form offish, chicken, or minced rump- 
steak, more bread, and a milk pudding with a little cream. 
Later, well-boiled green vegetables may be added. The 
return to an ordinary diet should be accomplished very 
slowly, the stools being carefully examined from time to time. 
The examination of the stools is the most important guide to 
the successful dietetic treatment of these cases. 

Chlorosis. — Many cases of chlorosis are associated with 
marked subjective symptoms of gastric disturbance, such as 
sensation of weight after food, flatulence, pain in the 
epigastric regions, and vomiting, and in these cases the 
possibility of the coexistence of a gastric or duodenal ulcer 
has to be borne in mind. In the majority of cases, however, 
these symptoms are absent. The treatment of these two 

' Baked bread is prepared by cutting a loaf of stale pan bread very 
thin, dipping the slices in milk, and placing in a cool oven to become 
thoroughly crisp and of a light brown colour. 



CHLOROSIS 385 

different groups will now be considered in detail, but reference 
may first be made to certain preliminary essentials in the 
treatment of all cases, viz. : — 

1. A thorough clearifig-out of the boivcls by a judiciously 

selected course of aperients, or enemata of soap and 
water, or soap and water following small injections 
of olive oil. Frequently-administered enemata may 
be required to completely remove the scybalous 
masses which are so frequently present in cases 
of anaemia. After the bowels have been cleared out, 
some tonic aperient medicine, e.g. cascara, should be 
administered daily. 

2. Careful attention to the condition of the mouth and 

teeth. — A septic condition of the mouth and teeth 
is frequently present in chlorosis, and this should be 
remedied by appropriate means, the assistance of a 
dental surgeon being called in, if necessary, to get 
the mouth into a satisfactory condition. 

3. CoDiplete rest in bed. — In all pronounced cases, complete 

rest in bed for at least three to four weeks is 
essential to a speedy and complete recovery. 

Chlorosis with pronounced gastric irritation. — In this 
condition there is marked hyperaesthesia of the gastric 
mucous membrane, sometimes associated with an excessive 
production of hydrochloric acid. The indications for treat- 
ment are therefore — (i) To give the stomach rest by giving 
easily digested food in very small quantity at a time, or it 
may be by withholding food altogether for twenty-four or 
forty-eight hours, nutrient enemata being substituted ; and 
(2) Administering an alkali, ^.^., bicarbonate of soda, 10 to 30 
grs., with fluid nourishment. These indications are fulfilled 
in the following manner. Milk should be the staple dietary, 
and should be given diluted with potash, soda, lime-water, 
Vichy or Apollinaris water, i ounce of milk being given 
every hour. In some cases it may be advisable to give the 
milk peptonised. The amount of milk and the proportion of 
milk should be gradually increased until the patient is taking 
from 4 to 5 pints of milk in the twenty-four hours. This is 
best given in the form of 8 to 10 ounces every three hours. 

2 £ 



386 



AN.EMIA AND DISEASES OF THE BLOOD 



As soon as the gastric symptoms have subsided, other 
nourishment may be given, chiefly in the form of bread- 
stuffs — dry toast, rusks, Vienna rolls, Veda bread ; meat 
juice and beef-tea preparations, and lightly malted invalid 
foods, such as Savory & Moore's, Benger's, and AUenbury's 
food. These should be followed by simple farinaceous food, 
such as semolina, ground rice, arrowroot, and cornflour. The 
recently introduced preparations of" Puffed rice " and Granose 
flakes make an agreeable change to many patients. Protein 
foods should be gradually added to the diet ; eggs, souffles, 
fish — steamed whiting, plaice, and flounders are the lightest 
— sweetbread, chicken, fresh game, rabbit ; later, mince, beef 
quenelles, and steak, the patient gradually passing on to the 
convalescent diet, fully described on page 387. If flatulence 
is a prominent feature, special care must be taken with the 
vegetables, the most suitable ones being cauliflower, spinach, 
and Portugal onions, potatoes being withheld until digestion 
is stronger. Of the pulses, lentils may be given on account 
of their richness in iron ; the pulses, as a whole, however, 
are not very easily digested by these patients. At the end 
of four to six weeks, if the condition of the blood is now 
improved, the patient may pass to an unrestricted physio- 
logical diet, special warning being given against the im- 
moderate use of tea, any deficiency in protein and fat elements 
of food, and an excess of carbohydrates often in unsuitable 
forms. The addition of moderate quantities of fresh fruit 
and vegetables is of value both in general nutrition and for 
assisting to correct the tendency to constipation. 

Dietary in Chlorosis, associated with Gastric 



Commencement of 
First Week. 



Derangement. 
Second Week. 



Third Week {Full 
Convalescent Diet). 



Milk, 10 oz. 
or cold). 

Gruel and 
10 oz. (a 
cream;. 



(hot 6 Milk, 10 oz. 



milk, 
little 



Cup of tea ; or 
Milk and cream. 
White fish 

(steamed) ; or 
Lightly-boiled 

egg- 



6 Milk. 



Ordinary 

breakfast. 
Milk, 10 oz. 



light 



CHLOROSIS 



387 



Commencement of 
First IVeek. 

A.M. 

u Milk, with egg ; or 
Cup of boup. 



P.M. 

1.30 Milk pudding, 
made with i egg 
and milk, 10 oz.; 
such as 

Custard. 

Semolina. 

Sago. 

Breadcrumbs. 

Cornflour. 

Ground rice. 



4 Horlick's malted 
milk ; or 
Peptonised cocoa 
(AUenbury's). 

6.30 Benger's food ; or 
A 1 1 e n b u r y ' s 
(salted). 
Both made 
with milk. 



Second Week. 

K.M. 

1 1 Cup of Benger's, 
and milk ; or 
AUenbury's or 
Savory & Moore. 



1.30 Soup (see page 
302). 

Chicken, with 
bread sauce ; or 

White fish, with 
white sauce. 

Slice of toast. 

I vegetable (cauli- 
flower, spinach, 
onion). 

Pudding (not far- 
inaceous). 

4 Tea, with milk. 
Bread and butter. 



6.30 Bowl of gruel ; or 
Milk pudding, 
with milk and 
cream. 



T/iird Week {Full 
Convalescent Diet). 

A.M. 

II Soup,withscraped 
beef; or 
Milk, with yolk of 
egg or egg flip. 

P.M. 

1.30 Soup. 

Red meat, simply 

cooked. 
Potatoes and a 

vegetable. 
Pudding, with 

stewed fruit. 
Cream. 



Tea, with milk. 
Bread and butter. 
Plain cake. 



Light two-course 
dinner. 



9 Milk, 10 oz. 



Cup of raw-beef 
soup or beef- 
tea. 



Glass of milk ; or 
Soup. 



Chlorosis ivithout much gastric disturbance. — Rest in bed, 
attention to the toilet of the mouth, and the cure of con- 
stipation, already referred to, are of prime importance in 
treatment. After the first few days, when the bowels have 
been thoroughly cleared, the patient can be placed on a full 
convalescent diet — which includes meat, eggs, good soup ; in 
the vegetable kingdom, lentils contain a relatively large 
amount of iron, and can be judiciously made use of in the 
dietary. 



388 ANAEMIA AND DISEASES OF THE BLOOD 

7 A.M. — Uncooked fruit— apples, figs, prunes, or raisins. 

Breakfast — 

Saucerful of porridge, with cream and milk. 

Fish, egg, tongue, bacon, ham. 

Cup of tea, with plentiful supply of milk. 

1 1 A.M. — Cup of milk, or small cup of soup. 

Luruh (two-course) — 

1. Freshly-cooked fish, chicken, rabbit, sweetbread, red meat, with 

vegetable. 

2. Milk pudding, with stewed fruit. 

Tea — Cup of tea (made with milk), bread and butter. No new scones. 
Dinner (three-course meal) — 

Freshly-cooked meats, with one vegetable. 

Simple pudding or savoury. 



Soup, 


Meat, 


Soup, 


Fish, 


Fish, 


Pudding, 


Meat, 


Pudding, 


Pudding. 


Savoury. 


Pudding. 


Savoury. 



lo P.M. — Milk, one cup, with Horlick's malted milk. 

Pernicious or Idiopathic Anaemia. — Pernicious or idio- 
pathic anaemia is essentially a disease of adult life. The 
cause is unknown ; recent advances in our knowledge point to 
its being, in the vast majority of cases, the result of a chronic 
absorption of poisons from the intestinal tract. The history of 
the case usually reveals some gastric intestinal disorder — 
constipation, flatulence, deranged appetite — which has been 
induced or aggravated by a septic condition of the teeth and 
mouth (oral sepsis). An examination of the stools shows them 
to be unformed and foetid in character. The disease is a 
serious one, and frequently fatal. Diet is a very important 
factor in treatment. The following points are essential 
adjuvants in treatment: — 

1. Complete rest in bed is essential. 

2. Careful attention should be directed to the state of 

the mouth and teeth. All septic stumps should be 
removed, and an antiseptic mouth-wash used daily. 

3. The bowels should be thoroughly cleaned out by the 

aid of one or two doses of calomel, followed by .salts 
or by enemas of soap and water. 



PERNICIOUS ANAEMIA 389 

4. The use of medicinal agents which arrest abnormal 
bacterial activity in the intestinal tract is usually 
indicated. These include various preparations of 
lactic acid bacilli — e.g., Lacto-bacilline, Sauerin, and, 
to a lesser extent among drugs, salol, sulpho-carbolate 
of soda, and calomel. 

Dietetic treatment. — The diet has to be adapted alike as 
to the amount and nature of the foodstuffs used, to the impaired 
state of digestion, to the chronic catarrhal condition of the 
bowel, and to the correction of the abnormal bacterial 
activity in the small and large intestines, which are so 
important features of the disease. The indications for treat- 
ment are therefore the following : — 

1. Foodstuffs must be of an easily digestible nature. 

2. Farinaceous foods to be restricted, because of their 

liability to undergo abnormal fermentative changes. 

3. Protein foods to be selected with care, so as to 

diminish putrefactive changes in the bowel. 

The degree of bacterial infection from the bowel depends 
very largely on the amount of foodstuffs available for them. 
The multiplication and activity of the bacteria will be pro- 
portionate to the amount of foodstuffs presented to them. 
The aim in treatment is to give a diet of such size and 
quality as will be rapidly digested and absorbed, thus 
arresting abnormal bacterial activity in the small and large 
intestines. 

In severe cases associated with gastro-intestinal derange- 
ment. — For the first few days a much restricted diet is 
advantageous. One and a half pints of skimmed milk, i^ pints 
of soured milk, and i pint of a meat tea, with two slices 
of crisp toast or unsweetened rusks, in the twenty-four 
hours, is a useful dietary for the first few days. This diet 
is best administered in quantities of 8 to 10 ounces every 
three hours. Under the influence of this regimen the appetite 
improves, the abdominal discomfort or pain abates, and the 
state of the motions becomes more satisfactory. The diet 
is then cautiously increased. This may be done b\- the 
gradual addition of easily digested protein in the form of 
white of egg, fresh milk, raw-meat juice, either prepared at 



390 AN /KM I A AND DISEASES OF THE BLOOD 

home or the various meat juices in the market, Wycth's, 
Liebig's peptone, etc., or one of the various malted foods, 
and raw oysters. 

Animal food in the form of fish, chicken, sweetbread, 
pheasant, partridge, rabbit, or tripe ; and puddings in the 
form of sweet jelly, milk jell}', blancmange, lemon sponge, 
curds, or custard are then added to the dietary. Plain milk 
puddings should come later, as they are a greater tax on the 
digestion than those mentioned. Fruit juice maybe given in 
the form of refreshing beverages (p. 275). Special care must 
be taken with regard to the increase of the farinaceous foods 
and of vegetables. Simplicity in the meals gives the keynote 
to successful treatment. In cases associated with acute febrile 
disturbance it may be necessary to have recourse tempor- 
aril)' to the fever diet described on p. 268. 

The following diet sheets may be recommended as being 
appropriate for a case of an adult man of average size, to be 
commenced after the few days' fluid dietary recommended 
above : — 

6 A.M. — Milk, 10 ounces (hot or cold). 

8 A.M. — Cup of Benger's food made with milk, a little milk to drink, 
and a crisp slice of toast. 

II A.M. — Soured milk, 10 ounces ; dry rusk. 

1.30 P.M. — Beef-tea, chicken essence, etc., strengthened by the addition of 
white of egg, Protene, Plasmon, or Sanatogen, or by the 
addition of ^ lb. raw scraped beef; slice of crisp toast 
or a roll. 

4 P.M. — Cup of milk, or cup of tea made with boiling milk. 

6 P.M.— Cup of buttermilk, with slightly sweetened biscuits. 

8 P.M.— 

Cup of Allenbury's or Benger's food made with milk ; or 

Cup of Horlick's malted milk made with milk, and a slice of dry toast. 

In cases with atony of the stomach and bowel vixXh dilata- 
tion of the stomach, and also in cases complicated with renal 
disea.se and dropsical tendency, a very much smaller amount 
of liquid must be given and food must be administered in a 
more concentrated form, as in the following diet list : — 

6 A.M.— Chicken essence or jelly, 6 ounces ; half-slice of toast. 
8 A.M.— Cup of invalid food ; add to this white of egg, well beaten. 
II A.M. — .Soured milk, 10 ounces, and a plain dry biscuit. 



PERNICIOUS ANi^iMIA 391 

1.30 P.M. — 

Fish or chicken souffle, or scraped beef mince. 

Half-sUce of toast. 
4 P.M. — Cup of tea made with milk, 6 ounces. 
6 P.M. — Soured milk, 10 ounces, and a plain dry biscuit. 
8 P.M. — Beef-tea, or strong soup thickened with egg and a little milk, 
or Plasmon, or Protene. 

Later, when the gastro-intestinal condition has improved 
as shown by the state of the tongue, the return of appetite, 
and the more normal state of the motions, the diet must be 
made more liberal and varied, as follows : — 

6 A.M. — Cup of tea made with milk, or a glass of hot milk. 
8 A.M. — 

White fish, or lightly boiled fresh egg. 
i pint hot milk. 

Slice of crisp toast, or roll with butter ; no jam or marmalade. 
II A.M. — Soured milk, h pint, with biscuit. 
1.30 P.M. — 

Clear soup, or meat tea, 10 ounces. 

Fish, chicken, game, sweetbread, rabbit, or tripe, simply cooked. 

Half-slice toast, or rusk. 

Pudding, to be preferably jelly, curds, custard, or a little stewed 

fruit with cream. 
Tablespoonful of whisky, or glass of wine if desired. 
4 P.M. — Cup of tea or peptonised cocoa, made with milk ; one small 

piece of plain breadstuff. 
6 P.M. — h pint of soured milk and a biscuit. 
8 P.M. — Fish or chicken souffle, slice of toast or roll, glass of milk. 

After eight or ten days of the above dietary it will usually 
be found that there has been a further improvement in the 
state of the digestive tract, shown by the complete disappear- 
ance of subjective symptoms, and a further improvement in 
the state of the stools. The total amount of food may now be 
increased, but the diet should be maintained along the lines 
indicated. Farinaceous puddings, thick soups, pastry, and 
rich foods of all kinds should be avoided, or, at most, given in 
the most sparing amount. 

Lexikaemia.— The dietetic treatment of the different forms 
of leucocythaemia or leukaemia should be largely conducted 
along the lines laid down for the anaemias. Subjective 
symptoms are often absent in the early stages of the chronic 



392 AN.EMIA AND DISEASES OF THE BLOOD 

leuk.tmias, but in the later stages disturbances are frequent. 
These take the form of loss of appetite, flatulence, sickness, 
constipation, which may alternate with diarrhoea, and the 
passage of ill-formed, foetid stools. Further, the great enlarge- 
ment of the spleen which is frequently present may mechani- 
cally interfere with gastric digestion. As in the case of 
anaemias, it is essential (a) to attend to the toilet of the 
mouth, getting rid of any septic foci there present, and 
{d) to avoid constipation by the use of suitable aperients. 

In cases fiot associated zvitli gastric derangement, all that is 
required is to give the patient a light, nourishing diet ; the 
meals to be simple, not too mixed, not too large, and to be free 
from all rich and over-stimulating articles of food. Red meats 
should be given sparingly ; farinaceous foods to be restricted in 
amount ; the use of milk, and especially buttermilk, should be 
encouraged. All meals should be taken at regular intervals, 
and nothing taken between meals. 

In cases associated with derangement of digestion, the diet 
should be framed exactly along the lines laid down for 
pernicious anaemia on p. 389. 

Scurvy. — The exact etiology of scurvy is unknown. It is 
variously ascribed to a deficiency in the potash salts of the 
food, to a deficiency in the alkalinity of the blood (acidosi.s), 
to ptomaine poisoning, and to a specific infection. Whatever 
the cause may be, it is known that a plentiful diet oi fresh 
vegetables and of fresh vieats cures the disease, and it is 
essentially therefore a dietetic disorder. 

In this connection the important distinction between 
vegetable foodstuffs on the one hand, and meat and cereal foods 
on the other, must be borne in mind. The former contains an 
excess of base over mineral acid, the latter contains an 
excess of mineral acid over base. A diet which contains 
little or no vegetarian foods will therefore diminish the 
alkalinity of the blood, tending to produce a condition of 
acidosis, while a diet rich in vegetables will increase the 
alkalinity of the blood. In the sporadic cases of adult 
scurvy met with in this country, we invariably find that the 
diet has been radically defective in the following directions : — 
(i) Vegetables and fruits have been absent, or taken in too 
fractional amounts ; and (2) the meat foods taken have not 



SCURVY 393 

been sufificiently of the fresh meat variety, tinned foods 
having been too largely used. 

The condition can be easily cured. In severe cases 
associated with a painful septic state of the mouth and 
gums, frequently with diarrhoea or constipation, the food 
should be fluid or semi-solid, so long as mastication is 
difficult. For such a case, in a boy of twelve or fourteen 
years of age, the day's dietary may with advantage be — 

Fresh milk, 2 to 3 pints, thickened with some invalid food. 
Beef-tea, i pint, thickened with some fresh-meat juice, or the white 

of C-"^ 

The juice of a lemon, or lime, or orange. 

As soon as the difficulties in mastication have been over- 
come, the diet can be increased by the addition of red meat, 
white meat, and a liberal supply of vegetables. The nature 
of the vegetables is not material. Cabbage, lettuce, potatoes, 
cress, and onions are among the most useful, and among 
fruits, lemons, limes, oranges, and apples may be specially 
mentioned. A good lemonade drink is described on page 
276. The lime juice should be reasonably fresh, as after 
being stored for a long time it partly decomposes into 
citric acid and carbonates, thereby losing much of its value. 
Infusion of malt has been credited with possessing valuable 
antiscorbutic properties ; it must, however, be fresh. The 
following is a suitable dietary for an ordinary case of adult 
scurvy in which there is no marked gastric intestinal 
derangement : — 

Breakfast — 

Fruit, an apple or orange, taken half-hour before breakfast 

Tea. 

Bacon and eggs, or fish. 

ri A.M. — Drink of lemonade and a biscuit. 

Dinner — 

Soup made from good vegetable stock. 

Red or white meat, green vegetables, and potatoes. 

Stewed fruit, or milk pudding. 

Drink of fresh lime or lemon juice in water, 

TVa— Tea, bread and butter. 

Supper — 

Fish or chicken. 

Bread and cheese, and salad. 



CHAPTER XXII 

DIET IN ARTERIO-SCLEROSIS 

PAOK PAOB 

Introduction 394 Principles of treatment . . . 395 

Dietetic errors as cause of . . 394 illustrative examples. . . 396 

Diet in hyperpeiesis . . , 398 

Introduction. — The general thickening of the arterial 
wall which is characteristic of arterio-sclerosis, is too 
commonly regarded as essentially a disease of adult and 
later life. This condition, however, is very frequently present 
in young subjects, more especially in men who lead a life 
of physical strain, e.g. miners and athletes, and it is 
occasionally met with in young people in whom it has 
developed as a sequel of an acute infective disease. In its 
later stages it is usually associated with chronic renal or 
chronic cardiac disease, and in practice well-marked cases of 
arterial sclerosis are frequently met with which have escaped 
recognition until the onset of symptoms of heart failure 
or of renal disease. The dietetic treatment in the earlier 
stages of the disease will now be considered. 

Arterio-sclerosis is frequently but by no means invariably 
dependent on prolonged high blood-pressure, this increase 
of blood-pressure being due to the action of some poison 
or poisons in the circulation, which constrict the blood- 
vessels and induces hyperplasia of the vessel walls. The 
source of this poison is usually the intestinal tract. Diet 
undoubtedly plays an important part in the development 
of arterio-sclerosis, and we must, therefore, look upon diet 
as a factor with prophylactic and to some extent curative 
properties. Defective feeding may induce arterio-sclerosis 
in one of the following ways. 

I. By the action of toxins produced by abnormal digestion 

894 



ARTERIOSCLEROSIS 396 

of proteins and especially animal protein foods in the digestive 
tract, more particularly in constipated subjects. 

2. By the action of toxins produced by abnormal fermenta- 
tion of the carbohydrates of the food. In such cases flatulent 
dyspepsia and constipation are usually prominent clinical 
features. in these cases it is possible that the carbo- 
hydrates of the food are only indirectly the source of the 
poison, the toxin being derived from the protein elements 
of the food, the normal digestion of which has been deranged 
by the excess of carbohydrate food. 

3. By the development of toxins produced either in the 
digestive tract or in the tissues from an excess of nutrient 
material — over-eating. Here again constipation is an 
important predisposing factor (see also Auto-intoxication, 

P- 346). 

As the disease is insidious in its origin, and has, as a 
rule, been of long duration when the patient first comes 
under observation, it follows that the full beneficial effects 
of a more physiological diet may not be attained for many 
months. Treatment must therefore be prolonged over a 
lengthened period, the state of the blood-pressure serving as 
a useful guide in the treatment. In addition to diet, it is of 
the first importance to promote free and regular evacuation 
of the bowels, and to regulate, or it may be, forbid indulgence 
in alcohol and tobacco. The main principles to be followed 
in the dietetic treatment may be summarised as follows : — 

(a) In young subjects there should be a marked restriction 
in the amount of animal protein foods. In some 
cases a prolonged course of an exclusive milk diet 
may be adopted with advantage. 

{b) In adults and elderly subjects a restriction in the 
total amount of foods is important. Here also a 
diminution in the animal protein food is advisable. 

{c) Drinking of fluid between meals should be encouraged. 
The urine of these patients is frequently concentrated, 
and deficient in quantity, and it is advisable to bring 
the specific gravity of the water down to about 10 16. 
This is best accomplished by ordering a measured 
amount of fluid, e.g., half a pint of plain water, hot 



396 DIRT IN ARTRRIO-SCLEROSIS 

or cold, Salutaiis, or Apollinaris water to be taken 
the first thing in the morninir and the last thing at 
night. If this does not suffice to bring tlown the 
specific gravity of the urine to 1016 or thereby, 
another half pint of fluid may be ordered to be 
taken an hour before lunch and dinner. 

{d) Thorough mastication of the food, the prevention of 
oral sepsis, careful regulation of the bowels, with an 
occasional course of mercurials and salines, and 
abstinence or moderation in the use of alcohol and 
tobacco, are essential adjuvants in treatment. 

A practical illustration of the foregoing points may be 
given by a reference to illustrative examples of the disease. 
In the case of young subjects it may be advisable to prescribe 
a few weeks' complete rest in bed, with an exclusive milk 
dietary for this period. When this is not called for, the 
dietetic regime should be as follows : — 

/;/ a youth of i^ years of age, in whom the condition has 
developed as a sequel to an acute infective disease such as 
typhoid or scarlet fever. The chief point here is a restriction 
in the amount of animal protein foods, and especially every 
variety of red meat. Special injunctions should be given as 
to thorough mastication of the food, and promotion of a 
regular action of the bowels. 

Breakfast should be largely a farinaceous diet, consisting of porridge 
and milk, bread and milk, with perhaps fruit 

Dinner. — A simple three-course dinner, with fish, white meat (sweet- 
breads, tripe, rabbit), and red meat on alternate days. 

Tea and Supper should comprise chiefly milk and breadstuffs. Eggs 
and cheese may be allowed occasionally. Weak tea may be taken in the 
earlier meal. 

In a man cet. 22. — It is not unusual to find that the 
routine diet of a young man with thickened ves.sels includes a 
large amount of meat foods taken three or four times daily, 
carbohydrates forming a relatively small proportion of the 
total food. In rarer cases the diet is too exclusively carbo- 
hydrate in character, and associated with the drinking of tea, 
three or four times daily, often with excess of sugar, jams, 
etc. Both of these extremes arc to be avoided. in 



SENILE VASCULAR DISEASE 397 

well-marked instances it is advisable to place the patient on a 
milk diet for a month or longer, rest from work and complete 
rest in bed being at the same time necessary. Subsequently, 
the chief point to attend to is to diminish the intake of meat 
foods, substituting soup, thickened with farinaceous substances, 
with vegetables and puddings. The meals should not exceed 
three in number. The drinking of water should be encour- 
aged. Alcohol in every form is better withheld. Special 
injunctions should be given as to thorough mastication of 
the food, and the promotion of a regular action of the bowels. 
An appropriate dietary is appended : — 

Breakfast. — Bowl of porridge and milk, tea, bread and butter, and 
jam. 

Dinner. — ^A plain three-course dinner, in which white meat frequently 
takes the place of red meat. 

Tea. — Tea, bread, butter, cheese, with an ^%%. 

A regime along these lines should be continued per- 
manently. 

In an elderly subject. — Most elderly people eat more than 
they require, and more than is good for their arteries. It is 
therefore advisable to give detailed instructions as to the 
amount and nature of the foodstuffs appropriate to the age, 
the body-weight, and the general circumstances of the 
patient as to work, social conditions, and the like. The 
leading points in dietetic treatment may here be sum- 
marised as : — 

{a) An all-round restriction in the total amount of food 

consumed. 
{b) Meat meals, and especially red-meat meals, should be 

reduced to not more than one meat meal a day. In 

many cases white meats only can be prescribed with 

advantage. 
{c) Highly spiced foods should be avoided. 

Some patients learn by experience that they enjoy the 
best health on a diet which is largely vegetarian in character. 
With regard to alcohol, no universl rule can be laid down. 
Speaking generally, it is better withheld ; but for patients 
with feeble digestion, and for others who have long been 
accustomed to take stimulants in strict moderation, it is 



398 DIET IN ARTERIO-SCLEROSIS 

sometimes advisable to recommend a glass of light wine or 
spirit to be taken with food. 

It is important to bear in mind that there are occasion- 
ally met with cases of pronounced arterio-sclerosis, sometimes 
but not always associated with increased blood-pressure, who 
have not been in the least addicted to excess of animal 
protein foods, but who have lived very largely on a carbo- 
hydrate regime. In these cases, if there is reason to suspect 
the immoderate use of vegetable foods these should be 
restricted, as benefit may undoubtedly accrue thereby. It 
should be clearly understood that cases of pronounced arterio- 
sclerosis are met with in which the diet does not appear 
to have been a factor of importance in the development of 
the disease. 

Hyperpeiesis (increased Blood-pressure). — Reference 
must be made to an important class of case characterised by 
increased blood-pressure without obvious thickening of the 
vessel wall, a condition to which special attention has long 
been drawn by Clifford Allbutt. In these cases the long- 
maintained increased blood-pressure sooner or later induces 
marked thickening and degenerative changes in the arterial 
walls, and for practical purposes they may therefore be 
regarded as cases of arterial sclerosis. The dietetic treat- 
ment of these cases is a matter of great importance ; the 
principles of treatment and the practical details being 
similar to those indicated for arterio-sclerosis. 



I 



CHAPTER XXIII 

DIET IN DISEASES OF THE HEART 





PAOB 




PAGE 


Introduction 


399 


Chronic heart disease — continued 




Functional heart derangement 


400 


Diet in cases with failure 


of 


Acute heart disease — 








Pericarditis and endocarditis 


401 


compensation 


■ 404 


Chronic heart disease — 


(a) Moderate in degree . 


• 405 


General directions 


402 


{b) Extreme in degree . 


. 406 


Diet in cases with fair com- 




The senile heart . . 


• 407 


pensation . . . . 


404 


Diet in aneurism • . 


. 408 



General Introduction. — It is probably no exaggeration to 
say that the majority of patients who complain of their heart 
are really suffering from a derangement of the stomach or 
liver, which has had its origin in dietetic errors. This will 
emphasise to the reader the very important relationship 
which exists between the stomach and the heart, and at the 
same time will indicate the great importance of diet in the 
prevention and curative treatment of various cardiac dis- 
orders. Cardiac diseases are divided into two great groups, 
functional and organic. In the former there is a temporary 
derangement of the nervous and muscular mechanism of the 
heart ; if there is any change in the structure of the heart, it 
is of a curable character. In the latter there is definite 
organic disease of the valves of the heart, or of the heart 
muscle. This is incurable ; but when the tone of the heart is 
restored all the symptoms of the condition may disappear. 

Organic disease may be acute or chronic. The acute 
diseases comprise inflammation of the covering of the heart 
(pericarditis), and of the lining membrane of the heart (endo- 
carditis), both of which are usually due to the poison of 
rheumatism, scarlet fever, or Bright's disease. The chronic 
diseases are the result of a chronic inflammation or dcgenera- 

tt89 



400 DIET IN DISEASES OF THE HEART 

tion of the valves of the heart or of the heart muscle. These 
may be the sequel to acute disease ; more commonly they are 
the result of a primary degenerative change due to the poison 
of gout, alcohol, rheumatism, Bright's disease, arterial sclerosis, 
syphilis, and influenza. A particular type of chronic organic 
disease is known as the senile heart ; this results from a fatty 
or a fibroid degeneration of the heart muscle in elderly 
subjects. A considerable amount of organic disease of the 
heart may be present without inducing symptoms, and it is 
only when the heart begins to fail that definite symptoms of 
heart mischief are manifested. 

Three cardinal features of heart disease are breathlessness, 
precordial discomfort or pain (angina), and palpitation. 
These are characteristic both of functional and organic 
disease, but are often most pronounced in functional dis- 
orders. In organic disease of the heart, symptoms may be 
few or absent, so long as the heart has been able to adapt 
itself by hypertrophy of muscle to the increased strain upon 
it ; in other words, so long as compensation is established. 
There comes a time, however, when the compensatory 
mechanism fails, the heart muscle gives out, and the heart 
dilates, with the result that breathlessness, weakness, and 
other symptoms develop in proportion to the degree of 
dilatation. If this dilatation of the heart is very marked — 
in other words, if there is a complete failure of compensation 
— it induces a pronounced venous congestion of the vessels of 
the stomach, liver, kidney, and lungs, with resulting gastric 
catarrh, deranged digestion, albuminuria, and bronchitis. 
The question of diet becomes one of very great importance 
in these cases. 

Ftmctional Heart Derangements. — As already indicated, 
the leading symptoms of functional disorder of the heart 
are precordial discomfort or pain, palpitation, and breath- 
lessness. The more common causes of these derangements 
may be summarised as follows : — 

1. Errors in diet — over-eating; hurried meals; excessive 

use of tea and alcohol. 

2. Indigestion due to slight catarrh of the stomach or 

congestion of the liver, usually arising from an 



ACUTE PERICARDITIS 401 

injudicious dietary, and more especially the too great 
use of starchy foods. 

3. Nervous disorders, especially neurasthenia and hysteria. 

4. Anaemia and debility. 

5. Extraneous poisons, e.g. tobacco and drugs. 

We are only here concerned with the dietetic treatment 
of those cases which fall into the first two groups. 

The first essential in the treatment of these cases is to 
ascertain in what way the dietetic habits of the individual 
have been at fault. It may be that the patient has been 
in the habit of taking five or six meals a day, tea and 
starchy foods bulking very largely in the dietary. Irregu- 
larity of meal hours and hurried meals are responsible in 
other cases. Constipation is an important predisposing 
factor, and worry is often a contributory cause. These 
defects must, so far as possible, be got rid of. As a rule, 
no special system of diet is called for. If the above points 
are kept in view, three simple meals a day will speedily cure 
the condition. 

Acute Heart Disease — Acute Pericarditis and Endo- 
carditis. — These are acute febrile disorders, and the diet is 
e.ssentially the diet of the febrile state. The most common 
cause of these affections is the poison of acute rheumatism, 
which induces rheumatic fever. The diet at the outset 
should be an exclusive milk diet. From 3 to 4 pints 
of milk should be given in the twenty-four hours, diluted 
one-third or more with plain water or potash. This should 
be given in the form of 8 to 10 ounces every two hours. 
Abundance of fluid is essential to promote fluidity of the 
blood, sweating, and free diuresis. The patient should, there- 
fore, be encouraged to make free use of alkaline drinks, 
I pint or more of plain water or potash or soda-water being 
taken at intervals in the twenty-four hours. If milk is not 
well taken, it may be peptoniscd, or it is sometimes well borne 
if citrate or bicarbonate of soda are added to it in the pro- 
portion of 2 to 3 grains to the ounce. In cases where there 
is a marked intolerance to the milk, we must have recourse 
to beef-teas and meat essences. These should not be strong, 
but may have their nutritive value increased by the addition 

2 C 



402 DIET IN DISEASES OF THE HEART 

of some protein food. Further details, with appropriate 
dietaries, will be found in the chapter dealing with acute 
fevers. 

If stimulants are necessary, brandy and champagne arc 
probably the most useful. These should be given in doses of 
A and I ounce of brandy, or i and 2 ounces of champagne, 
once or twice daily. 

Chronic Heart Disease. — The diet for patients with 
chronic organic heart disease usually requires more or less 
careful regulation, even before compensation is lost, for 
digestion is always more or less handicapped by the heart 
lesion, with its resulting venous stasis in the liver and other 
parts of the alimentary tract. After compensation is lost 
the question of diet certainly becomes one of the most 
important factors in the treatment. The gaseously distended 
abdomen may press up the diaphragm and impede the 
already embarrassed respiration, thus occasioning great dis- 
comfort and restlessness. These symptoms can be greatly 
lessened and often entirely relieved by a carefully restricted 
and judiciously arranged dietary. The diet must be regu- 
lated to suit the condition of the patient and his special 
circumstances. General principles applicable to all cases are 
as follows : — 

General directions : — 

1. The meals should be small in amount. More should 

never be taken than the patient can easily digest. 
Over-distension of the stomach from food mechani- 
cally pushes up the diaphragm and displaces the 
heart, causing palpitation and dyspnoea. In addition, 
if the meals are too large, the residue of the digested 
food in the intestine ferments and causes flatulence. 

2. The meals should be simple, and well cooked. A simple 

diet (i.e. not too large a variety of courses) throws 
less strain on the digestive functions, and also greatly 
diminishes the risk of eating to excess. Improperly 
prepared food is a cause of indigestion, and may 
itself produce flatulence and discomfort. 

3. Long^ intervals beiiveen the tneals should be ordered, 

and eating between meals should be strictly pro- 



GENERAL RULES 403 

hibited, as even a small portion of food taken while 
digestion is in progress may give rise to flatulence. 
The object of this restriction is to permit the stomach 
to have time to enable it to completely get rid of one 
meal before it is again filled. 

4. Three meals of about equal size should be taken in the 

twenty-four hours. The midday meal can be the 
richest, but the total bulk should be about the same 
in each. 

5. The meals should be taken as dry as possible. This 

lessens the distension of the stomach and does not 
over-dilute the gastric juice ; further, fluid ingested 
tends to dilate the vessels, to raise arterial tension, 
and to increase the work of the heart. Fluid need not 
be restricted to a very small amount unless special 
indications arise, but it should be taken mainly 
between meals and sipped slowly. Weak tea or 
coffee can be taken in small amount with breakfast, 
and alone for afternoon tea. 

In a general way, it may be said that, in all cases in which 
compensation is satisfactorily established, a diet of plainly pre- 
pared food, unencumbered by too many detailed restrictions, 
is best, but a few hints may be here given as to foodstuffs. 

All highly seasoned food and condiments are better 
omitted, as they tempt the appetite more than is necessary. 
Stews and badly fried foods are apt to cause derangement of 
the digestion. 

It will also be found advisable to restrict the carbo- 
hydrates, especially the starches and sugars ; they need not 
be strictly cut off, unless causing fermentation and flatulence. 
Toast, dry bread, rolls, biscuits, may be taken, but should 
never be eaten warm. Lightly made and well-cooked milk 
puddings can be taken, but pastry and suet puddings are not 
suitable. Of the vegetables, potatoes (not new), cauliflower, 
spinach, vegetable marrow and cucumber, stewed tomatoes 
(the pulp only;, boiled onions, stewed celery, asparagus tops, 
are all easily digested. The root vegetables and stalks of 
the green vegetables above mentioned should be avoided. 

Alcohol is not necessary in the early stages of heart dis- 



404 DIET IN DISEASES OF THE HEART 

ease, and if later indicated on account of marked failure of 
compensation, small doses of good whisky or good old brandy 
may be given in measured quantity twice daily. Wine and 
beer are better withheld. 

Diet in cases 'with fair compensation. — The following dietary 
is suitable for a case of chronic heart disease in an adult sub- 
ject, when the compensation is not seriously disturbed : — 

8.30 .v.M. : Breakfast— 

Cup of tea or coffee {one cup). 

Fish, egg (with or without bacon), ham, tongue, or grilled kidney. 

Two half-shces of toast and a roll, with butter ; or 

A half-slice of toast, oatcake, or crisp rusk, with butter. 

1.30 P.M. : Lunch — Alternative meals. 

Fish and potato, Chicken and bread sauce Chop or steak. 

Fruit, with cream, and cauliflower, Jelly or cream. 

Cheese and biscuits. Custard, Fresh fruit, 

Small cup of coffee. Cheese savoury. Small cup of coffee. 

Small cup of coffee. 

4 P.M. — A cup of tea (nothing solid to take with it). 

7 P.M. — A three-course dinner, much the same as given for Lunch 

Diet rides for failure of cotnpensation. — With failing 
compensation there arise various digestive disorders. Loss 
of appetite, flatulence, constipation, are the subjective indica- 
tions which result from the congested state of the liver, 
stomach, and bowels which are now present. In later stages, 
albuminuria develops from the venous congestion of the 
kidneys, and the tissues may now become cedematous or 
water-logged, from the interference to the free return of 
blood to the heart. 

Diet rules for failure of compensation. — The general 
directions already given should be closely adhered to. The 
diet varies according to the degree of severity of the heart 
failure. The diet appropriate to cases of moderate severity 
will first be discussed. 

The patient, although ill, is not suffering from fever, and 
there is no necessity to place him upon a fluid diet given at 
short intervals. It is best to follow his usual habit, and con- 
tinue having three meals a day. These should be, as before 
stated, small in amount, simple in character, well-cooked, 
and nutritive — arranged at sufficient intervals to permit of 



DILATED HEART 406 

complete removal of one meal from the stomach before the 
entrance of the next into it. And, in addition, the meals should 
be as dry as possible ; soup in these cases is better avoided. 

Breakfast is generally the best meal, as after the long rest there 
is more digestive capacity ; so with this meal a large cup of tea or coffee 
may be permitted, and a little carbohydrate foodstuff. China tea, appar- 
ently, is much better for a feeble digestion than Indian or Ceylon, and 
should, where available, be taken. 

There is no need to give a tumbler of milk, cup of Bovril, or other 
food at II o'clock. It is better to let the patient sip slowly a glass of 
water about an hour before the next meal is due, at i or 2 o'clock. The 
midday meal should consist of chop or fish or fowl, with some carefully 
prepared green vegetable (p. 403), cooked with plenty of butter, and 
rubbed through a sieve. A second course of stewed fruit, sweetened with 
Saxin, and eaten with cream junket, or custard (baked or boiled) 
apple cream, lemon sponge, milk blancmange, jelly with cream. 
Creams flavoured in different ways are allowable. No pudding containing 
starch is to be allowed. A little cheese, eaten with butter, but no bread 
or biscuit, should be taken. Half an ounce of brandy or whisky may be 
allowed with the midday and evening meals. 

At 5 o'clock a cup of Chinese tea, unsweetened, or with Saxin, may 
be drunk, but no breadstuff should be taken with it. 

At 7 or 7.30 the evening meal should generally be a repetition of the 
midday one, but it is best to take chop or other red meat only at one of 
the meals. The vegetables mentioned above are allowable. A second 
course may be permitted, and may be followed by cheese, as before, if 
this agrees. 

A glass of whisky or brandy in half a tumbler of hot water, or a small 
\ pint of beef-tea, chicken tea, or good consomme may be taken after 
10.30, but no breadstuff of any kind should be taken along with it. 
Three small meals will usually be ample for a cardiac sufferer ; there is 
no question that any laxity from this diet will speedily show itself with 
increased flatulence. 

Those patients who have been in the habit of taking dinner and high 
tea must give up the habit. It is very difficult to make them understand 
that the 7nidday and evening meal should be very much the same in 
quality and quantity. 

An illustrative diet sheet is here given : — 

8 to 8.30 : Breakfast— 

I large cup of China tea, with plenty of milk and cream. 

Thin crisp toast made from "pan loaf," or Veda bread with butter 

and a little marmalade. 
One of the following : — 

Bacon (fat, crisply cooked)., or fish (steamed or fried or rizzard) ; 
^%%^ plain boiled, scrambled, or poached ; tongue, or 
potted meat. 



406 DIET IN DISEASES OF THE HEART 

Midday meal and Evening vieal — 
Choice from — 

I. Fish, rabbit, fowl, game, raw-beef mince, steak, chop, slice 

of roast beef or million (hot or cold). 
Z Vegetable : One selected from the following — 

Greens — e.g., cabbage, lettuce, spinach, sprouts— boiled, 

rubbed through sieve, and heated in butter. 
Vegetable marrow or cucumber (stewed). 
Cauliflower and asparagus (tops only). 
Celery (stewed). 
Onions (Portugal) — long stewing. 

3. Sweet — Stewed fruit, neutralised with soda bicarbonate, or 

souffles sweetened with Saxin. 
Roast apples, apple cream. 
Custards (boiled or baked), with cream. 
Junket, jelly creams 

4. Cheese — Eaten with butter or cooked with eggs, if found to 

be digested. 
Half a glass of whisky or brandy, with 4 ounces of 
alkaline water 

Evenivo meal — A choice from i and 3 in the above midday meal. Two 
courses only to be taken. White meat in place of red meat should 
be taken once a day at the midday or evening meal. No cheese. 

Diet for failure of compensation — advanced degree. — The 
feeding of the patient suffering from severe dilatation of the 
heart is often a very difficult matter. The liver is in a state of 
congestion, and unable to do its usual share in the digestive 
processes ; the stomach is in a condition of catarrh, which 
has induced complete loss of appetite, and often sickness and 
vomiting. In these circumstances it is sometimes advisable 
to give the stomach complete rest for forty-eight hours, and 
feed the patient entirely by the bowel (see p. 221). In 
most cases the diet must for a time subsequently be entirely 
a fluid one, and should comprise milk (plain or pep- 
tonised), koumiss, Kephir, various meat preparations, and 
invalid foods. The following dietary is given, so as to 
indicate the amount of food and the variety of foodstuffs 
that may be recommended in these severe cases. The total 
nutritive value of this diet is small, but in many cases it is 
as much as the patient can possibly take for a week or two 
or more of his illness. In a few cases patients cannot even 
take as much as is given in this diet sheet, the amount of 



SENILE HEART 407 

fluid that can be taken being about one-half of that indicated 
in this regimen. In all of these cases stimulants are 
advisable, preferably in the form of best quality whisky or 
brandy. 

6 A.M. — Milk (peptonised), 2 ounces. 

8 A.M. — Beef juice, 2 teaspoonfuls in a little aerated water. 

10 A.M. — White wine whey, 2 ounces ; or koumiss, 2 ounces. 

12 A.M. — AUenbury food, 3 ounces. 

2 P.M. — Beef juice, 2 teaspoonfuls, either given alone, or in a little 

brandy and water. 
4 P.M. — Milk (peptonised), 2 ounces. 
6 P.M. — A few teaspoonfuls of chicken jelly. 
8 P.M. — Albumin water and milk, i ounce of each ; or albumin water 

and koumiss. 
10 P.M. — AUenbury food, 3 ounces, and brandy, 
12 P.M. — Beef juice. 
I A.M. — Milk (peptonised), and brandy. 
3.30 A.M. — Chicken jelly, a few teaspoonfuls. 

The Senile Heart. — In elderly subjects suffering from 
heart disease, the general rules already given are the best 
guide in the treatment of such patients as are below their usual 
weight. A smaller number, however, are over their normal 
weight, and suffer more from breathlessness than the pre- 
ceding class, these require careful dieting to reduce the 
obesity without reducing their strength. And for a third 
class, where the failure of compensation shows itself in dropsy 
of the tissues, a special " dry diet " is necessary. 

Diet for heart disease in obese subjects. — This dietary 
is also appropriate to the general run of cases of angina 
pectoris, where there is no serious organic disease of the 
kidneys. 

Breakfast — 

Fluid restricted to 4 to 5 ounces — tea, milk, cofifee, or cream, and 

seltzer water. 
I slice of crisp toast with butter. 
I poached or boiled egg, or i fillet of fish. 
1.30 or 2 P.M. : Midday meal. — The principal meal of the day ; should 
consist of two courses only. 

'^ ' f Fish and a potato, f Meat and i vegetable, 

meat, and h or l^ight pudding. ^M Pudding. 

I vegetable j 

(Fluid not to be more than 4 ounces of hot water.) 



408 DIET IN DISEASES OF THE HEART 

5 P.M. — A sm.ill cup of Clima tea, freshly made, with cream and sugar. 
7 P.M. : Evenitti^ meal (one course). — 

Fish, with toast ; or beef-juice mince. 

Chicken puree, with toast. 

Savoury Bovril custard. 

Egg in some form. 

(Farinaceous foods better avoided.) 
ID P.M. — i tumbler of hot water. 

Dry diet for dropsy (after Balfour). — 

Breakfast — 

I slice of dry toast, no butter. 
I cup freshly made tea with cream. 
Dinner — 

\ lb. of rump-steak ; or " eye " of 2 mutton chops ; or an equal 
quantity of mutton (roasted) ; or beef, chicken, game, or fish ; as 
much dry toast as desired. 
Brandy or whisky, \ ounce, and 3 ounces water. 
Supper. — As much dry toast as is desired, along with \ ounce of brandy 
or whisky in 3 ounces of water ; nothing more, 
(It is not desirable that patients in this condition drink much, but if 
thirsty, they may be allowed to sip slowly 4 ounces of water an hour before 
meals.) 

Aneiirism. — Rest, a restricted diet with a limited amount 
of fluid, together with potassium iodide, form the chief points 
in the treatment of aneurism. The starvation diet recom- 
mended by Tufnell is only applicable in a very small propor- 
tion of cases. Tufnell's diet is as follows : — 

Morning meal. — 2 ounces of bread and butter, with 2 ounces of milk or 

cocoa. 
Midday meal. — 3 or 4 ounces of meat, with 2 to 3 ounces of bread or 

potato, and 3 to 4 ounces of water. 
Evening meal. — 2 ounces of bread and butter, with 2 ounces of milk 

or tea. 

This rigid regime is only advisable in well-nourished 
subjects, especially those with a plethoric tendency. It is 
quite unsuitable in debilitated subjects. In the latter there 
is sometimes an enfeebled digestion, and it may be advisable 
to have recourse at the outset, to a milk or lacto-vege- 
tarian diet The important points to attend to in framing 
the dietary in all cases are the following : — 

I. Restriction in the amount of fluids of all kinds. Not 

more than from 20 to 30 ounces in the twenty-four 

hours 



DIET IN ANEURISM 409 

Meats and meat foods to be given in very sparing 
amount, the stimulating effects of these foods on the 
circulation being prejudicial. 

A light, simple, nutritious diet, given thrice daily, with 
no food between meals. The meals should be much 
on the lines of the diet laid down on p. 548. 

Alcohol in all its forms is inadvisable, excepting in 
cases of feeble digestion where its use in small doses 
may prove beneficial. 



CHAPTER XXIV 

DIET IN RENAL DISEASE 

PAOI FAOE 

Indications for treatment . . 410 Other renal disorders . . . 417 

Biis;ht's disease — Acute nephritis . 411 Lithaemia — gravel . . . 418 

Subacute and chronic nephritis . 412 Oxaluria 418 

Use of a chloride-free diet . . 416 Phosphaturia 419 

In health the kidneys extract from the blood the excess of 
water, and the products of nitrogenous waste — urea, uric 
acid, etc. There is a definite relation between the quantity 
and quality of food ingested and the state of the urine. 
Thus a concentrated dry diet diminishes the amount of urine 
and renders it more acid ; a liquid diet, e.g. milk, has diuretic 
properties, increasing the amount of urine voided. Animal 
foods and the more highly nitrogenous vegetable foods 
increase the amount of nitrogenous waste products in the 
urine, and also increase its acidity. Vegetable foods, on the 
other hand, lead to an increase in the salts of the urine ; they 
tend to make it less acid, or even alkaline in reaction. A 
dry diet, and one which contains a high proportion of 
protein, throws a greater strain on the kidneys than one 
which contains much fluid and in which the proportion of 
protein foods is small in amount (see Appendix, p. 578). 
Advantage is taken of these facts in the treatment of 
nephritis and other kidney disorders, the indications in 
treatment being — («) to lessen the amount of work thrown 
upon the kidneys; this is effected by diminishing the proteins, 
and especially the animal proteins, in the food ; {p) to avoid 
articles of food which during their excretion may irritate 
the diseased organs, such as alcohol in all its forms, spices, 
ginger, and the like ; {c) to maintain a permanent modification 

410 



ACUTE NEPHRITIS 411 

of the diet along these two h"nes from the time that the 
existence of renal disease has been detected. 

Acute Nephritis. — General considerations. — It must be 
borne in mind that many cases of acute nephritis are not 
examples of a primary inflammation occurring in a previously 
healthy organ, but are really examples of an acute inflamma- 
tion supervening in a patient who was previously the subject 
of subacute or chronic nephritis. It is important to recog- 
nise this, because care must be taken in all cases of chronic 
nephritis associated with an acute exacerbation of inflamma- 
tion not to lessen the general strength of the patient by 
keeping him for too prolonged a period on an unduly 
restricted dietary. The dietetic treatment of acute nephritis 
varies slightly according to the type of the disease, more 
especially as to the presence and severity of general dropsy. 
Attention will first be directed to the treatment of a simple, 
uncomplicated case of a primary acute nephritis, such as is 
associated with not more than a slight degree of oedema of 
the tissues. 

Primary acute nephritis. — In sthenic individuals all food 
should be withheld for the first twenty-four or thirty-six 
hours, during which diluents may be given in the form of 
plain water, potash or soda water, Salutaris, or Apollinaris 
water, to the extent of from 2 to 4 pints in the twenty-four 
hours. Barley-water, rice-water, or toast-water may be 
substituted if desired. Thereafter the diet should consist 
exclusively of milk, from i to 3 pints, increasing, it maybe, 
up to 4 or 5 pints, in the twenty-four hours, diluted with an 
equal amount of water as above. In cases where milk is 
not readily digested, whey may be substituted with advan- 
tage, and, similarly, i pint or more of buttermilk in the 
twenty-four hours may advantageously replace an equal 
quantity of milk, the buttermilk allaying the thirst and 
improving the state of the digestive tract. The milk is more 
easily digested when administered in small quantities, e.g: 
from 8 to 10 ounces every one and a half hours. If there is 
difficulty with the digestion of milk, it may be given pepton- 
ised or pancreatised. As the general condition of the patient 
and the state of the urine improves, the milk may be reduced 
in amount and its nutritive value increased by the addition 



412 DIET IN RENAL DISEASE 

of I^cngcr's food, Allcnbiiry diet, Horlick's malted milk, 
Plasmon, or similar preparation ; and, later, by the addition 
of bread and butter, milk puddings, fruits, and green 
vegetables, with, if desired, a cup of tea. Meat in the form 
of fish, chicken, tripe, or sweetbread may be added to the 
diet, usually about the fourth week, and may be continued, 
provided its use is not followed by an exacerbation of 
symptoms — oedema, albuminuria, haematuria. Various 
vegetable soups, such as tomato soup, lentil or pea soup, 
are also useful at this period. A full ordinary diet should 
not be allowed for at least a month after the complete 
disappearance of albuminuria from the urine. 

Acute nephritis, with pronounced amiria and anasarca. — 
Here the amount of food and drink should be restricted to 
the smallest possible quantity, e.g., from 2 to 3 pints daily of 
milk diluted with carbonated water. Buttermilk may be 
substituted with advantage. This regime should be kept up 
for four or five days, by which time, in favourable cases, an 
improvement in the condition of the patient will allow of the 
treatment laid down in the preceding paragraphs. 

Disadvantages of an exclusive milk diet, and means by 
which overcome. — Some patients show a marked intolerance 
for an exclusive milk diet, and for these the fermented milks, 
koumiss or Kephir, may be recommended. Such patients 
may be able to take buttermilk, whey, or various pancreatised 
preparations in place of ordinary milk. The addition of 
rice-water, barley-water, or oatmeal-water to the dietary 
promotes the toleration of a milk regime, and, in the same 
way, the administration of an imperial drink is of service. 
The constipating effects of a milk diet may be counteracted 
by the use of Philp's milk of magnesia, or Dinneford's fluid 
magnesia, or plain citrate or sulphate of magnesia. Any 
tendency to diarrhcea may be checked by the addition of 
lime-water. 

Subacute and Chronic Nephritis, including Granular 
Contracted Kidney. — The principles underlying the dietetic 
treatment are essentially the same for the different varieties 
of subacute and chronic Bright's disease. One important 
essential in treatment is to bear in mind that the appropriate 
dietary for these cases frequently depends more on the 



CHRONIC NEPHRITIS 413 

general nutrition of the patient, and on the state of his cardio- 
vascular system, than on the condition of the kidneys as 
revealed by the results of urinary analysis. The great^ indica- 
tion in treatment is to relieve th e strain o n the kidneys so far 
as possible, compatible with the maintenance of a good con- 
dition of general nutrition and a satisfactory blood-pressure. 
In this connection reference may be made to the great 
importance of efficiently promoting the vicarious excretions 
of the skin and bowels in all forms of chronic nephritis. The 
dietetic treatment of a typical case of subacute or chronic 
nephritis will first be considered, and thereafter the modifica- 
tions in this treatment that are called for in certain cases will 
be referred to. 

Dietetic treatment of stihacute or chronic nephritis, including 

renal cirrhosis. — The chief indication in treatment is__to^ 

diminish_the_straiii on the renal function by restricting the 
amount of animal protein food, especially rneats, and by pro- 
hibiting_the use of alcohol in all its forms. In sthenic 
individuals a prolonged course of a milk diet, or a Jacto^ 
jsjegetarian diet, should be recommended, the diet for these 
patients being similar to that recommended in cases of 
arXerio-sc lprnsis (p 3q^) The favourable results from this 
regime may be seeii in an improved state of the urine, a 
lowering of the blood-pressure where that has been increased, 
and an improvement in the general condition of the patient. 
A suitable diet of a largely lacto-vegetarian character, appro- 
priate to a working-man who is off work, or engaged in light 
work only, is as follows : — 

Breakfast — Porridge and milk, tea, bread and butter. 
Midday— \^o\\\ of soup,' bread and cheese, macaroni, vegetables, or fruit. 
Evening— M\W, ^gg, bread and butter, cheese or jam, and vegetables or 
fruit, if these were not taken at the midday meal. Eggs should be 
partaken of sparingly, and should not form a part of each day's 
dietary. White meats may later be added to the dietary, in the form 
of fish, chicken, tripe, or sweetbread. (See also Light Diet, p. 548.) 

In the case of well-to-do patients a good alternative 
dietary is as follows : — 

Breakfast— CslH au lait, with plenty cream ; Vienna rolls or toast and 
butter, marmalade. 

^ Made entirely from vegetable stock. 



414 DIET IN RENAL DISEASE 

Lunch —To be selected from the following (not more than two courses 
to be taken) : — (a) Vegetable soup. (Jb) Steamed fish, fish souffle 
(made up with cheese or savoury sauce) ; or eggs occasionally in 
the form of omelet or souffle, {c) Light farinaceous pudding or 
stewed fruit, with cream. 

Dinner — Repetition of the midday meal, three courses, however, being 
allowed. Sweetbread, tripe, chicken, rabbit, or game may occa- 
sionally be allowed. 

The use of red meats should be restricted, as there is 
no doubt that red meats are decidedly less suitable than 
white meats. Highly seasoned foods should also be avoided, 
since they tend to over-eating. Meat of any kind should not, 
as a rule, be allowed more than once daily. It will be noted 
that vegetable soups are recommended in the above diet sheets. 
Soups made from rich meat stocks should be avoided, because 
of the large amount of extractives present. Special atten- 
tion may bcjk a\vn _ tQ_ the value of made-U£^ dishes, in 
which an animal protein food is combined with carbo- 
hydrates, _such as rice^j;^macaxon|L_in v arying prop ortions. 
Other vegetable savouries are given on page 528. By this 
means the patient gets a meat dish, but, on account of the 
smaller amount of animal protein, he gets it in a form 
which exerts a lesser strain on the tissues. The nature 
and amount of fluid to be allowed is important. Care must 
be taken that the diet should not be such as to induce a 
state of hydraemic plethora, which would react unfavourably 
on the Jieart^ and circulation, and further aggravate and 
complicate the patient's general condition. Alcohol in all its 
forms should be prohibited ; tea and coffee should only be 
given in small quantity, but the patient should be encour- 
aged to drink fluids in the form of plain water, carbonated 
water, Salutaris, or Apollinaris water, preferably to be taken 
on an empty stomach. A good system is the administration 
of a large tumblerful of hot water, to be taken the last thing 
at night and first thing in the morning, and again an hour 
before the midday meal. Care must, however, be taken not 
to overload the system with fluid, the amount of fluid to be 
ordered being gauged from a study of the amount of urine 
excreted and the condition of the blood-pressure. Special 
care must be taken in this direction in cases associated with 



CHRONIC NEPHRITIS 415 

a distinct increase in the blood-pressure, and also in cases 
with general dropsy. Finally, it should be emphasised to 
patients with chronic nephritis that they should continue 
to have regard to their diet along the lines laid down 
above, even although all the subjective symptoms of renal 
disease may have disappeared. Attention will now be 
directed to the treatment of special cases. 

Cases associated with tJireatenedurcemia. — Here the dietetic 
treatment is that given for acute nephritis. Food shqukl_hc_ 
given in__§mall quantity_ at a, time, and in cases associated 
with vomiting or sickness should be given pancreatiscd. 

Cases associated with viarked ivipainnent of general 
nutrition, an<2niia with persistence of blood and albumin in 
the urine. — In this class of case it is important not to starve 
the patient in our attempt to improve the state of the kidneys. 
Experience has proved that occasionally a milk diet, or a 
lacto-vegetarian diet, fails to exercise its usual ameliorating 
effect on the state of the kidneys, as xevealed b y ur inary 
analysis, and actual benefit accrues to the patient from the 
administration of a diet which contains a more liberal amount 
of animal protein food in the form of fish, chicken, and whit e 
meat than is allow ed in the dietary given above. Those 
cases aj^howeve r. exceptional, and call for careful experi- 
mentaticm-4vith the diet. In this class of case the writer has 
found special benefit from the use of buttermilk and lactic acid 
bacilli. 

Cases with marked increase in blood-pressure associated 
with dropsy. — A special point to attend to here is the amount 
of fluid to be allowed. This has already been alluded to, as 
has also the fact that close attention must be paid to the 
state of activity of the skin and bowels as important adjuvants 
in treatment. 

/ Cases benefited by alcohol. — While alcohol is better with- 

/ held entirely in subacute and chronic nephritis, cases are 

/ occasionally met with in which the beneficial effects of a little 

I alcohol on the weakened digestive tract or circulation more 

I than outweigh the baneful effects which it exerts on the 

\ kidneys. In these patients half an ounce of whisky ma)- be 

Xpre.scribed, to be taken once or twice daily, at meal times; 

\ut this should be discontinued as soon as possible. 



416 DIET IN RENAL DISEASE 

Treatment of Chronic Nephritis by a Chloride-free 
Diet. — In recent years attention has been directed to the 
therapeutic value of a diet prepared, cooked, and taken 
withqut salt, in tlie treatment of chronic nephritis, especially 
when associated with dropsy. Particular attention has been 
directed to this subject by Widal, and this system of treatment 
has been largely used by French clinicians. A salt-free 
diet is now one of the recognised dietaries in some of the 
leading Parisian hospitals. The same diet has been recom- 
mended for other morbid conditions, notably chronic heart 
disease associated with dropsy, persistent diarrhoea, and 
cirrhosis of the liver with ascites. The rationale of a salt-free 
diet in cases of oedema and dropsy is fairly intelligible. 
Sodium chloride has a high osmotic equivalent, and it tends 
to retain fluid in the tissues. Its omission from the diet may 
therefore be expected to promote the elimination of dropsical 
effusions. The normal salt requirement in health is from 15 
to 30 grains daily, but the majority of persons consume about \ 
ounce or even considerably more. In the salt-free diet, foods 
are selected which contain the minimum of inorganic salts, 
and no salt is used in the cooking, or eaten as a condiment. 
A practically salt-free dietary is made up from the following 
articles of food : — Milk, bread made without salt, eggs, chicken 
cereals cooked without salt, butter, fruits, jellies, tea, and 
coffee. The results of treatment by a salt-free diet in cases 
of renal disease associated with dropsy have been by no 
means uniformly satisfactory in the hands of those who have 
tried this system. There is no question, however, that the 
beneficial effects of this treatment in some cases are quite 
remarkable, the results of treatment leaving no reasonable 
doubt as to the profound therapeutic value of a salt-free regime 
in these cases. In cases of nephritis, therefore, in which the 
dropsy of the tissues persists in spite of the application of the 
ordinary measures — dietetic and other — a diet which is largely 
chloride-free should certainly be tried. The following is an 
appropriate dietary, a little white meat cooked without salt 
being allowed occasionally. 

Salt-free dietary. — No salt to be used in the cooking, or 
eaten at table. The best way to get over the difficulty of 
giving a salt-free diet is to make milk puddings made with 



ALBUMINURIA 417 

eggs the staple, the flavouring being varied between vanilla, 
lemon, orange, nutmeg, cinnamon, chocolate. 

Breakfast — 

Porridge and cream, flavoured with syrup or sugar ; or 
Cup of tea with plenty milk ; toast or roll specially prepared, and 
butter. 

Lunch — 

Eggs or prairie oysters, or t<gg flip, or sweet custard ; or 
Roast chicken, with toast or roll as above ; potato, or tomato. 
Any farinaceous milk pudding, or jelly, or cream. 

Afternoon Tea — Cup of tea, with wafer of toast or sponge biscuit. 

Dinner — On same lines as Lunch ; chicken not to be taken oftener than 
once a day. 

In cases where a more rigid chloride-free diet than the 
above is tried without marked benefit speedily resulting from 
the treatment, the diet should not be indefinitely continued, as 
the complete withdrawal of chloride of sodium from the food 
has occasionally been observed to aggravate the condition. 

Dietetic Treatment of other Renal Disorders. — No 
special reference is necessary to the dietetic treatment of 
other renal disorders. These have all to be treated along 
the general lines indicated on p. 410. One special point 
should, however, be noted. In conditions associated with 
pyelitis, attention should be directed to the reaction of the 
urine. Benefit is sometimes obtained by prescribing a diet 
rich in vegetable substances, so as to reduce the acidity of 
the urine. A meat meal should not be given more than once 
daily (see also p. 526). In cases of tuberculous disease it 
may be advisable to ignore to a great extent the condition 
of the urine, and to concentrate attention on the general 
condition of the patient. 

Albuminuria is merely a symptom, and as si:ch hardly 
calls for consideration here. The first point to determine is 
whether the albuminuria is a result of demonstrable organic 
disease such as acute, subacute, or chronic nephritis, or whether 
it is of a so-called functional type such as occurs after exertion, 
or, in a few cases, during the height of digestion. The 
albuminuria of adolescence is closely related to the albumin- 
uria of posture. When the albuminuria depends on organic 
kidney disease, the appropriate dietetic treatment should be 
carried out ; in other cases, no special dietetic rules apply, 

2 D 



418 DIET IN RENAL DISEASE 

with the exception of restricting the immoderate use of animal 
proteins, especially red meat and eggs. 

Litheemia : Uric Acid Diathesis : Gravel. — The uric acid 
excreted in the urine is derived from two sources: from the 
food (exogenous purins), and from tissue metabolism (endo- 
genous purins). The former only can be influenced by diet. 
While the acidity of urine is not due to uric acid but to 
acid sodium phosphate, the deposition of uric acid occurs 
in an acid urine, and it may be desirable to make the 
urine temporarily neutral or slightly alkaline in reaction. _In 

^his_cpnnection it is important to note that milk and 
vegetable food favour alkalinity of the urine, while meat 

Toods tend to make the urine acid. The_free usfi^pf fresh 
gre en^ vegetables should therefore be encouraged, a_s_ their 

. alkaline sa lts are of value in tending to promote an alkaline 
statg^ pf the urine. Moreover^ certain articles of diet are rich 
in (purins, ;^.^., sweetbreads, thymus, tea, coffee, lentils, and 
meatTand these must be restricted or, it ma y be, with held for 

,,a_tinie. At the same time it must be borne in mind that an 
excessive meat diet is not by any means the sole cause of 
lithasmia ; not infrequently the condition arises from the 
excessive use of farinaceous and saccharine foodstufifs. 
Abnormal decomposition of these foodstuffs in the intestine 
is followed by derangement of the liver function, with 
resultant changes in the blood and urine (lithaemia). Diluents 
have special value as general diuretics, and are further useful 
in correcting the catarrhal state of the pelvis of the kidney 
which is frequently present in these cases, and is a con- 
tributory factor in the etiology of the condition. (See also 
Auto-intoxication, p. 346; Purin-free diet, p. 531 ; and Gout, 
p. 444.) 

Oxaliiria. — In oxaluria the greater part of the oxalic 
acid excreted in the urine in the form of oxalates is derived 
solely from the food or from the products of the decomposi- 
tion of the food in the alimentary tract. The treatment of 
oxaluria consists, therefore, in withholding from the diet 
substances rich in oxalic acid, such as cocoa, black tea, 
spinach, tomatoes, rhubarb, pepper, sorrel, figs, strawberries, 
apples and pears, and in the administration of a diet little 
prone to fermentation and decomposition in the intestinal 






OXALURIA 419 

tract. Raw fruits and vegetables which contain citric, malic, 
and other organic acids have an important relation to the 
formation of oxalic acid. The diet appropriate to this 
condition, therefore, consists chiefly of various meat foods, 
milk, eggs without the yolk, and stale bread or rusks ; this 
diet also acts beneficially by increasing the acidity of the 
urine due to increase of the acid phosphates, which help to 
keep the oxalates in solution. The free use of diluents, aided 
by small doses of sulphate of magnesia, is an important 
adjuvant to treatment. Dilute mineral acids, hydrochloric or 
nitro-hydrochloric, are of value if taken in 15 to 20 minim 
doses immediately after food (see also Auto-intoxication, 
p. 346). 

Phosphaturia, — The occurrence of phosphaturia is favoured 
by a diet rich in fruit and fresh green vegetables, and it is 
diminished by a diet from which these are excluded. Meat, 
eggs, milk, cheese, cereals, and legumes should therefore 
comprise the dietary in these cases. 



CHAPTER XXV 

TUBERCULOSIS 

PAfiK PAOB 

Introduction 420 Diet for feeble digestion — continued 

Principles of feeding . . . 421 (/v) A largely me:it dietary . . 431 

Dietary — (0 Intermediate diets . . 432 

Practical points in the feeding . 423 Tuberculosis of intestines, etc. . 433 

Diet for well-to-do classes . . 424 Haemoptysis 435 

Diet for working-classes . -425 Laryngeal tuberculosis with 

Directions for economicxil home dysphagia .... 436 

feeding ... 425 Tuberculosis of kidney and bladder 439 

Diet for cases with feeble diges- Various forms of surgical tubercu- 

tion — losis 439 

(a) Fluid dietary — mainly milk. 430 Tuberculosis in children . . 440 

Introduction. — Tuberculosis is essentially a wasting 
disease, conspicuous features of the condition being loss of 
appetite, disturbed digestion, interference with assimilation, 
and a resultant loss ot flesh — both muscle and adipose tissue. 
One essential in treatment, therefore, is to improve the resist- 
ant and recuperative powers of the body by getting the patient 
to eat properly, and to eat a sufficient amount. 

There is no hard and last rule for the dieting in tubercu- 
losis. The disease may show itself at all ages, and in many 
varied forms ; the stage and severity of the disease, and the 
presence or absence of special complications, have to be con- 
sidered. Thus the diet of a young subject affected with 
acute tuberculosis, where there is extensive and active mischief 
with fever, and general constitutional disturbance, differs from 
that of a patient whose weight is almost average for his 
height, and in whom there is a limited and quiescent lesion. 
Similarly, haemoptysis, tuberculosis of larynx with difficulty 
in swallowing, dyspepsia rjuc to general tuberculous infection, 
tuberculous enteritis with associated gastric disturbance, tuber- 

420 




PRINCIPLES OF FEEDING 421 

culosisof the kidney and urinary tract, the glandular enlarge- 
ments due to tubercle, and the various surgical affections of 
bones and joints, all require a regimen of their own. It will 
be most convenient first to discuss the Principles of Feeding, 
and the dietetic treatment of tuberculosis generally, and after 
that to take up the special indications in tuberculosis of the 
various organs. 

The Principles of Feeding. — In considering the principles 
of feeding it is necessary to refer to the importance of thorough 
oxygenation of the blood, a therapeutic factor which bears 
directly on the processes of general nutrition. As the proper 
method of oxygenating the blood is by the continual supply 
of fresh air and sunlight, the patient should, so far as possible, 
live in the fresh air day and night, irrespective of the weather. 
This promotes a good appetite, increases the digestive powers, 
and so enables the full effects of a judicious dietary to be 
obtained. A further important point is, that breathing should 
be carried out properly. It is of comparatively little value to 
put a child or young person who is a mouth-breather on to 
a proper dietary, if the oxygenating power of the blood and 
tissues is greatly below the normal, from a cause which can 
be readily removed. Breathing exercises, carried out in a 
systematic and thorough manner, are frequently of the greatest 
value in these cases. 

As has been stated above, tuberculosis is a wasting disease, 
therefore the main point in the dietetic treatment is to increase 
the anioHut of food, so that the patient's weight shall increase 
and remain stationary at a little in excess of the patient's 
highest known weight before becoming infected with tubercu- 
losis. There is great variety of opinions among sanatorium 
physicians as to the quantity of food necessary to do this, 
some believing in a process of forced feeding, in which a 
large excess of food is taken ; this system is not to be com- 
mended. It is probably safe to assume that those physicians 
who use the lowest dietary standards consistent with satis- 
factory gain in weight are adopting the soundest lines of 
treatment. 

While the food as a whole has to be increased, special 
importance attaches to the increase of the proteins and fats. 

Bardsvvell and Chapman found that by increasing the 



422 TUBERCULOSIS 

am<:»unt of protein up to 150 grammes daily, i.e., by an 
increase of from 25 to 30 per cent, on the amount of protein 
found in a normal diet (Voit standard, see p. 20), the best 
results from a clinical and metabolic standpoint were obtained. 

Increasing the intake of protein beyond this point, viz., 
150 grammes daily, is not associated with any better clinical 
results, and the extra protein ingested is immediately excreted, 
throwing a considerable strain upon the excretory organs. 
With regard to fat and carbohydrates, in the large majority 
of tuberculous cases, the importance of energy-giving food is 
recognised, especially when the patient is much below the 
proper body-weight. 

Fat is the best energy supplier, being less bulky, and 
it is as a rule more readily taken in these cases. For a 
tuberculous patient not engaged in active muscular exercise, 
an increase of 30 per cent, of the fat and carbohydrate food- 
stuffs usually suffices ; if the patient is taking muscular exer- 
cise, a larger amount of these foodstuffs could be consumed. 

As a rough estimate of the extent to which the nutritive 
material should exceed the normal diet of a non-tuberculous 
subject, it may be said that the diet in a case of tuberculosis 
should contain about one-third more. Of this third, the 
greater part should be given in the form of animal protein, 
and more especially meat, ^gS^^ milk. Animal proteins are 
selected because there is good reason for believing that they 
have a very special value in the treatment of tuberculosis. 
The explanation of this special value is, I believe, to be found 
in part in the special influence of a diet rich in proteins on the 
thyroid gland, as shown by the results of experimental 
observations (p. 557). The fats and carbohydrates are 
mainly increased by the addition of milk, butter, cream, 
yolk of eggs. There is no special virtue in increasing the 
breadstuffs and farinaceous foods. 

The general principles to be followed in the dietetic treat- 
ment of tuberculosis have been admirably summed up by 
Bard.swell and Chapman as follows: — 

1. The amount of protein in the physiological diet should 
be increased by 30 per cent., and this increase should be main- 
tained until the disease is obsolete. 

2. If the patient is under weight, the physiological diet 



GENERAL PRINCIPLES IN FEEDING 423 

should also be increased 30 per cent, in the purely energy- 
giving foods, viz., either in fats or carbohydrates, or partly in 
each. This increase should be maintained until the weight 
becomes stationary at a few pounds in excess of the patient's 
highest known weight before becoming infected with tuber- 
culosis. A decrease of 15 per cent, may then be made, and 
the diet, thus altered, should be continued until the disease 
is obsolete. 

3. Patients with constitutional disturbance associated with 
anorexia or dyspepsia usually require a somewhat concentrated 
diet, so as to give the comparatively large amount of nourish- 
ment in a but slightly increased bulk of foodstuffs. 

4. The meals should be well cooked, varied, and given as 
far as possible at considerable intervals, and reliance should be 
placed upon plain foodstuffs whenever possible ; proprietary 
invalid foods should only be used when ordinary foods cannot 
be taken. 

The Diet. — From the outset the patient must be impressed 
with the fact that the diet is of primary importance in the 
treatment of the disease, and must be kept up so long as the 
condition is present. Whenever the patient tends to grow 
careless, the injunctions concerning the diet must be repeated. 
Directions should not be given in a general way, but should 
be detailed, special mention being made of the food to be 
eaten and the food to be avoided. The hours for taking food 
and the amount to be taken should be carefully outlined. It 
is generally better to give written instructions concerning the 
diet, as the patient is apt to be forgetful, more especially if 
he has certain likes and dislikes. 

The diet should be restricted to three good meals a day, 
with two snacks at suitably separated intervals. Thus if 
breakfast be at 9 A.M., lunch at i P.M., dinner at 7 P.M., a 
light snack may be allowed at 7 A.M. and at 4 P.M. It is 
unwise in such cases to allow further extras of any kind 
between meals. If the patient sleep well, it is better not to 
give anything by night If wakeful, a cup of beef-tea or 
diluted warm milk may be allowed through the night. The 
food must be nicely prepared, daintily served, and varied as 
much as possible. It is not as a rule advisable to give much 
fluid at meal-times. Where the extra nourishment required 



424 TUBERCULOSIS 

is iTJven in the form of milk, not more than one tumblerful 
should be given with meals. The quantity of food should be 
increased as appetite advances ; it is noteworthy that a 
patient in the most favourable conditions of fresh air and 
sunlight may be able to digest and assimilate an extra diet 
of six to eight raw eggs daily, whereas under less favourable 
conditions in a town, not more than one or two eggs daily 
could be assimilated without deranging the digestion. 

Amongst the zucll- to-do class. — The extra nourishment 
required can be given either in the form of 3 pints of milk 
extra daily, or two to three eggs and 2 pintsof milk, or asunder- 
done red meat, 6 to 8 ounces. More commonly it is supplied 
by a judicious combination of these foods. The eggs may 
be taken raw (p. 47), or added to milk or soup, or ^ lb. raw 
meat or meat juice may be added to the daily dietary. 

A typical dietary, framed for an average case of fair 
digestive capacity and free from complications, is here given. 
A choice is given for the chief courses in the menu. It will 
be observed that the diet contains a restricted amount of 
bread, breadstuffs, suet puddings, and the like, which pre- 
dispose to fermentative changes. 

8 A.M. : Breakfast^ 

Coffee, or cocoa, or tea, made mainly with milk — two breakfast 

cups. 
One of the f Egg — plain boiled, scrambled, or poached— one or two. 

following t Bacon, ham, tongue, herring or fish, meat rissoles. 
Toast, two to three half-slices ; roll or oatcake ; plentiful supply of 
butter. 
II A.M. — Milk, ^ pint, to which may be added one or two raw eggs. 
1.30 P.M. : Lunch — 

Fish or entree, an ordinary helping. 

Meat — roast, grilled steak, or chop (rather underdone), and 

vegetable. 
Custard, curds, stewed fruit and cream, souffles, or omelets. 
Milk, \ pint. 
4 P.M. — Cup of tea with cream, bread and butter, slice of cake. 
7 P.M. : Dinner — 

Soup, about 8 ounces of clear consomm^. 

Fish or entree. 

Meat and vegetable. 

Pudding. Savoury, or biscuits and cheese. Milk, \ pint. 

With any tendency to sleeplessness, a cup of clear soup is of 
special value, or a glass of hot milk taken at bedtime. 



TUBERCULOSIS— DIET FOR WORKING-CLASSES 425 

If the custom of the patient is to take the chief meal of the day at 
midday, and a late meat tea, the evening meal may be as follows : — 

Fish or egg. 

Meat, ham, sausage, or brawn. 

Cold sweet — such as cornflour shape, custard, or stewed fruit 

Milk, i pint, flavoured with cocoa or coffee. 

Biscuits, butter, and cheese. 

Amongst the zvorking-classes. — Here the extra protein 
required may be got from the cheaper meats and fish, from 
skimmed milk, and from the pulses. The extra fat may be 
obtained in the form of margarine. The cost of the following 
dietary works out at about is. the day : — 

Breakfast — 

Bowl of well-boiled porridge, made with half milk and half water ; 

milk, h pint. 
Bacon, eg-g, or fish. 
Bread and butter. 
Cocoa or coffee, made with milk — breakfast cup. 

Dinner — 

Meat, potatoes, and green vegetable. 

Suet pudding, with jam, treacle, or stewed fruit. 

Milk, \ pint (skimmed). 

Tea — 

Tea made with skimmed milk. 
Bread and butter. 

Supper — 

Soup, made from pulses (lentil, pea, bean) ; or porridge and milk ; 

or sausage, ham, or cold meat. 
Bread and butter. 
Milk, \ pint. 

A still cheaper dietar\' may be necessary, and may be 
framed by using skimmed milk in place of sweet milk, 
margarine instead of butter, also by using the cheaper meats 
at 5d. to 8d. per pound, and making more use of lentils and 
the cheaper varieties of cheese. 

The following directions will be found useful for the 
dietetic treatment of tuberculous patients of the poorer 
classes living under home conditions. These are taken from 
Bardswell's admirable work on this subject. 

Directions for economical home feeding for patients living 
at home — for instance, those attoiding out-patient dcpart- 
tnents at hospitals, etc. — It is by no means easy to direct 



426 TUBERCULOSIS 

efficiently the dietetic treatment of tuberculous people belong- 
ing to the working-classes, unless they are immediately under 
supervision, e.^:^. in an institution. In our experience, the 
prescription of a definite diet to consumptive patients among 
the poorer classes is not satisfactory, as, for the most part, 
they have not the means at home of carrying out the instruc- 
tions at all accurately. 

We have obtained more satisfactory results in such cases 
after giving general directions, as under : — 

You require to take much more food than you did before 
you became consumptive. Do not hurry over your meals ; 
you will feel satisfied frequently before you have eaten enough, 
and you must continue to cat, even when you do not want 
more food. Your appetite is no guide as to the amount you 
need. The best way to find out whether you are eating 
enough is to weigh yourself every week, always at the same 
time of day, and in the same clothes. If you have not gained 
at least one pound during the week, you will know you have 
not been eating enough. 

IV/ial food to buy, and hoiv to cook it. — The following is 
intended to give you a rough idea as to how you can arrange 
your meals most satisfactorily, and the amounts of the various 
foods you require : — 

Breakfast. — \ pint of porridge, with milk and sugar ; a rasher of bacon 
or a herring, etc. ; a round of bread ; tea or coffee. 

Dinrur. — Two large chops, or a large plateful of meat, with plenty of 
potatoes ; a teacupful of milk pudding, or a large slice of suet 
pudding, half a round of bread, and a glass of milk. 

Tea. — At least three rounds of bread and butter, with jam ; or, if you can 
afford it, other relish. 

Supper. — \ pint of pea, bean, or lentil soup, or \ pint of porridge ; 
two rounds of bread, with sufficient cheese for both pieces ; and 
a glass of milk. 

If you take this diet, you ought to gain at least a pound 
a week in weight ; but if you do not, your best course is to 
take more milk until your weight increases. 

The above diet should cost you about 6s. 6d. per week, 
but you will require to be careful as to what you buy, and 
the following notes will probably be of service to you in 



PRACTICAL POINTS IN DIETARY 427 

showing you how to spend your money to the greatest 
advantage : — 

Meat. — If you cannot afford to buy English meat, buy 
the best foreign, which contains just as much nourishment, 
and will not cost you more than 6 id. per pound for the best 
joints. If you cannot afford to buy joints, you must be 
content to buy " pieces." Make full use of tripe, sausage, 
bullock's liver, and kidney, which are cheap and nutritious, 
but do not waste money on veal and lamb. 

Butter. — Buy butter at is. a pound, if you can afford it, 
but if money is scarce, buy good margarine instead, at 6d. 
or 8d. 

Milk. — You can always get new milk at lAd. or 2d. per 
pint ; but if }'ou cannot afford to buy much new milk, buy what 
you can afford, and make up with separated milk, which will 
cost you id. or lid. per quart. 

Cheese. — Dutch cheese will cost you 4id. to 6id., and 
American 6d. to /d. Do not buy more expensive cheese, as 
you will get no more nourishment for the extra cost. 

Eggs. — Except during the early summer, eggs are always 
an expensive form of food ; therefore, do not spend more on 
them than you can help. 

Oatmeal. — Oatmeal is one of the very best and cheapest 
foods you can have. Buy coarse Scotch oatmeal. Provost 
or Quaker oats, and have a plateful of porridge every 
morning ; and, if you like it, occasionally at supper instead 
of the soup. 

Dried Peas, Beans, and Lentils. — These, like oatmeal, are 
most valuable foods for you, and should be used every day, 
either boiled as a vegetable for dinner, or as a soup for 
supper. You can buy them at the grocer's ; the peas and 
haricot beans will cost you 2id. per pound or pint, and the 
lentils 2d. 

Potatoes. — These are required everyday, and you will save 
money if you bu)' at least a stone at a time. 

Fish. — Buy fish instead of meat occasionally, for the sake 
of a change — either cod, plaice, herrings, bloaters, Findon 
or fresh haddocks, or whatever fish is in season and cheap. 
Tinned salmon, at 5d. a tin, is a cheap and nutritious food, 
and makes a good change for supper. 



428 TUBERCULOSIS 

The following rough directions for cooking maj' be of 
use : — 

Porridge. — Stir oatmeal gradually into boiling water, add a pinch of 
salt, and cook gently, stirring occasionally, for an hour (Quaker and 
Provost oats take only 20 minutes to cook). Allow 2 teacupfuls of water 
and 2 level tablespoonfuls of oatmeal to each man. 

Lentil, Pea, or Bean Soup. — Soak the seeds in cold water overnight. 
Boil gently in plenty of water until soft ; the cooked seeds may either be 
eaten as a vegetable, or they may be beaten to a fine paste, or, better 
still, rubbed through a sieve ; add a little of the liquid in which they were 
boiled, and a flavouring if required. To form a highly nutritious soup, 
allow 3 level tablespoonfuls of raw seeds for each man. 

Suet Puddings. — (l) Allow i level tablespoonful of dripping, 3 level 
tablespoonfuls of flour, and a large pinch of baking-powder per man. Mix 
the dripping thoroughly with the flour and baking-powder. Make the 
whole into a paste with a little water, form into a roll, flour the surface, 
tie up tightly in a pudding-cloth, and boil lor 2 or 3 hours. Serve with 
syrup, gravy, or jam. 

(2) Or the above paste may be rolled out flat, and jam or syrup spread 
upon it. Roll, fold in the ends, flour the surface, tie tightly in the 
pudding-cloth, and boil for 2 or 3 hours. 

(3) Allow I level tablespoonful of dripping, 3 level tablespoonfuls of 
flour, a large pinch of baking-powder, and a little sugar and fruit for each 
man. The fruit may be either currants, figs, or dates, chopped up finely, 
or raisins. Mix the flour and dripping and sugar, add the fruit, and 
make into a paste with a little water, flour the surface, and tie tightly in a 
cloth ; boil 2 or 3 hours. Instead of the fruit, a little syrup and a pinch 
of ground ginger may be used in the above mixture. 

Milk Pudding. — Allow for each person 2 level teaspoonfuls of rice, 
sago, tapioca, etc., and H pint of milk and a small teaspoonful of sugar. 
Put the rice, sugar, and milk, with a pinch of salt, into a pie-dish, and 
bake slowly in the oven for 2 or 3 hours. 

Tuberculosis in Cases -with Impaired Digestion. — Tuber- 
culosis is frequently accompanied in its severer forms with 
anorexia, nausea, vomiting, and fever, and the question has 
to be faced how a patient with these symptoms can be got to 
take the above standard dietary. 

Anorexia is a marked feature often met with in early 
tuberculous cases. This anorexia has developed gradually, 
and is associated with progressive loss of strength and weight, 
and the patient may be anaemic or obviously run down. In 
these early cases there is probably nothing organically wrong 
with the digestive organs. The best treatment for the con- 
dition is to place the patient under good hygienic conditions, 



ANOREXIA IN TUBERCULOSIS 429 

with rest, continual supply of fresh air and sunliijht, and at 
the same time give the generous diet above recommended, in 
spite of the absence of appetite. The result of this is a 
striking improvement in appetite, the patient soon acquiring 
the ability to digest and enjoy the food. 

A second form of anorexia associated with much con- 
stitutional disturbance, e.g:, high fever, sweating, is very diffi- 
cult to feed. In itself, the fever accompanying the anorexia 
in tuberculosis cannot be regarded as a reason for reducing 
the amount of food. The patient, however, is often found to 
be quite unable to take the large bulky meals necessary for 
his condition, on account of the dyspepsia set up. The 
meals have then to be presented in a less bulky form, 
but still containing the necessary increase of protein. The 
anorexia accompanying a long-standing case of tuberculosis 
is generally due to impaired digestive power, and has, in 
addition, symptoms of distension and flatulence after meals, 
nausea, and vomiting. In these circumstances the increased 
protein must be supplied, but has to be given in the most 
easily digested form. In order to do this the food must be 
presented in smaller bulk, and it is better often to give the 
greater part in a fluid or cemi-soHd form, solid food being 
diminished. 

To effect this, a// foodstuffs having a large bulk and small 
nutritive value must be eliminated from the diet, viz., potatoes, 
green vegetables, porridge, pulses, bread, suet puddings ; and 
this must be replaced by other foodstuffs of equal value, but 
smaller bulk. This may be done by increasing the amount 
of animal foods, giving more raw-meat rissoles, mince, steak, 
chop, etc. ; or the milk may be " fortified " by the addition of 
soluble casein preparations, such as Plasmon or Protene (see 
p. 159). As much as i to \\ ounces of these preparations 
can be given without causing any disturbance to digestion ; 
and as i teaspoonful of Plasmon powder is equivalent to 
the protein value of 2 pints of milk, its value is obvious. 
Casein preparations are best added to soup or to milk 
puddings ; when added to plain milk it alters the flavour. 
Plasmon bread and Plasmon biscuits can be bought ready- 
made. 

Eggs may be added to milk {e.g. egg flip, custard j or to 



430 TUBERCULOSIS 

soup, thus obtaining extra nourishment with little extra 
bulk. 

Raw Meat. — \ lb. of scraped beef can very easily be added 
to a small cup of beef soup ; or \ lb. scraped meat, made into 
sandwiches with tomatoes, is an exceedingly easy method for 
some patients to take the extra nourishment. Cream and yolk 
of egg are the best methods of getting in the necessary fat. 

By the use of Benger's, Allenbury's, and other invalid 
foods, an easily digested starch can be prepared in many 
ways (p. 183). 

A feiv practical points that may help in the feeding of these 
difficult cases are here given. Where there is vomiting or a 
feeling of nausea whenever the stomach is full, it is well to 
insist on the patient, in addition to resting before and after 
meals, to take the meal in the recumbent posture ; this is 
sometimes of great value. A great distaste for sweet things 
is often present with the anorexia. In these circumstances it 
is well to reduce the sugar contained in the cooking by one- 
half; the "invalid foods" are just as nice when flavoured 
with salt, and the puddings, when very slightly sweetened 
and well flavoured with lemon, will be quite readily taken. 
Variety is another most important matter when there is 
fever. A useful aid to improving the appetite is cold sponging 
of patients with pyrexia in the course of the hour before the 
meal ; the temperature is temporarily improved, and this 
allows of the food being taken with less difficulty. This is 
specially useful before the evening meal. 

The following dietaries are examples of diets that may be 
given when the patient's enfeebled digestion is unable to take 
the ordinary tuberculous diet : — 

I. Fluid Dietary : mainly Milk. — This is advisable where 
the anorexia is persistent and severe. In place of giving the 
usual three large meals and two snack meals in the twenty- 
four hours, it is advisable to feed oftener and in smaller 
amounts ; also, if the patient is wakeful, to give nourishment 
in the course of the night 
7 A.M.— Milk, i pint. 

8.30 A.M.— 

Milk, ^ pint ; with casein, A oz., flavoured with coffee or cocoa. 
Gruel made with milk, and eaten with cream. 



DAILY DIETARIES 431 

II A.M.— 

Soup, thickened with ^ lb. raw beef, scraped ; or 
Soup, thickened with egg and cream ; or 
Milk, with egg. 

I P.M. — 

Chicken essence, or veal jelly, strengthened with casein, h oz., and 

milk, i pint ; or 
Raw-meat mince, J lb., with milk ; or 
Raw-meat rissoles, with milk ; or 
Raw-meat sandwiches, with milk. 

3 P.M. — Milk, with egg, or thin custard. 

5 P.M. — Milk tea, ^ pint, with cream. 

7 P.M.— 

A meat juice, e.^., Wyeth's, Leube Rosenthal's meat solutions, 

mixed with port or Burgundy ; or 
Soup, with raw meat ; or 

Beef extract, with egg and milk, forming a custard ; or 
Beef extract, made with milk and casein, ^ pint ; or 
Milk and arrowroot, with casein and cream, i pint. (Brandy may 

be added.) 

8 P.M. — An invalid food, made with milk and casein, ^ pint (see p. 183). 

II P.M. — Milk and egg, or chicken tea with egg. 

In very severe cases the milk may have to be peptonised 
or pancreatised ; or fermented milk (koumiss or Kephir) 
is sometimes tolerated when ordinary milk causes digestive 
disturbance ; whey, also, flavoured with sherry and fortified 
with casein and cream. 

2. A largely Meat Dietary. — This is often of great assistance 
for a time in cases where dyspeptic symptoms follow the large 
mixed meals. 

6 A.M.— Milk, ^pint. 
8 A.M. — 

Milk, I pint, fortified with casein, \ oz., flavoured with coffee or 

cocoa (peptonised). 
Slice of toast, with butter. 

Bacon, ham, eggs, fish, meat rissoles, or steak (taking two things). 
II A.M. — Glass of hot milk, with eggs, or raw-meat soup. 
I P.M. : Lunch and Dinner — 

Soup from strong stock, or fish soup, or helping offish. 

Mince lightly grilled, tender steak or chop ; or slice of underdone 

sirloin of beef ; or roast leg of mutton. 
Stewed fruit and custard, or jelly with cream. 
Toast ; glass of milk. 

4 P.M. — Cup of milk-tea, toast and butter, or biscuit and butter. 
Dinner — Much the same as Lunch. A little wine. 



432 TUBERCULOSIS 

Intcfmediatc Diets. — It is advisable occasionally to stop 
this largely meat dietary for a day or so, and give other foods, 
e.g.y ^z^y fish, a little farinaceous food, and vegetables, just for a 
change. This gives the kidneys a rest, and diminishes the 
risk of the development of albuminuria, or other urinary 
troubles arising out of the large protein diet. 

Two further dietaries may be given that arc not so special- 
ised as the mainly fluid and the mainly meat diet. They are 
both more concentrated than the ordinary standard dietary, 
and are useful steps in the process of getting a patient up to 
the standard diet. 

{A) 7 A.M.— Milk, \ pint 

Breakfast — 
Coffee or cocoa (pancreatised), made with milk, and \ oz. casein. 
Well-boiled gruel, made with milk, eaten with cream, or bread and 

milk. 
I ^zZt lightly cooked, and a small piece of toast and buUer. 

II A.M. — 

Soup, with raw beef; or three raw eggs (p. 424.) 
Ditmer — 

Milk, \ pint ; toast, or rusks, and butter. 
TFish souffle, or cream, or quenelle ; or 
-| Pounded chicken, or cream, or souffle ; or 
[Omelet, with chicken or fish. 
J Mince from scraped beef, or meat rissoles; or 
\ Raw-meat sandwiches. 
Small helping of pudding. 
4 P.M. — Tea made with milk. 
6.30 P.M. — 

Milk, \ pint. 

Choice of one light meat, solid, as under Lunch. 
Custard, cream, or light souffle. 
Glass of wine. 
9 P.M. — Invalid food, with casein. 

During night — Milk, with ^%g. 

{B) Breakfast— 

Tea or coffee, with milk, two large cups, with casein. 
Bacon, eggs, fish, sausages, rissoles (two courses). 
Toast ; roll with butter. 

II A.M. — 

Milk, \ pint, with two raw eggs ; or 
Soup, with raw beef. 



I 
I 



INTESTINAL TUBERCULOSIS 433 

I P.M — 

Soup from meat stock. 

Fish, or entree. 

Meat, fowl, or game, with one vegetable. 

Milk pudding with casein, or stewed fruit, custards, creams, or jelly. 

Milk, ^ pint, with bread or toast and butter. 

4 P.M.— 

Tea made with milk. 

Bread, biscuits, and butter. 
Dinner — 

Milk, \ pint. 

Soup and meat, and a vegetable ; or 

Fish, entree, and a vegetable. 

Pudding, or a savoury containing casein or cream, 

lO P.M. — 

Milk, with tg^ ; or 
Soup, with raw beef. 

Tuberculosis of the various organs require special 
modifications of the standard dietaries. 

TubercTilosis of the Intestine.^ — In addition to the 
general toxaemic state due to the tuberculous poison, we have 
to consider the inflamed, and it may be ulcerated, surface 
present in the bowel. Abdominal pain and diarrhoea are the 
chief symptoms. Nourishment in the blandest possible 
form should be given, and of such a kind as not to excite 
excessive peristalsis. To fulfil these requirements the food- 
stuffs must be fairly completely absorbed, and leave only 
a small amount of residue. The total bulk of food must be 
small, and the amount of fluid restricted. The food should 
be given in small quantity, at frequent intervals. 

Milk must be given in small quantities, and is best 
pancreatised, or given with Benger's food or Allenbury's, 
which when prepared is partly digested and incapable of 
producing a hard curd. 

Eggs are very suitable, and can be used freely. They 
may be given raw, lightly boiled, or poached, or in the form 
of custard, omelet, or souffle. 

Cheese, if carefully dissolved and the acid neutralised with 
bicarbonate of soda, can then be used in the formation of 
many savoury dishes. 

* See also "Abdominal Tuberculosis," p. 441. 

2 E 



484 TUBEllCULOSIS 

Crcavi and butter should be given freely, and largely 
replace the carbohydrate as suppliers of energy. 

Fish of the lighter varieties and carefully prepared, is 
useful (pp. 60, 207, 303). 

Raiu vieat, either in soup, milk, or as sandwiches, is one of 
the best foods ; raw-meat juice is easily absorbed, and leaves 
very little residue. 

Underdone meat, as chop, steak, or slice from roast, 
mutton, or beef, is also easily digested. Well-done meat is 
not so easily digested. 

Proprietary meat juices of various kinds (see p. 165), given 
in liberal amount, are very suitable articles of foodstuff. 

Clear meat consomme may be allowed in a small amount, 
also home-made meat jelly and essences (p. yy^ 

Bread should be dry or toasted, and some of the "infant" 
rusks and plain biscuits (cracknels), eaten with butter, are 
allowable. 

The best class of puddings are custards, omelets, souffles, 
creams, and jelly; some of the lighter milk puddings are 
also permissible. 

Tea, coffee, or pancreatised cocoa may be taken as a 
flavouring agent for the milk. 

All the bulky foodstuffs, as porridge and other cereals, 
green and root vegetables, suet puddings, pastry, and fruit, 
are inadmissible. 

The casein preparations are apt to set up diarrhoea. An 
illustrative diet sheet is here given : — 
Dietary — 

6 A.M. — Two teaspoonfuls of Wyeth's beef juice in 2 ounces milk. 
Breakfast — 

Milk, 8 ounces, with coffee. 
Egg omelet, or lightly boiled ^^'g. 
Toast and butter, roll, or two rusks. 
II A.M. — Soup with \ lb. raw beef, in all 8 ounces ; or milk with 2 

raw eggs. 
Lunch — 

Milk, 8 ounces. 

Underdone roast-meat or raw-meat sandwiches ; or 

Chicken cream, made with egg and cream. 

Roll or toast. 

Pudding, custard, cream (2^ ounces), junket ; ot 

Savoury with cheese. 



HiEMOPTYSIS 435 

4.30 P.M. — 

Milk-tea ; or Benger's food, with one or more raw eggs. 
Toast and butter. 

Dinner — 

Steamed fish (small helping), or savoury custard. 
Underdone chop or steak (small helping). 
Sweet puddinj,', with cream (2| ounces) ; or 
Cheese pudding. 

10 P.M. — 

Meat juice ; or 
Bovril, milk ; or 
Benger's food. 

Haemoptysis, — A .slight hnsmoptysis, nothing more than a 
discoloration of the sputum, is probably the result of some 
local congestion, and does not call for any change in the 
dietetic required. If, however, after a day or so extra rest, 
the discoloration continues or increases, the indication is to 
reduce the blood-pressure. This is best done by restricting 
the amount of fluid taken. Cut off the milk-supply to i pint, 
and give no tea, coffee, or cocoa, no soups, and for a few days 
reduce slightly the amount of solid food. 

With a severe haemoptysis, due to the rupture of a 
pulmonary aneurism or the ulceration of a blood-vessel, 
the blood-pressure should be reduced and maintained at a 
low level for some days after the bleeding has ceased. The 
amount of fluid given in the first twenty-four hours should be 
the minimum, i to 2 teaspoonfuls at a time, and not very often 
— more to allay the thirst than act as a food. The milk may 
be iced and the mouth washed out with iced water, or lumps 
of ice given to suck. Half-teaspoonfuls of very hot water are 
a good thirst-quencher. If the blood-pressure is being treated 
by free purgation with salts, the patient will probably suffer 
severely from thirst. On the second day the milk may be 
augmented by the addition of teaspoonfuls of beef juice in a 
little milk or water, and the quantity of milk may be i pint 
in the twenty-four hours. 

After this, increase the diet, still giving it cold and in 
small quantities at a time, up to \\ pints of milk, 3 to 4 
ounces of toast and butter, one egg, and \ lb. shredded meat 
in sandwiches. The diet should be steadily increased, and in 



436 TUBERCULOSIS 

about ten days after the haemorrhage the patient should be 
back to his standard dietary. 

The following diet would probably be suitable about the 
fifth or sixth day, the food being given in small quantity 
every two hours : — 

4 A.M. — Meat juice in milk, li ounces. 

6 A.M. — Milk, 4 ounces, and 2 teaspoonfuls of Plasmon. 

8 A.M.— 

Egg beaten into i ounce of milk. 

Half-slice of toast well buttered, or two biscuits buttered, 
lo A.M. — Soup from good stock, with raw-meat juice (2^ ounces). 
Noon.— AWenhury food made with milk, 3 ounces. 
2 P.M.— 

Raw-meat sandwiches, made with i ounce bread, i ounce meat, and 
butter ; or 

Pounded chicken, 3 ounces, and i ounce bread and butter ; or 

Fish cream, 3 ounces, and i ounce bread and butter. 
4 P.M. — Milk, 4 ounces, and i teaspoonful of Plasmon. 
6 P.M. — Scrambled egg on toast. 

8 P.M. — Custard, 3 ounces ; or curds with cream, 3 ounces. 
10 P.M. — Milk with Plasmon, 4 ounces ; one biscuit. 
Noon. — Chicken essence or meat jelly, 2 ounces. 
2.30 A.M. — Benger's food, 3 ounces. 

Some authorities have a great belief in the value of raw- 
meat juice and raw meat in cases of haemoptysis. Where 
there are a succession of haemorrhages and the patient's 
strength is much reduced, the diet must be increased, and the 
blood-pressure reduced if necessary by means other than 
diet. 

Laryngeal Tuberculosis and Dysphagia. — There is no 
symptom that calls for special treatment in the earlier 
stages of laryngeal tuberculosis ; it suffices to say that the 
same high .standard of nutrition must be adopted as is 
necessary for tuberculosis generally. Even if slight pain on 
swallowing is complained of, the patient should be urged to 
try and take the full standard diet, as in this way his chances 
of recovery are greater. If any special articles of food are 
observed to cause more pain or di.scomfort than others, they 
should be discontinued and others substituted. 

If, however, dysphagia is complained of to such an extent 
that the standard diet cannot be adopted, a diet composed 
of semi-solids and fluids must be used until such improve- 



LARYNGEAL TUBERCULOSIS 437 

ment has taken place that the patient can return to an 
ordinary diet. 

These laryngeal cases, complicated by dysphagia, require 
ingenuity and care in order to get in sufficient nourishment 
with the least suffering to the patient. 

All foodstuffs should be given cold, and very often if the 
fluids are iced they are taken more easily. 

All condiments such as pepper and mustard are irritating, 
and must be omitted. 

Careful notice should be taken to see if any solid foods 
can be taken, and the diet should be carefully built up round 
these. 

Semi-solid diets are often taken more readily than fluid 
diets, and these can be given in smaller bulk than a fluid diet, 
and therefore are less liable to cause dyspepsia. 

When the pain on swallowing is very severe, the following 
plans may be tried to alleviate the pain of taking food : — (a) 
Insufflation of the larynx with various anaesthetic powders, 
orthoform or anaesthesin ; or the larynx may be painted or 
sprayed by a lo or 20 per cent, cocaine solution, or with 
eucaine, menthol, and parolene a 20 or 30 per cent, may be 
employed for spraying with — will often allay pain sufficiently 
to allow of food being taken more readily. 

The application of cold to the larynx by Leiter's laryngeal 
cell is often of distinct use — or a cold compress with ice may 
be applied. When there is difficulty in swallowing fluid, the 
Norris Wolfenden position may be assumed, ie., the patient 
lying on the side, and liquid food taken through a tube from a 
cup placed slightly below the level of the mouth ; or Wol- 
fenden's position can be tried, viz., the patient lying on the 
face with the head over the couch, and sucking up food in 
the same way. 

The food should be concentrated, and given at fairly 
frequent intervals, and in small quantity. The following diet 
and recipes will be found helpful : — 

I. A Fluid Diet for Dysphagia : — 

8 A.M. — Thin gruel, made with milk and cream ; or") 
Invalid food, made with milk and cream j 

10 A.M. — Egg beaten up in milk, \ pint. 

1 1 A.M. — Milk with Plasmon or Sanatogen, flavoured with cocoa, i pint. 



488 TUBERCULOSIS 

I P.M. — \'elvet soup, ^ pint (p. 439), with egg, 
3 P.M. — Junket, I pint, with cream. 

5 P.M. — Thin invalid food, i pint. 

7 P.M.— Milk bovril. 

9 P.M. — Egg and milk, ^ pint. 

ID P.M. — Beef-tea, with 2 ounces raw meat, i pint. 

During ni^^ht — Milk and Sanatogen, i pint. 

The fluid dietary for Anorexia of tuberculosis would also be found 
suitable (p. 430). 

2. Semi-solid Diet for Dysphagia : — 
7 A.M. — Milk, \ pint, with egg. 
9 A.M.— 

Arrowroot or cornflour milk, i pint, with cream. 
Breadcrumbs and milk, i pint, with cream. 

II A.M.— 

Milk blancmange (p. 439). 

Vanilla cream. 

Iced vegetable cream. 
I P.M.— 

Fish or chicken cream. 

Fish or chicken souffle. 

Beef quenelles. 

Eggs, scrambled, with butter (four eggs). 
3 P.M. — Curds with cream, and iced cream or jelly. 
5 P.M. — Bovril custard. 
7 P.M. — 

Velvet soup, i pint ; or 

Soup with raw-meat juice, l pint. 
During night — Benger's food, i pint ; or 
Cocoa and milk, i pint. 

The following preparations are specially useful in 
dysphagia : — 

Custards. — The custard is made with milk and eggs, as 
deiicribed. The milk used can be fortified with Plas- 
mon, or casein, from 5J to 5iv to the pint. The flavouring 
can be varied — a sweet custard flavoured with vanilla or 
lemon, or nutmeg or grated chocolate, or sherry ; or a savoury 
custard, made with the addition of Bovril or Bovinine, or a 
strong chicken essence, to the milk and eggs. 

Cheese can also be added to the milk and eggs. Two 
ounces of grated American cheese, a pinch of bicarbonate of 
soda mixed with the milk and eggs, and either boiled or 
baked. 



KIDNEY AND BLADDER TUBERCULOSIS 439 

Creams and blancmanges are much better taken by 
dysphagia patients when made with gelatine than with corn- 
flour or arrowroot. 

Jellies, either in the form of a sweet or savoury jelly, are well 
taken. Gelatine, J ounce added to i pint milk, will thicken 
it sufficiently to enable a patient to take it without pain when 
the plain milk causes much pain. 

Curds and cream, freshly prepared, is sometimes more 
easily taken than milk. 

Velvet soup. — A clear soup very blandly flavoured, fortified 
with I tablespoonful of Casumen to the pint, may have one or 
two eggs stirred in when very hot immediately before serving. 

Fish souffli, or cream and chicken treated in the same 
method, can be taken. 

Breadcrumbs and milk, strained, can be often taken. Boil 
half a round of bread crumbled down in \ pint of milk, 
strain through fine muslin, and serve. 

Tuberciilosis of Kidney and Bladder. — In tuberculosis 
of the kidney, bladder, or other part of the urinary tract, 
the feeding of the patient is a more difficult matter than in 
most other forms of tuberculosis. It is often impossible to 
give the amount of protein food desirable, because of the 
extra strain thrown on the kidneys by a diet rich in protein. 

Special care has to be taken with the amount and nature 
of the animal protein foods given. Those meats should be 
given in carefully regulated amounts. Much assistance in 
framing the diet is derived from the examination of the urine. 
So long as the amount of protein being administered does 
not increase the amount of albumin or pus in the urine, the 
diet in use may safely be continued. 

In general, it will be found that the most suitable diets 
for these cases are those indicated on p. 432. At the 
outset the lighter diet (p. 430) should be given ; and if the 
condition of the patient and of the urine allow it, this may 
give place to the stronger diet on p. 424. In some cases 
it is necessary to largely ignore the state of the urine, and 
rather treat the general condition. 

Varioxis forms of Surgical Tuberculosis. — The dietetic 
treatment of tuberculosis of the lymphatic glands, the general 
health of the patient being good, is to place him in the 



440 TUBERCULOSIS 

best possible hygienic conditions, and at once begin the 
standard tuberculous dietary {q.v.). Probably it is best to 
give the extra nourishment in the form of i pint of milk, 
two raw eggs, and \ lb. raw-beef juice, in soup or sandwiches, 
per diem (p, 424). 

In tuberculosis of bones and joints, the general state of 
the patient must be borne in mind ; and if the patient is 
confined to bed, or unable to take any active exercise, 
probably the "largely meat dietary" (p. 431) will be found 
most easily digested. 

Lupus and other tuberculous lesions of the skin call for 
nothing special in the dietary, except the importance of 
getting on to the standard dietary, and maintaining this 
dietary until the patient's weight becomes stationary at a 
few pounds in excess of the patient's highest known weight 
before becoming infected with tuberculosis. 

Diet in Tuberculosis in Children. — The most common 
forms of tuberculosis in children are tuberculous peritonitis, 
enlargement of abdominal glands (tabes mesenterica), tuber- 
culous enteritis, glandular tuberculosis, tuberculosis of bone, 
and pulmonary tuberculosis. The infection may arise 
through the food, or by inhalation from contaminated air. 
The majority of cases occur after two years of age. In the 
earlier stages the symptoms are often slight, consisting in a 
general lack of vigour, some degree of wasting, and anaemia. 
If the temperature be closely observed at this stage, it is 
found that there is some irregular pyrexia. It will be 
convenient to treat this subject in the following order : — 

{a) Prophylactic treatment of Tuberculosis in general. 
{b) Dietetic treatment of abdominal Tuberculosis. 

The treatment of the other forms has to be conducted 
along the lines already laid down. 

Prophylactic treatnieiit. — This is especially important 
in the case of children with a family predisposition to 
tuberculosis. Here the general circumstances of the child, 
and also the dietary, must be arranged so as to maintain 
the healthiest possible condition of the gastro-intestinal 
tract. Everything which might promote gastro-intestinal 
derangement, and so allow penetration of the intestines by 



ABDOMINAL TUBERCULOSIS 441 

the tubercle bacillus, must be carefully avoided. Strict 
precautions are necessary in regard to the milk-supply. If 
the milk-supply is above suspicion, it is no doubt best for the 
child to take untreated milk, that is, milk which has not been 
boiled or sterilised. There is no question that the artificial 
treatment of milk by heat and other methods interferes to 
some extent with its properties as a food. It does so in all 
probability by altering some vital ingredient present in fresh 
milk. Since, however, the danger to the child from the use 
of artificially treated milk is considerably less than that from 
the use of fresh milk infected with tubercle, it is, as a rule, 
advisable to recommend the former. It should, however, be 
noted that the milk should not be sterilised in the manner 
sometimes done, by exposing it to a very high temperature 
for half an hour or more — it should simply be scalded. 

An abundance of fresh food is an essential in treatment. 
Milk, eggs, fresh meat, meat juice, fresh vegetables, and fruit 
should enter largely into the dietary, and an extra amount 
daily should be insisted upon. Care must be exercised to 
prevent the immoderate use of farinaceous foods and sweets, 
which are prone to induce indigestion, and so lower the 
resistance of the bowels. Lastly, reference may be made to the 
importance of fresh air, by night as well as by day, regular 
meals, and thorough mastication of the food, as being factors 
of importance in the prophylactic treatment. 

Abdominal Tuberculosis. — This most frequently takes the 
form of tuberculous peritonitis, tuberculous ulceration of the 
bowel, or tuberculosis of the lymphatic glands {tabes 
mesentericd). The infection comes from the intestine or 
from the thoracic glands through the lymph channels. The 
great majority of cases occur after two years of age. The 
symptoms may be slight, such as a general lassitude, and 
some anaemia ; in other cases wasting is a prominent 
feature ; and in some cases diarrhoea, with the passage of 
blood and mucus, may have attracted the attention of the 
parent. Some degree of irregular temperature with slight 
pyrexia is frequently present. When the condition becomes 
well marked, abdominal distension is the chief feature, this 
arising from flatulent distension, atony of the bowel, and 
often catarrh and ulceration of the intestine. These 



442 TUBERCULOSIS 

conditions make the dietetic treatment one of some 
difficult)-. 

The special point to be attended to in the dietary 
is the necessity of the utmost care with regard to the 
administration of any of the readily fermentable food- 
stuffs. Bread and milk foods and farinaceous puddings are 
quite unsuitable for these patients ; too often these enter 
largely into the dietary. The bowels should as a preliminary 
be judiciously emptied by a dose of castor oil, given two 
nights in succession. If there is loss of appetite, with pain, 
the food should for a day or two be restricted to meat soups, 
chicken jelly, mutton, veal, or chicken tea, which can 
gradually be strengthened by the addition of Plasmon, 
Sanatogen, and raw-meat juice. It should be noted that 
diarrhoea is not a contra-indication to this diet, the looseness 
of the stools usually resulting from ulceration of the bowel 
or from fermentation of starchy foods. As soon as the 
patient can take it, more solid food is given in the form of 
pounded fish, or chicken, white of egg, and thin slices of 
toast or rusk. In patients whose appetite at night is 
deficient on account of the evening temperature, it may be 
advisable to give fluid food only at night, reservijig the solid 
food for the two earlier meals. When the appetite is 
restored it is better to give three meals a day only, and 
nothing but fluids betw^een meals. In cases with feeble 
digestion and appetite, the more frequent use of smaller 
feeds is indicated. The following is an appropriate diet for 
a case of abdominal tuberculosis in a child, in whom the 
appetite is satisfactory : — 

7 A.M. — Glass of milk and a Plasmon biscuit, 

8 A.M. : Breakfast — 

Milk ; scrambled ^-gg or steamed fish ; toast and butter. 

II A.M. — 8 ounces meat soup, with juice from \ lb. raw beef. 

I P.M. : Dinner — 

Red meat, broiled or roasted, hot or cold, clear gravy ; small helping 

of well-cooked vegetables, not potatoes ; slice of dry toast. 
Custard, hot or cold ; curds and cream ; cream or blancmange, in 

preference to starchy or suet puddings. 

4.30 P.M. — Glass of milk and a biscuit. 



ABDOMINAL TUBERCULOSIS 448 

Supper — 

Milk to drink. 

Fish, egg, or chicken. 

Slice of toast. 

Fatty foods, such as cream, yolk of eggs, and cod-liver oil 
and malt, are gradually added to the dietary. An examination 
of the state of the stools and a consideration of the symptoms 
will guide us in increasing or otherwise the amount of food 
administered. 



CHAPTER XXVI 



GOUT, RHEUMATISM, AND RHEUMATOID ARTHRITIS 

Gout 



Introduction . . . 

Use of meats 

Soups . . . > 

Milk and nilk products 

Carbohydrates 

Fruits . . . . 



PAOB 

. 444 

• 446 

• 447 

• 449 
. 451 
. 451 



Beverages . , 
Mineral waters 
Illustrative dietaries 
Chronic rheumatism 
Rheumatoid arthritis 



(See also Purin-free dietary, p. 531 ; and Salisbury diet, p, 



PAOE 

.453 
.455 

• 456 
. 463 

• 465 



53-1.) 



Introduction. — Derangements in the digestive system play 
an exceedingly important role in the development both of 
acute and chronic gout, and these derangements usually 
depend either on immoderate eating or drinking, or on the 
ingestion of articles of diet especially unsuitcd to the 
individual. The relationship of these digestive disturbances 
to the phenomena of acute and chronic gout is an important 
one, and the importance of a well-regulated and healthy 
intestinal mucous membrane cannot be overestimated. Auto- 
intoxication or infection is certainly a primary factor in the 
disease, and has to be guarded against by careful dieting, 
healthy intestinal secretion, and normal intestinal evacuation. 
It is advisable to insist at all times on the closest attention 
being paid to the action of the bowels. While we have yet to 
learn much about the secretory or excretory influence of the 
large intestine, we may safely assume that by judicious 
purgation much more is done than merely free the system of 
the undigested foodstuffs present in the gut Not infre- 
quently in the course of subacute or chronic gout there is 
developed a subacute or chronic catarrh of the gastric and 



I 



CAUSATION OF GOUT 445 

intestinal mucosa, which in turn aggravates and complicates 
the general gouty state. Such a complication merely leads 
to a more strict application of the general principles of the 
dietetic treatment appropriate to the disease. 

It is sometimes maintained that the influence of different 
food ingredients on the gouty constitution has been too much 
magnified, this assertion being based on two clinical facts — 
firstly, that a child fed entirely on milk may continue to excrete 
large quantities of uric acid ; and, secondly, that an adult 
patient who has been excreting a similar excess on a light 
vegetarian diet may speedily improve and return to a normal 
excretion when his diet is changed to meat. This view is 
based on too narrow a conception of the problems. The 
little we know with certainty regarding gout seems to indicate 
that the radical defect is in the metabolism of the proteins of 
the food. The metabolic changes of the proteins of milk or 
vegetables are essentially similar to those in meat, and there 
is no reason to believe that the decomposition products 
arising from the normal metabolism of the one are in any 
way different from those in the other. Any differences there 
may be are those of degree and not of kind. Everything 
depends on the form in which the foodstuffs are presented. 
It sometimes strikes me that in this question of feeding we 
find an interesting analogy in the art of agriculture. A 
scientific farmer in the feeding of his land has not only to 
consider the natural quality of the soil, but also the climate, 
rainfall, and nature of the product desired. Of the food 
required by the growing plant the element nitrogen is also 
one of the mainstays, and it is usually provided in one of two 
forms — potassium nitrate or ammonium sulphate. Now it is 
by no means immaterial to him in which of these forms the 
land is fed. His choice depends on many things, one of the 
most important from our present point of view being their 
relative solubility. If the land is badly drained, and 
especially if the rainfall be considerable, he uses the less 
soluble ammonium sulphate in order to minimise the risk 
of the nitrogen being washed away and so rendered unavail- 
able for the growth and maintenance of his grain. So it is 
with the human subject, but only in a more elaborate way. 
The individual qualities of the tissues, their drainage system, 



44G GOUT, RHEUMATISM, RHEUMATOID ARTHRITIS 

and the relative solubilities of the different food ingredients 
as commonly prepared, constantly demand careful con- 
sideration. The question of diet is certainly the paramount 
one. Its influence is profound, not only on the individual, 
but on the race, and its importance was well defined by 
Sir William Roberts, when he wrote that one generation of 
scientific dietetics would produce an influence upon humanity 
second only to a new creation of the race. 

Meats, etc. — From the earliest times some writers have 
regarded all or at any rate most kinds of muscle food as 
injurious to the gouty, and as in other debated points in the 
subject history of the disease, many experimental obser- 
vations have been brought forward to prove this point ; but 
as a rule, these observations have been made in the much 
too narrow field of uric acid excretion. The most recent 
observations indicate that the commonly accepted view that 
a meat diet is associated with an increase in the uric acid 
excretion is an erroneous one, and on the whole it may be 
taken as definitely shown, both by practical experience and 
theoretical experiments, that, as a rule, a gouty subject may 
take a measured quantity of meats in an easily digested form. 

In the use of meats it is not only important that these 
should be taken in an easily assimilable form, but that they 
should not be accompanied by an undue admixture of other 
foodstuffs. It is held by some that in such cases the fact of 
the carbohydrates and fats being more readily oxidised in 
the tissues, leads to defective combustion of the albuminous 
foods. We must look for the cause of any injurious effects 
of meat more in its quality and in the form in which it is 
administered. If too little nitrogenous food be taken, an 
increased decomposition of nuclear-holding tissues may 
result, as has been proved in a case of complete starvation, 
in a subject in whom typical acute gout developed in the 
course of the observation. 

We must, however, bear in mind that a strong meat diet, 
that is, meat twice or thrice daily, is an acid food, owing to 
the imperfect neutralising of the sulphuric and phosphoric 
acid present in the diet. This may be in part rectified by 
the consumption of the alkaline table-waters referred to later. 

We have also to consider that the tastes and inclinations 



MEATS IN GOUT 447 

of the greater number of gouty subjects demand a certain 
supply of meat, and, by taking it in moderate amount, the 
supply of nitrogenous food necessary for the maintenance 
of the albumin in the body is more readily obtained. 

With regard to the different kinds of animal food, white 
meats, e.g. fish and chicken, are more suitable than red meats 
owing to their more ready digestibility, and also in the case 
of fish to the smaller proportion of nitrogen present in equal 
bulk. The confirmed gouty subject is wise to limit his 
consumption of red meat to one meal in the day or even less, 
and further, to make as a routine a selection of the red and 
white meats similar to that indicated in case Mrs D. (p. 460). 
The whole question of a meat diet is summed up in its digesti- 
bility, which in turn bears a definite ratio to the simplicity of 
the meal in which the meat is a component part. The 
temporary diet of meat and hot water (p. 534) which is of much 
value in suitable cases is a simple one, and to its simplicity 
we must largely look for an explanation of its beneficial 
effects. What has been said of meat holds also good for 
other animal foods. The various kinds of fish and game can 
all be taken by a gouty subject, but what must be specially 
attended to is the amount of admixture with other foods and 
drinks. Not infrequently innocent substances taken at the 
end of a highly nitrogenous mixed meal are regarded as the 
noxious agents, when in reality they have played a quite 
subordinate role. High game and very fatty meats should 
be avoided. The relationship of an excessive meat diet to 
gout is further considered on p. 612. 

Under this heading a few practical points may be men- 
tioned about the culinary aspects of soups, meats, and fish. 
It is impossible to overestimate the importance of this 
subject ; the want of recognition of its importance is, in 
the writer's opinion, one of the causes of the very diverse 
differences of opinion entertained as to the beneficial or 
noxious influence of various dietetic substances. 

Soups. — What soups may a gouty person partake of.? 

The answer to this question will depend on the digestive capacity, 
but in coming to a decision we must take into consideration some 
elementary points in the preparation of the various soups. 

It has been stated that there are perhaps not less than 500 soups, but 



448 GOUT, RHEUMATISM, RHEUMATOID ARTHRITIS 

resjardcd analytically, there are only a few leading species from which the 
different varieties are produced by additions and combinations of flavours. 

(a) A clear decoction of meat or bones which, when weak, forms a 
broth or a "tea," and when strong is a consomme or essence. These 
may be prepared from beef, veal, or mutton, and sometimes pork or ham. 

(d) A similar decoction can be made from the various forms of fowl, 
game, and fish. 

(0 A decoction of vegetables, including herbs, roots, grains, and 
farinaceous substances. 

All of these soups may have added to them well-known dried Italian 
pastes, e.g. vermicelli or macaroni, and a consomme of meat or pork or 
game may be thickened with additions of a meat, fowl, or game pur6e 
respectively. In the same way the weaker broths furnish a basis for 
vegetable purees. 

The following highly nitrogenous soups are not as a rule suitable 
articles of diet for the gouty : — Turtle, mock turtle, hare, kidney, oxtail, 
mulligatawny. If they are indulged in, the rest of the food and drink 
consumed at the same meal must be more carefully limited. 

Cocky-leeky, giblet, and hotch-potch are almost stews, and should 
be considered as a meat course. In not a few cases all of these highly 
nitrogenous soups are contra-indicated. 

The great fault to be found with soups usually served is that they are 
heavy, and contain too many ingredients. The average soup is made up 
with as many good things as possible, some to make it more nourishing, 
others to make it more palatable. This is all very well for the healthy, 
but where, as in gout, the digestive functions in the tissues and alimentary 
canal are readily disturbed, simple soups are required. The soups 
without thickening are therefore the most suitable. The thickenings in 
common use are purees of meat or fowl, flour, tapioca, yolks of eggs, etc. 

Roast beef and mutton bones boiled with vegetables, and the fat 
carefully removed, make a good stock from which soup can be made for 
the gouty. Excellent soup can also be made from the water in which 
meat or fish has been boiled. 

The various vegetable purees — spinach, artichoke, tomato, carrots, 
green peas, etc. — are excellent for this class of patient. They are 
sufficiently sustaining to prevent a feeling of hunger, and if well digested 
give a fair amount of nourishment. In the case of soups made from the 
pulses, their high nutritive value should influence the rest of the meal, 
and in some cases they are better avoided. A very good vegetarian stock 
can be made by extracting the " goodness " and flavouring from vegetables, 
the chief ones being onion, celery, carrot, and turnips. To do this take 
these vegetables and cut them into small pieces, place in a saucepan 
with sufficient water to cover them, and let them boil gently for several 
hours. The liquor when strained off is "stock," and can be flavoured 
with a small quantity of savoury herbs, pepper, salt, and ketchup, and 
can be coloured a nice brown with a few drops of Parisian essence. 

A more detailed account of the methods of preparing the invalid 
soups (leas and essences) will be found on p. 71. 



MILK DIET IN GOUT 449 

Meats. — Made-up meats are not suitable for the gouty, owing to the 
greater toughness of fibres induced by the second rooking, and also 
because of the admixture of rich sauces of various kinds which are 
usually added for palatability. Meats should be tender and simply 
prepared. The best ways of preparing are, in order— broiling, steaming, 
roasting, boiling, baking, stewing, and frying. The last mentioned 
should be avoided, especially in the case of beef and mutton. Although 
lamb and veal possess less extractive value than other meats, and are on 
that ground commendable, yet the gelatinous nature of the fibres makes 
them more difficult of mastication, and therefore less digestible. If 
allowed, this danger must be pointed out with a view of obviating it. 
Tripe, sweetbreads, kidney, and liver may all be allowed for occasional 
use, provided the very special cleaning and careful cooking necessary 
are given effect to. Salted meats are rendered more indigestible in the 
preparation, and should therefore be avoided. Bacon and ham are more 
digestible than pork. With regard to game, white flesh is more suitable 
than brown, and water-birds are more fatty than other game. 

Fish. — Fish are well calculated to form a large proportion of the 
dietary of the gouty. They contain on an average one-third less 
nitrogen than an equivalent amount of ordinary meat, and usually 
contain little or no fat. Fat fishes (salmon, mackerel, eels, pilchards^ 
red mullets) are equal in nitrogenous value to an equal amount of 
moderate fat beef. There is a very large proportion of water in ttie 
flesh of fish. When ordering, it is well to suggest those known to be in 
season and plentiful, as they will probably be in the best condition. As 
has already been mentioned, many nutritious soups can be made from 
them. 

Meat and hot-water cure. — Before leaving the subject of 
meat, reference may be made to the value of an exclusively 
red-meat diet in certain cases of chronic gout. The essentials 
of this treatment are the drinking of three to four pints of hot 
water daily, a pint to be taken before each meal, and the 
same quantity at bedtime, and the administration of one to 
three pounds of meat in the twenty-four hours. The details 
of this treatment are given elsewhere (p. 534). 

Milk and Milk Products. — As in the case of various other 
foods, there is much difference of opinion as to the value or 
necessity of a diet composed largely of milk, milk products 
and vegetables. In many cases a course of a strict milk diet 
is the most suitable, particularly in young and otherwise 
healthy subjects, but it is much less suitable for adults and 
the aged. Milk is highly nutritious, and when it is easily 
digested and no undue fermentation processes induced by its 
use, a limited course of milk diet is to be commended, the 

2 F 



450 GOUT, RHEUMATISM, RHEUMATOID ARTHRITIS 

amount and duration bcint;^ ref^ulatcd by the effects on the 
digestive system and by the attitude of the patient towards 
it. Alkalinity of the urine is favoured or increased by a full 
milk diet, yet an exclusively milk regime is probably in the 
main unfavourable. However, there is no doubt that the 
children of gouty parents should be brought up systematically 
on a diet in which milk and its products are the staple, and 
meat given in very limited quantities. This is specially 
important in those by no means infrequent cases where there 
is, in addition, a marked neurotic strain in the family. With 
the active and fixed habits of later life a meat-free diet is 
very rarely practicable, and is very seldom called for. 

Cream, forming as it does the most appropriate form of 
fatty food in the dietary of the aged, likewise constitutes an 
excellent form of fat administration in gouty subjects. It 
should preferably be taken with milk pudding or stewed 
fruit in an otherwise simple meal, or it may be used in the 
preparation of chicken cream, fish cream, or in various 
combinations with vegetables, when it takes the place of 
butter. 

Skimmed )nilk is more digestible than ordinary milk in all 
cases where fat is not readily digested, but in recommending 
it as a beverage or food regard must be paid to the amount 
of proteins and lactose present in it. 

Whey is a useful article in many cases. It is a pleasant 
and stimulating drink, with a certain food value from the 
lactalbumin, lactose, and mineral matter present. In some 
cases whey with cream make an admirable combination. 

The pure caseinogen of milk, now prepared by the 
Protene Company in the form of a flour, and made into 
biscuits and bread, is an appropriate form of protein 
administration. The taste, however, is an acquired one 
(p. 158). 

Cheese. — There is no reason why cheese should be 
forbidden. The ill-effects frequently attributed to it arise 
from the manner in which it is taken at the end of a meal, 
already excessive and badly assorted. Being a rich, 
albuminous food, and varying in the proportion of fat 
present according to the variety of cheese, it should not be 
taken in large quantity ; it should be well masticated, and it 



CARBOHYDRATES IN GOUT 451 

should be carefully distributed through the various vegetables 
or breadstuff's of the meal. 

It is well to recommend patients who are very fond of 
cheese to partake of one of the softer varieties, as, although 
less digestible, they are much less likely to be taken to 
excess (see p. 42). 

Eggs. — Eggs are an excellent dish for the gouty, and 
should form one of the staple breakfast dishes. They also 
constitute a very appropriate food constituent for the children 
of gouty parents, in whom the consumption of meat, and 
especially red meats, should be very limited indeed. It is 
well to remember that a hard-boiled egg takes three hours, 
and a soft-boiled or raw one, from one and a half to two 
hours for complete digestion. 

Carbohydrates. — The fact that gout is unknown in 
countries like Japan, where a strict vegetarian diet is 
common, clearly proves that, as a class, carbohydrates can 
by no means be the direct cause of the disturbance of met- 
abolism characteristic of gout. On the other hand, taken in 
considerable amount and with rich, nitrogenous foodstuffs, 
their use is frequently accompanied by some evidence of 
local disturbance in the alimentary canal, or general disturb- 
ance of metabolism in the tissues, either of which may be 
characteristic of a gouty condition. When this tendency is 
pronounced, the sum of the local and general effects produces 
typical gout in a more or less acute form, the manifestations 
depending on the age and constitution of the individual. In 
other subjects we find manifestations of irregular gout, and 
these, when well marked, may be regarded as equally typical 
of the gouty condition. 

Carbohydrates, and especially those of the saccharine 
group, are as a class to be regarded as more potent noxious 
agents than meat. A good rule with regard to them is to 
reduce the amount and simplify their form. Much informa- 
tion as to the diet appropriate for cases of gouty disorders 
may be obtained from the application of the test of the 
" pancreatic reaction in the urine " (see p. 377). A marked 
positive reaction is a special indication to restrict the 
carbohydrate and saccharine foodstuffs. 

Saccharine foods and dietetic accessories, c.^., jams 



452 GOUT, RHEUMATISM, RHEUMATOID ARTHRITIS 

marmalade, siic[ar, sweet cakes, are only to be partaken of 
occasionally and in small ciuantit)', and in not a few cases, 
especially of stout adults, arc to be studiously avoided. 

With regard to the strict vegetarian diet so eloquently advocated by 
Haig and others, the good effects undoubtedly derived in many instances 
depend, in the writer's opinion, on the simplicity of the whole diet, with 
the limited quantity of the chief nitrogenous ingredients, these being the 
two primary essentials in the dietetic treatment of confirmed gout. The 
following illustration may be given (Haig): — 

Breakfast — 

1 pint of milk. 

Bananas ^ 

Apples I 

Pears ad libituvt. 

Plums (fresh, dried, or cooked) 

Any other fresh fruit i 

Lunch — 

Vegetable soup made with milk. 

Plate of potatoes (with butter, oil, or milk), 

2 ounces cheese, eaten with potatoes and any other vegetables in 

season. 
Stewed fruit or tart. 
Fresh fruit 
I pint of milk drunk during the meal. 

Dinner — 

Much as Lunch, 
I pint of milk. 
I ounce cheese. 

A close analysis of this diet, which is recommended for a person in 
health, shows that it is not quite so simple as at first sight apparent, and 
while a diet for the gouty framed on very similar lines is undoubtedly a 
very beneficial method of treatment in some cases, in others it is 
altogether unsuitable ; see also " Lacto-vegetarian diet" (p. 520). 

Popular belief, partly supported by medical opinion, con- 
demns potatoes, but if used in moderation, and cooked and 
served with due precaution, there is no reason for prohibiting 
them, except in those special cases where they are definitely 
determined to be unsuited to the digestive capacity. 

When new and moist they are indigestible ; the best form is a well- 
boiled mealy potato in its skin, or the same put through a potato masher, 
A thoroughly well-baked potato is also good. When fried, or roasted in 
mutton dripping, or mashed with milk and butter, they are unsuitable 
in most cases. The other roots— turnips, carrots, parsnips, radishes, 
beetroots (also rich in sugar), artichokes, also cabbages, curly greens, 



BEVERAGES IN GOUT 453 

brussels sprout';, broccoli, and the green of cauliflower — should only be 
taken in small amount on account of their tendency to induce flatulence, 
etc. The following are more suitable : Spinach, flower of cauliflower, 
savoys, endive, lettuce, watercress, kale, leeks, onions, celery, cucumber, 
vegetable marrow, green peas, French beans. Asparagus has been con- 
demned by some writers on account of the nucleins in the young shoots ; 
also tomatoes and sorrel on account of the acids present ; but, as many 
typically gouty subjects can partake of them freely, it is probable that 
these objections have only theoretical importance. 

The green vegetables above mentioned can be freely partaken of in 
the form of salads, provided oily dressings and hard-boiled eggs are 
avoided. Mushrooms and truffles and other fungi are quite permissible 
in small quantities. The pulses (lentils, peas, beans, haricot beans) are 
not as a rule advisable, because it is not an easy matter to make the 
patient realise that their nutritive value is such that their use must 
influence markedly the amount and quality of the other articles 
consumed. 

With regard to puddin_^s, the simpler the better. Milk puddings, such 
as rice, sago, semolina, ground rice, etc., should be made without eggs 
in many cases. Suet puddings of all kinds are as a class to be avoided, 
but if made with breadcrumbs in place of flour, well boiled, and un- 
accompanied by a heavy sauce, they may be taken. If custards and 
omelets, sweet or savoury, are taken, the nutritive value of the eggs 
must be recognised. Jellies, blancmanges, lemon sponge, and creams 
may be taken in very sparing amount, and, as with other foods, a 
wise discretion is necessary both by the physician and by the patient. 
Fruits of all kinds in themselves are permissible, but must be taken with 
caution, especially in later adult life, and it is well to bear in mind the 
old saying, " Fruit is golden in the morning, silver at midday, and lead 
at night." Much depends on the amount of sugar used in the cooking 
and the accessories used at table. Crystallised fruits are quite unsuitable 
on account of the large amount of sugar present. For the same reason 
special care has to be taken with regard to dried fruits, such as plums, 
raisins, dates, and figs. 

Beverages. — To the confirmed gouty subject the question 
of what he ma}' drink is sometimes a more important one 
than that of what he may eat. Alongside of this question 
there is another bearing on the time — relationship to meals 
— at which various liquids should or should not be taken. 
Thus, it is as a general rule advisable to recommend alcoholic 
stimulants only to be taken with meals ; in other cases the 
consumption of fluids, of a non-alcoholic nature, may be 
wisely restricted mainly to the intervals between meals. 
Fluids may act prejudicially in two ways. In the first place, 
they may act injuriously in a mechanical way, i.e.^ by clogging 



454 GOUT, RHEUMATISM, RHEUMATOID ARTHRITIS 

the food elements, and at the same time diluting the digestive 
fluids, favour abnormal decomposition of the proteins and 
also carbohydrates. And, secondly, they may, in virtue of a 
specific action, lead to faulty nitrogenous metabolism in the 
digestive tract, and secondaril}', in the tissues. 

Like the question of diet, it is impossible to lay down 
definite rules applicable to the disease. Flverything depends 
on the age of the patient, his constitution, his previous history 
as to consumption of fluids of different kinds, the nature 
of the symptoms, and the reaction of the tissues to various 
fluids. Specially is this so with the use of alcoholic 
stimulants. While there is no doubt that the subjects of 
inherited gouty tendencies are better without any form of 
liquor, this is frequently not so in the case of the patients 
more or less habituated to the use of stimulants. In judging 
of the suitability of the various liquors, we must have regard 
to the usual methods of preparation of the individual 
beverages, e.g., beer, claret, champagne, etc., and to their 
common defects as recognised by experts in the trade 
(see p. 147). With regard to alcoholic beverages, points already 
referred to are of supreme importance. The decision as to 
what any given subject can take, may only be arrived at 
after a careful study of the history, diet, and state of muscular 
activity in each case. There is no doubt that malt liquors 
and sweet wines are much more injurious than other liquors. 

The sweet wines include champagne, Madeira, port, 
sherry. Malmsey, and Tokay ; also porter, ale, and cider. 
Burgundy, Bordeaux, Rhine, and Moselle are almost void of 
sugar, and are therefore more suitable. The greater acidity 
of Burgundy and the Rhenish wines makes them, on the 
whole, less suitable than claret and Moselle wine. 

German beer, e.g. lager, can frequently be taken with 
impunity when even one glass of the British beers will induce 
some acute disturbance. 

The free consumption o{ water C2i\\ be safely recommended 
to many, but not to all gouty subjects. In the case of stout 
adult plethoric subjects it may be advisable to restrict its use 
to early morning and late evening. The water is, as a rule, 
best taken on an empty .stomach. With regard to tea, coffee, 
and cocoa, when suitably prepared these beverages may be 



MINERAL WATERS IN GOUT 455 

partaken in moderate amount, Ijut idiosyncrasies in their use 
are very often encountered. To some, cocoa is specially 
injurious, to others the daily consumption of coffee is soon 
followed by digestive and other disturbances, and in these 
cases special restrictions are called for. The amount of sugar 
allowed should be small. All szvect beverages should be 
restricted or cut off, more especially if they be in addition 
aerated. 

The administration of the alkaline and mineral waters is 
so closely related to the question of food and drink that 
special attention may be directed to it. 

Mineral Waters. — The various waters in common use are 
recommended for one of the following reasons : — 

i. A purely purgative action. 
ii. A diuretic action, 
iii. A diuretic and medicinal action. 

Of tJie purgative ivaters. — Franz Joseph is one of the most 
palatable, and its action is mild. Apenta, a bitter and 
faintly sulphurated water, is also mild, and much favoured. 
Hunyadi Janos, i^isculap, Friedrichshall, and Carlsbad are 
all bitter aperients, with a more powerful action, but are all 
suitable for occasional use. A teaspoonful each of sulphate 
of magnesia and sodium phosphate in half a tumbler of water 
may also be commended The action of these waters is 
hastened by admixture with hot water, and they should be 
taken the first thing in the morning. The continual daily 
use of any mineral water or saline purgative is not, however, 
desirable. 

Of t/ie diuretic waters. — Some are palatable, and are taken 
as table waters ; others are specially suited for a short course 
of home treatment, and should be taken thrice daily on an 
empty stomach for a period of two or three weeks. The 
table-waters, which are aerated, include Apollinaris, Brires- 
born, Johannis, Seltzer, St Galmier, and Salutaris, which is a 
distilled water of English manufacture. The other group is 
represented by Contrexeville, a mild water containing 
sulphate of lime and magnesia, and Vichy water (bicarbonate 
of soda the main saline), of which there are several varieties. 
Celestins is the best known, but the Grand-Grille and 



456 GOUT, RHEUMATISM, UHEUMATOII) ARTHRITIS 

Hautcrive mav also be employed with benefit. Sulis water 
from the springs at Bath is also useful. 

Diuretic and medicinal action. — Occasionally the presence 
of anrcmia, rheumatism, or some pelvic disorder suggests the 
use of other waters. Thus Levico (arsenic and iron) is useful 
in anaemia. So also is Schwalbach (Weissenbrunn preferred) 
and La Bourbule, the former being especially useful in 
rheumatic cases. Kissingen, a saline gaseous aperient water, 
is valuable in various uterine and other pelvic disorders in 
gouty subjects. 

The foregoing only represents a few of the mineral waters 
available ; artificial representations of many of these and 
other waters are prepared in this country and sold in tabloid 
form. 

Illustrations of Treatment. — From the foregoing outline 
of treatment it will be evident that the dietetic measures 
vary enormously with the different stages and very diverse 
manifestations of the disease. Every case of gout is a new 
problem in treatment I have thought it well to give 
further point to this by recording in detail a series of illus- 
trative cases, and have selected a few which have been under 
my observation for a lengthened interval, so that I am in the 
position to speak with accuracy of the effects of the different 
regime recommended in each case. 

I. Mr A., ait. i6, schoolboy. — Marked hereditary history 

of gout. 

i. Erythematous eruptions, 
ii. Pharyngitis and tonsillitis. 
iii. Nail disorders. 

This case is selected to illustrate some clinical features of 
gout in the young subject, and also to emphasise the rational 
prophylactic treatment of the disease. The patient is a tall, 
big-boned, muscular subject whose weight is distinctly above 
the average for his height and years, fie excels in athletics, 
being an adept football player, golfer, and swimmer. His 
home surroundings have been of the kind most favourable 
to the full indulgence of a keen appetite and sound digestion. 
His diet is plentiful and rich, and all his life he has been in 
the habit of drinking large quantities of milk independently 
of much nitrogenous food at ordinary meal-times. Scotch 



GOUT— ILLUSTRATIVE DIETARIES 457 

oatcakes, butter and jam are a special weakness. He is a 
total abstainer 

The case admirably illustrates the treatment appropriate 
to the disease. His symptoms develop after a slight or 
marked excess in diet, more especially if jams or other 
sweets have been largely consumed, on which occasions there 
has been no abatement in the amount of red meats and other 
nourishing foods. The occasions of these various congestive 
attacks in a young subject are probably, as with the par- 
oxysms in adults, to be explained as the result of long- 
standing over-nutrition, with deficient elimination, and the 
excess immediately preceding the attack has merely strained 
the capacity of the tissues — intestinal viscera and general cell 
life — to breaking point. The general plan of treatment 
appropriate to such a case may be briefly summarised — 

(i.) Moderation in diet — a slight all-round diminution of 
the total quantity of food consumed at each meal ; the 
acquirement of self-control. 

(ii.) Restriction and gradual cessation of the milk-drinking 
between foods, and also a diminution in the amount of fluid 
drunk at meal-times. His habit is to drink very large 
quantities of fluid at the different meals, which fluid would 
be more wisely taken in the intervals, 

(iii.) Limitation of the jams, sweets, and fruits, of which 
he partakes inordinately, also care in the consumption of the 
various sweet summer beverages. (These patients are as a 
rule addicted to sweets of different kinds.) 

(iv.) Daily satisfactory evacuation of the bowels, by arti- 
ficial means if necessary. In any case, to be supplemented 
by an occasional saline (once in eight or ten days). 

2. Mr B., aet. 26, mason. 

i. Chronic articular gout. 
ii. Lithaemia. 
iii. Acute exacerbations. 

This case is selected to illustrate some points in the 
dietetic treatment of the disease in its more acute phases. 
The patient was a hospital one, and I have not the same 
knowledge of the later history in this case as of the others ; 
but the points that I wish to emphasise are sufficiently 



4!S8 GOUT, RHEUMATISM, RHEUMATOID ARTHRITIS 

brought out by the notes available. Unlike the others 
recorded, this patient was in the habit of passing large 
quantities of free uric acid, and he was thin, weak, and 
slightly cachectic in appearance. 

After recovery from the acute attack patient was gradu- 
ally put on a light hospital diet, as follows : — 

Breakfast — Porridge and milk, toast, tea, and frequently an egg. 
Dinmr — Soup, bread, and fowl, fish, or red meat, with potatoes ; or fish, 

fowl, or meat and potatoes, with a pudding ; occasionally green 

vegetables. 
Tea — Tea, bread and butter. 

And in addition a cupful of milk was taken either alone or 
with soda-water twice daily. During this time patient was 
making a very slow recovery, being continuously very subject 
to sharp recurring pains in different regions, excessive weak- 
ness in the feet, hands, etc., and he was in this state when he 
left the hospital to go to the Convalescent Home for four 
weeks. 

His diet then was as follows : — 

1. Porridge, tea, bread and butter. 

2. Fish or fowl, bread, potatoes, rice or other milk pudding. 

3. Tea, bread and butter. 
■ 4. Porridge and milk. 

The most important differences between this and his former 
diet were the absence of all soups, red meats, and green 
vegetables. Under this regime he improved very materially, 
and, for him, very rapidly. The pains diminished and soon 
disappeared ; he gained 6i lbs. in weight in four weeks. He 
tiow felt well. 

On his return to hospital for further observation his diet 
was inadvertently changed back to his former hospital diet 
with immediate unfortunate results. The pains reappeared, 
the stiffness and weakness became accentuated, and at least 
one of the former weak spots became swollen, red, and tender 
within thirty-six hours after his return to hospital. His 
appetite and digestion remained apparently unaffected, the 
tongue was slightly furred, and the total amount of food con- 
sumed was actually less in amount than it had been at the 
Convalescent Home. No actual acute attack developed, but 
his whole metabolism was deranged, and he lost 3^ lbs. within 



GOUT- ILLUSTRATIVE DIETARIES 459 

six cla\'s. Even allowiiif^ for the chaiif^e of air incurrccl on 
his return to the hospital, the case was a perfect picture of 
the profound influence of diet on the disease. If we analyse 
the altered circumstances which led to the derangement of 
metabolism, there is no doubt that the soup was prejudicial, 
and mainly because it interfered with the normal local metab- 
olism of the proteins in the diet. There is also every reason 
to believe that the milk taken in the course of the hospital 
diet was not calculated to give the various glandular secre- 
tions the rest requisite for their due functional activity. 
Other points there may be, but these will suffice. In gout, 
as in health, the tissues can cope with a range of diet within 
vvhich no untoward effects result. The "convalescent" diet 
was the more physiological one, and a reference to its nature 
and amount clearly shows what nature is willing and able to 
do. Further, that diet could certainly be modified in different 
directions, e.g. to include vegetables without detriment so 
long as the necessary rearrangement of the diet was made. 

There are not a few cases like this one in respect of the 
noxious influence of soup, but in this connection regard 
should be paid to the points in the composition of soup 
already referred to. With regard to the meat, this patient is 
an illustration of a type in which all red meats are better 
avoided. Whatever the exact cause may be, there are cases 
of gout when the reaction of the tissues to intestinal influ- 
ences is more marked and more unfavourable if red meats are 
a component of the diet, and these should be dieted accord- 
ingly. But such cases are exceptional. 

3. Mrs C, aet 32, married ; two children. — Hereditary 
history of gout. 

i. Neuralgia. 

ii. Pains in great toe joints and legs, 
iii. Acute gout. 

This patient is a big, well-built woman of active bodily 
and mental habits, with keen appetite and excellent digestion, 
which she is in a position to gratify, although she does not 
eat immoderately. Her weight well exceeds the average for 
her height and years. She occasional!)' has a glass of claret 
to dinner, and takes very exceptionally a glass of beer to 



4G0 GOUT, RHEUMATISM, RHEUMATOID ARTHRITIS 

lunch, Ihe latter is a ijcvcragc of which she is particularly 
fond, but she indulges very occasionally, as she has long 
recognised that it was prejudicial to her. This case illustrates 
well the ill-declared t)'pc of gout that is more frequently 
seen in Scotland than the truly typical form. 

The special treatment may, then, be summarised as 
follows : — 

(i.) A slight all-round restriction in the quantity of food 
consumed. The lunch to be mainly if not always a vegetable 
one, and red meats to be replaced by chicken or fish for 
dinner, once or twice in the week. Sweets of all kinds only 
to be partaken of sparingly. The principal meal to be taken 
dry ; one small glass of claret to be taken occasionally at 
dinner if desired. Beer is better avoided in this case. Water 
to be drunk freely between meals, and a tumbler of hot water 
taken at night. 

(ii.) More systematic exercise. Sharp walking or cycling 
in place of driving, supplemented by ten minutes' physical 
exercise daily, preferably after morning bath. 

(iii.) Attention to the bowels. As the bowels move daily 
without an aperient, all that is required is the use of a mild 
yet active saline every week or ten days. Further measures 
will probably be necessary at the monthly periods, as the 
patient, like many others of a like habit of body, is prone to 
undue states of depression in the premenstrual period. 

5. Mrs D., aet. 55. 

i. Peripheral neuritis and vascular disturbances, 
ii. Lumbago, 
iii. Headaches, 
iv. Tophi. 

Mrs D. is a stout, typically gouty-looking subject, of 
plethoric habit, who has lived an active town life and has 
lived well. Of late years she has restricted her diet slightly, 
more, however, in accord with the teachings of her own 
experience than as a result of medical advice, which she 
seeks but does not readily follow. There is a distinct 
hereditary history, a brother and two uncles being afflicted 
with well-defined gouty manifestations. Patient has on the 
whole been a very healthy woman ; she has had ten children. 



GOUT— ILLUSTRATIVE DIETARIES 461 

Owing to the long-standing nature of the disease, with 
the associated greater instability of tissue metabolism and 
lessened power of resistance in the intestinal tract, the 
treatment will obviously differ in detail from any of those 
previously recorded. It may be well, in the first place, to 
give in full the diet which she has taken and finds well 
adapted to keep her free from gouty manifestations : — 

Breakfast. — Avoiding kidneys, steak, liver, and all made-up dishes, and 
only taking one solid, e.(^., fish of any kind (except salmon and 
fatty fishes which do not agree with her), one or two eggs, or bacon 
and egg ; one breakfastcupful of freshly made tea with not more 
than one piece of sugar. Toasted bread, Vienna rolls, or other 
bread (not too new or doughy), with butter. Marmalade or jam to 
be taken only in very small quantity, and even then not to be taken 
every day. 

Lunch, to be mainly vegetables. — Selections from the following : tomatoes 
cooked or raw, macaroni dressed in various ways, salads, celery, 
cauliflower au gratin. Bread, brown bread, Vienna rolls, or any 
form of unsweetened biscuit ; small piece of mild cheese, if desired. 
Small quantity of fruit, one of the following : an orange, raisins, 
apples, figs, dates, walnuts. Half an ounce of whisky in half a 
tumblerful of soda-water. 

Afternoon Tea. — One or two small cups of tea, with a very thin slice of 
bread and butter, or a piece of very light cake. Very little solid 
should be taken, and especially no rich cakes. 

Dinner. — The dinner to consist of three courses, to which fruit can be 
added, if not taken to lunch. The diet to be arranged on the 
following plan — 



I 


2 


3 


4 


5 


Soup, 


Fish, 


Soup, 


Fish, 


Soup, 


Meat, 


Meat, 


Entree,' 


Meat, 


Fish, 


Pudding, 


Savoury. 


Pudding, 


Pudding. 


Savoury 


Fruit. 




Fruit. 







Care has to be taken that on the nights when meat is taken the soup 
should be of a lighter character, e.g., clear brown, rice, or fish soup. 
Similarly on nights 2 and 4, the fish should be of the lighter kind, e.g., 
whiting, haddock, or sole. On the 5th night the soup can be richer, e.g. 
oxtail or kidney with a light fish, or the soup may be light and the fish 
more rich, e.g., turbot, halibut, or skate. No more than two vegetables 
are to be allowed, and then in sparing amount — a sauce to be reckoned 
as a vegetable. (Half an ounce of whisky in not more than half a 
tumblerful of water the only safe beverage for constant use.) Claret, 



' bweeibiead, tiipe, diickeo, labbiU 



462 GOUT, RHEUMATISM, RHEUMATOID ARTHRITIS 

champagne, and whisky are the only drinks lor which patient has any 
regard. The puddings recommended are milk puddings of various 
kinds, and stewed fruits made with small quantity of sugar. 

Suet puddings only to be taken in sparing amount, and then only 
when the other courses are of the lighter nature. Jellies and creams can 
be taken sparingly, meringues (a special weakness) to be avoided. 
Bananas and strawberries are best avoided. Small cup of cafe noir 
prepared without sugar. 

Are any medicinal remedies called for? As the patient 
is a sensible woman and fully appreciates the very small 
influence which drugs have exerted in her disease, none 
should be recommended with the exception of the constant 
use of a vegetable pill, and frequent use of the saline already 
referred to. 

This case is a fair illustration of a not uncommon type 
in which the purely vegetarian diet, so eloquently advocated 
by Haig, is not applicable in treatment, and even if it were 
advisable, there is not the remotest possibility of its being 
carried out. With regard to exercise, as the patient is of an 
active temperament, and has a considerable amount of 
muscular exercise in connection with her household duties 
and numerous outdoor interests, no further recommendations 
are called for. Further, it would be well for her to arrange 
to have her annual holiday occasionally at a health resort, 
where a full course of hydropathic treatment under medical 
directions will be useful in working off the effects of 
the occasional or frequent deviations from the paths of 
physiological righteousness, which may be regarded as a 
part of the clinical history of the disease ; and in the 
intervals, and for the same* purpose, an occasional 
course of diuretic remedies will be found of the greatest 
service. 

Summary. — It may be well now to tabulate the principal 
points which should be kept in view in the general manage- 
ment of all cases. 

1. When a hereditary tendency exists in children, habits 
of extreme sobriety in eating and drinking should be 
cultivated, and the diet should be mainly a milk, vegetarian, 
and light meat one (pp. 200, 526). 

2. When the disease is established there is no routine 
treatment, and the details will not be the same in any two 



GOUT 463 

cases. Attention should, however, be directed in turn to 
the following : — 

(a) The diet and state of the digestive tract. 
(d) The amount and nature of the exercise indulgcri in. 
(c) The functional activity of the skin and kidneys. 
(rtT) The state of the central nervous system. 

3. The quantity of food should be determined by the 
amount of active exercise. Three meals a day only to be 
taken, and those to be of a simple character. 

4. When in doubt as to which set of food constituents to 
cut off, begin with the carbohydrates, and especially the 
saccharine substances. In not a few cases the latter may 
require to be completely cut off, and in every instance 
special care must be exercised in the admixture of carbo- 
hydrates with the fats and nitrogenous foodstuffs. As 
already pointed out, the examination of the urine for "the 
pancreatic reaction " is of special value as a guide to 
dietetic treatment. 

5. Thorough mastication of the food is all-important, and 
strict attention to the evacuation of the bowels a necessity 
(with, in addition, an occasional saline). 

6. Fluids and beverages. — («) Alcohol in any form is 
better avoided, except in subjects who are more or less 
habituated to its use, in which case the liquor taken should 
be the one which is known by the patient to be least 
detrimental to him. On no account should drinks be mixed. 
All sweet wines and malt liquors should be avoided, unless 
the patient is satisfied from careful observation that these 
are not prejudicial to him. The stimulant should be taken 
in a measured quantity and with meals. 

{b) The free use of the alkaline table-waters is to be 
commended, care being taken that an excessive amount of 
fluid is not taken with the meals. 

(<:) A tumblerful of hot water at night and an occasional 
course of mineral waters taken on an empty stomach are 
useful eliminants. 

Chronic Rheumatism. 

The causation of chronic rheumatism is not exactly 
known. Our present knowledge indicates that an important 



46i GOL'T, RHEUMATISM, RHEUMATOID ARTHRITIS 

factor in rheumatism is a poisoning of the system by a poison 
absorbed from a latent catarrh, such as is frequently present in 
the digestive tract, uterus, bladder, or other mu«ous membrane 
(see Auto-intoxication). In the presence of a weak spot of 
this kind, diet frequently acts as an exciting cause. It may 
do so in virtue of one or other of the following defects : — 

1. Excess of animal protein foods, such as is involved in 

taking a rich meat diet twice or thrice daily, with 
a resulting excessive putrefaction of proteins. 

2. Excess of sugars, jams, etc., such as is involved in 

taking four or five cups of tea daily with much 
sugar, also marmalade and jams, sweets and 
chocolate, with abnormal fermentations as a sequel. 
The careful application to the urine of the test known 
as the pancreatic reaction (p. 377) is of great value 
as indicating whether there is any excess of farinaceous 
or saccharine foods. 

3. Excess of fruits. 

An excess in either of these directions may induce all 
the symptoms of chronic rheumatism. In a few cases the 
patient is aware that certain articles of diet induce his 
rheumatism, and under these circumstances the use of such 
foods or drinks should be avoided or restricted. There is 
no question that some rheumatic subjects keep themselves 
free from pain on a lacto- vegetarian diet (p. 520). No hard 
and fast rules can be laid down. In the investigation of 
rheumatic cases, careful attention must be directed to the 
dietary of the patient for a long time prior to the develop- 
ment of rheumatic symptoms. Has the patient indulged 
too freely in animal "protein foods"? e.g., indulging in a rich 
red-meat diet twice or thrice daily. Has he been in the 
habit of taking a large amount of sugar, in the form of sugar 
in his tea, jam, fruit, and the like ? Has he partaken of 
beer or other alcoholic liquors to an extent which is prejudicial 
to him ? e.g., taking a little of beer daily to lunch over a 
lengthened period, when leading a comparatively sedentary 
life. And lastly, has there been in operation any con- 
tributory factor, such as constipation, the existence of which 
would be an important contributing factor ? 



RHEUMATISM 

Most cases of rheumatism can be cured by 
these points. In conclusion one may formulate t\ 
general rules : — 

1. The diet should be a simple one, taken ^ 

intervals, and eaten slowly. When the digestion is 
good and the appetite strong, a large amount of 
food may be taken provided it be of a simple nature. 
Special care must be taken to prevent constipation. 

2. Any article of food or drink which the patients have 

good reason to believe detrimental should be with- 
held or taken in sparing amount. Their nature 
frequently gives a clue to the nature of the faulty 
metabolism present. In this connection it is 
important to note the periodic nature of the 
symptoms, e.^. recurrence of " rheumatism " at the 
fruit season. 

3. More fluid should be taken. Most rheumatic subjects 

drink too little. The writer has had under his care a 
lady affected with chronic rheumatic pains who passed 
only from 6 to 8 ounces of urine daily. Similar 
cases are far from uncommon. Plain water, hot 
water night and morning, or Lithia water, to the 
extent of about 15 to 20 ounces (two tumblerfuls) 
should be taken daily, on an empty stomach, 

4. If the patient can furnish no clue as to dietetic error, 

and if the pancreatic reaction of the urine is of a 
negative character, the best plan is as follows: — 
(a) Reduce the diet, making it as simple as possible, 
and if that does not suffice, cut off meat foods, putting 
the patient on a lacto-vegetarian diet, care being at 
the same time taken that no excess of sugar is taken 
in the dietary. Special value in some cases attaches 
to the use of buttermilk, of which a detailed account 
is given on p. 540. 

Rheumatoid Arthritis, 

There are few chronic diseases in which special attention 
to the gastro-intestinal tract by means of diet and other 
measures is of greater importance than that group of 
diseases comprised under the term Rheumatoid Arthritis. 

2 G 



*^j6 gout, iuielm.mism, rheumatoid arthritis 

The disease is one which attacks j'ounc^ people, adults, and 
elderly subjects, and its onset may be acute, subacute, or 
chronic. The dietetic treatment will therefore vary according 
to the age of the patient and the stage of the disease. The 
exact causation of this disorder is unknown, but there is good 
reason for believing that it is of bacterial origin, the source 
of the infection being the gastro-intestinal tract (including the 
oro-pharynx) or the genito-urinary tract. In support of the 
view that the gastro-intestinal tract is a source of the 
toxaemia, we have the fact that the stools are usually pro- 
foundly deranged, being for the most part ill-formed, 
pultaceous, and extremely foetid. Whether this derange- 
ment is a primary or secondary factor in the disease is for 
practical purposes immaterial ; the important point is to 
recognise its existence, and to aim at its correction by 
means of diet and other measures, since there is ample 
evidence that this can frequently be done, with a corre- 
sponding improvement in the symptoms, or apparent cure. 

The view is often expressed by authoritative writers that 
there is an important distinction between gout and rheumatoid 
arthritis in regard to the diet appropriate to the two diseases, 
the former necessitating a "sparing" diet, the latter a "generous 
dietary." This distinction is only partially true, and much 
harm has, in the author's opinion, followed from the general 
adoption of a dietary based on the assumed correctness of this 
view. Cases of rheumatoid arthritis are frequently seen, which 
have previously been treated with little or no success on a 
"generous" diet, in which the substitution of a dietary of less 
than half the nutritive value is followed by a striking and 
permanent improvement. These are invariably cases in 
which the careful examination of the stools has shown an 
unusually septic condition of the alimentary tract, a state of 
affairs which, it should be added, may exist without subjective 
symptoms of gastro-intestinal disorder. More commonly, 
however, there is a history of constipation, diarrhoea, flatu- 
lence, discomfort after food, or other symptoms of gastro- 
intestinal derangement. 

In many cases of rheumatoid arthritis, in which there is 
reason to believe that the infection of the system is taking 
place from a neglected catarrh of the uterus or bladder, there 



RHEUMATOID ARTHRITIS 467 

is an associated derangement of the large intestine, shown 
by the septic state of the intestinal evacuations, and in these 
cases it is of equal importance to pay special attention to the 
diet. In contrast to the large group of cases of rheumatoid 
arthritis referred to as having been fed, to their detriment, 
on an over-generous diet, reference must be made to other 
cases in which the reverse holds good. We occasionally see 
cases, often of an advanced character, in which the patients 
have dieted themselves on a " system," usually of a vegetarian 
or pseudo-vegetarian character, where the diet in use, either 
from its poor nutritive value or from its unfavourable influ- 
ence on the growth of the intestinal bacteria, has accelerated 
the progress of the disease. 

As already indicated, the onset of the disease may be 
acute, associated with a varying amount of febrile disturb- 
ance, which may persist for weeks ; as a rule, however, the 
onset is slow and insidious. The dietetic treatment of the 
acute phase of the disease is the same as that for acute fever 
(see Chap. XVI.) ; the diet for the subacute and chronic stages 
of the disease is a more difficult matter. The one point which 
has to be kept in mind is that the patients have frequently 
been living on a diet which has been favourable to the patho- 
genic action of the bacteria which normally abound in the 
intestine, as a result of which poisonous substances are 
absorbed into the system, and the intestinal evacuations are 
at the same time foetid in character. The diet must be 
altered in a manner which will lead to a more satisfactory 
state of the intestinal contents, as revealed by the passage of 
healthy stools. The diet appropriate to any given case can 
only be determined after a careful inquiry has been made 
into the past history of the case. There is good reason to 
believe that a diet which is rich in meat and other rich albu- 
minous foodstuffs promotes the multiplication of the intestinal 
bacteria in an unfavourable manner. Hence it is important 
to reduce the amount of meat, and more especially red meat, 
and further, to see that the meat when taken is given in a 
simple and easily digested form. There are some cases, how- 
ever, which are beneficially treated in the early stages of the 
disease by a protein dietary, the protein being given in a 
simple and easily digested form (see Protein dietary in 



468 GOUT, RHEUMATISM, RHEUMATOID ARTHRITIS 

Auto-intoxication, p. 347). We also know that a diet which 
is rich in vegetables, and especially green vegetables, leads 
to the formation of organic acids in the intestinal tract, 
which exercise a restraining influence on the bacteria in the 
bowel. On these grounds a lacto-vegctarian diet is to be 
commended. Great care has, however, to be taken in the 
selection of this diet, because of the flatulence and other 
disturbance that may be induced by a too largely vegetarian 
regime. Again, we know that the digestive secretions are, 
as a rule, weakened in this disease, and hence the diet must 
be framed in such a way as to throw the minimum strain on 
the digestive functions, while supplying ample nutritious 
material for the needs of the tissues. Hence the diet should 
be simple, the proteins, fats, and carbohydrates all being 
presented in a form which is easily digested and assimilated. 
In some patients it is a useful plan to give for two or three 
days at the outset of treatment nothing but skimmed milk and 
buttermilk. The last general point to which I would direct 
attention is the value of soured milk as an article of diet in 
this disease. Metchnikoff has pointed out that lactic acid 
bacilli exercise a restraining influence on the pathogenic 
action of the Bacillus coli communis and other intestinal 
bacteria, and one of the forms in which this can be admin- 
istered is buttermilk. In recent years soured milk has proved 
of decided value in the treatment of this disease. A fuller 
account of this regime is given on page 540. 

So long as there is intestinal derangement, as shown by 
the presence of foetid stools, with, it may be, constipation 
alternating with diarrhoea, the dietary should be framed 
along the following lines. Thorough mastication of the food, 
careful attention to the cleanliness of the teeth, and the 
avoidance of constipation, are of great importance in 
treatment 

8 A.M. : Breakfast. — Cup of tea or coffee, with little or no sugar ; an egg, 
boiled, poached, not fried ; or fish of a white variety, steamed, boiled 
or fried ; or well-cooked bacon, not combined with egg ; or slice of 
ham or tongue. Only one solid food should be taken. A crisp roll, 
or slice of toast, or bread not too new, with a little butter ; no 
marmalade or jam. 

II A.M. — Haifa pmt of soured milk, with a biscuit. 



RHEUMATOID ARTHRITIS 469 

Dinner. — Restricted to two courses. Fish and meat on alternate days. 
Avoid oily fishes, and made-up meats. No sauces with the meat. 
One vegetable only — cauliflower, celery, spinach, onion, or fresh 
beans. Potatoes and other tubers to be avoided. For pudding — 
custard, jelly, curds, stewed fruit, with little or no added sugar. 
Avoid milk puddings, pastry, suet, pancakes, and omelets. Half 
a pint of soured milk. 

4.30 P.M. — Cup of tea, with little or no sugar ; dry biscuit or rusk. 

Supper. — Either a cereal, e.g.., porridge or gruel with milk, and a little 
cream, or strong meat tea or chicken essence with toast. Half a 
pint of warm soured milk to be taken late at night. 

As soon as the bowel condition is improved, the diet, 
which is, so far, a non-fermentative one, may be increased in 
variety and nutritive value by the addition of more bread- 
stuffs and butter at breakfast, a third course, e.g., soup or 
biscuits and cheese to dinner, and the addition of fish or o.^'g 
to the evening meal. As soon as possible, extra fat should 
be added in the form of cream and butter. 



CHAPTER XXVII 

GLYCOSURIA AND DIABETES 

PAGE PAOR 

Introduction . . . 470 Hints on preparation of foods — 

Princip'es of treatment . . . 471 Menus 482 

General practical details re pro- Alimentary glycosuria . . . 489 

teins and carbohydrates, fruits, Mild diabetes .... 490 

vei^etables, beverages . . 472 Severe forms .... 490 

Introduction. — In health the ingestion of a mixed diet 
containing a moderate amount of sugar and starchy foods is 
not attended by the passage of sugar in the urine. The 
sugars and starches of the food undergo a series of chemical 
changes (see pp. 9, 1 5), being burnt up in the tissues, and form- 
ing a source of energy and heat production. In disease there 
is a defect in the mechanism of digestion and assimilation 
of carbohydrate foods, with the result that sugar appears 
in the urine (glycosuria). Even under normal conditions the 
power of sugar destruction in the body is not unlimited, since 
if a large excess of sugar be taken in the food, sugar appears 
in the urine. This is known as alimentary glycosuria. In 
all probabilit}' this alimentary glycosuria is simply the 
mildest form of the diseased state which in an advanced 
stage is true diabetes, or diabetes mellitu.s. In this condition 
the sugar in the urine is derived from the starches of the 
food as well as from the sugars. Diabetes may be of a 
mild or a severe type. In the former the amount of sugar 
in the urine can be controlled to a very great extent by 
diet ; in the latter, sugar continues to be excreted in the 
urine, it may be in large amount, even although the diet 
is free of sugar and starchy food. 

In every case in which there is doubt as to the severity of 
the disease, recourse should be had to a test diet. If a diet 

470 



DIABETES— PRINCIPLES OF TREATMENT 471 

free from carbohydrate (see later) does not cause the sugar to 
disappear from the urine, the patient is suffering from a 
severe form of the disease. Care must be exercised in the 
application of this test, and it is as a rule advisable not to 
apply this rigid test suddenly ; the carbohydrates should be 
cut off from the diet gradually over a period of several days. 
In every case we must ascertain what amount of carbohydrate 
food the patient can tolerate without the appearance of sugar 
in the urine ; in other words, given the presence of sugar in the 
urine, we must determine whether the condition is one of {a) 
alimentary glycosuria, {b) mild diabetes, or {c) severe diabetes. 
Principles of Treatment. — The main essential in treat- 
ment is to restrict so far as possible the amount of carbo- 
hydrates to the amount which the patient can assimilate 
without the appearance of sugar in the urine. This involves 
the use of foods rich in proteins and fats, and the restriction 
of, or it may be, the abstention from, all sugars and starchy 
foods. The deprivation of starchy foods in the form of bread 
and bread foods is a great trial to the patient. Most of the 
substitutes prescribed as diabetic foods are not very palatable ; 
they are, further, expensive, and to many the restriction 
becomes so irksome that the strictness of the dietary has to 
be relaxed. The diet must not be regulated exclusively by 
its effects on the urine. On a given diet the sugar may 
steadily diminish, while at the same time the general con- 
dition of the patient deteriorates. Further, the type of the 
disease has to be considered. Thus the dietetic treatment of 
diabetes in an obese adult or in an elderly subject is a 
simpler matter than the treatment of the severe form of 
the disease met with in young subjects in whom there is 
much wasting and general weakness. The weight of the 
patient is a very important guide in the treatment, and 
has to be continually noted throughout the progress of the 
disease. The toleration limit for carbohydrates is another 
factor to be noted. We must determine the extent to 
which the excretion of sugar can be affected by dietetic 
means, A further point that should be attended to is to 
make the changes in the dietary gradually ; iij many cases 
of diabetes there is danger associated with the sudden 
removal of carbohydrates. Lastly, it is important to make 



472 GLYCOSURIA AND DIABETES 

the food as appetising and varied as possible. Assistance 
in this direction will be found in the description of the 
Menus on pp. 481 et seq. 

In the successful dieting of diabetic patients the principle 
to follow is to exclude as much as possible the starches and 
sugars from the food ; to replace these important articles of 
food by fat, which is also a hydrocarbon, so that the body may 
not lack entirely fuel food. To do this, and still allow the 
diet to be varied and appetising, requires a considerable 
knowledge of foodstuffs and cookery. 

The main rules to be observed are as follows : — 

1. No sugar or articles of food containing sugar. 

2. Restriction of all foods that contain starch. 

3. The great deficiency caused by the above restriction to 

be made up by fat, and not by excess of meat. 

The lists on p. 473 give the allowable foods, and those 
that are not permissible, and upon this the menus are 
framed. It is unfortunately almost impossible to get a satis- 
factory diabetic diet that is not expensive. 

In these tables we see that milk is allowed only in limited 
quantities, on account of the 4 per cent, of carbohydrate 
in the form of lactose. This is the most assimilable form of 
sugar, and in severe forms of diabetes, when there is much 
impairment of digestion, it is probably often the best food, on 
account of its protein, its richness in fat, and the solubility of 
its sugar. If milk is considered inadvisable, an artificial milk 
can be procured free from sugar (from Messrs Clay, Paget, & 
Co., Ebury Street, Eaton Square, London ; or Messrs Callard 
& Co., Regent Street, London) ; this can be diluted with 
mineral water. Cream has mainly to replace milk in the 
special cookery, being almost free from lactose, and it has the 
great advantage in containing the most easily digested form 
of fat (see p. 40). 

The following recipe of home-made artificial milk pre- 
pared from cream can be taken in unlimited quantity by 
diabetics, and is a most useful article of food : — 

Sugar-free Milk. 
Place 4 tablespoonfuls of cream in i pint of water. Mix well. Allow 
to stand for twelve hours. Then skim off the fat and place in a second 



FOODS ALLOWED TO THE DIABETIC 



473 



Foods. 
May eat 

Butcher meat of all kinds except 
liver. 

Tongue, ham, bacon, or other 
smoked, salted, dried, or cured 
meats. 

Poultry, game. 

Fish of all kinds, fresh, salted, or 
cured ; shellfish, except the 
bodies of lobsters and crabs ; 
mussels. 

Animal soups, not thickened with 
any starchy materials ; beef- 
teas and broths. 

Eggs, dressed in any way. 

Cheese, cream cheeses, butter, 
cream. 

Greens, spinach, turnip-tops> 
French beans,^ brussels 
sprouts,' cauliflower.' 

Broccoli,' cabbage', asparagus,* 
seakale,' vegetable marrow, 
lettuce, cucumber, tomatoes, 
mushrooms, mustard and 
cress, watercress, endive* 
spring onions, leeks, celery, 
rhubarb, pickles. 

Oil, vinegar. 

Savoury jelly ; jellies and custards, 
sweetened with saccharin ; 
blancmanges made with isin- 
glass or gelatine. 

All nuts, except chestnuts ; olives. 



May not eat 

Sugar in any form. 

Wheaten bread, and ordinary 
biscuits of all kinds. 

Toast, rice, arrowroot, cornflour, 
oatmeal, sago, tapioca, maca- 
roni, vermicelli. 

Potatoes, carrots, parsnips, beet- 
root, peas, Spanish onions. 

Pastry and puddings of all kinds, 
and honey. 

All fruit, fresh and preserved, 
except lemons and unripe fruit. 

Liver. 

Oysters. 

Cockles and mussels, and crabs. 



Beverages. 

May take 

Tea, coffee, cocoa from nibs ; dry 
sherry, claret, dry Sauterne, 
Burgundy, Chablis, hock, 
brandy, whisky, and other 
unsweetened spirits ; un- 
sweetened aerated waters ; 
milk (limited to i or \\ pints 
daily); Kephir, sugar-free milk. 



May not fake 

Milk, except in limited quantities; 
sweet ales, porter, stout, cider ; 
all sweet wines, port, Tokay, 
champagne ; liqueurs ; fruit 
juices and syrups ; cocoa and 
ordinary chocolate. 



' These should be boiled in a large amount of water. 



474 GLYCOSURIA AND DIABETES 

vessel ; to this add water (cautiously), a pinch of salt, a trace of saccharin, 
and a little white of egg, until the fluid has the consistence and colour 
of ordinary milk. 

A second form of milk, containiiif^ only a little sugar, may- 
be made b)' dissolving cream, and especially Devonshire 
clotted cream, in water. 

A third artificial milk, practically free from sugar, can be 
made from Biogene powder and Milk albumin (Bonthron, 
50 Glasshouse Street, London), as follows: — 

To a glass of water a teaspoonful of cream and one or two table- 
spoonfuls of Biogene powder is added, and well mixed. 

The supply of abundance of fat is often a difficulty, but 
fish and vegetables should be cooked and served with a 
liberal amount of butter. The fat of beef and mutton and 
bacon is very suitable. Many patients can readily take the fat 
of cold roasted beef, and ham, or bath chaps (pig's cheek) ; and 
large quantities of fatty food can be taken in this way. 
Bone-marrow, which consists almost entirely of fatty material, 
may be used in the following ways : — 

Potied Meat. 

4 ounces of marrow-bone, 4 ounces shin of beef. Cut up the beef 
and marrow into small pieces ; place in a jar, with a little onion and 
pepper and salt ; just cover with water. Stew gently in a slow oven for 
three to four hours, until the meat is quite soft. 

Take out the meat and marrow, leaving the fluid in the jar. Pound 
the meat and marrow, or pass twice through the mincer until they are 
quite smooth. Add a little fluid from the jar in which they were cooked ; 
add pepper, salt, and spice, and mix all together into a paste. Place in 
small pots, and cover with clarified butter, to preserve it. 

Grilled Marrow-bones. 

Saw the bones into short lengths. Cover the ends with a paste made 
of flour and water, tie them in a floured cloth, and boil one and three- 
quarters to two hours. Remove the cloth and crust, set the bones 
upright on a dish covered with a hot napkin, and serve with dry, crisp 
toast. Serve very hot. 

Salmon, herrings, mackerel, sardines in oil, pate de foie 
gras, cream cheeses, rich sauces made with eggs, oil, and 
cream {e.g. mayonnaise), are all useful. If the excess of 
fat in the food gives rise to dyspepsia, a small quantity of 
brandy and water after meals aids digestion. 



I 



DIABETIC FOODS 475 

The want of sugar in the diet is greatly felt by most 
patients; — of the sugars, milk sugar (lactose), as in milk, is 
the least injurious ; but the sweet flavour can be replaced 
by saccharin and Saxin (coal-tar products), these being 
intensely sweet only require to be used in very small 
quantities ; prepared glycerine is also available as a sweeten- 
ing agent. 

Starch being quite unsuitable for diabetics, means that 
all the breadstufifs are cut off, and this is a very great 
deprivation. Bread ordinarily contains about 50 per cent, 
carbohydrate and 2 per cent, sugar. Various bread substi- 
tutes, known as diabetic bread and biscuits, and claiming to 
contain only a small quantity of the starch, are to be 
obtained ; but it should be noted that all reliable diabetic 
foodstuffs are expensive. The presence or absence of starch 
can easily be proved by the application of iodine and 
potassium iodide solution ; if the breadstuff turns deep blue- 
black it contains a large amount of starch, and is little better 
than ordinary bread. The diabetic breads are made from 
bran, gluten, casein ; and in recent years the oily nuts such 
as almond, cocoa-nut, hazel nut, and the soya bean have been 
largely used. The made-up breads, cakes, and biscuits can 
be procured direct from the makers (Blatchley, London ; and 
Callard & Co., London); or the ground nuts, etc., in the form 
of flour can be purchased and made up in the patient's own 
house. 

Almond flour or desiccated cocoa-nut powder made into 
biscuits is very satisfactory, and they contain a very consider- 
able quantity of fat. These both contain a little sugar, which 
is destroyed by the action of yeast in the preparation of the 
foods. Cocoa-nut, hazel nut, and pine seeds can also be 
procured in powder form, and made into biscuits and 
flavoured in various ways. Bran flour is another product 
which, if carefully prepared, is entirely free from starch ; this 
can be bought by the pound, and made at home into bran 
cakes or bread. 

Diabetic foods are either made up by the manufacturers 
or made at home from the specially prepared flours, as 
follows : — 

The following albumins may be used for the preparation 



476 GLYCOSURIA AND DIABETES 

of bread substitutes, puddings, etc., or in the cooking of food 
in place of breadcrumbs : — 

Vegetable albumins. — (i) Gluten flour, best specimens only contain 2 
to 3 per cent, starch (as supplied by Messrs Bischof & Brooke, 35 
Brooke Street, Holbum, London, E.C.)- (2) Glidine contains only 27 
per cent, starch, or less (Messrs Menley & James, Farringdon Road, 
London, E.C.). (3) Aleuront contains only 7 per cent, of carbohydrates 
(Messrs Callard, Regent Street, London). 

Milk albumins (all starch-free). — Protene (The Protene Co., 36 
Welbeck Street, London, W.) ; Plasmon (Plasmon Co., 56 Duke Street, 
Grosvenor Square, London); Biogeae (Mr Bonthron, 50 Glasshouse 
Street, London). 

Milk albumins. — Sanatogen (The Sanatogen Co., 12 Chenies Street, 
London, W.C). 

Bread Substitutes which are free fro7n Starch and 
satisfactory chemically. 

(i) From Bonthron, 50 Glasshouse Street, London — 
Casein biscuits (these are very Shortbread biscuits and Biobran 

palatable). drops. 

Casein bread. Biogene wafers, 

(2) From Callard & Co., Regent Street, London — 

Prolacto bread. Bran and almond bread. 

Cellulon bread. Kalari biscuits. 

Casoid bread. Rislacto biscuits. 

Casoid meal bread. 

(3) From Protene Co., 36 Welbeck Street, London — 

Protein bread. Protein brun bread. 

Protein biscuits. 

(4) From Plasmon Co., 56 Duke Street, Grosvenor Square, London — 
Plasmon diabetic biscuits. 

(5) From Huntly & Palmer's, Reading— Akoll biscuits. 

(6) From Messrs R. Summer & Co., of Liverpool — Tritumen bread. 
It is claimed that each roll contains as much assimilable albumin as 3 
ounces of meat or four eggs. 

(7) Brusson Jeune Co., Bedford Chambers, Covent Garden, London, 
prepare a crisp roll, not entirely free from starch, which is an excellent 
diabetic food. 

Home-made Diabetic Breadstuffs. 

Almond Cake, 
1 ounce almond flour. 2 eggs. 

Salt to taste. 
Beat the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth, add the almond flour, and 
beat well together. Spread out into a buttered baking-tin about half 
an inch thick, and bake in a moderately quick oven from fifteen to 
twenty minutes. 



j 



DIABETIC FOODS 477 

The mixture should be done quickly, and baked as soon as the 
ingredients are mixed. 

These cakes are much improved by adding a small quantity of gluten 
flour. 

Cocoa-nut or Almond Cakes. 
4 ounces desiccated cocoa-nut, German yeast. 

or almond flour. i &%%. 

I pinch of saccharin. 2 teaspoonfuls cream. 

The almond flour is mixed into a paste with a little water and the 
German yeast. Allow the mixture to stand in a warm place lor twenty 
minutes. Then add the ^%%., two teaspoonfuls of cream, and water suf- 
ficient to work the mixture. Divide into cakes and bake in a quick oven. 

Bran Cakes. 

4 ounces prepared bran flour. 5 eggs. 

I teaspoonful of bicarbonate of j pint of warm milk, 

soda 2 ounces butter. 

First mix the bicarbonate of soda with the bran flour, then beat up 
2 ounces of butter in a warm basin, shake into it the dry ingredients, 
beating with a spoon all the time. Next beat up the five eggs in a 
separate basin before the fire until quite warm, and stir them gradually 
into the mixture of bran flour, soda, and butter. Beat up all well for ten 
minutes, and add gradually the warmed milk. Place in buttered tins, 
and bake in a brisk oven for about ten minutes. The cakes are done 
when they will turn out of the tins quite easily. This will make about 
five cakes the size of buns. The cakes can be cut into slices, buttered, 
and toasted. 

Even more palatable cakes can be made with an equal mixture of 
bran and almond flour. The bran reduces the excessive richness of the 
almond flour and gives a pleasant flavour. 

Bran Bread. 
\ lb. bran (prepared). \ pint milk. 

2 ounces almond flour. 2 teaspoonfuls of bicarbonate 

3 ounces butter. of soda. 

6 eggs. I teaspoonful of tartaric acid. 

Place the butter in a basin and beat it to a cream, then add the 
almonds, and well beat ; add the eggs one at a time. Partly mix in the 
bran before adding the milk. Well mix the whole together, and place it 
in a well-buttered tin, and bake for an hour in moderate oven. 

Gluten Bread. 

I lb. gluten flour. i ounce ground almonds. 

\ lb. of prepared bran. 2 eggs. 

I ounce yeast. Pinch of salt. 

Make a sponge as for ordinary bread, and set it to rise. This will take 
about three-quarters of an hour. Then bake. 



478 GLYCOSURIA AND DIABETES 

The addition of a little ground almonds and 2 eggs is an improve- 
ment. 

Gluten bread in slices, cut into small pieces, soaked in butter and 
toasted or fried, is very palatable, and will be found a useful article in 
the preparation of many dishes. 

Further Directions for Home-made Bread Substitutes 

(Williamson). 

Protene Bread. 

4 ounces of No. 2 Protene,' i ounces of butter, 2 eggs. Beat all 

together thoroughly. Divide so as to form 8 small cobs. Bake in oven. 

Protene and Cocoa-nut Bread. 
Mix together i tablespoonful of lukewarm water, \ ounce of German 
yeast, 3 tablespoonfuls of desiccated cocoa-nut powder. Cover and leave 
in a warm place for about twenty minutes, until it is spongy ; then add 3 
tablespoonfuls of bran protene, a pinch of salt, i t.'g'g well beaten up with 
a little milk. Mix all well together, place into tins, bake twenty minutes 
or longer. 

Cocoa-nut Cakes. 

I ounce of German yeast, 4 tablespoonfuls of lukewarm water, 16 
ounces of desiccated cocoa-nut powder. Mix into a paste, adding a little 
more lukewarm water if necessary. Leave in a warm place for twenty 
minutes. Then add 2 eggs (beaten up in 3 or 4 tablespoonfuls of milk), 
and a little salt. Mix well. Place into 16 small dishes or tins (well 
greased). Bake in a moderate oven twenty or thirty minutes. These 
are the cheapest diabetic cakes. 

Almond cakes may be made in a similar manner, using almond flour 
in place of cocoa-nut powder. 

Aleuront and Cocoa-nut Cakes. 
For the preparation of these cakes, 2 ounces of desiccated cocoa-nut 
powder are mixed with a little water containing a small quantity of 
German yeast. The mass is then formed into a kind of paste, and this 
is kept for half an hour or longer in a warm place. The small amount 
of sugar contained in the cocoa-nut is almost entirely decomposed by the 
fermentation produced by the yeast, and the cocoa-nut paste becomes 
spongy. 2 ounces of Aleuront, i egg beaten up, and a small quantity 
of water, in which a little saccharin or Saxin has been dissolved, are now 
added to the cocoa-nut, and the whole well mixed until a paste is formed. 
This is spread out on a tin and divided into cakes, which are baked in a 
moderate oven for twenty or thirty minutes. 

Cocoa-nut and Plasmon Cakes. 
Mix together 2 tablespoonfuls of cocoa-nut powder, a little lukewarm 
water, and j ounce of German yeast, so as to form a stiff paste. Allow 

' No. 2 Protene can be obtained from The Piotene Co., 36 Welbeck Street, 
London, W. 



DIABETIC FOODS 479 

to stand (covered) in a warm place for about ten minutes, until it 
becomes spongy, then add 3 tablespoonfuls of Plasmon, a pinch of salt, 
I tablespoonful of glycerine, and i egg well beaten up with a little milk. 
Mix all together- Divide into 4 to 8 tins. Bake for twenty minutes or 
more. 

Protene and Almond Bread. 
Mix J ounce of German yeast with 2 tablespoonfuls of lukewarm water 
and I ounce of almond flour (ground almonds). Allow the mixture to 
stand in a warm place for ten minutes, then add 4 ounces of No. 2 
Protene, 1 egg (beaten up), a little salt, i| ounces of butter, and a little 
milk. Mix all well together with a fork, divide into cobs, or place into 
small tins, and bake. 

Glidine and Ahnond Cakes. 

3 tablespoonfuls of ground almonds ; 3 tablespoonfuls of Glidine ; 
\ teaspoonful of baking-powder. Mix all together. Beat up i egg in 
a little milk. Then mix all together. (If necessary, a little more milk 
may be added.) Place in small tins so as to make little cobs. Bake in a 
moderate oven twenty to thirty minutes. These cakes are soft, and taste 
best when buttered. They contain a very small amount of starch and 
sugar, but may be eaten in 7noderate amount by diabetic patients. The 
very small quantity of sugar may be destroyed by the action of yeast if 
the cakes are made in the following manner : — 

Place 4 ounces of ground almonds in one vessel. Mix \ ounce of 
yeast in about 2 or 3 tablespoonfuls of lukewarm water, add this to the 
almonds, cover, leave it in a warm place for twenty minutes, until it 
becomes spongy. Then put 4 ounces of Glidine into a separate vessel 
with \ teaspoonful of baking-powder. In another vessel beat up i 
^g<g in a little milk. Then mix all well together (almonds, Glidine, and 
c.g%) into a light paste, and if too thick add a little more milk. Drop 
with a spoon into small pots or tart tins to make 6 or 7 cobs. Bake in a 
moderately hot oven for twenty minutes or longer. 

These cakes may be taken in any quantity by all diabetic patients. 

Plasmon Biscuits. 

Plasmon 8 ounces, i &g% beaten up in milk. Mix well together into 
a light paste. Divide into cakes and bake for ten minutes. 

Bran arid ahnond bread^ almond bread, and gluten and almond bread 
may be prepared at the patient's home from flour supplied by Callard 
& Co. (London). 

Most gluten bread conia'ms so much starch that it is of little service. 
It should always be tested with iodine, and should be regarded as 
ordinary white bread, unless it is known to be one of the few specimens 
containing only a very small percentage of starch. When it is considered 
advisable to allow a diabetic patient a small quantity of white bread, 
3 or 4 ounces daily — this may be replaced by an amount of gluten bread 
containing the same quantity of starch as the 3 ounces of ordinary 
bread. The bulk of this quantity of gluten bread will be much greater 



480 GLYCOSURIA AND DIABETES 

than that of the equivalent white bread. Many patients much prefer the 
small quantity of ordinary bread to its more bulky equivalent of gluten 
bread : but to lome patients the more bulky gluten bread is more 
satisfying. 

There are a few specimens of gluten flour (such as preparations 
supplied by Messrs R. O. Bischof & Brooke, 35 Brooke Street, 
Holbom, London, E.C. ; and by J. Bonthron & Co., and Callard & Co., 
London, W.) which contain only 2 to 6 per cent, of starch. When the 
medical man has ascertained, by his own testing with iodine, that the 
gluten flour only contains a very small percentage of starch, it may be 
used freely for the preparation of bread, puddings, pancakes, according 
to directions supplied by the various firms (provided these directions do 
not recommend the addition of ordinary flour). 

Diabetic spongecakes made from almond flour and 
sweetened with glycerine are excellent. 

Gluten macaroni and gluten vermicelli are quite appetis- 
ing articles. 

As a matter of practical experience in the treatment of 
diabetes, the complete deprivation of starch in the breadstufifs 
is found to be so great a trial, and becomes so irksome, that 
it is usually necessary and often desirable to allow a small 
amount of ordinary bread. 

Fruit when ripe, as a rule, should be avoided because of 
the large amount of sugar present, but in a few fruits — straw- 
berries, gooseberries, apricots, melons, and oranges — the sugar 
is in the form of levulose, and this^ as has been mentioned 
before, is more easily utilised by the tissues. Unripe fruits, 
gooseberries and raspberries, cranberries and rhubarb, 
sweetened with saccharin or neutralised with an alkali, have 
to take largely the place of ripe fruit. The " Forbidden 
Fruit," resembling a pale orange, contains very little sugar, 
and is suitable for diabetic patients. Diabetic marmalade, 
made with gelatine, glycerine, and orange juice and rind, is 
an attractive-looking compound, and a great boon to the 
diabetic's breakfast-table. Callard & Co. also make a diabetic 
jam which is almost sugarless. 

Vegetables. — Potatoes should not be taken by most 
diabetic patients ; if taken, they are best in the form of well- 
fried potato chips. A small amount of potato in this form 
makes a large dish, as the potato expands with cooking. 

Boiled walnuts are recommended as a substitute for 
potatoes. Place the shelled walnuts in an enamelled pan in 



DIABETIC MENUS 481 

boiling water and boil for thirty minutes; drain away the 
water carefully, place on a plate and sprinkle well with 
Aleuront flour or Glidinc. Add salt, pepper, and butter. 

In cooking green vegetables, butter and fat should be 
freely used ; and oil, eggs, and cream may be used with the 
salad dressings. 

Beverages. — Beverages containing carbohydrates to any 
degree should be excluded from the dietary. These include 
beer, porter, ale and stout, rum, sweetened gin, liqueurs, sweet 
lemonade, cocoa and chocolate, fruit wines and syrups, port, 
champagne, sweet wines, and Tokay. The beverages allow- 
able are water, soda-water, and mineral-water, tea, coffee, 
brandy, whisky, dry sherry, claret, Burgundy, hock, Moselle, 
most Rhine wines, and Hungarian wines. Citric acid lemon- 
ade, lo grs. to the pint, sweetened with 4 drams of glycerine 
or a little saccharin, is an admirable thirst-quencher, and the 
following are also suitable. 

Home-made lemonade (lemon juice and water) sweetened 
with saccharin or Saxin. 

Soda and lemon : squeeze a lemon, and add a glass of soda 
or seltzer water. 

A specially prepared diabetic cocoa is prepared, and 
also chocolate, flavoured with vanilla and sweetened with 
saccharin. 

Hints in the Preparation of Food eor the Diabetic 
ON A Rigid Dietary, with Menus. 

(The bread and biscuits recommended are always to be 
some of the diabetic bread substitutes.) 

Porridge and Puddings. 

Porridge or Gruel, made from almonds or cocoa-nut, can 
be prepared in the following manner : — 

A small piece of German yeast (the size of two peas) is dissolved in a 
little lukewarm water, and added to, and well mixed with 2 tablespcon- 
fuls of ground almonds. The mixture is allowed to stand in a warm 
place (by the fire) for half an hour or longer. The small quantity of 
sugar in the almonds is mostly or entirely destroyed by the action of the 
yeast, and the mixture becomes spongy. It may be sweetened with a 
trace of saccharin if desired. The consistence will vary according to the 
quantity of water which has been added. If the consistence is that of 
custard or rice pudding, the almonds may be eaten with stewed cran- 

2 H 



482 GLYCOSURIA AND DIABETES 

berries or other fruit as a puddini;. Or a little more warm water, or 
warm water and cream, may be added and the mixture will have the 
consistence of porridjje and milk, and may be taken in place of oatmeal 
porridge. By adding still a larger quantity of water a mixture like gruel 
may be made. Desiccated cocoa-nut powder may be used in place of 
ground almonds, and cocoa-nut pudding, porridge, or gruel may be thus 
prepared. The almond and cocoa-nut porridge and gruel are of great 
nutrilitive value, on account of the large amount of fat they contain. 

Porridge can also be made from protein flours supplied by Messrs 
Bonthron & Co. and by Messrs Callard & Co., London. 

Pudditigs, etc. — The following are some of the simpler 
puddings, which arc very suitable : — 

Cocoa-nut Pudding. 

Half-ounce of German yeast is mixed in a little lukewarm water with 
\ lb. of desiccated cocoa-nut powder. The mi.xture is kept in a warm 
place for fifteen mixtures Then h ounce of butter, a pinch of sa't, and a 
little milk are added. All must be well mixed. The mixture is placed 
in a pudding-dish, and baked in a moderate oven for twenty or thirty 
minutes until the surface is brown. This pudding can be eaten warm or 
cold. It may be taken with custard, and sweetened, if desired, with 
Saxin. 

Almond Pudding. ^ 

Take 4 ounces of ground almonds. Mix ^ of an ounce of German * 
yeast with a little lukewarm water. Add the ground almonds to the & 
yeast and water, and mix well. Allow the mixture to stand in a warm f 
place for fifteen minutes until spongy. lieat up one egg in a little milk, #' 
and add a little solution of saccharin. Then mix the egg with the ground 
almonds, place in a pudding-dish, and bake for about fifteen minutes. 

.Suet puddings or suet and almond pudding, and especially custard 
(made in the old-fashioned way from eggs and milk, and fiot from custard 
powder), are very suitable. To sweeten the custard or puddings, 
saccharin may be used. 

Suet pudding may be prepared from a milk albumin (pastry flour) 
obtained from Messrs Callard & Co. Directions are supplied along with 
the powder. 

Sweets for dinner, jelly, ices, creams, etc., almost free from carbo- 
hydrates, may be prepared by an intelligent cook from cream, eggs, 
butter, almonds, nuts, lemon, gelatine, vanilla, wine and brandy, and 
sweetened with Kristallose, saccharin, or .Saxin. 

Menus for six days are here given : — 

First Day. 
Breakfast — 

Tea and cream. 

Whiting fried in butter. .Squeeze lemon juice when served. Savoury 

omelet. 
Diabetic bread or diabetic toast. Butter. 



DIABETIC MENUS 483 

Lunch — 

Home-made lemonade sweetened with saccharin. 

Vegetable marrow stuffed. Cold ham. 

Cream cheese. Almond and bran biscuits. Gluten rolls. 

Dinner — 

Clear soup with mixed vegetables. 
Steamed halibut. Slices of lemon. 
I'lllet of beef and cauliflower. 

Green apples stewed, sweetened with saccharin. Cream, 
Whipped jelly. 

Cheese. Biscuits (made with gluten flour). 

Pancakes (made with gluten flour, milk, eggs, sweetened with 
glycerine). 

Stuffed Ve^^etable Marrow. 

Small marrows make an excellent dish, boiled and stuffed with the 
stuffing of mushroom forcemeat. The marrow should be firs* peeled 
very slightly, then cut long-way into three slices ; remove the pips, and 
fill the interior with the forcemeat. The forcemeat should be made hot 
before it is placed in the marrow ; if not, the marrow will be cooked before 
the stuffing is heated through. The marrow should be placed in boiling 
water and boiled until tender ; this takes about twenty minutes to half an 
hour. 

Mushroom Forcemeat. 

I lb. mushrooms. 2 hard-boiled eggs. 

Half-teaspoonful lemon juice. i ounce butter. 

The mushrooms after being cleaned should be chopped and fried in 
the butter ; lemon juice should be added before they are chopped in 
order to preserve the colour. Add two hard-boiled eggs to the mixture, 
and rub the whole through a wire sieve while hot. 

When hot this mixture is moist, but on standing gets hard. 

Savoury Omelet. 

1 teaspoonful chopped parsley. Herbs, savoury \ 

3 eggs. Pepper V for flavouring. 

2 ounces butter. Salt j 

Melt the butter in a frying-pan, beat up the eggs thoroughly, add a 
little pepper and salt, parsley and herb, pour the beaten-up eggs into 
the frying-pan as soon as the butter begins to frizzle, and with a table- 
spoon keep scraping the bottom of the frying-pan in every part. Go on 
scraping until two-thirds of the mixture have become lumpy. 

Now lift the pan a little off the fire, and push the omelet into halt 
the frying-pan. When nearly set, hold the pan in a slanting direction in 
front of the fire, and as soon as set, slide the omelet from the pan on to 
a hot dish and serve at once. 

This may be varied by addition of a little cooked fish grated 
cheese, tomato, ham, crab. 



484 GLYCOSURIA AND DIABETES 

Second Day. 
Breakfast — 

Tea or coffee with cream. 

Toasted sardines on fried gluten bread. Boiled egg. 

Bran bread. Butter. Marmalade. 

Lunch — 

Fried bacon served on a puree of spinach. 
Cauliflower au gratin with black butter sauce. 
Gorgonzola cheese. Gluten dinner rolls. 
Slice of almond pound cake (Messrs Callaid's). 

Dinner — 

Tomato puree. 

Steamed sole. Sauce HoUandaise. 

Boiled fowl. 

Carrageen jelly. 

Stufied tomatoes. 

Cauliftoiver au gratin. 

This makes a nice course by itself. The cauliflower should be boiled 

until quite tender. While boiling, remove any scum that rises to the top. 

When ready, lift it out, drain for a minute or two on a colander, and 

serve with black butter sauce poured over it. Sprinkle the sauce with 

Parmesan cheese. 

Sauce HoUandaise. 
Yolks of 4 eggs. i gill of cream. 

2 ounces Iresh butter. Pinch of pepper, salt, nutmeg. 

I teaspoonful tarragon vinegar. 

Place ingredients into small bowl. Stand it into large pan on the 
fire containing boiling water. Briskly whisk the sauce over the fire until 
it begins to thicken and presents a rich, smooth, creamy appearance. 
Great care is required to prevent it from curdling ; if, however, this 
should happen, add yolks of two more eggs. 

Stuffed Tomatoes. 
3 ripe tomatoes. i pinch mixed herbs. 

^ ounce of butter 2 mushrooms, or a teaspoonful 

I spring onion. Parmesan cheese. 

^ teaspoonful chopped parsley. Crumbs of i almond biscuit. 
Pepper and salt. 

Cut off the stalks, leaving a hole the size of a threepenny bit. 
Squeeze out the juice and pips. To the juice and pips add the onion 
chopped, the chopped parsley, mixed herbs, and the mushrooms or 
cheese. Melt the butter and fry the mixture. Then add sufficient 
almond biscuit crumbs to make the whole into a moist paste. 

Fill the tomatoes with the mixture until they resemble their original 
shape. 

Put a few crumbs and a little piece of butter on the top of each. 



DIABETIC MENUS 485 

Place the filled tomatoes in a baking dish and bake until tender, and 
moisten with a little oil or butter. Serve in a dish with fried parsley round. 

Carran^cen Jelly ^ or Irish Moss. 
Irish moss is a seaweed, and is collected on the northern shores of 
Ireland. Its nutritive value is slight ; it contains mainly mucilage, and 
also some iodine and sulphur. It should be well washed and soaked for 
some hours previous to cooking. The flavour is somewhat peculiar, but 
delicate, and to some very palatable. 

I ounce Irish moss. Lemon juice. 

I quart cold water. Saccharin to taste. 

Wash the Irish moss well, and soak it for several hours in cold water. 
Then put into a saucepan with one quart of cold water, and simmer 
slowly for from four to five hours. Strain, add the lemon juice, and 
sweeten to taste. Pour into a wetted mould and set aside until cold. 



Third Day. 
Breakfast — 

Tea and coffee, with cream. 

Scrambled eggs on toasted brown bread. Broiled kippered salmon. 

Gluten flour bread. Butter. 

Lunch — 

Cocoa nibs and cream. 

Chicken panada and green peas. Potted head. 

Imperial cheese. Gluten cracknels. Gluten flour scones. 

Dinner — 

Chicken broth. Thicken with almond flour. 

Fish souffle. 

Curry and French beans. (The basis of this is cocoa-nut, green 

apples, or green rhubarb.) 
Gluten and almond baked pudding. (Make as semolina pudding, 

using gluten and almond flour.) 
Savoury eggs. 

Sardines. — There are various forms in the market. The smallest fish 
are the best. They can be procured smoked or preserved with tomatoes. 
If rolled in slices of streaky bacon and fried, they form a very appetising 
dish. 

Girdle Scones. 

\ lb. of gluten flour. \ teaspoonful of cream of tartar. 

\ ounce of butter. Salt or saccharin to taste. 

\ teaspoonful of soda. \ teacupful of buttermilk. 

Rub butter into the flour and other dry ingredients ; make into a soft 
dough with milk. Form into a scone, or little breakfast rolls, or twists, 
and bake in oven for fifteen minutes. 



486 



GLYCOSURIA AND DIABETES 



S(i7'flt/ry Iti^s^s. 

3 haidhoilocl cj;ijs. I small piece of onion, chopped, 

i yill of cream. Pepper. Sail to taste. Mustard, 

i ounce of butter. i tomato. 

I tablespoonful of Parmesan cheese. 
Divide the eggs in half; take out the yolks. 

Mix together the yolks, cream, cheese, butter, onion finely chopped ; 
pepper, salt, and mustard to taste. Fill the white parts of eggs with the 
mixture. 

Cut six rounds of brown bread ; butter them ; on each piece lay a 
slice of tomato, and on this half of a filled e^g. Garnish the dish with 
cress. 

Alnipnd Pudding. 
2 eggs. \ lb. of almond flour. \ lb. of butter. 
2 tabloids of saccharin dissolved in a tablespoonful of brandy. 
Warm the butter, beat in the almond flour and the yolks of the eggs, 
adding the dissolved saccharin. Whisk the whites to a stif! froth ; beat 
all together. Put into small cake moulds, bake in a quick oven, and 
serve with a little hot sauce made with dry sherry and saccharin. 
Cocoa-nut pudding can be made in the same way. 



Fourth Day. 
Breakfast — 

Tea, coffee, or cocoa from nibs. 

Grilled kidney and bacon. Crab omelet. 

Bran bread and cocoa-nut biscuits. 
Lunch — 

Lime juice and aerated water. (Unsweetened Montserrat lime juice.) 

Anchovies on fried gluten bread slices ; if cold, a spoonful of cream 
on the top. 

Cold meat and tomato salad. 

Pate de foie gras, with bran biscuits. 
Dinner — 

Soup Julienne. 

Salmon. Mayonnaise sauce and cucumber. 

Sweetbreads and tomato. 

Junket. 

Mushrooms au gratin. 

Tomato Salad. 

.Slice up two perfectly firm and ripe tomatoes. Sometimes it is 
necessary to remove the core and pips. Add a teaspoonful of oil and 
two teaspoonfuls of vinegar, and sprinkle on a little pepper and salt. 

Mayonnaise Sauce. 
Yolks of 3 eggs. \ gill tarragon vinegar. 

\ pint best salad oiL Pepper and salt. 



DIABETIC MENUS 487 

In a round basin begin stinin;^', with a wooden s|)()on, the volks of 
the eggs, pepper, and salt, until they are quite mixed. Then add, drop 
by drop, the salad oil and the vinegar, stirring all the time in the same 
direction ; if added quickly, the egg curdles. When finibhed, the sauce 
must have a creamy appearance. 

Sweetbreads and Vegetables. 

For the preparation of sweetbreads, see p. 308. The prepared 
sweetbreads are first stewed in milk, then rolled in slices of fat bacon, 
and placed in the oven for a quarter of an hour. 

The bacon is then removed ; the sweetbreads are cut in slices, and 
grated Parmesan cheese is shaken over them. They are again placed in 
the oven and braised in a rich brown gravy. 

Served on croutons of gluten bread, in the centre of which can 
be placed stewed tomatoes, green peas, fresh French beans, stewed 
mushroon\s. 

Mushrooms au gratin. 

10 mushrooms. Pepper -j 

Piece of onion. Salt !- to taste. 

I teaspoonful chopped parsley. Lemon juiceJ 

I saltspoonful of thyme, fresh. Almond biscuit crumbs. 

„ „ dried. I ounce butter. 

Select 10 cup mushrooms about the same size. Peel the mushrooms 
very carefully without breaking them ; cut out the stalks close down with 
a spoon, and scoop out the inside. Peel the stalks, and chop them up 
with the scooped-out portion ; add the onion, parsley, and thyme. Fry 
all this in the pan with a little butter. Add sufficient biscuit crumbs to 
make the whole into a moist paste, and season to taste. Bake in the 
oven until the mushrooms are quite tender. Serve with some nicely fried 
parsley round it. 

Fifth Day. 
Breakfast — 

Tea, chocolate, coftee, and cream. 

Findon haddocks, stewed in milk or broiled. 

Poached eggs on spinach. 

Almond loaves. Gluten cracknels. Butter. 
Lunch — 

Cocoa nibs. 

Potted herrings. Stewed cucumber and cheese sauce. 

Stilton cheese. Pine biscuits. Toasted gluten flour bread. 
Dinner — 

Puree of lettuce or spinach. 

Turbot and tartar sauce (see p. 488). 

Roast chicken and watercress. 

Blancmange. 

(See p. 301, using saccharin instead of sugar.) 

Tarragon creams. 



488 GLYCOSURIA AND DIABETES 

S/c'weii Ciicjiiuhcr and C/iccxe Sauce. 

Cut a fresh cucumber in pieces about 4 inches long. Boil until tender. 
Pour over the cucumber when cooked the following cheese sauce : — 
Make the sauce in the same way as sauce Hollandaise (p. 484). 

omitting the tarragon vinegar, and add 3 tablespoonfuls of grated 

Parmesan cheese before serving. 

Tartar Sauce. 
2 tablespoonfuls of mayonnaise sauce. 
I teaspoonful chopped parsley. 
A small piece of very finely chopped shallot. 
I teaspoonful of mustard. 
Mix these ingredients well together and gently heat. 

Tarragon Creams. 
2 eggs. \ pint cream. 

Pepper and salt. 2 teaspoonfuls chopped tarrasron. 

Put into a basin i white and yolks of 2 eggs, the cream, and a little 
white pepper and salt. Beat up with a fork until smooth, add a little 
chopped tarragon. 

Butter some little moulds, sprinkle the top with chopped tarragon 
and truffles. 

Pour in the mixture and stand the moulds in a stewpan of boiling 
water reaching to three-quarters height of the moulds. 

When the water boils, draw the pan to the side of the stove and 
poach for about twenty minutes till the creams are set. 

Turn out on a warm dish and serve with sauce Hollandaise round 
them. 

SixtJi Day. 
Breakfast — 

Tea, coffee, with cream. 

Cutlets of egg, ham, or crab. Camp pie. 

Gluten and bran bread. Butter. Marmalade. 
Lunch — 

Fish roe souffles. 

Smoked tongue and salad. 

Cheese, with almond biscuits. 
Dinner — 

Cocky-leeky. 

Whitebait. Lemon, sliced. Brown bread and butter. 

Roast lamb. Mint sauce. Asparagus. 

Gooseberry fool. 

Hot caviare on toast, (iluten bread. 

Fish Roe Soufflds. 
Take six roes of fresh herrings, bl.inch and pound them ; then flavour 
with salt, pepper, pounded mace, and nutmeg. Add \ ounce butter and 



ALIMENTARY GLYCOSURIA 489 

yolks of 2 eggs beaten well together. Whisk the whites of 6 eggs into 
a stiff froth. Mix the same with the roes, and bake in ramekin cups for 
about five minutes. 

Serve immediately the souffles are removed from the oven. 

Oatmeal Diet in the Treatment of Diabetes Mellitus. 
Reference must be made to the use of a largely oatmeal diet 
recommended by Von Noorden. Von Noorden claims that in some 
cases of severe diabetes, especially those in which the ordinary 
diabetic diet fails to rid the urine of sugar, that an oatmeal regime will 
remarkably diminish the glycosuria, and will cause the acetone bodies 
to disappear from the urine. The milder cases of diabetes are not 
benefited by this regime, rather the reverse, but it has proved of value 
in the treatment of some severe cases. The diet consists in the 
daily administration of— 

250 grammes' of oatmeal = 8| to 9 ounces (contains about 150 

grammes of starch). 
250 and 300 grammes of butter. 
100 grammes of pure vegetable albumin — or the equivalent taken 

from the whites of 6 or 8 eggs. 

The oatmeal is cooked thoroughly in water for about 2 hours, and 
the butter and eggs are well stirred in when the oatmeal is nearly 
cooked. Salt is added to suit the taste. This regime is continued for 
eight to fourteen days, when the ordinary diabetic regime is gradually 
resumed. The oatmeal may be taken as a thin soup or gruel, or it may 
be made into fried meat balls. The explanation of the successful 
results recorded by this method is not easy. It has been suggested that 
one kind of starch, such as oatmeal starch, is better tolerated than another. 
In the writer's opinion, the favourable results which undoubtedly follow 
this diet in some cases are due to the stimulating effect of oatmeal on the 
thyroid gland, as proved by experimental observations (p. 602). There 
is in his view an important relationship between the pancreas and thyroid 
gland, of a nature of which at present little or nothing is known. 

Alimentary Glycosuria. — In cases where sugar only 
appears in the urine after food, and more especially after a 
diet rich in carbohydrates, the indication is to reduce the 
amount of sugar and starches in the food. An inquiry into 
the dietetic history of these patients frequently shows that 
they have been taking excess of sugar or starch usually in 
the form of one or more of the following — sugar, jams, 
confections, dried fruits, sweet wines, beer, or potatoes. 
These must be greatly restricted, or withheld for a time. 
In other instances it will be found that the patient has long 

' I ounce avoirdupois = 28'35 grammes. 



400 GLYCOSURIA AND DIABETES 

been living on a diet which is too exclusively carbohydrate in 
character, examples of this condition being especially seen 
in stout women of forty or fifty years of age. Here the 
indication is to reduce the amount of bread, bread foods, and 
puddings rich in starch, and to prescribe a more largely 
protein diet. 

Diabetes in its Milder Forms. — In the milder forms of the 
disea.se a moderate restriction in the amount of carbohydrates 
of the food may lead to a disappearance of the sugar from 
the urine. Thus it may be found that a diet, from which the 
sugar and farinaceous foods are restricted to less than a half 
of the amount which the patient had previously taken, effects 
the disappearance of the sugar in the urine, and a corre- 
sponding improvement in the patient's general condition. 
In such cases the diet which is sufficient to arrest the 
glycosuria should be continued for weeks, or months, or, it 
ma)- be, permanently. 

In other cases of a viore mat-ked character the sugar 
excretion may only cease where carbohydrates are practically 
excluded from the diet, and it may be necessary to maintain 
a carbohydrate-free diet for several weeks, to enable the 
tissues to regain their power of assimilating at least a 
moderate amount of sugar and starchy foods. Our aim here 
is to keep the carbohydrates down to that amount which the 
patient can tolerate without the appearance of sugar in the 
urine. This satisfactory result is frequently attained, and 
the patient before long is able to take a little carbohydrate 
without the development of glycosuria. Not infrequently, 
however, it is not practicable, nor desirable, to keep the 
patient on a carbohydrate-free dietary for any length of time. 
It is found that a carefully restricted dietary, such as is given 
below, suffices to effect a notable improvement in the con- 
dition of the urine, and a satisfactory state orf the patient's 
general health. In these circumstances the diet is of the 
nature of a compromise, and although sugar may continue to 
be excreted in small amounts, the progress of these patients 
is, for all practical purposes, satisfactory. In these cases it 
is a wise plan for the patient, once or twice a year, to undergo 
a course, for three to four weeks, of a carbohydrate-free 
diet. 



DIABETES— SEVERE FORM 491 

Breakfast — 

Tea, without sugar, witli milk or cream. 

Good helping of fried bucon, fish, or eggs in any form, cold ham, 

tongue, or grilled kidney. 
Slice of thin-cut bread and butter. 

Lunch — 
Soup. 

Fish, or chicken, game, chop, steak, or roast mutton. 
Pudding. Curds. Stewed apples. Souffle, sweetened with 

saccharin. 
One dry biscuit with cheese. 

Tea — 

Cup of tea, with half slice of bread, or toast, or rusk. 
Dinner — As Lunch. 

Severe Diabetes. — In severe cases of diabetes, in which 
sugar continues to be excreted in the urine even after 
removal of carbohydrates, the diet should, so far as possible, 
be along the lines of a carbohydrate-free diet, already out- 
lined. This plan of treatment is, however, frequently 
impracticable on the grounds of expense, and not 
infrequently it is inexpedient, on account of the patient's 
general condition. In these circumstances the diet is of the 
nature of a compromise, carbohydrates are given in carefully 
restricted amount, and those given should be of the least 
harmful character. Milk is specially useful in these cases, 
more especially in those threatened with diabetic coma, in 
which cases 2 to 3 pints of milk may be given in the twenty- 
four hours. 



CHAPTER XXVIII 





OBESITY 






PAOR 




PAOR 


Introduction 


• 492 


Von Noorden's method 


• 497 


Causes .... 


■ 492 


Carlskid regime . 


• 497 


Principles of treatmeni . 


• 493 


SaUsbury treatment 


. 498 


Banting method . 


• 494 


Milk diet cure . . 


. 498 


Oertel system 


• 495 


Fluids in obesity . 


499 


.Modification of . 


• 493 


General summary of dietetic treat- 




Ebstein regime . . . 


. 496 


ment .... 


500 



Introduction. — While obesity is not a disease in the 
common acceptation of the term, it is a condition which 
seriously disturbs the patient's comfort, curtails his ability to 
enjoy many of the pleasures of life, and indirectly leads to 
disease and premature death. In later life the obese subject 
is heavily handicapped, every ounce of superfluous fat may 
tell against him in his combat with disease. In the prophy- 
lactic treatment of obesity, attention is being directed to 
preventing the fatty heart, the sluggish liver, the restricted 
lung surface, the development of renal disease, and the 
inevitable cardio-vascular failure, that all too surely await the 
majority of obese subjects while they are yet young in years. 

Causes. — Obesity is hereditary in some instances, and in 
these cases it is much more difficult to cure. It is, however, 
e.ssential to note that the obesity seen in subjects who have 
a hereditary tendency to it does not essentially differ from 
the acquired form, the difference is entirely one of degree. 
Such a patient has through his forbears acquired a tendency 
to lay on fat, but there is good reason to believe that he can 
by means of diet modify this tendency materially, and hand 
on to his progeny a diminished susceptibility to the condition. 



PRINCIPLES OF TREATMENT 



493 



To what, then, is obesity clue. It results from the exces- 
sive consumption of certain foods, and more especially of 
foods which are fat-forming. Of these the most important 
clinically are the carbohydrates. The chief function of carbo- 
hydrates and fats is that of energy producers, and all the 
excess of these foods above the bodily requirements is stored 
up in the tissues of obese subjects as fat. Contributory 
factors are lack of exercise, and excessive indulgence in 
wines and malt liquors. A vicious circle is often set up ; 
lack of exercise tends to promote obesity ; obesity still 
further restricts the active bodily movements which are so 
essential for good health. 

The following table is a useful one, indicating what should 
be the relative weight and height of a person at adult age 
in good health. On the higher scale a certain percentage 
is allowed for differences in build, size of bones, etc. A 
weight beyond the extreme, means diminished respiration 
and impeded action of the heart, conditions incompatible with 
robust health and condition : — 





Normal weight. 


Extreme limit. 


stature. 






Male. 


Female. 


Male. 


Female. 


ft. in. 


St. lb. 


St. lb. 


St. lb. 


St. lb. 


5 o 


8 4 


7 9 


8 11 


8 I 


5 I 


8 9 


7 12 


9 2 


8 4 


5 2 


9 o 


8 2 


9 6 


8 7 


5 3 


9 7 


8 8 


lO 


9 o 


5 4 


9 13 


9 2 


10 6 


9 7 


5 5 


lO 2 


9 8 


10 lO 


lO O 


5 6 


lo 5 


9 13 


II 


10 7 


5 7 


lo 8 


10 5 


II 5 


lo 13 


5 8 


II I 


II o 


II lO 


II 4 


5 9 


II 8 


II 6 


12 2 


12 


5 lo 


12 O 


I I 10 


12 9 


12 6 


=, II 


12 6 


12 2 


13 3 


12 12 


6 o 


12 lO 


12 8 


13 12 


13 4 



Principles of Treatment. — The first essential in treat- 
ment is to greatly reduce the amount of fat-forming foods. 
These are not required. When these are cut off, nature 
draws on the reserve fat in the tissues, until that which is 
superfluous is gone. By this means we reduce the total 



494 OBESITY 

amount of energy taken in the form of food. At the same 
time combustion in the tissues must be promoted by increased 
physical exercises, which should take the form of walking, 
riding, golfing, or the like ; and if for any reason these are not 
obtainable, by physical exercises carried out at home daily 
under direction. By this means the output of energy in 
the form of work is increased. A third important factor in 
treatment is to promote the activity of the skin by a carefully 
planned course of baths, which must be prescribed with 
special caution in the case of very obese subjects. The last 
general point to which attention must be directed is the 
amount of fluid taken, and its relationship to food. On this 
point a good deal of difference of opinion prevails. 

There are many systems of dietetic treatment, some of 
which only differ in detail. It is unnecessary to describe all 
the different "systems" that have been advocated at one 
time or another. Attention will only be directed to the 
main ones. Before doing so, it is perhaps necessary just to 
mention the different degrees of obesity clinically met with. 
For example, there are slighter forms, in which the organs 
of circulation are unaffected, and rigorous bodily exercise is 
possible ; and more serious forms, in which the heart muscle 
is invaded, the liver and other viscera are congested, and 
the tissues generally are embarrassed. The treatment, 
both as to diet and exercise, varies considerably in the two 
classes of case. 

Banting's method. — In this system the amount of food is 
reduced, and fats and carbohydrates are largely excluded. 
The diet consists of animal food, 13 to 16 ounces; bread, 2 
ounces; fruit and vegetables, 6 to 12 ounces; total fluid 
restricted to 35 ounces, made up as follows : — 

Breakfast — 5 to 6 ounces of animal food ; meat (except pork and veal), 
boiled fish, or kidneys ; i ounce of toast or biscuits ; 9 ounces of tea 
without milk or sugar. 

Dinner -5 to 6 ounces of lean meat, poultry, game, or fish ; eels, salmon, 
and herrings are excluded ; any vegetable except potato, parsnips, 
beetroot, turnips, or carrot ; cooked fruit, unsweetened ; i ounce dry 
toast ; 10 ounces good claret, sherry, or Madeira. 

Tea — 9 ounces plain tea without sugar or milk ; 2 to 3 ounces of cooked 
fruit ; a rusk or two. 



OERTEL SYSTEM 495 

Supper — Meat or fish as at Dinner, 3 to 4 ounces ; claret, or sherry and 
water, 7 ounces. 

On this diet Banting reduced himself in one year from 14 
stones 6 lbs. to 1 1 stones 2 lbs. The diet, it will be observed, 
contains very little carbohydrates. This system of diet is a 
simple one, and it can be easily regulated, hence its popu- 
larity. The large amount of meat in this regime is very 
distasteful to some people, and in cases where there is some 
renal disease, this diet is unsuitable. Apart from the exist- 
ence of renal disease, a prolonged course of this regime in 
some patients sets up dyspepsia and intestinal derangement, 
with general nervous depression, and these must be guarded 
against. Another objection to this diet is the alcohol. This 
is unnecessary, and unless there are special indications for its 
use, it should be avoided. 

In the Oertel system the diet is combined with exercises, 
active or passive, to strengthen the heart. Steady walking 
exercise to strengthen the muscles of the heart is insisted 
upon, and walking slowly ujahill and going upstairs are 
especially advocated. Oertel insists on the exercise being 
taken in the open air, and on its careful regulation by the 
physician, the amount being regulated by the state of the 
patient's heart, and by the presence or absence of anaemia. 
The amount of fluid is reduced, and the excretory function of 
the skin is promoted by baths. Wasting of the muscles is 
prevented by an albuminous diet. In Oertel's diet the protein 
is given in the form of roast or boiled beef, veal, mutton, 
game, eggs. Fresh vegetables are given, as spinach and 
cabbage ; stale bread, toast, rusk, and biscuits are given in 4 
to 6 ounces almost daily. The fluids are restricted to 40 
ounces in the twenty-four hours, which may be taken as tea, 
coffee, skimmed milk, water, claret, and hock. The daily 
dietary is as follows : — 

Morning — 

I cup of tea or coffee, with a little milk ; altogether about 6 ounces. 
Bread, about 3 ounces. 

Noon — 

3 to 4 ounces of soup (clear, not thick soup). 

7 to 8 ounces of roast or boiled beef, veal, or game, avoiding pork 

and the fat poultry. 
Salad, or a light vegetable, avoiding potatoes, beans, peas, parsnips, 



496 OBESITY 

carrot, or beetroot ; a little fish (cooked without fat) if desired ; 
I ounce of bread or farinaceous puddiny (never more than 3 
ounces). 
3 to 6 ounces of fruit (freshly prepared) for dessert ; avoiding pud- 
dings, suet, rice, tapioca, bread, sago, and macaroni. 

It is desirable at this meal to avoid taking fluids ; but in hot 
weather, or in the absence of fruit, 6 to 8 ounces of table water or 
light wine may be taken. 

Afternoon — The same amount of coffee or tea as in the morning, with at 
most 6 ounces of water ; i ounce of bread occasionally. 

Eveninj; — 

I or 2 soft-boiled eggs, or fish, avoiding mackerel, herrings, eels, 

salmon, and sardines. 
I ounce of bread ; a small bit of cheese at times. 
Salad fruit. 
6 to 8 ounces of wine with 4 or 5 ounces of water. 

In the slighter forms of obesity it is found, if this diet is 
adhered to and ample exercise is taken, that the reduction of 
fat is usually satisfactory. 

In the severer forms, the exercise has to be modified and 
the fluid consumed restricted, vapour and other baths being 
taken under the strictest medical supervision. Massage has 
here to replace exercise to a great extent. 

The Ebstein regime is a modification of the Banting 
method, containing more fat and less protein. Ebstein con- 
tends that the ingestion of fat is useful in curing obesity, if 
combined with a greatly reduced administration of proteins 
and carbohydrates, as fat abates appetite and lessens thirst. 
The Ebstein diet is meagre. About one-half the usual amount 
of meat is allowed. 

Breakfast — White bread well toasted, rather less than 2 ounces, well 
covered with butter ; tea, 9 ounces, without milk or sugar. 

Dinner — Soup made with beef marrow ; fat meat with gravy, 4 to 5 
ounces ; a moderate amount of one of the vegetables allowed, viz., 
asparagus, spinach, peas, and beans. Two or three glasses of light 
white wine. After this meal a large cup of tea without milk or sugar. 

Supper — An egg ; a little roast meat with fat ; i ounce bread well 
covered with butter ; a large cup of tea without milk or sugar. 

In Schweinger's modification of this method there is an 
entire suppression of fluids at meals. Whatever fluid is 
taken must be taken an hour or two after food. 



CARLSBAD REGIME 497 

Von Xtwrden^s victJwd differs from Ocrtcl's in J^iving 
small meals at frcciucnt intervals. 

5 A.M. — Cold lean meat, 3 ounces ; bread, i ounce ; 6 ounces tea or 

coffee, very little milk. 
10 A.M.— A lightly boiled egg. 
Noon — 6 ounces clear soup, without any fat. 
I P.M. — A small plate of clear soup, 8 ounces ; lean meat or fish, 

5 ounces ; potatoes, 3^ ounces ; green vegetables ; fresh fruit, 

3^ ounces ; (no fluid). 

3 P.M. — A cup of black coffee, 4 ounces. 

4 P.M. — Fresh fruit, 7 ounces. 

6 P.M. — A glass of skimmed milk. 

5 P.M. — Cold lean meat, 4?, ounces, with pickles ; i ounce bread ; 2 or 3 

spoonfuls of fruit cooked without sugar. 

T/ic Carlsbad rcgi)nc. — An interesting and useful account 
of the regime in vogue at Carlsbad is given by Mrs Ernest 
Hart in her book on Diet in Sickness and Health. Mrs 
Hart gives her personal experience as follows : — " It may 
be of interest to my readers who suffer from too great an 
abundance of fat to learn how I put theory into practice 
and reduced my weight 15 lbs. in three weeks. This result 
was obtained at Carlsbad, and the regime was as follows : — 
Rose at six, took three tumblers of hot Sprudel water, 
walking for about twenty minutes between each glass. 
Breakfast at eight, consisting of one or two small crescents 
of bread and a boiled &%'g. On alternate mornings a vapour 
bath with cold douche, or general massage of the body. 
Dinner at one o'clock, consisting of a small amount of fish 
and meat or poultry, with green vegetables ; no potatoes or 
sweets. In the afternoon a walk of from six to eight miles up 
the hills in a flannel dress. Supper at seven, consisting of a 
poached egg, or a small cut of cold meat. There is no 
doubt that I suffered from constant hunger on this diet, 
but under it my weight steadily diminished, and a feeling of 
lightness and well-being took the place of previous heaviness. 
Continuing the diet after I left Carlsbad, I lost another six 
pounds, and it was some years before the tendency to 
increase in weight showed itself again. I am quite certain 
that no one need fear becoming a ponderous size, a source 
of discomfort to themselves and of disagreeable impression 
to others, if they checked the beginning of obesity by 

2 I 



498 OBESITY 

sufferings the small inconvenience of submittincj to a restricted 
diet for a time." 

A modification of the Salisbury diet is recommended by 
some writers. The essential idea here is to limit the food 
and drink, and give the lean of meat, and an abundance of hot 
water. Two pounds of rump-steak, and I lb. of cod, toj^ether 
with 6 pints of hot water are given, as the daily diet for the 
first fortnight ; for the next three weeks, 4 pints of hot water 
with other kinds of lean meat and fish are allowed, as well 
as a little green vegetables and unsweetened rusk. For the 
following month the hot water is reduced to about one pint 
a day, and some crusts of stale bread, unsweetened biscuits, 
grilled meat or poultry, or game of any kind, and hock 
and claret with seltzer water, are allowed. Five grains of 
bicarbonate of potash are also prescribed night and morning. 
This system should only be tried in cases where there is every 
reason to regard the kidneys as sound. 

A milk diet cure for obesity. — An interesting lesson may 
be learned from a record published by Professor Debroc of 
Paris, who treated a man, fifty-five years of age, who weighed 
on admission to hospital 234 lbs., and after a year's treatment 
weighed only 180 lbs., the remedy employed being a severely 
restricted milk diet. The patient had been growing fat 
from the age of twenty-five. He was of sedentary habits, 
and given to alcoholic indulgence. Active exercise could 
not be prescribed, as, on account of gravel and gout, the 
patient could not leave his bed. Debroc therefore adopted 
the only method he thought practicable, viz., by giving the 
patient an insufficient amount of nourishment, and obliging 
him to consume his own fat. 

He was put on an exclusive milk diet, the amount being 
restricted. For the first month 2 quarts a day were given, 
during the second month \\ quarts, and during the third 
month I quart only. He lost 27 lbs. the first two months, 
and 4 lbs. the third month. During the four following 
months the patient look less than a quart of milk a day, 
and his weight finally fell to 180 lbs. When reported on, 
the patient was in perfect health. As Burney Yeo points 
out in commenting on this ca.se, it is a remarkable and most 
instructive instance of the small amount of food upon which 



FLUIDS IN OBESITY 499 

existence can be maintaincrl, and excess of weight thereby 
reduced without injury to health, provided the patient be 
kept at rest in bed. Weir Mitchell has also strongly 
recommended a restricted milk diet for the treatment of 
obesity. An admirable illustrative case is as follows : — 

A lady, aet. 45, 5 feet 4^ ins. in height, weight 190 lbs., 
ana.^mic, feeble, and breathless. She was kept in bed for 
five weeks. Massage was used at first once daily, and 
after a fortnight twice a day, while milk was given, and in a 
week made the exclusive diet. Her average loss for thirty 
days was a pound a day, and the diet was varied by the 
addition of butter after the third week, so as to keep the 
reduction within safe limits. On the fourth week the diet 
was added to, and Swedish movements were added to 
massage, which was applied but once a day, and during the 
fifth week she began to sit up and move about. Her weight 
at the seventh week had fallen to 145 lbs., and her appearance 
had decidedly improved. After two years she was a well 
and vigorous woman. 

Fluids in Obesity. — Considerable difference of opinion 
exists as to the advisability of restricting markedly the 
amount of fluid taken in obesity. This much is certain. 
Where any highly nitrogenous dietary is in use, there 
should be no restriction whatever in the amount of fluid ; on 
the contrary, at least 3 pints of fluid in the form of hot or 
cold water, or occasionally weak clear soup, should be taken 
daily, this being taken on an« empty stomach between meals. 
Apart from this, there is no doubt that the amount of fluid 
taken with meals should always be restricted, and to this end 
soups are, as a rule, contra-indicated. When there is a special 
weakness of the heart and circulation, a dry diet is advisable 
for the sake of the heart, apart altogether from the obesity. 

Plain water and the various mineral and table waters 
may be taken, but all sweetened beverages should be 
avoided. Weak tea and coffee are permissible, and should 
be taken without sugar and milk. All sweet wines and 
malt liquors should be excluded from the dietary. Alcohf)l 
in all its forms should, if possible, be avoided ; but if specially 
indicated, should be taken in the form of mature whisky or 
dry, natural wine. 



500 OBESITY 

General Summary of Dietetic Treatment. — F-vcry case 
of obesity must be treated on its merits, remembering always 
that there are certain broad principles to be followed. The 
following may be taken as a practical guide to the dietetic 
treatment of the average case. 

The total amount of food must be reduced, farinaceous 
foods in particular being very greatly restricted. 

Sugar should be cut off from the dietary, saccharin 
being employed in its place. Dried fruits should be 
forbidden because of their richness in sugar, but fresh fruits 
may be allowed in moderation, and, when desired, may be 
stewed, and sweetened with saccharin. The meats should, 
as a rule, be selected from the leaner varieties, such articles 
as pork, mackerel, eel, and salmon being excluded from the 
list Skimmed milk may with advantage take the place of 
ordinary milk, and no milk puddings should be allowed. 
Bread and bread foods should be given in the greatest 
moderation, and are often advantageously cut off altogether 
for a time. Green vegetables should be freely used, as they 
have comparatively little nutritive value, and by their bulk 
give a feeling of fullness. The amount of fluid taken with 
meals should be much reduced, and alcohol in all its forms 
should be avoided. Suitable exercises, either in the form of 
open-air exercise, Swedish movements, or massage, according 
to the condition of the patient, constitute a very important 
part of the treatment. 



501 


Special diseases — 




501 


Headache, insomnia . , 


. 50S 




Chorea, epilepsy 


• 505 


503 


Neuralgia, migraine, sciatica 


. 506 


5^4 


Apoplexy .... 


. 507 


504 


Neurasthenia . . 


. 508 



CHAPTER XXIX 

DIET IN NERVOUS DISEASES 



Introduction .... 
Organic and functional disease 
General principles of treatment- 

In organic disease 

In functional disorders 
Diet for nervous children 

Introduction. — Diseases of the nervous system are 
roughly divisible into two great classes, organic and 
functional. In the former, there is a definite morbid change 
in the affected structures, which is usually the result of 
inflammation, haemorrhage, or chronic degeneration ; in the 
latter, a careful examination of the nervous system fails to 
reveal any pathological change, and the condition is there- 
fore spoken of as functional. A good example of a so-called 
functional disease of the nervous system is neurasthenia. 
Diet is an important factor in the treatment of both functional 
and organic disease of the nervous system. It is of special 
importance in the former (see Neurasthenia), but it is also 
important in the latter, as it is probable that a chronic defect 
in dietetics plays a more important role in the causation of 
some chronic nervous affections than is commonly supposed. 
We have conclusive evidence that certain articles of food and 
drink are, for all practical purposes, the causes of certain 
well-established " nervous " diseases. Thus pellagra, a chronic 
disease of the spinal cord, is known to be the result of a 
poison present in unripe maize ; the lesions of the posterior 
columns of the spinal cord in diabetes may also be cited as a 
nervous affection intimately asbociated with diet ; and in 

601 



502 DIET IN NERVOUS DISEASES 

alcoholic peripheral neuritis we have a clear example of a 
disease resulting from dietetic error. In connection with the 
last named there is a point of some importance which must 
be noted. There is reason to believe that the deleterious 
effects of alcohol on the tissues have a more complex origin 
than is at first sight apparent. They are in all probability 
due, not only to the direct effects of the alcohol on the tissues, 
but to its indirect influence in promoting an abnormal 
bacterial activity in the intestinal canal, with resulting 
absorption of toxins. This point is one of much practical 
importance. The etiology of such diseases as disseminated 
sclerosis, combined sclerosis, and the like is unknown ; all we 
know is that they are the result of some toxic condition of 
the blood. If alcohol can act in the manner indicated above, 
it is possible that other defects in the diet may be a factor of 
importance in the production of the toxic condition of the 
blood, which is undoubtedly the cause of these chronic 
inflammatory affections of the nervous system. 

The possibility of the correctness of this view is suggested 
by the following clinical facts. In many of these nervous 
disorders the clinical history shows that marked gastro- 
intestinal disturbance preceded the development of the 
nervous symptoms. This disturbance usually took the form 
of troublesome flatulence, constipation, diarrhcL-a, or bilious 
attacks. Further, examination of the stools of these patients 
frequently .shows them to be ill-formed and very foetid, which 
indicates an unusually septic condition of the alimentary tract. 
And lastly, an inquiry into the dietetic history of the patient 
frequently shows that the diet has been defective, and radically 
so, having been of a nature which conduces to abnormal 
bacterial activity in the intestinal canal. The same remarks 
apply to some chronic mental diseases, which are regarded 
as the result of a chronic auto-intoxication. 

According to this view a defective diet is a factor of 
some importance in the causation of some chronic nervous 
diseases, in virtue of its unfavourable influence on the bacteria 
in the digestive tract. The role of diet is thus an indirect 
one. This much is certain. In many of these cases an 
examination of the stools shows a degree of foetor and other 
abnormality which is pathological. This condition is either a 



PRINCIPLES OF TREATMENT 503 

causal factor or an incidental complication of the ncrvoii;'? 
disease, and in either case it is advisable to correct it if 
possible, such correction being largely a question of diet. 

General Principles of Treatment.—/;/ organic disease. — 
The general principles of treatment can be clearly defined. 
In the first place, the diet must be arranged so as to promote 
a normal state of intestinal secretion and excretion, as 
revealed by an examination of the stools ; and secondly, the 
diet must be adapted to improve the general nutrition of the 
patient, which is frequently unsatisfactory. In this connection 
it is important to bear in mind that the administration of a 
generous diet to patients with foetid stools may be attended 
by much less satisfactory results from the point of view of 
general nutrition, than a diet which contains less than one- 
half the nutritive value of the '"generous" diet. 

We seek to give effect to these general principles in the 
following way. We first of all determine from the patient's 
dietetic history in what direction, if any, the diet has been 
such as to predispose to abnormal fermentation, with increased 
bacterial activity in the intestinal canal. Thus we may find 
that the patient has had five or six meals a day, consisting 
too largely of tea, bread foods, and starchy foods. If so, the 
meals must be reduced in number, and altered in quality so 
as to diminish the foodstuffs prone to fermentation, the 
protein foods being proportionately increased. In other 
instances the diet is found to be of too liberal a character in 
other directions, rich animal protein foods being taken in 
large amount twice or thrice daily, in addition to excess in 
other foodstuffs. Here the diet has to be reduced in amount, 
the animal protein being specially reduced, and the diet has 
to be simplified so as to throw less strain on the digestive 
secretions. By these means the production and absorption 
of toxins in the intestinal canal is reduced, with advantage to 
the patient. In rarer cases we find that the diet has actually 
been deficient in amount, the patient being in a state of 
malnutrition ; as a rule, in these patients the quality of the 
food has been equally defective from the point of view of 
maintaining a healthy state of the alimentary tract. Refer- 
ence may be made to the great importance of attention 
being directed to the state of the teeth, and to thorough 



504 DIET IN NERVOUS DISEASES 

mastication, as piopli\Iactic and therapeutic measures inti- 
mately connected with the sul)ject of diet. 

In functional disorders. — The most important functional 
disorder of the nervous system from the point of view of 
dietetics is neurasthenia, or nervous exhaustion. In the 
treatment of this disease, complete rest in bed, isolation of 
the patient from his or her friends, and a special diet are the 
essential factors of the treatment. In neurasthenia the 
nervous system is in a state of exhaustion, and practical 
experience has proved the great value of the administration 
of a large amount of food of an easily digested nature. This 
will be further discussed under Neurasthenia. In functional 
conditions other than neurasthenia, diet docs not enter speci- 
ally into the treatment. 

Diet in Nervous Children. — The temperament of children 
should be careful!)' studied. This is of practical importance 
in the management of children. Clouston has given us an 
admirable description of the nervous child: — "There is the 
nervous child when the brain is somewhat over-developed, 
but especially when it is unstable in its action, when sensi- 
tiveness is too great, when reactiveness is also exaggerated, 
and in whom passion and emotion are too exaggeratedly or 
too easily expressed. Such children are often difficult to 
manage, are wayward, disobedient, and subject to gusts of 
apparently causeless passion and sulkiness ; they are subject 
also to whims and groundless fears ; they are fidgety, restless, 
deficient in the elements of control ; they are usually thin, 
often capricious about food, and they are subject to nervous 
ailments such as chorea and convulsions." The neurotic 
tendency is further shown by the readiness with which they 
become delirious unrler the influence of a trivial catarrh, by 
the occurrence of night terrors, and b\' the liability to asthma. 

In discussing the management of these children from the 
dietetic point of view, Clouston sums up the position admir- 
ably when he states : — " It may be said generally that the 
child with a strongly nervous heredity or mental taint in 
ancestry should be fed on milk, farinaceous diet, and fruits, 
certainly up to seven, and largely up to twenty-five." F'urther 
details of the dietetic management of these cases arc given 
on pp. 20 1 and 526. 



INSOMNIA, ETC. 505 

Headache. — Headache is a symptom, not a disease. 
Hence the treatment can only be determined after the 
cause of the condition has been ascertained. Most commonly 
it is dependent on constipation, gout, renal disease, or 
neurasthenia, and the dietetic treatment of these diseases is 
then applicable. The possibility of the headaches being due 
to eye strain should be kept in mind. 

One of the most severe forms of headache — migraine, or 
sick headache — is a neurosis characterised by pain in the course 
of the fifth nerve, often accompanied by nausea, vomiting, 
physical and mental depression, with local vasomotor dis- 
orders. The treatment of this condition is further referred 
to on p. 506. 

Insomnia. — In adult and elderly subjects insomnia and 
disturbed sleep are sometimes dependent on dietetic habits. 
The most common error is the taking of solid food late at 
night. In such cases the chief meal of the day must be the 
midday one, the evening meal being taken not later than 
6.30, and consisting of, at the most, two light, easily digested 
courses. A hot drink taken at bedtime is frequently of great 
value as a hypnotic, the best of these being a cup of good 
beef-tea, or hot milk, which may be malted if desired, e.g. 
Horlick's malted milk. In elderly and weak subjects a small 
glass of whisky, or hot toddy, taken the last thing at night, 
is of value in promoting sleep. 

Chorea. — Rest, seclusion, and careful feeding are the 
essentials for the successful treatment of chorea. In mild 
cases the diet should be a light, nourishing one. Red meat 
and rich foods of all kinds should be avoided, the diet con- 
sisting of milk, milk foods, eggs, bread, bread foods, and white 
meats. In more marked cases it is advisable to restrict the 
diet to milk and milk foods only ; this regime diminishes the 
likelihood of the development of heart complications. In 
some cases the diet should be liquid, and it may have to be 
administered by the nasal tube. In these circumstances the 
daily diet should be — milk, from 2 to 3 pints ; beef-tea, i pint ; 
and two to three eggs given in the milk. In severe cases 
where the patients are practically starved through the violence 
of the movements, it may be necessary to give in addition 
^ ounce of alcohol with each meal. 



nOfi DIET IN NERVOUS DISEASES 

Epilepsy. — With rcg.ird to the relationship of diet to 
epikps)-, tile following points may be laid down as estab- 
lished. Over-eating ma\- bring on an attack ; an excessive 
meat diet is prejudicial ; rich foods and pastry should be 
avoided, largely because they foster excesses ; and alcohol in 
all its forms should be avoided. A light, mixed diet is there- 
fore the ideal one for the epileptic. The meals should be 
given at regular hours, nothing being taken in the intervals. 
Great care must be taken to avoid constipation, and this may 
be attained by the proper use of fruits and the coarser forms 
of cereals. An appropriate diet sheet is here given. 

Breakfast — 

Porridge and milk, tea, bread and butter ; or 
Fish or egy, tea, bread and butter. 

Lunch (Lacto-vegetarian) — Bread and cheese, celery, glass of milk, fruit 
(see pp. 520, 526). 

Tea — Cup of tea with biscuit. 

Dinner — 

Soup. (This should occasionally be of vegetable stock — p. 527.) 
Meat. (Fish or chicken should replace red meat once or twice a week.) 
Pudding — preferably fruit or milk pudding. 

Netiralgia, Migraine, Sciatica. — These forms of nervous 
disease may be due to many causes, the most common being 
anaemia, gastro-intestinal derangement, gout, rheumatism, 
and arterio-sclerosis. The dietetic treatment therefore varies 
with the cause, and this must be determined before a suitable 
diet can be ordered. In troublesome cases assistance will be 
obtained from the examination of the stools, which will indicate 
whether the state of the bowel is satisfactory or not. The 
following general rules will be found helpful in framing a 
dietary for these conditions : — 

1. Seek to determine whether the condition is a result of 

insufficient food (malnutrition), or excess of food 
(over-eating). 

2. If dependent on anaemia, indigestion, gout, or arterio- 

sclerosis, the dietetic treatment must be regulated 
accordingly. 

3. Aim at giving a light, easily digested, non-stimulating 

diet, free of alcoholic liquors. 



APOPLEXY 507 

4. Attention to the teeth, careful mastication, and the 
prevention of constipation, are often important factors 
in the successful treatment. 

Apoplexy. — The dietetic treatment of cases of cerebral 
haemorrhage, thrombosis, or embolism must be regarded from 
two points of view : — (a) The immediate — the comatose 
stage, and after ; (Z*) the remote — after partial or complete 
recovery. 

T/ie comatose stage, and after. — Apoplexy occurs most 
commonly in well-nourished, full-blooded individuals, and for 
the first day or two there is no necessity for giving the 
patient any food. The intestine must be thoroughly cleared 
out by enema or otherwise, as this improves the state of the 
circulation. If consciousness does not return within thirty- 
six hours or so, the question of the necessity of administering 
food per rectum will have to be considered (see Rectal Feed- 
ing). As soon as consciousness is restored, feeding by the 
mouth should be commenced. This should for some days be 
restricted to milk only, or milk thickened with eggs, or 
cereals. Not more than 2 pints should be given in the twenty- 
four hours, and it should be given cold or lukewarm. As 
the patient improves the diet may be increased, but it should 
be kept as light, as easily digestible, and as non-stimulating 
as possible. For the same reason, all alcoholic drinks 
should as a rule be avoided. As these patients have 
usually a high blood-pressure, it is advisable to control 
the amount of liquid consumed, and care is necessary in 
regard to this. 

After recovery. — The practitioner has now to consider and 
to direct his treatment to the cause of the apoplexy. Most 
frequently it is dependent on arterial sclerosis, chronic 
Bright's disease, often associated with high blood-pressure, and 
these conditions are in some measure amenable to dietetic 
treatment In effect, therefore, the dietetic treatment is that 
of chronic Bright's disease, the main essentials in treatment 
being : — • 

{a) All meat foods to be taken in very sparing amount, 
the diet to be largely lacto-vcgetarian in character 
(see p. 520). 



608 DIET IX NERVOUS DISEASES 

(^) The liquids to he restricted in amount, and more 
cspcciall)' the Hquids taken with meals ; alcohol to 
be avoided. 

(r) The diet to be lit^ht, and easily diijjcsted ; all rich foods 
and stimulalini; foods to be avoided (see Light Diet, 
p. 548). 

{d) The total amount of food to be taken to be proportion- 
ate to the age of the patient and to his condition 
otherwise. 

Neurasthenia. — The treatment of neurasthenia or nervous 
exhaustion is much the same whether the condition is due to 
an accident, overstrain, or to a faulty inheritance. A great 
deal of sleep and much food arc essential. The indication for 
treatment is to overcome the sleeplessness and to stimulate 
the desire for food. Cases vary widely in severity. The 
treatment of the most severe cases by the Weir Mitchell 
method is troublesome, tedious, and expensive. The difficult 
point to determine in certain cases is whether the Weir 
Mitchell method is necessary, or whether simpler means will 
suffice. 

Diet for neurasthenics. — /;/ mild cases. — A great deal of 
improvement can be gained by keeping the patients in bed 
until midday for a month, with the window wide open and 
with the addition of four tumblers of milk, and four full slices 
of thickly buttered bread per diem to an ordinary mixed diet. 
The extra milk may be taken either with the ordinary meals 
or preferably in the intervals. In these cases an important 
adjunct to this dietetic treatment is the use of hot and cold 
water bathing. Bathing the face, neck, and extremities twice 
or thrice daily with hot water at a temperature of 105° F. is 
very beneficial, and when done at night helps to promote 
sleep. As the case improves, the temperature cf the morning 
douche may be reduced until a sitz bath with the water at 
60"^ F. can be taken, a hot sitz bath being still taken at night. 

/;/ severe cases the Weir Mitchell method should be 
adopted. This system, in addition to the special feeding, 
requires absolute rest for some six weeks ; seclusion from 
friends, callers and family ; massage and electricity, to promote 
digestion and the nutrition of the muscles. A good nurse is 



NEURASTHENIA 609 

essential ; she must be bright, sensible, kindly, and the 
patient must take to her. The following outline of treatment 
is adapted to a severe case. 

First Week. 

The patient is to be confined to bed, and the nurse is to 
feed the patient. 

Massage. — Two applications a day. Beginning with a 
quarter of an hour each time, and working up to half an hour 
or more by the end of the week. After the massage, to rest 
alone in a darkened room for an hour. 

Food. — Three ounces of fresh milk every three hours, 
increasing the amount daily until the patient by the end of 
the week is taking lo ounces every three hours ; that is, an 
increase from iS ounces to 60 ounces per day. On the sixth 
and seventh days a little porridge, gruel, custard, or ^^'g may 
be added. 

Gai7i in weig/it. — During the first week or so the gain 
may be 5 to 6 lbs. Unless the patient is gaining at least 
2 lbs. weekly, it may be assumed that matters are not pro- 
gressing satisfactorily. 

Second Week. 

The patient should now be able to feed herself. 

lifassagc. — This may now be increased to two applications 
a day, each application lasting from three-quarters to one 
hour. 

Food. — Solid food may be cautiously begun — fish, egg, 
chop, mince. The milk taken ought now to be up to 60 to 80 
ounces per day. If dyspeptic troubles arise from over-feeding, 
all solid food must be stopped for twenty-four hours and 
resumed. The probability is that the massage is ineffectual, 
and the operator should be changed. 

Gaifi in weight. — Probably 3 or 4 lbs. 

Third and Fourth Weeks. 
Massage. — The same in amount as at the end of the 
second week. Electricity in the form of Faradism to the 
principal muscles may be employed as an adjunct in treat- 
ment ; the applications lasting from twenty minutes to half 
an hour daily. 



510 niKT IN NFHVCn^S DISEASES 

Food. — 1^\' this time tlic p;iticnt may be on a full diet (see 
below), and in addition takini; at least 6o to 80 ounces of milk 
per diem. 

Daily Diet Sheet. 

7 A.M. — 10 ounces of milk. 

lircakfast : 8.30 A.M. — Plate of porridijc, or >;rucl, or Hominy ; or bowl of 
bread and milk with a gill of cream ; fish, bacon, eggs, or kidney ; 
cocoa or coffee ; bread or rolls ; butter or marmalade. 

9 A.M. — 10 ounces of milk. 

II .VM. — Cup of beef-tea with 2 teaspoonfuls of beef peptonoids. 

Luncheon: 1.30 P.M. — Fish, tripe, sweetbread, cutlets, game, or poultry, 
served with one vegetable, with a sweet such as stewed fruit ; 10 
ounces of milk to be sipped slowly during this meal. 

4 P.M. — 10 ounces of milk with sponge cake ; bread and butter, or rusk. 

6.30 P.M. : A three-course meal. — Soup or fish ; joint or poultry ; sweet 
or savoury, or dessert ; taking with meal 10 ounces of milk. 

8.30 P.M. — Beef-tea and 2 teaspoonfuls of peptonoids. 

10 P.M. — 10 ounces of milk. 

Fifth and Sixth Weeks. 

In the fifth week the patient begins to sit up in bed, and 
the afternoon massage is gradually reduced, then stopped ; 
then a gradual reduction of the morning massage and 
electricity takes place. The excess of food is gradually 
reduced ; firstly, the amount of milk is lessened, and the patient 
by the end of the sixth week should be eating an ordinary 
amount of food daily. During the last week the patient can 
get up daily for a short time. Patients are better not to 
return at once to their ordinary course of living. It is advis- 
able that they should if possible travel quietly with a suitable 
companion for a month or more before returning home. In 
the case of hospital patients, a few weeks' stay at a convales- 
cent home is advantageous. 

A rarer form of neurasthenia is occasionally met with, in 
which the patient is stout and flabby. In these ca.scs acour.se 
of milfl starvation is a necessary preliminary to the Weir 
Mitchell treatment. The .system of treatment recommended 
by Playfair is specially applicable to these patients, as 
followb ; — 



NEURASTHENIA 611 

"Confine patient strictly to bed : diet with skimmed milk, 
at first 2 quarts per diem given in small quantities every two 
hours, after a day or two lessen this gradually till not more 
than a pint per diem is taken. If the patient's strength fail 
unduly under this, some beef-tea or soup may be temporarily 
substituted for the milk. Under the minimum diet the 
v/eight gradually loses about \ lb. per diem (the patient 
should be weighed every second day), and when some 14 to 
20 lbs. have been taken off, pure milk may be substituted for 
skimmed, and the treatment as detailed above pursued." 



CHAPTER XXX 

DIET IN DISEASES OF THE LUNGS — TIIVROID^ 
AND SKIN 

Diseases of the Lungs. 





I'AOE 






PAOB 


General principles 


. 512 


Clironic bronchitis 


• • 


• 513 


Diet in acute conditions 


. 513 


Asthma 


. 


• 514 



The principles underlying the dietetic treatment of diseases 
of the lungs are similar to those laid down for cardiac dis- 
orders. Faulty feeding influences lung affections unfavour- 
ably in two directions — 

(i) By inducing flatulent distension of the abdomen, which 
mechanically interferes with the free action of the 
diaphragm and heart ; and 

(2) By throwing a strain on the organs of excretion — lungs, 
kidneys, and bowel — as a result of which free circula- 
tion through the lungs is interfered with, and the 
patient's symptoms are aggravated. The greater the 
amount of carbohydrate food the greater the demand 
on the lungs to excrete COg. 

Excess of carbonaceous foods have therefore to be avoided 
because of their tendency to induce flatulent distension of the 
stomach and bowel, with resulting mechanical interference with 
the breathing; excess of proteins has al.so to be avoided 
because of the liability for the accumulation of waste products, 
which injuriously affect the respiratory and cardiac mechan- 
isms ; in every instance constipation must be avoided, because 
its presence aggravates the lung condition, both mechanically 
and through the associated auto-intoxication. 
&12 



BRONCHITIS, ETC. 513 

Diet in Acute Lung Affection, — The diet in acute 
pneumonia, acute pleurisy, and acute bronchitis calls lor 
little comment in the way of detailed description. Pneu- 
monia is not really a lung disease, but an acute infective 
fever with a local lung lesion, and it is to be treated with 
the fever diet elsewhere described, a prolonged course of 
generous feeding being indicated in convalescence (see p. 288). 
Similarly, pleurisy is hardl}- a lung affection, but is usually a 
tuberculous manifestation, and to be treated along the lines 
laid down in the section on Tuberculosis. At the outset of an 
acute pleurisy in a previously healthy subject, the diet for a few 
days should be the simple fever diet described on p. 267 ; when 
the initial symptoms have abated, a full convalescent diet (p. 
292) may be prescribed, keeping in mind the special value of 
animal protein foods — meat, eggs, and milk — which should 
enter largely into the dietary. In acute bronchitis the appro- 
priate diet varies in accordance with the severity of the catarrh, 
the more serious cases being practically broncho-pneumonia. 
If moderately severe, the diet should be restricted to such 
articles as milk, beef-tea, custard, jelly, and wafers of toast. 
In less serious cases all that is required is to give the patient 
a simple and nutritious light diet, consisting of milk and milk 
products, bread or toast, fish or chicken souffle, sweetbread, and 
light farinaceous or fruit pudding. Greater restrictions may 
be necessary in those cases where the acute bronchitis is an 
incident, as it often is, in a case of marked chronic bronchitis 
and emphysema with a weak heart (see Chronic Bronchitis). 

Diet in Chronic Bronchitis. — Chronic bronchitis, which is 
usually accompanied by emphysema, is commonly a late 
sequel of cardiac or renal disease, and under these circum- 
stances the dietetic treatment is that appropriate to the 
primary affection. Many cases, however, occur in which 
marked chronic bronchitis exists, for a time at any rate, 
without any serious disturbance of the cardiac and renal 
systems. Such cases have developed as a result of exposure 
to unfavourable climatic conditions in susceptible subjects, 
or as the result of the immoderate use of alcohol. Sooner or 
later, however, in all cases, cardiac weakness supervenes, and 
in turn aggravates the bronchial condition. 

The essential point underlying the dietetic treatment of 

2 K 



514 DISEASES OF THE LUNG, THYROID, AND SKIN 

all cases of chronic bronchitis is to keep in mind that 
there is always an associated limitation of the digestive 
powers, the amount of this being in proportion to the severity 
of the bronchial affection. The existence of chronic 
bronchitis alwaj-s implies a certain degree of chronic dis- 
turbance of the circulation in the mucous membrane of 
the digestive tract, with associated disturbance of the 
digestive secretions, and limitation in the digestive power. 
The appreciation of the fact is the keynote to the successful 
dietetic treatment of chronic bronchitis. 

The diet must be light and nutritious, many "extras" 
must be cut off, the pleasures of the table must, to some 
extent, be denied. Carbohydrate foods must be specially 
restricted, on account of their tendency to induce flatulent 
dyspepsia. The necessity of restricting the carbohydrates is 
all the greater in obese subjects ; such cases indeed may 
sometimes be advantageously treated for their obesity. The 
principal meal of the day should be taken in the middle of 
the day rather than at night, and there should be a restriction 
in the amount of liquid taken with meals. In the chronic 
bronchitis of old people the meals should be small and 
frequently administered, and of such a nature as is little 
liable to cause flatulence. In these cases a little alcohol (2 
ounces daily) is often advantageous. Dietaries appropriate 
to this condition are given in detail on pp. 404 et scq. 

Asthma. — It is easy to overestimate the importance of 
diet in relation to asthma. While it is true that in many 
subjects attacks occur apparently quite independently of dietetic 
conditions, it is equally true that many attacks of asthma are 
brought on by indigestion. Any food that appears to the 
patient to cause indigestion must be avoided, and in regard 
to this the patient is often in the best position to express an 
opinion as to indigestible food-stuffs. Such patients usually 
learn by experience what they should and what they should 
not eat and drink. We meet with peculiar idiosyncrasies 
as to diet in these cases, some article of food, in itself of a 
very digestible nature, readily inducing an attack. The 
dietetic treatment consists in recommending a simple, whole- 
some, and well-cooked regime, simplicity being attained by 
cutting ofif many of those " extras " in a mixed diet which 



ASTHMA 515 

healthy subjects may take with impunity, but which are 
injurious to weakly individuals. As a rule a plain, mixed 
diet is the best, made up of the lighter and more easily 
digested protein and carbohydrate foods. Such articles of 
diet as pork, rich sauces, heavy cakes, pastry, dried fruits, 
nuts, pickles, and in some instances cheese, should be 
avoided ; the lightest vegetables only should be taken, such 
as spinach, cauliflower tops, asparagus, baked potatoes, and 
tomatoes ; all rich wines should be withheld. A heavy meal 
in the morning should be avoided, the chief meal of the day 
being taken in the middle of the day. Alcohol as a rule 
should be avoided entirely, because of the risk of the alcoholic 
habit. While a simple, mixed diet, in which there is no 
excess of protein, carbohydrates, or fat, is usually the best 
diet for this condition, cases are met with which undoubtedly 
do better on a largely meat diet or a modified Salis- 
bury regime (p. 534); others again are met with in which 
greater freedom from attacks follows on a diet of a more or 
less strict vegetarian character. Every case has to be carefully 
studied on its merits in order to learn what food is and what 
is not injurious to the individual. Some cases are undoubtedly 
of gouty origin, and require the general and dietetic treatment 
appropriate to that condition. In all cases constipation must 
be avoided. It is well to keep in mind that some asthmatic 
patients unduly restrict their diet, to the detriment of their 
general health, without any appreciable gain from the point 
of view of the asthma. 



Diet in the Diseases of the Thyroid. 

I'AOK PAOK 

Introduction 515 Simple goitre .... 516 

Myxocdemd S'S E.xophthalmic goitre . . . 516 

Introduction. — Myxoedema, goitre, and malignant disease 
of the thyroid are the special diseases of the thyroid gland. 
Diet is, in general, not an important factor in the treatment 
of these disorders. At the same time, and more especially 
in that type of goitre known as exophthalmic goitre, diet is 
in many cases of considerable importance. 

In myxoedema no special dietetic instructions are called 
for; plain, simple, nutritive food is indicated. 



616 DISEASES OF THE LUNG, THYROID, AND SKIN 

In the case of simple goitre, the view has been expressed 
that the cause of this liiscasc is the use of a drinking-water 
rich in lime, this theory being based on the prevalence of 
goitre in certain districts where the water has this property. 
More recently, however, the view has been expressed that 
this disease is the result of some infection arising probably 
from the intestinal tract. The exact causation, however, is 
as yet unknown. With regard to the dietetic treatment, the 
diet should be of the nature of plain, simple food, largely 
lacto-vegetarian in character. Red meats should be used 
very sparingly, fish, chicken, tripe, and sweetbread supplying 
the meat foods. Care should at the same time be taken to 
see that the drinking-water does not contain excess of lime. 

Exophthalmic Goitre. — In exophthalmic goitre or Grave's 
disease there is ver}- frequently severe gastro - intestinal 
derangement, such as loss of appetite, flatulence, or diarrhoea, 
and in these cases dietetic treatment is of the first import- 
ance. Careful attention must also be paid to the hygiene of 
the mouth, to thorough mastication, and to the prevention 
of constipation in this disease. It is in every case essential 
to make a careful study of the previous dietetic history of the 
patient, so as to determine whether the diet has been such as 
to derange the digestive tract. The most usual defects in 
the dietary are excess of starchy foods, too much tea, and, 
less frequently, excess of rich meat foods. It is likewise 
important to examine carefully the stools ; the presence of ill- 
formed, foetid stools points to an abnormally septic state of 
the intestinal tract, and the passage of scybalous masses would 
indicate constipation, both of which necessitate treatment. 

In acute cases it may be advisable to put the patient on an 
almost exclusive milk diet for some days or longer, the diet 
being restricted to 2 or 3 pints of milk (which may, if 
necessary, be peptonised or administered in the skimmed 
form), and i pint of strong beef-tea. If diarrhoea be present, 
lime-water may be given in the milk. 

In subacute and chronic cases all that is required is that 
the diet should be carefully regulated. Excess of starchy 
foods should be avoided as leading to abnormal fermentative 
changes ; meat foods should be restricted, so as to diminish 
putrefactive changes in the intestines and also lessen the 



EXOPHTHALMIC r.OITRR 517 

strain on the thyroid gland. The diet should be light 
and nourishing, and the drinking of buttermilk should be 
encouraged. The following is an appropriate diet list : — 

Breakfast : 8 A.M. — 

Cup of tea. Bread and butter. (Sugar and jam or marmalade 

should be taken very sparingly.) 
Fish or t-gg. 
II A.M. — Glass of milk, or buttermilk. 
Luncheon: i P.M. — 

Bowl of soup made from good vegetable stock ; or piece of fish or 

chicken. 
Bread and cheese. 
Celery, or a little fruit. 

(On days when no soup is taken, a glass of milk or buttermilk 
may be recommended.) 
4 P.M. — Cup of tea. Thin slice of bread and butter. 
Dinner : y p.m. Either — 
Soup, meat, pudding ; or 
Meat, pudding, savoury. 

With regard to this meal the following points should be 
noted. Soups should occasionally be of vegetable and 
occasionally of animal stock. The meat course should 
frequently consist of fish, chicken, rabbit, tripe, or sweet- 
bread in place of the heavier red meats. Care must be 
taken with the use of root vegetables ; occasionally they are 
better withheld. Suet puddings and pastry are not advisable. 
Curds, custard, milk puddings, or stewed fruit are the most 
suitable puddings. Cases of exophthalmic goitre are occa- 
sionally met with in which the appetite is keen and the state 
of the motions satisfactory, where marked benefit accrues 
from the use of a more liberal diet, such as is employed in 
cases of neurasthenia. 



Diet in Diseases of the Skin. 

The fact that in some individuals the ingestion of certain 
articles of diet, perhaps notably fruits, is followed by marked 
skin eruptioiis — erythema or urticaria (nettle-rash) — shows 
that there is an important relationship between the processes 
of digestion and the skin. The eruptions referred to are 
undoubtedly of a toxic nature, *nd represent the attempt of 
the skin to excrete a poison circulating in the blood, this 



51 S DISEASKS OF THE LUNG, THYROID, AND SKIN 

poison bavins:^ been absorbed from the alimentary canal. 
The subjects of diabetes are speciailN" prcinc to skin eruptions, 
notably of the nature of boils ; and since diabetes is essen- 
tiall)' a disorder of nutrition, we have here further evidence of 
the close relationship that exists between diet and derange- 
ments of the skin functions. 

Speaking generally, it can be stated that there is no 
evidence that diet enters largely into the treatment of most 
skin disorders. There are, however, some skin diseases in 
which the food factor is an important one. These are 
seen both in children and in adults, and may be shortly 
referred to. 

In children. — Children, and more especially the children 
of gout)' parents, by no means infrequently develop skin 
eruptions that are dependent on faulty feeding. The most 
common forms of eruptions are small and large reddish spots 
of an erythematous nature, and more or less defined areas of 
nettle-rash (urticaria). These eruptions are usually the result 
of absorption of some toxin absorbed from the bowel, this 
toxin being produced under one or other of the following 
conditions : — 

1. The use of too stimulating food, and more especially an 

excessive supply of meat foods. 

2. Over-indulgence in sweets, usually in the form of 

confectionery or fruits. 

3. The food being over-abundant, and too rich and 

varied. 

More rarely the eruptions occur in children who are being 
too exclusively fed on a diet rich in carbohydrates and fats 
which has laid too great a strain on the liver. In every case 
we must first seek to determine the cause, and an examina- 
tion of the stools in children is a valuable aid in determining 
this ; and having ascertained in which direction the diet was 
defective, the fault must be corrected. Frequently a little 
mild starvation for twenty-four to forty-eight hours is 
advantageous. Castor oil, a little magnesia, and a few 
doses of grey powder are helpful factors in treatment. The 
subsequent use of a more jjhysiological dietary will prevent 
the repetition of the skin trouble. 



DIET IN SKIN DISEASES 519 

In adults. — Ec7,ema, psoriasis, urticaria, acne, and pruritus 
are skin diseases seen in adults which can not infrequently be 
very beneficially treated by diet. Eczema, psoriasis, and 
urticaria are most frequently seen in gouty individuals; acne 
is sometimes dependent on excessive indulgence in alcohol ; 
pruritus is met with in diabetic subjects and in cases with 
pentosuria (p. 377). The dietetic treatment of the skin 
condition is, therefore, the dietetic treatment of the under- 
lying disease, gout, diabetes, etc. 

Most commonly the error of diet has been in the direction 
of excess — excess of meat, excess of sugar, or excess of 
alcohol in various forms. These cases are, as a rule, best 
treated by a lacto-vcgetarian diet, in which in addition the 
amount of sugar is restricted, and all alcoholic liquors 
forbidden, the aim of dietetic treatment being to diminish 
the auto-intoxication that is the causal factor in the disease. 
As in children, calomel and salts are important adjuncts in 
treatmenu 



Vegetarianism 
Purin-free dietary 
Salisbury diet 



CHAPTER XXXI 



SPECIAL DIET CURES 



PAOS 

• 534 



Grape cure ; . . . 
Milk and whey cures 
Soured milk, buttermilk, etc. 



Vegetarianism. 



PAOK 

. 538 
. 538 
■ 540 



Definitions — 

Strict vegetarian, fruitarian, 
purin-free diet ; lacto-vege- 
tarian diet . . .520 

Objections to vegetarianism . . 521 



Source of necessary proteins, fats, 
and carbohydrates in vege- 
tarianism . , . .522 

Practical points in the formation of 

dietaries . . . -526 

Advantages and disadvantages of 

vegetarianism . . -530 



Vegetarianism is a term loosely applied to different 
varieties of restricted dietaries that have one point in 
common, viz., the exclusion of flesh foods from the diet. The 
strict vegetarian lives solely on vegetables grown above- 
ground, and fruits. The fruitarian or nutarian lives on milk, 
fruits, nuts, and vegetables. The purin-free dietary allows 
milk, cheese, cream, butter, white of eggs, vegetables, fruits, 
and cereal foods, but excludes tea, coffee, cocoa, yolk of egg, 
pulses, and flesh. The lacto- vegetarian diet allows certain 
animal foods, e.g:, milk and its products, eggs, also vegetables, 
pulses, cereals, fruits, sweets, tea, coffee, and cocoa. A variety 
of this latter vegetarian diet is one that is restricted to 
uncooked foodstuffs. 

It is possible by restricting ourselves to a vegetarian diet 
to suppl)' all the food constituents, proteins, fats, and carbo- 

620 



OBJECTIONS TO VEGETARIANISM 521 

hydrates that are required by the body. A comparison of 
flesh and vegetable foods shows in flesh a very large amount 
of proteins, a very small amount of glycogen (the animal 
equivalent of starch and sugar), and a variable amount of fat. 
Vegetable foods differ widely, but as a rule they contain a 
much smaller amount of protein, a larger proportion of starch 
and sugar, and a small amount of fat. Some vegetable foods, 
e.g. nuts, contain much fat. Proteins in a vegetarian diet are 
derived mainly from vegetables, milk, and eggs. Those 
derived from vegetables are more difficult to digest, and are 
on the whole less easily absorbed than those derived from 
animal food. It is advisable here to refer to the more 
important objections that are commonly raised to a system 
of vegetarianism, and to the data on which these are based. 

Objections to Vegetarianism. 

In the first place, it is generally urged that in a vegetarian 
diet the question of the intake of a sufficient proportion of 
proteins is a practical difficulty; thus in the text-books it is 
stated that, owing to the composition of vegetable foods, in 
order to get the requisite amount of proteins in the diet, an 
amount of vegetable foodstuffs far in excess of b )dy require- 
ments has to be taken. The view generally held as to this 
practical difficulty in vegetarianism was well expressed by 
the late Sir Henry Thompson as follows: — " The vegetable 
eater pure and simple can extract from his food all the 
principles necessary for the growth and support of the body 
as well as for the production of heat and force, provided that 
he selects vegetables which contain all the essential elements. 
But he must for this purpose consume the best cereals, wheat, 
or oats, or maize, or the legumes, beans, peas, or lentils ; or 
must swallow and digest a large weight of vegetable matter 
of less nutritive value, and therefore containing at least one 
clement in excess, in order to obtain all the elements he 
needs. This badly balanced type of feeding leads to over- 
loading the digestive system, and sets up dyspepsia in some 
of its varied forms." In fairness to the advocates of vege- 
tarianism it must be admitted that there is now little or no 
force in this argument. The advances in the knowledge of 
the construction of vegetarian dietaries in recent years have 



628 SPFXIAL DIRT CURES 

been very considerable, and it is certain)}' possible now to 
frame an exclusive vegetarian regime, containing an adequate 
amount of proteins, fats, carbohydrates, and salts, in which 
there is no excess of bulk of vegetarian foodstuff. This 
point must now be definitcl\" conceded, A second objection 
commonly raised must now be referred to. It is urged that 
there is evidence that the want of sufficient animal protein in 
the dietary leads to a lack of resistance to disease, and in 
support of this view the phthisis epidemics common amongst 
the Irish peasants, who live mainly on potatoes, may be 
cited. Chittenden's work (p. 22), however, makes it clear 
that we must modify markedly our ideas of the necessary 
amount of protein requisite to maintain the resistant powers 
of the tissues at a high level. The advantages and dis- 
advantages of a vegetarian regime will be later referred to 
We will now give some practical details adapted for those 
who wish to adopt a vegetarian regime. 

Source of Food Constituents in Vegetarianism. 

Proteins. — The strict vegetarian and fruitarian has to have 
recourse to many artificially prepared products in order to get 
the necessary supply of protein in a fairly concentrated form. 
Nuts and the pulses supply the proteins, and these furnish 
the vegetarian meat courses. The manufacture of nut meats 
has been one of the greatest developments in extending the 
vegetarian bill of fare. Every year sees a number of new 
and improved preparations put upon the market. 

Mapleton '.2 Dolphin Street, Ardwick, Manchester) pre- 
pare a variety of nut and other meat pastes put up in glass 
moulds, almond nut meat, savour nut meat ; and they also 
make nut meat, walnut, white and brown almond (with or 
without pea nut), grated and blended with certain cereals. 
These preparations can be uscrl to make cutlets, steamed 
shapes, etc. 

Chapman (Health Food Stores, Eberle Street, Liverpool) 
make five or six varieties of tasty and appetising meats put 
up in air-tight glass moulds. Lentose (vegetable brawn) and 
walnut meat are especially to be recommended. They are 
fully seasoned and may be used hot or cold, and are excellent 
when sliced and lightly fried, and served with tomato sauce 



VEGETARIAN FOODS 623 

or gravy. They cost qcJ. or lod. per lb. A book of recipes 
can be obtained from the makers. 

The London Nut Food Company (465 Battersea Park 
Road, London) also supply several varieties — Mcatosc, 
Vegota, and Nut vego ; they have distinctive flavours and are 
suited to different tastes. The Food Reform nut meat is made 
chiefly from pine kernels ; it is said to be hardly distinguish- 
able from galantine of veal. 

Protose, Maltose, Nuttolene, made by the International 
Health Association, Legge Street, Birmingham, are also of a 
high standard. Protose has a distinct meaty flavour, and is 
very good in stews, pies, or fritters, sandwiches, etc. ; cost, 
IS. per pound. 

Vegetable Extracts, exactly resembling the meat extracts 
in appearance, are useful for soups and gravies. They are 
mainly prepared from grain by special malting processes, 
and are wonderfully like the best beef extracts in flavour. 
These are, Wintox and Nutrogen (Winter's), making a soup 
very like beef-tea ; Carnos, made by the Carnos Company ; 
and Marmite, a vegetable food extract which lays claim to 
possess the same nutrient value as a well-prepared meat 
extract, and costs about is. id. for a 4-ounce pot, prepared 
by Marmite Food Extract Company, Mincing Lane, London. 
Good vegetable soups in tins and cubes are also available, 
and are not expensive, e.g., Heinz's tomato soup, Chiver's 
soups (lentil, tomato, haricot, and pea). Eustace Miles 
issues two varieties of dried blocks that make excellent 
soup when dissolved, viz.. Savoury protein soup and Pro- 
tein mulligatawny. These both contain a very large 
amount of vegetable protein, and quite sufiice for an 
adequate meal. 

Pulses, — The pulses may be used fresh or dried, whole and 
ground into flour ; green peas, broad beans, French beans, 
cooked in the ordinary way, or served with poached or 
scrambled eggs, are excellent. The large variety of dried 
pulses are very nutritious : lentils, red or German peas 
split, dried green and giant green peas, can be used for 
soup, stews, or cutlets. Brown beans, haricot beans and 
butter beans, midget butter beans, are used in a similar 
manner. Vegetable soups made with any of the pulses are 



524 SPFXIAL DIET CURES 

excellent; German lentils and brown beans produce a 
ver)' p;oo(l brown soup. 

The Animal Pats are replaced by oil from nuts, and these 
are largely used by vegetarians for table butter and for 
cooking purposes. There are now a number of first-rate 
fats to suit different tastes and purposes, some having very 
much the appearance and consistency of lard, others closely 
resembling prepared suet, while yet others are not unlike 
dairy butter. These are used for frying, for suet puddings, 
for pastry, and for table use. One most like dairy butter is 
Mapleton's butter, sent out in two qualities, table and cooking 
qualities. Albene is a hard, white fat, and serves all the 
purposes for which lard and dripping are used. Cocoa-nut 
butter, of the London Nut Food Company, can also be used 
for cooking. Pine kernels and Vegsu are good substitutes for 
suet. Most of these fats are put up in i and 2 lb. tins, and 
co.st about 8d. or gd. per pound. 

The nut cream butters retain the nut flavour. Mapleton's 
walnut cream butter and almond cream butter are generally 
liked. The nut butter of the International Health Associa- 
tion is made from cooked nuts only, and may be used in 
soups or stews for thickening, or when diluted forms a nut 
milk. The same firm also prepares an almond butter for 
table use which is specially adapted for those with weak 
digestion. 

The Cereals are largely used by vegetarians for porridge, 
and, in addition to the well-known oatmeal, Quaker oats, and 
barley meal, one may mention Artox flour, a whole-wheat 
meal which makes most excellent porridge, as well as scones 
and pastry ; Banana oats is a recent preparation, and is 
appetising to some palates. It is easily prepared, and is put 
up in 3d. packets with directions. Banana flour is like rice 
flour, and is useful for puddings. Robinson's patent groats and 
Manhu whole-wheat flour, and pure malted barley-meal, also 
all make excellent porridge. " Kornules " is another good 
grain food ; it is a pure wheat product in granular form, and 
is ready cooked, and so can be used to prepare a hasty meal. 
Grape nuts are also much liked. 

The so-called breakfast foods consist generally of cereals 
alone, and are predigcstcd, or so heated as to be easy of 



VEGETARIAN BEVERAGES 525 

digestion. Shredded wheat biscuits, granosc flakes, toasted 
wheat flakes, Ralston's food and Avenola, arc combinations of 
cooked grains, and make excellent porridge ; all are satis- 
factory foods. Nut cream rolls and nut cream biscuits are 
made from wheatmeal, or treated with nut butter, and are 
other forms in which cereals are utilised in the dietary of 
vegetarians. 

Pruitarian Cakes are also useful adjuncts to the vege- 
tarians. There arc many varieties, but they are alike in 
being composed of uncooked fruits and nuts, freed from 
stones and skins, but otherwise in their natural state. They 
are compressed into small cakes or slabs. Pitman Company, 
Birmingham, prepares about one and a half dozen varieties 
of these cakes, and will supply twelve cakes for 8d. They 
prepare a cyclist's luncheon for 6d., consisting of fruitarian 
cake and banana biscuits. The London Nut Food Company 
have several dainty fruit and nut cakes covered with chocolate. 
Mapleton, Manchester, have a large number of cakes ; pear 
with walnut, and apricot may be specially recommended. 

Gelatine. — In the dietary of the vegetarian, gelatine is 
replaced by Agar-agar, a product derived from a Japanese 
seaweed. (Chapm.an, Liverpool, prepares table jellies made 
from this.) 

Beverages. — Tea, coffee, cocoa, and chocolate are all 
permissible to the vegetarian ; but to avoid the stimulating 
effects of the xanthin in tea and coffee, many vegetarians 
now take some of the cereal coffees now to be had. These 
strongly resemble coffee in appearance and flavour, are 
refreshing, and free from caffeine. They are prepared by a 
certain roasting and grinding process from various grains ; 
e.g. Postum, prepared by the Grape Nut Company ; Caramel 
cereal, prepared by the International Health Association ; and 
Lapue, prepared by Mapleton, Manchester. These, while 
similar in nature an^ composition, differ somewhat in flavour, 
so that various tastes can be suited. They can be prepared 
as ordinary coffee, but are the better of a few minutes' boil- 
ing. Banana coffee is a pleasant beverage, with a flavour not 
unlike that of ordinary coffee. 

A pure vegetable albumin," Roborat " (Vegetarian Society, 
Deansgate, Manchester), is now obtainable, and claims to 



526 SPECIAL DIET CURES 

contain 94 per cent, albumin, and is tasteless. It is the 
protein of wheat extracted and concentrated, and is especi- 
ally useful in invalid dietary, and in helping to enrich the 
food of those who are otherwise unable to take the necessary 
amount of food. It can be added to any food, in powder 
form, or better still, by dissolving it by cooking for a few 
minutes in water. It can also be obtained made up with 
cocoa or chocolates. Emprote (Miles) is another concentrated 
vegetable protein, which may be added to all sorts of dishes 
to increase the otherwise low protein value of the diet. It is 
practicall)' tasteless, and soluble. 

Vegetarian Cheese is made from nut milk, and is practi- 
cally identical with ordinary soft cream cheese. 

The fruitarian finds it more easy to maintain a satis- 
factory state of health. Milk supplies the animal protein in 
an easily assimilable form which is not possible in strict 
vegetarianism. 

Tlie pnrin-free dietary is useful in certain diseased states, 
A description of it will be found on p. 531. 

The lacto-vcgetarian diet is frequently a valuable system 
of dietetics. It is useful during childhood in the children of 
gouty parents, in cases of high blood-pressure and chronic 
renal disease, in many cases of rheumatism and gout, and in 
other conditions. 

Practical Points in Formation of Dietaries. 

There is often difficulty in planning the meals for a lacto- 
vegetarian dietary, and the following may be helpful : — 

Breakfast. — This meal may consist of oaten or wheaten 
porridge, or any other cereal ; wholemeal bread and white 
bread, scones, rolls, butter, eggs cooked in any form, jams, 
marmalade. 

LuJich and Dinner. — The soups must be made from vege- 
table stock, and thickened with various forms of cereal, brown 
or white roux, tapioca, sago, barley, rice, milk, eggs, and 
the various forms of vegetables. Farinaceous foods and 
savoury dishes, pulses and nut meats, eggs in various forms, 
and preparations with cheese (see below) take the place of 
meats and entrees. Vegetables and salads, puddings, fruits, 
and cheese are all permissible. 



VEGETARIAN DISHES 627 

Vegetarian Soups. 
I. Broivn Vegetable Soup. 
2 quarts water. i slice bread. i cabha^^e. i carrots. 

1 ounce butter. 2 onions. 2 potatoes. i turnip. 

Parsley, salt and pepper. 
Fry a slice of onion in a large saucepan. When it is brown but 
not burnt, add water, salt and pepper, and bread toasted, and vege- 
tables cut into small pieces. Boil three or four hours, then rub the 
vegetables through a colander and boil again for ten minutes, and the 
soup is ready. If too thick, add a little more water. 

2. Julienne Soup {Vegetarian). 

1 quart clarified vegetable stock. Turnip, carrot, celery, onion. 
Mushroom ketchup. Walnut ketchup. 

Salt and pepper. Sherry, if liked. 

Cut the vegetable into fine strips about the size and shape of a small 
match, and boil them separately until tender but not broken. Have the 
stock ready boiling; add salt, pepper, a very little ketchup and sherry to 
taste ; put in the prepared vegetables, cook for fifteen minutes, and 
serve. 

3. White Soup. 

2 small onions. i turnip. I lb. potatoes. 
I head celery. 2 artichokes. 3 pints water. 
\ pint milk. i dessertspoonful flour. i ounce butter. 

Cut about 2 lbs. weight of any white vegetables, wash and peel and cut 
pieces, boil them until soft in the water ; salt and butter. Rub them 
through a sieve or colander, put them back in the stewpan with the milk, 
and let it boil. Put in the flour, mix smoothly with cold water, let the 
soup boil for ten minutes, and serve with slices of fried bread. 

Farinaceous Food. 
There are the porridges made of oatmeal, barley-meal, 
hominy, and lentil, etc. The following three recipes may 
be commended : — 

I. Hominy Fritters {Hominy or Maiae Meat). 
Cold hominy porridge, fat to fry, and flour. 
Cut the cold porridge into slices about i inch thick, flour lightly on 
both sides, and fry in butter or oil. 

2. Bread Fritters. 
Pieces of stale bread allowed to soak in a little milk flavoured with 
cinnamon, dipped in batter and fried in boiling fat. 

3. Polenta and Cheese. {This is another form of Maize Meal.) 
Cold maize meal porridge. Grated cheese. 

Salt and cayenne. Butter. 

Cut the cold polenta into square or oblong pieces about |-inch thick. 



528 "SPECIAL DIET CUKES 

Arrange in a flat dish in layers, with yrated cheese between and over the 
top. I'ut a few pieces of butler over, and bake till brown in a good oven. 

Vegetarian Savouries. 

I. Cauliflower a rindicnnc. 

I cauliflower. 2 tablespoonfuls grated cheese. 

\ pint white sauce. i tablespoonful cocoa-nut. 

I dessertspoonful curry powder. 

Boil cauliflower twenty to thirty minutes until the stalk part is tender. 
Drain the cauliflower and place on a fireproof dish. Add the curry 
powder and the white sauce, pour it over, cooling the cauliflower 
well. Sprinkle the remainder of the cheese and cocoa-nut on top, and 
brown quickly in a good oven. Cauliflower au gratin can be made in 
the same way; increase the amount of cheese and omit the curry powder 
and cocoa-nut. 

Tomato Savoury. 

6 small tomatoes. 2 tablespoonfuls breadcrumbs. 

I gill tomaio sauce. 2 tablespoonfuls gwted cheese. 

I teaspoonful curry powder. ^> ounce butter. 

1 teaspoonful red-currant jelly. Pepper and salt. 

Choose small firm tomatoes. Put into boiling water for a minute 
or two, lift them out, dry and peel them. Then grease a fireproof dish, 
and place the tomatoes in it. Sprinkle them with half the crumbs and 
cheese, and a little pepper and salt. Add the curry powder and the red- 
currant jelly to the tomato sauce, and pour this over the tomatoes. Put 
the remainder of crumbs and cheese on the top, then the butter in small 
pieces, and bake in a moderate oven about twenty minutes. Serve hot. 

Poached Eggs tuilh Cheese. 
4 or 5 eggs. 3 tablespoonfuls breadcrumbs. 

I gill white sauce. Pepper and salt. 

A little butter. 3 tablespoonfuls grated cheese. 

Butter a flat dish, and sprinkle it with half the breadcrumbs 
and cheese. Poach the eggs and place them on the top. Then pour 
over the sauce, and put the rest of the cheese and breadcrumbs on 
the top. 

Lay on a few small pieces of butter, and place in a hot oven to melt 
the cheese and lightly brown the top. 

Parmesan Balls, 

2 ounces grated Parmesan cheese. 2 whites of eggs 
Cayenne pepper. Salt. 

Beat the whites of egg to a perfectly stiflT froth, with a pinch of salt 
and cayenne pepper. Then stir in quickly and lightly 2 ounces of freshly 
grated Parmesan cheese. Shape the mixture into little balls the size of 
marbles, and drop these gently into a pan of boiling fat. Cook them a 
pretty brown colour (about five minutes), and drain thcni well. Serve on 



UNCOOKED FOODS 529 

a doily or dish paper, and sprinkle lightly with Paprika pepper and 
grated cheese. 

Potato and Cheese Mould. 

\ lb. cooked potatoes. i ounce butter. 

2 ounces grated cheese. 2 eggs. 

2 tablespoonfuls milk. Browned breadcrumbs. 

Pepper and salt. 
Sieve the potatoes, and add to them the butter melted, the yolks ol 
eggs, cheese, seasoning, and the milk or cream. Mix well together. 
Whip the whites to a stiff froth, and stir them in lightly to the other 
mixture. Grease a plain mould or basin, and line it with brown crumbs. 
Three-parts fill with the mixture, and bake in a moderate oven about 
thirty minutes. Turn out on a hot dish, and serve at once. 

Lacto-Vegetarian Diet, Uncooked Poods. — Brief mention 
may here be made of a s}-stem of dietary of a largely vege- 
tarian character, of which the distinctive feature is the use of 
uncooked food. The advocates of this system, first introduced 
by Christian, believe that the vital principles of food are 
affected by cooking, and they give effect to this belief in 
practice. The diet consists largely of fruits, nuts, and especi- 
ally Christian's protein nuts, pine kernels specially treated ; 
also, milk, raw eggs, uncooked vegetables, and a special unfired 
bread made from a mixture of grains pressed, and some 
cereals. The distinctive feature of this dietary is the necessity 
for thorough mastication ; in this respect the diet will certainly 
satisfy the most ardent disciples of Fletcher. The writer has 
had the interesting experience of partaking of an " uncooked 
dinner," prepared by an expert in this system of feeding, and 
it is certainly surprising to find that a palatable and very 
sustaining menu can readily be prepared. The following is 
a representative menu, and errs, if anything, in containing 
an excess of protein foods : — 

1, Soup made from milk, raw eggs, ground chestnuts, and 
finely chopped vegetables, such as raw beetroot, and brussels 
sprouts ; this soup is taken hot, but is never allowed to come 
to boiling point. 

2. Salad made from brussels sprouts, beetroot, celery, 
chopped very fine, with a dressing of Protein nut butter, 
lemon juice, and a pinch of salt. The mastication that this 
dish requires is extraordinary, and a tablespoonful contains a 
large amount of nourishment. An unfired biscuit with butter 
is taken with this dibh. 

2 L 



630 SPECIAL DIET CURES 

3. S'weefs — (a) Fruit salad made from a variety of fruits, 
A^., tinned pineapple, bananas, orange, apple, raisins, dates, 
with grated nuts added to it, and cream, no sugar ; also 

{d) Stuffed Talifat dates, stoned and filled with chopped 
apple, nut cream, and banana. 

4. Cheese and biscuits, the latter being the unfired variety 
before mentioned. 

5. Banana coffee, and thin slice of fruit cake. This fruit 
cake is highly nourishing, consisting of all manner of dried 
fruits and grated nuts pressed together. 

There is no question that a highly nourishing diet in 
relatively very small bulk can be given along the above lines. 
A rigid diet of this nature is not a practical one, except for 
an enthusiast. There are certainly two points in its favour : 
(i) the absolute necessity of mastication, and (2) possible 
advantages associated with the presence of vital principles 
unaltered by cooking ; there is no doubt that a little of this 
system could with advantage be introduced into ordinary 
dietaries both in health and disease. A word of special 
commendation may be paid to the unfired bread, which is 
an excellent preparation. 

Advantages and Disadvantages of Vegetarianism. 

Probably the greatest advantages which accrue from the 
adoption of a vegetarian regime lie in the faJt that such a 
dietary is a most valuable corrective of over-eating. There 
is no doubt that vegetable foodstuffs are less appetising than 
animal foods, and accordingly the vegetarian feeder is much 
less exposed to overindulgence, with its attendant unfavour- 
able results. The system of diet adopted by the strict 
vegetarian and fruitarian arc not to be commended ; the 
lacto-vegetarian regime, on the other hand, is a most useful 
form of diet therapy in many diseased states. Its value is 
none the less pronounced because its beneficial effects may be 
in many cases to a material extent dependent on its negative 
property of ensuring moderation in feeding. 

Such a diet has special advantages in the upbringing of 
the children of typically gouty parents ; it is also most useful 
in the treatment of many disorders of the renal, cardiac, and 
vascular systems. Its use tends to lower blood-pressure and 



VEGETARIANISM 631 

diminishes the strain on certain important glandular organs 
intimately concerned in the processes of excretion and 
general nutrition, notably the kidneys and thyroid gland 
(see Appendix). Its long-continued use in certain cases also 
influences favourably the secretion of mucin from the glands 
in various mucous membranes, and hence it is of value in 
chronic catarrh of the mucous membranes, notably the nasal, 
bronchial, and uterine mucous membranes (dysmenorrhoea 
and menorrhagia). It is also useful in some forms of 
rheumatism, gout, and chronic nervous disorders, provided 
due attention is paid to the quantity and manner of 
presentation of the vegetarian foods, so as to prevent 
abnormal fermentation processes. On the other hand, we 
must recognise that there are not a few cases met with in 
practice in which patients have either dieted themselves, or 
taken on medical advice a more or less rigid vegetarian diet, 
to the serious detriment of their general health, and a 
corresponding aggravation of their disease. Some more or 
less strict vegetarian diets occasionally used, including nuts, 
are difficult of digestion, and therefore of poor nutritive 
value ; and occasionally they profoundly derange primary 
digestion, inducing diarrhoea or constipation, ansemia, and 
profound disturbance of general health. Reviewing the 
subject as a whole, it may be said that in healthy subjects, 
and more especially young subjects under forty years of age, 
a lacto-vegetarian diet has no advantages over the more 
conventional mixed dietary, taken in equal moderation and 
submitted to the process of thorough mastication ; in later life, 
however, in health it is a wise rule gradually to more and 
more restrict the rich animal protein foods, and approximate 
to a lacto-vegetarian regime ; and in the diseased states 
referred to, the therapeutic advantages of a carefully planned 
more or less strict lacto-vegetarian diet are very great indeed. 



A Purin-free Dietary. 

PAGE PAGE 

Nature of purins .... 532 Advantages and defects of a purin- 
Purin-free foods . . . .533 free dietary . . .533 

In recent years attention has been directed to the value of 
a purin-free dietary in the treatment of certain diseases. It 



533 



SPFXIAI, DIRT ( I'HKS 



has been recommended for gout, renal disease, neuralgias, 
headaches, bilious attacks, and chronic diseases of all kinds. 
The system is based on the theory that in these disorders 
there is a retention of uric acid and other purin bodies 
in the system, with resulting poisoning of the tissues, due to 
their defective elimination. - Certain articles of diet contain 
more purins than others ; it follows that if this theory were 
correct, much benefit might be looked for from a dietary in 
which the purins were absent, or present in very small amount. 
There is no doubt that great benefit follows the use of this 
diet in certain cases, but there is good reason to believe that the 
benefit is more correctly explained along lines other than the 
purin-frce nature of the food. These will be later referred to. 

Nature of Purins. — Purins are substances constructed on 
the base CjN^. Those of chief clinical importance are uric 
acid, xanthin, hypoxanthin, adenin, and guanin. These 
purins are present in certain articles of diet, in the tissues, 
especially muscular tissue, and in the urinary excretion. 

Purins in the Pood. — Meat and meat extracts contain a 
large amount of purins; similarly, certain glandular organs, 
such as the pancreas and liver, are rich in purins. They are 
also present, though in smaller amount, in many vegetable foods 
(for example, beans, lentils and oatmeal), and they are relatively 
abundant in some accessory articles of diet, notably tea and 
coffee. The following table, taken from Walker Hall's work 
on Purins, indicates what foods are rich in purins. It will be 
observed that those include the most appetising foodstuffs, 
such as are readily indulged in to excess. 

The Purin Content of Foods in Grains per Pound, Pint, 
or Teacup. 



Meau. 




Fish. 


other Foods. 


Baveiaics. 


Sweetbread 


70-43 


Salmon . 


S-IS 


Beans. . 4-i6 


Porter 


1-35 


Liver 


ig-26 


H.ilibut . 


7-14 


Lentils . 4.16 


Ale . 


1.27 


Beefsteak 


14-45 


Plaice 


S-56 


Oatmeal . 3-45 


I-ager beer . 


i-o<> 


Sirloin . 


913 


Cod. 


4-07 


.Asparagus . 1-50 


Cofifte 


I -70 


Chicken 


9-06 






Onions . 0-06 


Ceylon tea . 


I -2 1 


Loin of pork 


8-48 








Indian tea . 


I -05 


Veal . 


8-13 








China tea . 


0-7S 


Ham 


808 












Mutton . 


6.75 













Eaten to any extent for which 
there is appetite. 



PURIN-FREE DIETARY 583 

Purin-free Poods. — Milk, white bread, and potatoes 
contain practically no purins. Similarly, cream, bntter, fats, 
eggs, apples, grapes, figs, dates, and raisins are purin-free. 
Macaroni, cheese, and nuts are in the same category. In 
comparison with foods containing [)urins, we therefore see 
that purin-free foods are on the whole much less appetising, 
and on that account arc less likely to be taken to excess, A 
typical purin-free dietary is as follows : — 

Breakfast — 

1 pint milk. 
Bananas. 
Apples. 
Pears. 

Plums, fresh, dried, or cooked. 
Any other fresh fruit. 

Lunch — 

Vegetable soup made with milk. 
Potatoes (with butter, oil, or milk). 

2 ounces cheese, eaten with potatoes and any other vegetables in 

season. 
Stewed fruit, or tart. 
Fresh fruit. 
I pint of milk drunk during the meal. 

Dinner — Much as Lunch. 

I pint milk. 

I ounce cheese. 
Any variety of vegetables and fruits in season ; if potatoes and 
fruit are taken in larger quantity, less milk and cheese will be 
required. 

Points to attend to in the administration. — In order to 
get the best results from treatment, the transition from an 
ordinary diet to a purin-free dietary should not be effected 
too quickly. At the outset there may be slight difficulty in 
digesting certain foods, and constipation may be a trouble- 
some feature. These difficulties are not as a rule difficult to 
overcome. It is of the first importance to enjoin thorough 
mastication of the food. 

Advantages and Defects of a Purin-free Dietary. — The 
advantages may be sum.marised as follows : — It is a simple 
diet; its adoption prevents over-eating; it restricts intestinal 
putrefaction, and so prevents auto-intoxication from the 
products of imperfectly digested protein foods ; it has the 



034 SPECIAL DIET CURES 

further advantnrjc of being a "special system," and on that 
account is followed more rigidly and therefore more success- 
fully than other dietaries framed along more conventional 
lines. These advantages give this sjstem of feeding a 
distinct place in therapeutics. Its undoubted value is probably 
explained along the lines just referred to, rather than by 
regard to any specific action associated with the absence of 
purins in the dietary. 

The disadvantages of the diet must be referred to. Some 
patients find the regime very unattractive, and as a result the 
amount of food taken, and especially the amount of protein 
food, falls below the necessary standard, and ill-health results 
from' a continuation of the diet In others its too rigid 
adoption may induce diarrhata and other gastro-intestinal 
disturbance, with resulting deterioration in health. 

Meat and Hot-Water or Salisbury Diet. 

A meat diet is specially recommended in tuberculous 
affections. In 1889 C. Richet and Hericourt experimentally 
proved the value of a raw-meat diet in tuberculosis in 
dogs, and showed that the benefit was derived from the 
mu.scle juice and not from the muscle fibre (zomotherapy). 
The method of preparing meat juice is described on p. "JJ. 
A recently introduced muscle juice, Carnine Lefranc, is a 
valuable meat-juice preparation. It has an agreeable taste ; 
it keeps well, and may be given in doses of from i to 4 
ounces daily in any fluid except beef-tea. The special 
value of meat juice and of other proteins in the treatment 
of tuberculosis is fully described in Chapter XXV. 

Many years ago a meat and hot-water diet, commonly 
known as the Salisbury treatment, was recommended by 
Dr Salisbury for the treatment of chronic gout, obe.sity, 
chronic gastro-intestinal derangements, and other di.sorders 
of nutrition, which were attributed by Salisbury to abnormal 
carbohydrate fermentation. In its strict form the treatment 
consists in the daily administration of i to 3 lbs. of meat 
with 3 to 5 pints of hot water, for a period of four to twelve 
weeks. The treatment aims at thoroughly cleansing the 
stomach before eating, by giving a pint of hot water an 
hour and a half before each meal and at bedtime. If the 



SALISBURY DIRT 535 

water is drunk slowly, the stomach will not be distended and 
the patient will not experience any sense of discomfort. 
The slightly nauseating taste of plain hot water may be 
overcome by the addition of ginger, lemon juice, or weak 
tea, and in cases associated with intense thirst the addition 
of a little nitrate of potash makes the water a more efficient 
thirst-quencher. If constipation is present, a teaspoonful of 
magnesium sulphate can be added to the water. A cardinal 
point in treatment is to observe the specific gravity of the 
urine and regulate the amount of water taken accordingly. 
If the urine gets persistently below sp. gr. loio, the patient 
becomes markedly asthenic, and the amount of water should 
be considerably reduced. The specific gravity of the water 
should be kept between 1012 and 1015. The chief article 
of diet is finely minced steak, which allows the patient to 
get the maximum of nitrogenous food with the minimum 
of digestive work. At first the patient begins with lean 
meat of beef in mince or cakes. If unable to assimilate 
solid food, other preparations, Carnrick's liquid peptonoids, 
peptonised home-made beef-teas and essences, Wyeth's beef 
juice, Brand's beef juice, Oxo, and Carnine Lefranc may be 
used instead. Gradually the patient begins to take lean 
mutton cakes and the white meat of chicken. The white 
of an egg, raw, lightly boiled, or poached, is also allowed. 
The following directions will be found useful in the prepara- 
tion of the meat cakes. 

Lean Meat Cakes. — The beef should be taken from well- 
grown animals, and steaks cut from the centre of the round 
are the best for this purpose. The beef-pulps can be pre- 
pared in the following manner. All the fat, fascia, and 
connective tissue and bone are removed, and the meat is 
placed on a board or in a chipping tray, and is shredded 
down with a blunt knife ; the pulp is then scraped together 
with a spoon ; the result is that all the tough fibrinous parts 
remain behind. The scraped pulp is lightly moulded by 
the hand into cakes from ^ to i inch thick, and slowly 
boiled over a clear fire free from smoke. When cooked, 
serve on a hot plate with a little butter, and season to 
taste with pepper and salt. The flavouring may be varied 
by using Worcestershire or Halford sauce, mustard and 



53fi SPECIAL DIET CURES 

horse-radish, or lemon juice. A small quantit\' of dry cclcr)' 
is also permissible. 

From 4 to 6 ounces of meat is the maximum that can 
usually be taken at a meal at the outset of treatment ; later 
8 to lo ounces or more may be taken by some patient.s. 
Four meals should be taken daih'. 

Oysters are a welcome addition to the monotony of the 
diet, and may be prepared as follows : — 

Oysters — Panned. 
Take 6 deep-sea oysters, place them in a colander and pour cold 
water over them. Drain for ten minutes. Place the oysters in a very 
hot iron pan, add salt, pepper, a small piece of butter, and a teaspoonful 
of meat stock. Cook for a few minutes, and serve the oysters garnished 
with a thin slice of lemon. 

Oysters — Broiled. 
Take 6 large oysters. Lay them on a board and dry them, season 
with salt and cayenne pepper. Have a gridiron thoroughly heated, 
place the oysters on the gridiron and brown them on both sides. Place 
the oysters on a very warni plate, and pour round them a little heated 
beef juice and a little melted butter. 

Crusts of stale bread, unsweetened rusks, and protein bis- 
cuits, e.g. Kalari (p. 476), are the first foods added to this dietary. 

Great care and consideration are called for both in the 
recommendation of this diet and the best means of giving 
effect to it. Some time ago the writer saw a patient who came 
to him complaining of intense weakness and loss of flesh, con- 
sequent on a course of treatment lasting nine weeks, carried 
on "by correspondence." The patient had been instructed 
to take a moderate amount of exercise, including golf, but 
was greatly surprised to find that not only was exercise 
impossible, but at times .she had hardly strength to stand. 
Special care has to be taken in the case of stout subjects. 
The very strict. Salisbury regime is in the author's experience 
seldom nece.ssary or advisable, but a modified Salisbury 
dietary (see infra) is of great value in some cases of indiges- 
tion and chronic auto-intoxication associated with it. A 
regime like the following will be found of great value in such 
cases. 

While the nutritive value of this diet is comparatively 
small, it amply suffices for the short time in which the diet 



MODIFIED SALISBURY DIRT 



537 



is necessary. Its use effects a profound imijrovement in the 
state of the intestinal excretions, and a corresponding 
improvement in digestion as a whole. 

Modified Salishiiry Diet. 



7 A.M. 

\ pint or more hot water. 



11.30 A.M. 

i pint or more of hot water, 
flavoured with lemon if desired. 



3 P-M. 

\ pint or more of hot water. 



8.30 A.M. 

4 to 6 oz. meat rissoles. 

2 Kalari biscuits (p. 476) with a 
little butter. 

Small cup of very weak tea. 
I P.M. 

Breakfastcupful of beef-tea with 
i lb. scraped meat (see beef 
puree, p. 77). 

Thin slice of baked bread or 
dinner toast (p. 93). 

Half a dozen oysters as above 
(see also p. 305); or 

Consomme with custard (p. 272); 
or consomme with ^^'g (p. 272), 
with baked bread or toast. 
4.30 P.M. 

Breakfastcupfulof skimmed milk, 
to which is added a full table- 
spoonful of Carnine Lefranc or 
other meat juice ; or 

Plain &%g flip (p. 48) flavoured 
with cinnamon in place of 
sugar. 

Unsweetened rusk or crisp 
biscuits. 
7.30 P.M. 

4 to 6 oz. meat rissoles or mince, 
followed by an ^'g'g jelly (p. 
302) in which the sugar is 
reduced in amount ; or a 
blancmange made with milk 
in place of cream (p. 301). 

The above regime should be maintained for ten days to a 
fortnight, after which additions in the form of steamed fish, 
chicken, malted breads, green vegetables, jellies, and fruit 
can be slowly made. The return to ordinary farinaceous 
foods must be made very gradually, preferably starting with 
the invalid foods (p. 183). 



6 P.M. 

\ pint hot water. 



538 SPECIAL DIPT CURES 

Grape Cure. 

Various forms of fruit cure arc occasionally practised 
Thus \vc iiavc tiic lemon cure, in which the juices of two or 
three lemons arc taken in sutjar water three times a day, 
milk and fatty foods being avoided ; preserved lemon juice 
is less efficacious: also the sweet fruit cure (dates, figs, 
prunes, bananas, and apples). The main action of these 
"cures" is a laxative one. In California there are people 
who live on fruit alone, and seem to be able to maintain 
themselves in health and in fair working condition upon this 
diet Fruits as a class are well digested and have a higher 
nutritive value than is popularly attributed to them ; and 
sweet fruit combined with meat and a green vegetable regime 
is advocated in some cases of constipation. The grape cure 
is probably the best-known fruit cure. It is recommended for 
casesof abdominal plethora, chronic bronchitis and emphysema, 
chronic constipation, and chronic gastro-intestinal catarrh. 
It is in vogue in the grape-bearing vineyards in some parts of 
Southern Europe, notably Meran and Montreux. It consists 
in taking from h to i lb. or more of grapes thrice daily about 
three-quarters of an hour before meals ; the meals consisting 
of light, easily digested foodstuffs, e.^., fish, chicken, milk 
puddings, stewed fruit, toast or rusks, and green vegetables, 
avoiding all rich sauces, pickles, potatoes, lentils, pastry, 
cheese, and sweets. The duration of the course is from 
four to six weeks. The chief effect of this diet is a laxative 
one. With regard to the nutritive value of grapes it should 
be noted that i lb. of grapes contains only about 45 grains 
of protein ; they are, however, rich in carbohydrate (sugar). 
It is probable that much of the benefit ascribed to this 
system of cure is due to the change of air, the favourable 
altitude, and general surroundings of the patient at the 
health resort. 

Milk and Whey Cures. 

Skimmed Milk Cure. — A diet of skimmed milk has very 
special value in cases where it is desired to rest the digestive 
organs to enable them to recover from an exhausted and irrit- 
able condition. It is useful in cases of intestinal indigestion 



MILK AND WHEY CURE 539 

and clironic catarrh of the .small and larc^c bowel (colitis). 
The diet at first is restricted to skimmed milk, which should 
be freshl)' jMcparcd, and t^iven in conjunction with water or 
mineral-water. To bct^in w ith, from 4 to 6 ounces should be 
given every two and a half hours, the amount being gradually 
increased until 10 to 12 tumblcrfuLs are taken daily. If 
desired the milk may be flavoured with weak tea or coffee, 
and a pinch of salt may advantageously be added. After 
ten to fourteen days of this regime, during which the patient 
is confined to bed, the diet may usually be increased by the 
addition of stale bread, dry toast, or a malted invalid food 
(p. 184). Solid food is best withheld for three to four weeks, 
when a little lean, raw, scraped beef may usually be added 
to the dietary. To begin with, patients lose weight on this 
regime, and they may complain of drowsiness and general 
weakness. The urine is increased in amount, of low specific 
gravity, and of a pale, slightly greenish tint. Constipation 
may be a feature, and is best treated by adding to the diet 
fruit, e.g. prunes or stewed apples, once daily in the forenoon. 
In some patients diarrhoea and vomiting are set up, this being 
remedied by reducing the amount of milk, or lengthening the 
interval between meals, and the addition of sodium citrate or 
lime-water to the milk. In favourable cases the state of the 
digestion of the intestinal excretions rapidly improves on 
this regime, enabling the patient to return in a few weeks 
to a light convalescent dietary. 

"Whey Cure. — Whey is practically an aqueous solution of 
milk sugar. A whey cure is advocated in some cases of 
chronic indigestion and abdominal plethora ; it is used most 
largely in some health resorts, notably Ems and Reichenhall. 
It consists in the administration of from 20 to 40 ounces of 
whey daily, which is taken warm either alone or with a 
mineral-water. It is given in combination with a vegetarian 
and fruit regime. In cases of abdominal plethora, as much 
as 8 to 10 tumblerfuls may be given daily with a diet of 
fruit and vegetables. It is sometimes combined with the 
Grape cure (p. 538). When taken in large amounts it 
sometimes induces diarrhoea and colic. The value of whey 
is elsewhere referred to (see Infant Feeding, p. 238, also 
p. 269). 



640 SPECIAL DIET CURES 

The Koumiss and Kephir Cures. — The ^Tcncral properties 
of koumiss and Kiphir arc ^ivcn on p. 44. Koumiss 
contains from i to 2 per cent, of alcohol. It is more easily 
digested and more ct^mpletely absorlicd than ordinary milk, 
and can be taken in large amounts. It is diuretic, gently 
laxative, and, like other milk cures, les.sens intestinal 
putrefaction in virtue of the lactic acid which it contains. On 
an average from 2 to 4 quarts are taken daily, but much 
larger quantities are taken at the special "cure" resorts in 
Russia where this method is in vogue. The koumiss is 
given in combination with nourishing food of a protein nature, 
carbohydrates, fruits, and saccharine foods being specially 
restricted. Lime-water is added if diarrhcea is present. 
This koumiss cure is largely emploj^ed in Russia in the 
treatment of pulmonary tuberculosis. In this country the 
special value of koumiss lies in its being a valuable milk 
preparation, which can be taken by many patients with 
whom plain milk and its other modifications disagree. For 
this reason it is a most useful foodstuff in the treatment of 
many derangements of the stomach and bowel, cither of a 
primary nature or as occurring in affections of the heart or 
lungs. 

Treatment by Soured Milk — Lactic Acid Therapy. 

In the last year or two a valuable method of treatment 
by means of .soured milk and other methods of administering 
.selected lactic germs has been brought to the notice of the 
profession by the distinguished French bacteriologist, Eli 
Metchnikoff, of the Pasteur Institute, Paris. Treatment by 
this means has lately become a fashionable craze, and as is usual 
when a new method of therapy is introduced, exaggerated 
claims have been made for the treatment. While our 
knowledge of this method of treatment and of its limitations 
is by no means complete, clinical experiences has abundantly 
shown that this form of treatment is a real and important 
advance in therapeutics, and very specially in intestinal 
bacterio-therapy. It is therefore advisable to give a short 
account of the rationale of this treatment as laid down by 
Metchnikoff. It is well known that the food exerts an 
influence on the bacteria normally present in the intestine. 



BUTTEKMILK THERAPY 541 

This dependence of intfsliiia! microbial growths on the nature 
of food is due to the fact that certain bacilH secrete substances 
which render the soil unsuitable for others, so that by 
selecting an organism which is innocuous to human beings 
we are enabled to destroy active germs productive of injurious 
effects. In order to attain this we must secure if possible an 
antiseptic mechanism which, once started, will maintain its 
effect, and this can only be accomplished by the services of 
a living organised ferment. It is well known that lactic acid 
is a powerful anti-putrefactive agent. When milk turns 
sour, that is to say, when the milk sugar has undergone lactic 
fermentation with the formation of lactic acid, it can then 
resist putrefaction for a long time. This fermentative action 
is due to the lactic acid, and the knowledge of this fermenta- 
tive property, first shown by Metchnikoff, induced him to 
employ cultures of the lactic germs in order to produce nascent 
lactic acid just where its action is required. The product by 
which this result is achieved is known as " Lacto-bacilline." 

Fresh micro-organisms are continually being ingested with 
uncooked food, and these intensify the effect of pre-existing 
colonies in inducing putrefaction of the intestinal contents 
and noxious fermentations, more particularly the butyric 
fermentation. Sour milk, owing to its containing lactic acid, 
can prevent butyric fermentation and putrefaction, both of 
which are capable of causing various disorders in the human 
organism, and it has thus been applied to hinder decomposi- 
tion changes in the digestive tract. The experiments by 
Herter of New York and other investigators have clearly 
established that lactic bacilli markedly diminish the putre- 
factive process. This has been determined by careful 
examination of the amount of decomposition products (in 
disease, etc.) in the urine, when selected species of lactic 
ferments were administered in the form of curdled milk and 
other means. In some observations by Cohendy, examina- 
tion of the faeces demonstrated the presence of lactic germs, 
which continued to multiply long after the administration of 
curdled milk had been abandoned. 

In endeavouring to combat intestinal putrefaction, instead 
of giving lactic acid, which is oxidised or excreted by the 
kidneys, it is better to introduce the living germs into the 



542 SPECIAL DIET CURKS 

or5:;;anism, cither in the form of Lacto-bacilline powder or 
tablets, or, if preferred, as soured milk. These germs continue 
to multiply in the intestine, and as they are amply supplied 
with the sugar necessary to their maintenance, they set free 
lactic acid, which permeates the intestinal contents and inhibits 
putrefaction and all irregular fermentation. It is well known 
that certain races in Asia and Russia make habitual use of 
curdled milk, which constitute their staple food, and this 
itself may be taken as a guarantee of the value of this food. 
It might be supposed that of the many varieties of curdled 
milk in daily consumption throughout the world, any one of 
them would answer the purpose of arresting intestinal putre- 
faction, but as a matter of fact this is not so. Raw milk may 
contain in addition fungi, which favour the development of 
pathogenic bacteria ; it may also contain tubercle, and other 
bacteria which are not neutralised by the lactic ferment. In 
most cases, therefore, it is found more convenient to give the 
lactic ferments in the form of Lacto-bacilline powder or tablets. 
Milk in order to undergo thorough lactic fermentation must 
have the organised ferments — the living microbes — added 
to it. This is added in the form of pure cultivation of lactic 
germs, which may be given in the form of Lacto-bacilline 
powder or tablets, and this may be given without having 
recourse to milk as the vehicle. The special bacillus used by 
Metchnikoff, described as the Bulgarian bacillus, is a very 
active producer of lactic acid, coagulating milk within a few 
hours, and curdling it without the assistance of any other 
organism. Since too large a proportion of fats may not be 
desirable, the curdled milk may sometimes be made with 
advantage from skimmed milk. Having been boiled and 
cooled, the milk is inoculated with a sufficient quantity of a 
pure culture of lactic germs (Lacto-bacilline). When fermen- 
tation is complete, it yields a curdled milk which is agreeable 
to the palate and tends to diminish putrefaction. Taken in 
doses of from a pint to a pint and a half daily, this product 
regulates the intestinal functions and also prevents disease. 
When milk is treated in this way a large proportion of the 
casein is rendered soluble, and a still greater proportion of the 
phosphate of lime has its solubility similarly increased. This 
proves the easily digestible qualities of curdled milk prepared 



SOURED MILK THERAPY 543 

with i)urc cultivation of lactic microbes. Curcllccl milk is 
therefore both a food and a medicine. As its preparation 
requires a little time and trouble it is found more convenient 
to administer lacto - bacilline in powder or tablet form, 
mixed with boiled milk, or even in water. Reference is later 
made to the unreliability of the commercial forms of lacto- 
bacilline in common use. 

Diseases benefited by Lactic Bacilli Therapy. — From an 
extensive experience of this treatment carried out under 
conditions specially directed to test its efficiency, the author 
is satisfied that it is a valuable addition to our therapeutic 
resources. Certain cases of chronic intestinal catarrh, 
pernicious ansemia, subacute and chronic nephritis, rheuma- 
tism, and gout are very strikingly benefited. The treatment 
is of special value in cases of auto-intoxication, resulting 
from abnormal putrefaction of proteins ; it has Httle value in 
cases due to carboh}'dratc fermentation. 

Methods of Administration. — It may be given as biitter- 
inilk, which is the residual milk left after churning and 
removing the fat ; or as soured milk, which differs from butter- 
milk in that the fat has not been removed ; or in the form of 
one of the many commercial preparations ^ of lactic bacilli at 
present in the market, e.g., Lacto-bacilline, Sauerin, Lactigen, 
Trilactine, which arc added to milk for the preparation of 
an artificial soured milk. Unfortunately these preparations 
cannot be implicitly relied on, as it has been found that they 
may contain no active lactic acid bacilli. The writer recently 
gave a demonstration of the results of the bacteriological 
analysis of many of the preparations in everyday use, at 
which it was shown that many of them contained no active 
lactic bacilli (although other bacteria were numerous), and 
had not the property of souring milk in twenty-four or 
forty-eight hours. Other observers have had the same 
experience. Of the preparations recentl)' examined, Sauerin 
and Lactigen have given the most satisfactory results. 
When a frcsJily made btittermilk from a good source 
is obtainable, this is probably, on the whole, the safest 
method of administration. Here again, however, we have 

' All the makers supply detailed instructions for the special methods 
of piepaialiuu. 



511 SPECIAL DIET CURES 

to bear in mind its uncertain composition. The "strain" 
of y;orms used in the preparation of commercial buttermili< is, 
as a rule, renewed every three weeks; as the strain gets 
attenuated, there is a corresponding; increase in the numbers 
of other bacteria present in the milk, and the presence of 
these may interfere with the action of the lactic germs present. 
In the same way, if milk has been doctored by the addition of 
preservatives, the curdling may be prevented even although 
the lactic bacilli are active. There are also specially prepared 
buttermilk preparations in the market made from the 
Bulgarian bacillus, r.j^. " Fermenlactyl," made by the Ayles- 
bury Dairy Company, Bulgarian soured milk chocolates 
(Rowntree's), and a cheese containing lactic bacilli in large 
numbers (Lactic St Ivel cheese), are other forms in which 
the lactic germs may be given. Under the influence of the 
administration of an active preparation of lactic acid bacilli 
in favourable cases, a very notable improvement in the state 
of the stools is brought about ; these lose their foetor and 
become formed, presenting a marked contrast to the 
extremely fcetid, pultaceous stools originally present. It 
will readily be understood that lactic acid producing germs 
are more likely to have a beneficial effect when the diet is 
simplified along lines such as are laid down in the section 
on Auto-intoxication, p. 346. 



CHAPTER XXXII 

HOSPITAL DIETARIES 

The American authors, Friedenwald and Ruhrah, in their 
text-book on Dietetics, point out that in many hospitals 
the diet for patients is selected by the nurses, with the 
exception of a few of the more important diseases such as 
typhoid fever, diabetes, and the like. 

There is some reason for thinking that the same remark 
may also be applied to some hospitals in this country. 
An efficient remedy for this state of affairs will not perhaps 
be found until instruction in dietetics is made an essential 
part of the medical student's curriculum. 

At the present time it is found that in many institutions 
where the official dietary leaves little or nothing to be 
desired, the actual dietary is in a manner faulty. Use and 
wont has led to the establishment of an increased number of 
feeding hours with a proportionate increase in the total 
amount of food, some of which there is good reason to 
believe is injurious rather than beneficial. 

A concrete example of this is given in the table on 
p. 546, which gives the official dietary of a large infirmary, 
and, for comparison, the actual dietary in vogue in the 
same institution. 

This official dietary allows for three good meals a day, 
which is ample for the majority of patients. Use and wont, 
however, has led to the following dietary being adopted as 
the average one for ordinary and convalescent diets in that 
institution : — 

545 2 M 



546 



HOSPITAL DIETARIES 



Q 


Milk, 1 pint. 
Bread, 4 oz. 

.Milk, I pint. 
Rice, sago, arrowroot. 
Cornflour, etc , 2 oz. 
Bread, 6 oz. 

As breakfast. 
Sago or arrowroot, i oz. 
in addition, if desired. 


g 

a 


Tea. 

Bread, 4 oz. 
Butter, h oz 

I5eef-tea, or 

Chicken broth. 

Farinaceous pudding 
(custard occasion- 
ally). 

Bread, 6 oz. 

As breakfast. 


5 

a 

= 
o 
O 


As ordinary. 

Fish, 8 oz., or chicken, 6 oz. 

(roast, boiled, or stewed) ; 

or 
Minced coUops, 6 oz. ; or 
Mutton cutlets ; or 
Tripe, if desired. 
Vegetables, 8 oz. 
Bread, 4 oz. 
Soup. 

.•\s ordinary. 


5 

O 

o 

o 


Coflfee or tea. 
Butter, i oz. ; bread, 6 oz. 
Porridge and i pint milk, if 
desired. 

Meat, boiled or roast, 8 oz. 

Vegetables, 12 oz. 

Bread, 4 oz. 

Soup. 

(Farinaceous or suet pud- 
ding once a week in lieu 
of soup.) 

Tea. 

Bread, 6 oz. 
Butter, i oz. 




Breakfast 
Dinner . 

Tea 



'•^ 



.2 4> 



1^ ^ 



3 £ 



•o -5 



en -^ 

rt ^ 

a> > 

> <o 

I z 

*" . s 

*o '5. 

c ^ 

o ^ 

'^ 43 






OFFICIAL AND ACTUAL DIETARIES 



547 



For the purpose of comparison, the official and actual 
dietaries are here given side by side : — 



Official Dietary. 



Actual Dietary. 
5 A.M. : Morning Snack^ consisting 
of milk, 8 ounces ; or beef-tea, 
8 ounces. Bread and butter, 2 
to 3 ounces. 



A.M. : Brcnhfnst^ 
Coffee or tea. 

Butter, \ ounce ; bread, 6 ounces. 
Porridge and \ pint of milk, if 
desired. 



r.30 P.M. : Dinner — 

Meat, boiled or roast, 8 ounces. 
Vegetables, 12 ounces. 
Bread, 4 ounces. 
Soup. 

(Farinaceous or suet pudding 
once a week in lieu of soup.) 

4.30 P.M. : Tea — 
Tea. 

Bread, 6 ounces. 
Butter, \ ounce. 



8 A.M. : Breakfast— 
As laid down on the chart. 



10 to II A.M. : Lunch — 
Milk, 8 to 10 ounces. 
Bread and butter, 2 to 3 ounces. 

1.30 P.M. : Dinner — 
Consisting of soup, meat, and 
pudding. (Patients on con- 
valescent diet get white meat.) 



4.30 P.M. : Tea — 
Tea. 

Bread and butter, 3 to 6 ounces. 
An egg. 



7 P.M. : Supper — 
Milk, 6 to TO ounces. 
Bread and butter, li to 2 ounces. 

In this actual dietary there is no restriction to the amount 
of bread, the amount being regulated solely by the patient's 
desires. It will be observed that the nutritive value of this 
dietary is considerably greater than the official dictar)'. 
This regime is one which is for many patients undoubtedly 
excessive. It is true that there are some patients who 
thrive on it, and increase in weight in a favourable manner. 
These are, however, in a minority, and are usually patients 
who have been under-fed prior to admission to hospital. For 
the majority of patients this diet is excessive. It gives little 



648 HOSPITAL DIETARIES 

rest to the digestive organs, and such a diet is certainly not 
one to be adopted as a regular routine. 

There is no doubt that too much food is often given to 
hospital patients by over-;^ealous nurses who are anxious to 
hasten convalescence. The desire to feed is a kindly 
feminine instinct which should be carefully regulated by 
the practitioner. The medical man should always explicitly 
indicate the nature and the amount of food, and the frequency 
of administration which he considers advisable for each patient. 

A useful way of classifying hospital dietaries is the 
following : — 

1. A Milk Diet, consisting of 4 to 6 pints of milk daily, 

and nothing else. This may be given in the form 
of diluted milk, whey, skimmed milk, or koumiss. 
it is best administered in six meals in the 24 hours. 

2. A Fluid Diet, consisting of milk, beef-tea, chicken 

broth, mutton broth, egg albumin. The milk or 
beef-tea may be thickened with one of the pre- 
digested invalid foods (p. 185), six meals daily being 
given. 

3. A Light or Convalescent Diet, consisting of the light, 

nutritive, and more-easily digested foodstuffs — e.g:, 
milk, fish, chicken, tripe, bread, invalid foods, 
milk puddings, and stewed fruit ; green vegetables, 
red meats, pastry, rich sauces, etc., are withheld. 
An illustrative dietary is here given : — 

Breakfast — 

Milk, flavoured with tea or coffee. 
Bread and butter, or toast and butter. 

Gruel, or Hominy, or Farina ; or lightly-cooked egg or steamed 
fish. 
Dinner — 

Soup ; meat- or chicken-tea or broth, thickened with barley or 

rice (see p. 302). Dry bread or toast. 
Fish or chicken. 

Pudding made from invalid food, p. 185 ; or well-made milk 
pudding, p. 297 ; or stewed fruit — apples, prunes, rhubarb, 
or gooseberries or plums passed through a sieve. 
Tea — 

.Milk, flavoured with tea. 
Rusk, or sponge biscuit. 



CLASSIFICATION OF HOSPITAL DIETARIES 519 

Supper — 

A cupful of giuel, p. 296; or malted gruel, p. 181 ; or invalid 
food, p. 184 ; or beef- or chicken-tea thic kened, p. 176, with 
a slice of toast. 

4. Lacto-Vegetarian or Farinaceous Diet, from which 

animal food, with the exception of milk and butter, 
are excluded (sec p. 526). 

5. Protein or Nitrogenous Diet, from which starch}^ and 

saccharine foods are very largely excluded, con- 
sisting mainly of meats, fish, eggs, with a specified 
small amount of starchy foods in the form of dried 
bread, toast, or rusks, arranged as follows: — 

Breakfast — 

Tea or coffee. 

One slice of toast with butter, and Kalari biscuit (p. 476). 

Eygs, bacon, ham, tongue, or fish. 

Difiner — 

Soup from meat stock (pp. 73, 271), crisp toast or rusk. 

Fish, fowl, game, meat, with cauliflower, spinach, lettuce, 

celery, or tomato. 
Curds, custard, jelly, souffle, or stewed fruit. 

Supper — 

Repetition of dinner, two courses being taken. 

6. Ordinary or House Diet, as in Hospital Diet, p. 546. 



APPENDIX 



FOREWORD TO APPENDIX 

The following record is not presented as in any sense a 
completed piece of work. It is aclinittcdly incomplete. It 
comprises a series of papers which have been published in 
the past few >ears on the influence of diet on the structure 
of the tissues. They are republished in the present form in 
the hope that the record may stimulate further investigation 
along a line of research which has already yielded the 
interesting and suggestive results here recorded. 

It is many years since John Hunter demonstrated, in a 
specimen preserved in the Royal College of Surgeons, that in 
a gull which had been fed for a year upon grain the muscular 
coat of the stomach became thickened ; and many other 
examples could be cited from the vegetable and animal 
worlds to illustrate the special efifects of food variations upon 
growth and development. So far as the author is aware, 
however, there has previously been no systematic attempt 
to ascertain the nature of the changes induced in the tissues 
by diet. It will be observed that these changes have been 
found to be of a striking character, affecting many organs 
of the body in a somewhat complicated and inconstant 
manner. The published observations deal especially with 
the influence of an exclusive meat diet administered in the 
uncooked form, and it is of interest to note that similar 
results have been obtained in a more recent series of 
observations, as yet unpublished, on the influence of an 
exxessive meat diet, which more closely approximates to the 
diet in use in the human subject (p. 612). 

5&S 



654 FOIIEWOHD TO ATTKNOIX 

It was oric^inall)- intended to make observations on the 
bacterial flora in the digestive tract, anti also on the resist- 
ance of the animals to certain poisons under the different 
regimes, but this part of the research was not carried 
out. The recently published interestincj and suggestive 
results of Hcrter and Kendall, referred to on page 17, 
and the still more recent results recorded by Reid Hunt on 
the effects of a restricted diet and of various foods upon the 
resistance of animals to certain poisons, indicate the import- 
ance of attention being directed to these lines of the 
investigation. 

I have to express my great indebtedness to the different 
investigators who have collaborated with me, and whose 
results are incorporated in this record. I have also gratefully 
to acknowledge the assistance and encouragement continu- 
ously received from Professor Schiifer throughout the whole 
series of the investigations. 

The expenses of these investigations, which were begun 
in 1898, have been in great part defrayed by grants from 
the Moray Fund of Edinburgh University, and from the 
Carnegie Trust. 

II Walker Street, 

I^aveiuber icyio. 



TABLE OF CONTENTS 

APPENDIX PACK 

I. Stimulation of the Thyroid and Parathyroid Glands by a 

Protein Dietary (Raw Meat) .... 557 

II. The Effects of a Protein Dietary (Raw Meat) . . 558 

III. The Influence of a Meat Diet on the Thyroid and Para- 

thyroid Glands ...... 564 

IV. The Influence of an Excessive Meat Diet on Growth and 

Nutrition ....... 565 

V. The Influence of a Meat Diet on the Thyroid Gland in 

the Second Generation of Meat-Fed Rats . . 575 

VI. The Effect of an Excessive Meat Diet on the Osseous 

System of Rats . . . . . -576 

VII. The Influence of an Excessive Meat Diet on the Develop- 
ment and Structure of the Teeth .... 577 

VIII. The Influence of an Excessive Aleat Diet on the Skin of 

Rats ........ 578 

IX. The Influence of a Meat Diet on the Kidneys . . 578 

X. The Effects of Diet on the Development and Structure of 

the Uterus ....... 587 

XI. The Influence of an Excessive Meat Diet on the Male 

Reproductive Organs ..... 589 

XII. The Influence of an Excessive Meat Diet on the Osseous 

System ....... 590 

XIII. The Effects of a Meat Diet on Animals and on their 

Pruyeny ....... 594 



656 TABLE OF CONTENTS 

APPBNPrX p*oi 

XIV. The Influenre of Diet on tho Mver . . . 597 

XV. A Note on the Minute Structure of the Thyroid Gland in 

the Rat ....... 600 

XVI. The Effects of an Oatmeal Diet on the Thyroid Gland . 602 

.W'll. The Changes in the Structure of the Thyroid Gland in 
Wild Rats under the Influence of Altered Dietetic 
Conditions ...... 604 

.Win. A Note on the Adrenal Gland in the Rat . . . 605 

XIX. The Effects of Captivity on the Adrenal Gland in Wild 

Rats ....... 607 

XX. The State of the Ovaries during Lactation, with special 

reference to the Luteal Tissue .... 608 

.\XI. The Effect of a Meat Diet on Fertility and Lactation . 608 

XXII. A Rich Protein Diet in Relation to Gout and the Thyroid 

Gland ....... 612 



LIST OF AUTHORS 

Chalmers Watson, M.D., F.R.C P.E. 

A. Dingwall Fordyce, M.D., F.R.C. P.E. 

G. W. Watson, L.D.S., and J. H. Giiuis, F.R.C.S., L.D.S. 

F. Gardiner, M.D., F.R.C.S.E. 

Andrew Hunter, M.D., and G. Lyon, M.D. 

Malcolm Campbell, M.D., F.R.C.S.E. 

C. B. Paul, F.R.C.S.E. 

B. P. Watson, M.D., F.R.C.S.E. 



APPENDIX 

I.— STIMULATION OF THE THYROID AND PARATHYROID 
GLANDS BY A PROTEIN DIETARY (RAW MEAT).^ 

The research which furnished these results was primarily an experimental 
research on gout (Preliminary Note). It consisted in feeding a number 
of fowls on a diet strictly limited to raw lean meat with a liberal supply 
of water. Under this regime the animals succumbed at periods varying 
from three to sixteen months, the terminal symptoms being usually of a 
paralytic character. All the animals with one exception (No. 4) showed 
very pronounced disturbance of the cutaneous system, ruffling and loss 
of feathe's, in the course of the experiment. My attention was inci- 
dentally directed to an examination of the thyroid and parathyroid 
glands in the last four cases of the series. 

Parathyroid glands. — In two cases, Nos. i (cock) and 2 (hen), after 
sixteen and fourteen months' meat diet respectively, the parathyroid 
glands were enormously enlarged, and appeared as large globular 
masses. The weight of one gland from each case was -095 gramme and 
■ID gramme respectively. On microscopic examination these masses 
showed the normal structure of the parathyroid gland. In No. 3 (cock), 
after fourteen months' meat dietary, the gland was also much enlarged, 
but less than in the preceding cases. Its structure was normal. In the 
remaining animal. No. 4 (hen), after fourteen months' meat dietary, the 
parathyroid glands were not visible. 

Thyroid gland. — In Nos, i and 2 the thyroid glands were much 
enlarged, being eight times heavier than normal, the weights being 1-25 
and 1-15 grammes respectively. (The average weight of six glands from 
healthy fowls was -14 gramme.) Microscopically these glands presented 
the appearance of normal thyroid tissue, the size of the spaces being, 
however, in parts larger than usual. In No. 3 the thyroid gland was 
enormously increased, one gland weighing 9-5 grammes, the other 
3-5 grammes ; both lobes showed haemorrhages, more especially the 
larger gland. In No. 4 the thyroid was not enlarged ; microscopically 
the gland appeared normal. This animal had been less affected by the 
diet than any of its companions. It had steadily gained in weight in 
place of losing as the other animals had done. The terminal symptoms 
were strikingly different from the other cases, being similar to those 
produced by strychnine poisoning. The livet was studded with small 
caseous nodules, varying in size from the head of a pin to a pea. 
Bacteriological examination proved their tuberculous nature. 

' Chalmers W j^i&on. Journal 0/ J'hyswlo^', vo!. xii.\i., 1^04. 
667 



568 APPENDIX 

II.— THE EFFECTS OF A PROTEIN DIETARY 
(RAW MEAT).' 

(Aft Experimental and Clinical Study.) 

The object of this paper is to record the clinical and pathological 
appearances observed in an experimental research on prolonged feeding 
of fowls on a diet of raw meat. The main facts to which attention will 
be directed are : — 

I. Negative. — The absence of any indications of gout (uratic deposits). 
a. Positive. 

{a) The variety in the clinical and pathological features observed 

in the different subjects. 
(Jb) The lesions in the thyroid and parathyroid glands and bone- 
marrow. 
{c) The very favourable manner in which one fowl affected with 
well-marked tuberculosis was influenced by the diet. 

This research was begun with the object of confirming or otherwise 
the interesting research of Kionka on avian gout. It may at once be 
stated that the results obtained did not confirm those described in 
Kionka's record ; the experiment was unsuccessful so far as the induc- 
tion of gout was concerned. This negative result is of itself of much 
interest ; the interest is enhanced by the changes incidentally observed 
in the thyroid glandular system, the bone-marrow and other tissues in 
the non-tuberculous fowls, and by the distinctive character of the 
reactions in the tuberculous subject. 

Details of the experiment. — The observations were begun on loth March 
1900, and consisted in feeding eight fowls, six hens and two cocks, 
on a diet of raw lean meat and water. Four of the fowls were a year old, 
and four were just under two years of age. The subjects were of a 
common farmyard stock. For the first six months seven of the fowls 
were kept in the country, the animals being confined in a hen-run by the 
side of a wall, the floor being composed of natural soil. This enabled 
the animals to have a fair amount of exercise, and also to supplement 
their diet by grit and other material from the soil. The remaining fowl, 
a cock, No. 6, was kept in an iron cage in the Physiological Department 
of the University during the whole course of the observations. 

The fowls were fed on raw lean ox-meat and a liberal supply of water. 
About the third month an attempt was made to substitute horse-flesh 
(which had been cooked for purpose of preservation), but this was 
abandoned, partly on account of the difficulties in obtaining the meat, 
and partly because this form of diet was not readily taken by the animals. 
Some sand and small grit was supplied from time to time. The observa- 
tions continued until July 1901, a period of sixteen months. 

Clinical history. — For the first few months the fowls took the diet 
greedily, the average amount of meat taken by each fowl being rather 
' Chalmers Watson, Medtco-Chirui i^icul Tramacliom^ London, 1904. 



APPENDIX 559 

more than three-quarters of a pound per diem. In the later statjes the 
appetites were not so keen, and at intervals the animals ate much less 
heartily, this defect in the appetite being usually associated with other 
symptoms. The hens appeared to thrive all right for the first few weeks, 
but about the si.xth week slight indications of ill-health set in. This was 
manifest in a very slight and just perceptible lameness, which later 
became more pronounced in one of the younger hens (No. 3) and one of 
the older birds. This tendency to lameness remained more or less 
throughout the whole course of the observation, but in the case of No. 4 
it was not manifest after the fifth month. On several occasions when 
the lameness was distinct there was a manifest increased heat in the 
affected limb. A little later the fowls showed a greater tendency to sit, 
and would rest on the ground for much longer periods than was natural. 
They roosted each night. 

Eggs. — At the outset of the observations the number of eggs markedly 
increased, this increase persisting for about four weeks, when a gradual 
diminution set in, terminating in complete cessation. The yolks of the 
eggs became particularly pale ; a baked custard and a dish of scrambled 
eggs made with them were perfectly void of colour, and appeared more 
like thick curds. After four months of the diet the eggs were not edible, 
on account of decomposition-changes which were revealed in the process 
of cooking. 

Skin. — In about si.x weeks from the outset the feathers of some of the 
birds became disarranged. The tails drooped, and the birds appeared 
out of sorts generally. .Se\'eral of the fowls lost many of their feathers ; 
one fowl was almost denuded of its feather covering, the loss being 
hastened by its companions picking off" the feathers. About this time 
the fowls showed a marked tendency to pick the lime off" the walls, and 
continued doing so for some time. The cutaneous disturbance is shown 
in the illustration (Fig. i). 

Combs. — The combs of all the fowls became pale in colour, indicating 
anaemia. The degree of pallor varied, and was not constant. In some 
cases it was associated with great duskiness of the comb in its most 
dependent parts. An examination of blood-films taken Just before death 
from two fowls, Nos. 3 and 6, showed very striking deficiency of white 
blood-corpuscles. 

The later history of the eight fowls may be summarised ; — 

{a) At the end of six months two of them were returned to the yard 
in apparent perfect health. 

{h) Two had succumbed to acute nervous derangements at the fourth 
and seventh months respectively. The animals went off their food, 
showed symptoms of paralysis and defective co-ordination, rapidly 
became unconscious, and died. No gross lesions were observed at the 
post mortem ; there was no trace of uratic deposits. The macroscopic 
and microscopic records are not so complete as in the later group. 

(t) Of the four remaining fowls, which were subsequently observed in 
the laboratory of the Physiological Department of the University, the 



660 



APPENDIX 



chart illustrates the records of weights. Attention is specially directed 
to the following points : — 

I. No. 4 steadily gained in weight in place of losing, as in the other 
cases. This subject had, throughout the course of the observation, 
shown a much greater tolerance of the diet than its fellows. At the 
post-mortem examination tliis fowl was found to be tuberculous. 



MOS. 


6 


7 


9 


IZ 


M 


16 


XXOO 6 














2100 ' 




n 










XOOO ■ 














1900 ■ 














1 800 • 






\ 








iroo ■ 






\ 








1600 • 






V 


-*- 


_• 





MOS 

2.900 G 

2600 - 

2700 ■ 

2600 - 

2500 - 



6 


7 


9 


12 


14 






A 








J 


f ^ 


\ 




V 


J 




\ 










\ 


\ 










\ 



6 


7 


9 


IZ 


14 










f 










/ 








1 










/ 









/ 




•^ 


r^ 















VI. 






MOS. 


6 


7 


9 


IZ 


14 


16 


2400 G 


'\ 












2300 • 












2200 • 




\ 










2 100 






\ 








2000 ■■ 







\ 


V 






1 900 • 






V 


^ 




1 800 ■ 










\ 


. 


1 700 












\ 


1600 - 












\ 



MOS. 

.76^0 a 

xsoo • 

2400 ■ 

ZiOO ■ 

2200 • 

ZIOO • 



Record of weights of four fowls fed on raw meat for fourteen to sixteen months. 
Nos. III., v., and VI. showed great hypertrophy of thyroid and parathyroid 
gland.s. In No. IV. these plands appeared normal ; this fowl was aflfected with 
intestinal and hepatic tuberculosis. 

2. While the other animals lost weight, the loss in the case of No. 6 
was remarkably steady and continuous (sec chart). This animal was 
unique in showing profound atrophic changes in tie intestinal tract. 
This animal was fed in the laboratory throughout the whole course of the 
experiment. 

The terminal histories are of interest. No. 3, which all along had 
been the most injuriously affected by the diet, was killed on the fourteenth 
month on account of the supervention of a third attack of paralysis. 
These attacks were characterised by marked paralysis and loss of 
appetite, lasting about a week ; they were spontaneously recovered from 
without any change in the regime. Fig. i illustrates the paralysis, and 




Fig. I illustrates a paralytic attack which developed after six months' 
raw-meat diet, and also at later intervals (see p. 559). Note also the 
cutaneous disturbance. 



I Face pane 660. 



APPENDIX 561 

also the cutaneous disturbance present during one of these attacks. It will 
be observed that the paralysis involved mainly the extensors of the limb. 

No. 4 remained remarkably well until the end of the thirteenth 
month, when it appeared ailing. It rested much and ate less. At 
the end of the fourteenth month it developed symptoms very similar to 
those of strychnine poisoning (opisthotonos, spasms, etc.), but with this 
distinction, that the symptoms did not appear to be aggravated by 
handling the animal. The terminal symptoms in this case were unlike 
those seen in any of the others. 

No. 5 (cock). — At the thirteenth month symptoms of distinct paralysis 
(acute) were manifested, the weakness being much more pronounced on 
one side. The animal could not maintain itself in the sitting posture, 
but fell invariably to one side. The general nutrition of the animal had 
been fairly well maintained, and the loss of weight was not considerable. 

No. 6 (cock, black). — The general nutrition of this animal was poor. 
Many of its feathers had gradually assumed a brown tint ; the comb 
showed a combination of pallor and duskiness. The fowl became 
paretic, and it was observed that in walking the right leg was raised 
higher and put down more sharply than its fellows. Blood-films taken 
before death showed very pronounced leucopoenia. 

Before passing from the consideration of the clinical picture, reference 
may be made to the striking absence of the clinical features of gout. 
The occasional lameness and increased heat in the affected limbs were 
the only symptoms which in any way resembled those of gout. Both the 
subsequent history and the entirely negative post-mortem evidences 
show that the attempt to induce gout was entirely unsuccessful. If any 
doubt exists on this point, that will be dispelled by a reference to the 
illustrations of Kionka, which show the presence of marked uratic 
deposits in the limbs of animals in which these local symptoms had been 
much more severe than in the author's observations. It is worthy of 
note that Kionka only succeeded in inducing gout in a small proportion 
of his cases. 

Pathological Appearances. 

An examination of the two fowls that succumbed at the fourth and 
seventh months respectively revealed no gross lesions. There was no 
trace of uratic deposits in the articulations or other tissues. The serous 
membranes, liver, spleen, kidneys, and heart showed no abnormality. 
Histoloj^ical/y the livers showed a moderate degree of cellular infiltration 
along the portal tracts and bile ducts, with considerable deposit of 
pigment throughout the organ. The renal epithelium contained many 
fine pigment granules. The spleens were not enlarged ; they showed 
some pigment deposit. There was no trace of vascular disease in any of 
these organs, and their parenchyma generally presented a normal appear- 
ance. As the examination of these cases was, however, especially 
directed to the presence or absence of manifestations of gout, the actual 
records are less complete than in the larger number of cases which 
survived for longer periods. 

2 N 



662 APPENDIX 

No. 4 fowl, after fourteen months on raw-meat diet. The general 
nutrition was good (see chart). All the organs and tissues appeared 
healthy, with the following exceptions : — 

(a) The liver was studded with small caseous-looking nodules, which 
varied in size from the head of a pin to a small bean. Microscopic 
examination (and the application of suitable staining methods, carried 
out for me by M r Richard Muir, of the Pathological Department of the 
University) revealed their tuberculous nature. 

(d) The lowest part of the ileum, for a distance of 6 inches, showed 
numerous small circular ulcers. On histological examination charactcr- 
is'ic tuberculous nodules were seen in the mucous, submucous, and 
muscular coats ; the ulcers were produced by the extrusion of small 
caseous masses. 

(c) The bone-marrow was unduly dark in colour, and microscopically 
was of a leucoblastic type. The microscopic examination of the spleen, 
kidneys, heart, thyroid, pancreas, and muscular system revealed no 
abnormal appearances. 

Similarly, the examination of the spinal cord at three different levels, 
k-ndly made for me by Dr Ford Robertson, failed to reveal any 
indication of (a) desease of the vessels, or (/;) degeneration of nerve-fibres 
(Marchi and Weigert-Pal methods). The systemic vessels generally 
appeared perfectly healthy, with the exception of one artery (sciatic), 
which showed a well-marked patch of endarteritis. This may have been 
due to a previous thrombosis. 

Fowls 3, 5, and 6. — After fourteen and sixteen months' raw-meat 
diet. No trace of gout was present. These fowls, unlike the former, 
showed some pronounced lesions. Of these the only changes common 
to all of them were found in the thyroid and parathyroid glands. The 
thyroid gland was much enlarged in the case of Nos. 3 and 6 (see Fig. 3), 
and enormously so in No. 5. The weights of the two glands in the 
last mentioned were 9-5 grammes and 3-0 grammes respectively. Histo- 
logical examination showed : — 

i. Increase in size of the vesicles, which were filled with colloid 
substance which stained perfectly (see Fig. 2, and compare Fig. 3). 

ii. Diminution in the intervesicular glandular tissue. 

iii. Increase in the number of cells in the wall of vesicles. 

The enlarged glands in No. 5 showed well-marked haemorrhages into 
the vesicles. Ihc parathyroid ^\siX\ds were very markedly enlarged in 
all three cases, more especially in Nos. 3 and 6 (see Fig. 3). Normally 
these glands are not visible to the unaided eye ; in these three animals 
the glands stood out as more or less globular masses distinctly larger 
than a pea (see Fig. 4). Histologically the sections presented the 
appearance of normal parathyroid tissue. 

Bone-marrow, — Very striking changes were found in the bony 
system in two cases (Nos. 3 and 6). In No. 3 the long bones were 
increased in thickness, and irregular on their surface ; the femora were 
markedly curved. On section of the long bones it was found that the 
marrow had almost entirely disappeared (see Fig. 5), being replaced by 



[ 




Fig. 2 — Thyroid Gland after 14 months' raw-meat diet. ( x 50.) Cf. Fig. 3. 
Observe — i. The increase in size of the vesicles. 

ii. The increased tliickness of wall of vesicles. 
iii. The disappearance of the intervesicular glandular tissue. 




Fig. 3. — Thyroid Gland from normal Fowl. ( x 50.) Cf. Fig. 3. 
Observe — i. The size of the vesicles. 

ii. The thickness of walls of tin* vesicles 
iii. The large amount of intervesicular glandular tissue. 

{Fact page 562. 



APPENDIX 563 

fairly dense tissue. On microscopic examination the appearance was 
remarkable (see Fig. 7'). The marrow proper was replaced by a non- 
cellular tissue presenting some of the characters of an osteoid tissue ; a 
similar appearance was seen in the outer part of the bone (see Fig. 7). 
The large masses apparently represent much altered Haversian spaces, 
the appearances being due to an infiltration of some substance which 
stains pink with picro-carmine. Chemical examination showed a great 
increase in the proportion of organic matter. The appearances in the 
bone in No. 6 were of a similar character, but less pronounced. The 
marrow in No. 5 appeared unusually soft in consistence and dark in 
colour. It was not submitted to microscopic examination. 

Other organs and tissues. — No uniform lesions were present ; the 
organs were for the most part normal. The following lesions were, 
however, noted : — 

1. The intestinal tract in No. 5 showed very pronounced atrophic 
changes. 

2. The duodenum in Nos. 5 and 3 was dilated. 

3. The liver in No. 6 showed great amount of pigment. 

4. The heart in No. 3 appeared to be hypertrophied. 

The systemic vessels throughout showed no indications of disease of 
any of their coats ; the vessels in the muscular system showed no 
abnormal appearance ; and the same has to be said of the vessels in 
the spinal cord. There was no trace of degeneration of the nerve-fibres 
in the cord ; in one section in No. 6 some minute capillary hemorrhages 
(recent) were present in the ^ey matter. 

The points to which attention is specially directed are the hypertrophy 
of the thyroid and parathyroid glands in all the three healthy fowls., and 
to the freedotn for such enlargement in the tuberculous subject. These 
remarkable changes in the thyroid and parathyroid cannot, it seems to 
me, be looked upon as an accidental circumstance void of significance 
on the dietetic regions in vogue. The hypertrophy of these glands is 
interpreted as the result of the raw-meat dietary. The recent work 
of Hericourt and Richet, on the special value of raw meat as a curative 
agent in tuberculosis suggests that in the tuberculous fowl the excessive 
meat diet was made use of to neutralise the tuberculous tox;cmia. 

The negative features of interest are {a) the entire absence of uratic 
deposits ; {b) the absence of renal disease, and {c) the healthy state of 
the blood-vessels throughout the system. These last two negative 
features have significance in relation to the commonly accepted view 
that a nitrogenous dietary leads to general vascular and renal disease. 

' From stained sections kindly made by Dr Carnegie Dickson, of the Patho- 
logical Department of the University, it is seen that the large dark areas in the 
section represent concentric laminae of imperfectly developed bone, the older 
laminae staining faintly, the younger ones dcejily. The Haversian spaces are 
reduced in size, and as the spaces become narrowed the vessels are obliterated. 
The spaces are void of osteoblasts and osteoclasts, and contain simply fat and an 
artery and vein. 



664 APPENDIX 

III.— THE INFLUENCE OF A MEAT DIET ON THE 
THYROID AND PARATHYROID GLANDS.' 

In view of the results obtained from an investigation on the influence 
of a raw-meat diet on the thyroid and parathyroid glands in fowls, it was 
deemed advisable to repeat the investigation with other animals, c.f^. rats. 
Twelve animals were used for this experiment, with eight controls. 
Eleven of these were young subjects, their ages at the outset of the 
observations ranging from six to twelve weeks ; the twelfth was a 
full-grown rat of unknown age. Except in the case of the adult rat, the 
control subjects were taken from the same litter as the animals placed on 
special diet. This diet consisted of raw minced ox-meat and water, as 
much meat being given as the animals would consume ; the diet of the 
control cases consisted of bread and milk and occasionally porridge, also 
in unrestricted amount. The investigations lasted in some cases six 
weeks, in others four months. The results may be summarised. 

Clinical. — For the first ten days or so all the rats on meat diet either 
lost weight or failed to increase in weight like the control subjects. 
Subsequently six of the meat-fed animals put on weight to an amount 
almost equal to that of the control subjects ; in the remaining six animals 
the final record was considerably short of the figures for the bread-and- 
miik-fed rats. E.g. in one experiment which lasted six weeks, the three 
animals on the meat diet gained 14 grammes, 15 grammes, and 41 grammes 
respectively, as against 62 grammes in the case of the control. All the 
animals appeared in good health, with the exception of the adult rat, 
which lost weight markedly and died in three weeks. 

Thyroid glatid.--}^\^croscoi^'\Q changes. In three cases there was a 
distinct increase in the size and weight of the glands, the glands in 
two instances weighing just double the weight of the control. In the 
adult meat-fed rat the gland was distinctly diminished in size. In the 
remaining eight the general appearance of the glands was normal 
except in one case, in which the parathyroid glands were double the 
size of any of the control glands. 

Microscopic changes. In ten out of the twelve animals definite 
histological changes were present, these consisting of: (i) Active 
proliferation of the epithelium of the vesicles. (2) Congestion of blood- 
vessels. (3) Mucoid degeneration of the colloid material and of the 
epithelial cells. In some cases there was also distinct enlargement of 
the vesicles. The colloid material was diminished in amount. In the 
adult meat-fed rat the colloid substance had practically disappeared, the 
general appearance of the gland being one of pronounced atrophic 
catarrh. The histological changes were most pronounced in the animals 
which had failed to increase in weight like the control subjects. 

Parathyroid glands. — In one out of the twelve animals the para- 
thyroid glands were obviously enlarged, and the microscopical appear- 
ances of this gland were abnormal, the epithelial cells being widely 
separated by large clear spaces, which were apparently areas of mucoid 

' Chalmers Watson, Journal 0/ Phynology, vol. xxiii., 1904. 




— raralhyroid. 



-Thyroid. 



Fig. 4. — Great hypertrophy of thyroid and i):ir;iihyroid glands after prolonged 
feeding on raw meat. Weight of one parathyroid gland (Nos. III. and VI.) 
was -095 and -lo gramme. Weight of one thyroid gland (Nos. III. and VI.) 
was 1-25 and 1-15 grammes. The average weight of a normal thyroid is '14 
gramme. 



Transverse section 

of normal femur 

at tlic same level— 




Fig. 5. — To show the changes in the osseous system after fourteen months' 
raw meat — five sections. 

Observe — i. The increase in thickness of the bone. 

ii. The iliminution and obliteration of the marrow cavity, due to the formation of an 
osteoid tissue, see i>. 562. 



[Face page 564. 




Fig. 6, — Transverse section of the normal bone seen in Fig^. 5, for 
comparison with Fig. 7. 



a: 






Fig. 7. — Transverse section of the abnormal bone in Fig. 5. Same 
magnification as in Fig. 6. Unstained. 



APPENDIX 665 

degeneration. A much less degree of the same change was observed in 
one of the control glands. The parathyroid glands of the meat-fed 
adult rat were lost in the process of preparation. In the remaining ten 
cases the histological appearances were normal. 

The general results may be summarised as follow : — 

1. The administration of a meat diet to young rats is followed by 
distinct histological changes in the thyroid gland ; this result, although 
very frequent, is not however a constant one. 

2. The changes in the glands are most pronounced in the case ot 
those animals which do not gain in weight at the same rate as the 
normal animal. 

3. The parathyroid glands were in the great majority of cases 
unaftected by the diet. 

4. In the case of an adult meat-fed rat, the animal succumbed after 
three weeks of the diet, the general appearance of the thyroid gland 
indicating exhaustion of its functions. 

IV.— THE INFLUENCE OF AN EXCESSIVE MEAT DIET 
ON GROWTH AND NUTRITION. ' 

In a paper published in 1905 attention was drawn to the increase that 
had taken place in the consumption of animal food in this country in the 
past fifty years. It was there pointed out that the amount of meat 
imported into this country had increased from 3 lbs. per head per annum 
in 1853 to 50 lbs. per head per annum in 1903— a very remarkable 
increase. A consideration of these figures suggests the question, What 
amount of animal protein is requisite for the healthy nutrition of normal 
subjects? The results of Chittenden's recent researches on the amount 
of protein requirements in health have clearly shown that in some 
important respects the teaching of the text-books on diet is erroneous 
and have shown the necessity of, in the words of a leading writer, 
reconsidering our conclusions on diet from their foundations. The 
necessity for such a reinvestigation has further been demonstrated by 
the results of some preliminary observations on diet, investigated from 
a new standpoint, published by me in 1904-5, which showed that the 
administration of an excessive meat diet to normal animals was followed 
by striking histological changes in the thyroid gland. This evidence of 
structural change in the thyroid gland under a meat diet indicated the 
advisability of repeating the experiments on a larger scale. I have 
during the past year made an extensive series of observations on the 
influence of a meat diet on (a) the growth and general nutrition, and (6) 
the structure and functions of the organs of a large number of animals. 
The present paper deals with the former ; it gives an account of the 
clinical results obtained by feeding rats on an exclusive flesh diet and 
also some comments on the bearing of these results on some clinical 
phenomena in the human subject. The diets employed were ox flesh 

' Chalmers Watson, Lancet, vol. ii., iqo6. 



Fat. 


Carbohycimte. 


Salts 


46 


I '5 


2.3 


14 


1-7 


a-4 


4 


73-1 


3-9 



566 APPENDIX 

and horse-flesh, with bread and milk as the control diet. The chemical 
composition of these dietaries was determined by Dr Anchew Hunter, 
assistant in the physictlojjical laboratory of tlie University of Kdinburjjii, 
and is elsewhere >;iven in detail.' The essential facts are summarised in 
the following table : — 

Prot»>ld. 

Ox-flesh . . .49 

Hors€-flesh . . .81 

Bread and tnillc . 18 

Bread and milk is the diet in common use for tame rats, and the control 
diet used in this experiment was found to be admirably adapted for the 
growth and nutrition of rats of all ages. In connection with the experi- 
mental diets it may be mentioned that under certain conditions — e.g. in 
the neighbourhood of abattoirs — the diet of wild rats is mainly one of 
flesh food of different kinds. Some control observations were made on 
the influence of the two dietaries (horse-flesh and bread and milk) on 
wild rats. The effects of the diet were studied in animals of different 
ages as follows : (i) on very young rats newly weaned (three weeks old), 
the controls being taken from the same litter— twenty-five rats with 
nineteen controls ; (2) on young rats, approximately two and a half 
months old — twenty-two rats with twelve controls ; and (3) on full-grown 
adult rats — fourteen rats with ten controls. In the investigations special 
attention was directed to the following points : (a) the effects of the diet 
on the growth and nutrition of the meat-fed animals ; {b) the health of 
their offspring ; and (c) the recuperative power of a norma! diet in 
animals which had deteriorated as a result of the meat-feeding. 

Ox-flesh. — I. The effect of an ox-flesh diet on very young rats. — 
Fourteen young rats from five litters, newly weaned, were placed on an 
exclusively ox-flesh diet, eleven rats from the same litters being used as 
controls (bread and skimmed milk diet). Five of the meat-fed animals 
succumbed within four months, their weights and date of death being 
indicated on Chart r. The remaining nine animals lived and appeared 
to thrive, but they gained in weight less than did the controls. Two 
representative illustrations are given. These show the relative sizes of 
two male rats of the same litter after being fed for three months on bread and 
skimmed milk (P'ig. 8a) and ox-flesh (Fig. 8<J) respectively. The general 
appearance of these nine ox-flesh-fed subjects was in all respects normal ; 
it was, however, observed that some of them moved about in a less lively 
manner than did normal animals. This lessened activity was associated 
with, and apparently dependent upon, changes in the osseous system of 
a rachitic-like nature which were revealed at the post-mortem examina- 
tion. In the meat-fed animals flitters four and five) four were females, 
and although kept with males none of them became pregnant, whereas 
of the three control females from the same litters all bore litters. 
These results admit of the following conclusions : — i. Very young rats, 
newly weaned, can in the majority of cases live and thrive on an 

* fournai 0/ Phytiology, vol. xxxiv., No. 1I2. 




Fig. 8. — To show the relative size of two male rats of the same litter after being 
fed for three months on bread and skimmed milk ((/) and ox-flesh (/')• 




Pig. 9. — To show the state of development of the progeny of iiorni.iily fed (bread 
and milk) rats («) in comparison with rats of the same age bred on a 
flesh diet (/>)• 



[Face page 666. 



APPENDIX 



567 



exclusive ox-flesh diet ; their growth is, however, retarded hy tlws dietary. 
2. An ox-flesli diet interferes with the development of pregnancy. 

II. The effect of an ox-Jlesh diet on young rats from two and a half 
to three months ^/</.— Eight rats of an average weight of 65 grammes and 
approximately two and a half months old were fed on an exclusively ox- 
Chart I. 




Tli« influence of an oxtlesh diet on very young rats newly weaneil. The dark Hue equals the 
average weight of the ox-flesh-fed rats. The arrows indicate deaths. The faint line 
equals the average weight of the control (bread-aiid-milk-fed) subjects. 



flesh diet, four subjects of similar age and weight being used as controls. 
The meat-fed animals thrived, and were, with one exception, alive and in 
apparent health after six months of this feeding. They gained in weight 
more than the controls (see Chart 2). With the exception of four which 
became inordinarily fat, all the meat-fed subjects appeared to be in a 
perfect condition throughout the whole period of observation. 



668 



APPENDIX 



Horse-flish.—\. The influence of a diet of horse-flesh on ver)' young 
rats. — Eleven animals from five litters were fed on horse-flesh, eight rats 
from the same litters being used as controls (bread and skimmed milk diet). 
Eight of the eleven meat-fed animals succumbed after a few weeks' diet ; 
the remaining three died within four months. The control subjects lived 
and thrived. The weight curve of one meat-fed subject is not included 
in the chart. These results, which are graphically represented in Chart 
3, show that a diet of horse-flesh arrests the growth of, and is speedily 
fatal to, ver)' young rats. 

II. — The influence of horse-flesh on yount^- rats approximately two and 
a half months old. — Fourteen young rats about two and a half months 
old were placed on a meat diet, eight control animals of a similar age 
and weight being fed on bread and skimmed milk. Six of the meat-fed 

Chart 2. 



1.03 184 




The Inflnence of an ox-flesh diet on young rats, the diet bflin{» commenced when the animals 
were between two and three mouths oM. The dark line equals tlie average uf eight ox- 
Hesh-fed rats. The arrow indicates a death. The faint line equals the average of four 
contrul (bn^d-and-milk-fed) subjects. 



subjects succumbed on the third day. On the morning of this day the 
rats appeared to be in their usual health. An hour after feeding one of 
them was lying on its side apparently unconscious. In a few minutes 
others were affected. They appeared to be paralysed. They felt cold to 
the touch, exhibited symptoms of tetany, and speedily became uncon- 
scious. Six succumbed within half an hour. Of the remainder some 
showed similar symptoms, although in a less degree, and they recovered 
when the diet was changed to bread and skimmed milk. After two days 
of the normal diet the remaining rats (five males and three females) were 
again placed on an exclusively horse-flesh diet. Under this regimen 
they now gained weight as shown in Chart 4. They exhibited symptoms 



APPENDIX 



509 



of deranged nutrition such as accelerated and noisy respiration with 
tendency to "pot-belly," but these symptoms were in the majority of 
animals recovered from. The females became pregnant and gave birth 
to four litters. At the end of the eighth month the animals were alive 
and in apparent good health, their average weight, however, being below 
the normal (Chart 4). The results of this observation may be sum- 
marised as follows : — i. An exclusive horse-flesh diet was fatal to about 



31 62 92 123 



Chart 3. 

U 28 4^ 14 30 44 



14 30 44 







The infliiPDce of a horse-flesh diet on very yonng rats newly weaned. Tlie dark lines equal the 
avrage weight of eleven horse-flesh-fed rats. The arrows indicate deaths. The faint lines 
e^iual the average weight of eight control (brea'1-and-niilk-fed) subjects. 



50 per cent, of young rats two and a half months old, death occurring 
within a few days, with symptoms of acute toxic poisoning. 2. In the 
remaining 50 per cent, the animals became accustomed to the diet and 
appeared to thrive on it, but their growth was permanently stunted, the 
maximum weight of the horse-flesh-fed being distinctly below the control 
bread and skimmed-milk-fed subjects. 3. The use of this diet in animals 
of this age appears not to affect the supervention of pregnancy. 

111. The effect of horse -Jlesh diet on adult rats. — Nine adult rats of an 



670 



APPENDIX 



average wei^jht of 210 grammes were put on an exclusively horse-flesh 
diet on 27th March, On this diet their weight was well maintained (see 
Chart 5). Two succumbed in five months, the remainder being then in 
fair but by no means perfect condition, the most striking abnormality 
being the rough condition of the skin. In some cases the rate of respira- 
tion was increased, this symptom varying in severity from time to time. 
The general result of this observation shows that the exclusive horse- 
flesh diet maintains the Ijody-wcight of adult rats in the majority of cases 
(seven out of nine) ; and also that the general nutrition of the flesh-fed 
animals was below ihat of the control bread and skimmed-milk-fed subjects. 




The inflnericp of a horse-flesh i1i<>t on yonng rats, the diet being commenced when the 
aiiimalx were between two aii<l three months old. The dark line equals the average 
weight of fourteen ttesh.fed rats. The arrows indicate deaths. The faint line equals tlie 
average wel);ht of eiglit control (bread-ajid-niilk-feil) subjects. 



The effects of a meat diet on pres^nancy and lactation. — I have already 
submitted evidence bearing on this subject. It has been shown that 
when an o.\-flesh diet is commenced at a very early period of life 
pregnancy does not supervene, as in animals on a normal diet. .Some 
further points of interest are supplied in the following record of one 
animal which had four litters in 1905. This animal, on a bread and 
skimmed milk diet, had a litter of nine on 22nd April. This litter lived and 
thrived. After weaning, the mother was transferred to an exclusively 
horse-flesh diet. Pregnancy supervened, and a second litter, also of nine, 



APPENDIX 571 

was horn on 13th June. None of the seroiul litter survived longer than 
two monilis. The horse-flesh diet was continued, and a third litter, six in 
number, was born on 30th July. These sucrunibed witliin one month. 
The mother was then transferred to the norma! bread and skimmed milk 
regimen, and while on this diet a fourth litter, eight in number, was born, 
all of which lived and thrived. In this and other meat-fed subjects it was 
observed that the mammary glands were less developed than in bread- 
and-milk-fed rats. 

The influence of a meat diet on the prog;eny. — The progeny of meat- 
fed rats are usually poorly developed, and show a high mortality in early 
life. Some statistics on this point are given. Of ninety-three rats born 
of meat-fed parents (ox-flesh and horse-flesh), nineteen (20 percent.) were 
alive at the end of two months ; while of ninety-seven rats born of bread- 
and-milk-fed rats, eighty-two (84 per cent.) were then alive and in 
apparent health. The state of development of the progeny of bread-and- 
milk-fed rats (Fig. 9a) in comparison with that of meat-fed subjects 

Chart 5. 




The influence of a horse-flesh diet on adult rata. The dark line represents the average weight 
of nine adult rats fed for five months on a horse-flesh diet. The arrows indicate deaths. 

(Fig. 9<5) is illustrated in Fig. 9, p. 566, for animals si.x weeks old. The 
/neat-fed animal (Fig. 9<J) was puny and ill-developed, with scanty hair and 
dry skin, a picture of general marasmus. It died two weeks after the 
photograph was taken. One of the thirteen meat-fed litters (an ox-flesh 
litter) was a striking exception to the general rule. When two months 
old this litter, nine in number, appeared to be in perfect health, their 
average weight and general appearance being quite up to the normal 
standard. The high mortality in early life of the second generation of 
meat-fed rats is probably due in great part to the defective power of 
lactation in the mothers. 

The recuperative power of a normal diet. — Some observations were 
made on the recuperative power of a normal diet in animals which had 
deteriorated in consequence of having been fed for some time on an 
abnormal dietary. The results in the case of flesh-fed animals were in 
this instance controlled by comparison with those obtained from animals 
fed on (a) an exclusively rice diet, and {b) an exclusively porridge (made 
with milk) diet. Observations were made on animals of both the first 
and second generation. 

A. In the first generation. — After the primary observation on each 
diet had been in progress for five weeks and the natural course of events 
in each group had been determined, an average reoresentative of the 
rice-fed, flesh-fed, and porridge-fed animals was taken and put on a diet 



67S 



APPENDIX 



of bread and Ftveet milk, the amount of each being unrestricted. Tliis 
was done on 4th June. At this time the animals showed marked evidence 
of retarded ^rowtii and a considerable degree of respiratory embarrass- 
ment. The chanye of diet was immediately followed by a marked 
increase in the rate of growth, this being pronounced in all three cases 
(see Chart 6). The improvement in the general condition of the animals 
was associated with an improvement in the respirations, which became 
less frequent, less noisy, and with fewer accompaniments. The subject 
which was originally fed on rice died after five weeks of the new diet ; 
the other two were alive and in fair health in the middle of October. It 
has to be noted, however, that their average weight in October was 136 
grammes, considerably less than the average of a healthy bread-and- 
milk-fed subject of the same age. The results of this observation showed 

Chart 6. 
8 15 24 30 S8 »5 52 60 66 75 83 165 




Thp efTects of a bread and iu-tet milk diet on young rats prpviously fed on an abnormal dietary. 
Tlie curves represent the weights of three young rats that were fed on porridge, rice, and 
liorse-flesh respectively for live weelcs, and were then transferred on the thirty-eighth day 
to a bread and sweet milk diet. 



that the change of diet to bread and sweet milk in all three subjects was 
followed by a rapid and marked improvement in the general condition 
and also by a marked improvement in respiration. The recovery from 
the respiratory embarrassment was, however, not complete. It also 
showed that the growth of the animals had been permanently stunted 
by the use of the abnormal diet in early life. 

With the object of testing the immediate results observed to follow 
the change of diet, another animal was taken from each group and was 
fed on the control diet of bread and skimmed milk. Chart 7 shows the 
record of weight of these animals for the period of six weeks, during 
which they were fed on rice, porridge, and horse-flesh diet respectively, 
and thereafter on the control diet. The condition of the rice-fed subject 
when removed was such that our experience led us to believe that it 



APPENDIX 573 

could not live more than, at the outside, one or two days longer on that 
diet. After the change of diet there was a rapid and immediate improve- 
ment in the condition of all three animals. The result was even more 
striking than in the case of the three animals the diet of which had been 
changed to bread and sweet milk (see chart). All three animals were 
alive and in fair condition in the middle of October, their average weight 
at that time (138 grammes) being, however, below the normal. 

B. In the second generation. — The recuperative power in the second 
generation of meat-fed rats was tested in four animals taken from two 
litters, other four animals from the same litters being employed as 
controls. After weaning, the eight were kept on a horse-flesh diet for 
two weeks ; in this period their weight was little more than maintained 

ChakT 7. 



The influence of a bread and skimmed milk diet on young rats previously fed on an abnormal 
dietary. The curves represent the weight of three young rats that were fed on porriclge, 
rice, and horsc-tlosh respectively for six weeks, and were then (forty-eighth day) transferred 
to a bread and skimmed milk diet. 

(see Chart 8). Two from each litter were then transferred to a bread and 
skimmed milk dietary, the remaining four being kept on the horse-flesh 
diet. All four meat-fed subjects succumbed in two to three weeks, the 
four transferred rats living and gaining in weight in the striking manner 
shown on the chart. The later history of these four rats is of great 
interest. The animals were killed when eight months old, their average 
weight being 150 grammes. Their health during the later months was 
very defective, the symptoms manifested being, in order of onset and 
severity, {a) accelerated and noisy respirations, dry rales being audible 
a considerable distance from the hutch ; and ijj) a dry condition of the 



674 APPENDIX 

skin, with rouphness and loss of hair. These clinic.il features considered 
alongside of the other facts recorded in this paper point to the general 
conclusion that the symptoms from which the animals suflfcrcd in later 
life were etiologically related to the use of the defective dietary in very 
early life. There can, it appears to me, be no reasonable doubt that the 
symptoms observed were the result of the premature loss of some vital 
function or functions, and more especially of those concerned in warding 
off bacterial infection from the respiratory, and probably also the 
alimentary, tract. 

Summary of rfsu//s. -These experiments prove that the excessive use 
of a meat diet in rats is attended with the following results : (i) growth 

Chart 8. 

e 16 39 43 57 109 




^^i<^ 



Recuperative power in second generation uf meat-fed rats. The faint line equals the average 
weight of four rats bred on an ox-flesh diet whicli were traiisfirred to a bread and Bkimmed 
milk diet at tlic age of six weeks. The dark line equals the avera^'c weight of four rats 
from the same litters which were not transferred but were kept on the meat diet. 

is retarded ; (2) sterility is induced if the diet is commenced in very 
early life; (3) the power of lactation is diminished; (4) a permanent 
weakening of the resisting power of the animals is induced by the use of 
an excessive meat diet in early life, the animals succumbing to disease 
at an unusually early age ; and (5) there is a high death-rate in the 
offspring of animals fed on an excessive meat diet. 

Cointnentary. — The facts recorded have an interesting bearing on the 
two questions of physical deterioration and high infantile mortality that 
are engaging medical attention at the present time. With regard to 
these conditions there is no doubt that not one but several factors are 
coocerned in their production. There is equally little doubt that among 



APPENDIX 675 

these factors the question of diet occupies a foremost place. The defects 
in a diet may lie in one of several directions. The food may be of fair 
nutritive value but insufficient in amount ; on the other hand, it may be 
of high nutritive value, excessive in amount, and ot a nature which 
exercises an injurious effect on the organs and tissues. It is important 
that some light on this subject should be looked for from experimental 
medicine, and in view of the increasing prevalence of the consumption 
of animal food in this country it is of special importance to determine 
the eflfects on the organism of an excess of animal protein food. The 
main interest of my experimental results lies in the clear evidence sub- 
mitted that an excessive meat diet can itself induce in animals — whose 
dietetic habits are fairly akin to those of man — some of the most pro- 
minent symptoms of physical deterioration — viz., defective general 
physique, deficient power of lactation, diminished fertility, and a high 
infantile mortality. I believe that these symptoms are, to an important 
extent, comparable to those prevailing in the human subject at the 
present time, the symptoms in man having, however, been established 
in a more gradual manner, their onset being contributed to by the 
operation of other etiological factors. 

Some points of practical importance are brought out in the record. 
Of these the most noteworthy is the importance of a proper dietary in 
very early life. My experiments showed that the use of an excessive 
meat regime in early life induced a serious and permanent weakness of 
the animals, which, however, remained for a long time latent after the 
substitution of a physiological dietary. Clinical experience has led me 
to think that we have here also a close parallel in diseases in the human 
subject, and more especially in the class of affections commonly included 
under the terms gout and goutiness. Be that as it may, the experimental 
results indicate the importance of directing particular attention to the 
early dietetic history of patients so far as these are obtainable. The 
necessity for this will be further emphasised by the subsequent records 
of the structural changes in the organs and tissues observed in the 
course of these experiments. 

v.— THE INFLUENCE OF A MEAT DIET ON THE THYROID 
GLAND IN THE SECOND GENERATION OF MEAT- 
FED RATS.> 

In the Proceedini^s of the Physiological Society of 17th December 1904 
(pp. 557, 564), the author gave a coinmunication on the influence of a 
meat diet on the thyroid gland of rats which had been fed on meat for 
periods varying from six weeks to four months. The present investiga- 
tion was undertaken to ascertain the effects of the same diet on the 
thyroid glands in the second generation of meat-fed rats. The thyroid 
glands of over fifty animals have been examined, with an equal 
number of controls. The ages of the rats varied from one day to three 

* Chalmeis Watson, Journal of Physiology, vol. xxxiv. 



576 APPENDIX 

months ; thirty of the series were under three weeks old, being unweaned 
at the time of death. 

Tlie histological appearances of the thyroid glands of the meat-fed 
rats ditTered from those of the control glands. These differences were, 
as a rule, of a striking character ; in a small minority (eight rats) they 
were much less pronounced. The main appearances observed were the 
following: — 

I. Great congestion of the gland, with entire absence of colloid, and 
little or no attempt at vesicle formation, the gland being in an unusually 
embryonic state. This appearance was only observed in the case of 
animals which died in a fortnight after birth. Eight animals. 

II. An increase in the amount of the colloid, with thinning of the 
walls of the vesicles from pressure. This appearance was most pro- 
nounced in the case of animals whose weight and general nutrition at 
death was above the average of meat-fed subjects. Ten animals. 

III. A diminution or entire absence of colloid with degeneration and 
shedding of the secreting cells. This condition was specially marked in 
the case of animals whose general nutrition was obviously defective. 
Fourteen animals. 

IV. Types of glands illustrating a transition between II. and III. were 
found in ten animals. 

The results of this investigation confirm the author's earlier observa- 
tions in showing that an excessive meat diet induces structural changes 
in the thyroid gland. They further show that these changes may be 
present to a striking degree in very young animals (unweaned) which 
had not directly partaken of a meat regime. 



VI.— THE EFFECT OF AN EXCESSIVE MEAT DIET ON 
THE OSSEOUS SYSTEM OF RATS.» 

Object of the investigation. — To determine what changes, if any, are 
induced in the osseous system by an excessive meat diet (ox-flesh). 
Method oj observation. — Material employed : 

(a) Newly-weaned rats. 

{b) Young rats of meat-fed mothers. 

{a) Diet of ox-flesh commenced on weaning rats, controls being 
obtained from equal number of same litter fed on bread and milk. 
Examinations at varying ages from one month to three months. 

{b) Young of meat-fed mothers fed when weaned on meat flesh. 
Examinations at varying ages from one day to three months. Controls 
of corresponding age fed on bread and milk. 

Nature of changes noted. 
Macroscopical — 

1. General softness of whole osseous system. 

2. Increased vascularity. 

' A. Dingw.ill Fordyce, }A.Yi.^ Journal of Physiology, vol. xxxiv. 



APPENDIX 677 

3. Bread-like prominences at costo-chondral junctions and less 

frequently on ribs themselves. 

4. Curvatures of th« spine and long bones. 

Microscopical — 

1. Evidences of defective bone development, both intra cartilaginous 

and intra-membranous. 

2. Markedly increased vascularity. 

3. Changes in the bone-marrow. 



VII.— THE INFLUENXE OF AN EXCESSIVE MEAT DIET 
ON THE DEVELOPMENT AND STRUCTURE OF THE 
TEETH.i 

The object of this investigation was to ascertain what effects, if any, 
were produced in the teeth of rats by an excessive meat diet. The 
material employed was : — 

{a) A series of eight animals, which were fed on an exclusive ox-flesh 
diet for five months, the diet being commenced when the animals were 
weaned, six controls (bread-and-milk-fed) being examined from the same 
litters. 

ifi) Three rats, which were fed on an exclusive horse-flesh diet for five 
and eight months, the diet being commenced when the animals were 
about two and a half months old. 

{c) A series of the second generation of meat-fed rats, thirty in number, 
with a like number of control subjects, the ages varying from one day to 
three months. 

The methods of investigation were : — 

I. A naked-eye examination of the size and general appearance of 
the teeth. 

II. Grinding down the teeth, and submitting to microscopic examina- 
tion. 

III. Comparison of the histological appearance of the decalcified 
tissues. This applies to the third series. 

The general results may be summarised : — 

In series {a) and {b) the enamel and the dentine of the meat-fed 
subjects are well developed, and, with one exception, show no gross defect 
Two of the controls show defects similar to the exception noted. An 
examination of series {c) shows that the general development of the teeth 
in the meat-fed subjects is perhaps somewhat behind that of the controls. 

It is, however, noteworthy that in the oldest animals examined — a litter 
of three rats — the histological appearances show no indication of retarded 

» G. W. Watson, L.D.S., and J. H, Gibbs, V.K.C.S.E., Journal 0/ Physiology, 

vol. xxxiv. 

2 O 



578 APPENDIX 

growth. We arc not in a position to express an opinion as to tlie rate 
of eruption of the teeth. A striking feature in our observations was 
the extreme softness of the bones of the jaws in the meat-fed animals, 
and in view of this aheration in the bones it is of interest to note the 
relatively normal condition of the teeth. 



VIII.— THE INFLUENCE OF AN EXCESSIVE MEAT DIET 
ON TliE SKIN OF RATS.' 

The skin of the progeny of meat-fed rats differs in the majority of 
cases from that of animals bred on a bread-and-milk diet. In the latter 
the coats are thick and well nourished, while in the former there is 
evident coarseness and the hair is thin. In a very small percentage 
(one litter out of thirteen) the skin of meat-fed rats compared very favour- 
ably with that of the controls. The following investigation was under- 
taken to determine the microscopic appearances of the skin in young 
animals bred on the two diets. My observations have so far been 
confined to rats varying in age from one day to three weeks, twenty-eight 
being bred on bread and milk and thirty-seven on ox-flesh. Described 
briefly, the alteration in the skin is one of prolongation of the embryonic 
state in the meat-fed subjects. 

The stratum corneum is less compact and more evidently in detach- 
able layers. 

The stratum granulosum shows no definite changes. 

The straium Malphigii shows in the normal bread-and-milk-fed rats 
a gradual condensation and consequent thinning as age advances ; in 
the meat-fed rats the layers remain more or less swollen, the cells showing 
greater vacuolation and lessened staining capacity. 

This cutis vera shows a more cellular structure in all the meat-fed 
rats. 

The hair is distinctly less advanced in development in the meat-fed 
subjects. 

IX,— THE INFLUENCE OF A MEAT DIET ON THE 
KIDNEYS. 

IVt'/A Histological Report by G. Lyon, and a Report on the 
Nitrogen Excretion by Andrew Hunter.^ 

Attention is here directed to the influence of a meat diet on the 
structure of the kidneys. 

The diets employed were five in number — rice boiled in water, oatmeal 
porridge made with skimmed milk and water, uncooked horse-flesh, un- 
cooked ox-flesh, and a control diet of bread soaked in skimmed milk. The 

' Frederick Gardiner, }A.T),, Journal o/ Physiology, vol. xxxiv. 
'^ Chalmers WslHoo, /nUi HulwiaieH Monalischnjlfur Analomie utid I^hysiologie, 
bd. xxiv., 1907. 



APPENDIX 



579 



chemical composition and heat values of these foods were determined by 
Dr Andrew Hunter, and are given in a former section, along with the 
results on weight and growth of the animals. The present communica- 
tion deals with the influence of a meat diet — horse-flesh and ox-flesh — 
on the kidneys. Four series of observations were made as follows : — 

I. On adult rats (seven) fed on a horse-flesh diet for five months. 
Thirteen controls were employed, seven being porridge-fed and six bread- 
and-milk-fed subjects. 

II. On young animals (eight), the diet (horse-flesh or ox-flesh) being 
begun either when the animals were weaned, or at the age of two to 
three months. 

III. On castrated female rats (five) ?et. approximately six months, 
fed on a horse-flesh diet for four or five months. The controls were eight 
in number, five being rice-fed and three porridge-fed animals. 

IV. On the second generation of meat-fed animals (horse-flesh and 
ox-flesh). This series comprises thirty-two animals of ages varying from 
twelve days to three months : it includes thirteen rats which had not 
been weaned. 

The special points to which attention was directed were (a) the 
weight of the kidneys, and (d) their minute structure. 

(a) T/ie 7veight of the kidneys. 

The weights are given in the form of tables. Each table records the 
number of animals on the meat and on the control diets, the total weight 
of the animals at death, their maximum weight during life, the total 
weight of the kidneys, and the percentage weight of the kidneys calcu- 
lated from the weight of the animals at death. The duration of 
the special feeding and the mortality are also stated. As there are 
difificulties in the way of drawing deductions from the records of animals 
which had lost much weight during the observation, these are excluded, 
and attention is directed solely to the kidneys of animals which had not 
materially lost weight on the meat diet. In experiments I. and II., a 
certain loss of weight recorded in the case of the meat-fed subjects is 
balanced by a corresponding loss in the case of the controls. 

Table I. — Adult Rats. 



No. of 

Animals. 


Diet. 


Duration. 


Mortality. 


Maxni. 
Weight. 


Weight 

at 
Death. 


Weight 

of 
Kidney.s. 


Per- 
centage 


7 
7 
6 


Horse-ficsh 
Porridge. 
Bread and milk 


4 — 6 mos. 

;-6 ,. 

4-6 .. 


2 

I 


1535 
I8l2 
I2I2 


1250 

'505 
I2I2 


16.45 
16.35 
12.95 


1-32 
109 
1.06 



680 



APPENDIX 

TAniE U. — Castrafeii Female R^its. 



No. of 
Animals. 


Diet. 


Duration. 


MorUlity. 


Maxm. 
Weight. 


Weight 

at 
Death. 


Weicht 
Kidneys. 


Per- 
centage. 


5 
S 
3 


Horse-flesh 

Rice 

Porridge 


4 — 5 mos. 
4—5 „ 
4—5 .. 


4 

I 


825 
772 
470 


740 

740 
465 


9-25 
7-40 

4-55 


1.27 

I<KD 
I 02 



Tarf.E III.— Youn^ Rats, 
a. Meat diet commenced when the animals were two to three 
months old. 



No. of 
Animals. 


Diet. 


Duration. 


MorUlity. 


Mazni. 
Weight. 

525 
170 

471 
544 


Weight 

at 
Death. 


Weight 
Kidneys. 


Per. 
centage. 


3 

I 

3 
3 


Horse-flesh . 8 months 
Bread and milk 6 ,, 
Ox-flesh . . 4 „ 
Bread and milk 4 ,, 


... 


525 
170 

471 
544 


7-15 
I -60 

5-79 
4-78 


1-36 
0-94 
1-23 
0.88 



b. Diet commenced when the animals were weaned, the controls 
being from the same litter. 




T.ABLE IV. — Second Generation of Meat-fed Rats} 
a. One litter of ox-flesh-fed rats act. three months, with an average 
weight of 68 grammes, the control series being rice-fed subjects whose 
growth had been arrested by the use of the rice diet, their average weight 
being 68 grammes. 



No. of 
Animals. 


Diet. 


Duration. 


Mortality. 


Maxm. 
Weight. 


Weight 

at 
Death. 


Weight 

of 
Kidneys. 


Per. 

centage. 


6 

4 


Horse-flesh 
["Mixed diet 1 
- mainly rice 
\ (no meat) J 


3 months 

5 - 


3 


412 

275 


412 
275 


6-67 
3-iS 


1-67 
I-I4 



' lu all cases under this uble the young were put on meat diet at weaning. 
The age given denotes age at death. 



APPENDIX 



581 



b. One litter of three horse-flesh-fed rats a?t. three months, with one 
control of exactly the same age. 



No. of 
, Animals. 


Diet. 


Duration. 


Moilaliiy. 


Haxm. 
Weight. 


Weight 

at 
Death. 


Weight 

of 

Kidneys. 


Per- 
centage. 


3 

I 


Horse-flesh 
Bread and milk 


3 months 
3 


... 


270 270 
150 150 


4.64 
1-50 


I.71 
1 00 



c. One litter of five ox-flesh-fed subjects set, two months ; the controls 
in this series were either fed on a bread and whole milk, or on a mixed 
diet containing a large amount of rice (no meat diet). 



No. of 
Animals. 


Diet. 


Duration. 


Mortality. 


Maxm. 
Weight. 


Weight 

at 
Death. 


Weight 

of 

Kidneys. 


Per- 
ceutage. 


5 


Ox-flesh . 


2 months 




462 


462 


6.16 


1-33 


6 


Mixed ditt 


l\ „ 




700 


700 


5 -60 


0-8o 


5 


Do. . 


3 




388 


388 


4-65 


I-I9 


4 


Bread and milk 


2i ,. 


... 


291 


291 


3-00 


T-03 



d. A series of five horse-flesh-fed rats from three litters, their ages 
varying from five to eight weeks. 



No. of 
Animals. 


Diet 


Duration. 


Mortality. 


Maxm. 

Weight. 


Weight j Weight 

at of 
Death. Kidney.s. 


Per- 
centage. 


5 


Horse-flesh 


5— 8wks. 


5 


171 


144 1 3-24 


2-25 



e, A series of thirteen rats from three meat-fed mothers), that died 
before they were weaned ; with eight controls (one litter). 



No. of 
Animals. 


Diet. 


Duration. 


Mortality. 


Maxm. 

Weight. 


Weight 

at 
Death. 


Weight 

of 
Kidneys. 


Per- 
centage. 


7 


Florse-flesh 


3 weeks 


7 


75 


75 


I -or 


1-34 


5 


Ox-tlesh . 


3 ,. 


5 


52 


52 


0-86 


1.72 


I 


Do. . 


3 M 


I 


10 


10 


0.17 


I -70 


8 


Bread and milk 


12 „ 




120 


120 


1-54 


1.28 



A perusal of the above tables shows that the percentage weight of the 
kidneys is decidedly higher in meat-fed animals than in animals on a 
meat-free diet. A general summary of the results of the four series of 
observations is presented in Table V. Of fifty-two animals fed on a meat 



58S 



APPENDIX 



diet, the totnl \vett;ht wns 4666 gmmmes, tlie total weii^ht of the kidneys 
beinij ^>V39 jjranimes, or 1-40 per rent. ; wlieicas of tifiy-five rats on the 
meat-free diets, with a total wcij^lit of 6895 yraniines, the total weight of 
kidneys was 7 1 67, or 1 03 per cent. 

Taim.k V. — General Summa>y of Results. 





Flesh Diet. 


Control Diets. 


No. of 
Animals. 


Weight at 
Death. 


ToUl 
Weiglit of 
Kidntiyg. 


No. of 
Animals. 


Weight at 
Death. 


Weight of 
Kidneys. 


First 
generation 

Second 
generation 


7 
5 
3 
3 
2 

6 
3 
S 
5 
13 


1250 
740 
525 
471 

255 

412 
270 
462 
144 
137 


16-45 
9-25 

7-15 
5-79 
4 -co 

6-67 

4-64 
6-i6 

3-24 
2 -04 


13 

8 
I 

3 
2 

4 

I 

15 

8 


2717 

1205 

170 

544 

335 

275 

150 

1379 

120 


29-50 

11-95 
1-60 
4-78 
4.40 

3-15 
1-50 

13-25 
i*-54 




52 


4666 


64-39 


55 


6895 


71-67 


Or i-^o per cent, as compared with 1-03 per cent. 



If we further compare the figures for the first and second generation 
of animals as given in Table VI., we find that the percentage weight of 
the kidneys in the second generation of meat-fed rats is decidedly higher 
than in the first generation — the figures being 1-59 grammes against 1-23 
grammes per cent. .So that the percentage weight of the kidneys in 
thirty-two animals of the second generation of meat-fed rats was more 
than 50 per cent, greater than that of twenty-eight controls. 



Tari.E V'I. — Comparison of Weights in First and Second Generation of 
Meat-fed Animals. 







No. of 
Animals. 


Weight at 
Iteath. 


Total 
Weight of 
Kidneys. 


Percentage 
of Wulght. 


1st generation 
2nd „ 


Meat 

Meat 

/ Controls (Bread ) 
^^ and milk) / 


20 
32 

28 


3241 
1425 

1924 


42-64 
2-275 
1-944 


I-3I 

1-59 

I-OI 



In four animals which were fed on an exclusive ox-flesh diet for nine 
months, the diet being commenced when the animals were about three 
months old, the result was different from those of the preceding observa- 



APPENDIX 583 

tions All four inimals in this series thrived on the diet, and gained in 
weight more than the controls. Their general appearance was that of 
good heaitii, except that they were inordinately fat. One died suddenly 
after four and a half months of the diet, the remaining three were killed 
after nine and a half months of special feeding. The kidneys of all four 
were large, and varied in weight from 2-8 to 37 grammes : the average 
percentage weight being 106 grammes, which may be regarded as 
normal. It has to be noticed, therefore, that in this group the results of 
the examination of the kidneys are not in conformity with those yielded 
by the large majority of the experiments here recorded. But it is to be 
remembered that these animals had put on an unusual amount of fat. 

Histological Report by Dr G. Lyon. 

I. In the first series of observations on seven adult rats fed on a 
horse-fii'sh diet for five months^ the kidneys show very striking histo- 
logical changes, when compared with the kidneys of the control 
animals fed on porridge and on bread and milk. These pathological 
changes conform in type to what is seen in the kidney in general toxic 
conditions, e.g., septicaemia, diphtheria, acute lobar pneumonia, etc., the 
chief incidence of the affection being on the cells of the secreting tubules. 
While the kidneys of this series show uniformity as regards the type of 
lesion (catarrhal nephritis), they show variations in degree. The majority 
of the kidneys of this series are examples of a severe type with bacteria 
present in large numbers. 

In the less affected cases, the earliest changes are always found in 
the ascending limb of Henle's loop, which appears to be the most vulner- 
able of the secreting tubules. It is noteworthy that in sections where 
the cells of the convoluted tubules in the cortex may show little change 
beyond swelling and increased granularity of their cytoplasm accom- 
panied by karyolytic changes, the cells of the ascending limb of Henle 
may have already undergone an advanced degree of disintegration ; a 
pyknotic condition of the nuclei and subsequent karyorhexis being very 
striking and constant associated phenomena. 

In the kidneys which are more gravely affected, the convoluted 
tubules in the cortex are affected equally with the ascending limb of 
Henle, and while some of the convoluted tubules show disintegration of 
their cells (especially the tubules immediately subjacent to the capsule), 
in others the change is more of the nature of a coagulation necrosis. 
The collecting tubules are for the most part normal, but in the more 
severe cases many of the smaller collecting tubules in the cortex and 
medulla contain colloid casts, which have been formed by the fusion of 
necrosed secreting cells. 

The other structures of the kidney are affected to a much less extent 
than the secreting tubules. The glomerular capillaries show a varying 
degree of congestion ; in the severer cases the capillary walls are the 
seat of an acute hyaline swelling. The interstitial tissue shows some 
degree of oedema and congestion of the intertubular capillaries, but no 
sclerosis. 



584 APPENDIX 

II. In the second 'series of observations on five cast rated fomale rats 
fed on a horse-flesh diet for four or five monilis, the kidneys of two of the 
five animals show no differences in structure from those of the control 
subjects. In the rcmainini; three the kidneys show an early catarrhal 
nephritis, the lesion bcinij most marked in the ascending limlj of Henle's 
loop. The vessels appear normal, and there is no indication of inter- 
stitial change. 

III. In the third series of observations on young animals fed on 
ox-flesh or horse-flesh, the kidneys of the ox-flcsh-fed animals are 
practically normal. In the three rats which were fed on horse-flesh for 
eight months the appearances are abnormal, the changes being of the 
same nature as those described in the first series, but much less in 
degree. In two of this series there are isolated accumulations of cells 
of the lymphocyte type along the lines of the interlobular vessels. 

IV. In the series of observations on the second generation of meat- 
fed animals, the kidneys of the majority show no pathological change. 
A small minority in this series show changes corresponding to an early 
catarrhal nephritis. In one litter of three animals (/;, Table IV.) which 
were killed when three months old, the kidneys present a perfectly 
normal appearance. 

V. In the series of four animals which were fed on ox-flesh for nine 
months, the diet being commenced when the animals were about three 
months old, the kidneys appear normal. 

The application of Muir's ha^matoxylin-eosin stain to the kidneys of 
the meat-fed subjects which appeared normal by ordinary staining 
methods, shows a striking alteration in the granules of the secreting 
cells. The changes may be briefly described as — 

1. An irregular distribution of granules throughout the secreting cells, 
the granules not being confined to the base of the cell as m normal 
kidneys. Many granules may also be present in the lumen (see Plate). 

2. An alteration in the size and staining affinity of the granules, the 
granules being much larger in size and taking a deeper stain. The 
nuclei of the secreting cells are also more deeply stained (see Plate). 

In the kidneys which show catarrhal changes the granules are very 
few in number, or may be absent. 

Observations on Nitrogen Excretion by Andrew Hunter. 

To gain an idea of the conditions of some of the animals as regards 
nitrogen metabolism, the following experiments were made : — 

The adult rats, which for some time had been maintaining nearly the 
same weight, were isolated in specially constructed cages. These cages 
allowed of the collection of urine and faeces from day to day. (To 
prevent the loss of urinary nitrogen as ammonia, a few cubic centimetres 
of dilute sulphuric acid were placed in each receptacle.) The output of 
N in each case was then determined by submitting all the ficces and an 
aliquot part of the urine to the process of Kjeldahl. The intake was 
calculated from the total amount of food consumed (from a specially 
conducted analysis of each diet). 



APPENDIX 



685 



Two of tlic rats were on ox-flesh (with water ad lih'/tim), which had 
been their exclusive diet for four months previously ; one was on the 
standard diet (bread soaked with skimmed milk). The figures represent 
the intake and output for a period of four days. The weight of the animal 
and the total weight of food which it consumed, are also given. 





Ox-flesh 


Drea'] and Milk. 


A. 


B. 


C. 


Weight of animal . . . . 
Food consumed .... 
Intake of N 

r Faeces . 
Output of N J Urine 

i Total . 
Difference 


290 grms. 
77 .. 
2-286 
0-129 
2-101 
2-280 

-f 0-056 


150 grms. 
37 .. 
1-099 
0-069 
1-090 
1159 

— 0-060 


1 70 grms. 

141 .. 
1297 

0-I73 
1-079 
1-252 

+ 0-045 



It appears from this table — 

1. That all the animals were practically in nitrogenous equilibrium. 

2. That the quantity of food taken was such as to render the amount 
of nitrogen metabolism per unit of body-weight the same, quite irre- 
spective of the nature of the diet provided. Thus, taking the average of 
intake and output to represent the nitrogen metabolised, we get for 
each kilogram of body-weight the following figures (for four days) : — 



A 


7-786 grammes. 


B 


7-527 


C 


7-500 „ 



The result of this behaviour is that in the case (C) of bread and milk, 
which contains much less protein, 141 grammes of food had to be 
consumed, as against 37 grammes by a flesh-fed animal (B) of nearly 
the same weight. 

3. The distribution of excreted N between urine and {xcqs is, however, 
materially affected by difference in the diet. On a diet of bread and 
milk much more of the N appears in the fasces than with flesh-feeding. 
The urinary N bears to the frecal N the following proportion in the three 
cases : — 

A i6-3i ^ „ , 

B 15-8/ O-^-flesh. 

C 6-2 I'read and milk. 

The bulk of the fseces in the animal C was very much greater than in 
the other two. The same is true of the volume of urine j)assed. This is 
seen from the following figures. 

ABC 
Cubic centimetres of urine 15 11 23 
Faecal pellets (number oQ 24 12 52 



586 APPENDIX 

With a fle«h diet, therefore, the urine is more concentrated. This 
was obvious from its h;yh-coloured appearance, as much as from the 
relatively small cjuantity passed. On i)read and milk there was much 
more diuresis, and the urine was notably paler in hue. In no case were 
any abnormal constituents present. It was noticeable, however, that in 
the meat-fed animals the urine had a much stronger odour As regards 
the f;rces, tlicy were ill-foimed, scanty, and very dark with the meat-fed 
animals, but pale, bulky, and well formed on bread and milk. 

General Conclusions. 

I The prolonged administration of a flesh diet (horse-flesh and ox- 
flesh) to rats is followed by hypertrophy of the kidneys. 

II. This hypertrophy is more pronounced in the second generation 
of meat-fed subjects. 

III. The horse-flesh diet induces in the great majority of animals 
definite histological changes which aflfect mainly the epithelial structures 
of the kidney. These changes are similar to those seen in recognised 
toxic conditions. 

IV. Similar changes of a less pronounced type are present in a small 
proportion of the ox-flesh-fed subjects. 

V. In the kidneys of ox-flesh-fed animals which appear histologically 
normal by ordinary staining methods, the application of Muir's stain 
reveals a striking alteration in the secretory granules of the renal 
epithelium. 

\'I. There is a noteworthy absence of cirrhotic change in the flesh- 
fed animals, both in the first and second generations. 

\'II. The observations on nitrogen metabolism show that the flesh 
diet throws a special strain on the functional activity of the kidneys, so 
far as regards nitrogen excretion. 



Description of Plate. 

Fig. t. — Kidney of rat fed on a bread and milk diet. Muir's stain. Magnified 
400 diameters. Note the size and distribution of the secretory granules in the 
epithelium of the convoluted tubules. The granules are of uniform size and 
limited to the deeper part of the cell (compare Fig. 2). 

Fig. 2. — Kidney of rat fed on an ox-flesh diet. Muir's stain. Magnified 400 
diameters. The granules are not confined to the deeper part of the secreciing 
cells as in the bread-and-milk-fed animal (Fig. l), but are irregularly distri- 
buted throughout the cell and are also present in the lumen. The granules 
are considerably larger than in the control subject Note also the deeper 
staining of the nuclei. 




^ 

« 



J: 'S|^.J 



• o' 









f ^* 



^ ;«^*^ 






.^^i.tf«^*j-%.. 



G. 



tl:^ 




♦■*,, , m' 







Kill I 



APPENDIX 587 

X.-EFFECTS OF DIET ON THE DEVELOPMENT AND 
STRUCTURE OF THE UTERUS.' 

The alarming and persistent decline in the birth-rate is a matter of 
national interest the importance of which can hardly be overestimated. 
The purely medical aspect of this question is, however, exceedingly 
difficult of approach, since social factors and social selfishness have 
undoubtedly a material influence. During the last generation, however, 
there has undoubtedly been a marked change in the relative proportions 
of the constituents of the average man's diet. Can such a change of diet 
have any influence on the birth-rate? 

The following investigation was undertaken to discover what changes, 
if any, were produced in the development and structure of the uterus by 
various diets. 

The animals employed in the research were rats. The uteri of eighty- 
six animals were examined, both macroscopically and microscopically. 
The tissue for microscopic examination was removed in all cases from, 
as nearly as possible, the same area — the junction of the distal and mid 
thirds of the uterus. 

Eight wild rats, in various stages of development, from the immature 
to the adult animal, were examined in order to form an opinion as to the 
structure of the uterus in animals living, presumably, under natural 
conditions. 

The remaining animals were divided into five series, namely : — 

(a) A series of thirteen animals fed, from weaning, for periods of from 
nine to fourteen weeks on an exclusively milk diet. In one section of 
this series plain milk was used ; in another, pasteurised milk ; in the 
third, sterilised milk. 

{P) A series of twenty-seven animals fed for periods of from twenty- 
one days to nine months on bread soaked in milk. 

(c) A series of eleven animals fed for periods of from four to fourteen 
weeks on a rice diet. 

{(f) A series of five animals fed for varying periods on a diet of 
porridge or oats. 

(e) A series of twenty-two animals fed for periods of from twenty days 
to eight months on a raw-meat diet. 

In the cases of the raw-meat and rice diets, some animals were put 
on the diet as soon as weaned, others after they had reached various 
stages of development. 

The uterus of the adult wild rat is lined by columnar epithelium. 
There are glands lined by epithelium which varies from low cubical to 
columnar in type. The mucous coat is bounded externally by a muscular 
coat. In the mucous layer three varieties of cells are found : — 

1. A cell with a large round or oval, relatively faintly-staining nucleus. 
This appears to be a young connective tissue type of cell. 

2. A cell with a small, round, darkly-staining nucleus, comparable to 
a lymphoid cell. 

' Malcolm Campbell, F.R.C.S., Briiis/i Medical Journal^ vol. i., I907- 



688 APPENDIX 

3. A cell with an elontj.itcd, vcit darkly staininp nurlous, similar to 
cells got in filjious tissue. 

In the wild rat the large cells arc most numerous. In the wild rat 
the cells of the other types are few in number, and are chiefly found in 
the part of the mucosa near the muscular coat. 

From the examination of this series of eighty-six animals it is evident 
that in animals of the same age and approximately of the same weight, 
living under similar conditions, the uteri may vary witiiin a limited range 
in si/e and development. The muscular coat is relatively uniform. The 
mucosa shows the greatest variations. While in most cases the epithe- 
lium lining the cavity is columnar, in some it is cubical ; there are also 
found marked variations as to the position of the nucleus and its staining 
reactions. 

The animals fed on milk and bread soaked in milk approximate most 
nearly to the type of structure got in the wild rat. In the other groups, 
fed on what we may term "abnormal diets " — namely, rice, porridge, oats 
or raw meat — there is found a relatively constant departure from the 
normal. The type of change is common to all abnormal diets ; its 
severity varies. 

The severity of the changes induced are found to be in proportion to 
the ages of the animals at the time when the abnormal diet was begun. 
The changes are most marked in the animals put on the diet at weaning ; 
they are less marked the more mature the animal at the time of the 
commencement of the abnormal diet. In a fully-developed animal, any 
abnormal diet may fail to materially change either the size or structure 
of the uterus. 

In regard to the development of the uterus, an abnormal diet appears 
to arrest the growth of the uterus. This arrest of development is most 
marked in animals fed from weaning on ox-flesh, but is also very well 
seen in animals fed on rice or on porridge or oats. 

In regard to structure, all the abnormal diets led to a diminution of 
the number of the large connective-tissue type of cells, and a relative 
increase in the small cells. This change, which may be described as a 
fibrosis, was most marked in animals fed from weaning on an ox-flesh 
diet for periods of from four to five months ; in this group of animals 
none became pregnant, while controls from the same litters, fed on bread 
and milk, all had young. 

From these observations it seems justifiable to state : — 

1. The use of a non-physiological diet — for example, exclusive flesh, 
rice, or porridge — induces in the great majority of cases a modification 
in the structure of the uterine mucous membrane. This modification 
consists in a diminution in the number of the large connective tissue type 
of cells, which appear to be important constituents in a physiologically 
active mucosa. 

2. The structural change is most profound in animals fed from wean- 
ing on an exclusively ox-flesh diet. In such animals the development of 
the uterus is also most interfered with. 



\^?4^) 



Fig. io. — Male Reproductive Organs of full-grown Rats from 
the same litter. 

A. After oi months, bread-aiid-milk diet. Weight of animal 210grms. 

B. After 5J niontlis, ox-fli-sli. Weight of animal 170 grms. 



[ Face paqt 588. 



APPENDIX 589 

3. The structural change in two is associated with sterihty. Chalmers 
Watson, to whom 1 am indebted for much of the material used in this 
investigation, pointed out that a meat diet, if begun at weaning, almost 
invariably led to sterility. The present investigation shows that the 
sterility is probably due to the structural and developmental abnor- 
malities in the uterus induced by the abnormal diet. It has been shown 
that the consumption of meat per head in this country is to-day almost 
seventeen times as great as it was in 1850. During the same period the 
fall in the birth-rate has been most marked. 

While it would be unwarrantable to attempt to found any theories in 
regard to the falling birth-rate on the results of this limited experiment, 
yet, when we add to the above facts the further consideration that the 
diminished birth-rate is most marked in the better-off classes of society — 
that is, among the very classes whose means permit of an unrestricted 
use of the more expensive meat diet — it is evident that the food factor is 
one which is at least worthy of consideration in dealing with the great 
question of the falling birth-rate. 



XL— THE INFLUENCE OF AN EXCESSIVE MEAT DIET 
ON THE MALE REPRODUCTIVE ORGANS.* 

The object of this investigation was to determine the effects of an 
exclusive ox-flesh diet on the development of the male reproductive 
organs of rats. Three series of observations were made as follows : — 

(a) A series of eight rats which were first on an exclusive ox-flesh diet 
for periods ranging from two to six months, the diet being commenced 
when the animals were weaned ; eight rats from the same litters were 
employed as control — bread-and-milk-fed — subjects. (The female rats, 
which were kept in the same hutches as the meat-fed males, were sterile, 
whereas all the controls bore young.) 

(d) Four rats fed on an exclusive ox-flesh diet for period= ranging 
from five to nine months, the diet being commenced when the animals 
were about two and a half months old, with eight controls. 

(c) Five adult rats fed on an exclusive horse-flesh diet for five months. 

In series (a) the reproductive organs were much less developed in 
the meat-fed subjects than in the controls. The defective development 
is most pronounced in the seminal vesicles and prostate gland (see 
Fig. 10). 

In series (d) and (c) the testicles, prostate gland, and seminal 
vesicles are slightly less than in the control animals. 

These results show that an excessive meat diet interferes with the 
development of the male reproductive organs, and that this arrest of 
development is most pronounced in the case of animals fed on a meat 
diet since weaning. 

' C. B. Paul, V .R.CS., Journal oj Physiology, vol. xxxiv. 



690 APPENDIX 

Xll— THE INFLUENCE OF AN EXCESSIVE MEAT DIET 
ON THE OSSEOUS SYSTEM.' 

The clinical results obtained in an experimental investigation on the 
influence of an excessive meat diet on the growth and nutrition of rats 
are described on p. 565. It was there shown that the progeny of meat-fed 
rats are usually poorly developed, and show a high mortality in early life. 
The present chapter comprises an account of the naked-eye and micro- 
scopic appearances observed in the osseous system of these meat-fed 
subjects. The material ct>if>loycd cox\s'\s\.td in the young of mothers fed 
for some weeks or months prior to pregnancy, and during pregnancy and 
lactation, on a diet of ox-flesh, the animals, after weaning, being con- 
tinued on the meat regime, an equal number of controls being taken from 
the young of rats fed on an exclusively bread and skim milk diet. Both 
diets were given in unrestricted amount, and with the meat diet water was 
given ad libitum. Over a hundred meat-fed rats were utilised for the 
investigations, their ages ranging from one day to three months, the 
majority being under three weeks old at the time of death. A record 
was made of the naked-eye appearances of the skeleton, special attention 
being directed to the consistence as well as to the general appearance of 
the long bones, ribs, and flat bones. The tissues were fixed in formalin 
(5 per cent), decalcified in weak nitric acid solution, and stained in the 
ordinary manner with h.xmaloxylin and eosin. Sections were made 
through the anterior part of the cranium so as to demonstrate the con- 
ditions present in the frontal, malar, and maxillary bones, while, in the 
case of rats a:t. one day, three weeks, and two months respectively, 
sections were also made of the tibia, humerus, and ribs. Similarly 
prepared sections from control animals were, for comparison, mounted on 
the same slide. 

Macroscopic Appearances. 

The macroscopic conditions noted in the bones of the meat-fed rats 
vary according to the age of the animals, but show throughout, in a more 
or less marked degree, the same general characteristics. The most 
striking feature is the marked general softness of the whole osseous 
system, this condition being present in every meat-fed subject. The long 
bones of the flesh-fed rats are distinctly softer and more pliable than 
those of the bread-and-milk-fed animals ; a similar condition is observed 
in the ribs, short bones, and cranial bones of the meat-fed rats. This 
soft condition is present in the bones at birth, and becomes accentuated 
as age advances. A second striking appearance in the meat-fed animals 
is the darker colour of the long bones, more especially of the ribs, this 
being due to increased vascularity. This condition is present, in a 
greater or less degree, in all the meat-fed subjects which died or were 
killed after the second week of life. In some cases nothing further was 
observed in the bones of the flesh-fed rats killed even as late as three 
months after birth, but in the majority of cases a third feature shows 

' Chalmers Watson, Lancet^ vol. ii., ic^6. 




Fig. 12. — From a vertical section of ihe Cranium of a Rat ?Pt. three months, 

fed on ox-flesh. 
Note tlie imperfect dfvelopmpnt of the frontal iHjne and the increase in the size of 

the medullary cavity. The mncous membrane of the nose is in a state of 

catarrh. CJ. Fig. 13. 




Fig. 13. — From a vertical section of the Cranium of a Rat at. three 

months, fed on bread and milk. 

Note the well-developed frontal bone. 

[Face pane 51*0. 




Fig. 14. — From a vertical .-ectiun ol ihe Cranium of a Rat aet. three 
weeks, unwearied. Mother fed on an ox-flesh diet. For comparison 
with Fig. 15. (x 75.) 

Note the imperfect lievt-lopment of the frontal bone and increas« in 
the size of the medullary cavity. 




Fig. 15. — From a vertical section of the Cranium of a Rat aet. three 
weeks, unweaned. Mother fed on a bread-and-milk diet. The photo- 
graph shows the frontal bone, and the upper part of the nasal septum 
and nasal cavities. ( x 75.) 

Note the normal state of development of the frontal bone. Cf. Fig. 14. 



APPENDIX 691 

itself. Durini; the second month various curvatures of the sjiine and 
long bones occur. These consist in marked scoliosis and lordosis, with 
bending of the ribs at their angles, while curving of the bones of the 
limbs is present in a less degree. This condition of the bones is usually 
associated with an enlargement of the costo-chondral junction. In a 
small percentage of cases (about 15 per cent.) an additional feature is the 
presence of small white nodules in the bony ribs, these nodules standing 
out as pale bead-like prominences in the substance of the dark bone of 
the rib. On section these nodules are composed chiefly of cartilage (see 
Fig. 18). In the more pronounced cases the skeletal changes generally are 
similar to those seen in advanced cases of rickets in the human subject. 
Microscopically, however, this similarity is not borne out. 

Microscopic Appearances. 

Owing to the uniformity of the bony changes throughout the whole 
series of meat fed animals, it was unnecessary to make a histological 
examination of each subject. Sections were accordingly made from 
forty out of the hundred meat-fed rats and from an equal number of 
control bread-and-milk-lcd animals. In this examination special 
attention was directed to the following points : — 

(a) Long bones. — The state of their development, by intra-membranous 

and intra-cartilaginous ossification. 
(Jb) The histological appearances of the cranial bones. 
(t) Ribs. — The minute structure of the nodules present in the bony 

ribs. 

{a) Long Bones. — The ossification of the long bones of meat-fed rats 
is delayed and imperfect, the defect involving both the endochondral and 
periosteal bone formation. The epiphyses are for the most part normal ; 
in some instances there is a slight irregularity in the size and arrange- 
ment of the cartilage cells at the bone-forming margin. The minute 
structure of the epiphyses of the long bones may be normal, even in 
animals in which pronounced rachitic-like changes are present in the 
skeleton. The bone-marrow of the meat-fed rats a;t. six weeks and on- 
wards shows, in some subjects, a great excess of fat. 

{b) Cranial bones. — In the meat-fed rats, ossification, both intra- 
membranous and intra-cartilaginous, is less advanced than in the control 
animals, the bony trabeculas in the former being less numerous and 
enclosing a marrow excessively rich in red blood-corpuscles (see Fig. 12, 
and compare Fig. 13). While intra-membranous and intra-cartilagi- 
nous ossification are both affected, the defect is in some cases more 
pronounced in the periosteal bone-formation. 

There is a striking diflfcrence in the degree of development of the 
frontal, malar, and maxillary bones in the bones of the meat-fed animals 
at birth, the contrast becoming accentuated as age advances. The bones 
of the jaws in the meat-fed subjects are of a different shape from the 
controls, the former being wider and more square-shaped. This con- 



593 APPENDIX 

dition is associated with an extreme thinness of tlie bones and a preat 
increase in the number of cells- red blond-corpuscles and leucocytes— in 
the medullary cavity in the meat-fed rats (see Figs. 12 and 13). In a very 
few animals art. three weeks, the difference between the development of 
the bones in meat-fed and bread-and-milk-fed animals is very slight. 
The average state of bone development in the two series is further 
illustrated in Figs. 14 and 15 for animals a:t. three weeks. The 
bony trabecuht in the meat-fed rats are extremely thin, and the 
medullary spaces show a great increase in the number of thin-walled 
vessels, which are distended with red blood-corpuscles. This increase in 
the number of red blood-corpuscles in the medulla of meat-fed rats is, in 
the great majority of subjects, a very striking feature (see Figs. 16 and 17). 

(<:) The structure of the white nodules in the bony ribs. — These 
nodules present a striking histological picture. They are composed 
mainly of cartilage cells, which are derived from the periosteum ; at the 
periphery of these nodules the nodules arc undergoing transformation 
into bones (see Fig. 18). It is of interest to note that 1 have recently 
observed a similar histological apiK»arancc in the bones of an infant a:t. 
fifteen months, whose mother— a tuberculous subject — was led during 
gestation, and for some time prior to it, on a diet containing a great 
excess of meat (see Fig. 19). 

The results show that the bones of animals fed on an excessive meat 
diet present an appearance of delayed and imperfect ossification, with 
increased vascularity and an increase in the number of red blood- 
corpuscles. Associated with this there is in a number of cases the 
presence in the bony ribs of nodules of cartilage, developed from the 
periosteum, with direct transformation of these cartilage cells into bone. 
It is noteworthy that, while the naked-eye appearances of the skeleton 
may closely simulate those present in advanced cases of rickets in the 
human subject, the microscopic appearances in the epiphyseal lines of 
the long bones are quiet distinct from those present in that disease. The 
thief object of this paper has been to describe the naked-eye and micro- 
scopic appearances of the osseous system in young animals — omnivorous 
feeders — which are fed on a diet containing an e.\cessive amount of meat. 
The full consideration of how far the facts observed admit any deductions 
applicable to disease in the human subject is beyond the scope of the 
present work. I may here, however, refer in some detail to what, so 
far as I am aware, is a unique record of disease in an infant, in which 
the facts prove that the results of the present investigation have a real 
and practical value for the practitioner. The essential facts of this case 
are as follows : — 

The mother of the patient had pulmonary tuberculosis, and made a 
satisfactory recovery under prolonged treatment along modern lines, 
one feature of the treatment being the daily administration of a large 
amount of nearly raw meat. The patient married and continued to take 
an excessive meat diet. !K child was Ijorn after eighteen months, and, 
in view of the family history, was artificially reared under the best 




Fig. i6. — The Marrow of a Rat xt. three weeks, unweaned. Mother fed 
on an ox-flesh diet. ( x 200.) 
Note the erythroblastic type of marrow, the red blood-coriuiscles being 
more numerous than the leucocytes. Cf. Fig. 17. 




Fig. 17. — The Marrow of a Rat aet. three weeks, unweaned. Mother fed 

on a bread-and-milk diet, ( x 200.) 

Note the leucoblastic type of marrow, the white blood-corpuscles being in 

excess of the red blood-corpuscles. Qf. Fig. 10. 

Face page 592. 




Fig. i8. — Longitudinal section ul ihi, Dony Rib of a Meat-fed Rat 
(second generation), xt. two months, the section taken through one 
of the nodules described in the text. ( x 50.) 

Note the area of cartilage cells in the bone. CJ. Fig. 19. 




Fig. 19.— Longitudinal section of the Shaft of the Radius of an Infant cet. 

sixteen months, whose mother was fed on an excessive meat diet. ( x 90.) 

Note the area of cartilage cells in the bone. Cf. Fig. 18. 

[Face page 692. 



APPENDIX 593 

hygienic and {general conditions. The infant thrived fairly well until 
a year old, when there was some trouble with delayed dentition, for which 
the advice of the family practitioner was sought. As the application of 
simple remedies proved unavailing, and the child became anaemic and 
further out of condition, a second opinion was obtained. The chief 
alteration in the treatment was the administration of raw-meat juice, 
which was continued for six weeks. Under this regime the condition of 
the child steadily deteriorated, the anaemia becoming more pronounced 
and being associated with marked physical and mental lethargy, fretfuU 
ness on movement, and a few purpuric and petechial spots ; there were 
no other symptoms or physical signs of note. The child was then seen 
by a distinguished pcediatric physician. After repeated examination of 
the case, which was admittedly puzzling, and examination of the blood, 
etc., the opinion was arrived at that the case was probably one of latent 
tuberculosis, probably located in the mediastinum. At this juncture I 
had the opportunity of seeing the patient in a non-professional capacity, 
and as the clinical appearances vividly recalled a clinical picture which 
I had frequently observed in very young rats, I formed the opinion that 
the state of profound anasmia and physical and mental lethargy was 
dependent on an exhaustion of the functions of the bone-marrow, thyroid 
gland, and other structures, consequent on the excessive meat con- 
sumption by the mother. The child died in a few days. At the post- 
mortem examination no trace of tuberculosis was found, nor other 
recognised cause of marked anaemia in children. A partial post-mortem 
examination only was allowed, and was conducted by the consultant who 
had charge of the case, and who kindly gave me pieces of tissue for 
histological examination. The long bones were unduly soft in consist- 
ence, and it is of special interest to note that the histological appearances 
of the radius of this child (see Fig. 19) are identical in their essential 
features with those which were present in the ribs of the rats. 

These facts seem to indicate that the results obtained in my experi- 
mental investigation here recorded are capable of application to 
disease in the human subject. The importance of recognising this, both 
from the point of view of diagnosis and treatment, will be obvious. I 
desire to draw special attention to the view which is suggested by the 
record of facts described — viz., that in diseased conditions in early 
infancy attention should be directed to the dietetic conditions of the 
parents prior to and during gestation ; and, further, that the symptoms 
should be critically analysed in the light of facts obtained from experi- 
mental observations on diet carried out in lower animals. I have pleasure 
in expressing my indebtedness to Dr A. Dingwall Fordyce for much 
assistance in this investigation. 



2 P 



694 APPENDIX 

Xm.— THE EFFECTS OF A MEAT DIET ON ANIMALS 
AND ON THKD^ I'ROCENY.' 

In introducing liis subject the autlior pointed out thnl the following 
facts suggested the research : — First, that in the course of an experimental 
investigation on gout in fowls the use of an excessive meat diet had 
induced a striking hypertrophy of the thyroid and parathyroid glands ; 
and, further, that these changes were not present in the glands of one 
fowl, similarly fed, which was proved to be tuberculous at the post- 
mortem exatnination. Secondly, the correlation of these facts in the 
mind of the author with a well-recognised clinical fact in the 
dietetic treatment of two diseases — gout and tuberculosis — an excessive 
meat diet being injurious in the former and beneficial in the latter 
disease. This indicated that the tissues of a gouty subject reacted to a 
meat diet in a manner different from the tissues of a tuberculous subject, 
and suggested that an experimental investigation might yield facts which 
would elucidate the nature of both of these reactions. Thirdly, the 
present unsatisfactory state of our knowledge of the dietetic treatment of 
chronic diseases was cited as an additional reason for experimental 
observations carried out on lower animals. It was probably not too 
much to say that in the treatment of many diseases in which meat was 
restricted in amount, no more scientific explanation could be advanced 
than was involved in the vague and general statement that meat was a 
"stimulating" food. One object of this research was to ascertain so far 
as possible, from observations on lower animals, which, if any, organs 
were "stimulated" by an excessive meat diet. An additional reason for 
an investigation of this kind was to be found in the view, held by not a 
few medical men, that there was an important etiological relationship 
between the increased consumption of animal food — from 3 lbs. per head 
per annum to over 50 lbs. per head per annum in the jiast fifty years — 
and the increasing incidence of certain diseases. The investigation, 
which was still in progress, was being carried out in the Physiological 
Laboratory of the University of Edinburgh, and in its conduct 
the author had secured the co-operation of a number of investi- 
gators to whose work reference was made. Some results had already 
been published, either in the form of preliminary communications or of 
completed papers ; after a reference to the work already published, he 
recorded in detail the influence of an excessive meat diet on the thyroid 
gland. Rats were employed as the subjects of experiment, and the 
observations were extended to more than one generation. Bread and 
milk was given as a control diet, this being the food in routine use in the 
laboratory prior to the special diet investigation. A bread-and -milk diet 
was regarded as a physiological one for tame rats, since, under its use, 
the young grew rapidly, the young and adults alike appeared to be in 
perfect health, and the rate of production was very great. The influence 
of an excessive meat diet on the growth and nutrition of rats of different 
ages having been fully described in a former paper, little attention was 

' Paper read by Chalmers Watson before the Pathological Society of London, 
Lancet, voL ii., 1 906. 



APPENDIX 595 

directed to this point beyond describing and illustrating so far as possible 
the following three points: — (a) The retardation of growth induced by 
the use of a meat diet when begun in very early life ; (d) the prejudicial 
effects of a meat regime on the reproductive powers; and (<:) the high 
mortality in early life in the second generation of meat-fed subjects. In 
considering the histological appearances observed in the tissues of meat- 
fed animals, it was important to bear in mind that in many of the animals 
there was no external indication of disturbed nutrition. Dealing first 
with the reproductive system, it was demonstrated from the results 
obtained by Dr C. B. Paul that a meat diet markedly arrested the growth 
of the male reproductive organs when the faulty feeding was begun when 
the animals were weaned (p. 589). Attention was then directed to 
the observations of Dr B. P. Watson, who had extended and ampli- 
fied the author's original observations on the effect of the diet on 
fertility and lactation, Dr B. P. Watson's observations proved — (i) that 
a meat diet w^as decidedly prejudicial to the occurrence of pregnancy 
when the diet was begun when the animals were from two to four months 
old ; and (2) that, when they had young, they were less able to suckle them, 
owing to the smaller development of mammary tissue (p. 608). The results 
of Dr Malcolm Campbell's observations on the minute structure of the 
uterus were then alluded to and demonstrated. That author had shown 
that the use of an excessive meat diet in very young animals induced 
alterations in the minute structure of the uterine mucous membrane of 
the nature of a fibrosis. This change was, however, not peculiar to a 
meat diet, but was also observed in animals fed on other unphysiological 
diets, such as rice or porridge (p. 587). The effects of a meat diet on the 
osseous system of the progeny of meat-fed rats were then considered. The 
bones were unduly soft and very vascular ; many subjects showed marked 
curving of the bones with curvature of the spine; in about 15 per cent, 
of the series there were small whitish nodules in the bony parts of the 
ribs. Microscopically there was imperfect bone formation with great 
increase in the size of the medullary cavity, especially in the cranial 
bones, with proliferation of the marrow cells (p. 590). The occurrence 
of similar changes in the bones of an infant, aged sixteen months, suf- 
fering from an obscure disease, whose mother was tuberculous and had 
been treated for a prolonged period prior to and during gestation 
with a diet containing a great excess of meat, was then referred to. 
Mention was made of the results of the investigations of Mr G. W. 
Watson, L.D.S., and Mr J. H. Gibbs, who found that, notwithstanding 
the very imperfect state of development of the cranial bones, the teeth 
showed no noteworthy histological change (p. 577). Reference was 
then made to the observations of the author in conjunction with Dr G. 
Lyon, which were not yet published, and which showcil that there was a 
hypertrophy of the kidneys in meat-fed animals, and also that a meat 
diet threw a marked strain on the secreting cells of the kidney, this being 
indicated by the alteration in the size and arrangement of the granules of 
the cells, as revealed by special staining methods (p. 578). With regard 
to the thyroid gland, reference was made to a preliminary com- 



696 APPENDIX 

munication published by him in the Proceedings of the Physiolo(^ical 
Society in 1904, in which it was shown tliat the use of a meat diet in 
younjj rats induced, as a rule, distinct histological changes in the thyroid 
gland (ten out of twelve subjects). In the past two years these observa- 
tions had been extended, and particular attention had been devoted to 
the histological appearances of the gland in the progeny of rats that had 
been fed on a meat diet. Attention had also been directed to the 
appearances of the gland during lactation and to its normal structure as 
seen in wild rats. The glands of sixty-five animals — second generation 
of meat-fed rats — were examined, with fifty control bread-and-milk-fed 
subjects. The ages varied from one day to three months, thirty-five of 
the series being under three weeks old and unweaned at the time of 
death. The majority of the meat-fed rats died ; the others were killed. 
As an additional control for the animals which succumbed, a series of 
sixteen young animals of similar age, which died as a result of feeding on 
other unphysiological diets (rice and porridge), where employed. The 
histological appearances of the thyroid gland of the meat-fed rats differed 
from those of the controls. In ten out of the sixty-five the histological 
changes were slight and did not exceed those occasionally present in 
bread-and-milk-fed animals. The remainder showed marked changes, 
which could be classified in the following three groups : — i. Great con- 
gestion of the gland with absence of colloid and little or no attempt at 
vesicle formation, the gland being in an embryonic state. This appear- 
ance was only observed in animals which died in the first few weeks ; it 
was observed in twelve of the series. 2. An increase in the amount of 
the colloid, far in excess of that obtaining in bread-and-milk-fed subjects, 
with thinning of the walls of the vesicles from pressure. This appear- 
ance was most pronounced in animals which had apparently adapted 
themselves to the diet, and whose weight and general nutrition were 
above the average of meat-fed subjects. This appearance was present 
m eighteen of the series. 3. A diminution or entire absence of colloid 
with the degeneration and shedding of the secreting cells. This condi- 
tion was specially marked in animals the general nutrition of which 
was obviously defective. The majority of these animals died. This 
series included twenty-six animals. The result of this investigation 
confirmed the author's earlier observations in showing that an 
excessive meat diet induces structural changes in the thyroid gland. 
The appearances proved, to his satisfaction, that a meat diet at first 
stimulated and later exhausted the functional activity of the gland. 
Special attention was directed to the modification in structure acquired 
by the young of the animals fed on an excessive meat diet. The opinion 
was expressed that conditions comparable to those described would be 
found if looked for in thyroid glands of children, and that many 
symptoms of disease in young children were associated with, and 
dependent on, an impaired functional activity of the thyroid gland which 
the child had "inherited" from his parents. Some evidence in support 
of this view was advanced in the form of a section of the thyroid gland 
of the infant, aged sixteen months, previously referred to, whose mother 



APPENDIX 697 

had been fed on an excessive meat diet. In this gland the intervesicular 
glandular tissue was much less in amount than in the glands of infants 
of the same age which were ajiparently normal, the general microscopic 
appearances of the gland vividly recalling the picture in some of the 
meat-fed animals. In conclusion, the author drew attention to the 
importance of the main facts which the investigation had elicited 
— viz., (i) that an excessive meat diet modifies the structure and function 
of some important organs, notably the reproductive glands, thyroid 
gland, and kidney ; and (2) that some of these modifications were 
acquired by the offspring, in which they were present in an accentuated 
degree, and were in them associated with an increased susceptibility to 
disease. His clinical experience led him to the view that there was at 
the present time in this country an increased susceptibility to disease, 
which was the result in great part of changes in the tissues comparable 
in their nature and origin to those described in this communication. 



XIV.— THE INFLUENCE OF DIET ON THE LIVER.* 

Two series of observations have been made. One experiment con- 
sisted in feeding a large number of rats on an exclusive ox-flesh diet, this 
being essentially a mixed diet of protein and fats. In this experiment it 
was observed that the percentage weight of the liver in meat-fed rats was, 
as a rule, considerably greater than in the control bread-and-milk-fed 
subjects, the difference being such as could not readily be explained by 
mere variation in the blood-supply of the organ. An objection may be 
raised that the use of an exclusive flesh diet is too unnatural a regime to 
allow any deductions to be drawn which can be applied to conditions 
obtaining in man. To meet this objection attention is therefore more 
particularly directed to the detailed results of a second series of observa- 
tions, which consisted in comparing the percentage weight of liver tissue 
in wild rats living, it is assumed, on a highly nitrogenous dietary with 
those of an equal series of animals obtained chiefly from the same source 
which were fed on a diet of bread and milk in fixed proportions — a diet 
which contained a much smaller proportion of nitrogenous food. This 
diet of bread and milk is one which has been proved to be well adapted 
for the growth, general health, and fertility of the ordinary tame rat. 

Details of the Expcritnent. 

Younc^ rats. — .\ series of nineteen young wild rats were caught in the 
basement of a large hotel. It may, I think, safely be assumed that the 
diet of these animals was a mixed one, containing a considerable amount 
of nitrogenous foodstuffs. The coats of many of the animals were un- 
usually rough and dry, but otherwise the animals appeared to be in good 
health. Nine of the rats, of weight ranging from 72 to 150 grammes, 
were at once killed, ordinary coal-gas being employed as the lethal agent ; 

* Chalmers Watson, Lancet, vol. ii., 1907. 



598 



APPENDIX 



the remaining ten were fed in the laboratory for ten weeks on \hr ordinary 
laboratory diet of bread and milk, and were then killed in the same 
manner. The livers were wei^^hed out of a 5 per cent, formalin solution, 
the excess of fluid having previously been removed. Table 1. gives the 
record of the weights of the animals and the percentage weight of the 
liver in the two series. 

Table I. 



Series i.— Young Wild Rats 


Series 2.— Young Wild Rats 


Ktiled ot 


t Receipt. 


Killed after ten Weeks' 
Bread and Meat Diet. 


WeiL-ht of 


Perp«ntagB 


Weight of 


Percentage 


Animal 


Weight of 


Animal 


WeiRlit of 


in QrammBs. 


Liver. 


in Qramiiies. 


Ijiver. 


72 


5-6 


no 


3-6 


72 


6.9 


120 


3-5 


75 


5-5 


120 


5-0 


95 


6.5 


125 


4-7 


96 


6.7 


130 


2-9 


106 


6-6 


132 


60 


130 


60 


142 


3-9 


142 


5-3 


150 


3-2 


150 


5-2 


ISO 


4-0 






170 


3-7 


Average . . 


6.0 


Average . . 


4K) 



The figures show that the average percentage weight of the livers of the 
nine rats which were killed on receipt and which are assumed to have 
lived on a mixed diet containing much nitrogenous food was 60, whereas 
that of ten rats obtained from the same source and at ihe same time, 
which were subsequently fed for ten weeks on a bread-and-milk diet, was 
4-0 grammes. 

Fully ^^rown anivmls. — Thirty fully grown rats were obtained from a 
number of sources, the source in each instance being given in Table II. 
As in the case of the younger rats, it was noted that the coats of many of 
the animals were rough and dry, but otherwise the animals appeared in 
good health. Fourteen of these were at once killed, the remaining six- 
teen were fed in the laboratory for periods ranging from nine to eleven 
weeks. The weights of the animals and the percentage weight of the 
liver in the two series are given in Table II. 

The figures in Table II. show that the average percentage weight of ' 
the livers of fourteen adult rats which were killed on receipt was 527 
grammes, whereas that of sixteen rats obtained from similar sources and 
at the same time, which were subsequently fed on a diet of bread and 
milk for periods ranging from nine to eleven weeks, was 3-87 grammes, 
which represents a striking difference. There are two points in Table 
II., .Seiies 4, which call for comment. The weights ol the liboratory-fed 
rats show a striking uniformity in the series, the range of variation being 



APPENDIX 



599 



a smnll nnc. On tlir other band, the figures in Table II., Seiies 3, show 
that two animals form a stiikinj^ exception to the jrencral rule in this 
series, the average percentage weight of the liver in these two rats being 
actually less than in any of the bread-ancl-inilk-fed subjects, it is note- 
worthy that these two animals came from a bird shop, which renders it 

Table II. 



Series 


l.— Full-grown Wild Rats 


Series 4.- 


— Full-^iown Wild Rats after 




KtlUd on Receipt, 


Feedtii^ 


on Bread and Milk from Nine 








to Eleven Weeks. 




Wpiglit of 


I'eroentace 




Weiglit of 


Percentage 




Animal in 


Woii,'\it 


Source. 


Animal in 


Weight 


Source. 


Grammes. 


of Livt-r. 




Grammes. 


of Liver. 




190 


6.15 


Sewer. 


162 


3-93 




iqo 


6-94 


,, 


170 


3-76 




200 


6-15 


I) 


180 


3-83 


All from 


207 


6-13 


,, 


190 


3-57 




220 


5-23 


Canal bank. 


200 


3- 


hotel 


237 


5-57 


Sewer. 


205 


3-So 




240 


4-97 


II 


225 


4.04 


basement 


242 






237 


4-3'^ 




260 


5-8S 


Hotel basement. 


260 


4-30 


or 


260 


4-05 


,, 


270 


3-55 




270 


3-25 


Bird shop. 


275 


3-78 


canal bank. 


305 


5-17 


1 'otei basement. 


290 


3-75 




342 


5-II 


Canal bank. 


300 


4-06 




370 


2.78 


Bird shop. 


320 


4-31 




Average . 


5-27 




Average . 


3-S7 





probable that their diet consisted mainly of grain foods. (It was also 
observed that in these two animals the histological appearances of the 
thyroid gland were markedly different from the others in this series.) 
This result, then, confirms that obtained in the case of young rats given 
in Table I., and, assuming the correctness of the statement that the diet 
of the animals in their natural state contained a considerable amount of 
nitrogenous food, the facts indicate that the livers of adult rats which are 
fed on a diet containing much nitrogenous food have a considerably 
higher percentage weight than those of animals fed on a diet containing 
a smaller amount of nitrogen. 

In arriving at this conclusion I am aware of the importance of having 
regard to the possible operation of factors other than the highly nitrogen- 
ous diet in inducing the greater amount of liver tissue present in wild 
rats which were killed on receipt. Of these the two chief are. I believe, 
(i) muscular exercise, and (2) the admixture of foodstuffs. That the first 
is a factor of importance is rendered improbable by the fact of the low 
percentage weight of the liver in the two rats in Table II., Series 3, which 
were cau-ht in the bird shop and killed on receipt. With regard to the 
second, I think it probable that the amount of fat and carbohydrates 



600 APPENDIX 

incrested in the mixed diet is a factor of very considerable importance, 
but in the circumstances it is not possilile, nor is it necessary, to dissociate 
these from the more important nitrogenous foodstufifs. While keeping in 
view, therefore, the possibility that other factors, both in the diet and in 
the animal's environment, may recjuire to be considered, I believe that 
the difference in the amount of liver tissue present in the two series of 
animals is chiefly dependent on the relative proportions of nitrogenous 
foodstuffs in the dietary, and we have in these results a confirmation of 
those referred to in an earlier part of my paper as to the influence of an 
excessive meat diet on the liver. 

It must not be supposed that I am assuming that the larger percent- 
age weight of the liver tissue in the wild rats killed on receipt is to be 
regarded as pathological. No such assumption is made. The alterna- 
tive view, that the smaller percentage weight of liver tissue in the bread- 
and-milk-fcd animals is pathological, may appear to some as the more 
probable one. But this assumption would be equally unwarranted. 
Indeed, since it was a noteworthy feature in the experiment that within a 
week or two of the onset of bread-and-milk feeding, the coats of the rats 
invariably lost the rough, dry aspect referred to in the text and became 
smooth and sleek, the balance of clinical evidence is in favour of the 
bread-and-milk regime. But it is not essential to elaborate a com- 
parison. The one important fact to which attention is directed is the 
evidence that the liver is modified by diet, and, in particular, that a 
mixed diet which contains a large amount of nitrogenous food throws a 
greater strain on the liver than a diet, given in unrestricted amount, in 
which the nitrogenous elements are in smaller proponion. 

XV.— A NOTE ON THE MINUTE STRUCTURE OF THE 
THYROID GLAND IN THE RAT.» 

In the course of an investigation into the effects of varying diets on the 
structure of the tissues and organs in tame rats, my attention has 
incidentally been directed to the varying histological appearances of 
the thyroid gland in wild rats. The examination of the thyroid gland in 
a series of forty wild rats, all apparently healthy, has shown wide varia- 
tions in the histological appearances of this gland. The source from 
which the animals were obtained was noted in all instances, the rats 
being caught in such diverse places as a sewer, a hotel baseinent, 
outhouses of an asylum, railway station, a canal bank, and a bird shop. 
The weight of the rats ranged from 60 to 370 grammes, twenty of the 
number weighing 200 grammes and upwards. As it was observed that 
the histological appearances of the gland in quite young animals were 
not strikingly different from those of the fully grown subjects in the 
same series, it is assumed that the differences in the histological appear- 
ances to be described are not directly associated with the age of the 
animal, and accordingly no further differentiation will be made between 
the condition of the gland in young and adult subjects. 

' Chalmers Watson, Quarterly Journal 0/ Experimental Physiology, vol. ii., 1909. 



^^•■yC^?J 




Fig. 19A. — Thyroid Gland uf Wild Rat. ( - 50.) 



^' 



I 







Fig. 20.— ThjToid Gland of Wild Rat ( x 250.) 
From same specimen as that shown in Fig. 19A, 



[Between pagt* 600-«01 




Fig. 21.— Thyroid Glcind oi Wild Rat. ( x 50.) 



if^^i 




Fig. 22.— Thyroid Gland of Wild Rat. (x 250.) 
From same specimen as that shown in Fig. 21. 





•'^^ 



Fig. 23.— Thyroid Gland of Wild Rat. (x 50.) 




Fig. 24.— Thyroid Gland of Wild Rat. (x 250.) 
From same specimen as that shown in Fig. 23. 




Fig. 25.— Thyroiu o...,.^ ... .'. ild Rat. (x 50.) 












Fig. 26.— Thyroid Gland of Wild Rat. (x 250.) 
From same specimen as that shown in Fig. 25. 



APPENDIX 601 



Htsfolflj^ical Appearances. 

The microscopic appe.Trances of the gland vary considerably. In 
many glands tlie vesicles are lar^e (Fig. 19^7) and full of colloid, which takes 
a very delicate pink stain with the hasmatoxylin and eosin stain ; a few 
of the vesicles may be empty or may contain a clear watery secretion. 
The secreting cells lining the vesicles are flat in character, and consist of 
a darkly stained nucleus with a very small amount of protoplasm in the 
body of the cell, the nucleus occupying the entire breadth of the cell. 
There is a relatively small amount of intervesicular glandular tissue 
(Fig. 20). Blood-vessels are inconspicuous. Fig. 21 illustrates another 
type of gland which differs from the first chiefly in presenting a more 
cellular appearance and containing less colloid ; as in the former 
instance, the colloid may be stained a delicate pink, or may have no 
affinity for the hematoxylin and eosin stain. Blood-vessels are more 
prominent. On high-power examination the secreting cells are of a low 
columnar or cubical shape, the nucleus being of moderate size and 
circular shape, and occupying the entire breadth of the cell (Fig. 22). 
There is a moderate amount of intervesicular glandular tissue, the 
nuclei in these cells being considerably larger than those of the cells 
lining the vesicles. There are also glands intermediate in structure 
between those represented in Figs. 19a and 20, and in Figs. 21 and 22, 
respectively. The appearances represented in these figures were present 
in thirty-one of the series of forty animals ; in twenty-six out of the 
thirty-one the type of gland was similar to that shown in Fig. 19a. 

A third type of gland is depicted in Figs. 19a and 21, and is entirely 
diff"erent from 23 and 24. The vesicles are small, and contain little or no 
secretion. Their contents take the form of a perfectly clear unstained or 
of a faintly stained granular material. The secreting cells are very 
large and prominent ; the nucleus is large and situated at the basal part 
of the cell, there being a wide free margin of faintly granular protoplasm. 
In some vesicles the lumen is not sharply defined, the granular secretion 
in the vesicles being apparently continuous with the similarly stained 
protoplasm of the outer part of the secreting cell. The nuclei of the 
secreting cells are unequally stained, some of these presenting a pale, 
granular appearance. The gland appears more vascular than either of 
the foregoing, capillaries and large vessels being alike prominent. This 
type of gland was present in five of the series. 

Yet another type of gland is illustrated in Figs 25 and 26. The 
appearance here is different from all the foregoing, and at first sight is 
not readily recognisable as thyroid tissue. The normal arrangement of 
lumen and secreting cells is disturbed. The secreting cells are swollen 
and distorted, and many are detached and lie free in the lumen. There 
is no colloid. On high-power examination it is also seen that the 
majority of the secreting cells are swollen, distorted, and detached ; 
others are smaller in size and are represented by a very small deeply 
stained nucleus with a small amount of granular protoplasm around. 
There are few blood-vessels. This type of gland was present in four 



60S APPENDIX 

of the serie«;. These re«ult<! therefore show th:it the miiiiile structure of 
the thyroid gland in apparently hcallhy wild rats difTers widely in 
different animals. The differences must, it seems to me, be explained 
in one or other of the following ways. Either the appearances represent 
different stages of activity of the gland comparable to those observed in 
other secreting glands, these variations being dependent on the stage of 
secretion ; or they represent modifications in structure and function of 
the gland which have been induced by dietetic or other factors in the 
animal's environment. The former explanation seems not to hold good, 
since a careful investigation into the nature of the stomach contents in 
the different animals, along with a consideration of the microscopic 
app>earances of the thyroid in each case, has yielded evidence against it. 
For instance, the appearances of the glaild shown in Fig. iga were 
observed both in animals in which the stomach was full and also when it 
was empty. And again, the different appearances represented in Figs. 
23 and 25 were alike observed in animals in which the stomach was 
about one-third full, while in other animals with an equal amount of 
stomach contents the condition of the thyroid gland was entirely different 
from both. The second explanation seems, therefore, to be the more 
probable, the facts observed indicating that modifications in structure 
and function of the thyroid gland occur in association with different 
environmental conditions. In view of the fact recently demonstrated by 
the writer, that certain diets modify the structural appearances of the 
thyroid gland in tame rats, it is reasonable to conclude that diet has 
been the chief factor in inducing the modifications of structure described 
in the present paper. In this connection it is of interest to note that it 
was observed that the thyroid gland of all the animals from any one 
source invariably presented the same general characters. 

XVI.— THE EFFECTS OF AN OATMEAL DIET ON THE 
THYROID GLAND,' 

There is ample clinical evidence that a dietary into which oatmeal 
largely enters is one which is specially valuable for the growth and 
nutrition of children. In former days the diet of the people in many 
districts of Scotland included oatmeal as one of the staple ingredients, 
and, as is well known, this regime produced a big-boned and well- 
developed race. This being so, it is reasonable to think that there may 
be some ingredients in an oatmeal diet that have a favourable influence 
on one or more glands whose functional activity is of special importance 
during the growing period— for example, the thyroid gland. Some facts 
in favour of the correctness of this hypothesis have recently been 
ascertained, as follows : — 

Six young rats about six weeks old were fed for four to eight weeks 
On a diet of uncooked oatmeal and water, an equal number of controls 
being fed on a bread-and-milk diet. At the post-mortem examination 

" Chjlmers VValson, British Medical Journal, vol. i., 1907. 



I 




Fig. 27. — The normal appearance of the Thyroid Gland of a Rat fed on the 
ordinary laboratory diet — bread and milk in known proportions. ( x 50.) 




Fig. 28. — Thyroid Gland of a Rat of same age as Fig. 27, after being fed for 
six weeks on an oatmeal diet. The gland is enlarged, the colloid 
being increased in amount and staining more deeply. ( x 50.) 

[Facepagt 603. 



APPENDIX 603 

the mn<;t striking fenture was the thyroid j:jlanfl in the oatmeal-fed 
animals. This gland was markedly enlarged in the oatmeal-fed rats, the 
average percentage weight being 0078 gramme, as against 0-029 
gramme in the controls. Histologically the glands of the oatmeal-fed 
rats showed evidence of greatly increased functional activity (see Fig. 28, 
and compare 27), with in two instances a swollen and detached condition 
of the secreting cells. 

In a second series of six young rats which were fed on an exclusive 
porridge diet, the porridge being made with skimmed milk, a similar 
result was obtained. 

These results appear to indicate that an excessive oatmeal diet has 
a markedly stimulating effect on the thyroid gland of young animals, and 
there seems no reason to doubt that a more moderate and more 
physiological use of the same food would be followed by a stimulation in 
a degree which would be wholly beneficial. It appears to me that 
we may find in these facts the explanation of the value of oatmeal 
in the dietary of young children, the results furnishing the scientific 
explanation, in whole or in part, of the well-established clinical 
fact that porridge is an excellent food for children. In accordance 
with the teaching of these results, we should no longer regard oatmeal 
water as a mere diluent or as a convenient form in which starch may first 
be administered to an infant (Holt), but as a foodstuff of very special 
value for the growing child. 

This brings me to a brief consideration of the practical aspects of the 
subject, my remarks being restricted to the use of oatmeal in children 
from the third year onwards. Breakfast is the meal into which oatmeal 
should most largely enter, the best form of administration being porridge 
and milk, which should be followed by a glass of milk and some bread 
and butter. It is not, in my opinion, advisable to supplement the meal 
by meat in any form, for two reasons : First, because it is not necessary 
and may be harmful ; and, secondly, because the use of the meat tends to 
create a distaste for the more wholesome but less appetising meal of 
porridge. If a child be given for its breakfast a little porridge, followed 
by bacon, it is certain that in nine out of ten cases, or an even greater 
proportion, the chief element in the repast, from the child's point of view, 
is the bacon. In this respect children are just like young animals. In 
an extensive experience of feeding rodents on different diets, I have never 
seen a young rat which would look at porridge or bread and milk if meat 
was available. We must, however, recognise two important reservations 
to this general recommendation of a porridge breakfast for children. In 
the first place, a porridge diet, per se, is not good for children on 
account of mastication not being essential for this diet. This fault may 
be counteracted by including in the diet crusted bread, ru^ks, Vienna 
rolls, and the like, which should be taken "dry," and not merely washed 
down with fluid, as is often the case. The inclusion of such articles of 
diet in the breakfast will ensure that due attention is paid to the 
development of the muscles of mastication, salivary glands, and jaws — 
a point of very great importance in the dietary of children. Secondly, 



604 APPENDIX 

clinical experience teaches us that certain children cannot properly 
digest and assimilate oatmeal. This feature is, in my experience, most 
frequcnlly observed in the offspring of typically gouty parents. The 
parents of such children tell us that they cannot lake porridge because 
of its "heating " properties, the objective indii alions of disturbed nutrition 
being found chiefly in a concentrated urine ami in various skin eruptions 
These symptoms are, however, much less frequcnlly observed if the 
porridge forms the main article of the meal and is not followed by 
other highly nitrogenous food, such as bacon and eggs, as is frequently 
the case. There are, however, some children who cannot properly 
digest and assimilate porridge, and these are better without it, but, if 
careful attention be paid to the details of the dietary as a whole, it will, 
I believe, be found that these cases are much rarer than is commonly 
supposed. 

XVII.— THE CHANGES IN THE STRUCTURE OF THE 
THYROID GLAND IN WILD RATS UNDER THE INFLU- 
ENCE OF ALTERED DIETETIC CONDITIONS.' 

In former papers the author has shown that diet modifies the minute 
structure of the thyroid gland in tame rats. The following investigation 
was undertaken to ascertain to what extent, if any, the thyroid of wild 
rats is influenced by a diet which is unusual for these animals. A series 
of twenty young wild rats, apparently healthy, was obtained from a 
hotel basement. (P'or reasons given later it is essential in such an 
experiment that all the rats be obtained from the same source and 
preferably at the same time.) Ten of the series, of weights ranging from 
60 to 130 grammes, were killed on receipt ; the remaining ten were fed in 
the laboratory for ten weeks on a diet of bread soaked in skimmed milk.^ 
Under this regime the animals seemed to maintain perfect health, although 
it was observed that for a time their growth was retarded ; their weight, 
when killed, ranged from no to 170 grammes. The thyroid glands were 
fixed in 5 per cent, formalin ; the glands were weighed on the second 
day, the excess of fluid having previously been removed ; one gland from 
each rat was carried through in the usual manner and stained with 
haematoxylin and eosin, a section of each series being stained on the same 
slide. The average percentage weight of the gland of the rats in .Series i 
—those killed on receipt — was -0202 gramme, that of Series 2 — after ten 
weeks' feeding in the laboratory — 0265 gramme, which represents an 
appreciable increase in weight. There is a striking contrast in the 
histological appearances of the gland in the two series. In Series i, where 
the appearances are uniform throughout, the vesicles are large and full 
of colloid which takes on a delicate pink stain with the haematoxylin and 
eosm stain ; the secreting cells lining the vesicles are flat in character, and 
consist of a small darkly stained nucleus with a small amount of proto- 

' Chalmers V^msoQ, Journal of I'hysiology, vol. xxxv. , 1907. 
' It is essential that the milk be not given in excess. 




Fir.. 29.— Thyroid Gland of Wild Rai (caught in a hotel basement) which 
was killed en receipt. 




l-'lG. 30. —Thyroid Gi.md ol Wild Rat irom same source as Fig. 29 after 
feeding for ten weeks on a bread-and-niilk diet. 



[Face page 604. 



APPENDIX 605 

plasm in the body of the cell (Fig 29). In Series 2, where the i)ic:ture is 
also uniform, the histological appearances are different from the above. 
The vesicles are for the most part small and contain little or no secretion. 
If colloid is present it appears as a thin unstained secretion, or as a 
faintly stained granular colloid. The cells lining the vesicles are large 
and situated at the basal pan of the cell, there being a free margin of 
faintly granular protoplasm. The blood-vessels are more prominent 
throughout (Fig. 30). It should be added that in two of this series the 
histological appearances are intermediate in character between those 
represented in Figs, i and 2. The striking diflcrences in the histological 
appearances of the glands in the two series might be due to either (a) 
altered environment or (/>) the changed diet. The former explanation 
seems not to hold good, since I have observed that in some wild rats 
obtained from a different source, and which were killed on receipt, the 
histological appearances of the thyroid gland were identical with those 
described in Series 2. The second explanation is therefore the more 
probable, and we have, I believe, in these results evidence of a modifica- 
tion in structure and function of the thyroid gland induced by diet. 



XVIII.— A NOTE ON THE ADRENAL GLAND IN THE RAT.i 

In the course of an experimental investigation into the effects of 
varying diets on the structure and function of the tissues in tame rats, 
my attention has incidentally been directed to the various glands in wild 
rats. On post-mortem examination of wild rats it was found that the 
adrenal glands in these animals were considerably larger than in tame 
rats of similar weights. The explanation which suggests itself as the 
most likely one has reference to the greater muscular activity in wild 
rats, the changed diet of the animals may also be a factor. As the data 
so far obtained are of interest, and suggest a somewhat new line of 
inquiry as to the mfluence of different environmental conditions on the 
structure and functions of organs, I think it well to record the facts given 
in the following tables. The adrenal glands were in every instance 
weighed out of a 5 per cent, solution of formalin, the excess of lluid 
being previously removed. 

Table I. gives the percentage weight of the adrenal tissue in twenty- 
seven young tame rats, none of the animals being fully grown. Of these, 
eighteen were under 100 grammes, and nine weighed from 100 to 150 
grammes. Table II. gives the percentage weight in nineteen fully grown 
tame rats. The average percentage weight is as follows : — 

For the young animals under 100 grammes in weight 0-35 gramme. 
For ihe young animals not fully grown . . -023 „ 
For the full-grown adult -oig „ 

To turn to the wild rats, we find the facts recorded in Tables III. 
and IV. 

* Chalmers Wj^iion, Journal uf Thy siology, 1907. 



I 



TAni.E I - 


— Shfnvin'^ 


Pcrcentace 


Tarle III 


— Showing 


Weight of 




W'ciilht of Adrctutl Glands in 




Adreni 


I Glands in 


oung Rats 




1 oun^ 


Rats {tame). 






{wild). 






Wpi>;lit of 


Woinht of 


r«rr<'iit»t;e 


Woi);lil of 


Woi(;lit of 


rerciMitano 


An 


mal. 


GlaiKls. 


Weinht. 


Animal. 


Two Glands. 


Weight. 


52 


gtms. 


•022 grtn. 


•042 grm. 


60 


grms. 


•037 g-m- 


•061 grm. 


57 




•020 ,, 


•034 ,. 


68 


1' 


•040 ,, 


•o5'^ „ 


60 




•020 „ 


•033 .. 


72 


i> 


•'44 .. 


•06 1 „ 


60 




•324 ., 


•C40 „ 


72 


ti 


•044 .. 


•061 „ 


60 




•026 „ 


•043 „ 


75 


„ 


•o;o „ 


•066 „ 


65 




•028 „ 


•043 „ 


76 


t) 


■041 ,, 


•053 „ 


69 




•030 •• 


•043 „ 


80 


II 


•074 ,. 


.092 ,, 


7» 




•023 „ 


.031 ., 


83 


11 


•0S5 1, 


•102 ,. 


73 




•02S „ 


•o3'^ „ 


85 


,, 


•069 „ 


•0S2 „ 


77 




•02(> „ 


•033 .. 


86 


,, 


•059 .1 


•067 „ 


77 




■024 „ 


•032 „ 


92 


,, 


•o5« „ 


•063 ,, 


77 




•024 „ 


•032 „ 


95 


,, 


•052 ., 


•054 ,. 


80 




•02.S „ 


•035 .. 


96 


II 


.048 „ 


•050 .. 


84 




030 „ 


•035 .. 


98 


11 


•058 ,. 


•059 ., 


87 




•024 „ 


027 „ 


100 


II 


•o6j ., 


•060 ,. 


87 




•02f) ,, 


•029 „ 










95 




•02', „ 


•030 „ 






Average 


•066 „ 


99 




•034 ,. 


•034 „ 


















102 


g;rms. 


•06S i^rm. 


•066 grm. 






Average 


•035 .. 


106 
1 10 


'• 


•065 ,. 
•054 .. 


•061 „ 
•049 ,, 


110 


Rrms. 


•032 grin. 


•029 .ijrrn. 


130 


„ 


•116 „ 


•089 ., 


115 




•033 " „ 


•020 ,, 


130 


,, 


•160 „ 


• 122 „ 


120 




.0:4 „ 


•020 ,, 


140 


11 


•130 .. 


•092 ,, 


120 




•039 .. 


<3I5 .. 


142 


II 


•095 .. 


066 „ 


140 




•04 1 ,. 


•03' „ 










«50 




•042 „ 


•028 „ 






Average 


•077 „ 


150 




•040 „ 


•026 ,, 










150 




•030 „ 


•020 „ 










150 




.028 ,. 

Average 


•018 „ 

•023 .. 










Tablk II. 


— Sho7vin(^ 


Weight of 


Tart.e IV. 


—Showing 


Weight of 




Adrenal Glands 


in Fully- 




Adrena 


I Glands 


in Fully- 




grown 


Tame Rats. 






grown 


Wild Rats. 




Wcipht of 


Weiclit of 


rerceiilafie 


Wfiiplit of 


Weiglit of 


Percentage 


Ad 


imal. 


Two Clamis. 


W.ight. 


An 


tiial. 


Glands. 


Weight. 


IIO 


prms. 


•028 grm. 


•026 grin. 


1 50 gi ms. 


•085 g m. 


•056 )l\m. 


"5 




•035 " ., 


•030 „ 


190 


,, 


•125 „ 


•065 „ 


120 




•035 „ 


•029 „ 


190 


„ 


•105 „ 


•055 .. 


145 




•026 ,, 


.018 „ 


200 


„ 


•123 ■, 


•061 „ 


160 




•040 „ 


•025 „ 


207 


„ 


•093 ,■ 


•044 „ 


165 




032 „ 


•019 „ 


220 


„ 


•093 .- 


•042 „ 


170 




•024 „ 


•014 „ 


237 


^j 


•108 ., 


•049 1, 


182 




•034 „ 


•018 „ 


240 


,, 


•135 .. 


•056 „ 


185 




•040 „ 


•021 „ 


242 


„ 


•162 „ 


•066 ., 


195 




•040 „ 


•020 „ 


260 


11 


•16; ., 


•063 „ 


210 




035 ., 


•014 >. 


260 


,. 


•220 „ 


•084 „ 


235 




•039 ., 


.016 „ 


260 




•114 n 


•043 „ 


240 




033 „ 


•013 „ 


270 


,j 


•134 .. 


•049 ., 


255 




•of") „ 


•027 „ 


303 


„ 


•120 


•039 „ 


2f)5 




•040 „ 


•015 M 


340 


,, 


•170 .. 


•050 „ 


2.S5 




•065 .. 


•022 „ 


342 


,, 


•129 „ 


•037 ., 


300 




•054 „ 


•018 „ 


370 


II 


•128 ., 


■034 ,, 


310 




o.'o ,, 


016 „ 










310 




•058 ,, 


•018 „ 






Average 


•052 „ 



Average -019 „ 



APPENDIX 607 

In fifteen wild rats under loo grammes in weight the average 
percentage weight of the adrenal tissue was 066 gramme as opposed to 
■035 gramme in the tame animals ; in seven young animals not fully 
grown, between 100 and 150 grammes in weight, the average was 077 
gramme as opposed to -023 gramme in the corresponding series of 
tame rats ; in seventeen wild rats that were assumed to be fully grown, 
the average percentage weight of the glands was -052 gramme as 
opposed to -019 in the case of the fully-grown tame subjects. 

The two noteworthy facts to which attention is directed are : — 

(i) The greater amount of adrenal tissue in wild rats in comparison 
with tame rats of equal weight. 

(2) In wild rats there is not the same disproportion in the amount 
of adrenal tissue in the young and adult subject as obtains in the 
tame rat. 

XIX.— THE EFFECTS OF CAPTIVITY ON THE ADRENAL 
GLANDS IN WILD RATS.^ 

In a paper published in the Journal of Physiology (vol. xxxv., p. 230), 
the author pointed out that the percentage weight of the adrenal glands 
in wild rats was considerably higher than in tame rats of equal weight. 
This suggested the advisability of ascertaining the effects of captivity on 
the size of the adrenal glands. Accordingly a seiies of twenty-five wild 
rats — nine young and sixteen fully grown — which were obtained at the 
same time and from the same source as those referred to in the original 
paper, were kept in confinement for ten weeks, and were fed on a diet of 
bread soaked in skimmed milk. The animals seemed to thrive well under 
this regime, but it was observed that for a time the rate of growth of the 
young rats was retarded. The adrenal glands were, as formerly, weighed 
out of a 5 per cent, formalin solution. The percentage weight of the 
wild rats kept in captivity was considerably less than that of the glands 
of the wild rats which were killed on receipt. The figures are given in 
the following tables : — 



Adults . A. Original series (killed on receipt) 
B. .'\fter ten weeks' captivity 



Young . C. Original series (killed on receipt) 
D. After ten weeks' captivity 

This reduction in weight of the adrenal glands in wild rats in 
captivity must, it appears to me, be due to one or other of the following 
causes, either {a) the diminished muscular activity or {b) the changed 
diet of the animals. Further investigation is necessary to determine 
which of these factors has led to the reduction in the amount of adrenal 
tissue observed. 

^ Chalmers WTHioa, Journal 0/ F/iysiolog}', iyo8. 



No. 


Weight. 


Average 

percentage 

Weight. 


16 


190 to 370 


•052 grms. 


16 


165 „ 320 


038 ,. 


No. 


Weight. 


Aver. Weight 
per cent. 
Aiireiial. 


8 


IOC to 150 


•076 grms. 


9 


no „ 150 


•054 ,< 



608 APPENDIX 

XX.— THE STATE OF THE OVARIES DURING LACTATION, 
WITH SPECIAL REFERENCE TO THE LUTEAL TISSUE.' 

The present investigation was undertaken to ascertain the histo- 
logical appearances of the ovaries of animals killed during lactationi 
special attention being directed to the luteal tissue. 

The material employed consisted of the ovaries of a consecutive 
series of twenty rats which were killed in the puerpcrium, at periods 
varying from thirty-six hours to twenty-three days after parturition. 
The ovaries show very uniform appearances in the entire series. The 
corpora lutea are large and visible to the naked eye as reddish 
excrescences on the surface of the ovary. On microscopic examination 
they present the size and appearance of the corpora lutea of pregnancy, 
being much larger than the corpora lutea which develop in the absence 
of pregnancy or lactation. It is obvious that this must be explained 
in one of the two ways : 

{a) These bodies are the corpora lutea of pregnancy which do not 
degenerate in the later part of gestation in the manner commonly 
accepted, but persist throughout the lactation period ; or 

(^) They are developed from follicles which have ruptured at or 
shortly after parturition, and have attained a larger size than obtains 
in animals which are not nursing. 

It is important to note that the corpora lutea of a rat thirty-six hours 
after parturition do not differ in size or appearance from those of animals 
killed when their young are weaned at the age of three weeks. This 
fact inclines me to the view that they are the corpora lutea of pregnancy. 
Whichever explanation turns out to be the correct one, the state of the 
ovaries described appears to indicate that the luteal tissue is functionally 
active during lactation. 

XXL— THE EFFECT OF A MEAT DIET ON FERTILITY 
AND LACTATION.'- 

In a paper on "The Influence of Diet on Growth and Nutrition," in 
the /ourna/ o/ P/iysio/oi^y {vo\. xxxiv., p. 3), Dr Chalmers Watson showed 
that in rats a diet of ox-flesh begun when the animals were weaned inter- 
fered with the development of pregnancy, none of the four flesh -fed 
animals having young, whereas the control animals from the same litter 
all became pregnant. On the other hand, it is stated of three families 
fed on horse-flesh from the age of two and a half months approxi- 
mately, that all became pregnant, from which he concludes that "the 
use of this diet in animals of this age appears not to affect the super- 
vention of pregnancy." 

It was further found in the case of the meat-fed animals which became 
pregnant and suckled their young, that the mammary tissue was less 
developed than in the control bread-and-milk-fed rats. 

' n. P. Watson, /ourna/ 0/ PAysio/o^y, vol. xxxiv., 1906. 

' B. P. Watson, Proceedings oftht Royal Society of Edinburgh, vol. xxvii., 1906-7. 



APPENDIX 609 

At I)r Chalmers Watson's suggestion I have exlcnclcd these oliscrva- 
tions, and witli a larger amount of material at my disposal am able to 
amplify his statements, and as regards the question of fertility slightly to 
modify them. 

The method of conducting the investigation was as follows : — Twelve 
female rats and several males were put on a bread-and-milk diet, and the 
females were continued on this throughout pregnancy and lactation. 
These served as the controls. Seventeen females and five males were put 
upon an ox-flesh diet, but were otherwise under exactly the same condi- 
tions as the bread-and-milk animals. The animals were begun on the 
meat diet at various ages, from the second up to the fourth month, and 
some of them were kept on the diet for as long as five months. 

1. Effect of a meat diet on fertility. — Of the seventeen animals fed 
upon a meat diet only eight became pregnant, and of these four bore 
young within twenty-one days — the usual gestation period in the rat — of 
being put on the diet, so that only four actually conceived while on the 
diet. Of these latter one had been twenty-four, one twenty-five, one 
twenty-seven, and one thirty days on an exclusive ox-flesh regimen 

The other nine animals, although kept for several months, did not 
conceive, and this in spite of the fact that they were seen to copulate 
freely right up to the end of the experiment. This reservation must, 
however, be made, that one of these nine animals probably had young 
which were eaten, and it is just possible that this happened in other 
cases. It is not at all probable, however, as the animals were frequently 
carefully examined, and if there was any indication of their being 
pregnant, were at once transferred to separate cages. 

Of the twelve animals fed on a bread-and-milk diet, all became 
pregnant and had young, so that we may conclude that a meat diet is 
decidedly prejudicial to the occurrence of pregnancy in rats when the 
diet is begun when the animals are from two to four months old. 

In order to determine whether the fault resided in l^oth sexes or in 
only one, a fresh male which had been fed on bread and milk was put 
beside the sterile females which had been on meat for several months. 
When the animals were killed, some time after, one of them was found 
to be in an early stage of pregnancy, and must have been impregnated 
by the bread-and-milk male. 

This would appear to indicate that the cause of the sterility is partly 
due to the male, but we have not had sufficient material to form any 
more definite conclusion regarding this. 

2. Effect of a meat diet on lactation. — For this part of the investigation 
the same animals were used, viz., the twelve controls fed on bread and 
milk, and the eight meat-fed animals which became pregnant. The 
point specially attended to was the weight of the mammary tissue of the 
animals killed after suckling their young for varying periods. 

In the nursing rat the mammary tissue forms a continuous sheet 
spread under the skin of the abdomen on each side of the middle line. 
In addition there are extensions of it into the axillic, up along the neck 
and into the groins, while in some cases it spreads out so much laterally 

2 Q 



610 



APPENDIX 



as almost to reach the back. The nipples are in a doiil)le row extending 
from thorax to the groins. 

The animals were killed at different periods during lactation. The 
weight of the mother and the nimibcr and weight of tlie young at the 
time of death were ascertained. The skin and subcutaneous tissue of the 
mother's abdomen was immediately removed down to the muscle, care 
being taken that no mammary tissue was left behind in the axilht or in 
the groins. The skin was put into 5 per cent, formalin for a few days, 
when it was quite easy to separate the mammary tissue from the skin on 
one hand and from the areolar tissue on the other. If an attempt 
were made to strip the mamma: before first fixing in formalin, it was 
found that a great deal of milk was squeezed out. The immersion in 
formalin prevented this, although it extracted a small quantity of milk, 
as shown by its cloudy appearance at the end of twelve hours. It is to 
be understood, then, that the mamma: were weighed out of formalin. 

The basis of comparison between the meat- and the bread and-milk- 
fed rats is the percentage weight of the mammary tissue to that of the 
mother. 

By a reference to the tables below it will be seen that there are 
wide individual variations in this percentage among the bread-and-milk 
animals. 

Table giving the Lactation History of Eight Rats fed on an 
Exclusive Ox- Flesh Dietary. 



No. of Days 

on Meat 

before 

Parturition. 


Weight of 
Animal 
at Death. 


Weight of 
Mamma;. 


Per cent. 


Time in 

Laulation 

when Killed. 


Xuniberof 
Young. 


Wnight Of 

Young. 


30 
9 

27 
25 

12 

15 
21 

24 


Grms. 

180 
140 
230 
150 
"5 
130 
no 

140 


Grms. 

13 
8-5 
19-5 
13 
IO-5 
12 

lO-I 

II-5 


7-2 

6 

8-4 

8-6 

<j-l 

g-2 

9-1 

8-2 


1st day 

1st day 

1st day 

7th day 

20. h day 

2 1 St day 

2 1 St d:iy 

22nd day 


10 
10 

5 
6 

7 
6 

4 


Grms. 

50 
A') 

48 
120 

i«5 

no 

82 



Average percentage = 8'2. 

This is explained by the different times during the course of lactation 
at which the animals were killed, and also by the varying numbers of 
young which they suckled. Thus there is a fairly uniform rise in the 
jjcrcentage from the first up to the twenty-first day, after which there is 
again a fall ; and taking animals killed at the same lactation period, the 
percentage is higher in those which nursed the larger number of young. 

We may therefore take it that the mammary gland in the rat is most 
actively functioning about the twenty-first day of lactation, and after this, 
as the young begin to feed themselves, it undergoes atrophy. 



i 



APPENDIX 



611 



It will be seen that the average percentage weight of the niammn? of 
all the bread-and-niilk animals is g-6, while that of the meat-fed ones is 
only 8-2. This difference would in all probability have been greater but 
for the fact that the average number of young suckled by the bread-and- 
milk animals was only 46, while that of the meat-fed animals was 6-3. 

As before stated, the longest period before the birth of the young 
during which the mother had been on a meat diet was thirty days. 
Taking this into consideration, the difference is sufficiently marked to 
point to the conclusion that the result of a meat diet is to diminish the 
amount of mammary tissue in nursing mothers. 

Table ,i;iving the Lactation Histo>y of Twelve Rats fed on an 
Exclusive Bread-and-Milk Dietary. 



Weight of 

Animal 
at Death. 


Weight of 
Mammie. 


Per cent. 


Time during 

Lactation 
when Killed. 


Number of 
Young. 


Weight of 
Young. 


Grms. 


Grms. 








Grms. 


147 


12-5 


8 


1st day 


7 


32 


140 


10 


7-1 


3rd day 


7 


45 


180 


18 


10 


6ih day 


7 


70 


225 


18-5 


8-2 


loth day 


7 


ns 


120 


17 


I4-I 


2ist day 


5 


150 


140 


19 


13-5 


2 1 si day 


7 


220 


"5 


7-5 


6-5 


2 1 St day 


3 


120 


130 


II-5 


><.s 


22nd day 


4 


100 


160 


19 


11-2 


25th day 


7 


145 


160 


15 


9-3 


30th day 


6 


175 


130 


13 


10 




6 




150 


13-5 


9 


27ih day 




... 



Average percentage = 9-6. 

The effect of this relatively poor mammary development on the young 
of the meat-fed rats is shown by a comparison of their weights with those 
of the young of the control animals towards the end of the lactation 
period. Thus the average weight of each of the young of the meat rats 
at the twentieth to the twenty-first day is 21-6 grms., in contrast to 
29-4 grms., the average weight of each of the bread-and-milk young. 
It is thus evident that the young of the animals fed on meat suffer in 
general nutrition and growth, as compared with those whose mothers are 
on a bread-and-milk diet. 

Whether this is due to a mere deficiency in the amount of milk avail- 
able for their use, or to some alteration in its constituents, has not been 
determined, but the probability is that the former plays a large part. 

On microscopic examination there are no marked differences in the 
histological characters of the mammary tissues. The character of the 
glandular tissue varies according as the acini are full of secretion or 
empty, and while the mammae of the meat-fed animals show a pre- 
ponderance of closely-packed empty lobules, this may only be due to the 



612 APPENDIX 

fact that the mothers had been killed shortly after the gland had been 
emptied by suckling 

Conclusions. 

1. That a meat diet is prejudicial to the occurrence of pregnancy in 
rats. 

2. That in rats fed on a meat diet the mammary development of 
nursing mothers is less than in rats fed on bread and milk. 

X.XII.— A RICH PROTEIN DIET IN RELATION TO GOUT 
AND THE THYROID GLAND.> 

At the present lime, in existing text-books and otherwise, the subject 
of diet in its scientific and clinical aspects is studied from two standpoints 
and two standpoints only. These are : (i) from the point of view of the 
chemical composition of the food — that is to say, the amount of protein, 
fats, and carbohydrates and salts in the dietary ; and (2) from the point 
of view of the caloric or heat value of the food. 

In the course of the past few years the observations of the writer 
have shown the necessity of regarding the subject from a new stand- 
point, viz. — 

(3) The influence of particular foods on the structure and functions 
of the tissues. 

This subject is a very large one, and our knowledge of it is yet in 
its infancy ; and what I propose this evening is to ask your attention 
to certain points in the effects of a rich protein or rich purin diet in 
relation to one disease (gout) and one organ (the thyroid gland). 

My earlier investigations dealt with the influence of an exclusive 
meat diet, administered, uncooked, on the structure of the tissues, and 
notably the thyroid gland, kidneys, and mucous membranes. 

These showed that the structure and functions of these tissues were 
as a rule modified, and some of these modifications were acquired by 
the offspring, and were associated in them with an increased susceptibility 
to disease, notably catarrh of the different mucous membranes. The 
results therefore showed (what, after all, might well be expected) that 
diet modified the "soil" in animals, and suggested that similar modifica- 
tions in structure and function would hold good for man. 

My results, and the conclusions drawn from them, have received a 
fair share of adverse criticism, firstly, from the experimental standpoint, 
and secondly, from the clinical. 

Let us deal in the first place with the criticism of my fellow-clinicians. 
It was urged by clinicians in this and other societies, that it was not 
permissible to draw any deductions from the results of my experimental 
investigations applicable to conditions obtaining in the human subject. 
It was urged that the facts of my dealing with (i) an exclusive meat 
diet, and (2) administering that diet in an uncooked form, were conditions 
so dissimilar to those in the human subject as to preclude any deductions 

' Chalmers Watson, Transacitoiis 0/ ihe Edinburgh Medico-Chirurgical Sociely, 1 910. 



I 



APPENDIX 613 

beinc: drawn from my results applicable to man. There is undoubtedly 
something in this criticism, but I think much less than is at first sight 
suggested. The matter, however, was essentially one for further 
investigation, from the experimental standpoint, along lines whirh 
would remove these objections, and this has been carried out, with 
the results to be immediately referred to. 

A more serious criticism has been directed from the experimental 
standpoint. Thus Forsyth writes : — 

"Accepting for the moment the conclusions of Chalmers Watson, 
it would be expected that the thyroid glands of birds of prey would show 
to a marked degree the features he has ascribed to excessive protein 
feeding. It should be found that (l) the thyroids of these birds consist 
of large vesicles filled with colloid, so that the intervesicular glandular 
tissue is diminished ; and (2) that the thyroids of non-raptorial birds, 
when contrasted with them, show vesicles of comparatively small size, 
a not over abundant secretion of colloid, and an average amount of 
intervesicular glandular tissue. In the specimens I have examined I 
find that this relation does not exist, and that not only were the structural 
characters which we were assuming to be associated with meat feeding 
not specially marked in carnivorous birds, but in some cases the exact 
contrary was prominent." He then proceeds to demolish to his own 
satisfaction my position by concluding from these data that there are 
no peculiarities of microscopic structure referable to difference in their 
natural foods. 

Forsyth, I think, fell into error in two directions. In the first place, 
he has drawn in the above statement a deduction from the facts and 
statements made by me which is entirely unwarranted. Further, he 
failed to recognise in dealing with birds dying in captivity in the 
Zoological Gardens, that many of the animals in virtue of their mal- 
nutrition and emaciation at death had been living on their own protein 
tissue. In such cases it does not matter whether the natural diet of the 
bird in question be exclusively vegetarian : the practical point is that 
at the time of its death it had been living on its own protein tissue. In 
the same way, I have no doubt that the thyroid gland of certain men and 
women whom we occasionally see in a miserable state of health and 
malnutrition from living on an exclusively vegetarian dietary of a very 
unfavourable kind will present a character similar to those associated in 
others with the ingestion of excess of animal protein food. 

Forsyth's paper was published in 1907. Since that time I have 
carried out a further series of investigations into the effects of a rich 
protein diet on the structure of the thyroid gland and other tissues. The 
diet employed was a mixed one, ccnsisting of minced ox-flesh, lentils, 
and bread and milk, the two former ingredients largely predominating. 
The diet is one rich in protein and also rich in purins. These observa- 
tions have been carried out on a large scale, and the effects of the diet 
on the thyroid gland noted in animals in the first, second, and third 
generation. A full account of these observations will shortly be pub- 
lished. The results amply confirm my earlier observations, in showing 



614 APPENDIX 

tbnt a rich protein diet modifies the strurlure of the thyroid pland. 
Tliis may be shown by a marked increase in size of the gland 
as a whole, and by alterations in the number and arrangement 
of the secreting cells or vesicles of the gland. Tlie rich protein 
diet at first stimulates, and later exhausts the gland. The diet can 
be shown to have modified the soil in a manner which increases the 
susceptibility to disease. Now there is no reason to doubt that under 
the conditions described, what is true of animals is also true of man. 
And I submit that conditions, for practical purposes identical to those 
described, are seen by us every day, that these are inducing similar— 
maybe less in degree— modifications of structure and function of the 
tissues, with corresponding modifications in susceptibility to disease. 
My experience of the clinical features of gout in its varied forms in the 
light of the results of these researches led me in 1907 to conclude that 
"the subjects of inherited or acquired gout have acquired from their 
environment, which includes diet, a type of thyroid gland which is 
abnormally active, and which works, so to speak, at high pressure." 
Further clinical experience, and the results of later investigations have 
in my mind confirmed and at the same time amplified this view. The 
amplification is of great practical importance. I have shown how the 
structure of the gland can be modified in animals, and more especially 
in young animals, by sustained feeding on a lacto-vegetarian diet (see 
p. 604). And I have little doubt that the beneficial eflects of an exclusive 
milk diet, or a lacto-vegetarian diet, which we are all obtaining in 
certain cases every day, are largely the result of the special influence of 
this regimen on the thyroid gland. 

Dealing with our special subject, gout, this disease is essentially a 
disorder of protein metabolism. In its etiology there are probably two 
main factors : — 

(i) A particular diathesis in soil, in which, as I have already indi- 
cated, om of the distinctive features is a special type of thyroid activity. 

(2) A superadded infective element. It is now some eight or nine 
years since I first submitted, and I think to this Society, the view that 
there was an infecive element in gout. That view, although based on 
some definite new facts in the pathology of the disease, did not then 
commend itself to my critics. It is of considerable interest to mention 
that after the short period of eight or nine years, probably more than 50 
per cent, of writers on this subject in this and other countries now accept 
this view — which, however, is not yet fully proved. Gouty subjects are, 
in virtue of their diathetic tendency, specially prone to a particular type 
of auto-intoxication or infection, which is responsible for various gouty 
symptoms. 

In expressing these views I am well aware of the existence of certain 
facts which appear at first sight to disprove it : I refer to the cases, by 
no means ver)' infrequent, of gouty disorder in patients living on an 
almost meat-free diet, in which relief from the gouty manifestations is 
obtained by putting the patient on a diet which contains much animal 
protein and very little farinaceous foods. I have treated many such, and 



I 



APPENDIX 616 

have made .1 special study of llicin. Tliese are in my experience cases 
in which, in addition to a probable thyroid defect, there is a certain 
pancreatic disturbance, as can be proved by finding a pronounced pan- 
creatic reaction in the urine. This reaction in these cases shows that 
there is a defect in carbohydrate metabolism, and that the pancreas is 
working under difficulties. If that is recognised and the patient treated 
accordingly, relief from symptoms will very quickly be obtained. We 
know, from the writings of Dr liyrom Bramwell, that there is such a 
condition as pancreatic infantilism ; thyroid infantilism is even better 
known. If time had allowed I might have referred to other interesting 
points touching on the relationship which exists between the pancreas 
and thyroid. 

I must, however, content myself with pointing out that the fact of the 
benefits undoubtedly obtained in certain cases by a relatively rich protein 
diet cannot be regarded as in any way antagonistic to the general view 
set forth in my paper. 

Many interesting clinical facts can be cited bearing on the above 
views — some of them deal with the antagonism long recognised between 
tuberculosis and gout. Time will not, I fear, allow me to elaborate 
these. I would have liked to consider in detail the clinical effects of a 
judiciously selected rich protein diet in favourable cases of tuberculosis in 
children and young adults. The small, thin, flabby, anaemic, tuberculous- 
looking subject gives place to the large, muscular, high-coloured, gouty- 
looking individual. This is no fanciful picture. I have had under my 
own care weakly children with the most prominent tuberculous family 
history, which were treated with a rich protein diet for two years or 
more, and I have seen these children in later years present many of the 
clinical features which we associate with the gouty diathesis. A similar 
condition is seen in favourable cases of tuberculosis in young adults. 
Then as to the converse side of the picture. Consider the great 
muscular development, the great bodily activity, the active circulation, 
and the susceptible liver and skin of the gouty child. The active growth 
and the great muscular development are here clear indications of a 
more than usually active thyroid system. We know that these cases are 
beneficially influenced by a restriction in the amount of animal protein 
foods, and in later life we often see these people, of their own accord, 
cutting down the animal food — often considerably, and we also see them 
suffering from so-called gouty ailments which are beneficially influenced 
by the administration of small doses of thyroid gland. 



I 



INDEX 



Abdominal operations, diet after, 345 

tuberculosis, 441 
Absorbability of toods, 5 
Absorption of carbohydrates, I 2 
of fats, 1 1 
of proteins, il 
of salts, 12 
of water, 1 2 
Acetonuria inichiidren, 262 
Acid intoxication, 349 
Acidity, excessive, 326 
Acidosis, 349 
Acidosis in children, 262 
Acids in fruits, 105 
in wine, 147, 149 
Acne, 519 
Acorns, 113 
Acute fevers, diet in, 267 

alcohol in, 276 
Adenoids, 193 

Adulteration of food, 190 
Adults, food reijuirements of, 20 
Aerated bread, 92 
distilled water, 134 
water, 134 
Agar-agar in vegetarianism, 525 
Aged, food requirements of the. 20, 203 
Albany food, 169 
Albumin, vegetable, 79, 476, 522 

water to make, 47 
Albuminuria, 417 

of pregnancy, diet for. 214 
Albumoses, 8 
Alcohol, 140 
Alcohol in bet-r, 146 

effect on cardio-vasruhr system, 14? 
on digestive system, 143 
on energy production, 142 
on heat production, 142 
on muscular system, 143 
on nervous system, 143 
effects of, on metabolism, I4I 

of, on tissue waste, 142 
in acute disease, 152 
in children's diseases, 203 
in chronic disease, 152 
in fevers, 152 
M7 



Alcohol in gout, 153 

in heart disease, 152, 402 
in influenza, 153, 290 
in obesity, 142 
in pneumonia, 152, 288 
in rheumatism, 153 
in typhoid fever, 285 
in wines, 147 
nature of, 144 
source of, 144 
use in surgery, 140 
uses of, 151 
Alcoholism, 502, 503 
Alderney cow's milk, 30 
Ale, 147 
Aleuron, 168 
Aleuronat, 168 
Aleuront cakes, 478 
Algae, 114 

Alimentary glycosuria, 48^ 
Alkaline waters, 134 
Alkaloids in intestine. 17 
AUenbury food for infants. 240 
No. I food, 158 
No. 2 food, 177, ?4i 
No. 3 food, 182, 184 
All.'^picp, 130 

Almond Iread in diabetes, 479 
cakes in diabetes, 476, 477, 479 
flour in diabetes, 475, 477 
oil, 80 

porridge, 481 
pudding, 486 
Almonds, 112 
salted, 112 
Alum in Lreaii, 91 
Anieiican chcx^e. 43 
American Swiss (ood, 170 
Amides, 80 
Amino acids, 9 

absorption of, II 
Aniyl alcohol. 144 
Amylo]isin in infancy, 228 
Anaemia, 381 
Anaemia in children, 266. 381 
lactic bacilli treatment of. 543 
pernicious, 3S8 



618 



INDEX 



Anaemia, primarj-, ?S2 388 
Aneurism, 408 
Angina pectoris, diet in, 407 
Anglo-Swiis condensed milk, 156 

food, 170 
Animal fats, purified, 41 
Animal foods. 60 
Anini il visc< la, 57 
Anisette, 14') 

Anorex'a in tuherculosi?, 428 
Antiscorbutic property of fruit?, 105 

of milk, 32 

of vegetal lies, 115 
Antiseptics and food, 189 
Aitweiler's peptones, 179 
Apenta water, 135 
Apollinaris, 135 
Apoplexy, diet in, 507 
Appendicitis, 365 
Appetite, loss of, 18 
Apple toast water, 275 
Apple water, 275 
Apples, 106, 108 
Apricots, 106, 109 
Arbroath smokies. 62 
Arctic regions, food for, 26 
Armour's beef juice, compos'tion of, 

extract, composition of, 163 

soluble beef, 1^5 

wine ( f peptone, 179 
Arrowroot, 1 16, 297 
Arteriosclerosis. 394 
Arthritis, rheumatoid, 466 
Artichoke, green, 119 

Jerusalem, 1 16 
Artificial feeding of infants, 235, 241 
Asparagin, 80 

in potato, 1 15 
Asparagus, 119, 122 
Ass. mi k of, 29, 33, 235 
Asthenia of pancreatic origin, 378 
Asthma, 514 
Athletes, effects of alcohol on, 143 

food required, 25 
.Atwater on food requirements, 20 
Austrili.in wines, 150 
Aato-intoxication, 846 
Auto-intoxication, 17 

efife. ts of, on digestion. 18 

fermentation cases, 347 

jjutrefaction cases, 348 
Avmine, 98 
Aylesbury dairj' food, 167 

BaBV, weakly, diet for, 248 
Bacillus acidi lactici, 31, 540 

bifidus in firces, 229 

botuliniis, 191 

butyricus, 1 91 

poli in faeces, 229 



Bacillus enteriti'dis, 191 

lactis aerogenes in f.pces, 229 
Backhaus milk, 176 
Bacon, 58 

baked, 197 

fried, 196 

method of cooking, 196 

rashers, 196 

rolls, 197 

toasted, 197 
Bacteria, action of, in digestion, 15 

action of, on proteins, 16 
on carbohydrates, 16 

in fxces of infants, 229 

in milk, 236 

iiutrefactive, 16 
B.iin-Marie cooking-pot, 69 
Bak'd bread, 93 

pudding, 298 

custard, 299 

fish in convalescence, 305 

flour, 274 
Baking, 66, 68 
Baking-powder, adulteration of, 190 

powders in breadmaking, 91 
Banana, 11 1 

coffee, III, 525 
Bananas, composition of, I06 

dried. III 

flour, 524 

oats, 524 
Banting system, 494 
Barberries, no 
Barcelona nuts. 113 

Bardsweil and Chapman, diet in tuber- 
culosis, 421 
Barley, 100 

malted, 144 

meal, 100 

gruel in convalescence, 296 

sugar, 83 

water, loi 

as diluent for milk, 238 
method for making, 34 
Batter pudding with invalid food, 158 
Beans, 103 

butter, 104 

composition of, i02 

kidney, 103 

soya, 104 
B!.:ech nuts, 1 13 
Beef, 50 
Beef, boiled, 68 

bri^th. 73 

canned, 188 

composition of, 50 

diagram for cutting, 52 

essence, 77 

essence in acute fever, 273 

extracts, 75 

fat, 54 



i 



1 



INDEX 



619 



Beef jelly, 77 

juices, composition of, 165 
as a liiet in fever, 270 

meal, 166 

peptones, 176 

peptonoids, 179 

powdered, 166 

puice, 77 

quenelles for convalescence, 312 

refrigerated, 188 

roast, 67 

smoked, 187 

stewed, 70 
Beef-tea, 75, 162 
Beef-tea grUv,!, method of making, 77 
in fever, 271 
jars, 76 

method of m;iking, 76, 77 
nutritive value, 161 
tabloids, 167 
uses of, 163 
Beer, 146 
Beer, alcohol in, 144 

light varieties, 146 
Beet sugar, 82 

tops, 1 19 
Benedictine. 146 
Benger's food, 183 
for infants, 241 

pancreatised lentil flour, 183 

peptonised beef jelly, 179 
jellies, 178 
Bermaline bread, 94, 293 
Beverages, 182 
Beverages, alcohol percentage. 144 

classification of, 136 

for the gouty, 453 
Biliousness. 870 

Biogene powder, source of milk, 474, 476 
Bipsine bread, 293 
Biscuits, 95 

Akoll, 476 

casein, in diabetes, 476 

for children, 197 

Kalari, 476 

Plasmon, in diabetes, 479 

Rislacto, 476 
Blackberries, 106, no 
Black-currant drink, 276 
Blackwheat, 99 
Bladder, tuberculosis of, 439 
Blancmange, 301 
Blancmanges, peptonised, 175 
Blaichley, London, bread foods from, 

475 
Bloaters, 63 
Blood, diseases of, 380 

Blood as a food, 57 

salts in, 125 
Blood-pressure, increase of, diet for, 

394, 398 



Boiling, 66, 68 
Bomb calorimeter, 3 
Bone-marrow, 57, 197 
Bones, 57 
Borage, 1 19 
Borax in milk, 37 
Boric acid in food, 189 

in milk, 37 
Bottles, feeding, 245 
Botulism, lyt 

Bouillon Fleet, composition of, 163 
Bouquet of wines, 147 
Bovinine, 163 
Bovril, beef juice, 163, 165 

custard, 49 
Braising, 70 
Bran, 88 

bread in diabetes, 477 

flour, 475 
Brand's beef bouillon, 163 
peptone, 179 
tea, 162 

essence, 163 

fever food, 167, 270 

meat juice, 165 

nutrient powder, 167 
Br.mdering, 68 
Brandy, 144, 145 
Brazil nuts, 1 13 
Bread, 90 
Bread, absoiption of, 92 

aerated, 92 

baked, 93 

bran, 93 

brown, 93 

Casoid, in diabetes. 476 

composition of, 90 

crumbs and milk, 439 

diabetic, 476 

digestion of, 92 

easily digested, 320 

from millet, 99 

from rye, 99 

malted, 94 

nutritive value of, 92 

Protene, 478 

pudding, 298 

sauce, 306 

substitutes in diabetes, 475 

Tritumen, 476 

unfermented, 92 

varieties of, 93 
Breadmaking, 90 

fermentation process, go 
BreadsliifTs for children, 197 
Breast-feeding, 231 
Brewing, 146 
Brill, 62 

Brisket of beef, 52 
British beer, 146 
British gum, 81 



\ 



620 



INDEX 



Broid bc.in, 103 

Broccoli, iiS 

Broiled chiiken in convnicsccncc, 308 

Broiling, 6S 

Bronchitis, acute, S'3 

chronic, 513 
Broncho-pneiimonia, 513 
Brose, 98 
Broth, chicken, 300 

for children, 198 

mutton, 300 

veal, 300 
Brown breads, 93 
Brussels sprouts, 118 
Buckwheat, 99 
Buddised milk, 161 
Bulgarian bacillus, 54I 
Bullace, 109 

Burgoyne's meat juice, 165 
Burgundy, 150 
Bushuycv method of diet in typhoid, 

285 
Butter, 41 

adulteration, 190 

beans, 104 

vegetable, 80 
Buttered toast, 93 
Butteiine, 41 
Buttermilk, 35 43, 543 

changes with age, 543 

digestibility of, 542 

for infants, 239, 253 
Butyric acid bacteria, 16 
Byiim, 181 

CAiiBAGES, 117, 118 
Cadaverine, 16 
Caf^ zylak, 176 
Caffea ara/'iai, 137 
Caffeine in coffee, 138 

in tea, 137 
Cakes, 95 
Calcium, 23, 126 
Calculus, biliary, 373 

renal. 418 
Calf's-fo t jelly, 273 
Californiaii wines, 150 
Callard's diabetic foods, 475 
Calories, food required, 3, 21 
Calorimeter, 3 

Calves' brains, plio:-i)horus in, 24 
Cancer of liver, 376 

of stomach, 343 
Cane sugar, 82 
Canned corn, 98 

foods, 188 
Capon, 58 
Capsicum, 129 
Caramel, 83 
Carbohydrates. 79 
Carbohydrates, absorption of, 12 



Carbohydrates, action of b:ictcria on, 
ih 

as protein-sparcrs, 13 

excess of, cause of rickets, 266 

for children, 196 

in cereals, 87 

in milk, 31, 84 

in tubers, 1 15 

metabolism of, 

over-indulgence in, 217 

predigested, 175 

proprietary foods, 168 

tissue-builders, 2 
Carbon required, 21 
Carbonated waters, 134 
Carbonic acid in intestine, 16 
Cardiac valvular disease, 402 
("arlsbad regime in obesity, 497 
Carninc Lefranc, 534 
Ciriirick's liquid peptonoids, I7t^ 

peptonoids, 179 

soluble food, 184 
Carrageen jelly, 48$ 

moss, 114 
Carraway seeds, 130 
Carrots, 1 16 
Carr's bread, 94 
Casein, 31 

liiscuils in diabetes, 476 

bread in dial etes, 476 

dried, 158 

vegetable, 79 
Caseinogen, 31, 23r, 236 
Casoid bread in diabetes, 476 
Casumcn, 160 
Caudle, 48, 297 
Can 1 1 (lower, 1 18 

au gratiii, 484 

in convalescence, 312 

method of cooking, 123 
Caviare, 65 
Cayenne pcpficr, 129 
Celery, 117, 119 

method of cooking, 123 
Cellulose, structure of, 81 
Cereal coffee, 525 
Cerealine, 99 
Cereals, 86 
Cereals for children, 198 
Cerebral haemorrhage, 607 
Ceylon coffee, 138 
Chablis, 150 
Champagne, 144, 151 
Chapman and Bardswell diet in tuber- 
culosis, 421 
Chapman's whole flour, 169 
Chartreuse, 146 
Cheaj) foods, 2 15 
Cheese, 42 
Cheese added to soups, 72 

digestibility of, 43 



I 



INDEX 



621 



Cheese, in dysphagia, 438 

Lactic St Ivel, 544 

ripuning of, 43 

varieties of, 42 

vegetarian, 526 

with rice, 313 
Cherries, 106. 109 
Cherry braniJy, 109 
Cheshire cheese, 43 
Chestnuts, 112 
Chevrii, 119 
Chicken, 58 
Cliicken broth, 302 

broiled, in convalescence, 30S 

essence, 77 

jelly in acute fever, 272 

panada, 308 

puree, 209 

souffle, 308 

tea, 75 
Chicor}', 138 
Chilblains, 15 

Children, anaemia in, 381 
Children, appetite of, 194 

digestive powers in, 237 

food requirement of, 20, 24 

height and weiglit, 195 

indigestion in, 320 

nervous, 504 

of gouty diathesis, 194 

school, 201 

tuberculosis of, 194, 440 
Children, diet for, 193 
Chilies, 129 
Chiltine's infant food, 182 

maltose food, 183 
China tea, 136 
Chittenden standard, 22, :6 
Chives, 119, 120 
Chloride-free diet for nephritis 

416 
Chlorine, source of, 126 
Chlorosis, 384 
Chocolate, 139, 185 

Chocolates containing lactic bacilli, 544 
Choline, 16 
Chorea, 505 

diet during pregnancy, 214 
Christian's dietary, 529 
Churning, 41 
Chyme, 8 
Cider, 151 
Cibot, 120 
Cinnamon, 130 
Cirihosis of liver, 375 
Citrate of sodium added to milk, 239 
Citrated milk, cause of constipation, 252 

value of, 2;3 
Citric acid in milk, 32 
Claret, 144, 150 
CUiviceps purpurea, 19a 



Climate, effect on food, 26 
CI )ttcd cream, 39 
Cloves, 130 

of garlic, 120 
Cobs, 1 13 
Coca wine, 151 
Cockle, 64 
Cocoa, 138, 139 

and milk peptonised, 175 

butter, 80, 113 

diabetic, 481 

nibs, 139 
Cocoa-nut cakes in diabetes, 475, 477, 
478 

oil, 80, 113 

porridge, 48 1 
Cocoa-nuts, 113 
CoJ, 62 
Coflfee. 137 
Coffee, adulteration of, 190 

banana, 525 

composition of, 138 

peptonised, 176 

varieties of, 1 38 
Colic in infants, 253 

intestinal, 363 
Colitis, 357 
Colitis, acute, 357 

Bland diet for, 362 

cellulose diet for, 363 

chronic, 358 

in children, 265 

milk diet for, 363 

mucous, 360 

skimmed milk in, 539 
Colostrum, 246 
Combination food?, 170 
Condensed cream, 39 
Condensed milk, 155, 157. 240 
Condensed milk, peptonised, 175 

varieties of, i 56 
Condiments, 127 
Confectionery, 83 
Congenital pyloric stenosis, 260 

syphilis, 261 
Consomme, 73, 74, 271 
Constipation, 352 
Constipation, diet, 6 

effects of, on digestion, 18 

fruit cure for, 538 

in infancy, 251 

prunes in, 109 
Contamination of milk, 241; 
Contrexeville, 135 
Convalescence, diet in, 292 
Cooking, 65 
Co-.ikiiig, of tlciur, 90 
Cooking, of fish, 65 

of fruits, 107 

of meats, 65 

of onions, I20 



I 



622 



Cooking, of potato, 115 

of starch, 8 1 

of vegetables, 1 18 
Coomb's malted food, l8l, lS3 
Coriander seed, 130 
Corn. 98 
Cornflour, 99 

puddinj:, 297 

water, 297 
Cornmeal, 98 
Cornstarch, 99, 190 
Costa Rica rofTee, 1 38 
Cotton-seed oil, 80 
Cow's milk, 29, 30 

proprietary foods from, 15^ 
Crab, 63, 64 

apples, 108 
Cranberries, 106, IIO 
Crayfish, 64 
Cream, 88 
Cream, added to soups, 72 

composition of, 38 

dilution of, 40 

for dysphagi.i, 439 

for the gouty, 450 

jelly, 301 

proportion of, 33 

varieties of, 39 
Cremalto, 170 
Creme de volaille, 209 
Crcsol, 16 
Cress, 119, 
Cruciferae, 1 18 
Crustacea, 63 
Cucumbers, 117, I3I 

stewed, 488 
Cura(;ao, 109 
Curds, 33 
Cure, chloride-free diet, 416 

diet, buttermilk, 540 

fruit. 538 

grape, 538 

koumiss and Kephir, 540 

meat and hot-water, 534 

purin-free diet, 531 

Salisbiry diet, 534 

skimmed milk. 538 

vegetarian diet, 520 

whey, 538 
Currants, ic6, 1 10 
Curry powder, 130 
Curtis' desiccated malt, 181 
Custard, b.iked, 299 

for dysphigi.i, 438 

powder, 47 

pudding with invalid food. 185 

sauce, 299 

savoury, 49 

Damsons, 109 
Dandelion leaves, 119 



INDEX 



Darby's fluid beef, 179 
Dates, 110 

Talifat, 530 
Dauglish's process of breadmaking, 92 
Denaeycr's peptone, 179 
Desiccated vcgtiables, 187 
Devonshire cream food, 39, 170 
Dextrin, 81 
Dextrose, 82, 84 

in recta 1-fccding, 223, 324 
Dhoora, 99 
Diabetes, 470 
Diabetes, beverages in, 473, 481 

bread substitutes in, 475, 476 

foods to be avoided, 473 

forms of fat ndiiiinistraliun, 474 

fruit in, 480 

menus in, 481 

milder forms of, 490 

milk in, 472 

oatmeal diet, 489 

puddings in, 482 

saccharin in, 475 

severe forms of, 490 

vegetables in, 4S0 
Diabetic foods, 475 
home-made, 476 

scones, 485 
Di.ibetin, 84 
Diarrhoea, 864 
Di.irrhoea in infants, 253, 259 

due to lactic acid, 31 

from milk, 37 

nervous, 355 

salt-free diet in, 416 

summer, 261 
Diastase, 178 
Diastased farina, 183 
Diathesis diet in diathetic tendencies, 

i'H 
Diet, convalescent, 292 
Diet cures, 520 
Diet during childhood, 193 
Diet in old age, 203 
Diet, during pregnan<y, 2il 

during puerperium. 213 

during school life, 201 

effect on urine, 410 

for gouiy child, 200 

for nervous child, 201 

for lulierculous child, 200, 203 

fruit, 538 

improperly bidanced, 217 

influence of intestinal bacteria on, 17 

light, hospital, 548 

meat and hot-water, 534 

milk, 538 

in obesity, 498 

prescribing of, 6, 219 

prescribing of, for infants, 248 

protein, hospital, 549 



I 



I 



INDEX 



623 



Diet, purin-free, 531 

sudden change ol, 1 3 

to modify size of child, 212 

vegetarian, 520 
Dietaries, economical, 216 

hospital, 545 

ill-b:iLinced, 217 
Dietary for disease, general rules, 219 

standards, 6 
Digestil'iliiy of foods, 4 
Dierestlon, 7 

Digestion, artificial, 171 
Digestion, bacteria in, 15 

lactors modifying, 18 
Dilated stomach, 339 
Dill, 130 
Dinner toast, 93 
Diphtheria, 290 
Diphth.ria, alcohol in, 152 
Dipsomaniacs, ciyenne pepper for, 129 
Di-sac harids, 82 
Double cream, 39 
Dough, 90 
Dried foods, 187 
Drinking-waters, 133 
Dropsy, diet for, 40a 

sail-free diet in, 416 
Ducks, 58 
Dulcin, 85 
Duodenum, digestion in, 9 

ulcer of, 337 
Dutch cheese, 43 
Dysentery, 359 
Dyspepsia, 314 
Dysphagia, 436 
Dysphagia, blancmanges for, 439 

breadcrumbs for, 439 

cheese for, 438 

creams for, 439 

custards for, 438 

gelaiine for, 439 

iced foods in, 437 

East Indian coffee, 138 
Hbsiein regime in obesity, 496 
Echinococcus in food, 192 
Eczema, 519 
Edam cheese, 42 
Eel, 63 

Egg albumin, 45 
in puro, 165 

baked, 49 

boile.i, 48 

composition of, 45 

digestibdity of, 451 

drink, 47 

fats of, 46 

flip, 48 

jelly, 302 

plant, 121 

poached, 48 



Egg powder, 47 
rumbled, 49 
with brandy, 48 
yolk, 45 

mggB, 45 

Eggs, added to soups, 72 

as a fever diet, 270 

cooked, 48 

digestibility of, 46 

for children, 197 

idiosyncrasy to, 46 

in convalescence, 299 

in omelet form, 300-311 

in proprietary foods, 167 

nutritive value of, 45 

raw, 47 

raw, manner of using, 47 

savoury, 486 

scrambled savoury, 164 

snowball, 301 

substitutes for, 47 

with meat extract, 164 
Egyptian lentil, 104 
Emetic from mustard, 129 
Endive, 119 
Endocarditis, 401 
Energy, evolution of. 13 
Enteric fever, 277 
Enteritis, acute, in infants, 254, 261, 265 

catarrhal, 355 

in children, 265 

lactic bacilli treatment of, 543 
Enterokinase, 9 
Enteroptosis, 344 
Enterospasm, 363 
Epilepsy, 506 
Ergot, 100 
Ergotism, 192 
Eschalot, 120 
Esco beef juice, 165 
Essence of vanilla, 130 
Essences, meat, 75 
Ethers in wines, 150 
Eucasin, 158 
Evaporated cream, 39 

fruits, 107 
Extractives of meat, 53 

F.ECES, composition of, 10 

efTects of lactic bacilli on, 544 

in infants, 229, 258-259 
Fairchild's panopeptone, 179 
Falona, 169 
Farina, 96 

in milk, 36 
Farinaceous food=, 527 
Farol.l, 96 
Fat, in cow's milk, character of, 236 

deficiency of, cause of rickets, 266 

in eggs, 46 

in infancy, 230, 231, 262 



1 



624 



INDEX 



Fat, in stools of infants, 259 

neutral, 1 1 

of meat, 53 

of milk, 31 

of vegetables, 80 
Fats, I, a 

absorption of, 1 1 

as proiein-sj>arers, 13 

easily digested, 319, 474 

for children, 196 

metabolism of, 15 
Fatigue, effect of alcohol on, 143 
F"eedini;^, artificial, of infants, 235 
practice of, 241 

bottles, 245 

cups, 220 

foiced, 224 

general rules for, 219 

improper, in infants, 254 

nasal, 225 
Feeding, rectal, 221 
Fennel, i 30 
Fenugreek 131 
Fermenlactyl, 544 
Fermentation in breadmaking, 90 

of grape juice, 147 

in bowel, 346 
Ferments, digestive. 171 

dried powders, advantages of, 171 

in therapeutics, 171 

preparation of. 171 
Fever, alcohol in. 276 

food (Brand's), 270 

importance'of fluid in, J68 

meat infusions in, 270 
Fevers, dietary in, 267 
Figs, 106, I ID 
Filberts, 113 
Findon haddock, 61 
First Swiss condensed milk. 156 
Fish, 58 

Fish, baked in batter, 207 
in convalescence, 30$ 

cheap variety, 216 

chemical composition of, 61 

classification of, 59 

cod roe, 207 

curried, 208 

decomposition of, 60 

dishes for aged, 207 
for the gouty, 449 

haddock roes, 207 
and tomatoes, 207 

in convalescence, 305 

kedgeree, 208 

phosphorus in, 24 

powder, 167 

quenelle in convalescence, 307 

roe, grilled and fried, 207 
souffle. 488 

scalloped, 208 



Fish, seasons for, 60 

selection of 60 

smoked, 187 

sole, steamed, 2cg 

soup, 303 

souffle, 208 

steamed, in convalescence, 306 

stewed, in convaJcfcence, 306 

varieties, 60 

whiting, steamed, 209 
Flnnk of beef, 52 
Flatulence. 318, 365 
Flavouring agenis, 128 
Flesh composition. 50 

characteristics of good, 54 
Fletcherism, 529 
Florador, 96 
Flounders, 62 
Flour, 89 

baked, 374 

banana, 524 

gluten, 88 

malt. 180 

mouldy, 192 

preparations. 8g, 95 

varieties of. 89 

wheaten, 89 
Food, abforption of, 10 
Food accessories, 127 
Food, adulteration of, 190 

chemical composition of, 3 

chlorine in, 126 

condiments, 127 

deficiency in lime, 126 

diseases caused by, 191 

dried, 187 

fever, 350 

flavouiings, 128 

freezing of, iJ<8 

fruits. 105 

general serving of, 220 

heat v;ilue of. 3 

idiosyncrasies, 26 

iron in, 127 

malted, 181 

mineral salts in, 125 

parasites in, 192 

phosphorus in, 127 

physiological properties of, 4 

poisoning from flesh, 191 

potassium in, 126 

preservatives, 187 

ptomaines in, 191 

rate of digestion, 4 

required for children, 24, 193 
for lactation, 25 
for old age, 203 
for pregnancy, 2 1 1 
for women, 25 

requirements, 20 

seasonal variations in, 26 



( 



INDEX 



626 



Food, smoked, 187 

sodium chloride in, 126 

temperature of, 19 

urine and, 410 

use of alcohol, 141 
Poods, animal, 50 
Foods, proprietary, 155 
Foods, vegetable, 79 
Foods, acidity of, 127 

alkahnity of, 127 

antiseptic substances used in, 1 8 

canned, 188 

carbohydrate, 79 
for infants, 241, 244 

refrigeration, 188 

salted, 188 

salts in, 126 
Forced feeding, 224 
Formaldehyde in milk. 31, 37 
Formic acid in wine, 149 
Fortified cocoa, 139 

wines, 148 
Fowl, 58 

ragoiJt of, 309 
Frame food, 89, 168 
Franco-Swiss food, 170 
Franz Josef, 135 
Freezing of food, 18S 
Friederichshall, 135 
Fruit, cooking of, 107 

cures, 538 

digestibility of, 107 

eating, 106 

juice, 275 

preserving of, 107 

ripening of, 105 

soups, io8, 275 

sugar, 82 

syrups, 108 

uses of, 107 

with whey cure, 539 
Fruitarian cakes, 525 

diet, 538 
Fruits, 105 
Fruits, evaporated, 107 

for children, 198 

for the aged, 210 

over-ripe, effects of, 108 
Frying, 67 

Full-weight condensed milk, 156 
Fungi, 113 

edible, characters of, 114 

poisonous, 113 
Fusel oil, 144 

Gall-stones, diet In, 373 
Game, 58 

soup, 303 
Garlic, 120 

Gases in mdigcstion, 17, 314, 346 
Qastric catarrh, 322 



Gastric catarrh, acute, 323 
in children, 325 
chronic, 324 

juice, 8 
Gastric ulcer, 330 
Gastritis, 322 

from fruit-ealing, 108 
Gastro-enteritis, acute, in infants, 261 

from milk, 37 

in children, 265 
Gastroptosis, 344 
Gastrorhexis, 337 
Gavage, 224 
Geese, 58 

Gelatine jelly, to make, 35 
as diluent of milk, 35 

in fever, 271 

metabolism of, 14 

source of sweet jelly, 273 
Germ bread, 93 

of wheat, phosphorus in, 24 
German lentil, 104 
Gigot, 55 
Gin, 145 

Gin, alcohol in, 144 
Ginger, 129 

ale, 135 

beer, 129, 135 

wine, 129 
Glaxo dried milk, 158 
Gliadin, 88 
Glidine, 168, 479 

cakes in diabete?, 479 
Gloucester cheese, 43 
Glucose, 83 

in honey, 85 

in rectal-feeding, 223 
Gluten, 88 

and almond bread, 479 

bread, 94, 477 

flour in diabetes, 476, 477 

macaroni, 480 

vermicelli, 480 
Glutenin, 88 
Glycerine as flavouring agent in diabetes, 

in meat juices, 165 
Glycosuria, 470 
Glycosuria, alimentary, 489 

beverages in, 473 

cause of, 470 
Goat, milk of, 29, 32, 235 
Goitre, 516 

Goitre, exophthalmic, 516 
Goose, 58 

Gooseberries, 106, no 
Gorgonzola cheese, 42 
Gout, 444 
Gout, alcohol in, 153 

beverages in, 453 

causes of, 444 

2 R 



626 



INDEX 



Gout, illustrative dietaries. 456 

lactic bacilli trcament of. 543 

meat foods in, 446 

and hot-water cure, 449 

milk foods in, 449 

mineral waters in, 455 

pancreatic reaction in, 45 1 

soups in, 447 

stimulants in, 455 

strawberries in, III 

use of drinking-water, 454 

use of sweets in, 451 

vegetarian regime in, 432 
Gouty child, diet for, 194 

diathesis, diet foi, 1 94 
Grain, source of alcohol, I44 

poisoning, 192 

whisky, 144 
Gramalt, ]8i 
Grand bouillon, 73 
Granola, 96 
Granose, 96 

CJranular contracted kidney, 412 
Grape cure, 538 
Grape fruit, icg 

juice for wine. 147 

sugar, 82, 144 
Grapes, 106, no 

source o( alcoho', 144 
Gravel, 418 
Greengages, 109 
Green Mocha cofifee, 138 

vegetables, 117 

walnut, 112 
Greens, 118 
Grilling, 66 
Grinding, efiTect of, 186 

of wheat, 88 
Groats, 97 
Grouse, 58 

poisoning from, 192 
Growth, influence of excessive meat diet 

in, 5^5 
Gruel, bariey-meal, in convalescence, 
296 

dietetic, 481 

malted, in convalescence, 296 

milk, in convalescence, 296 

oatmeal, in convalescence, 296 

peptonised, 173, 174 

port wine, in convalescence, 296 
Guavas, 108 

HaI'DOCK, 61 
Halibut, 61, 62 
Hjematemesi?, 331 
Haemoptysis, 435 
Haemorrhage, cerebral, 507 

typhoid fever, 284 
Haemorrhoids, 366 
Hard tack, 95 



Hare, 56 

poisoning from, iga 
Haricot beans, 103 
" Haricots rus," 104 
Harrogate mineral-waters, 135 
Hazel nuts, II3, 475 
He.idachc, 505 
Heait as .irticlc of liict. 57 
Heart, diseases of, 88^ 
Heart, acute disease of, 40I 

chronic disease of, 402 
salt-free diet in, 416 

dilated, diet in, 404 

functional disease of, 400 

the senile, 407 
Heal, effect on fat, 66 
on proteins, 66 

evolution of, 13 
Height and weight table for adults, 493 

for children, 195 
Hemp oil, 80 
Herring, 63 
Hickory nuts, 113 
Hipi, composition of, 163 
Hock, 149, 150 
HofTs malt extract, 180 
Holland gin, 145 
llollandia condensed milk, 156 
Homax, 180 
Hominy, 99 
Honey, 82, 85 
Horlick's invalid food, 183 

malted milk, 177, 241, 250 
Horse-radish, 119, 131 
Horsley on alcohol, 1.40 
Hospital dietaries, 645 
Hospital dietaries, classification of, 548 
Hot water, meat and, cure in gout, 

449 
Hot-water, meat and, diet, 584, 

4(9 
Hough, 52 
Hovis bread, 89, 94, 293 

babies' food. No. i, 183 
No. 2, 182 

flour, 89 

No. I food for infants, 241 
Human milk, 29 

composition of, 231 
Humanised condensed milk, 157 
Hungarian wines, 150 
Hunjadi Janos, 135 
Husk of wheat, 88 
Hyperacidity, 826 
Hyperacidity, value of milk in, 36 
Hyperchlorhydrla, 826 
Hyjicrrhlorhydria, casein preparation in, 
158, 160 

milk and carbohydrate diet in, 36, 329 

protein diet in, 329 
Hypcrpeiesis, 398 



INDEX 



627 



Ice cream, 40 
Iceland mos?, 114 
Ideal condensed milk, 156 
Idiopathic anaemia, 388 
Idiosyncrasy, effect on diet, 26 
Imperial drink, 276 
Imperial Granum food, 169 
Indian corn, 98 

meal, 99 

melon, I2I 

pale ale, 146 
Indigestion, 314 
Indigestion in children, 320 

intestinal, 349, 352 

of pancreatic origin, 377 

skimmed milk in, 538 

whey cure for, 538 
Indol, 10, 16 
Infant, feeding of, in disease, 

251 
Infant, feeding of, in health, 226 
Infant, constipation in, 251 

diarrhtca in, 253 

of, by wet nurse, 233 

foods, 155 

mixed feeding; of, 234 

premature, diet for, 249 
Infants, weight of, 233 
Infective diseases, diet in, 267 
Influenza, 290 

alcohol in, 153 
Insane, diet for, 502 
Insomnia, 505 
Intestinal indigestion, 349 
Intestines, diseases of, 346 
Intestine, bacterial llora of, 15, 17 

colic of, 253, 363 

enteroptosis, 344 

fermentation, 346 

flora, 15, 17 

inflammation of, 355 

lactic bacilli treatment of, 543 

obstruction of, 364 

putrefaction in, 348 

tuberculosis of, 433 

ulceration of, 363 
Invalid Bovril, cost of, 162 
Invalid foods, 183 
Invalid foods in convalescence, 293 

fruits, 107 
Invert sugar, 82, 85 
Irish moss, 114, 485 

malt wliisky, 145 
Iron, 23, 127 

in meat, 53 
Isinglass, 59 
Italian wines, 150 
Italienne sauce, 311 

Jamaica coffee, 138 
pepper, 130 



Jams, 107, 108 

sugar m, 85 
Jaundice, malignant, 373 

simple, 371 
Jellies, 108, 299 

adulteration, 190 

for dysphagia, 439 
Jelly, carrageen, 485 

chicken, in acute fever, 273 

cream, 301 

egg, 302 

from invalid food, 185 

from Irish moss, 485 

lemon, 274 

orange, 274 

pepionised, 175 

port wine, 274 

sweet, 273 

veal, in fever, 272 

whipped, 274 
Jerusalem articiioke, 1 16 
Johannis, 135 
John Bull No. i food, 177 

No. 2 food, 182 
John Dory, 62 
Juice, fruit, 275 
Junket, 33 

KalARI biscuits in diabetes, 476 
Kale, 118 
Kaukoor, 121 
Kephir, 44 

cure, 540 

in fever, 270 
Kepler's malt extract, iSo 
Kernel of wheat, 88 
Ketchup, 114 
Kidney bean, 103 
Kidney, diseases of, 410 
Kidney, tuberculosis of, 417, 439 
Kidne)'s as an article of diet, 57 
Kippers, 63 
Kissingen, 135 

Knife-blade test for good meat, 54 
Koch's meat peptone, 179 
Kornules, 524 
Koumiss, 33, 44 

cure, 540 

in fever, 270 
Kronthal, 135 
Kufeke's infant food, 182 
Kiimmel, 146 
Kemmerich's meat peptone, 179 

I.ACTALBUMIN, 3I, 236 
Lactation, food required, 25 
Lactic acid therapy, 540 
Lactic acid bacilli, 16, 236 
effect on stools, 544 

cause of diarrhoea, 3 1 

in cheese, 43 



628 



INDEX 



Lactic acid bacilli, cases benefited by, 543 
mode of adminis^tering, 543 
Si Ivel cheese, 543 
Lacligcn, 543 
I.acto-bacilline, 541 
Laclo-vcgetarian diet, 520 
uncooked foods, 529 
Lactose, 84 

Lacumcn dried milk, 158 
Lacviiam dried milk, 158 
Lager beer, alcohol in, 146 
Lamb. 56 

Laparotomy, diet after, 338, 345 
Lard adulteration. 190 
Larf^e intestines, catarrh of, 357, 360 
Laryngeal tuberculosis, 436 
Lathyrism, 192 
Leek, 120 
Leeks, to cook, 123 

in convalescence, 31 1 
Leg of mutton. 55 
Legumes, 101 

Le>:umin. or vegetable castin, 79 
Lemco, 162 
Lemonade, 135, 276 

peptonised, 174 
Lemon jelly, 274 
Lemons, 106, 109 
Lenhartz diet for gastric ulcer, 

885 
Lentils, 104 

composition, 104 

varieties, 104 
Lettuce, 117, 119 

in convalescence. 31 1 

to prepare, 122 
Leucine, 16 
Leukaemia, 391 
Levulose, 82, 84 
Lichenin, 114 
Lichens, 114 
Liebig's baking-powder, 9I 

extract, composition of, 163 

peptone, 179 
Lienteric diarrhoea, 355 
Lime, deficiency in food, 126 

in food, 126 

juice, 109 

water as diluent for milk, 34, 338 
Ling, 62 
Lin=ecd oil, 80 
Lijiton's fluid beef, 165 
Liqueurs, 146 
Liquids for the aged, 210 
Liquor carnis, 165 

peplicus, 172 

pancreaticus, 172 
Litha;mia, 418 
Lilhia water, 134 
Liver, diseases of, 870 
Liver as a food, 57 



Liver, cancer of, 376 

cirihosis of, 375 

salt-free diet in, 416 

influence of diet on, 397 
Lobster, 63, 64 
Locomotor ataxia, 503 
Loeflund's cream emulsion, 177 

milk, 176 
Loin of mutton. 55 
" Longings," 212 
Lungs, diseases of, diet In, 612 

Macaroni, 96, 313 

gluten, 480 

method of boiling, 313 
^hlcaroons, 1 12 
Mace, 130 
Mackerel, 63 
Madeira, 151 

Magnesium carbonate in milk, 37 
^L^ize, 98 

in beermaking, 146 
Maizina, 99 
Malabar coffee, 138 
Malaria, 291 

Malnutrition in infants, 254-255 
Malt extracts, 178 
M:ilt extract in indigestion, 318, 350 

infusions, 180, 181 

subsiiiutes for, in brewing, 146 

sugar, 82, 84 

whisky, 144 
^Lllted foods, uses of, 180 

gruel in convalescence, 296 
to make, 181 

milk for infants, 250 
Mallico, 177 
Maltine, 181 
Malting, 84 
Maltose, 84, 178 
Man. fooJ requirements of, 20 
Manhu infant food, 177 
Manihot utilissima, 1 17 
Mannile, 84 
Maple sugar, 82, 83 
Maranta nmndmacea^ I16 
Maraschino, 109 
Marasmus, 255 
Mare, milk of, 29, 32, 235 
Margarine, 41 
Marjoram, 130 
Marmalade, 109 
Marr's food, 169 
Marrow-bones, method of cooking, 197 

as a diabetic food, 474 

toast, 197 
Marsala, 151 
Marvis, 167 
Mason's beef-tea, 162 

essence, composition of, 163 
Mastication by children, 193 



INDEX 



629 



Mastication, defective, effects of, 8, 317 
M'Doupall's liakinij-powder, 91 
Meals, cheap, 216 
Meals, during sclu)ul life, 201 
for ciiildren, 193 
hurried, 18 

c;uise of indiijestion, 317 
in old age, 203 
in typhoid, 280 
irregular, 18 

cause of indigestion, 317 
Measles, 290 
Meat, SO 
Meat, acids in, 53 
and malt wine, 151 
boilings, 73 
broth peptonised, 174 
cakes in Salisbury diet, 535 
carving of, 53 
characters of good, 54 
chemical composition, 51 
consumption of, 565 
diet in tuberculosis, 431 
dishes for aged, 209 
excessive, diet, 565 

influence on kidneys, 378 
on liver, 597 
on reproductive glands, 587, 589, 

608 
on thyroid gland, 557, 558, 564, 
575. 612 
extracts, 162 
extract custard, 164 
with eggs, 164 
milk, 164 
with rice, 313 
soup, 164 
factors affecting composition, 50 
foods for children, 198 
for convalescence, 305, 307 
for gouty, 449 
hanging of, 53 
infusions, 75, 270 
juices, 77, 165, 312 
juice, proprietary, 165 

with milk, 164 
lozenges, 167 
peptonised, 174, 176 
potted, 474 
powders, dried, 166 
ptomaine poisoning by, 191 
raw. in tuberculosis, 534 
smoked, 187 
tea, pejitonised, 174 
teas, 75, 162 
varieties of, 54 
Meatose, 523 
Meatox, 167 
Meats, cheap, 215 

digestibility of, 65 
Medicated wines 151 



Mc<licinal waters, 135 

Mellin's fi^oJ, 183, 24I 

Melon, 121 

Meiriruatiijii in lactation, 232 

Mental wurk, inlluence on digestion, ig 

Metabolism, 13 

Metabolism, effects of alcohol on, 141 

MetchnikijfT, lactic b.iciUi therapy, 540 

Mcteil, 100 

Meteor ism, 365 

Meteorism in typhoid, 284 

Migraine, 506 

Miles, Eustace, foods, 523, 526 

Milk, 28 

Milk and cereal foods, 168 

Milk cures, 588, 498 

Milk adaptation for the sick, 33, 237 

adulteration, 31, 37, 190 

alkalis with, 34 

and cinnamon, 37 

antiscorbutic action of, 32 

application of heat to, 237 

arrowroot, 297 

artificial, in glycosuria, 472 

ass's, 235 

bacteria in, 236 

blancmange, 301 

boiling of, 35 

Bovril, 36, 164 

carbohydrate, 84 

chocolate peptonised, 176 

citrated, 253 

clinical uses of, 36 

clotting, 33 

cocoa-nut, 113 

coffee, 36 

cold, 173 

composition of, 29, 235 

condensed, 155, 240 

cjntaminitions, 37, 245 

cornflour, 297 

curdling, 33 

digestibility of, 33 

diluents for, 33 

diuretic effects of, 36 

dried, 158 

effect of food on, 30 

effects of, on intestinal bacteria, 17 

effervescent, 173 

fat, 31 

goat's, 235 

gruel in convalescence, 296 
peptonised, 174 

"guaranteed," 37 

human, composition of, 231, 235 

humanised condensed, 157 

impurities, 37 

influence of, on putrefaction, 229 

in hyperacidity, 36 

keeping of, 38 

laboratoiies, 160 



630 



INDEX 



I 



Milk lemonade, peptoni<;ed 174 
malted, for infants, 250 
minerals in, 32 
mixture, predigestion of, for infants, 

moJilications of, 160, 238, 269 

natural souiing of, 31 

nutritive value. 35 

oxygenated, 161 

pancrcatised, 173 

pasteurised, 237 

peptonised, 173 

powders, 158, 175 

predigested, 175 

preservatives, 37 

products pre'igefted, 175 

proteins, 30 

pud lings, 297 

punch peptonised, 1 74 

reaction of, 29 

regime in typhoid, 278 

scalded, 237 

separated, 3a 

skimmed, 32 

skimmed, cure by, 538 

Somatose, 178 

soured, treatment by, 540 

souring of, 3 1 

specific gravity of, 31 

sterilised, 237 

sugar, 31, 84 

tea, to make. 36 

with starch, 36 
Milkmaid condensed milk, 156 

for infants, 240 
Milled barley, loi 
Millet, 99 
Milo food, 177 

Minced beef for convalescenfc, 311 
Mincemeat, adulteration of, 190 

juice, 312 
Mineral constituents of food, 126 
Mineral constituents of meat, 53 

foods required, 23 

salts in vegetables, 24, 80 

waters, 1 34 
Minerals in milk, 33 
Mint, 119 

Mitchell Weir treatment, 508 
Mixed feeding of infants 234 
Modified milk prescriptions, 160 
Molasses, 83 

malted, I44 

sources of vinegar, 128 
Mollusca. 64 
Nfcno-saccharids, 82 
Moseley's food, 182 
Mosquera beef meal, in, 167 

meat. 179 
Mostclle grape juice, 170 
Mouth, digestion in, 8 



Mrniih, toilet of, in fever 268 
Mucous colitis, 860 
Mucous colitis, bland di> I for, 362 
cellulose diet for, 362 
in children, 265 
Muffler's food, 167, 170 
Mulberries, no 
Mush, 99 
Mushroom, 114 

ketchup, n4 
Mushrooms in diabetes, 483 

au gratin, 487 
Mussel, 64 

Mussels, poisoning by, 191 
Mustard, i 28 
Mutton, 54 
Mutton broth, 302 

tea, 75 
Mycetoma aceti in intestine, 16 
Myosin in meat, 53 
Myxoedema, 515 



Nasai. feeding. 225 
" Natives," 64 
Natural wines, 148 
Neck of beef, 52 
Nectarines, 109 

composition of, 106 
Nephritis, acute, 411 
Nephritis, chronic, 412 

lactic bacilli treatment of, 543 

salt-free diet in, 416 

subacute, 412 
Nervous children, 504 

diarrhrna, 355 
Nervous diseases. 501 
Nestle condensed milk, 156, 24c, 

249 . 
Neuralgii, 506 
Neurasthenia, 508 
N'eurine, 16 

Neurotic child, diet for, 201 
Neville prcce^^s of breadmaking, gi 
New bread, characteristics of, 92 
NichoU's food of health, 182 
Nitrogen, daily requirements of, 21 
Noorden, Von, diet in obesity, 497 
Nursing mother, drugs 'o, 232 

food for, 232 
Nut preparations, 522 
for diabetics, 475 

vego, 523 
Nutarian diet, 520 
Nutmegs, 130 
Nutrient enemata, 224 

suppositories. 224 
Nutrose, 31, I02, 158 

food, 169 
Nuts 111 
Nuttoler.e, 523 



INDEX 



631 



Oatcakfs, qS 
Oatmeal, 98, 215 

cooking ol, y8 

diet in diabetes, 489 

effects of, on thyroid gland, 602 

gruel in convaleTcence, 2y6 

water, to make, 35 
Oats, 97 

grinding of, 97 

rolling of, 97 
Obesity, 492 
Obesity, Banting's diet, 494 

Carlsbad regime, 497 

causes of, 442 

due to alcohol, 142 

Ebstein regime in, 496 

fluids in, 499 

in elderly subject, 407 

milk diet cure of, 498 

Oertel system, 495 

pregnancy wiiii, 212 

principles of treatment, 493 

Salisbury diet in, 49S 

summary of treatment, 5C0 

Von Noorden diet, 497 
Obstruction, intestinal, 364 
Oertel system in obesity, 495 
Offal of wheat, 89 
Oil of carraway, i 3c 

from ginger, i 29 

from pepper, 129 

of juniper, 14 

of mustard, 128 
Oils, 80 

essential, 80 

volatile, in tea, 137 
Old Tom gin, 1 46 
Oleo-margarine, adulteration, 190 
Olive oil, 80, no 

adulteration, 190 
Olives, no 
Omelet with breid, 301 

savoury, 301, 483 

souffle, 300 

sweet, 300 

with tomatoes, 301 
Omelets, how to make, 300 
Onions, 116, 120 

composition of, 117 

in convalescence, 312 

to cook, 124 
Operations, dietetic after-treatment, 345 
Opmus food, 169 
Orange jelly, 274 

juice, 109 
Orangeade, 276 
Oranges, 109 

biiter, 109 

composition of, ic6 
Oswego, 99 
Over-drinking, 217 



Over-feeding, 217 

Ovo, 47 

Ox, mode of cuttmg up an, 52 

Oxalate of lime, 23 

Oxaliiria, 418 

Oxine extract, composition of, 163 

0x0, composition of, 162, 163 

Oyster soup, 304 

OjStcrs. 64 

au n.i!urel, 305 

in Salisbury diet, 536 

peptonised soup, 175 

poisoning from, 192 

scalloped, 305 

Paddv, 100 

P.i;;;et's m:ilted farina, t8j 

Palm oil, 80 

Panada, chicken, 308 

veal, 308 
Pancreas, disease of. 377 
Pancreatic juice, 9. 1 I 

reaction, value of, 377, 4^1 
Pancreaticum, extractum. 172 
Pancreatme, saline essence of, 172 
Pancreatised foods, 17} 

milk in rectal feeding, 224 
Pancreatitis, 377 
Panopeptone, 178 
Parmesan cheese, 43 
Parsley, 119, 130 
Parsnips, 116 
Partridges, 58. 309 
Pasteurised milk, 237 
Pastry, 95 
Patent breads, 94 

flour, 89 
Patent foods, 154 
Pavy on carbohydrates, 12 
Pea nut, 102 
Peaches, 106, 109 
Peacock's condensed milk, 156 
Pears, lofi. 108 
Peas, composition of, loi 

drie<l, 102 

flesh, 102 

green, 102 

varieties, 102 
Pease brose, 102 

pudding. 103 
Pecan nuts, 1 13 
Pectin, 105 
Pectose, 80, 105 
Pellagra, 98, 192, 501 
Pemmican, 167, 170 
Peperine, 129 
Pepper, 129 

black. 129 

cayenne, 129 

white, 129 
PepsencJa, 173 



G32 



INDEX 



Pepsin, 171 

mcJium for, I 71 
powders, 172 
saline, essence of, 173 
uses of, 172 
Pcptogcnic milk powder, 175 
Peptones, 9. 172 
Peptonlsed foods, 171 
Peptonised bl.inr.m.ingcs, 175 
cocoa, 185 

and milk, 175 
coffee, 176 
condensed milk, 175 
food, uses of, 172 
gruel, 173 
jelly. 175 
meat, 174 
broth, 174 
tea, 174 
milk, 173 

chocolate, 176 
cold process, 173 
gruel, 174 
lemonade, 174 
punch, 174 
oyster soup, 175 
soup, 175 
Peptonisingagent=, 171 
pellets, 173 
tubes, 172 
Percentage method of milk-feeding, 160, 

239 

of alcohol in beverages, 144 
Pericarditis, 401 
Periwinkle, 64 
Pernicious anxmia, 388 

vomiting, diet in, 214 
Perry, 1 51 
Pheasants, 58 
Phenol, 16 
Phosphate of lime, 32 

of potassium. 32 
Phos[)haturia, 419 
Phosphorus. 24, 127 
Pickles. 1 28 
Pigeons, 58 
Pilchards. 63 
Piles, 366 

Pineapple, 106, 1 II 
Pine kernels 113 475 
Pistachio, 1 13 
Plaice, 62 
Flasmon, 31 159 
Plasmon arrowroot, ifio 

biscuits in diabete*, 479 

blancmange, 160 

butter, 159 

chocolate, 160 

cocoa. 160 

in diabetes, 476 

milk, 159 



Plasmon porridge, 159 

potvder, 159 

prepared, 159 

quantity to use, 159 

snow cream, 159 

tea, 160 
Pleurisy, 513 
Plums, 109 

Pneumonia, 288, 513 
Pneumonia, broncho-, 513 

stimulants in, 288 
Poisoning from grains, 193 

ptomaine, 191 
Poisonous fungi, II 3 
Polenta, 99 
Poluboskos, 94 
Popcorn, 99 
Poppy oil, 80 
Pork, 58 
Porridge, value of, 98, 215 

from almonds, 48 1 

from cocoa-nuts, 481 
Port, 144, 150 
I'oit-wine gruel in convalescence, 296 

jelly, 274 
Porter, 146 

Post-operative dietetic treatment, 345 
Pot-au-feu, 73 
Put barley, lOl 
Potash water, i 34 
Potassium, 24, i 26 
Potatoes, 115, 452 

alcohol from, 144 

in beermaking, 146 

sweet variety, 1 1 ^ 

value in scurvy, 1 15 
Poultry, 58 
Prairie oyster, 47 
Prawns, 64 

Predlgested preparations, 171 
Piedigested meats, 176 

milks, 175 
Predigestion of milk for infants, 239, 

253 
Pregnancy, 211 
Pret^nancy, abnormal diet in, 214 

diet to modify size of child, 212 

food requirements of, 25 
Premature infant, diet for, 249 
Prescribing of diet, rules for, 219 
Prescribing of diet for infants, 248 
Preservatives, food, 187 
Preserving of fruits, 107 
Primary anaemia, 382 
Prolaclo bre.id, 476 
Proprietary foods, 154 
Proprietary food, tarbohydrate, 168 
combination, 170 
for infants, 241, 244 
made from meal, i6r 
types of, 155 



INDEX 



C33 



Proprietary food, vegetables, i68 

with egg, 167 
Pro-secretin, 9 
Protein, iCo 

absorption of, 1 1 

bread in diabetes, 479 

digestion of, 8 

excess of, 14, 217 

influence on kidneys, 578 
on liver, 597 
on reproductive glands, 587, 589, 

£,94, 608 
on thyroid gland, 557, 558, 564, 
575. 604, 612 

of barley, 1 00 

sparers of, 23 

vegetable, 79, 476, 522 
Proteins suitable lor children, 196 

gluten, 88 

in diabetes, 476 

in growth, 14 

in maize, 9S 

in meat, 53 

in pulses, loi 

metabolism of, 1 3 

of milk, 31 
Protene, 31, 479 

flour, 158 
Proteolytic ferment, 9 
Protose, 523 
Provost oats, 98 
Prune, 109 

composition of, 106 
Pruritus, 519 
Psoriasis, 519 
Ptomaine poisoning, 191 
Ptyalin, 8 
Pudding, almond, 486 

arrowroot, 297 

bread and butter, 298 

cornflour, 297 

ground rice, 298 

milk, 428 

rice, 29S 

sago, 298 

semolitia, 29S 
Puddings, 95 
Puddings for children, 198 

for the gouty, 453 

made with invalid food, 186 
Puerperium, diet in, 213 
Pulled bread, 96 
Pulses, 101 

Pulses in vegetarianism, 523 
Pumpkin, 121 
Puree, 73 

Purin-free diet, 531 
Purin-free diet, advantages and disad- 
vantages of, 533 
Putins in food, 531 
nature of, 532 



Pnro, 165 

Putrefactive bacteria, 16 
action of, ID 
decomposition in fxccs of infants, 22y 
Pyelitis, 417 
Pyloric stenosis in infancy, 260 

QUAH.S, 58 

Quaker oats, 98 

Quenelle of fish in convalescence, 307 

Quenelles, beef, for convalescence, 312 

(juinces, 108 

Quinsy, 291 

Rabbit, 56 

ragout of, 309 

soup, 303 
RacoCit of fowl, 309 

of rabbit, 309 
Raisins, no 
Raisin tea, 345 
Raspberries, 1 10 

composition of, 106 
Raw eggs, 47 

and invalid food, 186 

meat in tuberculosis, ,^30 
Rectal feeding, 221 
Rectal feeding, foodstuffs in, 222 

management, 221 
Red herring, 63 

wines, 147 
Renal disease, diet in, 410 
Rennet, 40 

Respiratory diseases, diet in, 512 
Rest and exercise in relation to diet, 25 
Rest cure, 608 
Re\alenta arabica, 104 
Rheumatic fever. 288 
Rheumati-^m, alcohol in. 153 

buttermilk in, 465 
Rheumatism, chronic 468 
Rheumatism, lactic bacilli treatment 

of, 543 
Rheumatoid arthritis, 465 

Rheumatoid arthritis, buttermilk in 468 
Rhubarb, 121 

composition of, 117 
Ribs of beef, 52 
Rice, 100 
Rice, boiled, in convalescence 31a 

digestibility of, loo 

flour in breadmaking, 92 
uses of, 100 

in beermaking, 146 

Italian, 313 

meat extract wiih, 313 

method of boiling, 

Milan. 313 

pudding, 298 

soup, 302 

water. 275 
to make, 35 



G34 



INDEX 



Rice with cheese, 713 
Rii-kcts. 265 

from boiled milk, 245 
Ridf^e's food, 169 
Rigor mortis, 53 
Rio .ofTce. 1 38 

Kislacto biscuits in diabetes, 476 
Roasting, 66, 67 
Robinson's groats, 97, 169 

patent barley, 169 
RolKirat, 168, 525 
Roc, 24, 65 
Rolled oats, 97 
Roots, 114 
Ro<juefort, 43 

Rose's condensed milk, 156 
Rotch's system, 160 
Round, 52 

Roundworm in food, 192 
Rubner, food requirements, 20 
Rum, alcohol in, 144 
Rump, 5a 
Run honey, 85 
Runner of beef, 52 
Rusks, 94 
Russian tea, 109 

wheat, 87 

Rye, 9) 
Saccharin, 85, 475 

Sago, 1 1 7 

pudding, 298 

water, 297 
Salad \egetables, 119 
Salicylic acid as a presen'ative 189 

in milk, 31, 37 
Salisbury diet, 534 
Salisbury diet, in ol)esity, 498 
oysters in, 536 
urine in cases of, 535 
Salivary secreiion, 8 
Salivation, diet for, 214 
Salmon, 63 
Salt, daily amount, 126 

deliciency of, in pellagra, 192 

free diet in nephritis, 416 
in other diseases, 416 

in rectal feeding, 223 
Salted foo<ls, 188 
Salts in cow's milk, 236 

absorption of, 12 

in medicinal waters, 135 
Salutaris water, 134 
Samp, 99 
Sanatogen, 158 
Sanose, 158, 167 
Sarcinac, 16 
Sardines, 63, 485 
Sauce, bread, 308 

cheese, 488 

custard. 299 



Sauce, Hollan<laise, 484 

Italienne, 311 

Mayonnaise, 486 

Tartare, 48S 

white, 305 
Sauces, with vinegar, 128 
Sauerin, 543 
Sauerkraut, 1 18 
Sausages, 58 
Sautcing, 69 
Savore, 184 

Savory & Moore's fluid beef, 179 
food for infants, 241 
invalid food, 184 
meat peptone, 178 
Savoury omelet, 301, 483 
Savoy, llS 

Saxin in diabetes, 475 
Scalded milk, 237, 245 
Scalloped oysters, 305 
Scarlet fever, 289 
Scarlet fever, infection from milk, 37 

runner, 104 
School dietaries, 201 
Sciatica, 506 
Scotch bioth, 73 

whisky, 145 
Scott's Midlothian oatflour, 97, 169 
Scraped beef, 535 
Scurvy, 392 
Scurvy, caute of, 126 

from boiled milk, 245 

from buddised milk, 161 

in infants, 256 
Seakale, 1 18, 123 
Season, effect on food, 26 
Secretin, 9 

Seilentary life, food requirement of, 20 
Seeds, 86 
Seltzer, 134, 135 
Semolina, 96, iS6. 298 
Senile heart, 407 
Separator cream, 39 
Serving of food. 220 
Shaddock, 109 
Shallots, 120 

Sheep, mode of cutting up a, 55 
Shellfish, 64 
Sherry, 144, 150 
Shin of beef, 52 
Ship biscuits, 95 
Shoulder of mutton, 55 
Shiedded wheat, 96 
Shrimps, 64 
Sick headache, 506 
Sirloin, 52 
Skate, 62 
Skatol, 16 
Skimmed milk, 33 

cure, 538 
Skin, diseases of, 517 



I 



INDEX 



635 



Skin aPTectidns in chililren, 518 

Sleep, 19 

Sloes, 109 

Small intestine, iligeslion in, 9 

Smallpox, 290 

SmeUs, 62 

Smith's patent, 89 

Smoked foods, 187 

Snipe, 58 

Soaps, intestinal, 11 

Soda-water, 134 

Sodium, 24, 126 

bicarbonate in milk, 34 

chloride, 126 
free diet, 416 

citrate added to milk, 239 
Sole, 63 

Somatose, 167, 17S 
Sorghum, 99 
Souffle-, chicken, 308 

fish roe. j88 
Soup, 67, 71 
Soup, brunoise, 206 

clear, 74, 271 

fish, 303 

for gouty subjects, 447 

from vegetarian stock, 448 

fruit, 108, 275 

game, 303 

lentil, 206 

making of, 72 

nutritional value o(, 71 

oyster, 304 

peptonised, 175 

peptonised, 175 

potato, 206 

rabbit, 303 

rice, 302 

and tomato, 206 

varieties of, 72 

veal, 302 
Soups, 71 

for the aged, 205 

for children, 198 
Sour milk treatment, 540 
Sour milk chocolate?, 544 
from decomposition, 236 
in rheumatism, 465 
in rheumatoid aithriiis, 468 
Soya beans, 104 
Spaghetti, 96 
Spanish onion, 120 
Spare rib of meat, 52 
Spearmint, 130 
Spices, I2y 
Spinach, 117, II9, 122 

with poached egg, 123 
Spirits, 144 
Spoiled bread, 92 
Spores of fungi, 16 
Sprats, 63 



Sprue, 866 

Sprue, strawberries in. III 

S(|ua^li, 117, 121 

Starch, 81 

Starch digestion in infants, 227, 228 

in malted food, 180 

in potatoes, 115 

predigested, iSi 

substitutes for, 475 
Starchy foods, excess of, cause of indi- 
gestion, 317 
Steamed fish in convalescence, 306 
Steaming, 66, 68 
Sterilised milk, 237 
Stewed fish in convalescence, 306 

partridge, 309 
Stewing, 67, 70 
Stewing of meat, 70 
Still wine, 149 
Stilton cheese, 42 
Stimulants for the aged, 2II 

effects of, 141 

in fever, 276 
Stock, 72 
Stock to make brown soup, 74 

vegetarian soup, 448, 527 
white soup, 74 
Stock pot, 73 

Stomach, diseases of, 314 
Stomach, cancer of, 343 

catarrh of, 322 

chronic ulcer of, 337 

digestion in, 8 

dilated, 339 

gastropiosis, 344 

in infancy, 228, 232 

tube, feeding by, 224, 225 

ulcer of, 330 

of post-operative treatment, 338 
Stools, 10. 229. 258 
Stools, effei ts of lai to-bacilli on, 544 

in infancy, character of, 229, 259 
Stout, 146 
Strawberries, 106, r 10 

in sprue, 369 
St Galmier mineral w Ucr, 135 
St Ivel cheese, 43, 544 
Succinic acid in wine, 149 
Succus entericus, 9 
Suckling, 231 

contra-indi ations to, 332 
Sucrol, 85 
Sucroses, 82 
Suffolk cheese, 43 
Sugar, 82 
Sugar beet, 82 

candy, 83 

cane, 82 

commercial, 83 

corn, 98 

coarse brown 83 



636 



INDEX 






Sugar, cITcct of heat on, S3 

lor children, 11)9 

free milk, 47J 

indigcsiioii in infants, 258 

invert, 82, 85 

in milk, 236 

ill urine, 15. 470 

in wines, 149 

substitutes, 85, 475 
Sug:us, uses of, 82 

varieties of, 82 
Sulphuretted hydrogen, 16 
Summer diarrhcc:i, 261 
Sweetbreads, 56, 310, 487 
Sweet jelly, J73 

potato, 1 1 5 

wines, 147 
Sweets, 83 

excess of, cause of indigestion, 317 
Sytioes, 120 
Syntonin, 8 

Syphilis, congenital, 261 
Syrup, 83 

Tabes mesenterica, 440 
Taenia solium, 193 
Talifat dates, 530 
T. & T. food, 182 
Tannic acid in coffee, 1 38 

in tea, 137 
Tapeworm in food, 1^2 
Tapioca, 1 1 6, 297 
TarragijD, 1 1 9 

creams, 488 
Tartaric acid in wine?, 149 
Tea, 136 
Tea composition, 1 37 

cream, 39 

drinking, excessive, cause of indiges- 
tion, 317 

infusion, composition of, I 37 

poisoning from, 137 

raisin, 345 

varieties of, 136 
Theinharl's hygiama, 177 

infantina, I 77 
Theobroma, 138, 139 
Thirst-quencher, milk as, 36 
Thirst-quenchers, 275 
Thyme, I ?o 

Thyroid, diseases of, 515 
Thyroid, effects of oatmeal on, 602 

of protein diet on, 557, 558, 564, 
575, 600, 612 
Tilia, 160 
Tissue-builders, I 
Toast, 93 

dinner, 93 

water, to make, 35 
Tobacco as cause of arterio-sclerosis, 

395 



Toilet of mouth in fever, 268 
Tomato, 121 

composition of, 1 17 
sluflcd, 484 
to cook, 122 
Tongue, 56, 209 
Tonsillitis, 291 
Tragacanth in milk 37 
Treacle, 83 
Trichina in food, 192 
Trilactin, 543 
Tripe, 56, 309 
Trisket, 96 
TriticumiiKi, 182 
Tritumen bread, 476 
Trommer's malt extract, 181 
Tropical regions, food for, 26 
Tropon, 168 
Trout, 62 
Trypsin, 172 
Tuberculosis, 420 
Tuberculosis, abilominal, 441 
anorexia in, 428 
bladder, 439 

cheap nutritious foods in, 426 7 
eggs in, 422, 424 
fat in, 422 
f^uid dietary in, 430 
glandular, 439 
impaired digestion in, 428 
in children, 194, 266, 440 
intermediate diets for, 432 
intestinal, 364, 433 
kidney, 439 
larynx, 436 
lungs, 420 

meat dietary, 422, 431 
milk in, 422 

milk, infection from, 236 
principles of feeding, 421 
raw meat in, 430 
surgical, 439 
Tubers, 114 

Tufnell's diet for aneurism, 408 
Turbot, 63 
Turkey, 58 

poisoning from, 191 
Turmeric powder, 131 
Tumi]), 1 16 
tops, 119 
Typhoid fever, 277 
Typhoid fever, complications of, 284 
convalescence of, 281 
empty bowel theory, 286 
haemorrhage in, 284 
milk infection, 37 
milk regime in, 278 
other systems of feeding, 285 
starvation treatment of, 287 
Typhoid fever, water -drinking in, 
284 



"1 

I 



INDEX 



637 



Typhus, 20T 
Tyrosine, i6 

Ulcer of duotlenum, 337 

of intestine, 363 

of stomach, 330 
Under-feeding, 216, 263 
llnfcrmented brc;ul, 92 
Unleavened bread, 92 
Uric acid diathesis 418 
Urinary diseases, diet in. 410 
Urine, acidity of, 410, 417 

after asparagus, II9 

diet and, 410 

pancreatic reaction in, 377, 463, 

465. 
pentose in, 377 
sugar in, 470 
Urticaria, 519 
from strawberries, in 

Valentine's beef juice, 165, 179 
Vanilla, 130 

beans, 1 30 
Veal, 51, 56 

broth, 302 

jelly, 165, 272 

panada, 308 

soup, 304 

tea, 75 
V^eda bread, 94, 293 
Vegetable albumm, 79 

acids in tubers, 115 

butters, 80 

digestibility of, 118 

fats, 80 
Vegetable Poods. 79 
Vegetable gums, 106 

jelly, 80, 105 

in Irish moss, 1 14 

marrow, 1 21, 124 

proprietary food, 168 

proteins, 79, 80, 476, 522 

salts, 80 
Vegetables, economical, 216 

for the aged, 210 

for children, 198 

for convalescence, 312 

green, composition, 117 
varieties of, liS 
Vegetarian cheese, 526 

diet, uncooked foods, 529 

regime in gout, 452 

soup?, 448, 527 
Vegetarianism, 520 
Vegetarianism, advantages md dis- 
advantages of, 530 

cereals in, 524 

fats in, 524 

objections to, 521 

practical dietaries in, 526 



Vegetarianism, proteins in, 522 

pulses in, 523 

vegetable extracts in, 523 
Vcgota, 523 
Vegox, 168 
Velvet soup. 439 
X'ermicelli, 9^) 

gluten, 480 
Vichy water, 135 
Vienna bread, 89, 94 
Viking beef essence, 163 

condensed milk, 156 
Vinegar, 128 

from malt, 128 

from wood, 128 
\'insep, 166 
Virol, 167, 170 
V^irvis, 167 

Vitalia meat juice, 165 
Voit food requirements, 20 
Volatile acid in wine, 149 
Vomiting in infants, 252, 256 

of acidosis in children, 262 
Von Noorden's diet in obesity, 497 
in diabetes, 489 

VValnut ketchup, 112 

oil, 80 
Walnuts, 112 

boiled, 480 
Warren cooking-pot, 69 
Water, 132 
Water, absorption of, 12 

aerated, 134 

alkaline, 135 

amount required dailj', 132 

as a therapeutic agent, 134 

boiling, effect of, 134 

chalybeate, 135 

daily requirements, 132 

drinking, effect on tissues, 133 
errors in, 133 
rules for, 134 
value of, in typhoid fever, 284 

hard, 133 

hot, and meat in gout, 449 

melons, 121 

mineral, 134 

of egg-white, to make, 47 

sago, 297 

soft, 133 

starvation, 1 33 

sweetened, 133 

table, 135 

with carbonic acid gas, 134 
Weaning, process of, 234, 263 
Weight of adults, 493 

of children, 195 

of infants, 233 
Weir Mitchell treatment, 508 
Welih ouiyu, 120 



638 



INDEX 



Wet nursing, aja 
Wheat prain. 95 

mill pro^iucts, 89 

parts of, 88 

preparations of 95 

varieties, 87 
Wheaten groats, 96 
W'heatena, 96 
Whelk, 64 
Whey, 40 
Whey cure. 588 
Whey, preparation of, 4 1 

value of, in fever, 270 

in infant feeding, 238 
Whipped jelly, 274 
W^hisky^ 144 
Whisky, alcohol in, 144 

blends of, 145 
White sauce, 123 

wines, 148 
Whitebait, 62 
Whiting, 61 

in milk, 37 
Whole wheaten meal, 89 
Whooping-cough, 289 
Wiesbaden, waters of, 135 
Windsor bean, 103 
Wine jelly, 274 
Wine, "turned," 149 



Wines. 147 

Wines, adulteration o^. 151 

bouquet of, 147 

composition of, 148 

fortified, 147 

manufactured, 1 51 

medicated, 1 51 

natural, 148 

red, 148 

sparkling variety, 148 

still variety, 148 

\Thite, 148 
Woodcock, 58 
Worcester sauce, 128 
Work, effect on digestion, 19 
Worth's perfect food, 182 
Wyeth's meat juice, 1^5 

Yam, 115 
Yeasts, 16 

effect on bread, 90 

in intestine, 16 
Yolk of egg. 45 
Yorkshire relish, 128 



ZOMOTHERAPy, 534 
Zwieback, 94 
Zymine powders, 173 



i 



s : 5 -J f^ 







i 



. — r 



PLEASE DO NOT REMOVE 
CARDS OR SLIPS FROM THIS POCKET 



UNIVERSITY OF TORONTO LIBRARY 





RM 


Watson, Chalmers 


216 


Food and feeding in 


W3 


health and disease 


1915 


2d ed., rev. 


Biological 




\U'c!ical 





